Monk Bones asked the question without heat or accusation, but the other monks stiffened in defensive silence. That didn’t dissuade Jorani one bit though, because he felt it truly needed to be said. “Ain’t it? Ye’ve cut yerselves off from the rest of the world in order to pursue the Noble Eight-fold Path, because ye think living around other mortals makes it too difficult to succeed. The former Wisdom even went so far as to believe the world would be better off if everythin’ was rendered into nihility, because either we’d all be freed from this mortal prison or he’d be left undisturbed to pursue his Path.” Holding up a hand to forestall Monk Bones’ argument, Jorani added, “I know, I know, none of ye here agree with his take, else ye’d have run off to join him, but none of ye are doin’ anything to stop him either.” Casting his gaze across the crowd in his best imitation of the bossman’s father, Jorani chose his next words carefully. “Ye all go on and on about the Right View, Right Intent, Right Speech, and whatnot, but ain’t none of you stopped to consider what’s right. The former Wisdom has joined hands with a monster in an effort to eradicate all life. The way I see it, the right thing to do would be stand up and stop him, and I only know one way how.”

“If our aid is needed, then the Heavens will guide us there.”

“Maybe I’m wrong and yer right.” Shrugging, Jorani scratched his chin and said, “But what if the Heavens have been tryin’ to do just that, but you lot are just refusing to move? I mean, yer all here because the Enemy came to yer doorstep in an attempt to kill the Abbot. Ye’ve seen the death and sufferin’ the Enemy is dealin’ out firsthand, but all ye do is beat yer drums and say yer prayers. Don’t know about you, but I’d say them poor souls in LuZhou needed a damn sight more than just prayers.” A hurtful statement Jorani never intended to make, but it slipped out amidst his frustrations. Still, he didn’t want to hurt the monks or guilt them to action, so he lowered his head in shame and continued, “I dunno. It ain’t yer fault, but I’m just a simple bandit turned soldier, ye know? Someone draws a blade on me or mine, well, I only know how to draw a blade to match. That’s me, but the bossman, at least he draws his blade with purpose. The rest of the province turned a blind eye to the West, but the bossman, he ain’t one to rest on his laurels and only do what’s good fer him. It’s mostly a matter of motivation, ye know? You all see the world fer what it is, and ask ‘why?’. The bossman sees what could be, and asks, ‘why not?’. He’s more than a little in love with bloodshed, but knowin’ him, he’d happily hang his weapons on the wall and do good instead if there weren’t any need for conflict. That’s why I follow him, because he means to change the world for the better, and I think I can help get him just a little bit closer to his goal, even if it costs me somethin’ I can never get back.”

“And what will you do when he fails or succeeds?” Monk Bones asked, ignoring the silent exchange going on around him to focus solely on Jorani alone. “Should you both survive to the ends of your lives, chances are you will outlive him by four centuries at the least.”

“Dunno.” Shrugging, Jorani said, “I’ll figure it out when I get there, ye know? One step at a time, ye know?”

And there was the answer to the question he had yet to ask, of what he would do when he arrived in Pan Si Xing and saw all those people suffering under Defiled rule. It was still a hypothetical for now, so he’d answer that question if it came up later and just do as his conscience demanded. That’s what the bossman would do, so if it was good enough for him, then it sure as hell was good enough for Jorani. “Alright,” he said, after a few minutes passed without any questions from the Brotherhood. Dusting his hands off as he came to his feet, he knelt down to look Monk Bones in the eyes. “I know I said some things that might ruffle some feathers, but that’s just the way I see em. You have your right view, and I’ve settled on mine, because even though I ain’t cut out fer the soldierin’ life, a soldier is what I am. That’s the plain and simple truth it is, and so’s this. I respect ye all and what yer tryin’ to do, but yer Path just ain’t fer me, not now, ye know? I can’t just walk away from the people who depend on me, especially not now.” Without Jorani around, the retinue would have to rely on Old Bulat to get them home in one piece, and Jorani shuddered to think of the disaster just waiting to happen. Plus, Ral wouldn’t go, he was born to soldier, no rising dragon but a fierce guard dog at the very least, a Warrior Jorani was proud to call friend. Taking Monk Bones’ hand, Jorani clasped it in both of his own and said, “Welp... guess this is goodbye. If I make it back from this alive and outlive the bossman, then maybe I’ll come find ye and give the monk life a real try. I’d like that, I think, and it’d be nice if it fit, but who knows, ye know?”

Jorani was rambling now, but only because he didn’t know how to say what he truly wanted to say, to thank Monk Bones and the other monks of the Brotherhood for showing him so much care. That he so desperately wanted to want to be a monk, but even putting castration aside, it didn’t make sense for him to try. That if not for the war and the bossman’s needs, Jorani would still give it a shot anyways, because the monks were like a second family to him, one he was loath to part with under such strained terms. So instead, he bowed over the monk’s hands as a show of contrition, and then quickly walked away before his emotions got the better of him. Sleep was what he needed now, restful, peaceful sleep in his officer’s tent, because Heavens knows there’d be precious little of it in the days to come.

Come morning, Jorani woke with the rising sun and emerged from his tent to find Monk Bones and most of the other monks waiting outside. “Ye here to see me off?” he asked, touched by the gesture and choking back a sob. “Well, ye shouldn’t. My leavin’ is supposed to be a secret and all, so ye’ll get me in trouble if ye give the game away.”

“No,” Monk Bones replied, and Jorani’s stomach flip-flopped in nervous anxiety, worried they were here to denounce him instead. “You are a most promising initiate of the Brotherhood, so how can we let you march into danger unassisted?”

“What?”

“We cannot and will not fight unless forced to,” Monk Bones continued, ignoring Jorani’s dumbstruck expression. “But we will not slow the army down and can assist with Healing and scouting if need be, so do not hesitate to make use of us in such a manner.” Smiling as he patted Jorani on the shoulder, Monk Bone’s switched to Sending and said, “You did well, convincing the Brotherhood to revise our views. We sought to elevate ourselves above the red dust of the mortal world, but while our goal most certainly sits high overhead, we ourselves are still mortal yet, and thus undeniably have a stake in the world below. Recent events have shown us as much, but we have been too stubborn to see it, much less respond to the call to act, but you are right. While conducting funeral rites is a hallowed duty, I do believe we can be of more use in other ways, and our brothers agree.”

Leaving Jorani no room to dispute, Monk Bones stepped aside and disappeared into Concealment, bringing with him the rest of the monks as well save for Happy, who was standing slightly askew because Kukky was pressed up against him with eyes wide in concern. Glancing up at the smiling, rotund man, Jorani opened his mouth to say something, closed it, then opened it again before finally opting to keep his mouth shut. Whatever. If the monks were willing to help, then who was he to reject them? “C’mon,” he said, trudging over to where Old Bulat and Daxian were already hard at work getting the retinue ready to set out. “Got a long trip ahead of us, so don’t say I didn’t warn ye.”

At the very least, Jorani could rest easy knowing there’d be a second Divinity looking out for him, one far more reliable than his sire. Amazing that, Jorani of Sanshu, a half-rat Warrior of no renown having not one, but two Divinities to guard him. Such was life. He wasn’t sure where this Path would lead him, but he intended to follow it through, not just for the bossman’s sake, but for his own too, because hopefully, at the end of it all, he would find that he had become a better man.

Chapter Meme
