Guard duty. Not the most glorious work, but it meant they would be safely away from the fighting for now. Course the downside was that there would be some bloody work ahead once the war reached their walls, which it inevitably would. Meng Sha was the only harbour they’d fortified thus far, at least to the point where they’d have an advantage against the Enemy’s overwhelming numbers. The construction workers were already fortifying Dong Jiang, while LuZhuo to the south would come next, but progress would be slower at both locations since the workers would only have a token defence division to ensure their safety rather than the full force of the crusading army sitting idle in the wings. This left Meng Sha as a pivotal point to hold and a tempting target for the Defiled, since capturing the harbour meant the Imperial army would no longer have a fortified base to resupply from. This was even more important here in the West than elsewhere due to the scarcity of food and water out in the sandy desert dunes which comprised most of the province, so any fighting here would be bitter indeed. That being said, it should be at least another week before the Enemy could safely besiege the harbour, since moving out any sooner risked their forces getting pinched between the harbour fort and the two Imperial armies moving out into the field, which meant Jorani and his people could sit pretty until then.

A good move from a brilliant commander, and Jorani breathed easy knowing that this battle-plan would put to rest all the muttered comments about the bossman’s decision to leave his fearsome Mother-in-Law in charge.

Never for a moment did Jorani dare doubt the woman’s competence or prowess. There were few Warriors capable of matching Lieutenant General Akanai’s strength, as many had seen her trading blows with Bai Qi first in JiangHu and later in the Central Citadel. A feat not even the famed Shuai Jiao could match mind you, but while commoners and Martial Warriors the Empire around venerated her for her personal strength, soldiers knew that the best commander wasn’t always the strongest Warrior around. Brigadier Hongji was the perfect example, as his personal strength was admittedly lacking, yet he held the front lines for longer than anyone believed possible thanks to his devious tactics and staggering foresight, abilities which had soldiers the Empire round praying to work under him. Then there was Nian Zu, who was the complete package, powerful duellist, formidable force on the battlefield, and a cunning tactician who held the Northern Wall for decades without incident, a tried and true commander that any soldier would be proud to serve. There were also many other weather-worn commanders lurking about, so a good number of soldiers were less than pleased when word spread that the bossman had appointed his gorgeous Grand Mentor as his second in command, meaning she now held the ultimate authority over the Army’s next move. Many a whinging Warrior was heard questioning her ability to lead soldiers in war, because to hear them talk, every other Officer in the Imperial Army had earned their rank through merit alone, as opposed to having the right connections or just being strong enough to deserve it. Other, more reasonable voices made no effort to disparage the Bekkie Commander, but they did wonder why the Legate chose her over a more... palatable choice like Nian Zu who outranked her or Liu Xuande, the Imperial Scion turned brilliant strategist who was fast becoming a household name when it came to battlefield tactics.

In truth, the best choice would have been to hand control over to Nian Zu, as not only was it the most obvious choice, it was also the most politically correct option, but the bossman never was one to care much about what others thought of his decisions. Then again, if the rest of the Empire knew what Jorani knew about Lieutenant General Akanai, then maybe they wouldn’t be so fussed about handing her command. There was no disputing her qualifications as not only had she united the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains and safeguarded it for hundreds of years, she also had a hand in raising many of the Khishig Peak Experts alive today. Then there was the fact that she raised the Bloody-Fanged Wolf himself, who in turn raised the fearsome and miraculous Falling Rain, which meant only a blind fool would dare claim she wasn’t qualified to lead, for as the nobles of the Empire were always quick to point out, a sparrow could never beget a hawk.

Course, this didn’t mean Jorani didn’t have any doubts at all, for he knew how fierce and vengeful the Bekkies could be, a spirit embodied by their beloved Commander, Akanai. Seeing how the Enemy had almost killed her son and put her grand-disciple/grandson/son-in-law into a coma, Jorani spent the last few weeks terrified that she would immediately launch an all-out counter-offensive against the Enemy in reprisal for their crimes, but thankfully, she seemed content to wait until all her pieces were in place before making a move. These new orders proved that she’d been the right person for the job, and while Jorani had faith in both the bossman’s decision and the Lieutenant General’s abilities, it was always best when faith was backed by cold hard facts.

To think, he’d read fierce and icy Akanai so wrong, having pegged her as a dormant volcano of righteous retribution just waiting for an excuse to erupt in violence and fury, when in fact she was a doting mother who wanted to make sure her boy was safe and sound after his close run in with death. It was almost adorable when you stopped to think about it, that even a Warrior as old and accomplished as Baatar was naught but a pup in his mother’s eye. A thought which filled Jorani with a longing to see his Ma again, if only to tell her he loved her so, for he knew she would’ve felt the same way as Akanai. To say he’d been an ungrateful son would be a massive understatement, and it wasn’t until after he lost her that he realized how much she did to keep him safe, fed, and happy. Alas, there was no pill for regret and no way to go back and tell her how much she meant to him, so all he could do was cherish the few happy memories he still had. There was a time when he only felt anger when thinking about her abhorrent end, even after he avenged her by hanging the damnable noble who had her caned to death, but vengeance alone wasn’t enough to quell his rage, and not without reason. While Councilman Chao Ban was the man responsible for her death, that was just the last on a long list of grievances Jorani held fast in his mother’s stead, and he lay most of the blame for her rough and wretched life at the feet of none other than his absentee sire, Gang Shu.

A grievance for another day though, as Jorani had more pressing matters to attend to, namely a meeting with the bossman’s father to get everyone up to speed. That’d been at the end of the missive and Old Bulat had almost missed it in his relief, which left Jorani precious little time to make his way across the damned fortress with his barely literate and somewhat out of shape second in tow. As a commander of five-thousand soldiers, he couldn’t be seen running around like a chicken with its head cut off without setting off a panic, but seeing as he was the Officer in charge of the Legate’s retinue, he could hardly afford to show up late either, so he power-walked as quickly as he dared without breaking into a full on sprint. Even then, he was among the last to arrive at the towering canvas command tent, one ringed by so many guards that it set off warning bells in Jorani’s mind as he slowed to catch his breath. Why did a customary Officer’s meeting need so much security? This wasn’t an honour guard sort of situation either, since the majority of guards were Bekkies rather than the Imperial soldiers one would normally expect. Then again, maybe the Lieutenant General was just being overprotective of her son, which would be understandable considering he’d almost died taking Huang Hai.

Course, that theory went right out the window once Jorani made his way into the command tent and saw the company he was in, a gathering of Northern heroes who he knew all too well. There at the front was the Bloody Fanged Wolf himself, looking healthy as an ox while clad in Bekkie leathers with his Officer’s token on full display. There he stood with his massive honking pole-axe in hand, one which was aptly named the Crescent Moon for the shape of its wickedly curved blade. With his snow-silver hair and piercing blue eyes, he looked every bit the part of blessed Son of the Mother Above, a Divine Agent here to dispatch the Enemy in Her name. Though his achievements had thus far been overshadowed by others, there was no doubt in anyone’s mind that Baatar of the Bekhai was a Warrior to be reckoned with, a rising Dragon who stood well above his peers. A rare, apolitical military Officer, it was almost comical to think he’d been but a lowly Captain only a few years prior to today, a grand hero of the Empire whose talents and accomplishments had largely gone unnoticed. Thus far, he was mostly known for his connections, as Akanai’s son and Disciple, Nian Zu’s protege and successor, and the bossman’s father and Mentor, but it was only a matter of time before his actions would speak for themselves.

A shame to sideline so great a man, but Jorani had a sinking suspicion that all was not as it seemed.

One reason was that next to the Bloody Fanged Wolf stood none other than Situ Jia Yang, which by itself wasn’t worthy of note. Though once fierce enemies, the Situ Clan and the Bekkies were now the staunchest of allies, mostly thanks to the bond of friendship between the bossman and Situ Jia Zian, but Jia Yang was still the same relentless political animal and would not be so pleased to have been sidelined during such an important offensive. Even more suspicious was the fact that Brigadier Chen Hongji was also present at the front of the tent, humbly positioned a half-step back so as not to overshadow anyone else and wholly comfortable in the arrangement. Hell, knowing Baatar, Hongji had probably moved himself back without the half-wolf noticing, though Jia Yang no doubt saw and appreciated the gesture and would repay it in private.

Jia Yang the politician, Hongji the tactician, and Baatar the stalwart leader, a perfect balance of Officers with each one covering for the weaknesses of the others and poised to bolster their strengths as well. A solid foundation of a command structure indeed...

That wasn’t all. The tent was packed with recognizable faces, Heroes of the Empire one and all. The Wedded Exarches Bralton and Erienne looked savagely resplendent in their tribal garb complete with feathers and face paint aplenty, standing with arms crossed and spears resting as if without a care in the world. Golden Eyed Taiyi ZhuShen was present too, a moniker which fell out of use when his medicinal tests ruined the bright futures of his promising Disciples, but had returned in full force now that Iron Crutch Li TieGuai and the Devilish Duo Tao Zi and Ping Guo were back in fighting form and standing dutifully at their teacher’s side. Won Gwang the Lawgiver lurked in the shadows with his iconic man-catcher polearm at his side, a man who worked in obscurity and renounced all riches so as to avoid any possible accusations of bribery or corruption whilst dispensing justice.

Then Jorani laid eyes on someone who might well be the most dangerous Warrior present. None would think it to look at him, but everyone knew one did not cross the Society and survive through mere luck alone, and this man had done more than cross them. Situ Rang Min, the deposed Patriarch turned Lieutenant Marshal was also present here today, clad in full Runic plate armour even flashier than Jorani’s that made the aged Warrior look no less heroic than Nian Zu himself. Though little was known about the strength of the former Situ Patriarch, this was a man who remained at odds with the Greatest Living Legend of the North for nigh on eight decades now, so one could only assume he could at least put up a good fight, a claim few others could make.

Those were the biggest names in the room that Jorani recognized, but there were plenty of other Warriors of note. Such as the Bekkie Khishigs who were sometimes responsible for guarding the bossman, like the formidable half-bear woman who made Ulfsaar look like a tamed circus bear, standing behind her son the young wolf Huushal. Also present was the tanned, staff-wielding Warrior who spoke with a Western Cant and insisted his name was ‘Gao Liang’ and that he hailed from the North, as well as two Warriors who were so plain and nondescript Jorani just knew they had to be people of note, a suspicion reinforced by how quickly they noticed his eyes upon them. Glancing away, he scanned through the crowd and picked out everyone else he knew, listing them one by one in his mind and putting the pieces of this puzzle together. Chu XinYue, a young up and coming cavalry officer and friend of the bossman. Tam Taewoong, former member of the Hwarang and aide to Hongji. Tong Da Fung, playboy and drunkard capable of trading blows with the Defiled traitor Mitsue Hideo who even Ryo Geom-Chi could not overcome. Li Song, younger sister of Baatar and possibly the bossman’s fifth love interest, sitting primly with her scowling weasel bear dangling from her arms. Situ Jia Zian, looking like a mini Rang Min in his young Patriarch’s armour, a Runic breastplate emblazoned with the ‘Situ’ character across the chest, with a small, engraved ‘Lu’ situated just above the heart, a filial son who respected both his Clan and father.

