There was a time when Jorani was more than happy to idle his days away, doing nothing until circumstances demanded otherwise, because he loved just doing nothing. There were those who liked dicing or drinking, boasting or brawling, and even the rare quirky coot who enjoyed their work, but there was nothing Jorani loved more than sitting back and doing nothing except taking in the sights, sounds, scents, and whatever might else catch his fancy.

These days however, he had precious little time for idling. As a Field Officer in command of five-thousand troops, there was always more work to do than hours a day to do it, especially while out on campaign. It wasn’t so bad though, as after the first day or two of hectic activity in which the Peak Experts overran four Western harbours and left the cleanup to the grunts, there wasn’t much else for the army to do except dig in and fortify, but it was rare for soldiers to be as easy going as Jorani, and bored soldiers were troublesome soldiers. While the bossman brought in plenty of professionals to do all the constructing, Lieutenant General Akanai was not a woman to let her soldiers sit idle, and Jorani wholeheartedly approved. For the last month, the soldiers of this conquering army toiled in the dust, digging ditches, hauling blocks, patrolling the area, and more, with each and every Warrior expected to put in a solid eight hours of work each and every day.

That being said, most soldiers weren’t all too accustomed to a life of hard labour, on account of them being either nobles, bandits, or just plain spoiled by circumstance. Even the poorest, most incompetent Martial Warrior was better off than most, since there was always someone willing to pay decent wages just to have them stand around and look intimidating, so this last month proved a rude awakening to the majority of soldiers here in Meng Sha, but a much needed one in Jorani’s eyes. A bit of sweat never hurt no one, and Jorani even kinda enjoyed it, as it reminded him of the weeks he spent in the Arid Wastes helping Asmani’s tribe build their new village. It was nice to do something that mattered, aside from just wasting his time doing nothing, and much as he enjoyed the latter, the former was starting to grow on him too.

For the last thirty days, Jorani fell into a routine of taking his breakfast outside while taking in the sights, and it was almost inspiring to see the fort walls and towers shoot up and up and up before his eyes. He wasn’t the only one to appreciate the fruits of their labours in this way either, with many a soldier stopping to take in the sights whenever they had a moment to spare, and he imagined the awe, pride, and satisfaction he saw there was mirrored in his own eyes every morning. The walls, the towers, the gates, the traps, every soldier here had a part in building the defences that would keep them safe, and knowing this gave them all a grand sense of accomplishment. There was magic in creation, of taking something that was there and turning it into something else altogether, and though he’d seen this sort of magic at work with Asmani’s tribe, Jorani hadn’t wholly recognized it until now.

“Ye know,” he began, turning towards Monk Happy without taking his eyes off the landscape, “I think I understand why ye all like making things so much.” The smiling monk sipped at his breakfast congee without uttering a word, but Jorani knew the man was listening, because that was what the monks did best. “Feels good seeing what me own two hands have built, to be able to point at that tower and know me sweat is mixed into the mortar or that gate and remember how I bled gettin’ them hinges on straight.”

“That is a part of it yes,” Monk Happy replied, after taking a second to swallow the last of his breakfast. “Gratification from seeing the fruits of one’s labour is undeniably enjoyable, a lesson Junior Brother would have learned much earlier if not for your...indolent tendencies. There is more to it than personal fulfillment however, and you must not forget to be wary of indulging the desire for existence.”

The second of the Three Desires, the craving for existence, which Jorani didn’t entirely understand. The gist of it was that one should do good things because it was right to do so, rather than out of any innate desire to be known as a good person. A fine line to walk, and truth be told, he didn’t see the harm in letting someone hold their head held high if they were doing good things, but to the Monks of the Brotherhood, intent was every bit as important as the action itself. The right action with the wrong intent could be just as damaging as being wrong both ways, or so they claimed. Monk Bones gave many examples, but the one that stuck with Jorani was the parable of a landowner who subsidized his farmers by giving them oxen free of charge so they could take responsibility for more farmland. The oxen enabled the farmers to till larger fields and harvest more crops, thereby increasing the landowner’s profits, but the farmers soon discovered that their oxen were old with not many years left to them. What’s more, when they went to the landowner to seek out a replacement, he charged them an exorbitant amount which the farmers had no choice but to pay because there was no way to work their large fields without one.

The Empire was filled with schemers looking to squeeze every possible copper out of their workforce, but that one was a particularly devious ploy that made Jorani sick to his stomach. It wasn’t a tall tale made up to prove the Brotherhood’s point either, but something that had actually happened, and for all Jorani knew, was still happening somewhere in the world today.

“So what’s the rest of it?” Jorani asked, always curious to learn more. “The reasoning to why ye monks put so much effort into craftin’ and paintin’ and whatnot?”

While he didn’t wholly agree with all of the Brotherhood’s viewpoints or even most of them, they always had at least a few good points in their favour and helped him see the world in a new light, and Monk Happy did not disappoint. “We of the Brotherhood value not the end result of our labours, but the act of creation itself. As someone whose livelihood is steeped in violence and destruction, you already know that such ordeals demand a hefty price, a butcher’s bill paid not in coin or lives but rather an individual’s mental well-being.” Something in the monk’s voice made Jorani finally turn to face him, and what he saw was a man who’d paid that price many times over and was still burdened by the loss. “You know as well as any that it takes something from a person to kill another living being, to look into someone’s eyes and watch the life fade away, even someone who meant you harm. Though most struggle to manage this debt at first, it becomes easier and easier to ignore the cost as you grow numb to the effort, until there comes a time when you no longer notice the burden or even stop caring altogether. To create something is almost the complete opposite, a soothing balm for the mind and soul that serves as an act of balance not in the metaphysical sense, but mentally and morally.”

Having said his piece, Monk Happy fell silent once again to reflect on his inner turmoil, some memories of the past which still haunted him so, and Jorani stared at his hands to give the man what little privacy he could. He knew the struggle well enough, as he’d never come to love this life of combat and bloodshed, not the way the bossman and so many others did. There was nothing quite like the thrill of combat, but while the heady highs were good and all, it never lasted long and in no way made up for the steep fall after, and he knew he wasn’t the only one who felt this way. Most never cared to admit their woes because to do so would be ‘unbecoming’, but he’d seen many a soldier turn to drink, drugs, or pleasurable company just so they could rest easy at night, a different sort of coping system from the Brotherhood’s, but a solution nonetheless. Hell, Jorani himself had gotten to the point where he’d almost forgotten the burdens of war weighing down on his conscience, a dilemma made doubly difficult after meeting Asmani and her tribesmen. What if there were more Defiled tribesmen like them, ones who fought and killed only because they knew no other way to live? If one tribe could change, surely so could others, which made the Imperial policy of taking no prisoners a prickly prospect, conscientiously speaking. It was an issue he’d been ignoring for the last few weeks, mostly because he had no idea what to do about it. There was a time when he could’ve just kept his mouth shut and followed orders, but now he’d be the one issuing those orders, which made things just all that much worse.

...

Maybe he could try his hand at pottery. That looked like fun, playing with mud and all. Ral would probably enjoy it too, so maybe they could learn together. They had precious little time to spend with one another in recent days, mostly because Jorani was too busy learning the ins and outs of command, so it wouldn’t hurt to set an hour or twos aside to spend with his best friend.

Making a mental note to ask Ral about it, Jorani bade Monk Happy farewell and headed off to start his day. Unlike previous days, the camp was abuzz with anticipation because everyone and their mother knew orders were soon to come down from above. They were about to make some big moves from the looks of it, a difficult thing to hide considering the preparations an army in the field needed, so it wouldn’t be long before they resumed their campaign to retake the West. Jorani had hoped the bossman would be back on his feet before things got underway, but that wasn’t looking likely, especially when he arrived at his Officer’s tent and found Old Bulat already puttering about. The man was clever and all, but most of his efforts were spent trying to come up with new and inventive ways to be lazy, so for him to be ready and waiting before Jorani arrived was a portent of trouble ahead. Rather than say anything, Jorani simply raised an eyebrow to greet the man, who pursed his lips and held up a scroll sealed in wax stamped with the character ‘Herald’, indicating this came from the desk of Lieutenant General Akanai herself.

Marching orders then, which explained why Old Bulat was here bright and early. Jorani pitched his yurt closer to where the Brotherhood were encamped, mostly so he could spend his nights deep in discussion and not have to trek back to bed in the dark. While it kept him safe from Wraiths and from having to deal with overzealous sentries, it also meant that any official messengers would be unable to find him unless they were told exactly where he slept. That was why he had Old Bulat for, his somewhat dependable second-in-command, though there was plenty of room for improvement to be made. “Well, no time like the present,” Jorani began, trying not to appear too worried or distraught. “Read it out fer me, will ye?”

It took an effort of will not to smile at the brief flash of panic which crossed the man’s face, but Jorani didn’t want to shame them man or discourage him from trying his best. Settling into his chair, he leaned back and waited as the burly man unfurled the scroll and slowly parsed the words together before finally finding the courage to start, but Mother knows the man needed the practice. Thus far, he’d gotten away by relying on Silva to do all his reading, but there were some orders which should only be read by the commander in charge, and there might come a day when that burden fell to Old Bulat.

Hopefully that day wouldn’t be soon, as it would only happen if Jorani was out of the picture, but like the bossman liked to say, “Hope for the best, but plan for the worst.”

Though Old Bulat struggled to get through it without stumbling, he’d improved a fair bit since Jorani took over for Mister Rustram. Even better was the fact that for once, the dice had come out in their favour as the scroll held nothing but good news. Soldiers were to deploy in the morning, with Colonel General Nian Zu leading the charge to retake the border city of Shi Bei, while Lieutenant General Akanai set out with a second army to guard his flank from Defiled reinforcements. The best part was that Jorani and his boys weren’t joining either of them however, as they’d been placed under Lieutenant General Baatar who was still recovering from injuries sustained in Huang Hai during that first, hectic night of the offensive, and thus would be stationed right here in Meng Sha to cover everyone’s collective asses.

