Add in Jorani himself, the commander of the bossman’s retinue, as well as Mister Rustram, commander of the Legate’s Stormguard, and there was no denying it. The Warriors gathered here were not suitable for defence, or rather were too exceptional to be wasted holding a static and easily defended position.

“Welp,” Old Bulat muttered, his voice low and meant only for Jorani to hear. “Guess we won’t be twiddlin’ our thumbs after all.”

The man was sharp as a spear alright, and it was gratifying to have his suspicions confirmed, so Jorani merely gave his second a knowing smile while wishing he’d thought to dress up like everyone else. When he turned back to face the front however, he caught Lieutenant General Baatar’s eye, and there was a hint of appreciation in those icy orbs of his, so piercing it was as if they never missed a thing. “Thank you all for coming,” he began, and a hush fell over the tent. “As some of you have already surmised, our orders to hold Meng Sha are a ruse. We set out on the morrow. Speed is of the essence, so we travel light. Have your men ready their personal kits and nothing else, as all other necessities will be provided for along the way.” Straight to the point, not at all like how the bossman would do it, dancing around the subject for his own personal enjoyment, which admittedly was one of his worst qualities. The bossman’s father was a no nonsense sort, same as his mother and every other Bekkie it seemed, which really begged the question of where the bossman learned to be so flippant, but that was neither here nor there.

“Where are we going?”

Exarch Bralton was the first to chime in, and while some of the gathered Officers seemed offended by this breach in protocol, Baatar nodded at his old comrade and replied, “Pan Si Xing.” Jia Yang and Hongji both seemed surprised that Baatar would reveal their destination so readily, especially after the great lengths they’d gone to in order to cover their tracks. “I tell you this because every Warrior present is worthy of trust and knows when to hold their tongues, because if you were not, you would not have been chosen to come along.” That won the bossman’s father more than a few points, and Jorani could see why his soldiers respected the man, a straightforward and forthright man who did things in an aboveboard manner. Besides, there was no harm in sharing, because there was no turning back now, as things were already in motion if Jorani’s suspicions were correct.

“We are to take the city with this paltry force alone?”

This time, it was Rang Min who spoke up, and to his credit, Baatar reacted no differently from when Bralton chimed in. “No.” Leaning forward to cast his gaze across the room, Baatar had a way of making eye contact that made it feel as if he was speaking directly to you rather than an entire roomful of people. “Make no mistake, our mission is a difficult one, but one well worth the risk. Rang Min’s implication is correct. We alone are not enough to take and hold Pan Si Xing, nor will we be able to liberate the citizens within from the Enemy’s grasp. Their freedom will have to wait for another day, for our goal is a simple one. Tomorrow, we set out to claim a single head before making our way back to Meng Sha intact. No more, no less, but I believe the Warriors gathered here are more than up to the task.”

The room collectively inhaled as they took in Baatar’s declaration, and the same name likely crossed everyone’s mind, but no one had the courage to say it. Flashing a wolfish grin that sent chills down Jorani’s spine, the Bloody Fanged Wolf nodded in confirmation. “Yes, my Warriors, my soldiers, my heroes of the Empire. Tomorrow, we set out to take the head of none other than the traitor general Bai Qi himself, while Colonel General Nian Zu’s army does battle with Mao Jianghong in Gan Shi and my Mentor trades blows with the Mataram Patriarch in Tian Zangli. Should all three of our forces succeed, then we will have struck a decisive blow and crippled the Defiled command structure in one fell swoop.”

Well damn. Turned out, Jorani was right. Akanai was a damned dormant volcano, only he’d underestimated her ability to hold onto her grievances without erupting. The bossman once said that revenge was a dish best served cold, and Jorani saw that his Grand-Mentor had taken the advice to heart.

There were a few more details to discuss, but Jorani stood silent through it all, because he more or less understood the gist of things. This wasn’t quite a suicide mission, but because as difficult as it would be to bring Bai Qi down, the tricky part of the mission was getting back to Meng Sha in one piece. Though he feared for his life, Jorani found that he was more concerned about the lives of his soldiers, as well as the comrades who would be marching alongside him. There was something else bothering him, something he couldn’t quite figure out, not until long after the meeting was over. He left in muted spirits and set to work readying his troops, but it wasn’t until after dinner was done and he sat down to see what the Monks had crafted today that he realized what was bothering him.

The civilians in Pan Si Xing. They were just going to be left there to suffer under Defiled rule, one which was sure to worsen once Bai Qi was killed. Say what you will about the Lord of Martial Peace, but the title was well deserved, for though he was merciless to his enemies, his people were kept safe so long as they abides by his rules. This didn’t sit right with Jorani, and he knew it wouldn’t sit right with the bossman, but the bossman’s father was in charge, so he didn’t dare bring the matter up.

“You are conflicted.”

Lost in his thoughts, the words didn’t register until long seconds after, at which point he finally responded. “Huh?”

Monk Bones sat down beside Jorani before repeating himself, gesturing at the current monk showing off his latest artwork, a beautifully lifelike painting of a scenic mountain forest. “You’ve not given a single piece a good look, when most nights you stand among the most appreciative of observers. Some of our fellow brothers are understandably upset and wondering if their work is not up to standard.”

“Can’t make nothin’ even a tenth as good as what you all can,” Jorani replied, offering a sheepish shrug to hide his embarrassment. “Just distracted is all.”

“By inner conflict, yes. We established this already.” Pausing to give Jorani a chance to speak, Monk Bones only continued when it was clear he had nothing else to say. “So the bloodshed is set to begin anew, and you will be leaving us soon enough eh?”

“What? No.” How did he know? Was Monk Bones spying on him?

Seeing through Jorani’s suspicion, Monk Bones rolled his eyes and shook his head. “The whole fortress has been abuzz about their deployment orders, and I am not so old as to go blind and deaf just yet. You spent the day preparing your troops for travel, so it’s not a far stretch to assume you’re going somewhere. That’s what soldiers do, is it not? March and kill, kill and march. Hardly the best use of your limited time on this material world or your miraculous ability to wield the Energies of the Heavens, is it not?”

Picturing the atrocities he saw take place on the fields outside Castle JiangHu, Jorani’s throat tightened in rage at the memory of how far the traitor general had fallen. “Well, some men need killing.”

“It pains this monk to hear you speak these words with such conviction. All life is sacred, and any harm you inflict upon others will quickly be reflected back to you, if not in a physical manner, then a spiritual one.”

The monk showing off his painting had long since stopped, and they were all watching Jorani instead now, so he shook his head to clear his thoughts and said, “Yea, I don’t disagree, but even then, it’s a price worth paying.”

“And what will this killing accomplish?”

“The death of a faithless murderer.”

Jorani was careful not to go into specifics, but he had a feeling that Monk Bones already knew it all as he shrugged and said, “Another will take his place.”

“Then I will take up arms against them as well, until there are none left to succeed.”

“Or there is nothing left of yourself to give.” Giving it a moment of thought, Jorani simply nodded in agreement, to which Monk Bones responded, “And how do you reconcile this killing with your conscience? You have seen firsthand that the Defiled are not monsters in human flesh as the Empire would have you believe, yet now you embark upon a journey to slaughter them wholesale.”

“Aye, yer right there, but I ain’t got an answer to share. There’s killing to be done, and I’ll not take any joy from it, but even if there are Defiled out there who could be convinced to change their ways, I would sooner kill them to save the innocent civilians suffering under their rule instead.”

“And if you save someone who should not be saved? Someone who later goes on to commit some heinous atrocity?”

“I can only take responsibility fer my own actions,” Jorani replied, shaking his head at how ridiculous the question was. “I see a person in need, then I’ll save em. Ain’t my fault if he sets a town on fire later on.” Then again, knowing the bossman, he probably would feel responsible and blame himself for not seeing through a stranger’s moral fibre before saving them. The idiot.

“So is this why you fight, Jorani of Sanshu? To save others? How many have you saved with your spears and swords?” Throwing his hands up in the air, Monk Bones snarled and said, “If you wish to save people, then you would be better served pursuing a different Path instead, but still you insist on this one. You have no love for this soldier’s life you’ve embarked on, no lust for glory and bloodshed, yet you resist all attempts to sway you from it. You are a man in love with life itself, still yet to experience all it has to offer, and yet you run headlong down this Path which even you yourself know you are unsuited for. Why put yourself through this pain? Why pursue this Path to its inevitable end when you could instead seek out a new Path and purpose?”

This time, Jorani was at a loss for words, because never before had the monks put him on the spot like this. It was always, ‘Why do you seek strength’, an almost rhetorical question meant to make him think about his motivations, but now, Monk Bones was all but demanding an answer. Justice? No, he wasn’t that good a person, driven by a need to help others. Duty? Ha. If the Mother Above wanted him to fight the Defiled, then She should have made him stronger and braver to begin with. Obligation?

...

Yea... that was pretty much it.

“I walk this Path because the bossman needs me,” Jorani said, marvelling at how the answer had been right before his eyes all this time and still somehow escaped his notice. “He has his Path, and it just so happens, I want to help him along it.”

“We all must walk our own Path,” Monk Bones intoned, and Jorani nodded in agreement.

“True enough.” Since he didn’t know where the bossman was at the moment, Jorani leaned back and looked up at the night sky, feeling a sense of relief and contentment he hadn’t even known he needed before sharing his driving motivation to the Brotherhood. “But that don’t mean we can’t all use a helping hand every once in a while. The bossman would probably laugh if he heard this, and he’d be the first to tell me I’m a fool for tryin’ to follow him. Ye know he offered to let me out of my contract? Said he’d be happy to set me up fer a cushy life away from soldierin’ if that’s what I wanted, and damned if he didn’t mean it.” Chuckling under his breath, Jorani reminisced about those dark days with a smile, because now he could wholly appreciate what the bossman had done for him, and the faith the man still had even after all that.

“So why did you refuse?” Monk Happy asked.

“Because like I said, the bossman needs me.” Shrugging, Jorani continued, “He’s the type to shoulder the world’s burdens on his own without so much as a peep, then complain about how difficult it was once the danger passes. He’s a strange sort ye know, real similar to you lot, except where you all work to elevate yerselves above the red dust of the lowly mortal world, he strives to improve the world itself as a whole. That’s why I respect him so much, because his grand vision ain’t just focused on him.”

“You think our Path selfish?”

