Calen downed another mana potion as soon as the first expired and resumed his careful marksmanship, although he may as well not be present for all the attention the Death Knight paid him. For his third, he took a health potion instead to try to recover some of the damage sustained from his brief stint in that frost aura. He fired arrow after arrow into the stalemate as the two titans turned the once-pristine forest valley into a hellscape of destruction.

My recharge will be up soon. It was like an instinct – his class-provided sense of timing. He didn’t even need to check his skill, when he sensed it was recharged, he lit the sky by igniting his mana. He aimed and loosed a storm of arrows at the Death Knight’s head and shoulders, imbued with Righteous Fury’s intense power. Even at his strongest, his arrows seemed pale and tiny against the backdrop of magical fury being unleashed below. But he put everything he had into it.

I hope I can at least do something.

An arrow struck the back of the Death Knight, somehow finding a minuscule gap between the heavy plate pauldron and the shrouded neck, sprouting there like a glowing shard. The creature whirled with a hiss Calen could hear from all the way up above the treetops. Suddenly, the air around him was thick with flying shards of ice, and the only thing he could do was dodge at top speed. He flared extra mana into his wings, accelerating his speed, but still, a thick shard of ice impaled his right thigh just above the knee. Another shard shattered his shin from the force of the impact, while dozens more swished by, leaving grazes and scrapes where he barely managed to dodge their razor-sharp edges.

A deathly chill seeped into his body, creeping out from the wounds. As his legs began to freeze, he used the last few seconds of Righteous Fury to flee the storm of ice, darting higher overhead and hoping he wasn’t making himself an easier target. He glanced back down, finding the Death Knight staring up at him, about to launch another storm of ice.

Where’s Lyen–

A detonation rocked the valley below, blasting a new crater into the ground. Splinters of trees and chunks of dirt and rock hurtled past his head as he took sudden evasive maneuvers. But as the debris and smoke cleared an eerie silence returned to the forest – what was left of it. Flame crackled along the trunks of toppled forest giants, slowly burning out. Sparks arced along the ground, tracing the edges of thick blocks of ice.

Down in the crater, the Death Knight lay with a smoking hole in the center of its torso. Lyeneru hovered above, bow drawn, magic mounting.

“It is futile, Night Elf,” the Death Knight said, his voice sending chills down Calen’s spine. “The Master will raise another. He will keep hunting you until you die. And then you will serve–”

“He’s welcome to try,” Lyeneru answered, her voice flat and harsh. Then her bow burred one last time. Her arrow punched a hole through the Death Knight’s head.

Calen gasped at the sound of his chime.

Your group has defeated Death Knight – Undead – level 193Your actions have increased the reputation of your patron.The duration of your Blessing of the Wanderer has increased by +3 days.

Holy shit! She did it! He could scarcely believe his eyes. And yet the notifications did not lie.

Archer of Light has reached level 43 (+3).+30 attribute points.Arrows of Brilliance has reached level 30.Blessing of the Dawn has reached level 21.Eclipse has reached level 22 (+2).Righteous Fury has reached level 15 (+2).Azrael's Wings has reached level 14 (+2).Mirage Armor has reached level 6 (+5).

Calen slowly drifted down.

Three levels. My contribution must have been tiny compared to Lyeneru’s, but I still leveled three times. At what cost? He glanced down at his missing foot and the shattered remnants of his favorite boots that still clung to the stump.

“Well done, Calen,” Lyeneru said, taking her eyes off the fallen Death Knight to look at him.

The sound of his name from her lips sent a thrilling surge of pride through his exhausted, broken body.

“You distracted him well enough that I was able to get off a second Ambush,” she said, confirming what he had guessed. “That contribution probably earned you at least two of those levels.” She wore an uncharacteristic grin on her face.

Calen winced at the jarring pain as he lowered himself to the ground. With the Death Knight’s death, its magic no longer invaded his body, but his legs were still shattered and bleeding. His health potion hadn’t restored his missing foot and with the receding frost, came a powerful surge of pain. He drank another healing potion, wishing Mato or Malika were around.

“I’m just glad I could help a little,” he said, speaking through gritted teeth. “You were right. I love Mirage Armor.” He had dodged an entire storm of ice shards and even just the two that had hit had destroyed his legs.

Lyeneru’s grin widened. “The Pathfinder Guild needs the Death Knight corpse, but you can take the plate armor and sword if you like. Perhaps you can sell it to feed your insatiable potion addiction.” She tossed the equipment in his direction and stored the corpse.

Did she just make a joke? But he understood her infectious smile and good humor. They had achieved something incredible – they had rid the world of a Death Knight – a Greater Undead and scourge on the living. The world would be safer without its evil.

Well, it was mostly her power, but I did help with my piddling shots – well, except for the one that penetrated, he corrected himself, almost as if Mato were listening to his thoughts. He was still trying to wrap his mind around the power that had created the giant crater they were sitting in and had ended the Death Knight.

“You can sell that stuff in Ciradyl when we get there.”

“Ciradyl?” Calen asked, confused. He had only seen pictures of the beautiful elven forest city. She wants to go there?

“Yes,” she answered nonchalantly. “The Pathfinders Guild is there, and you are joining. I will sponsor you for the rank of initiate. After today’s performance, you can skip the entire novice rank.”

Wait, Pathfinder? Initiate? Calen’s brain reeled from Lyeneru’s announcement. Me? His disbelief must have been plain to see because Lyeneru just chuckled.

“My only critique is you’re not powerful enough yet, and that is something you will solve with time and training. That is what the guild is for. You have demonstrated courage against a terrifying foe far above your level, smart combat skills, the ability to follow directions even when they’re challenging, and good improvisation and situational awareness,” she said, pinning him with a look that plainly said he had better live up to her assessment, or else. “Nothing in the standard trial could hold a candle to this fight. You have earned your Pathfinder badge.”

“I… thanks!”

“Come, let’s get you a proper healer, those weak potions won’t regrow your legs,” she said, reaching toward him. “Here, take my hand.”

As soon as he did, he felt the familiar lurch of long-range teleportation and found himself suddenly sitting in the center of a silvery, glowing teleportation locus inscribed into a solid wooden floor. Almost immediately, a hazel-eyed Wood Elf Healer with flowing dark green hair stepped forward with the iconic cloak of the Pathfinders swishing from her shoulders.

She spoke a few soft words in the lilting speech of the Elves and placed her hands on his wounded legs, sending a gentle stream of healing magic flowing into him. Calen slumped back on the aged floor, groaning, “Oh… beautiful.”

Then he caught the slightest of smiles curving her lips.

“Uh – the, uh, sensation – I meant!” he stammered, fearing he had just inserted his remaining foot into his mouth, right up to the knee. Did I say, ‘you’re beautiful?’ Huh?

Switching languages, she replied, “I’d say the same for you, young half-human. Now, if only you were two hundred years older…”

Lyeneru snorted, “Evidently, he’ll be just fine.”

“I can’t wait to get back to my domain,” Ali said, sighing. She was well and truly done with this Domain Withdrawal.

“I bet,” Mato said. “Here…” He bent over and hauled up the iron grate.

“Thanks,” she said, stepping onto a barrier disk and levitating herself down into the sewers. She wrinkled her nose at the foul odor. This was so much nicer when I owned this space. I should reclaim it and purify the water. At least it might smell better.

Mato grunted from above as he replaced the iron grate and began climbing down the ladder.

“What do you want to–” she began, but suddenly she was interrupted by a moaning noise. She snapped her head around to find herself staring into dead eyes set in a rotting face.

“…rrraaarhg…”

Warrior – Zombie – level 8

She snapped a second barrier up just in time to catch the grasping bony hand. It splatted against her barrier, leaving a handprint of nasty-looking black ooze dripping down its surface. “Mato! Zombie!”

Moments later, the bear charged by, and slashed through the zombie with a powerful Swipe of his claws.

Your group has defeated Warrior – Zombie – level 8

“What the fuck is that doing here?” Mato demanded after shifting back to his Beastkin form.

“I don’t know,” Ali said. “But we need to find out.” She crept up to the intersection and peeked around the corner.

Warrior – Zombie – level 4-12 x7

“Uh, there’s a lot of them,” Ali said. “Do you think they’re left over from that Necromancer?”

“Probably, what else could it be?” Mato said, immediately warping back to his Bear Form.

“Can I leave those to you while I summon a mage?” Ali asked.

She got a grunt in reply, which she took to mean yes. By the time she had summoned a Fire Mage, Mato had cleared the tunnel. “At least they’re low level.”

They pressed on, clearing tunnel after tunnel until they reached the entrance to the cavern, and here Ali stopped and stared. As far as she could see, her home was crawling with zombies and skeletons.

“Looks like we have some work to do,” Mato said. “Summon some more monsters, I’ll wait.”

Ali climbed down into the cavern, following Mato, and then opened her Grimoire to summon a second Fire Mage.

“You two, clear the cavern. Kill all the undead,” Ali commanded.

“Yes, Ancient Mistress.” Her Kobold Mages bowed, eyes gleaming red in the dark, and then they scampered down the rise with delighted chirps, summoning flame to their hands.

“Lira did say my domain would attract monsters, but this is a jolly horde,” Ali said, paging through her Grimoire and selecting a shaman for her next summon.

“There may be higher level undead, we should be careful,” Mato said.

Ali nodded and summoned an Acolyte. She wanted a full complement of monsters before they headed out into this mess. I just didn’t expect them to show up in such numbers. Back to the drawing board with my defenses, clearly…

***

The chime sounded as Ali entered Lydia’s Allure with Mato and her two Kobolds. It was remarkable how much better she felt after spending a few hours in her domain recovering from her withdrawal while Mato and her monsters cleared the cavern of undead. Even after her rest, they were still picking off stragglers, so she left her Kobolds and Goblins with orders to wipe them all out. At least there was nothing over level fifteen. This time.

As if on cue, her chime sounded again.

Your minions have defeated Warrior – Zombie – level 6

The endless stream of notifications had slowed dramatically, however, like sand, the undead had gotten in everywhere, and her minions were still flushing them out of nooks and crevices.

After she had recovered, Mato had graciously agreed to accompany her to Lydia’s shop, citing safety in numbers – especially given that there was most likely still a bounty on her head.

“Oh, hi Aliandra, Mato.” Lydia glanced up at the sound of the door chime and greeted them. She looked busy, sitting behind the counter where bright fabric panels cut into strange shapes adorned the surface while thread and needle flew, accelerated by her tailoring skills.

The store was empty of customers, but it was full of boxes, packed and arranged in orderly rows ready for transport. It seemed business was booming.

Tailor – Human – level 61

Ali identified her automatically, but what she saw made her suddenly pause. I can identify her! It was one thing to see your class grow, but sometimes it was in the little, unexpected details that she really appreciated the progress.

“Hi Lydia,” Ali greeted her. “I just wanted to let you know Calen is going to be busy for a few days.”

“He hasn’t gotten himself into trouble again, has he?”

“This is Calen,” Mato answered with a chuckle. “I’m the one who gets into trouble, not him!”

Lydia gave him a look that spoke volumes about just how unimpressed she was with his wit. Ali wondered just how many versions of that conversation they had had over the years.

“He went on a quest with Lyeneru Silverleaf,” Ali put in, before Mato got himself scolded. “She wanted his help to track the Death Knight. They left in a hurry, which is why he probably didn’t stop by and tell you himself.”

Lydia’s eyes widened briefly. “She had better take care of him, or I will have words with her.” She downplayed it with her understated humor, but there was deep worry in her eyes.

“I met her,” Ali reassured Lydia quickly. “She is unimaginably powerful – a three-mark Pathfinder – Calen couldn’t be in better hands, even against a Death Knight.” She neglected to mention that she had had to stare down the wrong end of Lyeneru’s bow, deciding that would not be reassuring in the slightest. However, in the end, it seemed she could chalk that up to a misunderstanding, and it had all worked out. Worked out in a way that left Ali with a lot of unfinished homework.

Lydia sighed. “Ok, thanks for letting me know.”

“Business seems good?” Ali asked, indicating the boxes – there were quite a few of them, many addressed to ‘Weldin Thriftpenny, Adventurers Guild’.

“Yes, I’m always busy now. The idea of pairing up with the Adventurers Guild shop has gone extremely well. As soon as the word got out, half of the Novaspark Academy stopped by and cleaned out every piece I made. The cloth armor is very popular among the lower-level mages and healers.”

While she sounded happy, there did seem to be an undercurrent of something that bothered her.

“Just the lower levels?”

