“Cool. Never going here again. Who even cares about dungeons in the first place? They pretty much all ask you to kill stuff and hide away all the goodies, locking them behind some dangerous boss. Way easier to just borrow the tasty stuff from those who’ve already done the dungeon.”

“Ree?” Sylphie asked.

“Big Hydra did ask me about that, but no, I’m not into eating corpses. Just not really my thing. I prefer eating live stuff and then having them produce more food for me inside my belly. Something that also doesn’t work with dungeons, as you can’t bring live stuff out of it without doing silly things to make it happen,” Sandy answered.

“Ree?” Sylphie followed up as the two started talking while Jake flew down near the entrance to the dungeon. Landing, he looked around, waiting for a while before a head popped out of a wall nearby.

“Back to give more bad reviews?” Minaga’s projection asked in a sulking voice.

“No, just here to visit the B-grade section of the dungeon for a little while. Just to get my final level,” Jake answered with a smile.

Minaga glared at him. “What do you think I’m making here? The dungeon you and Casper experienced was specifically prepared for your testing, not something publicly available. Do you really think you can just come and go, entering an in-construction high-quality dungeon complex as you please?”

Jake looked at Minaga for a few seconds before the Unique Lifeform spoke again.

“... step on the teleportation platform, you can leave again once you’re done through the magic circle you initially appear on...”

After he said this, a magic circle appeared on a nearby circular platform, glowing with energy.

“Hey, at least you’re getting four and a half stars for customer service,” Jake said with a bright smile.

“Wait, why only four and a half?”

“See you two later, I’m going for my last level!” Jake turned and yelled up to Sylphie and Sandy, who seemed to be discussing a race to the room.

“How do I get that last half a star?”

Jake walked onto the magic circle and quickly accepted entering the dungeon, intent on quickly killing as many Aginians as he could to allow him to evolve as soon as possible.

“Hey! I’m open to suggestions over here, and wou-“

Without further ado, Jake accepted the prompt to enter the dungeon, and in he went to start one final slaughter before it was B-grade evolution time.
