The guy laughed. “No, no. A few dozen is fine.” He said and whistled two short barks. “I can make more.”

A man drove a large cart out from the nearby alleyway at the noise. Ren and the market stall guy engaged in deep negotiations for several minutes, and then decided on a price of 1 platinum coin and 20 gold coins. It was a steal, considering Ren had paid 4 gold for one barrel and he just got 36 barrels for only 120 gold, then gave the guy 10 gold as a tip. Even with that big of a tip, he still saved money on the deal.

“Where do you want them delivered?” The guy asked.

“I'll take them now.” Ren said and handed over the money.

“Wh-what?” The guy said as he took the money.

“I can just store them until I get to my warehouse.” Ren said and stored the barrels into inventory. “Thanks.”

“You... you're welcome.” The guy said surprised, and looked at his partner. “I guess we can close up for the day.”

“You mean for the week!” His partner said and laughed.

Ren left them to pack up their stall and led Railyse out the North Gate to the small road by the city wall, then down to the dock where his ship was. It was a nice walk to take, and they enjoyed it together.

*

“Here they come.” One of the workers said when he saw Ren and Railyse walking down the road towards the dock.

“Are you sure this thing is reliable?” Catalina asked Tee-one.

“I assure you it's perfectly safe, Ma'am.” Tee-one said. “The one we made in the dwarf lands worked well.”

“We'll see.” Catalina said. “4 horses is a lot for a normal driver to handle.”

“Then it's good that you're not a normal driver, Ma'am.” Tee-one said and smiled.

“I'm not a normal anything.” Catalina said and laughed.

*

“Hi, everyone.” Ren said as he and Railyse came to a stop by the stable.

“Hi, Ren.” Tee-one and Catalina said.

“I'm glad it's finished and turned out so well.” Ren said. The carriage was a good size, and could hold a large group of people. It was made with a definite sea theme, with waves etched into the wood and real seashells covered the lower half.

“I'm tempted to joke and say that it was close; but, I've had it done since yesterday.” Tee-one said.

Ren smiled as he looked to see Tee-one was wearing the Bracelets of Magical Balance. “I assume you got to use my abilities much more efficiently.”

Tee-one nodded.

“Are we ready to go?” Catalina asked, and Ren looked at her.

“We?”

“I've never driven one of these things, so I'm not going to let anyone else handle these horses in this configuration until I learn how to do it myself.”

“This wasn't supposed to be a learning trip.” Ren said. “If this is too much...”

“Nonsense.” Catalina said. “I'll pick it up quickly, and then I'll pass that knowledge to my students.”

“All right.” Ren said and held open the door of the carriage for Railyse.

“Just a moment.” Railyse said and walked over to the dock, took out the two large fish Ren had given her, and tossed them into the water. “From where you come, to where you return.” She said. The water shifted a little bit, then the fish carcasses were sucked out into deep water and disappeared.

“That was weird.” One of the workers said. “She just threw away two perfectly good fish.”

Ren chuckled, and Railyse came back over to them and got into the carriage, then he got in himself.

“Tee-one?”

“Orimihr says he's staying on the ship.” Tee-one said. “He also said something about blasphemous humans not being interesting to him in the least.”

Ren chuckled again. “He's never leaving the ship, then?”

“He signed on as one of the crew this morning.” Tee-one said. “They needed the extra hand, and he said he was bored.”

“It'll definitely keep him busy.”

“The ship is pretty much empty.” Tee-one said. “We just have to move the things I'm using, and finish taking off the ore and clean it out.”

“Thanks, Tee-one.” Ren said.

“You're welcome.” Tee-one said, and Catalina climbed up into the driver's seat. “Have fun talking to the big heads about crazy stuff.”

Ren smiled and waved as the carriage left the dock. “Yes, it's definitely crazy.” He said as they got on the road.

“It's the perfect mission for you, then.” Teepo said and chittered in laughter.

Rather than take the road through the city to get to the West Gate, Catalina took the carriage along the outside of the city wall and over the rough ground to get to the road they needed to get to.
