The basement. The cellar door was closed, but Mrsha had rushed down there on her second hiding place. And Bird’s scent was coming from there.
Mrsha opened the door. The basement now had proper stairs and a doorway, rather than a single hatch door. It was also much larger than before.
At the moment, it was just holding supplies. And it was checked daily by Ishkr or a Gnoll to make sure it was free of pests. Now, Mrsha crept into the dark room.
Spooky. She shivered in delight. Numbtongue and Bird had surprised her a lot in their nightly ‘scare-hide-and-seek’ games, where the goal was to scare the seeker. But she felt like Bird had let her down.
This wasn’t the best hiding spot. Just a good one. Mrsha wondered if she should plug her nose somehow to make the game more fair as she sniffed around. Or they could go on an adventure! Numbtongue had promised he’d take her on one, even if Lyonette said it wasn’t okay. She just had to…
Had to…
Had…
Mrsha prowled up and down the basement. Something was wrong. Bird’s scent came here, but there it stopped. He’d…vanished again. She frowned. Mrsha sat on her butt in the basement and stared around.
She had a minute left and Bird was gone. But he had been here. He wasn’t in a sack; she’d smell that. Ergo…
Mrsha put her head to the ground and sniffed, like a dog. Krshia said never to copy it and Mrsha usually didn’t need to. But she needed absolute smellability. She slowly traced Bird’s very steps.
Here, from the door, all the way to this wall. But there was nothing here. Mrsha stared up. She could smell even where Bird had stood. And then—a faint smell of Bird. But hidden.
Mrsha stared up at the wall. In the gloom, her eyes narrowed.
What’s this, then? There was something odd about this part of the wall. Very odd.
No—wait, there wasn’t. Mrsha was just imagining it. There was no secret lever. She sighed, sat down—
And noticed the concealed, tiny stone ring in the floor. Mrsha’s eyes went round. She stared at the ring. And then she slowly grabbed it and heaved.
Part of the stone floor came up. The hatch was perfectly balanced so even Mrsha could slide it open. And there, sitting in the secret tunnel was Bird. Eating a bird.
Mrsha stared. Bird jumped as he dropped his bit of filched chicken. He stared up at Mrsha. Then his mandibles opened.
“Aah! You found me! But this is my best hiding spot! You are not supposed to know about it! Or Erin! Or anyone!”
Mrsha grinned, wagging her tail and signing victory. But Bird seemed genuinely nervous. He stood up and waved all four hands.
“I lose, yes. I am a bad hider. Let us go. Do not tell Erin about the bird, please? Or she will make me not-hunt even longer.”
The little Gnoll had no intention of tattling on Bird. But the tunnel on the other hand was fascinating to her. Someone had built it! And Bird had known about it! She stared at the incredibly concealed hatch—so well hidden that she and the other Gnolls had never spotted it even with their keen eyes all the time they’d been down there.
“I will just close this—no, Mrsha. You cannot go in. It is very secret. You should not have found me. But I wanted to win—”
Bird was reaching for the trap door’s handle. Mrsha ignored him. She leapt down into the tunnel. It was dirt. Hard, and compact. Bird froze.
“Mrsha! Do not go down there!”
The little Gnoll saw him rush down the hatchway. She took off as Bird ran at her, trying to grab her. Where would this lead? How had it existed and she never knew? Numbtongue would never find her!
Mrsha darted ahead as Bird ran after her as fast as he could, but the Worker couldn’t catch the speedy little Gnoll. Bird’s voice was loud. And, for once, anxious.
“Oh no. Mrsha, come back. It is bad to go down that tunnel. Come back!”
The Gnoll ignored him. This tunnel was long! It was almost completely straight, but it was curving ever-so-slightly, and going down and down! It was also almost pitch-black, but there were points of luminescence tactically scattered on the walls. Glowing moss?
“Mrsha! This is not part of the game! I will be angry! Please come back!”
Onwards, downwards! Rushing, stale wind! And up ahead—a drumming sound, coming through the earth. Mrsha ran, fast and free. She didn’t fear Bird being angry. He never got angry. He was the nicest—
“Mrsha. Come back!”
The Antinium Worker shouted. Mrsha slowed. She turned back at the real note of alarm in his voice. And then—
The walls moved. Six huge Antinium Soldiers stepped out of the concealed alcoves they had been standing in. Mrsha froze as they raised their fists. Advancing on her. And she realized—
This was no secret tunnel to some magical place. Bird had not built it. The Antinium had.
And this was their Hive.
Ahead of Mrsha, the thrumming noise resolved itself into countless footfalls. Antinium, moving in Liscor’s Free Hive. They had dug a secret passage to the inn, a secret tunnel, like the one they had used to invade the inn during the Creler attack. Everyone had assumed they’d dug it fast, but it had always been there.
They’d made another one. Of course they had. And Bird knew about it because he was one of them. And he had been afraid.
Because Mrsha was not supposed to be here. She was trespassing. The Soldiers were not Painted Soldiers. They did not know Mrsha. They saw an intruder.
One of them punched. Mrsha dove and the fist hit the earth. Another kicked—they charged after Mrsha as she fled. Not towards Bird. The Soldiers were in the way!
Ahead! The Soldiers raced after her, huge stomping death. They were trying to kill her. Bird was shouting something—Mrsha ran and ran—
And appeared in a tunnel. A grand causeway hollowed out of the earth. Hundreds, thousands of Antinium were marching, moving in complicated lines such that they were always in motion, never stopping. Workers and Soldiers. Nameless, identical.
Mrsha tumbled through the secret tunnel’s entrance into the causeway. And as one, the Antinium stopped. They turned, as one. And they stared at her.
Sound stopped. The black bodies froze. Every head was looking at Mrsha. Even those too far back to see her. The white Gnoll froze, even as the Soldiers ran after her.
This was not the friendly Antinium who came to the inn. This was a Hive. And she was the intruder. Foreign. An invader.
The Free Hive had suffered few invasions. Once, there had been Erin. But Klbkch had been with her. She had been expected. Mrsha was not.
She had been here once. Last time they had chased her, but she had been running, sad, heedless of the danger. Now she knew it. And there were so many Antinium. A sea of them, all aware of her.
The Antinium were still. Then, suddenly, as Mrsha tensed, looking backwards as the Soldiers rushed after her, she saw all the mandibles of all the Workers and Soldiers open at once. And they made one sound.
CLICK.
It was a snap of their mandibles, a loud, predatory, hostile sound. They did it again.
CLICK.
Then, they ran at her.
CLICKCLICKCLICK—
Mrsha bolted. She tried to run back, but the Workers and Soldiers charged at her. One mind, many bodies! She saw Soldiers coming down the secret passage, but that was her only hope. Mrsha dove—
One caught her. Mrsha felt four crude hands gripping her, clumsy digits meant for tearing. And that was what they were trying to do. Two hands were squeezing her chest and head with terrible force, and two more were pulling at her right and left leg. The Soldier was trying to pull her—
The pain was blinding. For a second. Then—there was a sound. Mrsha felt a thud. The grip loosened. A voice.
“Stop. Or I will kill you.”
The pressure relaxed. Dizzy, unable to see for a moment, she realized the clicking had stopped. The Antinium were frozen.
When Mrsha could see, she saw this: the six Soldiers who had been on guard duty, surrounding her. One held her, but it had stopped trying to pull her apart.
Because a Worker stood there.
Bird the Hunter. He had struck the Soldier. With a blade. Mrsha saw the handle protruding from a shoulder, right next to her. She stared at the green blood. Then at Bird.
Slowly, the Worker pulled out the blade. He raised it, staring at the Soldier holding Mrsha, the other six. The army of Antinium at their backs.
“Let her go.”
There was no playful tone in Bird’s voice. He did not have his bow, just a single hunting knife in his hand. But somehow, the smaller Worker was no less threatening than the six Soldiers.
The Soldier didn’t move. He stared at Bird. Perhaps only shock kept him from tearing the Worker apart. All the Antinium were staring. Stock-still. This wasn’t the shock and hostility they had felt when seeing Mrsha. She could almost feel their emotions, in some invisible stream in the air.
A Worker had attacked a Soldier. An Antinium had attacked another.
A Worker had disobeyed orders.
Aberration. Aberration.
ABERRATION.
The world stood still. The Hive froze in this area. Bird looked at Mrsha. He smiled, raising his mandibles, but it was not a smile.
“Do not worry, Mrsha. You will be okay.”
How long they stood there, Mrsha didn’t know. How many heart-pounding seconds, as the hands held her, as the Antinium stood still? Then—there was a voice. A sole point of movement, and then all the Antinium moved backwards, rippling away from the figure, the voice of authority.
“Bird!”
Anand strode through the crowd of Antinium. It was Anand; Mrsha knew him at a glance. Not only did she know the slight nuance of his voice and his smell—he’d also changed.
The [Tactician] now wore chainmail, altered to fit his form. Or rather—it was a chain vest; Mrsha saw it was in fact a length of chainmail that had been wrapped around him. A strange thing, perhaps intended for a creature not built to any one standard.
Like Anand. The chainmail glinted a faint purple, and it glowed magic in Mrsha’s sight. Anand also carried a hatchet and wand. And he had a belt. He was as unique among the Antinium as Mrsha. Or Bird.
“Anand. Hello. There has been a bad thing. Tell them to let Mrsha go.”
Bird sounded relieved. Anand gestured; instantly the Soldiers stepped back. The one who had been stabbed put Mrsha down and she ran behind Bird. Anand stared at her.
“Mrsha? Bird, what is happening? Is the inn under attack? You did not call an alarm!”
Bird studied his feet.
“No. We were playing. I opened the tunnel because I wanted to hide. Mrsha ran down it.”
For a second Anand stared at Bird with that way Lyonette and Erin sometimes did, just processing. Then his mandibles snapped together and went down.
“This is unacceptable, Bird!”
“I know. I am sorry.”
“Sorry is not enough! You are very lucky I was the one who found you. If Revalantor Klbkch had—he is still furious at you! As am I. If he had found you—”
Bird nodded.
“I know. I made another error in judgment. I was playing with Mrsha. It will not happen again.”
Anand paused. Mrsha saw him struggling—and she could read his emotions, like he was any of the other species in the inn. Anand had been one of Erin’s best chess pupils out of all the Antinium who had played with her. And he had learned more than just the game.
“Bird, I do not think you comprehend Revalantor Klbkch’s wrath. He has not allowed more than the necessary Antinium aboveground. Pawn and Yellow Splatters have not been granted the right to patrol. Revalantor Klbkch is—angry. We have all erred. You especially. And the other Antinium are coming. There must be no mistakes in the Hive, Bird. I would not wish to disappoint Klbkch.”
“I know. I am sorry.”
The [Tactician] paused, and shook his head brusquely.
“It is not enough. You must go. Before the disturbance is noticed. I will inform Revalantor Klbkch that there was an—accident. But go. Do not allow Mrsha to come down here again. Next time, she may die.”
“I know. She will not.”
Mrsha nodded frantically behind Bird, staring up at the silent Soldiers. Anand opened and closed his mandibles.
“I do not understand you, Bird. We share a connection. But this? This is beyond a mistake.”
Bird was silent as the other [Tactician] berated him. Anand shook his head and turned.
“Anand, do not be angry at me. I am sorry.”
Bird called after Anand, sounding heartbroken as the other Worker turned. Anand swiveled back to Bird.
“I am not angry at you, Bird. No. I am, but that is not all of my feelings towards you. I…I do not know how you can be so different, Bird. Even for one of us. Is it a flaw that made you special, or are you simply exceptional?”
The [Bird Hunter] shrugged his shoulders as Anand stared at him.
“I am Bird, Anand. Why ask these questions?”
The [Tactician] shook his head.
“I must. I do not understand much. And Revalantor Klbkch—I must be worthy of his satisfaction. I am not. I am substandard, subpar. If I fail, I will be discarded. As…you were. You should not come back, Bird. I fear what Revalantor Klbkch may do in his anger if he sees you.”
The reply froze Mrsha. Did Anand mean…? Bird paused.
“You do not seem happy, Anand. You should be happy, even if I am silly and make you angry.”
“Happy?”
The other Antinium tasted the word. It was a short conversation, but Mrsha felt like they were saying more. In the air. She stared at their swaying antennae.
“I am not you, Bird. I do not know where your happiness comes from. I envy it. But I seek Revalantor Klbkch’s affection. And he—he has told me I cannot measure up to his expectations. I am defective. But I serve, until I can be replaced. That is what you, and Pawn, and the others forget. Or perhaps you have other places you fill. But I have one. And I do not fill it properly.”
The [Tactician] seemed to shrink with each word. He said each sentence more quietly than the last, until he whispered. Mrsha saw him drawing in on himself. And she felt—so sad she would have cried.
But the Antinium did not cry. They could not, except for Bird, who had learned. And he looked at Anand. They had both learned chess at the same time. They were Erin’s chess club, once. But they had changed so much. And as Bird looked down at Anand, garbed in magical armor, commanding other Antinium, a small Worker whispering about defects, he…changed.
Mrsha saw him stand taller. Which was—strange. Normally, Bird was hunched, his domed back shell letting him roll onto his back, or he’d be bending over some task, like plucking feathers from a bird he’d shot; even when he played Erin, he was hunched over just a bit, because that was the natural shape Worker’s bodies took. Now, though, he stood straight, unwavering.
When he stood like this, he seemed taller than Anand, for all they had the same body. Bird looked at Anand, who was sad, for all he walked with authority. And he spoke. To Anand, and the silent Antinium, waiting.
“Revalantor Klbkch is stupid.”
