“Aw. I think I just snapped half my body’s muscles. Hey! Help me get this down—”
Pelt yawned as he effortlessly curled a two-hundred pound dumbbell. But he grinned when Hawk had to struggle to do the same. Erin was just beginning to grow sick of the smell of sweat and Relc going ‘yeah!’ when she heard Grimalkin speaking.
“Anyone who would like to participate, you may join the weights room now. I will broadcast this session with commentary, ladies and gentledrakes.”
Erin saw other people pushing into the room. She lifted her tray of oranges and water as the tired test group abandoned the machines.
“Oranges! Water! Good for you! I think! Lemons too! Wait, are those good for you?”
Grimalkin had told her to get both since Erin couldn’t remember. The Drake glanced at her as the weight-lifters converged on her citrus fruits and water. He spoke into the mirror.
“That reminds me. There are optimal dietary intakes to build muscle. I am certain that there are correlations between the intake of certain food groups and growth more effectively.”
He glanced at Erin and she winced. She headed over to him with her tray as Relc gulped down water.
“Uh, do you want an orange, Grimalk—”
“Refreshments to the side, Miss. Please clear the work area.”
Grimalkin spoke brusquely, gesturing to a table that had been set up. Erin paused.
“Excuse me.”
She grumped over to the table and put down the tray; she’d need to get more water and fruits already. Perhaps only Lyonette saw how Grimalkin carefully angled the mirror to avoid showing Erin to the Walled Cities.
“Whew! That stuff is heavy! Captain Z needs to get some of these weights. Imagine doing this every day at the Watch Barracks?”
Relc was grinning and talking with some of the [Guards], who’d strained muscles. Grimalkin had advised them not to use healing potions; it would just reverse their gains. Erin saw some groaning, but many were nodding at the idea. As many female as male, in fact.
“Senior Guardsman, you can lift more than almost anyone else!”
One of the other [Guards] from Pallass, a Garuda, breathed, eying Relc. He had indeed been one of the champions of today’s lifts; Relc had both arm and leg muscle, whereas Maughin had been more unbalanced, and Jelaqua was just cheating.
Pelt could out-lift Relc, but one of the benches had collapsed and the Dwarf had said the steel bar had too much weight on it and had been beginning to bend.
“Hey, well, you know. I’m Relc. Say, are you from Pallass?”
The Drake grinned at the female Garuda. She nodded. Erin thought the Garuda was about a decade older than her, with ash-grey feathers mixed with blue.
“That’s right. I was on the 6th Floor when the Wyverns attacked. But I saw you taking one down.”
“Really?”
Relc preened. Embria and her 4th Company weren’t associating with the former [Sergeant], but Erin could see the Drake’s daughter glancing over at her father with pride. Relc leaned against one wall and coughed into his claw.
“Nice uniform Pallass’ Guards have got. Say—you wouldn’t mind lending it to me sometime, would you?”
“Why?”
The Garuda looked perplexed. Relc put one claw on his chest.
“Because miss, I’m an open, shy book to you and I need to cover up. And while you’re at it, do you know where I can find a [Bard]? Because you’re plucking at my heartstrings.”
Erin nearly walked into Moore, who was gingerly squeezing a lemon into his glass of water. A pair of Gnolls looked up and tried to cover their ears. Erin waited for the inevitable rejection—
And saw the Garuda [Guard] laugh.
“That is the worst line I have ever heard.”
“Aw, really?”
Relc blushed, scratching at his neck spines. He cursed, but the Garuda [Guardswoman] grabbed his arm as he tried to slide away.
“Not so fast. I’ll give you points for effort. Are you free after this?”
The Drake’s eyes widened. He looked over the Garuda’s shoulder at Erin.
“Of course! Are you staying in the inn?”
“Well, I have to get back to Pallass. Magus Grimalkin only had us here to demonstrate, but if you can get a ride, I’m actually off duty on the 8th at…”
Erin’s jaw dropped. She saw Relc and the Garuda conferring, and then she walked off, flicking sweat off her feathers. Relc watched her go with a grin. Erin had to walk over as he called after her.
“Yeah! Definitely! I’ll find a way! Grimalkin and me are pals!”
He turned and jumped as he saw Erin staring at him. She stared at Relc, and then the Garuda.
“What?”
“Oh, hey, Erin. Saw my slick pickup, there, did you?”
Erin stared at Relc. His grin faltered and he coughed.
“Okay, I fumbled, but I did it! High five?”
He held up a claw. Erin folded her arms.
“How? That was terrible!”
Relc shrugged.
“Hey, you know, it works.”
“It does?”
A Gnoll exclaimed to Relc’s left. The Drake sniffed.
“’Course it does! Or why do I use them all the time? Anyways, I’m also a Senior Guardsman, pal. And it helps, being a cool hero who helped fight the Wyverns. That lady knows a cool guy.”
“But…what about Embria?”
Relc froze. It seemed he had actually forgotten his daughter was standing at the other side of the weights room. He glanced over—Embria was staring at him. She hadn’t missed out on the obvious. Relc’s tail sagged.
“Ah, hells.”
“Relc! You can’t pick up dates when your daughter’s here!”
Erin shook her finger at Relc. The Drake looked defensive.
“Erin, come on. You can’t blame me for having some fun now and then, can you?”
“Can’t I? Wait, how often do you have fun?”
The young woman narrowed her eyes at Relc. She hadn’t heard anything about this! The Drake raised his claws.
“You’re getting sort of personal here, Erin. I don’t ask you who you had sex with two days ago, you don’t ask me. We’re not Gnolls.”
“You think we like smelling it all the time?”
Erin stared at Relc. Well—she guessed it had to happen. But she couldn’t imagine Relc…her mind shut down a bit to prevent showing her anything.
“But—okay, I—well—are you going to do anything?”
Relc blushed. He looked at Erin.
“Do I have to answer that? And do you want me to answer, Erin?”
The [Innkeeper] was saved from answering by Embria coming over.
“I can’t help but see you’re popular. Dad.”
Only a few things could be worse than Embria and Erin both confronting Relc over his possible date. And the [Guardsman] clearly looked like he’d rather fight an Adult Creler.
“Listen, kid. When the moment strikes, you have to take it! Didn’t I teach you that? And I told you those lines worked! Like a charm!”
Embria scowled after the Garuda.
“You can do better than her.”
“Hey, can’t I just have fun for one night? Come on! Ancestors! Leave me alone! I don’t ask you—wait, I don’t want to know. See? I know there are boundaries!”
Relc began to look genuinely exasperated. He threw up his hands and walked backwards. Erin began to feel a bit bad. It wasn’t her problem. She let Relc go. So did Embria, after a glance back at her command.
 
——
 
Aside from insights into Relc’s dating life, Grimalkin’s seminar seemed to be a hit. Certainly, Erin heard him answering questions as he stood in the center of the weights room. Strangely, he kept waving her off when she wanted to talk to him.
“Fine. I won’t get you a protein shake. Whatever they’re made of. Probably eggs and stuff.”
Erin grumbled and walked off. She found Lyonette in the common room; Erin enjoyed the odors and sounds of cooking and a clean inn, not sweat and audible grunting in the background.
“Ooh, who’s making food? Drassi?”
“She burns food. No, Palt offered to make some of his curry. Erin, give me a hand with these, will you?”
Erin saw Ishkr and Lyonette were carrying down the pots full of faerie flowers.
“What are you doing with those? Remember that [Thief], Lyonette?”
The [Princess] nodded.
“I know. We’re putting them in the Garden. It’ll be even safer there. And the gold.”
She mouthed that at Erin. The [Innkeeper]’s eyes widened. Then she nodded.
“Hey, it would be safer there! Great idea! But why are you taking the pots downstairs? Can’t you just move the garden’s entrance?”
Lyonette shook her head.
“Wailant and Viceria are working. And they can’t summon the door, remember?”
“Oh, right. Okay, let me help.”
Erin was going upstairs for a pot when she heard Montressa and Beza race into the inn.
“Where is it? Did we miss it?”
“I heard there would be a competition! Why wasn’t I invited?”
Bezale snorted furiously. Palt poked his head out of the kitchen. Montressa stormed up to him.
“Palt! You can’t sabotage us like that! How dare—”
Erin grinned and grabbed a pot.
“Let’s put them somewhere special, Lyonette. Maybe up on the hill?”
The two were hauling the gold and flowers into secret spots as Mrsha rolled down the hill. She stared at Lyonette taking the little metal vault over to a hiding spot with Erin and waved her paws urgently. Mrsha was muddy after trying to sneak-attack Viceria, but she was excited and happy.
“Not now, Mrsha, darling. Sorry. We have to hide this. Why are you filthy—Erin, you’re stronger! Lift your side more!”
“Lift with your back! No, wait, your legs!”
“How?”
The two young women couldn’t play with Mrsha. The Gnoll drooped. She sighed, turning about. Maybe she could lift with all the sweaty people? She walked out of the Garden of Sanctuary, and turned to see where Lyonette was hiding the gold.
A pair of hands grabbed Mrsha. She jerked—and a hand clapped over her mouth. When Erin turned around, the Gnoll was gone.
 
——
 
The dark figure carried the struggling Gnoll out of the common room. It was so fast no one noticed. Mrsha wriggled, but the four hands held her tight.
“Aha. Now we have the little Mrsha. We will eat her. Probably. Even though fur tastes bad. Yes.”
Bird pretended to nibble on Mrsha’s head. She flopped around indignantly. Captured! By her arch-nemesis!
“Hello, Mrsha. I have got you.”
Mrsha glared up at Bird and her tail wagged as he took her to her and Lyonette’s room. Numbtongue was in bed because his head hurt. But you could always rely on Bird!
“What do you want to do? Play tag? No? Hide and seek? Ah. Then I have sought you. You shall seek me.”
Bird tilted his head left and right as Mrsha signed quickly. Obediently, she covered her eyes. She heard Bird running.
“Stealthy! I must think like the shadows! Flee!”
He was the best at being fun. Mrsha waited, closing her eyes and covering her ears. She also buried her nose in her pillow. She counted to one hundred, and then opened her eyes.
Now, where was he hiding?
Hide and seek with Bird wasn’t your ordinary game played by the ignorant peons who thought it was some casual activity. It was life and death. Numbtongue would play too, and all three were experts at hiding.
Bird was really the surprising one; Goblins were good at hiding and Mrsha was a [Druid] and [Last Survivor], but Bird? Well, he just had great hiding spots.
Like—like hiding among the other Workers on the roof of the inn! Mrsha only found him because she smelled him. He got her when she squeezed into a cupboard in the kitchen—Palt ratted her out.
You were allowed to ask people where the other person had gone. It was only fair; the inn plus the garden was large. But Mrsha had one secret other ability.
When Bird hid the next time, she raced about, checking the gym, the roof, the garden—but she didn’t find him. She gave it ten minutes, and then gave up and used her nose.
Mrsha’s nose was incredibly good. She sniffed down Bird’s trail, and followed him into the garden. There, she realized Bird had pulled a fast one on her.
“Aaah! Aaah! You found me!”
Bird exploded out of the soil that Wailant and Viceria had dug up so they could plant their flowers. Both [Farmers] jumped as Mrsha leapt onto Bird. He smiled.
“My turn! I will find you!”
He had twenty minutes to do it. This time, Mrsha raced into her ultra-special hiding spot. Namely, a sack of potatoes in the basement. Bird wouldn’t find her here!
And he didn’t! The Antinium came close, but Mrsha had chosen a random sack and he couldn’t sort through them all; she’d buried herself deep. After twenty minutes, he had to give up and she smugly came out of hiding.
“You are good. But I will hide better. Away I go!”
Bird ran off and Mrsha counted to a hundred.
This time she really tried to find him with her eyes and ears. She asked everyone, but after sixteen minutes, Mrsha had to admit Bird was nowhere to be found. She even ran all over the garden to find him!
So she sniffed him out. To be fair, it was a hard thing to follow. Bird had done well, but Mrsha eventually ended up at the pond. She stared into it, and realized there was a tiny patch of blackness sticking out of the water. It quickly retreated, but Mrsha had seen the mandibles.
“You found me. And I nearly died.”
Bird announced as he sat up out of the water. Tenacious and fearless, he’d actually submerged himself into the pond, ducking into the water every time Mrsha passed by. He was in a shallow section so he could stand up, but that was Bird for you.
Creative. Still, he couldn’t beat her nose. Mrsha felt a little bad about it, but she triumphantly splashed him with water nonetheless. Then she ran off to hide.
“I have lost again.”
Bird stared at Mrsha as she rolled out of a pile of curtains where the Players of Celum were setting up. There were just too many spots for a little Gnoll to hide, and less for an Antinium Worker. Mrsha laughed and pointed at Bird.
And Bird…grew frustrated. He paused, and folded all four arms.
“I am losing. Hm. But I want to win.”
It was mild frustration, but Bird took this game as seriously as Numbtongue, who had once folded himself into one of the huge stone ovens in the kitchen. Erin had nearly baked him before she’d heard him coughing and swearing. Mrsha smiled and closed her eyes as Bird hid.
“You will never find me. Ever! This will be my victory.”
The Worker promised as he ran off. Mrsha counted to a hundred…
And she realized Bird had vanished. Completely and utterly. Mrsha raced about the inn, checking all of Bird’s usual spots. But he hadn’t gone upstairs. He hadn’t left the inn, she was pretty certain. He wasn’t in the garden—
Guiltily, as the timer reached eighteen minutes, Mrsha began to sniff the ground. It wasn’t cheating—it was her nose! And she didn’t want to lose. Mrsha was the best finder and hider in hide-and-seek in the entire inn and she wanted to keep that record. She had to beat Bird.
So she sniffed. And sniffed.
But his scent was incredibly hard to trace this time. Mrsha roamed around the common room of the inn, pausing, sniffing again. Then—she narrowed her eyes as she passed by a staircase leading down.
