It was such a spontaneous thing. The visit to Saliss’, for instance. That had been planned. But the outcome changed things so much in such a short amount of time.
Erin knew that was how life worked, but it still mystified her in a good way. What was amusing to everyone else was how surprised she was that it happened like that. Because that was literally the defining experience most people had with Erin. But she seldom had it happen to her.
Of course, spontaneous things weren’t always good. Spontaneous Crelers were almost always bad, no matter when they happened. But you couldn’t predict things. And that was what Erin should have learned.
But then, she wouldn’t be Erin if she was even close to perfect.
 
——
 
“I’ll begin setting up, then. Miss Solstice, you have my thanks for letting me use your inn.”
Grimalkin stretched briskly as he surveyed one of the private rooms in The Wandering Inn. And yes, the inn was more than a sole common room now. There were three private rooms that could be used for everything from storage to dining. One held Octavia’s stuff, but another was in use this morning.
“Ferkr, Giren, set up three, no, six sets next to each other. Put up that mobile stand over there—the benches along the far wall. Terreskil, start loading the weights. Put them at—let’s call it fifty pounds on either end of the bar for now.”
“So, a hundred total, Magus?”
Grimalkin paused and looked back at one of his students.
“You can count, can’t you, Terreskil?”
The young Drake apprentice blanched. Erin exhaled slowly, but she didn’t interrupt. Grimalkin was a taskmaster, though. Like the coach of all coaches. His apprentices scurried about, setting up, well…
A weights room. A gym, in her inn. Erin stared about.
“Um. Not that I mind, Grimalkin, but would it have been easier to do this in Pallass?”
“Rather than screen visitors and go through the City Watch, I’d prefer to do it here. You may also have some insights, Miss Solstice. The mana cost is only for about a dozen people. And I was surprised to realize how easy charging the door was.”
“Oh, well, Wailant planted a third of his grass yesterday. That might have helped.”
Grimalkin’s brows rose. He glanced sideways at Erin.
“Wailant who? Did what?”
Erin realized the Sinew Magus hadn’t heard about the Sage’s Grass event. She began to explain, and Grimalkin’s brows instantly crossed.
“You managed to come up with a workaround to the issue of mana consumption for your door after meeting a [Pirate Farmer] that your Hobgoblin ran into? Who is also coincidentally the supplier of Sage’s Grass for the entire region?”
Erin paused.
“You’re saying that in a strange way. Look, it’s just this one interconnected thing. Wailant’s daughter is actually Garia.”
“Garia Strongheart. As in, the same Garia who I have invited to my seminar today?”
“Yeah. Funny how that happens, right? So what happened was…”
Grimalkin held up a claw as he massaged what would have been close to the bridge of his nose on his face.
“…I will inquire later. I’m sure, no, I am certain that my decision was the correct one, Miss Solstice. You have my gratitude. Hmpf. What day is it today? I need to add another data point…”
He began fishing in his robes for what looked like a diary. Erin nodded.
“Cool, cool. I’m gonna see to everyone outside. Let me know when you’re starting!”
She walked out of the private room as Grimalkin stared at her back. The [Sinew Magus] shook his head.
Spontaneity.
 
——
 
“Hey everyone, thanks for waiting! Grimalkin’s setting up, but he’ll be done in like, thirty minutes, tops. Probably ten since it’s Grimalkin. I have water and oranges. And lemons, for if you’re thirsty. That’s free since Grimalkin is paying for it!”
“Woo! Lemons!”
“But wait until you’re sweaty, Relc!”
Erin admonished the Drake who was trying to cram a lemon into his mouth. Relc paused and spat it out.
“No one touch that. I’ll use it later.”
A bit away from him, Embria covered her face with one clawed hand. A group of her senior command of 4th Company looked like they wanted to do the same, but they were at military parade rest as they stood together.
It did not look restful. Also, they were hardly the only ones waiting. Erin stared at a crowd of, well, swol guests.
Swol. As in ‘swollen’, which Erin had understood to be slang for muscular in some capacity back home. She was employing the term because there was no other good word for the assembly in front of her.
Garia Strongheart and her father, Wailant. Moore. Jelaqua. Maughin. Relc, Embria, members of 4th Company. Councilwoman Raekea. Councilman and Senior Guardsman Jeiss. Even Pelt.
Yes, Pelt! The Dwarf was drinking at the bar, but he’d paid for his drinks. But he was here too! And for once, Erin had nothing to do with it.
Well, only a little. The truth was that this motley assembly of Liscor’s, Pallass’, and even Celum’s strongest were here at one Drake’s call. Grimalkin’s. He’d requested a reservation at Erin’s inn, sent letters out, and gotten everyone to show up.
He’d even paid most of the group to appear. Certainly Pelt. Grimalkin wanted a spread of muscles on display, and it was telling that Liscor’s 4th Company of [Captains], [Lieutenants], and [Sergeants] along with some of the city’s [Guards]—were the scrawny ones in the room.
It was hard to flex in front of Moore, who was a half-Giant, or Maughin, who was as close to a War Walker as you got, whatever they looked like. Or a Gnoll [Blacksmith], or Relc, or…
The overpowering muscle in the room was forcing Erin to keep from checking her own biceps. She had [Lesser Strength] of course, but that was a lesser effect that made her just…stronger. She didn’t work out.
But some of this crew had muscle. Garia had abs. The kind you were only supposed to see in gym commercials! And—when you got down to it—so did most of the others.
Relc didn’t have abs, but if you stared, you could see muscle shifting under a very thin layer of fat. Embria was fit—wait, could Drakes even get abs?
Erin recalled Grimalkin. Yes, yes they could.
“Sorry I’m late! Am I on time? What’s this about?”
Someone bounded into the room. And then the Fellowship of the Lift was complete. Hawk, the muscular bunny-man and Courier, strode into the room. He looked around.
“Whoa. Am I in Liscor or Pallass? This inn has changed. I nearly didn’t recognize it!”
“Hey, Hawk! You here to lift?”
Relc curled a bicep. Hawk walked over as Erin stared at his abs. Garia was poking at her father’s beer belly.
“Dad, I was invited. You don’t have to be here. In fact, I’d prefer it if you weren’t. Go do your job!”
“I’m not missing this. What’s this about weights? And who’s this fishy Drake you keep talking up? If he’s lifting my girl, I want to meet him.”
“…I don’t…that is not what’s happening! Do you even know why I’m here?”
“Weights. It’s this thing where you lift heavy weights. Like, I dunno, training with a sword with lead cores. Only, the thing is—there’s no sword. It’s all weight.”
Relc was explaining what Grimalkin was pioneering here today to the others. Only, he was doing a poor job of it. Hawk had a cup of water and was drinking deeply; he was already sweaty. He must have just run in.
“Miss Solstice. Good to see you. Hawk? We’ve met?”
The Rabbit-Beastkin nodded at Erin. She smiled.
“Of course I remember, Hawk! Long time no see! Where have you been? Did you like the carrot cakes and stuff?”
Hawk smiled.
“I was wondering. Sorry, the job takes me all over and sometimes I’m not back for a month depending on how deliveries run. I’m going back north just after this, but I got the message from Magus Grimalkin…he’s a good client. What’s this about weights?”
“Yeah, I saw a few, but I don’t know what it’s about. But I’d pay to be here rather than the other way around! Look at this crew!”
Jelaqua grinned around the room with the Selphid’s eye for bodies. Maughin coughed and gently nudged her; she was wearing a Raskghar body, which explained why Raekea was keeping her distance.
“Jelaqua, that’s a bit immodest.”
“Oops, sorry, sorry, Maug. But it’s just looking.”
The Selphid leered at Hawk’s legs. Erin and Maughin both sighed. In truth, all this muscle wasn’t doing much for Erin. Ulinde on the other hand was peeking glances from her spot in the audience; not everyone had been called over by Grimalkin.
“It helps you build muscle. Which, I dunno, is a good thing? I guess. Grimalkin’s going to show it off to other cities, apparently. With weights.”
“And you just…lift them? How does that work, Miss Solstice?”
One of Embria’s [Captains], an older Gnoll, looked skeptical. Erin shrugged.
“I mean, they’re heavy. You build muscle with them. I don’t really see the point.”
“Because you don’t lift. It feels great! And it’s new. Right, guys?”
Relc looked around. Erin blinked as some of the 4th Company and Liscor’s Watch nodded slowly. Was it new?
Erin hadn’t realized that weights, lifting in general, or the idea of going to the gym was completely unknown to this world. Wasn’t it such a basic concept? She’d assumed it didn’t matter. But it did. As Grimalkin thrust open the door to the weights room to lead people in, he was already giving a brief overview.
“Thank you all for coming. I’ll be repeating this speech once I have all six Walled Cities linked to my scrying spell, but I’d like to give you an overview of this new concept I’m calling ‘weight-based training’.”
There was a murmur from the crowd. Some of the non-affiliated audience members, like Mrsha, Numbtongue, Ulinde, and even Palt and some others peered around the open door as Grimalkin went on. Erin froze by the entrance as Lyonette hurried over with a platter of cut oranges.
“…Did he just say six Walled Cities?”
“Training, as we currently understand it, is a process of developing the body to a number of tasks. There is incredible specialization, from [Martial Artists] who hone their body in every conceivable aspect, to more focused disciplines, such as training a [Warrior] to be able to fight in battles.”
Grimalkin paced back and forth in front of his audience, gesturing to the weights set up behind him and the apprentices, each with their own station.
“Until now, we have conflated the development of proficiency at arms with muscular growth, as we spar, perform basic calisthenic exercises such as running, or even use supplements to build strength. But building pure muscle is not often tied to one particular training exercise. There are basic exercises, such as doing pushups, or jogging in armor, but sparring and our occupations have been the most relied-upon way of honing one’s body.”
It was a somewhat technical explanation. Relc scratched his head, and Erin saw Jelaqua lean over to Moore.
“What is he saying?”
“We don’t build muscle so much as just get fit.”
“Oh.”
Grimalkin cleared his throat.
“Today, I am unveiling a new system designed to purely train muscle in the most efficient way possible! Not only will these weights provide a gravity-based exercise that targets whichever group of muscles you like, it is designed to build muscle beyond what you could regularly expect from, say, practicing spear dances and without the dangers of sparring!”
Erin yawned a bit. But the audience…perked up. Some of 4th Company looked at each other.
“Is he serious? Building our muscles up further?”
“Told you this was great. Just watch.”
“Observe! Let’s assume we have a [Warrior] trying to build up strength for a thrust. No, a [Duelist], for their classic maneuvers. Normally, they’d gain an acceptable level of muscle just by repeating the exercise. But the muscles they focus on run from the arm muscle, which everyone thinks of, to the leg, and even the core.”
Grimalkin savored the word. Some of the [Guards] blinked. Embria herself raised a claw.
“Core, Magus Grimalkin? I’m not sure I’m familiar with the word.”
The [Sinew Magus] smiled.
“It is my understanding after decades of researching the body that muscular groups are not limited to just one body part, Wing Commander. Muscles—are connected. When a [Duelist] thrusts—observe how my muscles move as I step in.”
He demonstrated, conjuring a rapier made of fire as he did. Erin stared at the fire—and then saw Grimalkin’s muscles move.
Arms, shoulder, down through his tight core, and leg. Erin saw Grimalkin’s body ripple as he demonstrated. The audience murmured.
“[Martial Artists] have known this for years, along with [Fencers] and a number of other classes. When you punch, the blow comes from the rotation of the body, muscle groups that ordinary [Soldiers] may forget to prioritize. However, today, we will be revolutionizing muscular training. Weights will make [Soldiers] stronger than they ever have been before, by artificially increasing the limit beyond what they’d encounter in most day-to-day activities! Observe! Ferkr!”
The Gnoll apprentice was sitting under a weights bar. Now, she unhooked it and lowered it to her chest and demonstrated a bench press. Grimalkin strode over.
“Ferkr is now lifting about a hundred and fifty pounds of weight. Note that I have two equal fifty pound weights on either side, plus the bar. A hundred and fifty pounds, all challenging her pectoral muscles. By exercising with controlled motions, Ferkr is straining and redeveloping her muscles. In what scenario could a regular [Warrior] hope to achieve the same, specific training?”
At last, even Erin got the message. Grimalkin’s audience was already murmuring.
“Dead gods, I think I get it! You can’t get enchanted weight spells if you’re some copper pay [Guard] or [Soldier]. But this?”
Jeiss was talking excitedly with Raekea. He raised a claw.
“Does it really build muscle, Magus? Just from lifting weights?”
The question was ridiculous to Erin. Of course it did! But—catch yourself again. She knew biology. Grimalkin was nodding.
“It does, Senior Guardsman. I’ve seen a quantifiable increase in my apprentice’s muscles compared to my control group. I’ll be presenting the data to the Walled Cities momentarily. And—these weights may be somewhat expensive to manufacture, but I can assure you, if any Drake city cares to invest, they will be able to create a…a gymnasium where anyone will be able to improve themselves. For free!”
Grimalkin’s voice rose. And he was striding back and forth, as excited and animated as Erin had ever seen him. She looked at him and realized—he was going to bring weights to this world. And she’d erred in giving what she thought was something relatively small to the [Sinew Magus]. Because Grimalkin didn’t think small.
