“Once constructed, these weight-lifting devices do not require any maintenance or upkeep. Now, I’ll go through each weight device I have here with my apprentices to show you all the correct form—do I have volunteers to try it out with them?”
He had his audience sold. They were already lining up to try the bench press. Even Pelt put down his mug and eyed a barbell. Erin stared at Lyonette as the [Princess] stared at the room full of excited people.
“Erin…this is going to change…”
“I didn’t know! How was I supposed to know? He was just supposed to lift stuff! I don’t work out! Who works out? I play chess!”
 
——
 
While The Wandering Inn hosted Grimalkin and his guests literally learning how to pump iron, the inn was far from empty. Mrsha got bored of sweaty people lifting things—especially since she wasn’t allowed to try—and wandered off into the Garden of Sanctuary to frolic.
And by frolic, she really meant stalking the [Green Mage], Viceria, as she planted Sage’s Grass. Wailant had abandoned his wife, but Viceria had not yet experienced Mrsha’s antics. Which meant Mrsha was ready to pounce and scare the [Mage], or throw water, or—
“[Mudpit].”
Viceria pointed her wand as Mrsha leapt out of the tall grass in the meadow. Mrsha went splut into a deep pit full of muddy, heavy liquid. Viceria smiled.
“Hello, Mrsha. Were you trying to scare me?”
The Gnoll looked up at Viceria. Her eyes narrowed. Oh, it was on.
At the same time, other people were working in the inn. The staff were downstairs, serving food and drinks to people waiting to see what all the fuss was about, and people were working above the inn too.
A group of twelve Workers were finishing the second floor. They’d come by every day to lay tiles, flooring, construct walls, fit windows, and so forth. It wasn’t the horde of Antinium that had descended on the inn under Belgrade’s supervision the first few days; their numbers had been cut by Klbkch’s order. No need to worry anyone.
Still, they worked hard. The Workers didn’t stop for food, breaks, or chatter, and they had all the tools they needed. If they required wood, some of them would hurry down their ladders and jog into the city or Hive to get more. If they needed nails, a Worker would be going to get them so that the others never had to stop working.
They were a dedicated, scarily-efficient force. And more were at work in Liscor as well, building the new parts of the city. But that was a story for another time.
These twelve Workers had been doing their job for about…oh, seven hours. They’d come at dawn, and even if they hadn’t been able to work on the second floor at that time because it was too noisy, they could pre-assemble part of their work and haul it up later.
They did not stop, or slow, or rest. Anyone would have called it beyond backbreaking work, but that was a Worker’s life. And this was actually nicer than almost any other regular Worker’s life because when they finished, they’d be allowed to sit in the inn and have a bowl of soup for dinner, or some acid flies. That was bliss.
And it was also sad. Terribly sad, if you compared it to other species, other people. But no one did. Erin did, which is why she sometimes brought snacks up, and Lyonette and a few others had made the connection. But the Workers themselves didn’t know what they should be upset about. In a way, it was fulfilling just to be at work all the time, to have a purpose. No one bothered them. They did their jobs, ate, slept, and died at some point. And that was it.
That was why it was strange, when their work was interrupted. Only, it wasn’t by a young woman asking if they were sure they didn’t want a break, or lemonade. It was, in fact, by another Worker. He stood in the finished hallway and stared at them.
Bird, the [Bird Hunter], had a basket slung on one of his four arms. He tilted his head left, and right, as the other Workers paused and looked at him. He was not like them. He was Individual. Different.
Special. Bird spoke.
“Hello, I am Bird. Who are you?”
As one, the Workers paused. They stared at Bird, motionless. That did not happen. It was a rule everyone in Liscor learned—you did not ask the Workers their names. Even among the Antinium—no, especially among the Antinium—asking a question like that was…strange.
Beyond strange. But Bird was Bird. He hopped out onto the rooftop and walked over to the first Worker. The Antinium had a roofing tile in one hand and a hammer and nails in the others. Bird looked at him.
“Hello. I am Bird. What is your name?”
The Worker froze. But he had a name. Designation. He was Autonomous, the only reason he was trusted to be here without supervision.
“T-this one is Archer B12, Individual Bird.”
Archer B12’s voice was stuttering, and he spoke with that odd, unfamiliar cadence most Workers had. He was not ‘I’, but ‘this one’. Bird nodded.
“Hello, Archer B12. I am Bird. Are you having a good day?”
The Worker paused again. His mind was running up against a wall. Slowly, he turned back to his work. As one, the other Workers copied him.
“This one is on duty. It is not permitted to speak, only work.”
“Oh. Okay.”
Bird watched as Archer B12 began hammering tiles into place, securing them with little copper nails. After a moment, Bird rummaged around in the basket he’d brought with him.
“Are you hungry?”
Archer B12, who had hammered each nail into place with the precision a machine would have envied, nearly slammed a nail into his own fingers. He paused. Looked up.
“I have cheese. Goat’s cheese. It is tasty. And fruity. And I have meat.”
Bird held out a crumbly, soft block of fresh goat’s cheese. And a hard salami, both taken from Erin’s kitchen. It was food. Archer B12 stared at it. Jerkily, he picked up another nail.
“This one is on duty. It is not permitted to speak, only work.”
The Workers were all hard at work. Bird tilted his head from side to side.
“But I am Individual Bird. What if I asked you which treat you liked better? Cheese or meat? I demand an answer. It is of utmost security to the inn. Yes. Probably.”
Slowly, Archer B12’s head rose. He stared at Bird. And Bird…smiled. Slowly, Archer B12 stared at the goat’s cheese and salami. He paused. And thought harder than he ever had in his entire life.
“C-cheese.”
Bird instantly offered him the goat’s cheese. Archer B12 froze and didn’t take it.
“Eat the cheese.”
“This one is on duty. It is not permitted to speak, only—”
“If you do not eat the cheese, terrible things will happen. Archer B12’s duty is to eat the cheese. That is what Individual Bird says. Also, as slowly as you want.”
The Worker processed the statement. And then, slowly, he took the little goat’s cheese. He began to nibble at it. Just…tiny bite by bite. Eating something he’d never had. So wonderful.
Of course, he’d had soup, and acid flies, and everything else at the inn, all of four times. And Archer B12 remembered each time. But cheese? All of it for him? The Worker tried to savor each bite.
“Good.”
Bird sat down, humming happily and opening and raising his mandibles. He fished around in his basket.
“Would Archer B12 like a drink of apple juice? It is a question of utmost importance.”
Before Archer B12 could respond, a voice rang out across the roof.
“Bird! Are you bothering the Workers?”
Instantly, all the Workers began working twice as fast. Archer B12 started, but Bird put a hand on his shoulder.
“Eat.”
He stood up and looked around. Erin propped her hands on her hips and stared at Bird. She had sensed him on the roof and she’d been checking to make sure he hadn’t been shooting Birds. But she stared at Bird and the basket as he came over.
“What are you doing, Bird?”
“Feeding the Workers.”
“What? But they never want food when I offer it. They say they have to work. Why are you feeding them? I mean, it’s fine. But why?”
Erin blinked at Archer B12, who was eating the goat’s cheese and trying to rush and not rush at the same time. The other Workers silently worked, trading places, setting up frames…Bird shrugged.
“They are Workers. And so am I. Since I am not hunting, I thought I would give them food. Because it is sad not having food all the time. Food in the Hive is bad food. Yucky.”
His little speech made sense. But it still impressed Erin. She looked at Bird.
“Huh. Well—good job, Bird.”
He really had changed since he’d been banned from his vocation in life. Or rather, that was the reason. Bird tilted his head left and right.
“May I feed the others?”
“Sure, I mean, are they hungry? They never are when I ask.”
Bird nodded. He turned back and walked back to Archer B12.
“That is because you ask. Is Numbtongue awake yet? He was asleep when I knocked.”
Erin hesitated.
“I think he’s still in bed. He was dragged to Wailant’s farm to drink. I mean, he wanted to go, but he drank a lot. Also, Octavia’s in Pallass.”
“Yes. So our mining expedition will not happen today, probably. Which is sad. But they are happy. Miss Octavia is. Numbtongue is sad.”
“Oh yeah, Octavia’s over the moon. She’s learning from Saliss.”
“He is very naked.”
“Yeah. But he’s cool.”
 
——
 
In his secret laboratory, Saliss’ eyes glittered as he carefully maneuvered a dropper over the jar of Haste Potion. His eyes shone with excitement.
Real excitement. And that anything could make Saliss Oliwing, Saliss of Lights, Named Adventurer of Pallass, excited was enough to nearly make Octavia rip her heart out of her chest. But she was learning.
For one thing, she was learning what it meant to be one of the best [Alchemists] in the world. Because Saliss was excited. He’d practically dragged her into his laboratory this morning to do this test. But he was also incredibly focused.
His claw holding the dropper didn’t quiver at all as he dipped it in and took a minute sample of the dregs that Ryoka had left Octavia. Saliss did not crack under pressure. Nor, in this moment, did he let excitement do anything other than intensify his focus.
“You can see my solution on your left, Octavia? That’s a basic magical condensing test. We can reverse-test the potency of a potion based on the ingredients used. It’s not a perfect test, especially if the potion isn’t wholly consistent, but this will tell us the grade we’re dealing with.”
Octavia nodded rapidly, too scared to speak. Saliss slowly dropped a bit of the Haste Potion into the liquid and it began to bubble and seethe. He slowly relaxed.
“Good. Can’t waste a drop if it is a powerful potion. Or even a Haste Potion! We’re sacrificing one drop’s worth; if we standardize how much liquid we use, we can compare the resulting mana crystal to other potion’s reactions. Assuming of course, we don’t get a reaction.”
The younger [Alchemist] nodded. Like Saliss, she was watching the flask intently for any signs of a bad reaction. Both were ready to move for cover, and Saliss had already secured the priceless Haste Potion sample.
“…I think we’re good. Go on, relax, take a look around. This will take a minute or two.”
After ten seconds, Saliss relaxed. Octavia did not. She stared around Saliss’ personal laboratory and then at the Drake himself.
“Wh—me?”
He grinned at her.
“Sure! I mean, I am teaching you. Go on and poke around. Open anything you like. Just not any bottles. But ingredients? Sure! I’m gonna eat more chocolate. Ooh, and I bought a cake with this whipped cream stuff!”
Octavia saw him stretch and yawn. He took a slice of the cake he’d bought from The Wandering Inn and began to munch on it—he wasn’t using utensils and just licked his claws clean.
Octavia hesitated, and then began to wander the laboratory. The Stitch-Girl was taking notes and trying not to faint. She was lightheaded and on a mental high—higher than the time she accidentally burned an entire pound of Dreamleaf. She was tingling with excitement.
And terrified it was a dream. This had to be a dream. Ever since last night. She’d—she’d slipped, cut her head off somehow, and this was the last thing she saw before her life-thread ran out of magic. That was it. There was no way she could be here.
“Um, Master Saliss. Is it alright if I…?”
Octavia pointed to a steel cupboard, warded by spells. Saliss waved a claw and spoke around a mouthful of chocolate.
“Go on, poke at stuff. Just close the cupboards when I start experimenting. Don’t need a chain detonation. Also—if I say run, run.”
Octavia nodded. She opened a cupboard, stared at the rows of gemstones ordered by purity, and size, tried to guess at how much it was all worth, and had to sit in a corner and shake for a second. The sight of a few hundred gemstones gleaming at her had undone her in one go.
“Nice collection, huh? I get it from Salazsar. Xif has some, but he doesn’t have as many as me.”
Saliss winked. As he did, there was an outraged voice.
“You’re letting her investigate your shelves? Saliss! There are dozens of [Alchemists] past Level 30 who’d do anything for a day as your apprentice! At least let me in!”
The speaker wasn’t actually in the room. Saliss spoke into a little stone sitting on the counter.
“Shush, Xif! You’re making the cake taste bad. Mm. Ooh! And a glass of milk does go wonderfully with it! Erin was right! Hey—hey! I think the reaction’s nearly done! Maybe this is a super-valuable potion you ignored because you thought Octavia was too low-level to teach!”
He winked at Octavia and motioned her away; the reaction still had a bit to go. But outside Saliss’ run-down lab, Xif, the most famous regular [Alchemist] in Pallass, pounded at Saliss’ concealed door and howled into the speaking stone outside.
“Let me in! You can’t do this to me, Saliss! I’ll trade you one of the flower cuttings! Or my recipe for Alloyshine Oil!”
“Eat chocolate, Xif! Oh wait, you can’t! Because you don’t have any!”
Saliss crowed. He began to dance around the speaking stone, laughing as he mocked the older [Alchemist].
“You can’t buy what I’ve got! Why don’t you go to Erin’s inn and see if she’s in the mood to sell you more flowers? Hm? You know what, if you’re really nice to Erin, you might be able to get her to sell you another flower in a year, but I think—whoa!”
He twisted. Octavia nearly dropped the huge bicorn horn she was inspecting. Both [Alchemists] stared as something condensed in the clear liquid. Saliss dropped his cake, dove, caught it, and came back upright.
“Ancestors!”
The crystal that had formed in the jar didn’t look big to Octavia. Barely thumb-sized. But it had come out of a single drop of the potion sample. And Saliss? He stared at it. Then he walked over.
