“Let’s see. Based on the size, and the clarity, that’s larger than…my Youth Potion doesn’t have…”
“What? It’s bigger than the Youth Potion? Let me in!”
Xif shouted. Saliss nodded to himself. He put down the jar and the crystal he had been measuring with a little stick and scales. Then he looked at Octavia and nodded.
Her eyes went round. But Saliss was purely controlled. He took a deep breath, exhaled—and then threw his arms up. The Drake ran around the laboratory, shouting gleefully.
“It’s top-grade! This has to be a relic—do you hear that, Xif? Are you crying?”
He shouted into the speaking stone, and then turned it off before Xif could reply. Saliss turned to Octavia, chortling.
“He’ll be shouting into it for ages before he realizes I can’t hear him. This is a great day. And that proves it! Have some cake! You’re in luck, Miss Cotton! I have a new project! This—and you!”
He offered Octavia some of the cake on the plate. She stared at him.
“It’s—it’s powerful?”
“Powerful? It’s not just a Potion of Haste. It might be a Potion of Greater Haste.”
Octavia’s legs went out. Saliss instantly caught her and lowered her to the ground.
“Whoa, watch out! Don’t get weak-knees now. Seriously, that’s how [Alchemists] die. Tripping. And I don’t know if I can even replicate it. I have ways, but the attempt is what matters. I might level from it alone!”
He was rubbing his claws together, looking delighted. Alive. Octavia slowly rose.
“Master Saliss, I am so honored to—I’m so—”
“We went over this. It’s fine. We’re [Alchemists]. And I don’t steal. Not like you, Xif! Oh, wait. I turned this off. Actually, he doesn’t steal; he just has that pushy Skill of his.”
The Drake leaned against his table, sighing. Octavia glanced up at him.
“And you’ll teach me—?”
“Yup. I can’t make you an apprentice. I don’t do that. But we bargained and you’ll break Level 30 before we’re done. I hope you don’t mind this perfect body!”
Saliss winked and posed. Octavia looked at him.
“I uh—don’t mind.”
She blushed, trying not to look down. Octavia was still in the second day of meeting Saliss, which meant she was still conscious of him, unlike, say, the resigned Watch Captain Venim who could hold a ten-minute long conversation without so much as breaking eye-contact even with Saliss jiggling and dancing about.
Interestingly, that was what made the Drake pause. Saliss eyed Octavia, and then cleared his throat.
“Well, maybe I’ll put on a towel or something while I’m teaching you. Don’t want Xif getting weird ideas. I have one somewhere around here. Hold on.”
He walked out of the laboratory, undoing the metal latch on the door. Octavia instantly shot to her feet.
“Oh no, Master Saliss! Anything you prefer is fine. Don’t hold back on my account—”
Saliss reappeared with a towel over his privates. He looked like someone coming out of a sauna.
“No, no. I think I need to make one thing clear.”
He pointed at Octavia.
“Me, you? I’m never asking you to do anything…sexual. Or illegal. Or wrong. If you think I am, I probably said it wrong or you heard it weird. This isn’t Nerrhavia. I said that last night, right?”
Octavia stared at Saliss. She nodded slowly.
“I didn’t mean to imply—”
“No, no. Shh for a second.”
Saliss sighed. He came over and leaned on the steel counter, looking at Octavia. Seriously.
“I think we need to talk about it. I know what happens with master-apprentice relationships. The master, male, female, Selphid, begins getting touchy with an apprentice. Or you hear about them in bed. Or getting married. Well, the married thing might be different. But I studied in Nerrhavia. That’s not happening here.”
Octavia felt a surge of relief. Not that she’d thought Saliss was capable of it. But—she did know. She nodded silently. The Drake went on.
“Nerrhavia has a culture of it, right? What’s the expression about sleeping your way to a mastery? Never mind. Well, it happens in Pallass too. Sometimes. If you’re learning anything from me, learn this—no.”
Octavia nodded, then she paused.
“Is it wrong, though, Master Saliss? It is an exchange. It happens in Nerrhavia. I didn’t—well, I didn’t have an opportunity. It’s mostly Silk-castes who get offered that.”
The Named Adventurer paused.
“That’s what I hear. And I suppose that’s Nerrhavia’s way of doing things. Actually, I hear a lot of masters fall in love with their apprentices, or vice-versa. That happens a lot, right?”
The Stitch-Girl nodded. Saliss sighed.
“Here’s what I think of it. A master and an apprentice in the same bed’s like sulfur and fire. If it doesn’t explode, it will poison over time. It’s not an equal combination of ingredients. Believe me. I’ve lived that.”
Octavia’s jaw dropped. Saliss winked at her, but then paused.
“I’ll tell you about it, sometime. Maybe. Now, enough serious stuff. Let’s get to finding what this is!”
He whipped out the sample of the potion and gestured to it. Octavia relaxed. Saliss had challenged one of Nerrhavia’s traditions and she wasn’t sure if she agreed with him. Master [Alchemists] walking about and being beloved and powerful was one of the reasons why she’d wanted to become an [Alchemist]. One reason. But she had always hated that transaction; she’d been stuck to grinding while lesser-talented [Alchemists] skipped ahead.
But now Saliss was teaching her, and Octavia was all for that. He wanted to try identifying the base components of the potion, and he had a number of ways to separate or isolate particular compounds. But finding every ingredient and learning how they’d been mixed, blended, burned, boiled, or otherwise transmuted would be a terribly long task.
“Alright, we’re rendering one sample and we’ll see if air-drying takes this other one. Shame we can’t try it; but tasting it is a last resort for me. If I had more, I’d try more risky procedures, but every drop counts.”
Saliss had a few clear glass petri dishes of liquid secured in a rack. Then he turned to Octavia and leaned on the counter.
“So, what gossip do you have?”
“Excuse me, Master?”
Octavia paused in the middle of taking notes. She looked up, alarmed. Saliss grinned and winked.
“What? We’re going to have to wait on some rendering to hopefully get a base component out of the samples. While we do—let me have you make me your best healing potion. And you can gossip with me about more fun stuff in that inn. Or Nerrhavia. Unless you need to focus?”
“Not at all? I—gossip?”
Saliss shrugged.
“I mean, do you have anything better to do? Sometimes I sing, or dance. If you want to do that, I’m all for it!”
He struck a pose and began to do a slow hop across the floors, circling his hips. Octavia blinked, and then smiled. She’d forgotten what it was like to be an apprentice, talking while she brewed.
“I do know some gossip from Nerrhavia. I haven’t returned in nearly five years, but I get [Messages]…”
“Aha! Nerrhavia gossip is the best [Alchemist] gossip! Tell me everything!”
It was strange to do it with a master, but Saliss was someone you could talk to. He came back over and grinned and Octavia reached for a jar of Eir Gel. She looked around conspiratorially, as if she and her [Alchemist] apprentice friends were gossiping together.
“Well…do you know Master Therel?”
“That stuck-up Stitch-Man? Pioneer of the puresand-cleansing process and the Flashfreeze Orb? Lover of ten thousand women? That’s what he kept telling me every time I met him.”
Saliss’ eyes twinkled. Octavia nodded.
“Well, he was caught in bed with one of his lovers by his wife just last month. And she sliced off his, uh, genitals.”
“Ooh!”
Octavia nodded.
“The very same ones that were apparently sewn with gold-fiber and gem-thread that came from across Zeikhal, and were said to have pleased a thousand women before landing him the hand of the fairest [Veiled Consort] in all of Nerrhavia.”
“Who did the cutting. Just to be clear, he could get a new one, right? He’s a Stitch-Man if I recall. If he’s not, this is a dark story.”
The Stitch-Girl smiled.
“Definitely, and yes, Master Therel is a Stitch-Man. Cotton-caste, originally. But this was his prized, er, jewels. His wife got the jewels, too.”
“Ouch. And? And?”
“Then she sewed them onto a camel’s backside, and sent it racing into the desert. It was said Master Therel was seen sprinting after it with all his [Bodyguards], as his fabulous treasure was seen flapping in the open air.”
Saliss rolled on the floor laughing. Octavia laughed too, and then paused.
“Well, if you think that was bad, wait till you hear what happened to the lover…”
 
——
 
A little while later, Grimalkin of Pallass, the Fist Mage, the [Sinew Magus], gave a lecture to a scrying mirror he held in one claw. It was a variation of the one he’d given his audience earlier, cut down a bit to make it more punchy and less academic after a few suggestions.
Occasionally, the Drake would show one of the students lifting to punctuate a point, or flex a muscle group; he had perfect control over his body.
And he was also speaking to all the Walled Cities of Izril. All of them in the world! True, he wasn’t being broadcast by Noass and Sir Relz on Wistram’s ‘approved’ channel, and the highest-ranking members of each Walled City weren’t watching.
Well, the Dragonspeaker of Manus was. As were a number of powerful people from other cities. Watch Captains, military leaders—they were all listening on Grimalkin’s request.
It began to hammer home just how important Grimalkin was. Erin nervously watched as he made his speech about the safety, increased effectiveness, and utility of the weights.
“We already have a number of civilians observing the tests, along with the group I have personally invited. I thought it would be instrumental to see a hypothetical gymnasium in operation. I have the exact numbers of how much this would cost, which has already been forwarded to each Walled City.”
He flourished a packet of paper. Another surprise; Grimalkin was much like a muscley professor! He went on as he headed towards the bench press.
“I thought it would be informative to observe how much or little muscle each type of profession or warrior can bring to bear. For instance, Selphids are known for their ability to Rampage and bring out a full body’s potential, but how might that compare with the strength of, say, an elite [Warrior]? Here we have Senior Guardsman Relc, also known as the Gecko of Liscor—”
Relc was lifting a weights bar up, both ends loaded with weight. He groaned.
“Aw, don’t call me—wait, am I being watched by everyone?”
He stared into the scrying mirror. There were six benches and Moore, Jelaqua, one of 4th Company’s [Captains], and two [Guards] were all sitting on the other ones.
“Another utility of these weights is measuring individual strength. We can actually quantify data, although any one test will not properly represent an individual’s full capacity, it is data. Imagine knowing definitively which of your [Soldiers] had the best upper body strength, or who had surprising growth or potential in any given area? We’ll begin testing who has the most strength among this group. Begin lifting—now!”
The six all lay down and tried to lift the bar in the press Grimalkin had taught them. Moore looked incredibly nervous and self-conscious; Jelaqua looked like she was having fun.
“They are attempting to press two hundred pounds of weight. Let’s see how they do. Now, lift! Exhale as you push! I want to see you struggle!”
Grimalkin roared at the lifters, switching gears. Erin saw the bars lift—she inhaled.
“That’s heavy. I weigh a lot less than that!”
Indeed, while three bars rose fast, Moore’s, Jelaqua’s, and Relc’s, the other three test subjects had trouble. The [Captain] got it up with a grunt. Embria and 4th Company cheered him on.
“Go, Pielt! Don’t let those adventurers beat you!”
Next to him, the two male [Guardsmen] were working hard. The Gnoll got it up, but his balance was off and he did have to struggle. The Drake—didn’t. The bar fell towards his chest and he cursed and called out—
“As you can see, not all the trained warriors can do two hundred pounds. And while I’m sure we’ll see a very high limit on those with Skills and levels, two hundred is still a sizable number.”
Grimalkin caught the bar one-handed and pulled it back onto the rack. The Drake panted, shamefaced, as Grimalkin went on.
“Most [Warriors], [Soldiers], and [Guards] are physically fit enough to endure combat, but for how long? Ten minutes? Thirty? An hour? Good leaders know to rotate in fresh fighters, and most battles are very quick. Additionally, [Soldiers] may use a pike or heavier weapon like a maul, but most are using swords that weigh a few pounds at most. Extensive training to lift heavy weights only happens with [Blacksmiths], [Laborers], [Farmers], and so on, which is why they can become such powerful [Soldiers]. But muscle can be an asset, and these weights provide a completely new way to achieve that goal with limited time and effort!”
He had a good point. Erin was surprised, but while male and female Gnolls could hit that benchmark of two hundred pounds by and large, both genders of Drakes struggled and only a handful of the female Drakes could do it. They did not have a lifter’s physique; they were trained to fight, not work out.
But one complemented the other. And there were exceptions. Relc did three hundred pounds, grunting and grinning, and so did Moore and Jelaqua. They hit four hundred—Jelaqua didn’t even blink as Relc growled. Moore had to tap out after five hundred; he couldn’t get the bar up.
“Come on, Moore! You can do better! Uh—I think I tore a muscle.”
Jelaqua cursed as she got her bar up. Relc was swearing as the 4th Company cheered him on. Moore rubbed at his shoulders.
“I don’t like doing that.”
“You can see that Skills can have a powerful effect, but this is in a [Spearmaster] and Selphid adventurer’s case. I submit that muscle is certainly useful—but when balanced. Overtraining one area of muscles simply unbalances the body. I have created a workout plan and exercises along with my theories on the optimal development of the body as a whole…”
Grimalkin was enjoying himself. And so was the rest of the room. New things were great. Strength training was great…among a certain group of people. But they’d also quickly caught onto the other aspect Erin was familiar with from her world—competition.
“Gah! That’s so heavy!”
Relc eventually lost to Jelaqua who pushed up a massive bar loaded with weights. The Selphid grinned—and then her smile slipped.
