He shook his head, closing out all of the skill trees and returning his focus to his character window. In the end, taking the risk had paid off big time, earning him a staggering thirty-two points of Clarity tolerance over the last few days. He still had the stat boosted at the moment. He would take the points out and equalize his stats before he came down from the rooftop.

The last thing to note on his character window was his total experience. It had gone up.

As an experiment, Rain had asked Bartum to use his soul-sight and watch him as he’d unlocked a tier-three skill tree. The officer hadn’t detected any change in Rain’s condition, even when he’d unlocked a second tree immediately after the first. His confidence restored, Rain had then triggered his training overview.

When he did this, however, Bartum freaked out a little bit.

In the following conversation, Rain learned that souls naturally applied accrued experience to themselves in the morning and that this process looked something like breathing. You were not supposed to be able to do it whenever you wanted. The soul would slowly shrink down, expelling a small cloud of something, then expand again, taking something back in. Bartum had said that the something was mana, but Rain wasn’t so sure. Bartum didn’t have Mana Sight, he had ‘Reading,’ which was different and perhaps not a system skill at all.

People generally used the words ‘mana’ and ‘essence’ interchangeably, which bothered Rain to no end. He was growing more and more convinced that they were different things, no matter what people said. Even his skill, Essence Well, conflated the two.

Rain was convinced that skill names were like lair names, in that they were defined by people, not the system itself. That raised some interesting questions about what the system actually was, and how it related to souls, essence, mana, and a whole bunch of other things.

Rain sighed and shook his head. Distracted again.

The bottom line was that when Rain triggered his training overview, Bartum had seen his paling sort-of twitch, then contract suddenly, ripping open on one side and expelling a huge burst of ‘chaotic mana.’ It sealed itself back up afterward, and Bartum assured him that it looked unchanged from before.

Unwilling to just accept this without further testing, Rain had come back to Bartum the next day to repeat the experiment. The result was identical, and he didn’t feel any worse, so he’d decided that he would keep unlocking skill trees. His paling was already busted, and his ‘mana’ was already as chaotic as it could get. He’d check in with Bartum periodically in case he was wrong, of course. Even if he ended up hurting himself further, though, that could be a victory in a way. As long as it got him some more information.

He needed to understand how souls worked if he was going to fix his, and he hadn’t made any progress toward being able to access it through meditation. When he’d talked to Ameliah and Tallheart before the Shift, they’d had no advice for him other than to keep trying what he had already been doing. Neither was familiar with the technique, despite their high levels. Staavo and Jamus were likewise unhelpful. Rain was exploring new ground, at least as far as his friends were concerned.

While he hadn’t gotten inside his soul, he had managed to at least repeat his previous success, if you could call it that. Namely, getting to the door. Over six attempts, he had reached the required meditative state twice. Both times, he had immediately been hurled out of the trance by the chaotic energy that had washed over him.

He was starting to fear that it was a catch-22; he needed access to his soul to fix the damage, but the damage was preventing him from accessing his soul. That didn’t mean he had given up, however. Perseverance was key. He wasn’t going to quit until he could reach the threshold every time he tried, and probably not even then. He would keep bashing his head against the door to his soul until he broke it down or found someone who knew how to open it properly.

You would think with a broken paling, getting in would be easier. Hell, maybe it is. Maybe I can only get as far as I can because I’m so messed up.

He sighed, waving away all of his windows. All that he had were questions, questions, and more questions. The only thing for it was to try again, which was why he’d snuck up here in the first place. Well, one reason.

After pinging with Detection a few times to make sure that he was still safe, Rain switched to Essence Well with IFF set to blacklist everything. In other words, Essence Meditation. He had already been without senses for a while, but now, he didn’t even have the flow of his magic to distract him. With these settings, there was no valid target for Essence Well’s mana transfer. The void was absolute.

Rain had tried a few times without the void on the theory that any magic use whatsoever, manaless as Essence Meditation was, might be holding him back. He hadn’t had any success there. Something would always distract him and kick him out of the required calm. Even the wind was too much stimulation. Once he could reliably get to the threshold by using the void as a crutch, he’d start trying more seriously without it.

With a sigh, Rain flicked off his HUD and focused on his breathing like he should have been doing this whole time. This was going to take a while.

Officer Turton felt superfluous. As the ranking officer in the Lee, it was technically his job to ensure the safety of the unawakened taking shelter there. However, he had been rendered redundant. The two Guilders and the cervidian were so strong that it made him and the seven officers with him look like children.

Ameliah was on the level of a sentinel, as Guild silverplates usually were, so that wasn’t too bad. A sentinel he could get used to. Lavarro, however, was in a different league altogether. The woman was famous. After seeing her in action, if she wasn’t a goldplate in disguise, Turton would eat his helmet.

Either way, neither of the Guilders had any trouble defending the barricade now that it was complete. His officers only needed to provide them with token assistance. He hadn’t spoken much with the two powerful women, though, grateful as he was for their help. Lavarro was too intimidating, and Ameliah had acted cold and distant whenever he’d approached her. It was clear that neither of them wanted to be here, and yet, they stayed.

Officer Turton could empathize.

He had his reasons for staying, obviously, as did they. Unlike him, however, they were actually strong enough to leave. A full party of eight officers would be safe enough beyond the barricades for a little while, but without the ability to rest and recover, they’d run out of mana, stamina, and health, and likely in that order. Without knowing how far the rank shift extended, there would be no leaving for them.

The armored cervidian—hadn’t that been a surprise—was also at sentinel level. He was some sort of warrior-blacksmith, which was astonishing enough in its own right. Crafters almost never made it past the wall, and those that did had gotten there under the care of powerful organizations. The Watch’s own crafters were secreted away in Vigilance, too weak to protect themselves from those that would steal them away.

Turton shuddered. Becoming a crafter was basically signing up to become a slave, though it often happened in the opposite order. Crafters were treated well in the Watch, of course, as they performed a vital function. They weren’t slaves, obviously, but neither were they free. It wouldn’t be a life that he’d ever choose, that was for sure.

As for the cervidian—Tallheart was his name—Turton hadn’t spoken with him much either. He had seen him fight, though. Never in his life had he seen anyone with that level of physical strength. The warrior-smith hadn’t even used a single skill that Turton recognized, simply tearing the monsters to pieces with his armored hands. They also had Tallheart to thank for the barricade itself.

The cervidian had singlehandedly brought hundreds of trees from the forest on the first night. In the subsequent days, he had made picks, shovels, and other tools. The two bronzeplate Guilders, Jamus and Staavo, had recruited a bunch of the unawakened to wield them. Even now, people were working, feeding dirt and stone into the smith’s bizarre smelter and molding the outflow into huge glassy bricks. They were using these to build a more permanent wall around the encampment, freeing up wood for the fires in the process. Every once in a while, the smith would fiddle with a valve, pouring off different metals and casting them into ingots.

Most of that metal had ended up as tools, but some went toward the engineering project that the two crazy—crazier than normal—bronzeplates had cooked up.

Several of their ‘light bulbs’ were hanging from the stone ceiling of the Lee, strung along a pair of wires. Those wires led to the ‘generator’ that they had set up. They had dug a channel to redirect the river and gotten the smith to build them a metal water wheel. This was connected to turn the generator, making the light bulbs glow…somehow.

It was clearly magic, though not like any enchantment that he’d ever seen before. He’d asked the Guilders to explain how it worked, but they’d refused, insisting that the process was a secret. The setup was failure-prone, but it was getting better by the day, the light from the bulbs lasting longer and longer before something invariably broke. Turton was reserving his opinion on its usefulness until they got it working properly.

He shook his head. All of the work that the Guilders and the cervidian were doing was a great help, and he wasn’t about to complain, but nevertheless, it galled him. As the supposed commander of the Lee, it was the kind of thing that he should have been organizing. The Guilders had just done it on their own, without even asking for his input or advice.

They recognized his authority—Ameliah had stated clearly that none of them wanted to be in command—but they pretty much ignored him most of the time. The sooner he could get the mindcaster working, the better. He needed to know how long it would be before a sentinel would arrive to relieve him.

Turton looked at the mindcaster and sighed. The amplifier formation was huge, requiring a large wagon for it to be moved. The central component was a circlet made of layered bands of black and white crystal. That part wasn’t the difficulty. The problem was the numerous crystalline pillars carved with the runes required to make the whole thing work. Half of them were made of white crystal and the other half from black.

The crystal pillars came in different sizes. Some were taller than a man, and others, no larger than a finger. They needed to be arranged in concentric circles around the operator in a precise geometric pattern. Setting them up, however, was more than just a matter of placing them in the correct spots. The area had to be leveled, measurements made, then the first massive pillars carefully moved and sunk into the ground. Everything needed to be stable enough to resist the magical forces that would be exerted when the device activated. There was a reason these things tended to stay put.

Turton sighed and walked over to the pair of officers tinkering with the placement of the smaller pillars. “Are we ready to try it again yet?”

“We think we’re getting close,” said Officer Brook, swapping two small pillars, each about a hand tall. She wiggled them, making sure that they were firmly planted in the dirt. “Do you want to try it, sir?”

“We’ve done about as much as we can with it inactive,” said the other officer, Gommel. “We can fine-tune it once the enchantments activate.”

Turton hesitated. “Is it going to explode like last time?”

“No, we fixed that, see?” said Brook gesturing at three pillars in turn, as if that would actually mean something to him. Turton only had the vaguest idea of how the whole device worked. He shook his head helplessly as Brook continued speaking. “Go ahead, sir, give it a try. Gommel and I are going to need to make adjustments, so it’s better if you’re the one in the circlet.”

Turton sighed, then nodded, walking to the center of the formation, careful not to disturb any of the pillars. He picked up the circlet, and with a nod from Brook, slipped it on and sat on the stool that it had been resting upon. He trusted his officers not to get him killed. If Brook said it was safe, then it was.

This trust was immediately tested as the pillars around him lit up. The runes on the white crystals shone a vibrant blue, and those on the black, a bloody crimson. There was a rumble through the earth as the large pillars shifted slightly, pulling themselves into alignment. A few of the smaller crystals flew out of place, crackling with unfocused magic. Brook and Gommel rushed about, collecting them and arguing about what they had done wrong. The magic didn’t fade, however. It was stable, and it grew more so as the two officers slid them back into place.

“Should I be feeling anything?” Turton asked, adjusting the circlet.

“Not until someone activates the other end,” said Gommel, jamming a crystal into the ground. It immediately lit up. “Our signet glyph should be glowing on their end now, I think.”

“If you didn’t have the diagram upside down again, you mean,” said Brook.

“I’m sure we’ve got it now,” said Gommel. “Just look at the—”

[Connection established. This is Jarro Outpost. Identify.] Said a man’s voice in Turton’s mind.

“Shh!” he hissed, frantically trying to clear his mind. “Don’t touch anything, and stay quiet. It connected.” He closed his eyes and focused on the circlet, pushing his thoughts toward one of the two links that had formed in his mind, the one that seemed to pull at him. That would be the transmitter, while the other one was for receiving.

[This is Officer Turton. Uh… Authorization… shit, what was it? Sable Hunter River Apple.]

[You are not authorized for mindcaster use, Officer Turton. Your signet reads as Vestvall Outpost. Who is the sentinel in charge?]

[I am in charge, and I’m not in Vestvall. I’m outside the barrier beside Fel Sadanis. That was the code that they gave me, and you should already know—] Turton paused, pulling back from the outbound connection, a horrible suspicion coming over him. Wait a minute. How do I know they’re who they say they are. Damn it, I fucked up. I gave them information I shouldn’t have. He focused again. [Transmit your authorization code.]

