The group reached the edge of the excavation, and Vanna climbed the lip, then pointed. “There’s Smelt. I’m going to go say hi.”

Rain looked down into the pit, forcing himself to join her on the edge. The bank below him was surprisingly vertical, the earth barely sloping at all. The workers had made astonishing progress, digging a hole ten meters down, and at least twice that across. Rain knew that Bartum had sent some Earth mages to help, but still, it was impressive.

The entire pit was lit by torches and was swarming with activity. Heavy equipment had no place here, just buckets, shovels, wagons, and lots and lots of volunteers. Construction by flash mob. Rain saw no sign of any Earth mages at the moment, though there were a few Watch officers standing guard on the far side of the rim near the barricade.

Val glanced at the sloping entrance to the hole, which was a distance to the right, then looked straight down. “Rain, are you thinking what I’m thinking? Wanna take the quick way? You can cover all of us, right?”

Despite himself, Rain smiled. “Yeah. I’ve got plenty of mana. Let’s do it.”

“You mean jump?” Vanna asked, taking a step back from the edge and looking at Rain uncertainly. “I know you said it works on other people, but you’re, well, awakened. I’m not.”

“You don’t have to jump if you don’t want to,” Val said. Rain blinked and looked at him. Is he sick?

Vanna took a deep breath, stepping forward again. She glanced at Rain. “You’re sure it’s safe?”

Rain nodded. “As safe as it can be. You’re putting your life into my hands, though. Walking would be the smart thing.”

“No, it’s fine,” Vanna said, shifting closer to Val. “Should be fun, right?”

“That’s the spirit,” Val said, grabbing her hand.

Rain activated Force Ward, then nodded. It was his turn to feel nervous. The trust they were showing him was ridiculous, now that he was thinking about it. “Safety check before we go. Vanna, punch Val in the head.”

“What?” Vanna said, then shouted as Val’s fist flew at her face. It struck Force Ward harmlessly, the water-drop ripple in the air clearly visible.

“Too slow,” Val said, laughing at her reaction.

Rain shrugged. “I guess that works too.”

Without warning, Vanna slugged Val back, creating a second distortion in the air. She looked down at her fist, then back at the laughing Val, then at Rain. “Can you lower it on him for a second?”

Val stopped laughing, holding up his hands in mock surrender.

Rain bit his own tongue hard, just to make sure he was covered as well. He crept closer to the edge, then fought off a sudden bout of vertigo as he eyed the dirt at the bottom. “When you jump, really throw yourself out there so you don’t hit the side. Spread yourself flat while you fall, or you’ll stick in the dirt like a pencil. For future reference, the normal range of this spell is about twenty-five stride. It wouldn’t be an issue here, even if I wasn’t jumping with you, but all the same, never do something like this unless you’re sure I’m ready. Talking to you, Val.” He looked back at them. “Everyone ready?”

“Wait,” Vanna said. She waved her arms, calling down to the workers below, some of whom were already watching. “Hey, watch this!”

Many more faces pivoted up in their direction.

Val laughed. “Uh oh, Rain, now she’s done it. Everyone is going to want a turn.”

Rain sighed resignedly. “Don’t I know it. Come on, before I think better of this. Jump when I get to three. One. Two. Three!”

He jumped, hearing the others follow him. There were three solid impacts as they plowed into the dirt amid cries of alarm from the spectators. He got up quickly on his own while Val helped Vanna to her feet. She looked a little green, but she was smiling and unharmed.

“What the fuck, Vanna!?” Smelt shouted, pushing through the crowd. “Are you insane?! How are you not dead?!”

Vanna laughed and hugged her brother, then released him and pointed at Rain. “Perks of having an adventurer for a boss.”

Rain snorted as the crowd broke out into cheers. “Do it again!” someone shouted.

Rain shook his head. No way am I making this a regular thing. I’m not a carnival ride.

“Hey Rain, clean me off, would you?” Val said, gesturing at his dirty clothes. All three of them were filthy from the impact.

Rain shook his head, looking up. “One second.”

“Why? Oh,” Val said, after following his gaze.

Dozer was flying through the air, having flung himself from the lip of the pit. Rain had noticed the slime following them shortly after they’d left the administration building, unhappy at being left behind.

Dozer hit the ground like a cannonball, leaving a sizable divot in the dirt. Under the influence of the spell, Dozer’s body didn’t deform at all, landing more like a meteor than a puddle of goo. Rain was pretty sure that the slime would have been fine without Force Ward, but he wasn’t going to take any chances.

Several minutes of chaos followed. Rain allowed Dozer to clean off a few people before he used Purify, knowing that the slime would be distraught if he didn’t. Crystal slimes ate filth, operating under much the same rules as Purify did. Dirt on the ground outside was not filth. Dirt on someone’s skin was. Judging from the state of the workers, the slime was going to have its work cut out for it.

Looking around, Rain noticed clear signs that the Earth mages had been plying their craft. The floor of the pit was mostly dirt, even at this depth, but he could see large outcrops of stone here and there, shattered into manageable chunks by Earth magic. A quick pulse of Detection told him that most of it wasn’t bedrock, merely boulders. In the deepest section of the pit, however, there was a flat section of rock that extended down further than Rain’s scan could penetrate. If over a hundred meters of solid stone didn’t count as bedrock, he wasn’t sure what did.

He shook his head. They shouldn’t need to dig through all of that. He couldn’t boost Detection’s resolution high enough to distinguish crushed stone from solid, not without hurting himself, but it should have been easy enough to follow Westbridge’s path through the rock by eye. He looked for Vanna, spotting her talking to Smelt, then walked over to them.

“So,” he said without preamble. “Why is the pit so wide? Weren’t you following Westbridge’s tunnel?”

“We lost the trail two days ago,” Vanna said. She pointed at the exposed bedrock. “We were digging there, following the disturbed earth, but it vanished when we hit stone. I thought Westbridge might have gone sideways or something, so we spread out, but we haven’t been able to find anything else.” She looked at her brother. “Did you find anything while I was gone?”

Smelt shook his head. “Not a thing. It’s strange.”

Rain frowned, walking over to the area that Vanna had indicated. The stone was mostly smooth, but there was one place where it looked like it had been crushed and shattered, perhaps by an Earth mage. Rain pointed at the spot. “What about that?”

“What about what?” Smelt said, moving to stand next to him.

“The crushed stone, there,” Rain said. “Was that an Earth mage? Did you try to dig through?”

“Crushed stone?” Vanna said, joining them. “What are you talking about?”

“That, right there.” Rain pointed at the shattered rock.

“Just looks like the rest,” Smelt said. “We didn’t try to have the Earth mages break through this. Not after we lost the trail.”

Rain blinked. Something strange is going on here. “Seriously, you can’t see this?” he said, walking into the center of the crushed area. He bent and picked up a small stone, holding it out to them.

“Woah!” Vanna shouted.

“How did you do that?” Smelt said, staring at the rock. “Nobody is that strong.”

“Do what?” Rain asked, looking at the rock. It was just a rock, no bigger than his fist.

“You just ripped that rock out of solid stone with your bare hands,” Smelt said, pointing at it.

“No, I didn’t,” Rain said, pointing at the ground. “There’s tons of them. I just picked one up. I think there’s some kind of illusion. You really just see smooth stone?” He activated Detection, tightening the radius so it was less overwhelming. Then, he began boosting the intensity gradually. Smaller signals started splitting from the larger fuzzy sense of ‘rock’ as he did so, but he was forced to stop as it became overwhelming. The results were inconclusive.

“Well…yeah.” Smelt said.

Huh. It has to be an enchantment. Maybe something the Majistraal did to protect the artifact. Why can I see it, but they can’t? Is it because they aren’t awakened? Rain looked around until he spotted Val playing with Dozer, then waved to him. “Hey, Val, come here for a sec.”

“Yeah?” Val said, walking over. Dozer trailed after him, full of dirt and as happy as could be.

Rain pointed at his feet. “Am I standing on flat stone, or is it all crushed?”

“Uh? Flat stone?” Val said.

“Wait, really?” He gestured at the ground. “What does it look like to you? Is it just flat rock like the rest?” He held up the rock he was holding. “You don’t see a bunch of shattered rocks like this one? What about something weird, like a magical barrier?”

Val shrugged. “Doesn’t look like anything to me,” Val said.

Rain froze. “You did not just say that.”

“Say what?” Val said.

Rain looked down at the crushed rock, seriously questioning his reality. Okay, someone is messing with me.
