[Confirmed, Officer Turton.] The person on the other end was amused, his emotions coming through the link clearly. [Counterauthorization Downing Marsh Greater Wardrobe. And yes, you did fuck up, but that’s understandable given the circumstances. Also, to mute the connection, focus on blocking your output channel, not pulling away. Either way, we are glad to hear from you. Please wait a moment.]

Turton had slumped down in relief as he recognized the correct countersign. Mindcasters were not a secure system, but he was now reasonably confident that it was the Jarro stronghold that he was talking to. The limited range meant that the only other stronghold he could have reached would have been the one in Southguard. Connecting to either would have been fine; that wasn’t what he’d been worried about.

The DKE didn’t use mindcasters, but the Empire did. They probably had one with that army of theirs, not to mention relay stations across the Badlands so they could reach it. Connecting to one of those would have been less than ideal.

[Officer Turton?] The man’s voice said.

[Yes, I’m still here.]

[You were stationed in Fel Sadanis before you were sent to retrieve the mindcaster from Vestvall, correct?]

[Yes.]

[What is the worst tavern in Fel Sadanis?]

What? Why…

[Just answer the question.]

[The Plum…]

There was a pause, then Turton felt the connection fuzz and disconnect. “What the hells?” He opened his eyes and looked around. Before he could signal Brook or Gommel to fix whatever it was that they had broken, the connection snapped back into place, then a woman’s voice spoke.

[Hello, Officer Turton.]

[Who is this? What’s going on? Is this still Jarro?]

[Yes,] the voice said. Suddenly, the inbound link, which had been like a narrow stream, widened, taking on the vastness of an ocean. Turton tried to shout in surprise, but his jaw clamped down, seemingly of its own accord. Colors swirled in front of him, and an old woman materialized out of thin air.

She was short, with gray hair and a wrinkled face, but she carried herself with a bearing that spoke of power, rather than frailty. Her back was as straight as a board, not hunched as one would expect from someone who was well over a hundred years old.

Turton knew who she was. He had recognized her immediately, as any officer would have, having seen her portrait hundreds of times. His eyes, however, didn’t widen, nor did he otherwise react to her sudden appearance. His entire body was rigid, utterly incapable of movement. After a moment, he felt himself relax, taking a slow breath and settling more comfortably on the stool. His body did this on his own. He had no say in it.

[I apologize for assuming control of your muscles without permission,] the Warden said, her lips moving to match the words in his mind. [I am going to release you. Do not react.]

Turton shuddered as his body returned to his control. He did his best, but he was still breathing heavily as he looked up at the woman standing before him.

[Is this camp secure?] the Warden asked, looking around. [I can see using your eyes,] she said, answering Turton’s question before it had even fully formed in his mind. [And yes, I can hear your thoughts. And yes, I could read all of your memories, too, if I wanted to. You know that I won’t, though, so stop worrying about it… Stop it.]

The Warden waited another moment, then sighed and sent him...something. Suddenly, Turton could remember this conversation being repeated hundreds and hundreds of times, with different people and under different circumstances.

Always the same thing. I am just so tired of it. I don’t care about their weird sex secrets, and I wish they’d just stop freaking out about it so I can get on with my day.

Wait, I?

What?

And just like that, the memories were gone. The Warden watched him patiently as he scrambled to process what he had just experienced. The memory was gone, but he could still feel…

[Are you done?] the Warden said, walking forward to peer at him. [Good. I need to know what has happened here since the barrier was raised. Will you allow me to look? One month should do it.]

Turton hesitated. [Can I say no?]

[Of course,] said the Warden. The gaze of her blue eyes felt like ice, but she didn’t seem to be angry with him. If anything, her expression read as patient, perhaps slightly amused.

[Do it,] Turton said, finally. He was an officer of the Watch, and this was the Warden. He had nothing to fear, and she had likely seen it all before.

[Yes, I have,] the Warden said. [I think you would make a fine sentinel, and I will make sure you become one, once this is all over. Now, listen closely. Here is what I need you to do.]

[Okay, I’m ready. What is it going to feel like?]

The Warden smiled. [I already did it. What an interesting situation you have found yourself in.] A wistful expression crossed her face as she took another look around. [I almost wish I was there in person. It has been far too long since I left Vigilance.] She shook her head, her face hardening until it seemed like iron. She walked up to him and stared directly into his eyes. It was all Turton could do to not look away. [You will convince the exGuilder Lavarro that you have found a way to pierce the barrier with the mindcaster. You will tell her that her daughter wants to speak with her. Once she puts on the circlet, I will take care of the rest. You will need to be careful. You don’t know the half of what she has done.]

[The ex…exGuilder? I… Yes, but why?]

The Warden peered at him, a calculating look on her face. [Listen closely, Officer Turton. I will tell you exactly what to say and how to say it. If she suspects you are trying to fool her, she will kill you. Stop panicking, officer. You can do this. You WILL do this.]

Turton tightened his grip on the stool, then nodded. He would do his duty, even if he was afraid, and, honestly, more than a bit confused.

The Warden smiled.

With a frustrated grunt, Rain released Essence Well and let his head fall into his hands. Damn it.

He wasn’t going to get there today. His mind simply refused to calm down. He’d been up here for almost two hours now. That was enough. The slimes weren’t going to Purify themselves.

With a sigh, he got to his feet and stretched. His pack was sitting next to the blanket he’d been using to shield his armor. He quickly ran an inventory in his mind, then decided to leave it where it was. It would be fine there, and he had everything important on him anyway.

The sudden sound of raised voices caught his attention, and he followed them over to the edge of the roof. Looking down, he saw Vanna facing off against Rankin, of all people.

Rain frowned. He hadn’t spoken to Rankin since the Shift, and for good reason. The temporary Guildleader was an ass. He crouched down to listen, wondering what Vanna was doing here and why she’d brought Rankin with her.

“So, he’s in there, huh?” Rankin said, pointing at the back door to the administration building, which was directly below where Rain was situated.

“I told you I would go ask if he wants to see you,” Vanna said. “Stop following me and just wait.”

“He is in the Guild, which makes me his boss,” Rankin growled. “I don’t care what he wants. I’m going in.”

“No, you aren’t,” Vanna said. “This is the Watch’s building, you’ll have to go around front and ask them.”

“Give me the damn key to that door. I know you have one.”

“No,” Vanna repeated, crossing her arms. Rain smiled as Rankin threw up his hands with an exasperated noise and spun away in anger, headed toward the main entrance.

Vanna looked up, her eyes searching. She spotted Rain, then smiled and winked at him. Rain smiled back. Good. Always look up. I am glad someone is listening.

He motioned to her to wait, balancing his stats as he watched Rankin stomp around the side of the building. He gave it thirty more seconds, then activated Force Ward and looked straight down.

Another reason he kept visiting this rooftop was to force himself to confront the fear of heights that had taken root after the chasm incident. He still felt that fear even now, irrational as it was. He bit down on his tongue, hard, making sure that Force Ward was active. Then, he jumped.

As he fell, he threw his arms out like a skydiver. It wasn’t that far, only four stories. He barely had time to orient himself before he face-planted into the packed dirt with a loud whump.

“Graceful,” Vanna said, taking her hands away from her ears. She extended an arm to him and pulled him to his feet.

“Thanks,” Rain said, checking his mana. He’d lost less than he expected. I keep forgetting about the forceweave. I really need to do some proper tests.

“So, I am guessing this means you don’t want to talk to him?” Vanna said.

“Not even a little bit.” Rain said, absently dusting himself off with Purify. “What did he want?”

“He wants you to stop working with the Watch,” Vanna said with a shrug. “He said if you want to do anything else for them, you need to get them to submit the request through the Guild.”

“Screw that,” Rain said. “I asked Gus. There’s no rule that says I have to go through the Guild to do stuff. I can do what I want.”

Vanna tilted her head, “You’re not showing a lot of loyalty there.”

Rain reached up to touch the bronze plate hanging from his neck, then let his hand fall. “Yeah, well, not to him anyway. Maybe if he was less of an asshole.” He started walking around the building in the opposite direction Rankin had gone, Vanna following. “What’s going on with you, Vanna? I haven’t seen you in a few days.”

Vanna shrugged. “I’ve pretty much been living in the pit.”

♫The Pit. I fell in it, The Pit. You fell in it, The Pit.♫

Rain shook his head, fighting away the words. With the way his memory worked, music tended to get stuck. “How’s that going?”

“Want to come see for yourself?” Vanna pointed as they rounded the corner of the building. “I left my brother in charge. Knowing him, he’s probably made a huge mess of things already.”

Rain nodded. Talking to Vanna was quickly putting him in a better mood. “Sure, let’s go. I think I might dig a bit, get some exercise, you know? I was going to go slime hunting, but I’m really up for anything.” Rain rolled his shoulder, the one that had been injured. There was no pain, only the stiffness from his soul.

“Hey, Rain, did you see Rankin?” Val asked, appearing suddenly beside him.

“Ah!” Rain gasped, whirling.

Val grinned. “Finally got you.”

“Yeah, yeah,” Rain said. That’s it, I’m using Detection all the time from now on, no matter where I am.

“Hey Val,” Vanna said, smiling warmly at him.

Val smiled back, grinning from ear to ear. Rain blinked as Vanna maneuvered past him so she was walking next to Val.

He raised a pitiful excuse for an eyebrow. “What’s that about?”

“Nothing,” Vanna said. She reached out and straightened Val’s jacket casually.

Rain stumbled to a stop, looking between them. “Wait, what did I miss?”

Val looked at Vanna, then shrugged awkwardly. “We, uh…”

“You two hooked up?” Rain asked, incredulous.

“What does that mean?” Vanna asked, stopping to look back at him.

Val coughed and cleared his throat. “Never mind that, Rain. You know Rankin’s been looking for you since yesterday, right?”

Rain smiled and started walking again. Good for them. “I saw him. He didn’t see me.”

“You can’t keep avoiding him, you know,” Val said. “Take it from someone who’s a master of bad plans.”

“I know,” Rain said. “I’m just not great at confrontations. That’s Carten’s department. And yours, I suppose.”

“Carten is Mazel’s nephew, right?” Vanna said. “The loud one with the beard and the shields?”

Rain nodded. “Yeah, that’s him. You seen him lately, Val?”

“I ran into him yesterday in the tavern,” Val said. Rain didn’t need to ask which tavern. There was only one, and it was less of a proper bar and more of where all the barrels of alcohol had gotten stashed. Khurt had set it up.

Val sighed and rubbed at his neck. “He said Velika dumped him.”

Vanna looked startled. “Velika? Citizen Sadanis?”

Val nodded. “Yup.”

“Dumped?” Rain asked uncertainly. “You mean like…broke up?” And she didn’t kill him?

Val nodded. “That’s what I said. Dumped. Broke up. No longer seeing each other. Is this a translation problem? How would you say it?”

“The same way,” Rain said, shaking his head. “That’s what caught me off guard.” Did she really dump him, or did she just start ignoring him like she’s ignoring everyone else?

Val shrugged. “What was that language of yours called again?”

“English,” Rain said, absently. Well, if Carten and Velika really are done, then at least I don’t have to worry about him saying something stupid to her anymore.

“And where do they speak...English?” Vanna asked. “You never did tell me where you were from.”

Rain hesitated, then smiled, though he quickly hid the expression. “They speak English in What.”

“Where?” Vanna asked.

“No, What,” Rain said.

“What?” said Val.

Rain lost it, breaking out into a grin. “Exactly.”

“Punch him, you think?” Val said, looking at Vanna.

Vanna shook her head. “He’s wearing armor. I was thinking trip him.”

Rain laughed and raised his hands. “Fine, fine, I’ll stop. Remind me to do Who’s on First for you sometime. That should be easy enough to translate.” I suppose I have to explain baseball first. Now there’s an idea. Maybe I should try to set up a game. People could use a distraction. He made a fist, squeezing tightly, feeling the strength in his fingers. I bet I could smack the shit out of a ball now, and with Velocity, running the bases would be easy.

“Uh oh,” Vanna said.

“Agreed,” Val said. “He’s got the look.”

“What look?” Rain asked.

“You know what look,” Val said.

Rain sighed. Damn it, I got distracted again, didn’t I? Since when do I have a look?

He shook his head. “Anyway, back to Carten. Is he okay?”

Val wiggled his hand. “He’s taking it really hard, but she didn’t injure him if that’s what you mean. Best thing for him, actually. I mean, I could kinda see them working, before all of…this.” He gestured vaguely. “She’s totally lost it now, though.”

Rain nodded, not about to get into a commentary on the Citizen’s mental state. “Yeah, Carten really liked her, though. I’ll track him down later before he does anything stupid.” I should have talked to Carten about Velika earlier. He might know something about what she’s thinking.

“Probably a good idea,” Val said.

