A few more mountains before she slowed, looking at the the now sprawling city of Morhill, new foundations spreading throughout the valley and up the mountain slopes, the settlement of the Accords expanding fast, a hub now for adventurers, armorers, weaponsmiths, mage guilds, and hundreds of other establishments. While Ravenhall still housed the Shadow’s Hand, the Haven, the Academy, and the Headquarters of the Medic Sentinels, Ilea wondered which city would turn out to be the larger, given a few more decades.
With its hub like function and diplomatic districts added for each nation and government both of the Accords and others, its function would surely eclipse Ravenhall, and soon.
Ilea landed on a mountain peak overlooking the city.
Felicia landed next to her. “Feeling nostalgic?”
Ilea smiled. “I told you how myself, my team, and a few other Shadows once cleared the demons out of Morhill. To think it would rise to this kind of importance one day.”
“There is always history to the importance of cities. History and geographic location, though with all the technology we now have available to us, the latter will likely become less and less relevant,” Felicia said. “A place to host events for all nations and species will be most welcome.”
Ilea gave her a nod. She spread her wings and started her descent towards the central walls. They would soon be torn down and replaced by something far more modern and extensive. Somehow she felt like it would be fitting to plant the Meadow at the very center of this town but she knew the tree had grown more than a little attached to Hallowfort and its entire domain. Its wisdom and magical knowledge had paved the way for all of this and she knew as well that most humans at least were not necessarily comfortable with an eldritch high level four mark tree in their backyard.
Finding breakfast wouldn’t be particularly difficult. A festive mood was downright brimming with life throughout the city. An event to both commemorate all they had lost but just as much to look into the future, towards what was possible. The day of Niraela, the name given to the first star of Elos by the Elves of the Sunlight Wastes, and the sun taken in the second Extraction.
Ilea landed with a soft impact on the flat stone road and cracked her neck.
Time to find food.
