The Azure Beasts came back the next day in cautious, probing attacks, and Niers’ strategies held…for a time. He defaulted mostly to using the Medusae and cloud spells to great effect; blinding or slowing the Azure Beasts was simple.
As the Titan understood it, Jungle Tails had employed similar strategies against the wave of blue and done better than the Iron Vanguard, who had their defensive lines overrun and been forced to chase the fast monsters, or Maelstrom’s Howling, who did not like being outsped.
However, what he had brought was a bit more adaptability in his armies; Jungle Tails didn’t have his Fullhelms nor the aerial support, and their casters had been dive-bombed by the fliers.
“There’s a weakness when the birds dive. Let’s throw out illusions and time our bows to pincushion them. If they’re not hitting the land-based beasts, it’s a good use of their time. Get Lizvek on it before they go; he likes figuring out that sort of thing. Have…yes, have Venaz do that. The Shoreaxes won’t see much combat today.”
At first, Niers’ special class students were very pleased to be the Titan’s go-to option for anything he wanted done. Then they realized that they were essentially glorified assistants. They weren’t so capable that Niers had to keep them in their roles, so they ended up running around doing all the odd jobs he wanted.
Well, it was good experience. The main thing Niers did on the second day of engagements was to have one of his [Mages] cast a few spells.
[Light]. Albeit broadcasted across the entire front with illumination levels that were almost blinding until Niers had [Grand Magus] Veern adjust it not to blind his forces.
“What color would you like to bait the Azure Beasts with, Lord Astoragon?”
The Wistram-trained Lamia had been mostly casting low-level cloud spells all day, along with the occasional [Mass Slow], and he tried to hide the yawn of dismay at using his talents thusly. But Niers’ raised brows made the Lamia slither upright slightly.
“The purest and most intense color you have, Magus Veern. I’d also like you to tailor your spellcasting so it’s not just suitable to your Skills. Something lesser [Mages] can cast with minimal practice.”
“Oh, for other parts of the front? Of course. The color? I can mimic the other monsters of the Dyed Lands from sight alone, though I might need a specimen in my hands to do perfect color-matching. Once I have it, I’ll remember.”
Niers held up a finger, thinking. Then he fished out a speaking stone, tapped it.
“Niers to Foliana. What’s your favorite color?”
He listened a moment as Veern eyed the speaking stone and everyone listened. Niers rolled his eyes.
“Poo-brown? Vetoed. Veern, give me yellow, pink, and green.”
“Three-Color Stalker’s eyes? Of course, Lord Astoragon. Let me know if I’m mixing them right. I, ah, haven’t had the pleasure of seeing her eyes close-up. And hope never to.”
“She’s not going to eat you, Veern. She doesn’t eat Lamias. Aside from that one time, and that was for a job.”
The [Mage] had a beautiful tricolor light bathing the forces of the Forgotten Wing shortly, and Niers observed the sporadic attacks from the Azure Beasts…well, if they paused a bit when seeing the colors, they weren’t doing anything different. He ordered the lights shone across his forces, then toured the other areas copying his tactics.
“Hold—the colors don’t look right here.”
A nervous [Battlemage] broadcasting the [Light] spells froze up, but Niers wasn’t angry—he just spoke into a stone.
“Magus Veern, please produce a [Magic Picture] of the exact colors you’re using and have them circulated to every [Mage] on the front. I want color-standardization. If anything has good eyesight, it’s this lot.”
It still didn’t do much, if anything. Niers had observed how a bright light mimicking another color might actually cause a smaller number of the Azure Beasts to back off or react like it was a threat, but they kept coming at his forces. He had the lightshow continue. For the rest of the week…poor Venaz saw little action and a lot of Lizvek.
 
——
 
Niers actually returned to Elvallian after a week. Just for a day; he teleported this time, without fanfare or announcing the move. In fact, one of the Tallguard got to play him for half a day.
They were using long-range teleport spells at intervals to ‘hop’ across the continent. It was an idea they’d copied from Archmage Valeterisa and their spies in The Wandering Inn. Fraerlings had taught Niers’ [Mages] the magic now coming out of Wistram, but it wasn’t going to be practical until the Forgotten Wing company could put a lot more gold and time into the project, and even then, it’d be priority things only.
…And they did not have the coin or resources to burn on this. Niers didn’t go to his classes; he strode into the war room with Vler, the top [Strategist] in the citadel with so many fighting frontline battles. The man was a Human from Kaliv, actually. He usually looked stressed, even if Niers suspected that rocks would break in battle before Vler.
In this case, stress was warranted. The Forgotten Wing company’s maps were lit up with battles across the continent, and a lot of them were marked with red icons.
Defeats, retreats, ambushes, and just…if Niers was explaining the map to Erin again, he’d be able to show her broad trends or concentrations of force, but it was a simple picture.
“This Dyed Lands push is costing us on a lot of fronts, Niers. I know it has to be done, but Lizvek had a working strategy, and in a few weeks, he’d have figured out blue…”
“Lizvek would cede another fifty miles before he figured it out, Vler. It’s reputation.”
“Reputation.”
Vler didn’t go for ‘reputation’. He looked at the cost in gold, manpower, or magic as variables he respected. Niers understood the man’s foibles and strengths. Vler was an anti-monarchist to his bones. Part of why he’d left Kaliv had been that business with the Cursed Prince…a blow to the Kingdom of Griffins.
Their loss, Niers’ gain. He really should have kept up his presence in Terandria…but it cost too much. Everything was costing too much, and the Forgotten Wing company did not want to eat these deficits long.
Vler indicated the wave of lines moving out of their western holdings.
“Jungle Tails isn’t letting us go without a fight. I’ll get most of our people out intact, but…here. Gelizment. Are you sure? There’s three days, maybe, when we can pull out our forces.”
He tapped the city that Niers had been thinking of for a while. The same one that he and Erin had spoken about in her [Pavilion of Secrets]. The Titan gazed down at the icon on the map where units were gathering.
“I’m sure.”
“I’ll tell General Lrjax, then.”
That was it. Vler questioned what he chose to, but he could understand what Niers was doing. Just not like it. You didn’t have to like a lot of this. Niers rested his weight on the edge of the map.
“General Gloriam’s cleaning up well. Diomedes…tell him I want him heading west the moment he finishes his work. Full speed.”
Vler nodded, eyes flicking across the board. After a moment, Niers sighed.
“You know, Vler, Perorn just marches up to my face and asks me what the hell I’m doing.”
“I know. I’ve never seen it work.”
If she weren’t in Izril, she’d be acting as Niers’ second-in-command or riding out from the citadel to take to the fight in an important area. He could really have used her, but…she was sending gold from Izril. Every bit counted. In time, she’d grow her forces there, but that was assuming they could weather the storm long enough to reap his investments.
Strategy. Niers had needed to send someone he trusted to Izril. After Peclir, trust was low with the Titan, even among his best people. He flicked his gaze to Vler’s reserved face.
“Sometimes I told her if she got annoying enough. Or she’d just rattle off guesses and try to read my expression.”
“And I skulk around in the background, trying to figure out what you’re doing like those mystery novels I enjoy. Want me to be more Perorn-like?”
“No, just commenting.”
Vler steepled his fingers together.
“I’m trusting you have the vision and see what I’m seeing. Let me just ask…are we doing something dark?”
His voice was very cautious now, and Niers shook his head instantly.
“Just run-of-the-mill bastarding, Vler.”
“No rituals? No people in hoods?”
“Nope.”
“No jars filled with Yellow Rivers in wells?”
“No.”
The [Continental Strategist] nodded after a long moment of sizing Niers up. He didn’t relax or appear happier. Niers wondered whether Vler had been hoping for the opposite response.
“Well then, keep ‘looking good’ against the Azure Beasts. Supply lines are fully linked up from here to the front. You know I can’t stomp into an area and clean it up like Perorn can, right?”
The Fraerling sighed as he watched more icons appearing over the map of his holdings. He could sense Jungle Tails in the west, a growing stain of power. Sense his own territories reduce as his people just abandoned what they’d kept and built up for decades.
“I know.”
 
——
 
By the time Niers returned to the front, the true danger of the Dyed Lands and the reason why no other Great Company had managed to do more than push a wave of colors back for a time was evident.
“They’re adapting.”
Niers lowered the spyglass, and there was a rumble from Venaz and Lizvek. Not of outright denial, but the desire to want it to be otherwise.
The Azure Beasts had split up. They were coming in dispersed pockets, not a wave, the better to avoid the Medusae’s eye-spells. Worse, Niers watched them running at his front lines, and the moment the cloud spells popped up, they turned and just fled.
As far as he could tell, it wasn’t so much a single controlling intelligence or even a hive-mind. The monsters were just smart enough to recognize patterns.
It made his job harder, of course. Niers got a nasty surprise when he tried to use the cloud-spells to herd the Azure Beasts into killzones; this time, the wave of monsters didn’t back out, but charged through the clouds, straight into his lines.
“Damn. Jirem, clean that up! [Mages]! I want vine spells ready to pop!”
Adapt. Now, Niers put down vine spells that snared the smaller monsters and fought off the waves. His forces adapted, and the Azure Beasts learned how to send a huge monster crashing through the vines then storm the gaps.
In response, Niers had pit traps dug and baited the bigger monsters into charging into the drops. They elected to storm random spots in his defenses. He decided it was time to introduce them to the concept of [Stone Wall] spells raised at the last second so they pasted themselves on the walls.
Then, for good measure, he rotated in several lines of Drake pikes, and the combined strategies held them for two days. Then they adapted, and he adapted.
A bag of tricks. Niers could do this for months, and the blue wave wouldn’t continue forever. However…the Titan had a weakness he knew full well.
 
——
 
The Titan’s full-board armies could find your weakness and tear you apart with it. If you surprised him, he just changed moves and hammered something else. Trade hammer blows with him and he’d be attaching ropes to your ankles and hooking them to angry horses—or something clever like that.
Analogies were stupid. The point was that the Titan would win on strategy, but his weakness was this: if you got him, if the Azure Beasts found a gap in his strategies by doing something new, he had to implement a new strategy. His thinking time was not the issue; he’d have a way to kill you in seconds.
The cost was the time it took for people to run into position, for him to implement. He had to reset the board, and in those moments, his army was vulnerable.
Not weak; he had defenses in place, but it was those times when the blue monsters hit the frontlines that Balsam earned his pay.
“They’re on Mustard company! Get them! Go, go, go!”
The Lizardfolk and their stupid games, their silly jokes—now it was all seriousness as the Drake led Vinegar company into the fight. He shoved aside Lizardfolk, raised an axe, and crushed the first Azure Wolfman’s head in.
Wolfman. It looked like a Wolf Beastkin, sort of. It was bipedal, tore at everything around it, and died fast enough if you broke its armor. Balsam did it with a single swing, and the Lizardfolk with spears who’d been jabbing at it fell back, mouths open.
“Push them back! Get around them and don’t let them run! Push—push—”
He charged straight into the Azure Beasts, swearing and sweating. Their real danger wasn’t in close-quarters combat. They were fast as lightning, and it was terrifying to charge them because you would get cut. But the real danger was them moving around you. If they got at a place you didn’t have armor on, they’d rip into you and be away. So press, press—
Twice, one of the Wolfmen raked his face, across his helmet. He crushed another head in, and then they were gone.
“Bastards don’t like taking casualties. Who’s hurt? Sound off!”
The panting Drake took only a moment before he had them marching back to their spots. By now, Skeldriv’s Lizardfolk had seen more combat against the Azure Beasts than they cared to. Despite the Titan’s strategies, one group had to take down the blue monsters, and guess who?
It was them. It was always them. The Shoreaxes and Jirem’s Hooves just stood there unless the beasts bypassed one of the Titan’s plans, then they were there fast enough, but unless it was the Fullhelms fighting under clouds—and they were digging trenches today, to ambush the beasts when they ran through—
“Hey, Balsam, why’re we doing all the fighting? The Shoreaxes are, like, three times our size. Can’t they take the front? Is it racism?”
One of the Lizardfolk under Balsam’s command whined at him as Eyevil came over to see how badly they were hurt. The Drake spat some water out; he had light gashes in the scales on his face.
“I thought you lost your face, Balsam.”
Eyevil was relieved to see he wasn’t badly hurt. The Drake was tough as rocks and strong as…rocks. Balsam shrugged.
“I’m fine, but Mustard got chewed up. Good thing the Titan’s sending us reinforcements. Where are these new guys from?”
“All the way in Oitz.”
“Oitz? That’s three hundred miles from here. Damn. He’s just feeding us with Lizardfolk from all over.”
“Why?”
The Lizardfolk weren’t rebellious; they were earning combat pay and being paid well for serving under the Titan himself, but it was wearing them down. Balsam eyed an entire three companies’ worth of Lizardfolk being rotated in who weren’t Skeldriv at all. And they were heading straight for…
