“Dyed Lands. Looks like the Titan himself might take command of us.”
She knew his face was going to fall and his eyes scrunch up. The Drake began kicking his articles of clothing around, swearing.
“That bastard! Argh. The Dyed Lands? Really?”
He was not enthusiastic when it came to risking his life, but he’d fight well. Eyevil shrugged and squinted at something. She petrified a roach.
“Dead gods, Balsamic, your tent is filthy.”
“Hey, it probably just snuck in here. Believe me, my sheets are clean as can be. I really thought you were…fancy a drink before we go into combat?”
He was flirting with her, but then, Balsamic flirted with any woman he met. Lizardfolk, Centaur, Dullahan, Human—he was the most open-minded Drake she’d ever met; not that their kind came to Baleros often. Eyevil snorted.
“You have as much chance with me as Plaxima.”
“So can I buy you both drinks or…?”
“Zero, Balsamic.”
He cursed as he struggled to put some boots on; he was going to be ready in ten despite his cluttered tent.
“Really? Why? I was doing great, and now you’re all giving me the cold tail!”
He didn’t know? Eyevil hesitated at the entrance to his tent. Last year, she would have just slithered in and helped him pick up or lain on his bed, but—she sighed.
“Balsam, you idiot. No one wants to sleep with you, even if you’re fun and don’t take things seriously, because everyone knows you’ve been hitting the brothels nonstop every time we get paid.”
He looked affronted.
“So? I don’t have kids running about. I’m very anti-kid. Everyone knows that.”
She rolled her eyes again.
“Balsam…you did it all last year. During the Yellow Rivers thing? Plaxima herself saw you walking out of a brothel twice when it was at its worst.”
He hesitated. Seemed confused, then groaned.
“Oh—”
“Everyone thinks you’re dripping with the stuff!”
“Hey! I’m clean as can be! Plus, there’s a cure!”
“No one wants to sleep with someone who had it, even if there’s a cure.”
Dismayed, the Drake began tossing his possessions into a trunk.
“No, no, wait, Eyevil, this is a huge mistake! I’m clean! I’m pristine. I’m not sick; I never get sick!”
“Sure, I’ve heard that one before.”
Every [Mercenary] said that, but the Drake was yanking on his trousers.
“Wait, it’s true! Take a look!”
“I don’t want to—sometimes you can’t see. Look, I believe you, but you have to realize it was stupid.”
The Drake spread his claws as he followed the Medusa out of the tent.
“I’m not infected! I swear! I’ll get a [Healer] to give me a clean bill of health!”
She just shook her head as she slithered off to find her company, and he screamed after her to the amusement of every Lizardfolk in earshot. Seriously. Everyone in the company had heard the Titan’s warning, but only one idiot had kept visiting the brothels even when everyone knew it was bad.
But that was Balsamic, their idiot Drake. They loved him, but…she’d tell Plaxima he was getting a [Healer] to vouch for him. He was right that he never got sick, and he fought like a Demon, but dead gods.
 
——
 
Niers Astoragon’s mind was finally working when he saw the huge mass of tinted air ahead of him, and the Skerhawk began to slow, cawing warily. The ‘black’ color was moving across the land like a wave of dust, though it was really a manifestation of all the animals and monsters dyed that one color.
Each color had a power, and they seemed to be territorial and work together. Despite having radically different shapes, no monster from the same color hunted the other. It was like the ultimate team; they fought anything not of their color, and they moved in huge waves, spiralling out from the Dyed Lands. The only reason these monsters hadn’t rampaged further was because each color seemed to be fighting each other as much as the armies trying to hem them in.
But it was a difficult, wide battlefront. How did you stop literal swarms of creatures? Well, Niers had watched the Bannermare, Aria Fellstrider, and her people stopping the green when Ryoka ran her scouting mission.
Magic, thousands of soldiers, and fire. Lots of fire. Even now, he could see smoke rising from the front, past what looked like a thick line of defenses.
Lizvek’s work. It seemed like there was a lull in fighting; monster corpses were being hacked up and carted off or burned, along with the ground.
That was the thing. The Dyed Lands stained the ecosystems they passed through. Where a wave of green went, they’d leave plants, even the earth, tainted by their passage. Whether or not it made more beings like them, no company wanted to find out. They had to literally scorch the grounds before advancing.
Still—the waves had been held here. Lizvek was just one of the top-commanders positioned on the front lines. Though he…
He and Niers were not buddies. Lizvek was, like many, a graduate from Niers’ academy, but Niers had never gotten along with the man. The Stitch-folk with a pair of glasses and a clipboard was a [Strategist]’s strategist. Even now, he was just strutting along the command tent.
“Sector 5b is running at 7/10th’s ammunition. [Restore Supplies]! Have a runner go to Section 6b, 2b, and 3b with exact quarrel replacements each!”
As in, don’t just send 500 sheaves of bolts each, send exactly enough so that they all had the same amounts. Niers rolled his eyes as his hawk landed. No one sent a crowd to greet him, though some soldiers did cheer—they had a job to do.
“Lizvek, good work on the front! Beautiful defensive lines as always. Can you apprise—”
Lizvek held up a hand and stared at something in his head. His Skill, which let him monitor his entire battlefield, was telling him something he didn’t like. He whirled and shouted.
“Sector 6b has nine hundred and ninety-eight units of ammunition! Send two more, you idiots!”
—And there was the problem. Niers kept his face straight as junior [Tacticians] went running to effect this meaningless change. It wasn’t Lizvek’s fault—okay, he could try harder.
He just…had a quirk. He liked round numbers. He liked having all his ducks in a row—in fact, he insisted they be in neat squares, and Giants help you if you were off. His formations were symmetrical, and he insisted his troops adhere to this organized routine.
Most companies hated him. Niers himself didn’t get along with Lizvek, but after a moment of enraged breathing, someone spoke.
“Strategist, two units being sent to Sector 6b at once.”
“There. Thank you, Strategist—”
“Cameral, sir.”
The Dullahan’s head spoke from a table, and Lizvek gave him a grudging nod. Then, and only then, did he address Niers without so much as a hello.
“At least one of your new [Strategists] can work properly. I don’t like this assignment, Niers. I’ll be glad to rotate somewhere I have to stop adapting.”
Niers grunted, and he didn’t speak like the Professor as Cameral stood there respectfully. He spoke like the Titan: direct, even casual with subordinates.
“Tough. You were the only person for the job, and you’ve done well against—what are we calling this? ‘Black?’”
Lizvek shrugged.
“The soldiers have all kinds of nicknames. I go by color. I can handle the Stygian monsters, but we’ve had hints of the next color—Azure. I don’t—like—them. My formations cannot hold them.”
Yep, he was stressed. Niers pointed at Lizvek as he beckoned.
“Reports. Let me see what the front looks like. I have a full-board army coming to push the front, Lizvek, and you can fall back in a few days. I like ‘Stygian’. Let’s go with that. Good thing you weren’t up against, uh…Chartreuse?”
“More like Jade-green. And yes, I would not have enjoyed them. I’m surprised Fellstrider handled them. But then, she had an Archmage.”
Now that he was on the front, Niers’ mind was working. He saw a classic killbox in front of him; it was wide, since the monsters would come from a lot of angles, but Lizvek had chosen his ideal spot for an engagement: some natural hills he had turned into a pass.
Control the terrain. He’d done classic Lizvek things, like putting trap spells on the tops of the hills to encourage monsters to stream down the pass. Then he’d, well, made everything as deadly and inhospitable to a charging monster as could be.
Trenches of soldiers waiting to stop an attack. Barricades of spiked metal above and around, and the checkerboard formation of troops, many armed with crossbows or spellcaster units, each one able to pick a different target and fire.
Lizvek had even had a hill made and terraces built for each sector at regular intervals, so their lines of fire wouldn’t overlap. It was the kind of defensive fortification he specialized in, and it would make any ordinary force take one look at his setup and go anywhere else but down the front.
Good thing he was up against monsters. Niers heard a rumbling from up ahead, and Lizvek cursed.
“They’re early. Have you seen the Dyed Land monsters yet, Niers?”
“Only a few, no mass combat on the level you’ve seen.”
“Then you have your chance. Purification and barrier spells up on the front! Sectors ready!”
He shouted, and a series of speaking stones he’d arranged in front of him lit up, each one indicating a unit. Niers saw the cloud of stygian darkness ahead of him shift. He narrowed his eyes.
“It’s been a while since I saw a monster horde.”
They came by the thousands. Not all of them large—most of the Stygian black were actually smaller than the other colors. Many had long, furtive forms—he saw a distinctly long-nosed creature with huge, black feathery fronds around it burst out of the darkness and shuffle forwards.
It looked like an unsettling bush, though he imagined it was completely disadvantaged in the light. In its color, it would be a nigh-invisible hunter. But it moved, and the darkness seemed to come with it.
A swarm of scuttling rats, running too high off the ground with long legs, but very much like the rats he knew, racing under a cow-sized balloon that just…floated overhead. Huge, circular pores on their body oozing sludge out in rivulets of filth.
Niers knew what this color was. Sure enough, the first creature he’d seen spat something from its long nose or proboscis.
Poison. The globules began hitting walls as the wave of monsters unleashed toxins. Lizvek’s mouth curled, and Cameral wiped his hands on his armor as he spoke.
“Mid-sized wave, Strategist Lizvek.”
“Yes. More floaters than before. That one—that’s a big-sized monster, Niers. I’d call it Gold or Named-rank, depending on how deadly its poison is.”
Lizvek was pointing at one of the largest creatures, a lumbering turtle-thing—if you melted the turtle’s face off and just left some huge jaws that opened and closed. Oh, and you put a kind of stinger’s tail on the back of the turtle’s shell that fired huge globs of poison upwards. They tried to spread out, and Niers imagined this thing could poison an entire battlefield given only a few minutes.
The nastiest monsters I’ve seen in a while, and I’ve seen a lot. The Dyed Lands. Hundreds of years of time flashed by, and they just fought each other, getting stronger and stronger. Great.
Still, Lizvek had been here long enough to do what he did best. He spoke crisply.
“Incoming. Seal the trenches. [Aerial Barrier] spells—now.”
[Mages] began to cast, and the globules being spat upwards burst in the air and showered down over the oncoming monsters before they could reach the trenches. In the meantime, the poison being spat ahead of the monsters hadn’t yet reached the soldiers. They were just coming into range of the crossbows when the true power of Lizvek became clear.
“[Mark Target]. Sector 1b, fire. [Mark Target]. Sector 2b, fire. Sector 3-5b, fire. Sector 6b, fire—”
He stopped shouting his Skill after a moment, but Niers saw targets begin glowing and then being mowed down by hails of crossbow bolts. Each unit Lizvek shouted would aim at his target, loose, then reload as more volleys shot from the defensive lines.
Cameral was speaking with lesser [Strategists]. Niers heard the Dullahan’s voice shaking, but it was steady enough.
“[Mark Target]. Sector 1c, [Lightning Bolts]. Sector 2c, [Light Arrows] on…”
Not everyone had Lizvek’s Skills. The [Strategist] had [Unlimited Mark Target], which Niers personally had never needed. Regardless, it was working.
Rank after rank of his forces fired, then reloaded, slapping bolts into their crossbows. Lizvek loved crossbows. The Forgotten Wing company used them a lot; they were quite dangerous in the hands of even an amateur, and you could standardize them instead of needing to have [Bowyers] carve each one.
Even so, despite the withering hail cutting down the relatively-fragile stygian horde, they just…kept…coming. Trampling over each others’ bodies, leaking black poison—Niers was sure Lizvek didn’t want them to get to the front trenches.
He had troops there, but he hated the unpredictability of a melee. All these qualities meant he was a bad general [Strategist], but he’d turned his personality traits into his greatest asset. Arguably enhanced his problem, but that was how it worked.
More big artillery-turtles were coming along with huge, two-legged creeping monsters. Seven feet tall and with huge bulbous heads and claw-hands folded up to their chests.
They strode forwards, and Niers did not like them. Nor did Lizvek.
“Stygian Embracers. Don’t target them with spells; they seem immune to most elements. Sector 1b, [Mark Target], fire—”
His stones were flickering back as each sector indicated they’d reloaded, but he needed more crossbows! Cameral was looking worried, but Niers just stood there. He could use a Skill if he had to, but he knew Lizvek. The Stitch-man could take a battle off Niers himself if you played his game. And as proof of that, Lizvek’s eyes narrowed, and he activated his best capstone Skill.
The Level 44 [Perfectionist Killzone Strategist]’s eyes gleamed with both mania and outrage. His killzone was perfect. Every line of it was laid out. Every sector supplied to his standards. It would hold. It would hold—
“[Supreme Strategy: My Formation is Perfect. Double Tempo].”
The thunk of crossbows in Niers’ ears began striking twice as fast. He watched as the nearest sector to him began to reload in a blur. The lights on Lizvek’s board began to light up, and he began counting down.
“Fire! Fire! Fire—”
The Stygian horde might have overrun and bled their poisonous blood onto another formation, but not one pumping out the wall of pointed death Lizvek commanded. Twice, monsters actually reached the trenches, but Lizvek was so offended by this stain on his perfect formula that he just pointed.
“[Correct Error]!”
