What the hell is that? It’s not a snake! It was the same in that it was a long, wiggling tendril, but it didn’t have that iconic, flared snake’s head. Nor was its mouth at the end of its body. Rather, it was somewhat down from the end, which was splitting outwards into dozens of mini-snakes, and all of them had mouths—
Seamwalker-ish. Balsam saw the main mouth and all the little heads trying to bite Plaxima. But it had no…teeth. Just a wet, oozing opening. Somehow, that was way worse.
“Balsam—help—”
He slashed the snake-tendril with his enchanted axe, then recoiled; his blow made it tremble, but didn’t cut its smooth, scaleless body.
“The hell—?”
“It doesn’t get hurt! I can’t—”
“Uh—[Super Punch]!”
Balsam’s punch tossed the snake-thing off Plaxima. She recoiled, and the thud made her lower body leave the ground for a second.
“What the—”
Her mouth was open, exposing her fangs, as she turned to him. Balsam just pointed.
“That was my best Skill! Run!”
They ran as Dullahans charged around them, all hampered by the huge, intensely hard-to-damage worms. That’s what they were, Balsam realized. Worms. They weren’t that fast, thankfully, but he realized with the other Jade monsters harrying them…
“We’re not going to get out of here. Call the Titan for help!”
Plaxima had lost her speaking stone. Balsam glanced over his shoulder and swore. He didn’t know where Niers was. He reached for his side.
“Keep going, and tell him we’re being caught. I’ve got an emergency scroll—”
He turned, and she grabbed at the speaking stone.
“This is Captain Plaxima of Skeldriv, we’re being caught by some kind of monsters with impervious hides. We need bailout—”
She glanced over her shoulder as Balsam unfurled something. What kind of scroll did he—she heard him draw in breath.
“[Incineration Dragonbreath]!”
Then her hair, the scales on her back, and her armor caught on fire. The Gorgon screamed, rolling, and someone yanked her up.
“Damnit. You okay, Plaxima? Stop staring, you idiots, and run!”
Plaxima swore at him.
“You hit us, idiot!”
She was amazed he wasn’t cooked himself; smoke was coming off Balsam’s armor and out of his mouth as he coughed and hacked.
“Sorry! C’mon, let’s go—”
He lifted her up in his arms, all four hundred pounds of her with her armor on, and charged past the Dullahans. Plaxima clung to his shoulders, speechless.
So that’s why he’s one of our best [Captains]! Did they issue scrolls like that to veteran officers or had the Titan given it to him special? Because she wanted one of those. However, after ten minutes, Balsam let her go, and she had to slither forwards; the super-worms were still coming. She hoped that [Healer]’s note saying he was clean of Yellow Rivers was accurate, because she owed him that drink.
 
——
 
Niers Astoragon grunted when he heard Balsam had pulled his rearguard out of the fire…with fire, probably. That’s why he’d called for the man.
He was setting up a welcome for the green monsters, which included a full pass of Oldblood Drakes, a fresh group of [Mages] with fire, and even a pair of his famous Chess Towers.
The mobile fortifications spat a rain of death down and wiped out most of the Jade Swarm coming his way…except for the worms. Those were different.
They died, but they died hard. Tier 4 magic barely did the damage it should, and anything lower than that seemed to utterly fail. Enchanted blades, crossbow bolts…Niers grunted as he watched the last of his forces, including Balsam, sprint behind his lines.
“Iuncuta, mind firing some Vortex Bolts? I think this is a good use case for them.”
“I concur. Tallguard! Get me a [Sniper].”
The Vortex Bolt killed the nearest burning worm neatly, but Niers didn’t want to waste them on the worms; there were hundreds. Instead, he had his [Mages] firing spells to figure out which ones did any damage before finding out how to harm them.
“Shoreaxes, go over and bully that one. [Mark Target]. I need more Centaurs. Give me a lure away from us.”
The worms were…not very smart. Centaurs galloping in front of them attracted them away from his forces while one was lured over, and Venaz and some Minotaurs strode forward. A minute later, Niers had a report.
“Professor, my blade cuts these things astonishingly well. Relic-class weapons do work. But we can kill them, just not fast. They might not get scratched, but hitting it hard enough ruptures all its insides. This one vomited blood and died.”
“Excellent, Venaz. Alright, bring the lure in, and let’s give your arms a workout. I want cloud spells…”
Cloud spells didn’t really seem to work in all the ways he wanted; the worms didn’t seem to be phased by a lack of vision because he couldn’t see any eyes, but they moved slower in the smog, suggesting they had to breathe or something. Meanwhile, the Shoreaxes and Gorgons winnowed the group, beating them to death one-by-one.
But they just…kept…coming. And they seemed to be getting bigger too. They’d already started out massive, but Niers’ suspicions were confirmed as the [Dangersenses] got worse. He heard Peki shouting.
“Professor! We see the main monster! It’s a worm-ball!”
At first, he thought it was just another Peki-description since she was bad with words, but it was actually quite apt. The cause of these worms was, in fact, a giant ball of worms, all seemingly interconnected or growing around a huge center mass. It was massive, the size of one of the Chess Towers in height, and the primary worms coming off it…he swore.
“Alright, back it up. Disengage and fall back! It’s coming at us slow—Medusae, buy us more time. We just ran into the green’s apex predator. At least, in this area.”
No one had reported anything like this, and Niers instantly rated it as Named-rank…or worse. He’d have taken a hundred Hydras over this thing. But he had wanted to meet it.
“Looks like we made more of an impression on green than blue, sir.”
Cameral was panting, having come with reserve forces, and Niers shrugged.
“Well, that’s to be expected.”
“Why…?”
Niers didn’t answer. He was drumming his fingers on his pants.
“Okay, we do this conventionally. Every Dullahan unit is to retreat to Fallback Point 2. Wounded likewise. Just for fun, give me a [Long-Ranged Volley] of crossbow bolts on it…now.”
Crossbows fired, and he raised his spyglass.
“Yep. [Flamestrike]?”
A flash of fire; the thing moved through it without even pausing. Niers sighed.
“[Grand Lightning]?”
After his eyes cleared from the flash, Niers tried one last time.
“Iuncuta Eirnos, Vortex Bolt, if-you-please.”
This time, he was really hoping for a result, but the Tier 6 spell detonated, and he saw the all-consuming black void open on one of the worms, close, and…
“Hairballs and cats.”
That came from Eirnos. For the first time, the Fraerlings were visibly disconcerted. Niers spoke calmly.
“To all command and anyone watching: Vortex Bolts, a Tier 6 spell, leave no damage. I repeat, no damage. This is a Named-rank threat. Fall back.”
It wasn’t fast. It wasn’t quick. It certainly wasn’t that smart. But it did not stop, and the worms it kept disgorging advanced as the Forgotten Wing retreated. The one mercy was that neither Jade Swarms or Azure Beasts followed; Niers had a few of the green blasted from afar, and the blue seemed to have visibly drawn back in the face of this monster.
“Sir, General Diomedes is days away from your location, but he wishes to inform you he can pick up the pace. I have bound spells ready, and three Named-rank adventurers have volunteered to join your forces if you can delay it…should I begin evacuating cities and garrisons?”
Niers glanced at his speaking stone, then up at the sky.
“You sound stressed, Vler.”
“You’re grinning, Lord Astoragon. You have a plan?”
“I have a plan. It might not work, but I have hopes. We’re pulling back to Jikneq Forest; it’s barely a hop and a skip from here. Get me the Sea Shepherds on a speaking stone, at their convenience. No rush on that. Now, let’s make our students earn their levels, eh?”
He had Cameral, Venaz, Kissilt, and Jekilt running a retreat while Umina picked off worms abandoning the main swarm. Niers’ forces were retreating just slowly enough for the main worm thing to follow, but it meant they had to fight the progressively-tougher worms. Niers watched, using his Skills sporadically, but he knew they were all watching him, waiting.
“Ah, Captain Balsam. Glad to see you made it. Any input on fighting the foe?”
Balsam was marching past him, covered in soot and blood. Not his own. He glared.
“They’re tough. Some escaped, uh, even my emergency scroll.”
“Really? Even the emergency scroll I gave you?”
“Yessir.”
Niers grimaced as the Minotaurs fell back, unable to bludgeon one of the worms to death. Now they were reaching the edges of the forest. He glanced at his war map.
“Ah, Jirem’s still rampaging. I gave him doubled supplies for a reason, you know.”
Balsam eyed Niers’ card-face as the Titan stood there on the edge of the forest. Soldiers were streaming out of it, fleeing the worms knocking over trees, and when the worm-thing got to the edge…both grimaced.
“Ew. Is it…corrupting the trees?”
It seemed to be literally eating them, then spitting them out with green goo attached. Niers sighed.
“Either it’s laying spawn or just turning them green. That’s gross. Iuncuta, Captain Shoike, Rozcal, greetings. Enjoying seeing a real monster up close?”
The three commanders were not happy. Rozcal was fingering his battleaxe as Shoike kept ordering Tallguard to maintain positions around the worm ball. Eirnos was visibly tensed.
“If you launch your artillery spells, I can direct them like at the Gathering Citadel, Niers. This is the worst monster I’ve ever seen.”
Niers shrugged as Balsam drank some water and spat out more smoke, thumping his chest.
“It’s…up there for me, but it’s not very threatening. The slowness is a huge weakness. I suspect it’s way tougher than I want. I’m glad everyone gets to see it on scrying orb. They see the threat, now.”
He was too casual. Rozcal interrupted, face red with adrenaline.
“Niers. Say the word and I’ll try to cut it up. I’ve got Adamantium, and at least we’d know if—”
“No, Rozcal. I have two suspicions. Damn it, I wish Wil were here. I could test his sword…Venaz, front and center!”
The Minotaur came running over, and Niers nodded.
“Find the biggest worm you can in the trees and hit it with your sword once. Don’t get cute, don’t try to kill it. Just cut it. If you hear crackling, drop everything and run. I don’t have a long window.”
The mass was fully in the forest, now, and Niers muttered.
“I’m going to call it…the Ball of Worms. No, that’s terrible. The Jade Wormmass. The…”
“Are you naming it? We have to find out its weakness! It will keep reproducing unless we take it out now! What is your plan?”
Shoike was exploding with nerves, but Niers just kept watching as the monster entered what he judged to be around the center of the forest. He raised his speaking stone to his lips.
“Just waiting, Patrol Captain. Alright. Veern, mass-teleport anyone who’s in there out now! Flamecloths, front and center. Light it up.”
“Light up…?”
Shoike turned to Niers, then to the forest. Balsam’s head rose, and he exhaled slowly. Niers just stood there. For a few seconds, he saw and heard nothing, but…
It wasn’t the biggest forest around. Baleros had lots. But this one wasn’t attached to a larger forest or a lot of greenery, and he could see the ground around it had been denuded of plantlife. For miles, in fact.
Miles and miles. All the work the [Soldiers] had been doing, and he’d needed thousands of hands to pick grass and shovel dirt. Even then, he decided he needed a few [Rainfall] spells in the surrounding areas.
After all—when he saw the red flames rising from the center of the forest, the edges, they spread fast. Very fast. A tree in front of them went up like a new alchemical match, leaves, wood turning into pure flames.
“What the—”
Shoike recoiled from the heat as Rozcal swore, and Eirnos turned to look at Niers. Just look. The Titan murmured.
“You’ve got to prep only a few areas with enough oil, dry wood, and drying spells. Then, once you get it big enough, the rest goes pretty easy, even in monsoon season.”
“You—you planned for—you’re burning—”
The Patrol Captain was horrified. One of the few things that Fraerlings feared beyond overwhelming numbers of Tallfolk or monsters was a forest fire. You couldn’t control that blaze. Couldn’t put it out.
But you could use it. The Titan saw the flames sweeping through the forest, slower than he wanted, but fast enough. Within moments, the heat was forcing everyone way, way further back, and the [Mercenaries] running from the forest were gasping. Pointing.
“I don’t see any birds or animals fleeing the fire. What did you do?”
It was Rozcal who noticed that first. He turned to Niers, and the Titan spoke.
“I sent for a [Druid] at the start of the campaign. They evacuated the forest.”
And they were as happy about it as a man with a Creler on their ass, but they did it. Niers had prepared this card for just this moment. He was glad it was a slow-moving monster; an Azure Beast would never have held still this long.
The only question now was whether or not this worked. The flames were roaring upwards now, and the sound…
Oh, the sound of a forest burning was a roar like no other. You could probably see it for countless miles. Niers coughed as the smoke reached him. The heat…
Beyond a Tier 6 spell, probably. The smoke, suffocating. And yet—he saw movement in the forest.
The first of the worms burst out and writhed on the ground. It was visibly burnt, green skin scorched, but it wasn’t dying—yet. It was spitting out green blood, and Niers grunted.
“Vortex Bolts, snipe those bastards. I don’t really want to take any alive.”
Shoike herself took the shot. There were only a few patches of forest left unscathed. Niers saw another shape moving, and Shoike aimed—
Venaz burst out of the forest with a pair of Minotaurs, blurring under his [Haste] spell as he ran, back aflame. Veern sprayed him with water, and Niers shouted.
“Venaz, you idiot! I told you to run when you heard crackling!”
“I got lost, sir.”
The Minotaur was shamefaced, but he showed Niers something—a hunk of still-pulsating flesh. The Minotaur panted as he pointed at the dead worm, who hadn’t even been fully killed by the Vortex Bolt, just mangled.
“My sword works. Cuts through—I won’t say perfectly, but it does cut as well as a steel blade on a regular hide.”
