Dead monster corpses vanished before they could leak blood into the troops’ trenches. Holes punched in the wall spells reset. He couldn’t do that more than six times a battle, Niers knew.
Lizvek was a uniquely fragile [Strategist]. One that Niers paid well, but used in specific circumstances. Throw too many errors into his perfect formations and he fell apart. He could still fight decently, but he required this scenario to become a nightmare.
Tulm had taken Lizvek apart more than once, and still, everyone from the Iron Vanguard to Rhir had tried to headhunt him for his talents. But he’d stayed with Forgotten Wing, probably because he just didn’t want to have to institute all his picky changes in another company.
The first wave of monsters slowed, and Niers was impressed, despite his cordial dislike of Lizvek, at how the [Strategist] worked between the flow of monsters. Once the rapid firing was over, he was speaking.
“[Cleanse] spells activate…now!”
[Mages] dashed out of cover, cleaning the ground before the poison presented more of an issue. The dead bodies? Lizvek had sixteen horses dragging Chests of Holding down across the battlefield. They shovelled bodies in, save for the biggest, then dumped them somewhere else before coming back.
“Those Chests of Holding are utterly unfit for anything else given the poison. We’ve had to create literal dump sites for some of the monsters. If they’re valuable, they’re valuable, but the poison…”
Lizvek grimaced at the logistical nightmare of it all, and Niers nodded.
“Why not just leave them where they are if they don’t poison the front? I saw Maelstrom’s Howling do it, and the poison would slow the next wave.”
Lizvek snorted.
“Sadly, even the poisonous corpses appear to be digestible by some of the other waves. Leave them alone and one color will come and eat them all. Crimson.”
“Ah…those ones eat and grow without end?”
“Correct. Maelstrom’s Howling found that out the hard way. When the red color came after green, they grew twice as large on all the dead green corpses that had been left to rot.”
Niers sighed.
“This really is a monster nightmare. Well done on holding an entire color down.”
Lizvek preened as he watched his formations reset.
“Yes, well. I had to show your new students how strategy is performed. And though only one of them meshed with my strategy, I—not again!”
Niers saw it the moment everyone else did. The trickle of dark-colored monsters being picked off was slowing, but there was a sudden shift in the umbral clouds in front of them. The monsters turned, spitting poison back, and then—
Blue. Like a cloud bursting through the night, the darkness was filled by streaks of racing blue, beautifully deep and fast. Niers saw a racing figure tear out of the night, and it looked somewhat like a wolf to him.
Only, it had a long, jagged nose, stiff ‘fur’, and it seemed almost made of rock or metal—but it ran so fast that it was bounding out of the previous color, crunching one of the rat-things in its jaws, as Niers watched. It shook itself, shedding the droplets of venom on its ‘fur’, then gazed ahead.
“Blue! More damn blue! Sector 1a, [Lightning Bolt]! Fire—”
Lizvek panicked the moment he saw the first strains of blue. Niers watched the rank of [Mages] aim at the blue wolf, and bolts of lightning shot across the ground. Not as fast as real lightning, but damn fast. And just as clearly, the Titan saw the wolf tense to the ground, then dodge right.
“Ah.”
The ground exploded, and the wolf appeared to the right, unharmed. It was speed. Speed itself. Niers saw more blurs racing through the darkness and counted.
“Seven, eight…only nine?”
Nine wolf-things appeared out of the darkness, and Lizvek tore at his hair.
“The color is changing. Prepare a [Fireball] spread at my coordinates! Sectors 1-6, you will fire along my marked zones! They don’t have the numbers of the other colors—”
And they didn’t need to. Nine wolf-things burst out of the smoke, jaws coated with the black venom of their prey. Stygian black was retreating, being pushed by the new color coming, and, clearly, Lizvek had not found a strategy that worked on them.
“All designated units, fire!”
Niers watched as the blue hounds raced forwards, saw the [Fireballs] streaking at them, the crossbows firing, and…they dodged everything.
Fireballs exploded in a perfect line, and the blue wolves raced ahead of the blasts or just waited until the detonations happened and continued forward. Crossbow bolts were being fired in a spread, but the animals just dodged each one.
Like the world was in slow motion. Niers grunted.
“They’re coming.”
“Sectors 6-12, fire on my—”
Lizvek panicked, and Cameral shouted.
“Trenches, [Ironguard Formation]! Brace! Brace—”
The wolves hit the trenches, and then there was blood. Niers heard the shouting, screams as the wolves raced into the trenches or kept going, attacking Lizvek’s crossbows.
They were fast. But, he observed, not the most deadly. The wolves could bite and tear before a low-level [Soldier] could block, but they were, well, wolf-sized. They couldn’t kill in a second, and armor stopped their jaws.
It was still bloody, and more than one was trying to drag away a soldier into the mists. However, Lizvek finally nailed two, and another one was running at the front lines when it halted, spewed blue blood onto the ground, and keeled over.
“Poisoned. Huh, they shatter like porcelain.”
Or at least, parts of them did. Niers saw another spray of ceramic ‘armor’ or hide as the [Soldiers] surrounded and bludgeoned a fourth to death. Then the four remaining blue hounds were racing away, and Lizvek cursed a storm.
So much for his perfect defense. No wonder he hated these things; they were made to mess with his ideal formations. They’d overrun any regular force too quickly; no bloodless engagements here.
Niers rubbed at his chin.
“So that’s my color, hm? They come in month-long waves, or longer. What’s after blue?”
“Green, Professor.”
Cameral answered as Lizvek screamed obscenities and began demanding reinforcements sent, trying to fill gaps in the damaged sectors, bring all the ammunition levels up to equal. Niers left him to it.
He’d seen enough. His turn.
 
——
Niers gave several orders in the first two days of his arrival to the front. He’d timed himself well enough; despite the Azure beasts arriving, Lizvek was still mostly cleaning up the Stygian hordes.
Mostly, Niers was doing some groundwork, ensuring his army was ready; like Lizvek, he had his own ‘style’, though he was far more adaptive. Still, he knew eyes would be judging his performance, so he had a conversation with an unhappy [Druid], an unhappy Foliana, and an unhappy Drake in that order.
All three were, by and large, expected. The [Druid] was easiest; Niers had a back-and-forth and some pushback, but none of the Circles of [Druids] in Baleros liked the Dyed Lands. They might love nature and animals, but they could see invasive species like these needed to be stopped.
Foliana? She was still mad about Oelnnox. She snuck up on him as he was making some plans. He’d had a few thoughts and wanted to test them out. Only when he felt the kiss of a dagger against his back did he stiffen.
“Foliana, stop that. Or if that’s not you, do me the dignity of not wasting my time?”
She appeared, glaring.
“Oelnnox. Are they there yet?”
“It’s been two days; no they aren’t, Foliana. You know I had to do that.”
Her glower intensified.
“You’re going to get them hurt or killed.”
“Which means it’s beyond time. Focus, Foliana. Do you think your team works?”
She rolled her eyes. In some ways, they really had grown soft with age. He had to lay out everything for her these days—well, he had Atmodeca lay them out as he instructed, which showed how he’d grown soft.
Maps, supplies, a briefing on the team, and instructions on where to go and what to do in order. Foliana poked at a healing potion, and he snapped.
“Stop that. Not even we get to waste those. The team, Foliana?”
“They like me. They’re young.”
A Named-rank team in their thirties was ‘young’ to her. Niers just sighed.
“Then you have your mission.”
“Tell me why again.”
She was getting obstinate because she was mad at him. Niers’ answer was simple, if not one that many would understand.
“Because it fits in my plan, Foliana.”
“What if it doesn’t work?”
“Then it’s a statement. A symbol.”
Upon that simple sentence, he asked her to risk her life. She glared at him, thinking, head down, and he added.
“I need you to assess as well. My thinking is that we’re not getting the worst of it. My thinking is that the nastiest monsters are still deep in the center of the Dyed Lands. These? These are the low-tier predators. Bottom of the food chain.”
“Mm. I don’t like that.”
“Join the entire army, Foliana. I’ve got some…ideas. As far as I can tell, every Great Company is struggling. Jungle Tails has our western flank. The bastards seem to be willing not to fight us; they must be having trouble. The Iron Vanguard and Maelstrom’s Howling are containing, but no one’s advancing far.”
Her ears perked up, and her bushy tail covered her chest as she began to finger-comb it.
“Bannermare didn’t get in far?”
“As I understand it, she ran into the Crimson eaters and took some nasty casualties. She didn’t know they grow on the dead.”
“Mm. Stupid.”
“She’s young. Her [Strategists] deserve firing for that one. Actually, I think she’s riding down to have a word with me tonight. Do you want to meet—?”
Foliana had already vanished. Niers rolled his eyes. His commander was a child. But that was fine—he drummed his fingers on the table.
All eyes on me. He wished he had his Selphids. If he did, he’d be happier. But that was the problem, wasn’t it?
If the King of Destruction and all his ‘vast forces’ were teleported to Baleros today, and Niers’ Forgotten Wing company were lined up against him, Flos would be wiped out in a single battle.
He would. Niers hadn’t missed how many vassals of the King of Destruction had failed to show up and decided to guard their lands. Forgotten Wing was no longer the underdog having to fight off his armies.
But they held so much land, so many places to defend, they were so spread out…everything cost money. He couldn’t concentrate his forces like he wanted. He was spread out.
Perorn, one of his best commanders, was in Izril. Even if she was starting something there…Niers sighed.
“One full-board army is all I can spare. It’ll do.”
Not enough forces to be everywhere. Certainly not to go with Geneva and ‘Erin’ or find the real Erin or secure the Calanferians against their trouble. Niers read a report and grunted.
“Iron Vanguard and Jungle Tails on them. Wonderful. That idiot [Knight].”
He hoped they survived. He needed people like ‘Ser Solstice’, or even Seraphel du Marquin. Pieces on a board. They could matter more than entire regiments. He thought in pieces and levels, war and armies. For this coming battle…he had taken several important units and put them together. But also—a useful piece on the board, even if the piece in question would have preferred to be nobody and no one at all.
Well, Niers didn’t pay Balsamic well enough to be a nobody.
 
——
 
The conversation between Niers and Balsam the Drake was cordial, if short. The Drake came into the tent, threw a casual, uncomfortable salute, then brightened up when he saw the platters of food.
“Mind if I eat, sir…?”
“Go ahead, Captain. I’m not going to finish more than half of it myself.”
“Hah. Thanks.”
The Drake began to chomp down on food with a will. He didn’t like Niers, the Titan fully knew. The Fraerling scared Balsam, but the mercenary followed orders. Niers paced around the maps he was eyeing.
“I don’t have long, which I know suits you just fine, Captain. Anything of note to tell me?”
Balsam thought for a long moment as he swallowed liberal portions of spiced marinated meat without even pausing to gulp water. Niers got a bit of pepper seed on his bite and swore a blue streak.
“Er, uh, no, Lord Astoragon. War’s been tough. Jungle Tails fight like hell. Y’know. Sucks.”
“Very descriptive, Balsam. Or is it ‘Balsamic’ now?”
“Don’t remind me, sir. The Lizardfolk are fun. Skeldriv don’t care about the temples. Most don’t even remember the Nagatine Empire or Lightning Thief.”
Niers felt at his greying hairs and grimaced.
“Well, it’s old to them. I heard an Eye of Baleros reached our shores.”
“…Fuck.”
The Drake didn’t like that and hunched his shoulders. Niers waited, but that expletive seemed to sum it all up in Balsam’s opinion. Niers sighed.
Their conversations were mostly like this. He chewed on another piece of meat, then spoke.
“I’m going to give it to you straight, Balsam. I need the Skeldriv to fight this blue wave. Azure beasts. It’s going to be dicey.”
“Can’t, uh—can’t you get another group to do it? What about the Rustängmarder? They’re tough bastards.”
Balsam fidgeted. Niers sighed louder.
“They quit for the King of Destruction.”
“Oh. Damn. Selphids and Rusters?”
The Fraerlings wagged a finger at the Drake, who swallowed more meat uneasily.
“Don’t go losing your nerve, Balsam. We’ve got Fraerlings with us, and that counts. Besides, with the Eyes in play, there’s nowhere safe in Baleros. Fight or die for Forgotten Wing. And where would you go? Izril? Terandria? Chandrar?”
They both had a hearty laugh about that, though Balsam swore.
“Damnit. Fine. I’ll fight hard. Just don’t throw our lives away!”
“I’m not intending to. That’s all. Take the meat with you if you want; I have a Centaur to meet in five. Oh, and can I do anything for you? Give my regards to your commander. Is it still Rexica?”
Balsam packed up the food with a will as he shook his head.
“That’ll be Dutter. Rexica retired. Got some kids now. Grandkids, rather.”
“Huh. Damn, retirement.”
Balsam and Niers both shook their heads at the thought. The Drake did pause at the door once, though, with a thought.
“Er, sir? Do you know, uh, any [Healers] I could find? Ones that could sort of vouch for me being not sick? There’s this rumor going around and—”
Niers blinked, heard out Balsam’s explanation, then smiled.
“Ah, of course. I’ll have Forgotten Wing’s own [Healer] visit you and write up a report. She won’t poke and prod—no, wait. Would the Last Light’s words be better?”
Balsam brightened up, then looked worried.
“The Last Light herself? Sure! But if she’s going to, uh—”
Niers waved a hand and scribbled a note.
