Niers was beaming ear-to-ear, and Eirnos exploded as the laboratory behind her went crazy.
“Are you telling me that every monster we just killed, thousands of them, are potentially able to make [Speed]-grade enchanted leather armor?”
The Titan’s grin was larger than he was. He snapped his fingers.
“Vleyda, this information is going to leak.”
“I’ve kept it as secret as I can, and my apprentices all have come with me, but the moment someone sees my armor, it’ll be clear, yeah, Lord Astoragon.”
“Right, then I’ll get on the speaking stone to the other Great Companies. You’re going to lock yourself away with all the people you want and start producing the best gear you can. Eirnos, I’d like all your best crafter-Fraerlings with her. Then we’ll begin advertising.”
 
——
 
The news about the Azure Beasts’ ability to be turned into innately enchanted armor—and the supposition that at least a few other colors would also be so valuable—certainly made it clear to Niers that the Dyed Lands were worth fighting.
But he’d known that from the beginning. He was an adventurer. Monsters were always worth something unless they were…exploding Crelers. Dead gods, even Acid Flies were worth money as Erin herself had found.
What annoyed him, what pissed him off, was this:
“Seer of Steel, you and I both know the Dyed Lands need stopping. I appreciate you sending eight legions to halt them with Maelstrom’s Howling from the north. I can’t help but notice you sent more with Tulm to the New Lands. I should have double that, and your best [Generals], not second-stringers you want to train up. And Jungle Tails. They’re after the Eyes of Baleros. Where’s my support?”
He was pushing the Dullahan later that day. No one knew about the value of the Azure Beasts yet, and the Titan was having a conversation few would ever dream of. One where he was speaking to the leader of the Great Company of Dullahans, person to person.
No politeness, no ceremony. Just a chat where Niers was pointedly stabbing a map with one finger as the Dullahan’s head rumbled back at him.
“WITH RESPECT, NIERS, IT FEELS LIKE YOUR WAR. WE ARE THE FURTHEST COMPANY FROM JUNGLE TAILS, AND SAVING YOUR TERRITORY IS NOT OUR INTEREST.”
“When they’re surrounding Invictel with an army of a hundred thousand Gorgons, I’ll remember that, Tindromeix! This isn’t them just taking revenge. I told you, the Eye has made it to Baleros. If they take out the Gazers…”
Then they have both Eyes, and we’re all in trouble. The Seer of Steel’s eyes flickered, but he replied.
“THE OTHER EYE WILL NOT BE TAKEN.”
“So you want to do with agents and operatives what you won’t do with armies. Why? Because Tulm’s planning to go all-in on the New Lands? Or are the Iron Vanguard thoughtless, short-sighted cowards? Because I could see that.”
The Seer of Steel frowned.
“I CAN SENSE YOU’RE UNHAPPY NIERS. I WOULD PREFER TO SPEAK TO FOLIANA FOR ONCE.”
“She’s eating a muffin or something. You’re speaking to me.”
The Seer of Steel made a grumbling sound and then flicked his eyes sideways.
“WHY AM I GETTING CHARRED? WHAT ABOUT MAELSTROM’S HOWLING?”
“Don’t worry, I’m going to give them a piece of my mind. Where’s my commitment?”
After a long pause, the Seer of Steel replied distantly.
“…IF AN EYE REACHES THE TEMPLES, THE IRON VANGUARD MARCHES. YOU HAVE MY WORD. AT THIS MOMENT, IT IS SIMPLY NOT IN OUR INTERESTS TO PUSH THE DYED LANDS. WE HAVE SENT LEGIONS. THE DYED LANDS ARE THOUSANDS OF MILES FROM DULLAHAN TERRITORY. WE MUST SAFEGUARD WHAT WE HAVE.”
They cut the connection after that, and Niers had to analyze it.
“It’s Seamwalkers. They’re still on-guard about that. Or it’s the New Lands and expectations they’re going to fight the Terandrian crusades. Or…Maelstrom’s Howling and the Iron Vanguard are going to war again.”
Possibly all of the above. He could have dropped the information about the monster parts being valuable in the conversation, and he was sure the Seer of Steel would have committed another six legions to the fight at once.
But Niers didn’t feel like doing that. He did feel better in a perverse way despite the negative call.
It meant he could feel alright about what was coming next. The Iron Vanguard was sometimes a friend you could count on, a steadfast enemy with honor and dignity. And sometimes you really wanted to play football with their stupid, detachable heads.
Something occurred to Niers before his call with Maelstrom’s Howling. He was signalling for Aria to come in when he groaned and realized something.
It’s the Dragons. It’s always Dragons with them. Teriarch, the Dragonlord of Flames. They might ignore any normal one, but never him.
Wonderful.
 
——
 
If the Iron Vanguard had, annoyingly, objectives that made sense, even if you disagreed with them, Maelstrom’s Howling, the representative of all Centaurs, was different.
The Seer of Steel shaped his company, but his was Dullahan-first. Maelstrom’s Howling was led by a personality, ruler-focused. That ruler was Aria Fellstrider’s mother.
Gwelin Fellstrider, the Hurricane herself. Her partner had been known as the Tempest—Maelstrom’s Howling really liked their wind-related themes, probably why they liked Ryoka Griffin so much. Gwelin was aging—well, all of them were—but she could be far more congenial and willing to stand with her foes based on like or dislike than the Seer of Steel.
They just had one problem…Niers had killed Torast Fellstrider. True, true, that was twenty-seven years back before either one had been leaders of their Great Companies. They’d put a lot of water between them, but they were never going to be, uh, friendly.
Aria didn’t even remember her father. She’d grown up with other Centaurs as step-fathers, but Torast…they told stories of the brash, charismatic leader of Maelstrom’s Howling and his battle against the smallest [Strategist]. Sometimes, Niers seemed to feel bad about it and addressed Gwelin with softer gloves when they met at formal events.
…Sometimes. Not now.
“So the reason Maelstrom’s Howling can’t get off their hooves and join the battle is because it’s ‘not fun’, Gwelin? Dead gods, the Lizardfolk have more spine than you do!”
“Don’t talk to me like that, Astoragon. If you want to talk cowards, have your pet squirrel go out there and kill some monsters. I haven’t seen her do anything since Jungle Tails nearly killed her.”
“Big words for someone who hasn’t even put on her horseshoes to see the Dyed Lands. Or can’t you make the run south in your old age?”
“Want me to bring a herd and find out, Astoragon?”
Aria was standing there, caught between outrage at how Niers was speaking to her mother, the leader of her company, and nerves. She kept trying to interrupt, but Niers was shouting back.
“Jungle Tails is going to come up and put the lot of you in saddles if you don’t fight them off! First it’s us, and the Eyes of Baleros company, then it’s you.”
“You’re the Titan of Baleros. You handle it. You’ve become the Great Company they were. If you can’t handle it, I’ll watch your company crumble and then sweep the board with the Seer of Steel.”
Gwelin’s voice had gone quiet, her crackling tone soft, instead of screaming. That was how you knew things were bad. Niers halted as Aria licked her lips. She didn’t remember the Nagatine Empire or the last time the Eyes had gone to Jungle Tails, but she’d heard stories.
“Mom, maybe—”
“Silence, Aria. The adults are talking.”
The Bannermare shut up. Niers glanced at her and bristled.
“Your daughter’s got better instincts than you, Gwelin. Fine, you want to see my company crumble? You can. Just know that if we die, you’re in a position where Jungle Tails can’t be stopped. When it comes to that, I’ll ask them to go for you first.”
“If you want our help, then pay for it. The Eyes won’t get to their temples. If it’s just your land, then—”
Niers disconnected the call, then kicked the scrying orb so hard it rolled off the pedestal and landed on the floor. Aria protested.
“Niers! You can’t speak to her like that! She’ll never help unless you ask—”
He pointed at her, and she glared, but Niers relaxed after a moment.
“I’m not a commander of a smaller company, Aria. Your mother’s my peer. I don’t care if Maelstrom’s Howling has endured for millenia. She forgets that. I’ve put my warnings out there. If your company and the Iron Vanguard want to ignore me, well, I tried.”
“Ever heard of tact?”
The Bannermare tossed her head, and Niers rolled his eyes.
“I know Centaurs. If I don’t go right back at her, she walks over me. If I come at her with any real fire, she gets offended I’m so prickly. You’re the person I was trying to convince. Talk your mother into helping out more, Aria. You’ve seen how bad the Dyed Lands can be. Believe me when I say this is just the first wave. Literally, the most desperate, low-tier monsters.”
She fidgeted, surprised by his sudden admission. He wanted her to convince…? Slightly flattered, the Bannermare trotted over to the map on the table.
“I saw the kid that Ryoka pulled out of there, and that alone means I’d rather burn all of the Dyed Lands, but you’re certain?”
“Let’s just say I have…intelligence from inside the color swarms.”
He spoke, and she eyed him.
“Even our best [Scouts] can’t get in far. Wait, I heard you hired a Named-rank team. Have they found worse?”
He shrugged, and she wished she could read him.
“Just take it on faith and my instincts, Aria. This is going to get worse. Right now, the ‘blue’ wave is slackening. Green’s coming at us next, and that’s going to be annoying…”
“All my [Strategists] say that we’ve done so much damage that the colors are receding. They’re measuring the amount they push out and fall back, and it’s like the tides. They’re retreating.”
“Oh, sure. They burned the energy of this lot out. That just means ‘this wave’ is weakening. When your first army gets smashed up, what do you do as Maelstrom’s Howling?”
Send fifteen more if we want to. Aria didn’t like that line of thinking. She protested.
“The Dyed Lands aren’t that big—”
“They couldn’t have sustained this many monsters already from a sheer geographical perspective. They’re bigger on the inside. I’m telling you, Aria. Talk to your mother. I’ll give you as long as I can, but if you don’t, you’re forcing my hand.”
“To do what, exactly?”
Niers stood over his maps, eyes flicking up to her. He smiled, and she grew nervous despite the fact that she’d seen him beaten and bested over the years.
“Something unpleasant.”
 
——
 
The Forgotten Wing company kept up their offensive against the Dyed Lands’ blue wave. In fact, they began pushing a bit. Not just moving the frontlines forwards to hold the monsters, but making incursions into their territory. Striking deeper before withdrawing. Niers had their formations advance, still under the three-colored lights he insisted on using.
The result was more fighting. Eirnos could not see why he was doing this unless it was to harvest as many of the blue monsters as possible for their hides and train his forces up. Certainly, his ‘full-board’ army was fighting with extreme cohesion. And the day did come when her forces were called upon.
Not for a full battle on the front. Rather, [Strategist] Vler contacted her with a priority message in the middle of the night.
“Iuncuta Eirnos! A force of Azure Beasts has broken out of our containment and outrun all our interception groups! They are bearing down on the village of Xivdees! Just northwest of Illgrem!”
She cursed as she leapt out of bed.
“Does the Titan have forces there?”
“A garrison, but not enough to halt them. He is formally requesting the combined forces of Fraerlings to destroy and repel the monster incursion!”
Fraerlings were one of the few groups that could potentially make it. Eirnos was calling for every flying mount they had and teleportation spells in moments. She raced for teams of Tallguard, who had been waiting for this moment, and they flew.
The village of Xivdees wasn’t that big, but then neither was the group of wounded Azure Beasts. Barely a hundred of them had performed a nigh-suicidal rush to bypass one of the armies containing them.
But a hundred…for Fraerlings, it was an avalanche of bodies. Eirnos landed as she barked orders.
“Tallguard, take up formations around the village! Rooftops, and I want Rozcal’s Crelerbane ready to drop on top of them!”
The heavily-armored Fraerlings would distract the Azure Beasts. Eirnos also found a young Selphid running towards her, panting.
“Are you the Fraerling reinforcements? I am [Captain] Ygre, and I have two dozen soldiers at your disposal, Iuncuta! We’ve fortified as best we can, but if you need us to shift them—”
When she realized she could have him move the simple wooden and dirt barricades, Iuncuta tasked Shoike with that. She was surprised; this garrison would have been wiped out if her people hadn’t arrived. But the Selphid, for all his clear nerves, was smiling.
“The Titan of Baleros wasn’t going to leave us out to dry, Iuncuta. I knew we’d have help.”
How many times had that belief in the Titan, that promise, gone unanswered? Eirnos’ jaw clenched.
With the Tallguard, she swore she’d make good on that promise. They had barely minutes; the Azure Beasts came for the village, trying to devour the frightened inhabitants in their homes.
It was—
 
——
 
“A mess. How’d you fare, Iuncuta?”
“Suboptimally, Niers.”
The Fraerling blinked at him the next day, and she could still hear the curious silence, feel the pop in her ears.
Vortex Bolts firing and creating black holes that sucked everything in. Fraerlings tensely calling out.
“Crelerbane Armor is engaged. Climb them—”
“They’re moving too fast to hit, Iuncuta.”
“They’re breaking into the houses. Tallguard Squad 1, activate your Signim! [Mages], [Mass Slow] spells! Now! Get me—”
It wasn’t her first battle. But defending a bunch of Tallfolk? That was new. Eirnos was unhurt. The same could not be said for her command. Niers put down the brief report she’d written on the flight back.
“Three deaths.”
“It’s an unacceptable number, of course. Without homing shots, the Vortex Bolts had to be deployed as denial-of-area attacks. When using Signim, Tallguard were committed to combat where their survival could not be guaranteed. I will be submitting combat analyses to all the cities, and if you have any commentary on how to adjust our tactics, I will accept them.”
