“Interesting. Flamecloth Commander, front-and-center!”
Another figure ran up, and Niers nodded at a Stitch-woman with the weirdest body anyone had ever seen. She looked…well, if an Earther had been present, they would have said ‘rubbery’. Her skin was too-smooth, glossy, and thick. She and her entire command were heavyset and wore masks over their faces.
“Lord Astoragon?”
“I can see trees falling. The main body is still alive in there. I need your forces to slow it down.”
In that inferno? Are you mad? Cameral stared at Niers, then remembered the name of this unit.
Flamecloths. Stitch-folk made with a certain cloth and who used one element and one element alone.
Flames. They were a terror against their own species, and Niers had created this group for this purpose. He saw the Stitch-woman salute grimly.
“We can only try to keep it back, sir.”
“That will do, but I have two things to offer you, Commander. The first is that I need you to paint every single weapon…no, damnit, it’ll just burn off. Grand Magus Veern, I need you right here!”
The [Mage] came running over.
“Lord Astoragon, I am exhausted—”
“Color spells. The highest-tier you have. I don’t think it has to be green, but just in case, make it green. Iuncuta, your [Mages] too. And a [Flame Resistance] spell on Venaz and Captain Balsam, the best you’ve got.”
The Drake had been trying to sneak off, but he froze when Niers spoke and glared, silently begging—too late. Niers spoke crisply.
“My suspicion is this: these monsters operate under color-rules. There are spells that have the same effects, and my students found historical examples of other monsters with the same rules as well. Only a strong ‘color’ can harm them. That’s why Venaz’s blade does so well. And perhaps…”
The Minotaur raised the diamond greatsword of Serept in his hands. He blinked at the beautiful blade, made by the half-Giant [King], and whispered.
“The Windblade of Serpisel. Did he know that colors were important when he forged them?”
“Probably. The most vivid colors you’ve got, Magus. Flamecloths, engage. Captain Balsam, just keep Venaz alive.”
“I’d better get paid well for this, Lord Astoragon.”
The Drake glared at Niers, his sapphire gaze sparking with genuine anger. Niers beckoned him over.
“I’ll pay you this much to keep my favorite Minotaur student alive—”
He pretended to whisper in the Drake’s earhole.
“Your illusion’s slipping. Right eye.”
Balsam closed his right eye that looked a tiny bit…red. He nodded at Niers and jerked his helm down lower. The Titan stood back.
“Keep it in the flames.”
The Stitch-folk entered the forest as the crashing and billowing sparks rose higher. Niers stood there, hands folded behind his back, wondering how long a forest like this took to grow. He spoke to himself just once.
“Colors. We’ll need color-based experts to fight in the heart of the Dyed Lands if more such monsters arise. Shame I don’t know any color-based experts.”
He laughed to himself. Just laughed until he noticed Cameral glancing at him quizzically. Because the Dullahan probably knew most of Niers’ irregular forces in the area, and there weren’t color-based experts on the books. Niers walked over and patted the Dullahan’s hand.
“That’s just a bit of humor, Cameral, lad. If this doesn’t work, we’re all running, by the way.”
He waited, eyes on the inferno.
 
——
 
The Adventurer’s Guild, after some fierce debate, decided to call the monster ‘Endless Worms’ after a vote on television. They classified it as Named-rank+, not quite acknowledging if it was a calamity in and of itself.
But then, the world didn’t get to see if it could level cities without being stopped, because the forest fire burned and burned, and its spawn died.
A few made it to the edges of the forest, but they were already badly burned. The largest still needed finishing off, but Venaz’s greatsword and Fraerling-grade weapons could kill it, especially when painted green.
The main monster…no.
The Flamecloth’s Commander had to march out of the fire twice—speaking stones just burnt up in the heat—to report.
“The beast cannot be harmed, sir! Strategist Venaz’s sword barely cuts it.”
“Well, that’s not good. Any signs it’s burning up?”
“No, Lord Astoragon, but it is moving slower.”
“Keep it in the heart of the flames as long as you can, Commander.”
The Flamecloths played a game of deadly tag in the inferno that forced even them to rotate out due to the heat. However, Niers hadn’t just been banking on the flames to do the job of killing this beast for him.
Some monsters were immune to non-magical damage. Some monsters regenerated almost anything. But you know what he had found most monsters did, Seamwalkers excepted?
They breathed. A forest-fire was the place where oxygen barely existed. The fighters in the blaze had to wear enchanted masks that provided them with air and kept the smoke from killing them.
Invulnerable or not, the worm-mass slowed and slowed as the flames finally died out. By the time only smoke was rising, Niers could see it, a slumped, sooty-green mound in the middle of naught but ash.
Presumably, it would soon wake up and start killing again; it was too much to hope that mere oxygen-deprivation would kill it that neatly. So Niers rasped.
“Right. I need a barrier and a void of air around it. Right now, and this entire area is now a containment zone.”
Fraerlings led the spellcasting, and there was a pop as they sucked the oxygen out of the area, activating a massive circle they’d laid while the fires were burning. Niers exhaled when, after half an hour of watching, the worms failed to stir.
Then he turned to the [Reporter] who was waiting to interview him. His voice was shot from shouting, but he had a report from Jirem that he was advancing and raiding across Jungle Tails and that he’d effectively collapsed their front lines. Add that to this victory, even if he wasn’t sure the monster was dead, and Niers managed a smile.
“—As you can see, we have this thing contained, even if I rather suspect it might not fully die even if we keep it in there for months. We’ll see. If we can hack it up, or kill it, we will. But our main goal is to keep it immobilized.”
And to see if it’s valuable in any way. That hide could make amazing armor…if Vleyda can process it.
This was also a good time to mention the value of the armor since any idiot with eyes would instantly wonder if they could use that wormhide as armor. Assuming it wasn’t infested. Niers cleared his throat and went on.
“I’m going to make some claims based purely on my instincts as a [Strategist] and 2nd-in-Command of the Forgotten Wing company, if I may to my audience. Firstly: each color probably has a super-monster like that in its ranks. Secondly—there may be more. Many more in the Dyed Lands themselves. This is the real threat of Baleros, and I’ll pit this against any monster coming out of the New Lands—just so long as you give me popcorn and make sure it’s nowhere near civilization when they fight.”
He smiled into the camera, then turned his head. Cameral had a glowing speaking stone. Niers nodded to the [Reporter].
“Keep clear of the containment zone or my forces will shoot you, reporter. No one is going to breach this area. Now…if you’ll excuse me, I have a [Druid] to talk to.”
The Sea Shepherds were on the line, but at least Niers had found a Circle that he preferred to talk to. Every time you burnt a forest down, you had to talk to [Druids].
 
——
 
As it turned out, the Sea Shepherds were more understanding about everything than he’d hoped. Niers had a fairly convivial chat with a Druid Godreiad, who his sources put as being head of an entire fleet of them.
They talked about Jungle Tails, Niers’ connections to Izril and The Wandering Inn, and a little girl named Mrsha, and then Godreiad rendered his judgement on the entire forest thing. He leaned over the table, his scarred arms tensing a bit.
“I cannot speak for the other Circles, but I will repeat this conversation to them, Lord Astoragon. We are not…pleased by the destruction of the forest, but you evacuated the forest’s children, and the Dyed Lands…”
He paused.
“…they are a clear threat, as that monster indicates. So. You are not forgiven or pardoned, for that is not ours to give. But we understand. Know that we are watching you, though. Counting. You do as you believe you must. So shall we.”
That rather ominous-sounding statement was as close as Niers thought he’d get to a pass on the forest. He bowed his head respectfully.
“I’ll have another forest planted, Druid Godreiad.”
“Were it so easy, Lord Astoragon. I must go, but should you enter the Dyed Lands, my classkin would be…interested to know what is occurring there.”
“Do you have anything you could tell me, Druid?”
Niers was vaguely surprised the Sea Shepherds weren’t in Baleros already; they took on disasters and enemies of nature, and this was surely an ecological disaster, but the man hesitated.
“I—regret that we are occupied. What is clear from watching is this: they are fleeing something.”
“Fleeing? They fight and attack in good organization—at least, the blue does.”
“Animals migrate and fight with cunning, but this looks like flight to me, Lord Astoragon. They are prolific—even, perhaps, superior to other animals. But they would not come with such desperation if they were merely expanding. Take that for what you will.”
They left it at that. Niers sighed, stroked at his beard, then cursed.
“Damn. I forgot to ask what the penalty would be for burning two forests in a year.”
Probably best not to inquire. At some point, the [Druids] would stop warning you and very smoothly move into slipping poison into your tea or blowdarting you with a seed they’d cast [Overgrowth] on. Nasty lots. He knew better than to annoy them. You started killing [Druids] because they were lawless lawgivers of nature and you never stopped.
Niers sighed, then felt at his neck. He needed a drink. And he wished…
Well, he wished that were the end of it, but it wasn’t.
 
——
 
He was still waiting.
That was the impression Balsam got when he called upon the Titan for personal congratulations. Everyone thought it was because of his bravery in battle, and it was…he had a date with Plaxima when they got on break, which was a very nice thing that Balsam didn’t discount.
But he was still unhappy about nearly dying to the flailing monster raging around in a damn forest fire. However, when the Drake stomped into Niers’ tent and saw the Titan drinking only water over dinner, he realized it wasn’t over.
“Sir.”
“Oh, don’t stand on formalities, Balsam. Sit. Eat. If I’m that damn scary, you can go and take the food.”
The Drake bristled, sat down, and ate before he realized he was being manipulated. He scratched at his burnt scales, and Niers glanced at him.
“Any wounds?”
“Nothing bad. Just damn bruises from the worms. The Minotaur’s braver than I am. He’s badly burnt, but he’ll probably level or something.”
“He’s already reported that he has. Venaz is brave. I’m glad he’s tempering that with other good qualities. The Shoreaxes spoke well of him, and they were highly skeptical of him due to that [Captain] of the Iron Vanguard he injured. Him earning their trust tells me how far he’s come. They’re not Beriad, you see; last year, his stubborn pride would have gotten him in trouble.”
Balsam had no idea what all that was about, and Niers noticed. The Fraerling drummed his fingers on his leg.
“You really haven’t got any insights into the Dyed Lands, Balsam?”
“Nossir. Nasty. Never seen the like.”
“No…prescient thoughts about Jungle Tails and the situation there?”
Balsam thought about it as he patted his mouth.
“Nice trick hitting them with their pants down. Don’t let them get the Eyes of Baleros. Last time was bad. But you were there to end it.”
“I was there to end it, yes indeed. Did you ever serve with them?”
“…Maybe. But Nagas in their company ask too many questions.”
Balsam got shifty again, and Niers sighed. Both glanced around and realized the other was doing it. Niers waved a hand.
“I covered for you with the Fraerlings. One was worried that he couldn’t enchant you properly.”
“Hah. I haven’t met many Fraerlings. That lot’s interesting.”
Balsam smiled for a moment and then just sat there. Breathing in and out. Alive. He cleared his throat with a pressing question.
“…How much are you paying me?”
Niers didn’t get mad. He didn’t shout or demand things from Balsam…no, he demanded a lot, actually. But if the Drake gave Niers anything, it was this: he demanded things that were within expectations.
No great wisdom. No wondrous deeds of heroism or ruination. Perhaps he expected or hoped for them, but when Balsam failed to materialize anything of the sort, the Titan just accepted it. It made Balsam feel guilty. Niers inspected his fingernails.
“I can do two thousand gold pieces.”
“For fighting that thing?”
The Titan raised his brows and glanced up.
“You were barely in danger, Balsam. I kept you out of most of it.”
“I—but—a Gold-ranker would earn more than that, easy!”
“Gold-rankers take more risks. Be real, when were you in any true danger?”
The Drake grumbled and cursed, but he had to admit that even if he’d taken a big punch from the ball o’ worms, it probably would’ve only hurt or broken a bone at best. Niers added after a second.
“I’ll throw in a carriage ride to the nearest city with fun for the next time you go on a date. And all the best restaurants and inn.”
“Fine. Can I get it for tomorrow?”
Balsam perked up a bit at that. Niers wrote it down and told Balsam the gold would appear in his Merchant’s Guild account, and that was that. A silence fell as they ate, and after a moment, Balsam rubbed at his right eye.
The illusion spell, if it wasn’t kept up right, would reveal a ruby red eye as beautiful as any color in the Dyed Lands. The same with his ordinary red scales, but he often worked dirt into them. Niers wondered if he had wings or if the spell he used to change forms just made it so they weren’t there. The Drake—well, he was obviously a Dragon—muttered after a while.
“Look, I don’t—I really don’t know anything about any of that. I was just there when the Eyes were used and got stolen. Y’know? I was working as a [Fisher] in some shit-terrible Selphid village for like an entire decade when it was really bad.”
“Sounds miserable.”
“Yeah.”
Balsam took a long drink of ale and wiped at his mouth. He spat, as if trying to wash the taste of fish out.
