Niers glanced at her, and his lips quirked in amusement.
“Oh, no, Yerra. Those two options would be disastrous for Baleros’ citizens, or Foliana would kill me. I think literally kill me. No, I know exactly what to do with Oelnnox. I just…can’t.”
He sloshed the wine around in his cup and sighed as the two [Strategists] leaned forwards. He hated this. But because they had to grow up, because they were his best students, the Titan removed a bit of that lovely mask he wore. The Professor they loved looked up and spoke softly.
“It would be so easy to do it. The optimal move is to let them out. Arm them. Point them at Jungle Tails and just let them loose. A single [Long Range Teleport] spell and you have a distraction that will bleed Jungle Tails of resources and attention for…well, if some of them could even be killed. Even if not Jungle Tails, they’d make excellent irregulars. They aren’t beyond that, some of them.”
He drummed his hands on the table, thinking of the Selphids who’d quit his forces.
“Better yet, they have nowhere to go. Small chance the other Great Companies would be able to buy their loyalty easily. That’s why it’s so hard. You see? It’s always tempting to do. I’ve thought about it so many times. Everyone loves to have a secret weapon. Everyone has blackbook operations, experiments, failsafes. But morality says no, don’t do the expedient thing. Don’t run down the retreating forces. Don’t make examples. Don’t use every weapon that comes to hand.”
Wil was growing increasingly disturbed.
“Professor, I…I’m glad that you haven’t repeated Jungle Tails’ folly. If there is a solution, we’ll find—”
“What? Folly? Oelnnox wasn’t a failure, Wil. It was a success. True, they made stupid errors, but it was a tremendous asset.”
Niers interrupted, and now his eyes were gleaming. This time, even Yerra seemed disconcerted as the two [Students] sat back.
“But, sir, you said that the facility was lost. The children—”
“Jungle Tails took some out. Only, what, twenty, thirty? They put about a thousand times that number in there. Before you gasp, Wil, the Lizardfolk are the most prolific species in Baleros—so long as they can support their offspring—bar none. So let’s call that around two decades of research, material, supplies, thirty thousand children, for thirty kids. It was worth it.”
“What happened to the children they took out?”
Niers flicked a report over the desk at them. He realized it was too small for them and smiled crookedly.
“Most of them perished fighting for Jungle Tails. A few of them you’d know. One of them is going up against Calanfer and the Iron Vanguard now, actually. Illex Twiceborn is an alumnus of Oelnnox.”
Yerranola did know that name and inhaled. Wil was brushing at his arms. Niers whispered.
“Do you know how hard it is to get someone who’s Level 40 or has the potential to rise higher? It was worth it just for the alumni. Now understand that Illex was just a kid down there. There’s far bigger fish than him swimming in the depths of Oelnnox.”
“Then why not make use of them, Professor? If this is the situation you’ve been handed, wouldn’t it be better on all sides to offer them positions in Forgotten Wing?”
Wil tried one last time, searching for some reason in this. He glanced at the Titan’s face as the candlelight flickered over the Fraerling’s expression. Niers was blank as he raised a goblet to his features.
“I could lie to you, but the truth is they were conditioned to hate my company. I could use some…but it’s the weapon, Wil. Sometimes you don’t reach for the weapon, because that’s the only reason you’re still better than they are.”
He swished his wine around in his cup, talking to himself.
“The problem, yes the problem with making living weapons is that they inevitably ask ‘why’ at some point. They always demand freedom. Such a dire weak point no one ever seems willing to engage with when someone says, ‘let’s make an army of child-soldiers’. They must think it’ll work out.”
He laughed, and no one joined in. Niers flicked his eyes to Wil and Yerra.
“There’s no controlling them, not perfectly. Some of the children got out, despite my best efforts. Do your homework. Now, I’ll leave you with that.”
They stood, awkward and uncertain. Rattled. Yerranola paused by the door and called back once as Niers sat there, staring at the shadows.
“Professor, what’s the ideal outcome for you? If you got all your wishes?”
Niers glanced up. He blinked at her, then thought for a moment before replying.
“Best outcome, Yerra? Good question. Fair question. I suppose…on the way into the facility, Wil trips on a Scroll of Time Travel. If you find it, I have a letter I’d love to send back with you. Top shelf on that cabinet, behind the third book.”
He pointed without looking, and Yerranola waited. Niers waved at her.
“Good night, Yerra.”
The door closed. After a moment, Seneschal Atmodeca came by with a second bottle.
“Stewing in darkness, commander? Or light?”
“Stewing, Atmodeca, thank you. Oh, and please put away the valuables.”
She bustled around the table a few seconds, then left him alone. Niers poured himself another cup and went back to work, organizing the front into the Dyed Lands. He was waiting, but rather suspected…
It was hours into the morning, in fact, before his second guest burst into the room. Niers jerked from the chair where he’d put his legs up on the table to sleep. He glanced up as a huge, furry face appeared in front of him.
“You sent them to Oelnnox?”
For once, Foliana wasn’t playing her disappearing game. Nor was she calm. Her eyes were wide, and the three colors in them were bright, illuminating his room.
“Hello, Foliana—”
She grabbed him with one paw, lifted him up. Niers didn’t struggle, though normally he would have poked her with his sword for that kind of thing. He had a terribly dry mouth from drinking.
“Atmodeca, any water around?”
The seneschal opened the door.
Foliana’s head swung around to stare at the Beastkin.
The door closed. Niers sighed. Foliana hissed at him.
“You sent them to—”
“Yes, I did. You had your shots, Foliana, and I won’t do what I want to. They found out, anyways; some idiot parent found Miss Erin on the road, and Geneva’s been poking around our files. They want to see.”
“Call them back.”
They must have just left. Niers yawned and noted daylight through the cracks in the blinds of his windows. He shook his head.
“No.”
“They’re going to kill—they are children.”
“Not anymore, Foliana. Even the youngest must be—”
She slapped him back on the desk and glared at him. Niers caught himself, unsteady, as her head lowered to eye-level with him.
“You have to—I’m going with—”
“We’re fighting a war, Foliana. So are you. Trust the Winter Sprites. Trust Ryoka Griffin and to luck. Trust Erin or our Last Light. And if you don’t trust any of that to be enough for Oelnnox…”
Niers wobbled over to his wine bottle and tried to pour, but it was empty. He sighed, cursed, and looked around for some water instead.
“…they’ve kept the lid on themselves for all this time. Well, it’s getting raised either way, Foliana. Jungle Tails will make a play for that facility. Time’s up. They have to choose. I’m sorry.”
She vanished. He called after her back before the door to his rooms could swing open.
“Go with them and you’ll get our people killed while you waste time, and you’ll just bring them to ruin. They know you. They don’t know Erin, Geneva, or Ryoka.”
He didn’t hear a reply, but after a moment, someone opened the door and slammed it so hard the sound reverberated down the corridor. After a few more seconds, Atmodeca cautiously entered with a pitcher of water. Niers grimaced as he sat back in his chair.
“Well, that’s that, then. Atmodeca, I want a constant [Scrying] spell on Oelnnox activated in two day’s time. The moment you get a missive from Wil, make it second-highest priority and flag to me immediately.”
“Yes, Lord Astoragon.”
He searched around for a hat. Time to get back to war. The Titan turned and put Oelnnox from his mind. It was just one place, and each passing hour he had to make decisions that would save or damn tens of thousands of lives.
Besides. Maybe he was getting old, but there were just some dungeons a Named-rank adventurer didn’t want to enter. He was no adventurer anymore. The Titan closed his eyes for a moment and sat back in his chair.
A moment later, a little alarm rang as Atmodeca shook the bell that told him he should be waking up. He groaned and stretched.
The Titan of Baleros stood up and got to work.
 
——
 
Good [Strategists] never drank before a battle. Just like good [Warriors] or adventurers didn’t have a tumble in the sheets before a dangerous engagement. Your mind or body had to be sharp, and especially as you aged, liquor had a deleterious effect on your capacities, even a day later.
Niers Astoragon hadn’t slept well on top of his mild hangover. He chugged a stamina potion, a hangover tonic, and a cup of coffee without sugar in ten seconds as Atmodeca offered him a platter.
Do as I say, not as I do. The Professor was well aware of what the optimal move was. However, he was no Golem.
It was true that a good [Strategist] shouldn’t drink before doing their duty with thousands of lives on the line. But [Soldiers]? Soldiers hopped into bed before a battle. They were famous for it.
That was the difference between Niers and a clean-cut [Strategist] from, say, Manus’ academies or the war-academies in Terandria’s Taimaguros Dominion. He was Baleros’ child.
Mercenary. It ran in his blood. So yes, he regretted the second bottle of wine. He regretted not getting more sleep, and his mind ran to Oelnnox, the place he had sent Geneva, ‘Erin’, Ryoka, and the others.
Then he pushed it from his thoughts as he strode up into the Fraerways and was mildly shocked, as ever, to find two Tallguard guarding his rooms.
“Lord Astoragon.”
One nodded to him, and Niers nodded back. Fraerlings were already moving about the Fraerways, bustling about. [Mages] carting samples of monsters from the Dyed Lands past off-duty Tallguard and soldiers from their cities, who eyed him, the most famous Fraerling in the entire world. Disappointed, perhaps, he wasn’t a foot tall and breathing fire with eyes like General Diomedes, the Cyclops.
Niers ignored the looks and strode forward, speaking into a stone.
“Strategist Vler, I’m awake and moderately alive. Are we ready?”
“Your special class students are assembled, though I note Wil and Yerranola are with their group, sir. I have your Skerhawk ready, and your route has been announced. May I suggest a teleportation spell—again?”
“I’m allergic to teleportation after Izril. Begin in, let’s say, thirty-five. Iuncuta Eirnos! My compliments.”
He switched off the speaking stone and saw the one-eyed Fraerling commander striding his way. She was scowling as per usual.
“Lord Astoragon, I was informed we would not be joining you while moving towards the Dyed Lands. Why?”
The Fraerlings were ready to go with flying ‘steeds’ of their own—everything from little robin-sized birds to a damn albatross that could carry Rozcal and his Crelerbane armor to the front. They normally flew stealthily, and she clearly did not like being kept out of the loop, but she was one force in the Forgotten Wing. For all their technology, levels, the Fraerlings were only in force in Elvallian, the capital.
Niers knew how many armies he had pulled towards the Dyed Lands, still spitting waves of color in every direction. A hundred miles of land had been overrun by them, and four Great Companies were barely keeping them contained.
Iron Vanguard and Maelstrom’s Howling held the north. Forgotten Wing held the east, and the western front was mostly being fought by Jungle Tails. The Eyes of Baleros, the Gazer-led company, was also defending their jungles, but what the scope of the war was, not even Niers could fully say.
But it was Jungle Tails and Forgotten Wing, who were both at war with each other and the monsters, that had the most forces here.
This was their land. Theoretically, their problem alone, but the other two groups, Centaurs and Dullahans, weren’t going to miss the glory or rewards from these new monsters. But until today, the Forgotten Wing hadn’t made a push as dramatic as the Bannermare in halting this apocalyptic event.
Moving people took time. Moving large numbers of people took weeks or months, even with the trade roads and organization. Moving one person, like the Fraerlings?
That was so easy. Niers replied absently as he strode down towards one of his assembly halls.
“No, Iuncuta. I do invite you to beat me to our destination, but for security reasons, I travel alone.”
“I see. And the Tallguard would not be ample bodyguards compared to your Tallfolk escort?”
He sighed but hid it as they strode along.
“It’s not a competition, Iuncuta.”
“Of course not.”
“Plus, I’m not taking any. Students! The hour has come.”
Niers burst out of the doors leading into his assembly hall, and they jumped. He strode down the steps in his frumpled red coat, adjusting the hat on his head, red-eyed, though they probably couldn’t see that.
They, by contrast, had polished up. Marian wore metal barding on her Centaur half and armor on her Human torso. Venaz was in full plate, as was Merrik. Peki had donned the clothing of Pomle. Kissilt, Jekilt, and Cameral weren’t present, but that was because they were already en-route.
Of course, he had more students, but they weren’t ready for this. Plenty of younger students like Princess Angelica and Xelic were jostling to see. They expected a speech, but Niers just strode onto the pedestal and spoke distractedly.
“Vler. Who’s the [Strategist] commanding the frontline defense on the eastern approach today?”
“That would be…Lizvek, sir.”
“Lizvek. Damn. We’re going to get on like a Stitch-folk on fire. Has that control freak figured out a viable strategy against any of the colors?”
“He does quite well against the black monsters, which I believe is the current color on the eastern front.”
“Well, we’ll see. Right. Students—”
Niers glanced up, and they were unsettled. The Professor sometimes swore, but he was usually more put-together. Teacherish, professional. The loudness spell audibly picked up his stomach growling. Without a word, Eirnos handed Niers a rations bar, and he took one bite and grimaced.
“Dead gods. What in Rhir’s hells is this, Eirnos? Cricket?”
“Tallguard staple, Niers.”
He shuddered.
