“Wing Leader Alpha, flying ahead.”
“Wing Leader Beta, we are clearing the way.”
“Wing Leader Gamma, on escort.”
The Garuda were in three groups, and two broke ahead, covering a fourth, even smaller group of fliers. Peki turned her head and blinked.
“Flying Kissilts?”
No. Oldblood Drakes. They were soaring in a V-formation, some not even flapping their wings hard. Their mouths were burning with their famed Dragonbreath; barely twenty total.
The Titan wanted them to burn the amassing Azure Beasts, but the color of blue saw them coming and deployed a counter.
Fliers. Winged, glittering birds burst out of the air, diving and then rising in ponderous arcs. They, like the other creatures, had a glittering ‘shell’ that clearly weighed them down, but they dove like lightning.
Alpha Wing recoiled when the monsters reached them, moving up and backwards, baiting out the first attack. It was like a wave of glittering monsters broke over them, crashing down, but the dive-bomb attacks were too short; Garudas flew backwards, bright feathered colors retreating from the superior numbers of the Azure Fliers.
Instantly, the Garudas called out. Peki had been issued a speaking stone, and she heard voices talking in her earholes.
“Fliers incoming. They rise slow. Aim for when they do so.”
“Lord Astoragon, I count two hundred and climbing.”
“Two Skills on your forces, Wing Commander. Hit them hard. Fall back if they bring in heavies.”
His voice was steady, and Peki glanced back and saw the Drakes were falling behind. They were…slow in the air, she noticed. They advanced in a clump, with Gamma Wing circling around them. They were still fast enough; the Drakes would be over the Azure Beast mass in maybe five minutes.
Five minutes was a long time to fight in the air.
The Azure Beasts didn’t realize the Drakes were the threat. They went for the Garuda. Peki saw the Alpha wing engage first.
“Alpha wing. Move to attack speed. Prepare to net…now. Break!”
The Garuda turned and hurled nets as the Azure Beasts dove at them. Peki saw the lightweight nets covered with stones hitting the beasts. The fliers tangled in them tried to fly and fell.
“Alpha 2. Nets effective.”
“Beta wing, nets!”
Then it was Peki’s group who swung towards the confused beasts. Peki hurled her net clumsily, cursing as an Azure Hawk dove with folded wings. It came at her from above, so she twisted in the air, rolling right as it flashed past her, claws missing her by inches. Peki cursed.
“Damn. Fast.”
“Don’t mouth off unnecessarily, Beta 4! Alpha wing—engage!”
The Garuda behind Peki’s squad streaked past her as she flapped backwards, baiting the Azure Beasts. Once more, they streamed downwards, then flapped to try and rise above the Garuda who fell on them from above. They had no sense of tactics in the air! Garudas dove with light blades or even axes, aiming for a single target as their enemies tried to rise.
Wings. A vermillion-colored Garuda dove and hacked once at an Azure Hawk’s wings, then rose. The damaged wing failed to keep the bird up, and it shrieked in a low, ringing voice as it tried to rise.
Aerial combat tactics. Alpha Wing was scattering the Azure Fliers right and left, forcing them to dive down further, anything to evade the attacks from their weakest spot: above. Even so, it wasn’t bloodless. She heard voices, terse, controlled.
“Alpha 10, I’m bit! Beaks like razors!”
“Fall back, Alpha 10! Alpha 2, they’re on you—”
“[Evasive Dive]! I’m out of it—”
The Garuda with flight-goggles ahead of Peki was pointing, and Peki followed Beta Wing’s leader as they flew above the skirmish in the air. Alpha Wing was disengaging; the Azure Fliers were pursuing them, and now Beta Wing dove, launching another attack on the distracted foes. Beta Wing’s leader shouted.
“We’re diving! Lord Astoragon!”
“[Speed Raid]. Hit them.”
She was so focused in the moment that Peki nearly forgot she had Skills as well! She cried out as they dropped, suddenly accelerating faster, faster—an Azure Hawk was right below her, wings flapping as it tried to rise, completely ignorant of the new threat dropping on it.
“[Unit: Thunder Punch]!”
She hit the first flying bird so hard it exploded. Or she thought it did; the bird dropped, and Peki saw she’d blown its armor off all of its body.
“Beta 4, nice punch! Don’t let them rise!”
Alpha Wing turned, abandoning the feigned retreat. Now, both wings were flying about in the air, dogfighting with the monsters in close-quarters. Peki launched an [Anvil Kick] down at a bird, [Close Countered] another. She was doing it! They weren’t that dangerous—but then she heard a voice in her ear.
“Alpha wing, Beta wing, break! Break!”
But they were winning! Peki peered up—then realized more of the Azure Hawks were coming. And bigger fliers. A second blue wave broke over them, and this time, the Garuda weren’t in an advantageous position.
The young [Lieutenant] swivelled with the Garuda and flew back as a second wave came in, and now—
“What is that thing? It looks like some kind of fish!”
A manta-like flier was undulating through the air—only, it was long, and little, tiny children detached from its body. Peki shouted.
“Get away! It’s swarming—”
A scream as a Garuda too close to the manta-thing was covered. The Garuda scattered in the air, trying to avoid dozens of mini-Mantas that swarmed around like angry flies. Peki tried to dive after the falling Garuda, but she was too far. She watched the body dropping as Niers spoke.
“[Mages], [Featherfall] that Garuda!”
Did the body slow before it hit the ground? Peki didn’t know. She was too busy gaining altitude. Alpha Wing’s leader, their commander, was speaking tersely.
“They’re bringing in heavies just like us, Lord Astoragon. I’m taking out that carrier. Beta-wing, cover me.”
“On it, Alpha wing.”
This time, Alpha Wing met the Azure Fliers straight in the air, drawing back and fighting and drawing back—unable to engage while the mantas kept trying to swarm them. Peki heard Beta Wing’s leader rasping urgently.
“[Fast Wings]. We need to get them off Alpha Wing. Don’t let them dive!”
Her squad managed to get above the Azure Beasts, another flanking maneuver. Once more, they braced, then came the order.
“Beta wing, down, down, down! Get them off Alpha Wing’s backs!”
Here, the first hawk Peki met dodged her punch, and when she tried to flap into a flying kick, it raked across her skin, drawing blood with razor-sharp feathers. She gritted her teeth, chopped through a wing, and watched her enemy spiral down.
Then a scream.
“Aaa—”
A crunch, and something dropped past them. Something big. Peki saw a huge claw and slanted, staring eyes. A bigger bird than she’d ever seen, except for Tiqr’s annual Roc migration. Frantic voices in her ear as the huge bird’s wings snapped open, and it began to rise, beaks snapping. It had two beaks? Stained with red blood.
“Squad Leader?”
“Beta Wing’s leader is down! What is that?”
“It was in the clouds! Dodge, dodge! Another coming in—”
A second gargantuan bird dropped, and now, the Azure Beasts were attacking. With the huge birds scattering the Garuda, they were no longer fighting together. And when they scattered, the smaller hawks attacked, trying to pick them off.
Alpha Wing’s leader was terse.
“The Manta Flier is still spitting those tiny bastards. It has to die or we’ll be swarmed. Beta Wing, keep those two giants off us!”
“We’re trying, but it’s got too much armor! My blades barely do any damage!”
Two Garuda were flitting around a giant, vaguely chicken-shaped bird flapping upwards. They were stabbing, but the armor was too thick. Peki glanced around. Beta Wing’s leader was dead or unconscious.
Then—
“Beta wing, up, up! Fly with me! We have to drop them!”
“Beta 4, we don’t have your Skills! It won’t work!”
She cried out, and voices dissented. She soared higher as her squad hesitated, and she realized she had to explain. Peki spoke breathlessly.
“Doesn’t matter. They’re so big. Drop on them and—they fall!”
“She’s right. Beta 4, we’re with you. Up! [Sudden Updraft]!”
More Garuda realized what she was thinking of and rose with Peki. They circled higher on the warm thermals, and Peki saw the two vicious, giant Chicken Fliers pecking and tearing at Alpha wing below her. She turned, pointing with her wing-hand.
“Four on that one, four on this one. Drop!”
She didn’t have her [Axe Kick], but she performed one anyways. Eight Garuda dropped with her. Peki hit the first giant bird before it could peck Alpha Wing’s leader and saw it reel. But then it focused two orange eyes on her—it would have turned, but four Garuda grabbed one wing and four the other.
They dove, and the giant flier shrieked, tried to flap its wings, and realized they were holding its limbs. And the Garuda might be lighter, but they had all the momentum.
They were taking the giant down in a suicidal dive. Now the Chicken Flier was panicking. It snapped, tried to bite, and broke free at last as the Garuda let go. It twisted, flapping its wings op—
Crunch.
The bird’s neck snapped as it hit the ground head-first. The Garuda flapped up as the second giant bird landed on its front and broke both its legs. Peki heard cheers from below, but she was climbing again. Alpha Leader spoke breathlessly.
“Good job, Beta 4! Take command of Beta Wing and join Gamma Wing. Lord Astoragon, fires coming down. Enjoy the show.”
Then Peki peered up and remembered what the brief, intense battle in the air was all for. She saw the first Oldblood Drakes flying slower above the Azure Beasts open their mouths, and glowing fire poured downwards.
 
——
 
“Huh. Not bad.”
Balsam shaded his eyes as he saw twenty Oldblood Drakes perform their iconic attack on the Azure forces. The beasts scattered, but they ran into more waves of burning heat or were hit by bolts of lightning that curved, seeking them out. Their fliers were falling and dying as Niers called his back.
Garuda and Drakes flying in the same skies. Balsam knew that Drakes were often mocked for their flying abilities since most didn’t live in the air like Garuda. So that was how you used them; Garuda sheltering the slower but magical Drakes.
Then he heard a voice.
“That big beast. I want it dead. War Walkers. [Precise Shots]. You’ll have your moment.”
Balsam turned and grunted as the earth trembled. He saw two unique War Walkers stride forwards and unsling the biggest damn crossbows he’d ever seen in his life.
 
——
 
“Armortraitors.”
Tulm the Mithril was watching the battle despite not even being on Baleros’ shores. He glared at the two War Walkers. Most were loyal to their people, but some were mercenaries.
A few joined Forgotten Wing despite the standing orders not to. But these were unique even among War Walkers.
After all—they carried giant crossbows custom-built for one purpose: killing other War Walkers. Given the rarity and difficulty of making more War Walkers, such destructive, murderous weapons were all but banned. War Walkers spared each other’s lives when at all possible.
Not Niers’ murderers. They sighted down the crossbows as the Azure Beasts came in for a second charge.
“TULM. HOW IS THE TITAN DOING?”
The Seer of Steel was part of this conference call analyzing the Titan’s performance. Tulm glanced over his shoulder; he had work to do, and his lips curled as he straightened.
“With respect, Seer of Steel, there is little point in observing the battle. He will use cloud spells next. He’s having…fun.”
 
——
 
“Skeldriv, fall back. Fullhelms, forwards.”
Ah, now they saw it. That grinning madman. That performer on his stage. This is why they hated the Titan when he came at them with a real army.
A [Magician] with a hat full of tricks. The monsters of the blue surging towards him had no idea how many abilities his army had. They charged, ready for stone traps, for slowing spells, perhaps.
But not for Niers to turn off vision.
The clouds blotted out all sight and vision and swept over the entire field as Lizardfolk ran back, setting themselves. A choking, hazardous haze that made the advancing monsters freeze, unsure where to go, what was ahead of them. They had to slow, running into each other, and snarled.
The first Azure Wolf nosed forwards, sniffing until it ran into something hard. Hard and immobile. It thought it was a wall and tried to get around until the Dullahan, helmet glowing with enchanted glass lenses, swung a sword down and pierced the wolf’s back.
Fullhelm Armor. To Drakes, they probably looked like Salazsar’s Rubirel Guard. They were Dullahans wearing armor that was thick and constricting, even by their standards.
Full helms, sealed, without anywhere to let air in or out. Enchanted so you could see even in a cloud spell. They marched into the fog and began to attack their blinded foes.
“Keep clear of the clouds!”
The orders were being barked up and down the lines as Niers watched. He was sure Aria Fellstrider’s tacticians were kicking themselves for not figuring out some tactics, but how many specialists like this did Maelstrom’s Howling have?
Not many; Centaurs couldn’t pull this trick.
“Fullhelm Armor to Lord Astoragon. The foe is weakening rapidly under assault. Marking behemoth target.”
“My compliments, commander. War Walkers, fire.”
Two thunderous discharges and a howl; the War Walkers fired into the clouds, and the beast screamed.
“Partial hits, Lord Astoragon.”
“Do you need another hit, commander?”
“No, Lord Astoragon. Beast is dying. Cloud kill.”
At first, the observers didn’t quite get it. They saw Azure Beasts emerging from the clouds, wounded from their battle with the heavily-armored Dullahans who could fight in the blinding smog. But then they realized the Azure Beasts were smoking, not that wisps of the clouds were clinging to them. It ran off their bodies as they rolled, howled, and open wounds seemed to grow…
They collapsed, and the clouds parted to reveal scores of dead Azure Beasts, some not even bearing wounds from the melee. Niers was nodding when his speaking stone chirped.
“Lord Astoragon—what kind of cloud spells are those?”
Iuncuta Eirnos had caught on first. He replied calmly.
“[Acid Cloud].”
Shock, then outrage as watching companies and the newspeople, those paragons of morality, caught wind. Eirnos barked back.
“Lord Astoragon, that is considered a war crime in battle—”
“Not against monsters. It’s minimally effective anyways. Fullhelms, fall back. We’ll try for simple [Ash Cloud] or [Dust Storm] spells next time, commander. That’s cheaper anyways.”
“Of course, Lord Astoragon.”
