Calm. There were crow’s feet around his eyes, which tightened when he saw cities vanishing. Now and then, he just nodded to himself.
Like a man who could see the future watching it come to life. Surprised only by the way the details twisted. They searched for guilt, for remorse, for pride, anger, or any of the qualities that would make him more of a person.
They found nothing. Just a face like a Golem’s, unsurprised. His eyes flicked up once, and Umina shivered as Niers glanced at her. He nodded at her, as if her reaction was equally normal. Not wrong. Just—he had seen it all, in his mind. Weighed it on a scale only he knew, then made his choice and set out to bend the world until he found this future.
That was her Titan’s other face. And yet, as the monsters spread out further, the Titan kept his eyes on the scrying orb.
He did not stop watching.
 
——
 
Niers’ forces were pulling back to their lines, and he was giving rapid orders, when General Diomedes appeared.
He walked down the road, and the trembling of his footsteps and his sheer size made all who had never seen the Cyclops stop and gaze upwards in awe. Even the super-monster of the Azure Beasts, being rolled towards the base on logs—it was too big for any Chest of Holding—was small compared to him.
He inspected the corpse that Foliana had insisted they take—as if Niers would leave it behind—and nodded. Even by their standards, it was an impressive kill. Foliana had been chattering in Niers’ ear so much about how she wanted her new armor to be Fraerling-made and all the upgrades she wanted in it, she’d barely been herded off to the healer’s. He hoped that was a good sign.
The Titan waited for Diomedes in his command tent. [Soldiers] were moving in columns past him; not to reinforce the defensive lines, but to take the fight to Jungle Tails. Capitalize on their advantage. Diomedes halted, then knelt that they might speak, though they were still ant and giant.
The Cyclops had a disapproving gleam in his one huge eye, as he always did when Niers did something unspeakably advantageous.
“I see now why we’ve abandoned our western holdings so thoroughly, Niers. I wondered why our forces were following such odd evacuation routes. Do I presume I am to lead the counterattack?”
“Yes indeed, General Diomedes, though I intend to push forwards and establish another layer of fortifications closer to the Dyed Lands. I suspect our color-identity will be useless once the monsters are exposed to too much of it. And I suspect this is only the beginning, as I said.”
But he’d cleared a path to the Dyed Lands, and now the value of the monsters was apparent. Just…kill them first.
The other Great Companies were not going to be happy. Diomedes squatted down, glancing at the tent where Foliana was being treated. He rumbled.
“A masterstroke, as always. Doubtless, it shall give us the time to reverse our fortunes, and I see the colors have a worth beyond mere beauty. Coin will do. But—Titan to titan, I must say it was cruelly done to the many who will suffer.”
Niers exhaled. Diomedes really knew how to take the victory out of a moment. General Gloriam would have been pouring Niers a drink.
“Fair enough, Diomedes. But once again, Titan to titan—I’ve counted the cost of Jungle Tails securing the damn Eyes. They wanted this war, and I have scrupulously, painfully, not razed their temples, killed their peoples, or broken this land even though I knew they were still there. Now, they’ve come back and expect, what? A gentle war? An honorable battle? How many times must one company make the same mistake?”
He spoke with true bitterness there. A man contemplating dark deeds and knowing that he must not do what he felt might be necessary.
Titan and titan. The Cyclops rested on one knee and did not envy the burden on Niers’ shoulders, which he had long seen was heavier than his. Diomedes rose, nodding.
“I await the next chapter of your tale, a spellbound reader, a member of the audience not sure whether to applaud or gasp, a soldier. To war, then.”
He nodded at the War Walkers who continued their advance, and Niers gazed at the now-subdued colors spread into the distance, a splintering, many-headed beast. But then towards the center, where the light still shone, triumphant, inviting. He murmured.
“Yes. But amidst all our bloody carnage, I hope to be an adventurer. That would be nice.”
Then he went to check on Foliana.
