“Balsam! Take command of this lot! Orders from the top!”
The Drake glared at the command tent where the Titan of Baleros was working from. He growled as Eyevil turned to him.
“It’s not racism, Chinv. We’re the new Selphids.”
It took a moment for his comments to sink in, then all the Lizardfolk groaned loudly. Chinv leaned on his spear.
“Aw. I don’t wanna be.”
 
——
 
Balsamic was doing his job. And that job was to take Lizardfolk, who laughed at his name then joined Skeldriv’s forces, and both keep them alive and get them used to their new position.
After weeks, despite their losses—and they were taking losses—Skeldriv had doubled in size. Niers was reading lists of wounded and dead and grimaced.
“Attrition rates are way too high without healing potions. Tell Vler I need three times as many [Healers] and [Medics], especially ones who were trained by Geneva or know her work, and half again as many more soldiers.”
Small wonder the other Great Companies weren’t committing to the offensive as much as he was. They were further off or just saw the lack of potions as a dire predicament. More deaths, more wounds…
But Skeldriv’s camp was packed. The glowering Balsam was in the middle of a wave of Lizardfolk cheering and resting before they were rotated back onto the frontlines when Niers visited.
And he did visit. In fact, he preceded his arrivals with a small army of his own: barrels of beer that he had beached in front of the cheering Lizardfolk.
“Skeldriv! You’ve been fighting like [Heroes] on the front, and rest assured, I am watching. I trust you’ve been eating properly, and not the Tier 0 rations that Tallfolk eat? Cricket bars and stuffed mealworms are not how I want to live.”
Lizardfolk waved and cheered, shouting at him.
 
“I’ll eat one! Titan, give me a signature!”
“Where’s Lady Foliana?”
“Hey, why are all the new people here? I barely recognize anyone! Wait, are you my cousin’s cousin’s cousin?”
 
The Titan let them quiet down a bit before continuing, glancing around. He had made sure they were getting fine food—that kept a [Mercenary] happy—but he nodded to the side.
“I also know that the fighting has been boring for some. Jirem, your people must have sore hooves from standing around.”
There was a cluster of Centaurs camped next to Skeldriv’s own—they were cordial enough. You had to be to work in Forgotten Wing. At his words, some of the Centaurs pawed the ground or stamped their hooves, but their leader, the cool Jirem, just called back.
“We could use more action, Titan. It doesn’t sit well with us letting our friends do all the hard work.”
A look to the right saw a few of the Shoreaxes watching too, and Niers nodded at them before pitching his voice to the crowd.
“Rest assured, you will have your moments, and they’ll be damn bloody and needful, Jirem. Trust that I have a plan.”
Those words alone caused a shiver among some of the listeners, and they nodded. Some of their stress or annoyance visibly faded as the Titan went on.
“I know exactly what I’m doing. But there are hiccups in every plan, and when there are, Skeldriv is cleaning up the enemy. So here’s something I’d like to share with you all. Captain Balsamic, front and center! I heard there was a Drake serving with Lizardfolk, and I had to see that. Let alone the name.”
Cheers and laughter, and Balsam scowled as he was practically pushed forwards. He glared, nervously, but Niers just nodded at him and pretended they didn’t really know each other. Then he gestured to the side.
“Cameral, show them.”
The Dullahan had a Chest of Holding by his side, and he held up a bag that was rather plentiful. He showed the Lizardfolk a lot of coins. Gold and silver. Mostly silver, to be fair, but they oohed. They were expecting the Dullahan to throw it, but Niers just nodded.
“A hefty purse. Captain Balsam—take it off Cameral, would you?”
The Drake blinked, then his eyes brightened. He accepted the rather fat purse, and there were complaints, jeers—then Niers spoke.
“I think it’s Chinv, isn’t it? Some Lizardman was calling me racist. I heard that. Get over here!”
A Lizardman in Vinegar company jumped and quaked, then approached. Niers gestured, and the bag of coins made the Lizardman stagger. His mouth opened.
“Wait, is this mine?”
Then the [Mercenaries] went silent, and Niers gestured. More people were lugging Chests of Holding over, and his eyes glittered.
“Every Lizardfolk who’s served in the front lines gets one. Every single one of you, so I don’t want to hear complaints. If you’re mad you don’t get a bag, well, wait until this wave finishes. This is just a token of my gratitude.”
Cameral had a list of names and began to call them out, but the sudden roar and cheering of voices made him flinch. Niers saw Lizardfolk pressing forwards and shouted.
“Order! You’ll get your turn, and we have your names written down!”
In truth, it wasn’t that much gold. Silver coins made up most of the bag, but it was still a lot. The Titan actually stepped away for a good three hours while he let officers use command Skills to keep the mob more or less in line, then he came back.
Everyone was drinking and cheering him, and he walked among them with Cameral, who held a dais up. Bright eyes filled with gold, companionship, glory, levels, and battle.
Many of you will die and never get that reward. You know it, and I know it. Balsam himself was looking moderately more happy as he sat with his expanded command—his bag did have mostly gold coins in it.
But Niers was just surveilling the mood and watching himself. As he had said to his students, whom he trusted were watching, there was a difference.
He had to lead and inspire. The King of Destruction could probably walk through most of his armies and get the same reaction without needing to pay them, but he was a ruler. Niers had to earn every shred of the respect others were born with.
He thought the loyalty he acquired was worth more for that, but the Selphids…Niers wished they were here joking, repairing their bodies—he shook himself.
“Alright, who here has been fighting the longest? Pull up a chair and give me something to eat. How d’you feel about the Azure Beasts? Anything I’m missing from my golden pedestal?”
The second important reason he’d come here was not just to raise morale, but to sit with his soldiers and get their perspectives. Usually, they didn’t tell him much. In fact, some of their advice could be woefully wrong, but Niers listened and judged as Lizardfolk veterans talked about what the best weapons to fight the Azure Beasts were, or showed him how they’d pasted the blue carapace-stuff to their own armor after picking it up.
“How many of ‘em are there, Titan? We keep killing the blues, but there’s been months of fighting. Are they just coming without end, like the Dyed Lands poops them out, or what?”
Everyone wanted to know that, so Niers frankly speculated with them.
“I’ve read my [Mage] reports and all the intelligence we have, soldier. Frankly? I don’t think so. I’ve seen summoned monsters and monsters that can spawn them out, and if there was that level of magic or such a monster, we would have seen it. Granted, these ‘color swathes’ obscure vision, but we’d have identified those patterns. You want my guess?”
Everyone did, so Niers took a bite of some roasted meat he suspected came from an Azure Wolf and grunted.
“My guess is that the Dyed Lands are just bigger than we thought. Dimensionally changed either from the time-skip event or they were always that way.”
“But the numbers—”
Niers waved that off.
“It looks like a lot, and the green swarms certainly are, but have you noticed the Azure Beasts retreat frequently? They don’t like dying in great numbers. And notice how many fewer Azure Wolves there are? I suspect we’re wiping out significant parts of their ecosystems. Now, the question is: why? My guess is that something is pushing them out more than just them wanting more food.”
A silence fell at that. No one liked that particular idea, but Niers nodded around.
“These waves have limits. The key is that with every month that passes, more are being born. They have a hundred miles of territory, and they’re eating, mating—”
“Pooping!”
“—that too. Corrupting the land. We’re just lucky they keep fighting each other, but that’s why we’re here. That’s why Forgotten Wing is here in force when the other Great Companies can’t even bother to send more than a regiment or two. Aria’s the only senior commander I’ve seen aside from a [General] or two on the other fronts, and she’s getting bored. Not us. Trust that this is not only important, but I have a plan, and that there’s more to come.”
His defense against the blue was the most solid bulwark the monsters had encountered yet. If there were reprisals…Niers met every eye as he tore off another piece of meat.
“The more danger, the more to gain. So I want you all to eat and drink like [Kings], then I want you sharp. No sloppiness! I’ve seen a bit of it this week. You’ll get rotated off the front soon enough, but you’re the Forgotten Wing’s finest. Let’s show them how it’s done.”
 
——
 
Captain Balsam did appreciate the gold, though it was still offset by all the damn Lizardfolk he had to herd about.
“Hey, uh, are you my Captain, sir?”
“Probably. Latrines are that way. If you’ve lost your stuff, go to each tent leader and ask.”
“Hey, you read my mind! Wow, you are a cool Drake.”
The new Lizardfolk got into arguments, had varying levels of training and equipment, but they were still decently good at working together. Morale was high, and for a frontline unit, Balsam had to admit that the Titan knew how to keep his soldiers happy.
In fact, you could argue it was better being in the actual army than in the reserves; the Centaurs were still kicking up shit at being so bored, but if you were lightly wounded or not engaged in combat, you got grunt-work.
Digging latrines, setting up new tents, digging trenches…a lot of digging. Or hauling. The Titan’s [Strategists] were all gifted at defensive works, which meant they were all relagated to [Engineers]. And that meant the [Soldiers] were all related to [Laborers] when it came to building said defenses.
Balsam and his company, as fighters, never got the job, and he heard more than one Lizardfolk group complaining.
“I hate that snooty guy.”
“Which one? Kissilt?”
“No, the one who tells you to measure everything.”
“Oh, Lizvek. Yeah, he sucks. Where did you work today? I didn’t see you. Corpse-hauling duty? The Fraerlings yell at you if you don’t watch your step.”
“Nope. Some [Druid] was screaming at us in the forest.”
Jikneq Forest? Balsam remembered it on the map. He glanced up as a Lizardfolk showed another blistered scales.
“We have to cut down trees and dump wood all over the place.”
“Yeah, no wonder a [Druid] was yelling at you, stupid. But hey, good job! That’s firewood!”
“Well, no one’s hauling it back yet. We’re drying it all out because it’s wet. Hey, Captain Balsamic! Can’t we burn wet wood?”
The Drake was trying to rest. He was stretched out dangerously near the cook fires, glumly turning down interested Lizardfolk who had heard he was down for romance. Sleeping within the ranks caused trouble. He flirted only with officers. He grunted back.
“Anything burns if it’s hot enough. But normally you want dry wood.”
“Who knew?”
“…Have you not ever made a fire in your life?”
“Nope! Heck, I didn’t know how to tie shoes until someone showed me how earlier this year! I just enlisted!”
Balsam tried to drag his helmet over his eyes.
Wonderful. More rookies. Keeping them alive, or mostly alive, was a headache, and he cursed the Titan again for it. The problem was—within even a few battles, most Lizardfolk were shooting up in levels. Counterlevelling.
He was sure the Titan wanted more out of this than just training up a new vanguard, but what? Balsam thought about it, then gave up. He decided he’d try to woo Eyevil with a bottle of something when a Lizardfolk called out.
“Hey, uh, Captain?”
“What now?”
“Your tail’s in the fire.”
 
——
 
After several more skirmishes Niers returned to Elvallian. Was he stressed? No more than any campaign, he supposed, but he kept waiting. Waiting…he wished Foliana were here.
Oh, she popped in now and then, but she would just grunt at him, raid their pantries and supplies, then vanish. On her own tasks, which only she, and sometimes—possibly—he knew about. When she was gone, he worried, because of all the people in this world, not even he could find her or know how she was doing.
Part of his stress, but he had to have faith. The Titan came back to Elvallian several times, to check on the rest of his company, to monitor The Wandering Inn and the [Palace of Fates] situation—
One second he was burning through all his spells against a horror in Izril, the next facing the Azure Beasts. It was why he was glad for Foliana to say the things he could not.
Yes, you’ve got a Mortemdefieir Titan. I have a hundred thousand monsters to fight.
Affection and pragmatism. It wasn’t his inn. It wasn’t even his damn continent. The news had gotten tired of showcasing him holding the line against the hordes of the Dyed Lands. Because he wasn’t failing or doing anything ‘interesting’, the world paid attention to the New Lands and their stupid magicless ground.
But Niers was certain that anyone living within a thousand miles of his frontlines appreciated his forces, and he made sure to update them on the fact that Forgotten Wing was winning. Still, not every day was exciting and required him.
So he went back to teaching class only to realize that the Titan was not the Professor.
 
——
 
“Incorrect! Your command is dead. Give me a way to counter this commander charge or we are all dying in the next fifteen minutes. Well? Anyone?”
Niers bellowed at a room full of younger students and saw them all freeze up. He realized he’d been shouting nonstop; he’d nearly reduced the [Princess], Angelica, to tears.
The Titan moderated his voice; normally, he had softer hands with new students, but he still tapped the edge of his podium with his little wand.
