Three brave Tallguard. Eirnos waited, part of her not wanting to know if there was some tactic that would have saved their lives, but Niers just read the report again, then pushed it back.
“Given the amount of time you had, I think it’s within acceptable ranges, Eirnos. Not pleasant. I’ll give the report more thought later, but I’d call it as close to optimal as we’re likely to get. Now…tell me frankly, how is morale? How likely are the cities willing to engage in this level of attrition, or are any deaths beyond the pale?”
He sat forwards at his desk, and Eirnos’ jaw tightened.
“I regard this as a personal failure, Niers.”
“Well, my Great Company loses more people on garrison duty where they never see combat, Eirnos. I’m asking whether I can count on the Fraerfolk to keep doing this.”
She had to actually think on this, which annoyed her, but in the end, she came back with—
“The cities understand this is an operation against the Dyed Lands themselves. Mass-casualties would be considered…largely unacceptable. But deaths in the line of duty would be understood, if shocking, I think.”
“The Tallguard will need to recruit more than their usual. Expect more deaths, Iuncuta.”
He was not unsympathetic, but she felt that annoying sense he was treating the Fraerlings like a rookie group. Unused to bleeding. She wished that didn’t ring slightly true; Tallguard tried to never lose anyone.
A war. He was more worried about whether they’d abandon him than deaths.
 
——
 
As it turned out, Niers did have feedback for her. When they met later, after the dead had been sent back to their cities, Niers had a proposal for Eirnos, but the opposite of what she wanted.
“No Vortex Bolts. My outline is to have one backup squad armed with them for emergencies, but I’d prefer Elemental Bolts. One or even two tiers lower.”
“That will increase attrition rates, Niers.”
“Yes. But I know how fast Vortex Bolts are manufactured. Unless there’s been some revolution there, supplies will not last the duration of this campaign. My proposal is to arm all Tallguard thusly. Secondly, I would like you to choose the city with the best capabilities and request that they cease all other manufacturing for the war effort besides Elemental Bolts. Two cities, ideally.”
“Are you mad? Allotments aside, the cost in alchemical and magical supplies—”
He interrupted her.
“Supply lines. They’ll need them set up city-to-city. Feed them all into the best one and we’ll have ammunition sorted.”
Now, Eirnos was getting that prickling feeling on her back. She’d been sent to keep an eye on Niers, but this…
“You want to dictate the output of cities?”
“Should I not? Isn’t that under your authority?”
In theory, yes, but the idea of that kind of order was unprecedented to Eirnos, and she said so. Niers’ response was calm.
“We’re at war, Iuncuta. This is good strategy. If the Fraerling cities are not willing to do this, I’d rather not put the proposal out at all. I trust you know how they’ll respond.”
He was watching her cautiously. A man appraising his allies and seeing how hard he could push them. Eirnos folded her arms as she imagined the fighting, the cities who would balk, the justifiable fear they would become part of a coalition.
The knowledge that Jungle Tails had hunted down their kind. She weighed this, eyes closed, before speaking.
“Is this what you did with your cities before the Tallfolk attacked?”
Her eyes opened the slightest fraction so she could see his face. Niers stared down at the documents in front of him. He never lifted his head.
“Yes. This time, I trust you’ll hide better. Can I count on your people, Eirnos?”
She flipped her eyepatch up and rubbed at the empty eyesocket for a while before replying.
“Yes.”
 
——
 
Three more full-scale incursions had come and gone before anything changed. Fighting inwards, hauling bodies back to behind the lines, resetting formations as reserves replaced exhausted mercenaries who cheered, devoured food, drank, and fell asleep. Days of rest—then another push forwards. It almost became a routine before Niers met a wall of the Azure Beasts on the fourth push and gave the order.
“All forces, advance!”
He pursued the wave of blue monsters he’d just broken into the blue haze. They expected the Titan to stop, but the order to halt never came. And then—then Balsam was swearing at the Titan.
The tricolor lights shone into the blue haze as the entire world of colors shifted. The tribe of blue reacted to the Forgotten Wing’s presence like a storm. They drew back, and Niers exhaled.
“Ah, that’s good.”
Then they were on them, bursting out of the blue haze, leaping wolves, charging beasts, diving mantas and birds, and he was giving orders.
“Skeldriv, [Thorn Formation]—Iuncuta, give me aerial support!”
His army was engaged, using the tricks they had learned against the enraged monsters, but Niers flung up a hand. He was using his [Battlefield Awareness] to survey the horde coming at him. Ensuring he wasn’t being flanked. Then he chopped a hand.
“Make way for the Shoreaxes!”
At last, the order came. Relieved Lizardfolk leapt aside as the units that Niers had held back all this time strode forwards. The Shoreaxes carried massive battleaxes and walked in heavy armor.
Gilded horns, scars from their battle.
Minotaurs.
Venaz strode with them, expression set behind his helmet. If he had been surprised to find so many Minotaurs in the Forgotten Wing, he had quickly fallen in with this unit. They had been waiting patiently, drilling and practicing while the Lizardfolk did the fighting.
Minotaurs. Finding more than one or two Minotaurs in any force besides the Empire of Minos was nearly unheard of aside from maybe Rhir. But the Titan had the Shoreaxes and a few more units.
For defeating Queravia, the Gambler of Fates, and his efforts against the King of Destruction and Goblin King, he had been awarded a great honor by the King of Minos: the right to hire any Minotaurs who wished to join his Great Company. They didn’t even have to be Beriad. They were, like every species who joined his company, just mercenaries.
But these ones had seen more battle and strife than most armies of Minos. Niers himself advanced towards the front lines and shouted.
“Strategist Venaz!”
The Minotaur jumped and glanced at him. Niers pointed ahead.
“You once told me that a company of Minotaurs with axes could face and defeat any foe, overcome any obstacle! Show me.”
He saw Venaz’s eyes widen behind his helm, then he lifted his diamond greatsword overhead. The Minotaur roared.
“[Unit: Enhanced Strength]. [Unstoppable Advance]! [Break Their Morale]!”
Niers added his Skills.
“[Vanguard of Terror]! [Giants on the March]. Wipe them out.”
The Minotaurs moved forwards, and they were a foot taller with the first step. Another foot with the second—Balsam swore and moved back as he fell into shadow, and the Lizardfolk began cheering.
Niers watched, heart like thunder, as the Centaurs under Jirem stampeded, calling to be unleashed like their peers. He knew the Fraerlings were staring at the giant Tallfolk who met the Azure Beasts and threw them back with the first swings of their battleaxes. One of the charging rhino-hippos hit a Minotaur and slowed—then four Minotaurs threw the beast backwards, and he saw the animal try to run.
Sometimes you had a clever strategy, a novel trick. Sometimes—and sometimes, the Titan knew, you just hit the enemy as hard as you could.
The Shoreaxes kept swinging, shrugging off the claws trying to drag them down as long as the Skills empowering them lasted. When their momentum slowed, Niers ordered Skeldriv forwards. The Armortraitors were firing nonstop as he tore westwards, going against the ‘flow’ of the blue color.
“Push! [Battlemages]! Grand Magus Veern, give me everything you’ve got. Clear the field!”
They advanced. Step-by-step when the Azure Beasts attacked, but as they broke the waves and inflicted casualties, the monsters fell back, and the Forgotten Wing company advanced for up to half an hour before the next wave came, and they halted to break it apart. Not into the Dyed Lands, but westwards.
Niers could see the blue thinning, giving way to that green wave that would be next. He heard his speaking stone chirp as he rotated in another group of his rear lines.
“Keep Captain Balsam on the front. I need his Skills. Vler, what?”
“Titan, you’re on the news. Scrying spells activating. Want me to block?”
“Don’t bother. Grand Magus, keep those [Light] spells up. Venaz, another wave! Break it!”
 
——
 
The astonishing advance of the Forgotten Wing company seemed to catch even the Dyed Lands monsters off-guard. But after four hours of on-and-off fighting, Niers had kept one force in his army completely in reserve.
The Centaurs. Jirem’s people were baying for blood. A few of them had even ridden closer to demand to be used; even Marian was tossing her head from her observing position next to the [Commander].
Only Jirem was staring at Niers, and the Titan met his eyes again as they broke through the Azure Beasts and into the green.
“Parasites in the air! Fliers, pull back! Fullhelms, forwards! Veern, [Flamewall] spells! Push the walls forwards and incinerate everything!”
His [Mages] were running out of mana, and his people, Jirem’s group excepting, were getting tired. Plus, Niers knew that the Azure Beasts were forming up behind him. He had forces keeping the area clear, but their window was closing.
However…the green wave wasn’t strong here. His company only had to advance three miles, burning the green parasites and letting the Dullahans cut through them, before he saw what he wanted.
Cleared ground, an exit to the Dyed Lands’ monsters. Niers had only gone a bit into the monster’s territory. Then he’d cut left, at a right angle, and gone…
Straight out the other side. Into another no-man’s land, where charred ground baked black showed him a killzone where the Jade Swarms were being kept at bay. No real fortifications; with an enemy this dense and numerous, you just destroyed everything and put your forces under all-encompassing barrier spells.
“Like…that.”
The first glimmer of glowing half-bubbles of light in the distance caught Niers’ eyes. Instantly, he lifted a spyglass and sighted down it. He saw, in the distance, a group of very surprised figures pointing his way.
They were bunkered down, [Mages] mostly, with emergency groups of warriors and archers, but a lot of [Mages]. And Medusae; their eye-powers would be invaluable against this foe. Lamias, Lizardfolk…no other species.
“Wait a second. Those aren’t our lines. Those are—Jungle Tails!”
A junior [Tactician] in the command tent had come to the same realization as the forces who’d sighted Niers’ army. He smiled as Eirnos spun, and then he turned his head.
“Commander Jirem.”
“Sir?”
The Centaur had snapped to attention the moment he’d seen the Nagas. Niers pointed a finger.
“You are to rendezvous with Strategist Evergloa. We’ll have her location and details sent directly. Remember your code-phrase to confirm information sent and received. Take your riders. I want this frontline gone. Hit their supply lines and then break. Your discretion.”
“Sir? But that’s Jungle Tails’ blockade against the Dyed Lands—”
Marian was peering ahead, and Niers snorted.
“And they’ve been so good about not attacking our forces either. Like this is some genteel war. Jirem! On my signal!”
He lifted his hand, and the Lizardfolk [Mages] were chanting, preparing spells. They, no doubt, had enough firepower to blow his army to bits in case of emergencies. Niers’ finger stretched out.
“[Battlefield: Even Ground – No Magic, No Luck, No Skills, Only Strategy]. Centaurs, charge.”
Across the ground, every spell and barrier winked out. The mostly-[Mage] forces froze as Jirem blew a horn. At first, the Centaurs streamed forwards slowly, at a trot, then their hooves became a thunder as they lowered their spears, began whooping and screaming. Faster and faster, breaking up into groups to hit the Lizardfolk from the front, the sides, an avalanche of flesh and metal and death—
Niers Astoragon flung up a hand as Lizardfolk began to stream after the Centaurs.
“All forces: fall back. We’re done here. Do not advance or you’ll lose your Skills.”
His Skill affected both sides. Niers lifted his fist up and whirled it in a circle. He turned back—then glanced over his shoulder.
“Looks like we pissed them off at last. Full march. Something’s coming.”
He peered sideways at Eirnos.
“[Dangersense] is going to probably go off in five minutes or less. I want us back at our defensive lines in two hours.”
He was wrong; the [Dangersenses] went off in two minutes.
 
——
 
Captain Balsam didn’t see the monster at first. Or rather, he did see monsters; just smaller ones. The green was following them, and it was pissed.
“Keep moving! Keep moving!”
He was howling at the Lizardfolk around him as Skeldriv ran. They were fighting a running battle; the damn flying Jade Snakes kept landing on them and biting, but that wasn’t the real danger.
The real danger was the infested monsters, who threw themselves forwards. Even Azure Wolves; they looked like wiggling balls of worms, but still had the unnatural speed. He even saw some Lizardfolk and Dullahans who’d clearly been infested, mindlessly swinging weapons.
Were they using Skills? Were they alive? He roared as a snake-thing landed on his face and tried to bite, eat its way into his brain or something.
It struck into his throat, and he gagged as it bit. He closed his jaws, chomped the thing to pieces, and spat it out.
“Gaaah! That stings! Keep. Moving!”
They were getting overrun despite the Titan’s Skills. Something was behind them, and there were big, big snake-things attacking from behind. Snakes far taller than he was, rearing up and swallowing the Dullahans and Lizardfolk.
“Balsam!”
He saw Plaxima’s Gorgons trying to cut some of the giant snake-things apart. But they were getting swarmed—he sprinted back, cursing.
“Vinegars at the rear, turn and fight!”
The new Lizardfolk who’d joined his company turned and hesitated, but the sight of their captain charging at the snakes made them join him. They hacked, stabbed, and fell back, running, as Gorgons disengaged.
Plaxima was holding off the jaws of a snake bigger than she was. For all her size and her six arms—Balsam swore as he got a good look at this strange Jade-monster.
