They watched as the shreds of Stygian black tore away from the whirling clouds of the Dyed Lands, and then…blue swept forwards like a rushing storm, and they heard curious, high-pitched bark-howls, then a din unlike the Stygian horde, who attacked in silence. They burst forward in a flood, and the two [Strategists] watched as the Titan led his defense.
Frugally.
 
——
 
Spells cost too much money. Bolts cost too much money, for that matter. If he could, he’d prefer not to waste magic. Oh, sure, he could just plop down the highest-grade barrier possible and shred the enemy, but Niers really didn’t want to do that.
High-level [Mages] or scrolls were limited commodities. Also? That wasn’t good strategy.
He was aware scrying spells were watching his first engagement leading his army. And he intended to send a message. One of frugality. A reminder of what Forgotten Wing was.
Before the battle, he had already done enough work summoning his commanders, outlining his preferred plan of engagement, and making sure they all knew what to do and where to move. He had a curious formation, his audience realized.
A full wing of Centaur riders led by Commander Jirem were armed in the traditional light lances and blades their kind wore. Niers had them held back from the pass and surrounding battleground he had to defend. Behind his vanguard, which were not the Shoreaxes.
No, instead, the full vanguard who held this ground, whooping and cheering and waving at the sky, were the Lizardfolk.
Skeldriv’s Lizardfolk appeared awfully small compared to the other species, even to the Fraerlings. And Niers had other groups! A bunch of Dullahans in curious armor, even a pair of War Walkers with unique armaments—he had more species in his forces than Iuncuta Eirnos had ever seen, but she questioned his formations. So did some of the other Fraerlings with her.
“I don’t see the same formations I’m expecting from that first [Strategist]. He cleared the ground and laid countless traps and barriers, but the Titan is fighting on open ground! How confident is he?”
That came from Patrol Captain Shoike. She was restless. She had been sent by her city to support the Titan and avenge the Fraerling cities attacked by Tallfolk, but she was no military woman.
None of the Fraerlings were, except maybe Eirnos. Fraerlings didn’t war, at least not like this. The numbers the Forgotten Wing fielded and the amount of monsters?
Every Tallguard in our region couldn’t hold this group back, but then, we’d never try. Shoike was worried that the Titan would need them. He’d put the Fraerlings in the rear as well, clearly in case he needed them, but that meant most of his forces were in reserve.
What was going on? Eirnos answered in a clipped tone as she played with her eyepatch.
“My briefings with his commanders indicated that these Azure Beasts don’t go for concentrations of strength. They try to move around any forces present, unlike the other colors. The Titan has to intercept them. Plus, given their speed, fortifications are weaker.”
In short, he had to engage them in a melee. Small wonder even the Great Companies didn’t like this color. Eirnos pursed her lips.
“With that said, I offered our Tallguard as advance forces. We could have flown ahead and showered the enemy with Vortex Bolts, but he declined that suggestion. We have Tallguard ready to drop, and we are to hold until his orders.”
Shoike’s heart sank. ‘Tallguard ready to drop’ meant they were prepared to fall off circling birds and use their Signim. They could kill scores of people around them or snipe officers—but Tallguard almost always died as a result.
Not a good use of them. She hoped it didn’t come to that, but it was odd. The Fraerlings were Niers’ best unit, bar none. Oh, they might be small, but they had the most magic, the most levels, Shoike was sure.
The only person not concerned amongst the leadership was actually Commander Rozcal. He was chewing on a huge french fry for a snack, devouring the giant potato that was taller than he was with evident satisfaction. Everyone glared at him until Eirnos turned.
“Commander, you actually fought alongside Niers Astoragon before the cities largely cut contact with his company, didn’t you? What can you say about his strategy?”
Rozcal wiped at his mouth.
“What can I say? I’m no great mind for this kind of thing. We’re just Crelerbane Armor. We see something with too many legs, and we decide to lop some off.”
He laughed hugely, wearing his Adamantium armor. Shoike sighed, but Rozcal nodded at the tiny figure sitting on his podium, in view of all to see.
“Niers? He always has a plan. I went up to him before he got set up, and he just told me that if we needed to go into battle, that meant all his plans were failing.”
Fair enough. The Fraerlings didn’t really relax, but Shoike glanced at Rozcal.
“And did he say what his plan was?”
Rozcal tugged on his beard.
“Hmmm. Yes. Frugality.”
“Frugality?”
“And that he really doubted it’d be an interesting first battle. It’s more showing off, he claimed. After all, he says he has so many ‘tricks’ with this army he doubts that they’ll get past his first lines.”
The bluff commander laughed as the Fraerlings eyed him. But then they heard warning horns, and the first blue wave burst out of the clouds. Blue was coming. Then they saw Niers raise a hand, and the Titan of Baleros put on a show his enemies knew quite well.
 
——
 
Balsam and Vinegar company were near the front when the Azure Beasts came out of the mists, and he didn’t like it one bit. He’d promised to fight hard, but Niers had sworn not to get his regiment chewed up!
Still, Balsam pretended this was all fine as the Lizardfolk gasped. Blue wolves raced over the ground, then stopped, and bigger monsters followed.
“Aw, hells. That one looks tough, Captain. What is that?”
A Lizardman groaned as he pointed to a huge, armored…what? Balsam squinted.
“Looks like a combination between a rhino and hippo. Only, the horns are spaced horizontally instead of vertically. Longer too. Don’t let it hit you straight on or we’ll be pouring you into the grave along with our drinks.”
“What the heck’s a rhino, Captain Balsamic? Or a hippo?”
“Chandrarian. Saw them in a menagerie, once.”
“Weird.”
Laughter, nervous, and groans as the huge beast ran way faster than it should into position. They were lining up like a cavalry charge. Balsam gritted his teeth. He could see them blurring along, defying normal physics.
Like Galas-muscle or they’ve got a [Speed] spell on them. Damn, damn, damn.
He wished Eyevil were here, or Plaxima. Both were good at their respective roles, as Nagas were, and they had been a lot more admiring of him once he showed them that clean bill of health Niers had gotten him.
But no, they were further back. Balsam heard a shout from behind him.
“Enemy preparing to charge! Don’t bother with spearwall formations! [Slingers], forwards!”
Slingers? Was the Titan insane? But there they came.
Slings. Lizardfolk loved slings. Find a rock and chuck it and you had unlimited ammunition. One could bust a head open easily, and en-masse…they’d humbled every force in the world with the power of a rock thrown hard enough.
But slings did have weaknesses. You couldn’t swing one around in tight formations, and they didn’t go as far as bows or crossbows or punch that hard.
Against the Azure Beasts, who did seem tough enough? How much damage would a rock do? And, more importantly, how were they supposed to hit them?
The damn monsters could dodge [Lightning Bolts]! But the Lizardfolk ran forwards, whooping, whirling their slings as the wave of blue massed and prepared to charge. The Titan gave the order as a surge of blue began to streak across the ground recently scorched free of Stygian venom, fast, fast—
They weren’t going to get more than one volley off! Balsam gritted his teeth.
“Get ready! Get ready! Don’t bunch up or the slings can’t get back!”
A voice from behind him.
“Now! Slingers!”
The Lizardfolk cracked the air with their slings, hurling the rocks ahead, and then ran back behind their friends, screaming and whooping. The Azure Beasts dodged in a blur the moment the slings cracked, almost contemptuously. As if they could even predict the projectiles’ trajectories. They leapt, a crashing wave racing over the ground, and then—
One of the wolves’ heads exploded.
Balsam saw it happen very clearly. The blue-wolf’s blood and brains exploded in a shower as it collapsed, and across the line of blue, more monsters stumbled. Fell. Not all as dramatically as the first, but—
“What was that? Did the Titan make the rocks explode like the Archmage of Centaurs?”
Questions arose as the Lizardfolk gasped and cheered. Balsam squinted. His eyes narrowed, and he focused…he saw clearly and then muttered.
“No. He stopped the stones.”
Balsam could see in the distance, as the blue monsters drew back a second in confusion, what was going on. Hovering in the air, frozen in place, the rocks that the Lizardfolk had hurled were just…stuck in the air.
Like they were under [Stasis]. Not floating, not anti-gravity or anything else, just fixed there. Hard as rocks.
What happened if you hit a rock that wouldn’t move while travelling at the speed of the Azure Beasts? Well, that. More than one of the Azure Beasts was howling, bones or their weird shells broken. Balsam began to breathe as a voice called.
“Bows, prepare to volley! Wait, wait—”
The Azure Beasts were coming in for a second charge, and this time, they were going to reach the Lizardfolk lines. Balsam bared his teeth. Come on—come on, Titan—
 
——
 
Niers was almost disappointed that had worked. He spoke out of the corner of his mouth.
“Azure Beasts aren’t processing at the speed they’re moving. My guess is when they blur, they’re moving faster than they can think or react. Or else they would have realized the stones were there. See? They’re coming slower past the rocks. Now they speed up—”
He watched them regaining momentum, coming in for a charge. Now, Niers had the Dullahans and Centaurs in the back ranks aiming volleys at the beasts who were about to hit Balsam’s front.
He lifted a hand, glancing at his [Strategists]. He’d called for good ones to join him in this offensive. Niers had a lot of Skills himself, but variety meant any army got infinitely more powerful. Like the one he’d asked for for this battle. [Stop Projectile]. He’d used this particular trick on Aria Fellstrider’s mother. And here was another from Jungle Tails’ own bag of tricks.
“—Now. Medusae!”
As the Azure Beasts entered optimal range, Eyevil and five more of her compatriots slithered upright. They opened their eyes, their snake-hair rising, and they did what Medusae were famous for: their petrifying, freezing, slowing glare.
Of course, it was only six of them. Not nearly enough to freeze any large force. You needed hundreds, and only Jungle Tails had that many. The terror of Medusae en-masse…what did you do if you lacked them?
Niers watched as Eyevil projected her magical glower into the object sitting in front of her. It looked like a giant…round…pane of glass. It was mounted on a wooden platform with wheels, and if you gazed up at it from the other side, it magnified Eyevil’s face. Her eyes.
The giant, rolling magnifying glass projected a cone across the field as the other five Medusae used their respective platforms to criss-cross the field. They didn’t manage to slow the surprised Azure Beasts fully; maybe only to 3/4ths of their speed? But the shock was enough.
“Loose. [Archers: Triplicate Volley].”
Niers’ hand swung down, and then the air was filled with arrows. They fell amongst the Azure Beasts who ran into the oncoming fire. Even then, the damn things dodged and juked, but they were still slowed enough, momentum lost.
“It really is like fighting Aria minus the music. Skeldriv! [Countercharge]!”
Niers yelled, and he saw Balsam launch forwards almost before he’d shouted it. The Drake knew the business of war, and so did the Lizardfolk. They rushed the Azure Beasts with a roar, and Niers watched the Medusae sag backwards onto their platforms, tired.
He eyed the swirling blue mass ahead of him and saw a flicker of movement ahead. Some of the scrying spells he had trained on the cloud indicated more bodies amassing.
“I wonder how there are so many. Are they all trying to get out of the Dyed Lands? And why? They’re pulling back for another assault. This color retreats and advances like, well, the ocean. [Mages], prepare some [Light] spells for me. I want to test a few more things.”
 
——
 
Ah, now that was the displeasurable feeling Niers’ foes knew well. In two moves, he had beaten back the first waves of blue like it was nothing. Not bloodlessly; they could see him leaving some of his Lizardfolk on the battlefield, but they’d forced the Azure Beasts into retreat with amazing ease.
Of course, part of that was because of the tools the Medusae had used.
“The Glasses of Amplification! He stole those from our temples!”
Half the Lizardfolk in Jungle Tails’ secret headquarters were outraged. But the Dragontouched, head of their military affairs, just sat, monitoring the battle.
Surely all nations who prided themselves on their prowess in war were watching the Titan. If only to learn. One hated to admit it, but he defined this era’s warfare. The Dragontouched was a student of Niers Astoragon, as was at least one of his Dragonfire Generals.
Speaking of which…the Dragontouched eyed another battle shaping up in the forests, but the Wyrmgraced had taken command of that affair with Calanfer. He commented as the noisy Nagas went silent at his voice.
“He has stolen techniques and forces from every species. Look. The Azure Beasts are coming in force.”
More blue monsters, big ones now. It seemed they combined speed with size, because a massive, four-legged monster with a snub head and a lot of teeth was roaring out of the clouds. This time, though, the Titan wasn’t going to let them amass without trouble. The scrying orb shifted viewpoints, and here came the fliers.
 
——
 
Peki didn’t realize that the Azure Beasts had fliers until Niers had given the order.
“Garuda Wings, escort Skyfire in. Give me a flame wall straight through the center of that mass. I want them cooking.”
“Yes, Lord Astoragon. Garuda, to the air!”
Feathered figures leapt into the air, more than Peki had known there were in Baleros! Nearly a hundred were flying, and she followed her Wing Leader, who was in ‘Beta’ group. Peki flew swiftly through the skies, inhaling an odd scent as she drew closer to the cloud.
Smells like…blueberries? Or the idea of blue itself. She shook herself, balling a fist, and heard voices.
