“I’ll have someone write it in her name tomorrow and deliver it this week. Just find a moment to go into the city, alright?”
“Sure. Er, thank you, sir. That’ll help a lot with the, uh, the rumors.”
“Think nothing of it. Anything else?”
There was not. Balsam saluted as Niers nodded to him, and the Titan got the distinct impression that the Drake was glad to have gotten all this over with. Niers sighed. After nearly twenty damn years, the Drake was still cagey as could be around him.
Ah, well, you had to respect that.
“Just you wait until I send Erin at you.”
Niers muttered at Balsam, then cursed. All his Skills and talents and he could have really used one interpersonal Skill. Charisma was not his forte.
 
——
 
Then again, neither was it Aria Fellstrider’s. Oh, she was attractive to Centaurs, Niers supposed. She was fit, high-level, and if that wasn’t enough, he was sure her mother had enough money to make Aria the most attractive Centauress in the world if she hadn’t been born looking like that.
She was very, very good at war. The moment she had been born, she’d followed her mother into battlefields, and the Bannermare was incisive, witty, but charismatic?
…Not to him. She came into his camps where his army was assembling, and everyone was all over her, begging for an autograph, standing in awe of Maelstrom’s Howling’s 2nd in command, even if she was a sometimes enemy.
But to Niers, she just vaguely annoyed him.
“Niers! Good of you to show up on the front! Here to prove your company’s better than all the others?”
She meant it as a jest or challenge, tossing her bluish-silver hair in an arc. Niers blandly stuck out a hand as she halted in front of the pedestal he used to meet visitors face-to-face.
“That’s the plan, Aria. How’s Gwelin doing? Perorn says Izril is lovely for galloping about, especially the Great Plains. ‘As good as home’, she said.”
Aria’s confidence visibly faltered as she held out a finger for him to shake. She stamped a hoof.
“I’ll pass it on. Mother complains about her hooves and back all the time. Both backs.”
“You should hear Foliana complain about her fur. I heard you ran into some nastiness. Crimson eaters not a fun foe?”
She scowled harder.
“We managed! Don’t go giving me lectures, Niers. I’m not the filly you remember.”
He remembered when she was a shy little Centauress hiding behind her mother. All the dazzling charm of her aura hit Niers’…and bounced off. Without it, Aria just looked, well, young and jostling to impress, teasing and poking, like most kids her age.
“I wouldn’t dream of insulting Maelstrom’s Howling’s greatest frontline commander. Frankly, I only wish Tulm were here; the Iron Vanguard looks a bit too timid to engage properly on their front.”
“Hah! They are that, but it’s not easy. You’re up against blue. Your people did well against Stygian black or whatever they’re called, but blue has torn up all four Great Companies.”
“You mean three.”
“Do I? Oh, well, Jungle Tails is practically a Great Company again. Or else you wouldn’t struggle against them, right?”
An innocent expression as she tossed her hair again. Niers just sighed. Amazing how she was the same age as other people and just not as mature at times. Erin…no, she’d been that silly sometimes, he supposed, but Aria?
“I’ll do my best. What’s the issue? Speed?”
She scowled harder.
“Don’t joke. Some of them are almost as fast as me. It’s hard to fight them without taking casualties, and they want to race off and attack any settlements around. The only thing worse than them is green because of the infestation thing, or maybe red if they eat. And white because they’re invisible, and yellow’s blinding…”
They were all bad. Niers glanced at his notes.
“I’ll get more experience now that I’m here. It’s one thing to hear, another to see. I had a few thoughts, though. Tell me, have you considered using light spells against them? Especially white or black—it might illuminate them or something?”
She laughed at him, triumphantly, as the Centaurs around her grinned.
“Too slow, Titan! We’ve been doing that for ages. Yes, if you want to, you can bait them into attacking. Red will go for other colors—or avoid them if they feel weak—nice to see you’re as good as Maelstrom’s Howling’s top [Strategists].”
He smiled mildly as a few of the officers around him bristled. Good thing Venaz wasn’t here or he’d probably cause a stink.
“Ah, well, I did think it was a basic thought, but Lizvek wasn’t doing it. Surely, I’ll come up with a better strategy in time!”
His genial attitude towards her seemed to annoy Aria more than if he’d been insulting her right back. She hesitated, then danced closer on her hooves.
“Is, uh, Ryoka with you, or that Erin Solstice? I wanted to meet with them.”
“Sadly, they’ve gone east. If they have time, I’m sure they’d be delighted to meet with you.”
Discontented, she glanced around at his forces.
“Are you mustering a new army, then? I saw Perfectionist Lizvek was leaving. What’re you bringing?”
“Just a few groups. A full-board army.”
“A…I’ve heard that term. What is that?”
Niers shrugged as he saw several owls flying in overhead. A few of the Centaurs around Aria glanced up, but none of them seemed to realize it was more Fraerlings arriving via stealth. He didn’t feel like having Aria gush over Fraerlings all day, so he declined to mention them.
“Oh, that’s just an internal term we use. It’s when I decide to take disparate groups and form up an army that can counter most contingencies. Full-board? As in a chess board.”
She groaned and rolled her eyes, stamping her foot impatiently. Aria was no good chess player.
“Argh. You and your chess-things. And just putting armies together like that! They’re not going to fight together like a proper force who has experience!”
“My troops are used to adapting. But, then, I’m sure if I do have any flaws, it’ll appear in my performance against the Dyed Lands monsters, Aria. Can I offer you any refreshments? I’d drink, but I have to take command tomorrow. If you’d care to stay, my students would love to meet you…”
She was glancing around moodily.
“No. I just wanted to meet Ryoka or the Fraerlings.”
“Ah, well, I’m sorry to disappoint you. Foliana might be around if you—”
Aria jumped and trotted around in a circle.
“What? No! No! I don’t need her sneaking up on me again. I’ll just ride back; it’s not far.”
Visibly annoyed she hadn’t gotten under his skin, she trotted backwards, and Niers rolled his eyes. You beat a Centaur once in battle and they held it against you for the rest of their lives. In truth, he felt like he was the ‘big, bad, scary [Strategist]’ to Aria. She’d watched her own mother lose more than one battle to him when he was rising.
“Chip on her shoulder the size of Wistram. Though she’s not as stupid or spoiled as you might think.”
He commented casually to the air, and someone jumped.
Patrol Captain Shoike appeared with Iuncuta Eirnos and the other commanders of the Tallguard, seeming rather embarrassed. The invisible Fraerlings from Itelloi eyed Niers.
“Did you have a ring that detected us, Titan?”
Shoike asked, and he snorted.
“No. I just guessed you were there when I saw the rest of the Tallguard arriving.”
Plus, my pedestal moves slightly if more weight is put on it than just myself. He trusted them, of course; it would be a terrible thing to have an enemy Fraerling city with all their technology and resources. He hoped the one that Jungle Tails had captured wasn’t being suborned. Even Eirnos hadn’t found it yet, though Fraerlings were looking.
Eirnos murmured as she fixed Aria with her one good eye.
“She seems far more childish than I was led to believe for one of Baleros’ greatest commanders.”
“Just around me. She can be an adult. But I do like to tease her.”
Sure enough, Aria was glancing over her shoulder, and Niers couldn’t help it. He addressed the hugest figure on the pedestal with a laugh, raising his voice.
“Rozcal! How are you liking the front? Fancy fighting any of the monsters with your Crelerbane Armor?”
Commander Rozcal laughed.
“They’re a bit big, and there’s a lot of them, but I’d try taking down one of them wolf-things solo! Just say the word, Niers!”
Even among the other Fraerlings, they thought he was crazy, but the huge, bluff Fraerling with his bright orange beard and impressive physique could probably do it, given his level. Niers saw Aria focus on the tiny figures as she heard their loud voices, then she screamed.
“Niers, you liar!”
She came stampeding back, and Niers saluted Eirnos.
“I have to run. I have your forces in reserve, Iuncuta. Aria, go to bed. You’re way past your bedtime.”
“You—you—you—”
He strolled off with a laugh as the Fraerlings blinked at him, and he reduced Baleros’ most eligible Centauress into a spluttering, finger-pointing ball of outrage.
Then he sat moodily in his war tent for a while. He drank no wine, but muttered.
“You brat. Speak to me like someone who understands this is war, or like a child. Don’t do both.”
Then he shook his head, and shrugged. He’d take it out on her forces next time she thought she could win a battle against him. Sometimes friends, sometimes enemies. He lay down to sleep.
When he woke up, it was time for war.
 
——
 
Venaz, Marian, Umina, Cameral, Jekilt, Kissilt, Merrik, and Peki all were present to see the Titan of Baleros’ first engagement with the Azure Beasts. Even some officers that they didn’t know so well, like Kaelma, Kelsa, and Romin, were definitely watching from wherever they’d been stationed.
Not that all the students were actually on the field, of course. They were split up amongst different commands. Cameral had been serving under Strategist Lizvek, whom he described as ‘challenging’, which was as good as saying the Stitch-man was a nightmare, and Kissilt and Jekilt had been actually trusted with their own armies.
“Just hunting down monsters that break through. It’s a nightmare. They’re all poisonous. I got a whiff of one of them before we were all issued masks, and I was vomiting for five hours straight. But I am glad you’re here. We’ll see if two of the famous ‘Strategists at Sea’ and their magic Relic-swords can turn the tides. Shame Feshi had to stay in Izril.”
Kissilt was always grating, but he actually clasped hands with everyone. Jekilt was far more casual, having seen battle before becoming a student.
“It’s intense, just like Kissilt says. Don’t mind his tongue. He kept moaning about how he wished you were here, Umina. We’ve had to adapt strategies a lot to deal with the colors.”
Kissilt turned bright red and began roaring objections, but then Venaz spoke.
“Where are you all being stationed? I’m with the Professor in his army. He has me with the ‘Shoreaxes’. I don’t know them personally, but they’re definitely good. Merrik?”
“I’m garrisoning the base camp.”
The Dwarf was all gloom. Apparently given the speed of the foe and his own relative weakness there, he had to run defense against attacks. He pointed accusatorially at Peki.
“Peki, on the other hand, is in the flying wings for Niers’ army!”
Kissilt and Jekilt whistled.
“Wait, Cameral’s been given logistics duty—that means you two are seeing the Titan’s combat? That’s the thick of things! Umina, Marian?”
“We’re assigned eastwards of here, or will be. Marian’s actually with some of the riders. Uh, under a Commander Jirem? But she’s not in charge.”
Jekilt nodded.
“I know Jirem. He’s an amazing commander in his own right. Centaurs. The Professor must trust you all.”
Cameral and Kissilt instinctively glanced towards Venaz. Here would be where the Minotaur blustered that it was only what they deserved or some such, and how well they’d do. Instead, Venaz just touched the hilt of his greatsword.
“That or he’s entrusting us to places we can do little harm. I doubt we’re ready. I’m going to meet the Shoreaxes and defer to their commander as to where I use my Skills. I’m sure you three have enough experience to lead independently, but we’re still too green.”
What a statement. Kissilt’s jaw actually fell open, but Venaz looked like he meant it. Even Peki nodded.
“Big fighting. Flight Leader told me to just follow her, so I will.”
Venaz the Prideful wasn’t sure he was going to do well? His journeys at sea and battles in Izril might have actually tempered the Minotaur. When the others asked about Wil and Yerra, Marian just shrugged.
“They’re on escort-duty for Erin Solstice herself. They seemed worried. Anti-assassin duty, probably. I hope we all pull our weight. For our part, I’m just glad we have actual troops. Remember Talenqual?”
Cameral shuddered, and Kissilt nodded.
“Monsters are easier—well, sort of. How do you think the Professor is going to do? Everyone’s watching, you know. He has to do well, or…but the blues are the hardest, I’ve heard. They’re just too fast.”
Jekilt showed them scratches on his flanks.
“Bites from the blue wolves. Your trenches or palisades or static defenses barely matter. You won’t have time to loose arrows—they’re just on you in seconds.”
Bad news if you specialized in hit-and-run like Marian. Merrik seemed the least-concerned as he grunted.
“Heavy armor is what I’d do.”
“You say that—but some of the big blues can smash someone in plate armor.”
“Well, I saw some War Walkers back there. The Titan’s pulling out all the stops. Weird War Walkers, though…”
Cameral’s head rose as Umina jerked a finger over her shoulder. He blinked.
“Forgotten Wing doesn’t have many War Walkers. General Diomedes has three of the largest, but the rest are…oh. Oh. He’s brought the Armortraitors. But they’ll be ineffective against blue. Maybe he’s going to rotate them after…?”
They didn’t know what to expect, but nerves were high. Not only for themselves but for Niers. There was a sense that everyone had great expectations of the Titan. If he couldn’t prove he was better at, well, strategy, then what?
“Funny. I never thought I’d be worried about the Professor.”
Umina commented to them as they ate over breakfast. In the distance, she saw the odd army that Niers had put together making for the pass that Strategist Lizvek had pulled his troops out of. Marian trotted after Umina to a place they could watch from.
“Me neither. But how do you deal with pure speed? Barrier spells and just hammer them? Maybe narrow the pass so they’re choked off?”
