They called it Oelnnox. The place where the Titan of Baleros was keeping the children.
Of course, that was a lie. He hadn’t taken the children from their families in the night.
That was Jungle Tails. They had not broken the doors down and dragged the children screaming into the streets…at the start. Rather, Lizardfolk had lined up before the Nagas to send their children to a place, they were told, that would give them levels, training. Help them evolve. Defeat the Forgotten Wing Company that was attacking Jungle Tails. Restore the Eyes of Baleros to the temples, and finally, finally, bring back the Nagatine Empire.
Only when those children had never returned, and more had been demanded, year after year, had the kidnappings begun. Families had begged, petitioned, tried to recover their children or just learn what had become of them.
They vanished too, and that was the legacy of the facility. The Titan hadn’t been responsible for any of the sins now thrown at his feet.
Niers Astoragon was merely the one who had found Oelnnox. Marched his armies past the city of Ebbyxi and breached the stone keep buried in the hill. Then ordered his forces to surround the hill. Had every Naga in Ebbyxi marched out at spearpoint and demanded answers. Then—cordoned off the entire area. He did not let the children out, though hopeful parents who’d been begging to see them for years had come crowding around the doors.
He’d called for [Healers]. He’d called for [Mages]. He had called for Foliana, Three-Color Stalker. Then he had a huge ring of defenses constructed around the facility.
Oelnnox was never opened.
But it was a lie, also, to imply that no children had ever left Oelnnox. They had. Jungle Tails had taken a number of them out in the months before the Titan’s forces swept the region. And, in the decade since the Titan had taken that spot…certainly some children had emerged. A few times, each one notable, remembered.
Oh, and the last lie was this: they called it Oelnnox. But Jungle Tails had not named it when the children had been brought there. The facility had been named long before that. It was not the first time the facility had been used for purposes that required a lack of light and prying eyes. Maybe it made it easier, working in a place that was already stained.
That was where they went. The Sariant Lamb who wore a Human’s form. The [Doctor]. The Wind Runner. The Earthers, the Selphid clone, the faeries, and mercenaries. It was so they could see, out of curiosity. Because at least one of them thought they needed an army.
The Titan allowed it, because it served his ends. But it would be wrong to say that he had no idea what to do with the children there or what he was sending the Earthers into. It was just…
Difficult.
 
——
 
Niers Astoragon debated telling ‘Erin’ what she was going to find until the day of their departure. In the end, he gave her a letter for her to read, provisioned her few hundred [Mercenaries] and the United Nations company, ensured they had clear roads and measures against trouble—at least from [Assassins] or [Bandits]—and left it at that.
Part of it was spite. If ‘Erin’ wanted to prove herself, claim the power of that place, she could damn well earn it. Telling her his perspective would cloud her judgement, anyways.
The other, more reasoned part he hoped was informing the decision was, well, guilt. It was hard. In the end, he decided he had to tell someone, and so he compromised. He summoned two individuals to his study whom he felt would benefit from the information.
“Wil. Yerranola. Come in. Have a seat anywhere. Are you ready to travel? Yerra, how’s your mobility?”
The Titan was drinking as he sat on his table, staring at a few candles he’d lit and old journal entries. Instantly, both his students were fascinated.
They had never seen, nor known of, the Titan’s personal bookshelf of journals. Each one was hand-written. Unique. Never-copied, stained with dirt and blood and even moss from his travels. A fortune beyond fortunes. He glanced up as Yerra stumbled a bit, and Wil hurried to clear a chair of documents for her to sit. She sat, jerkily, and her cheeks turned orange under her pale, Human body.
“I’m good to travel, Professor! Just a bit—stutter-y. I don’t need to run around to lead the mercenaries. Plus, most’re Selphids. They’ll listen to me.”
He regarded her with one eye and nodded.
“As I understand it, you’ve lost too much body mass due to the poison, and operating regular forms is difficult, damage aside, yes?”
She hesitated. The Gnolls had helped complete her treatments, but she had continued to ‘shed’ damaged parts of her body. Complications in the healing after she and Wil and everyone else had hoped she was done. She nodded glumly, and Niers went on, voice brisk. Not unkind, but direct.
“You may heal, but right now, you’re no longer the [Strategist] who could run with Marian and Venaz. Remember that, Yerranola. You need to compete with your mind, like General Gloriam had to learn. Forget and Wil will have to make up for your lacks. And this time, it won’t end with your personal wounds. Mess up and your people will die. More than already have, that is.”
His voice was not as kind as normal, and Wil protested as he found another chair and pushed it to the table.
“Professor! Yerra’s been working hard to—”
She silenced him with a glare. Wil hesitated as he sat. Niers just folded the leather journal in his hands and put it on the table.
“If I sound short, Wil, I am. I’m sending you on your first command. You’ve had your first adventure. Tell me again, with the benefit of hindsight. How does it feel to know you’re going into the field?”
They’d done this before, albeit when the world was better. Before Jungle Tails—before Erin Solstice. Niers saw Wil hesitate and glance at Yerra, the casualty of his last adventure, though it had been mercifully kind in terms of deaths. Well, kind to him and his friends. Captain Lasc and the crew of the Emerald Signet had been reduced to a fifth strength. The oceans had run with sailor blood. But it had really been a kind adventure.
This was going to be harder, and Wil seemed to realize that.
“I…if you put it like that, sir, I am worried. About my ability to take command of forces who might not respect me. Of the danger of ambush, especially given Miss Solstice’s reputation. Of Jungle Tails, whom I do expect to encounter. These…pirates…who attacked the Singer of Terandria, and…our destination. It’s not on any maps, sir. At least, none in the markets. It is in the Forgotten Wing company’s libraries, but I understand all the reports about it are classified. I asked the [Librarian].”
Good lad. Yerra shifted as Wil spoke, and Niers nodded to himself. Wil was a peerless logistician. Yerranola had common sense and experience he lacked. Together, Niers hoped they’d be the assets that Erin, Ryoka, Geneva, Beth, and the United Nations company needed. But they were all so young.
“You’re right to worry, Wil. Not about your ability to command. You will learn, win or fail. So long as you don’t run away or break, you’ll improve. But I wish I could flip you with one of the [Strategists] moving towards the Dyed Lands with me. Venaz, Marian, Umina, any of them will have an easier time with their respective duties than you two will.”
That didn’t make his students happier. Now they were glancing at each other, and Niers rang a bell on his table. Seneschal Atmodeca, the Crocodile Beastkin, came in with wine and poured them a cup. Both refused; they wanted to be sober for the next day.
He was proud of them.
He didn’t want them to die. But he wanted them to level. If they didn’t level now, they’d die later. If that made sense? So he’d rather risk their lives now than know they were going to die if he coddled them.
Bastard’s logic. It was why he was drinking.
Oelnnox brought it out in him.
Cups of wine were replaced by water. They drank as Yerranola surreptitiously took the cure that staved the pain off. Her hand shook a bit, and Wil caught her arm and helped put the cup on the table. Then he licked his lips.
“Sir, if you’ll forgive me stating the obvious—you’re headed to the Dyed Lands, where monsters are coming out in literal waves. They’ve taken nearly a hundred miles of territory around the Dyed Lands. People regard it as a cataclysmic event; the only thing they’re arguing over is what level. And Jungle Tails is also fighting the Dyed Lands, so the odds of our classmates seeing both formal war against Jungle Tails and all-out battle against monsters is all but certain. And Oelnnox is worse?”
“Yes.”
It was Yerranola’s turn to take over. Her orange irises were like a flower blooming, wide at the top, narrowing downwards in a stem of color, one of the ways you could sometimes tell Selphids apart.
“Pardon me, Professor. I know you like teasing us, but you seem a bit—off. Even for you. This isn’t you having fun, is it?”
He smiled at her, willing to cut to the chase.
“No, Yerra, it is not. Oelnnox is a hard place to talk about. I have not told Erin about it. Not fully. Let me be more straightforwards. To be honest…I don’t think about it often. Entire months or even a year goes by and I don’t do more than glance at a report. Put it out of my mind. It’s been…a decade since I found it? Well, I was aware of it when the Forgotten Wing company first came to power as a Great Company. It was on my list of things to do, but I was fighting for every holding Jungle Tails had. It was just one item on a long list that included murdering their entire High Command, stealing the Eye of Baleros with the Lightning Thief, allying with the Gazers—you know.”
They were listening now. Intently, but Niers didn’t want to tell war stories. It was not the time. He took a deeper drink of wine. Grimaced.
“Oelnnox is a facility where Jungle Tails embarked on a program to take children—Lizardfolk children from their own people—and turn them into assets. They experimented. They broke the Minacien Wall. They gained blood classes and Skills down there, and the worst part was that they were very, very good at what they did. They did it, you see, because of Forgotten Wing. They were trying to make weapons to win the war.”
“Dead gods. And the children? They—how many did you save?”
“Save? None, Wil. They saved themselves. My forces found the facility, killed the Lizardfolk forces in the region, but when we arrived, it was already cleared of Jungle Tails soldiers. The children rose up. They killed their wardens. Killed the [Soldiers]. And you know what I did after that?”
Wil scrubbed at his hair, thinking, face scrunched up with horror, but Yerranola had gone still. Watching him.
“I imagine you’d need healers, to find their families. The amount of energy and time you’d have to devote to that would be…”
“You didn’t let them out, did you, Professor?”
Yerra interrupted, and Wil’s head shot up. Niers raised his cup.
“No, indeed I did not, Yerra. I had the facility cordoned off. Stationed a garrison force there. For a decade, I have had food and medicine, and [Healers] and [Mages] sent there. It costs a small fortune. But I have not let them out.”
“But, sir! Why…how dangerous are they?”
Wil objected instinctively, then grew pensive, nervous. And the atmosphere that hung around the Titan—like soiled air, greasy, filled with cold sins and lukewarm energy—grew staler still.
“You’re about to find out, Wil. Now, listen to me, you two. I am giving you command over the garrison when you get there. Review their documentation. I had a list of the peculiars, but that bastard, Peclir, stole it. Jungle Tails must still want the facility…they’ll have copies on site. They’ve taken the facility four times over the years. Never took it back, just managed to wipe out my garrisons or bypass them. They never took the children out. They were massacred.”
This confused Wil. He raised a hand as if he were in class, and Yerra grinned at him, and he turned red.
“Pardon me, Professor, but why did you allow it? You beat Jungle Tails. The fact that they had special agents or forces—now after they’ve rebuilt, I understand, but why…?”
Why didn’t you curtail them before now? It seemed like a glaring weakness, but Niers just glanced up and smiled bleakly.
“Holding territory when you’re unwanted and the native populations are against you isn’t ever easy, Wil. They always fight back. You can either try to kill them all or tamp down on all the fires being started. But inevitably, they organize and gather their strength. Unless you murder every last one of them, all the children, burn down their homes, salt the earth—”
He wore a terrible expression then. One of understanding, and he turned it on Wil.
“I did not. I won many Lizardfolk over, but never the majority. And Wil. When you study this, look to Terandrian colonies. Your kingdoms never learn. The latest ones you lost were in Chandrar. You’ve had them on other continents. One could argue the King of Destruction was a direct result of the last time your people held ground. So no, I didn’t crush all of Jungle Tails. It’s hard. Hard to shoot down a hundred thousand Lizardfolk civilians forming a living wall between them and their temples.”
He shook his head.
“—Besides, if I’d done that, every single one of them would have started fighting again. Jungle Tails was an adversary best left beaten, not forced into a corner. I thought I’d have more time. Oelnnox…that was just a way of keeping them from making their resurgence sooner.”
Niers was thumbing through the journal absently. Remembering. He wiped his hand on his jacket a few times. Grimaced despite the good wine.
“Where was I? Ah, yes. They’d kill Jungle Tails, even now. You’ll have a shot if you fly my flags; the ones who hold the upper levels will trust you a bit more. But I am allowing you to go there because Erin wants to see it. It’s a test of her, and frankly, it might solve the issue of the facility. I know Jungle Tails will come back. The last thing I need is for them to somehow take command of the kids.”
“So we’re going to try to ally with them? Persuade them, sir? Or ensure no one takes the facility?”
“I don’t know, Wil. Investigate. See what Erin does. See what Geneva does. Whatever your conclusion, I will analyze and judge in fairness. Even if you have to raze the entire place and salt the earth. I know what I should have done, but I can’t do it.”
The [Lord] of the Hundred Families of Terandria did not like being told that in the same breath as ‘children’. Yerranola, though, just glanced at Niers.
“Professor, what do you mean by ‘should have done’? You mean let them out? Or…or given them mercy?”
“Yerra!”
