“Good to know even among our people, travel food tastes like horse leavings. Right, students. I am heading to the Dyed Lands. This is the beginning of the Forgotten Wing’s push back against the monsters. Frankly, strategically, I would have preferred to have taken the fight to them over a month ago. We would have done just that, but the war with Jungle Tails means that entire armies have to combat them. The realities of a multi-front war. You recall my lectures about how fun it is to fight multiple foes at once?”
“Yes, sir. Uh, don’t do it?”
That came from Umina, and there was scattered laughter. Nervous—Venaz shifted, and Niers eyed his greatsword, the green diamond sword, a Relic-class blade. He nodded at it.
“Well, that’s reality. The King of Destruction can relate. With that said, I have an announcement. Today, the lessons end. I am going to be calling on all my students assigned to frontline duty to act as [Strategists]. You aren’t graduated, but you’re ready. If you’re not, we will find out, but this isn’t class. That doesn’t mean you stop learning. But what you are going to learn, what I trust you to observe is…”
He paused, closing his eyes and thinking, and the analogy came to him at once. Something he’d been chewing on of late.
“The difference for many of you is that you come from nations with rulers. Even if they’re not monarchs, be it a Walled City or anywhere else—you have men and women who rule. They do not always lead. Whether or not they inspire…I hope you will analyze the difference in my conduct. If you don’t understand the difference between those words, find a dictionary. I will see you at the city of Illgrem when you arrive. Marian, take lead with Venaz and move yourself at all reasonable speed.”
That was it. No precise instructions, no hand-holding. Get to where you need to be and report in. There was a terror to vagueness, to having to do things yourselves, but his instincts to hold their hands and coddle them—no, he’d trained them better than that.
Terror was replaced by confidence—or at least, the ability to master terror—on his students’ faces. Niers turned, then had a thought.
“Felk.”
The Drake [Teacher], who would be taking over the younger classes with Perorn and Niers absent, glanced up as Niers spun on his heel.
“Niers?”
“Have your classes calculate just how much gold I’m spending today. It should be eye-opening.”
That was it. The Fraerling finished adjusting his coat, washed down the gritty cricket-bar with some water from a flask, and turned on his heel. He left the Professor behind him as he strode back into the Fraerways. Then the Titan of Baleros was jogging to make it up to the landing pads to keep his schedule. The students muttered, then heard and saw him depart Elvallian for the front.
All of Baleros did, if they cared to look. Scrying spells—though this was not interesting news that would make the likes of Lord Molen race to watch—there were eyes on him, because he was one of the most important beings in Baleros. And because he told them he was coming.
 
——
 
A hawk flew from Elvallian’s landing pads, carrying the Fraerling in the air. He sat in a custom-made saddle that actually had gravity spells and a damn desk; he was writing orders on the fly, organizing his forces. Below him, the city became smaller, and he flew in a straight line from here to his destination.
Over the trade roads moving with people, the jungles buzzing to life, a single hawk—albeit one not native to Baleros—soaring towards the Dyed Lands.
But they looked up. People halted on the roads and pointed. Scrying spells covered the road ahead since they could not lock onto him, and entire cities glanced at the tiny figure they could barely see.
The Titan of Baleros’ shadow fell over them, and he passed, too tiny but felt. He did not restrain his aura. Yet how did they know in advance he was coming?
He told them.
“The, uh, Titan of Baleros is heading for the Dyed Lands in person, which indicates to me that we may be seeing a full push from the Forgotten Wing company against these monsters. Our coverage has mostly focused on the New Lands, but I suppose it’s all land, all the time these days, eh, Sir Relz?”
“Er, yes, ha-ha, Noass. It’s rather economical as travel-plans go. My, just look at that. A straight line from here to…”
Wistram News Network on the side of the desk. Niers glanced at a tiny image of himself and a map where a red line was marking his route. The two Drakes were staring at it, running idle commentary.
“Must be a slow news day.”
Perhaps it fascinated royalty of other nations more than Balerosians. Niers was by himself. No bodyguards, big or small. Heading over terrain his company held or independent zones towards the front. With Jungle Tails at war with him? After his last assassination attempt?
Yes and yes. Vler was right that there were easier, faster ways to do this, though this was quick enough. But you did this the suboptimal way because you made a point.
The Titan flew, and no spell materialized out of the air to burn his hawk out of the skies. No rain of magical arrows. No curse.
There was a flicker of magic to the left. Niers glanced up as Vler chirped in his earpiece.
“That’s six so far, Niers.”
“Mhm. I’m putting together an army from our units. Forwarding.”
“Ooh. A full board of pieces?”
“Yep. Have Skeldriv’s Lizardfolk be the vanguard and put Venaz with the Axes.”
“I’m sure he’ll enjoy that. Should I attach Marian to Jirem’s group? She’d benefit from watching him work.”
“No on Marian unless you can’t find another spot for her. She’s not going to be an asset for Jirem. Double provisions for Jirem. I’m going to want to see the front in person for a day or two. Foliana should be around. When she deigns to pop up, have the Named-rankers meet with her. If she likes them, we’re good. If not, find Gold-rankers or a team. Oh, and Iuncuta’s forces are coming by. Put them with the full-board army.”
Niers was writing it all down, of course, but this was important…he rubbed at his forehead.
“Damn hangovers. Wait…I need a [Druid].”
“Ours or just one…?”
“Ugh. Get me one that’s not hugging trees, will you? I don’t care from where. I can wait a few days on that. More orders to come.”
Another flare of light on his left side. This time, Niers turned his head. The Skerhawk made an unsettled sound.
“That felt like a big one.”
Niers watched idly and heard the two Drakes on the scrying orb exclaim after a few minutes.
“Another one. Let’s see! This is rather uncanny, Sir Relz. Do you think that’s really all hostile magic?”
“We have to take them at their word, I suppose. We are asking Wistram to confirm…aha.”
Sir Relz adjusted his monocles.
“It says to our viewers, ‘[Ray of Incineration] neutralized by Magus Gribbles. Sender: Jungle Tails’. Ancestors. Isn’t that Tier 5 magic?”
Niers snorted.
“Magus Gribbles.”
He was distracted for a full five minutes looking up if they had a ‘Magus Gribbles’ on record. Sometimes the [Mages] got cute. More writing appeared in the air of a similar nature.
 
‘[Rain of Light Arrows] neutralized by Shaman Zibs. Hey, Mom and Dad! Sent by King of Destruction?’
‘Curse from somewhere in Rhir, deflected by [Witch] Coven Neilvek. Buy our charms.’
 
That was why people watched, of course. Show of, if not force, then authority. Here I am, flying. Shoot me down if you can. And if you can’t, then everyone knows that the Forgotten Wing company goes where it wants.
That was what his company had lost after Jungle Tails, Niers felt. A bit of the authority, the reputation that made them a Great Company of Baleros. It was a reflection on him; his reputation suffered, and everyone started saying, ‘this is it, they’re finished’.
His job was to remind them, each and every time, that this was just their willful imaginations. He won and lost and had come this far. Now, he had another war to win.
Two. For once, Niers would have rather had some peace, to find the real Erin, to deal with the other events in this world. But he had to own…the Dyed Lands?
He smiled. The Fraerling leaned forwards in his seat, staring ahead where he fancied he could see the whirling shades of color, like a hurricane, spiraling outwards from the center of the original Dyed Lands. Beautiful calamity. It called to him. It sounded like death and danger for so many. It sounded like fun.
He liked killing monsters.
 
——
 
Now, if you were a grunt, a real [Mercenary], even one in service to Forgotten Wing, you weren’t celebrating when you got an order to form up and roll over to the front.
In fact, when Illgrem was listed as the rendezvous point, the entire regiment of Skeldriv groaned or cheered. They were Lizardfolk predominantly; they didn’t just take Lizardfolk, as one of their [Captains] proved, but you tended to get mostly your species as volunteers.
Lizardfolk and Nagas, actually. More than one Medusa hailed from Skeldriv, having evolved during the course of fighting. It was a prestigious regiment; they weren’t some mucktails from the boonies with slings and cheap iron spears, no.
Their Lizardfolk wore armor, swaggered around with Minotaurs three feet taller than they were, and had the levels and experience to match. They were a good company, and their mixed reactions to the new front were, well, joy and dismay.
Dismay because you might die, because fighting these new monsters was gonna suck. Joy because this meant combat pay. And if the Titan was leading them or they were going to do hard stuff, the gold flowed.
And they loooved gold. Gold meant you were paying for your family, who was nagging you. Gold meant you were patching your armor or getting that enchanted weapon. Gold paid for those kids that definitely weren’t yours, or maybe they were, you’d been drunk. And maybe, if you were lucky, you had some actual gold saved up for when you were going to retire, which was ‘someday—why are you getting on my tail about this?’.
Gold made the wine flow. So, Skeldriv began to mobilize with fairly good speed. Mostly, it was grabbing all the soldiers out of the bars, doing a headcount, cleaning up so the next unit and the Forgotten Wing company didn’t shout at you for making a mess. They’d been posted in a city near-ish to the Dyed Lands front, on holiday after going up against Jungle Tails for two months.
That had been unpleasant. Partly because sometimes you fought and won or lost, but on the way out there was always one Lizardfolk who it turned out was actually Jungle Tails and had run after your group, thinking you were on the same side.
Poor idiots. Then you got called ‘traitor’ for not following the real Nagas, and so on and so forth. Skeldriv was with Forgotten Wing. The Titan paid better than the Nagas. They liked him. He won battles. That was all there was to it. If someone wanted to be an egghead about species and culture, they could head out, and, well, they’d better hope they never ran into the Titan’s strategies.
Skeldriv weren’t full-on dedicated yet, though. Just mercs. They had been offered three times to ‘headquarter’ a city. That was like how the Featherfolk Brigade had owned Talenqual, only it was under Forgotten Wing. You drew your recruits from that city, sort of became their law enforcement, protectors, and drew a portion of their revenues all at once. You still gave a lot to Forgotten Wing, but it made you established.
They’d voted on it, but each time Skeldriv had felt like it was just too much work, you know? They liked to roam. Headquartering meant you had to defend the city if trouble came. Maybe if they found the right city that was rich or well-placed enough…somewhere with a lovely beach. Talenqual would be awesome if the Fraerlings liked them.
“Who’re we fighting with, Plaxima?”
A Medusa named Eyevil was slithering around to find a fellow [Captain] still lazing in his tents who hadn’t heard the muster. She was new to her form, having evolved last year. Being a Medusa was awesome; she had snakes for ‘hair’, and she could sort of smell and taste what they did. She had eye-powers and respect…but everyone teased her about the name. Sometimes you took a new name to symbolize how you left your childish ways behind, and she’d panicked and—
Eyevil couldn’t go a week without some new recruit hearing her name and laughing their tail off. A Gorgon slithering next to her, another woman with six arms and a lot more height and mass, grunted.
“Sounds like Jirem’s Hooves are with us. I heard a claim that we were going to march with the Closedhelms and Shoreaxes. Plus, someone saw a flight of Garuda and Drakes coming in.”
Eyevil’s own magical eyes widened. She knew what that meant.
“Oh Nagas, that means we’re probably going to spearhead the attack? At least we’ve got serious help! Does that mean we won’t have to serve under Lizvek? I heard he was in command and—”
Neither one wanted to work under the punctilious, picky [Strategist]. Their regiment didn’t do perfect deployments and could fudge orders by accident, which Lizvek hated. The Gorgon grinned with all her sharp teeth.
“Sounds like it, Eyevy.”
“Balsamic is going to throw a fit.”
“When does he not?”
Plaxima halted outside of the tent where a loud snore was emanating from. Eyevil slapped the tent flaps once and entered; she had little concern about her fellow [Captain]’s modesty. You saw a lot in any merc company.
‘Balsamic’—or Balsam, his actual name—was another well-known [Captain] in the regiment for two reasons. The first was that his nickname was hilarious and everyone called him that. He had good humor about it, though, which was why he survived among the Lizardfolk.
Oh, and the second reason he was memorable was because he was a Drake. Eyevil eyed his ruby-red scales and rather impressive form as he jerked upright.
“Who the—oh hello, Eyevil. Took me up on my offer?”
He reached for a weapon, then tried to pose in his tangled sheets, clearly thinking he was getting lucky. Eyevil rolled her eyes as the Gorgon, Plaxima, slithered into the tent and snorted.
“In your dreams, Balsamic.”
“Two ladies at once? I can—aw, damnit, we’re being mobilized.”
Balsamic groaned as he realized what was going on. Eyevil snorted. Both she and Plaxima eyed his crotch for a moment, and not for the reasons he was hoping. Plaxima literally slithered back out of the tent as he swung out of bed. He tried to flirt with Plaxima, but she was already gone.
“We’re moving in fifteen! Get Vinegar company ready, Balsamic!”
Yes, his company was named Vinegar because they had to be. Balsamic was tugging on his clothing and hunting for boots.
“Where are we headed?”
Eyevil saw no reason to lie.
