Niers Astoragon stood there, waiting for another wave of the beasts to form up. After a moment, he sighed, kicked at his pedestal, and then cast around. Ostentatiously, he peered up at the sky, where he knew the scrying spells were, and shrugged.
Just for the cameras. He held his palms out, as disappointed as he felt.
That’s it?
 
——
 
Of course, Niers knew not every army could hope to replicate his tactics. Having the Fullhelms or as many fliers as he’d brought was impossible for others, but that was the purpose of this army.
A testing ground to figure out a foe’s weaknesses and capitalize on them, and as far as he was concerned, the Azure Beasts were a lot of weaknesses. Not that he expected them to stay weak, and their real danger was mobility.
They had a lot of ground to protect. Once the [Acid Cloud] spells had dispersed, he pointed.
“Jirem, sweep the field. Keep pushing until they reform. I want as many miles as you can grab. Ten would be nice.”
“Yes, Lord Astoragon! Centaurs, we ride!”
Here came Jirem and his fighters. They had been held back in the battle the entire time, pawing the ground, cheering, ready to go any moment—and he had held them.
He hadn’t even used the Shoreaxes or Fraerlings. The Titan watched the Centaurs storm forwards. If not purely as fast as all the Azure Beasts, they were precise, could gallop and fight as one unit—devastating outriders who could clean up the fleeing enemy.
That was Forgotten Wing for you. This army he’d brought, hodgepodge, of so many species, was impossible to find anywhere else in the world. Not just because you had so many species, but because of how they were fighting.
Take the Drakes or Centaurs, for instance. Both were entirely prideful; most Centaurs found it a point of honor to be attacking first in battle. They did not like being held in reserve, but in reserve was where they were best used in this case.
Aria Fellstrider would never allow it or convince her people to act like that in any good way. Similarly, Drakes taking the role of slow-moving, fragile fighters to be escorted by Garuda who fought for them was a hard sell. The Armortraitors fighting side-by-side with Lizardfolk and Nagas…
“We’re all mercenaries here. It was just a first wave; they’ll throw more at us, I’m sure.”
That was Niers’ only comment when someone wanted to interview him for the television. He glanced at the cameras distractedly.
“I intend to push the Dyed Lands back, and I will. It has taken time and energy to get to this point, which I regret, Sir Relz. The war with the Jungle Tails company has hurt all of Baleros.”
“Er, quite, Lord Astoragon. But your display against these ‘blue’ monsters is quite impressive! I was told every other company struggled to effectively rout them!”
Niers smiled with false modesty.
“I’m sure that’s an exaggeration, Sir Relz. I just tend to bring more tools to a fight. Aria herself warned me the Azure Beasts would be a threat, and my guard is fully raised. Anything that could trouble the Bannermare isn’t worth dismissing.”
He turned from the conversation and gave a signal to cut the feed. Niers then proceeded to clear five more waves of blue with minimal casualties.
He hoped that really, really annoyed Aria.
 
——
 
It was safe to say that the Titan was being watched by anyone with a [Strategist] class. You had to. He was the eternal bar to surpass, even if you were doing it out of spite.
So few people could lay claim to being better than him. He’d killed several such challengers to the throne he sat on.
Who, living, was as dangerous as he was? Tulm the Mithril? He’d taught Tulm. Bastion-General Quiteil of Rhir? Orthenon in Chandrar?
Not famous enough, warriors versus pure strategists. On Izril’s soil, Wall Lord Eschowar had never been famous outside of Drake and Gnoll politics. And the Cyclops was all but defunct. Lord Fulviolo El had died, as had Lord Linter Veltras—and again, all but one of these names were different classes, not the pure quill of strategy.
Besides, there was something about Niers Astoragon’s tactics that took the breath away. Not the originality; anyone could think ‘hey, let’s use a cloud and put someone who can see inside of it’. But implementing the tactics across species, using so many?
That was it. It was the myriad nature of his army. There was no other comparison except Rhir itself. It had been a small part of the battle, but the Garuda’s brief aerial combat against the Azure Beasts and their tactics was actually saved and replayed in Manus’ academies as textbook aerial combat for their fliers and [Wyvern Riders].
But for all you could learn from him, there was a pernicious element too, at least, to a certain mindset. It looked like something good. It looked like excitement, even awe.
Hundreds of young cadets in Manus’ Academy of War were standing up in their seats, talking. [Students], [Tacticians], aspiring officers—one raised a clawed hand at their teacher, who was going to break down the way the Garuda had used three-dimensional space to outmaneuver a far more numerous foe, a difficult concept for most land-based peoples to grasp.
“Yes, Cadet…Lible? You have a question?”
“Yes, Ma’am! Why don’t we use Garuda in our armies? Those were incredible tactics, but no one has dedicated Garuda wings in their armies, not even Pallass! They just have mixed-wings units.”
Every head in the class turned, and new students nodded at this obvious question. The grizzled Manus veteran paused and replied, a touch sharper than her students thought was necessary.
“We don’t use other species because Garuda have no presence in Izril, aside from Pallass, and not enough to create entire wings, Cadet! Besides, the tactics employed by the Garuda translate perfectly to our old Oldblood fliers. The tactics being—”
“Feint and withdrawal, Ma’am. Collapsing withdrawal maneuver, Aerial Combat Tactics #22. But if we had Garuda—they’re faster, nimbler.”
The annoying Cadet knew the Drake-based tactic by heart, so the instructor didn’t shift the conversation, and she grew more annoyed. She snapped back.
“The Walled Cities do not need to hire [Mercenaries], Cadet! We are working with the species on our continent, which are Drakes…and Gnolls, of course. Confine your studies to applicable tactics where you hope to be deployed—unless you want to work for Forgotten Wing? Or serve in Rhir?”
Her tone was sarcastic, and the Drake boy sat down, confused.
“No, Ma’am. I just—”
He stared at the frozen image of Peki flying alongside Drakes until the instructor shut off the broadcast. And he was proud. They all were, to see Drakes lighting the skies up with magical flames, being important.
Centaurs, Dullahans, Stitch-folk, Lizardfolk, Humans—the Titan had every species in the world in his armies, and he used them at their finest. Who hadn’t cheered to see their people represented, let alone used well? So…that was why he didn’t understand the instructor’s protective wrath.
Why can’t we do that here? It looked so beautiful. Then it made Cadet Lible feel bad, because for a moment, he had a thought.
Maybe Manus isn’t doing it right? If the Titan can do that—
The instructor snapped at him and called him up to answer a series of increasingly-difficult questions, and the idea fled his mind, but it lingered, that terrible, disruptive thought. Poisonous, treasonous, really.
To all but the King of Destruction’s ilk or someone like the Titan. If you couldn’t do what he had done, then he had to be a fool.
Or what was your excuse?
 
——
 
Niers ignored the applause, the approbations, and commentary after that. Sir Relz wasn’t stupid.
…No, he might well be an idiot, but he was no more of one than anyone else watching Niers. Any congratulations about these seemingly-ideal battles revealed the people commentating had no clue about war.
This was a war. This was a damn campaign, and Niers taking the first few moves meant nothing. He had to be more than just a…a [War Leader] making clever plays and saying ‘volley’ at the right moment.
He was a [Strategist]. He had to wear a hundred hats, and that was why Niers told his students to be people who took interests in travel, the sciences, magic, and culture.
Today, Niers was a Named-rank adventurer. He stood over a body of one of the Azure Beasts, afterwards, and watched Fraerlings covering another corpse. [Alchemists], [Healers], and [Beast Tamers] were carving up corpses, trying to find unique, magical organs or looking out for hazardous materials.
It appalled the Fraerlings. Iuncuta Eirnos was in a full-body suit enchanted against hazardous materials. Niers had on a safety fedora with a huge red feather attached.
“Yep, the blue stuff’s definitely ablative armor. Like a shell they’re all growing. It flakes off; it’ll take one or two hits pretty well, and then they get faster. Probably ideal for creatures as quick as they are.”
He stabbed his enchanted sword through the layers of weird shell-stuff, showing some of the watchers how it was actually thin layers of the carapace; it even had air in ultra-thin ‘pockets’ of space. Like a honeycomb, but miniaturized. Fascinating design.
“Probably ideal against the Stygian-types. The poison might not soak through the layers. Green too…I wonder if those damn parasites can bite through this. Look into that for armor against the Stygians. Actually, see if their venom can kill the green parasites.”
Niers glanced sideways, and instantly, one of the helpers following him around noted that down. He was sure that the many people his company employed had had the same thoughts. Every [Strategist] put ideas like these forwards, but he was just making observations as they came to him.
His students were part of the crowd, but none of them were able to ask questions like in class. Eirnos grunted sourly as she peeled up a flake of blue armor.
“This won’t be much use to your artificers or ours, Niers. No good as armor. Maybe as extra cladding, as you said, but I wonder if it rots.”
Economics. Another hat to wear. There was a lot of gold to be made in monsters, but the sheer poisonous contamination of the Stygians or the danger of the Jade Infestors meant that they were net-losses on killing, just like Crelers. Azure Beasts also seemed less-than-useful beyond their meat. No one had observed their teeth or bones being that magical—yet.
However, the Titan was calm.
“It’ll be worth it. I want [Mass Preservation] runes put down on all corpses and have them stored. Not in mass piles. Neatly, with round-the-clock monitoring. For parasites as well as tricks. Cameral, deliver a report on the work by tomorrow night.”
It would be a huge effort. The Dullahan gulped as Niers pointed out one of the [Quartermasters] who was overseeing the work. Everything was effort; he sniffed at some blue blood clinging to his gloves, then wiped it on his pants.
“It even smells like damn blueberries. Colors…colors. Umina, Marian. Report!”
“Professor!”
They dashed forwards, making all the Fraerlings on the dead Azure Wolf’s body back up from Marian’s hooves. Niers pointed.
“You will contact Elvallian and our [Master Librarian] and find out all the information on colors and monsters you can. Iuncuta Eirnos, please furnish them with Fraerling texts on the same. Give me a report on fighting enemies with color-based magic. More specifically, how to hurt them. Cross-reference Xrn the Small Queen and, uh, Belavierr the Stitch Witch. I know I’ve seen reports on the Small Queen using a spell like this.”
“Yes, Professor! When…?”
“Just give me a report by the end of the week or when you have more. Oh, and one more thing.”
He waved them back, massaging the bridge of his nose.
“—Be careful about the Stitch Witch records, especially the authentic ones. Ask our [Master Librarian] about word-based hazards. What’s the damn word? Memetic? There’s precautions.”
They looked less happy about that, but Niers waved them off. Patrol Captain Shoike was impressed.
“You’ve implemented memetic hazard training in your own research divisions, Lord Astoragon? I thought only Fraerlings had them.”
The Titan snorted softly.
“I did a bit, but [Librarians] tend to implement them as well—at least, the ones who survive handling anything of that danger level. Okay, I doubt I’m coming to any grand pronouncements studying these monsters. Everyone, watch your damn feet around Fraerlings. Where’s Rozcal?”
Part of Niers longed to be the adventurer, having to figure all this out without full teams of people to delegate to. To just keep marching into the clouds, but only Foliana got to even play adventurer these days…he couldn’t waste time like that.
However, there was that sense of excitement. Of seeing something so new and fascinating…and at least one Fraerling had that grin like a kid who’d forgotten that time was supposed to make you old.
 
——
 
Commander Rozcal had encountered more elements of the Azure Beasts—albeit not ones currently being hunted down as stragglers or engaging the soldiers.
Even with all the will in the world, the blue beetle was not going to be much of a threat to anyone besides, well, Fraerlings. Give it credit; it was a foot long, had a huge, spiky horn, and it was fast. But it was no Corumdon Beetle.
Any member of the Tallguard could shoot it down, enhanced speed or not, if it came at them. Easy to dispose of.
…So why, exactly, was Commander Rozcal out of his Adamantium armor? He had stripped down to some bodysuit leggings and was bare-chested, two arms raised, crouching like a wrestler.
“No one interfere. If I die, let the bugger go! Come on, Azure Beetle or whatever you’re supposed to be called.”
The angry horned beetle was pawing at the ground like a bull. It charged in a blue blur, and Rozcal shouted and leapt to the side. He barely avoided being gored by the horn and checked himself; he had a red gouge across his muscled chest.
“Hah! It’s pretty fast! [Stop Bleeding, Damnit]!”
The wound obligingly stopped, and he raised his fists and sprinted at the beetle. It was not expecting the uppercut he gave it, and it buzzed backwards. Then it charged again, and Rozcal shouted—when the two met, he was grappling with the beetle, two hands on its horn, as the two tried to throw each other down.
Iuncuta Eirnos had a hand over her face as Rozcal broke every safety regulation they had. Niers just snorted. He watched as Rozcal threw down with the beetle for six more minutes before planting a foot on its underbelly as its feet waggled in the air and roared victory. Let people laugh at the sight or mock Rozcal.
In his way, the commander of the Crelerbane Armor from Reton was a lot more suited to handling the Dyed Lands than most.
 
——
 
