“I nearly went crazy. What a miserable place. You know a kid that grew up there ran off and became a Gold-rank adventurer? She’s still alive, I think. I visited, oh, four years back, and everyone was proud of her.”
“Anyone I know?”
“Uh…Ivirith. Jelaqua? She’s in Izril.”
“Small world.”
“It’s pretty big, but yeah. Things go in circles.”
Balsam kept drinking, then, after a moment, worked up the nerve to ask another question.
“I, uh, I heard about Tulm a while back. Did he…you know. Did he get anyone I…?”
Niers wore a pained expression as he stared into the distance.
“The Frost Dragon Lazcrene ring a bell?”
“…No. Damn. How old was he? She?”
“I’m not sure. Young. Young enough to still be in Dullahan territories or the area when Tulm found them. Possibly they needed the cold to survive.”
“Shit. And they gave him a big class just for that?”
Balsam crunched down on his food until he realized he’d eaten his fork. Niers shook his head. He stared at something in the distance, and his expression was pained.
“It’s hard, of course, to find anyone. Sightings are mostly rumor. Any creature with scales and wings gets called a Dragon.”
“Right. Half are probably magical Wyverns. But have you met…?”
He wasn’t sure if he wanted to know. Niers shrugged slightly.
“Would you like to meet them, if I did?”
The Dragon patted at his mouth with a napkin, growing even more cautious. Not excited.
“Not sure we’d have anything to talk about. Unless there’s one who’s…old. I mean, old and knows things.”
Niers got what he meant, and he grimaced.
“Most do not, in my experience. I met one who was forty-one years old. Barely able to speak; utterly unused to, well, any kind of civilization.”
“Damn. Yeah, that—damn. Sounds about right.”
This was probably the only continent where you could find a place to actually hide. Terandria was too nosy; Chandrar’d kill you, and open sand wasn’t that easy unless you dug or something; and Izril—Izril was complicated. Too civilized to hide, anyways. Balsam waited, then coughed.
“The kid. What happened?”
“She was barely able to speak the common tongue when we met. I tried to convince her to change, but she was…territorial. You know how hard it is to help someone who has no reason to trust you. What am I supposed to do, put them in a cage? Failing that…and impressing the danger on them is even harder on someone who doesn’t understand how many enemies they were born with.”
Balsam’s own grip tightened on his cup.
“Yeah, I bet.”
After a moment, Niers continued since there was nothing else to say, his voice becoming matter-of-fact.
“Tulm’s killed two Dragons that I know of. I don’t know who the other one was. Neither one had any…connections to their roots. Like, say, the Dragonlord of Flames. Do you know him?”
Balsam glanced up, then kept eating.
“Nope. But you hear rumors. Never met him. Never…well, I never went searching past Baleros. He’s a real—Dragon.”
“As opposed to you?”
Balsam shrugged.
“I just make a living. I’m not here to be a hero. I just want to get paid. After this, I’m going to have to quit if people keep looking at me and asking what my level is.”
He began getting angry at Niers again, but the Titan waved a hand.
“I’ll take care of it. You’re a tough Level 36 [Lineholder Captain] I like because of your name. I’m giving you artifacts; I’ll give you a fancy, nice one for saving my precious student. It’ll glow and everything.”
Balsam relaxed and nodded. That was all he wanted. Enough pay to live off for a long time, and enough to keep him from going crazy. Nothing else.
There was nothing else. He didn’t know if there were more of them, or his heritage. A few people he’d met ages back had thought they should have something important like that.
…But that’s only because they’d wanted it. Some had gone off to find it. He’d never seen them again. Balsam burped, wiped at his mouth, and Niers nodded at him.
“This campaign will end soon, Balsam. Then I’ll rotate you. Somewhere useful. Guarding a friend, maybe.”
“Guard-duty. That sounds nice and easy.”
“She’s a good cook, too. Or a decent one. She cooks, I’m told.”
The Dragon smacked his lips. He’d take that. He nodded at Niers, and the Titan smiled.
“Another cup, Balsam? I feel like I owe you a few drinks.”
“I suppose I could take another. This stuff kicks decently well. What’s it called?”
“Rxlvn. Antinium. I thought you’d like it. Incidentally, have you ever been sick?”
“Uh…I think when one of those magical plagues was going around I was sick for like a week.”
“Fascinating.”
 
——
 
Jungle Tails whined about the ‘unacceptable attack’ of course. About how Niers was compromising safety for everyone by attacking them. They had their [Spokespeople], fancy Nagas, though none of their High Command—Niers might have tried to snipe them just to get it on camera.
Most of the day was spent arguing over the ethics of his attack and showcasing the damage Jirem was causing—but mostly, the effects of Jungle Tails’ defensive lines being broken.
Like a dam bursting, the Jade Swarms were pouring outwards, and the further they got, the wider a range they had to spread out. Harder to contain. Yes, a dam was a good analogy; people took for granted how many monsters the Great Companies were holding back.
Of course, the scrying orbs showed civilians fleeing villages that should have been evacuated, the green snake-parasites attacking desperate soldiers trying to fight them off. Of all the monsters, green might be the worst for your average soldier to battle; there were just too many to swing a sword at.
After the sixth scene of monsters attacking civilians, Niers turned off the scrying orb he’d been watching. He was sure his students would watch longer, but he had work to do. He knew what he had done.
Hopefully, he wouldn’t ever be numb to it, but the Titan had to admit that sometimes he felt like the scars over his heart had become hard as rock. When a [Reporter] shoved a ‘microphone’ in his face and asked for his comment, he had one off-the-cuff reply.
“We’re at war. I didn’t see you covering the cities Jungle Tails has sacked or what they did to ‘traitors’. They should have evacuated the entire region months ago, same with Maelstrom’s Howling and the Iron Vanguard. Yes, I attacked them. They had no second defensive line, and they were not ready for me. I am not going to be blamed for incompetence on my opponent’s side.”
That might have been too direct, but Niers was tired of the posturing already. He deployed a counter-[Diplomat] after a few more pointed remarks, but unguarded comments aside, Jungle Tails wasn’t going to pull a victory of popular sentiment out of the military defeat.
His rebuttal to Jungle Tails was that he hadn’t seen them drawing out a super-monster to fight. And, combined with the ‘leaked’ information about the value of the Azure Beast hides, the other Great Companies were reassessing the Dyed Lands threat.
Well, the leak was more of a fashion collection that a certain Gnollish [Armorer] hit the markets with. She sold a bare dozen sets of blue armor she’d managed to make at incredible prices on auction. Then the next week she sold another dozen. Then three dozen…
They caught on after that and presumably got mad for overpaying so much, but Niers needed to make some money. It kept him busy.
He reformed his forces up on the front, went back to fighting the Azure Beasts, and he was wondering if the colors would shift to green after all. If so, it’d be an easier fight. Reports indicated that the entire color had fallen back and was visibly lagging in its rotation. No doubt incapacitating their leader had done a lot of damage.
It was as Niers was writing a letter to The Wandering Inn inquiring about a few matters, wondering when he’d get a fun new student to bully—teach—when it happened.
The thing he had been waiting for.
It came out of the whirling clouds of azure haze like a shooting star. A spinning comet shedding particles of yellow light. It passed straight over the heads of the soldiers, who thought at first it was some beast.
But the magic just kept shooting out into the sky. Niers didn’t see it at first—then his personal speaking stone began to blare. Iuncuta Eirnos, who was writing her reports to the cities, leapt up with crossbow in hand as her speaking stone made the same sound.
A voice spoke after a beat. Vler’s.
“Emergency flare spell detected! Lord Astoragon, are you in danger?”
Niers’ heart leapt into his throat. He swept the letter off his desk and rose. Eirnos turned to him.
“That wasn’t us. Niers—”
The Titan tapped the speaking stone.
“I know what it is, Vler. Prepare bombardment spells if needed. Iuncuta, I want every single Tallguard ready for combat. Full alert! Mobilize!”
He stopped just once, and the Fraerling woman saw Niers reach for something on his belt. Her good eye widened as he popped the sealed cork on the bottle and drank it.
Then the Titan was shoving his way out of the tent flaps. The world always looked so damn small—
He nearly ran over Umina and Kissilt, who were joking as they brought him some reports. They stared at him.
Up at him. The six-foot tall Fraerling shoved past them. He’d drunk the Signim. And he was running.
“To arms! Get up and mobilize!”
 
——
 
Captain Balsam and Plaxima emerged from their tents in the camp, both naked and holding weapons, when they heard the alarms going off. These weren’t ‘we are engaged in battle’, polite alarms.
These were get out and fight alarms. Balsam swore as he saw people running and heard the order.
“Mobilize! Get to the front!”
By the time he arrived, the Titan was striding down the line of [Soldiers]. Striding—because he was the Titan.
Tall, person-sized. Hence the nickname that sometimes came true. That alone told Balsam something bad was going on. But where was the enemy?
No one but Niers seemed to know; the Azure Beasts had actually been inactive. Niers was pacing in front of his commanders and strategists.
“Wait for the second flare. I need a precise lock on the coordinates. Hold—”
He pulled out another bottle, downed it, and someone protested.
“Lord Astoragon, that much Signim is—”
“You can drink six before you’re in trouble. Shut up and wait.”
“Six?”
A disconcerted Fraerling watched as the Titan spun. Balsam was getting Vinegar company in order when he saw it. A second spell. A yellow [Flare], but far more powerful and ornate than he was used to. It punched out of the mists, and Niers pointed.
“There! [Mark Target]. Company, forwards. Magus Veern, light spells on max. We are going in!”
His front ranks began to march—the Titan ran ahead of them. He lifted a hand.
“Full march! [Speed Raid].”
This was not a regular advance. Balsam felt the lines of soldiers transition from a walk into a jog. Then a run. He felt speed Skills activating and gulped.
“Shit, shit, shit—”
They were heading straight into the center of the blue. But the Titan seemed at least prepared for this.
“Magus Veern, I want you to coordinate your timings with every single [Mage] on the front! Save all your mana for me unless you’re in danger. Keep those light spells up.”
He pointed to the stupid tricolor lights that Balsam had grown sick of. They glowed in the blue mists as his people cut through, and figures were darting down, spreading their wings as they slowed just overhead.
“Sir! You wanted us?”
Peki. She flew down as a panting Dwarf charged into the ranks of—Balsam twisted.
That was the Dwarf! Merrik! He saw a second army behind them. Then the Dragon began to get really worried. How many damn people was the Titan…?
“Peki! Keep your squad low; there will be fliers in the mist, and we can’t provide air-support. Shield the Tallguard, understand? Merrik, you’re with the Fullhelms on the left. Venaz, you have full authority with the Shoreaxes. Take our right flank and keep them off! Skeldriv is going down the center. Prepare to engage!”
Despite the shock, his army was moving into formation. They knew what to do, and when they heard the first shouting, they moved practically by reflex.
“Azure Wolfmen!”
“[Acid Cloud]—Fullhelms!”
Merrik swore as he fumbled a modified helm onto his head and promptly lost several inches of beard he’d failed to seal off, but the Dullahans hit the monsters, and the rest of the army barely slowed a step.
“Fliers in the air! And on the right!”
“Slingers, cover us from above! I want two volleys, both with [Stop Projectile]!”
They were using the tactics that they had mastered against the Azure Beasts, but it was confusing. Both for them and the enemy, Balsam thought. The blue was not expecting this push, and meanwhile…
The light was getting brighter. Magus Veern was shining it, vivid as he could, running with a staff held high. It was Umina who caught up to Niers, riding a horse for all she was worth.
“Sir, I’ve got your Centaurs. Where do you want us?”
The Titan’s teeth were bared. They were eating up ground as they advanced at a reckless, no, insane pace. They were running straight into monsters in the fog, not just blue. But he was having wind spells clear the colors, and—he pointed.
“There. If I point, then kill it and rejoin our forces. If you get lost, fall back.”
“Yessir! What am I searching for?”
Surely, he had to be seeking out the flare. But the Titan just grinned at Umina.
“You’ll know it when you see it. Hey, Merrik. Want to see a magic trick?”
Umina was riding back towards her command, breathless, when the panting Dwarf, wiping blood off his axe, caught up. Merrik clutched at his side.
“What? Sure…I love magic tricks. What…?”
They ran into the enemy again. But they were, in the end, just monsters. Their danger was in their numbers, the ability to spread out. Against one of Niers’ armies, much less two, the [Soldiers]’ Skills could punch through them. If you were willing to bleed for it.
“Stygian Stalkers!”
“Umina! Kill them!”
“White Ghast! White Ghast—”
An invisible monster attacking from the sides. The poison-spitting monsters, and blue speed-demons. But the Forgotten Wing Company just kept advancing, practically at a charge.
Balsam himself was getting a bit tired from the rapidness of the pace. But the Titan just kept running, and the third flare passed overhead. He adjusted course, seeking out its origin.
Four flares. Five—
How far were they into the blue territory? Was he mad? They were going to run into the super-beast he claimed was there! But you could see their progress from above. Scrying spells actually witnessed the tricolor glow of the Forgotten Wing company parting the blue sea from above.
