Now…were the monsters running from them? Balsam saw Azure Wolves howling and retreating, even swore he saw some Stygian toad-things hopping away. The thunderous footfalls of an army running, the Titan’s aura—
None of this had scared the Dyed Lands monsters before. The Jade Swarms had faced Maelstrom’s Howling, and the Centaurs hadn’t done more than repulse them. Balsam’s eyes flickered to the bright staff that Veern was holding. The other lanterns, torches, and orbs glowing with the same colors.
“Huh.”
Then the Titan came to a halt as, at last, five full hours since the first flare had passed, he found what he was looking for. He was a small man, now. He’d been forced to stop drinking Signim and use it sparingly to avoid magical backlash, but the Fraerling promptly drank a potion and leapt off his pedestal.
“There you are.”
His army came to a halt as hundreds, no, thousands of Azure Beasts turned. A full wave of them, huge beasts that Balsam had never seen before. Turned—but did not attack. Instead, they backed up as the light from the Forgotten Wing company bathed them and illuminated the place the flares had come from.
Balsam gazed up and saw the things that made him remember why he hid. The things that had sent his people into hiding. The first thing the Titan had been, and what he’d never forgotten he was.
Adventurers. They were sitting on the side of a big, blue hill with a purple river running from it. There were just six of them. Two Lizardfolk, one Naga, a Selphid, a Human, and, in front of them, daggers buried in the hill she’d killed…
A Squirrel.
The Squirrel. Foliana was drenched in the blood of the monster she was sitting on, licking at her fur. She glanced up as Niers came to a halt, panting, and her army found her.
Three-Color Stalker and the Azure Beast who had been leading its color. Murdered in its own territory. The [Rogue] raised a paw and called out.
“Mm. You’re late. You said you’d be here ‘right away’. Anyways. I found some new boots.”
She poked the dead monster, whose open jaws had purple foam around the edges. Niers Astoragon exhaled, and suddenly, Balsam understood why he had been waiting. The stress the Titan hadn’t acknowledged.
He sent her into this? The world’s greatest [Rogue] to kill…
There was an army of Azure Beasts between them and Foliana. But they were just surrounding the corpse of their leader, and Niers’ hand came up.
“Magus Veern. Amplify your light spells with all the magic you have—now. Instruct every [Mage] across the frontlines to pour their magic into the spells and throw them forwards.”
“Lord Astoragon? At once. [Resplendent Illumination]!”
The Lamia swung his staff, and a thousand orbs of light rose, filling the air with the iconic colors. Foliana’s eyes.
The light burned away the blue haze around them. Showered the cringing Azure Beasts in foreign colors, and they gazed up and beheld the army.
Thousands of colored monsters. Just like them—colors that had slain their leader.
Color-language. Niers had been showing them the only thing they understood all this time, carving an identity into their minds. After all, the enemy had to know you to fear you.
Foliana didn’t move as she saw the colors bathing her bloody fur. She tilted her head, confused, but smiled slightly.
Like a member of the audience waiting for the [Magician] to reveal his trick. All her faith in her oldest teammate. Now, like a conductor, the Titan of Baleros raised his hands.
“All forces will advance at a walk.”
Balsam was in the front rank, and he walked forwards slowly, eyeing the huge Azure Beasts.
They could have attacked. The damage they would have caused from so close was extreme. But as the light bathed them, the blue monsters fell back. They whined. They felt the Titan’s aura covering them. They saw the Squirrel Beastkin sitting on the body of their leader.
They ran.
 
——
 
The light cut a swathe through the entire color of blue. A swirling arm of the maelstrom of contained colors was cut apart by that glow.
The Dyed Lands monsters peered up, and now two great monsters were dead. They beheld the glow of a new adversary shining at them. And they backed away.
They fled the light that the Titan of Baleros had taught them to fear. To be wary of. To respect like a color of their own. It was not the first time they had been taught to fear a color.
All Niers had needed to do was gamble his Great Company on a single act. He met Foliana, who sat with the Named-rank team of adventurers he had hired. There should have been seven of them.
“Bad luck? I told you to retreat if you couldn’t do it.”
She shrugged. Aside from her comment for her audience, she’d watched him spooking the Azure Beasts off. She played with her paws as he stood there, and the other adventurers began to slide off the monster.
“Mm. It was faster than I thought. Nice armor, though.”
He hoped she’d level. That would have been reason enough to risk this. Levels. But Niers grimaced as he saw the secret signals she was giving him.
We’re all poisoned. He kept his face straight.
“You’re getting old, Foliana. Iuncuta Eirnos, get a [Healer] to look at the adventurers! We’re not done here.”
There were no attacks on his company at the moment; the Azure Beasts were in full retreat, pulling back towards the Dyed Lands themselves. Ideal, but in the distance, as their color faded, he saw green hesitantly swirling to the west and black clouds north of him.
“Time to earn my pay. I want [Riders], Centaurs. Veern, you’re in group one. Umina, group two. Peki, take your wings, every Fraerling and [Mage], and those light spells. Ride into the other colors, but don’t get out of range of any other group. Five hundred yards—”
[Light]. Centaurs and people on horseback galloped forwards as Garuda and Fraerlings shone the light. Foliana watched as a Tallguard [Doctor] dropped out of the skies towards her.
“I don’t get it.”
“It was going to be ‘poo-brown’, but I vetoed you doing that.”
“I never said that. Brown is stupid. I think there’s no brown monsters here either. They don’t like that color.”
Niers half-twisted, frowning.
“Really? Damn, I should have used it, then. Just think as if colors are a language, Foliana. Dead gods, you should understand it better than most with your eating Skill. They see colors, and they assume that means a rival monster.”
“Mhm. I know that. That’s basic, dummy.”
He rolled his eyes.
“But they don’t project light. What they see is what they get. They generate color by their presence; that’s why we get these lovely damn clouds of it. Foliana, what happens if they see a sea of these new ‘enemy’ lights coming at them?”
He was smiling like a Demon, a monster, and a bastard. Foliana’s weary head rose, and she saw it, then.
“Mm. Lots of enemies. You liar.”
That’s the illusion that Niers was creating. The tricolor sea of lights he was organizing was sweeping at the green and black colors, and Niers held his breath. If this didn’t work…
No. He saw the colors were moving. A rain of those damn green snakes visibly began flying away from barely two dozen riders holding [Light] spells. They recognized the forces that had killed their leader and were retreating.
So were the Stygians. Even if they hadn’t lost their super-monster, it looked like the pink-yellow-green mass of lights coming at them was twice, or even three times, as numerous as they were. Niers shouted into his speaking stone.
“Don’t advance too fast! Now, I want you to move exactly as I am going to direct you. Vler, I need some coordination from above—”
“I see it, Niers. Consider me amazed. This is me clapping. Yay.”
Foliana’s eyes narrowed as she tried to work out why even Vler was so impressed. Then she glanced at Niers and thought of the most despicable, underhanded move she could make with the ability to bluff monsters from the Dyed Lands.
Foliana developed a smile too.
 
——
 
At first, they didn’t understand what he was doing. Oh, they got the part about the colors. Everyone did, and many a [Strategist] was either kicking themselves or getting yelled at for not figuring out this ‘obvious’ concept.
It would take months for the other Great Companies to establish an identity with the Dyed Lands monsters, especially since you had to have the exact right colors or the monsters weren’t fooled. Stealing the Forgotten Wing’s color-combinations would probably be faster. Every group would just take Niers’ hard work, and the Titan had to know that.
But, from above, the wave of his colors were spread outwards. They moved astonishingly fast, pushing through the blue color they’d cut in half, and flowing out. In reaction, green and black visibly shivered and withdrew. Unwilling to fight what they perceived as an overwhelming force.
Of course, these were colors already vying for space with the other swirling colors. White, yellow, red, all the other colors—except brown—were bunched up, and when one color shifted, the other ones had to as well.
Monsters fighting each other as they forced each other’s territories back. Seeing the tricolor lights and giving way to the perceived superior foe.
And the Forgotten Wing company just…kept…going. They had pushed both green and black well clear of where they had been initially when Aria Fellstrider suddenly realized what they were doing and began swearing.
“No. Oh no. That bastard. I’m going to kill him. Everyone up! Get up!”
She raced out of her tent, abandoning the scrying orb, and began shouting. She hit a rune on her saddle, and a full camp mobilization alert was triggered. Lizardfolk and Centaurs sprang up in alarm.
“Aria? What are you doing? Are you intending to attack as well? We’re not ready!”
Archmage Uenoix, attached to her unit, was remonstrating with her as he glowered. But she wasn’t seeking glory. Her eyes were wide with outrage and worry as she pointed at the map.
“That bastard. He was complaining to mother about us not helping. He knew he was going to—he’s not just pushing them away, you idiot! He’s sending them at us!”
The Centaur whirled, and it took him only a moment to realize what was going on. Niers wasn’t just ‘repulsing’ the colors coming out of the Dyed Lands. He was squeezing them. Forcing them away from Forgotten Wing territory and up against each other.
What happened when you squeezed a container with too many liquids inside? Every child had experienced it once. Aria saw the colors bulging outwards. The crimson she’d been fighting, the stygian black heading their way, green and yellow on Jungle Tails’ side, white visibly overrunning an area she knew the Iron Vanguard was supposed to be holding—
The colors exploded outwards.
Slowly. Slowly, but given the relative size of the clouds from above, she knew that on the ground, monsters were racing forwards, unwilling to fight each other, unable to go anywhere else, and so rampaging outwards a second time.
Straight into Maelstrom’s Howling, Jungle Tails, and every other region except the ones the Forgotten Wing held. The only company who wasn’t instantly in their path was the Iron Vanguard; even the Gazers’ forests were in the path of a color!
“We—we have to repulse them. Color magic. I’ll prepare mass illumination spells—”
Uenoix was trying to salvage this, but Aria shook her head.
“You can’t stop them now; they’ll just fight us, and the pattern is gone. He—everyone up! We have to stop them!”
She was galloping the next minute, swearing, heading back towards the northern plains. That unspeakable monster. That Fraerling—because no one had helped him, he’d decided to make it every other company’s problem.
Especially Jungle Tails.
 
——
 
“Dinosaurs.”
“What?”
“They sort of look like dinosaurs, don’t they? Not all of ‘em, but that super-thing looks like a dinosaur-wolf.”
It was just a passing conversation in the United Nations company in Talenqual. Paige turned to one of the new Earthers they had found—or rather, who had found them.
Everyone was sitting and watching the images on the scrying orb, most in dead silence. Kirana had stopped putting out food on the tables. Ken was speaking on a stone to people calling him.
Paige…just wondered if the weapons she’d made would do any good. Against that many monsters?
She saw a roaring, blue hippo-thing biting through a steel portcullis. Tearing it off, then blurring wolves pouring into a city. There was no sound from above, but she could see [Guards] trying to halt the monsters coming up the stairs.
No smoke or flames from above, either. Normally, she had this…image of a city burning when it was sacked. But these were monsters. The only flames came from people trying to stop them. And there were so many.
Blue. Green. Yellow. Red. White. Black…after the sixth color, Paige made to turn the scrying orb off.
“This isn’t what we should be watching.”
There was an advisory playing for viewer discretion on the scrying orb. You didn’t see much—detail—but city after city was endangered.
Not all were falling! Several were fighting off monster attacks, and those were triumphant, but Paige just thought of the tiny man who had saved Geneva and who Daly, Ryoka, and that Erin Solstice were with.
He really was a Titan. He moved a piece on the board and cities burned. She got why he had done this; his territories were, by and large, unaffected by the monsters fleeing his forces. But—
The only person not affected by the scenes on the scrying orb was the new kid. He came from the literal future, 2025, and everything he carried was, like, a decade in the future to Paige. He even felt…different. So much time passing. She glanced at him, and he was half-smiling.
In disbelief.
“It doesn’t look real. Is it…? I mean, that’s crazy.”
The vision of the Dyed Lands spreading, the colors striking outwards, made it seem less immediate than it was. Or maybe—Paige realized this kid just hadn’t ever seen a monster up close. Hadn’t ever seen someone die.
“Tobi. Tomorrow, can you organize a hunting trip? Just bag some game for us, okay?”
Tobi blinked, looked over, and nodded at Paige. Killing an animal on a hunt didn’t ‘ground’ new Earthers that much. Making them skin and gut the animal did something.
You’ll see.
Paige wondered what the Titan was thinking about all this. He had to have known what he was doing. What…what was his expression?
 
——
 
Umina and Venaz were marching back with cheering Lizardfolk, but the cheering had died down when the first images on the scrying orbs came in. Like Paige, they had the same question, and they saw the little Fraerling man riding on his pedestal next to Foliana, who was still sitting on the Azure Beast, watching the scrying orb.
His face?
