“—I’m sorry. Understand I’m not actually angry at you, but also know: this is real. There will be a moment, someday, where you will watch an entire unit of soldiers die under your command, and it will be your fault. If you freeze, if you fold, everyone else dies. Just the other day, I was told Umina walked her forces into some Stygian monsters in an ambush. She’s okay, but she lost three dozen soldiers. She’s one of my best students, and that blunder was on her. I need you not to freeze up. So—focus.”
He wondered if a Goblin would ever freeze up like the students who’d been sent to him to learn battle. But to their credit, it seemed like the broadcasts of his battles were putting a fire under his new cadets; Angelica herself was first to raise her hand to try and rectify her errors.
These students would go on to lead his armies, some of them. Many graduates of Elvallian’s academy did serve with Forgotten Wing to gain field experience. Most would inevitably go to their homelands to serve, but Niers knew his [Strategists]. They knew him.
 
——
 
He found time for a gathering of fourteen [Strategists], most of them appearing via scrying orb, to do much what he had done with the soldiers—get the impressions of his lower-level commanders on the front.
This group wasn’t fighting in the Dyed Lands, but waging war against Jungle Tails. Unlike the [Mercenaries], who were happy enough, Niers had to hear out a lot of concerns.
Everyone knew Tulm the Mithril, Niers’ best student, but he had oh so many more. Baeize was a Drake from Manus who’d been kicked out of the City of War for being too unconventional. Evergloa was a Drowned Woman who had elected not to return to the undersea world. Kith, a Garuda who’d been part of the King of Destruction’s empire as a lad and fled to Baleros to avoid reprisals against him and his family.
All of them proud alumni of his school, and, he realized, still with a bit of that rivalry in them.
“Your new students holding up decently, Professor? All I can hear is ‘Umina this’, ‘Wil Kallinad’ that.”
Evergloa was a bit sour, and Niers chuckled as Kith rolled his eyes.
“That’s just scrying orbs amplifying everything, Evergloa. You would have been just as famous if you’d been at Daquin back then. As for the students…they’re green, but the ones who went to sea have held up well. I haven’t had Venaz mouthing at me once despite seeing zero combat and working with Lizvek.”
“Dead gods, I heard you had a loudmouth. Well, I’d have taken him and his Relic-class weapon. Niers…I object to my orders.”
Baeize spoke frankly, and Niers nodded at him as the [Strategists] refocused and sombered.
“I’ve read your stated objections, Baeize. Hit me with it.”
The Drake nodded, rubbing at his cheek where a fresh scar was visible. It didn’t look like it came from an arrow; a Medusae must have tried to petrify him and only gotten one side of his face. Niers winced; that didn’t heal easy. Baeize just shook his head.
“It’s not me wanting to get revenge on Jungle Tails for the face, sir. This is my honest appraisal: we need to fight for every inch of ground. I realize as a Drake this sounds asinine—”
“No, you’ve got our support, Baeize; don’t sugarcoat it.”
Another [Strategist] interrupted, and the Drake nodded appreciatively. He turned to Niers.
“I heard they were making a stand at Gelizment. Let us do that everywhere, sir.”
“There’s not enough potions, Baeize. We’ll bleed rivers.”
The Drake exhaled and glanced over his shoulder; flies were buzzing around his tent even with spells. He was stationed in the marshes, overseeing a falling back operation.
“We have to. Sir, it’s not just about income or strategic areas of control. I’ve seen Jungle Tails sweeping forwards. I get they’re back and dangerous, but I’ve also seen their Nagas leading huge mobilization efforts during my raids. They’re fortifying this area. If we don’t fight back now, and hold on, in a year’s time they’ll have turned this entire area into trapped hell. We won’t take it back easily. I respect us saving civilians and our soldiers, but—we have to push. That’s my strategic analysis, sir.”
The rest of the group muttered mostly agreements. Niers nodded at Baeize.
“I hear you, Strategist. Believe me, I see the reports. I’m not going to ask you to see the ‘big picture’. I’m sure you see it. I’m asking you to trust my judgement.”
“…If you have a plan, it’s not bearing out in any troop movements I can see, sir. Nor is Maelstrom’s Howling exactly jumping to our aid. Or the Iron Vanguard. If they do get the Eyes…then we should all have been attacking now. I know my history. I know the Gazers are under attack, even if there’s no actual reports of combat in the deep jungles.”
Baeize fixed Niers with a steady gaze as he brushed at flies landing on him. The Titan paced left and right, and he replied.
“I’m waiting for my moment, Baeize. I can’t control the moment the hammer drops. I’ll give you this as reassurance: General Diomedes is on the march to your front. When he arrives, we will push back, regardless of any other balls I have in the air.”
That did give them something, and Niers saw the [Strategists] relax slightly. However, they still focused on him with that desire, a need to be reassured they weren’t risking their lives for nothing. Baeize coughed and cleared his throat.
“But there’s a hammer, sir?”
Niers paused, and he didn’t lie, not to them. But the truth? He shrugged as he spoke it.
“I sure as hell hope so, or else I’m going to look rather foolish.”
The Titan grinned, and they laughed at that, but he was…waiting. He hated waiting, so Niers filled it with the only thing he had ever had:
Ideas.
 
——
 
“Some days, I feel like if I replaced every leadership and combat Skill I have with economic ones, we’d have conquered Baleros by now.”
“That theory only holds so long as you live in a monetary-based economy.”
“Bah. Which particular city do you call home, Eirnos? One of those ‘everyone gets free food and a hug’ cities? Alechie? Culketripan? No, wait, it’s Culqe of Eyes, right?”
“I move from city to city as I’m needed. Rather like you did.”
If Niers had any equal in the field, whom he had to treat like one rather than a subordinate, it was Iuncuta Eirnos. What annoyed the Fraerling woman was that Niers clearly viewed her forces as inferior.
She, like the Centaurs and other elements of Niers’ forces, chafed at his lineholding actions. At first, she had been concerned he’d rely on her people too much. Now, she felt like his only use for her people was their research and technology divisions, which were superior.
They were entering a makeshift laboratory where monsters from the Dyed Lands were being analyzed by Fraerlings. [Alchemagi], [Researchers], your odd [Druid], and more. Fraerlings knew science whereas Tallfolk were so…incautious.
For instance, Niers himself had eaten some of the Dyed Lands monsters when Iuncuta’s report indicated very clearly that there were some definite harms to consuming all of them!
“Nothing major, but eating their flesh for sustained periods will definitely add up the, uh…chelk factors?”
“I don’t know what that is, but if Rozcal gets his pet, I’ll eat what I damn well please. Lizardfolk were scarfing down the monsters on the sly for weeks.”
“And you allowed it?”
“Of course not. I forbade it entirely. However, [Mercenaries] have a very keen sense of what’s edible and what’s not.”
So he used his people like test subjects. Or…knew they’d disobey him and that the results would ratify his actual researchers. Eirnos glowered harder, but she had to admit, Rozcal was a weakness in her arguments.
She stared balefully at the commander, who was still riding his beetle pet. He’d tamed the stupid thing, and half his Crelerbane Armor had found different creatures to tame. Worse, Niers seemed to think this was a good idea!
“[Beast Tamers], any progress in getting these Azure Wolves to play nice?”
He addressed a group of men and women, many of whom sported bites despite their heavy gear. A grimacing Human man showed him bites on one arm.
“None, Titan. We’re taking them further from the front; we think they’ve got that pack-solidarity in them to their bones while they know their friends are around. Twice, I swear some of those breakaway groups were coming for us.”
“And the green ones are just parasites. No good on them. I don’t want them anywhere near my kids.”
A female [Beast Master] shuddered. Niers nodded reasonably.
“We’ve got a few more reds too; even if we’re facing ‘blue’, the other colors make an appearance now and then. I’d love them if they don’t get uncontrollable after eating and growing. No green is fine by me. Hmmm. They don’t react to your Skills at all?”
“Oh, they do, Lord Astoragon. Just not fully. We can’t get more than trust or them eating our food.”
Iuncuta Eirnos was about to call over Rozcal to give his input when Niers snapped his fingers.
“What if you painted yourselves blue?”
“…Lord Astoragon?”
The Fraerling glowered at their expressions.
“Don’t give me that look. Just wear all-blue clothing if you don’t fancy a dip in some dye. They’re blue monsters. Blue is solidarity. Give it a try. Hey, Rozcal, how did you tame that beetle?”
Niers hollered, and Rozcal stopped flying about to shout back.
“I got some blueberries, rubbed them all over me, and the fellow was nice as could be!”
The [Beast Tamers] and Eirnos stared at Rozcal as Niers turned. He waved them off.
“Best of luck; report in later. Thank you!”
As they tromped off, arguing over who had to choose which color, Eirnos turned to Niers.
“Did you know that ahead of time or was that a guess?”
She suspected he’d heard it from Rozcal to show off, but Niers just wrinkled his nose.
“That? Just a guess. None of this is very impressive. It’s all…basic. Adventurers tend to need that kind of flexibility. I knew a fellow who couldn’t count to twenty, but he could adapt to any monster in seconds and trap the buggers. We need to make a profit out of this expedition somehow.”
“As opposed to fighting Jungle Tails?”
Another raised pair of brows.
“Jungle Tails are worth lots of money. Ransoms, gear, territory—if I were so wretched, I could sell them to the Slavers of Roshal. I lose a lot of money this way.”
Another huge sigh. Eirnos could read lies and truths perfectly, and she didn’t like how genuinely regretful the Titan sometimes was about how he couldn’t do monstrous things. She folded her arms.
“Most of the Fraerling cities wouldn’t work with you if you allied with that lot.”
“Yes, well, hopefully you make up for a lack of Roshal. Of course, there’s also morality for whatever that’s worth. History will judge this company differently. Now, [Armorer] Vleyda, do you have good news for me?”
A Gnoll woman did have good news for him. She was Balerosian-born and grinned as she presented him with a set of simple leather armor.
Blue leather. The instant Niers saw it, his eyes lit up.
“Aaaah. Tell me it’s magical.”
“Lord Astoragon, it is magical, but it has taken more months than I would like to make, yeah? I apologize greatly for the delays, but not every monster from the Dyed Lands was workable. I don’t want to touch the poisonous ones, the parasite ones, and invisible? I keep stabbing myself with my own pins!”
He smiled as Fraerlings poked their heads out of the laboratories and came running. How had a Tallfolk beaten them to the jump?
“So how have you beaten the other Great Companies and Fraerlings in processing the monster parts, Vleyda?”
She puffed out her chest and grinned.
“By being the best, yeah?”
“Isn’t she supposed to say ‘yes’, not ‘yeah’?”
Eirnos whispered to Niers. He shrugged.
“Dialects. Go on, Vleyda. What’s the trick?”
The Gnoll woman frowned at Eirnos and went on.
“There’s a weird trick to this hide. It doesn’t look that magic, especially the pieces from the weaker monsters, so most’ve my colleagues throw it out…yeah? Or just use it like regular armor. But I was watching, and I saw how even the lowest-level rabbit-things move. So I was wondering…where’s the magic?”
“Ah, we can answer some of that! These Dyed Lands monsters have tiny magical crystals forming in their bodies. Nothing like a large stone. Most of them are broken during dissections. The value isn’t really going to be worth the cost for you Tallfolk, but Fraerlings can definitely make use of them! The more magical the monster, the bigger these stones will be.”
One of the [Researchers] piped up. Vleyda nodded reasonably.
“True, true. But the Titan, he asked me to get as much value from these blue monsters as possible. So I took all the low-grade pelts and tried to get them to do anything. Magicore woven into the leather, enchanting, the lot. No good, nope.”
Niers was smiling and stroking his beard as he eyed the armor.
“I have an idea, and it’s damn stupid, but go on, Vleyda.”
She grinned with all her teeth, then showed him the armor.
“This is blue. All blue. Not a stitch of it isn’t; I had to get specially dyed string because it wasn’t blue enough. And when my volunteer puts it on, they can’t have anything that’s not blue. Even underthings. Volunteers?”
Niers turned and bellowed.
“Kissilt! Pants off!”
When the Drake came running and was told to drop everything, including his drawers, he swore and demanded a privacy screen. He complained as the armor went on.
“Hey, it chafes!”
“You’ll need blue underwear, yeah? But now—wait, those rings aren’t blue. Off!”
“But they’re my gear!”
“You heard her, Kissilt. Stop wasting our time!”
The annoyed Drake took his rings off, then even a bandaid off one claw. Only when the bandage fell to the ground did he take a step back, blink, and—
“Whoa. What the heck is—”
He sped up. Just for a second, then as he hopped left and right, the effect vanished. Came back on the sixth hop, and Kissilt swore as he leapt far too far right and slammed into Venaz and fell down. He got up, and the speed effect activated as he paced around. Just for a moment, then went off—Niers laughed.
“It’s color-based! This is so stupid!”
Vleyda was grinning.
“You’re going to need to have stylish warriors, Lord Astoragon, yeah? A few things, though. This is a low-grade piece of armor. I can’t control how the speed effect activates, so you’re sort of a hazard. The better the cut of leather, the less blue you need. So one of the big monsters and you can get away with a shirt. But the more of one color…”
“Damn, that’s annoying. We’ll have color-coded regiments.”
