The Energy of the Heavens surges through me as my murderous intent spills over into apoplectic fury, but the subject of my ire remains out of reach.

Balance on Windy leaf into Pierce the Horizon sees Peace plunge harmlessly through the air next to the monk’s bald, wrinkled head, my tried-and-true charge doing little more than bring me face to face with his hateful sneer. Stalk the Dragon into Uplift the Sequoia fares no better as I deliver Tranquility in an uppercut that comes nowhere close to connecting. Standing Fury, Rending Fang, Part the Underbrush, and more, all my devious efforts to end Hideo’s life end in abject failure and my frustration knows no bounds. Snarl in Rage and Throw the Fucking Sword is equally as useless as the old monk smacks Peace aside and sends it sailing off into the horizon, but after twelve equally fruitless exchanges, it makes a grand return to miss Hideo by a metric mile and drive itself deep into the sandy dirt.

All because the nihilistic monk Vyakhya stands in my way, defending the hateful bastard with almost laughable ease.

That’s all the old baldy does however, stand and defend with only one hand no less, while his other hand holds his spade grounded and upright like a flagpole planted in the dirt. Humiliating is what it is, to have my fury thwarted so effortlessly by a geriatric baldy, but all I can do is stew in my ineffective rage and direct all my hatred at Hideo. Envisioning all the different ways I could kill him if it wasn’t for this damnable monk, I redouble my efforts to no effect, but still I press on for my anger knows no bounds. These emotions are not mine alone, for all my surviving Natal Souls are cheering me on in my crusade to see this bastard dead. There can be no mercy or forgiveness for the grievous crime of bullying my dear sweet wifey, and I intend to make an example of this traitor and show the world what happens to those who threaten my loved ones.

There aren’t too many of my Natal Souls left, but still enough to keep tabs on the battlefield in my absence, and their tale is a harrowing one to behold. Since appointing a second General to oversee their efforts, eight more Generals have come and gone, each one dying alongside countless Natal Soul soldiers with only minimal regret to tip the scales of battle in the Empire’s favour. Those Natal Souls who still remain are all frothing at the mouth from what they’ve seen, and I cannot blame them in the least. Mila, Yan, Li-Li, and even Luo-Luo all chose to be here as Warriors of the Empire, but Lin-Lin is different. She’s here because she can’t stand to be away from her friends, family, and hubby, a non-combatant in every sense of the word. Sure, she’s shot a few arrows in the past, but none here in Meng Sha, yet not only did this hulking meathead Hideo dare lay his filthy hands on her, he even had the audacity to lust after her too, and no one lusts after my wifey but me.

…And my Natal Souls, I guess, who are kinda like me, but not, which means I can’t really stop them from lusting after her, but that’s all they’re allowed to do. If I catch any one of them trying to do more, then that will signal the start of the Natal Soul Clone Wars, and I will show no mercy in my wrath.

Focus on the task at hand, stupid. Glancing at Vyakhya’s bored, unimpressed expression as he continues to bar my way, I glance at his spade and spit at his feet because it offends me to see him using the same style of weapon as Mahakala. In spite of all his sins and transgressions, that slovenly drunkard of a Dharma Protector set out each morning with the best of intentions and a dream of improving the world, even if he did go about it in a strange and ineffective way. Vyakhya on the other hand is as selfish as they come, and I hate him all the more because I understand him more than I’d like to. This is a monk whose name means, ‘Clarity of Thought’, a name given to him by the Abbot himself for his logical and analytical nature. Vyakhya never arrives at any decision lightly, always taking the time to argue both sides and rationalize his opinions as best he can, but once his mind is made, there is little anyone can do to change it.

The Abbot spent a lot of time talking about Vyakhya, but not always directly. Most of it was parroting arguments he’d made in the past and outlining the steps he took to reach certain conclusions, though at the time, I didn’t know they all came from him. The Abbot was deeply wounded by the betrayal of a man he considered his friend and confidant, and I think he was hoping I would help him refine his arguments to use against Vyakhya in order to guide him back into the light. What I gathered from all those discussions was that I have much in common with this traitor monk, more than I care to admit. Like him, I too place great value on logic and reasoning when making important decisions, even if I often succumb to pressure and just go with my gut instead. There was a time when I also yearned for oblivion and non-existence, though for vastly differing reasons from Vyakhya, yet I cannot deny that our thoughts ran parallel to one another at some point, both searching for an escape from these tiresome trials and tribulations because we both felt we didn’t belong. Me because of my past memories, and him because he believes there is more out there, a better world and higher existence which the Heavens conspires to keep him from.

In short, Vyakhya reminds me of myself if I had nothing to live for and was selfish enough to want the entire world dead instead of just myself.

Which makes him the perfect person to vent all my self-hatred on. He’s me, but worse, so fuck him.

My errant thoughts fade to black as I fixate on Hideo while hammering away at Vyakhya, my rage burning hotter with every block, parry, and Deflection. Hideo has long since stopped resisting and instead has gone completely slack with fear and resignation, which makes it that much easier for Vyakhya to shift him away from danger with a bump of his hip or nudge of his elbow. The Movements flow out of me as I set myself loose from all constraints and indulge in my rage and wrath, neither giving in to the madness nor seeking to control it as I fight with all my heart. This too is a form of Balance, to revel in emotions as they come until they burn themselves out, for emotions are not meant to be contained and left to fester. A seemingly obvious observation, but one the human race has yet to truly understand as a whole, else we would not be plagued by Spectres of our own devising. Just like medicine, too much emotion is equally as bad as not enough, but the solution here isn’t to ration and dole it out in controlled bits. No, emotions must be spent freely in order to find a natural Balance, not just of the mind, but the body and soul as well.

In JiangHu, I manifested a storm to shed myself of all my unwanted emotions in one fell swoop without having to experience them, but that was a gambit destined to fail from the start. There’s always a reason for you to feel how you feel, even if you don’t understand why, so without treating the root cause, those same feelings will just come flooding back in time. Sometimes it’s better to let yourself be afraid, sad, angry, or however it is you feel, not just because it’s cathartic to express your emotions, but because by expressing them, you can divest them from yourself in a healthy and natural way. This is how animals deal with Balance, by holding nothing back and letting themselves experience the full breadth of their emotions, but humans aren’t so simple. No, we bottle up our emotions for all manner of reasons, whether it be for the sake of face, propriety, shame, embarrassment, fear, or what have you, which again, isn’t the worst thing in the world until you repress so many emotions that it makes you unintentionally use the Energy of the Heavens to forcibly divest yourself of them and spawn a Spectre in the process.

Truth be told, I can’t really say the way animals handle Balance is strictly better, not without any real data or proof. All I know is Spectres are bad, but there’s probably an upside to the human method else Divine Beasts wouldn’t be turning themselves into Ancestral Beasts for no good reason. That being said, I’m breaking new ground here, so rather than swallow my anger and let Hideo’s crime go unpunished, I’m trying something new. I’m going kill him here and now to vent my rage and ensure this will never happen again.

If only this old, bald, ugly monk would just fucking die first.

A thread of fear and caution worms its way into my head, and I rein my emotions in just a little, though on the outside, I continue levying a barrage of attacks meant to claim Hideo’s worthless life. While it’s healthy to express your emotions, I need to be careful not to get too caught up in them, because like I said earlier, too much is just as bad as not enough. No struggle, but no surrender either, that is my way forward, a Path I must keep to lest I share the fate of my first Natal Soul General, who was summarily Cleansed from existence by Blobby. I’m not entirely sure if my watery passenger would Cleanse me if I were to become Unbalanced, since I’m sure there’s some difference between a real soul and a Natal Soul, but I’m also not willing to take that risk either, because there’s no reasoning with an amorphous blob of Heavenly Water, and no mercy in him either.

Two-hundred eighty-seven exchanges and some time later, I step back to take a breather and reassess the situation now that I’ve worked off some of my anger and frustration. All around us, Meng Sha sits silent save for the waves crashing against the docks and the ships swaying in the harbour, so calm and peaceful you wouldn’t think the area was populated if you couldn’t see past the walls, for the eyes of every Imperial and Defiled alike are watching my duel with Vyakhya as they stand in formation and wait for death.

Okay, that’s my bad, but in my defense, it’s not like I didn’t think this through. My bold rejection of the Treaty and subsequent embrace of mutual destruction was too shocking for most to fathom, and they all think I’ve gone mad, including Gang Shu and the Bull Divinity Niu MoWang who won’t stop pestering me through Sending. Thankfully, I have plenty of practice ignoring criticism, but what’s most reassuring is the fact that the Abbot, Guard Leader Hua Lie, and Taddy haven’t Sent a single word, indicating they either stand by my decision or they know me well enough to know I’m not as crazy as I appear. Six of one and half-a-dozen of the other, I assume, but it’s nice to be trusted for once.

See, thing is, I wasn’t lying when I said I’m not a Divinity, because when you get right down to it, Divinity is not a state of existence, nor is it something you naturally become once you Shatter the Void. No, in truth, Divinity is merely a title and power level, a label we humans designate to all those big, bad, dangerous existences who are beholden to their whims and desires. We could have called them anything really, Grandmasters, Apex Predators, Radiants, whatever, but at the end of the day, it’s only a name, and to quote the bard, “What’s in a name?” Divinity is about power, but even more so about control, or rather the lack thereof, because the Heavens are too eager to respond to their Wills in wildly unpredictable ways. Want to break your opponent’s skull? The Energy of the Heavens can help you do that, but the Heavens doesn’t understand scale the same way we mere mortals do, so you might well end up destroying a good chunk of the surrounding landscape in the process.

So really, being a Divinity has nothing to do with Shattering the Void. Being a Divinity means you’ve become a living, breathing bomb that could explode any time you get a little too heated or otherwise emotional. That’s why Vyakhya is only defending, because he’s waiting to see if I’m bluffing about breaking the Treaty before committing to mutual destruction, since even a nihilist like him has something to live for. Words are meaningless when it comes to a matter as serious as a violation of the Treaty, so I need to act on my intent to break the Treaty first before Vyakhya can respond in kind without consequence. Otherwise, the surviving Imperial Divinities will bring word back to the Empire that Vyakhya shot first and he becomes public enemy number one, meaning it’ll be open season on his bald, wrinkled head, making it real hard for him to find the peace and quiet he so desperately desires.

And the old conniving son of a bitch is just narcissistic and jaded enough to believe I would sacrifice everyone in Meng Sha just to implicate him. That’s the way I see things at least, but like I said, I wasn’t lying. I am no Divinity, and thus I am not beholden to the Treaty, but in order to prove this, I need to first show the world what I’m capable of. Easier said than done however, since I’m still a little new to all this, but that’s hardly unfamiliar territory. “Alright you stubborn old bag of bones,” I begin, and in the deafening silence of Meng Sha, there’s no need to infuse my voice with Chi to be heard. “I’m done warming up. If you continue to defend that traitorous sack of shit Hideo, then be prepared to join him in death as well.”

