A smirk is all he has in reply, one so faint it all but melts into the folds of his many, many wrinkles, but we’ll see if he can still smile when all’s said and done. I wasn’t lying about warming up, because not only did I need to stretch my body after so many weeks spent comatose, I’m also working with a brand spanking new Spiritual System and needed to take it for a spin to see how things go. That’s why I just went with whatever felt natural, because then there was no need to really think about fighting and I could focus on studying my Spiritual System and making sure my theory about harnessing the flow of Heavenly Energy holds water.

And for the moment, all signs point to yes.

Since Vyakhya shows no intentions of attacking, I take my sweet time preparing for my next attack. Up until now, I was just venting my emotions and doing whatever came naturally, but that won’t cut it anymore. Not if I want to get past this damned baldy to kill Hideo, though I should probably take some time in the future to find out where my deep-seated hatred of baldies first came from. Probably Gerel, but then again, he’s no longer bald and I still don’t like him much, so there’s nothing conclusive there. I’m getting off track. The important thing is, Hideo bullied my sweet wifey, and now he must pay. It doesn’t matter if Lin-Lin isn’t the helpless maiden she so loves to pretend she is, what matters is the principle of it all. My wifey was mistreated so someone must pay, and I will overturn Heaven and Earth to make it happen.

Taking a deep breath, I calm my mind and focus on nothing. In doing so, I become aware of everything. The sweltering heat of the mid-day sun shining down from overhead and the balmy wind bringing gritty sand which works its way into every crease and crevice of my body. The tangy, metallic scent of blood, a keen, stinging sensation that reminds me of how parched I really am, though the pungent and overpowering aroma of the battlefield does much to keep me from wanting a drink. The lapping waves, fluttering sails, waving banners, clinking armour, and more, all of it forms a symphony of sorts, a concert of the world as our ears perceive it, a tense and troubled dirge of death and mourning in reflection of what happened here. All this and more is processed in the back of my mind as I study my foe in depth, not just with my five bodily senses, but with my Spiritual Senses as well.

Visually, Vyakhya is none too impressive with his milky eyes, worn robes, unkempt beard, wrinkled expression, stooped shoulders, and hunched back. All together, this earns him the dubious honour of being the oldest looking person I have ever seen bar none, but looks can be deceiving. This is a Human Divinity after all, a man who has Shattered the Void and stands on the cusp of unravelling the mysteries of Heaven and Earth. Though younger than the Abbot in age and yet to truly comprehend the Dao, Vyakhya is still strong enough to bring down entire cities with a wave of his hand, and I can sense his power lurking just beyond the surface of his outer appearance. Dense is the only word I have to describe the compact and substantial presence he exudes, all due to the condensed mass of Heavenly Energy churning away inside his physical form. Not just his Core and Spiritual System, but throughout his flesh, blood, and bones too, all of it tied together in an intricate weave that seems so natural and organic. Nor is it mere Chi which flows through him, but Heavenly Energy in truth, and I’m beginning to understand why the Abbot called it a distinction without a difference. For Martial Warriors, this isn’t necessarily true, but only because we ourselves must modify Heavenly Energy in order to make use of it. A Divinity like Vyakhya has no need to bind the Energy of the Heavens, for it is all too ready to heed his Will, which as stated before, is the reason we have a Treaty in the first place.

That’s how he’s able to block, parry, and Deflect my attacks with such ease, because he has the Energy of the Heavens helping him along. In fact, thwarting my efforts to kill Hideo is the easiest part of this all, with the lion’s share of his focus devoted to keeping his emotions in check so he doesn’t accidentally overstep. One errant thought, one internalized desire, one moment of anger, and Vyakhya could easily turn me into meat paste, alongside most of Meng Sha in the process. This is the power I face here today, a Divinity who doesn’t so much wield the Energy of the Heavens as much as he unleashes it upon his foes, like a solitary man opening the floodgates to wash away an entire city situated underneath.

A formidable foe, but knowing thy enemy is not enough. One must also know oneself, which is another reason why I took the time to vent my rage and fight without really thinking while studying myself through my own perspective and the perspectives of my Natal Souls. Fighting without restraint allowed me to see how the Energy of the Heavens responded to my unbridled Will, and the results went about as expected. In terms of responsiveness, things are about the same as before, where it still requires an effort of Will to get Heavenly Energy to heed me. Indulging in my emotions makes it easier to get my Intent across, but that’s always been the case since day one. Impressive as the results might be when I wholly cut loose, going down that Path would be a mistake, the same mistake every current Divinity has made. Unchecked emotion offers power overwhelming, but more power will not solve my issues in any meaningful manner. What’s the point of killing Hideo if I also kill everyone in Meng Sha in the process? I am no Divinity, and the Energy of the Heavens will not leap to obey my Will, but I see this as an absolute win.

Power without control is empty and meaningless, especially if it comes with heavy restrictions on what I can do with it. I seek strength in order to be free, so why would I ever want to become a Divinity?

The corners of my lips trend upwards in a slow smile as I turn my Spiritual Senses inwards and draw confidence from what I see, because as compact and substantial as Vyakhya might be, I am in a league all on my own. I’m dense as fuck, which I probably shouldn’t be so proud to admit, but it works both ways. Where Vyakhya’s physical body has merged seamlessly with his Core and Spiritual System, there is no distinction or differentiation to be found in mine. I am One with the Body, One with the Mind, and One with the Soul, or in simpler terms, just One, meaning when others use their Spiritual Senses to perceive me, they’re seeing more than just me, but also the Heavens in all their unbridled glory.

In more practical terms? My Core sits just below my navel, invisible to the human eye yet there all the same, no longer a gateway to the Void, but merely an object within and without it. There, it exerts a passive and near effortless Devouring force which draws in the Energy of the Heavens through the opening in my pores and sends it flowing out along the established pathways intertwined with my organs and blood vessels to every nook and cranny of my body. Some of the Heavenly Energy stays for the entire trip, while portions of it break off and flow back out into the world through those same openings it enters from, yet the total volume of Heavenly Energy remains more or less the same when considering my physical and spiritual self.

I am not a container for the Energy of the Heavens, because that would imply the ability to… well… contain it. Rather than a cup, bowl, barrel, or what have you, I’m more like a turbine immersed in the ocean, just churning about as the currents flow through me.

And yet, despite this Oneness, which I hesitate to name just yet, I can sense a rhythm to the flow, one tied to my heartbeat and breathing, intentions and emotions. There’s a qualitative change when the Energy of the Heavens becomes a part of me, a tentative give and take to it all which I have yet to understand, one I am only aware of because I know how vast the Heavens truly are. The Energy of the Heavens is still Energy of the Heavens, but while flowing through my Spiritual System, it is also my Chi, the only distinction now being one of location. It’s like light shining through glass or salt dissolved in water, oxygen and carbon dioxide co-existing in air or all matter of particulates in dirt. My Chi is nigh indistinguishable from the Energy of the Heavens, part and parcel of the whole, yet mine to control all the same just like I used to.

Or at least that’s how it appears to my senses, though there must be some other change or distinction. Without one, I would be swept away by the flow of Heavenly Energy to become a part of the whole, or stuck in the same straits as a Divinity and unable to hold back the flow with my Will, but instead, I exist within the flow, yet apart from it as well. My Core contains my Chi, yet there is no Core. My Natal Palace houses Buddy and Blobby, yet there is no Natal Palace. The Energy of the Heavens flows through my Spiritual System, yet there is no Spiritual System, all of which comes together to allow me to do what I do. What that would mean for me as an person is difficult to say, but it does make it easy to posit that the anchor binding me to my current existence is probably my physical body. All this is something to consider in the future, mysteries worth looking into when I’ve the time to ponder and pontificate, but for now, it’s time I made use of my newfangled existence to prove that I’m not a Divinity, and to show them what happens when you bully my wifey.

Releasing my grip on Peace and Tranquility, I toss them lightly aside and set them to floating in the air next to me. A minor effort of Will on my part, suspending my Spiritual Weapons in the air like that, because gravity is merely a downward force that is easily offset. A small magnet the size of a pebble has enough magnetism to counteract the force of gravity from an entire planet for a near infinite amount of time, provided there are no other external factors involved, so in comparison, making two metal weapons float is hardly all that difficult. The exact specifics? I really couldn’t say, not with more detail than most people could tell you how they breathe or walk. The mechanism behind my floating weapons has something to do with Lightening, Guiding, and my Domain would be my guess, but I sense other Chi skills at work here, ones exerting all manner of unidentified forces in subtle and unintuitive ways.

Doing something like this is as easy as turning a hand, but it would take exponentially more Will and effort to send them zipping about. It’d also be a wasted effort considering the compact, multi-layered defenses Vyakhya’s subconscious Will has deployed all around him, one which makes Hideo’s armoured shell of a Domain seem like soggy paper in comparison. Vyakhya’s defenses are not just physical in nature, but also spiritual as well, though my senses have yet to develop to the point where I can make it all out with any useful detail. The important things to note are that these defenses exist, and formidable though they might be, it is quite literally the least of what he can do. Responsive though the Energy of the Heavens might be, there is still a cost associated with using, and Vyakhya would rather not pay that cost to raise a defense against someone who might not even be powerful enough to leave a mark on his skin.

And truth be told? I’m not entirely sure I can. I Shattered my Core and destroyed my Spiritual System in order to rebuild it anew, and considering I’m conscious and able to perceive Heavenly Energy in all these new and exciting ways, I must have done something right, but I’ve yet to consciously utilize my Chi in a deliberate and controlled manner. Everything up to now has been instinct and emotion, but I’ll need more if I want to hurt Vyakhya. Now comes the moment of truth as I test my theory about flow and Heavenly Energy, one I only came up with after seeing Zhen Shi’s foul workings with Spectres in the Void first-hand. Faking confidence with the swagger of a man who’s faked it all his life, I reach out to the side just in time to snag Unity out of mid-fall, as smooth a transition as any which I timed to perfection, but the old monk does not appear impressed at all. To be fair, my little display wasn’t exactly difficult considering anyone with a bonded Spiritual Weapon could probably do the same, but the showmanship alone deserves a quizzically raised eyebrow at the minimum. Instead, he just stands there with his bored expression as if he’s seen it all before, with one hand holding his spade close like a walking stick and the other pressed flat against empty air in supposed prayer.

Yet another facet of Vyakhya which offends me, him masquerading as a man of religion. Mahakala was the sorriest monk I’d ever seen and sinned each and every day of his life, but he was still a thousand times better than the selfish hypocrite standing before me. He doesn’t deserve to wear those robes or carry that spade, doesn’t deserve his title of Wisdom or the name ‘Clarity of Thought’, so today, I will correct the Abbot’s mistake and teach this contemptible nihilist the true meaning of regret.

