Bringing Unity about in a grand flourish, I settle into my stance, with the tip of my blade buried in the loose soil behind me and my left elbow pointing forward. A two-handed variation of Tiger Sweeps the Rushes, stolen shamelessly from Li-Li’s quick draw attack and adapted for my own use. I’ve no choice but to draw on outside sources because Unity is the weapon I am least familiar with. A matter of time, or lack thereof, because even though I bound it two years ago, I’m pretty sure I spent most of those two years either in a coma or without a working Core, meaning chances to familiarize myself with Unity were few and far between. Even if that’s not the case, I still don’t have years of daily practice to draw on, not like I do with Peace and Tranquility, years in which I worked out the most effective ways to use them. How to hold, how to slash, how to stab, how to move, how to position my arms or shift my feet, a thousand and one minor details which I couldn’t list out if I tried, but I still possess the knowledge nonetheless. I lack this sort of complete awareness with Unity, because even though I am aware of the details, I have yet to wholly acquaint myself with the knowledge at my disposal to the point where it becomes as effortless as breathing.

That being said, I’ve chosen to use Unity here because it is the most suitable weapon for my intended purpose. A short sword and bladed shield are hardly the weapons one would use to strike down a monster, but the glaive? That’s just perfect. This factor alone is far more important than my lacking familiarity, because it lends weight to my Emotions and Intent. Envisioning the attack in my mind, I make ready to set out and accomplish my objective, for nothing short of success will be accepted. The Energy of the Heavens shifts as it senses my Will, and for the first time, Vyakhya shows a hint of surprise and actively moves to defend himself. Not physically, for he is hunched and motionless as ever, but Spiritually as he sets the Energy of the Heavens to an unbreakable shield before him. Though invisible to the eye, I sense the shield there as plain as day, a daunting, indomitable barrier which covers him and Hideo behind him from all directions. There is little risk in directly using the Energy of the Heavens in this manner, because it’s difficult for the Intent to defend to have catastrophic consequences, and I can already tell my glaive cannot break through Vyakhya’s defenses, for this barrier is harder than any physical object could ever be.

This is a construct of Heavenly Energy, a myriad of forces woven together to work in perfect harmony towards one, singular purpose. To defend, to safeguard, to preserve and conserve, this barrier will stop anything short of an all-out-attack from a Divinity with the full weight of the Heavens behind it, but even then, Vyakhya is strong enough to survive it. Hideo wouldn’t, and therein lies the trap, one meant to bait me into revealing my status as a Divinity so he can strike me down without consequence.

Honestly? He’s kind of an idiot, this so-called ‘Wisdom’. He saw me cut loose earlier and decided that was the full-extent of my strength, a rush to judgement if I’d ever seen one. Though I have clearly Shattered the Void and thus become a Divinity in his eyes, he mistakes my control for weakness and believes I’m still too restrained and detached from the Energy of the Heavens to pose any real threat, and thus he casually seeks to kill me here and now before I have time to familiarize myself with my newfangled abilities. A greenhouse flower, that’s the comparison that comes to mind, for Vyakhya is a powerful Divinity who has spent his entire life in seclusion and thus is a stranger to conflict, but me? I was born into conflict, moulded by it, didn’t see the light of peace until I was already a man, and by then, it was nothing to me but stifling. I love peace and tranquility, yet thrive in chaos and conflict, a contradiction which I fear I will never overcome, but such is life.

The Energy of the Heavens surges around and through me, eager to partake in that which I offer in exchange for this forthcoming effort, but I do not allow myself to be carried away. Nor do I stand wholly firm against it, for this is my Path, one without struggle or surrender, but reliant on control and understanding instead. I seek not to wield the Energy of the Heavens, not directly at least, because in truth, I lack the ability to do so. Only a God can bend the Energy of the Heavens to his Will, and I am far from a god, but who says I need to wield it directly? The key word in Heavenly Energy is energy, so I just need to find a way to tap into that energy and put it to proper use.

The same way we use oil to fuel a lantern, or electricity to power a light. The energy is there, just in a form the human body is unable to directly utilize, but when has that ever stopped us?

Emptiness within and emptiness without, the Energy of the Heavens courses through me in a dizzying pattern moving in every direction all at once. It sinks into my Core, yet there is no Core, passing through my Natal Palace, yet there is no Natal Palace, seeps out into my Domain, yet there is no Domain, for I am One. There is no division between the Void and reality, no separation of Heaven and Earth, no distinction between mortal and Divinity, and no restriction my Will cannot surpass. I am the dam, the wall, the forge, and the drill, a man who has seen human ingenuity unravel the mysteries of the known world and used this knowledge to rise up into the stars, and more to the point, create indoor plumbing so we no longer have to shit into pots. Vyakhya and the other Divinities are living in the past, but now I have come to show them that the future is now.

Directed by my Will and Conviction, the Energy of the Heavens reshapes its flow, and it is this flow which I harness for my own use. Not the Energy of the Heavens itself, but the forces of its movements. There is energy in motion, energy in change, energy in everything and anything we can see and not see. The Energy of the Heavens is what we call it, but only because we lack the ability to perceive and study it in greater detail, else I suspect we would discover all manner of different energies to study and differentiate within this supposedly singular categorization. That being said, I’m not smart enough to do something like that, nor am I patient enough to even try, but while I am lacking in understanding, you don’t need to know much about the wind to slap a sail on your ship, and in this case, the ship is my Natal Palace.

My body performs Tiger Swipes the Rushes, a simple, straightforward slash of the glaive. The tip of the blade drags through the loose soil, adding just the barest hint of resistance to motion which I harness to add more tension to my strike, similar to how you’d hold a finger in place to store up power for a flick. My left foot stomps down and pulls ever so slightly back, while my right foot pushes off without moving from its place. Toes, ankles, knees, quads, hips, spine, shoulders, and arms, all of it comes together in this singular Movement as I bring my glaive up, around, across, and down, a Movement I have practised countless times before with Peace, and one I have envisioned thousands upon thousands of times with Unity. That vision, that image, the confidence of familiarity and the determination to strike, all of it comes together as a singularly focused Will which melds with my Movement to form something far greater than the sum of its parts as the Energy of the Heavens flows through me in a specific pattern, one which comes together to form a metaphysical construct based in the foundation of my mind and soul.

To my Spiritual Senses, the flow of Heavenly Energy looks nothing like a glaive, sword, or even chainsaw, just a seemingly random pattern without any deeper meaning, but I know in my heart of hearts that this construct was created for one goal and one purpose, to cut, to sever, to kill, and nothing else. This is what it embodies, not in so many words or images, but emotions and intent. There was a time when I would’ve called this a working of Chi, or a technique executed with help from a temporary Keystone, or possibly even something like a metaphysical Rune, but now I see the truth as it is, even if I don’t wholly comprehend it. This is just me harnessing the Energy of the Heavens, no more, no less. There are so many ways to do so, but this is the one I know and am familiar with, so I’ll stick with it until I find something better. Dad called my use of Keystones a crutch, but I see it as a tool, one which is wholly natural in the sense that humans are not naturally equipped with fangs and claws like wolves, or the tough hides and powerful frames of bulls, or the power and ferocity of tigers, but yet we stand above them all. Why? Because we use intelligence and opposable thumbs to create tools to help us survive and thrive, tools like the bow and spear, the wall and wheel, the plow and scythe, the Core and Natal Palace, so what harm in there is using a tool to help harness the flow of Heavenly Energy, when we ourselves are otherwise incapable of doing so?

Maybe that’s why Divine Beasts end up taking human forms, because they too are unable to directly harness the Energy of the Heavens, so they set themselves up for future success through a form of controlled reincarnation in order to become one of the humans who have dominated the world around them despite their individual weakness.

Or maybe not. Maybe they just want thumbs. Who knows?

Releasing my right hand from Unity, I follow through with the momentum and swing wide before bringing it back around. That’s all there is to the attack, no flashing lights or explosions of power, no rumbling earth or splitting heavens. A simple downward, diagonal slash, from high right to low left, that’s all there is to see, but I am not yet finished. Slamming the butt of my glaive against the ground, I set into motion the brilliant mechanism which my beloved wife Mila poured her heart and soul into crafting. The blade splits down the middle and parts before sliding down either side of the shaft, revealing the tip of the rifle barrel which will deliver death to my foes. Again, the Energy of the Heavens surges in response to my Will, but there is no need to intentionally harness its flow a second time, for Unity itself also serves as a form of Keystone or Rune, one based on its purpose and physical form while also tied to the concept of guns and rifles I possess from my past life. Power surges through my rifle as I raise it to my shoulder to fire, but hold off as I come face to face with Vyakhya’s helpless chagrin.

“How?” he asks, his tone so meek and confused it turns the question into a statement of disbelief. “This monk has eaten more grains of salt than you have of rice, lived many times longer than you, and yet you have done what so many others believed impossible to accomplish within the confines of this mortal world.” Unable to look me in the eye any longer, he glances down and raises his hand to his chest, not to stem the flow of blood gushing out from the incision running from his shoulder to hip, but in unwillingness to accept the reality before him. My glaive should have glanced off his defenses without him feeling so much as an impact, yet it passed through them as if they were never there in the first place. In truth, they might as well not have been, for they crumbled before Unity’s Honed edge even reached them, coming apart at the seams as the Energy of the Heavens lent its metaphysical weight to my attack. I didn’t direct the Energy of the Heavens, it merely allowed itself to be indirectly directed into helping me cut clean through my foe’s body, mind, and soul to impact the very source of his life itself, churning the waterwheel which was connected to the grindstone, which in this case was my glaive. Maybe ‘allowed’ is the wrong word here, because a river hardly allows itself to be used by the watermill no more than the fire allows itself to be used to heat the cooking pot. That is simply the nature of Heavenly Energy, and I have merely harnessed it for my own use through a combination of flow, Will, temporary Keystones, and more, but it’d be useless trying to explain all this to Vyakhya.

Or anyone else, for that matter, because no one else can truly comprehend my Dao, for it is one unique to my perspective. This is my Path, one which I know will bring me to the Peak, for I have seen first-hand the heights humans can reach with technology alone. There is so much I still don’t understand just yet, so much I still have to learn, but sometimes, you learn more from doing than from trying to puzzle it out on paper. As I am now, I am a man who can’t mathematically prove one plus one equals two, not in a technical sense at least, but I know the math is sound, so I can go from there. Maybe one day, I’ll unravel all the mysteries of the Dao, but for now, I’m mostly just going with what works.

So instead of wasting my breath with an explanation that even I don’t entirely understand, I shrug and say the first thing that comes to mind, which is, “Get good.” And even knowing it’s a mistake, I cannot help but add, “Bitchhhhhhhh.”

