“Nasi goreng. That’s the rice stuff. And the—uh—quesadilla stuff is aloo paratha.”
The man glanced down at what Aaron described as ‘quesadillas’. Which nearly made the Punjabi [Cook] throw down with him at that very second. It was actually a flatbread stuffed with a spicy potato interior, served with pickle, butter, yogurt—
“Mmf. It is tasty. Very…Chandrarian, one feels. They like these flatbreads.”
Telim was stuffing himself. He ate well; the buffets served to the [Mages] had no limits and Wistram Academy paid for the best foodstuffs. Aaron himself felt full.
“Uh, High Mage Telim, so as I was saying—you really haven’t left Wistram? Ever?”
The big [Mage] waved one hand lazily. He floated some more of the rice over and arranged it on his plate. A spoon rose and he let it feed him while talking.
“I visited First Landing and a few other cities over the years. But I’ve been a Wistram-[Mage] all my life. I was from Baleros, you know. My family sent me here and, well, once I graduated, I spent a year working at a Mage’s Guild on a port city in Terandria. Hated it. I came back here and never left again.”
“Why? Didn’t you want to explore?”
The man nearly sprayed rice over Aaron.
“Explore? My dear Blackmage, the world is a dangerous place! As if young Sidney didn’t know that…how is she, by the way?”
“Good. The sleeping tonic really helped. And the calming one. She actually didn’t take her light wand with her this morning.”
Although then she’d panicked and ran back to get it. But Telim’s smile was enough to justify the white lie.
“Good. That’s good. And as to answer your question, young man—I had dreams, of course! I wanted to be an adventurer. But—I was mugged while working at the Mage’s Guild. Jumped. I didn’t have a protection spell on and someone cracked me over the head and left me for dead. And my bed was never as comfortable as it was here. I also earned far less money since I had to spend on food, lodging, travel…”
He heaved a huge sigh.
“No, it wasn’t for me. Now, tourism I can get behind. But Wistram is much safer than the outside world. Food is practically free, and I can earn a comfortable living without needing to constantly work or send [Message] spells all day like some kind of cast-mule.”
He shuddered. Aaron looked at him curiously.
To his understanding, Telim was essentially the equivalent of a…college professor with tenure, to use an example from the American school system. He was an established [Mage] with a lot of connections and a place on Wistram’s Council. He was active politically, but Aaron didn’t see how he was allowed to stay here.
“Does Wistram allow any [Mage] to just…stay, High Mage Telim?”
“Goodness no! We’re rather strict about it, to be honest. I had to work hard to earn my place. But now I’ve done that…I can coast, if I’m honest. I’m a [High Mage]—that’s a generalist, to you—and I do some enchanting work. The academy is happy if I produce five Speak-Quills per month. See?”
He proffered the magical quill he made and gave to Wistram to earn his keep. Aaron glanced at it.
“What does it do?”
“Place it on the table—here. And see.”
Telim’s eyes twinkled. Aaron did that. He saw the quill balance, perfectly upright on the table. Sa’la moved her plates out of the way with a sigh.
“Um, High Mage Telim, I don’t see—”
Um, High Mage Telim, I don’t see—the quill instantly copied down Aaron’s words in a neat scrawl. He blinked.
“That’s amazing!”
“It’s just a bit of magic. The stupid thing needs to be reset each line, but they do sell well. Last about a year—or four months if you’re using it every day. My own design on the enchantment. You see? And like that, I earned my place here.”
Telim plucked the quill up as it copied Blackmage’s words. He put the quill away dismissively. And Aaron understood.
Telim was a [Mage]. He studied, and made artifacts. But what he really was was…a resident of Wistram. He didn’t want to leave.
He was the exact opposite of someone like Archmage Nailihuaile. She had grand ambitions for Earth’s technology. She wanted to amass more power, to make Wistram more powerful. She had connections abroad.
But the sedentary Telim was actually the largest faction in Wistram, spread across the other factions. The [Mages] who thought everything was pretty good and enjoyed their life as it was. And why not? Wistram Academy ran on secrets because it didn’t lack for food, or other resources.
Loafers. Idlers. People content to live and influence the world without rocking the boat. There was something almost addictive about the idea to Aaron.
Right up until Elena leaned over.
“So, you don’t feel that there’s any need to help, say, people in a family, high Mage?”
The man turned to look at her. He raised both brows.
“Miss Elena, Wistram sends its agents to do good the world over. I myself don’t participate, but I’ve voted to intercede in any number of issues. We oppose the King of Destruction, warmongers, and all their ilk.”
“But surely this good can be spread around.”
Elena gestured at the buffet. Telim gave her a blank look.
“And it will be. But do we need to starve while that happens?”
“That’s not what I—”
Sa’la waved a fork as she ate breakfast. The Selphid smiled at Elena and gestured around the vast dining hall.
“Miss Elena, we are an academy. Our job is to study and create magic that benefits the world. We are not a nation. We don’t take sides, except against those who would just destroy. Like Flos Reimarch. But Wistram is an international institution. We can’t be biased in favor of one nation. That’s how the Council works; we come from all walks of life and only by communal vote do we act. Take Ailendamus versus the Dawn Concordat for instance…”
She went on. Wistram was international. A place without ties to any one nation. Looked at another way, ‘international’ meant that you didn’t stand for anything except yourself.
That was sometimes how Aaron felt with some of the mages. But at that moment—Beatrice, the Dullahan [Runemistress] appeared at the table.
“High Mage Telim. Aaron’s presence is requested by Archmage Nailihuaile.”
“Oh? Well, I supposed you’d better go. Give Naili my best.”
Telim waved Aaron off. The young man got up.
“What does Naili want? I’m still working on the boat…”
“Not that. She wants you immediately. It’s private.”
Beatrice never smiled. She was an important member of the Revivalists, and a secret-broker, someone who bought and sold valuable secrets. She and Montressa du Valeross had run their business when Aaron had first come here.
However. Beatrice had lost a…lover. Calvaron. Aaron didn’t know the story; Montressa hadn’t ever told him the entire thing. But the long and short was that the Dullahan hated [Necromancers] with a passion. And she was even more foul-tempered of late. She had called Montressa a traitor.
“Uh—Beatrice, where are we going?”
“The Archmage’s Wing.”
She looked at him. Aaron gulped.
 
—-
 
The Archmage’s Wing was a name for a section of Wistram taken over by the Archmages. It was meant for their projects, not their living spaces.
In the past, it would have been on the higher floors. But the higher levels were sealed. To go higher, one had to pass Cognita’s ‘test’.
And the Truestone Golem had killed every [Mage] ever to attempt to challenge her.
She was, in fact, waiting at the door. Beatrice and Aaron froze as the giant, stone woman looked at them.
Cognita’s mouth moved. Her eyes fixed on Aaron. She was made of stone, but even her dress moved as she walked. Truestone, a relic of Archmage Zelkyr’s power. No [Mage] was truly ever comfortable about her; as Elena had said, Golems could be said to rule Wistram while Cognita guarded the higher floors.
“Aaron Vanwell. Your presence is requested.”
“Cognita. I am bringing him to Archmage Nailihuaile—”
Beatrice actually backed up as Cognita stepped forwards. The golem towered over both Dullahan and Human; she was eight feet tall. And her face seldom changed.
“Another Archmage requests his presence.”
“Who? Archmage Viltach and Archmage Feor both—”
Beatrice knew who Cognita must be talking about and froze. Cognita looked at her.
“Archmage Amerys has not been formally stripped of her position by Wistram’s Council. In accordance with Wistram law, I will convey her requests. Even if she is currently being held in captivity.”
The Dullahan [Runemistress] gulped. So did Aaron. He didn’t like Amerys. But she had summoned him and Cognita had borne her request. Beatrice raised one finger.
“Amerys is a traitor to the academy—”
“She is an Archmage of Wistram until the gathered [Mages] strip her of that honor. Your opinion does not change the truth.”
Cognita’s voice did not rise. Nor did her face change. But she spoke in such a way that Beatrice’s words were run over, smashed flat, and ignored. The Dullahan backed up. Cognita looked at Aaron.
“I have conveyed her message. Be about your business, Aaron Vanwell.”
She nodded and walked off. Aaron saw Beatrice glaring at Cognita’s back. The Dullahan was holding onto the wand at her side under her robes. But Cognita hadn’t cared.
“…Follow me.”
Beatrice muttered after a second. Aaron followed her.
The doors to the Archmage’s Wing were sealed unless you had a magical key. Even Cognita didn’t have one—but somehow, Blackmage thought that if she really wanted in, the doors wouldn’t stop her.
But Beatrice let Aaron into a silent part of Wistram. Only a few [Mages] were allowed in here. And most were gathered in a dark room.
Large pictures were hung on the walls. On canvases, hanging or hovering in the air for the audience to inspect.
They were in theory paintings, but they were more like pictures. Magic had copied the images, and a [Paint Mage] had replicated them with spells. Aaron took one look at them and recoiled.
They were of Antinium. Huge, massive insectile forms sat in their Hives, surrounded by drones and soldier-ants. Queens. Each shot showcased the innards of the Hive, or something interesting. An Azure Antinium, a giant winged one speaking up to a broken Queen—a little Worker trundling a huge cart of food to another Queen—
“Ah, Aaron! You’re here. Thank you, Beatrice.”
Archmage Nailihuaile turned and smiled brightly. Beatrice bowed stiffly, holding her head in her hands.
“Archmage Naili, Cognita was waiting outside the wing. Amerys has summoned Aaron Vanwell.”
The Star Lamia froze for a second. Her magical staff—an artifact of her people, tapped on the ground.
Other figures in the audience turned. Archmage Feor, his hair white, frowned. The half-Elf was among the oldest of Wistram’s members by far. Naili hesitated, her slitted, lizard-like eyelids flickering.
“Cognita said that? Darn. I guess Aaron will have to go. Later. It’s better than getting into an argument with Cognita. You know how she is. You’ll take him, Beatrice. I’ll send word.”
“Yes, Archmage.”
“Come here, Aaron. How are you doing? Thanks for helping with the presentations the other day, by the way. I loved Elena throwing the canvasses. And Saif made everyone so upset. I got all kinds of complaints, but if he won, he won, right? Did you have a good breakfast?”
Archmage Nailihuaile was a social being. Like many Lizardfolk, really. She chattered. Aaron answered her distractedly as he made his way to an inner circle of three.
“Yes, Archmage Naili. Uh—Saif says he’d like to keep running the simulations, but he needs more ammunition.”
“Well, we’re having it made and we can always enchant more of those canisters. Let’s do it. And it’s good practice for the idiots who think they can walk around on a battlefield!”
Naili grinned. She’d been one of the first people to test Saif’s skills and he hadn’t ever managed to hit her. The Archmage had seen actual combat.
“The question is whether these ‘battles’ would mimic reality in any meaningful way. [Mages] don’t need to dodge. Our [Barrier] spells would block bullets.”
Archmage Viltach snorted impatiently. Naili rolled her eyes as Feor made room for Blackmage. Aaron stood among three Archmages of Wistram. He was the first Earther. And as such—they often summoned him and him alone.
“Viltach, if any of the stories from Earth are true, that’s the smallest weapon they have. And most of our idiots don’t even make all-encompassing shields.”
“It wastes mana and weakens the field.”
“Well, don’t say ‘our shields can block bullets’ when Saif shoots your Libertarians in the ass.”
The Lamia smiled smugly at Viltach’s dark expression. Before he could respond, Feor cleared his throat.
“Simulations of higher-grade weapons are unavailable as well, Viltach, Nailihuaile. Let us just take this as a lesson that our [Battlemages] need more practice on the actual battlefield. These…simulations provide entertainment, if nothing else.”
“In that we are agreed. Lend Saif to my faction, Nailihuaile.”
“Bite me, Viltach. Give us Eun for two days and I’ll give you Saif for one game.”
“That is not equitable—”
“Saif’s got his games. What have your Earthers come up with?”
“Archmages.”
The two bickering Archmages fell silent as Feor’s eyes flashed. The half-Elf’s presence was stronger than both Viltach and Naili’s. Even Aaron could tell that. Although Naili had her staff, which equalized any matchup.
And the Archmages did fight. Not often, but it had happened. Aaron had heard that when the three confronted Amerys she had called down a storm of lightning bolts across Wistram’s exterior. And that had just been the opening salvo.
But the three were united, at least in this. Feor gestured at the paintings.
“Aaron Vanwell. Good morning. Do you know what these pictures are?”
Aaron stared up at the images of the Antinium.
“…The interiors of the Hives?”
The Human Archmage folded his arms in distaste. He shook his head, repulsed by the image of the gigantic Queens.
“Yes. All six of them. They are viewing the Wistram…television.”
He pronounced the words awkwardly. Naili smiled.
“WNN. Wistram News Network!”
“I thought we agreed to call it World Wide News.”
“The point is that our…access…runs two ways. We have limited our observation. Rumors are already spreading. But we have obtained these images of the interiors of the Antinium Hives. As well as other valuable information.”
The Archmages nodded at each other. Aaron shifted. But for this, he might have dismissed Elena’s fears out of hand. But this—essentially—was everything conspiracy theories were made of in his world.
