Wistram watched through the scrying orbs. Blackmage hadn’t suggested this. He’d objected—hard, in fact. But the [Mages] had been delighted by the idea.
“It seems Niers Astoragon, the heads of the Four Great Companies, among others, have found out. And word is spreading from ruler to ruler. We are denying allegations of course, but this is costing us politically. I’ve been smoothing feathers in Terandria. Those damn [Illusionists] did not help.”
Viltach informed the others. The two nodded absently.
“I consider it worth the cost considering we got this. But let’s scale back the observation, shall we? The Seer of Steel has already lodged a formal complaint. We don’t need him making it public…”
“We will be more covert. However, this…Aaron Vanwell. Tell us more about the ability of your devices. The camera functions.”
The three Archmages turned to Aaron. And there it was. He gulped.
“Um—what about them? I’ve showed you the video and camera functions.”
“If…we were to teleport a device into a room. Like the Grand Queen’s Hive—how covert would it be?”
Viltach studied Aaron. And Blackmage was sure they were casting [Detect Lies]. He didn’t need to lie, though. The truth was the truth.
“I…don’t know how you’d see the screen.”
“We can’t send the information back here?”
“Maybe with a call? But you’d have to access the phone. And keep it charged on the other end.”
“Could we…set it to record, send it over, and see what it picks up?”
The young man shrugged.
“Maybe with audio? I guess that works.”
The three Archmages conferred.
“…Not much better than an eavesdropping spell.”
“But they won’t pick it up with magic. That Azure Antinium was onto us, I’m convinced. Xrn the Small Queen.”
Feor stared long at the image of Xrn. Where Naili was interested and antagonistic and Viltach just disgusted, Feor looked…interested.
“…Yes. An accomplished spellcaster. But the point remains. Can the Antinium pick up this…device, Aaron Vanwell?”
“I don’t know. If the screen is on it’d be obvious. Aside from that, it’ll be just…quiet. Unless someone calls it or there’s an alarm on it.”
Naili tapped her staff on the ground, thinking.
“Seems risky. I don’t like it. Let’s not tip our claws, boys.”
The other two looked at her.
“It is possible the Antinium could sense the electricity in the device. I cast my vote against as well, Viltach.”
“It’s worth the risk! If the other three Archmages were here—”
“Once we get them here. They’re missing all the fun with Earth.”
Naili’s eyes glittered. Viltach nodded curtly. He looked back at the images of the Antinium and cursed.
“Well—what do we do with these?”
“Give them to the Drakes. They are still the best images of what the Hives look like by far. And some of the information we have recorded…is intriguing.”
Feor stroked at his white beard. He stared at Garry, with the poofy hat on his head, frowning with obvious confusion. Viltach just shook his head.
“That damned Reinhart. She’s depreciated the value of this information considerably with her stunt.”
“We have estimates of the other Hives. But I agree; this isn’t the landmark thing we wanted. And the Drakes will ask if we’ve been watching them. Which we have. I vote not to send.”
“Me as well. Let’s observe until we have something worth more. If the information leaks, the Antinium will stop using the orbs, Feor. And the Drakes have loose lips.”
The half-Elf Archmage sighed, but he had been overruled in this new vote. The three turned away from the painting and their followers backed up.
“Very well. Onto more pressing matters, then. This issue of the Golden Triangle.”
The three Archmages paused. Naili sighed.
“The Elusive Lot have been up to their tricks. I hear word’s spreading from Pallass. Grand Strategist Chaldion is crying the alarm. We can’t pretend ignorance. It’s time to act.”
“Who?”
Viltach just looked blank. He sighed.
“A high-ranking Drake? It would have been easier to let the Golden Triangle bleed some of the more objectionable idiots dry.”
“It’s going to destabilize the economy, Viltach. I was hoping the King of Destruction would get onto it—but I think the Ullsinoi objected.”
“Those idiots. We need to put a leash on them.”
He looked around for support, but Feor waved an ambivalent hand. Naili shook her head.
“You do it with the Council’s vote. I’m not having them causing actual trouble. We need to jump on this, Viltach. Feor?”
“Agreed. It’s caused enough trouble.”
The two Archmages turned to Blackmage as Viltach gritted his teeth. Two non-Humans versus one Human. He had been talking about summoning the other Archmages—probably to win more of these votes, Aaron guessed.
But Feor was now fixing Aaron with a silvery gaze and the young man gulped. Feor had not been pleased by his defection. Still, his voice was level.
“Aaron Vanwell. Are you sure this is a fraud attempt by a fellow Earther? Our agents have investigated, and there is no evidence these adventurer teams exist. Ullsinoi is sure, but we must be absolutely sure when we speak as Wistram Academy.”
“I’m—I’m sure, Archmage Feor. Elena, all the others agree. It’s a pyramid scheme. It’s one of us doing it. Probably. I’d put money on it.”
“Better that than this scheme. You heard him, Feor. Today?”
The half-Elf passed a hand over his face. He sighed, wearily.
“Today. Let us contact…Sir Relz and Noass.”
“Noass. Heh.”
The two Archmages looked at Nailihuaile. And like that, they were done with Aaron. Beatrice took him away as they turned to discussing Jecrass.
“King Raelt will fall. The question is: do we rescue him or let him fight to the last? Does Chandrar need martyrs?”
“Flos has killed hundreds of martyrs. I vote we try to help…”
 
—-
 
The Archmages were like that. Schemers. Even if it was cheerfully like Naili—they made decisions that impacted the world. The very definition of the Illuminati, really. Aaron wanted to believe they weren’t evil people.
But that wasn’t the point, was it? What Elena hated was the idea of anyone having that kind of power.
This world was made of levels and classes, though. One person having more power was how this world worked. You had to remember that. And if you had no power?
The Fourth Archmage of Wistram sat in a cell. Her arms and legs were bound in a type of magical straightjacket. Chains had been attached to her legs and body, and the bars on her cell were almost unnecessary.
But they were still there, and the two [Mages] guarding Archmage Amerys at every moment were not happy to let Aaron talk with her.
“Cognita insists.”
Beatrice told them, and that was that. They had orders not to let anyone but an Archmage see Amerys. Her captivity was a secret in Wistram. Some of the highest-ranking [Mages] knew, but the public did not.
She sat there, eyes burning, gagged as well. That was new.
“Why’s she gagged?”
“She bit the fingers off one of the [Mages] serving her food. You want to speak to her? You have to remove the gag. She’s tied up even more now. But watch out.”
The half-Elf grimaced. Aaron stared at her.
Then, with great trepidation, he approached Amerys. She stared up at him. Her mouth was bound, but he thought she was smiling.
“Archmage? I’m going to remove your gag. Please don’t bite me.”
She made no move. Slowly, Blackmage untied the gag around her mouth. He saw the Archmage move—
Amerys’ teeth snapped together and the young man fell onto his back, scrambling away with a shout. The two [Mages] raised their staffs, but the lightning-mage just laughed. And then coughed.
She hadn’t really gone for his fingers. But as Blackmage had observed—Archmage Amerys was sort of a jerk.
“Talk to me, boy.”
That was all she said. The Archmage of Chandrar coughed as Aaron slowly approached. One of the [Mages] motioned.
“She can have water. But don’t let her drink out of anything but this.”
A wood straw in a wood cup. Aaron eyed Amerys. She grinned at him.
“Lightning runs in my body. I would have killed Viltach if this room wasn’t shockproof. I spat water at him.”
He shuddered. Amerys was dangerous. Unlike Viltach, or Feor, who were more academics, Amerys had gained her levels from war. Even Nailihuaile didn’t compare. He slowly offered her the cup.
“Please don’t spit.”
She drank from the straw, coughed again.
“Don’t worry, boy. I’m not interested in your life. I wouldn’t have anyone else to talk to, anyways. Cognita lets me summon you. Not the others.”
“I think the Archmages wouldn’t like that.”
Elena would love to talk to Amerys, but Feor would flip. Amerys nodded, grinning. Her skin was dark; she was native Chandrarian, and her eyes seemed to sparkle even in her magical cuffs.
“I know. But what does Cognita want, hm? That’s the only question that matters.”
The two [Mages] and Beatrice all shifted uncomfortably. Aaron looked at Amerys.
“Are you…doing well?”
She sighed. And some of the edge faded from her tone. She sat back, more comfortably, and spoke to Aaron as he served her some of the food. It wasn’t dried bread and nothing else; it was this morning’s rice. Wistram wasn’t monstrous. The bindings were mostly because Amerys kept attacking her captors.
“I haven’t gone crazy yet, bratling. And I could leave here at any time. If I renounce my lord, turn my back on Reim, and swear in blood to serve only the academy.”
Her tone made it clear she’d rather go crazy first. Aaron sat there.
“My name’s Aaron Vanwell.”
“Sure.”
She stared at him. The young man felt annoyed. He’d told her every visit and she refused to even remember it.
“I don’t have to come here. Is politeness dead on Chandrar?”
The lightning mage laughed at him. Her eyes focused on him, and the pupils were unnervingly intense.
“You want me to remember your name, boy? Earn that right. You’re a child who hasn’t seen war. You don’t know what the world outside of Wistram is. Tell me—have your comrades told you what they endured to get here? Feor tells me there are more, every week now.”
Aaron hesitated. The memory of Basil, Sidney’s stories flashed across his face. And Amerys saw.
“That’s right. They know what death and glory look like. You’re just a child.”
“I don’t have to take this.”
Blackmage stood up hotly. Amerys laughed as he stormed towards the cell’s opening.
“I’m the only Archmage in Wistram who tells you the truth! Run away if you’re craven! But you’ll be back!”
She was right. They made him go back to put her gag back on. Aaron stomped into the cell and glared at her.
“You could make these chats more pleasant, you know.”
She shrugged awkwardly. Amerys’ voice became contemplative.
“I could try. But even before I was a captive, no one ever called me ‘kind’. My lord said that I oft reminded him of a cactus that spat needles. Have you ever seen one?”
“No. It sounds horrible.”
“I rather liked the compliment.”
Her voice was wistful. She shook her head slightly.
“Anyways, I often clashed with Orthenon. He is as stubborn as a goat. Or Gazi. Mars I got on fine with. Drevish I liked. Ah, but to be with the Seven. Or however many remain. I hear Drevish was killed.”
She spoke of the King’s Seven. Of Chandrar. And she often asked him for news. Aaron sat with Amerys as she rambled.
“I hear he rides against Jecrass, my [King] of war. He needs me, you know.”
“Really?”
“Oh yes. Parasol Stroll marches with them and he has stolen a [Grand Mage] of Belchan. All well and good, but I am his hammer of magecraft. Without me, his armies suffer. I am the most destructive of the Seven in combat. The most fragile as well. But we are all needed. Without Drevish, no grand cities shall be built, no walls to break his foes. Without Tottenval, how will Reim feed its armies? And Queravia…her genius would have felled Jecrass two weeks hence!”
She sighed. And stared at Aaron.
“Will you set me free?”
The woman mouthed that. Aaron stared at her. He half-shook his head.
She asked. Of course she asked. And he was certain that Feor, Naili, Beatrice and everyone else watched him like a hawk. Even if he had his shock-glove, he doubted he could have freed her anyways. The magical bindings were beyond powerful. You couldn’t sever them with power tools.
“I’m sorry, Archmage Amerys. I…thank you for helping me with the batteries.”
“It was my pleasure. I am bored to death, here. Do your lightning-machines run on it?”
“I’m actually trying. But I…uh…destroyed an iPhone.”
Even trying to convert the raw power of the magicore batteries Amerys had helped him make had overloaded the iPhone. Now Aaron had a lot of parts—and a very unhappy Earther. He’d been working on the sailboat by way of recompense.
“Lamont’s boat is coming along. It’ll be a magical sailboat.”
Amerys smiled. Blackmage and Naili had been working on the project for the [Sailor], who had crewed a ship before being found. He wanted a small sailboat to sail around Wistram’s safe harbors—but with a twist. Magical wind would blow into the sail forever. Normally you’d need an [Aeromancer] to do that, but Naili had created a spell to do it.
The only issue was powering the spell. You needed magic. So Blackmage had installed a magicore battery—the same one that powered the Shock Orb he’d given Montressa.
“A children’s toy.”
“You could go pretty far with it.”
But not cross an ocean. Aaron had seen the waves outside of Wistram Academy and they’d crush this boat if it came to a storm. Amerys nodded.
A ship enchanted with this would work. In fact, such ships existed. Many [Captains] used wind-magic like this. Blackmage wasn’t inventing the wheel…or sail as the case may be. He was just making the magical technology available for all with his battery.
A ship was out of the question. It was too hard to work on a secret project of that magnitude. Aaron had spirited away a few of the batteries, made a copy of the shock-glove that could emit a lot of electricity. Yet—he couldn’t envision a scenario where he defeated an Archmage.
“Let’s talk about news. Uh—there was this thing in therapy…”
He told her the story of High Mage Telim. That did make Amerys smile.
“That fat buffoon? He has a kind heart. He’s like you.”
Aaron didn’t appreciate the comparison.
“Is he…he’s a [High Mage], though, right?”
“A generalist. He’s not bad. But lazy. He is a genius when it comes to the minutiae of spells. Making the speech-quills was his great achievement. Some exist, but he reinvented them. Imagine how difficult that is. Each word you speak is transcribed. Each letter. That is his genius, in those small things. Not in casting lightning bolts.”
