“The Ullsinoi factions presents: Macbeth. A play from Earth, transcribed in full by our own lovely people from Earth! A full play, one of over a dozen.”
More of the Ullsinoi Faction appeared out of the air. Not [Invisible]; they’d been hiding behind plinths, in rooms. Younger [Mages], bedecked in costume and the Elusive Lot. The Aquais faction jumped, caught off-guard by this ambush.
“What is—”
One of the [Mages] began before she was handed a neatly-bound script. She stared at the embossed title.
Macbeth.
Of course, the entire play. The half-Elf slowly began paging through it, staring at the lines and stage directions. As set down by Erin Solstice for the Players of Celum and then given to Palt. But no one here knew that. Galei’s eyes twinkled as he trotted backwards. Taxiela appeared beside Idevin.
“I heard you were having trouble recreating some plays, Idevin. What sort of friends would we be if we didn’t help out? Consider this play on the house. We’ve been practicing, actually. Places!”
The Ullsinoi faction spread out for the play, and one of the [Illusionists] conjured a dark curtain. The Aquais-mages were magnetically drawn into their seats.
“You have an entire play? But Erik couldn’t remember…we were going to ask for help with recollection spells, but how did you—”
“Ah, well, he’s an aspiring [Actor], isn’t he? Whereas we have someone with a delightful memory Skill.”
Taxiela’s tail swished merrily. She waved her hand and a number of bound sheafs of paper danced out of her bag of holding.
“Feast your eyes on this, Idevin.”
Hamlet, Othello, My Fair Lady—all of the plays hung in the air around the stunned [Pyromancer]. He stared at them as the play began. And Taxiela winked at Aaron. She turned to the head of the Aquais faction.
“Now, we’ve been friends for ages, Idevin. And obviously…we owe you a debt about the theft thing. So why don’t we have a chat about that little vote? Oh, and if you like this—we actually have an in with the Players of Celum. We could have their costume designer make copies for you…? Have you read this play, by any chance?”
The Aquais faction never stood a chance. As Aaron hurried away with Erik, he heard one of the Aquais [Mages] ask plaintively—
“Is this from that Joseph boy?”
And that question weighed on Aaron Vanwell’s mind as well. Whatever the case—information was power. And the Ullsinoi faction was using their Earther for all he was worth.
 
—-
 
“When I left—it was 2018. When Cara left, it was 2017. Eun swears it was the end of 2016, but he and I both arrived barely a week apart. Erik. Show everyone your tablet.”
In a private room, hidden from even the watchful eyes of [Mages], Elena sat at a small table with half a dozen other Earthers. Erik hesitantly showed his tablet around. The others stared at the screen and then swore or exclaimed.
“That can’t be right!”
Jacques shot to his feet. He grabbed at his hair.
“That’s a lie. You’re not serious.”
“I am. I was singing from Anastasia. The Broadway show. Haven’t any of you heard of it?”
One of them had. Haley, a girl from Connecticut, raised her hand. The [Squire], who had been found training in one of Terandria’s knight-orders looked around.
“Sure did. It came out in my state. But that was 2016. That proves nothing.”
Erik looked at her.
“Yes. But it came to Germany, Stuttgart, in 2018. That was where I watched it.”
The others fell silent. Aaron leaned on the table.
“It’s 2016. That was when I left.”
“We’re all coming from different times. The question is—why is time different? Late, late 2016 is Aaron. Everyone else comes from later in time. That means whatever began grabbing us started in 2016. Listen everyone, we don’t have long until our factions come looking for us. We have to accept that it’s now around 2019 in our world. Earth.”
Elena raised her voice over the other’s voices. Aaron heard panic, and felt it too. Time was passing.
“Prove it! At least—prove it, Erik! You can say you were in 2018, but do you have any proof?”
The young man from Germany nodded. He looked at Elena.
“I—I don’t know a lot of politics. Or world events. There were big things happening. But this is my best proof. You all listen to pop, yeah?”
“Eh.”
Some of the others shook their heads. A few looked disgusted, but most had listened to popular songs. Erik nodded. He tapped on his tablet.
“This song came out in 2019. It was very popular. If you were around then—you would have heard it. Listen—”
The song began to play. Aaron heard a guitar strumming. A voice singing. He started.
Old Town Road. And he was certain, certain he hadn’t heard that song before. Why? Because he liked this music and he would have had it on his iPhone if it had existed. This was a new song.
Of course, that wasn’t proof. The others demanded to hear new songs. Erik’s playlist was incomplete; he only had songs he liked. But he played another one that someone recognized. Another new song. Then Taylor Swift’s new music came from Haley’s iPhone.
“I still don’t believe it. Do you have anything from Imagine Dragons? Really? Play it!”
Julian demanded. At some point it just became the other Earthers sharing their favorite songs. More than one began demanding a copy of the new songs.
“Anyone got a dongle?”
“A what? Hey, who has a computer?”
“I think George has one. I’ll borrow it and sync everything up.”
The others were talking when Aaron raised his wand. The tip flashed brightly and everyone looked at him.
“Let’s copy music later, everyone. The point is that time is fucked. But that’s not all. Elena?”
“Yeah. We’ve discovered a number of things about this world.”
The young woman inhaled. She was saving the worst for last. This meeting in privacy, in this blank, off-green room was secret from every faction. Aaron had…found it. Or rather, he’d known it was here and told no one. Not even Nailihuaile. Even the tracking spells would fail to follow them here.
It was where he’d hidden a number of artifacts. The floor pulled up. But even Elena didn’t know that. Aaron shifted, deliberately not looking at the place where the invisible latch it had taken him six hours to find was. It was the size of your pinkie and he’d never found it otherwise. Even magic couldn’t detect it.
But he’d been told it was there.
“Listen up. This world is strange. I’ve been working with Andrea and George and a few others. And the [Mages] might not believe—but their world defies normal physics. For one thing, we’ve measured as best we can and we think this world is three times as large as Earth.”
More murmurs. But this was a sharing of information. Elena waved a hand as she produced a map. The ends of the world were clearly marked and she scowled at it.
“Something is wrong with this world. Gravity should be crushing us if this world really is larger than Earth. Or just the people from Earth. But it doesn’t. That means…gravity is being affected by magic? This world isn’t larger than Earth?”
“It’s hollow. Think sci-fi.”
That came from Jacques. Another person raised his hand.
“劳驾—”
“Sorry, Shun.”
One of the others translated as the young man from China asked questions. He and Xiang had arrived with a group of Chinese students and he was their representative. Fortunately, a number of the people were bilingual or had taken language classes.
“One continent is the size of Eurasia. According to the maps. Shun, this big. This is China.”
Elena drew on the map to show Shun and he recoiled, shaking his head. She nodded.
“It’s a fact. There are hundreds of maps and unless we’re being lied to—all the measurements are in damn miles, though. This is in kilometers.”
She’d done the calculations by hand. A girl from Russia snapped.
“Why. Do. They. Measure. In. MILES!?”
She had been an [Archer]. The others muttered in vexation. America accounted for a good number of Earthers, but the rest of the world was…the rest of the world.
However, that actually made Elena cool down a bit. The [Beautician] raised her hand. And she looked around, meeting everyone’s eyes.
“That’s easy. Someone came here before us. Someone from a country using the imperial system. Chess existed before we came here. We’re not the first.”
“How sure are you, Elena?”
Haley leaned on the table. Elena shrugged.
“How else can you explain everything? People speak English. But they also know Latin—some of the [Mages] think its magical language. They use miles. Who’d come up with that exact measurement? They even have expressions from our world. At some point, there was crossover. I don’t know how or in what way—but I think that’s a safe explanation.”
The others looked at each other. There was so much they couldn’t confirm. Shun checked his watch. He spoke in broken English.
“We are here for—twenty minutes. Time to go?”
“My faction’s going to be looking for me. I have to go, Elena. Are you sure this place is safe?”
“Once we use the door, we’ll appear elsewhere. Right, Aaron?”
The young man nodded.
“This is secret. Tell no one. We have two things left. Elena will start with the first.”
Elena took a deep breath. She was visibly upset now, and the others fell silent, sensing it. Elena glanced at Erik and he clenched his hands.
“Yeah. You’re not going to like this. We shouldn’t tell the others, especially the kids. But—Erik? What was the news in 2019, when you left?”
The German [Actor] hesitated. He bit his lip.
“There were…it is in the news. All over. Many things have happened on Earth. But this? It started small. But people think it’s a conspiracy. There was nearly a war…”
“What?”
Haley demanded. For answer, Erik looked at Elena. He didn’t want to say it. She took a deep breath.
“There are…missing people posters. All over. People noticed kids were going missing. It’s just rumors at this point. But there are cases of people going missing in airports.”
“There’s a video in Melbourne. Security footage. One second everyone’s there—the next—dozens are missing. And more. There are names…I saw lists. Many families looking for their children. People think it’s a government. Or aliens.”
“Or the Rapture.”
Elena snorted. But Erik was pale-faced. This was the truth. The others looked at each other in horror.
“Oh god. It’s been two years. My parents!”
A girl spoke up. Her face was white. She turned to Erik.
“My family is Walczak. From Warsaw? Did you see them? Are they—?”
The young man backed up as the room was filled with everyone asking questions about their family. He raised his hands.
“I’m sorry! I don’t know! I’m sorry! It’s just lists. It’s just a conspiracy—”
“Don’t they know we’re missing? What kind of idiots are in the government that they can’t see the pattern?”
“They probably think it’s another world power. Or damn aliens. Who suspects magic?”
“They should be able to detect it! Isn’t anyone looking? The FBI—”
“Two thousand people go missing every day.”
“On security footage? Bullshit! Shut up, I’ll kill you—”
“Silence!”
Aaron shouted. Elena looked at him. The others calmed down. Aaron wished Telim had given him some more calming potions. He needed them.
“That’s all Erik knows. Don’t bother him. And don’t tell the others. There’s nothing we can do. Unless we get access to a way to communicate with Earth—we can do nothing.”
“But we have to tell them we’re here. Alive.”
Haley whispered. The others nodded. They looked at Aaron.
“Blackmage. Can you hack the phones? We’ve got computers. Other electronics.”
Aaron Vanwell felt the pressure of so many expectations. He shook his head, his shoulders slumping.
“I’ve tried. All I can do is create a fake network. There’s a resonance between phones. I hijacked that to talk to everyone the first time. I can do it again—Wistram is trying to boost the signal. But there’s nothing from home.”
Because they were in another world. You could expand the signal to go thousands of miles. But how could you make it cross dimensions? Or whatever separated them? Aaron had to believe—the answer lay at a higher level.
“We’re trying. For now, we’ll meet up again. Remember, keep it secret. Don’t tell anyone with loose lips. No [Mages] know about this. We’re in this together. We’re not in different factions. We’re from Earth.”
Elena went around the room, and the others nodded. Some were doubtful; perhaps the word would get out. But they had to try.
“Aaron, you said you had one last thing to bring up. What is that?”
Jacques looked at Aaron. The [Engineer] took a deep breath.
“I’m—there might be one ally in Wistram. At least, someone we can trust. He helped me find this room. I’ve been asking around, but I can’t find a trace of him. If any of you sees him—let me know.”
“Who is it? A [Mage]?”
“No. I think he’s a ghost. Of an Archmage.”
The others fell silent. Elena’s eyes narrowed slowly.
“You didn’t tell me that, Aaron. When did you meet him?”
“During the winter.”
A few of the others looked up slowly. Haley leaned forwards.
“I haven’t seen ghosts. And I’ve seen a lot of weird things. But no talking paintings or ghosts. Yet. [Necromancers] are banned in Wistram, or so I hear.”
“Yeah. That might be why he’s hiding. But if you meet him—you’ll know.”
A few raised eyebrows. Shun raised one hand.
“What’s his name?”
Blackmage glanced up. He spoke the name.
“Emerrhain.”
The others looked blank. They promised to look out for him. Or check the history books. But that was the funny thing. Aaron was aware that even Wistram’s history books didn’t go back beyond the tens of thousands of years at most. But he’d searched for all this time. And he’d never seen the man’s name before. But he’d known about the secret study and this place.
So what else could he be? Elena stared at Aaron’s face as the others began to leave the room. And she shivered.
 
—-
 
Those were the things Earthers did. Plot in secret, have fun, work on their projects, and study magic or their passions. What else were they to do?
In a way, they were doing what all [Mages] did at Wistram. And if they weren’t allowed to leave—they were treated well. Elena wanted to leave.
But she was a minority. The others would love to leave, to see the wondrous sights or have an adventure—but only for a while. Wistram, as a place to live, was rather fine.
Telim explained it to Aaron the next day. He was having a rather large breakfast. Elena was speaking to a [Gravitationist], a [Mage] interested in testing her solar theories.
“Rather wonderful, these. What do you call them?”
