“High Mage, look at this.”
He had a videogame on it. Just a basic one. Halo CE. Aaron wasn’t the best gamer, but Telim, Sa’la, and a bunch of [Mages] crowded around as he ran through one of the levels.
“Good gracious! What colors!”
“Duck! Duck!”
“Is that like Saif’s rifle? What horrible monsters!”
The [Mages] were greatly entertained. Some had seen video games, though, and Telim had even watched a few movies—the Earther’s tech wasn’t restricted. Attempts to copy the laptops had all failed, though.
“A fascinating game. Yes, I could just wish to teleport into that game and see those beasts dodge a [Fireball]!”
He waved his wand and everyone around him leaned back. But then Telim caught himself.
“—Yet my aim is shoddy and I know I’d die, Aaron, even with precautions. Real combat is never so polite. I know my limits. My goodness, even Archmage Feor once took a punch from this rather muscular Drake in an actual duel. And he stands at the top of magical talent. I think he broke a rib. Imagine what would happen if I’d taken the same?”
He looked a bit sad as he said that. He understood Aaron’s dream. But he was practical—in some ways, more realistic than Aaron.
Blackmage nodded. He closed the laptop, sighing. And then—well—had a thought.
The young man looked at Telim, wistfully flipping up the writing-quills he’d developed himself. And then, he spotted Galei, who was whistling as he walked off to tempt some other [Mages] with some tickets for The Players of Celum. He looked at his laptop and thought of Saif.
And he had it.
“Mage Galei! Excuse me! Mage Galei!”
Aaron went running after the Centaur. He nearly ran into the Centaur—and collided with a young Lizardgirl.
Taxiela fell to the ground with a squeak. Aaron stumbled, extended a hand. He wasn’t sure if it was Taxiela; he could have run into an illusion; good [Illusionists] could make a fake rock wall into almost the real thing.
“I’m sorry—uh—Taxiela?”
“Hello, Aaron Vanwell! How are you doing?”
The Lizardgirl vanished. Galei trotted around Aaron and grinned at him. Even Aaron, used to [Mages], had to recollect himself.
“I uh—I was hoping to chat, Mage Galei—”
“Yes, about Joseph? Property of the Ullsinoi, I’m afraid. But if you’d like to talk, I can do that. But it’s give and take. Tell Naili that, if she sent you.”
The [Illusionist], Palt’s master, chuckled. Aaron shook his head.
“Actually, Mage Galei—I was hoping you’d be interested in funding one of my projects.”
The Centaur blinked. The Ullsinoi faction hadn’t funded any Earther projects so far. Nor had they been awarded any Earthers. They had power, but it wasn’t in the Council or politically. They were the dark sheep of Wistram, with the understanding that said sheep sometimes stole all the underwear of all the [Mages] in Wistram and tossed it into the sea. Because it was funny.
“Interesting. What makes you think the Ullsinoi faction would back your projects? All the other factions have money to burn. But we tend to want things we can use. No little ‘skirmishes’ with Saif. No prototypes. The real thing.”
The Centaur and Blackmage stood in a black room. Enclosed in all sides. A privacy box. Aaron looked around, blinking. Then he replied to the Centaur standing there, watching him with amused eyes.
“That’s true, Mage Galei. Most of what we do isn’t worth much. And I don’t want to mass-produce Saif’s guns. Or even the shock orbs.”
“No taste for warfare? I can respect that. But then—what?”
The Centaur trotted around Aaron, nodding. And the young man spread his arms.
“Fun, Mage Galei. Shouldn’t life have a bit of fun?”
He heard laughter. The Centaur threw back his head and laughed.
“Well said, young man! What is life if not to be enjoyed? But we have all kinds of entertainment. Soccer, plays…what could you add?”
“Combat. Adventure. Action.”
The Centaur vanished. A Lizardgirl sat on a tree branch. Aaron turned. The [Illusionist] winked at him.
“Gladiator arenas. Pit fights. You’re saying nothing new, young man.”
“Those still hurt people. And I can’t take part in them. I’m talking…about something else, Mage Galei. Your world might have it. But I don’t think you have my world’s vision.”
Blackmage took a breath. He was no hero. He was no one’s guy, the one they turned to. But he could change the world. Because…he did have passions.
“I’m talking about videogames. Virtual reality. Holograms. Mage Galei. Have you ever tried to create an illusion you could fight?”
The mage’s eyes glinted.
“Of course. [Mages] train like that all the time. I’ve used illusions as a distraction. What’s new about that?”
Aaron smiled. He spread his arms wide.
“Only a few things. I hear Mage Telim is an expert at programming minute details into spells. Have you ever imagined…a scenario? One where you get to fight and live out a dream without ever being in danger? Mage Taxiela, would you pay for that? And if you would—how many people would pay for it as well?”
The [Illusionist] paused on her perch on the tree. And then she laughed. Aaron felt a clawed hand on his shoulder. He turned—and a Garuda woman leaned forwards. Her feathers were black, save for white on her wingtips. Her eyes were a dusky yellow. She winked at him.
“Tell me more.”
 
—-
 
The hallway was dark. Quiet. The stone floor covered with moss was slippery underfoot, and Blackmage steadied himself as he raised his glowing wand. He could not slip here. 
Ahead of him, he heard chattering bones. Skeletal figures moved down the hallway, peeking at him with glowing eyes. He turned, hearing more movement. They were flanking him. Blackmage raised his wand—
Telim attacked the darkness.
“[Lightning Bolt]! Oho!”
He shot a blast of crackling lightning past Aaron’s shoulder. The young man dove.
“Holy fuck!”
The blast of lighting knocked a group of skeletons to pieces. The impact and searing ozone left a stench in the air as Aaron scrambled to his feet.
“To arms! The undead are attacking!”
Telim shot [Light Arrows] at the zombies and skeletons racing at them. Aaron turned, pointed his glove, and focused.
“Unleash—”
The entire battery discharged as his metal glove rose. The lightning arced forwards as he willed it and hit the undead horde.
The spell was real. The monsters illusory. There was a momentary flicker as the spell tried to keep up, and then the undead exploded.
“I say! That’s a great spell! Just, er, don’t hit me with it! From the left!”
Telim, puffing, aimed his wand left. More undead coming down the corridor. Leaping Ghouls. His [Fireball] blew them to bits. Aaron laughed with adrenaline. He turned, wand ready—
A skeletal thing dropped off the ceiling. It landed on Aaron and he got one chance to scream. Telim whirled, as the thing reached down and bit—
“Out! Aaron’s dead!”
The illusion froze for a moment. Aaron, flailing wildly, looked around and saw Saif, Galei in his Centaur form, and Mage Yerzhen and two more of the Elusive Lot waving at him. Shamefaced, he crawled away as Telim puffed.
“Do I—do I go after it resumes?”
“Yup! Starting in five, four, three…”
The illusion resumed. Telim blasted the bone-thing away and whirled. He did pretty well. As the audience watched from the viewing platforms, the [High Mage] proceeded to blast undead around. Of course, they were illusions, but programmed with a bit of weight behind them. Spells passed through, but they were programmed to simulate the hits.
Telim had done that. He really did have the minutiae down. The Elusive Lot had come up with the spells.
“We’ll have to work on permanent versions. Old Telim’s really letting them have it. I didn’t know he knew that many combat spells.”
Galei chortled as he ate popcorn and watched. Yerzhen nodded. He grinned.
“Uh oh! There comes the Bone Giant! And the Ghouls. He doesn’t see them. I think—out!”
The Ghouls got Telim as he tried to blast the Bone Giant in the boss room. The [Mage] was sweating liberally and panting, but he looked ecstatic.
“What a scenario! I say! Can we go again?”
As the illusions faded, Aaron eyed the skirmish room. Telim’s spells had blasted around the room.
“…I think we need to talk about protective gear to avoid friendly fire, High Mage. And reinforcing the walls?”
The man looked abashed. But he was as excited as Saif and Blackmage.
“Hey, can we make my gun work on the simulation?”
“Shouldn’t be too hard. The illusions are just registering hits. If we tweak the spell—it’s like hit points, Saif. Only they take into account the intensity. But we can probably make a ‘fake version’ and give people wands that simulate spells.”
“And the real adventurers can even fight monsters. Imagine it! Practice fighting Crelers! Or—or live out a dungeon experience! Dead gods, but the nobility will pay for these entertainments!”
Telim mopped at his brow. The Elusive Lot were nodding.
“I see money in this.”
Galei rubbed his hands together, grinning. Aaron looked around. The virtual reality games he’d proposed had their early backers. And he had no doubt that the other factions would get behind it.
“It’s not the biggest thing. But it’ll do.”
The young man muttered to himself. And they needed him. Even the Elusive Lot, who could do the illusions, and Telim didn’t have the idea of making reality into games. But Blackmage had played tabletop games, video games. Heck, his nickname came from a comic.
He looked around. It was a fantasy in a fantasy world. But that was alright. He looked at Telim.
“Can we talk funding then, [Mages]? I’ll try not to overcharge you, but the development might be expensive…for other factions.”
The [High Mage] laughed. Blackmage, Aaron Vanwell, made a friend. And that night…
 
—-
 
That night, the usual broadcast from Wistram Academy changed. A [Message] spell on high-alert was sent to all of Izril and Terandria, where the issue was greatest. People tuned in to see Archmage Feor, Nailihuaile, and Viltach standing on-screen.
“Good evening.”
Feor spoke, his brows furrowed. He did not waste time. The Archmage lifted a hand and something appeared in it.
A golden triangle. The symbol floated in the air and the half-Elf made it hover. He looked at it with distaste. Naili continued.
“This is an emergency broadcast from Wistram Academy. I regret to inform you all that the academy has just uncovered a troubling event currently taking place in Izril and Terandria. Recently, in every city, people have been approached regarding investing money in an organization known as ‘The Golden Triangle’. However, under no circumstances should anyone invest money in this scheme. It is a trick. Fraud. This is the largest fraud ever to appear…ever. Archmage Viltach?”
Viltach gestured. And a carefully-designed graphic floated over and appeared behind the Archmages.
“The Golden Triangle appears at first to be the concept of investing in Gold-rank companies and [Mages]. However, these individuals and groups do not exist. The money is instead given to other members. Our [Mages] at Wistram have analyzed the way this fraudulent scheme works, and this is the method. First…”
They began to break down the Golden Triangle piece by piece, explaining to a stunned audience that their money wasn’t real. They were just taking money from the next group of investors, and so on and so forth. The scheme would—it had to collapse.
And it did, at this very moment. [Lords] found the gold they had invested gone. People sending thousands of [Messages] to the Golden Triangle’s organization found that—there had only been a skeleton crew. And the bewildered members of the Golden Triangle found themselves arrested, questioned. But no one knew where all the money had gone.
The trail vanished near the top. And the gold was gone. Leaving tens, hundreds of thousands out a little or a lot of coin. Hundreds of thousands of gold pieces. In another month, it might have been millions.
 
—-
 
Chaos reigned. More than one person realized they’d lost everything. Watch Captain Zevara sat at her desk as panic set in across her city. She listened to the Archmages speak.
“Damn them.”
They had no idea what this was causing. Announcing it like this? Watch Captains all over the world were scrambling. Her Watch was in the streets, quelling a beginning riot.
But Wistram had unveiled the plot. They’d get credit for that. And if Zevara ever met the Archmages, she would stab them. In the meantime, Watch Captain Zevara just sat there and listened to the pyramid scheme come crashing down.
[Mages]. They never wondered who was on the ground from their lofty citadel. The pieces were landing on people.
Or perhaps they knew. Perhaps it was all some great plan. Wistram Academy stood alone. And in the meantime—Watch Captain Zevara closed her eyes. She stood up, and called out amid the shouting.
“Someone please summon Senior Guardsman Relc. At once. I need to speak with him.”
 
—-
 
One last thing. A little note in between the different stories. Inconsequential? Hardly, but a small thing.
Palt found Joseph listening to the reports coming from Liscor. Erin had closed her magic door; The Wandering Inn was in lockdown and no one unfriendly was going to get through the trapped hallway. Pallass and Liscor were both heaving.
“Joseph.”
The young man started. He looked up as the Centaur, smoking something, bent down.
“What is it…Palt?”
“I have something for you. From my faction. This. And this. Don’t worry; I’ll get reimbursed. But they wanted this to you straight off.”
The Centaur bent down and offered Joseph three things. The first was a wand.
“It casts [Stun Spear]. Powerful. Tier 3. Kicks anyone on their back. Sixty charges. I’ll show you how to use it. And this…”
A bag of gold. Joseph stared wide-eyed at it. He looked up.
“But—but what? Who is this from?”
“Read the letter.”
Palt had written it, but he’d copied the letter his master had told him to write word-for-word. Joseph read.
 
The Singer of Terandria is not part of Wistram. I think there are more of us in Baleros. A girl called Caroline says she was with them. Don’t come to Wistram unless you don’t want to leave. Ignore the letters. I’ll send what I can. Sincerely—
–Blackmage, aka Aaron Vanwell.
 
Joseph read, and then looked up. Palt winked as he trotted towards the door. It was true that Aaron wasn’t a hero. He was an [Engineer], a programmer, a nerd, self-proclaimed. He wasn’t a hero.
But he could still do something.
