Blackmage nodded slowly. He saw Amerys trying to scratch at something on her chin. Then she gave up.
“Ah. Another crop of students comes for the summer. Months pass and I am slowly going insane. I may bite my tongue of frustration.”
She sat there, seething, but helpless. Aaron looked at her.
“You’ll never accept Naili’s offer? Or the others?”
The Archmage of Lightning laughed. Kindly, this time. She shook her head at him.
“Have you—no, boy. You’ve never met someone you really respect, have you? Someone worth dying for? That is my [King]. I will wait. And should it take him razing Wistram stone by stone to free me, he will do so. Or die. And if he dies—I will be Wistram’s pet. But those are the only options for me.”
She looked somberly at Aaron, ignoring the uncomfortable [Mages] listening in. He nodded.
“But it might take years.”
“It might. And I might crack in half before he arrives. But I do not think so. Live or die—Flos Reimarch, my King of Reim is coming. I am a poor damsel in distress, boy. But I can wait. And do you know why?”
Blackmage shook his head. Amerys leaned forwards and her eyes glittered.
“I take heart and cling to sanity in my cell because my king shares one trait with me. He is not a patient man.”
She laughed, softly. Then Amerys told Aaron how to convert electricity into a weaker form, to bind it. And bid him go until next time. He left, a bit worried that of all the Archmages…he might like her the most. She was always honest with him.
And she was also a bit of a jerk. Next time he’d borrow a laptop and show her a movie.
 
—-
 
Later that day, Aaron Vanwell wrote a letter to Joseph. It took him six tries. Not because he was particularly bad or fussy over the letter. It was just that he wasn’t the one fussing.
“Dear Joseph—”
“Do you think maybe that’s too formal? What about ‘Hey Joseph!’.”
The young man slowly crossed out the top line and wrote again.
“Hey, Joseph—”
“Wait, no, that was just a suggestion. I’m just tossing them out there. Don’t take all of mine at once!”
Nailihuaile saw Aaron look up with a pained expression. She hesitated.
“…Let me get you a magical quill.”
But even with dictation she fussed over his letter to Joseph. Aaron would’ve just said ‘hey Joseph, I’m from Wistram. You’re clearly from Earth. Come on over; there’s free food. Bring your soccer ball.’
That worked for him, but Nailihuaile wanted a crafted letter to convince Joseph to leave the Ullsinoi faction—whom she was convinced were sheltering him at Liscor—and come to the Revivalists.
“Okay, that’ll do. We need multiple letters! Everyone from our faction is sending one! I bet Viltach and Feor are doing the same! But Montressa can deliver these herself! Thanks, Aaron! Are you sure we have enough soccer-talk?”
“I like baseball more.”
Aaron grumbled as Naili slithered out of his room with the letters. He sighed. Politics. But the soccer game…
Why couldn’t life be fun? He pulled out his armor-project, which was him trying to make a suit of armor that would encase a magicore battery. In theory, a [Mage] could run around with all the power of plate armor but none of the limitations.
That was to say—it was damn hard to cast spells in armor. It messed with your magical field. However, if you had two discharge stations on, say, the gloves, you could focus lightning bolts while drawing on your internal mana and the battery.
It wouldn’t be perfect, and if the enemy was made of rubber you’d be in trouble. But it was an idea.
Still, Aaron wasn’t in the mood for it. After a few minutes of tinkering, he gave up. Here he was, trying to make something that would…would…
Protect people. Make them more deadly in combat. But who was he making it for? He wasn’t going to be able to take it outside of Wistram any time soon.
A while ago, Aaron had been helping find Earthers. He’d felt good about that, locating them, bringing them here. He’d even helped the others. Not ‘batman’, but Cara—he’d send her artifacts that had helped her rise to her status as Singer of Terandria. Heck, he’d convinced Nailihuaile to design the song-crystals! Where were his royalties on that?
…The truth was that Aaron wanted to do more. More, than just sit here. He liked inventing things. But his inventions had to be put to good use. After listening to the stories of the outside, he was almost okay with not putting his neck on the line.
And still.
 
—-
 
High Mage Telim was sitting in front of the scrying orb with a number of other [Mages]. There were several viewing stations set up across the academy. They might produce the WNN—Wistram News Network, but it was still a fascination to them.
They were watching soccer. Aaron felt his spirits rise as he saw the game being played.
“Is this a rerun?”
“Not at all. This is a ‘match’ between…I think it’s Pallass and another local city? Not Liscor. See? They’ve already made these teams. I say! Look at that Drake go!”
A flying Drake dove out of the skies and gave the soccer ball a tremendous kick. A group of Drakes went running after it and a female Drake was commentating.
“Big shot from Xess! But I think—I think it’s out of bounds! Yes! Aerial tactics aren’t good if you can’t kick the ball!”
The crowd booed as a penalty shot was set up. Aaron watched as Drassi, the newly-minted sports reporter kept shouting into her speaking stone. She’d replaced Sir Relz and Noass and apparently been hired for this moment.
“Aim! I’m taking a break from my day-job to watch a good game, not some idiots kicking the ball sideways! I know a Gnoll kid who can kick the ball straight! Speaking of which, I hear Selisel is complaining about so many fliers on Pallass’ team.”
She pointed. Three Drakes and two Garuda were in the air compared to the one from the other, smaller Drake city. Drassi went on.
“We have a kick—oh, and the fliers are going after it! Honestly, I don’t think flying makes you better per se. If the ball is on the ground, a flier has to land. And they still have to aim! Now, if they juggle the ball in the air, that’s different. Maybe make a rule saying only two aerial passes? Anyways—oh! Great shot down the middle, but it’s blocked and coming back our way—duck!”
The soccer ball shot towards the stands. The crowd ducked, but the ball bounced off a magical shield. Drassi crawled back up.
“Penalty! Hey Pallass! Learn to control the ball! Yeah, you heard me! Want me to get Ekirra to show you how to kick? He’s 7!”
Blackmage grinned as Drassi waved and shouted at one of the fliers, who was taking objection to this commentary. He saw the other [Mages] laughing too, but they were focused on the game.
“Fifty gold and a small secret says Pallass takes it. Any takers?”
Sa’la looked around. Instantly, another Drake snorted.
“That Drake is right. Those fliers don’t have their wings. If it was an all-Garuda team, they’d have more control. But Drakes don’t learn flight from birth. Believe me. I’ll take your wager.”
“How about two middling secrets on Pallass?”
“I’ll take that bet.”
The [Mages] were putting down money, whatever they had in their pockets—Aaron saw one bet consisting of twelve gold pieces, a magic ring, and a slightly-stale quiche. He turned to Telim.
“Are you all betting on the game?”
“Only naturally. It’s fun to watch. How are you today, young Aaron? The Archmages not keeping you running about?”
The [High Mage] was taking his ease—as he had been the entire day. Aaron shrugged.
“A bit. Are you…not working?”
“What on?”
“The magic quills—”
“Oh, those. I can make five in five days. Don’t tell the academy.”
Telim waved that off. Blackmage stared at him. Then he abruptly sat down.
“You don’t think you could make more?”
The bearded man snorted.
“You sound like Miss Elena. I could, but I don’t sell the quills. And even if I did—I’d ruin [Scribes]. The quills are useful for the rich, but let’s not ruin an entire class, hm?”
Aaron thought about typewriters, and the proliferation of the written word. A [Scribe] could copy a book, but what about a printing press?
“Don’t you think it would be more convenient to…make something?”
Telim tapped the side of his nose.
“Ah, but what? A [Scribe] at high levels can write faster than my quills, young Aaron. Your world’s technology can make things more efficient, I grant you, but at higher levels we surpass your world. Your…little gadgets are something that make things convenient for all.”
That was true. Aaron nodded. Telim went on.
“However…the academy is not interested in making things convenient. If we can do it already, why waste time and money working on the same? I regret to say that’s why your submission for your project involving these…bicycles was turned down. We have magic carpets.”
“But if we had a car or other means of transport…”
Aaron raised his voice in protest. Part of the problem was that without funding, you couldn’t get anything done. With it? Nailihuaile or a high-level [Mage] would enchant whatever you needed. You’d get funding, supplies—Aaron had been drowning in magicore and different metals when he made the first battery and shock orb. But it dried up for projects like the boat. He’d had to beg Naili for even that wind spell.
Telim just patted Aaron on the back.
“Lack of interest, young man. We’re not interested in reinventing the wheel when we can fly. I admire the cause, but let me give you some advice: if you want to make something that will earn you funding, make something that appeals to us.”
He gestured at the other lazy [Mages]. And the [High Mage] lowered his voice conspiratorially.
“And then, take twice as long on the project and ask for double, triple what you need. That’s how you fund your little side-projects.”
He winked at Aaron. The young man felt like he was learning a terrible life lesson. But he took it to heart and looked at the soccer game. He had a sudden idea and his eyes lit up.
“You know, in Earth, there’s a betting system. Across the world! What if we made one—”
“Too late.”
Telim snapped his fingers, jovially. Aaron looked at him.
“What?”
“We have a system of betting. [Bookkeepers] around the world are using [Message] spells to place bets. I put eighty gold on Pallass to win at good odds. And they are letting me down!”
He roared at the screen. Aaron sighed.
“What about making a…a federation of soccer teams?”
“Isn’t that what we’re seeing?”
Telim gave Aaron a blank look. Blackmage frowned.
“…Football. I’ve got it! I’ll bring football to this world!”
“I thought that was this game.”
Sa’la leaned over. Aaron shot to his feet.
“No! American football! It’s this game with this—different ball. And you carry it—”
He was excited. Take the funding, make his other projects! Telim listened for five seconds, and then raised a hand.
“Ah. Young Basil is doing that. You mean, rugby. And someone is doing a ‘basket-ball’ game too. And hockey.”
The young [Engineer] faltered.
“They are?”
The problem with being from Earth in Wistram was that he wasn’t alone anymore. It turned out that after seeing the soccer game—every other Earther in Wistram had promptly recalled other sports. They were bringing in rugby, hockey, baseball (not knowing Liscor already had that game), ping pong from Shun’s group…curling had been suggested, but none of the factions had been interested in funding the project.
Aaron saw all his funding ideas dry up. He sat back down as Telim explained that Wistram would be disseminating the games, trial-running them in the academy and then seeding the ideas in other parts of the world.
“A noble effort, Aaron. But you have to be fast on the ball to secure funding in this academy.”
He smiled at Blackmage, not unkindly. Aaron sat there. It was just stealing from Earth, anyways. He wouldn’t have been proud of that.
“…Maybe I’ll just try copying Saif’s airsoft gun again. Then we could have matches.”
He muttered. Telim looked interested.
“That would be entertaining. You could probably get some funding for that—but you wouldn’t be able to fudge the numbers. Recreating an object is hard to lie about.”
“Darn.”
“Have some of this lovely avocado. Avocado. I thought we called them Getal fruits, Sa’la?”
“That’s what we call them in Baleros, Telim.”
“Hm. Oh well.”
Telim chewed on the avocado, lightly seasoned and warm. Delicious when spread, really. He spoke to Aaron conversationally.
“You could always approach a single magus for funding, Aaron. I’m sure some of the seafarers would like your magical boat-thing. A Drownedfolk [Mage], perhaps. I could introduce you. But I myself wouldn’t fund it. And I could put money into a project. One accumulates wealth as they rise in Wistram’s ranks over time. But I’m not much for being shot in the groin by that gun-thing.”
That was fair. Aaron sighed.
“I just want a copy. It could be fun. Or—a wand-gun. But that’s just a wand strapped to a frame.”
“…Not exactly technologically advanced. What is the problem with a good old-fashioned wand? I grant you, it’s not as quick as that pistol-thing, but…”
Telim flicked his wand out and shot a spell. It hit a Dullahan in the back and knocked her head clean off her body. Her head landed on the floor and she shouted.
“Ow! Who did that?”
The [High Mage] hurriedly hid the wand. Aaron hid a smile as Telim pointed to a student who had just run off and the Dullahan raced off in a fury. Aaron looked at the raccoon-bearded man.
“I don’t want a gun to kill people. That’s why I refused to upgrade Saif’s gun. Not that I could. I don’t know how to make gunpowder.”
And George was refusing to let on that he knew. Aaron went on as Telim nodded with one ear, the rest focused on the losing Pallass team.
“But it’d be—fun, you know? To try to be a…a hero with a wand.”
Didn’t everyone dream of fighting undead with a wand, or blasting spells at their enemies? Shooting guns at aliens was the basis of a lot of the first videogames. Telim looked at Aaron and his eyes lit up.
“Young man, that is exactly how I felt decades ago. And then I got mugged. But I understand completely. I’d love to try my spells on some vast beast…”
He flicked the wand out and then looked for the Dullahan [Mage] and hurriedly put it away. Aaron smiled.
“I wish an adventure could be…safe. Oh—wait! There is something like that from Earth.”
He stood up. Telim blinked as Aaron hurried off. Then he went back to watching the game.
 
—-
 
Pallass lost. Much to the dismay of the Walled City, which should not lose because it was a Walled City, y’know? Telim was grumbling about wasted gold when Blackmage came back with a laptop.
