It hadn’t been enough. The Goblins, an entire tribe of them over three hundred strong, had overrun the village in minutes. They put the warriors to death. Tried to capture women. When they realized the villagers and Basil had sealed themselves in the stone building that was the village’s meeting hall, they had laid siege to it.
For six days and nights, the Goblins assailed the walls, trying to crack the stone. Twice, they had tunneled in. The villagers and Basil fought, hearing screams from outside. In Chandrar, this arid area was lacking in food and water. Only the mineral deposits made it worthwhile.
The Goblins had begun eating the villagers. Living or dead. On the sixth day, they had been close to breaking through despite the best efforts of the Human and Stitchfolk community.
Then, the Silver-rank team had come. They had received the [Message] spell. The Contempt of Zeikhal had not known how many Goblins there were.
Three hundred. Not a vast horde, but far more than a team of eight should have handled. But the adventures had seen the siege. They had counted the Goblins.
They had charged.
The villagers and Basil had heard them dying as they tried to unblock the door. Three of the eight fell within the first ten minutes, overwhelmed. The last put their backs to the wall and fought.
Three hundred Goblins had assailed the village. Some had died in the attack. But still—when the villagers emerged, ready to fight and die rather than be overwhelmed in a corner, they had found only a handful left.
A [Blade Dancer]. A [Bard]. The brave [Archer] who called out to them, and the [Sand Mage], the last to fall. They had killed at least two hundred Goblins, drinking healing potions and fighting in between barriers, choking their numbers.
Until the last adventurer fell. The remaining Goblins had fled, led by their foul Hobgoblin Chieftain back into the caves. The second team of Gold-ranks had purged them. But the adventurers had died. The village had been putting statues up of them when Basil had been found.
 
“They saved us.”
At this point, Basil could go on no more. He wiped at the tears on his face. He had killed eight Goblins during the siege. But the nightmares of their laughter and the villagers being slowly eaten had stayed with him for the last three months.
“Thank you, Basil.”
That was all Malia said. She hugged him fiercely and the others murmured as well. Basil sat in the sand, staring at the beautiful, emerald waters as if they were coated in pollution and filth. After a moment, someone else asked to speak.
Aaron stood in the doorway, silent and pale. Basil had a chunk missing from one arm, where his skin had healed awkwardly. A Goblin’s bite. Some of the others had scars too.
This was the reality of the world. For every Earther who had been lucky, like Saif, or rescued like George and Eun, another had been in some mortal peril. Been forced to barter all they had away, starved, been lost—
And those were the ones Wistram found. Aaron looked at Basil. No wonder his faction—Scriptels again—complained that he hadn’t been able to transcribe many stories or knowledge from his world beyond the alphabet. He bowed his head—
The door opened.
“I say, is Miss Elena here? I had more questions about this space business. I promise I won’t laugh—I—oh.”
Aaron turned. The [Mage] with the bushy brown raccoon-beard paused as he saw the Earthers. They all stared at him.
“I’ve got this, Elena—”
Aaron grabbed the [Mage]. To his surprise, the man didn’t have any protective spells. He was rather heavy, but only protested verbally as Aaron pulled him outside.
“I say! What’s this about? I wanted to speak to Miss Elena—I’ll compensate her for the time, I know how this goes.”
“She’s busy. This is a—private time.”
Aaron barred the door. The [Mage]—was he a ‘High Mage’? Snorted.
“I’m well aware you—you Earth-people need your time. But this is a matter of magic. I was speaking to a [Gravitationist] and he was claiming there’s a lot of basis to make this round earth thing go. We were going to make a model based on that soul-system—”
“I’m sure Elena would love to help you, uh, High Mage Telim. But—”
“I’m a busy man, young, er, Blackmage. And I won’t be manhandled!”
The [Mage] squirmed as the two jostled for place in the hallway. A Golem, made of stone and pushing a cart full of books walked past them, and some students stared. Telim’s face turned red. Then he muttered a spell.
“You made me do it. [Paralys—]”
Aaron locked up. He felt the spell go through him and tried to block it. But he was still only around a 3rd or 4th year student’s prowess at best, despite his studying from more advanced [Mages].
And [High Mage] Telim was a powerful [Mage]. Or at least, good enough to cast a single spell. He adjusted his robes over his stomach and pushed the door open. He glanced at Aaron irritably as a voice floated towards them.
“What is so urgent, anyways?”
Aaron made his lips move despite the magic locking down every part of his body.
“Therapy.”
Inside, on the beach, Sidney was speaking for the first time. She held the ball of [Light] and shivered. Shivered uncontrollably. Telim paused in the open door leading to the stone hallway. He heard the girl’s voice.
“It was so dark. There were four of us. Mamy—told us to hide. It was dark, and I was crying. She put me in the hole while the others ran. And there were lots of them. She said not to move.”
And what came out of the cavern tunnels they had been transported to? What vile monsters?
Rats. Just…rats. Not even the largest ones. But so many. A flood. And they chased the children. Mamy, Sidney’s older sister, had no levels. No weapons, even. Her brothers ran and were overtaken.
Sidney had found a hole. She had hid there, the only person able to fit. But the rats were even smaller than she. So what had her sister done?
“She told me to stay there.”
“And what did she do? Sidney?”
Elena’s face was pale. They were all listening. Aaron saw the girl look up. A [Survivor].
“She sat down.”
She began to cry. That was all. Her sister sat down and didn’t move. And whilst the rats had scurried about, after the girl had fainted after screaming and crying—she had gained the ability to make light. And chased away the rats and ran and ran until the kindly [Farmers] found her.
Sidney was sobbing as Elena held her. But she was afraid—afraid to even bury her face in the young woman’s clothes. The light—she never went without it.
Aaron sat on the ground. At some point, the spell had ended. He saw a figure in the doorway as he looked up. And he rose. He didn’t have the experimental electrical weapons. But if that man interrupted, Aaron would jump—
High Mage Telim backed out of the doorway. He turned and Aaron saw his sick, horrified face for a second. Then the man ran. He got a dozen paces before he vomited in the hallway. Aaron stared at his back. The man had tears in his eyes.
 
—-
 
“I had no notion. I heard there was—trouble in some of their recoveries. But are they all…all like that?”
A few minutes later, Telim stared into the beach room. People were comforting Sidney as best they could. High Mage Telim’s face was very pale.
Even the stories had horrified the man. Aaron hadn’t expected that. But Telim was not a [Battlemage]. Or even used to combat. He shuddered as Aaron nodded.
“This is why I don’t leave the academy. Ever. Dead gods. Rats?”
He wiped at his mouth. He had puke in his beard, but it dried up and fell out as he waved a hand over his front, doing the same to his clothes.
“That poor girl. That poor…and her sister. Her brothers?”
He passed a hand over his face. And tears—Aaron saw them trickling down the man’s pudgy face. Telim looked into the room.
“Therapy. I thought—my colleagues called your world soft. But that would be a nightmare for any soul. That poor girl. Is—is she well? She was taken by then Orenaius faction. [Light Mages]. No wonder.”
“She comes to therapy every time. It helps. It would be better if she could be around Elena, or Malia more, High Mage Telim.”
Aaron explained. The man looked at him.
“Of course! Dead gods, but the girl needs…what is she drinking?”
“Um. Lemonade? I can get you some.”
Aaron didn’t want the man to interrupt. Not that it seemed Telim would. He blinked, rubbed at his face.
“Dead gods, I need a drink. What’s ‘lemonade’…made of lemons?”
“And sugar. And some Amentus fruit?”
“Sweet. No alcohol? Nothing else?”
“No. Mage Telim, if you need a drink—”
“I don’t need one. That poor girl needs one. Every damn child in that room needs one. Come with me.”
The [High Mage] snapped his fingers. He swung the door closed and marched off. Aaron blinked and followed him.
Telim was a good spellcaster; he cast [Haste] to make up for his ambling pace. So even at a slow walk, Aaron had to jog to keep up.
“Where are we going?”
“My faction. I know an [Alchemist]—no, on second thought, there’s an [Apothecary] who owes me a favor.”
The difference was, apparently, that one did more medicinal brews. Telim navigated Wistram’s twisting, sometimes changing corridors with ease, cursing when he realized the route had changed and easily circumnavigating the area. He knew dozens of people who called out to him.
“Not now, Sa’la. It’s this terrible thing—I don’t have time to teach anyone spells! Begone! Shoo! No drinking! You—students! Out of the way!”
The fat man bulled past a group of 4th years. He was a Libertarian, Aaron remembered. Part of Viltach’s Human-centric faction. But the Selphid, Sa’la, fell into step with Telim.
“What’s the matter, Telim? I haven’t seen you moving like this since you heard about chocolate. Hello, Blackmage.”
“I’m looking for Vhedel, Sa’la. Any idea where he is…?”
“Hmm…his rooms?”
Telim cursed at her. The Selphid grinned; she was wearing a dead woman’s face. But Selphids were always changing.
“Vhedel! Vhedel, get your hemp ass out here you waste of space! Or I’ll confiscate all your damn dreamleaf from the gardens, see if I don’t!”
Telim shouted. What he wanted from the grumpy Hemp Stitch-[Mage] was in fact, an entire armful of vials. Vhedel protested, and Telim nearly shoved his finger up the Stitch-Man’s nose.
“I’ll pay you back. It’s not even as if it’s that expensive.”
“It’s a shipment—”
“It’s for the Earthlings. Clear it with Viltach. Now, Sa’la, give me a hand with these.”
“Use your bag of holding. Oh, wait—you stuffed it to the brim with food, didn’t you? Fine. Mister Aaron?”
The Selphid woman sighed. She and Aaron followed Telim back the way they’d come. The man was sorting through the vials. As they reached the beach door, Aaron finally caught his breath—he’d been moving without any speed-spells so his sides hurt—and asked.
“What’s all this, Mage Telim?”
The man gave him an incredulous look. He bulled into the beach.
“Excuse me! This is private—”
Elena shot to her feet with Malia. Some of the other Earthers looked frightened. But Telim just approached Sidney.
“Hello, young woman. I—I couldn’t help but hear your story. On behalf of Wistram, I am terribly sorry for your loss. But you are safe here. Stick to your faction’s hallways and you shall never come to harm.”
She tried to hide behind Elena. The [Beautician] scowled at Telim.
“I’m sure she appreciates that. But she really doesn’t need—”
“On the contrary. I’d take it as a kindness if you added this to your drinks, Miss Elena.”
The [Mage] pulled Elena aside. He showed her one of the vials, and the blue glass’ label. Elena frowned at it. Then her eyes widened.
“A Calming Tonic?”
“Of course. Did none of you think to use one?”
Aaron slapped his forehead. Sa’la looked around, startled.
“No—there are calming potions?”
“There are potions for everyone. These are decent. Put a few drops in each glass. More if need be. Adventurers and former [Soldiers] use them all the time. You can even mix them—the [Apothecary] I got them from is careful to make his medicines complimentary—with sleeping draughts. For someone small, one drop puts them right out, in warm liquid. No milk. Never milk. I use three drops myself, but I’m a bigger sort and a [Mage]…”
He shoved the vials into Elena and Malia’s arms. Startled, Elena looked at Telim.
“I—thank you.”
“It’s nothing.”
The [High Mage] looked at Sidney with misty eyes. Instantly, Malia opened one of the vials.
“Sidney? Try a drop of this. It’s just a potion. Magic.”
The others were wary as she went around. But they had seen Harry Potter. And Elena had told Sidney this was like Hogwarts. So—as the girl who had been weeping drank the lemonade, her sobbing calmed. Some of the others looked at their mugs. And relief passed across their faces. Basil, rings under his eyes, asked for something different. Malia put two drops of the sleeping draught in his drink.
The young man from Bulgaria downed his cup. He massaged at the circles under his eyes—then he lay back in the sand and fell asleep.
 
—-
 
“That should do for now. Ask for Vhedel; he can supply the rest. Your faction leaders should provide once they understand the need.”
A few minutes later, Telim was speaking to Elena and Aaron outside the room. Sa’la was listening and swearing as someone else recounted their tale.
But—Elena just looked at him. A frown crossed her face.
“Are there any side effects, High Mage? I’m grateful, but—will the others grow addicted to the drinks?”
“Addicted? Only in the sense that it helps. They might need higher dosages if they keep imbibing; tolerances. But why would I give them something addictive?”
Telim looked deeply offended by the suggestion. Elena blinked.
“I—no, I was just asking. Thank you, again.”
“It was…purely necessary. I had no idea, Miss Elena. I will speak to you at another time?”
The [High Mage] shook his head and cast one glance into the beach room as Elena nodded. Then he turned to Aaron.
“My sympathies, young man. Our world is not always kind. I forget that.”
He patted Aaron on the shoulder, leaving a bit of dried puke, and walked off. Aaron stared after Telim’s back.
“I thought that was a plot.”
Elena muttered. She looked at Aaron. He just shook his head.
“He was crying. And he threw up.”
“No. From hearing Sidney’s story?”
“Yep. Over there.”
It was still on the floor. A Golem was sweeping it up. Elena shook her head.
“I’m an idiot for not thinking of potions. I guess you just think there’s only healing potions and mana potions—those were the only real ones I used when I was back with Cara…”
