He also realized after using the skill that this version of Primal Gaze had drained a lot of resources. He had consumed all three resources to perform the attack, honestly making it more of a trade in damage rather than just an attack, seeing as Jake had effectively taken damage from using it. It naturally also strained his soul, though again, not actually that badly, meaning he could probably keep the skill up for quite a while. Jake was definitely curious to test it further, but alas, all the Arachnecs were dead. Besides, he should really take some time to recover, as he had taken some damage and spent quite a bit of energy.

Jake had been a little cautious due to the presence of the Venusians, though. He had shown off his power very purposefully to make an impression, all while keeping a close eye on their reactions. While he definitely hoped it wouldn’t happen, he had been fully prepared for them to try to jump him right after he showed weakness from deactivating Arcane Awakening.

He was both happy and relieved to see that the Shaman didn’t show the slightest hostile intent, but instead expressed admiration for Jake’s fighting prowess.

“The Arachnecs don’t strike me as very powerful variants,” Jake said, not sure if they actually were considered average in this Minor World. They definitely were on the weaker end from an objective standpoint, and they were all incredibly squishy.

“They are not,” the Shaman shook his head. “Their means of combat are also highly limited, in part due to their lacking intelligence. However, what they do have is sheer numbers and generally high offensive capabilities. They are fine with throwing away five of their own to take down a single foe. As long as their Nest is not threatened, they can simply keep spawning more.”

“I take these Nests are not easily accessed?” Jake asked.

“All guarded by A-grades,” the Shaman answered with a sigh. “In truth, killing Arachnecs accomplishes very little, as much of their essence is returned to the Nest after death, allowing new ones to be born quickly. That’s one of the reasons we tend to avoid fighting them when we can, only truly bothering to get into conflicts when they encroach on our land.”

“I see,” Jake muttered. The Arachnecs sounded surprisingly similar to the Ectognamorphs, though as far as Jake knew, there weren’t any Lineages in the Endless Empire that were undead. Not that this kind of reproductive ability was exclusive to ectognamorphs in the first place. Even something like the rat colony Jake encountered in the Tutorial dungeon had the ability to mass-produce drone-like spawns.

“Am I right to assume that they are aware of our existence even if none of them got away?” Jake asked, knowing that sometimes, these kinds of creatures had methods to remotely relay information back to their “queen” or whatever equivalent these Arachnecs had.

“While they certainly know their kin have fallen here and will probably send more to investigate, they cannot send back any detailed information as far as we know,” the Shaman shook his head. “What can be done is fully relaying memories should one return, adding to what is essentially a shared knowledge pool that all Arachnecs inherit upon spawning.”

Jake slowly nodded, as he couldn’t help but smile. “From the sound of it, this seems like a prime hunting ground. You wouldn’t mind sticking around and having some fun here, would you?”

“While I would certainly find it questionable to remain, if you wish to continue slaying more Arachnecs, I will not get in your way,” the Shaman said with a low, croaky chuckle as he looked at Jake’s heavily injured leg. “Though I would recommend recuperating first. I know some healing spells, too, if you would allow me to assist you.”

“Eh, no need,” Jake waved him off as he took out a healing potion and quickly chugged it, his leg healing instantly as flesh snapped together and mended as if glued. It was a good thing he had taken some time to give himself a nice supply of potions during his Lesser Primeval Energy practice.

His action of taking out a potion had been casual and without much thought, which was why he hadn’t at all expected the result of the Shaman, who stared for a moment before loudly exclaiming:

“That… how did you get such a treasure?”
