"What is the meaning of this...? Alveron. You do not get to make fools of us. The 5 Great Families own this Galaxy. Allowing you to maintain control over your sectors out here is a privilege. I demand you turn off these suppression arrays! You and this new client of yours are as good as dead if you do not comply right now!"

Helix squeezes this threat out through gritted teeth, staring straight at the silver knight as his True Core grows in luminosity, and the aura of his 1st Class Bloodline, starting to unseal, surges through the room.

I think about a response, but Alveron is much faster than me in a reply, sending one to me first.

"I've witnessed power from your generals that certainly stands against forces like the 5 Great Families in the Lower Realm. If they do follow through with these threats, do I have your backing as an ally in any future war that comes of this?"

I grin through our link. "Of course. Your help in giving my generals an optimal environment to break through to their highest potential has certainly cemented you as an Ally. An attack on your forces is an attack on mine."

The silver knight then replies to the Demon's threat as the room continues to grow colder, and the rift in front of him is fully suppressed enough to disappear.

"A threat on me? And my new clients? After you have broken the laws in a neutral zone and refuse to take immediate punishment for it? I cannot continue doing business with someone who lies and does not respect the rules that we have set in the past. If you break them now without any remorse, how can I trust your word on anything else?"

The Demon's eyes look far more confused than any other emotion, as it makes no sense why Alveron would say such a thing.

Even if this creature has managed to gain countless new worlds, multiplying the monster's influence tenfold, it wouldn't stand a chance against even their 1st Class forces. Deploying Noble Demons would not even be necessary against the strongest foreign forces like Alveron out in these far-out Sectors. The natural strength gap between Demons and lower races is far too large.

The sole reason they don't take over every world by force is that it would cost more energy to come out here than they would gain in draining these worlds. The Demon's words are true, the fact that they are still thriving out here is pure chance and privilege.

Only thirty thousand years have passed since their last disagreement that resulted in a war, and the Demons know Alveron cannot afford another one like that... So, the creature's actions are purely illogical.

The Silver Knight's armor set looks as though it's powering down, unwilling to engage any further, and this makes Helix feel a tinge of fear.

A strong opponent he can deal with, but an illogical or unpredictable one? That is a true enemy to be scared of.

–

Outside the Asteroid prison, the four generals follow a set of instructions with smiles across their faces, especially after hearing the threats on them indirectly from the Demons within this prison.

The overwhelming cold feeling that could be felt from within was the activation of Maria's 3rd Ranked Up buff, making a massive royal blue soul energy form appear above the prison. She does not even bother to let her angel wings sprout from her back, nor does she need to take out her soul weapon.

The task at hand will be easy enough just using her ice magic.

Abby follows her lead, activating her 3rd Ranked Up buff on the other side of the asteroid and pulling out her staff to amplify her range.

A green aura envelops the entire asteroid and pierces through the prison base with ease, tinting everyone's vision green.

Thousands of spirit arms come out from Arie's back, and they begin creating dense light purple arrows made of Demonic Soul Energy.

He lets them rest in place while circling the asteroid base and creating more and more, evenly surrounding the entire floating rock in an array of Demonic Soul Energy. It is imbued with large amounts of low-quality ether and has lingering Noble essence from the soul bond with his bow not too long ago.

Large amounts of bright purple Soul Energy create thick barriers, like a ball of light held together by floating arrows. This creates a strange energy field around the prison, not allowing lesser demons to use their bloodline traits or rift perks to escape from the suppression array created.

Raven slips into her stealth dimension and flies right through the walls of protection, going deep into enemy territory, crashing the meeting between the two dozen Demons and the silver knight that just shut off its connection to the base.

She is far too fast and powerful for these 1st Class Demons to see.

After taking down one of the Kings of Kelfar, who was artificially mutated to possess the strength of a Noble Demon in its unsealed form, the bugs before her do not even register as a threat.

They are merely messengers. Tools used by their family heads and leaders to spread fear through the Lower Class worlds.

Even with such a powerful backing, disregarding rules and disrespecting business partners is quite unnecessary.

Though, killing insects like these is unnecessary too.

So, Raven allows a single finger out from her stealth barrier while circling the room and breaks 48 legs in less than a tenth of a second.

The force from the attack sends ripples of her own mana control boosted by 4% of over 200 trillion system users' stats; but most importantly, it sends horrific shock through the Demons' souls as they're all pushed downward by an invisible force.

The simultaneously gruesome cracking sounds are followed by 24 demons falling to their knees in front of the deactivated silver knight.

Raven slips out through the walls of the base again in her stealth dimension while Abby and Maria carry out the final stage of their attack.

A bright blue cubic outline around the asteroid starts to form as Maria raises her arms.

The cold aura within the Demon's prison worsens extremely fast.

Then, the cubic outline that Maria has created starts to fill in with dark blue ice.

At the same time, Abby's staff activates a new set of glyphs, while she pushes her True Core's restoration ability to a new level that she's never tried before.

While this cube around the floating block is filled with ice, it is also filled with pure restoration magic tethering within Maria's Soul Energy.

The two of them swap out their borrowed stealth skills for divine craftsmanship and set conditions and failsafes within the icy prison.

As Raven leaves the freeze zone, the purple demonic orb structured with arrows around the prison is engulfed in blue and green light.

The inside of the prison grows so cold that many of the True Cores behind their saturated leaders lose feeling in their bodies and seem to be frozen in time.

Blue ice floods in through the cracks in the walls, and it comes from every direction.

There is nowhere they can run or hide.

Helix still wears a determined look on his face, even as his four strongest subordinates are frozen solid around him.

He too is engulfed in the ice prison, along with the silver knight statue in front of him.

Alveron turns the link between them back on moments before the entire room turns to ice.

"Once your sentence is served, we may resume our deal."

The knight is frozen, and the connection is lost again, but Helix still shows a resolute grin while his body freezes.

This is because he opens up his system panel and sends a single emergency message back to the Demonic Realm through a pathway that does not use normal means, unfazed by Arie's Demonic suppression array.

It reports the situation they're in, but also mentions the appearance of a Berserker that carries the Aura of the Scarlet Clan.

The Morvale family is far older and more resilient than many know, and even a leader of their 1st Class Attack forces should not be underestimated. Even though it appears that Helix's forces were completely dominated, he smelled the scent of a Berserker that shared a common ancestor to the corpse being tested on back on Kelfar.

Even as he's engulfed in ice, the smirk across his face as the message is sent is his last laugh, showing Alveron that he's found the clue he was looking for anyway.

While the aura he felt is accurate, the fact that Helix believes a Berserker race is this mysterious new client linked to Kelfar has unintentionally spread misinformation back to the Demonic Realm.

–

The cube of Restoration-infused Soul Energy Ice with a spherical Demonic Seal in its center is complete. It surrounds the entire Asteroid, now making it appear as a massive ice cube orbiting around Brymia.

The four generals all deactivate their buffs and float around the craft they've built together.

Maria is the first to speak.

"It will automatically begin to thaw in eight days. Nothing is breaking through... that's for sure."

Abby nods.

"They won't die either. While they may be in shock or mentally damaged a small amount, their physical forms will be preserved, even if the ice fractures."

Arie grins, with a million questions rushing through his mind behind focused white eyes.

"That was the first time I've ever felt such a strange resonance with demons. The ones on Kelfar didn't have the same pull... they were fakes. With these demons, It was like I could feel each one of their cores and could counteract their bloodlines being unsealed... I don't know how else to explain it."

Raven reappears and speaks directly to me.

"I did what you asked... their leader managed to see me for a moment. I felt his gaze."

I reply back, just as Ava and I arrive in front of the central tower in the Upper Realm.

"Good. I'm glad this matter was taken care of now... to say the very least, things are still a bit delicate up here."

I then turn to Bri in our mental feed while pulling up the [Fast Travel] perk within my Rising Emperor's Domain and skim through its interface.

–

[Any one of the Rising Emperor's 5 Generals may use this Fast Travel Perk 1 time every 24 hours. This ability allows the users to take the fastest route of travel from their current position to a mutually agreed upon position within 100 meters of the Rising Emperor.]

[Choose Travel Type:][1][Deposit Mana][Default Pre-Activated][2][Create Demonic Energy[i] Travel Type][Admin Activation Necessary for General Use][3][Create Ether[i] Travel Type][Admin Activation Necessary for General Use]

–

I select option 1, feeling my surroundings all become valid transport points, and send visuals of what I'm seeing through the Spectate feed for Bri to transfer the necessary mana to each of the generals so they can pay on their ends.

It fluctuates a lot, but the average cost per general is roughly the entirety of the mana stores on an average 4th Class World. This was quite pricey the first time I looked at the cost a few weeks ago, but now, these profits are made every few minutes thanks to Bri's control of the market.

I turn to Ava and leave the reflective orb we're standing in, leaving her to stand at the base of the tower.

"I'll be right back."

Then phase through the walls of the tower with ease, using advanced ether commands.

I move forward to position myself in the center of the central tower so that my 100-meter range for each general fits into a corner of each of their selected bottom floors of this 4-part ascension chamber.

Then, I speak directly to the generals.

"I believe there's no better time than now. Are you all ready to ascend to the Upper Realm?"
