He could certainly throw in a couple of bombs, destabilize the space, and use the unleashed forces to wrap up his breakthrough. Such a rough finish to an otherwise sublime core formation would inevitably leave a mark on his core. There was also the risk of triggering unforeseen changes to the Duplicity Core, which was still in the middle of whatever it was up to.

Not doing anything wasn’t an option, even if his engorged core could easily fit after the subspace’s expansion. For one, there was no guarantee the space wouldn’t return to its original size after the Specialty Core was done. Secondly, the compression wasn’t just there to make sure the core fit inside his body.

The pieces still hadn’t fully fused. It was currently in a more precarious state than it had been after his mid-fight breakthrough. Pieces would start falling off the moment he activated his more demanding skills until the whole thing fell apart. Only when the core was welded into one solid piece would it work as it should.

Zac grit his teeth as he stared at his Duplicity Core with annoyance. It was all this thing’s fault. The Specialty Core had acted as it pleased since the day it appeared. He still remembered how close he’d come to losing everything when it began drawing Miasma. Zac had somehow managed to deal with the curveballs it had thrown, but he’d long since grown tired of it all.

For once, he would make it listen.

What did he have to fear? With the Specialty Core’s operations shrouded in mystery, there was no telling which approach carried greater risks. If so, he might as well go with the route that could lead to the optimal outcome. Zac began by sealing off the Duplicity Core’s energy source. He hoped it would trigger a cancellation protocol and open the latch. If not, the seal would still be weakened since it had to draw on something.

Exerting the weight of his bloodline came easily, no different than squeezing a muscle. The caveat was that Zac only managed to do so within his own body and only while infusing himself with [Void Mountain]. In other words, he wouldn’t be able to bully his opponents with the weight of a C-grade Bloodline—at least not at the moment. Thankfully, there were no enemies to deal with at the moment, only a rebellious Specialty Core.

It only took a few minutes to see results. Without the cosmos to provide energy, the Duplicity Core tried taking what it needed from Zac. However, under the Void Emperor’s C-grade suppression, both the Cosmic Core and Soul Aperture had come out of reach. To add insult to injury, Zac began striking the seal from within the Quantum Space, accelerating its decline.

The Duplicity Core began vibrating precariously after half a day. Zac had no idea what it was about to do, and he didn’t plan on waiting to find out. His patience had borne fruit. While the latch hadn’t opened as Zac hoped, its outlines had finally reappeared. He immediately slammed a bundle of mental tendrils at it from within while yanking from the outside.

The passage was reluctantly wrenched open, moving sluggishly as if its hinges were full of rust. Everything was in place, and Zac was primed to go. He swallowed a pill while placing a talisman on his stomach. A fierce storm poured out from the pill, while a vibrant aura of Life seeped from the talisman. From the other side of the continent, a matching stream of death poured into the Quantum Space.

The three core-igniting treasures, matching each of his Daos, were the best in his stockpile and saved for last. They poured into his Cosmic Core, reigniting its fading flame. Blinding light filled the Quantum Space as the Cosmic Core gained a second wind. At that point, four ancient sigils resembling the ones that diverted the tribulation lightning appeared around the core.

A solid wave of Imperial Faith pushed into his core, subjecting it to tremendous pressure not much weaker than a collapsing realm. An identical arrangement had been summoned by his Draugr half, directly doubling the efficacy. Zac felt like a billion people were praying for his success, their desire so intense that reality could only oblige.

His core directly shrank by fifteen percent without a hint of damage, and the array had plenty of juice remaining. A second wave soon followed the first, and then a third. The series of pulses created a mysterious cadence. The accumulation reached a crescendo on the ninth and final pulse, where a surge of Fate-empowered Faith flooded his core.

The wave swept through his newly created pathways, identifying the stubborn holdouts that refused to assimilate. The pieces were made to keel, making it look like the core shrank by a third on its own. Zac exhaled with relief and finally released the hold on his Quantum space. Rootless energy began pouring in once more, and the latch sealed shut.

The Duplicity Core was still up to no good, but Zac couldn’t bring himself to care at the moment. His eyes were glued to the pristine Cosmic Core floating in the emptiness of space. As usual, the road had been a bumpy one, but he’d made it through. Defying reason and convention, he’d successfully become a Peak Hegemon before turning one hundred.

Doing so, he’d also proved himself a qualified contender for the Flameseeking Trial.
