The crowd was physically calm, but they held a deep fervor in their eyes as they focused upon Patriarch Zalindi.

Ezekiel’s processes were full up, taking it all in, trying to understand what Tadashi had done, and what he might undo. If Zalindi was telling the truth, and by the looks on many faces, he was going to change a lot of lives, and for the better.

Ezekiel found himself involuntarily whispering, “Good job, Tadashi.”

Zalindi continued, “For the rest of the evening, allied Clans may speak to Alchemist Tadashi, and to us. Our goal is to gain support for this creation, for it is a large one, and we will need help. After tonight, Alchemist Tadashi will be going to an undisclosed location, in order to fully explore his creation, and to hopefully give us a true cure to this insidious punishment which has plagued our Clans and many others of the Highlands.” He added, “This particular power will remain in control of Star Song, but it will be accessible to any allied clans, with strict caveats.” He said, “So bring us your support, or your Loremasters, or your Particle Magic knowledge, and be the first in line to cure someone you know.” He clapped his hands.

As he sat down, the curtains leading to the kitchens fully opened, and the next course was rolled out on wheels. Cake, ice cream, and other various desserts, all of which looked very fancy in small bowls and cups and plates. Dessert was rapidly dished out, while the rest of the foods were cleared away by dozens of people working in quick concert.

Almost no one cared about dessert. Everyone was either talking about a cure to the Elixir, or listening to others talk. The Scion table was mostly quiet, listening to it all.

Soon, the first of the people of Songli abandoned their seat and walked up to Tadashi’s small table. The Alchemist had been served cake and ice cream as well, but it sat uneaten, as Tadashi and the petitioners spoke.

Everyone listened in on their conversation.

Tadashi was adamant. No, he wouldn’t give away formulae; No, he wouldn’t give away spellwork; No, he wouldn’t give away the ideas behind his magic. The petitioners walked away.

Others took their place. A variation on a theme occurred, asking about ways to help through ingredients. It was a thinly-veiled attempt at deciphering the cure. That group walked away unsatisfied. All questions of ‘how’ were met with steadfast refusal.

“Those are terrible questions.” Yaro spoke up at their table. He had broken the spellbound silence of their space, and drew the eyes of many to him. The man frowned, deeply. “They obviously won’t give away that information.”

“Your Clan is responsible for much of the healing around here, is it not?” Ezekiel asked, “How do you think he did it?”

Eyes temporarily turned Ezekiel’s way, then the whole group focused on Yaro.

Yaro said, “It’s Particle Magic, for sure. But beyond that…” He thought. He said, “The Antirhine Elixir is a good threat against those who think they are untouchable, who break the honor of war. That’s who we usually use it against, and the threat of that affliction has prevented many assassinations that would have otherwise happened… But to actually be able to remove that affliction?” He shook his head. “I don’t like this. It’s dangerous.” He looked to Riri, saying, “You talk about getting people out on the front lines through easier access to healthcare, but we won’t need to put people on the frontlines if we can ‘unlock’ some of our most dangerous assets. Clan Red Ledger will need to train more Doctors, though, for the average soldier’s benefit.”

Ezekiel felt a dawning horror.

“This means rapid expansion,” Caina said, adamant in her understanding. “This means war.”

Her brother, Ored, repeated solemnly, “War.” and he was not the only one.

The room fell silent as that heavy word came out of the mouths of many, all across the gathering, like a brewing storm. The people near Tadashi fell silent. The Alchemist turned toward the table of Scions, his gaze passing over Ezekiel and everyone else as though he was in a daze. He might have been. Ezekiel saw his same disbelieving expression repeated upon many faces, all around. But as disbelief gave way to reality, Ezekiel also saw more than a little joy in the glitter of bloodthirsty eyes, and in the upturned corners of wicked grins.

The Elders sat resolute in their decision.

“One-sided war.” Scion Gerella White Wood stood, speaking to the gathering, her voice turning strong and loud, “We can use the Elixir. The barbarians can’t. We can shut down problems before they begin without undue fear of retaliation.” With power in her gaze, she turned toward the Elders. “Clan White Wood wants to know the timetable for this new potion.”

The gathering was completely silent. The Patriarch subtly turned toward Tadashi.

Tadashi stood from his seat, and said, “It is not a simple potion. At the current rates of antirhine expulsion we are able to achieve, ridding the body of this substance would be a treatment that would last years. The theory is sound. The prototype potions are created. It is a success, for a certain definition of ‘success’. But the treatment does a great deal of damage in the process. Most people— Most Scions, Elders, and otherwise, could not survive the treatment. The side effects are worse than those caused by untreated Blood Magic.”

Caina stood. “What about an Elder with 200 extra Strength? What about Small Scare’s Blood Tempest?”

Eyes bounced from Tadashi to Cania, going wide, and then returning to Tadashi. The ‘Blood Tempest’ must have been a big name to be trotted out there like that. A really big name, in fact, since [Scry] eyes began to pop up here and there in the gathering, but, now that Ezekiel spared half a thought, the new [Scry] eyes were likely due to the nature of the event, in the first place.

Most of the [Scry]s were instantly popped by this or that person.

And then someone popped Yggdrasil’s eye in the crossfire. He came right back, of course, but then he was popped again. Ezekiel reached up into the space where Yggdrasil’s eye had been and shielded his [Familiar]’s [Scry] as it came back. He casually told the man across the way who had popped the eye, “Please don’t do that again.”

No one touched Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye after that point. Yggdrasil moved his eye closer to Ezekiel, and then onto Ezekiel’s other shoulder. Odin chirped in tiny noises as he watched all around him.

Tadashi spoke, “We would not risk someone like the Blood Temp—”

“He would take the risk.” Caina said, “My uncle would take the risk. You will give him this treatment as soon as possible. Inform me now of how best one should organize their Status in order to survive your treatment.”

Tadashi said, “The usual methods. High Strength. High Vitality. Mana Shield. Be at Rest. That last one is more important than we had considered. We’re currently looking into a way to put someone at Rest, without magic. Until we can do that, I cannot recommend anyone partake of this treatment.”

Caina listened, and then she turned toward the Elders. “Clan Small Scare will contact Clan Star Song regarding ways to assist in the coming days.”

Patriarch Zalindi nodded, just a bit. Caina sat down.

Yaro stood next, speaking out, “Clan Red Ledger will employ our greatest resources toward this breakthrough, if you will have us.”

The Patriarch spoke, “Any medical experts will be welcome into this advancement of the Highlands, but know now that actual knowledge of what we have made will be kept under oath and key. No outsiders will be allowed to know the full story behind our new power, and betrayers will be met with the harshest of penalties.”

Scion Yaro bowed, briefly, then sat back down.

No one else stood up.

The small procession to Tadashi’s table began again.

Ezekiel, though, considered his own reaction to all of this new development.

He had postulated that Tadashi had some connection to antirhine, and just now, he had been proven right. Being right didn’t really matter. What mattered was what was going to happen, now. He had not considered that war would be the next outcome, but in retrospect, it was obvious war was the next outcome.

There were options, though.

The first option was to do nothing. He could go up, say hi to Tadashi, inquire after his health, hear that the alchemist was poised to eventually cure his own health problems, congratulate him, and then leave, and never look back. It was a boring, and possibly wrong option.

For the Highlands were on their way to creating chelation therapy, which would remove the lead from the bodies of their strongest people, allowing them to get back into the wars they had been removed from. Like Scion Gerella had mentioned; a one-sided war, where the Highlands used lead against their enemies, and were themselves immune to its long term effects.

This thought rounded over towards the question: Did the Highlands deserve to have its culture expanded? From what Ezekiel had seen, the answer was a resounding ‘yes!’.

But this would lead to war, and war was only the right answer in a narrow set of circumstances.

Ezekiel found himself amazed to have that thought. ‘A narrow set of circumstances’? What the hell. That wasn’t a normal thought for him… Except it was. This is who he had become. This was the reality of a world constantly at war with monsters. And that was the problem of this world. All the monsters led to constant aggression which led to people using their ingrained responses to monsters —which were the only responses they had— to deal with each other, too.

And. Oh!

One of the signs of lead poisoning was aggression. Was everyone afflicted with low levels of lead in this world? Was a certain threshold of lead necessary to cause anti-magic?

Or was that just way too simplistic. ‘Everyone was lead poisoned’. Bah.

Eh.

Ezekiel needed to learn more about antirhine. What were the signs and symptoms? What was the actual effect it had on magic, and mana? Magic and mana were two very different things, after all. Antirhine’s effect on mana was to bounce the mana away. Antirhine’s effect on magic was to destroy all the intent in the mana which made it qualify as ‘magic’, turning magical effects back into base mana… which it then bounced away.

But there were more options than to walk away.

The second option was to help Tadashi in some way.

Maybe he could get some concessions which would diminish the possibility of war? Doubtful.

This led to the third option, which, Ezekiel admitted to himself, he was fond of.

Circumvent all of this nonsense happening around him and invent proper chelation therapy himself, and then give out that magic to everyone, everywhere. There would still be a war, and it might be worse, or, it could be better. Maybe there wouldn’t be a war due to mutually assured destruction?

… He wasn’t fond of that option, but only because he couldn’t see it not ending in war.

Every option ended in war.

Except the fourth option.

He could kill everyone here and thus prevent a future genocide.

… He cycled back to option 3. No one deserved to lose out on magic. No one deser—

Some people totally deserved to lose out on magic. The Shades did, for sure. There were others out there as well… probably.

Tadashi did not deserve to lose out on magic, though! Ezekiel relaxed. There was at least one person—

What if Tadashi practiced his proto-chelation therapy on orphaned children? What if there were piles of dead kids out there, all victims to twisted science? He had to know.

Ezekiel found himself standing. His voice threatened to bubble out of him, uncontrollable, interrupting the lesser clansmen currently talking to Tadashi. There was no need to interrupt, though. As soon as he stood, the room fell to silence. All eyes turned his way. More than a few people were nervous beyond belief as they gazed upon Ezekiel, and Ezekiel found it good; they should be scared of him, if all they cared for was more war.

The Elders simply watched, impassive, and yet anything but.

Ezekiel mentally acknowledged the people around him, physically ignored the fear he could practically taste in the air, coming off of a great many people, and spoke, “Alchemist Tadashi.”

Tadashi had already turned his way. His eyes were not full of fear, but instead, full of hope. “Scion Phoenix. Thank you for attending this gathering.”

“I thank Clan Star Song for the invitation.” Scion Ezekiel acknowledged the Elders, then asked Tadashi, “From what I have heard, I understand Particle Magic can be rather deadly. How skilled are you in this new field of magic? Has anyone died from your treatments, yet?”

Tadashi instantly said, “We have lost thousands of rats, so far, and we will likely lose a lot more. There have been no sapient deaths, and we will keep it that way. This application of Particle Magic is very new. I caution anyone from raising their hopes too far. The product works, but not well. We will get there, but it will take time.”

Ezekiel felt a weight fall from his shoulders; it showed, for sure. They weren’t testing on people, or at least Tadashi didn’t know that they were testing on people. Ezekiel asked, “How skilled are you in Particle Magic? How do you know your treatment actually works? That it actually removes antirhine?”

Tadashi paused. He glanced toward Patriarch Zalindi, who gave a tiny nod. Tadashi turned back, and said, “I will tell you how I made this discovery. I won’t go into detail. Inside the potion house, we have antirhine pellets that we use in order to de-magic certain plants. One of these pellets got into a solution of an experiment. This was unintended, but I wouldn’t find out until the next day. Usually, when antirhine is broken down inside a liquid that can actually dissolve the antirhine, the antirhine remains, creating a diffuse solution that needs to be carefully controlled so that it doesn’t infect the environment. It is quite easy to make toxic antirhine Elixirs in this way, but the antirhine in this solution just vanished. The anti-magic effect was gone.” He said, “That was three weeks ago. Now, we’re here.”

“You destroyed it?!” came the voice of a disbelieving man a table over.

A woman instantly joined in on that chain of thought, saying, “If you destroyed it, why would it take years to cure the Elixir!”

Ezekiel’s voice rose above the sudden influx of other speakers, “He did not destroy the antirhine. He just sequestered it. It was still in the solution.”

Silence fell.

Ezekiel added, “Unless you just melted it and it turned to air and floated away, but I highly doubt that.”

