Ezekiel got a few stares. The Elders looked impassive, but they were interested. Too interested, perhaps.

Tadashi eyed Ezekiel, one eyebrow going high as he said, “It did not float away. Upon burning the solution under controlled, physical circumstances, the antirhine reappeared in the smoke and then precipitated out of the next solution. When the mice urinated we found—”

Patriarch Zalindi tapped a single finger against the table in front of him, once. Tadashi fell silent. Zalindi asked, “Scion Phoenix. How did you know that the antirhine was not destroyed?”

Ezekiel considered not answering, but that was the coward’s route. He said, “Because particles cannot be created or destroyed, only moved around and changed. Mana is the same way.”

Tadashi exclaimed, “So you do know about particles! I thought—”

Zalindi side-eyed Tadashi as he tapped his finger upon his table, twice in rapid succession. The alchemist shut up, then sat down. It seemed that the time for questions was over. Ezekiel bowed to the Patriarch, then also sat down. The Scions and otherwise at his table were either eyeing him, or trying to not eye him.

Zalindi stood, and in a calm voice, declared, “The presentation of our new magics has concluded. Alchemist Tadashi will be here to speak of logistics, but we should all talk amongst ourselves regarding these new developments, and how we might best achieve mutual aid for mutual benefit. The members of Clan Star Song who are seated at the heads of your tables are empowered to speak openly of logistics, but in the case they are not, or if the situation demands it, they might send you off for an individual meeting with one of us. Tomorrow, more individual meetings will commence, for this is not the work of one night, or one month, or one year. This is the beginning of a bright new chapter in the Songli Highlands, and it will take all of us in order to make it happen.” He sat down.

Talk erupted around the room of crippled Elders who could be brought back from ignominy, of uncles and aunts who would be allowed back into the main house, of—

Ezekiel turned back to his silent table. They were all looking at him. According to Odin’s few extra eyes, which he rid himself of as soon as Ezekiel noticed, half of the other nearby tables were looking his way, too. He asked the Scions and otherwise, “Yes? What.”

Caina, sitting next to him, spoke first. “Who are you?”

“That’s a rude question.” Ezekiel said, “Next.”

Before his sister could get mad, Ored spoke, “What my sister means to ask, is: Are you a threat?”

“It certainly seems like I was put here in order to make a decision, doesn’t it,” Ezekiel openly wondered. “Does a war deserve to be started, because of a new magic, because it would be best for all? Or does a war deserve to die in its crib because it is war.”

For a moment, no one said anything.

Yaro said, “With all the respect due to a fellow Scion, but also a foreigner, the Highlands deserve everything we carve out of the barbarian lands. If whatever shithole you crawled out of decided to start something with us then you’d be put to the sword, too, and that would be counted as the ‘best for all’.”

“Here is what I am currently thinking, and it ties into what you’re saying, at its core.” Ezekiel said, “The Shades instigate war in Nelboor; this is known, though many don’t wish to speak openly of this fact. One Shade in particular, by the name of Torika, was responsible for infiltrating clans and armies and driving them to war, and then killing her own ‘side’ once her side won.

“She was killed last Shadow’s Feast.

“So keep that in mind as you talk of war. Ask yourself, are you perhaps fighting at the behest of shadows when you kill a roaming warband, who is also unknowingly fighting for shadows? Or, is that part of Nelboor done? I don’t know, and neither do you. Not right now. Maybe not for a long time. But either way, the scars of those shadows remain, and you should check yourself to see where your impetus to war originates. Will there be a war that does not need to happen, just because the Highlands believes that there needs to be a preemptive war, because that is how it has always been, when one side rapidly gains unexpected power? Or is this to be a war of conquest, simply because the only options are conquest or surrender? Are all of the warlords out there truly so evil that they cannot be brought into the fold, or are your own desires for conquest creating enemies where there are none?

“Just look at me. I have heard of the good works of the Singers, and I come to you as a potential ally. Before tonight, I would have been happy to be a part of Eralis.

“But you gain one potential, landscape-defining advantage, and your first action is to consider going to war? That seems shameful, and goes against the successes you have already achieved.” He added, “Some of the warlords might need to be eradicated, for sure. I acknowledge that. But Tadashi’s invention is not ready —thank the gods— so you will have time to reflect on what actually, truly, needs to happen in this part of the world.” He added, “Make better choices.”

People recoiled as he spoke of Shadows and Shades, but they did not run. They listened. Some people turned against Ezekiel as he went on, their faces turning hard. Others got terrified looks in their eyes. Others spoke over him, but only telepathically, and to each other; no one dared to openly interrupt him.

He wasn’t quite sure why people were suddenly gaining fearful looks in their eyes, but he had a few good guesses.

Gerella and Yaro sent out some telepathic messages. When they got their replies, Gerella sat fractionally straighter, her face becoming full of hope. Yaro seemed chastised, and then he went hard, determined to weather the storm facing him. Riri was speaking telepathically to a few people, though her face remained impassive the whole time as she focused entirely on Ezekiel.

Something hard solidified in Caina’s visage as she received her own telepathic messages.

When Ezekiel finished, there was a brief silence.

And then Caina spoke to the group, “The fallout of Archmage Flatt’s creation of Particle Magic and his trip through Ar’Kendrithyst, and all the rest, will be hundreds of years in the unfolding. Alchemist Tadashi’s treatment will take a year to perfect, and then a year to implement upon a person. We have time enough to answer the concerns raised by Scion Ezekiel, and time enough to evaluate the necessity of war. War might not happen, now that the true antagonists behind many of them are gone.” She said to Ezekiel, “But war is always a possibility when the landscape changes. Once it leaks that we can bring our loved ones back from ignominy, and once our loved ones regain the ability to eradicate those who forced them into that ignominy, they will want to rid the Highlands of those who oppose our prosperity.” She said, “The warlords to the north. The pirates to the south. The scattered Hunters of the plains. The nation of Terror Peak across the Tribulation Mountains. These are enemies we have always had, for they have always wanted our prosperity. That desire only grows worse as our prosperity flourishes, and now will be no different, except now we can end them.”

People nodded along as Caina spoke.

Ezekiel conceded, “That is a valid point. Sometimes, some powers deserve to be Ended, even if it would bring pain to many. I said this much already, and I fully believe it, too.”

He could have said more, but he had said more than enough.

Caina regarded Ezekiel, then turned back to the table.

Someone else spoke of something that was not a true concern, and then another voice countered that first one. Conversations multiplied.

Ezekiel tried his ice cream. It was a good berry flavor, even when mostly melted. The cake was fluffy and perfect and tasted of some sort of lime. He smiled. They needed more citrus flavors; they needed to trade with Candlepoint.

He participated in the conversations when they turned to him, but he was mostly thinking to himself. His answers were less than satisfactory, and mostly deflective; he knew this, everyone else was beginning to understand this, too. He had said his piece. Time would tell what would come of the Highlands, going forward.

And his mind was on other things, anyway. Like: How had Melemizargo blipped them into the air, well over a year ago, when car batteries surely contain more than enough lead to disrupt such a spell? How had they gotten to Veird in the first place, if lead was disrupting the journey?

Did he have a bit of lead poisoning, himself, from living most of his life on Earth? Did Jane?

On my gods. Jane once told him that she had been shot with a bullet! Could she—

Could lead poisoning be holding Jane back from her magic?

And besides that, Jane had always been an angry child, and lead led to aggressive tendencies, and—

Let’s just not think about that right now.

Or! Or maybe...

Or… Had the lead not come with them to Veird? Is that why the car died? Was the lead from the car’s batteries left behind on that highway, all those months ago? Were a few plates of lead, wet with acid, sitting on the road, all that was there to signal that they had left Earth behind…

No. That lead came with them— NO. The headlights died well before Melemizargo showed. The car was fully dead by the time they were blipped into the sky.

There was lead inside laptops, too, wasn’t there—

No. Not that much, if any. Cars had lead batteries. Laptops had lithium ion batteries. Not much lead in a smartphone or laptop, either. The only lead in there would be in the solder, but—

There was lead in traditional solder, which would have been the only instance of lead in their various electronic devices… maybe. But these days the manufacturers used lead-free solder in electronic devices. There might have been some lead solder in the car’s electronics, though? Ezekiel racked his brain, trying to remember what lead might have come with them to Vei—

The conversation came back to him with a pointed question from Yaro.

The Scion of Red Ledger asked, “Do you have a problem with how we run our city and our nation, Scion Phoenix?”

Ezekiel instantly said, “I apologize. The evening has left me stressed in uncommon ways. I have been rude, I am sure. Please forgive me.”

Yaro frowned, seemingly unhappy that Ezekiel had folded so easily; or at least that’s what it looked like he was thinking. A few others around the table seemed to regard Ezekiel with less importance after he was willing to debase himself with a simple apology, but that was fine.

The smart ones, Ored, Riri, and Gerella, seemed to get something else from Ezekiel’s apology. They saw Ezekiel’s full pull back for what it was; a deflection that worked. Ezekiel knew he had gone too far in claiming that he was ‘put here for a decision’ along with all the rest of what he had said. Even Caina seemed to recognize Ezekiel's words as the same sort of drawback that he had done to bring their own duel to a draw, days ago.

Yaro was not content with a draw.

Yaro said, “Tell us what you appreciate about Eralis.”

It was a command, and not a question.

And yet, Ezekiel answered, “I truly enjoyed the Void Temple and meeting the Singers. The restaurants of Darzallia were a surprise with their variety and good prices. The book sellers had a fantastic selection. And this here? Tonight has been wonderful. Meeting you all has been a treat. And yet... There has been stress, yes, from this most recent development. If you didn’t know already, they don’t use the Elixir where I’m from, so not only have I learned of that awful reality, I have learned of how it affects everyone here, and how it affects the whole of this land. I truly believe a cure is a good thing in the long run, but I fear for the short term, as well. We don’t fight people where I’m from. We fight monsters. We don’t like war.”

If nothing else came of this whole shit storm tonight…

Ezekiel made the quick decision that he didn’t want the Elixir ever used on him. So in that way, a cure was necessary.

He decided to help Tadashi learn more about chelation therapy. He’d have to remember more about that science himself, though. Or! Or maybe he could just slip Tadashi an Intelligence ring— Nope. Enchanted items would fail in his presence. Ah. There goes that easy solution.

… How did chelation therapy work? It was a...

… There was a girl at the office that spoke of it… a few years ago? Yeah. A few years ago. She was an anti-vaxer and she spoke of chelation like claws wrapping around individual particles of metals contained in the vaccines… Okay. So. Maybe she wasn’t the most reliable person to think about when he was trying to think of chelation, but…

Had he ever read anything else on the subject?

Nothing that he could remember at the moment. He was, admittedly, a bit backed up with seeing and understanding all the rest of what was happening around him.

Scion Gerella White Wood spoke, “The perspective of an outsider is appreciated, but even with your objections to war, you must see how it would behoove us all to gain the ability to rid our society of the Elixir.”

“I fully agree.” Ezekiel happily said, “It took me a minute to get there, but I agree to that.”

There were a few nervous laughs and a few polite chuckles.

The conversation continued, without Ezekiel.

Eventually, Riri lifted her voice into a lull, saying, “Scion Ezekiel. Elder Arilitilo and Patriarch Zalindi wish to speak to you, if you are willing. Tadashi as well.”

Ezekiel took the offered out and made this the end of his evening, saying, “I thank Clan Star Song for their hospitality, and I would love to speak to your Elders in private.” He turned to the Scion’s table, adding, “I have enjoyed meeting you all. Farewell.”

There were a few nods from the Scions, and a few deeper bows from the rest.

Ezekiel followed a servant to the Elder’s table and then to the left; the Elders were all gone from their seats, their places cleared. Around the room, other empty spots at various tables were like unwelcome silences in a song.

Julia, Paul, and Tiffany joined Ezekiel before he entered a hallway, to head deeper into Clan Star Song’s headquarters, to where danger and opportunity waited in unequal measure.
