“Okile, what about the fundamentals?”

“Outstanding. She has mana mastery.”

A susurrus crossed the room, not at the announcement, but at the thought of knowing one’s skill.

“She didn’t tell me, I am merely providing you with an educated guess. I would bet solid money on that,” the enchanter continued.

“No betting on taboo subjects, please. Ashra, I see she picked black mana as her main? Do you approve?”

“No.”

A stunned silence quieted the others.

“It would be pointless. The current curriculum aims at including black mana layers in existing frameworks. No one casts pure black spells. Not only would she be unable to make use of the class, but she has already mastered two concepts, annihilation and change.”

“Not darkness?”

“Not yet. I have no doubts she will do so before the end of the term, however.”

“Do you have a recommendation, then?”

“I want her as my teaching assistant. Reduce her tuition to ten golden talents a semester and let me have her. I’ll tutor her on advanced applications.”

“Not so fast!” a dark-skinned man with a long, flowing beard interrupted.

“Tod?” the dean asked.

“How is she not part of the medical faculty? Inconceivable!”

“Most medical spells use life mana,” Ashra replied. “You know well that—”

“Stop,” the dean interrupted. “Tod, she has expressed interest in medical treatment. You will have ample opportunity to make your case to her in person as soon as she contacts the medical faculty. Does someone wish to veto Ashra? No? Then the scholarship is approved. Okile, what about colorless mana?”

“She clearly picked it up much later, though she already showed advanced mastery of a few spells. Her sound spells are flawless. I believe a normal class would be fine. I see great potential in her, especially for mana shaping. She clearly practiced extensively.”

“We will see about that,” a dark-skinned woman harrumphed.

The rest of the council sighed and eye-rolled at the same time.

“Yes yes. Any veto? No? Good. What about electives?”

Milenia stood again, just as seriously as before.

“The examinee did not display a basic knowledge of military strategy. However…”

Some attendants did a double-take when the strict teacher offered a compromise.

“However, I recommend accepting her on two grounds. First, outlanders often propose innovative doctrines from their world, and the Academy’s duty should be to learn those doctrines and implement them if and when they prove pertinent. Second, she has led a revolution to victory.”

“For now,” an Enorian teacher noted.

“Kindly wait your turn to speak, thank you. Leading a revolution is almost always an uphill battle. If she has already achieved military success, then she has already demonstrated military capabilities, and the examination itself is redundant. I recommend acceptance.”

“I don’t teach witches. I hold an academic war council, not some wild wood frolics. Outlander ideas? Oleander was also supposed to bring us new ideas on warfare.”

The man who had spoken was tall and handsome with a deep scar over a dark-skinned cheek. His crimson robe shone with medals.

A few of the other professors bristled. It was an old argument.

“Outlanders wage war in their world according to different rules. None of them have shown enough brilliance to overcome centuries of relentless pursuit of excellence on Nyil, and this one doesn’t look any different,” the man continued.

“You will let her attend your classes. If she doesn’t pass the probation test, we will drop her. In the meanwhile, you will let students attend even if they are instinctive casters. See me after if you wish to object. In private. Enough of this. What about dueling?”

“We ran a few tests. I place her at the level of a fourth step war mage in terms of offense and defense,” Okile said with barely disguised amusement.

The room erupted in conversation.

“Are you sure?” the dean asked.

“She dug a hole in the blessed obelisk.”

Okile stopped the dean with a raised hand just as the older man made for the door.

“It already returned to its original form. The circle she used is still there, if you wish to inspect it later.”

“You are serious?”

“I saw it as well,” Ashra said. “A gash like a sword wound surrounded by molten material. It returned to normal after a few seconds.”

A heavy silence descended on the room while the professors reflected on this unexpected development. No one had damaged the obelisk in the history of the academy. No one had tried, either, but tens of thousands of attendees had thrown spells at the stone without result. It was widely regarded as impervious to magic.

Except, apparently, for her.

“I’ll teach her,” a man with dark curls and liquid eyes softly said from his seat.

“If only so she doesn’t accidentally kill other students.”

“Good. That will be a good start. To summarize, fundamentals with a focus on etiquette, teaching assistant for black mana, normal student for colorless, dueling elective, probationary military theory. Any veto?”

“We could save ourselves a lot of trouble by culling her and making the juvenile leave. She is a rebel. Her current companion is Sidjin, a known traitor who should have been tortured to death if there were any justice in this world,” the military instructor said.

The dean didn’t speak. He merely glared at the man in scathing, quiet condemnation. The air grew heavy. The instructor started to sweat.

Slowly, the dean's eyes turned hard, his features like cold ore resting on the white-hot, molten surface of his skin. The room’s temperature increased. No one dared to speak.

Eventually, the dean took a deep breath and returned to normal. He gestured, and one of the windows opened. Fresh air rushed in.

“I believe we have a majority ruling. I shall let Ashra and Okile share our decision with candidate Viviane.”

The instructors walked back, only to find her seat empty and her cup discarded. Darla was waiting nearby.

“What’s going on?” Okile asked.

“I want to know as well. We were talking about the history of the Academy then, suddenly, her expression turned to one of horror. She screamed something about the dragon, swore in an unknown language, and took off at a sprint.”
