“Impressive, I admit. There is one last test I’d like to conduct, then we can stop for today, I believe. Would you care to follow me?”

“Sure.”

The trio left the practice hall behind, a little worse for wear. They walked through the extensive gardens along paved paths. Viv noted that parts of the park were well-tended and kept for recreational purposes, while others were obviously wilder, deeper into the complex. The fortified and enchanted walls had to extend for litteral kilometers of well-protected fortifications at the center of a city where real estate was at a premium. The power wielded by the Academy defied her expectations. The Academy was not the center of Helock. Helock existed to serve the Academy.

They walked by a dormitory in front of which a group of older students were conferring. Their dark teal robes displayed ribbons of unknown function, while colors adorned their sleeves. They warmly greeted the two teachers and nodded at Viv with the smug smiles of those who have already proven themselves. Viv’s confidence took a hit when she realized even the near-graduates were younger than her. Eventually, they reached a clearing suspiciously devoid of grass, the naked ground glassy in parts. In the center of the clearing, a stone stood. Strange engravings covered its otherwise pristine surface in sharp contrast with the rest of the clearing, which looked like it had survived two world wars and a rave. Looking at it for too long made her lose her balance. She unwisely decided to inspect it.

[Nous-blessed stone: this obelisk boasts a powerful magic-canceling effect. It serves as a target for powerful offensive magic due to its extraordinary resilience.]

“Neat. Nous left it here? I thought he was, you know, dead?”

“His influence remains all around, including in the interface. Why not a stone as well?” the professor casually replied. “In any case, let us see your artillery, if you do not mind. Here, you can use this.”

Viv knew Nous was still sort of conscious, but all thoughts about how conscious exactly evaporated when she took what the man had handled her. It resembled a gourd with a faucet near its neck, but was quite heavy and filled with what felt like sand. Very potent sand. Some of it resonated with her faintly in a way that reminded her of her dagger focus.

“Wait. It’s not silverite, is it?”

“Not quite. You hold finely ground ore that used to surround a silverite vein. Although the material is vulgar, it has kept some of the silverite’s properties. You can use a trickle of it to form a circle, if you wish…”

Viv was reasonably sure there was at least a percent of actual silverite mixed in all of this. It would be a nice help.

Without waiting, Viv recreated the circle she had used during the ambush of Prince Lancer’s forces. It took her a bit more time than she expected since she had to dig furrows into the mana-saturated, glassified ground. Thankfully, black mana was uniquely penetrative, and she managed. When she was done, she poured dust into the grooves and prepared to cast.

The value of that support circle was not in the power of the spell, but rather the frequency with which she could draw on her reserves to cast them. Blast after blast smashed against the obelisk in oppressive silence. Viv missed the telltale hiss of someone having a bad day since the obelisk merely shed off her spell with no damage. Despite her lack of results, the examiner seemed reasonably pleased.

“Good, good, very good. I shiver to ask, but is that your most destructive spell?”

“No,” Viv replied. She walked and erased a few glyphs, soon replacing them with others. Then she walked back and cast again.

“Blight.”

The cloud of destruction hissed, leaving pits and holes in the already ravaged grounds. Viv turned and hesitated, but she was genuinely curious now, and suspected the professor would not let her keep the dust. It was probably also devilishly expensive.

“There is another, but I’m not sure since the range is quite short.”

“Let’s see it then,” the examiner replied with measured enthusiasm.

Viv stepped forth and set up near the monolith. She tried her best not to look at the strange structure, yet it kept catching her gaze. The monolith occupied more room than its humble dimensions showed, she thought, and that was intriguing, but more intriguing in a scholarly kind of way because it made her brain hurt and she had a busy schedule and no time to play with any more godly bullshit. She only had one spell that might possibly affect it. It was Excalibur. Excalibur was by nature a stupid spell. First, Excalibur was the blade of King Arthur and King Arthur was English so that was already a failure on her part as a French woman. She should have called it Durandal. Second, it was a close quarter spell and close quarter casters were normally dead casters. On Nyil, magic changed people. It changed soldiers’ and monsters’ bodies until they were equal to some earth’s pagan gods, she judged. A caster had no business getting close at all because magic changed them in a different way, specifically a way that would get them pasted when in close proximity to pagan gods. Therefore, it was a stupid spell.

A last resort spell.

It was also a spell that could reliably kill aberrations in one hit.

And Viv had acuity reflexes, a skill that let her follow the speed of close-quarter fighters in mind if not in body.

Nevertheless, it was a stupid spell but it was effective, and Viv thought the time had come to do some limit testing. Who knew? Maybe one day she would have to peel something open like a reluctant tuna can, and Excalibur certainly had the peeling part down pat.

Viv drilled in the basaltic surface of the clearing, adding runes for stability, duration, and focus. She had never cast Excalibur as a ritual before. She felt a bit like a bank robber preparing to drill into a safe, only the safe was a godly artifact.

When she was done, she took a step back.

Afternoon was well on its way. The two professors had set up folding chairs. The woman seemed to be grading papers while the man raised his head, closing a book as he stood. He approached and inspected the circle with detached interest, pausing only near the focus glyph to clear his throat. Viv looked and realized she had double-linked the rune which would quickly destabilize the entire structure. She fixed it quickly, blushing with embarrassment at the blunder. Mistakes killed people. She should have been more careful. Viv went over the construct once again with careful attention. No issue this time.

The park was nice. A nice breeze from the north brought some fresh air to disperse the summer heat. Whispers and laughs came from the other side of the trees, towards the dormitory. The woman behind Viv had a habit of tapping her notes twice with the top of her pen every time she hesitated. There were no real doubts in Viv’s mind that she would be accepted here, though the question of how many classes she would be allowed to take still remained. All was well, for now. She had all the time in the world.

There was only her, the circle, and the stone.

It was there yet not there.

A mundane human might touch its rough surface and feel the grain of the slab beneath their fingers. They might trace the grooves with their fingertips, and they would feel it, and it would be there, but they would be missing the point. The stone had depth. It was an anchor for something deeper.

She wouldn’t get another opportunity to use silverite powder on such a pointless pursuit.

It was now or never.

She was going to touch it.

It was divine, and she was going to touch it, caress its surface with the vulgar tools she had at her disposal at the moment. The not-a-stone would remember her. Oh, she would not destroy it. It was too incomprehensibly vast. But she was going to touch it.

Mana rushed out from her core in a happy torrent, eager, seeking, a blood hound as familiar to her as it was deadly to others. It was hers, granted by the planet. If she returned to earth right now, a little bit of it would return with her. No one could take what she had seized for herself. And so it poured from her core in a tide that filled the circles, more and more, until they were full and ready. The circle hummed, gorged with destructive power ready to annihilate. It ballooned under her until she felt like a misstep would disintegrate her. Behind, the two teachers had stood and watched, silent, as the spell reached its paroxysm. Viv lifted a hand and spoke.

“Excalibur.”

The world darkened. The wind died. The students quieted when a ray of absolute void linked her to the stone, the stone to her, and both to the world. The spell touched the rock and struggled to penetrate through the cocoon of magic that made its shell. Viv pushed it as far as it could go, sacrificing stability and time for sheer power. The blade of darkness lodged itself in the cocoon with grim ineluctability. Its density simply could not be denied.

Something cracked.

Something gave way.

More things held the spell back. The blade touched the stone now, really, though it was still merely the surface. The world inside of the obelisk was immense.

And then, the spell ran out of power.

Viv sighed when the spell lost cohesion. She had poured over two thirds of her considerable mana into the construct. It was gone, now, the silverite burnt to ash, but she had done it.

On the surface of the stone, a gash had opened, surrounded by superheated matter. Viv had not produced the heat. It came from the stone itself. She heard someone gasp, and swear softly. Then—

What the fuck?

Oh.

What the FUCK? What is wrong with you? Kindly stop breaking my shit, thank you very much. I swear, every century you outlanders grow more obnoxious. And after everything I’ve done for you! Don’t try this again or so help me I’ll put you on the path of a tornado. Bollocks. Do you know I actually have better things to do than to fix anchors? Can you understand that?

Soul mastery: beginner 1

Lost Heiress (6/10)

Just you wait.

Oh no.

You have acquired the title: VANDAL. You will find it easier to break physical objects… whether you want to or not.

“Wait wait wait wait nooooooooooooooooooo!”

“Calm down, Viviane, calm down, you are fine, this is fine. Merely… unexpected. See? The stone is reforming,” the examiner said in an attempt to calm her.

But Viv could not be comforted.

The title was staying. It would mark her soul forever as someone who broke teapots and tagged walls or something. It was good her mother was light years and a dimension away.

“I admit, this was impressive. And I believe we can conclude the trials. Thank you for your time, candidate Viviane. I will report the results to the staff. Would you like to wait for the results? I believe we can give you a definitive answer after the admission council reaches a decision. They should be finishing for the others as we speak.”

“What do you mean? Is it that late?”

“Most students only show a couple of spells,” the woman spoke perhaps for the first time. “With free candidates, we tend to conduct more comprehensive testing. Shall we?”

“Sure,” Viv said.

She could do without the uncertainty, although Sidjin and Arthur were probably waiting. Viv nodded and joined them as they walked back to the administrative building and left her in the lobby where the seven other candidates were gathered. The six students had finally split, now nervously waiting while the other free guy watched a nearby wall with a lost expression. As Viv watched, a pair of examiners summoned one of the teens to a nearby room. They didn’t return.

She sat down and got offered a cup of something new.

Now, the staple drink in Enoria was the klod, an infusion that reminded Viv of barley tea. It wasn’t bad and even nourished a little. What she was offered this time was different. The smell of roast touched something deep within her. The craving for coffee.

“What is that thing?” she asked Darla who had handed her the cup.

“Nawa. A delicacy.”

“It sure is…”

Although nawa wasn’t technically coffee, the pleasant taste distracted her until Sidjin’s return. He sat by her side while another pair of examiners summoned yet another candidate, and shared his experience. Sidjin had been inquiring about ways to make money, now that he was no longer a prince.

He had questions.

***

The admission council gathered in one of the standard meeting rooms without ceremony. Every semester, they handled dozens of tests spread over a few weeks. Teachers and researchers universally considered attendance as a chore, despite the need to scout promising students. This time, however, was an exception. An outlander wanted to join.

“How did it go?” the dean asked, hands clasped in front of his crimson robe.

Okile, tenured enchanter, stepped forward and bowed. He took his time. It was not every day he could tease his impatient colleagues.

“We have detected no abnormal mana signatures, so we believe she comes from a reality where either mana levels were too weak, or she could not use it. I surmise she received a blessing to learn at an accelerated pace, but it cannot account for all of her performances. I believe she is gifted and hard-working.”

“I see. Let’s begin with the written tests then. Milenia?”

A severe Baranese woman stood ramrod straight. Her robe could pass muster with even the most anal of drill sergeants.

“I’ve seen similar results in good students who crammed at the last minute to achieve a passing grade. Some of her answers showed advanced education, including a few sentences that sounded like quotes. Some others showed a deep understanding of our testing methods. She is smart enough, I suppose, though efforts must be made with etiquette.”

“Duly noted. And your verdict?”

“Pass, easily.”

