Riding a buggy was less a novel experience and more a return to roots, so to speak. There had been a time she had loved being drawn in a carriage. The first time it had been during a warm summer. The fair had smelled of horse and lavender. She had been holding her brother in her arms.

Viv pushed back the feeling of nostalgia and grabbed Sidjin’s hand, lightly this time.

“Sorry about the temple,” she said.

“We’ll get a better chance at the Academy’s medical faculty, not to mention assistance in perfecting the spell. They will have easier access to monster meat,” her boyfriend replied without much anguish.

The temple of Sardanal, god of prosperity, had been eager to help heal Sidjin, especially with the promise of an intact circle. Unfortunately, they needed magical meat, and Viv had simply not anticipated how precious and expensive it was here. She was starting to suspect Sidjin had spent a significant amount at the restaurant.

She should not have been surprised.

Monster meat was prized not just for its bolstering effect, but also because it was proven to improve the chance of giving birth to a caster, especially if consumed during the late term of a pregnancy. Between the status of mages in Helock and the lack of monsters around one of Param’s largest cities, demand far outstripped supply. The temples were not so rich that they could indulge, and so they didn’t even have a supply chain for this precious commodity. Sidjin had given up rather than wait and pay a ridiculous price.

Viv had still drawn the circle to allow the priests to study it, because she was committed. She believed it had gotten her brownie points. Brownie points with a major religion was a good thing.

Nevertheless, the delay frustrated her more than it frustrated Sidjin, apparently.

She highly suspected he was going to wait until the spell was perfect to try and recover his original dick. What a lad.

Viv smiled as they returned to the hotel they had booked. Arthur was fine with spending the next day alone. She had grown less concerned about Viv’s safety over the past few weeks because nothing had happened and she was still a child with the corresponding attention span. A bit of flying over the ocean was just what she wanted, since it was, apparently, the biggest lake she’d ever seen.

Viv still asked her not to try and cross it.

The next morning, Sidjin accompanied Viv once more, stopping at the gate of the Academy with a group of stressed parents pretending very hard not to be nervous. Viv joined a gathering of young adults, trying her best not to notice she appeared closer in age to the people left outside. A few people eyed her with curiosity, but it was as Darla had said. Free candidates were not too unusual.

They were led to the administrative building by a secretary in basic robes. The man would act as a proctor as well, and he distributed a few sheets to Viv and her seven companions after they settled in an exam room. The outlander filled the header and prepared for the written part of the exam. Even though it would be less impactful for her as an instinctive caster, she could not completely dismiss the contagious atmosphere of anxiety.

As soon as everyone was set, they started. The first set of questions related to runes and the use of runes, and Viv mostly coasted those. All the runes were basic, fundamental aspects of more complex constructs such as ‘condition’, ‘trigger’, ‘length’, and others that were absolutely essential to complex casting. She had learned those under the direction of Solfis. She only failed to precisely identify two runes used in linking casters together for advanced collaborative spells, which was fine. She tanked the theoretical magic aspect of the exam but that was expected as they were questions aimed towards mages. As a witch herself, she would have results weighed more in favor of the practical aspect of the trial. She still managed to answer one question in three with confidence thanks to Sidjin’s coaching and winged the rest. Some of the theorems were interesting anyway, like the relationship between a spell’s range and its energy consumption. That gave her an idea about how far mages could throw their stuff. You had to know your enemy and yourself to win a thousand battles, etc.

The history and ethics questions were also a breeze because her seldom used polymath skill kicked in, letting her bullshit her way to the illusion of brilliance. She even managed to write the requested essay in a way that would support Helock’s ethical doctrine while being original enough to prove she put some effort into her ass-kissing. Most of what Helock believed was: do not act like a twit just because you can kill people with a finger twitch, and she approved of it anyway.

Even though the final etiquette test was ‘free form’, Viv remained confident. She merely needed to show she wasn’t a complete moron.

They finished shortly before lunch time.

Out of the seven students, six knew each other. They gathered in a clump to whisper excitedly about the answers they’d picked, apparently a custom that transcended time and space to affect all people. The last attendee was a free candidate like Viv and, from his lost expression, it was clear he wasn’t looking for company. Viv retired to the entrance to eat her meal on the lawn outside the administrative building, in Sidjin’s company.

“I found out some more about the portal research,” the man said. “I am reasonably sure a certain magister Sterek is in charge. He is the only one with the knowledge currently busy on a confidential project. The issue is his sponsor. Elemental Archmage Elunath. He is the most powerful caster of Helock right now.”

“Would he oppose your reclamation?”

“I wouldn’t know. He is a secretive mage who lives in the city center. He does not involve himself with Academy business, preferring to conduct his own research with the help of competent assistants, or so I heard. I will have to negotiate with him.”

“I suppose that legality matters little in the face of power even here?”

“When it comes to elemental archmages, legality might as well not exist.”

“When I become one, you can be my lawyer. If that helps.”

“Thank you. I feel flattered,” Sidjin deadpanned.

Viv spent an hour relaxing in pleasant company, only hoping Arthur was fine. She also wondered about Harrak and her companions, though they should be fine without her around acting as a trouble magnet.

The afternoon tests were individual. A pair of professors welcomed her at the lobby where the other prospective students were waiting. One of the most effeminate men she had ever met greeted her with a delicate handshake, his skin hinting at a Viziman heritage. He had such a tight control over his mana, she only realized he was a red mage after their skins touched. His second flanked him in silence and barely offered a syllable when introduced. She boasted a rare pixie cut so clean she might have just walked out of the stylist. She was also pale and quite short. Both of them wore the embroidered midnight blue robes she had seen on the education staff. Viv wasn’t sure, but she thought the woman had powerful black mana as well.

They walked her to a small stone building in the garden, mostly deserted now that classes had resumed. It reminded Viv of a hybrid between a gym and a cathedral. The man acted rather friendly in general, which helped relax her. He was the one who guided her through the exercises while his second took notes.

“First, we will ask you to demonstrate your mastery of the fundamentals of magic. To begin with, please reproduce the forms I will show you using free mana.”

The game was one Viv did to relax anyway, and she managed to recreate all of the shapes the man made including the most tortuous ones. Her only mistake came from a small difference in visualization, and she fixed it immediately when the professor pointed it out. He expressed his satisfaction and requested her to replenish her reserves. Viv used meditative trance for twenty seconds before admitting she was full.

“Would it be a problem?” she asked.

“No, quite the contrary. This trial is over,” the man declared with a comforting style. “Now we will test your perception.”

The exercises started lightly. She had to recognize different types of mana in spells or emitted by the teacher. As expected, the woman had a powerful black aspect, though it came second to brown mana. The man favored red and gray. They all had access to basic forms of every color, including life. After Viv demonstrated her mastery, they asked her to turn around and do the same blind, which Sidjin never mentioned. Nevertheless, it wasn’t much of an issue. In fact, she was having fun. That test ended too soon.

“I believe we can safely move on from the fundamentals and see your spellcasting. Would you mind starting with black mana?”

For this part of the trial, the proctors gave the prospective student a chance to display their prowess. Viv decided to show her understanding of the ‘change meaning’ through the creation of eldritch walls. The examiner led her to the back wall, where enchantments in the foundations and the back allowed damage while preventing it from reaching too deep. He assured her that an earth mage would repair the floor afterward and so she raised a few fortifications. Then came the easy peasy sneaky cloaky, which she then charged with the meaning of annihilation. The woman, in particular, showed clear interest in the shape of the armor and grabbed a stick to test its resilience. The sticks did not survive the experience, much to her silent approval. Viv demonstrated a purge net which she cast without stopping for half a minute, reducing an entire wall to shreds. An attempt at an artillery spell was quickly aborted when the proctor interrupted her.

“That will be quite enough, thank you. Black mana tends to linger. I wouldn’t want my esteemed colleague to spend too much time repairing the place.”

During the entire process, the man had remained pleasant and cordial while the woman took notes with a serious expression. Viv believed she was doing fine, but could not be sure as they abstained from reacting.

“Would you like to demonstrate some colorless magic?”

Viv was ready. She first rebuilt her lamp, then started a fire. The pair tested her sound enchantments extensively. Finally, she levitated a couple of ball bearings around.

“This concludes this part of the exam. I notice you did not apply for enchantment or medical electives, though you have shown a certain ability with both. Is there a specific reason for that?”

“For the medical aspect of magic, I cannot manipulate life mana to any meaningful degree, so magical healing will remain beyond me.”

The woman nodded while the man tapped his thick lips pensively.

“Hmm, I suppose, though I must warn you that old Tod will certainly want a word with you.”

“That’s quite fine,” Viv thought, and appreciated that he considered her success as a given. “As for enchantment, I’d like to get used to the workload before I pick too many electives. I will have a lot on my plate.”

“Understood, but do consider applying because there are tricks and shortcuts only a master such as myself could teach. You should not settle merely for adequate.”

“If only I could duplicate myself,” Viv jokingly replied.

“I will be looking forward to this magical achievement,” the man deadpanned. “Now, onto the electives. The first is military doctrine, and I fear we must return to theory.

He took out a sheet of paper from one of his sleeves and sat down on a nearby chair. The next questions left Viv a bit discomforted. While she had experienced war herself, she had never been part of a coherent battle mage formation, and it showed. Even polymath could only carry her so far. The examiner frowned for the first time since the trial began, until the woman stepped up to him and whispered in his ears. He nodded once and shifted his method to asking her how she would react in specific scenarios. It gave her more leeway.

“You are marching down a road in the middle of the forest when suddenly, the enemy appears in front of you and launches a large cavalry charge. What do you do?”

“Raise walls, retreat into the forest, then form a square.”

The man took rigorous notes. Viv understood what he was doing. She was pretty sure she was in, but in order to be accepted in her elective, she had to demonstrate a basic understanding. The person in charge of the class probably had the last word when it came to accepting students, so the examiner was giving her an opportunity to shine. She suspected being an instinctive caster might not help in this instance.

“Right, onto magical dueling then! It is one of the most popular electives, and it has only one real prerequisite, though you didn’t hear it from me. Let’s see your shield.”

“Hive.”

The hexagonal and slightly futuristic construct instantly rose around Viv. The man cast a few quick javelins that stopped on the plates without much effect. His next spell covered Viv completely until all she could see beyond the dark plates was fire.

“I will be using a concept, but rest assured I will stop if it looks like the shield will break,” the man added.

Paranoia needled Viv, but she nodded.

“Good. In three, two, one…”

Viv infused the concept of annihilation into her shield and felt it clash against another, all-devouring one coming from the professor. Fire pressed upon her, so intense she felt the ghost of its warmth through the plates. A small headache birthed between her eyes, then suddenly the spell stopped. The woman furiously wrote in her book while the man smiled wildly.

