Sizzi hadn’t picked up right away, but she responded quickly enough, sending, ‘Archmage Flatt! Hello. I am not that busy at the moment. To what do I owe the honor?’

Erick smiled at the woman’s voice. He was pretty sure that Sizzi’s mother, Guildmaster Zago, was probably right beside her, telling her to be polite. He had told Sizzi to call him ‘Erick’ last time they spoke, for sure, so why call him ‘Archmage’? Maybe Sirocco was listening in?

‘I have a proposal for you.’ Erick sent, ‘We’re clearing out the Moon Reachers and Deathsoul Shrooms from the Forest of Glaquin. I was wondering if you would be able to assist. The job is looking a lot larger than anyone suspected, and if your summons are up for the task, we could use you. I don’t know how much Treehome would be willing to pay you, but the task would certainly go easier with more summons as good as Ophiel. I also haven’t cleared this with them, and they seem reluctant to accept any professional outside help. But your help would be appreciated, I’m sure, if they actually allow such a thing.’

There was a pause. That pause went on for a while.

Erick looked over to the [Viewing Screen]s one platform over, where Bloodwoo, Koropo, and a few unmet Elders all went over the images of the maps Erick had adjusted; they now showed Deathsoul Shroom markers. Those white maps were rather blue. No one liked what they saw.

Sizzi’s voice came back, ‘Ah. Yes. Uh. Well. Yes.’

Another pause.

Erick sent, ‘If you—’

‘How many— Sorry. Go ahead?’

‘What were you saying, Sizzi?’

‘Uh… Well. I can do this. How big is the job?’ She paused, then, with much enthusiasm, immediately sent, ‘I’m sorry! I was just in the middle of— It doesn’t matter. This task you have would mean a lot to a lot of people, wouldn’t it. Yes. I want to be involved. My mother wishes to come to Treehome as well, to participate. She won’t be able to remain, but she wishes to be there for a little while.’

Erick smirked. ‘Good to hear. I’m sure we can find places for both of you, but the current time table has us at a minimum of 15 days of clearing out these two problem monsters from the Forest, and maybe more than that. What sort of spells can you operate through your summons? Have you actually Classed-up, yet?’

‘I just got [Grand Lightning] but I have been comfortable with my ability to take out most targets at range for a while. I have never tackled a Deathsoul Shroom… But that shouldn’t be a problem? I’ve read about those. And yes, I have Classed into Summoner.’ With a happy voice, Sizzi said, ‘All because of you, Archmage Flatt. So for you, I would do this free of charge. But Treehome will need to pay.’

Erick laughed. ‘I’m sure you’re worth it! After they’ve seen what Kiri and I can do with our summons, they’re looking to expand their Summoning program. Don’t be caught blindsided when they try to poach you from Spur.’

‘Ha! Little chance of that happening. My mother would disown me.’

‘Do you need me to [Teleport] you and your mother up here? Or would you prefer to find your own way?’ Erick rapidly added, ‘It might be easier if I brought you here and introduced you, actually.’

Pause.

She was probably speaking to her mother about plans and timing.

‘Yes. We will accept your help getting there. Just… Give us an hour?’

‘I’m sure that will be fine. Ophiel will come to you, then. See you soon.’

‘See you soon!’

Erick ended the call.

He went over to the gathered Elders and Koropo. Koropo saw him coming, and then so did everyone else. The crowd parted just a bit, allowing him entry into the gathering.

Erick asked, “What’s the new Shroom estimate?”

Koropo said, “Somewhere between 15,000 to 17,000 major Deathsoul Shroom hunts.”

Many Elders grumbled at that, and Erick sighed a bit.

Koropo said, “Some of the targets require slashing and burning for a dozen kilometers in every direction. Others would be smaller, and only slightly less dangerous. We estimate it would take a person of your power half an hour per large infestation. If you were working alone, according to the math, it would take you, personally, an entire year of hunting and burning—” A few grumbles from the audience caused Koropo to speak louder, over the group of gathered Elders, “For anyone with less than a well-made Super Large Area spell of incineration or other burning or decay magic, we’re looking at—” He breathed in. He let it out there, “10 hours per Adult. 7000 days of clearing—”

A few Elders almost spoke up, objecting.

“—or double that since we won’t burn at night—”

Most everyone groaned at that.

“— I know, I know! It’s not what you want to hear.” Koropo continued, “But a full day per adult is historically accurate, and also the best case scenario. No one expected this many Adult Deathsoul Shrooms. This Imaging has revealed the insides of trees as Adults, the insides of some wyrms as Adults. This Imaging has revealed entire new life cycles that we never knew. And so, the problem is larger than we ever knew. If we do this wrong, we risk spreading the shrooms, which is why we will do this right the first time.”

Elder Erod from Icebrand said, “The Shrooms are deadly, yes, but if we kill 99% of every infestation, then that should be enough, right?”

Elder Juli from Firebrand said, “The Forest eats small lives all the time, and tiny Shroom colonies would be no different.”

There were many objections to that. No one wanted a half-assed Culling.

But Bloodwoo objected the loudest, saying, “We will do this right. Failure will not be our goal.”

Erick spoke up, “No one expected it to be easy, did they?”

An Elder from Steel-Branch, Elder Moro, said, “We expected that finding them would be the hard part. Usually, you only run into these damned things when you’re trying to run from something else and you get deathly unlucky. We did not expect the problem to be this large.” He complained to Koropo, “Your numbers cannot be accurate.”

Koropo glared at Elder Moro, then he blinked, breathed, and broke off his harsh look.

“Everyone always underestimates the time it takes to make something good,” said Elder Fara Home, diplomatically.

Chieftain Ro-Uki Rottundra, said, “Yet another reason to just melt it all down. We can even throw up large stone walls as breaks—”

Yura said, “That plan is still with the Prognosticators. Speak no more of that plan. It is tiring.”

Before anyone else could speak up—

Erick said, “Anyway! I might have another good Summoner coming, if you want them. They helped me to make my Ophiel, and I helped them to make their own summons. They’re a proper Summoner, too. Classed, and everything. I suspect she will be much better at clearing out targets than even my apprentice, Kiri. If you want her?” He added, “You’re going to have to pay her, too, of course. I don’t know what she’ll charge.”

Everyone looked down at Erick.

Yura was the first to speak. “Not an agent of the Headmaster, I hope?”

“Or a shadeling!” Peron said.

A few Elders nodded at that.

“Nope; neither of those.” Erick said, “She’s the daughter of the Mage Guildmaster of Spur. Sizzi Zago.”

Yura spoke first, “I have no objection.”

With a gleam in his eye, Bloodwoo said, “Nosier happily accepts. Yes. Bring her in.”

Elder Moro asked, “How good is she?”

“We’ll find out together.” Erick said, “But she has [Grand Lightning], so she should be fine.”

Erick didn’t know what [Grand Lightning] was, exactly, but he could guess it was something like [Grand Fireball], and thus suitably impressive.

Chieftain Ro-Uki Rottundra asked, “Is she as good as your Miss Flamecrash?” He looked to Koropo. “Give me some numbers based on that estimate.”

“[Grand Lightning] is a fine spell.” Bloodwoo said, “This Summoner’s assistance in clearing the adults would be enough to let us kill the lesser infestations much more safely.”

Peron frowned. A few other Elders frowned. But none of them said anything. They all knew how dangerous a Deathsoul Shroom could be.

Erick said, “I’m pretty sure Sizzi has at least 20 summons, too. I have 10. Kiri has 10. I am not comfortable doing this with just us three, but if it’s just the adults, then we can probably do that. Juvenile cleanup would take the most time… Maybe?” He added, “But anyway: No offense meant, Koropo, but I think you’ve vastly overestimated how long it will take to kill an Adult. For me, anyway.”

What he didn’t say, was that it would likely be the work of a minute to find the thing, and then a moment to cast his new [Vivid Gloom Ooze]. Boom boom; dead shroom!

Some Elders seemed to reassess Erick, but most looked to Koropo for the numbers.

Koropo said, “If she’s as good as Miss Flamecrash… Who I think can tackle a Deathsoul Shroom Adult just fine for an estimate on par with Archmage Flatt’s timetable, which I am now moving to 10 minutes per infestation… This means we’re looking at cutting the task down to a fortieth of what it was before. But maybe only go with 35, for each caster will only have most of their summons out there. 17,000 hunts, which means… 170,000 minutes, cut by 35, means 4900 minutes per summon, cut by 60, means 80 hours per summon, means three and a half days for each summon out there, to end every Adult Deathsoul Shroom in the Forest.” He looked to Erick. “Can you do that? Does that sound reasonable?”

Everyone looked to Erick.

Erick said, “I’m not running 24 hours a day. None of us are. But we can certainly do a lot from the comfort of a hotel room.”

Every Elder, Chieftain, soldier, and [Viewing Screen] clerk within earshot, seemed to brighten up a bit. A tension in the air seemed to relax. A lot of people were listening in on the conversation, it seemed.

Koropo said, “I know it wasn’t what we originally planned on, but this is good.”

Yura said, “We will have to see about increasing your pay.”

A few laughed at that.

Erick smiled, saying, “But first, the Reachers.”

“Yes; the Moon Reachers.” Bloodwoo said, “They are a much more manageable problem.”

Another Elder said, “Still gonna take days.”

“And days and days.” Another Elder said, “But it will be done, and then the only Reacher you’ll see would be stuffed, in a museum.”

Elder Juli Firebrand said, “Once we cull most of them from this world, all the stragglers would have a hard time finding each other, so even if we got 99% of them, then the rest would die out in a generation.”

“And good riddance!”

As Elders and Chieftains began to separate, to walk their own ways, to talk to their own people, Koropo asked Erick to switch the maps back to the Moon Reachers. Erick obliged.
