Erick asked, “What’re Treehome’s death-to-monsters statistics?”

“You’re here, in this space, and that’s what you ask?” Koropo laughed a little, then asked, “Is this the first time you’ve had this question?” He looked upon Erick, and said, “You didn’t actually know what you were offering us, did you?”

Erick ignored that last part of Koropo’s little interrogation, then said, “This is a lot more than I expected.”

“What did you expect?”

“The conference room under Wyrmrest. From before.”

Koropo smiled a hard, happy grin, exposing his large lower fangs, saying, “It’s not every day the city of Treehome and the orcol people conspire with an archmage to rid a pair of monsters from the world. Of course this would be a big event, and what better place than the Red Henge?”

When Erick woke up this morning, he had expected directions to the conference room from before. Instead, Poi directed them to a large area in the mountains overlooking Treehome, that was anything but a simple staging area.

It was a ritual site according to everything Erick saw, from the pillars of stone lifted from the mountain like it was the older, much larger cousin to Stonehenge, to the plateaus all around where large red crystals strained against massive silver chains and bindings, struggling to soar up and away. If one were to watch with Meditation active, like Erick did, they would see that power hung in the air, in the manasphere, like red rivers barely held back from flooding the world. But even to normal sight, power circled the floating crystals and cycled through the Red Henge, winding and curling like a small part of the manasphere plucked out of the whole.

Hundreds of orcols stood outside of the main area, organized into loose groups of five to six. Quite a lot of them wore some sort of uniform-ish plate armor or standard-issue robes, but a lot more wore whatever they felt like. Some were in loincloths and wrappings. Others wore feathers and cloaks. Some had swords or staves or spears, while almost everyone had a knife at their belt. Magic laid heavy on them and Erick could tell a lot of their armor was conjured, but some had true metal armor and weapons and otherwise.

It was upon those who wore only magic that Erick saw the red rivers in the sky curling into them, but not sinking into their souls. Instead, that red river sunk into their magic, strengthening it, perhaps. Or perhaps sustaining it in an easier manner than their users could on their own.

But it was on the plateaus of the Red Henge where the real organization would take place. It was there that people set up [Viewing Screen]s of all sorts. Erick knew some of the people in that space. Peron was there, and he saw Erick, but immediately turned away to look upon a [Viewing Screen] and talk to someone operating that screen. Chieftain Bloodwoo Nosier, that massively tall orcol, spoke to other similar-height orcols, the group of them standing under a central floating crystal that was redder than red.

None of the two thousand people here were obviously anxious, but Erick was certainly getting there.

“What is this place, anyway?” Erick asked.

Koropo nodded, then looked out over the land with Erick, saying, “A ritual site dedicated to mastery over the Forest. Our people come here when they need to vent their Rage over lost loved ones. Occasionally, people come here to take that Rage back, and commit vengeance against our enemies in the Green. It is said that when the Rage Wars ended, it was because of sites like this siphoning away the Rage from our people and into Aloethag. Many people have mixed feelings about this place, but it is certainly useful when the time is right, and there can be no better ‘right’ time than this.”

Erick looked to a pair of women that soaked up the Rage in the air, asking, “Is that what’s happening over there?”

Koropo followed Erick’s sight, then said, “Yes. They’re both priestesses of Aloethag.”

That threw Erick for yet another loop. “Those exist? I thought… Well. I’m not sure what I thought.”

“I can guess what you thought.” Koropo gave a weird expression halfway between a scrunched face and embarrassment. Erick couldn’t really tell what that was all about. Koropo said, “It’s complicated.”

In retrospect, it was obvious that priests and priestesses of Aloethag would exist. Whatever was going on there was probably not all that complicated, really. If gods controlled someone’s life, some of those people were bound to worship those gods. It was the same with the shadelings and Melemizargo.

Erick asked, “So? Statistics?”

Koropo huffed, then said, “We’ve got 9 million orcols of Treehome, with 40% being permanent residents. There’s rarely any monster deaths inside the city, itself. Mostly, those deaths come from people who explore the nearby Forest and suddenly find themselves overwhelmed. We have maybe 15,000 dead per year due to various monsters. Moon Reachers account for anywhere between 1,500 to 3,000 of those, though it’s hard to say. Some estimates have them at much lower than that, simply because we don’t know how a lot of people die when they die to monsters. If there’s matted silver fur at the scene then it’s obvious those ones were killed by Reachers, but that doesn’t happen all that often.

“Deathsoul Shrooms account for much higher casualty rates inside the city, itself, because once that infection takes hold and the soul starts to corrupt, then there’s no practical way to save the person. We have much better numbers on that one, at around 5,500 per year.

“All those numbers are completely inadequate when it comes to deaths of our transient orcols. We guess that there’s 22,000 orcols who die to Moon Reachers per year. Maybe 18,000 to Deathsoul Shrooms. Both Shrooms and Reachers have a much easier time operating outside of Treehome.

“For total orcol deaths per year from monsters and other Forest issues, you have to account for the total orcol population of Glaquin, and that’s only a little bit higher than Treehome’s 9 million, at about 10 million.

“Total orcol deaths per year, via monsters, across the Forest, is about 110,000 people. Monsters, as a whole, are the single greatest killers of our people.”

Erick blinked, then looked out across Treehome, then further, to see the Forest beyond. “Burning it all down and starting again seems like a great idea.”

“Aye.” Koropo gazed out with Erick, saying, “If the Prognosticators are wrong about the impact of removing the Moon Reachers, burning it all down and starting again will be the next task. We hope we’re not wrong.”

“Why not have everyone be a city orcol, then?” Erick asked, “Build some proper walls? Let anyone live there who wants to live there?”

Almost laughing, Koropo said, “Then we wouldn’t be who we are, Erick. We’d be caging ourselves, and we will never be caged, Erick; No. We fight fang and nail for our little slice of this world. Even if the monsters were a thousand times worse, we would still get up and keep fighting, because that is who we are. To do anything less would be a disservice to our neighbors, our children, and our parents; our tribe.” He added, “A lot of the transient tribes don’t ever want to be city orcols, either. I had a rather serious relationship once that broke down because she didn’t want to become a city orcol. A lot of city orcols have that same experience.”

“Sorry that didn’t work out for you.”

“Aye. It’s in the past. But thanks anyway.”

Erick asked, “Where do I go?”

“We still got a while yet before actual go-time. Maybe half an hour. A few other Elders need to show.” Koropo said, “But you can be anywhere you want, really. You don’t even have to do it from here, if you don’t want, but this is our base of operations. Everything that happens today will be coordinated from here.” He pointed to one of three empty stone platforms, saying, “That’s the spot we have for you, if you want it.”

“I will take it.” Erick said, “I also need some sort of sample of a Deathsoul Shroom, preferably some physical piece of one, if possible. I’m confident in my ability to find Moon Reachers since I have researched and seen them through Ophiel and can easily acquire my own samples, but researching Deathsoul Shrooms is not the same as seeing them and knowing them for what they are, and I am wary about approaching them with Ophiel out in the wild.”

Erick had found a few Adult Shrooms out in the Forest, but he had read about them, and he did not want his first experience with those monsters to be without supervision.

“Of course, Archmage. I will see it done.” He paused, then asked, “Do you know how to deal with a Shroom?”

“Vaguely, but if you know any tips, I’ll be glad to hear them.”

Koropo nodded. “Then I must explain that first before I find you your samples— Actually.” He swept his eyes across the people all around, and settled on Chieftain Bloodwoo Nosier. “He should explain. He would have those samples, too.”

Koropo stepped toward the tall orcol’s platform and Erick followed, feeling like a kid running after a grownup. An aide to Bloodwoo saw Erick coming and notified the chieftain, who then turned, and looked down upon Erick, for Bloodwoo was nearly four meters tall. Well over twice Erick’s height.

Erick came up to the man, feeling tiny, as he said, “Hello, Bloodwoo.”

Koropo stood to the side.

“Erick. Warchief.” Bloodwoo regarded them both. “Do you need anything from me while we are setting up?”

Koropo looked down to Erick.

Erick said, “I have no personal experience with Deathsoul Shrooms. Do you have samples that aren’t too deadly? Perhaps a proper explanation of the Shroom life cycle, so that I’m not missing anything obvious when I search for them? Are they, perhaps, several different shroom monsters at once? Or anything like that, really.”

Bloodwoo said, “Of course.” He held his hand out to the side, conjuring a large image of an orcol—

And then he instantly dismissed it.

He said, “I am being informed by Nosier that he wishes to personally tell you of our targets, as well as give you a sample. We have time, if you would agree to such a diversion. My Arbor also wishes to personally thank you for the recorder, and to ask you how it works and what ways there could be to improve upon the physical object.”

Erick smiled, then said, “Sure. Ten percent of the day’s treasure haul for an explanation of the recorder.”

Bloodwoo narrowed his large eyes. “Five.”

“Ten.”

“Seven.”

“Twelve.”

“… Ten.”

“I’m glad we could come to such a quick arrangement.”

“You agreed to take no treasure from this hunt, and we agreed to not speak ill of your involvement with the commune.” Bloodwoo said, “That you use this opportunity to take what was already promised to us does not bode well for future engagement.”

“Don’t pretend like you aren’t still happy.” Erick said, “You or Nosier, for that matter. I’m not sure which one of you I just bargained with. And I’m pretty sure that a lot of stuff everyone finds is going to get ‘lost’ in the hunt, as well it should; these people are risking their lives out there.” He added, “And a lesson on recorders was outside of that bargain, anyway.”

Bloodwoo hummed, then said, “Meet me at Nosier’s Roots.” And then he blipped away in a smattering of red.

Erick wrapped himself and Poi in light, and followed.

- - - -

Erick stepped out of the light and into the shadows of Nosier, right next to Bloodwoo, on the side of the road leading in toward Nosier.

Above and before and all around them, the boughs of Arbor Nosier wrapped into each other to form arches and support structures and the central, kilometer-tall and kilometer-wide hollow ‘wicker-basket’ that was Nosier’s ‘trunk’. Inside of those protective ‘roots’, lay Nosier’s magic laboratories, where streams of smoke and clouds of color flowed into the air, out of gaps between roots, and apprentices and masters alike made the magical items that helped a lot of Treehome to function. The Grand [Prestidigitation] Stove in Erick’s hotel room was made here, as well as the anti-magic runes that went into every other wall and protected space in the various Districts of Treehome. This was a semi-public space, with people streaming in and out all day long.

A pair of guards were stationed by the [Teleport] zone where Bloodwoo and Erick and Poi had come in. They noticed Erick and Poi, but focused on Bloodwoo, and bowed.

Bloodwoo walked toward an archway ahead, saying, “This shouldn’t take too long.”

Erick kept up, but it was a near miss. With Koropo, Erick had felt like a child, but with Bloodwoo, he felt like a small child racing to keep up with an adult.

Bloodwoo took them right past security, sweeping by students and masters alike, to a central elevator, and then to the left, to a smaller elevator. He went in, and Erick and Poi followed. With the push of a button that was actually out of Erick’s reach, and which Bloodwoo pressed the second Erick and Poi were inside, the elevator went up, and up.

“You walk rather fast!” Erick playfully said, as they ascended.

“It is a big day and after this meeting we will be leaving the faster way.” Bloodwoo said, “I hope you can deliver on your promises, Erick. It would be a true embarrassment for you if you cannot.”

“I can.” Erick said, “And if we miss a few, then this could be a yearly thing.”

“Hmm. Quite. Realistically, we hope to cull 95% of the problem. We wish for 100% of course, but the Forest is full of mountains and valleys and densities of magic that make conventional Scanning impossible.” Bloodwoo asked, “How is it that your Scan works so much better than all the rest?”

