Looking up at the sky, she saw the woman floating there uninjured as she spun yet again, her long hair dancing through the air as she propelled herself down to clash with him yet again.

Their blades met several hundred times as both unleashed skill upon skill, trying to gain an advantage, but neither side could land any decisive blows. Both knew the other was holding back, as naturally, if there was a First Dance of the Luminous Blade, there had to be more, right?

At the same time, it was known that the Sword Saint was a Transcendent, and he’d yet to use that either, in part due to the backlash that came from doing so. He could invoke the Scorching Summer, but to do so would mean he’d find himself significantly weakened afterward and likely in a very perilous situation. Miyamoto believed his opponent was in a similar situation. Hence, they faced each other while holding back their strongest trump cards, while nevertheless unleashing much of their power.

The sky was filled with streams of water and lingering starlight as their blades repeatedly clashed, momentum shifting back and forth as only minor injuries were inflicted. It was difficult not to smile as the Sword Saint could rarely find such interesting opponents, and the longer the fight went on, the more impressed he found himself.

Using his divine skill, he improved at an incredible pace, yet whenever he believed he had found an opening, his opponent instantly closed the opening and adapted. In other words, while he was growing in real-time, so was she.

Unfortunately, some good things had to come to an end, and after their blades clashed for the final time and both created distance, realizing in unison that things had to sadly end here.

“Alas,” she sighed, the Sword Saint nodding in regret as he also lowered his blade. “The vermin have arrived.”

It shouldn’t come as a surprise, but their fight had drawn quite some attention, and for a while now, people had lingered nearby, with this number only increasing the longer their fight went on. By now, the Sword Saint had detected over a dozen who were no doubt waiting for either side to achieve a decisive victory, hoping the winning side would be left severely injured, giving them the opportunity to step in.

“A shame,” the Sword Saint shook his head. “It appears this isn’t the stage we’re meant to perform on today. Too rowdy an audience.”

The woman nodded as she motioned with her hand, making the elf and beastkin move to her side as her eyes never left Miyamoto.

“It was a pleasure to meet you, self-proclaimed Sword Saint,” she said with a smile as she bowed. “Introductions should also be in order. I’m Xiurong, Daughter of the Swordsoul Daolord. I hope that the next time we meet, we can dance without interruption.”
