Ren opened the door and the captain of the guard sat behind a tiny desk. Ren didn't know how the captain had managed to get his legs wedged under the thing.

“Ren!” The captain said and tried to stand up. The desk lifted and nearly tipped over onto the floor. The captain caught it before it fell and Ren picked up the pieces of parchment that had fallen off.

“I think you need a bigger desk.” Ren said and handed the pieces of parchment over without looking at them.

“Ha ha! Yes, I do... but where would I put it? I barely fit in this office myself.” The captain said and Ren smiled.

“What are you doing here?” The captain asked. “I see you've done some adventuring already.” The captain said and waved at the cloak.

Ren nodded. “Yeah... I've had some adventures that I could probably have done without.” Ren said and grinned.

“Ha!” The captain said and slapped the desk. A crack appeared in the surface and the captain covered it with a hand.

“I came about the shield order.” Ren said.

The captain nodded. “Ah, I figured as much.” The captain said. “As you can see, there's not a lot of manpower here to pick them up.”

“I noticed that the barracks were empty. Where is everyone?”

“Some are out on patrol, but the main bulk of our forces is on loan to King Alamast.”

Ren raised both eyebrows. “The King?”

The captain nodded. “He's playing war games in an area a week away from here and wanted experienced dungeon explorers to test his own men against.”

Ren frowned. “When did this happen?”

The captain sighed. “About 2 days after we placed the order.”

Ren squinted is eyes. “And you didn't contact the shop because...”

“I'd hoped they'd be done by then and the men could take the shields with them.”

Ren shook his head. “If we'd cast them, maybe... maybe we'd have had them done... but you said you wanted them forged instead. We barely made the deadline!” It was Ren's turn to sigh. “Then you didn't show up to get them on time.”

The captain nodded. “I'm sorry about that. There's no excuse really. No manpower isn't a good reason to not complete a contract.”

“So you have the fee, then?” Ren asked.

“Of course.” The captain said and took out a bag of 100 platinum coins. “It's right here.”

Ren nodded. “Good. Do you want them delivered?” Ren said.

“You'd do that?” The captain asked.

Ren nodded. “I don't mind carrying them down here.”

The captain stood and moved the desk out of the way before it tipped over. The captain handed over the money bag to Ren.

“I'd really appreciate it, Ren.” The captain said. “The men need a good morale boost. New shields will definitely help with that.”

“What do they need a morale boost for?”

“We had to hire a bunch of new people from the surrounding lands. Once word got out about how well we did in the dungeon, every city in the country was calling for soldiers to come and train their own men.” The captain shook his head. “We couldn't match the outrageous offers some of them made. The men left in droves.”

Ren nodded. “Yeah... some wouldn't mind the pay raise... but I wonder what they are thinking now that they've been away from home for so long.” Ren said. “I'll bring the crates down right away.”

Ren turned to go and stopped. “There was another reason I came here, instead of sending a messenger.” Ren unslung the sheath from his shoulder and held it out. “I never did properly thank you for saving me during the expedition.”

“What is it?” The captain said.

“Oh, it's just something that I came up with to thank you.” Ren said. “You're a big guy, and I thought you would like a big present.” Ren smiled.

The captain took the sheath and then pulled out the battle axe. The captain stared at the shining metal and it's bright silver color. “Ren... I... I can't take this.”

“That better not be true.” Ren said and chuckled. “I don't know anyone else that's even close to your size that could lift the thing, let alone be able to use it.” Ren turned around. “It's yours, so you can keep it or not.” Ren said and walked out of the office. “I'll be back with the crates.”

Ren walked out of the barracks and the guards didn't say anything. “I'll be back in a few minutes.” Ren said as he passed them.

Ren went back to Donan's shop and hoped that what he was going to do would work. If it didn't, then he'd have to open every crate and take out all the shields to put them into inventory individually. Ren walked over to the first crate and mentally crossed his fingers. Ren selected the crate, just like he had selected the logs on Aimus' homestead, and then picked 'store into inventory'. The crate disappeared. Ren smiled and selected each of the 9 remaining crates and they went into inventory.

Ren waved to Donan and left the shop. Ren went back to the guard house and nodded to the guards. Ren walked through the barracks and into the captain's office.

“Where do you want the crates stored?” Ren asked.

The captain told Ren to follow him. They went out the back of the building to the next one and into the armory. No one was guarding it, however. The captain opened it and told Ren to put the crates inside. Ren took each crate out of inventory and when Ren was done, the captain walked over to one. Ren took out his blacksmith's belt and used a tool to open the crate. Inside was 50 dull silver shields that looked just like the battleaxe the captain had strapped to his back. The captain grinned and Ren closed the crate again.

“Considering what I think these shields will do for us, we got a great deal... so in return, I'll make sure that each and every man is told who made these shields.” The captain said.

Notice!

The new recruits from the surrounding lands will be informed of who you are, and your exploits.

Fame: +50

Ren smiled. “It's always a pleasure doing business with you.” Ren said.

The captain led Ren outside and locked up the armory. “Ren... this weapon... I'm not even going to ask how you made it... it's... well, I don't know what to do about it.”

Ren laughed. “I feel like that sometimes, too.”

The captain nodded. “Thank you, Ren. You didn't have to do this.” The captain said and shrugged his shoulders to indicate the battleaxe that hung there.

“I know I didn't have to do it... but you did save my life. I wanted to give you something to remember me by.” Ren said.

“I'll never forget the hero of Aurora.” The captain said and lightly tapped Ren on the shoulder. “Be safe and take care, Ren.”

“I will. Say 'hi' to your wife for me.”

The captain smiled and nodded. Ren left the guard house and waved to the soldiers as he passed them. “Good day, gentlemen.”

Ren walked back up the street and delivered the money to Donan.

“Ren! How did you... that is... you really did know the captain of the guard!” Donan said and laughed.

“I said I did, didn't I?” Ren said and laughed, too.

“What's so funny?” A voice Ren recognized said from behind him.

“Lucy!” Ren turned around and gathered Lucy into a hug. “I missed you.”

Lucy laughed and hugged Ren back. “You just saw me this morning!”

“Yeah, but that was this morning.” Ren said and grinned. “This is now.”

Ren let Lucy go and turned to Donan. “Donan, I'm heading out for awhile. Keep an eye on the shop for me.” Donan swatted at Ren, and Ren laughed.

“Get outta here, you rascal.” Donan said and smiled.
