For the first few weeks, she’d held out hope he would recreate whatever miracle which let him wield Water Chi with ease and quickly return to the battlefield in glorious triumph, but the Mother was not so kind. Impressive as it had been, Rain remembered nothing of his powerful display on the fields of Sinuji, but Sarnai remembered it well. She had nearly gone mad with rage when she looked through the smoke and steam and discovered her son was little more than a burnt husk of a man, with patches of tender, freshly Healed flesh poking through his charred frame. In this near death state, he demonstrated a level of mastery few living could match, and while she didn’t know it at the time, Sarnai and everyone else in Sinuji were witness to a spent flame flaring up one last time before fading into nothingness, for it wasn’t Elemental Chi Rain wielded, but rather the Energy of the Heavens itself. Injured and unconscious, Rain had instinctively used the Heavenly Energy he’d collected from cleansed Spectres to keep himself alive and fight off his quasi-demonic foe, a fact which brought him to tears as he apologized for ‘wasting’ the precious resource and being unable to Heal Sarnai of her affliction.

Her poor, sweet, selfless son, crippled and broken but still thinking of how he failed to help his mother. It made Sarnai’s guilt that much worse as she held his hand and cried, for she blamed herself for his plight. Oh how she wished she had given him more support and dispatched a half-dozen Peak Experts to guard him in secret instead of leaving his fate to Jochi and Argat, while Dagen and a few others lurked in the shadows. She had half a mind to lambaste all of those idiots for letting Rain get into so much trouble, but truth be told, this was her fault. She knew how headstrong and impulsive he could be, but it wasn’t just about letting him go off to fight without adequate protection or supervision, but even letting him out to fight at all. Had she known of his internalized suffering, she would have never let him out of her sight until long after he was married and settled down. In the weeks since Sinuji, he told them everything about what he’d been through in the past few years and how it affected him, about how he’d developed a second personality to foist all his failings upon and then nearly succumbed to the stress of battle and responsibility.

‘Leave him be,” her dog-brained husband had said so many times before. ‘He is strong and will endure.’ True, but strong though Rain might be, he was still just a child and even now barely a man grown. Sarnai should have ignored her stupid husband and forced Rain’s secrets out of him, for though he claimed he was whole once more, who could say for certain? Even if true, this meant her son had suffered and overcome his trials and tribulations without his family even noticing, an unforgivable failure on her part. She was his mother, not by birth, but by choice, and as such, she was responsible for his happiness and well-being. Instead, it’d taken a veritable stranger to see how her sweet son suffered so, and she couldn’t even thank their benefactor because he’d already passed away, protecting Rain as she should have.

Sarnai had failed Rain as his mother, an unforgivable offence.

“It’s okay mom,” Rain said, reaching out to take her hand, and only then did Sarnai notice she was crying. “It’s not your fault.”

“Isn’t it though?” she asked, her voice breaking as she pulled him close for a hug, afraid to hold him too tightly for fear of hurting him. “I should have kept you safe. I could have kept this from happening.”

“You’re saying you should have foreseen my hated nemesis would challenge me to a duel and let me stab him before turning into a quasi-Demon?” While they all knew there was more to it, they’d agreed not to speak of it except through Sending, and Rain could no longer Send. Chuckling in contentment, Rain shook his head and said, “There’s nothing you could’ve done to stop this, and if I could go back in time and do it over again, the only thing I would do differently is go for the head.” Snorting with laughter, he changed the subject and nodded at Baloo, who sat with eyes wide and teary since his greeting had been interrupted, the only pet here who had yet to receive a kiss. “Someone’s jealous.”

Wiping the tears from her eyes, Sarnai gestured for Baloo to clamber onto her lap and cuddled the sweet bear close, his happy grunts and chortles a delight to behold. The other animals sought to join in, and soon mother and son were both laughing at the animals’ childish antics, all pushing and shoving for their share of affection. Putting on a pair of bristled gloves, Rain hummed a happy little tune while brushing his pets and waiting for the twins to finish up. Truth be told, despite his debilitating weakness and frailty, he seemed happier now than he had in several years, finally able to relax and recuperate instead of pushing himself to become stronger each and every day. Even back in the village, she couldn’t remember seeing him smile so much, his mood bright and spirits high despite his circumstances. While she wouldn’t go as far as to call this a blessing in disguise, this was a much needed break for Rain to spend his blissful days with his family and pets, so Sarnai was content to share his joy and be there for him if he should need her.

Once the twins finished their Demonstration, it was time to go collect Lin and Li Song for a lunch outing. Refusing the offer of a palanquin, Rain opted to walk instead, and though it was only a short distance away, Sarnai feared it would be too much. Not just physically, but emotionally as well, for there were plenty of layabouts loitering about outside their courtyard manor, hoping to catch a glimpse of the crippled Falling Rain. Not three months ago, he’d shocked the Empire by Developing a Domain and displaying Peak Expert levels of power, but already the nobility were camping outside his doors to mock and deride him, chatting loudly about how he was no longer the Mother’s Chosen son or even worthy of admiration after falling so low. ‘The Crippled Consort’, they called him to avoid mentioning him directly, or ‘Fallen Rain’ if they thought they were being clever, but were it not for her husband’s rank and reputation, Sarnai would have wasted every one of those pompous buffoons and left these Imperial fools to fend for themselves.

“Don’t worry about what others say or think, Mom,” he said, patting her hand as they readied to step out the double doors together with their matching walkers, though she lacked the cloud chaser hare perched atop her head. “Walking will help build our strength, so don’t let a bunch of nobodies keep us from getting better. Let them laugh and joke all they want, because with every day, we grow stronger and healthier.” Amber eyes burning with ambition, Rain smiled as if he knew something she didn’t and added, “We will not be weak forever.”

Pride welling in her chest, Sarnai squeezed his hand and smiled. “Of course not. This is merely a minor setback in the ‘Saga of Falling Rain’.”

Groaning in mock disgust, Rain pleaded for mercy. “Please don’t bring that up again. I still can’t believe BoShui thought it was a good idea to distribute his flowery write up. I almost threw up reading it.”

In truth, Sarnai loved BoShui’s rendition of events and had several copies hidden about her room since Rain had taken to burning every copy he got his hands on. Regardless of his amateur writing, BoShui certainly got one thing right. Rain had survived, broken but undefeated, and he would soon rise again.

This she believed with all her heart, because if anyone could do it, it would be her son, Falling Rain.

Chapter Meme
