The Sea joins all upon its tides, through storms and high water.

"Why are you here?" Harker demanded.

Adhira looked at him, surprise writ plainly across her face. "I could ask you the same. How did you escape Vale?”

“Barely.” That scent remained, heady and confusing. He blinked through it, though his heart continued to hammer.

“I see.” Adhira tucked her hair behind an ear. Her dark tresses were touseled and sweat dotted her brow, as if she’d been exerting herself. “I am paying a visit to the Charterstone. It is tradition to stop by each one on your journey toward the Travelspire.”

“I see.” Was she nervous? Or was she training earlier? “Well, I—”

Her eyes flicked downward. "Depths. I hadn't realized you'd taken the Chartermark. And it's…gold?"

Harker flinched, jerking his hand over his left forearm—he forced himself to stop, using the motion to pull back his sleeve. There was no use being suspicious about it. “I took the mark after leaving Vale.”

“I see. I suppose taking a chance with the Spires is a sight better than sticking around a town full of Illwrought.” She glanced around her before lowering her voice. “Don’t worry. The gold’s a bit odd but I’ve seen stranger things on the road to the Academy.”

Harker blinked. He hadn’t expected kindness. She’s a strange one. “...Thank you.”

She gave an easy smile. It was bright against her dusky skin, like the flash of sunlight on polished metal. “I imagine you’re headed to Vodaten?”

“...I am.”

"Fair winds. We’re on the same path then. Oh,” she cleared her throat, making an attempt at nonchalance. It was…inexpert. “Have you seen my stewar—the woman that was with me? Her name is Sejal. Tall, looks like she could gut you with a blunt edge?"

Harker shook his head. He hadn't seen that dangerous woman since he'd left them in Vale and was glad for it.

Adhira groaned, rubbing at the back of her neck. "Kyana. We got separated just outside Vale when the Illwrought came after us. Those trotu mercenaries drove them out of the walls and straight after us. Sejal stayed to fight and sent me down to that hill village.”

“Haver Hill?”

She snapped her fingers. “That’s the one. She was supposed to meet me there, but never did.”

She seemed upset, but Harker wasn't sure whether to believe it or not. That must be what held up pursuit, then. Did Sejal kill the Stitcher too? Could I be that lucky?

“I’m sorry. I haven't seen her at all."

"Pity. I was hoping to reunite with her here, but it seems that won't be happening either.” She glanced at her wrist. “We’re running out of time.”

Adhira froze, then lowered her arm to her hip. She tried to do it casually, but Harker had noticed. She checked the countdown on her Chartermark and tried to hide it. So she can see that too. Can she see the rest?

The girl cleared her throat. “How did we not run into each other sooner?"

“Did you take the Southroad?"

"Yes, it's the straightest path and the fastest." Adhira’s gaze sharpened into something Harker wasn’t used to seeing. “You went cross-country. Dangerous. And quite bold.”

It was respect. She was impressed by him.

Harker grunted. "I know my way around.”

"You risked Aberrants in those forests.”

He offered a grim smile. “And Illwrought can take the Southroad just as swiftly as any hound."

Adhira inclined her head. "True enough."

That axe… Harker stepped away from the fountain, making a touch more space between the two of them. Even so, one swing would eviscerate him. “So you are simply waiting for your friend? You aren’t looking for me?”

"What? Why would I give a salted—?" Adhira stopped herself. "I'm sorry, that came out too harshly. No. I wasn’t looking for you. With everything that happened, I’m honestly surprised you’re still alive."

He grunted. That stung for some strange reason, but she wasn’t wrong.

She frowned at him. "How did you survive, by the way? Didn't the Stitcher snatch you from our house?"

"No," he admitted. "I left."

"What? Why? The town was on fire!”

“Because I woke up in a room I didn't recall entering, my belongings were strewn about, and then yes, the town caught fire."

"Ah." Adhira rocked back onto her heels. "Fair, I suppose. For what it’s worth, I’m sorry. When we pulled you from that canyon, it was only with the best intentions."

So she figures I don’t know about the Vestige. Harker studied her face, but she seemed earnest beneath her too-perfect face. Good. Let’s keep it that way.

After all, what would a backwoods healer know about Sea-touched treasures?

“I’m curious though…”

Harker clenched his jaw. That scent was still there, just as heady as before. “About?”

“That canyon.”

“The Drop.”

“Right. When we pulled you from it, you were feverish and ranting in your sleep.”

Harker stilled.

“You said you had to ‘get out.’ I couldn’t make sense of it. What were you doing out there?”

The question was posed with an almost careless affect, but Harker didn’t miss the girl’s eyes. Silver as a scalpel, and just as sharp. “I was heading home.”

“Through a storm? Why not wait it out in the inn?”

“The inn was quite full.”

“With the Grim Company, yes. Did you see the Stitcher out there, as the mercenaries suggested?”

Harker winced. “I did. Ran right into him and his Illwrought.”

“No! How did you escape?”

Harker smiled. “I know my way around.”

“I see.” The girl tucked her hair back again. Somehow it had gotten loose. “So when we found you…”

“I had escaped an attack. It was…close.”

“I’m glad you survived. We never meant any harm by bringing you back to our house. Nothing untoward was meant.”

Harker inclined his head, just enough to remain polite. He cursed himself inwardly. The proper thing would have been to assure her that she was right all along. Yet he couldn’t bring himself to bow and scrape for the girl.

Something about her… She confused him. Those eyes of hers were—he looked away, over her head. It was quite easy as she was nearly a foot shorter. Beyond her he could see the southern gate of the village. It was propped open in the distance, just past a simple bridge over the stream. More than anything else, he wanted to get out of that village and keep investigating his Chartermark.

"Well," he said. "I should be going. There's a long road ahead of me before I reach the Travelspire."

"Oh!” She snagged a piece of his sleeve, halting him in his tracks. “I don't see a reason why we should split up."

Harker pulled his arm free and kept walking. “I don't see a reason we should stick together either."

"I swear she went this way.”

"No one even saw her come out of the inn. She must have climbed out of a window."

"If someone hadn't been hammering on her door, perhaps she wouldn't have."

Harker knew those voices. Anita, Sven, and Johan. Ugh. I have no interest in talking to them.

A small hand seized his wrist and yanked, hauling Harker off to the side.

“Wha—?”

Adhira had ducked low, and she dragged him behind her as easily as a toddler. He fought back but her strength was undeniable, and as they passed a stall he caught the amused eyes of that old man from earlier. He looked between Harker and Adhira and gave a wink.

Ugh. Dirty old man. It's nothing like that.

Soon the pair of them tucked behind a stall, just around the corner of someone’s home. Adhira ducked down and turned, peeking back towards the market.

"Let go of me." Harker yanked his hand free from her grip.

Yet it wasn't his strength that freed him, but her fingers that released him. "Salt and silt! They're looking for me."

Harker glanced up at the Talented trio as they walked around the Charterstone. The conversation was lost amid the din of the market, but Sven looked worse for wear after his fight, and the other two looked sour. They were arguing.

Adhira huddled in front of him, watching the trio carefully. "Why are they looking for you?" he asked.

“They want me to go with them. Group protection, they say." She laughed, a low throaty sound. “They just want an easy ride."

She's certainly full of herself. Harker couldn't deny the power he'd felt from her, nor the strength of her arm. But those three were capable enough.

"An easy ride is idiotic," she muttered.

"What does that mean?"

Adhira glanced at him before straightening, smoothing her cloak over the silvered breastplate beneath. "Nothing. Just that I don't want to be responsible for a whole crew on the way to the Travelspire. Besides, that Sven is a leering little creep."

Harker didn't know about the leering part, but he agreed. "We didn't get along so well either."

"Perfect! Then you can come with me."

"What?" Harker stepped away toward the market square. "Why would I do that?"

"Well, I owe you. I left you in that room and didn't explain, causing you undue fear, especially when those monsters tore into your home. Truly, though the Stitcher was not my fault, I fear I've made your life worse.” She offered a smile, bright as ever. “Let me repay you. We are headed to the same place, after all.”

“You don't owe me anything. As far as I'm concerned, we're square."

He tried to walk away. But she somehow got in front of him. Harker had barely seen her move.

"I could use a partner on the road,” she admitted. “The Aberrants are thick in the mountains, and they’re strong. I saw that on the way north. Sejal and I were too formidable for them, but without her…” She shrugged, but Harker glimpsed something like vulnerability cut through the pleasant mask. “Two pairs of eyes is necessary in the Gnarl.”

“I’ll be fine.”

She stared at him and those silver eyes pierced him as well as any dagger. “If you go alone, you will not make it beyond the peak. I am neither your minder nor your mother. I have no interest in coercing you to join me and I will not stop you if you choose to go alone. Just know that what I am offering now is without strings, attachments, or payment. It is a partnership just through the Gnarl and that is it.”

She put out her hand and Harker look at it. Her fingers were slender but calloused and the back of her hand was criss-crossed with scars. It was the hand of a warrior.

Someone that could handle themselves in the mountains easily, no matter what she says. Still, her offer struck him. It wasn’t quite a Bargain, but he could feel a weight to her words that once would have fallen on deaf ears. It was true that the monsters were worse on the mountain. Tidepools ran deep up there and the pass was not well maintained.

It would be wise to join forces. Yet, if she were around constantly, when would he get the chance to experiment with his Talent? How could he communicate with Stillwater? His reflux would need to be explained too—far too many variables. Far too many dangers.

With my Talent and Stillwater’s reluctant assistance, I can get through it just fine.

She seemed to take his silence for acceptance, though, because she immediately panned around the area. "Do you have a hound? Where is it?"

He raised an eyebrow. "The same place is my personal fortune, my gilded sword, and my Tidal gem."

Adhira blushed. "Ah. Of course. Then we walk."

Harker wanted to bite his tongue. It was the opposite of a good idea to mouth off to powerful people. His Laws expressly forbade it. Yet he couldn't seem to stop himself when it came to Adhira. "What about your mount?"

"Spent after the ride to Creston. I sold it to a local. We can go the rest of the way on foot. That’s for the best. Hounds don’t do well around Aberrants unless they're very well trained. Come along."

She took his hand and started to walk, but Harker planted his feet. He didn't so much jerk her to a stop as she noticed the faint resistance as he slid across the ground behind her. "What are you doing?”

“I never said I’d travel with you."

Her face fell, and Harker felt distinctly like he’d kicked a small animal. "For what reason? You’d have to be blind not to see the danger. It’s only reasonable—”

"Reason has nothing to do with it. I'll get by on my own." Harker gave her the slightest of bows and took two steps toward the market, getting just close enough to hear Johan’s voice.

"Let's get going, but first we should go to the general store. I have a few things that I had put on order. Once we resupply, we can head out."

Harker turned back around. "Actually, I think leaving together is a great idea.”

“Really?” Adhira perked up, all five foot two of her rising in odd excitement. “I mean, that’s quite good. It’ll be better together.”

Harker considered the girl a moment. He wasn’t sure that he believed her, yet he found a piece of himself wanting to trust—a dangerous feeling. He put out his hand. “I will travel with you, protect you to the best of my ability, and in turn you will do the same until we both decide to part ways.” He met her eyes firmly, not daring to look away. “Agreed?”

She quirked her brow, but took his hand. “Quite formal of you. But I agree.”

A sensation of rising overcame Harker, lifting him up though he didn’t move an inch. Within, radiating from his center, his Stature rippled. The Bargain was made.
