Unfortunately, without the gates or anyone to guide the mysterious energy, most of it had gone into advancing his levels when it finally escaped his personal Void. While his core had officially reached High Quality, there was still a noticeable gap to a Peak Quality Cosmic Core, let alone a theoretical perfected core without a single imperfection.

Monarchy was neither far off nor imminent. Unknowingly, his foundations had reached a mostly sufficient level, and he’d scrounged up a decent number of suitable treasures. Pushing his Daos to the limit of Peak Earthly Daos was preferable but certainly not required. The problem was that Zac literally had no idea how to take that step.

The biography of Galvarion, the Mortal Monarch, didn’t detail the process, and there were no C-grade methods in Rava’s training camp. Zecia barely had C-grade cultivator heritages, let alone any methods designed for mortals. Esmeralda wasn’t much help when he asked. She vaguely remembered hearing about Spatial Treasures that could assist with the process, which wasn’t much different from saying nothing.

Zac exhaled and got to his feet. Who knew? The answers might be waiting inside the Outer Courts. There were no such things as mortals or defiers before the First Defier came along and rewrote the System’s operations, but the rough and experimental cultivation environment during the ancient epochs had birthed countless ancillary techniques.

Come to think of it, there was one more person he could ask for advice. Zac spent his free points in an even split between Dexterity and Wisdom before closing the screen. Leaving seclusion, Zac found Tavza and a slightly pale Ogras waiting nearby. Zac had a vague idea of what had transpired and saw no reason to clarify. Instead, he directly broached his questions.

“I’m glad to see you’re feeling better,” Zac said with a slight smile. “I’m sorry to pester you for information after you’ve already helped so much, but I have to ask while my experiences are fresh. Do you happen to know how a mortal would go about forming their Inner World?”

“Bloodline breakthroughs and attaining Monarchy… Just what happened to you after entering the realmgate?” Tavza asked with a raised brow.

“I made some unexpected gains and figured it couldn’t hurt to plan ahead,” Zac said. “I’ll tell you all about it before we figure out our next step.”

Tavza slowly nodded. “Mortals do not exist among Draugr, so it’s not a subject we have spent much energy researching. Nevertheless, I conferred with my seniors after learning of your situation. Generally, Mortal Monarchs follow the lower path. They first open a proto-space and stabilize it with a powerful treasure. Mortals can’t expand and nurture the proto-space themselves like a cultivator would. They have to rely on treasures for that."

“What about actually forming the Inner World? Where does all that matter come from?” Zac asked.

This was the main issue Zac had found. He’d struggled to collect the materials necessary for a measly Cosmic Core. He couldn't imagine gathering a literal world’s worth of C-grade materials. Even using Peak D-grade materials didn’t seem feasible.

“The paths to Monarchy are diverse, but the fundamental mechanics are generally the same. The first step is to open a space. The second is to draw matter from the Cosmic Sea. The lower path has you complete one step at a time, while the upper path requires you to perform both steps simultaneously.”

“Cosmic Sea?” Ogras asked, finding the topic just as important as Zac.

“It’s not a true sea, at least not as far as I’m aware. It’s where matter and energy go when a star dies or a dimension collapses. It’s the source of the energy drawn by worlds. The Cosmic Sea encompasses everything in the Multiverse that’s neither claimed by the Lower Planes nor by prime dimensions,” Tavza explained.

“The process is neither simple nor difficult. The core acts as a blueprint, and the manual serves as the guide. The Cosmic Core becomes the nucleus of the Inner World, and your manual will create a pull.”

“So a better Peak Core means a better Inner World?” Ogras asked.

“Correct. The more powerful the Cosmic Core, the larger the Inner World it can support. That is why most cultivators pursuing Monarchy and beyond spend a long time refining their paths before entering Peak Hegemony. There are other ways to improve the final outcome, but the potential of one’s finalized Cosmic Core is a deciding factor in the size of one’s initial Inner World.”

Zac felt the pressure. With his terrifying tribulations to worry about, just keeping his Core intact could be considered a rousing success. To end up with something that could serve as the bedrock of an Inner World? Difficult, extremely difficult. Perhaps still annoyed over her incarceration or wanting to rip off the Band-Aid in one go, Tavza chose that moment to pour salt in the wound.

“Of course, the potential of your core doesn’t matter much without an equally powerful Cultivation Manual,” Tavza said lightly, her real meaning evident.

“Or no manual at all,” Zac muttered.
