“Ryn? Are you ok?”

“Yes,” she gasped. The experience had been far more potent than she had anticipated, and it had simply caught her by surprise. But she looked up at Tiraza, finding concern in the dragon’s eyes. “I didn’t expect it to be so intense.”

“That is a truly remarkable spell,” the great dragon said, slowly setting her down. “Come, let us find this book you identified.”

Ryn followed along as Tiraza led the way unerringly through the endless chambers and passages, rapidly recovering from the intensity of her spell, and presently she found herself before a bookshelf. There was nothing that set this bookshelf apart from the thousands they had passed, other than the fact that she recognized it from her divination. Unerringly, she reached out to the small, leatherbound book nestled among its larger peers, the understated black-embossed runes upon its spine flickering to life as her fingers touched it.

Echoes of the Past. A Comprehensive Guide to the Spirit Realm. Garamoth the Sage.

“Aah,” Tiraza said, dipping her head to see the book as Ryn pulled it from the shelf. “Little is now known of Garamoth. An arcane dragon of great reputation and power; a scholar and a sage. Much of his work was purged in the Dragonflight Succession Wars, and it was lost with his passing. Azryet managed to save this book within his personal collection; it represents the most complete work on the purpose and function of the Spirit Realm.”

The Spirit Realm? She puzzled over the book in her hands, but her skills did not lie; the book contained much about the Spirit Realm, many things she did not know. But of the Wells, it had nothing. “But why did my skill call this particular book out?” she asked. “The subject matter doesn’t seem to be related to the ancient Wells.”

“It is not,” Tiraza said, turning her attention upon Ryn. “And therein lies the problem with divination magic. Divination, as you will learn if you read this book, is based upon reading reflected echoes of possible futures from the spirit realm and is thus often more difficult to understand and interpret than it is to cast the spell. You will need to figure out what it means.”

“I see,” Ryn said. She had heard much the same from Val’korr and from the few books on divination she had found in the spirit realm echo of the Grand Library. Furthermore, she had experienced this personally, but never had her skill been so far off.

“Do not be discouraged, Ryn,” Tiraza said, touching a paw to her shoulder with the care of a mighty being for a tiny one she feared to crush. “You should study this book for yourself. As a wielder of divination, you will benefit greatly from understanding the limitations and effects of the spirit realm. Perhaps there is a path to the Wells via the Spirit Realm? Or perhaps understanding the Spirit Realm echoes is what you require to interpret your divinations? Maybe there is a Spirit Realm echo hidden somewhere that answers the question about the current locations of the missing Wells? Anything is possible, and you will need to keep an open mind.”

“I guess so,” Ryn said, but she had been rather excited when her spell reacted so strongly – she had been hoping to return to Ali with a strong lead on the missing wells. But instead, she had an obscure book by a long-dead dragon sage on the spirit realm. She sighed.

“Do you perhaps know anyone accomplished in the divination arts?”

“I’ve met Tol’zerath,” Ryn said, frowning. Although she had no idea if the proud troll would even talk with her.

“It might be worth asking for advice,” Tiraza said. Then she smiled, showing a disturbing number of sharp, pointed teeth. “Perhaps I can offer something of a consolation? Aliandra mentioned that you have not taken a mentor yet.”

“A mentor?” Ryn asked, her eyes snapping up to meet the dragon’s eyes, her heart beginning to race once more, although this time it was not from fear.

“Yes,” Tiraza said. “Would you accept a dragon as a mentor? Despite my combat abilities and draconic nature, my class is still that of a Librarian, as is yours. You might find it a good fit.”

“I would be honored,” Ryn said, bowing her head. A mentorship? With a dragon? She could scarcely believe what she was hearing. Just moments ago, she had been terrified of this powerful golden dragon with her aura of majesty and fear, talons, scales, and teeth, and now she was being offered mentorship from a being so powerful as to defy even her own imagination. “Um, but how does that work?” she asked, a surprising idea springing into her mind.

“How does what work, little one?” Tiraza asked, amusement swimming in her great eyes. “The fact that I’m a summoned creature?”

Suddenly, Ryn realized what she had asked, but it was too late now. “Uh, yes, but I didn’t mean any offense.”

“None taken, Ryn,” Tiraza said, her rumbling laughter shaking the shelves. “Azryet possesses a many-times advanced Keystone Path ability called Minion Ego. Over the millennia, he has invested in it again and again – and he has kept resummoning me that entire time. I gained the ability to mentor others two evolutions ago, although I have not had the opportunity to use it. It’s not like we’ve had many visitors here before your friend dropped in.”

Suddenly, Ryn’s notification messages unfolded with the sound of creaking parchment bearing glowing writing.

Tiraza offers her patronage.Mentor Patronage – TirazaTraits: Holy, Domain, Draconic, Strength, Vitality, Endurance, Intelligence, Wisdom, Combat, Chaos, Healing, Knowledge.Experience gain is increased for actions aligned with your mentor or under their supervision. Gain additional skill unlocks and advances aligned with your mentor’s traits and experience.A portion of your increased experience is awarded to your mentor, increasing their reputation.Enchantment – TitheAccept this patronage?

Ryn did not hesitate for a second, immediately accepting the incredible, unprecedented offer. “Thank you!”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
