No one could match Lord Husband in all these things and more, but there were people more qualified than Luo-Luo to try.

Thankfully, Xuande failed to notice Luo-Luo’s despondent sigh and launched into yet another of his righteous rants. “The established nobility have seen what the common people are capable of, and now fear their reign has come to an end. Thus, they move to strike down the people’s greatest champion and discredit all his good work. The Legate’s plans were almost in place, with the defended harbour guarding against massed coastal travel and leaving no route for the pirates to easily ship their ill-gotten gains back West. Your continued shipments were also lulling the pirate Huanhuzi into complacency, making this the perfect time to lure him in with a trap and end his threat once and for all. No doubt you were troubled by the need to take the man alive so as to unravel the mystery of his deep sea travel, else he would have long since been dealt with, but now the nobility seek to steal his secrets for themselves and simultaneously steal credit for the Legate’s efforts.”

All pure fiction of course, for the ‘established nobility’ was hardly coordinated enough to act in so decisive a fashion. Whatever conspiracy Xuande saw lurking in the shadows, it was one largely of his own devising, but he still made a good point about setting a trap for Huanhuzi. A costly trap no matter how one looked at it, with more than two dozen ships, a veritable fortune, and countless lives lost thus far, many of which were commoner sailors and deckhands, but of course, Xuande missed all the finer points in his righteous anger. Sacrifices for the cause, is how he would undoubtedly respond if she cared to bring it up, but sometimes it was easier to let him blow hot air until he ran out of steam before jumping back in.

Making a note to talk to Father-in-Law Baatar about the viability of an ambush, Luo-Luo nodded along and made non-committal sounds of interest as Xuande continued, “And this business of leaving the districts so poorly defended? They might as well build the gallows and hang the citizens themselves, for leaving them unsupported by Aura-Capable Warriors is no different from staking lambs out for the tiger. We saw what would happen in District Twenty-Six, and that was largely mitigated by Imperial Consort Sumila’s speedy response, else who knows how horrendous the damages would have been? Amoral is what it is, to leave your fellow man to fend for themselves in the midst of war, claiming they cannot spare the manpower to defend the districts while committing twice that number to securing Huanhuzi for their own nefarious purposes. They mean to cripple the Legate’s popularity and reclaim the economical monopoly they once held, all to satisfy their own ego and greed without a care for what will happen when the Legate no longer has the resources to finance this war.”

...Was that actually what was happening here? Why was Xuande starting to make sense? As much as Luo-Luo wanted to do something with all this information, her hands were tied. She had no authority to order the Imperial Army anymore, nor did she have the means to protect the districts on her own. What would Lord Husband do if given the same argument by Colonel General Shuai Jiao? Demand soldiers be placed at the districts? Directly countermand the Colonel General’s orders? No, he would seek out a suitable compromise, such as...

Glancing at Kuang Biao in stark realization, she finally understood what Father-in-Law Baatar had been trying to hint at, and the Death Corps guardsman nodded ever so slightly. Noticing their exchange, Xuande trailed off and fell silent as he tried to understand what just happened, but Luo-Luo was too busy trying to come up with a plan to speak. All this time, she’d been too focused on following through with Lord Husband’s plans, and while they were vitally important, she’d failed to adapt. That was her greatest sin as stand-in Legate of the Outer Provinces, her inability to ‘roll with the punches’, as Lord Husband would say. She spent so much time struggling for power with the Marshals and Colonel Generals, she failed to realize Lord Husband would have simply gone in an entirely different direction instead.

He would have rolled with the punches and attacked from another angle.

“Kuang Biao,” she began, speaking out loud so that Xuande and Gunan could corroborate her story if she should later come under investigation. “Gather the Death Corps and Royal Guardians and prepare them for travel. In light of the recent attacks and the casualties sustained, I feel the need to inspect the district defences for myself and see what improvements need to be made. I will personally visit the districts hit hardest by the Enemy to offer aid and assistance, but I will need the Death Corps and Royal Guardians to inspect the other districts in my place. Have we enough manpower to send, say... ten Royal Guardians and two-hundred Death Corps to each? Best to have our own people in place sending me reports rather than trust the word of soldiers and officials who have largely proven themselves unreliable.”

“By your command, Imperial Consort.”

As Kuang Biao set off to carry out her will, Luo-Luo considered her actions from all angles. Technically, the Death Corps and Royal Guardians were here to protect the Legate, not defend the Empire as soldiers and Warriors. As this was the case, Kuang Biao was forbidden by his Oaths to suggest this course of action, but he knew full well what Lord Husband would have done in Luo-Luo’s place, and what Father-in-Law Baatar was suggesting she do as well. Granted, the Death Corps would follow her orders without complaint no matter what she demanded of them, but she still had to justify herself to the Royal Guardians and perhaps even the Emperor Himself if He should disapprove of her decision. Terrifying as that might be, Lord Husband had placed his trust in Luo-Luo and expected her to carry out his duties while he was otherwise occupied, and she had no doubt this was exactly what he would have done. How many times had he complained about how his Death Corps honour guard was wasted standing around doing nothing? They were here to defend the Legate’s honour and thus the Emperor’s authority, but how much face would be gained when word got out that tens of thousands of the Emperor’s own Death Corps guards were moving out in strength, just to defend the homes of mere commoners?

Then again, some might spin this as an affront to the Emperor’s honour, since Death Corps and Royal Guardians were meant to serve and protect Imperial Scions, but Luo-Luo would cross that hill when she got there.

Turning to Xuande, she asked, “You’ve been training Irregulars all this time, correct?” The man nodded, still startled she would dare use the Death Corps and Royal Guardians in such an overtly political manner, but he understood that she was siphoning support away from Shuai Jiao and funnelling it towards Lord Husband instead. While the gratitude of the people was cheap and fleeting, with enough support, she could get away with much more than she otherwise might. “I would like a report detailing what you would need to begin training militia as well, not personally, but perhaps with the help of your more promising Irregulars.” If they were going to train more militia, then the districts would need more crossbows, but Luo-Luo no longer had control of the Imperial finances. Not that they could have afforded it if she still did, but it stung to think that they didn’t just stop at removing her from the military chain of command. Now, Marshal Yo Jeong-Hun held control of the outer-provincial purse-strings, a backbiting rodent who scurried from one ship to the next in hopes of rising with the tides. Perhaps Luo-Luo could prevail upon Sister Yuzhen for assistance, but truth be told, there was not much coin to spare, especially if Jeong-Hun behaved as expected and removed Lord Husband’s luxury tax and the restrictions currently keeping the rampant housing speculators from earning a vast fortune.

No, again, Luo-Luo was looking at the problem in the wrong light again, where Lord Husband would behave differently. “Gunan, call for Scion Jian Xianhe,” she said, interrupting Xuande’s verbal report. When she asked for a report, she meant one in writing, but Xuande did so love to hear himself speak, and she saw no point interrupting since he already had his thoughts prepared. Seeing his curiosity piqued, she explained, “I intend to sell off some of Lord Husband’s properties and personal War Bonds to fund the district repairs and improve the defences, and Gunan knows the local market best. It’s what Lord Husband would do after all, for as he would say, ‘What is coin for if not to be spent?’.” A terrible philosophy when it came to wealth, but he never cared much for luxuries.

So what if they’d stolen away her authority as Legate? When Lord Husband returned to reclaim it, she would not let it be said that she had failed in her duties, for he would never allow politics keep him from helping those in need. That was simply who he was, a man generous to a fault, and Luo-Luo was determined to see his will carried out. Let Shuai Jiao and Jeong-Hun take control of the Imperial Army and treasury; So long as Luo-Luo’s efforts bore fruit, then this meant Lord Husband would bear none of the risks of their failure while benefiting greatly from their successes, because at the end of the day, he was still Legate of the Outer Provinces. Perhaps he even foresaw Luo-Luo’s difficulties and instructed Father-in-Law to guide her to this decision, which took away some of the sting of her family’s lacklustre support, but once again left her amazed by Lord Husband’s brilliance and foresight.

One thing was for certain however, which was that Luo-Luo had allowed her personal prejudices against Xuande keep her from utilizing him to his full potential. “I would welcome your company and insight during this journey to the districts,” she said, her tone implying it was a command rather than a request, and the Imperial Scion clasped his fists and bowed in acquiescence. “Prepare your carriage and stand by. I will send someone when we are ready to leave.”

Because before doing anything else, Luo-Luo had to rush home to tell Mother-in-Law of her plans, say goodbye to the adorable baby quins, and pick up her forgotten Spiritual Weapon, which she’d left lying beside her bed again. Not that she expected to need it, not with so many Death Corps and Royal Guardians around, but given the threat of Defiled raids, it was better to have and not need than need and not have.

Then again, perhaps if she took grave injury whilst carrying out Lord Husband’s vision, this would be spark enough to kindle his kind affection and set it ablaze with fiery hot passion. If so, then maybe it wouldn’t be so bad to encounter the Enemy on the battlefield, and possibly even test out her Martial abilities which had improved by leaps and bounds since Lord Husband’s Insightful instruction. Yes, Luo-Luo could see it now, her struggle on the field of battle followed by a most devastating defeat, and when Lord Husband returned and heard of her struggle, his heart would ache with grief and anguish over her unfortunate suffering. Being the kind and upright man that he was, he would take it upon himself to further her instruction and dance with her from morning to night each and every day, until...

Cheeks flushed with excitement, Luo-Luo fanned her face as she approached the manor and reined in her imagination. One step at a time, advice suited for love as well as the Martial Path. She was in no rush, for she had a lifetime to convince Lord Husband to love her, and having felt his unchecked Emotional Aura in the days leading up to his expedition to the Brotherhood’s monastery, she sensed that she was much closer to her goal than she initially realized. So close, yet so far away, Luo-Luo could hardly wait for the day he finally professed his love for her, but of course, it would have to wait until after his wedding with Lin-Lin. Then, there were no more brides-to-be waiting in the wings, and it would finally be Luo-Luo’s turn.

Hopefully.

Probably.

...

Maybe?

Chapter Meme
