So instead of focusing their efforts defending Imperial ships travelling along the Azure Sea, the Colonel Generals wasted their time tracking and chasing Huanhuzi’s fleet, engaging him time and time again despite knowing they were at an obvious disadvantage. Now, Nian Zu had all but given up on nautical shipping routes, yet still maintained a powerful military presence along the coast out of misguided fears of an invading Defiled fleet, which was a source of heated contention between Luo-Luo and the Colonel Generals. Those troops would be of much better use defending the Districts instead, but Shuai Jiao, Nian Zu, Mother-in-Law (technically Grandmother-in-Law) Akanai, and even Father-in-Law Baatar saw things differently.

“The boy meant well,” Father-in-Law Baatar had said last night, patting Luo-Luo’s head as if she were a child, “But in this, he is mistaken. Having withdrawn from the second line, we no longer have a forward buffer to buy time for our troops to get in position, as the border is too long to garrison in full strength all along in its entirety. That’s why the boy wanted a second line behind the Western Wall, for teams of soldiers to rapidly deploy wherever they might be needed.” A plan Luo-Luo delayed to reinforce SuiHua harbour, which even he thought was a mistake. There was no accusation in his tone however, only straightforward pragmatism, and he continued listing Luo-Luo’s failures in the same manner. “What’s more, there are two-hundred districts in total, so stationing the requisite two-hundred soldiers at each would occupy forty-thousand soldiers. However, you must double this number at a minimum because soldiers cannot serve indefinitely without rest, even if they do not see combat. Guarding against the remote possibility of attack still requires focus and discipline, both of which are finite in even the best of Warriors.” Sighing as he shook his head, he aged before her eyes as his youthful features took on a cast of wisdom and regret. “Eighty to a hundred and twenty thousand soldiers occupied, but for what gain? The fields still lie empty after winter due to constant Defiled raids, and while all life is sacred, these commoners should have known opportunity here walks hand in hand with danger. We will do everything we can to keep the Defiled from breaking through and running rampant in the districts, but we simply cannot afford to spare so many troops to protect the districts without benefit. The Defiled raids are small now, but only because we have every available soldier defending the Wall. Take even eighty-thousand soldiers away to defend the districts and those hundred-Defiled raiding parties could easily swell to ten times that number. What then, girl? How will two-hundred soldiers hold out against three times their number of Enemy cavalry? Not easily, and not without horrific losses, so the Imperial Army cannot afford to do this. Do you understand?”

Luo-Luo did, in a fashion, though she still maintained that the soldiers guarding the coast could be of better use elsewhere. She also didn’t understand why Father-in-Law stressed ‘Imperial Army’ when he mentioned it last, and while he had a strange inflection at times, this seemed deliberate, or perhaps he was simply coming to the end of his patience with Luo-Luo’s incompetence.

Despite his reasonable explanation, Luo-Luo still chafed at Colonel General Shuai Jiao’s decision to leave the districts so lightly defended, especially in light of the many tales of victory emerging from the districts. Then again, even Luo-Luo had to admit Lord Husband might have overreached, because in the best case scenarios, the militia suffered twenty to thirty percent losses in a single attack, and up to fifty in the worst case scenarios, barring the catastrophe in District Twenty-Six where the soldiers stationed there retreated before battle even began and left the poor civilians to fend for themselves. The Captain in command, one Warrior Pu Tong, had been stripped of rank and was awaiting trial for dereliction of duty among other charges, but already there were rumours abound of his imminent acquittal. Though it made her sick to her stomach to even think it, Luo-Luo wished Sister Mila had hung the man in the field as she was well within her rights to, because now his trial had become a point of political contention. If Pu Tong was charged with dereliction of duty for abandoning the districts to the Defiled, then an argument could be made to charge Colonel General Shuai Jiao with the same crime if he were to later leave them undefended. It was a giant mess which Luo-Luo had not seen coming, and she had no idea how to handle so delicate a situation, but the sole benefit of having been ousted from power was the fact that she now had no part in Warrior Pu Tong’s trial. That was the purview of the Disciplinary Corps, and while she sensed the cats-paws of the Imperial Clan quietly pulling strings in the background, she paid them no mind and focused solely on what to do next.

Which wasn’t much, if she was being honest. Now that she was no longer responsible for Lord Husband’s official duties, Luo-Luo’s schedule was clear as sunny skies and she had nothing to demand her time.

Or so she thought.

While paying a visit and playing a concert for Lord Husband’s cattle, a Royal Guardian interrupted her with a request from Liu Xuande, who had just arrived by private ship after sailing through the night. The man purchased one for his personal use shortly after Lord Husband stationed him in the Central Citadel, so that he could come back and visit as quickly as the winds would allow, and he used it many a time to spring an unexpected visit onto Luo-Luo. Last time, he brought his fellow Imperial Scions along to discuss ramping up recruitment for the districts, but she could not order this in good conscience before knowing she could protect the citizens flocking west in search of a better life. A good thing too, as it was now clear that the Empire could not defend the districts, not in the way she’d hoped they would.

Though in no mood to discuss her failures, she grudgingly accepted the meeting in case the man had something that was unrelated to her ousting, but luck was not on her side. Storming into her office, where she’d chosen to take this meeting, Liu Xuande fumed with outrage and uttered, “Make us private.”

The command wasn’t directed at anyone in particular, just given with the expectation that someone would obey. Glancing at Kuang Biao and Gunan, Luo-Luo first silently asked if anyone had obeyed, then gave permission to erect a Sound Barrier when their non-verbal response came back negative. Her reaction would have been different if Xuande’s own Experts erected Sound Barriers in her presence, as she would have taken this as an act of blatant disrespect, but he was just behaving with customary ingrained arrogance that he probably didn’t even notice. Hardly outrageous, but it was baked into his very being, much like Lord Husband’s quiet arrogance in assuming everyone was as talented as he.

In an effort to take control of the conversation, Luo-Luo enticed sweet Noodle out to play, and the Emerald Viper obediently slithered out to check her surroundings. On the surface, she paid Xuande no mind as Sorya and Anrhi served tea and snacks, a courtesy even an Imperial Scion wouldn’t dismiss out of hand. Not out of respect for the custom, but because it would lessen him in other people’s eyes, as haste makes waste, and a man in a hurry was a man losing control. That was how it was in the Empire, no matter the province, and Luo-Luo used this and Noodle’s ‘fearsome’ demeanour to her advantage.

Strange how commoner to Peak Expert alike all tensed up around the Emerald Viper, especially considering how many other formidable beasts surrounded Lord Husband. The wildcats were sweet kittens, and the bears wouldn’t hurt a fly, but Princess and the quins were quite feral and willing to kill on a whim. The only difference here was that even though Noodle was a sweetheart, she possessed a deadly venom that could kill even powerful Martial Warriors despite their innate bodily resistance. Or at least she had, until the Medical Saint did something to render Noodle’s venom sacs inert. For everyone’s safety of course, and the sweet snake didn’t seem adversely affected, so there no harm in being cautious.

No outsiders knew the snake’s venom had been rendered inert however, so they all tread cautiously around Noodle. As she curled her tail around Luo-Luo’s forearm and stretched out to inspect the snacks, Luo-Luo stroked the sweet snake and turned her attention to the pale-faced Xuande, who was leaning as far back in his seat as he could without reclining. “So what brings you to the Northern Citadel?” she asked, sipping her tea and savouring the taste. Anrhi picked one of the finest blends, as Xuande had a finicky palate and would make faces if the tea was not suited to his tastes. Lord Husband liked the man for his ideals, but it was hard for Luo-Luo to see anything but a hypocrite, a silver-spoon noble fighting for the rights of the common people without intending to sacrifice any of the advantages he himself possessed. Would he still hold to his cause if he could no longer dress in fine silks or bathe in perfumed water? If the end result was that he could only eat rice gruel and bone broth, would he still stand as a champion of equality for all? Luo-Luo suspected he would not, and as such, she found him grating to be around, but there was no denying his aptitude for finances and tactics.

Politics were another story, however, as Xuande lacked the subtle touch required for it, which was likely why he found himself relegated to the outer provinces. Caught off guard by her abrupt question, she watched as he struggled to understand her actions, as it was impolite to skip straight to business without first appreciating the tea and snacks. Truth be told, she only did it because she could not stand making small talk with the man, as he always had something new or old to be outraged about. It was all for a good cause, and Luo-Luo sympathized with the poor commoners who’d suffered various injustices, but Xuande’s aggressive, hyperbolic rhetoric hurt more than helped. “I have come to offer my humble aid,” he finally answered, having given up on trying to properly read her intentions. “These provincial fools have overstepped their bounds and spit on the Legate’s wisdom, so however you and the Bekhai intend to retaliate, know that I will stand with you. Let us join hands and show these uncultured swine that the honour of the Imperial Clan is not theirs to impugn, for none but the Emperor Himself can unseat His appointed Officials.”

This was the sort of talk that made it difficult to like him, a man always so eager for conflict and bloodshed. To think, she initially figured him for a soft-spoken scholar with more pride than sense, but other than the last bit, she could not be more wrong. Continuing to sip her tea in silence, she studied Xuande until he showed the slightest sign of discomfort, though she suspected he feigned it to move the conversation along. This was what so many people of the outer provinces were unable to pick up on, the fact that sometimes, giving face meant losing some for yourself, a transaction like any other. “And what would you have me do?” she asked, her tone dry and bitter, intentionally revealing her displeasure. “Take up arms against three united Colonel Generals? Raise taxes and establish tariffs to strike back at the Marshals? Or would you have me beg the Emperor for His aide in regaining the authority I have lost?”

All losing gambits, but Xuande didn’t seem to care. “However you care to retaliate, know that I and my fellow Scions support you.”

Now that came as a surprise, as loyalty was not something she expected from Xuande, even if his loyalties laid with Lord Husband rather than Luo-Luo herself. Heartening as it was, she was not deserving of it, for she was unable to match Lord Husband’s brilliance. “My decision is to not retaliate, in light of the greater good. Internal conflict will hurt more than it will help, even assuming I prevail over my political opponents.”

A terrible assumption, at that, because while she was unsure of the exact strength of her Royal Guardians, she couldn’t imagine any of them were capable enough to defeat a Colonel General in single combat. Warriors like that would not be mere Royal Guardians, after all, but entitled nobles serving the Emperor in a greater capacity. A fact Xuande did not seem to comprehend, but then again, he never saw Nian Zu in battle, not like Luo-Luo had, and it was an eye-opening experience indeed. “Not retaliate?” he asked, dumbfounded by this seemingly shocking revelation. “But why? In a single day, Shuai Jiao seeks to overturn all the groundwork the Legate and yourself have laid, trampling the fields like a buck in heat just before the winter harvest.”

Groundwork? What groundwork? Luo-Luo had merely been following Lord Husband’s plans, which she believed had been her downfall. Lord Husband was brilliant indeed, but even he could not have foreseen the threat from Huanhuzi. Had he been in power, he might well have shifted his focus elsewhere, such as on building the Imperial barracks between the Western Wall and Districts like Father-in-Law Baatar believed would be best, or rushing construction of more roads to speed up overland travel, or perhaps something entirely different that Luo-Luo could not predict. That was the issue with taking over his role, because she could never match his genius and foresight, nor did she have the respect of his fellow officers and ministers or the love of the people.

