The five of us set off in the morning, leaving Chester behind.

It's still dark out, but hints of day creep up on the horizon as we venture off into the desert toward the abandoned town and observatory I've been keeping an eye on for days.

Our movements are a bit slower than my usual pace because we're not all air-stepping through the sky.

This may slow us down some, but it's also a bit more of a stealthy approach.

My perception skills are on full blast our entire way to the destination. I don't expect to find anyone out here at this hour, but keeping an eye out on our surroundings is a no-brainer.

The path over is quick and silent. Anticipation grows with every step.

Once within less than a kilometer of the destination, we all slow down. Eventually, the five of us make it to the last high-rising dune of sand leading down to the abandoned village on the other side. Simultaneously, the sun begins to rise. Its golden rays come down to light up the white dome atop the cliff that overlooks the Abyss.

Its sonar is still active even this early in the morning. A grey pulse of energy beams from the rooftop and soars into the darkness. The act lets out a light buzz that vibrates through all of our ears.

We come to a halt as I do a full scan of the building up on the cliff, then whisper under my breath.

"Just as I expected."

Three figures show up on my radar.

One of which is still in the mana-blocking cuffs. They show up in my enemy detection skill, just like the others did back in the underground lair when they were in cuffs. My appraisal and inspect skills cannot sense a single thing about their status. All signs point toward this being Lydia.

Next, the level 651 with his full wardrobe full of +100% or greater defense items and multiple legendary combat skills appears. My eyes wander down to his [Solid Steel Defense] buff again, wondering exactly how it works.

However, these thoughts soon get pushed to the back of my mind as the final figure's information flashes into my mind's eye.

The sight of it makes me feel uneasy.

_____________________

[Lv. ??? Access Denied]

Active Items: [??? Access Denied]

Active Skills: [??? Access Denied]

Buffs: [??? Access Denied]

_____________________

The eerily familiar [??? Access Denied] symbols pop up all over the third figure's status screen within the observatory. Even their level is blocked from my vision.

It looks just like those error messages that showed up on the man's status from the auction. Lith, the man who runs the mercenary guild in Valor City. This has to be some kind of special concealment item. If not, it has to be some kind of special buff or skill...

I'm unsure why else their status would be blocked from my vision.

I grit my teeth and duck my head down; my teammates follow my lead without knowing exactly why.

"They're definitely here. Two Inner Circle members, and one hostage. Lydia is still breathing."

Sighs are let out all around me, but my mind is elsewhere.

As these words leave my lips, our possible options for infiltration begin to race through my mind. I knew coming into this, there was going to be a mystery man; the craftsman. However, I assumed said mystery would be much easier to solve the moment I got a proper scan of him.

This is not the case.

Fisher replies to me, eagerly waiting to jump over the edge of the dune down the valley and toward the observatory.

"So it's confirmed, they're here. Let's go take 'em out."

I stare at the desert floor, thinking to myself, but reply after a short pause.

"We will, we just have to take it very slow. I can't get a good read on one of the members. I'll have to separate him from the others and handle him myself. You all will take on the man who took Lydia. The Sector 4 leader. Got it?"

Arie replies.

"Sure, if it's just brute strength and high mana control he's wielding, we can handle him no problem."

Abby and Maria nod as Fisher's eyes flare blue.

I let out more waves of mana-imbued perception waves to use my All-Seeing Eye and make a mental picture of the room our enemies are in. Usually, this would be impossible if not inside a dungeon, but with the high-density mana radiation coming off of the device upstairs, it's easy to see how the mana flows in and out of all the nooks and crannies. It's a long distance away, but I have a good enough image to draw the structure in the sand for everyone to see.

"There are two main floors to the observatory, not including the basement."

I point to a 2D ring-shaped drawing on the sandy floor. There are three Xs marked in its center.

"This is the bottom floor. It's a large circular hallway that wraps around the entire building. There's a main living area in its center, a small circular room at the core of the base. This is where the two enemies are keeping the captive, and also happens to be the only entrance that leads down to the basement. I'm unable to fully see what its contents are."

Abby's eyebrows scrunch up like she wants to ask why but does not want to interrupt, so I continue, giving her a quick explanation.

"It seems the basement is lined with that same black shielding that we were trapped in previously at the dungeon hub in Solara; I'm unable to sense how deep it is or what's inside."

Next, I point to a circle right next to my first drawing.

"This is the top floor. It's a circular room, with high ceilings."

I peek my head over the dune's edge to point at the white structure being lit up by the morning sun.

"This is the top of the dome. There are many high-density mana items and unstable high-powered equipment being used to power a device on this floor. Keeping the fighting far away from these items would be wise."

A moment of silence passes before I carry on.

"Right now, all three people are in the holding room at the core of the base."

Abby replies.

"So you'll lead the oddball out while we confront the Sector 4 leader together."

I nod slowly.

"Yes, but first we'll need to gather a little more information. It's never a good idea to go in blind when we don't have to. We know they're here, but they don't know we are. They're expecting number 2 to show up with the prisoners in hand..."

Arie smirks, catching on.

"So we don't want to keep them waiting."

"Exactly. The longer we wait, the more restless they'll become."

I use my [Hush] skill in a large radius, and the five of us begin sneaking toward the observatory mountain's base. The two leaders I'm keeping an eye on aren't moving at all; they just stand in the center room of the fortress waiting for us to arrive. Possibly, conducting an interrogation.

Once we dip down through the village and carefully make our way up the side of the cliff, the entrance to the observatory comes into view. I speak out loud with the [Hush] barrier still active. Only my teammates can hear me.

"The main room is just through the front door and halfway down either side of the curled circular hallway; there are entrance points on both sides. You can't miss it."

I bring my [Hush] barrier down and switch to speaking through my telepathy skill.

"Once the coast is clear, I'll give you the word. Be ready for anything."

I activate stealth and jump high into the air, lightly air-stepping up to the roof area where the sonar device sticks out of the open dome.

Muffled voices can be heard from below me. With the mana-powered device buzzing in my ears, grasping the faint sounds of a hidden conversation one floor below and through multiple walls proves challenging, even for my enhanced senses.

I hold my breath and jump down onto the top floor of the observatory, using a combination of stealth, hush, and wind magic to hit the floor without making a sound.
