And then the tables were turned as Falling Rain went on the offensive, and she weathered the storm far less elegantly than he. Whereas he was able to exchange blows while on the defensive, all she could do was raise her shield and huddle behind it, carefully shifting this way and that to keep it between her tender body and his furious barrage of attacks, each one so cleverly aimed as to knock her off balance and create an opening to exploit. Metal rang in a symphony of thundering echoes as she blocked attack after attack, gritting her teeth and lowering her hips so as to withstand the deluge of attacks. His speed and power had improved significantly in the last few weeks, following his miraculous recovery and subsequent marriage to Lin-Lin. Scary to think that he still had so much room to improve, for he would be a force to be reckoned with once he familiarized himself with all the new discoveries he’d stumbled across, such as the aforementioned Refined physique and External Reinforcement. One couldn’t forget his newfangled ability of Domain Plating either, which aided in his efforts to utilize Chi in all manner of subtle and not so subtle ways, most of which even he didn’t understand, much less Mila herself.

So how was Mila supposed to contest against him? By doing something she was entirely unaccustomed to: relying on her superior tactics and positioning to secure the victory rather than overpowering her opponent with raw strength.

Though his defensive expertise made it difficult to defeat him, those skills had yet to transfer over to his offensive capabilities, which meant Mila could take her time and choose her moment wisely. Barely able to see him over the rim of her shield, what little she could perceive was still more than enough to read his rhythm. Seizing upon a lull in the symphony of metal, she rushed forward into the storm to limit his avenues of attack and create an opening for herself. Fortune favours the bold as they say, and it was true here today as she slammed shield first into her opponent’s chest and sent him staggering away. Though not expecting such a fortuitous turn of events, training took over as she sent her spear lancing forward in a basic thrust, one he cleanly intercepted despite still reeling from the tackle. Though her spear failed to connect, the wild strike bought her the much needed time to sidestep around to his right flank, giving her the initiative in the battle once again.

Then it was just a matter of keeping the pressure up and giving him no time to think, forcing him to constantly react and keeping him on the back foot. Stuck in the mud, is how Mama phrased it, meaning Rain’s footwork was a mess with Mila dictating their pace, delivering blow after blow to his defensively weaker right side while circling around to keep him off centre. To the civilians in the audience, it would appear as if they were dancing in circles, but even the most lacklustre soldier could see that Rain was at a marked disadvantage, unable to put his shield to good use and struggling to get his feet back under him. Though this wild offensive rush seemed similar to Mila’s initial plan, she clearly held the upper hand and she used it to good effect, targeting his sword and feet to keep him off balance while sticking too close for him to slip around her.

Even though Rain was stronger, faster, and more adept at utilizing certain popular Chi skills than she was, none of this was enough to make up for his greatest weakness, his lacking foundation. Despite Demonstrating the Forms each and every day, he still had yet to even touch upon the myriad of secrets hidden within the depths of each and every Movement. Not only did he first set foot on the Martial Path much later than most, familiarity with the Forms came slowly to him, so outside of those admittedly effective methods he’d copied or come up with himself, like Mama’s charging dash and his curiously deceptive footwork, he had precious few tricks to work with, and Mila was keen to them all.

The same could not be said in reverse however, because even though they’d sparred countless times before, he had yet to familiarize himself with the full extent of Mila’s arsenal of movements. In fact, few Martial Warriors could match Mila when it came to the sheer breadth and depth of familiarity with regards to the Forms, but that was because most were not trained by a Peak Expert and Living Legend who possessed over four centuries of combat experience and demanded nothing short of perfection. There were many Movements Mila was not yet adept enough to use, but those were easier to count than the number of Movements she could draw upon. Thus, in order to defeat him, she pulled out all the stops and used a myriad of Movements and combinations he’d never seen before, not firsthand from her at least. Stalking the Dragon into Uplift the Sequoia saw her drop low before delivering a smashing uppercut with the rim of her shield. Gliding Wing into Twitching Tail cut off his path of retreat, but only just as he almost fought his way out of the mud. Following up with Hanging Branch Grasp into Darting Fang, she feigned a thrust to the abdomen that transformed into a real one targeting the chest, which he sidestepped by the thinnest margins imaginable, but she was not yet done. Devouring the Horse into Circling the Grass kept Rain spinning about in search of her true attack, one that he realized all too late was coming from above.

Thus far, all her movements were ones taught by Mama, but in order to ensure victory, Mila pulled something from her bag of tricks that she borrowed from Papa. Fluttering Raindrops into Standing Fury, a powerful combination Rain affectionately termed the ‘Husolt Papa Smash’.

Though Rain had seen it before, he never expected to see Mila use it against him, and that minor moment of surprise allowed her to bring her spear haft down hard on his shoulder, eliciting a muted groan and an audible crack of fractured bone. Withdrawing her attack a second too late, she rushed over as he dropped to the ground and quickly helped him back on his feet, for it would not do for the crowd to see their Legate down and defeated. “You’re fine,” she said, more to reassure herself and the crowd than a statement of fact, because she knew that his refined physique took much more Chi and effort to Heal than before. “You’re fine.”

“Funny definition of fine you have there,” Rain said, grinning without a care in the world for his own public image. “Damn near shattered my shoulder with that final ‘Papa Smash’ there. Didn’t know you’d picked that up, or any of those other combinations either.” Chuckling wryly as he took advantage of her concern to slip an arm around her waist, he feigned outrage and said, “There will come a day when I defeat you woman, and then I will teach you the true meaning of regret.”

“Nonsense.” Smacking his roving hand away, her cheeks heated as she considered dragging him away to a dark corner instead, but he still had much to do before the day was done. “You’re already far stronger than I am in terms of raw combat capability, as I would not stand a chance against you if you used your Guided Sword, Honed Domain, Emotional Aura, Cloud Stepping capabilities, Concealment, the Mountain Collapsing Stomp, or any number of the advanced techniques you’ve recently picked up.” Not to mention all the effort he put into mastering his Blessing, which had progressed by leaps and bounds since his wedding with Lin-Lin. The opponent Mila faced in her spar today was Falling Rain at his worst, one limited by self-imposed restrictions to make this a fair fight, meaning he’d all but handed victory over to her on a silver platter.

Not without reason though. Father-in-Law Baatar was well aware of Rain’s lacking experience and suggested he spar like this more often to shore up his weakness, though the pool of equally skilled opponents who made for a good match was limited, to say the least. Song was a good opponent for Rain, but Yan could no longer keep up, having devoted too much of her recent efforts towards Forming a Natal Palace and Developing her Domain. Once she achieved these two significant milestones, Yan would be like a tiger given wings, but even with so much help and support from family and friends, she had yet to find success. That being said, even without a Natal Palace or Domain, Yan’s familiarity with her Blessing was second to none amongst her peers, as not even Rain could come close to her level of mastery without relying on the Elemental Spirit of Water.

Aside from Song and Mila, Rustram, Wang Bao, Ulfsaar, and a few others from his retinue were surprisingly decent opponents, though Rain won those matches handily each and every time. The only other Warriors to defeat him in this style of sparring were several years older, like Sister-in-Law Alsantset, Tursinai, and Ryo Da’in, though Zian, BoShui, Fung, Ishin Ken Shibu, and Tam Taewoong all came close on several occasions.

Of course, none of the aforementioned Warriors would be able to even touch the hem of Rain’s robes if he were to fight seriously, as he would soon demonstrate once his next sparring opponent arrived.

“How is your shoulder?” Mila Sent, worried she’d ruined his chances of securing his much desired victory. “Can it be Healed in time?”

“Yea, though I might have a headache tomorrow.” His amber eyes flashing in wicked promise of later reparations, Mila repressed a shudder of naked desire to atone for her impudence. If word of her perversion were to slip out, she would die of pure shame, but there was something about surrendering to her husband’s whims that left her so satisfied and sated. Yan enjoyed a different dynamic with Rain, one of equals and partners, while Lin-Lin was unsurprisingly incredibly aggressive and assertive in her affections, but Mila’s greatest desire was to simply submit to Rain’s desires and let him do as he pleased, and she hadn’t the foggiest idea why.

Cheeks heating from the mere thought of what was to come, she shoved him ever so slightly and smiled as the fiendish glint in his eyes deepened. Leaving him to Heal his injury in silence, she retreated to Yan’s side and ignored her sister-wife’s wicked grin in favour of greeting her actual sister Li-Li with a hug, though Mila was grateful Lin-Lin was still fast asleep and thus not here to tease her about her depraved perversion. No, there was nothing depraved about it, Mila was a strong and confident woman wholly capable of standing on her own, but she simply enjoyed playing the part of meek and dutiful wife in the bedroom. This attitude didn’t extend anywhere else, which was perfectly fine, as what happened in the bedroom, stayed in the bedroom, so long as Rain remembered to keep them all Concealed from prying eyes and ears.

Still, despite trusting her husband to keep their sordid affairs secret, Mila would feel a lot more secure once they had the manor to themselves, but the members of the older generation were all dragging their feet and reluctant to move out and into their new homes which Rain had built in the Northern Citadel. Much as she loved her parents and in-laws, Mila felt they were all being overly dramatic about the ‘forced and unnecessary’ move considering their five manors still shared a communal courtyard, which even had a pond to make it more like a private park than anything else. Silly Taduk even threw an adorable little tantrum when Rain and Lin-Lin told them their plans, stomping his feet and huffing up a storm because he thought he would live with them just like the rest of the in-laws had. Being the soft-hearted fool that he was, Rain had yet to put his foot down and insist everyone move out into their new, spacious manors, and so Mila suffered in their presence.

Then again, his filial piety and love of family was one reason why she loved him so much, one of many qualities on a list that at times seemed without end.

Passing the minutes with idle conversation, Mila kept an eye on Rain as he Healed his shoulder and rested for his upcoming bout, one that had drawn large audiences day after day since they took Yuzhen’s advice to publicize their sparring matches. The contestant in question arrived without fanfare or pageantry, dropping his Concealment only after making his way through the crowd, though Mila noted Rain’s eyes had opened and found his opponent several seconds before Gerel had revealed himself. Side by side, they looked so identical it was almost eerie to behold, the similarities previously hidden behind Rain’s gaunt and drawn features, but no matter how often Mila saw it, she couldn’t help but be surprised every time she saw them together. She still thought Rain was the more handsome of the two, especially when he cared to dress up and do his hair, but alas, it was a rare occasion when he did. In contrast, Gerel was always one to look his best, a male peacock who enjoyed looking pretty for the crowd. Not the worst quality to possess, Mila had to admit, but it was difficult not to resent the man for looking so damned good each and every day.

“You’re injured,” the stupidly handsome man remarked, his cold, yet soft-spoken words easily heard over the hushed crowd.

“My fiery wife’s work,” Rain replied, grinning with such foolish pride that it set Mila’s cheeks ablaze. “You know how it is. Spare the rod and spoil the husband.”

