The crowd laughed at his self-deprecating joke, and even frosty Gerel cracked a tiny smile, the two contentious dragons having bonded over weeks of sparring. Strange creatures, men were, able to beat each other senseless and walk away laughing and smiling with one another. Mila hated even losing to Mama, to say nothing about Da’in, so how Rain and Gerel could become closer friends after sparring each and every day was a mystery to say the least. It was more than mutual respect, but actual genuine friendship, as if they enjoyed trouncing one another until they were bruised and bloody, like pure masochists yearning for the whip.

At least Mila wasn’t so far gone in her perversions, though she could have done without the knowledge of such fetishes existing. Yan’s fault that, as well as the image of a naked Rain and Gerel entwined in a different sort of sparring that Mila could not get out of her head, though she wasn’t sure she would want it gone even if she could. She herself had no desire to lay with another man, much less one as arrogant and joyless as Gerel, but just as she didn’t mind too much about sharing Rain with her sister wives, the thought of him adding a man to his harem was... intriguing to say the least.

Not that he would, but it was titillating to think about, especially given the tension in Rain and Gerel’s contentious relationship, so rife with sexual energy that Yan called it ‘positively delicious’...

“Whenever you’re ready then,” Gerel offered, exchanging his Spiritual Longsword and Glaive for mundane substitutes, ones personally crafted by Papa to resemble the originals as closely as possible. He’d done the same for everyone else, but Mila’s husband came to his feet while leaving his training sword and shield behind, intent on wielding Unity against his opponent today. While Papa had been unable to replicate Unity’s transformative properties in a mundane weapon, he instead made two separate versions instead, one a regular glaive and the other a nonstandard, bladed club that resembled a longsword in many ways, both of which Rain carried with him into the sparring match. It was funny how even their weapons were similar in nature, and as Rain and Gerel took their stances, Mila could not help but marvel at their similarities once more and think back to that first time they sparred after Rain’s recovery.

Not even three months had passed since that day in Yuzhen’s courtyard, where Gerel scored first blood with an effortless swat of Rain’s cheek, showing just how vast a distance lay between them.

Which made Rain’s progress since then all the more unbelievable.

Balance on Windy Leaf into Pierce the Horizon, Rain opened with his strongest move to deliver a piercing thrust with his glaive. Parrying and side-stepping the charge with seemingly effortless grace, Mila spotted the alarm in Gerel’s amber eyes that signified how close to defeat he’d been. During their first match, the man barely even needed to move his feet, but now, Rain stood a good chance of emerging victorious should the older man fail to take this match seriously. Not that Gerel was capable of being anything else, his general disposition as sombre as the grave as he neatly picked apart Rain’s follow-up offensive, their steel polearms humming and clanging as they traded blows back and forth. One benefit of the larger weapons was that they were easier for Mila to track, and she marvelled at her husband’s skills even as she lamented the strength of his formidable opponent.

In firm control of the rhythm, Gerel seized the upper hand with a simple but precise swing of the glaive, catching the tip of Rain’s blade with the base of his own and using his superior leverage to force his opponent into a poor position. A simple concept in theory, but difficult to accomplish in practice, and this simple swing showed how Gerel truly deserved to be the Number One Talent of his generation. That being said, Rain was no slouch himself, immediately withdrawing to deny Gerel the opportunity to press his advantage and reset the match. Unwilling to give up so easily, Gerel set off in pursuit, his meandering footsteps seemingly without rhyme or rhythm until one analyzed the match in full. There was not a single wasted motion in Gerel’s movements, each step not only bringing him closer to his foe, but also threatening Rain’s positioning and cutting off his avenues of retreat, all without needing to actually swing his weapon. Were this a game of chess, Gerel’s pieces would be dominating the board while threatening multiple of his opponent’s pieces and leaving options that ranged only from bad to worse.

But Rain was not one to give up, no matter how dire or bleak the situation, and now that he was facing a Peak Expert rather than his beloved wife, he was no longer holding back. To Mila’s eyes, Rain disappeared into thin air as he raised a Shroud of Concealment around him, but Gerel continued advancing as he knew where his opponent was. Difficult to escape from a Peak Expert’s Domain in such close quarters, though Rain mentioned he believed in the existence of a ‘Divine Sense’ that Martial Warriors had yet to quantify and discover despite many practitioners having developed it unknowingly. Whatever the reason, it was clear Gerel could track Rain’s movements even under Concealment, though the clash of their weapons went unnoticed due to the obscuring effect of the skill.

Then the unthinkable happened. Gerel swung his glaive, and his attack cut clean through the air, missing his target entirely.

Time froze for an instant as the crowd collectively gasped in surprise, Mila, Yan, and Li-Li included. Before the drawn breath could even finish, Rain seized this opportunity to launch his offensive, appearing out of nowhere on Gerel’s left to deliver a powerful thrust, one which missed the older warrior by a hair. Gliding backwards to avoid the follow up strike, Gerel’s Lightened body skated over the stone tiles underfoot at speeds Mila could barely believe possible, but Rain’s glaive jabbed out repeatedly and forced his foe to slow his retreat in order to dodge and parry. As Gerel backpedalled away, Rain chose this moment wisely to seize the opportunity he himself created, timing his low thrust to match the moment Gerel had only one foot planted on the ground, and thereby forcing the older Warrior to take to the air in order to avoid the strike.

As Rain so often loved to point out, few Warriors were well practised in aerial combat, and he’d spent many a night chasing Lin-Lin about the rooftops and sparring with his father, Grandpa Du, and even Taduk who surpassed them all when it came to aerial maneuvers. In doing so, Rain had familiarized himself with feats of acrobatics in a way few could match, but alas, Gerel was not only a genius, but a hard-working fanatic as well. As he soared up into the air, Gerel twisted about so that his feet were above his head while he wielded his glaive against Rain down below, forcing Mila’s clever husband to abandon his efforts to take to the skies and buying precious time for Gerel to return to solid ground. At this showy and impressive display of control and technique, the crowd erupted into cheers for the two combatants, though the recipients themselves seemed wholly unaware. Ramping up their movements to a frenzied and unsustainable pace, both men wore similar crazed smiles now, their bloodthirsty and competitive natures sparked as they sought to outdo one another in feats of aerial acrobatics. Leaping high into the air, Rain Cloud-Stepped horizontally to charge forward at a breakneck pace with glaive extended like a lance, and the resulting clash sent Gerel flying away, unable to stand strong in the face of Rain’s powerful offensive. Not one to be outdone, the older Warrior recovered only to charge at Mila’s husband in similar fashion, but Rain overturned the board once more by leaping up over Gerel’s head in a showy flip before Cloud Stepping down towards his foe with glaive outstretched. Twirling his own weapon overhead, Gerel just barely managed to parry the attack after putting significant effort into Deflecting it, but the impact left him unable to follow up.

Not Rain though, whose blunted blade missed Gerel to pierce through the stone floor and anchor him in place, the rough and uneven edges showing that raw strength alone had enabled such a feat, rather than any sort of Honing which would have showed darker and deadly intent. Still, if the attack had hit Gerel, there was a good chance the man might’ve died outright, but Rain was unrepentant as he swung about on the haft of his polearm and delivered both boots to Gerel’s chest. Or rather, the haft of Gerel’s glaive, which intercepted the unexpected and unconventional attack just in time, but even his prodigious efforts were no match for Rain’s Mountain Collapsing Stomp.

Metal hummed, shrieked, and screamed as Gerel’s weapon snapped in twain, and then Rain’s boots landed firmly on his opponent’s chest, but rather than flying away in a spray of blood and broken bones, Gerel stood tall with a fiery scowl etched across his handsome face while Rain braced himself horizontally against his embedded glaive with his boots sitting firmly his opponent’s chest. The pose lasted for all of a blink of an eye before they broke off to stand and salute, but still long enough to commit it to memory and see Rain’s undisguised shit-eating grin as Yan would describe it, so pleased with his accomplishment that he could hardly hide it.

For it was clear that even though both men were still standing, Rain had finally scored a victory over his rival and nemesis.

“Well fought, Legate,” Gerel said, and despite his bowed head and Martial Salute, Mila could tell the man was furious at himself for losing even by this narrowest of margins. “Had that Mountain Collapsing Stomp landed, I would be lying broken and bleeding on the ground. Victory in this exchange goes to you.”

As the crowd erupted into cheers, Mila joined Yan in rushing into their husband’s embrace, their combined momentum lifting him off his feet and leaving him breathless in their wake. This was merely one victory out of Mother knows how many, and there was almost no chance Gerel would allow himself to lose a second time today, but it was still a victory nonetheless, one which could not have come at a better time.

For in a few days, after a quick sail boat ride down to the Central Citadel to tie up some loose ends, Rain was set to march out at the head of an army to retake the West, and this victory here would raise morale to record heights. Everyone from commoner to Peak Expert venerated the strong, and today, Rain proved that he was capable of contending against the youngest Peak Expert in a thousand years, a man fifteen years his senior. A rising dragon to surpass all others, many believed Falling Rain to be the Mother’s Chosen Son, a destined hero who would lead the Empire to ultimate victory over the Enemy, and despite harbouring reservations aplenty, Mila was fast becoming a believer. Not necessarily because Rain was some holy figure, but because Mila had absolute faith in her husband’s abilities, which were so staggering even the possibility of defeat seemed impossible to imagine. No matter what trials and tribulations lay ahead, Falling Rain would overcome them.

With a little help from Sumila of the People fighting at his side of course. There was no way she’d let him leave her behind again, not in a campaign of this magnitude, as she had no desire to learn about his exploits through Han BoShui’s flowery prose. No, she would watch firsthand as he reconquered the West and drove the Defiled out of the province, and be there for him when he finally realized he’d have no choice but to put all the survivors to the sword to appease the Emperor and the other citizens of the outer provinces. It didn’t matter if he could cleanse them, because enough people would doubt his ability to render it a moot point, and panic would soon ensue if so many ‘potential Defiled agents’ were left unchecked. A grim fate for the poor and oppressed citizens of the West, but one which could not be avoided, not without losing the widespread popularity and support Rain now enjoyed.

That was a bridge to be crossed later though. For now, Mila hugged her husband and sister wife while enjoying this precious moment of joy and success, for the memory would be sorely needed in the dark days ahead.

Chapter Meme
