Closing her eyes and stilling her mind, Mila took a deep breath, reached for Balance, and reviewed her plan to defeat this fearsome foe.

Fighting at range was not to her advantage. Better to get in close to put her superior strength and technique to good use, except she lacked the tools needed to advance quickly and safely. Balance on Windy Leaf into Pierce the Horizon was Mama’s favoured Movement to close distance fast, but Mila never did figure out how to perform that particular variation. Having long since mastered the skill himself, Rain tried explaining it to her many a time, drawing up diagrams and physically guiding her through the motions, but the pieces never truly fell into place. The premise was simple, to stiffen your body and fall forward like a toppled tree, only to recover your balance at the last possible moment and use the gathered momentum to shoot ahead at breakneck speeds. This wasn’t the only advantage the movement offered, because when viewed from the side, Mama and Rain weren’t moving all that fast, or at least not so fast as to deny a Martial Warrior the opportunity to react. According to Rain, the trick lay in a deficiency of the human eye, which was exceptional at tracking horizontal movements but less adept at tracking vertical movements, especially when high changes in acceleration was involved. Thus, when performing Balance on Windy Leaf, Rain and Mama were literally dropping out of their opponent’s sight and using that split second of confusion to close the distance.

How he knew this he would not say, only attributing it to a book he’d read and long since forgotten the title of, an excuse he used many a time before and no one ever believed. Regardless of where he learned this from, he demonstrated the mechanics behind his theory with help from Rakky, who did so love to climb to the roofs and pounce upon his favourite rubber ball. One second, the tiger would be crouched in plain view, and the next, he’d be rolling about in the grass and kicking his back feet in a playful attempt to disembowel whatever animal he imagined the ball to be. If watched from head on, Rakky all but disappeared in the blink of an eye, but she could easily track him when watching from the side, which she did many, many times since Rakky only enjoyed chasing the ball when he had someone to throw it for him.

Adorable as it was, Mila’s heart ached for how far the mighty hunter had fallen, though she worried Rain might’ve had the same effect on her as well. All he had to do was flash his charming smile and emit his Loving Aura to make her go weak in the knees, a strong, independent Expert of the Empire and Divine Blacksmith reduced to a moon-eyed fool every time he showed his face. She couldn’t even be mad at him because he wasn’t purposefully targeting her, as he still had yet to rein in his rampant Emotional Aura from revealing all his innermost emotions no matter what they might be. It was a boon at times, as it meant others were aware of his unchecked emotional mood swings and could better help him manage them, and it made for some incredibly intimate and emotional lovemaking sessions, but there were times when she wished she could block his Aura out, if only so she could stop simpering in his presence every time he was in an amorous mood.

Which was always. Mother in Heaven, Mila was glad she had two sister wives to help her share the burden, else she feared she would have no time or energy left for other pursuits after satisfying Rain’s desires.

Inwardly grumbling at her lacking concentration, Mila exhaled and opened her eyes to refocus on the task at hand, which was devising a plan to defeat her opponent. Balance on Windy Leaf was an option for some, but she had yet to master it and would only end up humiliating herself. It required perfect coordination and pinpoint timing to pull off, variables even Rain couldn’t explain in any detail for her, which meant she needed to explore other options.

Like Bull Traverses the Mountain, a bounding leap that would send her sailing through the air at her opponent, a foolish opener if there ever were one. Some might be caught off-guard by her unexpected rush, but not her foe here today. He was quick to act and even quicker to react, assuming he didn’t read her movements in advance. If he did, she would count herself blessed if he merely dodged, as she would be in mid-air and unable to avoid any counter attack he might try.

Wolf Leads the Pack was another option, not so much a charge as a rapid advance, closing the distance in a rather mundane manner by simply walking over with defences raised. Against almost any other opponent, this would be Mila’s first choice, but for this foe in particular, doing so was all but inviting him to counter-charge and forfeiting the upper hand. Action was better than reaction, offence easier than defence, rules that held true for all Martial Warriors from base soldier to Peak Divinity.

Yan wouldn’t even bother trying to advance, because she held the advantage of range. Instead, her foe would be forced to advance upon her while weathering a storm of Wind Blades, to say nothing of her six-pointed shield which she hurled with unerring accuracy, even when wielding a mundane replica. Mila would love to do the same, but despite her embarrassing bout of Imparted Insight that took place within the bath-house, she had yet to duplicate her success and discharge a second beam of concentrated light. She could throw her spear, but these were practice weapons and she lacked the ability to recall it back to hand, and thus would be left without a weapon. As for throwing her shield, she would sooner throw her boots at her foe since it wouldn’t feel right fighting without her shield’s reassuring weight on her arm.

As for Song, she would advance using Tiger Stalks the Dragon, an elegant set of footwork that allowed her to almost glide across open ground in any direction without turning away from her opponent. While similar in execution to Wolf Leads the Pack, Tiger Stalks the Dragon was more flexible and therefore more difficult to read, affording Song more options to act and react depending on how her opponent moved. Again, not a movement Mila had mastered, and therefore would be lacking if put to use against this foe, so she discarded this option as quickly as the others.

All of these thoughts and more flitted through her Enlightened mind in less time than it took to blink an eye, but as she had yet to come up with a proper solution, she changed tack and considered the battle from a different angle. Though keeping her distance would play to her opponent’s advantage, that didn’t necessarily mean she had to charge in. Instead, she could offer up a tempting target and lure him into approaching her, as her foe was surprisingly aggressive and hotheaded in battle. And in bed, but Mila banished the thought from her mind and forced her gaze down just a centimetre or two, fixating on her opponent’s cute nose rather than his dazzling amber eyes or the charming smile sitting underneath. Yes, all she had to do was make it look like she intended to circle around and leave a minor opening to tempt him over. It meant giving up the initiative, especially if he didn’t take the bait, but it was the best option for now. Nothing too obvious, else he’d sense something off, so she readied her practice shield in a guarded stance and held her blunted spear overhead, ready to throw or thrust as needed.

“Begin.”

The call sounded and she shot forward like a cannonball, moving diagonally towards him so as not to charge in head-on. In his mind, she will have weighed her options and settled on a compromise, to close the distance without fully committing to offence or defence. Not the first time she’d done so, and while he’d punished her for this half-hearted approach before, he knew she was stubborn and liable to get stuck in her ways. His lips pursed in an effort to keep his smile from turning into a grin, and he responded to her aggression by circling around to her left, veering into a collision course to meet her shield head-on. A feint, one she read in advance, and thus she was not surprised when he executed the footwork he’d conceived so many years ago and perfected since. Even then, she still almost lost track of him as he changed headings mid-stride, speeding left one moment and then suddenly shifting to her right the next, his toe-heel, slide and step allowing him to dance about in all directions without slowing in the slightest.

Yet another combination of movements Mila was unable to grasp, because even though she understood the movements well enough and the order in which to do them, every attempt to execute the series of movements in the midst of combat had ended with her tripping over her own feet. That said, she was familiar enough with the footwork to predict where her foe would appear, and her spear lanced out towards his chest in a powerful over-hand thrust.

Which he neatly blocked without so much as breaking a sweat, while simultaneously trapping the blade of her spear between the protruding twin tusks of this replica mammoth-skull shield. Technically, the actual weapon had been forged from the skull of a Meng-Zhua, but as far as Mila could tell, the only difference between the two beasts was one of size, with mammoths being much larger than their mountain-dwelling cousins.

First point to him, but Mila was not one to surrender without a fight. Stepping in close to keep him from wrenching her spear away, she slammed the rim of her shield into his shoulder and sucked her teeth at the lacklustre impact. A slippery opponent he was, already disengaging even before she stepped in, as he never intended to contest for her spear in a competition of pure strength. Perhaps he anticipated her reaction and responded appropriately, or perhaps he wasn’t quite used to his newfangled strength, because with his body having been Refined into a Spiritual Heart and his ability to generate a Shroud of Reinforcement, he was more than capable of contesting her in a match of pure, straightforward brawn, though she was still the stronger of the two. No matter though, because there was only so much room for him to run, and she followed through with an aggressive charge, advancing with Bull Pulls the Cart while swinging her weapons at her foe with repeated performances of Deer Parts the Underbrush. Left, right, high, low, she delivered unto him a flurry of Reinforced, Amplified, and Reverberating blows while pressing her advantage, but never wholly committing to an all-out-offensive in case he should find an opening for a possible counter-attack.

There were many ways he could turn the tides against her, too many for Mila’s mind to keep track of even with help from the State of Enlightenment. It took all of her focus to keep her storm of attacks from faltering, as not only was she fighting without her trusted Spiritual Weapons and forced to utilize some skills Externally, performing so many combined Chi skills in quick succession was fast pushing her limits, to the point where her attacks were less elegant than they otherwise might be. Flailing her spear about like a heavy bludgeon rather than the light piercing weapon it was, she marvelled at how readily he weathered the storm. Never once did he simply raise his guard and accept an attack like so many other Warriors would. Instead, his feet danced to and fro as he moved his blunted weapons about in a whirling ring of defence, dodging, parrying, and Deflecting her attacks with superlative skill and flawless timing. Even the attacks he blocked were actively intercepted, matching her strike with one of his own to three-fold effect. First, his active blocks threw off the timing for her Amplifications, since the impact was not delivered when expected. Second, it allowed him to deliver a Reverberation strike of his own, to cancel out the effect of her piercing reverberations. Lastly, by stopping her attacks short, it prevented her from following through with a full swing, thereby lessening the total impact delivered as well as reminding her to be careful not to let him catch her weapon again.

All this from a man who claimed he didn’t understand Deflection or Reverberation. If she didn’t love him so much, she would’ve long since strangled him to death in his sleep for all his incessant complaining.

Even though she was guarded against a reversal of fortunes, she still missed seeing how he slipped away from her offensive. One second he was in front of her, defending against her flurry attacks with almost laughable ease, and the next he was gone, leaving Mila reeling from an attack to her left, a hammering blow she blocked through good positioning and better luck. Arm numbed from the Reverberating impact, she staggered aside three steps before righting herself and finding her foe once again, and only then did she put together the series of events. As she wound up for a wild swing, one she would’ve never delivered were she not so frantic to end things quickly, he dove forward to her left and rolled to his feet, using the same principles as Balance on Windy Leaf to escape from her sight. The fact that he positioned himself so that her shield obstructed his final position was an added bonus, at which point he delivered a back-hand smash that should have landed on her shoulder, but a fortunate twist of her torso brought her shield up just enough to intercept the unseen attack.

