Matt might lose, he and his guild might fail to live up to expectations, inventions meant to help people might get held up in patents, but none of that was the end of the Realm. The inventions would get out there even if in limited form for a while, unlike what he would have released.

He also wanted to prove to himself and everyone else he was more than a battle junky who only knew how to fight.

Those realizations didn’t stop him from being mad, but it did temper his will.

If they wanted to play, he’d play. But his enemies should expect nothing less than what they dished out returned to them, and Matt was already tallying up the score.

Still burning hot, Matt backtracked to the nearest world and entered real space long enough to send a series of messages via micro portals. It wasn’t as fast as the Ascender chat, but it was at least marginally more private.

Sure, there might only be a dozen people in the Ascender chat, but security was more a suggestion than a rule when it came to half of the Ascenders, and he didn’t need them seeing more of his guild’s plans than necessary. He would also have felt bad if Liz had to act as a go-between for all of his plans.

She was busy not only running the duchy in his absence, but also trying to learn Ra’thala’s method of safely creating skills in skill shards. According to her last message, only a handful of the scientists who were trying had succeeded at all, and while she was making progress, she hadn’t picked it up yet.

None of that stopped her from offering to rush over to the Capital, but Matt didn’t think that was a good idea.

They needed her there in case these attacks against him spread to the duchy in a more practical way.

These enemies could very well be hoping Liz left Palustris to strike there while both of them were distracted. It was what he’d do if he was trying to attack himself.

Even if it didn’t work and Liz never left, they lost little by having an attack ready to go the moment they got an opportunity.

Instead, he got the guild's lawyers moving. Kees would hold down the fort at Palustris and start rooting out any moles with Tholly but Matt was assembling a team to strike back at Falker.

He might only be a distraction, but Matt wouldn’t just roll over.

They were in the right, and he had enough resources to prove it.

It might be hubris, but Matt didn’t have it in him to simply accept such an affront.

Setting his ship to the Capital, he spent a long two months crossing nearly half of the Empire.

The moment he entered real space, he felt thousands of spiritual perceptions cover him before most sloughed off.

Flying down to one of the many spatially expanded skyscrapers dedicated to the Empire's bureaucracy, Matt connected to the PlanetNet and then to the LocalNet where he linked up with his teams.

They were already on-site and had initiated the process of rebutting Falker’s engine, but Matt needed to be there as the guild leader.

As he arrived at the government building, Matt found the floor and then sub sector that he needed before politely storming his way there.

One of his guild’s junior lawyers was already there and moved to his side the moment he walked into the waiting room.

“Good afternoon, guild leader Titan. We initiated the process as far as we could without you, but the official complaint needs to come from you.”

“What about the Falker patent then?”

“In limbo with our initial report. We have a year to bring forward a reasonable amount of evidence that there could be foul play— um, at play.”

Matt nodded along as the lawyer filled him in with more information as he made his way to the desk to finish the process.

The man behind the desk did have a moment of noticeable hero worship upon seeing Matt, but did his job without helping or hindering him, which Matt respected.

Things didn’t remain so cordial for long.

The moment the rest of his lawyers and the team of scientists who had designed the engine arrived, he was alerted his petition had been rejected.

Glaring, Matt turned his full attention to the official looking woman who sat two sectors away and was blankly watching them.

She had done that on purpose, waiting until his people had arrived.

The question was why.

Had they messed up any of the paperwork? Unlikely, but possible. Or had she been bought over by their enemies and was running interference?

That seemed stupid beyond belief as offending an Ascender could have lethal consequences, but even beyond that, such obvious corruption would only mean her dismissal at best, which would ruin her ability to get any other job with the government.

Some payments could be worth such consequences, but few would pay an easily circumnavigated Tier 15 employee that much.

Looking to his head lawyer, Johannes Macbo, a Tier 35 who had a fantastic record as a guild patent lawyer, Matt waited for his response to the rejection.

His expression wasn’t pleasant. “Guild leader, they rejected our claim because the Falker Corporation has already filed an injunction claiming harassment and corporate espionage. Part of that is an automatic appeal of any counter claims filed against them. To get around this, we need to escalate higher.”

Matt forced himself to calm down and waited as their claim was submitted to someone else, but it was harder than normal. People were watching him as he waited surrounded by his lawyers and not just with the normal stares that he got. Sure, there was the hero worship but a number of the watchers seemed solely there for the show— to see an Ascender squirm, or snap and lash out; it didn’t matter to them so long as they had a front row seat.

It was humiliating and made him angry. Angrier, that is.

Meeting a few too-pointed looks, Matt’s glare got most of them to be a little more circumspect.

It still took almost an hour before they were called into an office deeper inside the sector.

Having an entourage of over twenty people come with him was not an option, so without him needing to say anything, everyone but Johannes and the engine team lead, Gia Innaka, stayed behind.

The office they entered was just like every other one, but the woman inside was anything but.

A Tier 17, she didn’t bother to look up from her screen that she typed at. “What evidence do you have that the engine design in question was stolen from you and not the other way around?”

Matt frowned at the attitude but kept his mouth shut as Johannes and Gia both presented a modicum of their facilities’ recordings, AI logs, and tests but nothing was concrete and more just overviews. This would all be presented when they went to trial, but it wouldn’t do to have their full evidence given to their enemies before they had to.

That thought stuck in Matt’s mental throat as he realized that odds were they already had all of that information if they had spies in their midst good enough to recreate the engine.

The woman, still having never looked up, kept tapping at her screen until she flicked a finger at them.

“Provisional injunction granted contingent on a patent judge signing off on the case. Judge Hatfield is assigned to the case. Good day.”

Matt frowned as he saw Johannes' expression turn outright black as they walked out the room.

“What?”

“Guild leader, Judge Hatfield is, how should I put this? A prick of the highest order. I wouldn't call him corrupt because he's beaten every allegation and investigation levied against him, including Emperor Georgios’ judicial reform reviews, but he's got a reputation.”

Matt looked up the judge on the EmpireNet and frowned at what he found. If anything, Johannes had undersold it.

Hatfield had been investigated a dozen times for corruption and hundreds of articles had been written about him because of his controversial rulings. As Johannes said, nothing had ever come of it even with investigations that, to Matt’s eye, didn’t seem complacent or complicit. Judge Hatfield seemed… whimsical might be a good word.

While he might not be corrupt in the traditional sense, it was clear the deck was being stacked against them if this judge, out of all of them, was the one up in rotation just as their turn came up.

It made the earlier breaks and pauses even more suspicious but at this point, Matt felt like he was jumping at shadows. It might feel like it, but not everything was arrayed against him.

“What are our options?”

“Are you willing to let the case sit in purgatory, guild leader? If yes, we can request a new judge, but we will go to the bottom of their docket and that means at least a decade of lead time before we are even seen, which means at least two decades before our case reaches trial at the earliest. Otherwise, everyone would just reject any judge they felt was unsympathetic to their cause.”

“And if Falker rejects the judge? Can they do that to delay proceedings?”

“They can, but as the defense, if they reject the judge we can push through for another first available judge of our choosing. It might delay things by a year or two max, but in my opinion that will shoot them in the foot more than it would help. Still, it's possible they might do so. I have a plan that might help, but it's honestly a bit of a long shot if you're willing to try it.”

“Fine. Let's proceed with Hatfield. We can reevaluate after we see him.”

Which was exactly where they went. Fifty floors up and two subsections over, they were miles away from where they started, but the building wasn’t any more opulent and kept the same stark walls that most government buildings had.

Judge Hatfield’s outer office was staffed by an overly attractive man and woman duo who both smiled at their entrance with perfect expressions, but neither seemed surprised to see them.

Matt understood why that was when the office behind them opened, and he found Judge Hatfield chatting with Falker and what he assumed was the other guild lead lawyer.

So that's how it was.

After Johannes' warnings, he wasn’t too surprised and just walked into the room.

Falker sneered at him the moment the door opened as if he was looking down at an ant who dared to crawl onto his plate during a picnic.

“Ascender Titan. How surprising to see you. I would have expected better from one as illustrious as yourself, but it seems that they don’t make Ascenders like they used to. You know what they say about too much production, after all. It removes the soul of the product.”

Matt just blinked at Falker twice before turning his gaze to the judge across the desk, letting the silence linger until Judge Hatfield was forced to speak.

“That is inappropriate, Mr. Falker. I expect all parties to conduct themselves with decorum.”

Matt finally spoke in his best flat tone. “An astute observation. If we wish to devolve into bickering, I’m more than willing to do so. Just say the word, Falker.”

That comment combined with his lack of visible rage seemed to catch both men off guard and Hatfield stared at Matt with surprise.

Falker reacted faster but his earlier self-assured tone was brittle. “Is that a threat, Ascender Titan? Do you only know how to resort to violence after your pitiful ploy to steal my product has been caught flat footed?”

Matt looked over to the judge but seeing he didn’t seem willing to intervene and stop Falker, Matt took the opportunity Falker’s overreach provided.

“I don’t need to resort to violence, Falker. But an interesting idea you bring up. It makes me wonder.”

He almost didn’t ask, but just as Matt was going to write off his ploy as futile, Falker opened his mouth. “Whatever does that mean, Ascender? Are you threatening me to try to get me to back down?”

“No threats, Falker. I already said that. Maybe you should get your hearing checked. I’m just wondering if you, as a Tier 37, can reach Tier 45 and create an Aspect before I catch up to you. Wouldn’t it be a shame if someone as shameful as myself caught up to one so illustrious as yourself? How pitiful?”

Matt’s anger was partly sated as he watched the true realization of his threat sink through Falker’s bravado.

Judge Hatfield leaned forward but didn’t reprimand Matt. “Gentlemen, there is no reason to bicker. This is simply a matter of business that we need to work out. Most of these cases are simply convergent design and it just means a matter of coming to an agreement both parties can agree on. With that, we can skip all of the unpleasantness that comes with court, so why don’t we all take a seat and come to an agreement.”

The look to Johannes, Gia, and Falker’s lawyer implied they were less than welcome at any such discussion.

Instead of responding, Matt looked to Johannes, who stepped forward. “Judge, we have substantial proof for our claims and we wish to go to trial immediately. If you would see fit to look it over, you will see we more than meet the burden of proof, and when combined with the way our product was waylaid enroute, any delay in granting us a trial will be treated as interference.”

Judge Hatfield wasn’t stupid, and knew when he could push and when he needed to yield. “I can look over the information but once I do it is harder for the parties involved to pull back. I believe—”

Matt shook his head. “No. Do you reject or approve our case?”

Falker looked like he wanted to say something but restrained himself, which Matt didn’t miss.

It seemed they were ready for this battle to enter open court.

Judge Hatfield shrugged as if he was unconcerned. “Then I approve. We will convene our initial hearing for an assessment of the viability of the suit in nine years. If—”

Johannes stepped forward. “Judge Hatfield, Titan’s Torch is officially lodging this suit in the mortal courts using the Mortal Exceptions and Deviations clauses. That means our suit must be handled with all due haste.”

