“Oh yes. If it weren’t so crazy over there, I’m sure plenty of people would be coming over to look at you.”
“Um.”
Erin wasn’t sure if that was a good thing or a bad thing.
“…How are things? I heard a lot of people died.”
Selys paused. She looked down.
“A lot of people did. Not as many as there could have been, thanks to the Watch and the Antinium but—it’s not the worst disaster we’ve been through. And we’re rebuilding. Stronger with each dead scale, you know?”
“You fought didn’t you? You have to tell me about it!”
“Only if you tell me your side. But guess what? I leveled up! And I gained a new class!”
“What, really?”
“Yep! You’re looking at a Level 4 [Warrior] now!”
Selys puffed out her chest with pride as Erin made appropriate sounds of awe.
“It seems like half the city leveled or gained a new class. That’s war for you. No bad without some good. Anyways, Krshia and I wanted to celebrate and we knew you were alone out here.”
“Well, I have Toren.”
“He doesn’t count. We wanted to come alone, but then Relc decided to come with that Klbkch and Zevara told us she was coming and…”
At this point Ryoka stopped listening to the whispered conversation. She was putting together the pieces, but sleeplessness on top of sudden social interaction after a long day of running was not helping. The only upside was that she was rapidly running out of ways to be surprised. When Ryoka met Pisces, the [Necromancer] who’d fixed her leg and who was apparently teacher to one of the Goblins, she took it in stride.
At some point a skeleton walked into the inn with a huge basket of blue fruits and a bucket of water in each hand. He paused as Zevara and Klbkch unsheathed their swords.
“Stop, stop!”
Erin ran forwards between Toren and the others. Klbkch was already sheathing his sword, but Zevara took several minutes of explaining before she rammed her blade back in its sheath.
Ryoka remained perfectly still as Erin introduced Toren to her. She looked into his deathly gaze and the twin blue flames burning in his eyes and did not shake the proffered bony hand. He disappeared into the kitchen and reappeared with a plate and drink which he served to Ryoka.
Undead service workers. Ryoka instantly saw how useful it could be. It was a great idea in theory, but seeing it in practice was—unnerving. She kept glancing at his bones, wondering how they were even staying upright without muscles and skin. Were there magical, invisible threads animating him somehow?
She ate more food, drank more blue juice. Ryoka’s head was spinning as she asked herself a thousand questions at once. When the Gnoll named Krshia introduced herself Ryoka tried to be polite as possible.
She’d seen other species, of course, but they’d always been monsters. Perhaps she’d seen one or two of these…Gnolls in the cities, but never in person. And here were three—four new races if you counted the Goblins, sitting in the inn, talking, acting like people.
At some point the smallest Goblin hopped up on the seat opposite Ryoka and slapped a chess board in front of her. Ryoka thought she looked familiar, but then the Goblin moved a chess piece and stared at her. Erin wandered by, offering chess tips and then the game and everything else blended into the nightmare.
 
—-
 
Ryoka looked like she was having a great time. Erin could tell. She was staring around the inn, chatting to Pawn and playing chess with Rags while other Goblins sat around her and Toren kept filling her cup. She seemed distracted, but then, the inn was more animated than Erin had ever seen it.
“Captain Zevara, another plate of pasta? Or a drink?”
The tall, surly-looking Drake glanced up and waved her hand at Erin.
“I am fine. You are…Erin Solstice, aren’t you? We’ve met.”
“WE have?”
Erin blinked at Zevara and then remembered.
“Oh. We have. After Klbkch—um, how are you?”
Zevara ignored the question as she glanced around the inn.
“I came here because I wanted to see this place for myself. I thought Relc was exaggerating as usual. For once he might have been telling the truth. Although he never mentioned you serving Goblins. Or the skeleton.”
Erin glanced at Relc. The Drake avoided her gaze as Klbkch stared from the Drake to her.
“He hasn’t been around as recently. Um. I hope you like it here?”
“I didn’t come here for pleasure.”
Zevara met Erin’s gaze.
“These Goblins you’re sheltering, and the undead. They are an issue I intend to address, along with the death of the…thing that attacked my city.”
“Um, okay?”
“Zevara. Perhaps now is not the time?”
Klbkch stared at Zevara until she nodded reluctantly. He looked at Erin.
“These are matters of business. But in truth I and the others are here to celebrate the survival of the city. On that note, would you allow me to address the room?”
“What? Oh, sure, go ahead.”
Erin stood back. Klbkch nodded and stood up. She wondered how he would attract everyone’s attention with all the hubbub, but Klbkch simply raised his mug and waited. It took several minutes, but a tall, silent Antinium standing with one mug raised had a calming effect. Klbkch waited until everyone was silent and then spoke.
“To all present, allow me to say a few words. These last few days have been marked by one of the most deadly assaults on Liscor in the last decade. Errors were made on the part of the Antinium and the Watch and for that I must apologize. Needless deaths were caused, but the city and its people remain safe now. The creature which attacked Liscor is dead and as some may have noticed, I have returned to life. It is not in the nature of the Antinium to celebrate, but I adhere to other species’ customs and invite you all to celebrate these events.”
No one spoke. Erin wasn’t sure if she should clap. Klbkch nodded and went on as Ksmvr produced a bottle from somewhere and handed it to him.
“I believe it is customary to make a toast on occasions such as this. For this occasion, my Hive has manufactured its own drink. Allow me to present you with rxlvn, an alcohol we intend to sell.”
He presented a clear, glass bottle filled with some kind of black, foaming liquid to the room.
“Allow me to offer you a drink that we might toast our survival, wellbeing, and the future.”
No one moved. Relc stared at the bottle.
“Klb, that looks like dirt water. Can we even drink that?”
The Antinium nodded.
“It is quite safe, I can assure you. It has been extensively tested on Antinium and while the drink is strong, it is consumable by all present.”
He looked at Erin and she looked at Toren.
“Do we have um, any shot glasses? Anything small?”
They did, in fact. They were more like finger bowls and Erin wasn’t sure what was supposed to go in them. But they made good impromptu shot glasses, and soon each was filled with the fizzing, dark liquid.
Everyone but the Antinium stared into their bowl apprehensively as Klbkch lifted his.
“To life, triumph over the undead, and this inn.”
He drank, tossing the black liquid down calmly. So did Pawn and Ksmvr. No one else did. Krshia was sniffing at the drink suspiciously and Relc tasted the drink with the tip of his tongue.
“It is quite palatable.”
Erin gulped. She saw Ryoka standing away from the group, frowning down into her drink. Well, it wasn’t as if she had to drink the entire thing. She sipped at the drink. Her eyes widened.
“It’s good. Hey, this tastes good everyone!”
They all looked at her. Erin downed the drink and smiled. That seemed to reassure the others. Rags and the Goblins drank their portions down and looked around for more. Krshia tossed hers down and growled happily and Relc and Zevara did the same. Selys and Ryoka drank only a small bit, and Pisces only sipped a few drops.
“Hey it ain’t bad. Good job Klb.”
Relc laughed at his friend as he tossed the shot glass on the table. The others made similar noises of agreement. Krshia inclined her head at the Antinium.
“Perhaps I could find a market for your drink. It is agreeably strong. Gnolls, they would like this I think, yes?”
Klbkch nodded. He was smiling, or doing that raised-mandibles thing.
“It is rather potent in its current form. I regret that this is only a trial run, and the formula is not perfected yet. Perhaps we should have mitigated the effects of the drink with more paralytic agent.”
Everyone stared at him. Erin opened her mouth.
“Um. The what?”
Ryoka felt the top of her mouth go numb. She tried to put down the half-full shot glass but it slipped out of her fingers. She bent to catch it but toppled over.
Klbkch stared at the human girl as she flopped around on the ground, trying ineffectually to push herself up. He glanced around at the other non-Antinium as they began to sway, smile, or regurgitate.
“Ah.”
 
—-
 
The three Antinium strode back through the plains, towards Liscor. Or rather, the secret entrance just outside of it. There was no need to bother the guards on the gate at this hour.
And the striding aspect was similarly exaggerated, because two the Antinium were slower than the other. Pawn had to be half-carried by Ksmvr, unable to walk as he was.
Klbkch amended his pace to let the other two catch up. He spoke without turning his head and the other two answered without looking. They had no need of visual interaction. Communication between their own kind did not require social niceties as with other races.
“I regard this night as a positive outcome on the whole, even in light of the failure of the rxlvn. I will make our apologies tomorrow to the others.”
Ksmvr and Pawn didn’t nod. They didn’t have to. But Ksmvr did raise his voice. His tone was uncertain as he addressed Klbkch.
“With all due respect, would the drink not be considered a success, Prognugator? It was strong enough to affect even Relc.”
“Drinking is meant to be a social activity. The effects were too strong. Also, refrain from addressing me as Prognugator. I assumed that role out of necessity during the attack on Liscor. However, you will resume that position forthwith.”
Pawn looked at Ksmvr as the Antinium stared at Klbkch’s back.
“Am I then your superior? Your position—”
“I am second only to the Queen. A new position will be created.”
“I see. And the Individual known as Pawn?”
“For now he will remain under my authority, not yours.”
“I understand.”
The three walked on. Klbkch voice was cold and impartial as he spoke again.
“In the future, have the brewers reduce both alcohol content and soporific and paralytic agents in the drink. As I understand it, the act of drinking is meant to be pleasurable. Unconsciousness is the end result, not the goal.”
“Understood.”
“It will be done.”
“Very well. I will report to the Queen. I will attempt to communicate with Erin Solstice at another time. Ksmvr, return Pawn to the Hive and await instructions in the morning.”
Klbkch strode away before the other two Antinium could respond.
After a while, Pawn spoke.
“Klbkch’s motives are unclear to me. But I suppose this means I will no longer be a worker.”
Ksmvr’s voice was no longer hesitant. He replied impartially to Pawn.
“That is what we were ordered. You will, of course, obey.”
“Of course. I am loyal to the Hive. I have chosen.”
“Yet you have expressed your dissatisfaction with me to Klbkch. I am your Prognugator.”
“That is true. And you cut off my arms and leg.”
“I did what was necessary for the Hive.”
“Yes. You did.”
“You also instigated Workers to leave the Hive against my orders.”
“I suppose I did.”
The two moved on in silence. After a while Ksmvr spoke.
“Your affection for me is not necessary. However, for the good of the Hive we must work together.”
“I serve the Hive. I am loyal to the Queen.”
“Good.”
“But I still hate you.”
More silence.
“It is suggested by other species that a period of bonding may occur by shared experiences.”
“Indeed?”
“I suggest this as an attempt to amend the distrust between us.”
“I see.”
“Do you have any suggestions in this regard?”
Pawn was silent. His only leg dragged along the ground. He turned his head slightly to Ksmvr.
“Tell me. Do you know how to play chess?”
 
—-
 
The next day, Selys woke up in a room on the second floor of The Wandering Inn, next to a wet, hairy carpet. That carpet turned out to be Krshia, and the two turned out to be sharing the same bed.
Selys stared at Krshia in shock until the Gnoll opened her eyes. Krshia glared at the sun, and then blinked a few times at Selys.
“Good morning, Selys.”
“Um.”
Selys squeaked. She stared in horror at Krshia and then looked down. Their clothes were missing. She thought she saw her dress hanging out the open window. That was important, but her eyes kept getting drawn back to the Gnoll sleeping next to her. Right next to her.
“Um. Uh. Hi Krshia. You wouldn’t happen to know—did we um—did we—?”
Krshia shrugged, and then sniffed hard. She shook her head.
“Hr. Nothing happened.”
Selys almost thought she heard the Gnoll mutter ‘pity’.
“Oh. Good. I’m um—I’m just—I have to—”
Selys rolled out of bed, fled the inn, and locked herself in her apartment for the rest of the day.
 
—-
 
Two hours after Selys fled, Relc found himself lying in the plains, completely naked. He stood up, looked for his clothing, and gave up. The naked Drake strolled through the southern gates of Liscor around the same time the Watch Captain was found passed out in one of the street gutters.
 
—-
 
Six hours before Relc caused a disturbance, Pisces woke up with light shining on his face. He waved his hands feebly and then sat up. What he’d thought was the sun turned out to be something else. He stared at the flickering magic and turned pale.
 
—-
 
Around an hour after everyone had vacated the inn, Erin slumped at a table, blearily watching Toren as he moved around the room, picking up plates and mugs and bringing them to the kitchen.
“See that? That’s useful. Like a…dishwasher with legs. And a sword.”
She wasn’t drunk. The Antinium’s alcohol had tasted bitterly dark with just a hint of something fruity, but it hadn’t done anything for Erin. It was the [Alcohol Immunity]. She wasn’t drunk.
“If I had ten of him…I’d probably hate it. You know he stands in a corner? Very creepy. Veeeeery creepy.”
She was just tired. Ryoka on the other hand was drunk. But she was still able to stand upright, which was quite impressive. Then again, everyone else had been upright as they staggered out of the inn. Only the Goblins had taken the shot and fallen right down. They were still lying on the floor, insensible. Rags was sprawled face-down on one of the tables, clutching a chess piece in one hand.
