The closest tower starts signaling, as I land in the courtyard and start striking our signaling bell with my bare hands. The two men standing next to the bell flinch at my appearance, and start yelling at me for signaling a false alarm before they recognize who I am.

With my first few strikes, the keep freezes as all heads turn towards me. “Keep signaling!” I stop striking the bell, and leave the two men to continue signaling the fortress about the approaching army.

Inhaling deeply, I activate my Loud Voice, Defense Formation, and Valor skills. “Everyone to your stations! Scholl is approaching! Prepare yourselves!” My voice echoes across the battlements, and my skills spur the solders back into action.

I leap towards the closest wall, and then jump again landing on the nearest watchtower. The camp of workers below is a frenzied mess of activity. People are tossing their supplies in wagons and some are already fleeing for the closest city. Only a handful of merchants and builders retreat inside the fort, with the soldiers returning from the watchtowers, they’re the ones betting on us defending against the approaching army. Having the only extra supplies, they’ll make quite a bit of coin… if we all survive.

Looking away from the fleeing commoners, I see Cristopher talking with one of the tower runners. Each watch tower has a soldier with movement skills, who has the job of reporting the formation and numbers of the approaching forces.

There’s too much noise for me to single out their conversation, but after a few quick words, Cristopher dashes up the battlements heading straight for me. Not 15 seconds later, Cristopher appears by my side, for once with a worried look on his face. I thought I would be happy with the smirk gone from his face, but the victory seems hollow in the moment.

“How bad Cristopher?” My even voice gives him a little courage, easing the stress on his face. I stare at the remaining watch towers, watching our men sprint back to the safety of the keep.

“General! The towers report the enemy reaching approximately ten thousand strong. With four mage battalions, and fifteen siege weapons. The back of the forces also appears to be transporting ladders and plenty of supplies.” Cristopher’s frown worsens after repeating our dire situation out loud.

“Did the towers get a good look at the commander of their forces before retreating? Anyone dressed like they’re going to a weird ball, and not a battle?” I let the numbers settle in my head. Even if the enemy outnumbers us, as long as Scholl didn’t send one of their five guardians, we have a small chance.

“The towers didn’t report anyone matching that description, but they did spot a man stationed near the back with a hat sporting blue feathers.”

“Blue feathers you say!?” A small smile crosses my lips. “That means their commander is above level 80. Depending on his skill set we could have problems, but they must not have heard that I arrived three days ago.”

“This is the first time I’ll be seeing a Scholl commander. I’ve heard about their feathered hats, and the costumes of the guardian five, but I didn’t realize they would give away their levels like that.”

“It’s Scholl’s culture to show off their might before their enemies. We stopped their spies from returning through the pass after we arrived, and I easily hunted those trying to signal with magic. A level 80 commander would normally be overkill to crush whatever forces we could have sent here in time. Usually I or any other high leveled person needs a lot of time to prepare for any sort of battle. I just happened to be preparing to hunt a strong monster in the woods close to my territory. That said I only have four of my special arrows. His majesty said he would place an order with the dwarves for ten more, but they will only arrive with our backup.”

“Can you hold the Scholl forces back with only four of your special arrows commander?” Not only Cristopher but the other archers on the tower are looking at me with hope in their eyes.

“Humph.” Looking over the tower’s ledge, I watch as the last of the merchants flee, and notice most of our soldiers from the watchtowers are nearing the keeps gate. Checking one last time for enemy spies, I turn to address my subordinates. “Who do you think I am? I’m General Pitz, the sixth strongest warrior in all of Olebert, the strongest woman in the kingdom, and the best archer around. Four arrows?! I could make this army retreat even if I didn’t have a single one of my special arrows!”

Matching Cristopher’s gaze, my proclamation of strength restores his former smile. The other four archers are brimming with new found confidence as well. “You four go reinforce the surrounding towers; this one is mine.”

“Yes General!” The four shout and barrel down the stone steps, their firm resolve kindling hope in every solider they pass.

“Cristopher!” I tun to my steward. “Yes General!” He responds with a wry smile at my dismissal of the surrounding archers, it seems my pep talk rekindled his snarky attitude.

“Get me a communications mage up here, and go help organize the new recruits. We have one hour of light left, and I can see Scholl’s forces appearing in the distance. I’m not sure if they plan to attack straight away, or if their commander will decide to set camp for the night, either way I want our forces ready in the hour. Understood?”

“Clearly General!” turning back towards the canyon, I feel his presence moving away rapidly.

Reaching over my head, I grab one of the four arrows in my quiver. The magic radiating off the arrow can be seen by the naked eye without any skills. The magic pressure coming off of my arrow would kill a level twenty person if they ever tried to pick one up.

These four special arrows are strong enough to withstand my tier 5 skills, each one is a single chance for me to turn a battle in my favor. Too bad only the stone kin know how to make them, and each cost me 5 large gold coins.

Sliding my arrow back into its quiver, I focus on the steadily approaching army.

I hope I don’t disappoint Cristopher or my men, they needed to see my confidence, so I told them what they wanted to hear. The truth is I can’t remember the last time I was at such a disadvantage. We’ll be lucky to hold the fort for a month, let alone last the winter before our reinforcements arrive. I’m not sure if even I have the skill to protect this dilapidated fort against their siege.

Watching our enemies inch across the distant horizon, a vicious smile crosses my face. There is one thing I’m sure of.

I will bleed Scholl for every inch of this land. I might not be able to stop them here, but with my men’s help, we’ll litter the landscape with as many of their bodies as we can.

I stand ready as the world shifts around me. Time becomes meaningless as I watch the foreign army set up camp outside our range.

One of our three communication mages is standing behind me but I ignore her and in turn watch every movement of Scholl’s army. She knows her place and hardly makes a sound, afraid she might ruin my concentration.

I watch as their mages set up ward spells and how they organize their camp. As my eyes travel from tent to tent, I continue to count.

5,7137,1929,438

A little under ten thousand people. Subtracting their noncombative forces, we’re looking at roughly 8,500 soldiers.

With the sun finally receding, campfires dot the landscape making their forces look twice as big.

In the darkness, I watch a small entourage escort an elderly man to the front of their camp. His blue feathered hat, sways in the nights breeze. He has six bodyguards that I estimate to be close to level 80 as well and three mages weaving defensive spells around their little group. We haven’t had time or resources to set up our own warding spells, so I can only imagine the info they’re gathering on us.

They’re most likely scanning the fort trying to determine our numbers because I can see a little shock on their faces. They were probably expecting no more than 400 defenders instead of our almost 1,200. They still outnumber us seven to one but that means less in a defensive battle.“Cristopher, call our best mages over here. Quickly!” the communications mage looks startled as Cristopher materializes off to my left side from the shadows. “Right away general!”

While waiting for our mages to arrive, I continue to focus on the Scholl commander. I can tell he’s a support class. He’s most likely focused on Vitality and Endurance, and his best skills probably affect others as a whole. He’s probably twice my age and has led many battles for the glory of Scholl.

He knows how far away he has to be, and still keeps other high leveled bodyguards just in case.

After a few minutes of observation, Cristopher returns. “The best mages we have, general.”

Turning around, I face the seven mages before me. Level 40, 35, 50, 50, 65, 60, 40, I don’t even have a quality mage to help me defend the keep. Not one of them is over level 70.

“You, you, and you two.” I pick out the four above level 50. “Yes general!?” They all respond with curiosity and fear.

“I want the four of you to chant different enhancement spells. I need you each to cast the best you can do in three seconds.” Only the level 65 mage has the guts to ask me why. “Why the time limit general?”

“I’m going to kill their general, and they’ll notice the magic quickly, giving us a small window to act.” My words stun the surrounding mages and Cristopher. I can’t waste anymore time so I continue with my directions. “As soon as I fully nock my arrow, you have exactly three seconds to cast your magic. Prepare yourselves, we only have a single chance.”

Turning back to the enemy’s camp, I can still see them casting their scrying spells. Reaching behind my back I draw one of my special arrows. Cristopher takes a step back and the mages freeze sensing the might of the arrow in my hand.

I give them a few breaths to calm their selves, before I take my stance. The world becomes solid beneath my feet as Sure Footing and Archers Stance take hold. Leveling my bow, I marvel at its simple design. There are no inscriptions on the surface of the white wood, or is it metal? The man my family bought it from refused to tell us the material it’s made from. It holds no enchantments but is strong enough to handle my stats combined with my skill levels.

Long Shot, Exceptional Aim, Silent Strike, Enhanced Perception, Strong Bow, Perfect Draw, my skills activate one after another as I pull the drawstring back with my arrow in place. Even with everything I have it still takes four seconds to fully draw my bow.

Once the arrow is fully nocked, I hear the mumbling of the four mages surrounding me. One second, my hand is trembling. Two seconds, I slightly adjust my aim. Three seconds, I empty my mind and drop all my fears as magic reinforces my body.

The Scholl elite forces have noticed something is wrong. The bodyguards tighten their formation, and the mages are preparing a stronger defensive spell.

I release my fingers and fire my arrow.

“Instantaneous Strike.” I tell the darkness surrounding me the name of my tier 5 skill. My mana halves itself and I lose a tenth of my stamina. My body becomes weak as the arrow disappears into nothingness. I hold myself up as I watch my arrow reappear a foot in front of the Scholl’s commanders head. Without any of the force being lost, the arrow obliterates the upper half of his body and creates a crater behind his still standing lower half.

The arrow, still standing in the middle of the crater, turns into ash with the nights breeze.

Stumbling to my knees, I can’t help but pronounce my success to my surroundings. “Got him!”

As the mages and Cristopher celebrate, I try not to show the pain I’m in. 5 large gold coins, 500 mana, damage to my stamina that only rest can solve, and a cooldown of five days; but it was worth it.

I was given a single opening, and in their lax opinion of our forces, I might have just evened the field.

Reaching behind my shoulder again, I feel the three remaining arrows. Three hopes that we have at winning this siege. We still have a major fight coming to us but this should delay their attack for a few days.

Then the war begins.
