They landed on the street just outside a four-story building that looked more like a palace than an inn, and Nathan realized he hadn’t seen any defenses anywhere in the entire city. They hadn’t flown over a single wall or bypassed any defensive enchantments on their approach. No guards eyeballed the Heirs as they touched down in the middle of the city. This palace was fancy, but every enchantment he could detect was geared towards utility and comfort, not protection. Well, there were fairly beefy magical locks on the doors and windows. But they were locks, not true security enchantments that would zap anybody.

Colborn led them straight into the grand entrance to the inn. The doorman welcomed them in, and Nathan was reminded of the lobby of a fancy hotel, mashed together with a high-class restaurant and a boutique store for fashion, armor, and weapons. The ceiling was an elaborate work of stone and paint that evoked a rosy sky with a bright sun directly overhead.

“Laureate Colborn!” The matronly woman manning the desk called out, nearly running out from behind it and flicking her hands towards various staff to get them moving. “We have awaited your coming. You are just as my father described.” She gave small, polite smiles for the rest of the Heirs, but turned a glorious smile on the short Questor.

“Thank you, Jenice,” Colborn replied, his smile warm and friendly. “As always, I am astounded at your family’s hospitality. I would speak with you later, but I fear we are rushed. Are the others here?”

“They await you in the room of golden waves. I shall show you to your suites and then take you to them. Do you wish a meal prepared for you?”

“I do. We will be eating with the others. There is much to prepare. Have you heard of the conclave?”

The woman nodded deeply, almost a bow. “I have. We are preparing for the wave of Questors. I pray you find success in your dealings.”

This time, Colborn’s smile seemed almost sad. “Thank you. I hope your prayer finds purchase.”

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 6

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 9

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 5

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina: 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 897

Limitless Focus: 9070/9070

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Perfected Mind 2

Inspiration 10

Impulse 8

The Sense of Magic 5

Forewarning 10

The Truth of Magic 6

Evasion 5

Wizard’s Palace 5

Veracity 4

Whiplash 5

Visibility Control 8

Blending 1

High-tier Battle Cry 7

Aura Mastery 6
