I went for the big guy—Rook—first. Number one, he deserved it the most, and number two, the others didn’t feel like they’d be as big of threats.

He screamed and tried to fight me off, but I latched my jaws high on his bicep and dragged him, forcing him into an awkward angle where he couldn’t properly defend himself as I yanked him across the ground.

I had watched their crew from the shadows for a while, and it took a lot of self-control not to intervene sooner. But that would have been foolish. Even if we could win a straight three-versus-five, it wouldn’t be without injuries.

Brann charged at me, shouting, “Rook!”—but Lily was already on the move.

She split into three, rushing him and forcing him back defensively.

As for Lysa, when she saw what appeared to be a total of four Hell Hounds, she clearly didn’t like her chances. She turned and ran—

—but she didn’t get far.

A blur of green shot out of the bushes behind her, a sliver of steel flashing as it sliced the back of her heel. She screamed and hit the dirt, and Grick vanished back into the underbrush just as quickly. She probably didn’t even realize it was a goblin that had struck her. She tried to get up and run, but her limp slowed her far too much. Giving up on escape, she turned with her weapon drawn.

Lily kept Brann busy, taking a chunk of flesh whenever an opening appeared as he swung clumsily at her illusions.

Rook finally managed to get a hand on me, grabbing a fistful of my fur—so I went for his face. I tasted blood. It was a good chomp that may have even gouged an eye. But wary of his free hand reaching for the dagger I’d seen him sharpening earlier, I roared an {Intimidate} right into his face.

He flinched, cried out, and loosened his grip on my fur. I sprang back just in time to see his dagger slash through empty air where I’d been.

He wasn’t paralyzed, though. As the highest level among them, I wasn’t surprised—but it was still disappointing.

“Regroup! Shadows!” I told Lily and Grick, though Grick was already hidden. The real Lily took one more snap at Brann before darting into the darkness. I followed, casting {Veil of Shadows} to make myself even harder to spot.

“Scare them with your clones,” I ordered.

She summoned a fresh pair and had them circle our prey just beyond the thicket as the three bandits limped closer together.

It was a good attack.

I had already taken out their bowman earlier in the day, which gave us the perfect opportunity to set this trap with Lily’s Cry for Help—and the fools walked right into it. Now they were injured and separated from the strongest of their group, all while we suffered no damage of our own.

I checked my mind’s eye for Takashi. Death Mark’s fear effect was definitely working—I could see the terror on his face, and he didn’t even know about our attack yet. But he was crouched, doing something strange with his hands. What was it?

He was untying the girl.

Well, I’d have to check on them again later. Even if he ran, {Give Chase} would make running him down easy—even if he did have a nice head start.

I watched as Lily’s clones darted through the moonlight. The three bandits stood back-to-back, weapons raised, twisting and turning erratically.

“What the hell are these things!?” Lysa cried.

“Depth monsters. Hell Hounds,” Brann said. “One’s only level thirteen, and two of them are fakes. Shadow clones or something.”

Hm. So he had Analyze.

“That big one ain’t thirteen,” Rook growled.

“And there’s something else,” Lysa said. “Something cut my damn ankle!”

I prowled in a slow circle. If they knew Lily’s level, we’d lost some of our intimidation factor, but not all of it. They still looked terrified. I wondered if Analyze revealed which Lilys were fake, but either way, they’d still serve their purpose of distracting the other two.

I used {Marrow Sense}, and the back of Lysa’s neck instantly looked like a prime and juicy target, glowing a reddish yellow.

“Now! Lily—go! Grick, careful!”

Lily's clones suddenly made a beeline for the bandits.

“Get ready!” Brann shouted. “Watch for the real one!”

It was all the distraction I needed as they faced the oncoming Lilys and turned their backs to me.

I pounced, my paws slamming into Lysa’s back, pitching her forward and bringing her neck within reach. I clamped down.

“GHHHAAAA!” she screamed as I sank my teeth in and twisted, rolling with her to keep her body between me and the others.

Brann started to drive his sword down at me—but hesitated. I was a shifting target, tangled with his ally, and that hesitation was all Lily needed.

She darted in, snatched his ankle, and yanked, pulling his foot right out from under him as he hit the ground hard.

Lysa thrashed and screamed with my fangs deep in her neck until—

SNAP!

Foe Eliminated! Level 13 Human Bandit

Experience Gained!

“Retreat!” I sent to Lily as I sprang away from Lysa’s corpse and vanished back into the thickets.

Brann staggered upright, limping. “Lysa! You still breathing?”

“She’s dead!” Rook snarled. “That damn beast killed her!”

The two men shifted back-to-back, weapons raised, eyes darting into the darkness.

This really was just turning out to be way too easy. Only two remained, but they were both injured, and my own pack hadn't lost a single HP yet.

Still, I’d like for Grick to get a little more involved. He might gain levels nicely from hunting with us, but without direct involvement, he could be gimped by the kinds of skills, evolutions, and achievement rewards he got.

I shifted my attention, tracking his position by sound alone. A faint rustle to the right. Good. He was already circling into position.

“Grick. Next one’s yours. Hamstring. Then fall back.”

The two men tightened their formation, blades out, backs pressed together.

“Stop moving,” Rook muttered. “Listen.”

They went still.

Lily’s clones slowed too, holding just beyond the edge of their vision. One flickered between trees, just enough to keep our prey’s eyes darting.

Brann swallowed. “They’re waiting for us to slip.”

“Damn it, what are we supposed to do!?”

“Hit ’em hard next time they come in.”

We had set things up quite well, but these bandits were far easier prey than the red masks, I was finding. They didn’t even have any healing potions, it seemed, or they would have used them already.

I hunkered down in the shadows, completely invisible to them, and watched as Grick pushed up a big leaf and eyed his target.

“Lily, distract. Grick, attack.”

One of Lily’s clones lunged in from the left.

Brann reacted instantly, swinging hard—too hard.

A blur of green burst from the brush behind him with another quick, clean arc of steel. Brann screamed as his tendons were sliced and his leg gave out completely.

“AAAGH—!”

He hit the ground, weapon flying from his hand.

Grick was already gone, melting back into the undergrowth, but Rook was charging at him. “It’s a fucking goblin!”

I darted up from hiding.

“Lily, finish! I’ll protect Grick!”

Rook crashed through the brush after the fleeing rustle, blade raised, eyes wild. But his focus was on the wrong target.

I cut across his path, low and silent, then exploded out of the thicket.

He barely had time to place his footing before I slammed into him.

Steel flashed. Pain bit across my shoulder as his blade clipped me, but I drove through it, jaws snapping for his wrist. He wrenched back just in time, losing his grip on the dagger as it spun into the dirt.

I bounced off him and vanished once again. Behind him, Brann screamed.

“ROOK! HELP—!”

The real Lily finally decided to stop playing with her food. No clones or tricks now—just teeth.

She darted in low, went right for his exposed throat, and wrenched sideways. Blood sprayed as his scream choked off into a wet gurgle.

Foe Eliminated! Level 15 Human Bandit

Experience Gained!

Rook froze, eyes darting frantically through the darkness all around him. He crouched down and felt along the forest floor, looking for his knife, but with how dark it was he wouldn’t have much luck.

“Brann?” he called over, his voice almost a whimper. “Brann you still with me?”

Rook’s gaze darted around as he heard a rustle here, a rustle there.

“Damn it! You damn f-fucking monsters!” he cried.

No, I mean it, he was actually crying and sniveling. I guess fear got the better of him without even being plagued by Death Mark. I can’t blame him. He was now unarmed, couldn’t see, had no hope of fighting back, and all his friends were taken out one by one around him.

Rook clenched his fist, suppressing a whimper before shouting, “Show yourselves, damn it! Come fight me proper!”

Mmmm, honestly, I wouldn’t mind dragging this out a little longer. That’s not my usual style, but after the way he had treated that girl, uncaring of the fear she must have felt, knowing she was completely helpless. I think it was only right that he got at least a little taste of what it was like.

But, checking my Death Mark, I could see the last bandit was running further and further away. He was reaching back, probably dragging the girl along with him. Normally, it would be smart to get away from the campfire and hide somewhere. But he didn’t know I was watching his every move.

I couldn’t help a wolfy smile as I thought, Or maybe he does know. Maybe he’s well aware the monster in the woods is watching him.

“I know you’re there!” Rook barked. “I know you’re—”

A twig snapped behind him.

He spun.

Nothing.

Another rustle—this time to his right.

He spun again, faster now, panic overtaking whatever sense he might have. “Stop it!” he yelled with a snivel. “S-Stop!”

Okay, okay, time to end this.

“Lily, Grick—finish him.”

Lily didn’t bother with clones this time. She came in low and fast, a blur slipping between trees as Rook whipped around toward the sound a second too late.

He tried to kick, but missed. Lily’s jaws snapped shut on his calf.

“AAAGH—!” he screamed as his leg buckled beneath him and he crashed hard into the dirt.

He tried to crawl, scrambling forward on his hands, dragging himself through leaves and roots. “No—no, no, no—!”

Grick struck next.

The goblin zipped out of a nearby brush, and Rook shrieked as steel bit into his side. Not deep enough to kill, but enough to break him further. Enough to make him stop thinking.

“Get it off me! Get it off—!”

He rolled, flailing, trying to grab at Lily, and bat Grick away with wild throws of his arm. But they were already gone again.

Hit. Fade. Repeat.

Another snap—this time at his shoulder.

Another scream.

He swung his fists blindly until I stepped out of the shadows. Slowly. Revealing myself.

He saw me. My glowing eyes. The blood on my muzzle. The way I didn’t rush, didn’t need to rush.

“No—no—please—!” he choked, words falling apart as he pushed himself backward with what strength he had left. “Stay—stay back—!”

I tilted my head.

Then, Grick came up behind him and slashed his dagger one last time across the bandit’s throat.

Foe Eliminated! Level 16 Human Bandit

Experience Gained!

You have leveled up!

You are now level 17!

+6 Vigor

+6 Strength

+7 Dexterity

+9 Attunement

+8 Sense
