“Oh… I am also… Nozomi’s Godmother,” Eppie said, then suddenly realised in horror that she had absolutely missed Nozomi’s baptism. But then again, Doves Cry was sliding into No. 1… probably not for long, but the money should be respectable. That was her gift to Nozomi… as a… fairy Godmother.

As for an actual Godmother… a family as old as the Sanders’ was a solid choice.

“Sorry…”

“Don’t apologise,” Eppie cut in before Valorie’s joy could sour. “Good job. I am serious. Between Mio, you and me, Nozomi is going to have a hella blessed life.”

“There’s one more thing.”

Eppie listened.

“I'm taking Mio's place. On stage. In May.”

The profundity of Valorie’s words made her momentarily speechless. Her immediate thought was shallow and insulting, wondering if Val was once more usurping a role meant for Mio. A second later, her [Script Analysis] kicked her in the gut hard enough for Eppie’s eyes to water.

The shape of it was simple.

Val had taken something from Mio—a role, a stage, the small triumph of being chosen. Now, Valorie Sanders was taking Luciana Mio’s place again. Same verb, same two names, different Shakespeare.

Yet, this time, every particle of the original sin had been reversed. What was envy dressed as ambition is now penance dressed as sacrifice. In the aftermath, what could William do to Senator Sanders’ daughter? What could the Chens do to Francis Sanders? Valorie Sanders wasn’t some refugee from Reedley. If a Senator’s daughter stood exposed to the pain of an explicit recording of a fellow student’s torment, then it was art of the highest degree.

And Mio… Mio could still sit in the theatre, somewhere safe, on the second floor. Mio could watch her assailant’s blood be let in public until the last vital drop.

Then she could go home to Nozomi, safe in the knowledge that justice was done, and her grievance had been served, and no Chen would ever touch her again.

Val wasn’t stealing Luciana’s spotlight. She was bearing its weight in Luciana’s stead.

O Ye of little faith… the [System] seemed to mock her as the [Causality] compounded and her innards grew knotted. Witness what thy deeds have wrought, and tremble!
