He wasn't sure how much time had passed when they turned a corner and saw out into a broad and open space, the hole at the center of Anvakar. Veron sighed in relief when they stepped out and he saw the darkening and gray sky above. Something shattered ten meters or so away, Veron assuming that staying at the bottom of the pit would be continuously more dangerous as the evening progressed. In account of the likely increasing general inebriation.

Hayden pulled on a chain that reached the bottom, and half a minute later, a lift started to descend. Torches and lanterns at the bottom floor illuminated some of the other teams that were returning. With how many had still been at the base camp, Veron assumed that quite a few of them would stay in the dungeon overnight.

Slowly, they ascended, Reka paying the two handlers of the lift before they stepped aside.

Silvie stretched and Veron yawned. Hayden rolled his shoulders and Reka smiled.

“We made it back before midnight. Let's get some dinner. Well done everyone,” Reka said.

The atmosphere in the city was vibrant as they made their way to the Guild and then the Willard inn, the others waiting outside while Reka reported what they had seen. She was only gone for a few minutes.

“They're aware of it. And I'm told several groups have already been taken out just this month,” Reka reported and they moved on towards the inn.

Veron expected them to say more. Was it just par for the course here? Desperate people delving into the dungeon, others taking advantage of them. It was what everyone had warned him about. He supposed that if you stayed here for a while and planned to go into the dungeon on a regular basis, it was just something you had to deal with and process occasionally.

“Pretty fucked up, all of that,” he said.

Hayden grunted affirmingly. Reka said nothing.

“We’re back and alive, that’s what matters,” Silvie said.

The stark contrast of all the death and danger in the dungeon and the music, conversations, and laughter in the densely packed and narrow alleys of Anvakar was strange for a while but soon, Veron realized that it simply couldn't be another way. Slowly, the tension and excitement of the day made way for comfortable exhaustion. He was looking forward to a hot meal and a bath. And he knew that everyone else who had spent the day down there was now looking for ways to distract, vent, grieve, or celebrate whatever had happened in the dungeon.

A band of bards were playing an exciting tune when they entered the grand hall of the Willard Inn, a group of people sparring in the training area, and dozens of teams having dinner or drinks, the buzz of conversation and music continuing almost seamlessly from the alleys outside.

Veron shuddered at the warmth in the hall, and smiled at the scene.

Yeah. I do think I like this place.

Dinner was a hearty stew. They ate mostly in silence, until their initial hunger settled. Hayden brought cake and tea for everyone afterwards.

The warmth of the brew made Veron sigh, leaning back in his simple chair. He was more and more aware of the aches in his body, the exhaustion in his bones. And the smell. His own and that of the others. Blood, mud, and the now familiar foul scent of the Gutter.

“Thought that thing had you when your shield shattered,” Silvie said.

“He’s a tough one for his level,” Hayden said with obvious approval.

“Things went well, all things considered,” Reka said, blowing on her tea.

Hayden motioned to the cake, distributing the four pieces among them. “And we’ve got cause to celebrate, beyond another successful day in the dungeon.”

Silvie moved over and put her arm around Veron. “A modest man.”

“Modest man of earth,” Hayden said.

“I’m seeing the theme,” Veron said.

“It’s not particularly complicated,” Reka added.

“Now you’re fine with stupid jokes?” he asked.

“We’re not exactly in danger anymore.” Reka shrugged and smiled. “And I suppose it’s tradition.”
