Again, she bowed. And if Nalthaliarstrelous had been here, surely he would have fallen to his knees.
“Sir. Thank you. Thank you for…thank you. May I ask…?”
The great boughs moved as somewhere high overhead, the figure shook its head. It spoke, and it was an it, for all Ryoka had thought he.
“I am of the land beyond, wind’s friend, unlike the one who fled her lair and world past. But I do not have the ear of the King of Fae.”
“You mean…you can’t help me?”
Ryoka’s heart sank again. She looked at the figure and got a slow shake of the head once more.
Despair. And frustration. Ryoka looked around. The sun was setting! For all time was skewed here, it did pass. The one woman who could have made it stop—
She was waiting for Ryoka. The Wind Runner looked around, gathering her resolve.
“What if I said his name, then? Ob—”
Again. The power of the name filled her. And again—she was stopped. This time by a finger as gentle as the brush of a leaf.
“Do not speak his name here. Lest you wish to invoke his power.”
The personage spoke. Ryoka knew he was right. She sagged.
“I’m sorry. But—do I?”
The great tree shook its head again.
“If you seek to defy his will, you do not.”
He spoke ponderously, and yet, each word was so obvious it confirmed what Ryoka had half-known, or suspected. Reassuring. Yet still—she looked up at him and did not mince words. They had not the time to hold a conversation at length, anyways.
“Do you know about a prophecy with me in it?”
“Yes.”
“Will you tell me?”
“No.”
That was his kind for you. Direct. And his denial felt like a lesser tree had fallen on her. Ryoka stumbled with the force of it and knew she could not ask again. She looked at him, seeking safety in his words.
“What must I do, sir? Will you help me?”
He thought for a moment. Perhaps an hour. Perhaps days, in that strange time they shared. How long did a tree take to think? That long, exactly. Then he bent down and spoke once more.
“I tell you this because you are friend of the wind. And the wind and land are allies mine. I tell you this for what may be. I tell you for this day, and for the hospitality you have shown, for all you make merry upon the land cleared of my folk, upon the things made of our flesh and blood.”
She shivered. She was glad he was not wrathful with her. And suddenly—every bench, every wooden chair? She shuddered, but the hand was gentle as it touched her.
“The quick-lived are cruel. I would not bear all the grudges against you here. Yet I will aid you for that reason.”
His eyes were dark whorls in the trunk. His voice like the groaning of the trunk in the fiercest storm.
“I tell you this because you aided the ones who were guardians of this land. I tell you this because you will repay it tenfold.”
Neither kind nor unkind. He looked at Tyrion Veltras. Ryoka forced herself to nod.
“I will. If I can.”
She led him over to the [Lord]. The Lord of House Veltras had been watching her, she realized. Had he moved when Sikeri did? Or had he judged his opponent and known he would be wanting?
“Lord Veltras? T-this is someone you should meet.”
Ryoka shuddered as the figure loomed behind her. She looked up and realized—
“I’m sorry. I don’t even know your name.”
The giant smiled. Lord Tyrion held out a hand, hesitating. The figure did not take it. But he did bend down and smile.
“I am, in your tongue, Silver Pine.”
Of course. Ryoka stared. His hair was the very color of—his skin the exact shade of—but was he all of them or…?
“Is that your name? Or your, uh…”
“I am what I am.”
That was all the tree said. He turned to Tyrion Veltras.
“We shall speak of those under your care, mortal lord of this realm. My kin long left land for sea. I would not see one of the last forests suffer the same fate.”
“Of course. Sir.”
Tyrion half-bowed, reflexively. He looked at Ryoka and she nodded to him in thanks. Not that either would have refused Silver Pine.
Satisfied, the figure turned to Ryoka and knelt. This time, he spoke directly to her. Payment, perhaps. A favor for a favor.
“The others will never let you to him. You must bribe or beg or fight your way to the true representative of the Summer Court. All those lesser ones could never grant you what you desire.”
He pointed. And there he was. The laughing figure who was of the Summer Court. Ryoka had always known it was him. But the tree spoke again, and she realized she had needed this too.
“You will have to ask him in the old ways. Nothing less will suffice. And even then—you will risk everything.”
She looked up at him sharply. He nodded.
“Will you help me with the words?”
“Yes.”
She spoke, and listened to the rustling reply. And the evening began to turn to night. Time was passing. And the glowing figure at the center of the Summer Court laughed with his kin, dancing, making merry.
Waiting.
It had been such a long time. Not just for them.
For the others.
 
—-
 
A man sat in front of Aaron Vanwell. He was looking at his hands. At his legs. At the seat upon which he sat.
He inhaled. And he smiled.
“It has been too long.”
His eyes opened. And Aaron saw something like stars in the depths of his irises. Color within color.
He was much like Aaron remembered. But more—concrete. Aaron had tried to look up pictures of old [Archmages]. But he had not remembered…anything more than the vaguest of impressions.
This time was different. The personage before him was indeed dressed like…
A [Mage]? No, no, that was the wrong thing to think. He had the same stylings. A long robe, delicate limbs, the build of a man who might spend hours in a library rather than elsewhere. Even spectacles.
But he was no [Mage] in purity. Rather, they were copies of the idea of him.
Before Aaron sat a scholar. A historian. A teacher, a professor, and yes, a mage, a scientist—
The purest quill of all these things. He had no beard, but was clean-shaven. His smile was secretive.
He belonged to Wistram. Or Wistram belonged to him. Every time his lips moved, it was as if a thousand secrets were held behind them, just waiting to be heard. You wanted to listen to him…forever.
He spoke again, sighing. Delighted by the sigh.
“Too long indeed, Aaron Vanwell. But you have done exactly as I asked. Our pact has been honored. For that, and what will come after, I thank you.”
The guest smiled and held out a hand. As before, so now. Aaron grasped it gently.
“You helped me too, sir.”
The touch was light. But the grip firmed, with delicate strength. The stranger stared into Aaron’s eyes.
“Not sir.”
“I’m sorry?”
“My name. You know it. Speak it for me.”
The voice was longing, insistent—and Aaron could not look away. He murmured it.
“Emerrhain.”
A sigh. The grip loosened. Aaron felt a tingle run up his arms, down his spine. The stranger, Emerrhain, smiled.
“Thank you.”
Aaron opened and closed his mouth. Emerrhain sat there, looking around. Eyes alighting on all things.
A small sculpture of Cognita. Books of magic. Wands, parts of his mage armor, little sample gears from Pallass—each and every thing he took delight in.
“What fascination. What wondrous shapes that fit together. Folk have always made such things and I know every pattern. But this! This is beyond what any have crafted in this world.”
He chuckled as he regarded the gears, discarding them, and picked up Aaron’s iPhone. He marveled at the construction, the circuitry.
“You were interested in it last time, weren’t you…sir?”
For some reason, it was hard to use his name. Aaron defaulted to ‘sir’. He frowned.
“But I thought you would have had time to investigate. After all—”
You’ve been here for half a year, haven’t you? But he had not seen his mentor since. The man turned.
“I told you then, Aaron. We would meet today. From that pact alone, certainty flows. Tell me now; have I not done as promised?”
“You have.”
It was he who had given Aaron the passphrase that opened the secret rooms. He who had helped Aaron figure out the link between magic and batteries. He who…
Had warned him about Feor. Emerrhain had known many things, some of which required an intimate knowledge of present events. The passphrase was one thing. But now?
Aaron had questions. Many of them. Would he stay around? Teach Aaron more? He had told Aaron—
“—That I could not teach you magic because you knew naught. Now is different. I shall teach you great spells, Aaron Vanwell. Help you find what was hidden here. After this day, you shall not want for knowledge. That is the pact we have made.”
The stranger finished Aaron’s sentence. The young man stirred. In the back of his mind—a little voice spoke up. At distance, at great remove. Aaron frowned, and then voiced it with effort.
“I—forgive me, sir. But why are you doing this? Why for me?”
Emerrhain’s smile did not flicker; but it deepened. With another layer of meaning. He sat there, on the bed.
“Because I chose you. Of all the ones I could have chosen. I chose you. And you accepted. You were the one I judged most worthy. Not all of my companions were so lucky. They misjudged their opportunities. I choose you. Perhaps there could have been one other. But she is lost to me. And we three had no idea what to give her. You?”
He looked at Aaron.
“You want to know. And that aligns with me perfectly.”
Aaron nodded. And yet—he shivered.
“I asked you questions, sir. And you helped me. But I didn’t promise you anything, did I? I just…took your hand.”
He said that, almost, almost pleadingly. Emerrhain looked at him. His smile never wavered.
“Yes. That was enough. Now, Aaron. There is something I would like you to do for me. Quickly. We have just today.”
He rose, as if they had said enough. Aaron rose involuntarily. He followed the figure to a place in his rooms where he could make a magical circle, if he knew how. The man stopped and Aaron did too. He had only one more question he could ask, before Emerrhain spoke. He was already tracing something in the air for Aaron to copy.
“How—how many others are there? Will you tell me that at least?”
Emerrhain head turned. He thought of this question. The answer hung behind his lips. Then he seemed to think Aaron had earned it.
“Of those that yet still matter? Five.”
Five. The man laughed lightly as he drew, beckoning Aaron down to memorize it and copy it.
“There are more. A child. Lost ones. But six that matter, including I. And of we—only he and I succeeded. Time enough later, though. Now come, Aaron. The others pursue their business as they will it. You and I have work to do.”
 
—-
 
The [Emperor] paced back and forth in front of the seated man. He had no details to work by. Just a beard. The outline of a figure, faint, in his vision.
The rustle of cloth. Laken knew—the man was in his late thirties at most. Still in a prime to sound by him, and by his figure.
Tall. Commanding by his nature. So again. So again.
They had said little thus far. And a lot.
“You have done well. And poorly. You abandoned your subjects and courted disaster. You took half of my advice.”
The voice was amused. Laken turned his head as he came to a stop.
“I did. Your advice was good. Not perfect, but good. Tamaroth.”
The name hung in the air and Laken listened to how it sounded. The figure smiled. Laken knew it.
“You should have listened to all of my advice and heeded it unstintingly.”
Laken frowned. Same as before, the other man spoke down to him. Laken did not like it. He felt as though each word were from a leader to a follower. And he did not follow this man.
This…
“I took your advice, and I thank you for it. But let’s not play about with words. I listened to you, but it feels as though I gave you something for your free advice. Something I did not intend to give you. Especially if you show up here. Now. Today.”
“There was no other day I could have arrived.”
Tamaroth said simply. Laughter in his tone. Laken frowned.
What are you?
He wanted to ask. But he didn’t.
Couldn’t?
Instead, he switched topics.
“You said you and I are linked. That one other had found…a friend.”
“More than a friend, Laken Godart. We two are of the same kind. Leaders of men.”
“And women. And half-Trolls, [Witches], Goblins. Or is it just men?”
The figure shifted again. He sounded both amused and annoyed.
“What pedantic words you choose. You know what I mean. You should rejoice that I chose you.”
“Yet I did not choose you. I rather feel I’ve been tricked.”
Laken shot back. He paced back and forth. Yet not once did he confirm the man was there. Nor did he try to leave the room. He whirled.
“You took my hand.”
“You tricked me.”
Then. Laken Godart remembered it. For some reason, Durene and Gamel had not come to the door. He had been wandering around, trying to find something in the unfamiliar room.
“Is anyone there?”
And he had reached out, after falling and—
“I was a blind man, reaching out for my cane. For something to grab. I did not intend to seal a pact with you, Tamaroth.”
“Intention. You sound like him. Quibbling over words, details, the meaning of each. What matters is that you did.”
“So what have I made a pact with?”
He would not respond. Laken Godart’s hair rose. He threw himself back into his chair. This was not then. He was on his land.
“Why did you come? Just to dispense more advice? I will take that. Then you may show yourself out. And never return.”
He tried to enforce his will. But he felt nothing. Tamaroth laughed.
“After today? You and I will speak more. I came to you, my friend, to speak of your future. What you should do.”
“I will consider your words. But I am not your subject.”
“Are you not?”
The two faced each other, in a silent battle of wills. After a moment—the other relented.
“Let us not quarrel. Today is a day of great rejoicing. I hear the outsiders making merry. You should not have invited them. Make your festivities in my name. I told you to do so. It has been too long since I enjoyed any such delights. Have you nothing to drink here? To eat? Offer me something. I am parched of thirst. Starved of sustenance.”
A note of reproach. Laken decided he should have invited the entire realm of the fae in that case. He leaned forwards, tapping his cane on the ground.
“If you want to eat or drink, help yourself. I’m sure the kitchen’s larder is stocked. Or go outside and ask to join in the festivities. I’m sure the fae will be interested in you.”
“I will not.”
The voice was angered. Laken pushed on. He stood.
“Why don’t I ask them for you? I’m sure Ryoka would be interested in you.”
“You will not.”
Laken strode towards the door. He halted, his hand on the doorknob. He looked back once.
“What are you doing to me?”
“You will not. Sit back down.”
