She just had to—Ryoka yanked a tablecloth off a table, taking all the dishes with it. She threw it around herself. The wind blew—she went up—
 
“Enough!”
 
The wind went still. Even it feared the voice. Ryoka landed in a heap. She got up, and Melidore was striding towards her.
He had a blade in hand.
“Oh come on. You too?”
She pointed at him. He bared his teeth as they glinted in the fading light.
“You have offended me with your boon, Ryoka Griffin. Why should I not?”
He lifted the sword. And Ryoka felt the wind forsake her. Despairing, she looked around.
“Challenge.”
Melidore blinked. He looked around. A young man was striding towards him, silver armor gleaming, sword and shield in hand.
“Ylawes, no.”
“I challenge you, sir.”
“Me?”
The fae looked amused. He pointed and Ryoka’s feet rooted themselves to the ground. She could not move—could not speak. It was just a gesture. Melidore swung around.
“To a duel. Let her go.”
The first of the guests thought about it. Then he shook his head.
 
“No.”
 
Again, the denial was like a blow. Ylawes caught himself, gritting his teeth. Melidore spread his hands.
“Why should I match blades against a foe who cannot trouble me? I do not defend my honor, or seek the thrill of worthy foes. I only desire to humble Ryoka Griffin. So no. You have nothing to offer me, nor any other. Ryoka Griffin will not leave. Unless…”
His eyes brightened. And a terrible smile came over his face. The other fae seemed to understand what he was thinking. They clapped their hands, chortling.
 
“The bet! The bet of the knight! The tale of green and hubris. Yes, yes!”
 
They cheered Melidore, begging him to do it. He raised a hand and silence fell. Then he looked at Ylawes, the group behind him.
“I will let any one of you strike me, and if I should not be able to reply, the mortal shall go. But if I stand the first blow—I shall strike you. Until one or the other falls.”
No. Ryoka strained to get free, but he was holding her in place. Someone had to beat him to free her! But this—Ylawes’ eyes narrowed.
“A blow for a blow?”
“You first. Whatever you wish. But be warned boy—I will strike second.”
Melidore flicked the blade carelessly. Ryoka strained to open her mouth. With all her will—she managed to turn her head.
“Ylawes. Don’t. It’s a trap.”
“Even I can tell that, Ryoka.”
The [Knight] shrugged uncertainly. But he didn’t know. A variant of the Green Knight’s bet to Sir Gawain in Arthurian legend. Ryoka knew so many tales with the same premise.
Yet still, Ylawes nodded. The fae cheered and Melidore smiled. Ylawes looked at Ryoka, and then addressed the fae.
“I will not hold back, sir. For I owe Miss Ryoka Griffin a debt of gratitude. And her errand is more important than your life.”
“You say so, silver knight? Then strike me.”
Melidore taunted him. Ryoka groaned aloud.
“No, Ylawes—”
Too late. The [Knight] advanced, dropping his shield, bringing his silver longsword up in a two-handed grip. Melidore raised his hands, not bothering to dodge or move. Waiting.
“Ylawes!”
The [Knight] uttered a Skill as his sword sliced through the air. Ryoka heard it. Heard the shout of horror from Yitton Byres and the others as they saw Ylawes—
—Cut through Melidore. Through arm, chest, torso! Out the other side!
Two severed arms dropped, one still holding the sword. The fae’s cheering stopped. A bloody torso and lower half fell—Ryoka stared.
Had the Green Knight survived that? Head, yes, but Ylawes had aimed for the arms. Try reattaching—the pieces lay on the grass.
“Ylawes! What have you done!”
Yitton tore free of Shallel and ran forwards in horror. He stared at Ylawes’ sick face. Ryoka realized—she could move. She took a step. Was it possible…?
Melidore laughed. Ryoka froze and Ylawes whirled. The fae stood behind him, brushing at the blood on his clothes.
“Well done, boy! Timeless bravery! Timeless foolishness!”
“I—”
Ylawes paled. Then he dropped his sword.
“Do as you will, then, sir. Only let Ryoka go.”
Melidore looked at him. And those damned eyes were so cruel.
“That was not agreed. My turn.”
His sword, shining, like a beam of light in the evening, fell.
It cut Ylawes deep across the chest. Sliced his silver armor without slowing. Into flesh. Bone.
Ylawes stumbled. He stared down at his cut torso. He had taken countless blows in battle, perhaps even worse. But then he opened his mouth and screamed.
It was a shriek of pain. Yitton halted again, then ran as his son collapsed, howling, clutching at his wound. It sizzled and burned. Melidore flicked blood off his sword. Ylawes’ scream went on and on—and even the fighting duels slowed and those listening flinched away from the sound.
The shriek went higher—then cut off. Ylawes lay, golden hair lying on the grass. Yitton reached for his son as Shallel fell to her knees.
“Is he—”
He rose, reaching for his own hilt. Melidore spat at his feet. The spit ate away at the very ground. The fae turned.
“I would not defy our king’s orders. He is not dead. Fix him with your cheap tricks if you will. But he will not rise until the dawn. Next? I will not be so kind the more I swing my blade.”
He smirked, swishing the weapon he held back and forth. Ylawes groaned—but the wound did heal as Shallel poured a potion on the wound. But he did not wake up.
And that had been kind? Ryoka stared at Melidore. The fae smirked at her.
At least Ylawes was not dead. But the voices of challenge had suddenly stopped. Even the bravest feared that scream. And—they had all seen Ylawes cut Melidore in two. What were you supposed to do after that? Disintegrate him?
No one spoke as Ryoka saw the sun setting. Looking up at the gap in the sky.
Then, a shaky voice. Rumbling. Angered.
“I will.”
Melidore’s head turned in delight. Ryoka groaned aloud once more.
Durene. The [Paladin] had her club, and her door-shield. Metal armor, not yet customized to her, with an eye emblazoned on it.
She was not Ylawes, in perfect shining armor. The fae laughed aloud.
 
“Half-child! The half-Troll challenges you, Melidore!”
“Brawn before brains!”
“Brawn without brains, to think she has a chance!”
 
The fae thought so too. He smiled at Durene, like a distant uncle to a cousin.
“Child, for kinship, I tell you do not try. I mean my every word.”
“Yeah? Well…I’m going to hit you.”
Durene didn’t have a snappy rebuttal. Melidore laughed and shook his head.
“Durene—”
“I’ve got this, Ryoka.”
“Until one or the other falls! Well then, little one! Try—”
Durene didn’t listen to Melidore’s words. She strode over and kicked him between the legs.
Ryoka saw Melidore’s feet leave the ground. Every male of every species winced at the blow. Melidore cried out. He doubled over—
And then straightened. Laughing.
“This world does entertain!”
Durene blinked. But she’d hit him harder than she’d ever—the fae shook his head at her.
“You tried well, little one. With creativity. But did you think you could overturn stories so easily? Ah—my turn. Gentleness, for the mortal mingling as rare as yours.”
He reached out and drew a cut along her chest, diagonally, down through her breasts to her navel. Cutting armor and her grey skin apart.
Durene screamed. Laken strode forwards and only his subjects held him back from Melidore. The fae laughed once, turned away as the half-Troll girl dropped her club, fell backwards, writhing in agony.
Ryoka closed her eyes as the scream went on and on and Durene’s howl—
Stopped. The girl’s fall backwards halted. Melidore turned. Durene had not fallen to the ground like Ylawes.
Someone was holding her up.
“Steady. Steady, girl.”
Hedag. Pryde. Wiskeria. Prost, Gamel, half a dozen others heaved and Durene stumbled back onto her feet, panting. Melidore stared at the place where he had cut—
The armor fell apart. But underneath, Durene’s skin was fresh. The scar remained. But it had closed in an instant.
Hedag lowered the potion in her huge hand. The [Witch] tipped her brown hat at Melidore.
 
“Cheating!”
 
One of the fae shouted furiously. Durene, panting, wiped sweat from her brow. Gamel and Beniar lifted the club back into her hand. She turned to the shouter.
“No one—no one said I couldn’t ask for help. Or use potions.”
 
“What? Ye art cheating! You—you half-Troll cheater! Ugly! Ugly and—”
 
The fae made a sound as Laken looked at her. Melidore was glowering too. But Durene just bared her teeth at them.
“It’s only common sense. You—did I hear it was a story? You should have brought a half-Troll to those stories. Now. My turn again.”
Melidore stared. Uncomprehending, simply disbelieving.
“That is not how the story goes. You cannot simply—wai—”
The club hammered him into the ground. This time—Ryoka thought it actually hit him.
The Green Knight’s fable broke. So too did the hold on her. The Wind Runner stumbled past the ranks of the fae, who were laughing their winged butts off at Melidore. A few looked like they wanted to stop Ryoka, or Durene.
 
“She’s cheating. What is it with mortals and cheating stories in this world?”
“That makes it funnier. Shh! I want to see him suffer!”
 
Melidore was getting up, wrath in his eyes. But Durene was banging on her door-shield.
“You said it yourself! You can’t kill me, or do anything that interferes! Go on! Strike me, little man.”
Behind her, the Wind Runner ran. And she was laughing and running and leaping. The wind was dead! But please?
“Please?”
The party was in chaos. Seven duels! A challenge of strength! Durene cried out again and was healed. The fae were all about Ryoka. Some were watching, others trying to drag at Ryoka, keep her from entering. Others fought those that did, cheering Ryoka on.
 
“Go! Fulfill prophecy, ye cheating cunt!”
“Do not! You disobey the rules! You will die! We will hunt you!”
“Go! Go! Fly! Show us you can!”
 
Ryoka vaulted a table as someone bit her arm and took a chunk out. The buzzing was in her ears. She leapt—
And fell. The wind. The wind.
“Please? Come on. Just one time, can’t things be easy?”
She hit the ground. The fae laughed. The window above was closing. The fae holding it open was growing bored, her hands shifting as she watched Melidore raging, caught by the very story he had invoked.
“Miss Ryoka Griffin! Do you need help?”
A voice roared in her ears. Ryoka looked up—
And saw a [Lord] sitting on a carpet. Lady Ieka Imarris and the first son of House Zolde hovered overhead.
On a flying carpet.
“It seems you have a date with destiny, Ryoka. Come and—”
The fae shrieked and leapt at the carpet. Those with wings assailed the [Lord]. Ieka yelped and raised a glowing barrier. Ryoka looked up.
She was not alone. She had done all this with help! She ran, shoving fae aside. She jumped as if tricking and the Satyr laughed—
She caught the outstretched hand. The [Lord] grinned as he hauled her upwards. Ryoka, Ieka, the carpet—
Flew upwards towards the door in the sky. The hot, summer’s air, the sweat, the cold fear running down Ryoka’s back fell away. She felt Ieka hauling her onto the carpet.
Below, the fae pursued, but even they were too slow to match the dizzying rate of ascent. The party dropped away below them.
“House Zolde owes you a debt! My brother and I will take you to this wondrous place!”
The [Lord] pointed. Past Ryoka, she saw a second carpet blocking the fae. She looked at the [Lord]. Memory stirred. But it wasn’t him. It was the other—
“You helped me twice. Thank you.”
“It is our honor. To the skies!”
He roared. Ryoka looked at Ieka and the [Mage Lady] laughed. Up! Higher and higher, towards that glowing door. Beyond it, Ryoka could see distant skies. Were those…flowers on the other side? Beautiful blooms? She reached out, and Ieka and the [Lord] did likewise.
They were so close. Ryoka poised to leap and Ieka did likewise. Ryoka saw the night sky, stars beginning to shine amid the fading blood red light.
And then…a color more vivid than midnight. Onyx and byzantium. A scale, larger than Ryoka was tall.
A vast, rearing body. A serpentine head. As large as—
Sikeri the Wyrm reared up. High—higher. Ryoka, Ieka, the [Lord] and the carpet were tiny before her. She hissed. And her smile was terrible.
“No.”
“You should not have spurned me.”
The great maw opened. The carpet swerved—Ryoka felt a lurch. Saw the head striking down—
Sikeri tore the carpet in two. The three fell to earth.
Ryoka Griffin fell. She heard Ieka screaming a desperate spell—
And the wind caught them. A foot from earth, she stopped in the air and then dropped the last foot. She heard the fae, shouting insults at Sikeri, laughing.
The Wyrm was gone. The representative of Sikeri smugly tossed the torn carpet down. Ryoka looked up at her as the wind went dead.
“You will replace that, Sikeri’val.”
Melidore’s eyes flashed. The Wyrm quailed, but her sidelong look was triumphant. It was the fae who had caught the three plummeting mortals with the wind.
“My carpet?”
The [Lord] stared at his broken artifact. Sikeri was glowering even as she seemed to hunt around in her pockets. Ieka just sat up, looked at all the way they’d fallen, and vomited onto the ground.
Ryoka stared at the spewing lady. At the smug Wyrm. She looked up.
The door was closing. Tears sprang into her eyes. She couldn’t help it.
“You—you—you suck.”
There weren’t words in any language for how much she hated Sikeri at that moment. The Wyrm was triumphant. Ryoka looked around. All of that! All of it for what?
They’d all fought so hard. But Dawil was lying on the ground, groaning. Thomast had dropped his sundered blade. Two of the warriors turned towards her, and Durene was at her limit.
Done. Done. So many people! So many moments! For this? Did it not matter? Why hadn’t he helped? Silver Pine just watched Ryoka.
“When I needed you most, why didn’t you help? I can’t beat that alone! That—that snake bitch!”
Ryoka pointed at Sikeri. The serpentine lady hissed back at her. It wasn’t fair! It was never fair! It was wrong to think the fae gave chances.
The Wind Runner stared up at the mile-high door to the land of the fae. Tears running down her cheeks. She looked at the closing doorway, the fae holding it open. At Silver Pines who had not helped.
Her tears…slowed. Sikeri’s triumphant grin wavered. Melidore turned.
Ryoka Griffin’s legs began to move. She began to run. The two warriors burst into a run of their own. But the barefoot runner ran. Sprinted forwards. She passed Sikeri, who reached out—
And Silver Pine caught her. Ryoka ran. Shoving fae aside. Punching one as she jumped. Hearing the laughter of the Satyr. Cheers.
