Headscratcher looked left, at Bugear. His eyes traced the gaps in their number. Statues. Ghosts floating in place where their representations in stone should be.
Grunter. Orangepoo. So many were missing statues, memorials. Because she had not known them. But where the statues were missing—the Goblins stood. Or sat. Grunter waved. Orangepoo nodded, slightly miffed that Headscratcher got a statue.
Bugear rubbed at his ears, disconcerted to find nothing there. He looked ahead. Spiderslicer checked his side. Eater of Spears looked ahead.
Reiss looked left. And Garen Redfang rested a clawed hand on his shoulder.
“Why are we here?”
He looked blankly at his brother. Reiss didn’t know how to explain.
It was just a thought. If. If Shorthilt had—and Pyrite? Then perhaps…the Goblins looked down at the stranger in their midst.
“Because you are needed. For one last fight. Brother.”
The Goblin Lord rose. He took Garen’s shoulder. The Chieftain half shook his head.
“We had one chance. Should not have a second.”
He harrumphed, as if annoyed by the fact of existing. Reiss bared his teeth.
“Don’t be stupid. This…”
He pointed down at the shadow in the air.
“Must stop it. It will steal her.”
He looked at the young woman. Headscratcher knelt in front of her. He reached for her, gently. But his hands passed through her. He bowed his head. Then he looked up. His comrades clustered around him, so curious to see the strange Human.
“Like flowers.”
That was all Grunter said. The others nodded. Headscratcher looked up and wiped at his eyes. But there were no tears.
“It is coming.”
Reiss warned the others. The lost thing was coming up the hill. Garen reached for his side. But he had no sword.
“Redscar took.”
Spiderslicer. Garen grimaced.
“Good.”
Below them, the thing was angry. At the Goblins who stood in its way. Small and large! Cave Goblins, large Hobs. Redfangs, Flooded Plains Goblins. All those that Numbtongue had ever met or known.
Waiting for him. Those damned things.
Stubborn even in death. They did not remember the whole of it. But somehow, someway. They still fulfilled their oaths.
“Brother. We must hold it back until this day ends.”
“Good thing its longest day.”
Reiss half-laughed. Eater of Spears rumbled as it made a fist.
“We have no weapons.”
“So? You dead. Still coward?”
Spiderslicer poked him in the side. The big Goblin glared. But then he looked down.
“Weapons useless anyways.”
The Goblins nodded. They walked down the hill. The thing was coming up. But it would not reach her before the day ended.
They closed ranks. Something laughed. It advanced, looking down at the first little Goblin that blocked its way. A Cave Goblin, eyes filled with defiance. It reached down—
And stood. The Goblins looked at the spot where nothing remained. Nothing. They listened to it. At how it laughed.
They did not budge. The figure advanced.
“Brother. It is so good to see you again.”
“You too.”
Reiss and Garen held hands as they formed a circle around Erin Solstice.
Waiting for the day to end.
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin stood at the ending of the longest day of the year and felt the blade touch her neck. The warrior advanced on her. There was no mercy in the shadows of its visor.
Just—intent. She turned to face it.
She had come too far to give up. Death? She would risk it again and again for a chance to bring her friend back.
The doorway waited, high overhead. When the sun set, Ryoka knew—the fae would drop her hands and it would vanish.
She saw the sword rise. And knew she could not dodge it. Not from this warrior. She made a fist with one hand, as Melidore laughed.
“Challenge!”
The voice rang out across the gathering. The warrior turned. The cold chill at her neck faded away. Ryoka Griffin’s head turned with the others.
And there they were. Two of them. Lady Bethal Walchaís.
Thomast Veniral. He lifted the rapier in his hand and saluted the figure. It was he who’d spoken.
“What?”
Melidore was incredulous. So—seemingly—was the warrior of winter. Lady Bethal was smiling.
“He said, ‘challenge’, you pompous man. Or do your folk not know honor and duels? Leave Ryoka Griffin alone. My husband wishes to cross swords with your great warrior.”
The fae gaped. Then they laughed and burst into applause. They screamed, shouted with delight.
 
“A challenge?”
“He challenges the warrior of winter? He who rides with the Wild Hunt?”
“Let him! Challenge! Challenge!”
 
They cheered Thomast as the warrior pivoted, bringing up the two-handed sword. Melidore was furious.
“She defies the king!”
But—his words went unheard. The warrior had been challenged. Thomast looked past him, to Ryoka.
“Go.”
His lips formed the words. Ryoka stared at him. He was going to die! But—Bethal’s gaze was firm.
“Go. This is still under the rules of hospitality. Let it be a bout for the ages!”
She cried out, setting her rules. Ryoka half-exhaled.
Melidore was even more furious. She turned—and nearly skewered herself on six more blades.
The other warriors! They were advancing on her! One walked towards Thomast, who had taken a ready stance, eyes locked on his target.
Six more. Each of a different nature. One seemed to hold a blade made of moonlight—another was Melidore’s burning nature. Ryoka saw someone interpose himself between the warrior of moonlight.
“I challenge you, sir.”
Lord Tyrion Veltras. He wore the Shield of House Veltras on one arm, his dueling sword on the other.
“Milord Veltras!”
“Father!”
“That fool.”
Ulva murmured as the second warrior halted. Lord Tyrion saluted his foe, and the figure did the same.
Tyrion did not need [Dangersense] to feel the scope of his opponent. His nerves were buzzing. He—like Thomast—knew as the two lifted their blades.
They were outmatched.
 
—-
 
The first cut was fast, a testing blow. Perfect. That was all Thomast thought as he stepped back, out of range. It wasn’t that it had a Skill behind it. In fact—his footwork Skill had carried him away.
And it was wrong. Thomast slowed. He flicked his blade and the winter’s warrior severed the wind magic with a flick of the sword. A riposte—Thomast stepped out of the way again. And again—halted.
Wrong. He saw the way the warrior moved. Perfection in every line. It was like half-Elves, and the peerless ability they developed over their unnatural lifespans.
Only, even more refined. An age this warrior had taken to perfect their craft. Thomast struck out, in a lunge and it was knocked aside.
“What peerless skill.”
He murmured. He moved to [Flicker Step]—halted. The second attack nearly cost him his rapier and a freezing blade turned his arm numb. He cried out—switched arms. His left arm was dead.
“Thomast! What are you doing!”
Bethal cried out in horror. Thomast could have avoided it! But the [Chevalier] did not use [Flicker Onslaught]. [Double Cut], or any other Skill. He didn’t even use a Skill as he brought up his sword, saluting the warrior again.
He could have. But it would have been wrong. To use a Skill—in this moment, at this time? Thomast felt that it was cheating.
Somehow. Skills had been part of his life. But now, faced with true mastery of the blade, he was suddenly ashamed to have called himself a [Fencer]. He saluted the mysterious warrior.
Slowly—the winter fae did likewise. Thomast gritted his teeth. The cold—Bethal was haranguing him. But he had to keep the duel going. Stay wide of the range of that blade.
Give Ryoka Griffin time. He would have fallen by the third stroke, or the fifth. But Thomast had felt this once before.
When he had crossed swords with the Hobgoblin in the forest. He would not fall so quickly.
 
—-
 
Lord Tyrion Veltras felt the exact same as Thomast in that first exchange of blows. If not for his Skills, he would have been cut!
And yet he did not abandon his Skills. The moonlight warrior struck again, blade flickering—he cut from one side and his weapon appeared from the other! Unpredictable!
It was all that the [Lord] could do to stay on the defensive. He would have wished to match blades fairly, even if it meant his loss by the second stroke. But—
Beyond him, Ryoka Griffin was backing up as two duels commenced. The fae were cheering, surrounding the two. Tyrion launched forwards. [Lancing Hydrastrike]!
The furious blows, eight in total, rained down on the other warrior’s shield. Tyrion felt like he couldn’t have cut through the moonlight shield even if he’d tried.
Cut through moonlight?
He was sweating as he circled. Hurry! Hurry, Wind Runner!
 
—-
 
But five remained. Each one a sword at Ryoka Griffin’s throat, albeit from afar. If she moved, her head rolled.
Yet the two warriors had inspired the others.
“Challenge!”
Lord Pellmia roared at the same time half of the House of El’s guards, Lord Gralton, and dozens others did likewise. Gamel, Durene, Ylawes, and his father—if one fell, someone else would take up arms! Duel me! Duel—
The warrior of summer walked past Lord Pellmia without even looking his way. The [Lord] faltered. His outstretched sword moved to block the fae’s path.
“I said, duel me, sir! I challenge you t—”
The sword’s melted hilt wavered in his grasp. Pellmia went cross-eyed and recoiled. The summer fae did not even turn his helmeted head.
 
“Hah! You think you can challenge one such as them so easily, mortal lord? Little man?”
 
The fae laughed at Pellmia. He looked around, uncomprehending.
“Few warriors true stand here. In this pathetic world, not enough know the dance of blade and bone and blood!”
Melidore. And indeed, the other five warriors were ignoring the other calls to challenge. From the bodyguards, from the other nobles. Thomast and Tyrion, yes. But…
Ylawes stared as one of the warriors, armor covered in leaves and vines, walked past him. He lowered his sword, hanging his head. Gralton failed to block another.
Even Ylawes? Ryoka looked around, heart pounding. One of them raised his sword, a thing made of chitin rather than metal as he neared, long steps striding forwards. Wings on his armor—?
“Enough. If you will not take their challenges, then I challenge you.”
A female voice. The warrior halted. Turned his head. Then he lowered his sword. And slowly saluted…
Lady Zanthia. And beside her, a figure with a transparent sword. He saluted as well, and they stepped forwards.
A gasp from the nobility.
[The Eternal Partner] met the faerie warrior’s advance smoothly, without fear of death. They traded blows as Lady Zanthia watched, a mixture of pride and sorrow on her face.
Four. Melidore’s smile turned to a scowl once more. He looked about, but every warrior in the House of El and House of Veltras had been refused. From Jericha to Lord Deilan to…
“Challenge. I challenge you.”
The warrior of summer—stopped. The fae looked down. And down.
“Dawil?”
Ylawes choked. Falene was staring. The Dwarf stroked his beard, looking up.
The summer fae walked past him. The Dwarf stuck out a foot—and the figure stepped over it.
“Am I not good enough for you, kin?”
The Dwarf’s eyes were sharp. The helmeted head turned back. Then halted. The fiery blade turned. And the fae stopped laughing at the silly Dwarf.
Dawil had removed his axe. The [Axe Champion] lifted it.
“Will you not honor this blade? Even you? It was made by the greatest smiths in any world. For me. Will you not cross blades with it?”
Yes. The summer fae turned and the burning blade lifted. Dawil smiled and backed up.
“Could use some spells, Falene.”
And then there were three. Melidore’s eyes were blazing with fury.
“Take her head!”
Ryoka was running now, running the other way, the wind howling around her. Blow me up! She was looking for a table cloth! For…for something to use! A parasail, a kite! She’d take someone throwing her up there!
A mile overhead. A damn mile—she stumbled.
No, one of the blades had cut her across the leg. She went down, clutching at her leg. She saw one of the warriors wielding a weapon like—sound. It was the sound of a cut which had created the injury.
The swish of an axe through the air.
Dozens of voices cried out useless challenges. The sound of the blade met another sound in the air.
The clash of blades. The fae lowered its blade. Turned.
“I challenge you.”
Barelle the [Bard]’s shortsword was in one hand, the magical harp in the other. The fae gasped. Ryoka stared. The [Bard] looked past the warrior and smiled at her.
“Once more, it is time for [Bards] to shape the stories they tell for the better.”
Two. Now the Summer Court was applauding, shouting.
 
“Run, Wind Runner!”
“Run! Fly! Jump! Hop!”
 
They were all clustering forwards, blocking the warrior’s way, tossing mud and drinks on them. How quickly they changed sides! The warriors moved forwards, undeterred.
And then someone spoke.
“Challenge! Challenge for favors won and memory!”
The sixth warrior stopped and spun. This time Melidore howled in fury.
It was the Satyr. She’d seized a branch, and swished the stick, still with leaves on it. She slapped the armor of one of the warriors and the blade cut the air, leaving the air wounded and howling. But the Satyr just dodged away, laughing merrily.
Stories. The fae applauded—but no one else dared do the same. The last warrior advanced. And his armor was made of bone. His face—if it was a he—invisible behind the ivory bars covering it.
Ryoka Griffin faced him. She would never get into the air without getting past him. And no one else had challenged him.
A War Golem lumbered forwards. The bone warrior raised an axe and cut it in two. The Terlands gasped. It didn’t even slow the figure one beat.
Ryoka looked around for a weapon. Her eyes alighted on…
A piece of corn. Someone was offering it to her.
“Um. Not the weapon I wanted.”
She looked at the figure holding it. The man smiled.
“I know. I have only ever tasted corn this good once before. Do you know my friend?”
Ryoka’s eyes widened. She stared up at him. The magnificent armor he wore.
“Lupp?”
“That’s him. Well then. I challenge you.”
The man walked past Ryoka. And the warrior of bone put up his axe. He saluted, and the man saluted back. Ryoka stumbled back. Ulva Terland looked past the Wind Runner, at one of her bodyguards. Her escort.
They changed his name. Ryoka remembered Lupp’s words.
An unhappy [Farmer]. Grew beets. One day—
“Eldertuin Terland. I challenge you.”
The Named Adventurer saluted his opponent. He carried a mace—and a tower shield. He was nearly Durene’s size!
Eldertuin the Fortress.
Eldert.
Lupp’s friend.
 
“Corn! Corn and challenges! What disappointment! What delight! Hah!”
 
The fae were hooting. Ryoka jumped—and went flying into a table. The wind was twisting. Dozens of fae were trying to make it throw her—or helping and not helping.
