Towards the fae holding the gateway. Just two hands pressed together in a rectangle, moving apart as the last rays of sun faded. The fae grinned.
Ryoka’s head turned. She looked at Melidore, straight in the eyes. Then around at the wondrous fae, the immortals.
“You all really suck.”
The Wind Runner leapt for the true doorway. The warriors grabbed for her, and Melidore’s howl split the world for a second.
But too late. The faerie yanked her hands apart. The guests of the party, Laken Godart, Tyrion Veltras, panting, Durene, Silver Pine, the fae, Ieka, Bethal—everyone turned.
Ryoka Griffin was gone.
 
—-
 
It was done. The cheering that erupted afterwards was matched only by the roar of fury from Melidore and Sikeri. But it was done!
She had entered another world! The exuberance of the guests was blown away by the fae’s response. They went practically mad, screaming and dancing and shouting.
 
“She did it! After so long! A mortal has done it!”
 
The fae cartwheeled and leapt, overturning tables, laughing, crying out. They celebrated Ryoka’s triumph!
The sun set. Tyrion Veltras, panting, realized his opponent had lowered his blade. He stared at the cuts on the Shield of House Veltras. Felt his arm burning.
But Ryoka was gone. He had helped her, at last, truly. He only hoped there was a way back. He had no idea what lay beyond. What perils she might endure.
Yet this longest day ended in triumph. In hope! Tyrion straightened as his sons ran towards him, shouting in awe, pointing at where Ryoka had been.
“Father! Father! Did you see? It was just the fingers! Like this!”
Sammial was trying to copy the gesture, as if to open a doorway of his own. Tyrion was smiling. It was a victory! He knelt, hesitating, thinking to embrace them.
It was a good party. A good day.
This…day.
This day.
The laughing faces slowly drained of excitement. The applause, the cheering—were sucked away. The merriment, even the fury, turned to nothingness.
The fae and mortals turned about. Laken Godart opened his eyes in horror and his head turned. Even he saw them.
Four people stepped forwards, towards the boundary of the fae’s party. Four, not six.
To see them was never to forget them. Each one was different.
 
One was young, in the prime of life, bounding, restless, a huntress, a champion of causes. In her was the spirit to fight for all things. Youth and glory.
 
Another was old and young and all things in between. She walked and the world died and was born around her. She commanded such things, and she was terrible and lovely.
 
The third danced and belonged here, in merriment and love and all things of passion. He was friendship and companions and love and trust.
 
The last stood proudest of them all. In his gaze was the will to command legions, to use lives. To look at him was to give him the authority over all things, to lead you to…
 
Dead silence. The four stopped, at some invisible boundary. Behind them? Night had fallen. But even night had been swallowed by a blackness darker still.
Shadows moved around the boundary of the party. Riverfarm was gone, as if it never was. Only this circle of space. This party.
Silence. The fae were frozen. And fear—true fear—crossed their faces. Silence, until the bearded figure spoke.
“Greetings on this shortest night. Is there no room for we four around your fire? Will you not ask us to join you, on this day?”
His voice was real and not real. Tyrion ached to tear his ears off rather than hear it. Yet he was enticed nonetheless. He was frozen as the old woman came forwards.
“Yes. We should be six. But two of us have business of our own. Friends. Dear friends. Will you not speak our names?”
She addressed the fae. They stared at the four. Things moved in the shadows, at the edges of the circle of light and life. Tyrion heard a murmur. And then…a hiss.
 
“Begone.”
 
One of the fae spoke that. Which one? No one could tell. Then another spoke.
 
“Begone, nothing. Nothing is here. Do you see anything, kin?”
“Nothing. Nothing. Begone, nothing.”
 
They all took up the chant. It was a susurration, low voices. Growing louder, louder. All of them—Silver Pines, Melidore, Sikeri, the Satyr—they whispered it.
“Begone. Begone. Be-gone. Be-gone. Be-gone, be-gone, be-gone, be-gone, be-gone, be-gone, be-gone, be-gone, be-gone, be-gone, be-gone, be-gone, be-gone, be-gone, be-gone, be-gone, be-gone—”
The four sighed. They began to move forwards, pressing against something, ignoring the whispers. Reaching out to the mortal folk, as if asking them to…
Remember. Tyrion shuddered. He almost heard the voice. Remember. Say it.
Say what? He did not know. But on the four came. The fae began to chant louder.
Begone. Yet the darkness closed in. Longing for…longing to be…
Remembered.
 
—-
 
She leapt for the open gap between the fingers. Into that little bit of space.
And the world shifted around her. Ryoka did not hit the fae woman’s chest. She flew, into that tiny gap, into a point in the world so tiny you could never measure it.
Into an infinity beyond. Ryoka’s cry was one long, endless thing. And short as a breath.
She saw, in that fragment of reality, countless visions. Her mind recoiled from understanding. She was screaming, falling, flying—
And then she landed. Forgetting the aeon she had spent in between almost as she touched the ground.
Part of her never would forget. Never could. And yet—Ryoka’s breath left her. She hit the ground with a thud.
It didn’t hurt. She felt strange. Strange in her body. Strange in her skin.
Strange in the air. The world around her was changed. Ryoka felt it in the breaths she took. She scrambled upwards.
And there she was. In the world of the fae. She stood on a vast hilltop. And behind her were standing stones. An ancient construction of stone amid grass.
Forming a gate. It shone behind her. Ryoka looked around and saw more hilltops.
Hundreds.
Thousands.
Beyond millions.
And on this hill, flowers of every shape and size. A profusion without end. Ryoka inhaled their fragrance. Her eyes hurt so much to see them all at once she closed them.
Tears ran down her face, and she did not know why. The sky—the land! She looked around.
The land of the fae. The sun shone brightly here, high overhead. Ryoka looked around. She breathed. Or thought she breathed. She touched at the grass, wondrously. Then she called out.
It had been so long. Her voice trembled in the air.
“Ivolethe?”
She strained her ears to hear. But there was nothing and no one on this hill. Just the grass, the stones, and the blooms. Ryoka’s tears ran down her cheeks, from exhaustion, from relief, uncertainty and sorrow and reasons she did not yet know.
Then the wind blew from far away. It came countless leagues. Tugging at her sleeves, gently touching her cheeks. Blowing her tears away. And Ryoka heard it at last.
Her friend’s voice.
“Ryoka.”
