“And give us parts! We want to be story and tale!”
“Yes, another story! Not this tripe!”
 
They were good-natured. But their will implacable. Emme scrambled, and soon had a cast with one fourth fae, who strutted onto stage reciting their lines poorly and arguing with the crowd, and [Actors]. Two plays, in fact, so the fae could become actors of their own as they wished.
 
—-
 
Ryoka breathed out hard when she saw that. That could have been horrible. She’d thought the fae approved of stories about them!
But not the Faerie King. His name—she nearly spoke it aloud. Was it that name? Surely there was some truth to it. Perhaps if she uttered it—
“O—”
Every immortal head in forty paces turned suddenly. And the merriment ceased. Ryoka bit the word off on the tongue. She saw them staring. Then they relaxed and went back to their pastimes.
Don’t say it, then.
On stage, the Battle for Invrisil, a cheap, Andel-written production that he’d dashed off in half a day, was taking place. Fae were enjoying hurling ‘daggers’ and attacking each other on stage. The audience was laughing at the slapstick as a more somber Othello played out on the grass on the second ‘stage’.
Fireworks overhead. Mage spells, rather. And the thing about mage spells was not only did they have the explosions, lights, and sound, but also smells. Ryoka smelled brimstone as a roaring Wyvern took flight, battling what might have been a Phoenix.
Ice and fire. She felt the cold and heat collide as people applauded below. Where were they?
There were too many people! Too many attractions! Ryoka kept catching sight of one of the three, but kept losing them.
Not just because of the crowds. It was how they moved. The fae had a grace no one, not even Thomast, or those with movement Skills, could match.
They flickered from spot to spot, whirling through the crowd, dancing as if they teleported. But it wasn’t teleportation. Ryoka saw one go through a crowd of bodies clustered around a tray of jam tarts. It was so much of a press that even Sammial and Hethon couldn’t squeeze through the gaps, and oh, the boys were trying.
Yet, somehow, the fae slipped through a gap between the bodies. Ryoka saw the figure twist, step—it looked so natural that Lord Ranga’s son tried it and slammed into the knot of people. As if you had never learned how to properly step sideways and if you only could, you could step through any crack in the world…
Ranga’s son and the group went down in a sprawl and Sammial and Hethon grabbed two tarts and were away, savoring the blackberry sweets with delight. So did the fae, who had grabbed three and was gobbling them down greedily.
The trick had impressed the two boys. They stared up at the fae. Hethon was content to gobble, having listened to Ryoka’s rules and those by the [Emperor].
But Sammial?
Sammial was Sammy. And he pointed up at the guest.
“What are you? Will you teach me how to do that?”
He pointed at one of the cavorting fae, with long horns and a nearly nude upper torso and…goat’s hooves? She winked at him. She?
Ryoka paused, panting, having run after one of the three and stared at the Satyr. She bent down, cloven hooves dancing upon some brickwork.
“I? I am me, little boy. I could teach you how to walk between the edges of things. It is not hard for us! But what will you give me if I do?”
Fae bargains. Ryoka uneasily turned towards him. But then she saw the shining dancer whirl past and tried to jump after him. She failed; he was gone across the dance floor in an instant.
Hethon licked his jam-covered lips.
“Sammy, I don’t think this is a good idea.”
Sammial’s brow wrinkled as he stared up at the horned woman.
“Give you? My gratitude as a [Lord]. Or money? My father will pay you.”
The Satyr blinked, took a bite of her jam tart, then sprayed crumbs as she laughed in his face.
“Hah! Gratitude? Naught for naught, brat!”
She turned away, losing interest at once. Sammy wiped spit and crumbs off his face. Then he got mad.
“Don’t turn away from me!”
“Or what? What will you do, little lord who speaks like a lion?”
She mooned him, flicking up a tufted tail. Some of the other fae listening laughed themselves off their feet. Sammy turned bright red. Ryoka was hurrying back when she felt a familiar pressure.
Oh no. Sammy pointed at the Satyr and shouted.
“You will teach me. I command it!”
The aura touched the female Satyr—and broke. Sammial stumbled backwards. Some of the watching nobility whistled. Pryde herself blinked as she turned, drink in hand, from talking with a faerie about gains in weight lifting.
It wasn’t that the aura hadn’t worked. It was that it had been blown away without effort. The Satyr’s eyes narrowed. She drew herself up as Sammial stared at her. And her voice grew deeper, a flash of annoyance crossing her merry expression.
“Command me? You are not my king or a king at all! I have danced in the courts of great kings of men. Go elsewhere with your trick, little boy. For you’ve offended my nature, demanding so. Not for the ransom of a Dragon’s hoard will I teach you, or ambrosia fit for—”
She hesitated. A word hovered in the air, unspoken. The other fae hissed softly around her and the Satyr caught herself.
“—for heroes and saints! Begone, bratling.”
And she shoved him upon the chest, so hard, Sammial fell on his rear end. Doubtless it didn’t really hurt, but he was up in a second.
“How dare you!”
Hethon tried to catch his brother, but Sammy darted forwards. Face red, he balled up a fist. The Satyr looked down and Sammy punched her in the leg.
The furry leg didn’t so much as shift. The half-Goat fae didn’t blink. And yet—Ryoka looked up as the mood around the young [Lord] shifted.
“You have breached hospitality, little boy. That was unwise of you.”
The Satyr slowly looked down. Sammy glared up at her. The glare slowly turned into uncertainty. And then…
A touch of fear.
The Satyr smiled. It was not a kindly smile. Her teeth were very sharp.
A harsh buzzing filled the air, and some of the nobles and people of Riverfarm groaned aloud to hear it. They knew that sound.
The fae around her abandoned their refreshments. They turned, eyes gleaming, turning…insectile? Predatory, at least. Their enjoyments and whimsy and kindness were one side of a narrow coin. On the other?
Cruelty and the delight in such things lay. The Satyr reached down as Sammial backed up. Hethon tried to bar her way. Across the party, Lord Tyrion and Jericha turned. House Veltras’ guards stirred.
“Stop.”
The Satyr stopped. Ryoka Griffin, panting, touched her arm. Just a touch.
The fae woman turned.
“You saw, windfriend. Did you not see him offend me twice, in word and then deed?”
“I saw.”
Ryoka wanted to curse Sammial. Why was he here? They should have kept him in Riverfarm! But of course he was attracted to this inner party. She kept her gaze on the Satyr.
“He’s just a boy. A rude one.”
“Then he should suffer for his tongue. I would only do that.”
The Satyr tilted her head. Ryoka half-nodded.
“He should. But his father won’t take kindly to the lesson. Please—”
Sammial made an outraged noise, but quietly. Ryoka looked at the Satyr, thinking what could be done to prevent a fight. Because if someone drew their weapon, she was sure one of the warriors would intervene. And then someone would die.
“—What do you want me to do to repay his insult, Lady Satyr?”
The fae’s eyes brightened. She looked at the Wind Runner, and then hugged Ryoka suddenly in delight. She smelled like, well, a goat, but not foul. Rather like a clean goat in a field of scented flowers. She smiled in delight, and then kissed Ryoka on the cheek.
“You know me? You know me! I did not think one of your ilk would remember!”
“Of course. Satyrs. I uh—Bacchus? Or Dionysus, if you prefer. I didn’t expect a Satyr to be here—do those words mean anything to you?”
“They do. But such things are not to be spoken of here. Well, someone remembers the stories!”
“Many people do.”
The harsh buzzing faded. The Satyr smiled; but she had not forgotten the insult. She looked Ryoka up and down and then laughed.
“For that, my anger is half appeased, little windfriend! If you wish to repay that boy’s offense, take it up!”
She pointed at Sammial. Ryoka licked her lips.
“How?”
The Satyr rolled her eyes as if it were obvious. She pointed at Sammial, then herself.
“Show me something I have never learned. Go on! Just as the boy demanded I do. Teach me something and I will forgo insult!”
“Ah.”
Shit. Ryoka’s mind whirled. She hated faerie rules. Because you couldn’t cheat like a Dragon. She doubted Pythagoras’ Theorem or some complex mathematical feat would be acceptable. Teriarch? It worked on him. The fae? They’d probably beat her to death.
How about how to be shot three times by a crossbow bolt and survive? Ryoka felt an urge to laugh. But this was serious. The Satyr was smiling in that way that said Ryoka had to answer now. Or the consequences would be the consequences.
Ryoka looked around. Think. Stories? No, but the Satyr wanted something. How to bake something? Make a trebuchet?
No, no, no. How about martial arts? But then—Ryoka doubted the Satyr didn’t know how to kick someone. Her eyes roamed the still area of the party ground, searching for inspiration.
She alighted on something held by a [Lady] watching with a [Chevalier]. Lady Bethal slowly licked the cupcake as she watched the drama. The frosting was red. Also? Glowing.
Ryoka stared at it. That was—she knew why the frosting was glowing.
Strongheart Sage’s Grass for a magical, glowing frosting. Some of the food, the recipes, had been supplied from Liscor. By an [Innkeeper] and her friends.
She should have been there. But she was not. Yet—this was why Ryoka was here.
It came to her in a moment. A memory, and the answer.
A memory of a little Gnoll, a farm.
A happy day.
Ryoka turned to the Satyr. Why was she wasting her time here? Because the fae were watching her. Even one of the three. Because it mattered. The party as a whole. This moment. Was it all a test?
The Satyr was smiling. She waited, expectantly. Perhaps waiting for Ryoka to fail. Some of the fae were, betting their fake gold against actual money with some of the nobility.
Ryoka smiled.
“Very well, Lady Satyr. May I at least try again if I fail?”
“I suppose so. But you had better try.”
She smiled at Ryoka. The Wind Runner took a few steps back and bowed.
“Thank you. Then—something even you have not seen before? A trick? Well, do you know how to do this?”
She took a breath. And before she could worry about it, she performed a trick.
Or rather, tricking. The Wind Runner ran and leapt, calling on the air and memory. She launched off one leg. And her other leg carried her up and around in an entire rotation. The same trick that had delighted Ivolethe.
A cork. But the wind carried her up. Ryoka rotated, spinning nearly three times the normal rotation, and landed, nearly falling over, but saving the landing. So…a triple cork in the air? She spread her arms and turned to face the Satyr and audience.
The fae stared—and then laughed. They applauded, shouting with delight.
 
“Flew! She flew! Yet not a flip or a spin! What was that?”
“Oho! The girl flips and turns and twists just so! Do it again!”
 
The Satyr herself was laughing with delight. She hopped, trying to imitate Ryoka, and then gave up.
“A sight I have never seen! What trick of legs and acrobatics was that?”
“Is it new, then?”
“Yes, yes! Show me! What things you Humans come up with!”
She pestered Ryoka, forgetting her fury in a moment. Ryoka showed her how she’d stood and did it again—minus the wind. The Satyr watched as Ryoka landed—then copied how Ryoka had stood.
She leapt and mimicked the Wind Runner exactly, cloven hooves and half-goat form twisting with amazing grace in the air. Ryoka’s jaw dropped as the Satyr landed.
“Another!”
The goat-fae demanded. Ryoka could have turned her down, but the Satyr and other fae wanted to see. And one of the three—
Ryoka obliged. Hethon and Sammial saw their father and Jericha arrive at last, through the party. All four watched as Ryoka spun and leapt, in amazing ways! Ways Hethon had never imagined someone could move!
The fae were copying her. Some with greater or lesser dexterity. But the Satyr kept pace.
So did the Level 40 [Tumbler], who was copying Ryoka’s moves. Moves from another world. All three were laughing; then the [Tumbler] performed a trick where she did a fast summersault-into-handspring. Ryoka didn’t even try that. You must have needed a Skill—
Or a Satyr. The goat woman copied the trick and the [Tumbler] gawked. The fae laughed, applauding Ryoka. And all was well.
Sammial Veltras was scolded by his father—then Jericha—and then Hethon punched him on the arm. Then came Ryoka Griffin, panting.
“Don’t do that again. Ever.”
She sat down for a second. The sullen [Lord] looked at her, glaring.
“I am a [Lord] of House Veltras! She insulted me! I was defending my honor!”
He was mad because he was right. His father always said to be a proud [Lord], but he was only angry now. Neither he nor Jericha had said more than Sammial was very foolish! The [Lord] was hopping mad and looking for Hethon to punch back.
Ryoka on the other hand just stared at Sammy blankly.
“You’re a [Lord]? So what? She could have bitten half your face off before Jericha or your father did a thing, or kicked your skull out of your skin. Don’t be stupid.”
The boy hesitated. This was not how adults normally talked to him.
“…She wouldn’t have done that.”
Ryoka gave him a long look that said ‘yes’. She sighed, and wiped sweat off her brow as she pointed back at the Satyr.
“They’re more important than you are. More important than me—or your father. You should be bowing to them. Think of it like that.”
Sammy’s jaw dropped. He stared at the fae.
“But they’re not! Are they?”
“Treat them like they are. Now, I saved you once. I’m not going to be able to do it again. Either promise to behave, or I’ll ask Jericha to lock you in one of Riverfarm’s houses.”
She glared at him. Belatedly, Sammial realized she had done all that for him and remembered his manners.
“Thank you for saving me, Miss Ryoka Griffin. I promise to behave.”
He muttered sullenly. Ryoka smiled briefly. She rose and stretched out her legs.
“You’re welcome. Do that again and I’ll hit you.”
“But I’m a [Lord] and you’re a Runner!”
Sammy protested. Ryoka stared at him again as if he had goat’s horns growing out of his head.
“So? I have a hand, too. Everyone does. Remember that. If you’re going to make people mad, you’d better have Jericha, at least. Now, I have to go.”
