The [Lady] and Runner looked at each other. But the request was not hard to grant. Ryoka felt time was passing—albeit slowly—but it seemed to her only right that he should make a request of her.
So they watched as the Players of Celum performed My Fair Lady. Not an auspicious play; but the guests and nobles alike liked the singing, the interplay, even if some of the cultural nuance was lost. Ryoka and Ieka clapped as the [Tumbler] performed on stage; she was a famous performer from Invrisil. Over Level 40.
Here? She introduced herself, apologizing for her poor performance, for all her acrobatics were flawless. Like a child performing before masters at the craft.
Food was brought out. Treats of all kinds. An attempt at cotton candy; strands of the stuff, hardly actual cotton, more like spun sugar-threads which broke. Still well-received. Gnollish and Drakeish foods, which the Humans ate dubiously and the fae fell upon.
Treats from an inn. An ‘acid jello’. Cookies baked like paw prints. Ryoka tasted tears as she ate hers.
But she did eat. She and Ieka spoke lightly; Ryoka explaining some of the nuances of accents. Pointing out treats she knew were based on people. Melidore laughed and spoke.
And the fae did come to him, like children to the adult, asking him to resolve quarrels like fights over who got a statue where, over a pizza with flies—how had that gotten here?—and so on.
Twice, Melidore rose and the seven warriors stirred. Then the fae fell silent and the mortals likewise. Once, because a knot of quarrelling fae fought despite his orders to split the coveted pizza apart. The second time—when it occurred that Sikeri had ‘persuaded’ a noble to give her a vast amount of money and artifacts and jewels.
Both times, Ryoka felt his presence, harsh, terrible. And even the Wyrm quailed and recanted the promise.
Time passed onwards. The Skylights performed, and the fae swooped about the illusions, ridiculing the [Mages] until the [Illusionists] fled in tears at the ‘poor magic’. Some of the food was turned into a food fight that Hethon and Sammial took part in.
Eloise drank tea with Silver Pines. Grev won a game against three of the fae and they showered him with gold and lies for his victory. Ryoka rolled her eyes and Melidore nearly fell out of his seat laughing.
He laughed only that one time, to see the gloating city boy hoarding his gold which would turn to pebbles by morning.
He cried only once, as well. And that was when Barelle the Bard took to the stage to tell the [Innkeeper]’s tale.
Ryoka did not know who told Barelle what had happened. Perhaps he had gone into the inn itself, from Liscor. Or pieced together the events from those who had been there, like Delanay. Ylawes.
Nor did she remember the content of the story. It was one she knew; the nobles listened, to an abbreviated tale of The Wandering Inn and its [Innkeeper].
A false tale, really. Too glorious and exaggerated by half. Erin was some kind of cunning genius, who always had a trick up her sleeve. She wasn’t silly; every act seemed to be part of a greater plan.
That wasn’t Erin. But this was a story. And Barelle had captured some part of her. Part was artistic license. But when he spoke of—kindness—Ryoka wept.
She had not stopped weeping. For the [Bard] had begun the tale only so—a touch of the blue and orange chords.
“Once, there was an empty inn upon a hill…”
That was all. Ryoka began sobbing. All the tears she’d held back. She was not the only one. Ieka herself wept at parts. And the fae? Their tears fell. They rejoiced in sadness, glory, laughed at the [Innkeeper]’s tricks. Cheered her kindness for the Goblins, the Antinium.
Not everyone smiled. Not everyone agreed. But they listened. Because it was a true story.
Melidore listened too. He only wept once. And that was when the tale came to its end.
The [Innkeeper] lay on the frozen bier, slain by pettiness. The fae wept two shining tears which splashed onto the table and changed the wood forever. He looked at Ryoka and nodded to her as the guests applauded Barelle for nearly five minutes straight.
A standing ovation. Ryoka saw the fae sit back. One moment of laughter. Two tears.
“Enough. That is more than I expected. It was worth coming, this day. For this party, this moment alone, I thank you, Ryoka Griffin.”
He looked at her. The Wind Runner bowed.
“Thank you for coming, Melidore. I’m glad you enjoyed it.”
The fae’s lips quirked. He looked at her and drank again.
“Enjoyed it? You mistake me. My laughter, my tears, this drink—are a small comfort to me. I did not enjoy this day. I have hated every second and fragment of time I stand here. I come here only because I must. But I hate this petty world. I hate what you have forgotten.”
And there it was again. Hate. The fae’s eyes flashed with such intensity that Ryoka and Ieka were left breathless. It was in the other fae. Something unspoken.
“Then why did you come?”
Ryoka asked, when she was able to summon words again. Melidore sighed. And that sigh was melancholy. His eyes met hers. And she felt that gaze of summer again. But tired summer. Weary and worn. The fading season.
“For nothing. To see nothing. That is all.”
A quiet chill ran down Ryoka’s spine. The words meant something. Something—
She looked up. The sun had almost left the sky. The longest day was ending. Suddenly, the food and drink that Ryoka had been partaking of felt heavy in her stomach. She rose.
Her time was nearly up. She had played the guest. And Melidore sat up.
“You may go, Lady Ieka Imarris. Go—and my thanks for this moment. Your guilt shall not touch you unless you continue; that is my favor.”
He nodded to her. The woman went dead white and she stumbled away, practically fleeing. Ryoka did not know what he meant. Nor, in this moment, did she care to know.
She rose. And the fae did too. He drank, carelessly tossing back the wine again as if it were putrid water and he had nothing else to drink. He looked at her.
“Now is the time to ask, friend of Ivolethe. What will you? You have dined and sat with me. You have entertained my kin, and given the Summer Court gifts that amused them. For all that, you are owed the right to ask what you will. So. Now.”
Ryoka’s blood tingled in her veins. She licked her lips.
“Lord Melidore of the Summer Court. I crave a favor. I ask—I ask for—”
She closed her eyes. Lips moving. The fae turned. Ryoka looked into those summer eyes. And she sighed.
“I—I ask for a way to bring back my friend. Erin Solstice, whom you wept for. That is what I wish to ask.”
Cold tears ran down her cheeks. The fae regarded her. He did not ask if this was what she wanted. Ryoka had made up her mind.
Slowly, Melidore turned. And the fae moved out of the crowd. The dancing Summer Court. Strangers from far. Sikeri, Silver Pine. The Satyrs. They all gathered. He stood in the center of them all as Ryoka looked at the statue of Ivolethe. And the first of the guests?
He looked at Ryoka and smiled.
 
“No.”
 
The word was like—Ryoka touched her chest.
“N-no?”
Melidore tossed down his cup onto the ground. Grass sprouted around it where it fell. He straightened. And then laughed. He looked at Ryoka with those bright eyes. That smile that spoke hate for the very ground he stood on, and shook his head.
“The Summer Court descends upon this world for the third great celebration of our nature. For this day! For nothing. To see nothing.”
His words were a rustle around the suddenly-silent party. The fae stepped left. He looked around.
 
“Some come for what may be gained.”
 
Sikeri glowered from the ranks of the guests.
Step. Melidore’s head turned.
 
“Some come for what might happen.”
 
Silver Pines bowed his head, with the sighing of forests. Wind in the branches. The fae inclined his head once.
Step.
 
“Some come only for merriment’s sake. And that is I. Nor will I help you break any rules.”
 
He turned to face Ryoka. And his smile was cruel as the sun. He knew her pain. He knew her tears. He knew why she asked. And he denied her.
“I am of the Faerie King’s court. Did you think I would break his rules so lightly, mortal?”
He taunted her. The others laughed. Some cruelly. Others shook their heads at Ryoka sympathetically. But no one was surprised. Melidore turned.
“There is your answer. Boon for boon. My kin. The longest day wanes. It is time to leave this empty place behind. Conduct what—”
“Stop.”
Ryoka Griffin stepped after him. Melidore’s head turned. He looked at Ryoka, then ignored her. She reached for him.
“St—”
Fingers covered her mouth. Lightly, gripping her throat. Laughter in her ears. She held still as Melidore walked away. Ryoka shouted, but she was bound fast. She called for the wind—
 
“It is our friend too. You have failed. Failed!”
 
A whisper. She fought, but the wind did not listen. Melidore was turning away again. And then the second voice spoke.
“Stop.”
The fingers loosened. Ryoka gasped. Melidore turned.
And there he was. Laken Godart stepped into the party of the fae.
Alone. And then—his folk fell in behind him.
Mister Prost. Lady Rie. Gamel, Durene, Wiskeria—they formed an army behind him.
“Who are you to give me orders, intruder who claims ownership of this land?”
Melidore stared at Laken. The [Emperor] ignored him. He nodded.
“Someone who believes in letting people speak. Go on.”
Ryoka tore free from the fae. She shouted. She had known it would come to this.
“Melidore of the Fae! Stop! If you will not help me, then I will ask you again. In the old ways.”
He turned. And suddenly—the summer was harsh once more.
“Do not.”
The Wind Runner shook her head. She looked around and said it.
“In the name of the Faerie King, I crave a threefold boon!”
The fae went silent. Ryoka felt something heavy enter the party. A watchfulness.
The warriors stirred. They looked to Melidore. He lifted a foot, as if to step away, to be done with it.
But he could not. He turned back with a sound like fury. And his eyes—Ryoka refused to quail.
 
“Speak. You invoke a boon? You dare?”
 
She met his eyes.
“I do. By the right of hospitality, I ask you to help me.”
She gestured at the party. All she had done! And he had granted her only the right to ask and be refused? The fae nodded, uncertainly. Melidore snarled. Ryoka went on.
“By friendship and loss, I crave your favor.”
She appealed to the fae. Had they not seen her friend’s need? Had Ivolethe not died for her? More were nodding. But Melidore was unmoved.
So, the last reason. The greatest one, which she had only known now. Ryoka took a breath, and then pointed at him.
“By the will of the fates, I beg your aid! This boon must come to pass.”
The sound that struck the air was like a bell—or something shattering—a distant roll of thunder—all these things at once. Ryoka’s ears rang and everyone covered their ears.
She expected the first of the Summer Court to rage. To strike at her. To fix her with those terrible, glorious eyes. But he did none of those things.
Melidore sighed. And the sound was like summer passing to fall.
“You know too much, mortal. And you invoke the old ways at your peril. Since you force me; I will listen. I must acknowledge the three. So. What is your threefold boon?”
He looked at her. Unfriendly. But listening nonetheless. Ryoka took a breath, and she felt like she hadn’t since she first spoke the boon.
“Th-three things. I ask.”
“That is how the threefold boon works. Ask.”
He glowered at her. Ryoka nodded slowly.
“I ask for a way to bring my friend back from between life and death.”
Murmurs. Lady Ieka’s eyes widened. Halrac—Ylawes—heads rose across the gathering. Lord Tyrion Veltras dropped his goblet. If—
But it was only Ryoka who could ask. Everyone else was transfixed. More than spellbound. Ryoka went on.
“I ask for passage into your land.”
Narrowed eyes. Melidore whirled upon Silver Pines. The tree met his gaze, unmoving. He had told Ryoka what she needed.
To meet Ivolethe. To find the cure—Ryoka pointed at Melidore as he turned.
“I ask for the chance to meet with my friend, if she wishes to do the same!”
She felt the air twist. All three boons hung in the air, so real she could feel her words. Passage, aid, and a meeting.
They fit. Oh yes. The Summer Court, who had been so disappointed with her gifts, objected not at all now.
This was a boon worthy of them. All eyes turned to Melidore.
He could refuse, of course. But she had invoked more than just his personal feelings. She had involved the Faerie King, if not by name. Their honor.
Prophecy. And the fae knew it. He stared at her, greatly displeased. Then he shook his head.
“Ah, mortal girl. Windfriend. Favored of the Winter Court. You are a foolish one. You ask three where most would not dare one. You ask for gifts far beyond what you could ever give or pay for. And you would overturn the will of the King of the Fae.”
“I would.”
Ryoka was trembling. Melidore smirked; and it was unkind. He looked around, then raised one more finger.
“Since I am bound by the old ways. I say one more thing. You have reason. You have…right.”
His eyes narrowed.
“But you do not have my consent. And I will fight your boon to the last. So. Persuade me. Give me one more reason.”
Faeries! Ryoka bit her tongue so hard she cut herself. But she felt him giving. He was sweating, trying to deny the threefold boon. Anyone else surely would have caved. She searched for a fourth reason worthy of the rest. And she had nothing. No Dragon. No Erin. She was only Ryoka Griffin.
A failure who…Ryoka’s eyes opened. She stared at Melidore and then looked around. She took a breath—
“A fourth reason? Very well. Because…”
The fae leaned forwards. Ryoka stared Melidore straight in his eyes.
“…it will probably be very entertaining.”
The fae’s eyes widened. His cheeks bulged. He tried to hold it in. But the laugh escaped him. And the Summer Court guffawed and rolled in mirth. They laughed and laughed.
Ruefully, Melidore raised his hand. He shook his head.
“Very well. Very well!”
The laughter ceased. He looked at Ryoka, annoyed, impressed, amused, all at once.
“It has been long since a mortal bested me. I cannot gainsay it. Not for the three reasons. I do not promise any of the three. But I will grant you the chance. The second is within my power to grant. The first and third? Beyond me. But let it be done!”
He turned, spun.
 
“There.”
 
One of the lesser fae stirred as the glorious member of the Summer Court pointed, seemingly at random, to them. She raised her hands, delighted, and Melidore nodded.
 
“Give the mortal girl what she desires.”
 
The fae, winged, green-skinned, eyes shining with insectile mirth, bared her sharp teeth at Ryoka. But it was complimentary as much as threatening.
