Laken stepped away from the door. He felt another sensation on his skin. Slowly, he walked back.
“I have never thought of doing violence to someone—at least not seriously. A blind man is a poor opponent even for a child. And yet—I still do not now.”
“Laken Godart. Must we be enemies?”
“I prefer my allies to be honest. Men like Lord Yitton Byres or Lord Gralton Radivaek are better allies to me. Even Lord Tyrion Veltras.”
“Fine men. Lesser men. It seems our natures are too alike. I have ever chosen such. But a lesser man would not be worthy of me. Rejoice, Laken Godart. Rejoice that you and I do not find each other easy company. And listen to my wisdom, for it will aid you.”
Laken sat silent. He wanted to close his ears. Kick the figure out, call Gamel. Do many things. He just leaned on his cane and sighed, tiredly.
“What do you have to say? I will listen to that, at least. What would you do with Rie? Your advice…Prost is a capable [Steward]. Durene is my [Paladin]. Gamel my [Knight]. Nothing you have said has been a lie, at least. So tell me what I need to know.”
All things he had been told to do. Laken leaned forwards, listening, judging. Thinking. The figure sat back.
“Very well. We have some time still. The others may find what they wish as well. At least…one. The rest may go without.”
“The five others. And what do the other four lack? Someone like…me?”
“Yes.”
Satisfaction in every note of Tamaroth’s voice. Almost childish, in its gloating and smugness. Laken raised one eyebrow.
“I would rather you be one of those who had failed to trick someone.”
“You would not.”
The amused tone came back. Laken scoffed.
“From where I sit, this seems far worse.”
A chuckle.
“Oh no, Laken Godart. You are mine. That means this day? You are safe. You would not be if we were at odds.”
The [Emperor] felt his skin crawl. He had a terrible thought and half-rose.
“Ryoka? Stay away from her…”
“That one is safe from one sort of danger. But her guests may undo us all.”
The voice was dark. Then it changed, smiling again.
“But only her.”
Across the world. Across this longest day.
Laken wanted to throw open the door.
He could not.
He wanted to warn them.
He could not.
He thought of the other names. And his skin chilled. He sat there, listening for a while.
He could do nothing else.
 
—-
 
The last of the fae was moving in the cleared grass and ground, dancing. And he was grandest of them all, glittering like the rays of the sun themselves. Even the fading evening seemed bright around him as he laughed and danced—he had a partner, Ryoka saw.
Lady Wuvren.
They moved in the center of the dance, to a rhythm and music of their own. Around them leapt the other fae, graceful as the Satyr, with inhuman agility and beauty and presence.
The nobility danced too, some with each other like Bethal and Thomast, others with strange partners. But none could match the two in the center.
Not by half. Not by far. Lady Wuvren moved across dance styles with her partner—and time.
Each step she was different. Older, younger—Ryoka had seen Wuvren before, noted how she was always a beauty of a different sort. But never had she seen the transformations so fast! So instantaneous!
A young woman in her early twenties, practically Ryoka’s age gripped an arm as she was swung around—
—caught herself in her forties, matured, but beautiful, only, a deepened understanding, the flame of youth turned into calm surety—
—barely more than a girl, laughing, unable to even stand still—
—older, grey-steel of hair, but strong of jaw, eyes steeled with flinty resolve—
She slowed as the dancing faded. Hair, even the shape of her body changing. A hundred forms, a hundred Wuvrens to love. Each one for a different reason, for a different person.
A few caught Ryoka herself. Aspects of—the young woman heard the last guest laughing, almost panting, but merriment in his voice as he spoke to the [Lady].
“Oh, you love so well! So freely! You are more than a delight, milady! You dance half as well as some of my court! Across time and space! Old and young!”
He kissed her on the forehead. Wuvren was swaying. She looked slightly pale.
“I’ve never—never done that before. I feel—excuse me, sir. You are too much for me, I think!”
“Ah, but that is true of all of mortal ilk. Well then, go! And my favor be on you.”
He kissed her hand, kneeling. Ryoka thought she saw Wuvren’s eyes shine for a moment. She gasped. Then he had lost interest and was grabbing ice cream, laughing with the others.
“I never thought I’d meet someone who I was so outmatched by. I—I need to sit down. Zanthia.”
An older woman murmured. She stumbled—and Lady Zanthia helped a [Lady] with less of the stunning allure towards a table.
“I warned you. What did he give you?”
“Seven years, he said.”
Power. The hairs on Ryoka’s neck rose. She looked past Wuvren at the bright figure.
Yes. If Silver Pine and Sikeri were the brightest lights of the rest of the fae and guests? This one was beyond them still.
She knew. The Faerie King’s representative of the Summer Court. He alone could help her. Let her meet Ivolethe.
Let her save Erin Solstice. Ryoka was not ready for this. She knew her gifts were paltry. Paltry, compared to one who gave time with a kiss. But her own moment would run out if she hesitated.
The Wind Runner walked across the floor. The words burned in her mind.
I crave a—
Her mouth opened and closed with the words. Ryoka halted, abruptly, as Jericha, whirling with a male fae, slowed. She saw the Wind Runner grasping at her throat. Trying to…speak?
“I can’t say anything.”
Ryoka murmured. Then grabbed at her throat.
“I can speak? Speak. I—”
She looked up at the glowing guest. And then down at herself again.
“Still speaking…”
Slowly, the Wind Runner looked around. She tested her voice, then looked at the figure. And only those words out of them all failed her.
Someone had stolen her words away.
Laughter. And suddenly, they bounded out of the crowd. Not pixies. Not Satyrs. Not the other kinds, like the Wyrm, or the trees. Their voices were like the rustling of spring. They brought the heat of summer, the vibrancy of life—
And all of summer’s wrath. Uncaring heat. Fire. All these things at once. They surrounded Ryoka.
The Summer Court.
 
“Look who comes! The Wind Runner, they call her! Windfriend! Foolish girl who sought favors from the winter!”
“She flew! She flew, and she called the wind! Now she throws a party for us!”
“And yet. She forgets us.”
 
One of them observed. Ryoka saw the cavorting stop. And the fae stood unnaturally still.
A guest tilted his head down and looked at her imperiously. The voice was regal, not as high and silly as the Frost Faeries had been.
 
“You beg boon, and yet you make no offerings. You go to the foremost of us and toss the rest of us aside!”
 
He snapped at her. Ryoka felt the simmering heat of anger in the immortal eyes. She raised her hands, slowly. Heart pumping.
Were they the Frost Faeries in another aspect or different entirely? They were so much more than the Winter Sprites had been! One was an impish prankster with a humble form. Sometimes you saw what they truly were—
But this was a bigger piece of that puzzle. A larger window. She quailed.
“I’m sorry. I did not mean to offend, fair folk. I only have business with—”
She indicated the greatest of them. The others snorted.
 
“You seek the favor of the Summer Court? Here we are!”
 
Another nodded haughtily.
 
“One of us is not all of us. The Summer Court shall hear ye now, mortal! Speak or be damned to silence! Ignore us and we shall take your voice and bottle it for a year and a day!”
 
She made a snatching motion, to emphasize her point and Ryoka lost her words again. She had to replace them; she would never know what she had been about to say.
Wonderful. They were still petty.
Indeed, the Summer Court were like reflections of the Winter Sprites. No less magic, but subtly different. Arrogant, yes, but more…formal. Seemingly more preoccupied with station, and, at the very least, less inclined to flit about making lewd gestures and tossing snow.
Or perhaps that was their forms. Either way—Ryoka was surrounded by a host of the Summer Fae.
They had sharp teeth. And the faint buzzing was there. A reminder of the danger.
They might devour her or tear her apart if she angered them.
But she had not come all this way to turn back. And—she had a Dragon’s wisdom. Which was probably less petty than a Wyrm’s—
Pow. Even the fae gaped as something hit Ryoka in the head a second time. She staggered; a cupcake should not have that kind of velocity or impact. Ryoka saw Sikeri lower her hand.
“I heard that.”
Ryoka rubbed at her head. Then she turned to the Summer Court. Wyrms sucked.
They were laughing at her. Falling over themselves, some lying on the ground as they guffawed at her expense.
That was the fae. Both regal and silly. You could have both. They surrounded Ryoka, expectantly. It was almost an honor. Because they looked at Ryoka, expecting her to appease them. To fit into the stuff of stories.
“Forgive me, fair folk. People of the Tuatha Dé. I did not mean to offend the Summer Court. Nor ignore you all. If it pleases you, I would offer you gifts for the right to beseech the first among you here.”
They were not the rehearsed words Silver Pine had helped her with. But they came from the heart and they seemed to please the fae.
 
“Ah, she knows respect! Good, offer us gifts! The first among us is too prideful!”
“Not us! Give, give!”
“If it’s worthy, we shall let you pass and ask! If not—”
 
They made grimacing motions and clutched at their throats. Ryoka saw them now.
Was this what Ivolethe was talking about? She had once insulted some of the others. As young. As—lesser than herself. When they had all been Winter Sprites, Ryoka hadn’t seen the difference.
Now she did. Some felt older. The ones who cartwheeled about and shouted loudest—they seemed young, lesser perhaps, in both time and nature.
The older ones were no less mischievous, no less playful. But they were closer to Ivolethe’s nature, albeit paralleled across season.
They waited, eyes glittering with many facets. Almost like the Antinium’s…
Waiting for gifts.
At least the Dragon had helped her with that. Teriarch understood immortal greed, at least. And Ryoka had made preparations.
[Brewers]. She withdrew something, offered it to the fae. They clustered around, snatching it from her hand.
 
“What’s this? ‘Tis naught but a contract of ink and paper!”
 
One cried out, disgusted. The others fought over it. The buzzing grew louder—until Ryoka held up a hand.
“It is more than a contract, wise folk! It is a promise. From each [Brewer]—each maker of drink and libations, a promise—to tithe you drink and goodwill for a year and a day!”
The Summer Court rustled. Ryoka pointed at the contract. This was what Teriarch had suggested. It was ridiculous—and yet it fit.
 
“Drink?”
 
“Drinks. They will be left in vessels without iron, only for you! In winter, in summer, on specific days.”
It had not been easy to convince the mead and other [Brewers] to do that, until she’d come with gold in hand. For that matter—Laken’s own people had agreed.
Alcohol? The fae blinked, completely bemused by the offering. They whispered to each other, now poring over the contract rather than threatening to rip it to shreds.
 
“She’s doing it again.”
“This is not a grand gift! Where are the gemstones? Where the gold?”
“That greedy Wyrm took ours! This is not a grand gift!”
“But it is drink. See? A barrel? And if we were smaller…”
“Mortal drink. Paugh!”
“I say it is good! It is funny! Mortal drink, where we have had none! An offering!”
 
They fought, quarrelling, shoving each other. Ryoka listened, heart pounding, but she sensed more were amused or delighted by the offering than not. At last, one of the more vibrant ones turned to Ryoka. And she laughed.
 
“I say it is well done! I will drink of it! Let the other gifts appease the court! But I give her the right!”
 
The others groused, or nodded, but soon all were nodding.
 
“Yes! The other gifts! What other two have you?”
 
They leered at Ryoka, grinning. Surely you have more?
Gifts always came in three.
Ryoka gulped. By now, more guests were watching. Like the Satyr’s wrath, like everything else this day—this too was entertainment.
“Fifty gold says she fails.”
Lady Pryde muttered to Lord Gralton. The [Dog Lord] snorted. Everyone liked to bet. But Lord Yitton and Shallel Byres did not. Gralton did not.
The [Witches] watched. Aloof from the fae. Silver Pines, Sikeri—
The second ‘gift’ was the pointing of a finger. The fae turned their heads as one. Ryoka had the crazy urge to just run past them. They could be as gullible as children. It might have even worked, if she only needed to grab something.
But she needed their respect. And what could she offer them more than—?
The statue of Ivolethe was far, far larger than life. She touched the marble plinth lightly, one heel and a foot striking the ground, wings spread. Laughing, as she had so often done.
Ivolethe, the Winter Savior.
Ivolethe, the friend.
The Summer Court fixed on the statue of the fae. And they murmured. Perhaps they had ignored the paltry thing of stone—but Ryoka’s finger travelled.
“There. And there. Do you see it?”
More statues. Some made of wood, by a crabby [Carver], others by [Sculptors]. Statues of the Winter Faerie.
 
“She has a statue? But I am a Ritter!”
 
One of the Summer Court cried out, annoyance flashing through his tone. Ryoka looked at the fae.
“It is just stone, immortal folk. Just stone and wood, which does not last. But memory does. And whilst this empire lasts—so too will the statues and Ivolethe’s name!”
 
“What do you offer, mortal?”
 
One of the fae spoke, eyes glittering. He knew. Ryoka smiled.
“A statue for you. And a name, written down for us short-lived people to remember and wonder at. Does it suffice?”
She couldn’t tell how many stood there. They kept shifting. A dozen? A hundred? The Summer Court debated again. It was unconventional. But Ryoka was surer this time.
They wanted to be remembered. A statue for each? They flitted to her.
 
“Made of gold? Jade? Precious metals?”
“Diamond for me?”
“Bone and blood?”
 
“No. Just stone or wood. Painted, if you like.”
Sulking, the fae leapt back to their congregation. And again—they nodded.
 
“We accept! Two gifts, we accept! Last one! Give us something wondrous!”
 
They laughed and applauded her. Statues and drink! Well, it was hardly treasure, or a great artifact or deed, but they accepted! Their eyes fixed on Ryoka greedily.
And she thought—
