Oh shit.
Because her last gift was not wondrous. Or grand. If she had had time, she would have tried to prepare a small mountain of Numbtongue’s gems. Something from the inn.
It had all fallen apart. So her last gift? It was more of an afterthought. Ryoka faltered.
“Er…generous folk, I hope this last gift will suit you well! For it is born of friendship and hard labor. A gift to match the first!”
Their eyes narrowed as one.
 
“It sounds like she hasn’t the greatest gift yet.”
“Should we accept it if it stinks?”
“Shh! Listen! Tell us, mortal! What have you to offer?”
 
Ryoka took a breath. What had she to offer? To so many? Not artifacts. Not magical food. Not a great treasure; at least, one to them.
If Erin Solstice had been here, perhaps she could have swooped in. Stumbling into the fae, delighting them. If the [Princess] were here, the little Gnoll?
But they were not. And all Ryoka had was what she drew from her bag of holding. She offered it to them. They stared at it. Pryde nearly spat her entire drink out her nose.
“Corn?”
Corn. The fae stared at it. Then at Ryoka. The Wind Runner was sweating drops as fat as the kernels of corn. She…hadn’t anything else!
“Er—this is a gift of labor from a friend. He has agreed to provide it to you for a year and a day—”
 
“Corn? She offers us corn?”
 
One of them shouted. Ryoka was really tempted to say that corn had once been called ‘yellow gold’, but she had a feeling they’d kill her if she tried that.
They were close to it, anyways. One snatched the ear of corn, still fresh, in its husk, and sniffed it.
 
“‘Tis not magic.”
 
Another peeled a piece of the husk off, eyed it.
 
“‘Twas not grown in the soil of blood, or over the graves of dead kings.”
“It was not tended by a hero, laboring as a farmhand. It was tended by an actual farmer.”
“Has it been lauded as the best food by this world’s greatest? No? Then what is it?”
 
They stared at Ryoka, baring their teeth furiously. She raised a finger.
“Um. Really good corn?”
The fae looked at her. One husked the corn, bit into it. The rest turned on her. Ryoka found a table, and unloaded ear after ear of corn, piling it up to build a wall between her and inevitable wrath.
The others snatched it. One muttered about shoving it through Ryoka’s head. Others had less charitable places to put it. The good mood of the fae turned to dark annoyance as they ate the corn.
Ryoka’s second plan involved asking the Players to create a play for all of the fae. But that was too much like the statues! Why hadn’t she remembered the rule of three? Stupid Wyrms stealing treasure! She tensed. She had to run and beg Tyrion for a favor. Or…?
 
“Huh. This is good corn.”
 
A thoughtful voice remarked. One of the fae, the one who’d taken the first ear, looked up. They had eaten the corn off the cob and were now munching on the cob itself. A second snack after the first one.
 
“It is! It was grown with love and care.”
“And cheating, to make it grow so fast. But good cheating!”
“Mm.”
 
The fae were eating the corn! In fact—all of it. One started with the green husk of the corn, munched that down, then the kernels, then the cob itself. Ryoka supposed in theory, all of it was edible. They looked at each other.
 
“A year and a day?”
 
“Yes. A year and a day. Offerings each harvest?”
The Summer Court huddled up. They glanced at Ryoka, muttering to each other. Ryoka dumped more corn on the table; they went for it. In fact, Laken’s feast had many products made with the corn. Popcorn, roasted, boiled, all kinds of it…
But corn? Bethal stared at Ryoka.
“That’s my corn, Thomast. I discovered it. Why do I have to share?”
“Bethal, dear. Please let it go.”
The fae were muttering louder. They looked at Ryoka. Argued, pointed at the statues, waved the contract with free beer about. Ryoka heard snippets.
 
“…Not what we…”
“Last time it was a sword that slew an immortal life! And such treasures as would make a thousand empires…”
“…Good corn, though.”
“So disappointing. Aught more did we expect from yon idiot, though?”
“I don’t see what Ivolethe sees in her! Prophecy or nay—”
 
One hit the other. It devolved into a fistfight. Ryoka stared as the fae broke up, reassembled. They stood in a circle around her. Grave. Also—disappointed.
 
“Your third gift mortal—we accept. Since we have expected naught from this world. Ye have splendidly met our expectations. Go, ask your boon.”
“You suck.”
 
One of them threw dirt at Ryoka. The fae milled about and broke up. One just kicked the ground all the way back to the buffet table.
And it was done. Ryoka’s voice returned. She stood there for a second. She’d done it!
Underwhelm them to victory. That was the Ryoka Griffin way.
Corn. Corn. The nobles were just as disappointed. The other fae were so let down they didn’t even bother watching as Ryoka approached the splendid leader of the fae in this realm. Pryde sniffed as she picked up an ear from the table. Gralton sniffed; and his expression was considerably more interested.
Just corn. Just…a simple product. Not real gold. Not gemstones. Not grand deeds. But hard work had gone into it. You could practically taste it.
It was not the best corn in the world. But someone had worked every day of his life to make this corn the best he had.
“It really is nice. Maybe I’ll buy some.”
“From House Walchaís! We have the contract!”
Bethal snapped at Lord Pellmia. The [Lord] rolled his eyes, but covertly, turning his head. Tyrion bemusedly watched his two sons bite into the corn and their faces slightly fall, as if they’d expected it to taste different. They still ate it, though. It was delicious.
“It truly is good corn.”
He murmured. Someone else agreed. A man, one of the Terland’s security detail, two of the House of El, servants and nobles alike, were eating it.
“I’ve only had corn this good once before.”
The man murmured. Lord Deilan’s eyebrows rose.
“I never have. And I have had corn from Noelictus’ fields and dishes made of the stuff prepared by excellent [Chefs].”
Corn. Somewhere, a [Farmer] napping woke up and wondered why in the name of Rhir’s hells he was leveling up.
 
—-
 
So it was done. The Summer Court watched as Ryoka walked across the ground towards the figure. He was laughing, lounging upon a chair, having eaten from the corn himself; one of the lesser fae had tossed it at him with complaints.
Waiting for her. The fae turned. Ryoka caught a flash of something.
She wandered across the dry, dirt road, her bare feet feeling the cracks in the ground where the sun had baked it. Yet it was not scorching. The sun beat down on her skin, threatening to kill her in time, without water or shade.
Yet in that moment, she felt the heat as a welcome thing. She looked past fields of growing crops. Wheat, and yes, corn, swaying in the breeze. She could have been in her world, and the sky was so blue it hurt. A vivid expanse as the wind blew—
Ryoka blinked. The image of summer vanished. She swayed, as she had before Sikeri.
Here sat summer. A fragment of it perhaps. But Ryoka knew two things in that moment as the eyes passed over her.
He was not the Faerie King. She had wondered, but he was simply an aspect. So much of one that even Silver Pine and Sikeri were lesser than him. Even Teriarch himself. But he was not the ruler of the fae.
And second—there would be no offering corn to him. That vision had been enticing. Yet merciless. All the warmth of the summer could be the wrath in an instant.
She wavered. Quailed for a moment. Because Ryoka was most afraid of—more than death, or the wrath of the fae—was failure.
She could fail here. She did not know what Sikeri knew, or the other fae. But Ivolethe had told her once that fate was a bunch of ifs. The fae saw what could be.
But nothing was certain. She opened her mouth—
And the figure beckoned her over. Ryoka hesitated, the words ringing in her mind. She knew the fae heard them. But he lifted a cup to his lips and drank, tossing the wine back.
“Sit. Before you speak, mortal, sit a while. You have words for me, which I will hear. My kin are displeased, but they should have expected naught else from you. I expect nothing at all. So sit. This company promises to entertain me for a moment.”
He gestured. And Ryoka saw the fae draw back. Out of the crowd, as if bidden, the first of the guests here summoned people to sit with him.
They were three, plus Ryoka. Five, including the shining figure. Each one…related to Ryoka in some way.
Lady Ieka Imarris, looking around, alarmed, stepping through the crowd against her will.
Mavika, oldest of the [Witches], approaching as her raven took flight and flew, to hide on a branch, still limping from a recently-healed leg.
And lastly…someone Ryoka only knew from today. But who fit here. A half-Elf, so old he was greying. Zedalien of the House of El.
The figure rose. In good merriment, he clapped his hands, and one of the fae danced attendance on him. Drinks were set. And food—including another ear of corn, placed upon the table.
“Come, sit! Each of you, for but a moment will entertain. A lady of this land who stole all she possesses. A witch who has forgotten her oaths! An intruder who disappoints my kin, yet has their friendship and speaks to the wind! And the son of whores.”
He bowed to them all, mockingly. The four, who had seated themselves without knowing it, all stiffened. Ieka Imarris’ eyes flashed in outrage. Zedalien stirred himself. Mavika’s eyes narrowed.
And Ryoka’s heart lurched. For she realized a third thing as the figure turned his summer’s eyes to her. He spoke, unbidden.
“Yes. I know Ivolethe, the name she gave you, friend of the wind. Intruder. I know why you have come here. I know what you seek. But first—we shall dine, as is fitting. You have not eaten or drunk at this moment. Such things must be done at any party.”
Ryoka had not, she realized. Not a crumb, and nothing since breakfast. She ate, suddenly ravenous, and Mavika plucked fat grapes from a plate. Ieka reached for a slice of cake; Zedalien helped himself to the roasted corn.
The figure watched them all, drinking, eating—he had a mound of cookies in front of him, frosted with all kinds…Ryoka gulped hard as she realized they were Erin’s designs. She looked at him.
“Thank you, sir. I don’t mean to offend.”
“You do so with every breath you draw. As do you, whoreson. The other two, less such. But I am a guest! Ignore my words.”
The figure laughed with bitter humor once more. And Ryoka knew she was not mistaken.
Unlike the other fae—no. Perhaps it was there, but in this one most of all. The others laughed and enjoyed themselves.
He did not. He looked up, and Ryoka saw the contempt in his eyes. For her—and Zedalien most of all. The half-Elf could hardly have ignored such a look.
“Forgive me, sir. But I neither know your name, nor why you insult me.”
He stiffly turned to the fae. The figure smiled.
“Ah, names. You are not worthy of mine. But—if you have to name me—”
He looked thoughtful for a second.
 
“Melidore. Call me that, whoreson.”
 
For a moment, his voice rang different than the others. Yet the insult still lay in those immortal words. Mavika and Ieka stirred. So too did the man he addressed.
Ryoka did not know Zedalien. But she saw the half-Elf’s eyes flash.
“Sir. I am no [Lord] of Izril. Nor do I know your station. But my mother was not what you name her. Retract your insult.”
He half-rose. Deilan and the others of the House of El had not seen Zedalien angrier in all the times they could remember. Melidore regarded him with calm eyes. Disparaging, and fearless. Such that even Zedalien wavered.
“Sit down, child. I did not insult your mother.”
Zedalien hesitated. The fae looked at him as the half-Elf lowered himself.
 
“I did not insult your mother. I insult you. Your mother. Your kin. Your entire race upon this world. If you would challenge me, I would gladly break every rule of hospitality and tear you to pieces before departing. Sit down.”
 
The half-Elf went pale. He sat. Because to stand would be to die. Yet he looked at Melidore, confused.
“I do not know you. What have my people done to offend you, sir?”
“You do not remember.”
Melidore relaxed. He sounded…disappointed. Zedalien shook his head hesitantly, questioningly. The fae looked at him, then turned his head, dismissing the half-Elf without a second thought.
“‘Twas all I wished to know from you. You do not remember your guilt. Begone with you, then.”
The half-Elf rose, hesitating, face flushed. But confused more than anything. He looked at Ryoka; she paused with her mouth full, gulped.
“I’m sorry.”
“You did not insult me, Miss Ryoka Griffin.”
He walked away, back straight.
Mavika was next. The fae named Melidore turned to her, smiling. He raised his cup.
“Will you not drink with me for the old days, witch? Your people stay so far from mine!”
He indicated the [Witches], who had indeed been loath to go near the fae. Mavika spoke, her cracked, whispering voice was wary as Ryoka had ever known her. Even Belavierr had not provoked this in her.
“We do not know your nature, strangers. You call us friend. But we do not remember. I do not remember, and I am second-oldest upon this land.”
“Yes.”
The eyes flickered again. Mavika half-hissed under her breath. Melidore regarded her.
“You are old and young, witch. And your craft fades. Such is the nature of witches. As steel replaces stone, so it has always been. The next time I dance upon this earth, the last of the witches may have long passed.”
She went pale. So did Ryoka, blanching. Was that threat or promise? Mavika half-rose.
“A boon, then, stranger. What may be done to avert witch’s fates? Before it is too late?”
She reached towards him, beseechingly. The fae’s eyes held hers for a moment.
 
“On the day your craft ends and the last of witches draw breath, make your choice. And for those who will it, I will open this world’s gate. That is my promise if you cannot avert your fate. Now go.”
 
The [Witch] stumbled. She turned and left. And the other pointed hats followed her. Ryoka had never seen Mavika look so shaken.
The last were Ieka and Ryoka. The figure drank, and ate lightly with his fingers. Ieka cleared her throat after minutes had passed. Hours? Melidore was just watching the party go on around him.
“Have you nothing for me, Lord Guest?”
She addressed him politely, sneaking glances at Ryoka. The man turned. He looked at Ieka, as if he had forgotten she was here.
“No questions for you, landthief. Nor answers do I seek. Just keep me company, whilst we pass this day away.”
