She trotted off with those words of wisdom in Sammial’s head. He’d never thought of it like that. He looked at Lady Bethal as she passed, laughing and wanting to try the tricks with Thomast, remembered the stories about her, and edged away.
Ryoka was panting after that moment. But she was glad she’d been there. She doubted the Satyr would have been kind. And no kid deserved to be hurt.
Well—but no. Not spanked, much less beaten. Or whatever the fae might have done. Sammy reminded her of herself. And if anyone had thought you could beat bad habits out of children, they’d have killed her long before anything changed.
People had done just that…
Ryoka shook her head. Then she realized—she was only a few steps away from one of her targets. The moment with Sammial and the Satyr had helped her, for the figure had stopped and looked back.
One of three. Ryoka stiffened. Her bare feet slowed upon the grass.
The eyes fixed her in place. Slitted pupils.
Depthless eyes. Ryoka felt like she was falling through the depths of them. Falling—falling deeper. She cried out, but the sound was lost.
She fell, through the air. Into a liquid made of the eyes. Deeper.
The Wind Runner gasped as the eyes shifted away from her. And that had been just a look. She looked again and saw—for a moment—an outline of something—
And then it was gone. And all that remained was the guest. She looked different. It was hard to focus on her.
Because it was not entirely her. Just a reflection on the waters. The young woman realized it in a flash of understanding. The Satyr was real. But this?
For all that, Ryoka made out more details as she stumbled forwards. She was…a Drake? No, like a cross between a serpent and a Drake.
A long tail, a longer neck—those slitted eyes. And when she looked down at Ryoka, her scales were a mix of onyx and byzantium. Her scales shifted as Ryoka spoke and she turned.
“Excuse me—excuse me. May I have a word?”
Ryoka halted as the head swung down and around. The sounds of the party faded again as those eyes—she looked away, shuddering.
She could not meet the fae’s eyes. Nor—as the being spoke, was Ryoka sure it was one of the fae. The voice was low, sibilant. The purest tones of—of—
It couldn’t be.
“Do you sspeak to me, little thing, to require an answer?”
The serpentine woman spoke, sounding increasingly offended with each syllable. She glared at Ryoka and the young woman froze as a mouse before a…snake.
“I—I only wished to talk. To ask you—”
The serpentine woman snagged a roasted bird of some kind and bit it—no, swallowed the entire thing. It might have been as large as a turkey, but it was gone in a bite. Again, Ryoka espied some kind of shape beyond this one. She flicked out a forked tongue.
“My words are not worthless as yours. Give me a worthy sacrifice and I will answer you.”
“Sacrifice? I only wanted to—”
The woman turned her gaze on Ryoka, and the impression of her annoyance at Ryoka’s stupidity left a mark. Ryoka wavered and the haughty woman explained with a hiss of impatience.
“This party is why I converse in polite words and deed. Were it not for that, I would say nothing else. For knowledge or favors, I require a worthy gift.”
She knew Ryoka had a question for her. The Wind Runner hesitated. If she were to just ask about the weather or something, or how she was finding the food—
“The sky is clear. The light fading. I have known far greater dishes, but these amuse me. Worthless answers for worthless questions. Does it amuse you, mortal girl?”
The two eyes bored into Ryoka’s head. Ryoka felt twin pinpricks of pain.
One of the Faerie King’s warriors stirred. At once—the serpentine lady shifted her gaze away. Ryoka raised a trembling hand. Touched at two—bloody divots on her flesh—
Her eyes. Ryoka reached for a potion, though they were just surface cuts. She drank it, then backed up.
Okay. The Satyr was like the warm-up. The smallest of hurdles. This was the biggest of them. Rethink. Remember the rules—
The Wind Runner approached the serpent again, as half the table of food disappeared into her mouth. The servers ran for the bags of holding with food, fleeing the guest’s approach. Ryoka herself felt like she wanted to pee—then hide in a hole.
But there was no hole in the world where you could hide from her. The woman turned.
“Well? Your gift?”
She knew Ryoka had one. But perhaps refrained from peeking in order to be surprised. Ryoka offered her a shining handful of coins.
“…Will you take four hundred pieces of gold, milady?”
That was her first try. The figure bent, her neck letting her head inspect the glittering gold. Her tongue flicked up—then she turned away.
“An alloy.”
“Worth something nonetheless, milady.”
“Not to me.”
A warning tone in her voice. Ryoka gulped.
“Then how about…?”
This time, her handful made the glittering serpent eyes flick back in interest. Ryoka held what was worth less than four hundred gold—but purer.
Gemstones. A sapphire, two rubies, one glittering with inner magic, a topaz—a small orb of gold, and so on. Gemstones.
She had some, thanks to a certain Hobgoblin. But she had been holding onto them for the—well, other fae. However, this was the moment to use them.
“Small.”
That was all the serpent said at first. But her eyes were avaricious. Small or not, Pyrite had learned how to bring out a stone’s beauty. And small or not, she wanted them. Ryoka gulped, then made to put the stones away.
“If you don’t want them, milady—”
A hand caught hers. As swift as—and implacable in its grip.
“I did not say I did not want them.”
The smile was, predictably, needle-sharp. The guest loomed over Ryoka. She looked over the Wind Runner and then grinned.
“Sshall we play a game? The rules of hospitality shall be put aside for this. These are my conditions.”
She indicated the handful.
“Give me six, and I will answer one small question. Should you ask two, or what is worth more than your paltry gift, I will take what is owed.”
And here the stakes rose. Ryoka gritted her teeth. She saw the armored warriors watching. But the serpent had just bypassed the rules of hospitality.
“Won’t you offer me an answer without a game, milady?”
“No. Accept my terms or naught at all.”
She was smiling. It wasn’t the worst bet. Ryoka licked her lips. Just—just be careful.
“I accept.”
Instantly, the woman plucked six tokens from Ryoka’s hands. The Wind Runner put them away as she motioned.
“Ask, ask!”
She refused to be rushed. Ryoka took a breath. A small question. Anymore and she forfeited—she pondered her wording, and then went with it before she could lose her nerve.
“Are you a member of the Faerie King’s court, one who could ask him for a favor?”
The head regarded her. The lips twitched up.
“No. I am not.”
Ryoka hesitated. Then closed her lips. The serpentine woman came forwards.
“Give me the rest and I will let you ask another question. Go on. Give them to me, the precious little things.”
Ryoka did. They were snatched away. She was nearly scratched by a claw, but there were rules. And clearly—the woman had to hold to them. Ryoka took a breath. Small question—
“Then—can you help me with my quest?”
This time, the serpent looked at Ryoka and her expression was gloating.
“I cannot.”
The Wind Runner looked at her. And the guest laughed in her face. Ryoka felt her heart sink. Then what are you?
“What—”
Too late, she realized what she was doing and clamped her lips shut. The eyes flickered, and the woman looked slightly disappointed.
“Don’t you have another question for me?”
Ryoka kept her lips shut. Of course she did. Hundreds. The first being—but she would not ask. She took a shuddering breath, seeing the woman toying with the precious little baubles. It wasn’t anything. She’d narrowed it down. Ryoka forced a smile onto her face.
“Okay then. Thanks. Pleasure doing business with you—enjoy the party. Please don’t offer anyone else your deals. They do not understand, and thus it probably violates the rules of hospitality and the Faerie King’s laws against interfering with this world.”
She gave the woman a beaming, false smile. It quite took the guest of the fae aback. She hesitated, narrowed her eyes, and glowered at Ryoka. The Wind Runner was already walking backwards, afraid to turn her back until she was well out of range. The other two—
“…Wait. Don’t you want to know what I am?”
The woman addressed Ryoka. The young woman stopped. She smiled again, this time more genuinely.
“I’m fine. And the game is over, milady. I thank you for your answers.”
The serpent looked…she advanced.
“But you do not know what I am. And you surely wish to know.”
Ryoka did. She spoke honestly, from the heart.
“Absolutely, Miss. However, I can’t pay the forfeit of that knowledge, I’m sure. I guess I’ll live the rest of my life not knowing who I met. Or of your august nature, milady. It’s a shame, but that’s the way life goes. I’ll take the question to my grave.”
On a hunch, she turned her back and began to wander back into the party. Ryoka determinedly thought—what a shame. Guess I’ll never know. And no one else will either.
The figure blocked her path. The Drake-serpent—no, the figure behind her spoke. And Ryoka heard the imperious flash in her voice.
“I am a Wyrm, girl. Sikeri’val-Toreshio-Maresssui, or so it is in the plain, worthless tongue. I came for my half-kin who still walk this world. For this day of days, in this company. And for free food.”
Her eyes caught Ryoka’s. And the Wind Runner fell—fell—
And landed in the same place. She looked up, and there, behind the Wyrm.
She was coiled upon the ground, upon herself. No wings! No legs! But a being that could not be compared to insects or pathetic little worms. Half of her was Draconic—she was no worm, no Wyvern! She was a—
Wyrm.
Ryoka gaped up at her. And she looked around and realized; no one stood to the left or right of her, or behind. They kept their distance, as she moved around them. The woman bared her teeth and Ryoka’s soul quailed.
But. She had seen a Dragon. The Wind Runner held her position, though her knees shook. This was a Wyrm not born of this world. Of that she was certain. Slowly, she bowed.
“I have met one of your kin, milady Sikeri’val.”
“I know.”
The Wyrm hissed. Her real voice made Ryoka’s bones fidget in her body.
“I had thought to meet him. But he is not here. A pity. Still. This company came only for the trivial pleasures of it. So too, I. You have your answers. I cannot help you with what you desire.”
Ryoka nodded slowly. One of the other two, then. And she thought she knew which one. She began to back up—
Sikeri slithered around her, uncoiling and moving so fast that Ryoka barely saw her appear from the other side. She was so vast that a single bite could have swallowed many Ryokas whole. And yet she was smaller in this place—and still her size.
Time and space. The Wyrm spoke again.
“I also came for another reason. A prophecy. Don’t you want to know what it is?”
Ryoka felt a prickle on her spine. She glanced up into those eyes again—jerked her head away too late.
“N-no. I’m fine. Really. I’d better get going, milady…”
She edged away. Again, the huge form moved. Encircling her. The head bent low. And the whisper—this time Ryoka’s entire body shuddered.
“It involves you.”
Ryoka’s head jerked. She stopped. Sikeri smiled once more. Ryoka saw a dancing tongue.
“The others, they will not tell you it even exists. Let alone what it is. But I am not of the Faerie King’s court. Merely a guest in his realm. I could tell you what it is. For a price.”
“Why do I think I couldn’t afford it, milady?”
Ryoka looked around for an escape. But none came and no one else would budge Sikeri. The Wyrm bent lower, until she was but inches away with her real form from Ryoka’s face.
“You can. And you would not suffer for it, believe me. All I want is a promise. A teensy promise for the future. It may never come to pass.”
The young woman looked into one huge eye. And she began to lose herself in the depths again. Ryoka tried to pull away. But it was so hard—
“Just promise me. And I will tell you what was spoken of you.”
Her voice was so enticing. Ryoka’s hand clenched. Something cold froze her skin. Pain woke her slightly. She spoke, in a trembling voice.
“Great Wyrm Sikeri—I regret to say that you made one mistake.”
“Oh?”
The serpent blinked. Ryoka stepped back.
“Yes. I’m very tempted. But someone already offered me the same kind of deal. And I refused her first. Take it up with Belavierr the Stitch Witch. As for me—I refuse. By the right of hospitality, I ask that you leave me be!”
The Wyrm recoiled, hissing in sudden fury.
“You dare deny me?”
She made such a sound that the party went silent. Ryoka fell to her knees, holding her ears. She saw the seven warriors move. But the Wyrm was so furious even they failed to intimidate her. She reared back—
And stopped. The predatory fangs slowly retracted from their bared state. The giant serpent slowly uncoiled. She backed away further.
The second of the guests stood next to Ryoka. And he looked at the Wyrm and she slowly moved back. Not in complete fear, but warily. She hissed a curse and then—fled back to the buffet lines. Half of it vanished in a gulp, and the atmosphere calmed.
The warriors went back to their stations. Ryoka exhaled. She really needed to pee. But she looked up and—
Saw him. Or—it? The figure stooped. And like the one who had taken away the sorrow of the children, he was tall. But unlike that figure—taller still.
He put Moore to shame. He put the distant mountain to shame. He was taller than both, and with each step, he could have covered leagues.
And yet, Ryoka could look up at him without straining her neck. She was beginning to understand the trick of it. Representations. She looked up at the figure and he nodded to her.
“I came for the children. It has been too long since they played at my feet. Too long since I saw mortal delights. A fine temptation, child. But you invite more than the fair folk to such gatherings.”
He whispered. Ryoka heard his voice, like rustling. Like—
She looked up, sensing more of his nature. Then she bowed. Unlike Sikeri, this personage only instilled the greatest wonder in her. Instinctive respect, not danger. She saw only time in his eyes, not a malevolent depth.
But he did look tired. And old. And a bit sad, for all he smiled. Ryoka heard him sigh. And again—it was rustling.
Like a hundred thousand leaves blowing in the wind. And if she looked at his representation she thought his arms and legs looked gnarled. Like…roots…
