A scarf. One with a pattern so complex that it almost hurt the eyes. Of soft blues, like that of the pine of blue spruce, shades of darkness like the shadows in caves, and fragments of gold; bright as a match’s first illumination in a dark room.
“It spins like Belavierr!”
Agratha cried out. Oliyaya just laughed and clapped her hands. Her voice was raw when she spoke.
“No. Better. What creatures are these? The oldest! Did she learn from it?”
The [Witches] saw Zanthia stumble forwards suddenly, and nearly kick over the chess board. She caught herself, and the oldest [Lady] present rounded on the tall creature.
“Excuse me, sir or madam. But Lady Eliasor is my ward. I do not believe I taught her to converse so readily with strangers of your ilk.”
“Lady Zanthia. I was only—”
Eliasor started guiltily. Zanthia faced down the tall fae, clearly wary of its intentions. The [Witches] stirred. They did not want to test its strength; not after seeing it match Belavierr’s Skill in a moment. And even she could not have taken that grief so easily!
For a moment, the tall fae regarded Zanthia without expression. Simply—judging her. Then, the long features turned into a gentle smile. It reached out, and—quite unbidden—draped the scarf around Zanthia’s neck.
“There. You should have done better, mentor. Bear it this night and I will reward you your kindness.”
It spoke, admonishingly. Eloise stirred herself. She saw the old lady stumble, as if the scarf weighed—
All their grief, spun into that thing. Zanthia nearly sank to one knee. But the fae had not misjudged her. Her head rose and her hand half-touched the scarf. She looked at the fae, then at Eliasor, who was laughing as Grev, also smiling despite his loss, pointed out a move Erin had taught him.
“Ah.”
She looked at the fae. It held out a single finger, and Zanthia clasped it once. The thing smiled—
They had an agreement. Zanthia turned away, as the children laughed. The [Lady]’s chin rose, and she walked away, bearing the heavy scarf.
The [Witches] sighed in relief. And in truth—they needn’t have worried. Of the mortals here, the fae doted on the children. There were those who did not, of course.
But they were not welcome here. And—there were rules. The watching warriors stopped the two trying to pull Lord Tourant’s son out of the bounds of the party.
 
“But he promised! We have the right!”
 
One of the colorful fae protested. Last time no one had stopped them! But this time?
Frost emanated from one of the dark visors. A hand reached out and winter’s chill covered the land for a second, despite the warmth of the evening, the bright fires. The fae balked; turned pale.
One was greater than the other two combined. Far more. It was—intensity. The two sprang away from the [Lord] who gasped in relief.
 
“Fine! Curses upon you!”
 
The other spat and scrabbled in the dirt to throw a clod of soil at the warrior. It bounced off. The visor turned; the fae fled with a scream.
Childish. Petty. Grand and mysterious. And that was one moment out of many. Each person found themselves talking to the fae, the center of their story for a night.
Ryoka Griffin felt it. Time was already strange here. She felt as if the fae had been there—as if some of those events had taken place before everyone had seen them here. Certainly, as she pushed forwards, shouting for attention, Lady Zanthia already wore the scarf as she summoned a pouting Eliasor to attend.
And Ryoka had shouted at once for everyone to listen to her. She waved her arms as people drew around her. Even some of the fae, wanting to listen. Ryoka looked around.
They were here! But where was—she turned to a figure standing to attention.
“Gamel, where is Laken?”
The [Knight] blinked. Ryoka stared at him blankly, confused. He was always by Laken’s side as a bodyguard! Gamel frowned at the oddity too. Then his brow cleared.
“His Majesty is occupied.”
“Where?”
“I—don’t know.”
Another frown. Ryoka stared at him. Laken was occupied? Okay. Well then.
She turned back as the [Witches] marched over, and Lord Tyrion and a dozen nobles walked into view. Then Ryoka’s head slowly turned back. Wait a sec.
“I’m sure…Laken…would want to be here. Gamel.”
The young man’s eyes crossed. He opened and closed his mouth.
“But he is—occupied—Miss Griffin. We should not bother him.”
But…Laken was an [Emperor]. And didn’t she need…? Ryoka’s mind struggled for a moment, but there was nothing to struggle with. It was like trying to fight nothing.
Nothing at all. Yet surely he’d want to—to—
Laken was not at the party of the fae. He was not here. He was occupied. Ryoka’s expression cleared at once.
Oh, of course he was. Well, the party would have to go on without the [Emperor]…why, exactly?
She strained. But it slipped away. And then—
 
—-
 
Since only one person from Earth was at the party, Ryoka summoned Riverfarm’s people, the nobility, and everyone else in earshot. She repeated the rules they had been told; this time with emphasis.
“Promise them nothing. Offer them nothing. Make no deals with them; there’s nothing to be gained here. Any [Merchant] who wants to sell your wares—if you want to wake up with a handful of flowers the next day, be my guest.”
The listeners stirred. Some of the [Traders] hesitated. The fae were flashing gold and gemstones at them. Ryoka felt the dream-like quality herself.
“Listen to me. Just don’t give offense. Don’t promise anything. Step out of this party—go to Riverfarm if you feel like you’re getting sucked in. Beyond that? They have rules too.”
She saw Lord Tourant’s son walking towards Riverfarm, abandoning the party. A few people joined him. She thought they might be the ones with the most sense. Ryoka felt like she was forgetting something—but there was nothing else she could say.
She eyed Lady Zanthia.
“Their deals are seldom ones you’d enjoy, milady. You—you should take off that scarf.”
The old [Lady] raised a hand to the thing around her neck, then shook her head. She fixed Ryoka with a stern eye.
“I will not. Rather, young lady, it seems you are exaggerating. There are deals to be made for the better. But they carry their deal of risk. As do all trades.”
Ryoka hesitated. That was true. It was just—with the fae, you really were dealing with the highest stakes. You couldn’t renege, or negotiate.
“Just be careful. Especially [Merchants]. You could lose all your goods if you try to sell them here.”
“I heard the flowers are worth something, though.”
A [Trader] murmured. He was eying a heaping handful of gold one of the fae held out. The Wind Runner whirled.
“How do you know that?”
Erin had never told anyone! But the [Trader] just pointed at one of the fae.
“They told me.”
The giggling figures offering the fake gold laughed as Ryoka turned on them. They flitted away, like naughty children. Ryoka shook her head after a moment.
“If they told you, then you know they’re tricking you! Don’t be stupid! You’ve been warned. Neither his Majesty nor I will recompense you.”
The man hesitated. He eyed the gold longingly, then shook himself and stepped away. The fae cursed and hurled the gold at Ryoka. Some of the people went scattering, picking it up. Ryoka just shielded her face and swore back.
“That hurt! Throw them elsewhere! I know what they are! Ow! Stop it! Why the hell do they hurt?”
A sly voice in her ear. A tufted-ear fae winked at Ryoka and whispered with a voice unlike the others.
“They are not flowers anymore, but pebbles. The Winter Court said there was too much value in flowers. Ah, what tricks mortals play!”
Ryoka turned to the figure. His voice didn’t have that…ephemeral quality some of the others did. A different species? His eyes were like an animal’s. The pupils—he winked and bounded off.
“It seems you have your visitors. Worthy of an [Emperor] indeed. Do you need…assistance, Miss Griffin?”
Lord Tyrion stiffly spoke. Ryoka turned; her cheeks bulged and she let out a laugh before she could help it.
The [Lord] had already been beset by the fae. They’d put flowers in his hair, draped a garland of buds around his neck, and tossed petals all over him. Jericha kept removing them; but somehow there were more flowers and he looked like a bouquet.
Tyrion did not quite look like a statue, but he was certainly stiff with cold indignation. Ryoka covered another laugh.
“I’m—sorry. They’re tricksters, Lord Veltras. And I think—”
She looked around.
“I think I’m fine. I have to do this. Alone, I mean.”
He nodded.
“Simply call if you need aid. Jericha—I will have a drink.”
“Yes, Lord Veltras!”
The flustered woman hurried off after him. Ryoka watched the flower-bedecked [Lord] for a moment and wished she had time to see all the hilarity. Certainly, there was that, and great meetings afoot!
The nobility’s titles earned them little here. The fae mingled with them with cheery good humor, out for their own entertainment, some with agendas. Now Ryoka stared at them, trying to find reason in the chaos.
Searching for the one or ones she needed.
It was hard. They all looked like, well, folk. Humanoid in shape, lithe, ethereal, possessed of that quality of half-Elves, but not diluted.
Beyond that? Ryoka could pin them down neither by the color nor nature of their skin, nor anything else. Some had feathers, others horns. Some appeared covered in fur, but the thing was—she couldn’t be sure of anything. If she stared too close, her eyes unfocused. It was fine to take in the fae, but to try and ask what exact shape their ears were? That was when the mind seemed to untether itself.
Three of them were different, though. As Ryoka had observed; there was an intensity about them. That was how you determined their nature.
Some were as close to mortal as you got. Others seemed realer than reality. They drew the eye. They had the quality of power in every inch of them, such that you knew they were something.
It was like an aura. The figure who had given Zanthia the scarf was certainly…more vivid than two thirds of the rest.
But not the most intense. There were three of them, who were even more there than the seven warriors.
Three, seven. Magical numbers. It made sense too; three for three.
Each one different. One was male, flighty, graceful and ethereal, like the Summer Court. The other, female, dangerous, serpentine. The last? Tall, venerable, stationary.
That was the feeling Ryoka got from all three. She knew—one of them was the one she sought.
She tried to get towards them. Walking through the crowd. But she had forgotten.
This night was not hers alone. And the fae had little interest in her, at least, most of them. Ryoka began to make her way after the three figures as they mingled, but people, meetings, events, got in her way. And each attracted the eye.
Ulva Terland was seated, her escort lamely trying to fend off a group of four fae guests who were ignoring them. None of them were willing to draw a weapon, and the Golems acted as if the fae weren’t there.
“I—I am Ulva Terland. Please stop putting flowers in my hair.”
The [Lady] protested weakly; the fae were planting beautiful blooms in her hair. Not like the nectar and sap-covered ones they’d besmirched Tyrion with. She was about to rise to get away when one caught her hand.
“Don’t go! Stay! Sit with us! We know grief! We know loss!”
He beckoned her to sit. The others chorused agreement. Ulva hesitated.
“But it is undignified. You are not nobility.”
“So? Sit and rest your burdens! We have dined with great kings and queens! You should bow to us!”
They laughed. Perplexed, but feeling like she was in some pleasant daydream, Ulva sat. She would never have said such things normally. But this was no normal time.
Ryoka stumbled past the group, and heard the one who had beseeched Ulva first speak. She looked sideways and saw—
An earnest face. Beautiful eyes and lips, focused on the [Lady] with real concern. Brushed features, as if carved by a master. A youthful countenance, swept hair so that the boy looked nothing past sixteen.
And then—
The stone held the [Lady]’s hand. Or perhaps—she held it. Nothing more than stone. No more artistry than what wind and time had given it. Ryoka stared at the thing made of pure, glowing jade and heard its voice in her head.
“You are so sad, lady! The King of Goblins cut your heart in two, didn’t he? And half your soul is lost. More than just a sister, she was, wasn’t she? Half of you.”
Lady Ulva started. She looked at the fae—the young man—the jade being—with wide eyes. She murmured.
“Yes. H-how did you know? We were [Twin Virtues]. We—I’ve forgotten how to laugh. I’m so afraid of death. Of oblivion…she is gone. And half of me—”
“Put it aside. Eat. Dance! And be kinder to your children of metal and stone.”
The figure assured her. It indicated the still War Golem. The lights in its gemstone eyes were flickering as another of the…stone-fae hugged it, laughing. Ryoka walked past, wanting to turn back. But she could not, as Ulva was enticed back into the party.
A second exclamation, from the stage. The Players of Celum were performing now, and it was the performance of their lifetimes.
A Midsummer’s Night Dream. That was what Ryoka had assumed would be best. The [Actor] emerged onto the stage.
He was playing Puck. Unlike other performances where he was the lead actor, he’d taken the prankster’s role, having the talent for it. He emerged, laughing, the spirit of mischief on cue—
“How now, spirit! whither wander you?”
Puck turned to the Fairy, Act II, Scene 1, and the Fairy turned to him. Instead of one of the [Actors], Wesle saw a laughing face. Actual wings. She danced around him, giggling and replying.
 
“Over hill, over dale,
Thorough bush, thorough brier,
Over park, over pale,
Thorough flood, thorough fire,
I do wander everywhere!”
 
Wesle’s jaw dropped. In the audience, both fae and [Actor] alike fell over themselves laughing. Wesle barely managed to reply as the faerie spoke her lines, perfectly. He stumbled forwards until the arrival of the Faerie King himself and found instead of Kilkran, it was a fae, the audience cheering and hooting at the representation of their king.
They were taking part! But with a twist. The Faerie King spoke his lines; the laughing fae had put antlers on his head, the props, and the costume.
 
“Tarry, rash wanton: am not I thy lord?”
 
Then his eyes gleamed, and the fae threw down the antlers and smashed them with one foot.
 
“But I am not thy lord! Nor is this the King of Faeries! Enough! Begone with yon poor play! Give us other tales! But not this poor mimicry!”
 
The other fae in the audience cheered and the ‘Queen’ and ‘Fairy’ tore off their costumes. Some of the fae cried out.
 
