They descended on the party and brought stories. From another world. From many worlds, perhaps.
Timeless tales. A strangeness in the air; as if anything could happen. The opposite of the days when Ryoka had looked up at the sky and seen only smog, seen nothing to do or dream of.
These folk were the times stories had been made of. They had walked among legends and watched the things that defined culture and imagination. And they had been great, greater than you could believe.
It was such a relief to see them. Even those who did not know who they are knew them.
The keepers of stories. Beings of myth and legend. Immortals of another world.
The fae folk.
Here, in a moment after the eclipse passed. Resplendent in every color, flitting about, grabbing treats or laughing. This was a day of celebration, after all!
The longest day. For a second, the mortal guests just stared, wondering how they had suddenly doubled their numbers. Realizing that someone had been there who had not been a moment ago. The fae’s entrance was so natural that it became all the more surprising when you realized it.
Then one of them spoke.
 
“The food! And drink! And dance and sights! How glorious! How wonderful! And all for us!”
 
The speaker was male, cheeks glowing with the same vibrancy as the voice. The listeners stirred—and saw him snatch a caramelized apple and bite into it. He chewed, laughing, and he was both immortal and very mortal. Savoring such a simple action, simple delights.
“Dead gods.”
Someone breathed. Tyrion Veltras started. He half-turned. And saw it was Jericha. She, like him, stared. As if waking from a dream into…
Another dream. Only, it was reality. The [Lord] of House Veltras turned, and as he came to his senses, he noticed the warriors.
There were two kinds of guest here. One was the court of the fae. A dancing, singing, laughing, impish mob of all sorts and stations. Some, as Ryoka had seen, were vibrant, realer, more powerful. But they were still of the same nature, here for the party.
The second kind were the warriors, like the armored thing of frost and metal who stood next to Ulva Terland and the laughing fae on the Golem’s lap.
There were…less than a dozen of them. A paltry escort! And yet—each one made Tyrion sweat. His hand was on his sword. But he did not draw it.
Hospitality. There was more than an [Emperor]’s will in this. Part of him sensed that to offer violence in this place, at this time, was unwise. Even so—he had yet to release the grip on his sword.
Did they even have faces? What were they? The silent warriors took no part in the delight. Their armor and blades were of no make or style he could name. They stood half-invisible in their stillness.
Warriors of the Faerie King. Some, like Lady Rie, Bethal, Thomast, had seen one of them for the last party. Now, there were seven.
Magic in numbers. They stood around the place marked out for the fae, sentinels. Interestingly—that was how the fae had appeared.
None in the streets of Riverfarm. None past the place made without iron, specially designated for them. It was as if they knew where they were welcome. For all that, they called out, to the stunned crowd, to the entertainers.
 
“We’ve come! Bring your gifts, sellers of things!”
“Aye, and your food! Yon pile of snacks! The delights of sweet and breads! Bring it here!”
“Dance for us! Dance with us! We were promised a party like no other! On this longest day—show us delights!”
 
They laughed. Their voices a chorus, indistinguishable in the mob. But again—they were not all alike.
And they were here. The fae! Ryoka Griffin stared about as one cartwheeled past her, laughing. She caught a narrow face, eyes without pupils, dark, glittering. Wings—
A pixie? Only, human-sized! She leapt, and gravity forgot to touch her. Flashing past a Level 40 [Tumbler] soaring through the air. The performer from Invrisil gawked as much as the fae, and nearly missed her landing.
“You did it, Ryoka. You did it!”
Someone cried out. Durene. The half-Troll girl looked around for Ryoka, crying out in relief. She had not known all of the stakes, but she knew enough. Ivolethe—Ryoka’s party. And the wounded friend.
She had worked so hard for this moment. And it had happened at last! She wanted to find Ryoka and hug her. She saw the young woman, standing at the edge of the party. Durene ran over—and stopped.
It was true. This was the day. Or rather—evening and soon night. But it would be the grandest of parties. Three heads of the Five Families. The Summer Court. A hundred small miracles to make one grand one.
Everything she wanted. The Wind Runner had it now, the opportunity of a lifetime that might never come again. The third great party of the fae in this world in living memory.
And now they were here at last? Ryoka Griffin swayed on her bare feet. She was shuddering, dead white. Durene stared at her.
Why?
She did not understand. Ryoka had realized in that moment that she had not known what to expect. What form had she expected the fae to take? Honestly—
A version of the Winter Sprites. Like Erin’s first party for the fae, where they had entered her inn and devoured her foods, in miniature form.
Not this. She had not been here for the second party, when the summer fae had arrived. She had not seen them and no one had spoken of it in that detail, thinking Ryoka knew.
But their appearances here—were far different than the Winter Faeries. And to Ryoka, they conjured half-forgotten horror.
They had only taken this form in front of her once.
She remembered a fire. Visitors on a Solstice day. Lost fingers.
Ryoka reflexively looked around. But saw no…shadows. No mist. In fact, shadows were practically banished among the light, the sound—
But it was this day. And for a moment, the Wind Runner felt it. This was a moment. A time when great good—or ill—could occur.
She stirred herself after another second, realized Durene was there. Ryoka blinked. And the dark memory was gone. The glowing fae were like a beacon against the darkness. So long as they were here—no evil could intrude. No poison or treachery suffered!
So long as you were here. Ryoka walked forwards, into the gathering of the fae.
 
—-
 
Across the world, the Blighted King, Othius IV, who had reigned for longer than most mortal men had been alive, even half-Elves, saw the grand ritual begin.
No great gathering had been assembled the second time. No hundreds of Rhir’s finest nobility, warriors, and witnesses.
This ritual took place in secret. Far underground. In a vast, empty space cleared of everything except the magical circle.
To any student of magic, it was a strange conjuration. It had no reason to it. The magic circle itself was the most complex spell in existence. Undead servants and living [Mages] had labored without rest to draw the incredibly complex, minute patterns. Not a single part could be wrong. And yet—the circle had completed itself near the end. Repairing small mistakes.
That was already grand magic. And it frightened the [Mages] because they could neither understand it nor decipher any part of it. It was not magic as they knew it.
Second—the ritual space had no base of power. Nor a perceivable target. Spells needed a source of power, just like fire needed fuel. This one?
Well, the Blighted King knew one source of power. He stood, impatiently, with only Nereshal beside him.
The room was empty. So empty it was frightening. He had not made this a grand occasion. This was like the first experiments, when they had tried to summon one. And, apparently, failed.
But the scale of this circle was ten times the last one. An exponentially greater ritual. It would deliver him his victory. Othius’ hands were slightly clammy. His regal garb askew; and no servants to correct it. He felt as though everything should be perfect for his triumph.
He would make do. The [King] raised a hand.
“Begin.”
It began with a sigh. There were only six people in the room besides the two onlookers. Six [Mages].
One of them was High Mage Laisa. Her hands still felt the biting pain. She still shuddered with memory of her…interrogation.
But her faith in the Blighted Kingdom had been restored. The demons must be destroyed. She had doubted, fled, become traitor with the other [High Mages]—half of whom had disobeyed their king with her.
—Yet after meeting His Majesty in person, she had realized the error of her ways. Laisa had seen reason and gone back to her work.
Still, the sigh escaped her lips. It was too late to stop. But she was afraid.
The [Mages] channeled their linked mana into the spell to activate it. Then? All they had to do was keep the connection. Open…something.
The [High Mage] feared what would come next. She had felt it both times before. A…tearing. Something opening she could not explain. This time—she feared what would occur.
But for now, she simply stood. Feeling her power activate the ritual and it slowly begin to change something.
The Blighted King and Nereshal watched. After a while, they sat down. The one thing they had learned from the last ritual?
Bring chairs.
It took a long time.
 
—-
 
“They’re here. They’re here. Break out the drinks! The food! Entertainers, to the guest area! Remember—keep everyone else out. Children, the folk of Riverfarm—remember the rules!”
Mister Prost and Lady Rie were directing people from the edge of the gathering. Riverfarm’s folk and the many from abroad stared at the giant ring where the mysterious visitors frolicked. The party was going on in Riverfarm’s streets. But clearly—there was an inner gathering as well.
Many people wanted to attend. But Beniar, the army, and the noble’s escorts kept most back. It was for their safety.
And already, the gathering had begun to move past simply amazing into…wondrous. Both foul and fair.
“Dance with me, won’t you, sir? Little lord of these lands?”
A laughing, beautiful creature appeared in front of Lord Ranga. Mystified, he looked at the person; she had fins and gills.
“Are you a Drowned Woman? Er—that is to say, I’d be delighted, Miss…?”
“Ranga! I’m right here!”
His wife slapped him. The [Lord] heard delighted laughter and the trickster fae leapt away. This time to go after his son! The younger [Lord] instantly took her hand and Ranga went after both—why, he couldn’t say. His wife went after him—until one of the other fae beseeched her for a dance.
The nobles were whirled into the crowd, forgetting their dignity as the fae asked for a dance, conversation, a partner to eat or laugh with. Not just the nobility; the bodyguards, servants, were singled out for reasons only the fae knew.
A few of the fae were clearly here to make the mortals suffer, if only with tricks and pranks like Lord Ranga’s family. Some meetings were darker.
“I…know you. Don’t I?”
Lord Tourant’s son stopped, abruptly. Brushed at his face. Then shuddered. The two laughing fae who had seized his arms giggled.
He stared at his missing fingers. Then at them.
 
“You promised us such things, boy! Will you not fulfill your promise?”
 
“I—I did. But I misspoke.”
They laughed, uncaring, tugging him fiercely. One whispered at him.
 
“Yet you promised us. And we are not some mortal women. You promised us. Make good on your promise.”
 
He shuddered again. But trailed after them. Part of his ear was missing too. And yet—he was half-longing, half-terrified as he followed them into the shadows.
And some simply…odd.
“Child! Ah, a child after so long!”
A tall figure, nearly eight feet tall, bent down. His? Her? Face was long, closer to equine. Their legs seemed far longer than the rest of them, for that matter.
They squatted down as Eliasor stared up. The figure laughed and sat.
“Little ones! Shall we play games? Show me your tricks! Play with me this game.”
They pointed at the chess board and Grev’s scam. The figure saw the children back away, even Grev, except for Eliasor.
Part of the [Lady] was wary. But she looked into the giant fae’s eyes and saw—
“Excuse me, sir. But do you wish to play games?”
“Yes. It has been too long since we have walked among the little ones. Tell me your grief, child. Then—abandon it.”
Nothing but pure kindness shone there. The giant smiled and Eliasor burst into tears. She sat, and played a game as the fae listened. Then—forgot her sadness and began to laugh. The other children began to gather around and spoke of the saddest things they had felt.
The sadness produced tears—then vanished. Then they laughed and the fae laughed too, in delight. They ate greedily from the tables, and ran about in delight.
Lady Zanthia watched the tall fae warily. No easy trust from her. As did the [Witches]. But the giant figure paid them no mind.
“It took their grief like one of us. What is it? I cannot tell its species—a half-Giant?”
“I do not know. If we must battle it—does it have a grip upon the children, do you think, Eloise?”
The [Witches] stood together. Agratha, Eloise, Mavika, Hedag—it was Agratha who turned to Eloise and Oliyaya. The scarred [Witch] made an indecipherable sound.
There were [Witches] in this gathering, young and old. They had invited themselves to the noble’s fancy. But like [Witches]—the old had not forbidden the young, despite the danger. Agratha had wanted to. The others had overruled them.
This was a time of power. And the [Witches], even the young ones, were warier of the fae than the other mortals.
“If we must do battle—it would be unwise, sisters. But if we must, do not break the rules of hospitality. And that [Lady] will help us.”
Zanthia was striding towards the tall fae, but somehow, never managing to get there. It was as if the children were a hundred miles away, and she never got closer no matter how fast she walked, despite one of them running past her. Zanthia stopped, bewildered.
And growing angrier.
“Is it a thing of good or evil, then?”
Mavika turned her head, almost astonished to hear the question coming from one of them. Hedag had asked. She had taken the worn executioner’s axe out and was studying the tall fae with bright eyes.
Wariness in the air.
Then—the [Witches] saw something that made them all stir. Agratha’s jaw dropped.
“Impossible! It can’t be! It’s—”
The tall figure had fingers proportionally as long as its legs. As it sat cross-legged and Eliasor pondered her move, the [Witches] saw a long line of…grief…draw from one finger to another. A line of thread.
Thread. The figure’s fingers moved, twisting the thread. Without perception of how, it grew longer, from a thin thread into a wider band of cloth. Wider—longer—
The thread grew more complex. Weaving in, out. With different shades of grief. Some petty, some terribly hard to bear, like Eliasor’s. Before the [Lady] had made a move, the figure had created…
