“This town’s layout is nonsense! The twists lead to dead ends but the dead ends open out into intersections when we turn around. There’s a bakery next to a building that looks haunted but the bakery smells so good. The bank accepts blood as money and we’ve passed the same hat shop four times but it's never in the same place,” Serma heaved, her eyes darting about the street they were on as if expecting a wild animal to appear.

Mas gave her a worried look as he adjusted his free tophat he got from said hat shop. Mas just happened to be the first customer of the ‘decade’. Serma also couldn’t remember what the owner of the store looked like or when they actually went inside the store.

But they all had hats...

Her sunhat was tailored perfectly and rather comfy which Serma tried to take solace in.

“Should we ask directions from there?” Mas asked as he held Mule, the slime fast asleep like a toddler. Serma followed his eyes to a store that was entirely void of color and paintings of little characters with round figures and a bouncy appearance smiled out at them with goofy-looking large gloves.

They looked cute but there was something about their stare, the way they looked seconds from moving when Serma’s eyes moved away from their frames that made the hair stick up on the back of her neck.

One of the frames was almost leaking... as if the concept of art and immortal existence was oozing into their reality. It was horrifying! It was coming!

It was-

“Let’s try over there,” Lorsa suggested quickly and pushed Serma towards a stall where a cheerful woman that smelled like wet soil after a fresh rain chatted to an old man with a gap tooth smile and a selection of cheeses on a tray.

“Hello,” the woman said and Mas waved. Nearby, Imp had stopped to talk to the monstrous inky monster coming out the frame like old friends.

‘Don’t look. Don’t look’ Serma ordered herself. She had come to win at the local Dungeon and to return to rip her father’s bony grip from the throne and shove him into one of Grandmother’s golden torture devices they kept in the attic.

Serma didn’t have time for this strangeness.

“Haldi, this is Serma,” Lorsa said and she was using that same tone when speaking to Mayor Darknessbane. Haldi didn’t seem to be listening as he beamed at them. The old man had a gentle soul and Serma instantly liked him.

She didn’t even mind the overwhelming smell of cheese. It felt more like a charming quality than anything bad. There was never any cheese at home.

Her father had something against dairy products.

“Have some Cheese of the Right Arm. It’s limited in source due to the disease but it is delicious,” he offered snacks to her and Mas. Serma’s soul melted when she ate the offered snack and she tried not to float off with a feeling of bliss as Mas just beamed.

Cheese... Serma would wear a suit of this cheese when she locked her father in the Golden Maiden.

“You smell of nobility,” the woman said, her smile a little less bright but no less kind.

“Yes, apologies!” Serma said, flushing as she forgot her manners, “I am Princess Serma of Capital City,” she did a polite bow.

“R-Royalty?” the woman said, her smile trembling and she turned stiffly like her legs were made of wood.

“I must be going. I left an excuse to leave on the stove,” she said numbly and walked off quickly. Haldi waved her off and sighed.

“Don’t take it personally. She and royals have history,” Haldi explained with a tilt of his head, making his snow-white hair move in a breeze.

“Was it my father or my grandmother?” Serma sighed, feeling a headache coming on.

“Surprisingly, it had little to do with them and a much older kingdom called ‘Turtog’,” he said quietly and Serma had never heard of it. She needed to brush up on her geopolitical knowledge or she’d miss things like this.

“It was an older kingdom that caused a powerful distortion by committing a deep wound on the world. A lot happened, but due to a lot of drain on the land, it became a grayzone,” Haldi continued to explain and the elder was definitely knowledgeable for a cheese monger!

“Where is it?” Serma asked, interested as Mas was given more snacks to enjoy by Haldi.

“Oh... around. It collapsed but the wound never quite sealed over,” Haldi said vaguely.

“A kingdom doesn’t just collapse. They’d be ruins and signs of their history,” Serma pointed out as Lorsa snorted at the idea of something lasting. She was such a cynic.

“Well, sure if the collapse was done by decay and time, but there is a different way to collapse,” Haldi said then peered at her. Serma looked back, unwilling to blink.

“You remind me of someone. They had the same sort of reasoning about things and your nose is awfully familiar,” Haldi mused and Serma was going to start wearing a veil. This nose business was giving her a complex.

“You knew her father,” Lorsa said slowly. Haldi continued to stare and Serma raised an eyebrow.

“I know a lot of noble fathers,” Haldi said oddly.

“They suck,” Serma said bluntly and Haldi staggered suddenly as if struck by a memory.

“I was informed I had an escort quest here,” someone spoke up and Serma turned, blinking as she saw a sort of familiar face.

“Aren’t you Peharl’s apprentice?” she asked and the boy with a stoic look gave her a look as if only noticing her.

“I retired,” he said slowly.

“You must be Alpha,” Lorsa said quickly and the boy shot her a look, hand on his sword suddenly.

“You’re-” he said and Lorsa was at his side, giving his shoulder a squeeze.

“Royal Knight Captain, Lorsa. I’m glad you remember,” she said with a wink.

“Delta is better,” Alpha said and Lorsa made a strange choking noise as Alpha turned to Serma but Mas stood between them.

“Please be nice,” Mas said and Alpha frowned.

“My moral alignment is irrelevant for this escort quest, if it was, it would be listed before I accepted it,” he said and looked at Serma.

“I’m here to take you to Delta. Do you have any objections and are you able to match my walking speed without pathing issues?” he asked seriously.

“This is not how one escort’s a lady,” Serma said with a little bit of royal tightness to her voice.

“Your class is ‘princess’ and ‘rebel’. You are not a lady,” Alpha pointed out and Serma’s nostrils flared.

“I’m about to class change to ‘murderer’ in a second,” Serma said as she tried to square up to Alpha but Mas held her back.

“Think of the blood on your nice dress!” Mas said and Serma hesitated.

“The dress has no enchantments or lore. It’s ‘mid’ at best,” Alpha continued to speak.

“Do you have a problem with me?” Serma asked and Alpha suddenly made a strange smile.

“I heard a royal ruler must be advised by their ‘head mage’. I am simply trying to be helpful by pointing out that the dress you're wearing has no protections built into it nor does it allow you to activate any seduction skills to gain political power over your enemies,” he said flatly.

“I’m about to seduce your rib cage into a meat grinder,” Serma’s eyes flashed. Alpha frowned and Serma mentally felt like she had won a point in this strange game.

“I do not find you attractive as a ruler or as a girl. I’m simply advising you of your shortcomings as to prevent you dying or committing an act so shameful the royal city collapses. Also, my rib cage would break most meat grinders as I have the ‘Thick Bones’ passive ability. It gives me thick bones,” he added, as if Serma needed the clarification.

“Like a thick skull?” Serma asked, voice sickly sweet.

“Yes, I can headbutt most things without an issue. Sometimes if I use it on trees, creatures fall out of it,” he said, ignoring her tone. That just... made Serma feel worse.

“Princess, he’s just bad at talking!” Mas said quickly and Serma was going to introduce him to some rudimentary social classes in the nearest blood arena.

“Perhaps Serma would feel better, Alpha, if you shared a weakness you possessed?” Haldi suggested over the noise of their argument, but the old man was grinning. Alpha frowned and seemed to think... and think... and think so more.

“Humility, perhaps?” Serma whispered.

“I could not wear a bad dress like Princess Serma can with confidence. I think a weakness of mine then is confidence,” he said and Serma went for his throat.

“Youth is the best cheese of all,” Haldi said brightly and Lorsa could only nod over the sounds of Serma’s fingers creaking as they tried to squeeze Alpha’s throat but doing little more than causing indents in his skin.

“Your choking skills need to be grinded, I’ll add it to the list.”

Serma was going to leave this town with the ability to crush metal with her bare hands, even if it killed her.

“Mas can help her!” Lorsa said quickly.

“I don’t want to be choked...”

“Give it time,” Lorsa said and Serma’s urge to strangle them all grew.

A blond man with a Peacekeeper badge turned the corner, took one look at them and pivoted on his heel and walked back the way he came.

“Harder, use your thumb more,” Alpha instructed.

Serma was seeing red and a little gold.
