Leaning back, he watched the aged man struggle to his feet, a bad back judging by his posture. A terrible thing for a peasant, ain't no one going around healing them, likely the cause of his anger and hatred, the spirits drawn to him. If only more would accept the truth, then men like Wei would either gain strength and thrive, or die. Weakness was a blight on the earth, unwelcome in a perfect society, but Long took great pride in converting the weak. After Wei killed his wife, perhaps he'd bring him to check in on Gen and see his daughter, letting him experience true despair.

Despair and hatred was needed to gain the attention of the spirits, and after fifteen years of practice, Long had mastered the art of inciting both. Wei would feel no gratitude from killing his wife, only guilt for not acting earlier and sending another in her place. Seeing his daughter suffer worse would likely put him over the edge. The spirits were ready and waiting, Wei's body primed to accept them after years of struggle and anger, waiting for his approval before moving in, and another student would be added to the roster. His third group now and first time leading, the last two had run afoul of Imperial soldiers and the Butcher Bay Bandits, neither group realizing his true nature.

He'd always hidden himself well, indulged in the shadows before removing all evidence of his exploits, but soon, there would be no need to hide. The true believers were knocking at the gates of the Bridge, and when they swept through the false Emperor's dog soldiers, Laughing Dragon would join them in their crusade. The spirits whispered of a new age approaching, an age of strife and chaos where the strong survive and the weak die. Only through suffering and struggle would the human race improve themselves, unbridled savagery their true nature. The niceties of social etiquette and familial bonds served only to domesticate them, neuter them.

Wei here would soon shed those burdens, knife in hand as he approached his wife, the new recruit baring his teeth at the intruder. Ignoring him, Wei knelt down to stroke Ting's hair, muttering quietly beneath his breath, Long giddy with anticipation. This was better than sex, better than killing, aiding in the birth of a new enlightened, procreation of a sorts. The knife rose and slashed across, shocking Long as blood spurted from the new recruits throat, Wei roaring in anger and desperation. The knife flashed again, cutting the woman's throat, and Wei slumped down, the weapon falling from his hands as he sobbed.

Fuck.

Ah well, it was only a fledgling, nothing of value lost.

Before he could punish Wei, a thunderous crash caught his attention. Turning to see what the fuss was about, he was treated with the sight of a Firebrand smashing through a shack wall, thrown violently out from within. A scrawny village child stepped through the broken rubble, not even twenty years of age yet unperturbed by the death around him. Exuding an atmosphere of death and power, he carried a strange, bladed shield and a familiar sword, likely taken from one of his men. Confident, he stared in challenge at the shocked onlookers, basking in the attention as if putting on a performance.

Wonderful. One dies and another rises to take his place. Arms wide in welcome, Long laughed and greeted the newest Enlightened, recognizing him for one of his own, though oddly enough, the spirits were silent. “Welcome to the Firebrands and congratulations on seeing the light comrade. Damn me but yer a strong one, Laughing Dragon's luck has never been better.” All these powerful rookies, a time of prosperity and fortune indeed.

“Your name is Laughing Dragon? Hmph, how audacious. If you're a dragon, then what am I?” A crazed grin on his face, the boy twirled the sword and laughed, smashing it against the shield as if sounding a meal bell. “I grow tired of sneaking around. Come, death awaits the Defiled and Baledagh is here to send you off.”

...

What?

Chapter Meme
