The auras of the soul weapons my generals pull out from their item storages all give off extremely strong and strange vibrations that I can't understand. Well, other than Maria's which I cannot even sense.

The ones that do give off readable energy waves all have a tint of Noble Vibrations laced into them, but at the same time, feel unique and different from my own or any of the noble demons I've felt with similar power.

With the seals blocking me from using my own vibrations to analyze them, it makes things tough, and the fact that they are all still yellow core makes this even tougher.

While they may have been impossible to match in strength in the Lower Realm, capable of bringing 1st Class worlds to their knees, the jump from yellow to green is still massive.

There are plenty of Lords on this citadel with enough power to match them as they are now.

We only have 8 days left before the Vermillion family becomes suspect too, as this is when I'm scheduled to meet the family head and have my avatar recalibrated to link to the 5 Great Families.

My generals are in no position to help me yet.

So, I push these thoughts to the back of my head and begin to explain how this ascension chamber works.

Each of them walks to the center of their bottom rooms, and I make small-scale tweaks to the atmosphere as my presence here does change the structure of this craft.

Though, after a thorough explanation and re-analysis on my part to make sure the blood-bonded luminite triggers are still stable in all 4000 chambers, they all begin a long process of their next stage in training.

All four generals sit in the center of their rooms and begin cycling the energy in the air through their bodies.

Once every room is drained, they will teleport upward, and by the final floor, they will have gained 2.5 million Low Quality Ether each and consolidated their green cores.

–

"Good luck. – And use every resource you have available to you. My self-regeneration skill, plunderer, mana manipulation, borrowed stats, everything. What you're attempting to do now is not the natural state of progression. Lords do not keep their bodies in the Upper Realm, not even the strongest Demons. So, to beat the odds and break the normal rules of reality up here, you will need to be creative in your own rights to figure out how to do so. I've built the infrastructure, and trust me, it can handle whatever you throw at it. Finish your ascension."

I smile as I get nods of approval and understanding from everyone, and I walk out of the central tower the same way I came in to see Ava still waiting for me behind a protective orb of light magic and ether.

There was a small amount of doubt in my mind a few weeks ago that they would be able to mutate and adapt their bodies to assimilate to the pressure up here, but seeing how much they've already changed and grown, that doubt has completely left me.

They'll succeed.

The fact that I'm certain they will is the very point that twists my facial expression and keeps me silent as I float up the tower with Ava next to me.

With a few hand movements while we rise upward, the massive split in the Citadel shifts back together.

A few thousand fast travel orbs are summoned, as curious lords wander onto the empty street, but for the most part, they stayed inside as these few minutes passed.

A light thud brings the citadel back together, deleting the temporary street I made, and leaving everyone involved in this stunt far more confused as the Demonic Servants continue to explain the situation.

–

Ava and I make it to the top of the Central Tower, and instead of going inside where all of the private rooms are, we float higher to stop on the roof.

It's flat, shimmers green, and is the highest structure in the entire city.

I can control the ether commands with ease up here, and no other Lords have a possible vantage point of seeing us up here, so I let the reflective orb disappear so we can overlook the city.

My expression is stern and focused, yet the Goblin Queen that takes in the beauty of the Citadel around us takes a seat on the edge of the Central Tower with a thin smile across her face.

Even sitting, her torso is taller than my entire human form.

After a few seconds of silence, she speaks with a low and curious tone.

"Seems like things went well... So, what's with the troubled look?"

I still stare out into the city, and past it in the direction where the endless clouds lead to Seraphel, and shrug.

"I don't know. I didn't expect my generals to change so much..."

Maria's face flashes in my mind when I say this, but the others come to mind right after, as speaking it out loud makes it real.

I probably would have tucked these thoughts away and moved on to my next phase of the plan, but Ava's asked, and she's a key part of this team now too, so she should know what's on my mind.

"There's something different about training and fighting together, versus them growing and going through trials of their own without me. I can tell they've changed, especially during that Realm Wave, far more than any time apart before..."

Ava chuckles, and slowly swings her legs off the edge of the tower, then turns to face me.

"They're probably thinking the same thing about you. You've certainly already changed a lot since the day I met you falling out of the sky."

I open my mouth to speak, but don't and let that fact settle in too.

I've gone off on my own plenty of times, training with Ember, or entering the B-Class Exams, and the most extreme one—entering the throne.

It's always been in the name of survival, to save ourselves, and save humanity.

Though, right now is no different.

In fact, the stakes are even higher.

If we are not strong enough to face the threat in the green zone of the Upper Realm, and the facade is broken before I can pull off my plan, the wrath of the 5 great families will come down on every single world connected to my rising emperor's domain.

A battle of thoughts collides in my mind, wondering if this is how it will always be, fighting upward until I die, or if there is more purpose to all of this.

The secrets of the heights of the path of nobility are still a blur to me, as even Seraphel does not know how one surpasses the state I've made it to. What makes things even more strange are the states I feel my generals and those around me in.

It's like they are awakening a separate path, not of nobility, but using the same frequency manipulation to create their own.

The more I try to understand the intricacies of the system, the more convoluted it all becomes.

At the end of all these jumbled threads of thought, Ember's face still appears in my mind as well, the most convoluted mystery of them all... because out of everyone, he's the one who knows the truth, but is least likely to be the one to reveal it to me.

If my mental shields weren't up right now, I might be going insane...

The only reason I'm able to breathe and think this clearly is because I've completed all my training. There is nothing more I can learn or train to get stronger; other than drinking Ember's Elixir, and of course the experience I would get in battle fighting a superior opponent with at least High Noble Vibrations themselves.

Ava doesn't say a word as I think, turning back to look out over the city and swing her legs with a smile.

Though, once I come back to a peaceful state, I am interrupted by a ping from Bri and Alveron, ready to talk business.

–

"Jay, we've worked out the commander's and knight's schedule in order to strengthen them further. However, there are two things that need attention. Alveron's Low Quality Ether trade contract, and the fact that Pluto has done as asked. He and his dragon have compressed their True Cores. He is now strong enough to carry out that mission."

I smile, and transfer 1.2 million Low Quality Ether to Bri and nod.

"There. Place that in a shared secure account. One can be created in the World Wide Connectivity System. Bri, you will be the owner, and 100 thousand Low Quality Ether per month for a year will become free to trade to Alveron Alone. I'll have you broker the trade based on the current market price, and we can reload the account once it's drained."

I turn to Alveron in our virtual meeting and the silver knight replies.

"That is satisfactory."

"Good."

I turn back to Bri.

"—And Pluto is ready? Excellent. Have all of the Knights in the Crimson Army power level with my doubles up to the labyrinth's 199th floor. Then, give him confirmation to collapse it, and bring its energy back to the Demonic Realm. I'm sure the Vermillion Family's Lower Realm branch is still eager to recruit such talent."

My eyes gleam with excitement, as this conversation is exactly what I needed to get back in the mood for killing the demons that tried to take over my home world with no remorse.

"Understood. I will do exactly that."

"Great."

Our links are cut off, and I turn to Ava, then turn my head away in a different direction while allowing a tiny amount of mana control and divine threads to mimic that of the 5th class human I'm trying to portray.

"Well, there is one thing left to do. I must study the enemy's home base with my own eyes to finalize my options."

Ava's eyebrows rise as she looks off in the direction I do, while memories from a Demonic Cyclops Guardian, and Andras Vermillion replay in my mind with fractured memories of the place in question.

"You mean... Now? You want to go to the Grand Citadel?"
