He stared back at Ambrose in silence as the full weight of that realisation settled on his shoulders, and his conscious mind finally started processing these frantic connections that had just been made.

"What were we doing?" Ambrose whispered finally. "And what happened?"

"We were going to change the world," Caden managed to say, his throat dry. "And then a Fateweaver took me away from all of you."

Ambrose sat heavily on the bed and buried his head in his hands. "We... we needed you."

A cold hand wrapped around Caden's heart at the change in Ambrose's tone. "What do you mean?"

"It's.. a bit of a blur. But now that you're here... again... I think I remember more of it. We were all going to look for a wild augera together, weren't we?"

Caden nodded, but Ambrose still had his head down, so he spoke, his voice cracking a little. "Yes. To... to talk to it. To try and figure out what the wild augera wanted, or could do, about their chained brethren."

"Yes," Ambrose murmured thickly, "that... makes more sense. Because when you... were taken... we continued looking. But... not to talk anymore. We didn't even remember wanting to do that. I... felt something had changed, that something was odd, but it faded and just became normal after awhile, except every now and then I'd think back and ask myself, why? And then it'd feel odd, but never for long, and I'd go on until the next moment of questioning..."

There was a mounting horror in Caden's chest. "You found one," he said, his voice distant in his own ears. "What... what did you do with it?"

Ambrose looked up, his face reflecting a little of the horror that Caden felt. "And it makes sense now. Because... because you took what was meant for Emilia. But the change had to be done, she was, she is, the 'bones that form your crown o'er mortal thrones', my crown... and the Prophecy made that happen... just through a different way... using what was already there, where we already were..."

"What did you do?" Caden whispered, though he thought he already knew. He had seen a part of the aftermath firsthand, after all. The cries Devon, of the broken-skillful-bridge, seemed to echo from Caden's memory: 'Also wanted... but not really... wanted to want... wanted to belong, wanted to prove... but not really mine...'

"We... I..." Ambrose buried his head in his hands again, and his breaths came in sobs. "Lured it. Trapped it. B-broke it. Into pieces. Then... Emilia came forward... and I... broke her, too. And the others. And I... put the core... in her... and the fragments... in the others..."

Even through the notes of horror rising to a crescendo in Caden's mind, there was room for him to marvel at the sheer scale of what Ambrose was saying in a few sobbed words. This boy before him had stood before a primal force of arcana, when lesser minds would have fallen into gibbering madness just by being near such an entity, and faced the full weight of its unfettered fury. And then he had bested it and taken it apart piece by piece. This was arcanophany beyond compare. This was the sort of ancient power that belonged to the realm of stories and legends. It bore almost no resemblence to the household arcanophany that did mundane things like cooking their food or warming their homes, and it was hard to believe that they were even of the same field.

"We needed you." Ambrose was crying in earnest now, almost folded in upon himself where he sat on the edge of his bed. His arms were wrapped around his own chest as though in a desperate attempt to hold himself together. "You could have stopped us. We needed you, we needed you..."

Caden sat rooted to the spot. Hot tears were spilling down his own cheeks as he stared at the Chosen One, and even though he wanted to rise and comfort Ambrose, he was paralysed by his own grief at the state of things, and at the awful unfairness of it all. A Fateweaver had appeared and casually frozen time itself, then snatched him right out of the lives and minds of his friends and flung him halfway across the Empire. What could he have done?

And now anger was boiling within him, because how dare they, how dare they, what gave them the right to twist their threads like this and mutilate his friends, turning their hearts and minds so far from their natural bent in order to fit the wretched pattern of Prophecy, and then allow him to come back to them and see how wretched and broken they were now.

And that Fateweaver who had spoken with him... that ancient-distant-spider, portraying herself as such a wise, detached, benevolent being... was this what she oversaw, and willingly wrought? Did she see these threads and allow the threads to pass through the hands, and somehow justify this to herself? Did all of them brood over the lives of every living being in the Empire, willfully weaving misery and woe in the name of a greater good that only they claimed to be able to see, while they sat blind and unfeeling in the emptiness of oblivion?

Caden finally leaped to his feet, fuelled by righteous fury. He was half-blinded by his own tears, but he managed to stumble over to Ambrose and drag him up to his feet as well. The Chosen One didn't really look the part at the moment, with his face marred by tears and snot, scrunched up in grief. The sight of it brought a choking laugh out of Caden, and Ambrose stared at him, startled and slightly scandalised.

"I'm back," Caden said as he held Ambrose by the shoulders and shook him. "And we're not going to let them get away with this. They may have planned for the Six-Chained-Foundations. But there's seven of us, and I'm not going to let them have their way with the rest of you."
