It would only amount to less than a full percent of the profit, but it would make the lone, and still sub-Tier 15, Tim very wealthy. Luna already had plans for his yet to be found wealth she refused to elaborate on. She claimed it was revenge for his earlier stunt, but he didn’t mind. He had no desire to pry into one of his people's Talents any more than he hoped someone would look into his.

And they were looking at potential record profits. Elemental escape talismans were expected to make a much larger splash than his resonance ones for a single reason. Aura of those four types were the most abundant in the Realm, as they and their many sub variations represented almost thirty percent of the Realm’s aura production. If he could find a way to tap into even a small portion of them, it would let them outproduce his resonance talismans sales.

The main downside of his talisman, if it could be said to be a negative at all, was that it took slightly more aura than normal. That was due to using aura in the enchanting process itself rather than imbuing it in the material, but he considered it a worthwhile trade off.

Quill went a little crazy in the marketing, enjoying his easy success while fearing it would be the last one he got. They may have been useless to him, but he felt good as he wiped his hands of all of his remaining distractions and returned to his flash talisman project.

His break turned out to be the correct call.

Feeling fresh, he took inspiration from his [Spirit Print] creation fugue and carved his newest liquid mana stone with a ‘simple’ mana transfer rune, following instinct more than logic most of the time. It took dozens of attempts, but he finally figured something out that he thought might actually work.

The transfer rune inside the liquid portion of the gem would pair with a rune on the ‘talisman’ portion of the gem. In actual practice, the linked runes would form a tunnel through the shell as the talisman activated. It was hard, tedious work carving one of the most complicated single runes he’d ever created, and something he’d never be able to manage in a fight but he kept at it.

He’d tried to use transfer runes as a solution twice before, but his new experience and knowledge of [Spirit Print] gave him some interesting ideas. He hadn’t only created the skill in his drugged state, he also learned quite a bit, even if inadvertently. Now he better understood how both [Spirit Print] functioned and how to create skills in general.

He wasn’t dumb enough to be trying to make a new Tier 20 spell any time soon, but he felt he could make any Tier 0 skill after seeing the final skill structure once or twice. He considered it just compensation for his suffering while using the herb.

It still took him twenty minutes to make sure everything was perfect between attempts, but he didn’t mind.

At this point, he was willing to take anything that worked. Blake could refine whatever he handed him, but he needed something to show for his efforts, or Quill's dream would be shoved indefinitely into the ‘we’ll get to it later’ pile that had been growing since they’d started keeping track.

The light talisman he carved on the surface of the liquid mana stone had to be modified to account for the alternative power source, but it only took him a few tries to get something acceptable thanks to his older tests.

Nothing happened.

After a bit of investigation, he found the culprit was a faulty joint in the transfer array. It took a few hours to redesign the transfer, but on his following attempt, the world went white then dark all at once.

Quill hardly minded the tingling as his eyes healed as he happily whisked away the tears from both his emotions and the healing.

Breakthrough.

He’d finally done it.
