Chapter 497

Quill had half expected his involvement in the armor’s construction to wane once all of the Natural Treasures were harmonized. He only turned out to be half right. JR still wanted him there for every step, but most days there was little for him to actually do beyond try to reduce his name's resistance to everything the bird did.

Quill didn’t mind, as it let him watch and learn. That knowledge should hopefully help him when he used the strange realm’s reward and turned the armor into a growth item, and was therefore invaluable.

JR took the harmonized Natural Treasures and stripped them down, discarding anything that wouldn’t be used in the armor over three sessions. Most of Quill's attention was spent trying not to have his heart break at the piles of Natural Treasures left behind. While some were little more than scraps, others were, magically speaking, mostly intact. No one could safely use them for their original purpose any more, but a crafter capable enough to strip the magic out of the treasures could have easily fashioned them into strong items.

JR ignored any questions about the process, but did allow him to observe. The raven gathered the resulting magical energies and strained something burgundy out of it, letting the rest dissipate into the air.

The thin thread of energy was then guided into his name and into a pocket in the scaffolding Quill hadn’t previously understood the purpose of. Not that he really understood after watching the show, as JR hadn’t felt the need to explain anything more than ‘it's beneficial’.

When he tried to find more information about extracting Natural Treasures, he found everything restricted to Tier 40’s and higher who had their Aspects. Unable to question a master crafter further, he was left in the dark, but his distraction didn’t last long as JR got to work.

JR started by taking the corner of his neutronium ingot and threading it through the scaffolding. The sight gave Quill his first glimpse of what the armor would look like. It was a wire frame model taken to the extreme, with some of the threads being only a few atoms wide, but it was beautiful. The neutronium wove around his intangible bones before wrapping back up and running directly under his skin.

Quill had thought they’d been working hard before, but once they started inserting Natural Treasures, it felt like they didn’t stop.

Rather than starting with something more replaceable, JR started with the Tassel of Lament. Despite being Tier 36 when they started, by the time JR finished, the Natural Treasure had been forcibly reduced to the point it matched him at Tier 30. Having portions of his armor sit at different Tiers while inside him after turning it into a growth item sounded like a terrible idea, and one he wasn’t eager to experience.

JR may have only cut away three percent of the Tassel of Lament, but seeing the ghastly holes in something he’d paid so much for hurt almost as much as merging the treasure with his name’s heart.

It wasn’t physical pain, like when they’d first started working inside his name. He’d have been okay, if not happy, with that. But no, the integration was far worse. During the entire multi-month process of integrating the tassel into his heart, he felt like he was being followed by a deeply disturbing feeling that loomed over every interaction and experience he had.

When JR finished merging it, most of the side effects faded, but a feeling of wrongness began to overtake him at random intervals. Sometimes the episodes lasted minutes and other times hours, but he pushed through it.

He had to.

He had one way to end the pain, and that was to finish the armor, but the work was firmly out of his hands. The claws that were in control seemed to be in no rush, though he couldn’t accuse the raven of malingering even if he wanted to.

Quill was the limit. JR was more than happy to push him and as they worked, the more he started to adapt to… whatever they did. He still couldn’t settle on what JR was doing to him and his name when they worked on the armor, but he understood why their sessions were spaced the way they were with an entire month in between.

Or he thought he did.

With each new Natural Treasures they added, new feelings and phantom emotions appeared. Most were benign and easy enough to ignore, like the sudden desires to sing. More often than not it served as a break, and when it came at an inopportune moment it was at least manageable.

Others weren't so ignorable, like when they added the Tier 32 tentacle of gnarled wood. It would serve as the treasure that enabled the armor to improve his mana channels and overall mana throughput, making it one of the armor's core items. It may not be the tassel, but it was just as important.

JR stripped most of the treasure, leaving slightly over half of it. While doing so, he spoke for one of the only times while he actively worked.

His words were slow, quiet in a solemn way, like a drop of water plopping in a small pool at the edge of his hearing. It took Quill several moments to realize the words were being spoken in the same language that had stripped his name from his body. Except instead of commanding the realm this time, they were speaking existing truths and caused far less noticeable ripples.

That was the sound.

The—

JR’s words lulled him deeper with each syllable. “This was a lucky find. Absorbing it normally would only allow you to get half its effect. At least in normal times. Those who are more connected to nature might be able to tap into a little more. If they were exceptionally lucky, they might be able to absorb the treasure and manifest one and a half of the three abilities.”

The raven turned his head to look at Quill mid-speech but the world blurred.

JR’s head had split. It both remained firmly concentrated on the cleansing while another turned to Quill. That might have been normal, but it was no cloning or illusory technique he had experience with. No, JR was doing something much stranger and deeper.

With every degree of his head’s turn, his beak and eyes grew until they were larger than the room. Larger than 『 』, larger than the space station, larger. Deeper.

An abyss.

Quill found himself tumbling into the dark waters that he’d been trying to hone in on earlier. It wasn’t cold. It was nothing.

Everything was nothing.

Everything was…

JR’s words seemed to take an eternity to reach him in the darkness, but they were the only frame of reference, despite the way they seemed to bounce around the space and his head as if there wasn’t his skull to keep his thoughts inside.

“I won’t be able to keep all three at full power, but I will keep about five percent of the other two. Your solidified mana will be slightly more resistant to—” That single word seemed to stretch for an eternity, but the feeling faded as the next words reached Quill's ears as if there hadn’t been a gap at all. “Fire and slashing damage. However, the more interesting effect lies in the third and final effect: the ability to draw nutrients from the surroundings to fuel the user. How nice would it be to have that effect? No, that would be too simple. Hehehe.”

JR’s laugh was filled with the pure glee of someone pulling a clever trick over a higher authority and getting away with it. It was a little sick, self gratifying, and rife with other darker emotions, but more than all of that, it was filled with relief in a successful part of a larger job.

From what he could read of the raven’s body language, it was more that JR needed to celebrate this victory, knowing how hard everything that followed would be and needing to celebrate.

“No. For I am more clever. More devious. What are roots that draw in nutrients but conduits of the flesh? AHAHAHahah!” The second laugh was that of a madman who’d proven the naysayers wrong. “There is no difference at all! No! I will turn a power that should have been discarded into a seedling that will help blur the line between your physical body and mana. What exactly the outcome will be, I’m not sure. It can be as small as letting your healing be more effective, or as strong as letting your healing apply to your mana. We’ll have to see.”

The final words reverberated through Quill’s head and tried to eject him from the dark waters.

It tried to send him out, back into 『 』, but Titan resisted.

They weren’t done. JR may have decided he was done with 『 』but they weren’t done with him.

There was something deeper at play, and he’d almost been able to touch upon it. He only needed to find the words again, and he’d be able to follow it back down. However, the harder he tried to listen, to catch the indistinct murmurings that he’d be able to follow, the farther they seemed to drift away.

Yet he couldn’t stop swiping, which ejected him from the space, where Quill struggled to keep the memories from slipping. He was sure he lost most of what he’d experienced in the darkness, but he was also confident he’d be able to find his way back inside.

Except, he had to deal with the possibility of an intense itching in his skin and muscles as what felt like roots were periodically growing through his flesh.

None of the Natural Treasure integrations were pleasant, but instead of fearing them, he began to savor each one. They were opportunities. Following half remembered instincts, he found that if he listened closely, he could hear JR chanting in that strange language while they worked.

JR’s words were indistinct and impossible to comprehend. Every time he tried, he felt as if he was searching through an endless swamp filled with mist and pitfalls waiting to swallow him up, but he didn’t let that stop him.

Quill wasn’t sure he was meant to hear, and any time he tried to bring the topic up outside their work time, his mind slipped. After the second occurrence, he stopped trying to force it and focused his efforts while they were working.

Something about that state made it possible, and he was confident JR wouldn’t be offering lessons for free once their work was done. It was up to him to be as shameless as possible and take as much as he could from the greedy bird.

Natural Treasures and effects piled up as Quill continued his attempts to find that space again, but the bird never guided him into the state, leaving him to stumble along by himself. It wasn’t until there were only three treasures left, three more chances, that he finally found a path through the mists.

Guided by JR’s ever moving echos, he found an oasis in the fog.

At the center of the clear space, on a beach far too thin to hold him, was a hyper massive alabaster white JR singing. Rather than looking at him, the bird was fully concentrating on the ink dark moon Quill hadn't noticed looming high in the sky, as if trying to charm it down with his words alone.

Quill strained his ears to listen, but found the murmuring quieter than ever. He strained his eyes, but the more he looked, the less he saw. Everything was wrong. Inverted in a way he wasn’t capable of comprehending.

Understanding this wasn't what he needed to find, he unhesitatingly turned away, back into the mist and the unknown.

There was no sudden enlightenment, but as he walked, Quill started to pick words out of the murmuring. While he couldn’t hear it, the image of JR silently singing to the moon started to superimpose itself in sync with the indistinct ripples he could hear.

Quill didn’t make any more progress during the final two treasures, but what he did manage was enough.

While somehow even more difficult to hear, Quill had started to hear JR’s indistinct murmurings any time they worked. He wasn't confident what he’d discover, or more accurately find, should he reach his unknown goal, but he knew it wouldn’t be bad.

If he was correct and successful, it would lead him to being able to speak the language that enabled JR to pull the names out of items. As eager as he was for the power that might give him, Quill had no aspirations of being able to reach the bird's level of skill.

As it stood, Quill could barely catch a snippet of what he thought were dozens of overlapping versions of JR singing or chanting in that language as they worked. He didn’t let his failures stop him from trying to understand something, anything, from the madness.

When they finished the Natural Treasures, he hadn’t succeeded and they had to take a break for Quill to create a higher Tier version of [Item Link].

JR was supremely smug when he presented the documentation for the process of creating an improved variation of the skill at the end of a session.

“Don’t go around sharing this, but study this. I’m giving you enough documentation that you should be able to make a truly unique skill. But even you can’t afford the fees, should you decide to breach our contract and share this with anyone. Emmanuel paid… Lets say, a lot to get you access to this. I promise not to be too smug after you realize what we made and rain down praise.”

Quill wanted to make an offended quip, but as he read, his disregard fell away.

The [Item Link] spread freely by the Corporations was a simplified version of a larger project, like he and many others had suspected. What he and everyone else had underestimated was the scope of the original project.

[Item Link] hadn’t started as a way to stabilize the low Tier crafting market after the creatable skills had disturbed it. Rather, its origin was a locking method to prevent non-growth items from being stolen. It wasn’t until the group in question had begun practical testing that they’d discovered the side effect of increased mana efficacy of the attached item.

