When they’d made the discovery, they’d immediately pivoted their research. All had gone well, too well in fact, when they’d discovered the side effect that made item enchanted skills stronger. At that point, the group realized the size of the prize and sold it to JR.

That was when the methodology of the reports changed and he saw the path from what he’d seen on the market, and the original invention of a lock. It pained him to admit it, but he could see where JR, and by extension the Corporations, hadn’t technically lied or even misled anyone when they said there was no better version than what they’d released to the public.

Because there wasn’t. A skill so simple anyone could create it in less time than even the best Rah’s world had to offer, was in fact too simple to be a true skill. It was closer to one twenty fifth of the full spell, because it was actually a small, self-stable portion of the larger puzzle. It wasn’t even right to call the non-neutered version a greater or lesser designation of [Item Link].

JR’s people had both elevated the original idea while also expanding on the efficiency angles, creating something closer to a Tier 20 spell with all of the requisite complexity.

Seeing that, he understood why all of their top people hadn’t started using the better version. Quill wasn’t sure anyone except Rah could make the skills without assistance like he was going to use, for a very very long time.

Even the simplest version designs had complicated skill structures. He noticed there were only three other noted successes, and all three had Talents that assisted them in some unmentioned way.

After some deliberation, Quill settled on calling the still unnamed higher Tier variation of an [Item Link], a [Spirit Print]. He thought he was clever playing off a finger print and it sounded better than the string of numbers the Corporations wanted to call it.

At its core, each [Spirit Print] was a unique lock and key personal to the individual who hand crafted it. Split in two, the skill portion was meant to be a tightly guarded secret that only the creator knew and kept in their core spirit. In the provided information there were thousands of reference keys, but more interesting were the effects listed underneath each variation.

While subtle, the shape of the key half would affect the skill’s properties, such as its capacity or throughput, and he’d need to plan exactly what shape and effects he wanted. By that same metric, he needed to be careful not to over complicate things, because the key side needed to be able to fit with the lock portion that was meant to be given to crafters.

Quill spent two months tinkering with both sides of his [Spirit Print] based on the provided blueprints until he got something he liked. Prioritizing mana throughput more than security, he didn’t use any of the overly complicated measures JR teams had identified for protection. He kept things simple and ensured security two ways.

The first was the order that mana would flow through both halves of the skill. Any small deviation in the item or skill’s pattern would result in massive turbulence, ruining the connection. The second was his link’s raw capacity. Few cultivators would be able to sustain that large of a drain for more than a second or two.

He also set it up so he was able to hand out three types of ‘keys’. One was general and meant to be used to link with items in public places where he’d like to be able to transfer lots of energy easily, like his seat on the Unsparing or around Palustris. The second was for more private usages, like his sword or outer armor he chose to wear. The second level would enable a stronger connection but could still be seen by crafters or other such support personnel without risk to his growth armor.

The third and the equivalent of his master key, was the connection he was building specifically for his growth armor. Its genius lay in allowing him to use the master key like a splitter, enabling him to feed mana into the other two types of keys at will without disrupting the armor.

[Spirit Print], the half of the skill he’d be making at least, would innately be able to handle multiple connections, unlike its lower Tier variant, but its efficiency would pay the price. He’d be able to use it in a pinch without feeling much heartache, but ideally, he’d only be powering his growth armor, his sword, and possibly any outer armor he might choose to wear.

The conduits on his hands and back would give him more than enough general flexibility.

JR was, as he put it, appropriately smug, rather than overly so, after giving Quill the okay on the [Spirit Print] he’d created. Quill would have disagreed, but the bird wouldn’t listen to him.

All that was left of it was to actually start the creation process. Once Rah and Liz turned the Dream’s Delight herbs they’d found into incense, following the currently understood best procedures, he was ready.

After reviewing everything with Rah and JR both, Quill began.

Sitting in a small room only slightly larger than he was when sitting down with his legs crossed, he calmly set the incense alight.

Rah’s advice had been to get as much of the work done as possible before using the incense, but he didn’t have that level of skill. [Spirit Print] was an order of magnitude more complicated than any of the skills they had published. If he had a few hundred years to practice, he might have been able to build up the required abilities, but he didn’t.

The incense was surprisingly tart, and Quill couldn't help but smack his lips as he tried to parse the strange taste. He ended up doing that for several seconds as he felt the herbs take effect, even as he was grateful to it. It was the only reason he was able to make the skill directly inside himself, without a single mistake resulting in serious spiritual damage.

Without the herbs, he’d be forced to make the skill in a blank skill shard, something he had no experience in. Additionally, he’d have to deal with all of that while trying to make a skill so far from his core spirit, where his control was weakest.

The only advantage he had was that at Tier 30, he got another core skill slot, which allowed him to avoid making a hard choice.

Hitting the activation sequence, the walls lit up as projections of the skill he wanted to create started flashing around him. Sometimes it was out of order, other times it played backwards, and the rest of the time hundreds of different projections flashed across the screens.

He was just settling into start making the skill when a raven appeared in the brief moment of darkness between flashes. Titan’s hand snapped out and tried to strangle the interloper, but his hand was unable to close around the feathery neck that wasn’t there.

Taking a few small sniffs, JR chortled at him. “Now, now, get to work. Don’t let me distract you.”

“Then leave.”

JR’s beak split as he smiled. “But how can we leave where we haven’t gone? We need to get to work. Work. Work. Work.”

When the lights flashed a second time, Luna, in cat form, had replaced the raven, with her deep purple eyes the only illumination in the room despite the flashing lights. “Stop dawdling, child!”

You know what you are doing.

Quill stared at the cat as she spoke without speaking. That impossibility cracked his understanding of reality like a mirror. It wasn't until the cracks started leaking that he hyperfixated on the flickering patterns around the room.

He wasn’t sure why it was important, but as Leon then Mara replaced Luna and urged him to complete his task, that was all he could focus on. He needed to copy the flashing images.

Images?

What images? There were images?

The skill.

The skill! He needed to make the skill. He had to make the skill. The only thing that could solve everything was the skill!

Quill wasn’t sure how long the fugue state lasted as he came out of it, but he wasn't particularly concerned knowing he had three weeks before his next meeting with JR. The small room opened up around him, but he didn’t make it fully out as a pain in his spirit prevented him from standing.

Hunching, he sensed inward, fearing something had gone wrong.

Checking his past… two and a half days of effort, he was pleasantly surprised.

The [Spirit Print] was there, and he hadn’t created something wholly off topic, which had been his largest fear. Better yet, after a thorough inspection, he found he’d landed close to where he’d aimed. There were a few, several if he was being honest, unnecessary additions he‘d need to slowly disassemble, but the skill was ninety seven percent the way there.

That was more than enough for him, and he okayed JR adding their planned lock to the armor the next time they met.

Fixing the skill took almost a full year of dedicated effort, and it was during that time that the halfway mark of their vacation came and passed.

Quill hardly noticed it as he worked on cracking flash talismans and his elemental escape talisman side project.

Said side project was only a week or two away from reaching a spot he was comfortable with as a selling point, and he was more than satisfied with the results. It would be his best commercial product to date, and had the possibility to upend another market.

Outwardly, Quill boasted about that to anyone who would listen, but privately he only felt bemusement at his result. He’d spent ninety five percent of his focus on the flash talismans only to have, if he was being generous, moderate breakthroughs. His side project that he didn’t really care about seemed to encounter zero bottlenecks, which just felt wrong.

His state seemed to amuse JR to no end, but he couldn’t help it.

In what felt like a disproportionate amount of effort, for his second idea, Quill managed to create a general aura-based elemental body rune, shattering all of his expectations. He’d originally only been intending to mess around as a distraction after hearing Zonta talk about aura interchangeability as a way to flex his creative muscles.

As it turned out, Zonta was more correct than he knew. Titan’s Torch didn’t take long to come to two conclusions from what little Quill was able to share.

Aura runes did seem to have a stabilizing effect on other types of aura, but there were so many rules and exceptions, no one had been able to make heads or tails of the deeper logic.

With the light rune acting as the stabilizer in a permeate formation, any aura type could be added. It might not have an effect, but it wouldn’t harm anything. However, if they replaced that aura light rune with one that they’d identified that made glass sparkle, only water, wind, and light aura flowed through the formation. Any other aura types would fail explosively.

What came out of their tests was the very tentative conclusion that so long as the aura could be used, it was stable.

Quill had seen that as an entirely new avenue to explore.

Rather than fiddling around with imbuing the aura into the talisman paper itself, he only needed a rune to properly channel the elemental auras he intended to use. Originally, his goal had only been to create one or two of the level one mana types, but his own brilliance had outpaced his plans.

Earth, air, and water escape talismans were some of the best sellers across every Tier. That high demand bred variation and innovation. There were tens of thousands of elemental escape talismans and that gave him a plethora of information to pull from.

The aura rune he created wasn’t based on an ancient rune rumored to have a magical effect. Rather it was a new one that's only known effect was to blend the aura added into a formation into its surroundings.

Converting the formation rune into something usable by a talisman hadn't been easy, and there was a lot of room for improvement, but he was content with the results.

The aura elemental escape talismans were good. Really, really good.

Unlike the normal elemental escape talisman that, once activated, lacked any sense of innate control over the destination, his aura body rune allowed the caster to steer the talisman a few degrees during use. Alone, that wouldn’t mean much, but combined with the elemental body rune converting the caster’s body and merging them with the element in question, most non-matching element monsters wouldn’t be able to track the caster, making escape more assured than older versions.

Quill wasn’t able to increase his talisman’s range over the older talismans, but given the pseudo-elemental body and control over the destination, he was confident he’d be giving several business leaders nightmares.

Or, more likely, they’d be paying him licensing fees as they were forced to pivot some of their production to the new product. While he did intend to profit, he was more interested in tying more boats to his personal flotilla. It might not matter in the end if things came to a true war, like Max warned him was possible, but he wanted as many people tied to his interests, rather than interested in him.

Commercial products were his only coin at the moment, and he’d spend them wisely.

Tim managed to simplify the lower Tier versions by almost five percent, and Quill rewarded him by cutting him in on the profits. Having ground his teeth on helping them break through the Tier 15 barrier for the aura tracking talisman, Tim found that while his Talent wasn’t ideal for innovating new things, it was excellent for refining furnished ideas.

Quill was initially apprehensive about giving the kid access to that much money, and therefore power, but Luna gave him the go ahead. With it, he gave Tim exactly the credit he deserved for his efforts.

