And then the all-too-familiar chiming of bells filled their home. Avyna frowned with amusement while Ranthia tried to swallow her frustration—she was starting to hate that sound almost as much as she loathed the sounds of the base’s horns.

Though seriously, who the heck was visiting them so late? It was mid-winter and the weather of the wasteland that housed their farcical war was just as extreme and hostile to life as ever—it was cold out there.

Avyna made the decision before Ranthia could. She slipped away and seized a robe as she hurried to the hosting side of their home, leaving Ranthia to snatch up her mistweave tunic as she followed.

They opened their flap to find Glorine—cold enough that it paled her lips and colored her cheeks.

“Hi, sorry for stopping by so late. I just… Well, I wanted to ask for your help with something, both of you! I, well, since shimagu attacks have been scarce for a while now I’ve been thinking and I know I’d decided to wait but I just keep thinking y’know, and so I think I’ve come to my decision. But I want to do this properly or at least as close to properly as I can out here and so I was hoping that you—and Ranthia of course—could help but…” Glorine started chattering, clearly spinning her wheels, even as Avyna practically hauled their friend in out of the cold.

With Avyna tending to their friend—the woman was so focused on whatever she was working toward that she wasn’t even flustered over Avyna’s revealing attire—Ranthia heated a pan of spiced non-alcoholic cider for them. As it turned out, the messenger was still red-faced and stumbling by the time the three of them were seated at the table with cups of the hot beverage.

Glorine just cradled her untouched drink while she briefly stammered and stopped herself, as her blush intensified. Finally, Ranthia reached over to set her hand atop Glorine’s wrist to stop her.

“Just take a deep breath, then let’s try this: what are you hoping to do?” Ranthia prompted.

Their friend took a deep breath, then another—nearly choking on it—before she finally steadied herself enough to take a deep swig of her drink. As if it would grant her courage, despite its dearth of alcohol content.

“I want to ask Gailla to be my wife!” Glorine belted out as quickly as she could manage at her paltry level.

“Oh, how exciting and delightful! What can we do to help? When do you plan to do it? How—” Avyna eagerly started, until Ranthia nudged her.

Honestly, asking Glorine a bunch of questions at once when she was already so high-strung was a terrible idea!

Late into the night, they discussed and planned until the conversation became blatantly repetitive. Avyna offered to let Glorine stay the night, but she accidentally(?) asked it in a somewhat suggestive tone. Once their guest processed the words, Glorine went a fascinating shade of scarlet before she hurriedly bade them a good night and left.

Avyna just laughed and pounced on Ranthia the moment their home was secure, eager to pick up where they left off.

…Though Ranthia could have done without Avyna continuing to discuss their friend’s plans—and relationship—even while they indulged in their own passions!

Avyna and Glorine hatched a plan together, but Avyna required time. Caravans weren’t coming to Remera while the siege persisted, but the cunning [Merchant] had somehow arranged for a bit of cargo space in Sentinel Aurora’s periodic deliveries. With a bit of judicious use of Sentinel Grace’s name, Avyna succeeded in sourcing exactly what Glorine needed.

Three weeks after their friend’s late-night visit to solicit their aid, they were ready. The shimagu were quiet during the day and, to the best of their scouts’ ability to tell, seemed to be hunkered down until things warmed up again. With the risk of interruption deemed to be minimal, Avyna invited Glorine and Gailla over, under the pretense of wanting to test an elven game she had acquired. She needed their feedback to see if it was worthy of being stocked in her shop.

The four of them gathered around the vividly painted wooden board and maneuvered their carved pieces across its surface. The rules were convoluted, which concealed the fact that the game had been modified—Avyna had positively stuffed the stack of squares of thick paper with “Truthfully answer the question asked by the person on your left” prompts—and Glorine had a certain non-standard question hidden under her bracelet.

Even with the anticipation in the air, it was a cozy way to welcome the night. They talked and joked while the game proceeded—Avyna’s early lead erased by a truly disastrous draw. As the game neared its conclusion, Glorine started to visibly fret—Gailla had continued to fail to draw the prompt—but it finally happened, scant moves from the game’s conclusion.

“Huh, ‘truthfully answer the question asked by the person on your left.’ I’d swear I’ve seen that one before, what’ve you got for me, hon?” Gailla smirked at Glorine.

Glorine smiled brightly and promptly fumbled the swap that she and Avyna had practiced—it was all too easy to see that Glorine had swapped the sheet of paper for another, yet Gailla said nothing.

Glorine looked Gailla in the eyes and read, without even looking at the tiny bit of paper in her hands.

“Will you wed me and become my wife?” Glorine asked. Ranthia was impressed—the woman had been so flustered before, but there were precious few signs of how nervous she was once she finally got to ask the question.

“Of course, we discussed it before.” Gailla answered easily.

“Um, no, I mean I’m asking you—” Glorine’s composure cracked like a cheap jug.

“I know, silly. And my answer is still yes, of course! You’re the only woman for me.” Gailla promised, a happy smile writ plain across her face.

Avyna trilled with excitement while their friends embraced and shared a passionate kiss. Ranthia just squeezed her beloved’s hand under the table while she smiled. The world was richer with every person that found and joined with someone that they could joyously share their lives with. Ranthia had found her happiness, and she rejoiced in seeing the same level of felicity reflected in her friends.

Remera might be at war, but there was still warmth to be found amid the chill of reality.
