That winter was interesting. I learned that most of the dairy, including the weird milk from the previous year, was from some goats one of the villagers kept. I was also given a very small amount of the beer this year. Or ale rather, and not a particularly pleasant one. Nobody drank water. I didn't know why, so of course I just asked.

"Dad, why doesn't anyone drink water?" I inquired one evening.

"Because Alana, water will make you sick. You must never drink it." He gave an immediate and stern response.

"It does?" I was thoroughly confused by this.

"Mmmhmm, at least the water around here does. Make sure to drink ale or milk okay?"

"Okay" I responded, it was weird, but maybe the water around here was dirty or something? Why didn't they just boil it?

Then it occurred to me that I was being dense. They probably didn't know to boil it. Best to stick to milk or ale, it'd make my parents happy at least.

Things proceeded much the same until I was three. I'd secretly practice magic, I learned to make a little light. I also learned a few new skills, figuring out how to spin some wool into low grade yarn. My mobility went up too, and I could now properly walk and run around. This let me spend a lot more time outside.

All things continued like this until “The Incident”- a day that will forever stick with me vividly.

I was playing with a little magical light ball, trying to adjust its color to periwinkle. It wasn't big, just a small ball I was shifting around in my palm as I worked out the method to change its coloration.

Truthfully I was supposed to be washing a large old pot my mom had given me. I had all the tools, some ash from our hearth, a little brush. It was an easy thing to teach me about cleaning. Most of my chores were just a bit of light education like that. Not that I was given many chores, perhaps two or three little tasks like this a day.

Because of my intense focus on that which I wasn't supposed to be doing I didn't hear the annoying, rude adolescents sneaking up on me. One or both of my brothers thought it would be funny to toss a grasshopper onto their adorable little sister's shoulder to scare her. Because they could be real jerks when not monitored by more mature people.

They didn't notice the small ball of light fly off to places unknown as I got surprised and spun. Struggling while trying to get the bug off of me.

Everyone saw when the insect jumped onto my face and scared me. The spell turned into a blood red flare as I lost control, everything turning deep crimson as it detonated over a nearby field. The noise of it going off was a piercing keening over the whole hamlet, like a scream to accompany the second sunset.

There was dead silence for only a moment before movement exploded. I could hear others running for cover as my oldest brother Rod scooped me up and ran for the house. He might have been a stupid git most of the time, but his dedication to protecting me was truly touching.

“Rod!” I called out to him.

“Be quiet,” was the only response I got back.

“What was that!?” John asked. My other brother seemed just as surprised as everyone else.

“I dunno, bad.” Rod was a bit short with us, but he didn't have time to talk as he ran.

Mom met us as the door and ushered us inside. Slamming it, she began to ask the same questions. When I tried to speak up I was told to be quiet. Being a little kid really sucked sometimes, nobody ever listened when you had something to say.

Perhaps a minute after the questioning dad flashed through the door. I had once compared him to a panther, and how right that was. He was moving so fast, I'd never seen anyone move like that before.

"Is anyone hurt?" he asked. His voice had changed, he sounded like a commander from some war movie.

"No, what's happening?" mom replied worriedly.

Dad moved to a certain spot and jumped up, grabbing onto the rafters, an impressive feat, being that they were easily ten feet up. Grabbing onto one and holding himself like it was nothing he tossed down a sack that had been up there, along with grabbing what appeared to be a spear.

"We don't know, we're too close to civilization for monsters to attack. There's nothing in this area that should have done that." He'd emptied the sack to take out a chain shirt and helmet and was getting dressed quickly. "Stay here and be quiet."

I tried to speak up again only to have my mother put her hand over my mouth.

I made one final attempt after my father had left, to tell my mom that it was probably me ended with not only her hand over, and staying on my mouth, but a number of hard thwacks to my backside with her trusty wooden spoon. A first I might add, as I generally behaved well.

"No talking, understand?" was her whispered threat. The spoon was still in hand.

My parents on Earth hadn't believed in corporal punishment, so this was an extreme first. I tearfully nodded, if they wanted to chase after shadows, I wouldn't try to stop them any further.

It took a couple hours for dad to return. When he did he was still wearing his war gear, looking like something out of a movie. Mom looked at him with worry as he led us out taking us to meet with all the other families near the road to town.

"The old man's still out there checking, we're going to the village." Dad announced to everyone, before turning to lead us on.

All the adult men of the hamlet were here and well armed. Most just had some farming implement, but a few like dad had proper weapons. Only one other was in armor, and while dad led us, he took the rear. Everyone's eyes scanned the area around as we went, nearly in a panic.

Once we got inside the palisade of the village everyone calmed down. Quickly we made our way to the town hall and got inside. As soon as the men left the talking began. It was sunset and everyone was now on complete edge.

I was sat down and given a very firm talking to. Mom was livid that I had kept trying to talk when told to be quiet, particularly in such a dangerous situation. She particularly emphasized that I was being far too disobedient. Then threatened to spank me again if I said another word. Her exact words were, “Be quiet until an adult tells you otherwise.” I had every intention of obeying.

As night crept in more and more people showed up. From what I could gather all the spokes were being called in in a panic. Their conversations just sounded like “Doom doom” from where I sat silent. I could only imagine how livid these people were going to be when they found out that it was me.

The theories were completely out there. One said that it was the kickoff signal for a war with the empire, whoever they were. Another postulated that bandit tribe had moved in and tried something, only to be shot down by a neighbor who pointed out that there'd been no large bandit groups in this region for well over a century. My personal favorite was the old man who swore he'd seen something just like it, when a wizard tried to make a teleportation gate and it malfunctioned, turning him into a fine red mist.

The one thing that everyone agreed on was that whatever it was Mystien would figure it out. He was apparently the only wizard in the region. From what I could gather those who could focus magic were quite rare. When he entered the room all eyes went immediately to him, the focus sharp.

"I've determined that what we saw was most likely a spell failure of some kind. While the effect was dramatic, the damage and trace left in the area was almost nonexistent. Therefore it was probably a fairly weak effect that failed." he announced to the crowd.

"Are we in any danger?" asked one person.

"Does that mean they have wizards ready to attack us?" another interrupted.

"Do you know where this came from?" a worried mother jumped in.

"Were they trying to burn our fields? Poison us?" one farmer interjected.

A man I would later learn was the mayor moved to the front. The wizard thumped his staff on the floor loudly and silence descended once again.

"Now, I want everyone who saw the blast directly to come forward and tell us exactly what they saw. Maybe then we'll figure this out."

Several men came forward, my brothers did too. They were at the back of the line. Each man described the fieldwork or whatnot he was involved in when they saw the flash. A couple said they saw something moving away. One claimed he saw a giant bird just before.

When it got to my brothers the mayor looked down at them. "Alright boys, what were you doing when this all happened?"

"We were... um, playing with our little sister." Rob offered up.

"Yeah, just going to see her, she was washing some dishes or something..." John agreed.

They both then agreed that they hadn't seen the source of the light. The mayor looked a bit more sternly at them, "Where's your sister?" he asked. No girls had been brought forward for the little questioning.

Mom helpfully brought me up and set me down beside them.

I looked at the wizard, his aura still messing with the magic in the air around him.

The wizard looked down at me, even I could see one or two little bubbles drifting off of my skin.

He knew.

I knew he knew.

He knew I knew he knew.

Busted.

"What were you doing when all this happened? Your brothers seem to think you were doing chores. Is that so?" Mystien asked. His expression was clear, he'd take no nonsense from me.

"I-I was playing, and a-a grasshopper jumped up on my face." I didn't have to try to look afraid, I was.

"Oh? What were you playing?" he responded. The mayor looked a bit confused, several townspeople seemed to be questioning why that mattered.

"I was.. um, I was playing with a light," I offered helpfully, tugging on the hem of the tunic I was wearing and looking down.

"Show me." His tone left no opening for wriggling out of this.

"I don't see why this matters." The mayor piped up.

"Show me," Mystien said again.

I hummed a short song, and my little light appeared in my hand, pretty and blue. The wizard looked like he was trying to maintain as firm a face as he could. The mayor rubbed his eyebrow ridges like he was getting a headache. The crowd took about five seconds to get angry, and another five to quiet down as the old man beat his staff on the floor.

"Why didn't you tell anyone earlier girl?" the mayor looked truly miffed.

"I-I tried to; people kept telling me to be quiet." That one actually got a chuckle from the old man.

"It's just a newly blooming bard playing with, and losing control of her powers. Everyone can go home." He was still trying to suppress his mirth.

"Oi, we lost half a day of work, and all this time for this nonsense, comon!" One irritated man shouted. I flinched at that.

"Aye you did, but we found something well worth it," offered out Mystien.

"And what the hell would that be?!"

"You might not know this, but bards can learn basic healing magics, and once I get her trained a bit, and I will, this village will have a basic level of magical healing." That shut everyone up. There were several murmurs of how that would be great, and while a few were still a bit miffed, they started filing home. The mayor on the other hand... well, the mayor looked like it was Christmas and I was the biggest present under the tree.

Looking at him, the old wizard, and my parents, I could quickly feel my life getting harder.
