“Only a few people actually quit, but they’re usually only adventurers. Some of them—even the good ones like the Gold-rank adventurers who come here to improve their craft—they don’t like being told the magic they practice is inefficient. So they leave.”
“Stupid. Arrogant.”
Beatrice put that in. The Dullahan was spoon-feeding her head on the table as usual, and she seemed content to let Calvaron do all the talking. Ceria had to agree with her, but she yawned as she opened her mouth. That made Pisces yawn too.
“Oho! You two look tired! Did you keep each other up at night, or is it just a coincidence?”
Calvaron dodged the rolled-up napkin Ceria hurled at him. He twisted his fingers and the ball of cloth flew back at her, forcing Ceria to duck or let it smack her in the head.
“Don’t throw things unless you can catch them when they come right back at you, Springwalker. Telekinesis and levitation spells come later in the year though, I’m afraid.”
“Great. I’ll be sure to heave my plate at you when your back is turned, then.”
Ceria growled as she picked her napkin up from the floor. Calvaron just laughed again. He was always ready to smile, which made Ceria wonder if all Centaurs were so good-natured. Beatrice on the other hand was as prone to smile as a rock.
“How were your other classes? Did you like learning about enchantments? I always found that class dull, myself.”
Ceria shrugged and Pisces smiled.
“Our teacher—Fedric—is fairly good at saying as little as he needs to.”
“Fedric? Oh, he would be. Dullahans are like that, aren’t they, Beatrice?”
Calvaron nudged Beatrice’s body, and her head on the table scowled at him.
“I say what I have to. I don’t run my mouth, Calvaron.”
“I’m surprised to see so many Dullahans in Wistram. No offense, but I’d barely heard of your people before coming here.”
Ceria looked at Beatrice with interest. Fedric, their teacher for their class on enchantments, was an old male Dullahan. She’d seen a number of them in the corridors as well.
Beatrice just shrugged her shoulders as she swiveled her head to talk to Ceria.
“Not too many. But all good spellcasters get sent here from Baleros. One continent means lots of Dullahan applicants.”
“True enough.”
Calvaron nodded. He pointed across the banquet hall, and Ceria saw a group of six Centaurs walking down the hall. They were far bigger than most students, and so they had to walk single-file to get in line.
“My people don’t usually go in for spellcasting, but like Beatrice said, the best come here and there are a lot of us on Baleros. That’s why you’ll see quite a few species that are rare in most places. Selphids, for instance.”
Ceria and Beatrice shuddered a bit at the mention of that race. Ceria had seen the deathly-white students walking the halls, dead bodies controlled by their parasitic owners. Calvaron shrugged stoically.
“They’re not so bad when you get used to them. I know they get a bad rap back home, but the ones here are all very polite.”
“Wistram truly does have more species than I’ve ever seen before.”
Pisces wiped at his mouth with a napkin. Calvaron grinned.
“We’re way more diverse than most cities, it’s true. Anyone who can become a mage or learn a magical class is welcome here—if they’ve got talent and coin. Of course, not all races are as gifted as others. That’s why you won’t see many Minotaurs, although I’ve heard they can make good mages. But most Minotaurs don’t like to use magic, so they’re not inclined to study here anyways.”
“And I bet some species aren’t as numerous or trusting of Wistram.”
Ceria said that thoughtfully as she chewed on some cow’s tongue she’d found under one of her pork chops. Calvaron grimaced and looked away as he replied—he hated to eat identifiable body parts, although he was surprisingly unconcerned about eating cows. Ceria had wondered if he would have been bothered by meat, but apparently Centaurs were far enough away from cows to eat them without guilt. She wondered how they felt about horses.
“You mean half-Elves, Ceria?”
She shrugged. She’d seen a few half-Elves roaming the halls, but they were far from common. She’d been tempted to talk with them, but it wasn’t as if she was back on Terandria and she had to stick with her own kind. Plus, she was a new student and she wasn’t sure if she’d make it past the exams.
“I know my people are naturally good at magic. But…I can’t say I’m surprised there aren’t many around. We’re not exactly welcome to strangers.”
“You and the Gnolls. You know, of all the species in the world, the only race who won’t set foot on Wistram are the Gnolls?”
“Really?”
Both Pisces and Ceria frowned at Calvaron. Ceria tried to think of a Gnoll, but only had a vague image of a furry dog-like person, similar to one of the Beastkin tribes from Baleros. She’d never seen one in person before; she heard they lived on Izril and seldom ventured as far as Terandria.
The Centaur nodded, frowning a bit as he explained.
“It’s a real pain too, apparently. A lot of Gnolls are famous [Merchants] and [Traders], you know. They’re pretty resilient and their tribes like to move about exchanging goods. But none of them will do any kind of business with Wistram, even through middlemen. It’s some kind of grudge, although I’ve never heard what it was about.”
“Really? A Gnoll grudge? I hear they keep those for lifetimes.”
“Too right. It’s a shame too, because I’d bet their tribes would benefit from having a few of their number learn magic. But…”
Calvaron shrugged. Beatrice raised her head so she could get everyone’s attention.
“A Gnoll did come here to study once, though. About a decade or two ago.”
“A Gnoll? You’re pulling my hoof, Beatrice.”
“Nope. He came but dropped out before his first year was up.”
“Why?”
The Centaur leaned towards Beatrice, but the Dullahan closed her lips in a slight smile.
“Secret. Pay me and I’ll tell.”
Everyone chortled at that. Calvaron was fairly rich in secrets Ceria had learned, and many students and mages came to him to exchange tidbits for goods and services. But Beatrice had her own collection of secrets, as any longtime mage in Wistram did.
“I don’t know if it’s worth a juicy secret. Would you consider a trade for something else? How about other goods and services rendered…?”
Calvaron wiggled his eyebrows at Beatrice and she smiled a bit wider.
“Not worth my time.”
“Ah, you!”
They liked each other. It was quite obvious from the way they flirted. Calvaron did it openly, Beatrice with deadpan remarks that might be serious or a joke; you could never tell which.
“Looks like you’d better cough up a secret if you want to know, Calvaron. Me and Pisces don’t have enough to cover the costs.”
“I’ll pass. You don’t collect as many secrets as I do by spending them frivolously.”
Calvaron waved a hand. Pisces looked intrigued and leaned forwards over the table.
“Just how many secrets have you obtained during your stay here, Calvaron?”
“That’s a secret in itself, my dear Pisces. But suffice it to say, I’ve got more than one person’s little tidbits locked away in my head.”
The Centaur tapped his head importantly. Pisces looked impressed as he nodded, but Ceria thought the Centaur was full of it. She raised her eyebrows.
“You mean, you’re a secret keeper? Ooh. Fancy.”
Pisces snorted. Across the table, Beatrice choked on her food. She had to place her head on the table while the rest of her body pounded on her chest. Ceria and Pisces nearly fell over themselves laughing as Beatrice’s face contorted and Calvaron had to reach over and slap her on the back a few times. When she was done, the Dullahan turned her head with her hands so she could glare at the two.
“Not that funny.”
“It was pretty funny. No one calls people like me secret keepers or—or shadow brokers or anything like that, Ceria. I’m just a broker, a middleman. Or middle-Centaur if you like. It doesn’t roll off the tongue as smoothly. I buy and sell.”
“And make a good profit, I’ll bet. You’re rich!”
“Wistram rich, my dear half-Elf. It’s not the same as being actually rich. If I left this small isle no one would know my name. Here I have a bit of power.”
“Which explains why you maintain your independent status. Any faction in the academy can treat with you without fear you’ll trade their secrets away. It’s a valuable position to be in.”
Pisces observed that as he glanced carefully at Calvaron. The Centaur’s eyes focused on Pisces and he gave the younger man a nod of respect.
“Sharp, aren’t you?”
“He hides it well. Tell us more about these factions, Calvaron. How did they pop up?”
“I don’t know. It’s a long story…”
Calvaron glanced at one of the windows that let bright sunlight into the room. Ceria knew this was just theatrics; the Centaur had very few classes she understood, and he liked to lounge around in the banquet hall with Beatrice.
“Come on, you’ve got time and we don’t have classes for the rest of the day. Give us new students a bit of history.”
The Centaur grinned as he popped another grape into his mouth.
“What, for free? This isn’t just gossip. Some of this stuff is important. I can’t just give it away! You know how it works. Secrets for secrets.”
Pisces and Ceria both groaned at the same time. Ceria was going to tell Calvaron she didn’t want to know that bad when Pisces raised a finger.
“Would a small one do?”
“For general history? I suppose.”
Calvaron’s eyes sharpened, and the Centaur leaned forwards. Ceria saw Beatrice’s hands move; the Dullahan’s head whispered something and Ceria felt magic around the four of them. Some other students looked around, but most seemed used to what was going on.
It was an exchange of secrets. Calvaron and Pisces spoke to each other, but Ceria only saw a blur around their mouths and heard nothing. The Centaur had pulled a small crystal out of a belt pouch; it glowed bright red as Pisces spoke. The Centaur nodded, and in the next moment the bubble of silence dissipated.
“Well, I’d say that qualifies. How did you find out?”
Pisces smiled enigmatically at the Centaur.
“Secrets for secrets. To learn my method, you’d have to pay quite a lot, my dear Calvaron.”
“I suppose I deserved that.”
Ceria was dying to know what Pisces had told Calvaron—it could be just pointless information, but how had Pisces found out? She knew she wouldn’t get an answer from the Centaur though, so she pointed at the gem that the Centaur was putting back into the pouch at his waist.
“Is your truth crystal broken? It glowed red when Pisces spoke.”
He shook his head, grinning.
“Nope. It’s a little trick. Most truth spells glow green or blue or white when someone tells the truth, right? I’ve enchanted mine to do the opposite. Sometimes you can throw someone off with it.”
Pisces nodded as if this was perfectly sensible, but Ceria just rolled her eyes again.
“Everything in Wistram seems like a trick or mind game.”
“That’s just because you’re new. You’ll get used to it quick enough. Now, I believe I owe you some history?”
All four students took the moment to refill their plates. Ceria took some cold cubes of ice and splashed them into a sweet drink of fruit, delighted at the luxury of it. She sipped at her drink as Calvaron began speaking.
“I suppose you know Wistram has been around for thousands of years. It was founded oh, way back, when a lot of nations were at war and mages wanted a place to learn and teach in peace. Well, Wistram may have gained and lost power over the years, but it’s always been independent. No nation controls us—we have an army of our own here and only a truly grand fleet could make it to our shores with weather spells raised against them.”
“Not to mention Wistram provides many services.”
Beatrice put that in. Calvaron nodded proudly.
“We do provide the best spells and mages. You can trust a Wistram-certified enchantment. And we can enchant weaponry and other artifacts as well. We do a booming trade with adventurers who want better gear or to have something analyzed—”
“Yes, yes. Wistram is great. That’s why we came here.”
Ceria cut in, impatient to get to the good part.
“What does this all have to do with factions? From what I’ve heard, they didn’t always exist.”
“No, Miss Busy half-Elf, they didn’t. And if you’d let me explain, you’d know that a few centuries ago, mages competed in Wistram quite fiercely. It was every mage for himself and they formed their own groups—but there was no faction. Instead, powerful mages attracted people to them. One of them was Archmage Zelkyr. Mind you, he wasn’t just an Archmage, but an actual [Archmage].”
“He obtained the class?”
Pisces’ eyes were shining, and Ceria scooted forwards on her seat. Calvaron nodded, looking just as excited by the idea.
“It’s a matter of history. The class does exist, and he and the other [Archmages] who ruled Wistram at the time all had them. But Archmage Zelkyr was the best. He was a Drake – famous, you know, for being able to damage one of the Walled Cities’ walls. But he was more famous for his ability to create Golems.”
“Cognita.”
Beatrice said it quietly. Calvaron nodded.
“Her and an entire army of Golems. They eventually made it so that Zelkyr was in undisputed control of Wistram. He alone explored the higher reaches of the citadel, searching for ancient magics left behind by the greatest mages in Wistram’s history.”
“Higher up? You mean, there’s places not yet explored in Wistram?”
Calvaron nodded as if it were obvious.
“Of course. How many mages do you think lived in Wistram? The greatest of them—legends who could cast countless magics—all settled the highest floors. If you go exploring higher and higher you’ll run across their creations, spells, and maybe their rooms. But imagine the amount of traps and dangerous spells up there! Just trying to break into a former mage’s room is deadly.”
“But Zelkyr had the monopoly on that, right?”
Ceria was beginning to understand what had happened, and why the upper floors were off limits now.
“He did indeed. Zelkyr ordered his Golems to guard the entrances to the upper levels and seal it off so only he could learn from the mages above. Of course, the other mages didn’t accept that and there was a huge battle. But in the end his surviving Truestone Construct—Cognita—imposed a new order on the surviving mages. They could live and study in Wistram, but the upper levels were for Zelkyr and the few he trusted alone.”
“Hence their current inaccessible state?”
“Exactly.”
