Pisces looked blankly at her.
“What’s the problem with that?”
“Well…”
Ceria spluttered, unable to explain. How could she convey the unease she felt when she looked at Cognita, or rather, felt the Golem’s eyes on her?
The eyes of the Truestone Golem had been sculpted to perfectly mimic the eyes of a Human woman. But they were not alive. They moved as if they were, though, and Ceria knew there was some intelligence controlling the thing that called herself Cognita. But it was not the same as living and it scared Ceria.
She knew other students in Wistram felt the same or more strongly. Some mages avoided Cognita in the hallways. Ceria could get along with the Golem because she was helpful and acted quite normally, but she didn’t like Cognita’s eyes.
Pisces however acted as though Cognita was no different than Ceria. He walked after her as the Golem studied the shelves and looked around the room.
“You see Cognita, we ah, happened to learn about this room you see, and I note that its previous occupant is probably long since deceased…”
“Yes.”
Cognita nodded once and looked back at the two students.
“This is the residence of Nemistra Verdinan, a Selphid who lived here for many years in hiding. She is long dead, but it is good to see her room has finally been discovered. I will have other Golems collect the lost books and return them to their proper locations.”
Both mages blinked up at Cognita, caught off-guard by the matter-of-fact response. Pisces coughed.
“Yes, well, I am, ah, glad. But could I trouble you to ask whether taking her former spellbook would be permissible? It’s the one on the second shelf from the bottom you see—”
“Yes. I see it.”
Cognita studied the tome, eyes unblinking. Ceria and Pisces held their breaths. When the Truestone Golem turned, she nodded again.
“The tome is guarded by several wards that would melt the flesh of anyone attempting to retrieve it. I can remove it without issue to myself, following which the wards would be broken.”
“Excellent!”
Pisces rubbed his hands together happily, but Ceria was uneasy.
“So you’ll just give us the book? Really?”
Cognita paused.
“That is acceptable. However, Wistram law now dictates that mages below the third year only be allowed one personal spellbook for their use. You have already been issued one. If I give you this book, you must return your spellbook.”
Ceria groaned. Of course. There had to be a catch. But Pisces was undeterred.
“Very well, Miss Cognita. I would happily trade in my spellbook for this one. Would you ah, like me to retrieve it before…?”
“No need.”
The Truestone Golem turned, and the stone woman calmly pulled the book out of the bookcase. Ceria held her breath, expecting something dramatic to happen. But all she saw was a slight ripple in the air as Cognita pulled the book out—then she calmly turned and held it out to Pisces.
He was reluctant to take it. Pisces’ hands trembled a bit as he reached for the book, and Ceria saw him visibly brace himself. But when he gingerly grasped the book and Cognita let go, nothing happened to him either. He nearly dropped the book in surprise.
“The wards have been broken. It is safe to read.”
“Many thanks!”
Pisces stared delightedly at the spellbook in his hands. He beamed at Cognita.
“I cannot thank you enough. Please, accept my profuse gratitude for your help rendered in—”
Ceria kicked Pisces in the shins. He yelped, but she just smiled at Cognita.
“Um, thank you Cognita. This was a big help. We couldn’t have gotten the spellbook alone.”
“No. You could not.”
Cognita’s eyes found Ceria’s, and the half-Elf saw only cold marble there. But there was something in Cognita’s tone that suggested the Golem understood what she’d done. And she’d done it anyways, knowing it would help Ceria and Pisces.
“Most mages would not have turned to me for help. Your decision to do so is interesting.”
Ceria had no idea what to make of that. She cleared her throat nervously.
“Um, well, Cognita, about this. We’d prefer to keep this secret—would you mind not telling anyone you helped us?”
Both she and Pisces held their breaths as the Golem pondered for a moment. Cognita shook her head.
“I care little for squabbles between mages. I am bound to be truthful, so I shall be. Thus, I shall relate all I have seen here.”
Ceria closed her eyes and Pisces groaned aloud. Cognita continued calmly.
“If I am asked about these specific events, I will share what I have seen. But only then. I suspect your secret will be safe, young mages.”
She nodded at Ceria and Pisces. The half-Elf and young man saw the Golem’s lips curve upwards slightly, and then the Golem turned.
“I must be going. I have other duties. I am pleased to have been of assistance to the two of you tonight. Sleep well.”
She walked away quickly, leaving Ceria and Pisces at a loss for words. They stared at her back, and then jumped as the Golem closed the double doors with a click. Ceria immediately began hurrying towards the doors, but Pisces called her back.
“Wait! We’ve got to cover our tracks! Let’s get this bookshelf back the way it was.”
“How?”
“I think we just replace the two books in their original positions.”
Sure enough, the instant the two books were in the right spot, the bookshelf became real again. Ceria and Pisces pressed on the books and shelf, but it refused to budge.
“Impressive magic.”
“Admire it later! Let’s go before someone sees us!”
The two hurried out of the library, closing the door securely and moving quickly back towards their rooms. On the way, Ceria questioned Pisces, who was trying to walk and stare at the pages of the spellbook at the same time.
“That was—did you know Cognita could do that?”
“I had an inkling after she shattered that ice wall. If she can break Illphres’ enchantments, why not the trap spells on a book? And it seemed easy enough to ask her for help. After all, the Golems of Wistram are bound to help the students, are they not?”
Ceria had to agree with that, although she would have never considered the idea. She doubted the older students would have either. She frowned as she led Pisces down a passage and flight of steps.
“How did you send Cognita a note?”
“Secret.”
He grinned at Ceria impishly. She glared at him and he raised his hands.
“Really, it is a secret Ceria. I…it’s rather complicated. I’m sorry.”
She frowned, but let the matter drop. Soon, they were back in Pisces’ room and only then did Pisces open the spellbook on his table and let Ceria peer at it.
“Dead gods. Look at all the spells!”
Pisces had a wild grin on his face as he and Ceria flipped through page after page of uneven handwriting. Whoever had written the book had done it in a foreign language, but the nature of the magic spells was something any mage could decode with enough effort.
“I can’t understand what that spell does. Do you see…?”
“No. But I’m sure it will come in time. And look! This is clearly some kind of flame-based spell. Can’t you tell from the way it’s formed here?”
“You’re right!”
Ceria was giddy with excitement. They had a spellbook! A real spellbook, not one filled with useless spells! Her excitement faded a bit as she realized it really wasn’t her spellbook, though.
“I guess you’ll be able to learn a lot, huh?”
“What do you mean?”
Pisces turned to Ceria in surprise. He held the book to her.
“This was a joint effort, Ceria. This book is as much yours as it is mine. We can take turns reading it—”
“No, it’s yours. You didn’t need me at all! You could have done all of this by yourself!”
Pisces shook his head, offering the book to Ceria as she backed away.
“Not true. Your expertise in subversion and stealth were quite essential. And the addition of another pair of eyes and another mind to cross-check my conclusions were invaluable.”
“What does that—”
“Look, we worked on it together. And I want you to study it as well. If we can learn some spells from this, we might stand a good chance of passing the exams at the end of the month! This is an opportunity for both of us, Ceria.”
Slowly, it began to dawn on Ceria that Pisces had intended to share the book with her the instant he’d figured out how to take it. She looked at him awkwardly, not sure what to say.
He was a Human, but he was genuine and clearly wanted to help her pass. She smiled at him, and Pisces grinned back in delight.
“Well—okay. We can study together. Two arrows are better than one. But it’s your book, okay? After all, you’re going to have to give Cognita your other spellbook.”
“True. I’d better pretend I lost the other one.”
Pisces nodded at Ceria. But then he smiled widely again, overcome with delight.
“Let’s see how many spells we can identify! I’m sure there’s at least one Tier 4 spell in here!”
The two got back to poring over the book. Ceria squinted at the magical writing, guessing some of the spells with Pisces.
“Hey. Isn’t that…[Stone Fist]? That’s a good Tier 3 spell!”
“Really? I thought it was Tier 2?”
“I think it’s Tier 3. You see, when you use it you create this rock armor around your hand.”
“Isn’t that really heavy?”
“You’d think so, but I saw a [Druid] using it once. He cracked a boulder like it was nothing!”
“I bet we could learn that in time for the exam. What do you think?”
“Maybe. But look here. This is some kind of movement spell, I’m positive of it! Can you see what the nature of it is?”
Ceria bent forwards to look at the spell Pisces had pointed to. In doing so, she realized that she was sitting in a room in the middle of the night. With a young Human man.
A few years ago—she would have put an arrow in Pisces’ head, or run away. But now she was sitting next to him as if it was the most natural thing in the world. Ceria paused.
He was a good person, albeit a bit clumsy and wordy. But she liked him, and thought of him as a friend already. In fact, she quite liked him. Ceria had no idea how she felt about that.
 
——
 
The next day, Ceria had trouble keeping her eyes open in all of her classes. She was exhausted from staying up and trying to puzzle out the spells in Pisces’ book. She nearly fell asleep twice in her class studying basic enchantments and how to decode magical auras, but she didn’t dare close her eyes in Rievan’s class.
“I trust you’ve all memorized the lessons from yesterday?”
He stared around the classroom, staring at each student in turn. When he met Ceria’s eyes Rievan’s nose wrinkled slightly and he looked past her. He pointed.
“You there. Pisces. Where is your spellbook?”
Pisces jerked upright, blinking rapidly.
“My spellbook?”
“Yes! Where are your notes?”
Pisces folded his fingers together as Ceria tried not to stare at him.
“I lost my spellbook, sir. But I can recall my notes from last class quite well.”
“Really?”
One of Rievan’s narrow eyebrows rose as he glared at Pisces.
“Then you will surely be able to recall my statement regarding the dangers of overabundance of mana in the system? Repeat my words back to me.”
Ceria winced, but Pisces just cleared his throat, looking quite calm.
“Mana, sir, may over accumulate in any living being’s body as a result of a spell or influx of mana in a charged environment, but more often than not it is a result of imbibing a mana potion improperly. For a mage, casting any spell will usually resolve the issue, but for those without mana, time and rest are the only usual solutions. A competent mage may attempt to drain the excess magic from a person, but this action is not without risk. And in high concentration, excess mana may well lead to rupturing of blood vessels or parts of the body overloading or shutting down.”
Ceria and the other students in the room gaped as Pisces delivered a perfect summary of Rievan’s lesson from yesterday. The [Mage] stared hard at Pisces as the young man finished and sat down.
“Very…good.”
He said it grudgingly, and turned away from Pisces without another word.
“We will continue our lessons from yesterday! Clear your desks and begin forming your spells again. I want to see more attention to detail, Springwalker! And you—Elkrin, is it? Your control of your [Fire Orb] spell is abysmal! Focus your flames or don’t bother to cast the spell at all!”
The lesson ended without incident, which was to say Ceria ended up being scolded for her lackluster performance. But she was more concerned with Pisces. After it was over, she walked down the corridor with him.
“I can’t believe you memorized all of that!”
“I paid attention in class, and I have a good memory.”
Pisces scratched at his hair self-consciously as they entered the banquet hall. Ceria saw Calvaron and Beatrice at their usual spot and waved to them. She got her food and made her way over. She and Pisces had to pause as an older man carrying a tray nearly ran them over. He grunted and without a word of apology went to sit at an empty table.
“Stupid Human. I nearly dropped my plate!”
Ceria grouched as she sat down. She’d taken some pork chops roasted in a sauce that smelled like peanuts today. Pisces had a more balanced meal; he’d taken one of the pork chops and several sweet red fruits that tempted Ceria. He stared after the man, frowning.
“Isn’t that poor Elkrin? He seems upset.”
“Shouldn’t he be? You two were in Rievan’s class just now, weren’t you?”
Calvaron laughed and cleared part of their table so Pisces could put his food down. He and Beatrice were nearly finished with their meal—some kind of small, round pasta-like food drizzled with a thick sauce and accompanied by steamed vegetables.
“That’s right. Rievan tore a strip off of Elkrin for his spellcasting.”
Ceria nodded as she began to cut her meat apart. She still felt grouchy from having to deal with Rievan. She paused and narrowed her eyes at Calvaron.
“Wait a second. Isn’t that a secret I should be charging you for?”
He laughed and slapped at the lower, horse half of his body.
“Not everything is a secret, Ceria. Something as normal as that is just juicy gossip. But it looks like Elkrin’s not taking the dressing down well, is it?”
Ceria half-turned in her padded seat to look. Elkrin did have a murderous scowl on his face and no one was sitting with him. Calvaron shook his head as he tsked.
“Attitude problem. He may be a good adventurer, but you have to be willing to learn if you want to stay here. I bet he’ll be gone within the week.”
Pisces and Ceria exchanged a glance at this. They could understand not liking Rievan, but leaving because of that? Wistram was their dream.
Calvaron noticed the look.
