Calvaron pointed a finger at Pisces as he stole a grape from Beatrice’s plate. She jabbed him with a gauntleted finger.
“Gah! Damn it Beatrice, it hurts when you do that!”
“Then don’t steal. Yes, Pisces, the upper levels are closed. The top three are only off limits for new mages, but after that—there is a door. Cognita and many golems guard it. It leads further up.”
“Okay, but why hasn’t anyone gotten Cognita to open it? Zelkyr is dead, right?”
“I’m getting to that! Hold on!”
Calvaron took a long drink, enjoying making Ceria and Pisces wait.
“One day, Cognita came down from the upper floors and announced that Archmage Zelkyr was dead. Ever since then, she and the other Golems have been maintaining Wistram. They still fulfill his orders by helping us, taking care of the academy, fighting off intruders and so forth, but his other order still stands. No one may venture above. So while Wistram is safe—”
“The higher magics are off-limits?”
Pisces looked dismayed at the thought. Calvaron waggled a finger at him.
“Just the ones that belonged to the greats. There’s plenty of mages here capable of casting Tier 5 spells, or even Tier 6. But higher than that…? You’ll have to get past Cognita first, and that’s pretty much impossible. If you challenge her, you’ll be fighting her and Zelkyr’s best creations.”
Beatrice’s armor shuddered a bit and she turned the corners of her mouth down.
“Golems. Scary.”
Ceria thought that was ironic coming from a Dullahan, but she had to admit that for all Beatrice was a disembodied head and a body covered in light metal armor, she was clearly alive. Cognita and the other Golems were not. There was an important distinction there.
“So Cognita’s not just a nice, friendly Golem?”
Calvaron snorted.
“She’s as nice as a Golem can be, which is sort of. But try to get past the door and…you’re dead. No one’s gotten past her since Zelkyr died.”
“And so far no one’s tried?”
“And so far no one’s survived.”
Beatrice said it quietly. Calvaron nodded soberly.
“Of course, countless mages challenged Cognita and the Golems in the past. Some did it by themselves, others attacked in groups or tried to catch the Golems off-guard. None succeeded. The Golems are powerful, and Cognita’s the strongest of them all. I’ve never seen her fight personally, mind, but there are other guardian Golems that Zelkyr made. Occasionally some group of mages decides to challenge them, but they’re always killed.”
Both Ceria and Pisces shuddered. Beatrice looked between them and shook her head with her hands.
“Don’t worry about it. So long as you never try to get past the door, you’ll be fine. And there are other places below the door that are still unexplored.”
“Like below. There’s plenty of passages unexplored there, although we do have a problem with the undead. There are a lot of bones stored in the catacombs and they sometimes reanimate people who get killed down there.”
“Lovely. And…wait, how does this have anything to do with factions?”
“I’m getting to that. You’re the most impatient half-Elf I know, Ceria.”
“I’m the only one who’ll put up with a Centaur like you, Calvaron.”
“Hah! True. Anyways, the factions in Wistram popped up because there’s no one mage who’s powerful enough to really control everyone like there used to be. Now our Archmages are just the greatest mages among us, not those with the actual class. And factions are just mages with similar ideals.”
“Like the Revivalists. My faction. You two should join if you pass the exam.”
Beatrice smiled at Pisces and Ceria. Calvaron rolled his eyes and tipped her head over.
“Stop that, Beatrice! Ignore her, you two. You don’t want to get wrapped up in factional politics before your exam. That could really hurt your chances to get in.”
“Why? Surely if we pledge to one faction, they could help us succeed?”
Pisces seemed curious. Beatrice took the moment to respond—she’d cast a spell that made all the hairs on Calvaron’s horse-half stand up, which the yelping Centaur was having to dispel.
“They might. But other factions don’t like giving one strength. So it’s a bad idea. Sorry.”
“Yeah.”
Calvaron gasped as he managed to remove Beatrice’s shocking hex. He glared at her, but she gave him a satisfied look and he decided not to escalate the situation.
“You won’t have to deal with them too much. Just know that some mages belong to a group with certain ideals. They differ in how they agree of course, but they stick together when it comes to voting or pushing their agendas. Illphres, for example. Remember her?”
Ceria ground her teeth together. She was still sore about not being taught any combat magic all this time she’d studied here.
“I do.”
“Well, she’s an Isolationist. Thinks we should only allow mages who are already strong to join and that we should be reaching for greater heights in magic. That’s why she didn’t want to teach you.”
“Can’t the other factions force her to teach?”
“They can…but Illphres is stubborn and it’s not worth the battle. They’ll use her not teaching to their advantage instead; the others will be able to say the Isolationists don’t contribute their fair share and be able to vote against them. So Illphres is harming her own faction, but she’s too influential for anyone to stand up to her.”
“And meanwhile we suffer for it.”
Ceria angrily stabbed her cold pork, but Calvaron just shrugged.
“It’s bad luck I’m afraid. Sorry. But there are other factions in Wistram you should know about. Your good friend Rievan, for instance, belongs to the Libertarian group. They want us to start taking sides with different nations and throwing our influence around.”
“Sounds like a bad idea.”
“Don’t let any of the Libertarians catch you saying that. A lot of them are from Terandria, and they take a deep interest in the politics from there.”
“So factions are something else we’ll have to worry about?”
Ceria didn’t like the thought of that, but Calvaron just chuckled.
“Not for a while, and certainly not until you pass your exam. And if you get strong enough, you might be able to deal with factions on your own. The more important you are, the less your connections and factions matter. Then it’s just about who you are as a [Mage].”
“But it sounds like unless I’m a powerful mage, I’ll need to join a faction or be in danger.”
Ceria pointed that out and Pisces nodded in agreement. Calvaron paused before shaking his head.
“Not necessarily. You see, the factions keep each other in check so that the independents like me can function. How can I explain it? Okay, let’s say someone—a certain angry Elementalist teacher for instance—wanted to harass you. Because he doesn’t like your ears.”
“He doesn’t like me because of my ears.”
“Yes, but he’s not actively trying to harm you or get in your way, is he? That’s because if he did start attacking you, the Revivalists and the Preservationists would be all over him. They don’t want him to alienate your people—or spread the rumor that Wistram is a speciesist institution.”
“Preservationists? That’s a long name, isn’t it?”
“They chose it, not us. Anyways, Mister Angry Elementalist would have to have a lot of support from his faction to get at you. He’d also have to consider your friends, and how much the other factions would retaliate if he went at you. Mind you, you’re hanging out with second and third-year students who aren’t powerful. Beatrice is a [Runeshaper] and I’m just a generalist [Mage], so we don’t have much clout.”
“You study runes, Beatrice? You never said.”
Beatrice nodded. She tapped at her armor where Ceria now saw some carved symbols etched into the metal.
“Working on some personal enchantments. Rune magic is very popular among Dullahans. But not powerful in faction.”
“Right. But don’t worry—Rievan’s not going to try anything. It would be too much trouble if he did and you’re not worth it.”
“Thanks.”
“Hey, it’s just politics. Like how you got stuck with Rievan and Illphres anyways. That was due to a squabble with the factions.”
“Really? Would you mind explaining how that happened?”
Pisces was interested, although Ceria wasn’t. Calvaron shrugged.
“You really want to know?”
“I do.”
“I don’t.”
“Well, I’ll tell Pisces and you can just eat your dead pig, Ceria. Now, the current mages teaching are mostly mages who like doing it. Some mages earn their keep and just live here by teaching. It’s not going to make them influential, but it is necessary and so they keep doing it. But a year ago, Tshya, the old Drake who taught me and Beatrice, died.”
“Poor Tshya.”
“He had scale rot. Very nasty odor. He never cleaned himself right near the end.”
“Calvaron!”
“Well, he didn’t! Remember the smell? And he was old. But he was in charge of a lot of lessons, and so the council wanted another of the oldest and most inactive mages to take on the job. Unfortunately, that would have meant choosing Belfore—he’s a Preservationist, just like Yim, the other teacher who was taking on a lot of classes. But that would have meant that the Preservationists were essentially doing all the teaching, and they didn’t want to let that happen in case it became precedent. So they insisted that the teaching be taken up by mages from all factions, which led to, among others, Rievan getting tapped for the job.”
“He’s not that important. So he got the job.”
“I see. But what about Illphres? You said she was important?”
“Yes, well, the Centrists—they’re the ones who want us to make every mage in the world part of Wistram and declare ourselves a nation—they’re always fighting with the Isolationists. And they really don’t like Illphres, so they nominated her. And she’s got a lot of enemies so they passed the vote and made her take the classes.”
Beatrice smiled.
“Simple, right?”
“No!”
Ceria clutched at her head while Pisces nodded and kept asking more questions. Ceria went off to get dessert—a lovely bread with sugar baked into the crust and glazed with honey. Mages ate well at Wistram, but this was a treat. She returned to the table and suffered through more discussions of politics. Pisces looked hurt when she suggested they leave.
“You don’t find this interesting? There’s so much depth here!”
“Depth is for people who want it. I came here for magic, not politics.”
Ceria groused. But she had one thought. She turned to Calvaron and Beatrice.
“What about Amerys? Does she belong to any faction?”
The two older students blinked at her. Calvaron slowly shook his head.
“Amerys? Some factions wouldn’t have her simply for what she’s done. Others might, but Amerys has never approached anyone. The mage of the King of Destruction’s Seven stands alone.”
“She has friends.”
“More enemies than friends by a long shot. No, Amerys is alone, for all she’s an Archmage. I’d walk clear of her if I were you. No one forces her to do anything. And she’s unpredictable at best.”
“Like when she went out to fight the Sea Serpent. That was a surprise.”
“Not really. You know she likes battle, Beatrice.”
“I thought she did it to gain favor with the Revivalists, or maybe the Centrists.”
“Her? Hah! Never. Now, I can see one of the other Archmages doing that. Old Verdan Blackwood for instance could have taken down the Sea Serpent, but Amerys volunteered. Do you know what happened after that? Pisces, you’re not going to believe this…”
Somehow, it was dinner time before the conversation ended. Ceria and Pisces loaded up their plates with more food and chatted with Calvaron and Beatrice for another hour until Ceria decided they really did need to get back to their rooms to study.
“I can’t believe we talked for six hours!”
Ceria exclaimed out loud as she and Pisces headed back to their rooms. He only smiled, looking as happy as she’d ever seen him.
“It’s wonderful isn’t it? This place is such a haven of learning. I feel like I’m right at home when I have discussions like these.”
“More like a place to get fat. I ate too much.”
“Good food, magic, and interesting people to talk to. What’s not to love?”
“Rievan. And Illphres. And Charles de Trevalier.”
“Well, besides them.”
Both students laughed as they went back to Pisces’ room. There they pulled out the spellbook and stared at it. Ceria wanted to learn another combat spell, and Pisces was still staring at one spell he claimed to half-understand already. After a while, Pisces spoke.
“They’re betting on us.”
Ceria raised her head with a frown.
“Who are?”
“Beatrice and Calvaron. I heard they’ve put money that both of us will pass the exams.”
“People bet on who’ll pass? Wait, of course they do.”
Ceria sighed. She felt annoyed that Calvaron and Beatrice were treating her getting into Wistram so trivially, but Pisces took the opposite view. He smiled at her.
“Don’t be angry. If they didn’t like us or care they wouldn’t have made the bet. I think they’re trying to help us. They give us tips and secrets for free all the time, don’t they?”
“I guess. It’s just—we’re going to need more than a bit of help if we want to be sure we’ll pass.”
Ceria sighed, dispirited. Pisces raised his eyebrows and tapped the book in front of them.
“That’s what this is for. Look here—I’m certain this spell is in fact [Flash Step]. I had to get to one of the encyclopedias to look it up, but the spell’s description seems to match this spell exactly!”
Filled with sudden interest, Ceria peered at the spell. She nodded.
“You could be right!”
Then her face fell.
“But there’s only three weeks left until the exams. Not enough time for either of us to learn it.”
“I think I can do it. At the very least, I want to try.”
Ceria stared at Pisces. She knew he was smart. But this? [Flash Step] was a Tier 3 spell.
“You’re going to try?”
“Of course. And you can learn [Stone Fist] as well. If we work together, we’ll pass the exams.”
Pisces grinned at her. Ceria felt her heart pounding in her chest. Just heard it. She smiled at Pisces, and held up a fist for him to bump his cautiously against.
“Definitely.”
