Another explosion of static mana appeared right in front of Shiv. A rift of Dimensionality opened in the world—and Shiv felt it. There was something kindred about cuts and slashes, about things that hewed, carved, stabbed, and cleaved. The resounding squeal of magic bouncing off Inertium filled Shiv’s hearing, and he found the diminutive form of the Giantsbane standing before him, helmet on and visor down. Rusty’s tip was coated with a trickle of blood. Two meters away from her, the Culturist shifted back, clutching a shallow wound stroked right under his left rib. He traced the blood weeping from his side with his right thumb and raised it to his mouth to suckle on its taste.

“Ah.” The Culturist sighed, his lips drawing back in a wide and glorious grin. “Giantsbane. This is not your fight.”

“I don’t give a shit about orc rules or whatever this bullshit is,” Jessica replied flatly. “You’re done. He licked you good, and you licked him back. Cool off.”

The Culturist cocked his head, and he looked more monstrous than ever before. “Come now. I am not rageful. I am simply—”

“I know what you are,” she cut him off. “You got that junkie gleam in your eyes, and I know what it looks like when some degenerate is itching to get their fix from someone else’s hurt. You both were having fun before, but you’re not holding your own leash anymore. You’re fucking done.”

“Why?” the orc breathed. His eyes drifted away from Shiv, and his irises burned a piercing yellow as he fixated on Jessica instead. “Because you told me?”

“Because if we get down with each other, it’s gonna be to the death. Like you would have taken it with him.”

“I wouldn’t have—”

“You’re a junkie fuck chasing pain,” Jessica barked. “You don’t choose, the need inside you does. You would’ve snuffed him out for good if the impulse took you. Don’t bullshit me, and don’t bullshit yourself. You wanna do the orc cruelty thing, fine. But if you lose, I’m going to use you as a whetstone for Rusty.”

“Why must your threats be so enticing?” The Culturist licked his lips. He took a step forward.

Only for Valor to suddenly appear beside him—and casually jab an ordinary metal dagger right under the orc’s carotid. The blade bent. The Culturist suffered no harm. He whipped an elbow out—faster than Shiv could follow. But Valor dodged it somehow. He wasn’t nearly as fast as the Culturist, even with the return of his torso. It was the gap between a Low Hero and a Legend. So how could he even…

He knew it was coming, Shiv realized. He knew what attack the Culturist was going to perfect, from what angle, and at what time in advance. Holy shit…

Valor Thann’s great restoration wasn’t the reclamation of his Legendary Stealth. It was the remembrance of who he was, the things he’d done, and the enemies he'd faced across his many centuries of life. He was now a Legend among Legends trapped within the body of a diminished Hero.

“Dead,” Valor declared casually. He lightly whacked the Culturist under his chin, like a man chastising a naughty pet. The Culturist just blinked. His eyes were wild and unfocused, jumping between Jessica and his true nemesis. It was like he struggled with what he wanted to do—who to attack first. “Sloppy and distracted,” Valor continued. “How did you let this happen?”

“I—”

“How did you let me strike you so easily? Are you deaf? Are you blind? Or are you simply incompetent? Let me tell you what I am: ashamed. Do you think I will recognize you as my nemesis if you act like this? Do you think some new Unique Skill should provoke you toward such obsession?” Valor turned away from the Legendary orc without fear. It was like he knew he wouldn’t be struck down from behind. “Compose yourself, Culturist. You already fed on cruelty when you killed him the first few times. Now, you are being a glutton. Leave and attend to yourself. Spare me your sight until you have regained the dignity of an individual rather than one of the Challenger’s pretend monsters.”

A grand but subtle struggle played across the Culturist’s expression. Shiv could practically taste the orc’s palpable urge to murder and maim, but he was also humiliated. By Valor Thann, no less. And the lich’s words held so much weight that shame defeated bloodlust—a thing unthinkable for most orcs. Forcing himself to calm, he bowed slightly to Valor, and then vanished in a blink, leaving only the faintest afterimage in his wake.

Shiv huffed. Godsdamned, he’s fast.

Boos sounded from all corners of the coliseum. The other orcs jeered and mocked the Culturist for his failure.

“Tribal!”

“Tribal!”

“Tribal!”

Such was the slur they bestowed upon the Culturist. Such was their scorn that they compared one of their own kind to a term used to describe a human. But no curses rained down on Valor or Jessica. What Shiv received was closer to fear and admiration. Despite everything, Shiv felt a little bad for the Culturist. He couldn’t help it. There was something here that echoed with his own past. Shiv had been a pariah on Blackedge. That hadn't truly changed, even to this day.

The Culturist was a stranger among the other orcs. This act of chosen virtue was closer to an admission of metaphysical weakness as seen by his kindred, and this would cost him both dignity and respect. But the Culturist didn’t think highly of his own blood or his god. Instead, he placed Valor’s regard at the highest. And that said something to Shiv. That said a lot.

“You alright, kid?” Jessica asked. “You’re not dying there, are you? Your, uh, ghost-form is kind of fading.”

“Oh, it does that when I’m not using it to interact with the world that much,” Shiv replied. “Here. Give me a—”

Jessica dodged backward as a dismembered penis ripped right past her from the direction of the stands. “Yeah, maybe let’s do this back aboard your Court Leviathan.”

“Might be wise,” Shiv agreed.

“I caught his cock!” another orc shouted. “My turn to throw it next!”

“No, you won’t,” Valor snapped, leveling his dagger in the direction of the voice.

“Maybe not,” the orc agreed. “Sorry, Stiller!”

“Damnable creatures,” Valor muttered. He studied Shiv, and a powerful sigh escaped him. “You never cease to surprise me, Shiv. But sometimes, I do wonder what goes through your head.”

“I was just trying to be unpredictable.”

Jessica snorted. “And ripping your own balls off was your first resort?”

“I mean… It worked, right? He didn’t see that shit coming at all.”

Somehow, he got the impression the Giantsbane was glaring at him from behind her helmet.

“His words do hold logic, Jessica,” Rusty said. “Perhaps we should remember this move so you can replicate its effectiveness in the future. You will need to visit that strange elf who offers that potion, however. You currently lack the equipment to achieve the Deathless’s inherent potential.”

“Hey, Rusty?”

“Yes?”

“Shut the fuck up.”

Sensing his opportunity to be a bit of a shit, Shiv dove in. “Hey, I can resurrect a new body at will, so if you need a small donation of dicks—”

Jessica tried slapping Shiv, but her hand passed through him without doing anything. “You shut the fuck up too,” she spat.

Comedy 1 > 8
