“Ah,” Ameliah said with a laugh, her armor melting away as swiftly as it had come. “Been a while since anyone talked to you that way, huh?”

“It really has,” Rain said.

“What did he want?” Ameliah asked.

“Not him, Vanna,” Rain said. “Velika picked Sadiir, she says, and that she’s not thrilled about it. She’ll do it, though, provided...” He trailed off, looking at Tallheart.

“Hmm,” Tallheart rumbled with some amusement. It was clear what he wanted.

Turning away, he moved to his workbench, then knelt to rummage for the canvas bundle he had left there. The bare blades within clinked against each other as he negotiated them out from underneath, the longest of them making the task quite challenging. Once he had it free, he stood and presented them to Rain without ceremony. “They will need hilts and scabbards.”

“You already made them?“ Rain said, stunned.

“Days ago,” Tallheart said with satisfaction as Rain accepted the bundle. “To be given once I had discussed it with you. The blades are not fit for gold-level combat, but they should serve her better than those I made for the armory. I made them to endure great abuse, limited by the materials I had on hand.”

“The materials you had on hand?” Rain said, kneeling to flip open the canvas. “Tallheart, these are titanium, for crying out loud. I thought we were short on it?”

“We are also short on power,” Tallheart said. “Tell her that if she misuses them, I will kill her.”

“Well, that’s blunt,” Ameliah said darkly, lifting the longest blade, which was almost as tall as she was and broader than her arm. She held the blade’s gently curved edge up to her eye. “And so is this.”

“They are built to endure,” Tallheart repeated. “Her skills will recognize them well enough.”

“Not like it matters,” Rain said, grasping the third sword by its bare tang and giving it a careful swing. “With her swinging it, a blunt odachi is almost worse than a sharp one. Never mind that beast Ameliah’s holding. Anyone hit with that would be lucky to have bones left.”

“Do you have a name for this one too?” Ameliah asked Rain, still inspecting the oversized blade. “Calling it the ‘fourth sword’ all the time sounds pretentious, even if that is the proper Osaran term.”

“Zanbato, maybe?” Rain said. “Honestly, my translations aren’t better.”

He shook his head, carefully setting the sword blade back down. “Thanks for this, Tallheart. I know how reluctant you were to make anything for her. Don’t worry. I’ll make sure she understands what will happen to her if she crosses the line.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled.

“They’re bind-on-blood, I take it?” Ameliah asked, placing the fourth sword back with the others.

“Yes,” Tallheart said simply.

“How are you even supposed to draw that thing?” Rain asked, shaking his head as he flipped the canvas over the blades. ”I mean, it makes some kind of sense, given how big monsters can get, but damn.”

Ameliah laughed, shaking her head. “Warriors.”
