“House Terland has come. Gree-tings to you, Salazsar. We see you.”
Timekeeper heralded her, and the Terlands brought no gifts to the cookout, no food. Only Golems.
It was Wall Lord Ilvriss and Lyonette du Marquin who met Ulva Terland as the Lischelles turned, the Golvas, the other [Rancher] families, appraising her, bowing, some of them kneeling, forgetting how one addressed the Five Families—and some refused to do either.
Proud folk. Drakes. A [Princess]. Ulva’s eyes locked on Ilvriss, and her heart beat slower a second, constricting in pain. She grimaced as she walked over the grass. He offered her a bow and moved forwards, hand outstretched.
She glanced at Timekeeper. The Golem nodded to her. Then two ‘lesser’ Golems stepped forwards and swung down their blades.
A pair of War Golems, the kind that Magnolia Reinhart had used against the Goblin Lord, levelled their battleaxes at the Wall Lord, and he halted. The Rubirel Guard brought up their shields and hesitated—
Golem eyes and Golem Hearts blazing with cold magic. Ulva Terland spoke as her Golems spread out, and her family, half of whom had snuck into the gathering early, halted.
“Not one step closer, Wall Lord. We are not friends. Nor have I any intention of greeting Salazsar. I am Ulva Terland of the north. The Golems of House Terland have marched to judge you. If I am displeased by what I find, all of this ends.”
She turned her head, glancing across the frozen cookout. Wall Lord Ilvriss swallowed, then spoke through a forced smile.
“Given our past altercations, I quite understand, Lady Ulva. May I at least offer you the hospitality of the cookout?”
“If you must. I don’t care for meat. Find me something appropriate, Primera. The self-styled nobility of these Cowpat Plains shall present themselves to me now.”
The Lischelles, Golvas, and other families stirred until her glance at them made them realize it was not a request. Their backs went up, and they straightened their clothing. Ulva heard a whisper in her ear.
“Great Aunt, shouldn’t we try to be more diplomatic—?”
She turned, and Alorelle was pulled backwards by a Golem. Ulva’s eyes flashed.
“No. I do not suffer rogue [Princesses] on my lands, nobles that the Five Families have not acknowledged, or Drakes. I have met the [Emperor], and he has my goodwill…for now. He should fear that changing, or the wrath of the other Five Families.”
“Lady Ulva, I assure you, I have no intention to get in your way. May I greet you on behalf of The Wandering Inn and Eternal Calanfer?”
Lyonette du Marquin bowed very carefully, offering Ulva a smile like sunshine. Ulva glanced at her.
“You are a runaway, Princess du Marquin. Your mother may greet me on behalf of Eternal Calanfer. Not you. Nor are you the [Innkeeper] I am told matters so very much. You may greet me on behalf of your title and nothing else.”
So saying, Ulva Terland put a hand out, and a glass of wine was put into it. She sipped at the wine as Lyonette struggled to keep her smile, and everyone at the cookout tried to not glare at Ulva. And the [Matriarch] of House Terland was amused.
There now.
That was better.
 
——
 
Mrsha decided that Ulva Terland was a menace. And she, as an amateur menace herself, could only admire how fast Ulva put everyone against her.
There had to be some logic to it. Or she’s just being a jerk.
Mrsha didn’t get it. Even Tyrion could be somewhat sociable at times, as he’d proved in the beach garden. But Ulva was old school. She reminded Mrsha of Maviola in some senses, but the [Lady] had come in youth and relative humility, and Maviola had been all fire and passion. She’d been ready to war with Erin at times, but…
Hm. Terlands are just grumpier? Mrsha didn’t know. But she was worried. Certainly, she caught a bit of Ulva meeting the Lischelles, and it did not look good.
…For House Terland. Surely, they had to get the Lischelles on their side? Or did they think their Golems could just stomp anyone who got in their way? Maybe they could.
Mrsha was worried that even if they were waning, House Terland could beat up everyone and do what it wanted. If that was so, Ulva was pushing her luck.
“I am Aronia, Lady Terland, and this is Marvus, my sons and daughters—”
Aronia Lischelle was all smiles in front of Lady Terland, though it clearly took effort for her to bow deeply. She was a proud woman, and Mrsha mostly respected her—even if she’d apparently phantom-slapped Lyonette and hit Colfa. She had made the Lischelles’ fortune here, and Ulva…
Inspected her.
“Rise, the lot of you. The Five Families are no royalty. I’m told you all own the Cowpat Plain, and produce the finest cattle in the continent.”
The Lischelles puffed up—and Mrsha almost saw Ulva smile before she hit them on the way up.
“And you ran out the nobles who owned this land. We shall address that crime. I have three petitions for the reinstatement of the noble families who claim you have squatted and profited from their lands.”
Aronia’s and Marvus’ faces froze up. It was the [Cattle Baron] who carefully bowed again.
“Begging your pardon, Lady Ulva, but they forfeited their lands during the Goblin King’s rampage. When they came back, they attempted to hang good men and women and claim all our work as their own.”
“And?”
Ulva Terland’s aura was a physical thing, like a wall, and it bore down on Marvus as he spoke. As implacable as a wall of marble to the face. He hesitated.
Aronia finished her husband’s sentence.
“…And we feel that we have a better claim to these lands than that lot, begging your pardon for our frank speech, Your Ladyship.”
She locked eyes with Ulva, and Mrsha felt her push the oncoming aura back. Marvus nudged his wife, but the two women didn’t say a word and locked gazes.
Dead gods, that looks highly uncomfortable. Is she always like this?
Mrsha asked Lord Xitegen, who was watching the showdown. He would know best, wouldn’t he? Xitegen replied softly.
“In truth? No. Only when she’s annoyed—she used to be a paranoid recluse afraid of her own shadow. This is the Ulva I heard stories of as a boy. She and Petria were the Twin Virtues. The Twin Terrors—before our time, Mrsha.”
Hmm. And does she actually make good on her threats?
“She threw me out of a carriage when I gave her backtalk.”
That didn’t sound good at all. Aronia was the one to back down and glance at Ulva’s feet, smiling and bowing again. Ulva waved them off. Beckoned, and the Golvas were next.
“It’s not how it used to be.”
Xitegen and Mrsha jumped. They turned, and an old man was eating egg salad. Or rather, a Golem with extraordinarily large breasts was serving it to him, and he just opened his mouth to eat. He had a permanent hunch, and he was definitely a Terland. Mrsha eyed the smiling half-Elf Golem, the [Lord], and glanced around for a drink.
She had a feeling she was going to need one the more she met the Terlands. She half-wished she’d skipped the cookout, but she owed it to Ilvriss to show up and be at least moral support. He’d had a hard time.
Plus, the food was amazing.
Xitegen was on his fifth rasher of bacon as he introduced the old man.
“Lord of Hearts Nouzcrat, meet Mrsha du Marquin. She’s mute and the [Princess]’ daughter, so don’t be rude.”
“A Gnoll child. What are [Princesses] getting up to these days? They weren’t [Harlots] in my time.”
The old [Lord] had about as much charisma as Ulva. The Gnoll girl offered him a paw, which he gingerly shook after a second, then held up a card.
Hello, Lord Nouzcrat. I’m adopted, so if you can read, I do hope you recant your statement. As for claims about my mother’s proclivities in the bedroom, Lyonette is not the one who sucks on Golem breasts.
Xitegen choked on his next bite of meat, and his Golems had to give him the Heimlich to save his life. The [Lord] eyed the note.
“…She reminds me of Reinharts. I saw one loitering around. And an El. We just need a Veltras and Wellfar and we’ll have all the representatives here. What are the other two Five Families doing?”
“Lady Desinee’s apparently just selling new merchandise, and Lady Damia? No clue. She’s caused trouble for me. I warned you to be polite, Great Uncle Nouzcrat.”
“Hmpf. How old are you, child?”
Nine? Who can say how old one is, Lord Nouzcrat. Time becomes meaningless, one finds.
The grumpy old guy did laugh at that.
“Hah! A Gnoll with the eloquence of a [Sophist]. That is funny enough to warrant this trip. How did you meet this one?”
“The inn, Great Uncle. It’s always the inn. Why are you eating that dreadful egg salad?”
“It’s excellent, actually.”
“Really? Seconda, secure me and Mrsha a portion—”
Nouzcrat was one of a number of Terlands mingling around, most of whom seemed snooty, aloof, and hung out with their own Golems. Even talking to the Golems, actually. It made it really hard to socialize, so Mrsha realized the Drakes and Gnolls who were trying their best were having trouble.
Mind you, the Silverfangs were a good addition to the gathering. Everyone wanted to talk to the Gnolls, if only to mention how racist they weren’t, and the Silverfangs were actually getting along with the [Ranchers]. Some were playing the horseshoe game, and Nanette apparently liked Burlise, one of the Lischelle daughters, and had already formed a huge social circle.
Including, Mrsha had to note, a certain young [Lord] who was uncomfortable, but Nanette kept dragging him into the conversation. Nouzcrat nearly spat out his next bite of egg salad.
“Aha! I knew it! There’s the Veltras! Where’s the Wellfar?”
He pointed accusatorily at Hethon Veltras, and Xitegen scratched his chin.
“Good point. They keep missing all the fun on their damn ships. But that young fellow visits The Wandering Inn often. He’s not on official business, Nouzcrat.”
“He looks old enough for it. In my day, you could speak with the authority of the Five Families as long as you could talk. We’d paddle your rear end for doing it without a damn good reason…your Great Aunt’s just reminding everyone how it works.”
“By making everyone hate us, Great Uncle? I have to live around here, you know. And having experienced Lischelle-quality beef, I don’t want to go back! It’s all very well for you lot when you go back north, but consider my position!”
Xitegen was remonstrating with Nouzcrat, and the old man frowned as he was served a piece of steak, tenderized by another Golem.
“This isn’t bad. What’s that disgusting stuff over there?”
“…Silkap? Gnollish. It’s quite tasty on crackers.”
“Ugh, foreign food. I’ll try it. Every now and then, I find something I like at these get-togethers. We stopped having them after the Goblin King died. And never with Drakes—Ulva’s just doing what she always did with Petria. One plays hard, the other soft. Ulva sweeps in with stomping Golems, then Petria offers the softer side of House Terland.”
Like Golem breasts.
“Exact—ahem.”
Nouzcrat and Xitegen coughed. The [Lord] peered at Mrsha.
“Shouldn’t children go and make mischief somewhere else? Like that boy there.”
He pointed at Sammial Veltras, who was going around and staring up at Golems and demanding to know what they did—and to show him. Please. Mrsha held up a card.
Shouldn’t old perverts go harassing Golems somewhere we can’t see them?
“Enough about my Golems!”
Nouzcrat purpled, and Mrsha, undaunted, held up another card.
I’m just giving you the same attitude your family’s giving me. I shall condescend to politeness when you do, Lord Nouzcrat. Did anyone mention to Ulva Terland that her sister’s dead so she’s just a jerk?
The [Lord] opened his mouth furiously, then hesitated. He and Xitegen eyed each other as they watched Ulva holding court. After a moment, Nouzcrat turned.
“Soffie. Get me Madrinal.”
Another Golem strode off and boobily breasted towards another [Lord]. Mrsha simply eyed the old man. He was no doubt a [Lord]; he had an aura, if not the strongest one, and he seemed intelligent enough, despite his proclivities in his Golems.
But he had been utterly absent from her understanding of Izril until now. Terlands, who lived in the north and did not touch the Izril that Mrsha understood.
If you’ve come here to evict Wall Lord Ilvriss, may I ask why Ulva’s even bothering to show up, Lord Nouzcrat? It might be easier on us all if she stopped pretending and just had the Golems kill us. Don’t forget the women and children.
The old man hesitated as Madrinal and several other of the senior members of House Terland walked over. Alorelle stared at the girl writing that in the air, but the [Lord] replied, as if forgetting he spoke to a child.
“We are not monsters.”
“Ha!”
Mrsha and Xitegen laughed at that, and the old [Lord] eyed them.
“We are not. And there are complications around any…hostilities. We have come to judge. But we are House Terland. Should we be impressed by decent food or a few [Ranchers] and a tiny expedition led by a Drake? We’ve counted, and he has only a thousand [Soldiers] at most, and plenty of [Miners].”
He did not come for war.
“Then he was foolish. We wait for something to impress us that this is worth allowing.”
The [Lord] looked down his nose at Mrsha. She wrote, unfazed by his gaze or aura.
You’ve got a hanging booger there, my friend. If you want to be awed, you missed the Archmage of Izril just now. Not our fault you showed up late.
“Hah! We’ve seen Archmages come and go. Without the class, why do they matter? Wait, why are we talking to some bratty child!”
Lady Alorelle broke in, and Lord Xitegen watched, sipping from a cup. He was familiar enough with Mrsha, and he wasn’t going to jump in this one and catch whatever she had in her back pocket.
 
——
 
Lady Damia Reinhart was aware…the cookout wasn’t going great. On the other hand, she could hear whispers.
“—think she’s going to insist we let a [Lord] take over our lands?”
“If she wants to do that, she’s got a hell of a fight on her hands. We ain’t letting it happen.”
Rabbo Golva was hissing with some of the other [Cattle Barons]. Marvus was worried as he glanced over his shoulder.
“She’s got those Golems, and I don’t think you can shoot them, Rabbo—”
“Golems nothing. Lasso one up and drag it into a hole and it don’t matter how big it is—it can’t beat twenty men on it with ropes. ‘Sides, it’s a big place. She won’t stick around.”
“We came here for the Drake, though. How many did he get from you, Marvus? If he’s going to raid us—”
“We can’t let him get away with it, I know. But between that damn half-Elf and the Terlands, it’s just not the right moment to push him hard. Listen, let’s figure out what the Terlands are doing. They’re complicating things…”
