“If we have you two at our backs, then we’ll carve through the Drakes and send them fleeing across the Bloodfields! Make ready! Ulva, prepare to conduct the Golems! [Awaken, Hearts of Stone]!”
She lifted the twin of her sister’s wand in her hand and flicked it, and Ulva saw flames following the head of the House of El. Fulviolo and his sister, Maviola. A burning standard behind their armsmen. Her head rose, and she felt fear in her heart.
“That damn Drake is throwing his troops across the sky. Look.”
The sky was a single thunderhead. She could see Wall Lord Eschowar’s aura of lightning mixed with it. Bolts of lightning were stabbing down as the Drakes marched across the Bloodfields. 
“Hold him here. If we break, he’ll spill across our lands and tear everything to bits again.”
Petria was speaking, and Ulva called out.
“[Awaken, Hearts of Stone]! Thunder for House Terland!”
Then they were advancing at a walk as House Veltras streamed past them. Ulva Terland saw a female [Lancer] riding next to Linter. His wife, Celica. How could Ulva have forgotten?
It was the last time the [Lord] and [Lady] of House Veltras would ride to war. Her final battle. And then there was thunder, and Ulva—
 
—blinked. Time snapped back upon her, and the fire of glory blazed in Mrsha’s paw. Echoing a lifetime of it.
“Ah. That’s not Maviola’s fire.”
That was all Ulva said. It struck everyone around the Gnoll. Lord Xitegen himself had stepped back, a brave man not willing to see his own family in those flames. Ulva Terland gestured, and Golems moved the audience away. Shielding them.
“Lady Ulva. Would you like us to nullify the Skill? It has an emotional component.”
“I am not to be beaten by a single flame, Timekeeper. Leave us.”
The Golem nodded. Ulva Terland walked forwards. The girl stood there.
Hello, Lady Ulva. You’re pretty rude. But where are my manners? I am Mrsha du Marquin of The Wandering Inn. I greet you in the same spirit you greet us.
Ulva almost smiled.
“You are too young and no true royal of Calanfer to speak thusly to me, girl. Calanfer dares not speak to me that loud.”
Then I am just Mrsha. I dare speak to you as myself. Or is House Terland too proud to listen to anyone who does not have a nation behind them?
“Clever. Did your mother teach you to say that?”
No, I came up with it myself. I enjoy speaking to haughty people. Hail, Terland.
Hail. Ulva stopped and glanced around. Then she sneered at Xitegen.
“‘Hail’, she says, as if she were a Dragon. I know I have been alive too long when a child has more eloquence than the heir to House Terland.”
“Dear Aunt, I am good at running, warfare, and eating. A fourth capability is beyond me.”
Xitegen drew himself up, and she snorted. Then Ulva came back at the child. She hadn’t meant to—Mrsha was a child. But she was starting to actually annoy Ulva.
“You are a brat holding someone else’s fire. A single Skill may move the hearts of my family, who let Golems shelter them from splinters and aught else. Not I. Is that all?”
Mrsha tilted her head. She wrote as she clenched her fist over the pink flame and it turned into wisps. That made Ulva’s heart sting, and she grew more annoyed for how cavalierly the girl treated the flame. Or so she assumed. Because Mrsha held out her paw. Like a [Stage Magician], she smiled.
Not just that, Lady Ulva. I can see you are made of sterner stuff than your family. My [Innkeeper] left me with many flames. That one is made of beautiful pain. This one? Just grief. Have you come to kill the people I love again?
Then the blue flame roared, and her paw quivered. For it was heavy—and it blazed between the two. Ulva threw up her hands with a cry.
Timekeeper smothered the flame with one hand, moving so fast that it bloomed for just a second, a true inferno, before he gently covered the girl’s paw. That was enough. Ulva shielded her eyes as Chema caught her, then snapped.
“Away! The day I need a Golem to fight my battles for me with a child is the day I die!”
“She is using flames of memory on you, Lady Terland.”
“And? I have seen those before, girl.”
Ulva poked a trembling finger at Mrsha. In response, the girl flicked her paw, and Ulva tensed. But the third flame that Mrsha produced was the hardest. It made Ulva squint and hold up her hand. It did not burn her, but it was so damn bright…
A grey flame. A grey scythe of hard fire etching itself upwards.
Mercy. And it was this flame the girl held between them.
I’m sure you have, Lady Terland. I’m just reminding you since you seem to have come from House Terland without any of this fire in your heart.
“How dare you.”
The girl stood there as the [Princess] and Wall Lord froze from where they were setting up. A little witch cheered her sister as everyone read. But all Mrsha wrote, with a smile, was this:
I’m just a girl. I’ll leave the big talk for you high-falutin’ adults. You shouldn’t need a child to help you. Just, sometimes, speak a bit of wisdom to fuddy old people. All I have is fire. A little flame. Does it mean nothing to you?
Ulva Terland’s throat rasped, and she was chuckling. Holding a hand over her rapidly-beating heart, and she saw the Lady of El riding north, a flaming flag in her hands. For the last time Ulva had ever seen her. That had been the truest, most beautiful goodbye.
“No. Lady Firestarter was my generation. My time. I remember her, and her glory was gold. She threw it across the sky and set the world aflame in victory. You met the final spark. She would have burned down the High Passes if she had gone there in her youth. Is that all you have to show me? A memory?”
The girl wrote with a glowing paw in the air.
Just a reminder where she left pieces of her fire, Lady Ulva. I am a Doombearer, a sign of the changing era of Gnolls. Will you finish the slaughter of Plain’s Eye?
“No. I have never considered Gnolls sworn enemies as Drakes are. Why even ask?”
Ulva knew she was playing into the Gnoll’s game, but she walked forwards, because she was enjoying this. Mrsha tilted her head, smiling slightly.
Because it was Wall Lord Ilvriss who took Fissival to battle at the Meeting of Tribes. It was he who went against the plans of the Walled Cities to weaken their enemies. Tarring him with the same brush as all Drakes seems foolish. I will not mention the Winter Solstice, or his other deeds, for I am sure you weighed all that carefully when you tried to kill him. But I will say Zel Shivertail’s name to you. Because I knew him, and he went to save Humans.
“He went for Reinhart. I am Terland.”
She felt like she was giving ground. To a child? Mrsha wrote.
And I am Mrsha. You all look pretty much the same to me from afar. Frankly, I don’t think Zel cared. Someone asked, and he went. House Terland’s memory is as old as Golems. Old feuds. Old hatred of Drakes, and I get that. They suck.
“Hey.”
Shut up, Dramm. I get it, Lady Ulva. But in the long memory of Terlands, has there never been a Drake worth talking to? Or did you think to kill him and never speak? Do you want to continue this state of affairs forever? Reinhart is trying to build a wall to break more down. Does Terland listen to no one but Terland?
“Enough.”
Ulva whispered, and the grey flame of mercy winked out. The tugging at her vanished, but the words did not, and she could remember more than a goldfish. Timekeeper lifted his head as the ticking of his heart extinguished the flames. Mrsha eyed him.
Whoa. Your Golems are cooler than Xitegen’s.
“I resent that.”
The [Lady] and girl ignored the others. Ulva spoke down to Mrsha.
“When one stops selecting Golems based on physical attractiveness, they find the true worth of Golems, girl. You might make for a decent Terland.”
I’m not up for adoption.
“I don’t believe I asked. Enough, though. You’ve made your point. Let adults speak indeed. One last thing.”
Ulva was motioning, turning away, when she swung her head back. Her voice rasped.
“I’m told…I owe you a favor. On behalf of someone else. But I have always paid my sister’s silly debts. If I told you to ask for a wish, would you use it for this?”
Mrsha went still, and no one understood what Ulva meant—but the girl did. And her eyes filled with guilt. She hesitated, then shook her head and wrote.
No. Not for this.
“No? You may not like what I do next. I am not convinced that Drake should stay, even if he might live.”
Ulva whispered, and her family stirred, listening. But the girl just wrote with a faint smile.
I don’t want to sway your decision, Ulva Terland. I’d rather save the favor, if I’m allowed one, for when it really matters. Ilvriss is a big boy. He’ll be fine. I’m just a ridiculously cute little girl. Besides…
Her face fell.
If there’s a favor to be owed, I think we’re quits at best. I didn’t save her. I could have.
That last blow made Ulva nearly fall as she stepped away, but she kept her composure. Turned, with a snort.
“The House of Terland does not need saving by children. Well then. Thank you, on her behalf.”
She walked away before the girl could say something else so casually painful. And Ulva wondered what made a girl write like a Djinni mixed with a little [Sage] and a child all in one.
“Timekeeper? Is she some kind of possessed child? Was she speaking to someone else? Soulsplit? Soulsundered? Something like that?”
She turned, and the Golem regarded Mrsha. It spoke slowly.
“I detect some-thing, Lady Terland. But it is just her, entirely. She is simply a child.”
“A child?”
“Some grow old fast-er than others, Lady Terland.”
“Like Xitegen. Witness her, Timekeeper.”
“Yes, Lady Terland.”
Ulva walked away, unwilling to engage a little girl a fraction of her age of all the beings here. But even despite the wounds she’d taken, she thought—
So it was definitely real. So that was her, and that land waits for me.
What a beautiful thing to know. What a relief.
Thank you.
Behind her, the girl with two souls comingled bowed with all the knowledge of what waited afterwards. Ulva thought she might still fear death, dying. But what came after might be beautiful. That knowledge could change her forever, but for this moment, she waited.
Then it was Lyonette and Ilvriss’ turn. And so the [Lady] observed as the two came to another traditional part of the cookout. She observed them with the memory of Terlands. The memory of Golems—
Who didn’t actually ever remember seeing what came next.
 
——
 
Duke Rhisveri Zessoprical felt bad. So bad he didn’t want to get out of bed and, in a sense, hadn’t.
He was curled up in his rooms as he sent his simulacrum into the world. By now, everyone knew he was ill, and yet he’d dragged himself out here.
He’d made up some kind of excuse and hired a Courier’s boat to insinuate there was a reason for him to be able to attend. Throw in a flying carpet and it was logical he’d have made it all the way here, right?
The [Princess] had not invited him, but he’d heard there was trouble with the Terlands. And Rhisveri was no idiot. Lyonette would mess it up without help, and knowing her, she’d invited the children into the range of a Golem.
He was stumbling around the party as a Golem followed him.
“A magical proxy has appeared. Significant magical grade, just below simulacrum-level. Alert. Alert.”
“What? Shut up. Your face is a simulacrum. I’m a projection, idiot. Who makes simulacrums?”
“A projection has appeared at significant range. Estimating magical levels—”
He slowed, dizzy, feverish, and found a little boy staring up at him. Rhisveri muttered.
“I’m here because of the children. Think of the children.”
He glanced around for the two brats—then Sammial Veltras spoke.
“You’re the guy who stripped Ryoka naked. That’s him, Ullim. And he tried to kill me.”
Everyone turned. Rhisveri froze as he focused on Sammial. And he recalled his sins. He managed to reply, after a moment, as horrified Terlands turned to find the kidnapper of the young Veltras [Lord]—who’d started a war—standing right there.
“I…that was probably a bluff. I don’t recall. Sometimes, you forget they matter. Children. Soldiers. Especially if they’re not yours. Some are always dying. Just not in my kingdom. That’s the goal. I’m sorry.”
Sammial Veltras studied Rhisveri and decided he didn’t need nightmares about the Duke anymore. The huge, floppy, purple talking penis-worm that sometimes appeared in his dreams—he had no idea what that was about since his memories had been altered. But this man wasn’t that scary, sweaty and weird as he was.
Sammy nodded.
“I forgive you. But he doesn’t.”
He pointed, and Rhisveri turned his head right in time for Ullim to punch him off his feet. He went over.
“Not ag—”
Then Ullim and Jericha were kicking him, and he was trying to crawl away. Right before a horrified Lord Nouzcrat called out.
“Stop, stop!”
His Golems separated the Duke of Ailendamus from the furious retainers of House Veltras. Jericha and Ullim hesitated, blocked by Golems. Nouzcrat pointed.
“Let the Golems do it.”
Rhisveri was getting up when one of the Golems punched him. He still got up after that, which was highly disconcerting to anyone who knew how hard he’d been hit. He walked over and leaned on a man, who patted him on the shoulder.
“‘Scuse me, sir. Are you some [Lord] who kidnapped a child and then threatened to kill him?”
“Only once.”
“Right, thank you.”
Nithle Calabie nodded, then threw a [Horsekick Punch] and sent Rhisveri twirling back into a kick from one of the Gnolls.
 
——
 
“What’s going on there? It had better not be a fight. Ser Dalimont, check it out.”
Lyonette was stressing as she and Ilvriss stretched and got ready for their moment. Ilvriss muttered.
“It’s probably just drunk hotheads. That kind of thing happens.”
She glowered as she glanced at the band, who’d been playing a mix of songs on request from people. Mostly classic Izrilian music for the nobility, but one of their number was none other than Songmistress Calla. She got around, and she’d volunteered to lead this band since she could conduct—she could [Summon: Sheet Music] for any song you requested.
Hearing a miniature orchestra riffing on one of the Singer of Terandria’s songs was odd, but Lyonette thought there was something to it. So did Songmistress Calla, but she was preparing for the big moment. Lyonette hissed at Ilvriss.
“We’ve only got a few moments left after this! The cake and then…if we don’t change Ulva’s mind, it’ll be terrible, Ilvriss! We need a united front!”
“I know, but we’re doing this dance because you insisted.”
