She returned to her study and let herself be relieved, just for a moment. But since that was not a natural state of being for Ulva, eventually, she got back to work. She was angry at herself, at the monsters of old, and wondering if that Drake would live. She’d just been persuaded to give him a chance and some idiot had the effrontery to kill him? What a waste of her time if he died.
Since she refused to say a good word about Drakes, that was how she thought of it. When she did fall asleep on her Dais of Health and Timekeeper, slowly repairing himself with the help of other Golems, draped a blanket over her, Ulva Terland levelled for the first time in a long while.
Almost everyone did, really.
 
——
 
Every single person who had encountered Tolveilouka levelled. The only exceptions were people who levelled twice, three times, or five times. Or who were waiting for Level 50.
Or who were dead, Golems, or Rhisveri.
Some gained classes like [Survivor].
Some gained conditions like [Terror of Rot]. Or [Resurgent Trauma: Crippling Fear].
One person gained [Idolizer of Monstrosities] as a class. A rare class that the Grand Design of Isthekenous hadn’t assigned for the last three ages and was a bit of a red letter moment—for it. That person was not Damia Reinhart.
Everyone obtained levels, because they had met a true monstrosity, even if he hadn’t been ‘seriously’ trying to murder them, Tolveilouka was quite capable of murdering by accident, as he had done when he lost his temper. The grieving Golva family were proof of that, as well as the other dead. But the levels came, a paltry reward, perhaps, for a brush with that monster.
Nevertheless, they were aware that one day, the differential in power might be equalized.
The first person to level was Lyonette du Marquin as she had passed out due to the effects of Tolveilouka’s rot.
 
[The Cracked Princess, Keeper of the Inn Level 42!]
[Skill Change: Imperial Aura → Aura of Radiance Obtained!]
 
[Conditions Met: Crippled Reflexes Removed!]
 
She did not receive the Skill for the dance. But Lyonette didn’t care. She was on her feet as soon as she realized the battle was over.
Concerned for…
Ilvriss.
Welsca had rushed him back to the dig camp against everyone’s protests. She’d left Osthia behind to be healed by Healer Demerra herself, but Lyonette didn’t understand why—until the Erchirite Spears had literally fired a lightning bolt to keep Ishkr from chasing after them. Welsca’s voice rasped across the speaking stone.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss is under quarantine! I…I have isolated myself and everyone who escorted him to camp. The Rubirel Guard are showing no signs of illness. I wish to inform you, Diplomat Nerul, that I am feeling unwell. Major Shellc has already evacuated the camp and is holding the workers at Dig Sites A, B, and C. All those injured by Tolveilouka are in separate tents, being tended to by those of us still able to move. I have refused volunteers.”
Lyonette’s blood ran cold. She realized that number included several [Ranchers] and even one of the Terlands. Ulva had sent Golems to monitor the sick, but had informed Lyonette, coolly, that they would be bathed in flames and isolated until they were absolutely declared clean.
The Putrid One had apparently made rot so foul it corroded stone and Golems. And Ilvriss had been cut by his blade.
“The Wall Lord is semi-lucid and still mobile, perhaps due to his levels. He has not slept…he is attempting to treat his wounds. I have been informed amputation is likely the only outcome. We will attempt it after receiving instruction from the Last Light of Baleros when she can…can…participate. Tell us how.”
They moved to the [World’s Eye Theatre], and Lyonette saw Welsca was already stumbling around. Visibly sweating.
“You weren’t struck, were you?”
“No. Sickness. Wall Lord Ilvriss’ blood got on me. Burn everything that half-Elf touched.”
The [Adjutant] mumbled. A Golem had to pick her up. Lyonette wanted to go to Ilvriss, but Welsca shouted at her.
“The sickness may transmit via even sight!”
“Don’t be ridiculous, Welsca! That’s not how sickness works. Does it?”
Lyonette wavered, and after sending Ishkr, Ulva Terland tersely sent him back with a reply that ‘yes, some sicknesses of the Putrid One’s caliber do that. Unlikely this is one of them. Don’t risk it. I’m burning everything with a Golem.’
Better to have half your bones broken than a single cut to have touched Ilvriss’ arm. Lyonette herself went to be screened additional times, but Healer Demerra, wearing a weird full-body suit, declared Lyonette healthy.
[Resonant Flesh] merely…resonated. If Lyonette had ingested whatever Tolveilouka had been producing or stayed in his presence for an hour, it might have become permanent. She was safe.
Ilvriss? Lyonette hugged her daughters, scolding and praising them, and wept as she waited. A beat-up Rhisveri came to apologize, as if he’d done anything wrong, and they sat together.
After some time, it occurred to Lyonette that her mother might have been hurt. She hesitated, but called Ielane. When she stepped into the palace—her mother was too warded for Lyonette to find her—Princess Menisi spotted her. She was the only [Princess] without a circlet, and so she could speak to Lyonette.
“Hello there, little sister. You look ravishing.”
“M-Menisi. Hello.”
Lyonette wasn’t in the mood for anything, and Menisi herself had two wads of cotton stuffed up her nose.
“Oh, don’t worry about the look. We’re all little war heroes for fighting that thing. The kingdom’s abuzz. Father’s beside himself. He didn’t know what Mother was up to, did you know?”
“I…I thought it was working.”
The 2nd Princess chuckled.
“Doubtless, Mother did too. Don’t beat yourself up. She spun it into a victory.”
“How?”
“Why, she had it all broadcast. It was a risk, but now she looks like a hero, holding off a monster with sheer grit. I suppose if her head had exploded it would galvanize Calanferians—or traumatize them. Just when I thought I admired her, she manages to make herself a tool of the crown. So. How the hell did you keep him off you last time?”
Her elder sister pressed, but when Lyonette just mumbled she was relieved Ielane was well, Menisi told Nanette to take care of her. Then they sat together.
The only thing that broke the stillness in the inn was Lady Damia. They found her crying in a corner of the inn. She had gotten her wish, come to The Wandering Inn—and found the truth behind the legend, even if she had been warned. Seeing Ilvriss being carried away…Damia blamed herself for the cake.
Nanette, Lyonette, Mrsha, and the staff did their best to cheer up Damia and reassure her that it would have gone down that way regardless of the cake. That helped, but after a while, there was nothing more to do. Then they were just…
Waiting.
It was a long night.
The first to level was Lyonette du Marquin.
The last was Wall Lord Ilvriss.
 
——
 
Ilvriss still felt like he was dancing.
It was a pleasant way to die.
And he suspected he was dying. He hadn’t fallen asleep after collapsing. Just lain there and known there was something in his veins. He’d thought, ‘well, shit.’
Not exactly heroic, but it was honest.
There was an irony to it. He’d been ready to die when he’d tried to dance, on a hunch it might help him hit Tolveilouka. He’d been ready to die to stop Lyonette from being abducted when he dueled the half-Elf.
Now, having been cut and Tolveilouka having run, Ilvriss wanted to live.
But the plague was boiling him from the inside. He didn’t want to cut off his arm. He’d refused—twice—when a sicker and sicker Welsca had tried.
Not because he thought she was wrong. Rather…Ilvriss was concerned it was too late.
His entire body was twisting up in pain. Here was the thing: if he could have been saved by amputation, Ilvriss felt like it would have had to have been in the minutes after he’d been cut at most. How fast did a magical plague run? It had already gotten Welsca. It had gone into his blood, and now he was sick.
So he’d refused, twice, and lain there as a Dullahan who called herself The Last Light inspected him.
“Can you press against your sinuses? Your lymph nodes in your armpits? Now your groin?”
“Same pain. They’re all bulging.”
“Bulging?”
He showed her. No embarrassment to be had even when he pulled his pants down. It appeared very bad. His purple scales had swelled up, revealing flesh underneath. Ilvriss was no expert on what Drakes looked like de-scaled, but he was pretty sure yellow veins weren’t part of normal skin tones.
The Dullahan glanced down at her notes and then up at him.
“I’ve never seen that before. I regret to tell you that I believe your conclusion is correct, Wall Lord. The pathogen has spread through your system.”
“I see. Please tell Welsca that. Is she…as bad?”
“I believe she is experiencing earlier stages of your affliction, Wall Lord. Now, I am sending you Occillium, which counters most bacterial infections, and I am authorizing you to take ten times the normal dose. I have also prevailed upon Healer Demerra and Invrisil’s Healer Basine to send you every poultice and cure they have at similar doses. I am going to walk you through each step when they arrive. I want you to take the cures and report any change in your condition.”
“Just…take them?”
“Ideally with thirty-minute gaps to see if they have any effects. There may be side-effects from the interactions between medications. Given your level and the severity of this ailment, I believe it is necessary.”
She paused.
“Understand, Wall Lord, that I am not sure any of these medications will work. However, I do not expect you to survive two days. Your temperature is already in excess of survivable range for most Humans.”
She didn’t expect him to survive a single day. And that meant everyone else in camp…
The healthiest person was the Rubirel Guard who’d been puking maggots. She was the healthiest…Geneva had her moved to the furthest tents because she was worried the guard would catch what Ilvriss and the others had.
It was so funny he was laughing when the Golem ran into camp with the medications. Then Ilvriss began taking them.
But…there were signs it wasn’t going well. Big sign number one? Geneva wanted Ilvriss to inject the penicillin stuff as a liquid. Since Demerra didn’t know how, she apparently made a paste out of the raw mold and just had people eat that.
Ilvriss was gamely pulling the mold out of the jars and putting it in a bowl to mash up when he noticed something. He slowly held up the blue-green mold.
“Doctor.”
She was wearing a suit, just in case even looking at him could…the Last Light gazed at Ilvriss’ claws. Her features were still, like a Dullahan’s, but he saw her eyes close a second.
“Ah. I see. Can you…repeat the process with another jar? Put gloves on to avoid touching it?”
The Occillium had turned black. It was shrivelled up, and Ilvriss smiled grimly. He went to the other jar. Breathed on it as he worked.
It died too.
 
——
 
Water was nice. It just hurt on the way down. He was burning up, taking the medications, sipping water.
Thinking of what he’d done wrong.
He had listened to Sserys. Maybe that was his fault. Who listened to that guy? Sserys hadn’t been known to be perfect. Look at his last battle. Classic overcommitment.
He thought too much of people, that Drake. Ilvriss had tried…
I should have just gone to the inn. Stayed with Erin Solstice and never left. Especially at the end of the battle. I should have been there, and even if I was in Baleros now…
I’d just be some Drake. She needed the Wall Lord to do something, and I did my best. I’m just not my father. I’m not Zel. I’m not her.
Really, he felt guilty about Lyonette. She was going to blame herself for this. Sometimes, you ran into a monster and you died.
He’d wondered if it would ever be his turn. Just—just—
“I wish it wasn’t that guy. He’s so damn silly.”
The Wall Lord was in his tents. He’d torn the place apart, searching for anything. Something to help cure himself. Welsca was down—sick.
He’d been told Osthia was going to be just fine.
That was great. Ilvriss had refused a speaking stone from Lyonette. He didn’t want to…you could be damn silly about final words and all that. Same for Zail. They kept calling him, but he had gone down fighting.
He was just worried he’d start crying and asking Lyonette, or his father, for a miracle. He didn’t want to leave them like that.
This was peaceful. Ilvriss just wished Welsca hadn’t come with him.
“How’s it go? Lyonette said you just…put your claws together and pray. Someone said you pray to levels the other day. Silly fellow. Here I go: I’d like to not die. Very much. Thank you.”
Ilvriss felt like he was at a board meeting, trying to argue his case before a superior. He was all fuzzy, but he did his best.
“I can be better. I can do more. I thought we were making it. I really did. I messed up, sure. But I thought I did okay with the pickaxes. Even Georgie. I hope he finds work. I should write a reference letter to Alrric about the situation. Excuse me.”
He penned something down and broke off his prayer. Then someone knocked at his tent door.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss. I am Golem Chema.”
“Hello again, Chema.”
She hadn’t helped him, but the damaged Golem was in charge of the others assigned to him. He rasped up at her.
“You—you remind me of my first nursemaid. I’m told I had sexual fantasies about her or something.”
“This is often expressed to me, Wall Lord. I am designed to be maternal.”
“Well, I don’t want to have sex with you. Just so you know. What’s up?”
The Golem spoke as the Wall Lord tried to smile.
“An Antinium [Priest] has arrived at the camp. They have been sent from the Free Hive of Liscor with a sample of ‘Antinium curative substance’ and they wish to use their ‘Miracles’ <DESIGNATION UNKNOWN> to cure the sick. Will you allow it? Your orders are to—”
“Of course. Yes, yes! Send them to Welsca first!”
Ilvriss surged upright. Relief shot through his veins. Chema nodded, departed, and Ilvriss turned. Put his hands together.
“I’m very thankful. I’ll…um—dedicate a statue? Pray six times a day? Is this a rewards-based thing or something?”
Faith. He sat there, fidgeting, drinking water, and wondering if he was getting better as he took another medication. He was impatient, feeling like hours were passing when it was just minutes. He was just about to ask Chema if the Antinium could see him—he knew there were others sick—when the Golem returned.
“Wall Lord. I have a report.”
“Great! Yes, send him in—what report?”
