That was the benefit, Damia realized, to having House Terland show up. They were a problem to the [Ranchers] and took focus away from Ilvriss. Though arguably that wasn’t good because Ilvriss had two enemies, now.
Damia didn’t know what to do, but she was trying her best. The problem was, she was back in noble territory, and while she’d levelled up helping the inn…
“Hello, Lord Moltin, I’m Lady Damia Reinhart.”
“Ah, Lady Damia, greetings.”
The surprised Lord of Stone shook her hand and awkwardly made small-talk with Damia. She tried to talk up Ilvriss and the Drakes, but before she could get to that, the recently-ennobled man coughed.
“[Information Search: Damia Reinhart]. Er, and how is Lady Cecille doing? Well, I hope? Glad to have not seen—I mean, wonderful whenever we meet. And your fiancé, I mean, boyfriend, I mean br—Wernel?”
He stared in horror at something he’d just read. Damia sighed.
It transpired that when you were a minor [Lady], the one interesting fact about you was what everyone remembered. She spoke, hurriedly, as Lord Moltin wiped his hand on his jacket.
“Wernel and I aren’t seeing each other, Lord Moltin. That’s a very regrettable, er, fact that you—I’m currently working for Wall Lord Ilvriss! May I talk about his work here and why I hope House Terland will come to a peaceful resolution?”
“I, er, yes—”
Damia tried to mention cooperation between Drakes and Gnolls, point out the Silverfangs, Lyonette—but she rather feared Moltin was so focused on the factoid he’d reminded himself about that he missed the rest.
“Damnit! We have to sway them, Binevy! Maybe I’ll try Lady Ulva next.”
“I wouldn’t, Lady Damia. She’ll chew you up and spit you out.”
Binevy whispered, clearly aware of Ulva’s reputation. So was Damia, but she was groaning.
“We have to do something! All the old Terlands hate the Drakes, and I can’t sway them—”
“And why are we so set on allowing him to dig in the north? Not that I hold Ilvriss any particular bad will. But I rather think after the mess he got me into, any goodwill from the Winter Solstice has worn off.”
Damia jumped and turned. Desinee El was standing in the gathering, seeming almost as lost as Damia, sipping from a drink. She grimaced.
“Hello, Lady Damia.”
“Lady Desinee, er, hello. I thought you were lost after the cattle raid incident?”
One glare said Desinee was not happy about that, but as the lone member of her house, she and Damia were actually somewhat friendly. Especially because one look meant both recognized they were swept up in the inn’s chaos. Although Damia seemed much happier than Desinee about that.
“Let’s just say that fate has aligned such that I’m an observer—but little more for the House of El. We are not hostile towards the Wall Lord, but the interest of Walled Cities in our lands? How are you fine with it?”
“I’m a Reinhart, Desinee. Wall Lord Ilvriss has provided me with opportunities to level and earn gold, and he has not come in with wrath or violence. What else should I be wary of?”
Desinee pursed her lips thoughtfully.
“True, one could argue he’s a friendly Drake, the kind that Magnolia wanted to make peace with. Even so, it doesn’t strike you as traitorous to even envision allowing him in the north?”
“Traitorous to whom, Desinee? The last Drake we allowed north was Zel Shivertail, the Drakes’ hero who died for us. Do we not owe them a debt? Or do the Five Families forget the one war hero among Drakes even we acknowledged?”
That brought the [Artificer Lady] up short. Desinee regarded Damia, then tossed her head slightly and adjusted a hat keeping the sun from beating down on her.
“Ugh, not bad. I forgot the old Reinhart tongue was clever. Try that on the Terlands. Though they’re stubborn as Golems. And why should I help?”
Damia pressed two fingers to the side of her head, and Desinee eyed her again, but then Damia’s face lit up.
“Well, Lady Desinee, because Salazsar will simply have to sell the House of El gems at a discount. If not the whole city, House Gemscale sort of has gems in the name. Imagine a trade deal with them alone?”
Desinee’s mouth opened, and her eyes flickered. Then she produced a mini-abacus.
“That would be unthinkable, normally. We’d be inspecting each gem for cracks or deliberate—we have to buy Salazsarian gems, of course, but we go through multiple channels. There are damn [Reseller Merchants] whose entire job it is to facilitate north-south trade clandestinely for appearance’s sake.”
The younger [Lady] peered over Desinee’s shoulder, speaking sweetly like an evil [Vizir] whispering in Desinee’s ear.
“What’s the markup on that? 15%? You know those [Merchants] are using Skills. Imagine a 15% reduction on gemstone costs, Desinee. And what if he could get some Pallassian steel via his company too?”
“Eugh, what are you? Some kind of [Temptress]? Excuse me, I need to make a call. Desinee to Deilan. Hello?”
Desinee shooed Damia off, but the [Lady] followed, grinning. She heard Desinee speaking rapidly to a man who sounded disinterested at first, then very interested.
“…again, Desinee? Trade deals? That’s unconscionable. The family would riot.”
“How much of the family, Deilan? And how much if we just skipped the entire reseller’s fees? And we could get Prime Gems from House Gemscale—do they sell them?”
“They do! In fact, due to a Skill, they mine gemstones even in the north at a low rate, without searching for them! Hello, Lord Deilan. Damia Reinhart here, very eligible, unmarried [Lady] of House Reinhart. And have I mentioned that The Wandering Inn controls door travel? If you wanted anything shipped from Pallass at speed, you might arrange transit without fees.”
“Who’s that? Er, greetings—”
Desinee was shoving Damia, but gave up as Deilan began to ask more questions. And like that, Damia put another of the Five Families on Salazsar’s side.
Soft power. Or rather, she reflected, the power of one of the richest cities in the world. Inaccessible, of course, to their enemies.
Unless it was through a Drake you could trust. A Drake who could be less of a Drake at times. She saw Ilvriss walking around with briefcases in hand, and that was why she liked him too. She just didn’t know if Lyonette was seeing him or…? Maybe that would be a good way to get the [Princess]’ attention.
Either way, Damia really hoped this got her an invitation to The Wandering Inn.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss was aware Ulva Terland was not relenting in her position. And he intended to, uh—wait for Nerul to get here. The [Diplomat] was racing towards Pallass with ‘a trump card’, so Ilvriss was waiting for that.
If not, he’d do his best. But he couldn’t hover around Ulva nonstop—not that she was letting him. Her Golems literally kept him at sword length, and until she wanted to talk to him, he did what he could.
Namely, going to the other parties in the cookout and making nice. He’d tried last time, socializing, not saying anything biting—but Ilvriss had realized that was a milquetoast offensive.
It didn’t work. It had just led to Marvus punching him in the face over the last few weeks. That wasn’t to say that Ilvriss should have gone in like Zail would. You see, it was a false binary, the position of being either offensive or not.
Ilvriss was a Wall Lord. A somewhat stuffy and, he had to admit, corporate class at times. No great warrior. No superb diplomat. No charming, dancing [Princess].
He copped to that. So, Ilvriss went in as he was and hoped Lyonette would bail him out. He trusted his instinct that he was doing the right thing.
Because his instincts said…don’t do this.
So Ilvriss walked over to Marvus Lischelle as the man went for a drink and held out a claw.
“Marvus. May I have a word?”
“Ilvriss. You can get one for the food. I heard there was something peculiar with the cooks—but it’s damn good food. And those Silverfangs are pretty much country-bred as they come.”
It cost the man to admit that. Rather to Ilvriss’ amazement, it felt like throwing a decent cookout had actually won points with Marvus. Or maybe it was the cattle raid?
“I’m sorry about the two bulls the other day, Marvus. I’m glad you allowed me to compensate you for that.”
“Not sorry for stealin’ three hundred of my finest cattle?”
Marvus eyed him, and Ilvriss raised his own brows. Let a bit of the restrained spice flow from his tongue.
“Honestly? Not really as I think you’ve stolen over twice that much from me in a single raid. That’s tit for tat, and any of the rest of my guilt vanished after I recalled being punched in the gut by you last week.”
Against his will, the [Cattle Baron] laughed. Then he growled at Ilvriss.
“Damnit, that’s a [Rancher]’s comment! It doesn’t change anything. You’re digging up trouble or something that doesn’t belong to you, and I don’t know what it is—but it’s still in our land.”
He jerked a thumb at the other [Ranchers] to mean them all. Ilvriss sighed.
“I’m aware of that. Though I point out this was all Drake or Gnoll lands until you drove us off them. But let’s not play the ‘whose land was it’ game, because I’ll win, Marvus. It was brought to my attention the other day that all my work really only rewards the Gemscale Corporation. Me. I’m trying to do better by my people, and yes, it occurs to me that you have a stake in this land yourself. So…here.”
He offered the briefcase, and Marvus lifted his hands.
“We don’t need more gems. Thanks—the family’s still fightin’ over who gets to make them into jewelry—but more gifts at your cookout make no sense.”
“Absolutely not more gems, Marvus. We dig those up like copper, all the time. Call this dividends from the dig. Not much, but I will give you more if we can come to amenable terms.”
Okay, the man had to at least check the briefcase and see what it held. He flipped the latches up and saw…
A pickaxe. It lay in the briefcase, encased in soft velvet custom-fit for it. It was a pretty pickaxe, but—he almost laughed at Ilvriss.
“What? Is this a trophy?”
“Nope. A piece of what we found.”
“You went diggin’ and found a pickaxe? And this sweetens the pot? We don’t dig, Wall Lord.”
Marvus lifted the pickaxe and hesitated as he felt how light it was. Ilvriss smiled.
“If you don’t want it, you’re free to refuse, Marvus. Please refuse. Give it back to Welsca, and I’m sure we can find a use for it.”
The Drake [Adjutant] appeared and seemed ready to snatch the briefcase from Marvus. Her eyes alternated between coveting the pickaxe and glaring at Ilvriss. Marvus hesitated.
“So you dug this up…? Expensive, is it?”
He looked ready to make a joke. Ilvriss just smiled sweetly.
“You’re free to investigate. Though I’d keep an eye on it when you hand it to an [Enchanter]. I hate to generalize, but some get rather light-fingered…”
“It’s one pickaxe.”
“We didn’t find that many. You’ll also notice I’m not handing out pickaxes to anyone else. Welsca, the Golva gift.”
She handed him a briefcase with a lantern in it with an utterly pained expression as if he were stealing her first child. Ilvriss had to yank twice and walked past Marvus.
“Remember that, Marvus. Though I will lie to Rabbo Golva’s face as so—Rabbo! May I present you a rather odd gift?”
He walked off, and Marvus eyed the pickaxe, then glanced around. On a hunch, he put the pickaxe back in the case and walked it over to one of his eldest sons.
“Get this to our [Mage] on the ranch right now and tell me what it does or how good it is. Got it?”
He couldn’t believe the Wall Lord would just give away…and now Marvus wanted to know what the hell the man was digging up. He cast around for Aronia, but hesitated when he saw his wife.
She was standing with Colfa, and the two sisters were alone, utterly polite, all smiles, as they chatted near the cookout. Marvus began to walk over…then decided he could socialize for a few more minutes.
 
——
 
Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle was hoping they didn’t slap each other at this cookout, but she was ready. However, Aronia knew it wasn’t her cookout, and Colfa hadn’t insulted her. She was stressed; Colfa could relate.
“Having fun with the Five Families?”
“Stop gloating. She could ruin us. Do you hate the family that much?”
That was Aronia for you. Colfa jerked her head back and hissed.
“You’re the one who practically disavowed me! Relax, Ulva Terland’s no fool. She knows she can’t run you all out. She’s after Ilvriss. We’re the ones in danger.”
“You just had to tie yourself to a Wall Lord. Where’s Himilt? Is your marriage in danger? Is that why you’re always here?”
“If you ever visited Liscor, you’d know he’s just dealing with the farm. Which he has to do single-handedly now everyone’s gone. He’s been preparing for the end of the rains. Training up new farmers. We have a bunch of amateurs, but we’re hoping they stay on—and Himilt loves fishing, it turns out. He’s been relaxing. He doesn’t want to be part of this, and that’s fair.”
What Colfa didn’t say was that Himilt was mostly training Vampires to learn to farm and forging cover identities—and, she suspected, finding other groups and leading them to safety. But he’d forbidden her from coming along. That hurt her, but she had to admit not even Fierre could keep up with Himilt—yet.
He did love fishing, though, and Aronia’s hostility faded.
“Empty?”
“Rivel’s run off after getting himself in trouble. He’s with a good sort, but he made a mess. Fierre’s found love and work, and Bamer passed away.”
“I’m…sorry to hear that. I should visit. It’s not far, but it feels like it. Is that door really able to take you back and forth? If you need hands, you should have asked.”
“I don’t want to be in your debt.”
Aronia hesitated, then shook her head.
“I’ll send fifteen of the lads to help you plant. Don’t call it a debt.”
“No need, we’re fine. It’s just empty these days.”
“No desire to have more children?”
Colfa thought of the long sickness, of children who’d never made it to adulthood, of learning the truth of her body—she might be healing, or maybe she’d continue being sick. Only Fierre was surely cured. She drank wine and murmured softly.
“No. I’m fine, Aronia. Lyonette’s a good friend, and I’m having fun. I went on the cattle raid. That felt like old times.”
“You just had to hit our best ranch.”
“Well, that’s the only thing that would work.”
Colfa eyed Aronia, and the two bristled…then relaxed. Aronia folded her arms and turned to stare across the horizon.
“You never told me you’d lost children. That stung worst of all, you know. I’m sorry. Was it sickness or—?”
