She stepped back challengingly, and Lyonette remembered a comment Burlise had made at the last cookout. She gave Burlise a sharp look.
“But why didn’t you do it last time…?”
One of the young Golva boys rolled his eyes.
“‘Cause they were busy humiliating you. They don’t let us show off because we can do it better’n they can. You want proof?”
He stuck out his chin, and Lyonette eyed him before standing.
“There’s no doing the Highstepper better. Is there?”
A grin spread over the younger [Ranchers]’ faces. Burlise strode over to the band and tapped Calla on the shoulder.
“Hey, Miss, give the Highstepper some juice and make it faster! You heard the [Princess]! Who’ll dance with me?”
One of the Golva boys she knew strode over, and she took his hand. Then more pairs emerged from the crowd. They lined up, and Lyonette blinked—then she was standing.
“Ilvriss! Ilvriss!”
“What? Oh no. No, Lyonette, we have to deal with Ulva Terland. We don’t have time for—think of my thighs. My thighs—”
He tried to get away, but the [Princess] snagged him. Ilvriss was the oldest dancer on the floor. The younger members of each [Rancher] clan filled the floor, not the heads. When the music picked up—even faster—
Well, half the couples made a mistake and went sprawling or tumbled down with screams or curses, to laughter and cheering.
But the rest kept on dancing around the fallen, and then everyone was clapping. Indeed, at the sight of the Highstepper, there were people asking for a slower version to practice.
The Silverfangs were taken with the dance, even if it looked silly to them. There were brave Drake volunteers, and even, to the surprise of all—Lady Ulva Terland especially—
Terlands.
 
——
 
The dancing of the Drake and [Princess] wasn’t lost on Ulva. Diplomatic and all that. What Calanfer was good at.
It won the [Ranchers]’ approval. Not hers.
So a Drake could dance. So what?
She was determined to be unimpressed and watched the pairs dancing, imagining Petria and her trying it. Ulva sourly ate more meat and then heard cheers, applause—gasps.
A Terland boy was urging a partner onto the dance floor. Not one she knew.
A child, which was to say, someone younger than Xitegen. She didn’t deal with Terland children. They were to be not seen and not heard, and especially not around her. If Petria had lived…
But this boy was familiar to her for two reasons. Mostly—she recognized his serving Golem, who was a dancing-capable model. Able to remove limbs, fashioned after the Dullahans.
Most Golems were made in Human images, but they had a variety of Golem species except for Drakes—given the animosity, Terlands didn’t want Drake Golems, and the ones they had possessed had been used as agents in Drake lands over the ages.
But this Dullahan Golem was a partner to the boy. Bedpartner? It was a dark thought, but that was her family. Ulva asked, and to her surprise, Timekeeper answered in the negative.
“She is Dancer Golem Hidre, Lady Ulva. Assigned to Lord Chovn after his injuries.”
“What—ah. Yes. I recall now.”
A rare accident in Terland lands. Who was that fool who’d been with the boy when he was barely six?
“Bein, yes. One of the branch families. Didn’t he land himself in trouble twice? He was there when this boy lost his arms.”
Freak accident involving one of the mechanical windmills that Golems operated. They’d been playing in the mill when the Golem had begun working, and Chovn had survived—but his limbs had been caught in the gears of the mill.
No potion but a lost miracle would have restored that. So, the boy, who was, what, seventeen? He had Golem arms.
Hidre, the Dancing Golem, had been assigned to him to teach him how to use his limbs. Learning to use a prosthesis was hard. However, it seemed Lord Chovn had recovered well—Ulva blinked as he took the Golem’s hand.
The Dullahan Golem was smiling at him as they joined a slower version of the Highstepper. And he couldn’t have known it, but after seeing it merely twice, the boy started doing the dance with other amateurs and barely missed a step.
He was halfway through it when he twisted the wrong way and went stumbling—his Golem caught him. He laughed, embarrassed, then started as people applauded and cheered.
“He dances well.”
“He is a Level 23 [Fleetfoot Dancer], Lady Ulva.”
Timekeeper could pierce most anti-appraisal spells with his capabilities. Ulva twisted.
“At his age? Then he’s wasted as a [Lord]. Why haven’t I heard of him being trained or sent to study more dances in Nadel?”
“I do not believe anyone has suggested it, Lady Terland.”
“Well…mark it for me to do.”
Even for her, she couldn’t ship the boy off with no regard for his parents or will. But Ulva was annoyed to realize no one, including her, had known he was a [Dancer]. Level 23. He was smiling and thanking his Golem. Her heart was beating, and she was smiling at him.
Slowly, Ulva drank from her cup.
“Timekeeper. That Dancing Golem isn’t equipped for intercourse, is she?”
“No, Lady Terland. She is not.”
“Hmpf. Is she actually smiling at him, there? Or is she just doing her job, heart beating or no?”
“I do not know, Lady Ter-land.”
She glanced at him, and for once, the Golem seemed to be attempting to stay neutral. Ulva’s comment was soft.
“Find me a record of all the times she’s been activated and taken out of storage and how many times she might have…no.”
She cut herself off. Turned away.
“No, Lady Terland?”
“No, Timekeeper. I don’t want to know or guess. If it is, it is. Her heart only beats around me, anyways. We have been fools throughout the ages long enough. Let’s not assume Golems are too.”
Petria would have chased down that thought all the way, but to what end? It just led to tragedy, either way. Time would make tragedy of the story, no matter how beautifully it were told. She knew that. It was Timekeeper’s response that drew Ulva up short.
“Lady Terland. You are correct our hearts only beat to give us wa-king thought by your will. And that we are beings of thought, not emotion. In-correct to assume we do not always see and remember.”
Oh yes, the damnation of Terlands. The reason why their Golems could never, should never be given free will. They remembered everything done to them and around them over these ages. What would they conclude, given the chance? Lady Ulva Terland gazed at the Golem who seemed to be encouraging her [Lord] to try again amongst the cheering.
“It’s a damned stupid story. Why fall in love with a mortal or master?”
“Why do some Golems dream, Lady Terland?”
She turned away, only for a second Terland to join the floor. This one a [Lady] in her thirties. She held out a hand to one of the Silverfang Gnolls, then brushed at her dress.
It was a rather revealing one. Showy in terms of skin. Ulva eyed her bronzed skin, a young woman still in the prime of life, and snorted. Then she saw the two begin to try the Terlands’ answer to the Highstepper.
The 5-Step of Terandrian fame. The Silverfang Gnoll must have been a good dancer—no, wait. According to Timekeeper, he was a [Lucky Miner]. So his mistakes became the right steps, and they were funny enough.
The [Princess] was trying to make Wall Lord Ilvriss join them, but the Drake had sat down and refused to get up, so some Duke attempted to join Lyonette—only for someone to trip him headfirst into a table. The [Princess] ended up dancing with one of her [Knights], and Ulva would have left it at that—except for the [Lady] whirling around to show her dress was ultra-revealing.
In that there was a hole in it, along one of her breasts. And it revealed something glowing. Ulva’s head snapped back around.
“Is that a Golem’s Heart?”
It was! It was beating in the center of the [Lady]’s chest, glowing fast as she danced the 5-Step near-flawlessly. Ulva spun, and Timekeeper spoke.
“Yes, Lady Ulva. That is La-dy Prithna Terland, a member of the branch family. Her serving Golem is there.”
Another shock when Ulva turned her head. She took one look at the Golem with a lifelike face on it and recoiled.
“That’s Drogin. Someone put his face on a Golem?”
“It was his will, Great Aunt. He was dying of magical malady, and he insisted they put his face on a Golem to watch his daughter. Heart failure in the family. You don’t recall?”
Maybe? Ulva remembered Drogin dying, but she snapped at Xitegen, who’d walked over.
“When did that happen?”
She gestured at the heart, and he shrugged.
“The heart? I think hers gave out five years ago. Likely, you didn’t see her because she spent three years having one created that could keep her alive.”
Ulva vaguely recalled being grumpy about the funds for that and hearing the story, but…she eyed the laughing [Lady] hugging the Gnoll as the dance ended.
“Another member of the family with promise, if she survived all that. What’s her level, Timekeeper?”
Then Ulva’s head was turning, seeing her family stepping onto the floor, haughty, but willing to try some of the dances, or just keen on reminding the others they could dance. Terlands dancing with Golems or, more scandalously, non-Golems.
In the center of it all, a [Princess] and that damned Drake. Timekeeper bent over as a drunk-looking man tried to pursue Lyonette.
“That is apparently the Duke of Ailendamus, who is using a magical projection spell to be here, Lady Ulva. He is of approximate danger as a Named-rank adventurer.”
“A high-level spellcaster? Just hit him if he causes trouble. I came here to see the south. I should have looked at my own family first.”
Wearily, Ulva Terland sat. Then she perched on her Dais of Health and beckoned.
“Very well. I can admit when I’m a fool myself, Xitegen.”
“Oh, goodie, Great Aunt. Can I throw you in front of a carriage?”
“Don’t be ridiculous. Send Chovn and Hidre before me.”
So she held court once more. The [Lady] of House Terland rose…and regarded her grey in a mirror. Her austere dress. Then she pulled the hairpin from her hair, and the Seal of House Terland glittered. She handed it to Xitegen and pulled her hair back.
“Hairpin, Xitegen.”
“Er, where…?”
“Dead gods, you truly haven’t ever found someone besides your damn Golems, have you? Change that, boy. Here!”
He stuck it awkwardly in her hair, and it became a ponytail. Ulva Terland touched her clothing and spoke.
“Awaken, hearts of Terlands.”
She drew something from a holster on her inner sleeve. Just a little wand made of mithril, and ran it down across her dress. Then—the grey layers seemed to flake away.
Like stone, revealing color beneath. Until her clothing took on the color of the deep ocean. Ulva whirled the wand over her head, and heads turned. She sighed as the familiar cloak of dark waters, filled with glowing lights, fell on her shoulders.
The Cloak of Submerged Lanterns was her personal attire, just like the dress. She could make most things ‘beat’ or reveal their true nature. Like clothing. If you took it out of the clothing, it turned grey and lifeless. Perfect for making a splash, disguising oneself, or just impressing someone who’d never seen the trick before.
Ulva Terland pointed the conductor’s wand and beckoned to the merry partygoers. She threw back the cloak, and it billowed over the Dress of Night Skies.
“I have made my decision. The Lischelle family shall approach House Terland. So shall each [Rancher] family’s heads. Kneel.”
Her Golems moved forwards until they flanked her—Chema, Timekeeper, Corde, the ancient might of House Terland—and Ulva Terland’s grey eyes broke into pieces and grew colorful. Even her eyes—
 
——
 
Nouzcrat had gone to wash his hands after getting sauce on them. He wasn’t one to dance, and he had missed the commotion. When he saw Ulva standing there, and the wary, nervous [Ranchers] approaching the line of silent Golems, he froze.
“Petria…?”
For a moment, it was her. Not as she had been, but as she would have been if she had lived as long as Ulva. That ponytail. Grey hair revealing faintly red strands. Symbols of their link to Terandrian royalty. And the clothing—
Then Ulva Terland was there again, and Nouzcrat staggered. But he saw her, still. It was not a perfect copy. There had always been impish playfulness, a willingness to push convention that Ulva lacked. But Petria had loved grand moments.
“Lady Terland. If we have offended you, we beg pardon. But we are the families who live here. We will not beg for the lands we have a right to.”
It was Marvus Lischelle who knelt and then glanced up at her. He licked his lips as he stared up at Timekeeper’s graven face, the merciless impassiveness of the other Golems, and the twin War Golems armed with battleaxes.
Ulva Terland just sat on her dais, holding the thin conductor’s wand in her hand. She spoke simply.
“I have been petitioned by House Rumask, House Everight, and House Zigur for the reinstatement of lands that they claim your people stole. They assert you attacked their people and drove them out under fear of death.”
Marvus opened his mouth, and Ulva silenced him with a look and her aura.
“House Everight I object to. Toldos is dead. I do not care if Reinhart claims a descendant has been found. If they did not present themselves to Lord Toldos during his long search, I do not acknowledge them as a Flower of Izril. Damia Reinhart, your family and mine are at odds over this. Ensure your family knows that we do not war.”
Her head turned, and her eyes flashed. Damia held up her hands.
“I disavow everything my family said! Wait, who’s saying—?”
As if she’d heard nothing, Ulva continued, her voice ringing. She knew how to speak, even in an open space.
“I am Terland. It is my will that shapes the north, along with that of the Five Families. We are the gardeners of Izril, and too many have forgotten that. Magnolia Reinhart took it upon herself to prune the weeds as she saw fit. I hold the laws of Izril to simple effect. No one man or woman may claim land that is not a Flower of Izril.”
Uh oh. Lyonette swallowed as she and Ilvriss watched Ulva glance down at the Lischelles. Marvus’ jaw was set, and Ilvriss was reminded of Big Burlap. A bull, but one aware of the danger, just waiting.
Lyonette was watching Aronia, and both she and Colfa knew the woman had a temper. Her eyes were flashing. Ulva Terland had a lot of Golems around her, but Aronia had her left hand, and if it could knock a bull aside…
The [Lady] of House Terland stopped then, with a sense for the dramatic, and took a sip from her cup purely for the show of it. Then she gazed down at Marvus and Aronia.
