He pushed himself off the ground, and the earth exploded from where he was standing. His kick shattered a [Forcewall] and hit a Golem. The War Golem exploded from the impact, and Tolveilouka stepped off it. Turned.
“Hm. Nice Skill.”
He leapt on Ser Dalimont, and Mrsha didn’t see—
The damn Golems kept singing.
 
——
 
“Son of forests. 
Betrayer of kin!
Betrayer of decency! 
You forsake your kind,
Your levels—
Your flesh.
Writhing maggot, 
Death despises you!”
 
Tolveilouka pinned the [Knight] down with one foot and blinked.
“Hm?”
He could have sworn he’d broken that man’s bones, but instead…he stared down at the bag of flour.
“Huh.”
Ser Dalimont’s arm was broken, but he staggered upright. Tolveilouka was unharmed, of course, but he frowned, tracing the magic—the second Thronebearer didn’t draw a sword.
She just activated another scroll. Then fired a [Fireball] from her wand.
He blocked the first one, letting the magical flames wash over him. Tolveilouka spun, kicked a stone at Dame Ushar—it cracked into the [Forcewall], and he blinked. He crouched, leapt—
She vanished. The trap runes around her exploded, and Tolveilouka emerged from the smoke. He glanced around, cut an [Ice Lance] in half with one hand. Spotted her and leapt—
Mid-jump, Tolveilouka punched the air and re-directed himself downwards. He landed amongst Drakes and knocked them flying with single punches. But his head was turning.
“That’s three [Lesser Teleports] in one go—”
He leapt forwards, blocked another [Fireball], and his entire body lit up. Although no bones appeared even when the [Lightning Bolt] illuminated his frame. Tolveilouka landed in a [Darkness Cloud] and blew.
But he was frowning. When the shower of [Light Arrows] began bouncing off him, he just closed his eyes, then looked straight at an empty patch of air. Dame Ushar coughed as Tolveilouka kicked the ground and a cloud of dirt broke the spell. Again, the half-Elf kicked a stone at her, and it bounced off a shield, shattering it.
“…Are you some kind of [Spellblade]? No, you’re just activating items. How many do you have?”
In response, Ushar vanished again. Tolveilouka scratched his head. She was just pulling out magical items nonstop. He pivoted, and Ser Dalimont’s sword stopped an inch from Tolveilouka’s skin, caught between the half-Elf’s fingers. The man’s teeth were bared. Tolveilouka headbutted him once, and he dropped.
“Dalimont! [Enforce Pact: The Chessmaster’s Wrath]!”
The [Princess]. Tolveilouka felt the contract Skill come after him and saw a giant chess-piece fall towards him. A queen with flails in each arm. He stared up at it.
Then he jumped and punched it. Pieces of the construct’s masonry rained down as he sighed.
“Next?”
 
——
 
Ser Dalimont’s arm was broken. Dame Ushar appeared, panting, cuts on her face from the debris Tolveilouka had hurled at her. Everything was chaos—she shoved Dalimont.
“Protect her Highness!”
“I can—”
He began, then went for Lyonette. He knew she was right, but Dalimont had tried to do something. Not against this monster. Just as ever, he had to run…he swore he saw Ser Sest waving at him.
They could act, the inn’s staff. Dalimont only wished more were here. Elia Arcsinger was still shooting arrows at Tolveilouka, but he seemed to actually not even notice her shooting them into the back of his head.
Everyone was running for the magic door, and Ser Dalimont saw Mrsha was in Xinthe’s arms. Good. She wasn’t fighting, just staring at something over his shoulder. He was more worried about Nanette.
“Let me go! Lyonette’s back there! We have to do—do something! Lure him to the inn! We can use the hallway, we have to—”
Nanette was screaming. Hethon and Sammial were being carried out of the line of combat by their caretakers, but Nanette was fighting. She wanted to do something…but someone had her in his arms, and he was riding with the reins of the panicked horse in his teeth.
Captain Todi had taken one look at Tolveilouka and done exactly what he’d promised Lyonette: run. But he’d grabbed Nanette on the way. He was actually dodging the half-Elf whenever Tolveilouka came to attack the fleeing people.
The Gold-rank adventurer would linger with a group of people, then split the moment he heard the half-Elf laughing or saw him leaping. And Tolveilouka would go for the others.
He’d have made an amazing Thronebearer. Dalimont kept riding, shouting into a speaking stone. The Golems just sang. Frankly?
He couldn’t blame them. If what he knew about Tolveilouka was accurate, this was going to get worse.
 
——
 
Ulva Terland had doubted how dangerous this half-Elf was. Seeing him fight effortlessly for a minute had changed her mind. She was speaking.
“I demand every Golem and adventurer that Invrisil has now—”
Her people were running for the door, but the half-Elf was following them. He smashed through more of Salazsar’s Drakes without slowing. They had formed a spearwall.
Tolveilouka ran into the spearwall and kept going. The spear tips barely deformed his flesh. He scattered the [Soldiers] like pins, snapping their spears, and the Golems…
Kept singing. They’d switched languages twice. Once had been Common, another Drathian or something? Now—
 
“Tolveilouka erges ra habrec!
Sor grrs narve’tte!”
 
What language—? Ulva was still sitting on her Dais of Health. She hadn’t run and was watching the chaos. The Wall Lord was marshalling his people. It was doomed. The [Ranchers] were in chaos. Some were fighting the half-Elf as he dismantled them, laughing as they slashed at him. The Golems—singing as they moved.
 
“Mer ra plarrziet.
Az’Currous!
Az’Menalim!”
 
Wait…that was Gnollish, wasn’t it? Ulva recognized one word. Az’kerash was just a name. A title. Slayer of Kerash. So that meant—
 
“Az’Siwas!
Az’Rithrebe! 
Az’Arain duv Winds!
Az’Zilopethe!
Az…”
 
She heard the list of names thundering around as the half-Elf raised bloody hands.
“Duv is a Dragon title. Just so you know. He was a scrawny Dragonlord. But I did kill him myself.”
He was still showing off. The wailing voices grew louder. Tolveilouka turned, sighing. One of the [Princess]’ knights was down. The Golems sang as the half-Elf scratched at one pointed ear.
“…Okay, it’s going on too long. I admit it. Seventeen minutes was gauche. Old fellow, do you know the thing about me and the truth?”
The singing stopped. Timekeeper spoke.
“Yes. Even when you swear on your master, you lie.”
Tolveilouka’s eyes opened wide, and he charged the Golems as they ceased singing and engaged as one. As they had known they’d have to. Ulva Terland spoke.
“[Awaken, Hearts of Stone]. Golem hearts, roar without end—”
She would have conducted them, but—she couldn’t even see the fighting. Her personal barrier ring lit up, and she flinched. Then realized it wasn’t the half-Elf attacking her. It was a piece of one of her Golems.
 
——
 
A doomed battle.
Timekeeper had bought more time than he had calculated by humoring the half-Elf. The majority of the Terlands would not reach the door despite the time accrued, however. If the door could even be held against Tolveilouka the Traitor.
He was—weaker, though. Perhaps—
The half-Elf threw one of the War Golems and grabbed the haft of another’s battleaxe. He stopped it effortlessly, and took a full blow from Corde. It did not damage him. His regeneration factor could heal from anything but Dragonbreath in moments.
Timekeeper remembered that. However—the half-Elf was too slow to lash back out at Corde in a kick. He barely touched them, and they staggered back, but their chassis was undamaged, merely posture-broken.
Thoughts ran between the Golems, and Timekeeper was the locus. Conclusions, memories, all flowing together into a single being whose heart thundered in a dozen chests. If it could be summarized, it was this.
Analysis: he is far too slow. Conclusion: he is still enjoying himself. His true forms will represent increasing speed and strength. Deliver damage at a sustained rate until he loses his temper to prolong escape.
Timekeeper went forwards. He was one of the strongest Golems, and he engaged the half-Elf in personal combat. His punch took Tolveilouka in the chest and warped his body. When the half-Elf rose, he delivered a blow that knocked Timekeeper back, but sustained attacks from ranged Golems allowed Timekeeper to reset. Tolveilouka blocked a simultaneous attack from Corde with one hand—but Timekeeper’s punch made his hand snap back until he halted it against his chest.
Observation: ego dictates his actions. Anger.
“You have got-ten weak, Tolveilouka.”
“Hah! A hundred of you couldn’t stop me, Gearbox.”
Tolveilouka shoved Timekeeper back and threw a flurry of punches. Timekeeper absorbed the damage to his chassis with minimal impact. His internal systems—shuddered—
The Golem of Eyes ensnared the half-Elf in its limbs for a second. He flexed his body and, after three tries, exploded the long cords of living metal which had engulfed him. Destruction of the Golem of Eyes was next. Tolveilouka smashed its central eyestalk and heart.
It had bought six seconds. Timekeeper had reset his posture.
Observation: he does not draw his sword. Observation: he is displeased.
The half-Elf was flexing his arms, frowning. Gritting his teeth—and when Timekeeper engaged him again, he struck another blow.
Tolveilouka’s feet skidded across the ground, and the side of his face-reformed. Timekeeper calculated based on his memories…
The half-Elf should have been faster. Stronger. Reassess conclusion.
This time, three War Golems engaged from simultaneous sides. The half-Elf spun under the blades like a [Dancer], touching the ground with his hands as he pivoted, pushing himself up, and kicked both Golems in the head. But his blows did not crush their heads, merely dented the enchanted steel.
He landed, and Timekeeper’s fist drove him into the ground.
Analysis: durability unchanged. Regeneration unchanged. Reflexes limited. Strength limited. Conclusion: Tolveilouka is under the effects of hostile inhibition Skill.
Timekeeper confirmed the conclusion by devoting one of the Golems capable of Skill-sensing to a point scan and detected a Skill at range being enforced. Contract-type.
Victory might be possible. If victory was defined as the escape of all but Golems. Timekeeper began a true offensive. He was not aware of who bound Tolveilouka, though evidence indicated the [Princess] was somehow responsible.
Conclusion: she is now a priority target to keep alive for the duration of the battle. Damage to Tolveilouka to force exhaustion is necessary. Confirm conclusion.
He charged, fists swinging, and the half-Elf gritted his teeth and stood his ground. He was smaller, presenting an agile target as Timekeeper’s body rotated to enforce the maximum exchange of energy into each blow.
23% of Timekeeper’s blows missed. However, the rest impacted the half-Elf, who did not withdraw or show deleterious effects due to damage. His blows were beginning to atrophy Timekeeper’s chassis, but at a substantially reduced rate than projections.
Damage to gears increasing. Damage to Tolveilouka acceptable. Basis: the half-Elf was swearing. Tolveilouka balled his fist and went for a strike with all his strength.
Timekeeper saw the blow coming and calculated it would destroy his functionality beyond acceptable limits in this engagement. He spoke.
“[One Second].”
 
——
 
Tolveilouka hit the ground, and this time, he felt that. He got up slowly, and the Golem let him. It wasn’t badly damaged at all. Tolveilouka spat black blood.
Damn that [Queen]. She was holding him back with all her might. He even punched weaker, but that wasn’t what rattled him. His eyes narrowed, and he spoke.
“Hells. They gave you a Skill.”
“This Golem has been up-graded by the head of House Terland.”
“No wonder they thought you were good enough to guard that [Lady].”
Tolveilouka shook his body out, trying to feel what it had done. Punched him repeatedly it felt like. Time-stop Skills. He doubted the Golem could do it twice, but that…Tolveilouka’s skin began to bulge.
“Well, if you can use a Skill, so can I. Want to see my true face?”
He began to grin as his face bulged upwards. The Golems formed up, retreating, and Tolveilouka made a fist.
Anyone could learn a Skill. Even someone who had forsaken levels. He drew back a fist—and then stared at the golden chains wrapped around one arm.
“Really, woman? Aren’t you dead yet?”
He hissed across the world, then had a thought. Tolveilouka did some calculations.
“Her head’s probably trying to explode…and if I haven’t managed it yet…damnit. I’m counterlevelling her, aren’t I?”
He looked up gloomily right before Timekeeper punched him into the ground.
Wonderful.
 
——
 
Queen Ielane du Marquin was hosting a parade.
Calanfer had parades like how Garbichug Revolters had warts. Constantly and for any occasion. And much like Garbichug warts, they tended to be spontaneous and explode in your face.
You barely needed a reason for a celebration sometimes. [Princess]’ birthday, all seven of them? Parade.
A noble hits any capstone level? Parade.
A Thronebearer destroys a [Bandit] group? Parade.
The reasoning was simple for a cynical mind like Menisi’s, who had been raised by Reclis and Ielane. She shared it with Ellet, whom she was standing next to despite Ielane’s best attempts.
“Parades are a way of giving back to the commonfolk, Ellet.”
“But it’s about the crown, Sister Menisi.”
Ellet stood, all cute innocence, dressed in a pink-and-gold dress with bows in her combed hair, the darling child of Calanfer’s royalty. Uncorrupted. Menisi, by contrast, had a long cigarette in her lips she was lighting and wore a sultry dress in black and red, like an evil stepsister out of storybooks.
Ielane was initiating this smaller parade which was in aid of Prince Lothen’s decision to head a new expedition to the New Lands, incidentally. A smaller affair given how the last one had gone; most Calanferian ships had gone astray or simply returned home. Those that hadn’t sank.
Menisi knew why that was too. She wasn’t being let into the Eternal Throne’s decision making, of course, but her father talked, and she had sources in the servants and from her estates.
Some ships had returned since the Calanferian delegation had been so badly damaged. However, some had peeled off to sail to Baleros and had disgorged both colonists and soldiers.
