To come to the aid of Seraphel. A better use of them than joining the rest of that cursed colonial attempt. Not only had the ships which had made it to the New Lands suffered the Bloodtear Pirates’ attacks, but Tulm the Mithril had pursued them even over land. Many nations had elected to withdraw and send a second wave of colonists rather than fight the Iron Vanguard, who were going to be a problem…
All of this didn’t matter to the now. Menisi shifted as Shardele finished giving her speech and let her mother step forwards. Something was off about Ielane.
Normally, the Queen of Diplomacy wouldn’t suffer Menisi anywhere near her plans, let alone near her darling Ellet. She’d literally aura-slam Menisi until the [Princess] couldn’t think straight and push her into a humiliating or out-of-the-way circumstance. Well, she’d have done that if Menisi was still sixteen and lower-leveled.
But even now, Menisi had expected to have to fight to appear here. Instead, she’d only had to defeat about twenty members of staff and Thronebearers; Ielane and her personal hand, Vensha, had done nothing.
There was a logic to it; the Calanferians gazing up at Menisi were appalled and allured by her dress and unconventional style. A flower that bloomed differently in an identical garden stood out—but Menisi knew her mother tolerated nothing that strayed too far from her vision. She had been increasingly private this week, and that was not like her with the enemy—Menisi—in her keep.
Was she sick? Menisi thought Ielane had more makeup on her than usual as she stood, letting the people cheer her and speaking with beaming, gentle goodwill and pride to her citizens. An actress of legends without the class. Menisi continued telling Ellet why this parade was an important evil.
“It’s simple, Ellet. [Commoners], [Peasants] like the ones we have? A parade is a holiday for them. They’re not expected to work. Free food and drink is passed out. We put on a show.”
“But it’s about us.”
“To us it’s boring, because we have all that. Use your brain, you darling little dolt. We work them hard, and unlike other nations, the Eternal Throne cultivates its citizens to still adore us by these constant parades. We spread them out such that even rural places get regular celebrations. Each kingdom must have the subservience of its public through fear, loyalty, adoration, and so on. This is the whip we have chosen to keep the chattel in line that Father and Mother find most efficacious.”
Even Shardele, the normally-high, shifted and glanced at Menisi askance. Ellet’s face was completely troubled, but Menisi was just confused.
What is up with Ielane? She’d never let me say this—even with obfuscation Skills, there are lip-readers who might pick up what I’m saying, remote as that chance is. She’d thought to get a rise out of Ielane or Vensha, but the Thronebearer just stood behind the [Queen], who smiled beatifically as Ellet protested.
“Sister Menisi, I don’t wish to say you’re wrong, but—we aren’t so bad as you’re saying. We care about our citizens.”
“As much as a chair or rug or sword, Ellet. Don’t be polite with me—I can’t stand Calanferian niceties after Nomaudrel’s refreshing directness. And before you say we are so very kind—you are a fool who cannot even argue beyond your known years with me.”
Ellet gasped but held still, conscious they were being watched. Menisi took a puff on her cigarette.
“If you did any research, you’d know that our grandmother and grandfather worked our citizens less. Their celebrations were more than day-long affairs; you’d have a province shut down for a week. Mother lets everyone party one day, then has them back to the fields or workshops tomorrow. If you think we’re popular, it’s because we have high-level [Bards] and a dedicated staff for ensuring we are beloved. Queen Grannymother is beloved. Go visit her estates-in-exile if you want to see a [Queen] who truly has the hearts of our people.”
“I have visited them a few times, and they’re not as popular. Mother can’t take a step without being mobbed. You’re not fair to her, Menisi.”
Ellet’s jaw jutted out with a hint of defiance, for all she flinched when Menisi grinned nastily at her. So the baby kitten had teeth after all. Menisi chuckled.
“Mother has people who fawn over her. Moths drawn to a light which they need to survive, which is hypnotic. Grandmother and Grandfather go and sit, and people don’t always flock to them. You’re twice an idiot if that was your measure. People go to them for help. Because they know they shall be helped. They show them their children, ask their opinions, and speak their minds because they know they will be heard, not beaten.”
Ellet had no response to that. So she turned up her nose and glanced away, a courtly snub.
“One thinks you are jealous that we are doing well, Menisi. Vernoue, Lyonette, Seraphel, even Aielef are all proof the Eternal Throne shines ever brighter.”
She was learning the lessons of the court. The same innocence that Ielane prized would turn her into another Demon. How soon before she became a little tyrant or spoiled monster? For her sake, and because it was delightfully fun, Menisi came in with a needle as sharp as her wit.
“Vernoue left. Lyonette left. Seraphel left, and Mother can only admit it is for the best because they are out of her grip. Aielef herself defies Ielane—and she paid for it in ways you cannot see. You are a little brat, and no one tells it to you because you look halfway cute. For all Mother loves her pet children, she values true worth more. Which is why she’s spent more time on Lyonette and her daughters than you. Or hadn’t you noticed how much she’s pushing you to excel? A Level 9 [Princess] is nothing compared to a witch-girl and a Doombearer with twice your levels. You’re no longer her favorite. Or couldn’t you tell?”
At this point, Shardele edged over to stop Menisi from further thrashing Princess Ellet with a steel club—which was happening, albeit in verbal terms.
Ellet was thirteen. She gasped for air, swayed on her feet, and Menisi rolled her eyes. Thirteen was too old to be the cute daughter forever. She’d only gotten to be that and kept to her role because there wasn’t a worthy granddaughter for Ielane to try to manipulate.
Now there was.
Welcome to adulthood, or teen years.
Still, Menisi watched Ielane’s face. And she realized something…was wrong.
The Queen of Diplomacy was a dangerous woman. She had risen from a local [Baron]’s second-daughter to [Queen]. Her talents, ruthlessness, and levels had equalized all her disadvantages, and she’d kept Calanfer competitive despite the kingdom neither being one of the Hundred Heroes’ original foundings and Silvaria falling to dust—it had once been part of the Dawn Concordat, and its loss was still felt.
She’d deposed the old rulers in a bloodless coup, and yes, Reclis was part of this, but meant Queen Ielane was definitely above Level 40, which was significant in Terandria, where the average level of monarchs was 20-30.
She did not make mistakes at easy gatherings like these. However, her speech to the crowd was slightly stilted. She’d messed up her lines twice. And the crowd was noticing. The cheering was no less strong, but some of the attention Menisi could feel projected on Ielane was faltering.
Utterly fine. A Thronebearer would say, later, that Queen Ielane had been sick and yet she’d come out and done her best, love her. They covered like that for [Princesses] all the time.
But she was Ielane. She led by example. She…
The [Queen] was brushing at her dyed, royal red hair as she smiled down at the crowd. Lothen was marching at the head of a line of [Soldiers], perfect in his tin soldier role because he was one. Menisi tuned in as she noted the faintest strain in Ielane’s pitch, which should have been regal, even a touch grieving, but not sounding as if she were constipated.
“…another child of the Eternal Throne goes forth. We cannot help but salute Prince Lothen’s courage, just as we wish all our far-flung stars triumph and glory in Marquin the Radiant’s name. Now, will the citizens of…”
A pause, and Vensha whispered such that only the royals right behind Ielane could hear.
“Remaunt.”
Ielane paused longer, and the crowd stirred.
“Remaunt, forgive me, a touch of the sun—join me in sending our champion to the New Lands? We march with the Hundred Heroes and their descendants in—”
She’d said ‘me’. Ielane never neglected the royal we in public. Menisi’s brows shot together. This time, her mind ran like quicksilver as she called on all the intelligence that her pact with her husband granted her.
[Depraved Intellect]. [Remove False Conclusion]. She’s not sick. If she were so debilitated, she’d call this off or make Shardele do it, or Lothen himself. This is something else. Something is actually wrong. Poison? It can’t be. It almost feels like she’s not here. Like she’s…
Distracted.
The [Queen] was smiling, her voice rising to bring the energy back, when Vensha moved. Alerted by something, a premonition or her Skill, she reached out to proffer a handkerchief. She was about to trigger something. Illusion spells? Too slow.
Menisi saw a dot of crimson flowing from Ielane’s right nostril. The blood ran halfway down her upper lip before Vensha blocked it from the audience’s view. She wiped, and Ielane paused.
“Excuse me. I fear my nose is running. Emotions are such dratted things.”
Her tone was light, but now the strain was evident for everyone to hear, and Ellet started. The crowd might not have seen the red, but they murmured, some buying into—
Shardele’s eyes flicked to Menisi’s, and they were wide. But neither one had the ready private communication of the other sisters. Menisi walked forwards a step.
“Mother, you’re clearly overwrought. Let Shardele or I finish this.”
Ielane’s glare had no force in it. She was actually stepping back when she paused again.
“Not now. Vensha, he’s—”
The Thronebearer tried her best, angling her body, but Ielane was facing a huge audience. And the other Thronebearers clearly didn’t know what was going on. Nor could they hide their own reactions when Ielane’s eyes began to seep red.
She was bleeding from her eyes. They could still salvage that. Menisi had moved on trained instinct to block Ielane from other angles. The agents of Calanfer could claim anyone who’d seen the blood was mistaken. Illusion spells would come up in moments—
But when Ielane’s ears began to bleed as well, there was a cry of horror from one of the servants. Whatever illusion could be maintained shattered as people saw the Queen of Diplomacy stagger and Vensha step back. Ielane bled in public, and the crowd of subjects turned to glass.
That’s torn it. Menisi had [Immunity: Mental Shock], a learned Skill. She admired, in that moment, Vensha’s reasoning.
If one cannot hide the truth, use it. The Queen of Diplomacy’s eyes flicked to Menisi, to the crowd, and past them. She turned her head, and Menisi calculated from the setting sun she was gazing almost directly south.
“My apologies. Cut the scrying spells.”
Too late for that. The Terandrian television network had this live, and Calanfer didn’t own it. The bored [Mage] was focusing on the Queen like a laser-beam, and while a Thronebearer went running at them, the rest were spreading out—
Searching for a threat, casting anti-curse spells. Useless.
Across the world, a half-Elf was bursting free of a cake. A ridiculous statement that Menisi would have laughed at. But here—
The Queen of Diplomacy was bleeding from every orifice. She pressed her lips together, ignoring the blood still running down her face. A [Servant] was reaching out with a handkerchief. Vensha knocked the helper away.
“Back! Don’t disturb Her Majesty!”
“What—what’s—Mother?”
Shardele was panicking. Menisi just watched, trying to figure out what was going on. Ielane ignored the crowd, who had begun to shout. Then she spoke.
“I can’t stop him. Vensha. Get me a lever.”
In front of her bewildered children, the Calanferians, who were almost deathly silent now, trying to understand—Ielane’s eyes were red with blood, and her teeth were clenched. Her voice was still being magnified and broadcast by her speaking spell.
Lever? Everyone saw Vensha fumble—fumble—and produce something from her bag of holding. She pulled out a long, Truegold scepter crowned with a magical Dragongem-class jewel. Menisi recognized that.
The Dawn Scepter of the Eternal Throne? Vensha was just carrying that around?
The Queen of Radiance took the scepter. Then—her arm holding it snapped around, and something yanked her across the stage half a dozen feet. So fast Menisi thought it nearly broke Ielane’s arm.
But she halted it on the edge of the stage, holding the scepter in her right hand. Ielane braced herself as three Thronebearers leapt forward and grabbed her, but it was as if they weren’t even there. Their feet skidded with hers until she tensed—and then she was holding the scepter in the air.
It was trembling. Now, Menisi felt something pushing against her. Invisible lines of force—Ielane’s aura, regal gold, flared around her, dragging at—
Something.
She made not a sound. The Thronebearers were straining to hold her in place, but they weren’t able to pull the [Queen] for fear of hurting her. One reached for the scepter, and Vensha shouted.
“Don’t touch that! Thronebearers, spread out and keep anything from touching Her Majesty! Back! Your Majesty—”
She had a healing potion. She fed it to Ielane along with a stamina potion. A [Bard] was waving their arms, trying to get the crowd to disperse—but all the attention was focused on Ielane, and nothing in this world would get the people of Calanfer to leave.
Menisi saw Ielane pivot, as if trying to get a better grip on the scepter being dragged from her grip. Her teeth were bared.
“Vensha, find out what’s going on. Contact Ushar and take the situation over!”
She snapped, and the old Thronebearer didn’t move.
“You’ll be dead if I’m not here. Can you hold it?”
“Not fully—”
Now, Ielane’s carefully-orchestrated dress, fit for the oncoming summer, was covered in a sheen of sweat. Menisi saw her mother’s arm was shaking. Then—her tendons standing out across her entire right side. Even along her neck, raised with clear physical strain.
Naodin could do that—when he was raging. Menisi’s eyes opened wider. And her treacherous mind offered another commentary on the situation.
Hot.
