[Condition: Body – Oldblood Wings Obtained!]
[Condition: Body – Scales of Opulence Obtained!]
[Condition: Body – Fortune’s Scent Obtained!]
[Condition: Body – Greater Resistance: Sickness Obtained!]
 
Now…
[Class Change: Wall Lord of Corporate Opulence → Wall—]
 
——
 
Ilvriss pushed himself up.
He rose before the voice continued, and his body responded to his will. He heaved himself up and felt something on his back. Like a cloak, only lighter, and they flexed. He could see.
The world had stopped spinning. He felt…wonderful.
Alive.
But he was running. Running, scattering the briefcases, picking out the remaining gems as if they were all aglow—he could even smell how many there were left intact.
Running out of his tent. A Golem walking the camp, Chema, jerked when she saw him. Recoiled in pure alarm and fright.
“Wall Lord?”
He threw open the tent flaps to Welsca’s tent. She was lying there, breath rasping, stained rags covered in that filthy blood lying next to her, a cooling compress on her head. He staggered over to her.
“Welsca. Welsca…gemstones. Where are the others? We need—”
He began smashing them in his palms. Sprinkling them down on her. She stirred.
“Ilvriss…?”
He kept smashing gemstones. He didn’t know how many she needed. A fortune. How much time did she have?
“Hang on, Welsca. We’re going to make it. For once, we brought our own miracles. Just hang on.”
“Yes, Wall Lord.”
The tent flaps opened. Someone spoke.
“Wall Lord, what is—”
“Gemstones!”
He turned, and Chema jumped again. The Drake shouted.
“Get me every gemstone above—no, every gemstone! Fill them with magic! Buy them from Invrisil, Pallass—get them, now! Hurry! Run!”
She ran. And then Welsca was blinking up at Ilvriss.
Did her flesh look more stable? Was it working? Would it be instantaneous? Or slower, since she might not level up when she slept?
She lay there as he tried to explain.
“There’s a way to cure the plague, Welsca. Just magic. Magic. You might die…but don’t. I’m going to cure you, understand? You and everyone else I can.”
“It’s a fortune, Wall Lord. Can’t afford it.”
“Shut up about money. Just hang on, okay?”
“Okay. You look different, Ilvriss.”
He felt different. Ilvriss had no mirror. He just cradled Welsca in his arms.
“Not bad, I hope? It beats dying.”
“No. You look like I imagined a Wall Lord should look like when I was small.”
“Oh. Good? Welsca? You’re not asleep, are you?”
“No.”
“Keep talking to me, then. Just hang on.”
“Okay, Ilvriss.”
He knelt there until the tent burst back open, and there was a babble from a speaking stone. And he began to smash more gems and give orders. But he waited until he saw Welsca’s scales begin to glow. Then he glanced away, respectfully. When he rose…
He breathed out. And his breath glittered in the air. Like broken gemstones. Like magic.
It was in him, now.
A piece of wonders. Like Erin.
 
——
 
Seven.
Seven. Five Drakes and one Gnoll from the Silverfang tribe. Two of the Rubirel Guard, Ilvriss, Welsca, a [Soldier], the [Lucky Miner] from the Silverfang tribe—and the Antinium [Priest].
That was how many made it. Eight died, succumbing to the plague too fast, including one of the Terland [Lords].
Ilvriss didn’t know if the Human could have been saved. He would have paid for it all, though the cost to transform was placed at about 63,000 gold pieces. Per person, excluding the Antinium [Priest], who managed to fight off the sickness themselves. Whether that was biology or prayer—the other species had been only saved by magic and gold.
It was bitter.
It was something that only a Wall Lord could do.
It was wondrous—and a secret, because Ilvriss pictured people giving themselves mana poisoning or all his peers just wasting fortunes to do this. Because he felt like it was not something to be done because you were rich. Perhaps the catalyst was a need to change, not just the magic.
If so, it was earned, by each and every person. But not a one was alike.
Ilvriss kept flexing his new wings. It was like having new muscles on his back, and he knew his scales were…sparkly. The people who saw him, Drakes especially, would just stand and stare, or stutter.
However, his was the only transformation into an Oldblood of Gems—or whatever his subspecies was. The others were different.
Welsca Crimsonscale’s coloration had only deepened and now took on a bit of orange and even deeper ruby. She had wings—but the breath that came from her lungs was hot, like a furnace was in her chest. He’d feared she was still dying when she woke up, but the fever was instead just permanent for her.
She had become an Oldblood of Flames. The other Drakes had each taken on different elements; one had become an Oldblood of Winds, the first Ilvriss had ever seen. And the Silverfang Gnoll was just—strange.
He had a silver streak down his neck and back, and he seemed no bigger; if anything, he might have shrunk. But he appeared more compact, and the biggest changes were his claws and eyes.
They glowed. From brown, his irises had taken on a silver hue, a crescent of silver in the brown, and his claws were now pale white. Could every species become magical? Had Ilvriss found something truly important? And if so, why had it been lost? Or was it just that risky?
He didn’t know. These were questions for later.
Ilvriss was alive. Cured of plague, and after the bodies were burned and the most thorough screening he could think of, he rode to The Wandering Inn. Not flew; he had no idea how, really. Though he felt like he could make himself lighter.
But he rode, then walked through the magic door—and a [Princess] tackled him in a hug, then stood back and stared at him.
“Ilvriss? You look—gorgeous.”
“I’m not sure if that’s a compliment.”
His scales were still largely purple, but they’d taken on variance, the kind he’d only ever seen in a few Drakes, like Rafaema or Onieva come to think of it. A slight patterning where the scales changed colors. In places, Ilvriss’ scales had turned pearlescent. In others, they simply glittered. Like jewels.
He had highlights around his eyes, and his tail had some kind of pattern too, though it was hard to get a great look at it. It didn’t matter. If he’d turned poop-brown, he’d have been happy to be alive.
Ilvriss was swaying on his feet. He’d not slept more than, like, five seconds, but he let Mrsha hug him too and tried to explain it without giving away the secret.
“It was just luck. We, um—there’s something you need to know, Lyonette. Privately.”
Tolveilouka’s admission. Suddenly, Ilvriss had a hundred problems. Dying not being one of them, he felt great. He was hugging Lyonette, and she was beaming, and he just—kissed her on the cheek. Then apologized.
“I’m so sorry, that was entirely inappropriate—”
Damia skidded to a halt, her tearstained face turning into awe and delight. Just in time for Lyonette to blink, turn, and kiss Ilvriss on the lips.
Everyone turned, stopped, and gaped. The two broke apart right away, and Lyonette coughed.
“That was just—I’m so relieved. I thought—”
“Right—”
The two stared at each other as Mrsha slapped her forehead with a paw. Ilvriss had no idea what to say, but ‘I didn’t mean that’ felt like a bad move, even if he sort of felt like—
Then, through the [Door of Portals] that Liska was holding open for Welsca, he heard and felt the faintest tremor. And a sound.
It sounded suspiciously like ‘boom’. But faint.
Slowly, everyone turned to the door, and Welsca’s head rotated.
“Wall Lord? That came from the expedition’s—”
Ilvriss had never been more grateful for the inn’s signature brand of chaos. He turned and began running with Lyonette without a word.
 
 
 
 
Author’s Note:
I finished the arc, and it’s a long one. But as you might haven noticed—the final chapter is in two parts.
That’s just how long it is. 90,000 words before edits, I believe. And because it’s so dang long, I had to split it, on this cliffhanger.
It fits.
But here’s my plan: I’m going to try and release the 2nd part on Tuesday. I’ll take that entire day to edit so it might be late, but if I can, I’ll release it then. No promises, but that’s because the chapter’s done.
Then I’ll take my monthly break. That way we both win; you get the chapter early and I get to rest a bit longer.
Once it’s out, I’d love feedback on how it felt to have a longer arc without moving perspectives. It’s always longer than I planned but we hit a bunch of plotlines here. And this was actually feedback from the [Palace of Fates] survey. I did my best, and like Ilvriss, sometimes you’re a fool while doing it.
But sometimes you do the right, amazing thing. And even our silly, purple-scaled Wall Lord who once got clocked with a frying pan can become a shiny new Drake. I hope you enjoy how the chapter has gone and how it ends.
(Also Tolveilouka is really funny to write.)
That’s all from me!
