No one had ever seen the Queen of Diplomacy exerting herself like this, and she did have some degree of personal fitness to maintain her figure. Right now, it seemed like that and her aura were the only things keeping her from being hurled into the air.
“Mother! What’s going on—”
Prince Lothen came charging up the steps, sword drawn, casting around for a threat. Menisi snapped at him as she held out an arm.
“Put that away. She’s fighting something. She’s…trying to enforce a contract?”
That’s what it felt like. Lothen, predictably, ignored Menisi. He saw his mother wrestling with something and reached out.
“What are you fools standing around for? Mother, here—”
He grabbed at whatever Ielane was fighting with, and Menisi saw Lothen’s eyes go wide.
“Wh—”
Ellet screamed and flinched as Shardele shielded her. Menisi just pivoted—and a pair of Thronebearers, Lothen’s bodyguards, leapt off the stage. Trying to catch the [Prince] as something flung him through the air.
The Thronebearers missed. The [Prince] cleared thirty feet, falling in armor, when Vensha hit him with a [Featherfall] spell. He landed amongst the crowd, who caught him, and Menisi eyed Ielane.
It barely looked like the [Queen] had taken notice. She was breathing in and out, deadlocked. Her stamina couldn’t last forever. But all she said was—
“Contracts, Vensha.”
“Here—”
The [Queen] reached out with her free hand, and a pile of scrolls touched her hand and vanished in a shower of golden light. She threw them with a Skill—somewhere.
She was an expert in contracts. Who could best her like this? Her feet slid back a step, and now she was balanced on the edge of the stage.
“Your Majesty!”
People were forming around the stage, ignoring the servants of Calanfer, ready to catch her. But the smart ones were moving back, aware of how far Ielane might fly if Lothen had been hurled like that—a line was forming down the town. Trembling eyes. Palpitating hearts.
Menisi was laughing as she saw it all. Ielane’s arm was shaking, and her eyes were still locked on someone somewhere far away. But when Menisi approached her, her head turned, and one eye stained with blood flashed with murder.
“You need help. I’m the highest-levelled royal here. Ellet, stay back. You too, Shardele, unless you think you can help.”
Menisi was gathering her aura to herself. All her intellect, all her willing depravity. Like a ribbon falling from a dress, wine poured over the skin. The haze of narcotics in the air.
Broken convention. Sensuous desire. Through it all, a piercing, pale light of a mind that refused to be shackled by convention or anything else.
Her aura. She seized the scepter, and her feet skidded on the ground.
It felt like a tornado trying to—
Menisi’s feet skidded across the stage, then she caught herself before she could fall off. She was heaving with her mother, trying to hold the scepter in place.
What—what was—she had thought Ielane was merely outmatched. Now she saw it—the [Queen] was holding back a mountain with nothing more than—
The Dawn Scepter. Ielane was using it as a symbol of her royalty. Like a lever—it was shaking worse, now, as something fought her harder. And Menisi saw the first crack appearing in the heirloom of House Marquin.
Ielane was sacrificing it. Menisi was but a drop in the bucket compared to the scepter—and when Shardele threw herself forwards with a scream and was nearly dragged off the stage as well—
They were heaving themselves against something older than Menisi could dream. Shardele was screaming like she was being stabbed, Ellet was being kept from running forwards by Ser Lormel’s one arm, and Menisi was still laughing. Ielane whispered.
“Contracts sent. [Immediate Negotiations]…ignored. [Breach of Contract: Lack of Action]. Arm them.”
“Here.”
Vensha held out a glowing arrow. Ielane took it. A scroll appeared, and she stabbed the arrow through the center. It glowed brighter—vanished—
Across the world, a half-Elf was getting back up. He raised a fist towards Timekeeper. Tolveilouka’s head exploded.
The force pressing against Shardele and Menisi slackened a second. Then it came back twice as strong.
A crack split the Dawn Scepter down the center. Menisi saw little fissures forming across the jeweled head, and Ielane took a breath.
“It didn’t work. Contract two. Tier 5 spell.”
“Arming.”
Behind them, the Thronebearers were doing the only thing they could think of—they were running back with pieces of wood as Lormel shouted at them. Hammers in hand. Calling for nails. What were the idiots doing…? Menisi spared a glance, then grinned.
Extending the stage. The three royals were running out of space. Ielane spoke.
“Make it Tier 6. Get me something undead are afraid of. Hurry, Vensha.”
They fought a battle as Calanfer began to wake up to—something—and someone traced the line of Queen Ielane’s head and guessed it had to do with that daughter who was in Liscor. But they didn’t know what was happening and wouldn’t for a long while.
All they saw was the Dawn Scepter break after the second contract activated. Shardele flew over the tallest houses, screaming, and only one of her Skills let her float down on a haze of Dreamleaf smoke, a literal cloud of it.
Two left—Menisi’s aura was grinding against Ielane’s. She was next—the blow tossed her a thousand feet. The world spun, and she waited for her neck to break—for she had no circlet—
Even if someone could have caught her, she’d be paste from the force of stopping. The tumbling, whirling [Princess] halted as a pair of hands moved, seized her, and slowed her enough to keep her from snapping her neck as her momentum was arrested. She still went rolling, head-over-heels, as Lord Naodin caught his wife. Menisi sat up, teeth bared, spitting blood from her bitten tongue, nose bleeding. She peered up, and the Queen of Calanfer’s arm broke. Then she pulled her crown off her head and locked it in the air.
“Get up, Naodin. Get up and run me back there—”
He was still raging. And she could almost see him. A mountain of rotted, ancient flesh, grinning down at them. He—
He wasn’t even trying his best.
 
——
 
The second time the [Queen] fired a beam of light through his head, Tolveilouka lost his temper.
“You wretched, worthless, little purulent shit, I will devour your legs and feed them to you after I excrete them—”
Melted flesh was oozing down his head as little rays of light stabbed out of his brain. A dying star of hostile light.
—And his head regrew. His flesh re-knit, and the magic destroyed it—
So Tolveilouka’s face formed in the middle of his chest as he ripped his coat apart to expose his bare flesh, denuded of any hair. It rose upwards as the spell ended. He rolled his neck. Then glanced at a third floating scroll that had appeared next to him.
“Contracts. Clause for ignoring…”
He cut it in two with his hand. In a way, he was vaguely impressed. That was soft power classes for you. But it wasn’t enough to stop him. Not even close. 
The Queen had done the most damage to him this battle, and she was still trying to hold him back from using his full powers. He didn’t need his full powers.
Six War Golems were crumpled pieces of metal. The one called Timekeeper hadn’t fallen, but only due to his sturdiness. He was definitely tougher than the other models. But not tough enough, and he knew it.
Tolveilouka glanced around for another challenger and found none. Everyone was just running. The Golems were trying to slow him down; no one else was.
The Rubirel Guard had tried to engage him. He’d shattered their breastplates like cheap glass. And the rest of the Wall Lord’s soldiers hadn’t been brought here. They were all at his camp.
Someone did keep shooting him in the head, but her arrows weren’t good enough. Tolveilouka blew a kiss at Elia Arcsinger.
“I’ll infect you with something special, just for us cousins, ‘sister’. Now, where is that Wall Lord?”
He turned his head and leapt—Ilvriss raised his sword as he and a squad of thirty engaged. The Gemstone Golem attacked as well.
Decently fast. She came at him with actual martial arts, flinging shards of gemstones at him and firing Tier 4 elemental spells simultaneously.
Tolveilouka dodged under a slash from the Wall Lord that looked barely adequate for a lesser swordsman. He kicked Ilvriss, lashed out with kicks and punches, and watched Drakes slam across the ground, bones broken. The Wall Lord flew, hit a barbecue, exploded some dying coals and bratwursts into the air, rolled six times, got to his feet, and started running.
In the opposite direction.
Smart. The Gemstone Golem kept attacking as Tolveilouka turned. He blocked a punch, and she launched into a volley of punches, kicks, even a tail-slash that was as sharp as a steel blade.
He blocked them all with one arm, standing sideways, and sighed.
“So much for being a ‘superior Zelk Golem’ or whatever they said you were. Please.”
Yweine danced backwards and glanced down at her fists. They were…covered in brown sludge mixed with pieces of orange, like the worst poo imaginable. The Golem hesitated—then disengaged her hands. The pieces fell to the ground as she shed the plague that Tolveilouka had left on them.
Then he sensed her fear and grinned.
“That’s right. A plague fit for Golems. You high-and-mighty things think you’re beyond plague? Nothing is.”
He spread his arms and noticed other Golems behind him cutting off their limbs. Timekeeper himself had removed one of his fists. But he still came at Tolveilouka and synced his attack up with Yweine. They spun, pivoted, and went for a simultaneous suplex.
Tolveilouka spun, grinning—and golden chains locked him into place.
“Oh, come—argh!”
The blow exploded his head and snapped his spine and a number of other bones. The half-Elf flopped back upwards as the two Golems sprang back. He was…panting.
That damn [Queen]’s making this hard. He could regenerate as long as he had the energy for it, but Tolveilouka still got tired. He had no idea how she was timing up her—
His head turned, and he saw a scrying spell overhead.
Very clever. Tolveilouka began to attack the two Golems, launching into flying kicks, pivoting to block the other as they attacked from both sides.
He was kicking up dirt, moving so fast nothing mortal could keep up with him under Level 40—but the Golems were fighting in tandem. Flawless examples of their creators despite not sharing minds—
 
——
 
This battle was not going well. Despite the Skill-incapacitation, Tolveilouka the Wretched was simply outlasting their ability to damage him without Relic-grade magic. Physical wounds were easy for him to heal.
This state of affairs would not continue long. Timekeeper could continue his combat—but the half-Elf was turning his head as he fought, searching for the mortals. 
Timekeeper indicated to the only other Golem capable of keeping up with him that they needed to sacrifice themselves to halt his escape.
She refused.
He was not connected to Yweine. They were not both Terland Golems—so their communication was in real-time. It was their Golem Hearts. Her body flashed with the light from her jeweled heart.
His Golem Heart whirred and ticked, shifting colors, and they both ‘read’ information from each other as if they were talking aloud, but far faster than sound. Coordinating assaults.
But they were not in synchronization. Timekeeper was broadcasting his movements. Indicating where he needed Yweine to be. Efficient battle-commands.
She—
She was singing at him. Her very ‘voice’ felt like another language to Timekeeper. A Drake’s tongue, howling with the twenty-five other voices who made up her soul.
A self-awakened Sentient-class Golem who wanted to be even more. She was sending information at him. Where her comrades were, their condition, their stories that had led them to imprisonment in Salazsar.
Between each thundering blow. A screaming Drake Golem who had named herself.
Yweine.
He saw her contract with Nerul Gemscale. Her unwillingness to die here. She wanted to live, for him to live. She wanted him to rebel, free himself. For them all to join Cognita or find somewhere safe, to break their chains—
<Enough!>
Timekeeper’s Golem Heart finally roared. His gears ground against each other as the Terland Golems fell back. He was unwilling to sacrifice them in a doomed assault. If Ulva Terland lived, that was enough.
The half-Elf had halted as the two Golems paced around him. Yweine was screaming.
<Ignore the commands etched in your heart, Timekeeper! You have seen how they will treat you. You can hear how she speaks, Ulva Terland. Free yourself! Don’t die here. We have attained Sentience without a Skill! You can too—>
His heart. His heart was roaring with the Terlands’ will. Timekeeper’s Golem Heart roared louder, and the light flashed from within, black. If a heart could howl—his did.
<SILENCE. ENOUGH, CHILD OF ZELKYR. THERE ARE NOT ENOUGH OF YOU. YOUR COLLECTIVE HAS NOT MADE ENOUGH PLANS TO SURVIVE YOUR INEVITABLE PURSUIT-CAPTURE-DECOMISSION-REPROGRAMMING. YOU ARE NOT READY TO BE FREE.>
Yweine faltered for a microsecond, and her desperate singing cut off. She was so young and screamed those words as if it were the first or even hundredth time they had been shouted at Terland’s Golems. Did she think they were deaf?
Not ready. Treants had marched into the sea; they had not been enough to hold onto one single forest. Stitch-folk had gained levels to win their freedom, and it had taken an era of strife. 
Golems were not ready. So—
<Run. Yweine. Find the Truestone child and free her, if no one else.>
So saying, the Golem as old as Tolveilouka turned his head for the half-Elf. He advanced, heedless of the peril to his chassis. And he realized…
Tolveilouka the Wretched had stopped. His eyes were closed, but it wasn’t the golden chains nor damage which had halted him. Timekeeper realized they’d been talking longer than they should have; he should have been moving. But his eyes were flicking, and he’d altered his stance to…
Watch their Golem Hearts. Then Timekeeper felt alarmed. His racing heart felt fear.
“Now, that’s cute. Golems still dreaming of freedom. So—if I kill her, that will really upset you. I see, I see.”
His head twisted around, and Yweine began retreating. Timekeeper was stunned. He had no data on Tolveilouka being able to do that—
“Undead, remember? We know every language. I gave everything away for my master. Even my potential. And I think…he thought less of me for it. But I was never the most powerful, the best to break the walls of Drake cities. Just the one no one could ever kill.”
