“The Antinium [Priest] has declared their healing btiqk ineffective. As are their ‘prayers’. They are now ill and being quarantined.”
Ilvriss gazed at her. Chema bowed and left.
 
——
 
Faith worked miracles. But how much faith for how much of a miracle? Perhaps if they were higher-level, if they had more faith…
Pawn was in Khelt.
And perhaps a certain half-Elf, on encountering Antinium resilience, had upped his plagues a bit.
Ilvriss was lying against a table, waiting for the inn to send…something. Something from the [Gardens of Sanctuary]. Or—or Erin had something in her room or a contact. He’d told the Last Light about it.
He thought he had. He’d drank, eaten, slathered himself with all the cures. He felt worse. It had just been optimism.
He was lying there when the tent flaps opened and someone cursed.
“Tree rot.”
“Get out. Sick.”
Ilvriss muttered. Someone hauled him up, despite his protests, and put him in a chair. Even put a pillow beside his head.
“Didn’t they cut off your arm? Those idiots—!”
“Didn’t do it in the minutes…”
“They didn’t cut it off instantly? Kraken’s multiple cloacae—what is with you people? Argh!”
It…dawned on Ilvriss that whomever this was, this wasn’t one of his people. He gazed up, fuzzily, then tried to get a sword. The half-Elf just pushed him back into his seat. Then he poured himself a drink of water.
“Not even ice. You people really are primitives. Want some?”
Ilvriss flailed at him, and Tolveilouka sighed. He pulled up a seat, then put his feet up. He appeared disheveled, dirty, and he kept patting his stomach.
“Sorry. Indigestion. I ate some weird eggs, and I keep excreting bits and pieces of them instead of digesting everything. Pretty tough monsters. I think they wanted to hatch inside me or something. Mostly, they make my stomach queasy.”
“You—you—just kill me.”
That was it. He was dead. Tolveilouka eyed him. Then he sat back in his chair.
“She’s going to kill me. How, uh, how likeable are you to Erin Solstice, scale of one to ten?”
Ilvriss was dreaming. This could not be reality, even for her. Tolveilouka went on after a second.
“It wasn’t supposed to go this way, you know. I was helping you. You know, common enemy? I trashed the [Ranchers] a bit, ate some cows…I just, uh, lost my temper with the dance. Nice footwork, you know. It’s hard to pull off a magical dance in a fight.”
Ilvriss tried to strangle him. He ended up flopping onto Tolveilouka’s chest, and the half-Elf laughed as he put Ilvriss back in his seat.
“Ooh, so forwards. You know, that’s the interesting bit. I’ve been watching you and that little miner. So progressive. Drakes hate that sort of thing. Always have. The City of Purity was bad about that—but they were bad about everything. No one liked them. I was there when they died, but, if you can believe this, it wasn’t even our doing. They killed themselves.”
“If…you’re going to help…cure us.”
That was all Ilvriss breathed. He’d take it. His heart lurched. If this was a Solstice miracle and the plague monster was on his side, he’d have something to say to Erin Solstice.
Thanks. And how the hell—?
Tolveilouka appeared uncomfortable. He smoothed his hair, poured Ilvriss a cup of water, and went pacing around before staring out of Ilvriss’ tent. And that way, Ilvriss knew the answer before the half-Elf spoke.
“Here’s the thing. I make things. I can see things. I can grow…well, I didn’t use a lot of my powers in the fight, but I have them. It’s usually not as effective as punching or stabbing someone. Just more amusing. But my master made me to be undying, a vessel for plagues. I never really learned the, uh, control part. If it’s just magical and I’ve made it, sure, all under my control. But once it starts living in your veins I can only negotiate a bit. I mean, sure, I could pause the effects in you, but we both know that’s a waste of our time.”
Tolveilouka leaned on a wall, and stared at nothing.
“My master could command sickness perfectly, of course. He always thought of me as a failure.”
Ilvriss just stared at him. The half-Elf spun.
“Listen! It makes sense! Plagues, even magical ones, are alive. I’m a level-less undead! How am I supposed to…? What you do is create something nasty and throw it out there. You can’t pull it back. So, uh—let’s see your medications. I reckon I can whip up a good mixture.”
Ilvriss stared at him. Then croaked.
“[Alchemy] tent.”
He had to find a damn map of the camp and mentioned Chema—the half-Elf ducked out. He came back a minute later.
“Okay, excellent. Lovely directions. Got a good look at that Golem. Here’s the thing…when I say ‘alchemy’, do you hear ‘barrel scrapings and apprentice reagents’ in your delirium? Got any Unicorn horn? Phoenix feathers? Kraken anything? C’mon, I know there’s at least one Dragon around. The stool of a Silver Dragon? I reckon I could maybe find that Unicorn and snap his horn off…”
Ilvriss started laughing. He couldn’t help it. His death was here, trying to fix the problem, and Ilvriss was going to die. Tolveilouka paced around, then sat again.
“Okay. Okay—we can fix this. Here’s the plan: I’ll just go down there and see what’s in the City of Purity. If we’re lucky, it’s now inert.”
“And there’s healing down there?”
Tolveilouka snapped his fingers.
“That would be nice. If I find some, I’ll bring it back. I, uh, reckon you’ve got about four hours. Tops. Once the tingling becomes super bad, you’ll start squishing. Then I’d grab a wand and blow your head off. Hmm. I’d better make sure this tent is airtight. Don’t need that spreading in a cloud. Same with the other tents. They’ve all got it.”
He got up and bustled around. Then he poked his head back in.
“Oh, what I meant was that we’ll get that city found. Big win for Drakes. I’ll make sure that [Princess] gets a bunch of the good stuff. Listen—you did great for your species.”
Ilvriss said nothing. He really, really wanted Tolveilouka to go away. The half-Elf seemed to sense it.
“Listen. I really was trying to help. It just turns out that I’m not much of a team player. Maybe that’s why my master didn’t come back. Not much to live for.”
He stood there, and Ilvriss just stared at the half-Elf making Ilvriss’ death all about him. Tolveilouka coughed.
“Right. Sorry. If it helps—”
“Get out.”
He left. And then…
Well, Ilvriss felt tingling. He started laughing, then. And crying. Because he heard the voice, now.
It whispered across Izril. To Ulva Terland, who looked up in her study, then went back to work. To Lord Xitegen, who halted in eating at a restaurant and found a glass. To Damia, Cecille, and every Reinhart.
To every noble of the north, the voice spoke:
 
<Heroic Quest – Keep Him Alive: Wall Lord Ilvriss!>
<Conditions failed. Quest cancelled.>
 
Then he knew. And he hoped, only—that the [Innkeeper] didn’t find out for a while.
 
——
 
Ilvriss’ will broke. He called Lyonette.
He heard the speaking stone pick up, and he spoke.
“Ilvriss…?”
“Lyonette, is there something in the [Gardens of Sanctuary]? Some—some—he was on our side, but he messed up. But I bet that means she had something to use against him. A cure. In her rooms. Can you—”
He heard a sob.
Just once, muffled, then she tried to say something.
He hung up the speaking stone. Smashed it, with one claw, shaking. So ashamed because he had heard how desperate he was.
Lyonette, I don’t blame you.
He wrote that down on a piece of paper.
Realized how that sounded and was trying to burn it. Gave up and tried to eat it.
No saliva.
He was lying on the ground of his tent, laughing. He had been in denial until Tolveilouka had come along. He hadn’t thought this was…it.
Not for him.
Not with his death waiting in Az’kerash.
“Periss.”
He hadn’t thought of her this entire time. Just Lyonette and other people. Ilvriss felt guilty, then not.
He’d see her soon. Then she could scold him.
Or was her ghost not…
Erin had said there was a place after death.
Ilvriss hoped there was. He was afraid of being alone.
He was afraid of nothing being the end.
 
——
 
He was trying…
To find something.
Something. He was knocking papers around. Swinging the last pickaxe from the City of Purity to open locks and drawers and pull himself up.
Because he wanted to live. Because he didn’t want that to be how Lyonette heard he’d died. Begging her for…
I want to live. I want to fall in love and live for decades before I go. I’m sorry, Periss. 
If I couldn’t do that—I wanted to avenge you.
Instead, he was dying in a shit-smelling camp at the hands of a half-Elf who hadn’t even meant to kill him. Ilvriss swung the pickaxe again and again, destroying his orderly world. He only stopped when he saw something glittering.
He’d hit…a pile of gifts meant for the [Ranchers] and Terlands. The Wall Lord gazed down and saw the gift-briefcases that were all the rage in Salazsar. This one was glittering, cut by the pickaxe that had left a neat rectangle of leather on the ground.
Inside was something he knew. He stopped, then bent down, laughing.
“A toll for the great beyond. Fitting.”
He didn’t really say the words. Just thought them as his lips moved soundlessly. What he’d found was…the quintessential treasure of his kind. That which his Ancestors and Salazsar coveted.
Gemstones.
The magical gemstones he’d given to Marvus. A fortune in magic, not just pretty gems. Ilvriss picked out two.
You put coins on eyes, didn’t you? Gems would suit a greedy Wall Lord.
Then he went to lie down.
He was tired.
 
——
 
He couldn’t lie down right. His lungs felt like they were filling up with something. And—this was why people used coins—the gems were uncomfortable.
They dug into his eyes, which felt…squishy. He was tingling. Rotting. The Wall Lord tried to hold them, but his claws were sweaty. He put them under his pillow in his uncomfortable travel-bed.
“Ow.”
He rolled his head, trying to find somewhere to sleep. It was like…you know when you were tired and you had been up far too long, but you couldn’t sleep because you were so tired? And you just knew that when your body finally let you, you’d rest forever?
That was how it felt. Only, the thing keeping him up was life.
Still fighting.
He was proud of himself for that. But he was so uncomfortable, and he didn’t—Ilvriss rolled over—
There wasn’t a way out. So he’d just like to rest, please. He’d tried.
He had tried.
Ilvriss turned over as he felt a haze pulling him away and heard a sound.
Crack.
His head rose muzzily, and he cursed.
“Oh come on.”
He knew what it was. When he pulled his pillow aside, he saw the magical gemstone had turned to powder. The magic was actually visible, swirling up like fine dust. Ilvriss coughed, waved it away. Then sighed.
Turned out the entire batch of gift gemstones was actually flawed somehow. He owed Marvus an apology. Magical hazard, that. Terrible. Someone else could deal with it.
Ilvriss put his head down on top of the cracked gemstone, and the other one cracked too. He just lay there. Until he realized that the gemstone fragments digging into his forehead was the most uncomfortable way to die.
It took him six tries to get up and swipe the gemstone fragments off his bed. Highly hazardous, that. Any magical gemstone above Cirozine-quality breaking was a minor disaster. They had such unpredictable effects…
His scales were tingling on his head, and he’d doubtless absorbed something magical that might give him a permanent health condition. Since that was probably all of forty minutes left, Ilvriss’ main concern was the pieces of gem that had decided to bury themselves in his forehead.
His flesh was definitely getting weaker. Scales too. Ilvriss staggered up and found the vanity. He stared at the pieces of gemstone embedded in his forehead.
“Ow.”
What a failure. Couldn’t even die right. Ilvriss picked at the gemstone shards where blood was oozing around them. They hurt.
Like actually hurt. His blood was thick and red, and they were stuck in there damn hard. Ilvriss gritted his teeth—then reached into his mouth.
Pulled out a tooth with some gum stuck to it.
“And that’s it, folks.”
He whispered in his head. His body was sagging, now. His claws scraped listlessly at the gems in his forehead. Maybe just lie down and die? His brain whispered that to him.
But they hurt. They legitimately hurt, those shards, and everything else was tingling.
Like…
Ilvriss spat blood out of his mouth; it was replacing saliva. It was yellow and red. The wrong color of red. He stared at the drool and noticed he was bleeding the same revolting mixture.
Don’t want it going downwind, Tolveilouka had said. So why…
Why…?
Why was the blood coming from his temples red? Ilvriss stared at it fuzzily. A part of his mind had a thought.
Gemstones.
Gemstone magic.
Magic…magic was powerful. Raw.
Took on flavors. Elemental. Something.
Magicore for absorbing.
Maybe—
Raw magic purity? Unicorn magic. Phoenix feather magic. No big magic in alchemists for Tolveilouka.
Magic.
One last thought made the Drake waver. His bed was calling him. But he glanced in the mirror, and though his flesh was sagging, though he had changed and forsaken so much, he was still Ilvriss.
Ilvriss.
Gemscale.
 
——
 
He was scrabbling at the briefcases. Clawing at them. Putting them in his mouth and biting them with his teeth, even as they shifted around. Swallowed one whole.
Break them. Ilvriss had the pickaxe, and he was tapping them. Each time he missed, he felt like that was the end. But then he’d break one. Pour it over his scales—and it seemed like they were sticking to his scales, or maybe that was how much he was rotting.
He had a lot of briefcases. He was a Wall Lord of money. The Drake broke more. More, until he lay under a covering of broken, glittering gems. And magic…he felt magic in the air, a thrum in his blood and bones.
It was louder than the tingling. It reminded him of that [Innkeeper] he loved.
Not like Periss. But like someone who reminded a boy what dreams were like. It felt like her [Immortal Moments], her greatest Skill. A grasping towards unknowable wonders.
Brushing eternity.
Because he could find no more gemstones in his blurry vision, because the tingling had stopped for a moment, and because that was a fine feeling to die with, if this was the last thing he’d ever know, the Drake lay down and went to sleep at last.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Class Change: Wall Lord of Corporate Opulence → Wall…]
[Skill…]
…
But that wouldn’t really help, would it?
 
[Conditions Met: Drake → Oldblood of Gems Species!]
[Condition: Body – Breath of Jewels Obtained!]
