“Where was I? Oh, right. Thanking you for your hospitality. And the Terlands. And this lovely Wall Lord, and you, [Princess]. I have room enough for everyone.”
He leered around. Ilvriss saw Lyonette jerk.
“I—I thought you were dealt with. How are you here?”
“Oh, you mean that cute trick you used to try to save your inn? Princess, Princess. I’m Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer. Nothing and no one is safe from me. I swore to drown Izril in the dead and plagues. And I shall. That [Innkeeper] gave killing me her best shot, I’ll admit…but no one was helping her, and now she’s out of the way, it’s time to feast.”
He grinned, and just for a second, Ilvriss felt confused, even as he glanced around for a way out. He saw the Rubirel Guard moving, but they’d seen Chema falling, and he was signalling them not to attack. Yet. They had to get the kids, Lyonette, everyone away…but the half-Elf was so dangerous. Could they even survive if they all attacked?
Something was bothering Ilvriss, though. Didn’t Lyonette say Erin had used him? Tried to kill him? And there was something else about Tolveilouka. Ilvriss’ hand stole to his blade, and he swore the half-Elf noticed. But before he could move, Timekeeper spoke.
“Tolveilouka the Wretched. You will be hunted without respite if you assault House Terland’s own. Remove yourself.”
The half-Elf swung around.
“You do remember me. Have we actually fought before? I’ve smashed so many of you, I forget.”
“Yes. This Golem participated in combat against the Putrid One 15,311 years ago.”
“I can tell. One of your inner gears has the tiniest mark of my plague on it. Fascinating.”
“This Golem, known as Timekeeper, was designated ready-for-duty despite contamination. The deterioration of Inner Meridian 33rd Level Gear, Chain 14, 4th Position, 4th Gear was determined to be inconsequential.”
Tolveilouka pshed as he walked forwards, and Timekeeper stepped in front of Ulva Terland to shield her.
“Everyone says that. Had you met me…well, it’d be too hard to pustulate the gear unless I wanted to surprise your masters. Too buried.”
“That was the conclusion of my [Golem Artificer] at the time. A lack of parts necessitated this compromise.”
“Oho. Rebuilding you lot, were they? When was this? I’m picturing a beach.”
“The Battle of Tiabec’s Demise is the conflict you are referencing with a 67% chance of accuracy.”
“Tiabec? They actually named it after that idiot? He was a footnote! We killed him in the first hour!”
“Nevertheless, the record remains. Eighty-seven of my original unit were de-stroyed in naval landing action with a party led by you. You personally destroyed over fifty of my number.”
Tolveilouka snapped his fingers.
“I do remember! Yes, you were poised to give us a nasty attack, but your idiot masters took you too close to the beach. Undead in the waters. Just plague undead, but we swarmed you and kept you from fighting on the ground. It might have gone the other way if some Terland ponce didn’t make that mistake.”
“Lady Yoirn Terland was in command of our forces. Records indicate she later took her own life by throwing herself into the sea.”
“Hah! Classic. This is delightful. I should have bothered House Terland ages ago, but I’ve just been going here, going there, murdering everything, you know, without a plan. As I said, that damn [Innkeeper] really gave me her best shot, but Roshal did for her. The [Princess] over there did something clever too, but nothing stops me long.”
“This is evident. Is your return a herald of your Master’s revi-val?”
 
——
 
What was going on? Timekeeper was chatting with Tolveilouka, and the half-Elf was clearly enjoying every second of it. From a historical perspective, it was probably valuable—Satar Silverfang would have loved this.
Mrsha was about to soil herself. She didn’t know—this wasn’t in the [Palace of Fates]! Sometimes, she’d seen Tolveilouka attack, but he’d never done this.
Popping out of a cake really was beyond any world she’d seen. She didn’t get why Timekeeper was chatting, though—until she saw how the Golem was speaking.
So conversationally. Shielding Ulva Terland from…
Someone touched Mrsha’s shoulder and pulled at her. She jerked—but it was Welsca! The Drake put a claw to her lips, and Xinthe was there.
“Lady Mrsha, this way!”
She mouthed, and Mrsha realized that Ilvriss’ staff were pulling the guests back. Not everyone; Marvus was shielding his family and Ilvriss his soldiers—they were all staying. But they were trying to get…
The horses. They were far enough from the door that they’d have to ride. Or run. It was…what, fifteen minutes of light riding? Call it a thirty-minute dead run.
Too far. But Mrsha was edging backwards with Nanette, using the tables to duck down, when Tolveilouka chuckled.
“Oh, my master? That’s between him and me, old chap. This is grand, just grand. Say, do you recall everything about me?”
“The approximate knowledge of Golems here contains numerous records about you, Tolveilouka the Traitor.”
“Argh, and you were doing so well with my titles. I suppose that is one, but do you, perchance, know any music from those times? Hold on—”
Tolveilouka kicked up the table Mrsha was sneaking behind in an explosion of wood. He turned, caught the punch from Timekeeper, and grunted.
“That’s the strength I remember. Nothing like other Golems. Really, did you think you were getting away?”
Terrified Terlands, [Ranchers], and other guests froze. Tolveilouka grinned, and Timekeeper barred his way again.
“Tolveilouka. Your quarry is the [Princess] of Calanfer, correct?”
“…Of where? You people and your kingdoms. You knock one down, another pops up. Yes, her. That Drake—I’m really here for the entire spread. I heard there was good beef here. So I came by.”
He grinned down at Burlise. She was shaking as she held a belt knife. Tolveilouka’s presence—it made Mrsha’s head go white. Think of something! But what flame could burn—
“If that is so. Will you agree to allow the Terlands to leave in agreement of a temporary truce?”
Mrsha stared at Timekeeper, and Tolveilouka actually pivoted.
“So I get all of them and you don’t fight me?”
“Co-rrect.”
His charge was to defend Ulva Terland. The [Lady] rose to her feet and snapped.
“Timekeeper! House Terland does not sacrifice children!”
“Oh, bravo. Did you see her shout that without dying of embarrassment or hypocrisy?”
The half-Elf applauded, laughing. He peered at Ulva.
“You do know what you people used to make Golems out of? You have to fuel a Golem’s Heart somehow. No? Ah, I see you do.”
Ulva’s eyes narrowed as she regarded Tolveilouka. Mrsha felt sick. Not just because of what Tolveilouka was insinuating.
We’re dead. I thought Ielane was supposed to—
“Shall we play a game of sins, half-Elf? Any old kingdom wins. I am not my forebears. We tossed their bones into the sea when we left Levicus. Why are you here?”
Tolveilouka bowed, then whispered to Timekeeper.
“She is classy. I’m just here to hurt you all, Your Ladyship! Won’t be a moment! Got any more offers since you can’t talk your way out of this one, old fellow? I would have probably just killed all of you and let the others live for that, by the by. Just because it’s funnier.”
Timekeeper’s heart was whirring nonstop. Golems moved around Tolveilouka, flanking him. He peered around.
“No, not those, where are the good Golems? Unless they’re all invisible. Not that one, it’s far too loud. Really invisible.”
He jerked a thumb at the eyestalk Golem, who half-materialized. Timekeeper spoke.
“The Putrid One rests in the Village of Death as it is now known. That he has not emerged is proof he remains incapacitated. Or dead. The Veltras force containing the undead have not been overwhelmed; further evidence. I have communicated this fact to Terland Golems. They will destroy his remains at any cost. An army will raze his tomb to the ground.”
Tolveilouka’s head twisted around impossibly far. And he lost his smile.
“…And you think that’s going to make me relent? I am going to rip your precious Terlands to pieces for that, Golem.”
“This battle benefits neither side. Name your price. It is concie-va-ble a Terland artifact may revive your master. You shall never acquire one if you bring the Five Families to war. Even a being of your caliber will tire of pursuit and become wounded. Die.”
A Golem’s damn logic. Impeccable, but…flawed. The half-Elf was growing more bored with each second. He wound up for a punch, spinning his arm around, and Mrsha could have told Timekeeper he was doing it wrong. If she could speak. If she could think.
It was not she who spoke, then, but another being who acted on logic, unable to feel fear in her bones.
Yweine. The Golem interrupted.
“Timekeeper. This half-Elf predates all known history. His legacy is utterly lost save for a name I do not have stored in my records except for a single location. Your erasure means his data is forfeit. I request clarity as to who this being is before your demise.”
Tolveilouka halted and turned. He studied Yweine.
“Well now, you’re not a Terland Golem. Odd. You’re not that special…but you’re clearly one of those thinking ones. Is that right? You don’t recall me at all? Servant of the greatest Necromancer of Izril?”
“The greatest [Necromancer] of any era is Perril Chandler. Or perhaps Archmage Nekhret.”
Yweine shot back, and Tolveilouka frowned.
“…Who? I’ve heard that damn name before. And an Az’kerash.”
“They are one and the same being.”
“Are they? Are they?”
Xinthe grabbed Mrsha again. Tolveilouka noticed them moving away, but he was getting visibly angry. He spun on his heel.
“You remember me, don’t you, old timer?”
“Ye-es. Only Golems and certain texts remember the Putrid One.”
“How did you forget…? No, no. I’ve been over this. Calm. I am a flower blooming in a cesspool…”
Tolveilouka closed his eyes, breathed in and out, relaxed.
“…Do you remember the expression ‘Giant’s hanging testicles’, at least?”
He asked plaintively, and Timekeeper paused. As if even the Golem couldn’t compute where this was going.
“Yes.”
Tolveilouka sniffed and wiped at his eyes.
“You have no idea what that means to me. Wait, if you recall everything—do you recall my music? My triumphal dirge? My theme song?”
His what? Mrsha tripped as she ran, and she turned her head. A longer pause.
“This is in record in part due to repeated broadcasting.”
“Play it! Play it! I must hear it again! Play it and I swear, I’ll let you live!”
Tolveilouka clapped his hands and danced around. Yweine turned to Timekeeper, as if assuming this was a bluff. But after some beats of his heart, the Golem turned. He did not sing, but several Golems opened their mouths, and music began to play.
It was…scratchy. Distorted by faint screams, the crackle of other sounds, as if heard on a battlefield. Mrsha heard the chanting of voices. Wailing pipes.
He had a damn theme song? Tolveilouka began dancing.
“Oh, oh! It is my music! Wait, why are you all looking at me like that? Does no one compose their own music? Do you just…fight each other without any background ambience? Just heaving at each other, grunting?”
He wore the most disappointed expression ever, as if this were personally offensive to him. As if this were the worst thing that had happened to him since learning no one knew the phrase ‘Giant’s hanging testicles’. Then he shrugged.
“Okay—since I can tell you’re getting less scared and just running, here I go.”
He leapt on the first of the Rubirel Guard, ripped the Drake’s helmet off, and kissed the Drake on the lips.
She puked. Then kept puking maggots out of her mouth. The Rubirel Guard clawed at her face until Tolveilouka slammed the helmet back on. The flailing figure fell over. He turned.
“Keep playing and I won’t attack you Golems!”
Then he side-stepped, dodged a spell shot from Welsca’s wand, and kicked a horse. Tolveilouka’s foot exploded out of the horse’s stomach in a shower of blood, and the animal collapsed.
“Here’s my contribution to the cookout! Wait, it needs something. You too.”
He lifted up a screaming [Rancher] over his head and wedged him in the horse’s guts. Raised a foot, spun—
A sword passed over his head. Tolveilouka caught a lasso thrown by Eni Calabie that burned across his palms from the speed of the rope. He just smiled.
“[Ranchers]. Such a funny class.”
He heaved, and there was a pop. Screaming. Eni’s husband caught her in horror as he stared at her dislocated arms. Tolveilouka began laughing, holding his sides.
“Now, where is that [Princess]? Oh, here we go—”
The first squad of Drakes charged Tolveilouka as the Rubirel Guard advanced. Mrsha heard yelled orders, Skills. Ilvriss was shouting.
“Everyone, get out of here! Ulva, get your Golems to fight! Ulva Terland—”
The [Lady] was ignoring him. Her Golems were picking up the Terland family, everyone they found, and running towards the door. But Tolveilouka?
He emerged from the squad of screaming Drakes whose limbs he had broken, legs, arms, and he finished arranging them in a circle. He dusted his hands off. He caught Mrsha’s eye.
“I’m just doing this till the theme song ends. Building suspense. You have to honor the theme song. Start running!”
Xinthe swung her onto horseback, and Mrsha was howling with the Silverfang Gnolls. She saw Tolveilouka spreading his arms, beckoning. An arrow broke on his skin as the Golems surrounding him sang.
Some kind of unholy chant. Mrsha heard massed voices singing in a thunder of music behind her. She couldn’t tell what was being sung—it was a mix of languages. It might have been stupid, but it sounded…bad.
 
“Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer! 
Perterridus! Proditor vitae—
Affertor putredinis!”
 
If you actually knew the dead language of magic, known to Earth as Latin, that wasn’t…very scary. However, it sounded terrible, and Tolveilouka was flicking his fingers to the music, smiling.
He turned to seek out another target and halted. Then his head twisted around.
“Oho. Now that’s what I like to see. I thought you were just some golden ornament. But you’re actually coming at me with a warrior’s will. Good. I was worried none such existed anymore.”
He reached out and caught the arrow that Elia Arcsinger fired at his right eye. She loosed a second arrow, but Tolveilouka just dodged it. His eyes were locked on the figure striding at him.
“Ser Dalimont! Don’t!”
Nanette screamed, and the [Knight] raised his sword overhead, then held it two-handed. He advanced on Tolveilouka, and the half-Elf stretched his legs out.
“Too bad you’re nothing near the level you need to be.”
