Her skin. It looked like it was oozing. Tolveilouka blinked. Then he took a step closer.
Lyonette began twitching. He saw boils erupting all over her body. A [Light] spell went off in the half-Elf’s mind.
Wait. Wait—was she—?
“Lyonette! Lyonette—”
Nanette wanted to shake Lyonette, but she didn’t dare touch the filth coming off the [Princess]. And her flesh wasn’t that foul compared to true rot, but the closer Tolveilouka got, the worse…she wasn’t dead, but she was definitely suffering.
Tolveilouka had seen this before. He wasn’t sure what it was; he’d seen curses, and his master had done something similar as well. She was echoing his rot. And clearly, in agony.
Then the half-Elf’s gloom faded. He began to dance in joy, ignoring the arrows sprouting out of his brain. They were tingling his head as his thoughts came together, and he saw it.
“Of course! It’s so much better than my plans! Forget it all! You lowly thing. Little [Princess], come. You budding flower. That’s what you’ll be. A beautiful bloom amidst rot. A crawling larvae—what will you turn into?”
Something not even he knew. Perhaps…something truly beautiful. 
Nanette was trying to drag Lyonette away, but Tolveilouka just kicked her aside gently. He bent to scoop Lyonette up. She was trying to get away, thrashing.
“This beats all my plans. I can’t wait to show the [Innkeeper] this. Open up those lovely lips for a kiss, my dear, and let’s be away somewhere you can rot that flesh away. Until you’re something even undead like we can love.”
He was opening his mouth, calling for the foulest bile he had to kiss into her mouth, and her eyes were wide and filled with fear. Tolveilouka was giggling now, and the undead half-Elf ignored the cold fury of Golems, the worthless attacks of mortals, the stings and arrows he could barely feel.
But the sword hurt.
It came out of nowhere. Straight through his chest, and it crackled as it burned him from the inside out. His entire body jerked, and a [Knight] grabbed the [Princess]. Dame Ushar rolled away, and Tolveilouka convulsed.
“Argh!”
That—really hurt. Like, actually delivered pain to him; weaker than the Unicorn’s purifying horn, but—Tolveilouka spun.
“Who the—?”
He whirled as the sword withdrew and ducked another slash. Stared at his assailant.
“Wh—you?”
The purple-scaled Drake’s teeth were bared, and the ponce of a Wall Lord swung again. Tolveilouka went to block the longsword that Ilvriss held. At the last second, he dodged sideways, and it scored a cut along his body.
Pain! He stared down as electricity shocked his system, and the red line closed…but slower. Tolveilouka’s eyes flicked down, then up. He focused on the blade—
The Wall Lord swung again, and Tolveilouka dodged back a step. He was coming faster. The half-Elf threw a punch, and Ilvriss went staggering back, jaw nearly broken—charged in, sword swinging, before he was even done staggering.
“What’s up with y—”
This time, the sword took some of Tolveilouka’s hair off, and he eyed the Drake’s rictus of rage.
Rage. He stabbed down as Tolveilouka rolled, kicked the half-Elf in the chin, and tried to stab him on the ground again. The half-Elf leapt up.
He was moving way too fast for his levels. Almost like he was empowered by…
A Skill. But the rage? Then Ilvriss turned and spat one word.
“Undead. Undead!”
He pointed his longsword at Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer, his eyes locked on the creature kin to the Necromancer. The plague of death that had taken everything from him.
Undead.
Tolveilouka rose, slowly, and eyed Ilvriss.
“Oh come now. That’s what you object to?”
 
——
 
Undead. Ilvriss had been told about Tolveilouka, but no one had really put that last piece of the half-Elf’s nature together for him. Why would they? He seemed to be functionally a person. Only his true form revealed his nature, and he was a rotting undead, not bones or a corpse.
It was a meaningless distinction unless you were an [Undead Slayer] or something. Or you were Ilvriss.
He had never seen Periss die. He had seen the Goddess of Death and her minions at the Winter Solstice. But he had seen Az’kerash in his nightmares. Found images of him. Recordings.
Again and again, the same kind of creatures haunted anything he loved. Worse than Goblins, Antinium, or any other group. A scourge on the world that arose from the living.
Undead.
He slashed as fast and hard as he could, and the half-Elf dodged him. But slower. Those golden chains—a Golem punched him as he backed up. He stumbled—into the blade crackling with lightning that Ilvriss shoved up into his ribs. The Drake tried to lever it up, cut the half-Elf’s head in half, and Tolveilouka shouted.
“That hurts. What blade is—”
He kicked himself off Ilvriss and backflipped to land on his feet, swearing. The Wall Lord’s ribs felt dented in, but he rose. His blood was boiling. He could feel Lyonette’s Skill screaming in him.
[Boon of the Princess].
[Temporary Skill: Nemesis (Undead) Obtained!]
[Temporary Skill: Enhanced Speed Obtained!]
It felt like every fiber of his being was telling him to kill Tolveilouka, and that rage—it was being channeled into his sword. A third time he cut Tolveilouka when the half-Elf moved to step aside. An arrow struck Tolveilouka’s foot and nailed it to the ground. Bird.
Ilvriss slashed across the half-Elf’s chest, and Tolveilouka actually staggered. His flesh was scorched and smoking. He backed up, hissing.
“Who gave you that? I know that blade.”
Erin had given it to Ilvriss, but it had never glowed like this before, let alone done this kind of damage. Magic relics.
Rage. Fury. That was the activation for this one. Just—Tolveilouka pointed at the worn blade taken from the [Garden of Sanctuary] filled with lightning.
“Wrathcaller. Where the hell did you get that from? That’s a weapon from the Emperor of Storms. He made those things to last. It’s lost a bit of charge, but it stings like hell.”
He backed up as Ilvriss kept swinging, executing the sword-patterns that he’d trained in Salazsar. But the half-Elf simply kept dodging—he jumped and dropkicked Timekeeper, and this time, he dented in the Golem’s chest. Caught an arrow, spun, and threw it back at Elia Arcsinger and took her off her feet.
“That’s it, I’ve had enough of this. I have a [Princess] to nab, excuse me. Let me show you my true form.”
His flesh began bulging upwards. He was twice as tall in a moment, and the Golems attacking him backed up.
“Beware! Plague. Tolveilouka the Undying reveals his second form—”
Golden chains were wrapping around him, trying to stop him from transforming. But Tolveilouka bent down and almost delicately picked up the [Princess], knocking aside the [Knight].
“Lyonette!”
Ilvriss charged forwards and then backpedalled, dodging a pimple that grew and erupted, spewing that foul green-brown ooze. He was running as Ulva Terland shouted.
“Xitegen! Destroy this thing! Golems, to me! Roar, hearts! [Channel Your Magic]! [Combined Thunder]—”
She was taking aim at Tolveilouka, but he was so fast he twirled, a giant, bloated monster of ruined flesh, dodging a lance of fire that shot skywards and set flame to a flock of birds it roared past. He was skipping away, still so quick no one could touch him.
Holding Lyonette. Ilvriss was running, sword raised, and he heard the inn’s staff screaming.
“Ishkr, don’t—”
“I have to try. He’s got Lyonette—! Get the box, Asgra, hurry—we have to lure him into—”
Peggy was firing her crossbow with the staff, but Tolveilouka was getting away. He was turning, a gloating expression on his huge, now completely-unrecognizable head. Jagged yellow teeth smirking, and Ilvriss knew he was going to get away—
The Drake saw someone step forwards and raise a staff. Mrsha was wearing strange, beautiful red robes, and she held a strange staff that had two sections to it. Her free paw held a wand, and Tolveilouka actually did a double-take.
“Nice robes. Who gave you them, child? Let me just take those too.”
He bent down greedily, and Mrsha heard her family and friends screaming in worry for her. Mrsha the Great and Terrible gazed up at the Putrid One’s finest servant. She was really just Mrsha the Child.
But he had her mother. So she did the only thing she could do and used her ultimate attack. Mrsha du Marquin held up a card, and Tolveilouka’s eyes focused on it. Everyone read cards.
It said:
 
I didn’t want to have to tell you this, but the Putrid One is alive. Let her go and I’ll tell you where he is.
 
Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer—stopped. His grinning face froze up. He stumbled. Came to a swaying stop.
“N—no. He can’t be. He—you—the [Palace of Fates]? Could it—wh—”
Mrsha stared up at him and held up a second card.
 
Sike, idiot. I lied.
 
His eyes bulged. His face bulged. Tolveilouka opened his mouth to roar, and the hail of Lord Xitegen’s arrows—enchanted—came down on him at the same time as fifty-some Golems standing in ranks behind Ulva Terland channeled their magic through a single War Golem’s mouth.
The flesh erupted along Tolveilouka’s back, and he cried out—before the beam of fire blew a hole through his chest.
Molten flesh ran down from the hole in his body, and he slumped over as the rest of his body caught fire—the Golem that had fired the overpowered spell was melting itself. Tolveilouka’s arm still held Lyonette—until Ilvriss slashed and it fell to the ground. Dalimont and Ushar grabbed Lyonette and ran for the door.
Mrsha ran too. She ran past Nanette, grabbed her sister, and dove through the door. Sammial and Hethon dragged her into the portal room, and Mrsha, panting, lay on her back. She heard the howling begin a moment later.
She’d done all she could. That had definitely, absolutely, pissed him off.
 
——
 
Tolveilouka regrew his half-Elven body out of the ruins of his second form. He was shaky. Both from the psychological damage that Gnoll had delivered and…
They’d actually hurt him. The Terlands had done the most damage. You never stopped moving in a fight, but she’d actually made him think—
His body was dissolving on the grass. Tolveilouka gazed around. He saw the Wall Lord guarding the door as the [Princess] vanished, her flesh undoing its changes as she got away from him. He’d lost her.
That was fine. He’d lost interest in Lyonette all of a sudden. Tolveilouka saw Ulva Terland standing with Lord Xitegen. The mortals were still evacuating, but cheering.
They’d seen him hurt. Tolveilouka nodded.
“You know what? I deserved that.”
He’d been playing around and got hurt. How many foes had done the same to him only for him to come crawling out of their chests? The half-Elf drew his sword, and the crimson blade shone under the sun. He held it aloft, and the cheering faltered.
Tolveilouka turned, and a man still cheering caught his eye. Rabbo Golva flinched. Tolveilouka cleaved through his torso, and it fell from the horse he sat on. Tolveilouka beheaded the horse.
“Fath—”
He bisected the boy. Turned—saw a Golem aiming at him. Threw the sword through the Hunter-Killer Golem with a Centaur’s body. The Golem’s Heart was pierced, and it sagged, still landing on all four hooves—Tolveilouka leapt sixty feet, ripped the sword clear, and beheaded a second Golem. Then a third.
“Ulva Terland, you must retr—”
He stabbed Timekeeper through the chest, and the damn Golem dodged him hitting his heart—Tolveilouka ripped the blade clear of his chest, and the Golem made a ticking sound. The half-Elf turned.
Rubirel Guard. Beheaded. Gnoll with a bow beheaded. He flowed from one foot to another, pivoting—and the Wall Lord swung his blade, and Tolveilouka twisted.
Blood ran from a cut along one shoulder. He turned in the sudden silence made of terror and eyed the Wall Lord. Ilvriss was panting, fueled by rage and the Relic-class blade in his claws, but Tolveilouka just sneered.
“You are unworthy of crossing blades with me.”
“Ulva Terland—get everyone else out of here.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss was circling Tolveilouka, his longsword, Wrathcaller, crackling with a thunderstorm’s fury. Tolveilouka walked forwards on the balls of his feet. He leaned back, letting the tip of Ilvriss’ sudden stab almost graze his nose. Swung under the blade as it tried to cut.
Twirling. He kept his sword held high overhead. The Wall Lord was pivoting when Tolveilouka kicked him.
Broke a rib. Damn rings. Ilvriss rolled to his feet, and Tolveilouka let him. He was conscious of more people fleeing, watching him. He didn’t care.
This was a lesson. The Wall Lord rose, refusing to show the snapped ribs Tolveilouka knew were tickling his lungs. He came in with economical swings. Tolveilouka parried once, twice, moving the sword away with his longer blade as he caught each blow along the hilt, redirecting the swings.
His free hand grabbed Ilvriss’ neck spines, and he hurled Ilvriss across the ground. Tolveilouka eyed two neck spines he’d ripped out of the Drake’s body and tossed them down.
“Last try.”
He was calming down from his rage. You had to hand it to the kid—it was a good feint. And she was Erin’s little friend, so he’d have to let her live, and the Wall Lord. He’d even shake her hand; it was a trick worthy of a Djinni. Then break her hand, of course, because you didn’t let that kind of thing slide.
And you had to hand it to the Wall Lord as well. He pushed himself up, swayed, and then came forwards slowly. Eyes locked on Tolveilouka, and there was fear there. But he didn’t run. He walked lightly now, his boots criss-crossing the ground like a [Dancer].
The grace of a man who put aside fear to fight and die.
“That’s how it should be.”
Tolveilouka murmured, and then a sneer crossed his face.
“—But you are still unworthy of me.”
The Wall Lord was trying to use his feet. He was stepping in as fast as his broken rib would allow—eyes on Tolveilouka’s sword. The half-Elf sheathed the blade.
I’m not allowed to kill him, and if I actually cut him he’ll probably die of the plague on Festration of Scales. His own tachi was a Dragonkiller he’d added plague to—sullying it with the Wall Lord’s blood was beneath it. So, mockingly, Tolveilouka made a fist and beckoned.
He stepped in as the Wall Lord narrowed his eyes, and Ilvriss jerked backwards as Tolveilouka threw a lazy right at where his face had been. The half-Elf was mildly surprised, but he pivoted. Snap kick to the side—
Ilvriss pirouetted back in a three hundred and sixty degree spin, dodging the leg. Slashed down—and Tolveilouka’s leg sang as he was cut! The half-Elf staggered. Twisted around.
“Nice Skill.”
What was that, [Perfect Dodge]? It only worked—he held still, then raised a foot and just stomped forwards.
