Kicking at Ilvriss’ groin with every intention to explode his testicles. Mid-kick, Tolveilouka saw Ilvriss’ eyes go wide, and he stepped back, bowing inwards at the crotch.
Tolveilouka’s boots missed Ilvriss’ groin by an inch—and the Wall Lord’s frantic counterslash opened the half-Elf’s cheek. Tolveilouka snarled.
It still hurt! It was doing damage—that was three tries! Okay, enough games. He actually put effort into the spinning trio of flying kicks he launched without warning at Ilvriss’ face. Swept a chopping hand down to break his bones, threw an off-kilter punch as he realized he wasn’t connecting with anyth—
The blade slashed into Tolveilouka’s neck, and Ilvriss stepped back. He’d dodged the kicks, moving around, parried Tolveilouka’s arm with the tip of his blade, then stepped in and slashed around Tolveilouka’s neck and pushed himself away.
Wall Lord Zail’s Golem-killer techniques. Tolveilouka recognized the move. He stumbled, clutching at the blood running from his throat. Ulva Terland, the [Ranchers]—everyone—turned.
Ilvriss seemed like he couldn’t believe it himself. He turned, and the half-Elf stared at him. Then Tolveilouka smiled—painfully—as a vein began to throb on his forehead, and it turned purple with rage.
He lost his temper.
 
——
 
What was going on? People were crowding the door as Liska brought everyone in, and almost everyone was through—but the [Ranchers] were staring at the duel in the grass. Even the Golems appeared confused.
Ilvriss had dodged three attacks. No one had managed that—and now the half-Elf was visibly enraged. He smiled—then bent his head, staring down at his feet. Holding stock still until he moved—
No one could see his movements. He was as fast as a Named-rank—faster. And even more unpredictable.
His jump carried him over Ilvriss’ head, where a downwards kick would have broken Ilvriss’ right shoulder—if the Wall Lord were still there. Ilvriss backstepped, sword swinging—he missed Tolveilouka’s downwards plunge, but he’d been aiming for it.
“How—”
A backhand fist the moment Tolveilouka landed, practically [Flash Stepping] to the Drake’s location. Ducked.
“—the—”
A short-range uppercut. Ilvriss lifted his arms and dodged sideways. Tolveilouka’s head tracked him.
“—Giant’s testic—argh!”
He went for a wide swing, and the sword chopped down onto Tolveilouka’s arm. He recoiled and leapt backwards. Mrsha pointed at Ilvriss, turning to Dalimont. The [Knight] was cradling his arm.
“I don’t understand it. Ilvriss isn’t that fast!”
He was anticipating Tolveilouka’s attacks! Not perfectly, but he seemed to be moving before the half-Elf struck. Tolveilouka realized it too. Slowly, he drew his sword.
“Hm. Must be [Brawling Master] or…or something. Let’s see how you do with—”
He slashed at Ilvriss’ chest, and the crackle of Ilvriss’ lightning sword blinded Mrsha. Then she saw Ilvriss.
He was blocking slashes from Tolveilouka, and when he dodged one chop that cut across his remaining neck spines, he managed a cut across Tolveilouka’s chest again. The half-Elf snarled—and Ilvriss kept moving.
He leaned out of the way of the blade, knocked it aside, leaned the other way out of a kick—and kept wobbling his torso.
Ilvriss was backstepping, but there was a weird rhythm to his steps. When Tolveilouka halted to stare at him with the same expression as the others—Mrsha saw Ilvriss keep moving.
He was—
Was he—dancing?
Yes, he was! He was pivoting across the soil, tracing the steps of a Terandrian waltz. The same kind he’d practiced with Lyonette. No—it was even more familiar. Mrsha knew it in a moment.
That’s Erin’s dance! Only, it wasn’t perfectly according to the steps. Ilvriss’ tail kept wagging across the dirt, and Tolveilouka watched it, seeming hypnotized. Then he lifted his sword—
He came forwards in a [Fencer]’s lunge, stabbing, and Ilvriss slashed across his guts. He had been dodging the lunge before the tachi moved. He backed up—and he was definitely dancing.
“You—damn—”
Tolveilouka went chasing after him. He got Ilvriss’ sword buried in his guts and screamed before twisting his torso. Ilvriss had to let go of his blade, and Tolveilouka punched, kicked, slashed—all of them misses. The Drake danced in, and Ilvriss ripped his sword out of the stomach and kept dancing.
And now he was doing the Highstepper. The half-Elf’s eyes bulged, but Mrsha was suddenly cheering. The Wall Lord was focused, sweating bullets—and when Tolveilouka charged him, sword swinging, he got in two cuts and jumped back.
He’s seeing the future!
She wrote to Dalimont. The [Knight] stared at her, wide-eyed, then at the Wall Lord. That was the only explanation for it. Tolveilouka was leaping, slashing across the ground, each lunge carrying him a dozen feet or more, but Ilvriss was stepping out of the way, even leaning under one blade-sweep.
Not perfectly. He ate a close-range punch he was too slow to dodge. Stumbled on some dirt and had to block a slash that sent him skidding—but he seemed to see what was coming.
His eyes were wide, sweat rolling down his forehead into them, but he dared not blink. Then Mrsha saw what Erin had been trying to teach. What she herself might not have learned yet.
Her magic, silly dance with its steps that you’d mess up. A dance where you had to anticipate your partner’s moves and yet never could until you learned the magic at the heart of it.
The [Dance of Foresight].
Both men were moving faster now. Tolveilouka was attacking in wide arcs, face disbelieving.
“It can’t be. You—those were rare even in my—argh! A magical dance?”
He knew what was going on. But Ilvriss kept stabbing him, and the half-Elf was panting. He looked around and saw the Golems arrayed against him. Saw hostile magics in the air, starting to track him.
But he refused to back down.
“Two can play that game, you damn amateur. How’s it go?”
He began to move his feet across the ground in a complicated rhythm, clearly concentr—
Ilvriss’ sword beheaded Tolveilouka as his footwork began to become ominous and sharp, and the half-Elf’s body splayed across the ground. The Wall Lord stabbed him eight times before the head reattached to the body. Mrsha was shouting silently, and Nanette was screaming.
“Kill him, Ilvriss!”
The Wall Lord was panting for air. He had to keep moving, Mrsha realized, or the [Dance of Foresight] was going to wear off. But the half-Elf was breathing in and out too. Sweat beaded Tolveilouka’s skin.
“Argh! Stop dancing, you ridiculous—”
He came in, wildly swinging, trying to foil Ilvriss’ foresight by the sheer speed and volume of attacks. But he’d forgotten that this was no gentleman’s duel. Ilvriss was backing up when a Golem holding a scythe hit Tolveilouka. His body began to reattach after it bisected him, bloody strings knitting together—Ilvriss slashed, and Elia Arcsinger spoke.
“[Line-Ending Inferno].”
Flames exploded around her. She screamed as her amulet protected her from the flames for all of five seconds—then erupted. She went rolling across the grass, but Tolveilouka had been hit by all the flames. He was a fireball, now.
“You—you—”
Golems firing spells at him or darting in. Yweine swung her head, and her neck spines fired off her body like darts. Ilvriss drove his blade into Tolveilouka’s heart, twisting it, and the half-Elf staggered. He kicked off, slashing, attacking the Golems, backswinging, leaping around wildly, bouncing like a grasshopper.
“Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaargh—enough—enough—”
He kept slashing, striking Golems randomly, the ground, cleaving left, right, rolling as the fires ate his flesh, and he couldn’t get them off, swinging at the Drake dodging left, right, bouncing around Ilvriss, staring at the red blood on his sword—
“—huh.”
The wildly leaping half-Elf stopped, and Ilvriss stopped dancing. He staggered, and Mrsha stopped cheering. She saw a huge line of red running down Ilvriss’ sword-arm. His clothing fell away and revealed a deep cut, down to his bloody bones. He staggered, kept himself upright on his sword, but his feet had stopped moving.
Cut.
Tolveilouka inspected his blade, then turned and eyed the Wall Lord. Just for a second, Mrsha thought—
He hadn’t meant to do that. The flames on Tolveilouka finally went out, and the burnt, smoking half-Elf eyed Ilvriss. Then the Golems and the sky.
A bolt of red lightning crackled down, and Tolveilouka split it with his sword.
“Ah, the good Duke. You know what? I think I’m done. Er—see you. Lovely cookout. There’s that famous hospitality I’ve heard about. So…adieu!”
He sheathed his sword, cast around, then went sprinting away. Ulva Terland, holding her conductor’s wand and charging up another combined attack, blinked. Another lightning bolt crackled downwards, then a glowing meteor.
The half-Elf began weaving in a serpentine motion, running northwards, audibly swearing until he was a dot on the horizon. Then…
He was gone.
Mrsha didn’t believe it. He’d just—left? She’d gotten the feeling Tolveilouka was messing with them, but he’d actually seemed nervous at the end there. Had they done enough damage…?
She caught Dalimont’s eye, and he shouted.
“Victory! Everyone, through the door before he comes back and heals!”
That moved Ulva Terland. She pointed, shouting, and Golems picked up anyone who’d been hurt and unable to leave. More people began streaming through the door as Liska cursed.
“More mana stones! I’m charging it up—”
Chaos, a babble of voices. Mrsha saw Wall Lord Ilvriss smile, disbelieving.
“Lyonette. Is Lyonette—?”
He pushed himself up off his sword, took two steps towards the door, and she saw Wrathcaller lose its magical lightning effect. Then Ilvriss touched at his right arm.
“It’s pulsing.”
He collapsed, and then Mrsha was howling an alarm as Welsca turned in horror, and [Soldiers] finally reached them from Ilvriss’ camp. Lyonette woke up and demanded the [Box of Incontinuity] to end this.
But it was too late.
Too late…
 
——
 
Tolveilouka kept running, and the magical spells didn’t stop targeting him for two damn hours. He had to find a cave and literally dig past some magicore before the tracking stopped.
That had come from multiple senders. The Terlands, the Duke…a lot of people wanted him dead.
He was not a happy undead monstrosity.
He hurt. He actually had taken a lot of damage in that battle! He was tired, his skin was burnt, he felt electrocuted, and there were cuts that refused to heal even if his flesh had joined up.
Damn swords, damn self-immolating half-Elves, damn Terlands—damn dances!
He’d done his job, though. Right? The half-Elf dug down deeper into the earth, where he could heal. Oozing like a rotten pustule downwards, wishing he’d gotten the [Princess]. He’d done good, right?
He’d cut the Wall Lord with his sword. That…hadn’t been the plan. 
It was fine! Tolveilouka uncomfortably squirmed down a bit more, like a repugnant slug. It was just his right arm. You—you know what? Magical limbs made you look far better, and losing a limb was normal.
It was worth, what, two levels? If you thought about it like that, he’d actually done the Wall Lord a huge favor. Two levels.
They’d definitely cut it off in time, right? No one was stupid enough to try and save it. How important was…? He was only a Lord of Salazsar. Not critical to Erin Solstice’s plans, and she probably didn’t even know about him, being in Baleros.
He’d…you know what? He’d just take a look around that Drake’s dig site. See if he could help out discreetly. Ensure things went smoothly or—or maybe he could go kill one of Erin Solstice’s enemies. She didn’t have to find out about this one.
…Dragons’ dangling dongs, this had not gone well. He really was out of shape himself if a bunch of low-level nobodies had actually chased him off.
The half-Elf sank deeper until he ran into a nest of glowing orange eggs. And weird little bugs which tried to eat him. He began to snack on the eggs, too gloomy to even do much torturing.
What an embarrassing day. To make it worse? That night he had a stomach-ache from eating the ‘Crelers’ or whatever they were called.
And that was about it.
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart watched the television broadcast finally end, after the presenters had pieced together all the scattered footage into something close to a recap, and experienced two moments of surreality. A novelty, for him.
The first one was seeing a half-Elf taking on all of House Terland, transforming into a super-undead monster, and witnessing a [Princess], a little girl, and Ulva Terland going after it like they were Named-rank adventurers.
He was bleary-eyed, stubble on his chin, grease from the takeout he’d ordered still on his bare chest hair, and he had a wedgie from sitting in a weird posture. Calidus Reinhart hadn’t slept.
Who slept after seeing a throwdown like that? Let alone the cookout and—and—he was still pacing around.
“I could have been there. I’m a Reinhart. I can weasel my way anywhere—Damia. Cousin Damia? Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer.”
The very name was so pretentious it made him worried anyone could say something like that with a straight face. That was old might. And—he turned to some of the other [Assassins] he’d summoned for the watch party.
Some were out of excitement and were either sleeping or had vanished. Zeomtoril had passed out with a bottle of wine spilling onto his lap. Calidus had been drinking water. He hadn’t wanted to get distracted.
It had happened before his very eyes. He kept giving orders.
“Every Rank—no, every other Rank is to enlist in this digging operation, even if it collapses tomorrow. I want agents in Salazsar. Hang the risk! And by ‘every other’, I mean 50% of the Ranks in the region. Send more.”
He wished he had hundreds now, not just dozens. Something was there, he was sure of it. Calidus was trying to decide if they could spare two Faces—and he was still thinking out loud.
“Going after that half-Elf sounds incredibly stupid. Maybe he’s got to die, but if his master’s in that village, destroying the tomb is just going to get that fellow walking around kicking our heads in, and I don’t believe anyone can survive an assassination attempt if he’s pissed. What did that kid write?”
Mrsha? He had a thousand questions to ask Selys and was only upset she hadn’t attended his watch-party. Now, Calidus turned. And his second surreal moment was this: he had a connection to that crazy battle. One he was employing, no less.
“Calidus to Guildmistress Shivertail.”
She didn’t answer unless—he heard an annoyed voice after two seconds.
“Calidus, I’m working. If this is stupid—”
