Tolveilouka shook his head. He turned—and Timekeeper leapt. Tolveilouka dodged him, grabbed Yweine, and ripped one arm off. She turned, lashing out, and he drew his sword.
Cut her other arm off.
Tolveilouka sheathed this sword again. Then he sighed as Yweine backpedaled. He actually closed his eyes and held up a hand.
“This is so disappointing. Listen. I can admire an idiot, but don’t embarrass yourself.”
Someone covered Yweine as Timekeeper swung desperately, and Tolveilouka leaned out of the flurry of blows. The half-Elf kicked Timekeeper back and swung around. Duke Rhisveri was panting, sweating, and already looked beaten up. But he walked forwards.
“This time is different. This time I understand my weakness. I have something to fight for. Back off. I’m warning y—”
Tolveilouka hopped forwards and threw a punch at Rhisveri’s face. The Wyrm rushed forwards to take the hit with his immortal-ish body and throw a punch with all the strength he had. He had learned from the [Palace of Fates]. Try—try—
The overzealous punch was actually fairly strong. Tolveilouka was mildly impressed as he ducked the obvious punch. The Wyrm had mastered strength. Not speed. Or just—he saw Rhisveri’s eyes grow round.
Tolveilouka rose in an uppercut and hit the Duke in the groin so hard he snapped the pelvic bones. Rhisveri made a sound as his feet left the ground.
The half-Elf punched Rhisveri twice, once in the dick, then in the stomach. The Wyrm screamed and tried to grab Tolveilouka in a bear hug. In reply, Tolveilouka reached out, ripped Rhisveri’s genitals mostly out, and the Wyrm doubled over in agony.
Then he axe-kicked the Duke’s head into the ground. The idiot had kept his sensations on. He turned, sighing.
Was there no one here even worth fighting?
 
——
 
A monster of old ages finished grinding Duke Rhisveri’s head into the ground. Then he backflipped, leaping over House Veltras’ soldiers as Hethon and Sammial Veltras’ bodyguards tried to mount a charge. He kicked the rider out of the saddle. Landed, caught eight arrows fired from Elia Arcsinger and Bird the Huntress. Snapped them in his hands, throwing the shrapnel like a storm, downing more fleeing men and women.
Blood and chaos—but not as much death as you might assume if you were watching. And they were watching.
Horrified Terlands witnessing members of their family fleeing, Golems dying. Members of House Veltras seeing Tyrion’s sons in danger—again—and calling to muster troops to fight…whatever that was.
Scrying spells. There were always damn scrying spells. Today, though, not as many. News channels were trying to pick up the fight just outside the Cowpat Plains. The Five Families had been made aware there was trouble and had heard about Ulva going to confront the Wall Lord already; some had been watching to see if she beheaded the Drake.
At least one Reinhart had been tuned in to watch their silly step-daughter’s antics. Cecille Reinhart was utterly frozen as she observed, save for one hand writing furiously. She was trying to figure out if this was—real.
There was surrealness to Tolveilouka. He whirled through his opponents, a cavalcade of ancient styles of combat, monstrous strength, glee, and fashion. Worse—
He paused, standing in the center of a bloody swath of violence. And he posed there, crossing his arms across his chest, throwing his head back—and Cecille Reinhart swore he was positioning himself exactly so her scrying spell caught him dead center. Then it flickered, and she swore.
“Another scrying spell!”
The image of him vanished, and a frantic [Mage] recast the spell. When it appeared again, she saw Damia Reinhart fleeing as he threw a horse at her. Cecille watched until the spell wavered—and she saw his face up close for a second. Grinning. Puffy, as if his skin was writhing—
Looking at her?
Again, the spell failed, and Cecille uttered real invectives and smoked on her cigarette until the red hot ash landed on her fingers. That was why the televisions weren’t fully broadcasting this event. They were trying.
Everyone was trying, but—
 
——
 
It was the Terland Golems’ fault. Archmage Eldavin was inspecting the scrying spells himself, and he came to a swift conclusion.
“Scrying suppression. They’re blocking most scrying spells. That’s half of it. If that monster smashes more of them, it’ll fall apart.”
Ulva Terland was known to be private, and she must have told them to block scrying spells on the area. It was half the reason why it was so hard to see anything. The other reason?
Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer was destroying the spells. He was, for lack of a better word, cutting the [Scrying] spells in half. Eldavin hadn’t wanted to believe it at first. He cursed the lack of memories of real monsters of old, beyond Az’kerash.
The scrying spells were like pieces of string that you drew out of the air and aimed at what you were looking at. Delicate, able to be destroyed, blocked, or even altered.
And Tolveilouka knew that. They were probably low-Tier magic to what he was used to, so he could destroy them with ease. He was doing that while fighting. Why?
The answer came to Eldavin after he saw Teura, one of his followers and assistants and lovers, watching the broadcast. Uneasily. She was a newly-made [Grand Mage], high-level, capable of matching a Named-ranker for pure firepower in magic.
Yet Tolveilouka had her face pale and waxy. It wasn’t the posing for the scrying spells he clearly knew were there; that took some of the fear away. But the way the scrying spells kept rippling? Cutting—only to reveal another act of violence?
His face appeared close up again, grinning. That was actual horror; the dying scrying spells were being manipulated, Eldavin realized. This time, the half-Elf’s eyes were striated as they blinked into the scrying orb. Only—there were a thousand little holes in his eyes. Like insects had burrowed into his eyeballs. They glistened.
“I am the giver of plagues.”
His voice—he hadn’t said that on the battlefield, Eldavin was sure. He saw Teura jerk back and grunted.
“It’s just a trick.”
A clever one. The half-Elf was obscuring the battlefield, giving the watchers only glimpses. It made him far more terrifying. Though Eldavin was sure Tolveilouka couldn’t counter-hack the [Scrying] spells, he gave the viewers the image he was speaking to them. For the first time, those who watched from afar felt like the monster could see them.
Fear. He was a master of it. Nightmares spreading as he wrote his face in Izril’s mind. The monster who’d destroyed farms and spread plagues. Hunting the Drake, the Terlands, the [Ranchers] fighting for their survival. Eldavin compressed his lips as he sent instructions to Sir Relz and Noass to combat this war of propaganda. Yet he could not deny…
He didn’t know how everyone wasn’t dead yet. The answer felt like it was obvious. The half-Elf was playing with his food.
 
——
 
It was a familiar dance. Scaring the observers, weakening his foe, giving them just enough rope to think they had gotten away and then upping the fear and terror until it became true despair.
That was fun…until it wasn’t, because he wasn’t allowed to kill them. Then it became meaningless, so Tolveilouka stopped playing to the cameras. He slowed, stopped.
The half-Elf was tired now.
Not in any sense that anyone had pushed him. Even the exploding head-trick from the [Queen] was just…average. If it was accompanied by an army or people attacking his master, he’d have been pressed.
The truth was that Tolveilouka was tired because this wasn’t fun anymore. It had been for a bit. But even the thought of killing a ‘young’ Golem or another scion of House Terland felt empty. This was clearly just a branch family at best. If it was actually the matriarch of House Terland, that just sucked more.
Because it meant, aside from a random Unicorn, a Dragon, some random Crypt Worm, and six odd super-Seamwalkers, the world was empty of challenges. He really was the best.
He’d never been the best. His master had been, but here? Tolveilouka was holding back.
He was doing all this to help Erin Solstice in…well, he’d forgotten the exact logic, but he was at least counter-levelling these weaklings by attacking. He had pulled every punch except the ones he threw at the Golems since they could always be rebuilt, and…no one was coming to fight him.
Where are their champions? The half-Elf with the bow could do no damage; [Archers] sucked and were limited by their arrows. The Wall Lord was running. The Wyrm was down, frothing at the mouth.
A scrum at the magic door. Tolveilouka saw people pushing and screaming to get through. All this buying time and he’d caught up with ease. The half-Elf tsked and shook his head as strolled over.
Timekeeper and the Golems pursued him, and he was just depressed. Murder a few of them so they suffered or something. Go off and have a drink.
Drakes and Gnolls reeked of fear as they made lines in front of him. None dared advance, not this foreign tribe who smelled of weak silver. Nor the Terlands cowering behind their Golems, or the [Ranchers].
No one—Tolveilouka heard a scream from above. Felt weak acid strike his back, and down she came.
Alone. Her command had been at the dig, not at the cookout. Only she’d made it. Or perhaps she’d left them behind.
Osthia Blackwing dove, and Tolveilouka felt the acid burning him. He turned, and she slashed across his face. Missed. But she kept swinging at him as he smiled.
“That’s better.”
He snap-kicked her in the chestplate, and she flew backwards. Swung as he jumped her. Snapped one wing by grabbing it and hitting it with a downwards elbow. Blood—no scream, just bared teeth.
More acid. He leaned under a sword strike. Broke her leg with a kick. Her second wing opened, dragging her back. He broke that one too with a flying kick.
Roundhouse. Three punches, each a different broken bone, and she stabbed him through the heart.
Yes! Yes! His muscles corded, and he raised his fists high and brought them down as she rolled. Slashed at a tendon. He kicked her across the ground, laughing. She bounced, rolled…
…Didn’t get up.
He waited. Beats of his too-fast heart, accelerating for real combat. The undead being waited for her to arise by sheer willpower, muscles breaking and reforming into galas. The light of magic in her eyes, her Dragon nature roaring.
He saw twitching. Her good leg spasming. The warrior did not arise.
That’s it? Then he was lost again. The half-Elf cast around. Someone was screaming her name, and arrows struck him. He looked around—twisted—and there was pain.
Faint, but this time the lightning hurt. The Lesser Dragonbreath Arrow exploded, and Tolveilouka raised his arms for the second one. It didn’t come, but up the second [Archer] flew. Bow raised. She fired an arrow that would have gone through his head. He twisted as it curved, and he caught it in his teeth.
The arrowhead was enchanted and exploded, but it was just a Tier 3 spell. Tolveilouka saw Bird the Huntress firing arrows, and the half-Elf shot him in the back. The impacts punched into his flesh, rippling, and he didn’t even bother to harden his body.
Another arrow. He dodged it, and it blew a clod of dirt away. Elia fired, and Tolveilouka dodged it without turning his head. Bird flew left, and Elia walked right. Loosing arrows.
Like the Golems, they were in sync. Trying to hit the half-Elf who turned, pivoting, dancing contemptuously amongst the arrows, twirling, leaning under arrows as the two women loosed faster.
Faster.
An arrow struck Tolveilouka in the thigh, and he frowned. One from Elia shot skywards, then fell down, and he side-stepped into an arrow that grazed his shoulder. The two drew and loosed. Their practice together, their focus—
Draw and fire. Two simultaneous arrows crisscrossing the half-Elf. Something was activating between the two. Synchronicity.
[Combined Skill: Two Arrows, One Target]. Elia and Bird drew an arrow, loosed—
The half-Elf took an arrow just under the heart and one in the back of his neck. There was a cry. Bird pumped a fist, and Tolveilouka straightened, expressionless.
The arrow in the back of his neck produced no blood. He pulled the one Bird had shot from out of his breast. It, too, had nothing on it. He dropped the arrows, spread his hands. Inviting them to take another shot. Bird faltered, and Elia began walking forwards, fumbling an amulet out of her bag of holding.
Tolveilouka ignored her. He picked up a rock and took aim. His first throw blew a hole out of a Golem’s head, and the chunks broke bones where they landed. A screaming [Lady] shoved aside a [Rancher], going for the door. He could see a Gnoll standing on the other end.
Doorkeeper. She was challenging him? Was this his hero? Tolveilouka just snarled as the door’s image flickered.
“Ridicul—”
He hopped a bolt of lightning, kicked a [Fireball] skywards like a football, but the third one blew him off his feet. Tolveilouka got up slowly.
“Hm?”
“Tolveilouka! Halt or die!”
The [Princess] pointed a smoking wand at him, and he saw she had a sword in her other hand. She’d turned at the door, and her two [Knights] were advancing. Even that Gold-rank fellow had a wand and was covering them.
One of the [Knights] had good artifacts and was throwing out expendable magic at him. The other had a sword and a broken arm. He charged across the ground, and the half-Elf smiled.
He came back. A shame—
The half-Elf saw the Drakes and Gnolls mounting a desperate counterattack as the Golems caught up. He charged them.
Then it was battle for sixteen glorious seconds. Ripping Golems’ heads off, ignoring the paltry stings of arrows and spells. Throwing the golden [Knight] into spells. Laughing at warriors stabbing him and clubbing them down, striding through them all—the huge Golems couldn’t even strike him for fear of the mortals—
The Wyrm tackled him and punched him, and Tolveilouka staggered. Snarled, and they were crashing around, throwing punches as both’s faces deformed. He kicked the Wyrm skywards and threw a spear up, turned—
Saw a little witch pointing a wand at him as her mother covered her with a sword. Lyonette du Marquin’s face was cracked, but her eyes blazed.
“Eternal Throne, just die already!”
He liked the way she said that. But she had no aura powerful enough to throw him away, nor leverage against him like her mother. Still, he hoped. She came forwards, swinging her sword like a lesser warrior, but perhaps—
Lyonette du Marquin fell flat on her face. Tolveilouka actually sagged.
“Seriously? Go ahead, try it again.”
Then…he realized it wasn’t her tripping on a clod of grass. Hello? What was this?
The [Princess] had dropped her sword. She was convulsing, puke coming out her nose and mouth. And he didn’t smell that b—
