The two Drakes nodded, and Ilvriss felt a surge of relief. Now they had their heavy-hitter, it was time to finish this dreadful altercation. The Lischelles seemed happy, and maybe he wasn’t wrong in thinking they’d won some respect for the Highstepper and everything else from them.
And Lyonette had the cake. She wheeled it out and called out.
“Everyone? I invite you to have dessert in honor of the Terlands!”
The Golem-statue appeared, and both Drakes winced when they saw it. Nerul sighed.
“A giant Golem as a cake. Somehow, that’s just so typical it’s a cliché. Well, I’m hungry enough for it. And it’s so tacky—”
“Dead gods, what a splendid cake!”
Lord Moltin exclaimed, and the Terlands applauded loudly. The [Diplomat] amended his statement.
“—Which is just what we need. Nice work. Did Lyonette come up with that?”
“No, it’s Lady Damia’s effort. She knows Terlands. Lady Damia, meet Nerul. She’s been nothing but an asset, Nerul.”
She hurried over, beaming.
“Diplomat Nerul, I am so delighted to meet you! I’d love to meet you and Wall Lord Ilvriss formally, if I may, after this—”
“Damia Reinhart! Dead gods, you’ve changed from my reports on you! I’m far too old, young lady, for any flirting!”
“My past? All behind me, Diplomat, no need to bring it up! Ha-ha! Ha!”
“Splendid, my dear. A Reinhart in our corner beats one at our backs with a poisoned dagger, but if you had any insights…lovely cake. I admit, sometimes I don’t go for the low-hanging fruit because I think it’s too banal. How did you get that made up so fast?”
Damia waved an airy hand at the cake as the first slice was carved onto a plate for Lord Moltin.
“Oh, I got it for a song when I went to Invrisil to search for Varnie. Unfortunately, I think she’s run off my money. Ha, hahaha…”
Both Drakes eyed her, and she coughed.
“…Anyways, I was worried, but I found this excellent [Baker] who assured me he’d do it for a song! He was quite the character! Molvedouka, I think his name was. Very funny man. I didn’t know half-Elves grew mustaches.”
Something about that name made a warning bell go off in Ilvriss’ head. But that was nothing to the way the Golems registered the faint conversation they were eavesdropping on—then Timekeeper’s head snapped around, and he began to move.
 
——
 
“A Golem as a cake? Ugh. I can’t count how many Golem-themed foods I’ve had. Just once, I want some originality in life. Fine, get me a slice.”
Ulva Terland was groaning as her family flooded towards the cake. Timekeeper snapped to attention, and she frowned.
“Not instantly. I’m not that hun—”
“Lady Terland. I believe a dangerous individual has infiltrated this gathering or poisoned the cake. You are in critical danger.”
She froze as Timekeeper’s head swivelled, and the Golems around her formed a circle. They were suddenly alert. She spoke.
“The Drakes?”
“No. It may be a coincidence, but a name was overheard that falls into patterns based on an old enemy. Chema, investigate.”
The Gnoll Golem was striding for the cake, and Ulva Terland’s eyes locked on it. She saw the first piece of cake being served onto Lord Moltin’s plate, chocolate, oozing with still-molten brown batter, mixed with green…
Lord Moltin hesitated as he eyed the green strands running from the cake’s interior. Rather odd choice in frosting, he decided. Off-putting. Nevertheless, he’d taken the slice, so he began to lick at a fork—
Chema slapped the fork and plate out of his hands so fast Moltin was licking the air. She thrust him back before he could recoil, and then Ulva saw the green ooze continuing to run from the cake. Then…yellow pus.
The eager partygoers made a sound of disgust and backed away. Lyonette stopped smiling. Her head slowly turned…and the pus that was definitely not frosting splattered onto the ground.
It stank. The smell was so foul that Moltin immediately lost control of his stomach. He vomited, falling onto his hands and knees, and Ulva saw other diners retch. And the pus kept coming…
“How was that in the cake and you didn’t detect it? Poison? It’s too obvious—”
The Golems around her had gone still, she realized. Utterly. Even their Hearts had stopped beating. It was not them who spoke, but Yweine.
The only Golem not linked by the Terlands’ Skills was staring at the cake.
“Intriguing. The plague-like substance does not register as magic or a contaminant to any identification spells despite clearly exhibiting said effects. It is acting as a concealing liquid, akin to neutralized magicore. To what purpose?”
To hide something from a Golem or Salazsar’s eyes, you idiot. Yweine seemed to come to the same conclusion as Ulva did. She shifted, eyes flicking to Wall Lord Ilvriss, Nerul. But before anyone could move, Chema’s circling of the cake-statue came to a halt. She backed up—
A foot kicked the Gnoll Golem in the chest as she tried to dodge, breaking out of the batter. Ulva heard a thump—recoiled in shock—and saw no Chema.
The Golem was gone, just…torn-up ground where she had been standing.
“Chema?”
A hand punched out of the Golem-cake. A figure tore out from the inside, as if birthed by the foul liquids that cascaded down around him. Bits of pus, green ooze, brown filth…and blood. He swept his hair back in a foul spray of liquids, yet it didn’t touch his clothing or skin as he walked out.
He had put on his best clothing. It was a cookout after all.
Tolveilouka had draped himself in the kind of green that reminded Ulva of pond scum. Of a mold, somehow a foul, dirty color at odds with the delicate high-collared coat he wore. It could have belonged to a nobleman with no taste…except for the buttons.
They were tiny, screaming faces made of polished brass. Oh, and Tolveilouka’s boots were filthy black. He strutted forwards, and his shirt looked like writhing maggots. White and yellow over black.
Just cloth. He carried a sword at his side. A single-edged weapon, and his blonde hair was tied back in a long, wide-ended ponytail by two ribbons down his back.
He was the most stylish monster that Ulva Terland had ever seen, and he instantly set off every alarm in the woman’s body. Tolveilouka stepped out of the cake and smiled.
“That’s better. I thought dessert would never come.”
 
——
 
It was all worth it for moments like these. Yes, he had waited for this moment. Yes, he had forced terrified bakers to bake him into this cake. Carefully altered the insides so the Golems wouldn’t detect him until it was breached.
And he had waited through the entire day and cookout for this moment.
Why?
If you had to ask why, you were beyond salvation. The answer was style. There could be no other reason. The only thing that would have made it not worth it was some idiot hitting the cake or running into it.
The other two times Tolveilouka had done this, it had happened, so he was really happy to cross this one off his list. He particularly relished the slack-jawed expression on Lyonette’s face.
She really thought she’d been safe from him. He blew her a kiss as she swayed. Then he turned.
Terland Golems and the [Ranchers]. Oh, and Salazsar. Was it his birthday? Tolveilouka scooped some of the filth he’d secreted onto a slice of cake.
“Wonderful party, Princess. I couldn’t help myself; I made you a dessert.”
He took a huge bite of the mixture, and someone else threw up. Tolveilouka masticated, then threw the slice of cake at a Silverfang Gnoll.
Someone blocked the cake, cursing. Ser Dalimont dropped his shield instantly—Tolveilouka was disappointed.
He would have loved to see what that cake piece would have given the Silverfang. Damn Golems. They’d stopped the others from eating the cake.
“Well then. Shall we get this cookout started?”
No one was speaking. Shock. Tolveilouka sighed as he stretched, luxuriating in the moment. Yessir, you had to have fun in life.
He credited Erin Solstice with it, really. His Goddess, indeed, his muse. Just when he’d thought life had nothing left to offer, here he found new joy in mundane things. After all…
He was helping. The theory was simple. The Wall Lord’s dig was in jeopardy. How did you unite such horrible enemies? Give them the biggest one of all to unite against.
Or just kill them all. Tolveilouka was on the fence about it. He figured he’d wing it.
 
——
 
Thump.
That was the sound Chema made as she hit the ground in the distance. How long had she been airborne…?
“Lady Ulva. Golem Chema has been rendered unable to serve. Threat identified. The Putrid One’s minions walk again. Warning. WARNING. ALL GOLEMS OF HOUSE TERLAND, TO ARMS. TOLVEILOUKA THE WRETCHED IS STILL ALIVE. LOCK DOWN HOUSE TERLAND.”
Timekeeper was first to speak. And when he did—his voice boomed. It echoed.
 
——
 
It echoed across House Terland. Golems in the field froze about their tasks. Citizens of House Terland and the nobles of their house jumped as the Golems swung their heads down.
The Light of the North, the giant Golem who acted as a lighthouse, moved its eyes from the seas. It looked south, and Timekeeper’s distant orders came to it. Minutes too late. Too slow.
“The Putrid One’s greatest servant is threatening the Head of House Terland. Golems, march! The plague cannot be allowed to sweep the world a fifth time.”
The Golems of the North stirred. Conferred—and then the Light of the North took a step. It ripped free from the ancient masonry of the tower it was built into.
Below, the city of First Landing that had overgrown its initial boundaries rang with alarm. Mortals gazed up as the lighthouse broke and the tallest Golem they had ever seen emerged. It was huge, even rough, simple arms and legs for a Golem meant to stand forever. A statue with glowing eyes.
It took one slow, creaking step. Then another. Across the streets, southwards. An alarm was ringing in the Light of the North’s head. One it had heard time and again.
The Putrid One. It remembered…and knew that from the Mansion of Stone, Golems were emerging.
Unsealing the doors of their own vaults. Marching past terrified nobles and storming down the streets. The vast Golems who tilled the fields. The most powerful serving Golems still active.
The ones who were needed.
Step. Step.
The Light of the North’s heart did not thunder. There was no [Lady] of House Terland to order it to beat.
But that was needed. It walked, and there was no hope for the ancient Golem. Only certainty.
When it met the Putrid One’s servant, the ruler of House Terland would need to order its heart to beat. Or it would be destroyed.
The Golem took another step as alarm bells began to ring. It had heard the commands from afar, and it took time for Golems to scream across the continent. It would be too slow when it arrived, of course. It always was.
It might be too slow already. Too late.
The Golems marched upon a foe they remembered from an age when they had resided on Terandria’s shores. The younger Golems did not know why.
They…
Were lucky.
 
——
 
“Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer.”
Ilvriss had heard the name before. Heard Lyonette tell him about it and how she’d defeated him, and Duke Rhisveri, like an Erin story. Like Facestealer, a great foe laid low by cunning.
Defeated?
He should have asked more. But Lyonette had been confident…and perhaps she hadn’t known. Erin had dealt with this monster, but even she had only—Timekeeper’s voice was measured, even now, but fast.
His heart was beating so fast the words were perfectly-articulated.
“Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer is a half-Elf from the age of the Putrid One. His nature pre-dates the Creler Wars by numerous ages. He is the greatest creation of the Putrid One, whose name has been damned to history. Combat capabilities are well above that of Named-rank adventurers of the modern era. He has slain Dragons in single combat. Lady Ulva Terland, you and House Terland are in danger. Please retreat. Immediately.”
That was what this thing was? Ilvriss felt his scales crawling. He was sure every [Dangersense] was blaring out of control, but they should have been screaming the moment that damn fake cake arrived.
“Oh no. This is all my fault. My…”
Damia was horrified. But this thing…seemed to know how to cheat every safeguard and Skill. No—he.
He was still a half-Elf. And a monster. Tolveilouka was listening, nodding in approval.
“I love Golems. They remember things properly. I recognize you, Golem. So, the old Gearboxes are still ticking away, eh?”
“Tolveilouka the Wretched. House Terland will destroy you. Desist in your actions or perish, yon fellow.”
Corde spoke. Tolveilouka eyed them.
“You have a funny way of speaking, Golem. I like it. It reminds me of the era I slept in. You think you Golems can halt me? I’ve been watching you all afternoon. So this is why House Terland left Levicus, eh? In decline. Sad, really. But even Golems break. Like toys. Your family cried so loudly when I broke their favorite ones. Like children.”
His teeth, when he bared them, were sharp. Unsettlingly so, even to a Drake.
“I miss that. Shall we dance?”
He stepped forwards, and Corde swung down their hammer. It was a fast, precise blow. They smashed the enchanted hammer against Tolveilouka’s shoulder. There was a ringing impact. The ground deformed under his feet.
His body didn’t shift. Tolveilouka eyed the hammer resting on his shoulder.
“…See?”
Corde stepped back, resetting their stance, and Tolveilouka chuckled. He glanced around, and Marvus Lischelle paled.
“You’re here. You monster.”
“Why, Marvus! Thank you for the meal, y’ken. I’ve been right pleased by all your mighty generosity!”
Tolveilouka hooked his thumbs in his belt and swaggered over, mocking the man’s tone. He leered at Aronia.
“Is this your wife? She looks good enough to eat.”
Marvus raised a fist and hesitated. Tolveilouka ignoring the hammer blow was one thing. And the stench from the cake…Marvus’ instincts were warring with his brain. But he had to do something—
There was an oath. Rabbo Golva swung up a shortsword and pointed it at Tolveilouka.
“You’ve murdered good men ‘n women and cattle! We’re going t—”
Tolveilouka slapped the tip of the shortsword off with a hand. It spun into Rabbo’s temple and lodged there. He fell, clawing at the blade with a cry.
Marvus froze. Eyes locked on Rabbo. Tolveilouka peered down.
“Huh, I missed the brain. That’s so fascinating—it almost never isn’t critical. Actually, I once hit a pickaxe into a man’s head. Got half his lobe, and he just walked off. Saw him two months later, and he was doing sort of well. Pickaxe piece still lodged in there. Even my master was fascinated and wanted to keep him alive, but he tripped running away from us, and that was pretty much it.”
He sighed. Then turned.
