“I can see you’re well-attended-to here. We’ll just be back on time for the cookout. C’mon, Burlise!”
“But Da—”
Some of the Rominets were actually eating and socializing early. Marvus just jerked his head, and she reluctantly got back on horseback. He rode off, furiously giving orders.
“Tell Aronia what’s going on. I want us bringin’ some of our best. Something to add to that! Tell your mother…they’re outdoing us!”
Dead gods damnit, it even smelled good! He hadn’t even seen some of the dishes on the tables, but some bastard had made a spice blend so damn good his mouth was watering just inhaling it. Marvus sent a rider to tell Rabbo Golva to bring out the best stuff, not just one bottle of his sauce.
It was shaping up to be a cookout for the ages—before he heard the thumping. Then Marvus turned, and his horse reared. He had to grab the reins.
“Hell’s own horses.”
He whispered. For if the Lischelles were all about the hospitality, the manners, friendly or not—
The Terlands had come in their own way.
The first Stealth-Golem de-cloaked and walked forwards, a vast eyeball with a metal, segmented neck and thin limbs, walking over some of the screaming horses. Marvus nearly drew blade on it—when he saw the Hunter-Killers appear.
Three loping quadrupeds, each one with the head of a wolf, crawling forwards. They bounded into place and advanced as a second Stealth-Golem walked into being, shadows flickering and revealing a carved face, that of a half-Elf wearing a [Ranger]’s outfit—but a Golem armed with a shimmering bow.
They were descending on the cookout. Golems marching into place, forming a protective circle. And the Gnolls, Drakes, and Humans saw them and felt the cold eyes of Golems on them.
“Dad?”
His sons and daughters jerked Marvus out of watching. He turned.
“Hurry up, and let’s get back to the house. If you’ve got anything fancier—wear it. We’ll be there…an hour early. Hang politeness. The Drakes might not be our only problem if those Golems’re here to stay. Be on your best manners.”
He began to ride faster, heart thundering with anticipation.
 
——
 
The cookout didn’t start at any one given moment. Rather, it had already started the instant the Lischelles had shown up. A few had stayed to scope things out, and so had the Rominets.
Thusly, they should be fed and seated, and Ilvriss and Lyonette began to greet them and chat. How are you doing? No, no, have a drink—we have plenty, and it’s great to meet you again. Yes, that cattle raid was us—and who is this? Charmed! Have you met Clan Leader Plisce? We’ve got a few more people with us.
Oh, you know, Humans from Liscor and Riverfarm—have you met the [Emperor]? One of his representatives is here, let me just introduce—
And so on. In fact, the before-party was drawing in the various attendees before the actual cookout was supposed to begin. Why?
Well, some of the guests didn’t want to be part of the real cookout. They knew it might get…tense. But they’d heard ‘free amazing food’ and just had to get a piece of it, right?
Nithle Calabie was not his father—old Grussel was pretty much retired, too old to ride around, but it meant he was the ‘young’ one among the [Cattle Barons]. It made it hard to deal with his father, who had his Skills and authority, as well as difficult to throw his weight around with the hard-punching, hard-talking leaders of the other families, who’d often go behind his back to talk to his father and pit the two against each other.
He didn’t like the Wall Lord or the Terlands coming south. The only reason Nithle was here was because Aronia had told his wife they couldn’t miss this event. And Eni had wanted to meet the [Princess]…
Nithle was already unhappy because he’d realized his contribution of a damn good egg salad to the barbeque was going to be virtually unnoticeable and it was one of his best creations.
“Swive me, but this is a Wall Lord’s wealth, eh? The bastard was giving out free gemstones last time. Think we can nab those?”
“Nithle, hush yourself!”
He was grumping as they stood around the cookout. But no sooner did he speak than Wall Lord Ilvriss appeared, and Nithle’s teeth ground together.
“Nithle Calabie, am I correct? Delighted you showed up.”
“We’re here early, Wall Lord, apologies; we thought we’d help out, and we’ve brought something—”
“Thank you, and nonsense about helping out! Can we get you a drink? Lyonette, this is Nithle Calabie and I believe Eni Calabie? Two of the best [Ranchers] of the Calabie family. Is Grussel here or resting? He’s the former head of the family?”
The two Calabies were taken aback when the [Princess], looking quite splendid in a flowery dress, came by.
“Oh my, it’s a delight!”
“Er, likewise. You know about us?”
Nithle hadn’t introduced himself or Eni, let alone his father, but Ilvriss shook his hand, almost confused.
“You’re one of the major players in the region, aren’t you?”
Major players in the region. Nithle liked that. His family was often passed up for the Lischelles or Golvas, but yes, dead gods damnit! Ilvriss gestured around.
“We’re not finished, but we have food and entertainments, soon—”
“We know we’re early, we do apologize. Your Highness, I’m honored to meet you!”
Eni was already blushing, but Lyonette just bowed to her as they shook hands.
“The honor is all mine, Eni—may I call you that? And your dress is stunning!”
At this, Nithle was reminded that Eni had insisted on wearing the scorpion-dress, or whatever it was called, that she’d gotten from abroad and paid a fortune for. But it got compliments from all the ladies, even the female—[Knight]?
The man was so startled to see the golden [Knight]—had he missed her last time?—that he took the drink Ilvriss handed him and sipped it. Then he was walking around and hissing at one of his brothers.
“Nithle, Nithle—should we go back?”
“No, we’re here, let’s just take a look around and—tits on a Kraken, is that a Drake?”
The largest damn Drake he’d seen in his life was standing at a table, loading a plate up with meat. Nithle’s brother, Oxfen, turned.
“Dead gods, that’s the Sinew Magus! You remember when I rode to House Ulta for salt? I swear I saw his image all over the cities! And who’s that woman with a bag on her head?”
“That’s got to be Lady Pryde—what’re they doing here?”
The two men hesitated and then saw Grimalkin begin housing meat like it was water. He was eating with a will and commenting to the [Lady] shovelling down food with equal vigor.
“This might not be the healthiest meal, but Ancestors, it was worth the break.”
“We’ll have to steal as much as we can carry. I told you it was worth coming out here for.”
“You are, as ever, correct, Pryde. Where’s Valeterisa?”
“Inspecting those Golems. Tell her we’re not staying—I’m not dealing with Ulva. She’s prickly.”
“She’s prickly.”
“Yes, and I’m saying it. Where’s Relc? Relc, go get Valeterisa!”
Another huge Drake turned from where he was salivating over more of the food and went running off—and he was fast. Nithle reckoned he knew the name ‘Relc’ from somewhere. The television?
He was just deciding to walk over and introduce himself to the [Lady] and maybe the Drake, even if he was a Drake, when he saw—Nithle’s hand went for his belt.
“There’s a Goblin there.”
“What?”
Oxfen laughed. He thought Nithle had gotten into his drink too much, but Nithle pointed.
“There’s a damn Goblin with a chef’s hat preparing the meat! Does no one see it? Let’s—”
He finally got his belt knife out, casting around for his people, when someone put a hand on his shoulder.
“Aha, I thought this would happen. Don’t worry, he’s just the [Chef]. Imani, dear? Tell Calescent he’s running out of time.”
“Who—”
A Centaur smiled down at Nithle, and his jaw dropped. Palt handed Nithle a cigar.
“Cigar? I’m Palt of Barehoof Kitchens. [Mage] of Wistram, pleased. That’s one of our [Chefs].”
“Wh—hell—that’s a G—”
“Yes, yes, but you notice that no one’s killing him? Just pretend he’s not there. Even Archmage Valeterisa doesn’t mind. Oh, and there she is.”
“But—”
Then he saw the woman flying down. Like someone out of stories, and Nithle was ashamed to admit it later, but he completely forgot about the Goblin. He just stood there, open-mouthed and when Valeterisa landed and began stealing food, he ran up like a boy to shake her hand. No sooner had he done that than Courier Salamani walked past with Ci the horse.
A Courier. But the group of [Mages] were, as it turned out—not welcome? A girl wearing plaid was chasing the lot of them, waving her fists.
“Valeterisa, you can’t eat all our food and run off before the cookout starts! Put that back! I saw you pulling a Telim!”
“Who’s stealing all our food?”
Imani turned from where she was cooking, wrath in her eyes, and Valeterisa instantly turned invisible. Grimalkin and Pryde began shovelling meat into their bags of holding, and—Nithle was grabbing his brother’s arm.
“Oxfen, tell Dad to get out here! He’s going to miss meeting—get everyone who wants to meet the Archmage of Izril, hurry!”
His brother had to be kicked to go riding back the way he’d come, and Oxfen vowed to never let Nithle hear the end of it if he missed meeting the Archmage. That was how more people began arriving. The Golvas rode up early, having heard about—
“Is that a damn Goblin?”
Rabbo nearly leapt off his horse in horror, but Nithle was pointing.
“Nevermind that, Rabbo. Look, it’s that fellow! The Flying Gnoll of—”
“Felkhr! I don’t recall inviting you!”
They were scavenging the cookout! The Flying Gnoll of Pallass was grinning at Lyonette as she stormed over, then caught sight of Xif. The Pallassians had used the door from the inn and were raiding the buffet! The last straw was when she caught Jelaqua sneaking into the barbeque with a group of young people she’d promised free food to.
“That’s it! No one enters this cookout who’s not invited!”
“But Lyonette, you wouldn’t turn away a bunch of orphans, would you? Have a heart. We’ll just eat and go before the Terlands show up—”
Jelaqua and her group activated [Pitiful Expressions], and the [Princess] hesitated, only for the other [Rancher] families to assure her they had food to make up for whatever the guests stole. The [Princess] glanced at the grinning Selphid, then developed a sinister smile.
“Of course, where are my manners? May I introduce Jelaqua Ivirith, the Gold-rank adventurer? And Master Maughin of Pallass, the best [Armorer] in the entire Walled City? Master Pelt, the greatest Dwarven smith in Izril—get over here!”
She pointed out the trio, and Pelt swore as he turned—only to see everyone coming at him. Lyonette smiled as Jelaqua sighed.
If you’re coming here to eat, you’re paying for it! Then she saw a man with extraordinary thighs—and an aura—covertly loading up his plate.
“Lord Xitegen, I’m afraid a Goblin helped prepare that. What, er, are you doing here?”
Xitegen froze as his serving Golems secured drinks and a chair for him. He eyed the food, then stuck his fork in a sauced piece of bacon.
“As distasteful as it may be, Lyonette, I will force myself to choke down the food for I am nothing without good manners. I heard someone was stealing all the food. Is this Salazsarian bacon I’ve heard about?”
“No, that’s just—”
Xitegen instantly handed the plate off, grabbed a fresh one, and found the Salazsarian bacon. He began to eat. Lyonette stared at him.
“Aren’t you here early?”
“Aren’t I the guest of the hour?”
“Do you think you’ll have room in your stomach for the actual cookout?”
He slapped his stomach.
“Miss Marquin. I realize you, as a small-stomached individual, doubt me. I assure you I’ll have room. Now, objectionable Goblin, what’s the best food here?”
The objectionable Goblin thought about it.
“Try the fancy burgers before someone eats them all. They very good. Fancy.”
Xitegen Terland eyed said burgers, which had details like panini patties, a load of toppings, were perfectly rare, and had an assortment of dipping sauces on a plate. It might be impossible to unhinge a jaw enough to actually take a full bite of the biggest ones, but Mrsha was giving it a shot.
She sidled over with a second plate and offered it to Xitegen as he stood there, inspecting a buffet that even he, in his Terland richness, had not dreamed of. Seconda took it for Xitegen, and Lyonette threw up her hands.
“Oh—suit yourself!”
Mrsha and Xitegen locked eyes as they chowed down. After a few bites and gulps of juice, he spoke conversationally.
“Just so you know, this doesn’t endear me to Salazsar…much. We’ll just refrain from destroying their pig farms when we attack the City of Gems. And I’m not the worst Terland, for once. You think I’m difficult? My Aunt threw me out of the carriage the other day for giving her lip. She’s not going to be won over by three Archmages or this delightful bacon. How’s the burger?”
Beyond salutary, Xitegen. I’m just here to eat. My mother’s the one who has to get down to brass tacks, brass balls, or presumably something made of brass with Lady Ulva.
He chuckled.
“I notice you have a commendable appetite and have secured the finest vittles. I would have expected your mother to wrangle you with a leash like I hear they do in Calanfer.”
For a moment, the Gnoll girl stopped eating. She scribbled in the air with a glowing paw.
She stopped when I nearly starved to death.
“Ah.”
Xitegen paused in his eating for a second and eyed Mrsha. It hadn’t been that long since he’d seen her, and she couldn’t have…unless this was some horrific backstory he’d hither-to not been told of? But one look at her and he believed her.
Survivor to [Survivor]. After a moment, he glanced around.
“I see. My condolences. Also, may I congratulate you on the bowtie? It’s a fine day to be alive.”
Absolutely, and thank you. You should save a tiny bit of room for the cake, Xitegen.
“…What kind of cake?”
 
——
 
By the time Ulva Terland arrived via the inn’s magic door, Archmage Valeterisa was flying off. She’d literally taken off the moment she sensed Ulva’s aura, and she was flying—if somewhat unsteadily because she seemed worried she’d puke out her stomach if she moved too fast.
Most of the other inn’s friends had already scarpered. Which annoyed Ulva, because she’d wanted to meet Valeterisa.
However, she was House Terland, and she did not show up early, but slightly late for this gathering, and she refused to be impressed. She wore a half-scowl on her face as the entire cookout stopped to announce her.
