“After seeing the lands here myself, I do not find the three noble houses’ complaints valid. Each one left these lands when the Goblin King struck. Some to cowardice, others for lack of arms. The reason matters not. None of the houses has the strength to claim their holdings. We do not have enough nobles of Izril. As fortune or fate wills it—I do not need to go through the tediousness of assigning new classes. [Baron] shall do, even if it is [Cattle Baron].”
What was she saying? Everyone but her family was slow to catch on. Nouzcrat had given Ulva an alarmed look and begun to speak, then eyed the [Lady]’s changed appearance and sunk back into place with a sigh. Lyonette’s mouth opened.
“Ilvriss, is she…?”
“I think she just did.”
The Lischelles didn’t get what was meant either. Aronia was bristling like a porcupine, about to spit something back, when she saw Colfa gesticulating frantically with Nanette. The two were doing rapid sign language, waving their hands, trying to say…
All the Lischelles stared at the two dancing about until Mrsha slapped her forehead and wrote in big letters over her head:
She’s making you nobles.
“What?”
Aronia shouted and leapt up. The sentiment was echoed.
“What? Great Aunt, are you mad? They’re manure-shovelling [Ranchers]!”
Alorelle was utterly appalled. The Lady of Stone stepped forwards, and Aronia flushed. Her hand twitched—and Ulva spoke.
“Bodyguard, slap her.”
The personal bodyguard of Lady Alorelle slapped her so hard she twisted around. Ulva eyed the Golem.
“Hmm. That was harder than I expected. Someone’s Golems are not happy with her. Let that be a lesson about something. Rise, Lischelles. You kneel to no one ever again. Next!”
That last snap was purely Ulva. But when she smiled, there was a ghost of Petria Terland in her. The Lischelles were getting to their feet.
“Us? Nobles?”
Marvus seemed like he’d been kicked by Big Burlap. He and his wife were stunned, and Ulva nodded at them.
“Those who tend the land own the land. We are not [Kings] or [Queens] to dole it out. What you take, you keep. The reason Laken Godart is allowed to exist is because he was needed and there was no one who held his lands. But his empire shall endure as long as he is just, and not beyond his lifespan. No heirs. No monarchs on Izril’s soil. That is no saying, but a promise. We’ll get the Serpentine Matriarch eventually. Now, the next family.”
She beckoned impatiently at the Golvas. They were frozen, not sure if this was some huge prank. When they turned to Ilvriss and Lyonette, the two shrugged.
This was new to them as well. Neither Wall Lord nor [Princess] had ever seen noble titles being given out this…liberally! However, Ulva was brisk, and she let each family have their moment.
After the third family, the silence began to break. Applause sounded—by the time she got to the fourth [Rancher] family, their people started cheering. When the last group rose, there was a long silence—then a whoop.
Rabbo Golva slid on his knees across the ground with a drink in hand, and the band began to play as he leapt up and did a jig. Then Marvus swung Aronia around, laughing, and there was dancing, celebrations—
Not all of the [Cattle Barons] were so exuberant. Marvus was overjoyed when the shock faded, but Colfa saw her sister’s face was full of reserve. A weight upon her and trepidation.
Not just her—she recognized Nithle Calabie biting his lip and speaking to Ulva before she bestowed his new rank upon him. She spoke down to him, and he knelt—slowly.
Nobles. Colfa had grown up sneering at the idea of the nobility, knowing them only as greedy thieves who employed thugs by a different name. Now the [Ranchers] were that nobility. To some, it was bitter or as if Ulva had dumped more difficulties on their lap.
But that was one of the Five Families for you, wasn’t it? Ulva noticed Colfa looking at her. She returned the gaze until the Vampiress bowed and ducked her head. And the [Matriarch] of House Terland dismissed her.
I do not have the time nor interest to deal with you, Vampire.
Ulva Terland just sat there as Lyonette and Ilvriss walked over. She didn’t need to beckon them. She just spoke to the air.
“That [Cattle Baroness], Aronia? She appeared ready to kill me. What kind of slap Skill does she have?”
“[Bull’s Slap] or something. It turns bulls.”
Lyonette spoke, and Ulva glanced at her.
“I was speaking to my Golems, not you, [Princess]. Fine. Lady Zanthia teaches [Ladies] how to slap, but not that hard. I’d give good coin to see her and Magnolia Reinhart determine who’s stronger. I was never good at that stupid trick. But it will do. This lot seems sturdy enough. We need new blood. They’ll fill the ranks of the Flowers of Izril well enough. It’s no kindness. When we are called to drive the Witch of Webs back or face the Goblin King, they will be called upon too. If they fail, I will prune them.”
“Is that the way the Five Families do it?”
“I have no doubt my peers and traditionalists will hold me to task. It normally takes a quorum of peers. I am that quorum with my family here. Enough to satisfy any requirements. Moreover, I need less tradition. Golems, witness me.”
She turned, and Timekeeper and all the Golems standing around the party spoke.
“ɪᴛ ɪꜱ ᴡɪᴛɴᴇꜱꜱᴇᴅ.”
That unified, dispassionate voice. Lyonette du Marquin shivered, and she and Ilvriss drew closer. They stood before one of the leaders of the north. Ilvriss wondered if it would have been like this, facing Zail in his prime. But Salazsar was an entire city. A fifth of the Five Families’ will was one [Lady].
Ulva Terland sat on her floating dais and spoke.
“Well? You have your audience. Give me one reason not to have you killed.”
“Has my uncle not been in touch, Lady Terland? I rather hoped he could speak for me.”
She snorted as Ilvriss bowed slightly.
“He gave me reasons the rest of the family would hear. Not I. You are digging for the City of Purity.”
Ilvriss started, and she rolled her eyes.
“That was obvious. The Golems tell me it is folly to unearth. Why should I ignore the voices of stone and let you dig up armageddon? Whatever lies down there, it killed the Drakes there. Do you think you’ve brought enough to stop it?”
That—was a really good point. Lyonette had never gone over what Ilvriss expected to find down there, not really. The Wall Lord took a deep breath.
“With respect, I do think I have some protections, Lady Terland. Your Hunter-Killer might have nearly assassinated me, but I have standing forces. The Rubirel Guard, the Erchirite Spears—”
“Dead and dead if we warred. My Golems say it is too dangerous for them. You are one Drake.”
“I am not alone. I have the backing of the City of Gems.”
Ilvriss was trying to be polite, but Ulva was back to being snappish. She glanced past him.
“You’re no Zail Gemscale. He was a [Swordmaster]. You don’t have his levels. You don’t have an army.”
“I am here because someone must be!”
Ilvriss snapped, and her head swung back down. Lyonette tried to smile and soothe things over.
“What Ilvriss means is—”
“What I mean is that I have The Wandering Inn and a [Princess] on my side! A [Princess] who’s higher-level than most damn monarchs!”
Ilvriss put an arm around Lyonette’s shoulder, and she jumped. She hissed.
“Ilvriss!”
He raised his voice as Ulva lifted one eyebrow.
“A runaway [Princess] is your best asset.”
“A [Princess] who has breached Level 40 before turning twenty. A genius not even Lord Xitegen can match for sheer youth! Or are Level 40 [Princesses] that weak, Lady Terland? I have the Silverfang Tribe, a mandate from General Sserys, and the need to be here. We all do! Zel Shivertail did not die for us to war!”
Ilvriss was not under a [Silence] spell. Lyonette saw heads turning, the music dying down, but the Wall Lord ignored her hands trying to muffle him. He jerked his head around her as she shushed him. Pointed a claw at Ulva.
“I have been respectful as I can be, Lady Ulva! Ancestors witness me, I have a temper and ego, but I have done my utmost to come here tactfully, aware of all the sins of my forebears! But you cannot be blind! Or has Xitegen told you the Winter Solstice was nothing more than a friendly dustup with a few zombies? More is coming! Or has a war in the Meeting of Tribes not shown that? The New Lands rising? The King of Destruction waking would be reason enough to dig!”
“House Terland is not blind, Wall Lord. I am not impressed with the King of Destruction’s little return or the Meeting of Tribes. As for this Winter Solstice, I take my own council. Not that of Walled Cities.”
She was the model of indifference, which Lyonette took to be a calculated move. The Quarass and her mother were experts in the same thing that Ulva was doing. Give nothing away unless you wanted to. She wished she were so good, but she couldn’t be. Nor could Ilvriss; his eyes flashed. Lyonette almost went to stop him, but let him try.
“What about the Goblin King, Lady Ulva Terland?”
That made Ulva stop. When her head rose, mouth opened, Ilvriss cut her off.
“He did return, and it was him. I was not there but I believe it. Anyone who has ever seen him would remember. Do you call that a normal event? Two Goblin Kings in a century. What of the Seamwalkers that Drath and the Iron Vanguard fought? Ask them; one destroyed the Eir Gel island. They’re the reason healing potions can no longer be made. This world is changing, and this is why I dig.”
The murmurs from the Terlands behind Ulva were growing louder. At first, they had sneered or scoffed at Xitegen, echoing Ulva’s attitude and their family’s. But though some might deny these events had happened, Lady Ulva?
No. Not the Goblin King. She met Ilvriss’ eyes and there was a flash of something. A break in her armor. Then her voice cooled down again.
“So the hour has come to awaken more Golems, to rouse the Five Families to action. I am not blind to that. But when a Drake comes to me and says, ‘take my claw, let us stand together’, I go down to our family tombs. And count how many of my predecessors died of being stabbed in the back.”
“I am not my ancestors, Lady Ulva Terland—”
“Hah. We shall see. Your arguments are entertaining, if nothing else, but when a stranger comes to my door shouting for me to take their hand? You do think too much of yourself, Wall Lord of Salazsar. You are not the man who could stop one of the King of Destruction’s vassals, let alone the rest of what you spoke of.”
Ulva Terland was inspecting her fingernails, which Lyonette realized had a very light gloss on them. They, too, had been grey until she activated her Skill. Now she even seemed less old and lined. Ilvriss hesitated, and Lyonette jumped in.
“It’s true that Wall Lord Ilvriss is underprepared for the threat, Lady Ulva. He can’t deny it. He can barely beat those [Ranchers], and that’s partly because he doesn’t want to spill blood, but he’s not ready for a Walled City under our feet.”
Now he was trying to shove her, glaring. But Lyonette went on.
“And—stop shoving—you know what? That’s fine. He is still in the right position and the right time! Already, his subordinates are counter-levelling! That’s why even people like Lady Damia have flocked to his banner! If the Walled Cities were smart, they would have all sent resources and manpower! There might be suffering, but look what the dungeon under Liscor has done for the city! The Golems fear what the City of Purity might be. Golems do not level.”
For a moment, Lyonette thought that the Golem known as Timekeeper nodded fractionally. Ulva’s eyes swung to his face, then she leaned forwards.
“Even were I to accept both explanations, I still object to you, Wall Lord Ilvriss. You are a Drake. If I took that argument, I would just seize your enterprise myself and put Xitegen in charge.”
“Great Aunt, I don’t dig—”
She silenced him with a look. Ilvriss stepped forwards, and Lyonette held her breath. He barked back—
“Go ahead.”
Even Ulva blinked at that. Ilvriss gestured at Xitegen.
“By all means, put Lord Xitegen in charge! I cede it to him. Let’s have a contract. Let the Lord of the Thighs take over the digging work!”
Marvus snorted into his cup at Xitegen’s nickname. Ilvriss’ eyes glittered dangerously.
“Having known Lord Xitegen, I am sure he has ample expertise in running a mining operation. Safety protocols, people for that—I welcome him to do the work. Oh, and to deal with all the flies. They carry diseases, and they need constant killing. Not to mention the cost of this enterprise is destroying me with virtually no yield in this damn soil! And the smell! Do you know what our nose plug budget is? Please take it from me! Let’s see how well the Golems do when they hit their first liquid magicore patch and it drains their Golem Hearts dry!”
Even the Golems were mildly alarmed at this, and Xitegen was making ‘x’ motions at his aunt, but she just sat there. Ilvriss took a breath.
“I’m happy to cede this project. I tell a lie; I’m not happy, but I’ll do it. I’ll even cooperate, but no one asked if I wanted to cooperate. In fairness, I didn’t think to ask. That’s my fault. But you assume I have come to grab. Here.”
He strode forwards, and one of the Golems intercepted him. Ilvriss slammed down a briefcase in Corde’s hands, flipped it open, and gestured.
“Pickaxe! Get it appraised! I’m no fool! Yes, I’m a damned Drake, and we’re greedy, and we can’t give anything away—so what? We’ve been Drakes for aeons and not killed each other because we have laws! Protocols! Ways to enforce collaboration! Do you think I don’t have shareholders?”
He glanced around at everyone. They stared at him, and Ilvriss paused, rubbed at his forehead.
“…You savages don’t know what shareholders are, do you? I refuse to apologize for that comment. Lady Ulva, if you are going to evict me and my people, I insist on at least negotiating. Because this is what we have dug up. And you are no fool.”
He held up a helmet, and it looked ordinary to all those without the senses of a Golem. Ilvriss placed it back down.
“We have struck Truegold in the mines. Leaving it is the biggest waste of all. We know where a fortune is. Is it the will of the Terlands to leave treasure buried? I cannot believe you have survived this long with that mentality.”
He stepped back and realized he’d just been shouting at the woman he’d come to persuade. Ilvriss colored, adjusted his suit, wiped at his sweaty scales, and coughed into a hand.
