When she turned her head, Colfa flinched. Then her eyes flashed with fury, but Aronia wasn’t wielding the knowledge as a weapon. She just seemed heartbroken. So Colfa swallowed.
“How did you know…? Who told you? Himilt?”
He’d never been here, to her knowledge. Had he written to Aronia behind her back? The Human woman just smiled, bleak.
“It was years ago, Colfa. Sometimes, I’d check on you, just by way of gossip or whatnot. No one really knew your family, so I put out a request. Bought information. There was an informant or some such in Reizmelt. They were very cautious about what they gave me. I think they looked up who I was, but then—they wrote it down. More than I’d known.”
Colfa’s eyes closed.
“Fierre. That little—she must have been just starting out. She made so many mistakes.”
“Aye. Telling me all that was wrong of her, but—daughters. I’ve buried two children. One stillborn. The other fell off a horse.”
“I’m so sorry.”
Was she supposed to reach out here? Should they hug, embrace? The urge came and went, and neither woman moved. Not here, with the cookout going. Later, perhaps, they’d find a drink. But Aronia saw Colfa glance downwards.
“It was selfish of us. Selfish to want children knowing we were…sick. Now, they’re gone, both of them. The house is empty, but perhaps it’s as well; it’s too dangerous at home.”
“My home suffers no bandits nor anyone else.”
Aronia glanced at Colfa’s too-white skin, the pointed teeth she’d never had, her red eyes. Colfa just blinked once, then turned away.
“It’s not strong enough for everything, Aronia. I like where I live.”
“City woman.”
The insult was mild. Colfa just smiled and nodded, and Aronia’s chest eased. But that left an issue just as large between them, so she brought it up as she jerked her thumb towards the [Ranchers]. Braced herself again. Aronia scowled.
“You’re bringing Marvus around. That fool can be swayed by a few gifts and a decent cookout. I know better. I thought you did, Colfa.”
“Ilvriss is no monster, Aronia. Sometimes, we’re told things about other people, and they’re just plain wrong. Drakes are good and bad, and he’s one of the best.”
“…Is he? Then if I ask you something, on your children’s lives, will you tell me the truth, Colfa? I’m asking you on family, for the sake of us growing up as sisters. Lie to me and you’re dead.”
Aronia didn’t turn, but Colfa felt her skin crawl. That…she put her cup down on a table.
“What’s gotten into you? You’ve only asked me like that once before.”
About whether I was serious about Himilt. Aronia just stood there, not letting Colfa see her face.
“There’s a half-Elf causing trouble around our lands, Colfa. Around all our lands. Did the Wall Lord send him?”
“A half-Elf? What does he look like? What does he do?”
Instantly, Colfa thought of a certain monster that Lyonette had been warned about. Aronia’s voice was hard.
“Answer the question. Did the Drake send him?”
“No. No, I swear on my children, Aronia. If that monster’s the one I’m thinking of, he’s hit all of Izril this last winter. I’ve heard from [Farmers] in Rheirgest, near Celum, and farther north than Reizmelt. He’s burned fields and plagued lands. He nearly attacked House Byres before someone ran him off.”
At last, Aronia turned, and she seemed relieved, if alarmed.
“Are you sure?”
“His name is Tolveilouka. Ring a bell?”
From the way Aronia’s face stiffened, it did. Colfa lowered her voice.
“I was told he did the same in Drake lands. He’s a true monster, Aronia. I saw him pushed—just once—and I think I’d rather see an Adult Creler than that. Don’t tangle with him.”
“It’s not us tangling with him, it’s him laying waste to entire herds!”
“What’s he done?”
The two began whispering, and Colfa grew more alarmed as she realized that the plague of Tolveilouka had come to her former home. She was searching around for Lyonette—but the [Princess] was still occupied with no less than Lady Ulva.
And worse—
Her mother.
 
——
 
Queen Ielane du Marquin was negotiating with Ulva Terland, ruler to ruler. She did this as she prepared a speech for a parade in Calanfer.
With her daughters Shardele, Ellet, and Menisi, though the last of whom was not welcome. Things were changing in Calanfer, but she stood as makeup was applied to her, speaking briskly. Ulva knew what lay behind the Queen of Diplomacy’s charming mask.
“If my daughter has offended House Terland, we shall make amends.”
“And do you speak for this Drake, Queen Marquin?”
Ulva was less blunt, but still coming at the matter like a hammer to a nail. However, the Queen of Calanfer was better than her daughter—and quite enjoying herself.
Mostly because a simmering Lyonette was quite aware of who was talking to whom and hiss-shrieking at Ushar to get her mother out of her way! However, Ielane just chuckled.
“We aren’t opposed to this version of Salazsar. You might look twice, Terland. And we shall incentivize any willingness to diplomacy on your part, despite the inconvenience.”
“With little contracts and promises you cannot afford in your war?”
Ulva snorted, and Queen Ielane was all smiles.
“Your family is not doing well in the New Lands, Lady Terland. Golems run out of mana too quickly, but there is value there, so we believe. It would behoove Terandrians and former-Terandrians to stand together, would it not?”
“I will consider the offer, but if that is the best you have…”
Ulva was rolling her eyes when Ielane spoke.
“For all her faults and, perhaps, impatience to be free of me, my daughter is capable enough. Consider allowing her a moment to speak, Ulva Terland.”
“A minute of Calanfer in your ear is as bad as a second on Kaaz’s dueling courts.”
“If Terland says so with the wisdom of Golems, what is Calanfer to argue? Trade between continents is restarting, but no trade route remains intact. Calanfer’s ports may well replace Pheislant if currents so allow. Or Nadel. Would a trade treaty between our ports suit?”
It would suit, which made Ulva grit her teeth because why was everyone pushing for this damn Drake? She muttered a farewell and hung up the scrying orb.
“Let the [Princess] wait. Let’s see if she has a temper.”
She spoke to Timekeeper, and Ulva finally took a piece of meat and chewed it—it had been thoroughly tested by Golems for poison. She chewed, swallowed—
It was annoyingly tasty. She made the Golems get her more and thought of Petria.
Petria would be circulating the tables, apologizing for her dour sister, gobbling down food, and making merry. Petria, dead.
Waking up from her grief did not diminish it, but made it sharp once more. Ulva Terland stood, alone, with nothing but the hammer of Terland’s might, none of the ability to rest and love what it was.
Goblins had taken that from her. Now, she was one half of a two-woman act. And so…she closed her eyes.
Almost time. She would give the Drake his chance. She’d seen him giving out…objects.
“Timekeeper, the quality of those artifacts?”
“Beyond modern-day, Lady Ulva.”
“So he’s giving away artifacts from the City of Purity. That’s not a Drake quality. He still stands to take the lion’s share.”
But he was giving them away to the [Ranchers]. Ulva glared; she could see one final suitcase likely meant for her. There were a lot of reasons to let him live. Monetary ones. She’d spotted El switching sides, the bastards. As for Reinharts, they were all individualists.
“Lady, ah, Ulva. May I speak to you as one member of the Five Families to an—”
And here came the boy. Hethon Veltras, and Sammial Veltras for backup. Ulva’s look fixed him in place.
“You may not, Lord Hethon Veltras. Lord Sammial Veltras, present yourself.”
Children. She recalled them from First Landing, but without Tyrion…no, they weren’t alone. Ullim and Jericha appeared with House Veltras’ guards, and Ulva nodded once at them. Protectors. Yet the boys approached of their own volition.
More courageous than before. At least, the younger one looked less like a brat. She studied them, nodded.
“Good. Poison has not done damage to either of you, nor kidnapping. Your father is a fool, struck by life and, apparently, time. You are young, and that is forgivable. However, you will not speak to me with the name of Veltras.”
“But we—may we speak to you as [Lords] of House Veltras, then, Lady Ulva?”
Sammial seemed ready to talk, but Hethon put an arm out and tried again. Ulva Terland eyed him.
“That is decent. I grant you the same accord I grant Lady Damia Reinhart and Lady Desinee El, then.”
“Thank you, Lady Ulva.”
“You are welcome, boy. Timekeeper, take these nuisances aside.”
She hid a smile as the Golem instantly moved to shuffle them off. Hethon got what was meant and deflated, but Sammial…she’d wondered if the boy had the old Veltras temper, and sure enough, it exploded before Ullim could grab him.
“Stop being so mean to Lyonette and that Wall Lord guy! Everyone’s telling you not to do something stupid, stupid! Can’t you hear?”
Everyone in earshot froze as Ulva’s head turned. She peered down at the boy, who took two steps behind Ullim.
“I’m a kid. You can’t get mad at me for being a kid.”
He announced, and she snorted.
“I can have you held upside down and beaten like a sack of grain, boy. That temper will earn you trouble if you don’t control it. You remind me of your mother, Salva.”
The two boys froze at the name of the late [Lady] of House Veltras. Sammial hesitated.
“…And?”
“I didn’t care for her. Watch your tongue. I have heard you, Veltras. Begone.”
For some reason, that provoked silence, and Sammial was obediently shepherded off. Ulva sat, scowling around.
Where was the Wall Lord and [Princess]? She’d pushed them, and she’d heard the [Diplomat]—were they that afraid of her? She was about to instigate the confrontation when the thing she didn’t expect hit her. She’d been warned.
But you had to admit, no one expected the little Gnoll girl to hit you that hard.
 
——
 
The first clue that Ulva had was when she saw Nouzcrat. The old man was being carried by the half-Elf Golem he loved so much. Unable to stand.
Or engaging in some kind of nuzzling that she was not going to allow in sight of the non-Terlands. She was about to snap at him to get down when she saw the Golem put him down on some chairs and another produce a handkerchief. He was…crying.
Old men cried all the time. She was searching for the reason when another [Lord] stepped away. He was shaking his head.
Madrinal, now, he was no coward. No great, shining leader, but she could trust him to do something hard and see it done, even if it wasn’t perfect. He did not weep, but he appeared rattled.
Then she traced the trajectory of his footsteps and saw the commotion. There…was one of the two people that Ulva had truly come for.
One was that Drake who’d worn Petria’s face, but that was a separate matter to the Wall Lord. Private.
Yet Petria’s ghost had claimed that if there was a debt owed, it was to this girl. In truth, Ulva had been disappointed to see the girl wandering around with nothing more than a kilt and bowtie. But she’d taken her eyes off Mrsha, and like a good sucker punch, the Gnoll had waited until everyone wasn’t paying attention.
She’d hit Nouzcrat with everything she had. And Madrinal. Now she was amidst the Terlands, swinging. Laying them out.
Mostly metaphorically. However, Ulva saw one of the younger Terlands actually sag, as if someone had kicked them. And Lady Damia was amidst them, dragging over the only Terlands who’d listen to her.
The young ones. Younger than Xitegen, young adults, teenagers excited for the trip south. They were the ones fascinated by the Gnolls and Drakes. Agog with Zelkyr’s Golems. Ulva paid as much attention to them as the buzzing of flies. None of them but Xitegen had seen war or had levels.
But they all saw Mrsha, and unlike the older Terlands, who went spinning away, downed in a punch, they seemed drawn to her like fireflies.
What was it? Ulva craned her neck, then strode forwards, the Golems clearing a path. Now Mrsha was throwing paws.
She caught everyone. [Ranchers]. Rabbo Golva backed away and fell over a table as if he’d seen a ghost. Face white.
She was even attacking her own side, if by accident. More than one Gnoll and Drake were backing away from her. Lady Desinee caught a hit and just fell forwards. Captain Todi, cursing, had to grab her. He was one of the only people immune to what Mrsha was throwing down, like the rest of the inn’s staff.
Ulva Terland passed by Elia Arcsinger and stopped.
“Elia. Why are you working here?”
“Lady Ulva. I’m acting as a guard for The Wandering Inn and Princess Lyonette.”
“…For her? Why? If you need gold or you have debts, I’ll settle them.”
For the woman who’d killed the Goblin King, Ulva could do that, even if Elia was no hero of ages. But the half-Elf just bowed.
“I’m on duty, and I should not distract you, Lady Ulva. I am happy in my post. I am levelling.”
“Hmph. Golems hear you, then.”
Ulva Terland passed by the one person in this gathering she had time for, and then she saw what Mrsha was holding. The Gnoll child wasn’t really punching people.
It just felt like it. She simply stood there.
[Survivor of Fates]. Doombearer. She could have spoken with the authority of The Wandering Inn or a Gnoll of the tribes. Or just a [Druid]’s wrath.
But she wasn’t any of those things. Not fully. She was just a child…so what she had, she borrowed. As she had been allowed. Because she’d been there.
The girl took something and held it up in her paws. From one of her many old classes.
[Emberbearer].
She held a pawful of pink flames, and when Ulva Terland gazed into it, she saw Petria’s face. The winds blew as the fire blazed, reflected in Mrsha’s eyes, and then Ulva felt the air catch her face and melt it away—
 
A younger [Lady] stood with her twin sister, lifting a thin, light wand. Not a mage’s wand, but something else. She stood at the head of a line of Golems. Across from her, she could see House Veltras’ horses pawing at the ground.
Afraid. But Linter was just waiting, lance couched, as Ulva snapped.
“Where are the Reinharts and Wellfars? Cowards!”
Not a single one of their war-carriages? Three of the Five Families would have to do. Let three be enough. For answer, there was a shout.
“Reinhart will be here, trust! Wellfar is sailing upon Zeres! Terland, El, and Veltras will hold them here!”
“Trust a Reinhart, Fulviolo?”
Ulva sneered back, but Petria shouted.
