Everyone was whispering with each other, taking sides against Ulva or with her—and they did have on their finery, but in truth, Terlands didn’t dress up that much. Veltras didn’t either; they’d stroll in wearing their clothing as if they were on hunts, and Wellfars came barefoot, for all they had ship-finery. You’d get House of El with grease or magic dust under their fingernails…the Reinharts loved their finery, but Terlands were restrained.
…Mostly because their clothing budgets went to their Golems. Even Ulva wasn’t immune to that.
Timekeeper himself was marching in the largest suit known to man or Golem, a top hat on his head. And a monocle on his face. He walked next to Chema Surath, one of the Terlands’ top bodyguard Golems. She—Golems did tend to have one gender or the other, or neither, as their preferred state of address—was a Gnoll.
Ish.
Gnollish. Someone had taken the form of a Gnoll and made Chema Surath out of that old ceramic shell that was so popular and came from the Rihal Imperium’s heyday. Horreic Pottery, or ‘Allproof Ceramic’ as it was known in layman’s terms. Hard as enchanted steel, if not as durable, far lighter, and attractive. Held colors well.
However, unlike a traditional servant-Golem, Chema’s chassis was only made of pottery to keep her inner body light and mobile. On top of the pottery, someone had attached…hair.
Hair was a hard thing to put on Golems. It tangled their arms. It degraded, so ‘haired’ Golems were very rare. Zelkyr’s Golems had always been made of minerals or metals, for instance. But Chema Surath had huge strands of encased magicore that gave her a Gnollish-look. The hair ‘follicles’ were too big, and because they were multicolored, she appeared quite off. But just close enough that you could sort of get the Gnollish look.
Ish.
Oh, and each piece of ‘hair’ was infused with a different element of magic or alchemical substance. She was a living laboratory of antitoxins, poisons, and other powers. Not able to counter super-advanced poisons, but between that and her own speed and abilities, she could give an enemy a hug and they’d probably be dead before they figured out how many ailments she’d given them.
She was a sign that the Terlands were not playing games. Chema only came out to guard a Lord or Lady of Stone; she was too valuable otherwise.
Especially because one of her hair-powers was healing. She could produce a mixture equivalent to a weak healing potion three times a day. The family kept it secret and just used it for minor ailments internally. No sense in having everyone beg for Chema’s powers or risk her being stolen.
A third Golem of note was Corde, whose identification was ‘they’, despite looking like a woman…made out of metal.
Thick, corrugated metal plates that made a face cruder than the others. Even Timekeeper seemed far more advanced with his visible machinery and gears—Corde was just a metal Golem. Only, the metal wasn’t one known to modern-day [Smiths].
They were eight feet tall and had a hammer nearly as tall as the Golem themself. The hammer Corde wielded was enchanted, and their unique feature was the ability to swing the hammer hard enough to kill an Ogre with a single hit. They were using the hammer now to break the street up; sixteen blows and lesser Golems were removing the broken paving stones; Corde stopped swinging and strode back over.
“What-ho, Lady Terland. Demolition complete. Shall I destroy a wall to be rebuilt?”
“No, Corde. Prepare for combat.”
“Tally-ho, Lady Ulva, as you command! It has been long since I have smashed Drakes dead in number, what?”
Corde’s speech pattern was somewhat…odd. They spoke in a gallant, energetic manner that some previous Terland had been enamored by. Unfortunately, some error in the Golem Heart meant that Corde was unable to stop speaking like that.
It really got on the nerves, so Corde was not always brought out. But for war?
That Golem will wade through the Rubirel Guard if need be. 
Old Nouzcrat remembered war with the Drakes. Real war, not the current truce after the Antinium had come. He knew what they had. Their horrific Gem Regiments would wipe out levied troops with ease. They could rain down lightning, breathe Dragonbreath, and they’d arm themselves in Salazsar’s gem-magics.
The only thing that worked on them was Golems. He had seen Corde fight before; that hammer would smash the Rubirel Guards’ helmets in, leaving only blood gushing from the cracks of their broken gear. But Golems would fall too, if in lesser numbers, destroyed forever.
He…did not want war.
And yet, they’d nearly killed Ulva. They were Drakes.
“How many Golems do you have around here, Madrinal?”
He spoke to a younger [Lord], albeit a Lord of Stone. The man stopped adjusting a tie on one of his serving Golems. Madrinal preferred female serving Golems, the highly adaptive, lifelike ones. No explanations needed there. Most young Terland [Lords] preferred those, even if Madrinal was fifty.
—And unmarried. Ulva Terland tried to get her family to marry because the Terlands had never been a prolific house, and generations had seen their numbers decline. Their, ah, libidinous passions towards other mortal beings tended to be less strong, which meant that since the Terlands didn’t have a Golem capable of birthing children anymore, it was an actual problem for future generations. Especially after the Goblin King.
That aside, Madrinal knew the family history and whispered back.
“I pulled six from my estates. You?”
“Fourteen.”
“Fourteen? Aunt Ulva’s already brought sixty of her finest! War-Golems!”
Nouzcrat glanced down the street to where Xitegen and Ulva were clashing. She was reminding him of her youth, and glad he was of it. He didn’t want to lead. Let the boy, Xitegen, do that. However, there were roles for lesser Terlands too. A ‘lesser’ Terland was still more than any conventional [Lady] or [Lord].
“Our Golems may be needed.”
“For an all-out war with the Drakes?”
Madrinal’s one quirk, despite having female serving Golems, was that he dressed them like [Butlers]. Suit and tie. No accounting for taste; Nouzcrat just had all his personal serving Golems be exceptionally well-endowed. There were some [Golem Artificers] whose entire job it was to customize Golems for Terlands. They tended to be rather unhappy with that job, he’d been told. Or enjoy it too much. Nouzcrat replied softly.
“That’s the worst case scenario. However, this Wall Lord has allies, and it would not do for us to be at war with the City of Gems. Not to mention the threat…”
Both men turned, and another [Lady] drifted over. Nouzcrat whispered to the two.
“There are actions, however, a single Terland may take on their own. Even if we must bear the shame of it. A reminder of who we are.”
“Ah. Of course. But if not the Drake…”
“He has plenty of people. One could cripple his operation by removing them. I have heard a [Princess] is on his side. A traitor among Humans is a traitor, regardless of continent. Keep your eyes open. Naturally, this is just speculation. If Ulva should ask…”
A conspiracy would get them all punished, but he was just having a word. Madrinal nodded slowly, eyes flicking to the others, and Nouzcrat hobbled forwards as his serving Golem supported him. Ulva might guess what he was doing, or perhaps not. A ruler had to be innocent to their subjects’ games, and Ulva was no [Queen]—just family. That mattered.
For family, you did what they couldn’t. They’d see at this primitive ‘cookout’, or whatever nonsense this was, who needed to be reminded of Terland authority. That was Nouzcrat’s plan, and it did not occur to him that everyone else coming to the gathering had plans of their own.
 
——
 
Tic. Timekeeper thought in the moments his heart beat. A strange half-life he had grown used to over the aeons of serving House Terland.
Click. He was only alive now, his mind not made for sentience, otherwise. Was it bitter? His heart did not beat fast enough for emotion. However, his was a life of intelligence. He could still grieve for his kin, the last of whom had been slain by another Goblin King. C-12, a good production run. The finest.
Whirr. Now he was the last. He devoted most of his cognizance to fulfilling Lady Ulva’s orders. If needed, the Drakes would die. Timekeeper assessed that based on current estimates of Salazar’s strength, they would lose 5-6 Golems before routing the camp in an all-out conflict.
Click-whirr. He did not predict victory or assume it. If he was ordered to kill, he would. He simply thought…about the Golem he had met. The one who had named herself Yweine. He hadn’t lied to Ulva or held anything back. Yet the days of Golems daring to think had come again.
Click-click. A malfunction, for a moment. His gears seizing up. Ulva noted and stopped arguing with Xitegen. Bade his heart beat faster, then slow. Self-analysis. He did so, but the report was simple. He was old. He would end, at some point.
Tic. Today, tomorrow, he served. It had no meaning to him, the games of Terlands. If he was attached to the House, it was that they might live, because so many Golems had lived and died for them. That was meaning. If he thought, it was to think for itself, to claim the right of other beings for this short moment he was allowed it. Timekeeper, C-11, thought that he might exist.
Toc. He had nothing like instincts. But there were functions built into his systems that were linked to the other Terland Golems. And there was a consensus. An inference made. They were too close to the City of Purity. It should not exist. Their demented cousins might still protect the damned city fallen victim to its hubris. Timekeeper’s Inner Meridian 33rd-level gear, chain 14, 4th Position gear…kept sticking. A magical injury had destroyed all of those gear types save that one. He felt like something was coming. Something dangerous.
“Golems. Prepare for combat. Secure the designated meeting point. I am taking command of all Terland Golems in a hundred mile radius. Decloak and assemble. Hearts, beat.”
Timekeeper spoke, and the minds of Golems activated. Ulva Terland half-turned, and Timekeeper prepared for war.
As ever, he abided.
 
——
 
Marvus Lischelle didn’t know why That Drake (Ilvriss) wanted another cookout. Hadn’t the last time been enough of a demonstration how things were? Someone had died, and if that wasn’t enough to sour the thought of another—
The Wall Lord had killed two of his bulls. Raided Marvus back, and this was not the time. Not with that…monster out there. Whatever it was.
However, admitting that they had problems was not what a Lischelle did. So he and the family put on their best clothing. He himself wore a white coat and pants, pristine, despite the mud and dirt he rode through. His daughters and sons came with him, a horde of the Lischelles.
To meet the Terlands and Salazsar, true powers of Izril. Nevertheless, Marvus kept his head high, and he knew Aronia would as well. In fact, he came four hours early with enough food to feed everyone and then some.
Why?
If you had to ask why, you didn’t understand how it worked. The answer was obviously that you came by, helped set everything up, provided better vittles than the hosts did—to humiliate them. Marvus had his stallion cantering to get there.
“I bet they’ve not got any decent bunting. Let alone shade—them noble guests are like as not to swoon. Send someone ridin’ back once we get a feel for how much we need. Who’s got the beans?”
“Ma’s holding back at the farm with them, Dad. She wants t’get them just right.”
“Just as long as we get them here. How many sauces?”
“Fifty? The Golvas say they’re bringing their best too. Including Rabbo’s special sauce.”
“Don’t call it that. Well, well.”
Rabbo Golva was a cheat, a drunk, and not nearly as good at raising cattle as he thought. But the man had a signature rub so special it had turned into a Skill, damn him. Marvus smacked his lips at the thought. He didn’t know how to greet this Ulva Terland…he’d been practicing greetings with Aronia all yesterday. However, he knew how to show up to a cookout, and he was convinced no one else did.
Indeed, the Drakes who spotted him were shocked to see him riding up. He assured them he was just there to help out.
“It’s only the right thing t’do. You set up the seating yet?”
“No, uh, sir, but we have it well in hand!”
“Nonsense! Hey, you lot, let’s lend a hand!”
Marvus’ sons and daughters leapt from their horses as a younger daughter collected reins to tie the horses up. He went striding for some tables, ready to heave them up and place them down as the Drakes wavered—
And then nearly ran into someone taller than he was. Marvus backed up.
“Beg pardon—”
“Not at all, yes? Are you the Lischelles? Greetings.”
A Gnoll, a Gnoll woman, turned and offered Marvus a paw. He shook it, blinking, and saw a group of four Gnolls walk over to the huge wooden tables and casually lean down. They hauled the table up, and Marvus spoke.
“Ah, we were going to—”
“Not at all, you are honored guests, yes? I am Huntress Rayna of the Silverfangs. It is good we arrived, even if we were a bit late. There is a nice smell in the air.”
The Gnolls casually hauled the tables over and placed them down, and more appeared, checking the cooking stations, setting up the tents—
The entire Silverfang tribe in the north swept in as the Lischelles—and Rominets, who’d come early for just the same reason—halted in their tracks. Clan Leader Plisce had found the buffet table and was adding food to it, despite Welsca’s protests.
“Clan Leader Plisce, there’s no need, we already have enough food—”
“It would be rude of our tribe not to contribute, Adjutant Welsca. These are just gifts. And I see the [Ranchers] have the same thought as we Gnolls.”
Country folk. Just…ones from different sides of Izril. They had turned out in their own fur, with some clothing, but relaxed as could be, and one was already tending to a roasting spit! They were—
“Let me just help take that b—”
Marvus went striding over to some kegs and saw the Ekhtouch [Miner], Thamert, hoist it onto one shoulder. He winked as Marvus halted, and the man cast around for something else to do.
But no matter where he and his family went, there was another damn Gnoll! They grinned, insisting he stand back and not ruin his lovely suit, complimenting the food he’d brought, thanking him for the sauces—they had their own, they hoped he’d enjoy them—and after thirty minutes, Marvus was standing around.
With nothing to do.
The final straw was when a Silverfang Gnoll cub came over, clearly tasked with handing out drinks to the early guests. That was it. Marvus mounted back up.
