He hissed back at her as they walked over to a cleared space, and a few heads turned. The Terlands did not look interested, the older ones, at least. And the younger ones were classically shy—
Yes, dancing was customary at formal events, but to the nobility, the cookout didn’t feel like the place for it. The [Ranchers], by contrast, were puzzled and worried. Because they expected noble dancing, and none of them knew any. Thusly, the only group that would think to dance would be the hosts. Lyonette blinked.
“Wh—but it’s your tail on the line!”
“Yes, but you were so insistent—I had to oblige you! Nevermind, what’s done is done. If I die, I’ll just blame you with my dying breath, deal?”
He adjusted his collar as she colored.
“You—you—how dare you humor me! We have priorities, Ilvriss; you could have said!”
Dame Ushar was calling people’s attention to the floor.
“Ladies, Gentlemen, Golems, we have an occasion to dance. I believe Her Highness and Wall Lord Ilvriss will demonstrate, in hopes of unity between north and south and all parties present?”
The Drake rolled his eyes as he stretched.
“Yes, how dare I support my friend? And she’ll definitely let the matter go if I beg my apologies, not hold it over my head forever. Because she’s such a reasonable person.”
“You—you—hold still when I’m stepping on your toes!”
They made for a cute couple. The two stood in front of the hidden cake, and it wasn’t only a certain half-Elf who thought that. But he was just waiting, and no one had spotted him yet.
All eyes were on Lyonette and Ilvriss. Aronia and Marvus had linked up, and they’d been whispering to each other, but they folded their arms.
No one was joining Lyonette or Ilvriss for the dancing. A few of the Gnolls and Drakes might have, but they were wary—they didn’t know the dances either.
If this was meant to be inclusive…Ulva Terland raised her brows and half-turned to Mrsha.
This is what you set up?
Mrsha just shrugged, cheeks full of food. She was done adulting. She and Xitegen were creating the forbidden meat bowl, which involved a piece of every kind of meat stuffed into a bowl and drizzled with three of your top sauces. You cut down one layer and took one huge bite with a fork.
…All of that was background. The crowd were all skeptics, but they were watching as a rather fast beat began to come from the band, who started sweating. A [Violinist] checked her musical sheet and then began to activate a speed skill.
Because they were playing that song. The song that made even Terland nobles blink. It was a country song, a commoner’s song—and it was fast, aggressive.
The song of broken heels and shattered egos.
The hardest dance known to Lischelles.
The one, the only—
The Highstepper.
“They can’t be serious.”
Nithle Calabie recognized the song, and he and his wife turned from kicking Duke Ow Stop That or whatever his name was. They left him behind as Rhisveri crawled away, and they’d heard of the Wall Lord and [Princess] failing the dance.
Anyone their age did without cheating. But they were doing it.
At—this fancy cookout? In front of the Terlands?
Yes. The familiar notes of the Highstepper filled the air, and it was no less fast than anyone remembered. If anything, Songmistress Calla was playing it faster than usual because she had just been told to play it. Not that anyone was crazy enough to dance to the rhythm.
The [Princess] was counting to the beat, bouncing on her toes in her…boots? Aronia choked.
“Those are the boots I gave her! They’ve painted them!”
“Steady. It don’t look that bad. There’s no way they’re trying—are they?”
Marvus was eyeing Ilvriss. You had to practice like a fiend, even with help! There was no way some Wall Lord would do that, would he? Marvus knew the dance because he’d practiced it all his life as a boy. But these two—
Lyonette turned and took Ilvriss’ hand as the crowd watched, murmuring. Skeptical Terlands, whispering [Ranchers], sons and daughters of Salazsar, Silverfangs—and one beat-up Wyrm.
He found an empty spot in the crowd and limped forwards. Then he saw her. Turning her head and smiling nervously up at the purple-scaled Drake who gave her a nod. Then…
“Oh.”
Rhisveri mumbled.
He saw them begin to dance.
 
——
 
The [Princess]’ and Wall Lord’s feet flashed down the aisle of watchers. They were high-stepping, high kicking, a dance that showed off their calves and ankles. Immodest! Unladylike!
To any Calanferian watching, it was unthinkable for a [Princess] to perform a dance like this. Xinthe was recording from under a table, jaw dropped.
And yet—the dance was impressive! Lyonette did a heel turn and skidded left. She and Ilvriss grabbed their belts, and their legs were kicking as they line-danced sideways. So fast that you could barely see their feet move. Then they linked arms and began to step—
“Dead gods! They’re doing it!”
The Lischelles were in uproar. The Terlands were just impressed. They had dancing Golems who couldn’t perform that well.
Seeing someone, anyone, performing an activity at a high level was inspiring. Eye-catching. But the [Princess] and Wall Lord were nobility, de facto; they didn’t have to work hard.
…But they were dancing. Ilvriss’ face was a study of concentration as he let go of Lyonette’s arm and moved into another rhythm of the dance, and his tail swayed along with his legs, so fast it barely touched the ground.
It was the [Princess] who wore a smile on her face and seemed to be laughing, even though a single sound never left her lips. She was breathless, moving from position to position.
They were—they were doing it. Aronia’s mouth was open, and Colfa was clapping to the beat, cheering.
“You can do it, Lyonette! Don’t mess up now!”
Sideways again, moving past the guests, and Marvus heard cheering. From Burlise! She and his family were cheering the Highstepper on! How not?
You cheered anyone who tried it, even if they messed up in three steps. For the daring. For the courage and fun of it. And you bought them a drink…
Just not the Wall Lord and [Princess]. But Marvus watched and saw, across from them, Ulva Terland eying the Highstepper. She was tapping her foot to the beat, amazingly on-rhythm. And he thought to himself—
They’re dancing our dance in front of Terlands and the other Five Families. It was intentional. No one was making the [Princess] and Wall Lord choose that dance. They could have done any Salazsarian or Calanferian dance. But they’d chosen the music that the [Ranchers] knew.
No matter how Marvus turned it around in his head, he couldn’t figure out an angle that didn’t make that somewhat respectful. Learning the Highstepper…
“Aronia?”
“Shush, Marvus.”
“I’m just sayin’, if he’s giving us something worth having—”
“Shush, they’re dancing. Don’t interrupt them now.”
His wife was just watching. No matter how fast the Highstepper went, at the end, when the young woman and Wall Lord turned and clasped hands to bow…they didn’t falter.
Start to finish. Marvus and Aronia began to clap. Then caught themselves, glanced at each other, and folded their hands.
“There’s no way someone can dance well enough to mend this kind of bridge. This isn’t a fairytale.”
“That’s right. And we’re not the villains of a storybook.”
She added, and Marvus nodded. But the cheering continued, and the two saw a breathless Lyonette and Ilvriss shaking hands.
“I’m going to give Burlise an earful after this. Look at her, fawning over a [Princess].”
“Right, because she shouldn’t do that.”
This time Aronia stepped on Marvus’ foot. He protested.
“She is a [Princess] when all’s said and done, Aronia. Admit it, if it weren’t for the fact that she’s against us, you’d be trying to get on her good side. Well, that and Colfa’s with her, and you two haven’t made up.”
“What? Who said that?”
Aronia spun and poked a finger up at him. Marvus raised his hands.
“Er…you did. Colfa’s on the outs.”
“She’s my sister. We might fight, but I’m not having you badmouth her, Marvus!”
He threw up his hands.
“Argh! You two made up and didn’t tell me? Don’t point that finger at me, woman. It’s not my fault for supporting you and not knowing when I need to switch my tune up!”
Aronia’s lips quirked because she had to admit he was right there. She sighed, and they turned to regard the couple—only to realize Lyonette was talking with Burlise and some of the other [Ranchers], breathless. The married couple sidled over and eavesdropped.
“Thank you, thank you, Burlise, isn’t it? I was terrified we’d mess it up. It was one of two dances we were practicing…I’m just embarrassed.”
“Embarrassed about what? That was amazing! Ma and Pa can’t do it better than that!”
The two older Lischelles’ glowers of wrath promised Burlise was going to find herself on some hard chore duty after this. Even if it was true, you didn’t admit it. However, Lyonette just hung her head. She stuck out one of her boots.
“I…used a trick. These boots. I made Aronia’s gift to me into an artifact with a Skill.”
“You did what?”
Aronia jumped into the conversation despite herself, and Lyonette had to explain how she’d made her boots to dance. But she was crestfallen, red-cheeked from her exertions as she nodded at Ilvriss.
“Ilvriss managed to do the dance all on his own! I needed help. There was a time I could’ve done the dance myself, but I can’t anymore. Realizing that was…hard.”
Despite herself, Aronia’s face softened, and she hesitated, then hugged Lyonette with an arm. The [Princess] blinked, but Aronia patted her on the arm.
“Miss Lyonette, everyone cheats at the Highstepper. Marvus? He makes the old Fleethoof Grill. That’s a Skill-food you eat, and it lets you dance right. Rabbo’s wife has dancing socks, don’t you, Aubrie? As for Rabbo, he just drinks—we all need help. I’m mightily impressed you picked it up so fast anyways!”
“Well, we practiced nonstop. It was a bit of an obsession. Even the Five-Step isn’t as bad on the shins! I must have kicked Ilvriss’ legs bloody.”
Lyonette’s confession made everyone smile and relate their own pains when learning the dance. No one liked a genius. And there were some who could pick up the Highstepper within a week or just a single try. Colfa was one of those geniuses, darn her.
But Aronia was calling for a seat.
“Your legs must be killing you. Have a seat. Marvus, you might need to start the Fleethoof Grill. Can’t have our guests thinking we can’t answer to that challenge!”
“Already on it, darling!”
He was indeed manning a grill and preparing the signature blend. A [Chef] with dark skin and an eyepatch was watching him covertly, despite her husband’s attempts to get her to leave.
“Dear, you promised—”
—Background noise. Lyonette was thanking Aronia as she lowered herself onto a stool stiffly. One of the Terland [Ladies] who’d come to ask about the song exclaimed when they saw Lyonette’s sweaty makeup reveal cracked skin.
“What’s that?”
“Argh, my condition—I can dance two more times, but my body still doth protest.”
“I never did ask about that. Is it a sickness?”
“No, just from my class. It’s complicated—”
“You wear it very well. I can’t even tell about the cracking, normally. What kind of makeup do you wear at your age, Lyonette? You look half your age!”
Eni Calabie commented jealously, and Lyonette hesitated.
“Makeup? Mostly, it’s just the cracks…half my age? I should hope not. I’m only nineteen.”
No one here had performed the Winebreath Blaster so far. The oft-overused power, rumored to be the final missing Dragonbreath—was not performed by Aronia now.
She just dropped her cup, and it splashed onto the ground.
“Say what? You—you’re nineteen?”
Burlise had spun around, having nearly crept out of the conversation with her mother and the adults present. Only—Lyonette brushed at her face.
“I don’t look that much older, do I?”
“N—but—your aura and the way you hold yourself! And you have children!”
Everyone whirled to look at Nanette and Mrsha and do some very worried math when Lyonette laughed.
“I didn’t birth them myself! I used to be far more spry, but I got this class just a bit ago…Nanette, do I look old?”
“Yup.”
The witch’s comment hit Lyonette and everyone older than her by proxy. Aronia was aghast. She’d thought Lyonette was at least in her thirties and using illusions or alchemy! The fact that a girl Burlise’s age was negotiating with the Wall Lord…
Then she leaned down.
“Wait, that Wall Lord’s not your age, is he?”
“Ilvriss? No, quite a bit older. Mid-forties? He holds it well, but—”
“My dear, he’s twice your age! You should pick someone else, let alone the fact that he’s a Drake—”
This time, it was Lyonette’s turn to avoid spitting her drink out.
“Ilvriss? We’re not together!”
“You’re not?”
“I’m just helping him out! We only dance together, and he’s a friend of Erin—let me clear this all up.”
Lyonette tried to, but no one was in a position to instantly believe her. The fact that she was nineteen sent Aronia off to have a small crisis. Colfa went over to pat her on the shoulder. Meanwhile, Ilvriss turned with an outraged expression on his face.
“Lyonette, I’m in my thirties, you—you—mathless Human!”
He roared. Lyonette was laughing until Burlise seized her hands.
“You’re my age! I’m actually three years older’n you! How’s that possible? Here I thought my parents were the ones who needed talking to you—”
She was agog. And Lyonette felt older than Burlise! But she grinned as she tapped her boots together.
“I’m just sorry we couldn’t talk, Burlise. This is an important matter—”
“Beating up Drakes and getting beat up? Bah. That’s cow shit on their faces! We’ll never let ‘em live it down, Mom nearly killing you with that slap and you being half her age! And all of them showing off with the Highstepper when that Wall Lord did it cold! He did, right?”
“Unassisted? Yes, and I used to be able to do it…but it’s a hard dance. I can see why everyone cheats. Ilvriss is just gifted.”
Lyonette was trying to downtalk herself, conscious that claiming she could do the Highstepper without magical help when ‘everyone cheated’ was a bad look. However, at her words, Burlise and the other young people gathered around her hesitated. Burlise turned, eyed her mother, then whispered.
“Well, that’s just what they say to make themselves feel better. No one their age can do it. Too heavy, too old, too outta shape. But you think everyone needs help t’do it?”
