“…I realize we are historically enemies. But we needn’t repeat the mistakes of our fathers, Lady Terland. I am tired of war, and I have participated in so few. May we speak with earnest cooperation in mind?”
That was all. Lyonette had come up with other levers to use. Arguments based on the magical door or the authority of Pallass and Liscor…but in the end, it was Ulva Terland. She had the power to force things.
The [Lady] just sat there. And, Lyonette realized, she had asked relatively reasonable questions about the dangers of the dig. How anyone could guarantee a Drake from the south could be trusted.
Maybe…she peeked at Ulva Terland, and the [Lady]’s voice was soft.
“The Five Families will never trust a Drake in our lands. I do not. I do not trust Calanfer, either. Trust is not required for profit or else the Reinharts would never have anyone work with them. The final reason I come here is simple. You stopped my heart, and your agent took Petria’s face. But for a miracle, I would have died.”
Gasps from the Terlands, the [Ranchers]. Every eye swung towards Ilvriss and Lyonette, and she opened her mouth. To Lyonette’s intense embarrassment, her first response was purely that of her daughters.
“I—well—you attacked Ilvriss first! Don’t send [Assassins] if you don’t want to be assassinated!”
It was such a bad retort that Dame Ushar covered her face with one hand and tried to pretend she wasn’t Lyonette’s [Knight]. Ilvriss winced.
“That’s Calanferian diplomacy? It was an accident, Lady Ulva. As we fought for our lives? We didn’t think that would occur.”
The [Matriarch] of House Terland glanced from the Human to the Drake.
“…’You did it first’ and ‘it was an accident’ are the best reasons you two could come up with? Is there anyone with a better reason?”
She actually peered past Ilvriss and Lyonette. At Mrsha, who was still trying to work on the Forbidden Bowl—it was Nanette in her lumberjack’s outfit who raised a hand.
“Lady Ulva, if I may?”
“What?”
“What kind of fool tries to manually control a Golem across half the damn continent? Let alone has an aura war against two aura-experts?”
Everyone stepped away from Nanette but Hethon, who took a huge breath and tried to sidle back and put himself between her and the wrath of Ulva Terland. The [Matriarch] sat there, then grinned.
“Girl. You remind me of a [Lady] who gave up her class. Art thou a [Witch]?”
“Without the class, yes!”
Nanette tossed her head proudly and put her hands on her hips. Rabbo Golva nearly leapt into a Golem’s arms as he recoiled from her. Ulva nodded, thoughtful.
“That will do. Golems, dunk her head in a bucket. Don’t drown her. Witches used to send their apprentices to House Terland to learn a lesson. What kind, I’ll never know.”
A Golem went walking towards Nanette, and she wavered.
“Don’t you dare! Don’t you—”
Hethon tried to save Nanette. Ulva Terland just sat back on her dais and sighed. After a moment of gazing up at the sky, she realized Ilvriss and Lyonette were still waiting.
“I have yet to meet the Drake who stole my sister’s face. I will meet with her before I leave.”
“…And the not-inconsiderable threats to my life and that of my people, Lady Terland?”
“We’ll see how this cookout goes, shall we? You’ve earned yourself a reprieve.”
Ulva’s eyes glittered, and she sat back. Lyonette and Ilvriss eyed each other, and Xitegen let a breath out.
Had they actually forced Ulva Terland back? Shakily, Lyonette smiled. Ilvriss turned, saw Nanette screaming as a bucket was filled with water, and smiled.
“I think that we swayed her.”
“Are you sure? Or is she waiting to bring the hammer down?”
They glanced at Ulva, and she sat, beckoning one of her family over next. Lyonette hesitated.
“She’s likely not going to make up her mind on the spot. If we give her a reason to pause, Ilvriss, it buys us a day. Making up your mind isn’t something she’d do lightly.”
“True. And that gives Nerul an opening. Ancestors, I’m sweating arrows over here. What—what next?”
“Er, uh, I’ll buy time with dessert!”
Lyonette rushed over as Nanette emerged from her dunking and was put down. She immediately began kicking the Golem and tried to storm forwards to have it out with Lady Ulva—Mrsha and Xitegen were trying to save her from herself.
And perhaps…
 
——
 
Ulva Terland was holding court, speaking to young Chovn, and letting the boy announce his class to his family. She watched the [Princess] and Wall Lord, annoyed.
Neither one had swept her away. The rest of her family or something, perhaps. But it annoyed Ulva because she had seen better.
Not to say they hadn’t done some things decently. But was Ulva the only one who remembered Fulviolo and Maviola? Linter and Celica, the original love story that had swept Izril before Pellmia had even been a mote in his father’s eye?
One of the few remaining, yes. She exhaled. It was a disservice to compare the two to the Els in their prime, or anyone else. But…well.
This fell into one of the six outcomes she had calculated upon leaving her house. Ulva Terland knew how Golems thought. If she was not as adept…she drummed her fingers on the armrest of her dais.
She would have to inquire further and make sure she was correct. And meet that damned Drake. The face-changer. But she knew. She saw.
 
——
 
There was hope. That was Nerul Gemscale’s only thought when he skidded into the cookout, too late and, perhaps, just in time.
He didn’t greet Lyonette or Ilvriss. He just grabbed the nearest Terland, shook hands, and began throwing Skills.
“Lord Nouzcrat, Diplomat Nerul. Can we resolve this all decently? Lovely Golems, by the way. I’m a posterior-man myself. Can’t beat a good tail.”
“Wha—who are—how dare you—?”
Nouzcrat was ambushed and metaphorically taken into an alleyway and beaten with sticks. Diplomatic sticks. Nerul smiled.
“[Hear Me Out], sir. I realize you don’t like to go against Lady Ulva Terland. But I was the one threatening about the Zelkyr Golems? Ah, you do remember. I just wish to add that old Eschowar’s back in Salazsar.”
“He…he is? That monster’s not dead?”
Nouzcrat turned dead white. Nerul smiled tightly.
“And he’s up to his old tricks. Now, consider that killing Ilvriss gives him full casus belli to invade the north. We both know that Eschowar never needed it. But he needs support from the other Walled Cities, and killing a Wall Lord does that. Think on that. Must run; I’ll be back.”
He left Nouzcrat to sit down and attacked. Like a shark.
“Rabbo Golva! Listen, my man. I know that it’s hard to beat the Lischelles. I, personally, love your steaks. But Marvus there, well, his are the most famous steaks, and I was just in Salazsar trying to order yours, and Administrator Alrric—lovely man, pays for all the Gemscale finances—he asked ‘why not Lischelle beef?’. And you have to admit, they edge you out in prices, if not pure quality.”
To be precise, Alrric had asked, ‘why not Lischelle beef if we have to order some, and why do we want to support Humans in the north when we can get quality meat from our own [Ranchers]?’
But it was enough. The [Primed Talking Point] had Rabbo Golva in a moment.
“Aren’t you that [Diplomat]? See here, Lischelle beef—”
“Beats yours, Rabbo. Not to my palate, but listen: who has a refined palate these days? Not some idiot [Merchant] we’re wining and dining. The wine means he’s not tasting the steak. That’s why the Lischelles have you.”
“I—that’s just your—”
“Unless you had a magical door that cuts all the cost of delivery to Invrisil or Pallass. And Liscor’s got an up-and-coming upper class. Now, I can’t discuss this in the open, but you could undercut every Lischelle delivery by a week and save a fortune on delivery fees. I know the Driver’s Guild and Merchant’s Guild think they’re hot magicore. That door covers four hundred miles. You could beat Marvus with City Runners.”
Rabbo Golva might not get all of what Nerul was dumping on him, but his wife or sons did. They stirred—and so did Marvus Lischelle. The [Cattle Baron] was popping champagne, but the smile faded as one of his sons dashed over. He whirled like a bull scenting trouble.
Nerul finished with two more [Ranchers], then stepped forwards.
And here we go…
“Aren’t you the diplomat I beat out the other day?”
“That was ages ago, Marvus. And you have a damn good punch. I’m not ashamed to say that I’ve lost the spring in my step. But I’ve come back to stop my nephew from losing what brain cells he has left—I like his level of stupidity now. This is my dance, and I insist on having a piece.”
The two men sized each other up as space cleared. They were both big men, and Marvus wrangled cattle. He was a brawler, a strong man—but he realized Nerul had changed.
Despite his efforts, Nerul hadn’t had enough time to make a complete makeover, even with Grimalkin of Pallass’ help. But there was something…sturdier about Nerul. Not just size.
His…thighs? His arms? Everything looked larger, ever so slightly, but the effect made Nerul a bit bigger.
A bit more…
Swole.
And he didn’t back down in front of Marvus, even with the [Cattle Baron] bristling in his face. Nerul flexed one arm, and Lady Damia oohed. She could see his muscles in the definition of the slightly too-tight suit.
“I’d hate to settle this the old-fashioned away, unless that means drinking you under the table, Marvus.”
Ping.
That was the sound of one of his buttons on his suit exploding from the force of his flexing. It pinged off a wineglass and shattered it. Alorelle Terland screamed, but a hand blocked the shards of glass from striking her face.
Her own bodyguard Golem was too slow—but a Drake with a glittering face carved from gemstone smiled as she placed the shards of glass back in Alorelle’s cup.
“My apologies, Lady Terland.”
“Y-you’re—”
Xitegen’s head snapped around, but then it went back to Nerul. The Thigh Lord could appreciate another man with good thighs. Marvus was eying Nerul warily.
“Bit more of a spine in you, eh?”
“I’ve always been spiny, but historically, it’s been supported by less muscle and more fat. The Sinew Magus himself has certified my spine. Now, Marvus. I’m just going to undercut your business with anyone I need to in order to stop the fighting. Alright?”
“I don’t let anyone threaten my family’s way of living, Diplomat.”
“And I don’t let people threaten my nephew or my city.”
The two men squared off. Marvus adjusted his own too well-tailored suit. Nerul popped another button. There was a pause…and Marvus snatched a cup.
“Rabbo Golva’s a crook and a liar. If you’re doing drinks, I’ll bring out the good stuff. Don’t leave me out, y’hear?”
“I wouldn’t dream of it. And may I compliment you on your suit? Marvellous style.”
“You’re not bad yourself. You been working out?”
“At the gymnasium, yes. Splendid for gains or building the core. Which gains and which core, I’m not sure, but there’s a bunch of annoyingly enthusiastic people who will cheer you on even if you crap your pants. Which I did on my first day.”
Marvus began laughing as Nerul began recounting his own legend. Which drew in Rabbo Golva, who wanted to hear the story and know how the Drake appeared so fit and get in on this deal if Marvus was talking—
 
——
 
Ilvriss was rather stunned by Nerul’s appearance. When the [Diplomat] extricated himself—in six minutes—and went moving towards the Terlands like a shark, the Wall Lord caught him.
“Uncle! You’re just in time; we’ve been surviving Ulva Terland, and I think it’s going decently, but—what was that about working out? You wrote me something about that, and what is that Golem?”
He’d spotted Yweine and felt an uneasy flutter in his stomach, but Nerul confused him.
“I thought you were doing all that to beat Marvus’ Skill or how he stopped you last time!”
“Nephew! Gah, you’re sweaty, and I’m starved. I’ve eaten nothing but healthy things—which, delightfully, includes meat at times—but I will feast! Yes, yes, I did it. Hugely embarrassing—I’ll tell you the entire story when lovely ladies aren’t around to laugh at me. And I did manage to take Marvus out. You saw him back off?”
“Yes, but I thought you’d beat him in a fistfight.”
Ilvriss had rather imagined the two throwing down in a bare-knuckles brawl for Nerul to reassert his dominance, and from the disappointed expressions on Nanette’s and Damia’s faces—and several others—they’d been hoping for the same thing. Nerul just sighed and patted Ilvriss gently on the shoulder.
“Nephew…what do you think [Diplomats] are? All that damn effort, stress, and again, Umbral Throning myself in public—was just for that. It’s not about throwing a punch. It’s about not doing it when you can. That’s the entire point of soft power, the lesson some Drakes never learn. The stick needn’t swing for it to remain a stick.”
“…I’ve missed you, Uncle. I could have used your way with words about five minutes ago.”
Ilvriss hugged Nerul, and the [Diplomat] whispered.
“Don’t thank me yet. I’ve landed us in trouble in Salazsar, but it was the only move I had. That Golem with the gemstone face is with us. With you—and trust her like you trust Tessa, or less. I got her out of the Vaults.”
Ilvriss froze. His eyes found Yweine, and he paled.
“Uncle. Are you insane?”
“Only as much as anyone else is these days, Ilvriss. Now be diplomatic.”
“To whom?”
“Her. Charming, charming, Ilvriss! Prove you’re not just some Wall Lord, and believe me, she’s already watching and, dare I say, reading our lips or something clever whenever we’re not activating privacy spells. So—here we go. How mad is Ulva Terland?”
The two Drakes stepped back, and Ilvriss stared at the Golem from Zelkyr’s age. She was greeting the Terlands, and they were dumbstruck. Ulva Terland herself was eying Yweine, and Ilvriss muttered.
“Rude, but not as hostile as I presumed.”
“Interesting. Interesting. Is she pulling the old Good Twin, Bad Twin routine? Hm. She’s lacking Petria, so she’d do it all herself?”
“How the hell did you know…? Is that good or bad?”
Nerul was just eyeing Ulva.
“I’m inclined to think it’s good. If it was worst-case, she’d come in all smiles, then murder you in front of everyone. She still might, but the more time she spends on us, the more I think she’s willing to listen. Ulva Terland hates wasting time on dead men. Let’s coordinate with Yweine before she can divide us. Yweine’s intelligence is beyond ours—in some ways. If we have a chance, it’s with her.”
