“Present yourself in my mansion as fast as you can make it. There was a huge event just now. The scrying spells weren’t complete, but it’s going to spread. Some of your people and House Terland just threw down with a monster that makes Named-rank threats appear cute.”
“—The Wandering Inn? What did those idiots—is anyone dead?”
“Just a Drake and possibly anyone else caught by plague. So potentially no, if they’re quarantining.”
He meant it to be reassuring, but the intake of breath—Selys responded after a moment.
“I’m there in five.”
It sounded like she began running the moment she said that. Calidus put down the stone. Turned to Losmere.
“Investigate her again, more thoroughly. One of you, show her everything. I’m going to either nap or think. Don’t bother me, either way.”
He sat back down. Closed his eyes, and therein made a mistake. Calidus Reinhart was shaking with adrenaline, fascinated, mind engaged with the possibilities. He saw Lyonette, Ilvriss, and the strange web around the Cowpat Plains, but his error was that of a neophyte.
He thought it was over. He gave little thought to anything coming next, because, like everyone else, he thought that was it. Battle over. Later, he’d think of himself as a complete fool for that moment. But now, Calidus just thought of that blade. It had cut the Wall Lord.
He was waiting for a tally of the dead, and while everyone waited, they counted casualties.
 
——
 
Fallout afterwards.
Once the panic was done, casualties and wounded assessed, there came time to actually think, not react.
‘It was a mercifully low amount of casualties.’ After hearing that one too many times, Ulva Terland decreed that the next person who said that or a variation thereof would be beaten black and blue.
It turned out to be the [Mayor] of Invrisil who said that next, and he hadn’t been warned. Ulva didn’t care.
It was obvious the half-Elf had been holding back. To what end, she didn’t know. But when he had lost his temper, he had killed with ease. She might have almost thought he was trying to help that [Princess] or the inn, ludicrous as the thought was—he had killed no one, just broken bones until he’d lost his temper, and one could argue…
But no. Ulva’s skin still crawled at the sight of the [Princess] reacting to Tolveilouka’s presence and his attempts to carry her off. He was a murderous, ancient undead monstrosity of plague—and a rapist. What he had intended to do to that girl, Ulva didn’t want to imagine.
And the Wall Lord…she had offered the services of her Golems with healing capabilities, though all were damaged, and let his people tend to him. No one was stupid enough to give him a healing potion, and he’d shown he had some bite.
The rest? The rest was just snapping at people.
“I want that thing tracked and dead. No excuses! Do not move the Light of the North back! Raze the Village of the Dead.”
That place? It ended. She was calling on all the Five Families to form an army and hire the Named-ranks in the north to destroy it. Not just them.
Ailendamus, which that Duke had belonged to, was aware of the situation. So was Levicus; the old home to the Terlands had some of their records, and it had known the Putrid One, evidently.
Numerous nations were, in fact, calling her after learning of his attack. Some had actually helped, like Calanfer. Apparently, Ielane had been live on television helping hold the Putrid One’s servant back.
Ulva owed Ielane that; she hadn’t thought the Queen of Diplomacy was so powerful.
The other nations? They went through the gamut of asking, ‘who is Tolveilouka, are you well?’
Then, ‘why didn’t you kill him? Wait, who is the Putrid One? Is he like Az’kerash or something?’
Presumably after some research and a [Historian] had shit themselves and come running after finding the right texts, ‘dead gods, the Putrid One’s greatest servant? Please kill him, please don’t let him come near us.’
And so on. She was coordinating it, the hunt for this half-Elf, and putting together pieces.
“Burnt farms. Plagues. He has been sabotaging Izril for half a year! Damn those Horns of Hammerad!”
They’d woken a true terror, and she wanted to blame them, but the truth was that someone should have ended that Village of the Dead by fire. Only the fear that the Putrid One might be awoken kept her from just ordering someone to use a Tier 7 spell and hit the place.
She would be busy. The Terlands were in shock, and she ordered [Thought Healers] or Golems of the same kind to treat them. Some were more resilient; she took notice of some of the younger Terlands, including Prithna, the [Lady] with a Golem’s Heart, asking what would be done about Tolveilouka.
Bravery in the face of terror. Good. Ulva Terland forgot to actually check on her family; they were alive, most of them, and that was all. But she was reminded of her duties to them when someone came to get her.
“Great Aunt? The family would like you to join them.”
It was that boy with the Dullahan servant. Lord Chovn. The boy bowed as Ulva snapped at him, one of the Golems transcribing a reply to one of Wellfar’s [Lords of the Sea].
“What? I have no time to hold anyone’s hand. We are alive, and if Lord Rithav is lucky, he will be cured of the sickness. No visitors. I am sending for more Golems.”
I have much to do. Why are you bothering me? Her glower made the boy hesitate, but he glanced at his Golem, then bowed.
“I know. We know, Great Aunt. But the Golems. The half-Elf killed so many. Please…won’t you witness them?”
The fury in Ulva’s chest abated. She stopped, put aside her scrolls, and stood from her Dais of Health.
“…Where?”
 
——
 
They had collected all the pieces they could find in the manor. Terlands, working like common [Laborers]—but they’d refused help. Insisted on combing the ground with their own bare hands—then gloves when someone had insisted—because they did not trust anyone else to handle the Golem pieces.
No one but the Terlands and their staff knew how. Some Golem pieces could contaminate the ground or were dangerous. So, then Terlands had carried them to the mansion they had in Invrisil. The beautiful marble flooring was covered with dirt and oil and pieces of broken metal.
And they lay there.
The Golems. The true casualties of Tolveilouka’s assault had been them. Most fittingly, but even Ulva Terland halted when she saw how many were destroyed. Nearly a hundred. Ripped apart. Hearts shattered, some cut in twain.
Her family was weeping. They were a selfish lot. They prized stone over flesh, but in this, they were like historians, curators of a great museum that came to life. They had been entrusted with creations of bygone eras, and they were broken. Less, now.
“Timekeeper.”
He stood there, a sentinel, his chest damaged, his gears whirring off-sync. Regarding his fallen comrades, and she knew that he ‘liked’ her in that he served without issue. Golems could just become less effective, the smart ones, at least. A Djinni would rebel as best they could, manipulate you, defy you as people.
A Golem rebelled by breaking. A tool that no longer worked. But Timekeeper had served faithfully as long as she and Petria had known him when they had first chosen him from the deepest vaults.
She wondered what he really thought of her. He was witness to the many destroyed Golems, an impassive figure as Terlands knelt in their ruined clothing and mourned. She spoke to him, because she could not share her family’s raw emotions.
“Is this what you serve House Terland for across the ages, Timekeeper? What, twenty thousand years? Speak truthfully. Please.”
His head turned, and she saw old Nouzcrat’s head rise. Tears streaking his face. His silly personal Golems—broken to protect him from shrapnel. Chovn stood next to his dancing Golem, and Ulva was glad the boy hadn’t lost a true companion. But every Golem here…
“No, Lady Terland.”
The whirring in Timekeeper’s heart accelerated so he could respond. Some of the Terlands glanced up. The Golem stood there, his metal face impassive.
“There is no gain to be had from tears. On-ly levels for Terland. We are broken.”
“Then we shall mourn and level. Terlands, say farewell to our long companions, our protectors, servants, friends, and lovers. All the things we wish of stone—and shall never have in truth. Yet stone was loyal. Metal moved to shield us. Bear witness.”
Ulva was no grand speaker for these moments. It was Petria who would have spoken as if to move the Golems to tears. Yet still, Ulva knelt. She came before a Golem she recognized, whose body was oozing. Someone had set up magical barriers—but Chema, the Gnoll Golem, was losing the magical ‘fur’ that had made her up. She was almost completely intact, but her heart—
The half-Elf had broken her heart in a single blow.
“Chema. You were a true treasure of our house. I am sorry.”
The empty-eyed Golem lay there. Ulva Terland heard more sobbing, and she felt a pang. Then there was only one Terland on his feet. He walked into the mansion slowly.
Lord Xitegen Terland had run to Celum to muster his Golems. To set his city to wariness. A good [Lord]. When he saw the destroyed Golems, his breath caught, and he walked forwards. He stood there.
“Boy. Kneel.”
For the first time, Ulva thought it was he who was disrespectful to the Golems, not the other way around. But the [Lord] just gazed around the mansion.
“I didn’t even know we had this mansion. We have too many properties, Great Aunt. Never used. How many people or Golems do we employ who keep empty houses? Well and so; this one will serve as a storehouse.”
She laughed at him softly.
“Xitegen. Tomorrow, I will have the Golem pieces taken back to the Mansion of Stone for repurposing and salvage. Let them repair other broken Golems. I will not make a museum for them, even these ones who died for us. Golems are a tool. I will not glorify them. Even if they deserve it.”
Timekeeper bowed his head, but he was watching Xitegen. The [Golem-Lord of Enduring Dignity] smiled.
“Great Aunt Ulva Terland, you have named me your heir. So for once, I insist. Many of these Golems may be truly dead. But I insist on my chance, first.”
To do what, repair them? Even if they could salvage Golem Hearts and install them in ancient bodies, they wouldn’t be the same. Ulva almost snarled at Xitegen to kneel when she saw him bend down.
Over Chema. His fingers brushed the chest and the broken heart. It was almost intact; the Terlands had found every piece of her and even fitted them back into place. But the magic was gone; the glass cracked.
That was enough. Xitegen whispered.
“This is a gift I wrested from the Goblin King. From the inn, in a way. There is always a devastating price, but this…be it so selfish, it is mine. [Revive Golem].”
Ulva Terland’s eyes opened wide. She heard a gasp—and then she saw Xitegen concentrating. His palm was laid across Chema’s chest, and it was cut on the sharp edges of her heart. He bled, but he held his hand there, and it felt like there was a glow about him.
His aura? Something else? It swirled…and condensed. Like magic itself were becoming a drop of water which fell. Xitegen exhaled—and there was a flash of light. Soft as the birth of a star.
Then…he stepped back, and Ulva saw pale green lights glowing. In Chema’s eyes.
The Golem slowly sat up, and the oozing liquids swirled up and became her fur once more. She reached down, touched her chest, and her Golem Heart shone.
Someone made a sound. Not Ulva. She was speechless. Chema paused, as if uncertain, then stood in a single motion. She touched her heart again. Then turned to Lord Xitegen and bowed.
“Lord Terland. My functionality is intact. What is my designation and task?”
She didn’t know her own name? For a moment, Ulva saw Xitegen’s face grow somber, but then a voice spoke.
“Gone. Re-link, Chema. Your record is preserved.”
Timekeeper spoke; no one else was capable of it. Chema turned, and her eyes flickered as he sent information to her. Then she nodded just…stood there. Waiting for orders.
“Golem Chema is restored, Lord Xitegen. Awaiting your commands.”
“Xitegen. What Skill—”
“It only works once a month, Great Aunt. We had enough destroyed Golems from the battle with the Titan that I didn’t share it. I didn’t know if it worked on beings of Chema’s quality. Well…it will take years.”
Xitegen turned and gazed around. Nearly a hundred Golems. At one a month? And Ulva knew of many Golems who lay in the Mansion of Stone. Who had malfunctioned in less visible ways. Or were waiting to be disassembled. Or just…
She was thinking of them all, suddenly. And wondering, if Xitegen levelled—would the Skill come faster? He stood as his family rose from their knees. Staring.
The Golems were looking at him too. Ulva Terland finally managed words.
“You are the fitting heir of House Terland, Xitegen. If any doubt it for his youth, his opinions, speak of this moment. Level, Xitegen Terland. You have the Skill that our house has always longed for. Petria and I were only gifted different arts.”
He nodded at her, humble. She stepped back as the family flooded forwards to embrace Chema, who gently patted them like children.
“Chema. Go to Lord Ilvriss and heal him if you are able.”
“Yes, Lady Terland.”
Already, she was needed. Ulva ignored the protests; the Drake was wounded. They had time, now, to celebrate Chema. She stepped back and turned.
“Timekeeper. Is that what you serve for?”
“Yes, Lady Ter-land. The power of those who level allows us to en-dure. I would be rust if not for this bond. Sym-bi-o-tic.”
The Golem did not smile as she stood with him, but she saw, then, a reason for him to tolerate his long service. Perhaps he was just waiting for a day when one of the Terlands could command his heart to awaken and beat until he was truly a person.
Perhaps that Terland had come. Ulva let her eyes rest on Xitegen, but he was not merely accepting congratulations. He strode towards her, and there was a focus to him.
“I have Celum on alert and have marshalled my Golems for the hunt, or the half-Elf’s vengeance. First the damn Titan, then the Goblin King, and now this. I don’t actually believe The Wandering Inn is cursed, Great Aunt…”
“Don’t be stupid. It’s just like the Adventurer’s Haven. It attracts powerful people and enemies. Enough. Go heal, eat, let the family celebrate you, and come to me with any suggestions. I’ll be in Invrisil until I sort this out.”
