The coffee space shrank a bit more, and Tala saw Mistress Holly’s jaw dip slightly as if she were drinking through a straw, an impression reinforced by the older woman swallowing a moment later. As before, Tala’s threefold perspective was unable to see anything but the outer layers of the woman and her attire, restricted to what any mundane could observe.

Mistress Holly nodded. “Still good, no adverse effects.”

Tala gave the woman a flat stare. “How?”

She had been watching closely, and Tala hadn’t seen any magics, nor any dimensional manipulations of any kind.

Mistress Holly’s aura and authority underpinned everything in this workshop, but it hadn't seemed to flex in any particular way.

The Inscriptionist suddenly held up a spoon. “Like this.”

Tala frowned. “What? You didn’t use a spoon. Where did that come from?”

Mistress Holly shook her head. “There is no spoon.”

And the spoon was gone… Apparently never having been there to begin with.

“You are becoming quite skilled with aura and authority, Mistress Tala, but you still have a lot to learn. You have only begun to explore the edges of what is possible in your seat of sovereignty.”

Tala pulled back slightly, critically examining the older woman. Mistress Holly wouldn’t have used that word lightly. “How advanced are you?”

Mistress Holly reached up and patted her on the cheek. “When you catch up, you can tell me.”

Tala sighed, deciding to move on. “Fine. Are things ready for Lea?”

Mistress Holly nodded. “Come, come.” She turned, moving back toward her favored workroom. “Put that away and follow me. We’ve much to talk about.”

Tala shook her head, and decided not to argue. As such, she willed herself back to her sanctum, slightly surprised that she was in range. She sat the coffee jug down and willed herself back out.

During the return movement, she felt it. The dimensionality of Mistress Holly’s shop was being artificially altered to be closer to Kit… somehow.

It hadn’t moved—neither had Kit—but they were definitionally closer than they really should have been.

Mistress Holly always has one more secret.

-So it seems.-

She arrived back in the reception area, bowed toward the wide-eyed, slightly shellshocked receptionist, and followed after Mistress Holly. Let’s see what she has to say.
