“Silly girl.” Draping an arm around Song’s shoulder, Mama squeezed a little too tightly, but Song didn’t mind. “Learning how to mimic a true force of nature is an extraordinary feat, but only meant for a chosen few. An Awakening is a Blessing of the Heavens, a gift bestowed, not a goal to be chased. I myself have not Awakened, so why would it matter if you have not? I am not upset with you girl, I might as well be upset you failed to catch a star or touch the moon. No, I told you about Rain’s past because I thought you two were alike, but I was wrong.” Holding Song close, they both stared out into the bay as Mama’s voice grew hoarse. “Rain can be reckless at times, but only when necessary. Against a weaker opponent, he is often overly cautious, hiding behind his shield and waiting until an opportunity presents itself. You, however, are reckless regardless who your opponent is. Earlier, when you charged Mister Rustram, my heart stopped with worry, for if he responded properly to your aggression, he could have skewered you on his sword, blunted or not. Then you tell me you have been doing this almost every day for an entire year? Something is wrong my girl.”

“This lowly one does not understand.” It was always better to admit ignorance than be punished for failure, a lesson Song learned early and often.

“Oh my sweet girl,” Mama said, shaking her head in sorrow. “All this time, I thought you were getting better and almost whole again, but now I see you are far from it. Look at you, one tiny lecture and you are shivering like a lamb caught in the tiger’s den. And what is all this ‘lowly one’ nonsense? If you ever call me Master, I fear my heart will shatter into a thousand pieces.”

Unsure what else to say, Song defaulted to, “Sorry Mama.”

Lifting Song’s chin, Mama looked her in the eyes, her tender gaze filled with warmth and sadness. “Why are you sorry?”

“Because this one – I,” Song corrected, flinching ever so slightly as she corrected herself, “have troubled Mama.”

“And how have you troubled me?”

Unable to come up with an answer, Song sat in restless silence, staring at the tip of her nose while searching for her braid to fidget with. After a long pause, Mama sighed and answered for her. “Because sweet daughter, you place no value on your life. I should have seen it earlier, back when Mila told me about your fight against the Demon in Sanshu. There was no way for you to know it would appear in front of you, but you risked it anyways. You are different from Rain. He’ll do anything to stay alive, while you walk the razor’s edge and risk your life because you care nothing for it. Tell me girl, do you seek death?”

“No Mama. That would be in defiance of The Oaths.”

“But if you died in defence of your master or during a training accident, then...?”

Still not sure what Mama was getting at, Song shrugged and answered, “Then I will have died serving my purpose.”

Deflating in place, Mama hugged Song a little tighter and sighed once more. Grateful their confusing conversation was finally at an end and nothing untoward had come of it, Song relaxed and snuggled up against Mama’s shoulder, enjoying the beautiful sights and soothing sounds of the bay. Bored of stalking the crabs, Aurie plopped down beside her in search of attention, joined soon after by Jimjam and Sara. Splashing in the water, the bears grunted and chortled as they wrestled about, showing signs of the powerful behemoths they would soon become yet still innocent and childlike in their demeanour. Tired from circling the bay, Roc and the laughing birds landed nearby, with sweet Kipi hopping over to show off the blue-grey sea stone clamped in her beak.

After a long stretch of silence, Mama sighed a third time, rested her head against Song’s, and asked, “My sweet daughter, answer me true: are you happy?”

Half asleep from resting on Mama’s shoulder, Song drowsily answered, “Yes Mama.”

“Good. Then from this moment on, you have a new purpose.” Alarmed, Song tried to sit up but Mama held her tight and continued. “Your purpose is to live a long and happy life. I want you to try new things, find something you love, and tell me all about it. Can you do that, daughter?”

Still uncertain what was happening, Song blurted out the first thing that came to mind. “I love spending time with Mama.”

Bursting into laughter, Mama wiped her eyes and shook her head. “And I you, but that is not what I meant. I was speaking more about a hobby, a goal, or a path. For example, the Martial Path, which you have made great strides in but is it something you enjoy?”

It wasn’t a question she’d considered before, but Song answered without hesitation. “Yes Mama. The Martial Path is all I have ever known, but it speaks to me. I have always pursued strength, but now I pursue strength for myself. I want to be strong so I can stand with Mama, Papa, and sister without being a burden.”

“We would never consider you a burden.” Kissing Song on the temple, Mama added, “But if this is your decision, then prepare yourself. Though I am your mother and you are my daughter, I will hold nothing back as your Mentor. Now, your first task: sit here with your Mama and watch Rain’s Awakening. Sometimes, one can find Insight from watching an Awakening, but do not fret if nothing is gained. Like I said earlier...”

Stiffening in surprise, Song nodded and held her tongue, ears pressed flat against her skull as she considered her dilemma.

With this newest development, how was she supposed to tell Mama she wanted to learn from Teacher Du?

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

“Look who finally came up for air. ‘Bout time too, been damn near three days now.”

“Come now, pull him in, he must be exhausted. Rain my boy, don’t you worry, we’ll have you up soon enough.”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo. Such diligence, such drive, worthy of admiration.”

Gasping for breath, Baledagh struggled to keep his head above the swirling waters, weak and feeble as a day old kitten following his frantic race for the surface. After what felt like an eternity, a pair of hands dragged him onto the boat and he looked up to see Guan Suo, Taduk, and the monk standing over him with concern in their eyes. Disoriented and confused, he coughed up a lungful of water and asked, “What happened? Where am I?”

Brother? Are you there? Why aren’t you answering?

Chapter Meme

- End of Volume 17 -
