“What is your command, Seeker?” His deep voice sounded surprisingly gentle, but Tol’brekk’s eyes were already studying the battle and the coruscating lightning storm.

Ali fired her golden darts, disrupting an attempted teleportation, and then dumped the weapons and armor she had collected from her Berserker’s previous corpse out of her storage enchantment, making a deafening clatter upon the stone beneath her, and then she tossed him a trollish Tusk Ring.

“Equip yourself,” she said. Normally, she’d summon her minions with their gear already equipped, but even though it wasn’t much, collecting the old gear instead saved her time on the summoning spell.

His enormous three-fingered hand caught the ring out of the air and slipped it onto his left tusk, and then with a wave of his other hand, all the gear vanished with tiny puffs of mana. An eyeblink later, the gear reappeared, but this time on his body.

“Nice trick,” she complimented him, resolving to ask him to teach it to her later. She had seen Calen switch bows through his storage enchantment, but she hadn’t even considered a full gear swap.

He grunted, his eyes returning to the battle with the intensity of one born for combat.

“The bone fetish is our foe; I want you to kill it. But only use your highest damage and slowest strikes. Back out of the lightning as much as possible and don’t engage if you are cursed. Whatever you do, do not use Blood Vortex.”

“Yes, Seeker,” the giant troll said with a frown on his brow, but he didn’t question her choices. “On hit damage trigger?”

“Yes, Lightning Nova,” Ali explained.

“Leap then,” he decided. He squatted down, his enormous thigh muscles bulging with force and stamina, and then he launched his considerable bulk high into the air, almost half his health vanishing in flight, sacrificed to power his coming strike. He flickered and flashed with holy magic as the nimble kobolds managed to land three heals before he came crashing to the ground like a roaring meteor from the heavens. Lightning exploded upward, the nova pierced through with dark shards of shattered stone pavement, and then the giant troll leaped backward out of the blast radius, bearing the telltale formation of the lightning curse.

I shouldn’t have worried, Ali thought. While her berserkers were prone to losing control when they got too low on health, Tol’brekk had been fighting for her for quite a while now, and she had learned that he possessed a kind of battle-savvy that reminded her a little of Mato. He had carefully, perhaps instinctively, spent only enough health to commit to the strength of his attack, but not enough to entirely lose control, especially considering the competence of her kobold priests.

“Cure Tol’brekk next,” Ali instructed.

Kir’vella bobbed her head with birdlike agility and cackled hideously.

Then, Ali sent her thoughts soaring high into the air, releasing her impatiently circling Scion of Azryet. The midnight black dragon folded its wings, dropping like a stone, and when it was barely a couple of meters above the ground, it flared its wings again, striking downward with a powerful talon strike. Its giant maw opened wide and released the concealed Black Hole breath weapon directly at Grim Spark’s head from point-blank range.

As the boss exploded with retaliatory Lightning Novas and Confuse, the dragon’s wings, face, and chest became wreathed with barriers of pure void that seemed to eat the magic of the spells unleashed at it, drastically reducing the damage to itself before its wings surged and carried it back up into the air.

In the wake of her dragon’s strike, the detonation of Calen’s ambush briefly shone out, banishing the darkness of the street before fading back to black.

“Fire,” she commanded, and her mage released her held holy fireball. But as it exploded, she could already tell the problem. They were using only the most powerful strikes, and even so, she was forced to spread them out so as not to overwhelm Mato with excessive retaliatory lightning. But Grim Spark was still gaining health. And then she missed the next Disrupt, and the boss vanished.

This is not working. We need to change the plan. Again.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
