“I don’t think you do. Woodhouse isn’t the problem, but you’re telling me like he is.” Curon leaned back. “He’s a snob, and he’ll take your artist from under your nose, but if he shakes on a thing, the thing happens. If Woodhouse says he’ll look after that kid, he’ll at least put it in his schedule.”

She pouted. She knew precisely what it did to Curon and did it anyway.

“But Woodhouse doesn’t own Universal,” Curon shifted in his chair. “Well, he’s got six per cent of it, but the point stands. He’s C-suite. Sir Justin has a duty to turn a profit.” He turned a hand over. “Like us, Universal is a business. It’s got quarters. When the numbers don’t go up, people get fired.”

I know it's business… Eppie sighed. If I could do business. I would have bought Universal within the decade. “Should I have nabbed the kid?”

Her faux-father laughed—not unkindly, though she still felt like shit. Eppie could see that her father liked it when her prescient teen genius persona grew flustered. “If it helps, I can confirm Trent would treat the kid no better—and if he did, it’s because you promised a No.1…”

Eppie’s expression told Curon everything going through her head.

“You’re frowning still. Okay. Can I be brutally honest with you?” Her father sat upright.

Eppie nodded.

“I’m glad the kid’s not our problem,” Curon’s voice was firm and careful. “I don’t want to be stuck between you and Trent. On one hand, Sony BMG is my company too, not to mention Trent has already established our red lines long ago. On the other hand, it’ll break my heart to see you unhappy. Can we balance the act? Can we balance instrument training, vocal training, songwriting, transport, costumes, marketing, artist management, touring… TAXES, with an ultra-generous contract? No. Besides, if I adopt this kid. What about the next kid? And the next? You’ve been to level nine. There are two dozen trainees there, slaving it out right now. Don’t they deserve a generous contract? So… no. I don’t want that kid in this building either.”

The room was very quiet.Eppie felt repressed. She had never had to deal with these bullshit feelings in M&A.

“So what fixes it?” she asked.

“Quitting,” her faux-father said. “That’s it. That’s the only cure. Martin goes home, finishes school, plays with his friends, and puts covers up on the internet. Gets hits, gets views, gets a decent GPA. Maybe, when he’s older, he partners with YouTube and makes it on his own terms. Gets married. Gets a house.” Curon studied her face. “Is that so bad? That’s the American Dream, ain’t it?”

“But…” Eppie felt her frown pulling every individual muscle in her face, far more acutely than ever before. Was this the effect of [The Facial Landscape]? “He wants to be an artist.”

“That’s not… exactly correct,” Curon shook his head. “The boy wants to be you. He wants to be famous. He wants to stand outside the multitudes and sing. That’s not a defect, Eppie. Wanting it isn’t a sickness. Some people are supposed to be up there. Some people feel that life is unbearable if they’re not up there, so please don’t make that face.”

Eppie spent a dozen [Causality] and felt her own face settling into placidity.

“But the dream isn’t free, and it’s never been free, and it doesn’t go on sale. You want the fame. You want the SCALE. You pay. You don’t pay once, either. You pay in instalments. Childhood first. Then health. Then sanity. The returns, however, can be very lucrative.”

“Am I paying it?” It came out before she could control her face again.

Her father didn’t answer straight away. He got up, moved a cable that did not need moving, and poured himself a drink from the alcohol cabinet.

“Maddy called me,” he said.

“Okay…” Eppie felt the shift in atmosphere.

“There’s going to be a great deal of unsavouriness in the coming days,” Curon sipped the bourbon. “You, of all people, I trust to be able to deal with this. You took down William Chen. You took down LAPA; this… is small potatoes.”

Eppie read her father’s awkwardness at once.

“Someone published the photo in our lobby, didn’t they…”

“Yeah…” Curon looked apologetic. “That they did…”
