"It...it seems as if Polydra has been decimated. An explosive eruption wiped the city from the map, as you wished it to. Several news outlets are guessing at the cause, from nuclear blasts to some kind of kinetic weapon in orbit above Giess."

The Sentinel sliced a spear, creating a rip to Elderfire,

"They know it was your guild that caused the havoc, however. Until now, many higher powers questioned the status of you and your followers. They spoke of a weak, new guild given special treatment over a fluke. They can't defy your ranking anymore."

The Sentinel pulled the portal apart with a bit of effort before turning to me, "How does it feel to put your guild on the galactic radar?"

I peered at the horizon,

"It's pretty good I guess. I find myself thinking about Schema's system more though. Sometimes it's like I'm Schema's mercenary, just doing what he wants without really knowing what's going on."

The Sentinel scoffed, "Schema's far more informed than you could ever hope to be. He also created a stable environment to live despite the eldritch's best attempts at stopping him. Being his mercenary is the same as being a champion of justice."

Eh, I doubted that.

The Sentinel stepped through the portal, "Now come receive the spoils of war, as a mercenary should."

Before stepping through the portal, I glanced at my notifications for a moment. I found dozens of messages, too many to read at the moment. As I stepped through the portal, I reminisced on what Tohtella said. Wrong as she was, the core of her points still stood on their own merit.

Putting entire species forever in an unknown status was fucked. That wasn't the only disaster Schema caused. He eldritchified Hod's homeworld. He limited information to paint a certain kind of narrative. Hell, each world's initiation into the system was known as 'the culling.' Bottom line, Schema wasn't perfect.

Maybe I wasn't going to be able to change the AI's mind, but there might be other ways of improving Schema. Doing so would take a lot of time and effort though, so I put these thoughts into the back of my mind. Stopping the Adair family and the Hybrids took precedent. With that newfound resolve, I stepped through the portal.

It was time to break them, one city at a time.
