Ren nodded. They'd gone over the proper protocol a dozen times. When presenting an introduction gift to the Lady of a House, you always pay respects first. If you meet standing, then a deep bow is needed. Sitting, a one leg kneel. Ren just hoped the gift he had was enough. Nathalia walked into the main room and her mother sat in a stiff wooden chair, her back straight and her hair done up in a braid, just like her daughter. She wore a thin white chiffon dress, and a small white belt around her waist.

She looks just like her daughter. Ren thought. Only she's a little thinner, and she has some gray hair.

“Hello, Ma.” Nathalia said and went over to her. She gave her mother a quick hug, and a kiss on the cheek, then stepped to the side.

“And who's this?” Her mother said and glanced at her daughter. “You're a little young to be courted.” She whispered. Ren could hear her clearly, and held back a smile. He took a few steps forward, and knelt on one knee.

“I am Ren, of an Unregistered House, and I present to you, the Lady of House Neram, a gift commensurate of your worth.” Ren took out 2 of the golden band rings that he hadn't equipped yet, but had enchanted with an Augment Glyph (4 runes of Augment). One granted a +4 to Vitality, and the other +4 to Strength. Ren held them out to her in the palm of his hand. Nathalia's mother's eyes widened at the gold rings.

After talking with Nathalia all week, and hearing that her mother's only regrets were that she felt weak and wasn't as young as she used to be, giving her rings to help alleviate that seemed like the best gift he could give her. Nathalia's mother reached out and picked up the rings.

“Are these really what I think...” She started to say, and then clamped her mouth shut before she broke protocol completely. She slipped the Vitality ring onto her right hand, and when it resized to fit her, she took a deep breath and looked at Ren. She put the Strength ring on the next finger.

“As the Lady of this House, I find your gifts... acceptable.” She said and smiled.

Ren relaxed for a moment, then took a deep breath himself. This is the hard part. He thought, then spoke. “I come before you, to seek guidance. Through my own ignorance, I have courted your daughter.” Ren said. “I was also challenged, and in front of High House witnesses, won a duel to become her official courter.”

Nathalia's mother's face showed surprise, and Ren continued.

“My ignorance is no excuse, I accept that; but seeing as I am not physically a dwarf, and my House is Unregistered... I humbly request your assistance to have my petition for registration be denied.”

Her face was shocked and she turned to her daughter, who nodded.

“What you're requesting is quite unorthodox.” She said and frowned.

“It's the only way to undo everything that's happened, Ma.”

“What do you mean?”

Nathalia sighed. “I can't leave the ship yet. We still owe too much to do that.”

“But this man...”

“Can't be locked in a marriage that he doesn't want.”

Nathalia's mother turned back to Ren. “Is this true?” She asked. “You've been playing with my daughter's affections and now you are spurning her?”

Ren's eyes widened. What do I say? This wasn't a part of the protocol!

“Mother!” Nathalia yelled.

“What?” Her mother yelled back.

“It's not like that! We... we haven't... it's not like that!”

Her mother relaxed slightly. “Then tell me what happened.”

Nathalia and Ren told her the whole story, how it began quite innocently, then how things snowballed into a duel. Then they told her about Nathalia's realization that neither she nor Ren wanted to go through with it, and then the hatching of the plan. When they were finished, Nathalia's mother sat in silence. Several minutes passed and she didn't say anything. Ren still knelt and Nathalia still stood beside the chair, both unmoving.

Her mother nodded. “Wait here.” She said, then tried to stand up quickly and turn right, but she'd forgotten about the rings Ren had given her. When she pushed herself out of the chair with her left arm and legs like she usually did, her extra strength let her pop out of it as if she had hopped.

“Whoop!” She exclaimed. She lost her footing, twisted around and fell backwards, arms windmilling. Ren caught her easily, since he had been kneeling only a step away in front of the chair. She ended up sitting on Ren's knee, with an arm draped around his shoulders, with one of his hands on her upper back and the other hand on her leg.

“Mother!” Nathalia said. “Are you all right?”

“Yes, dear. I'm fine.” She said. “Apparently, I don't know my own strength.” She started to laugh and then stopped. Her eyes drifted down to where Ren's hand was on her thigh, and her face flushed a little red when she realized she was sitting on a man's thigh, and that man was holding her in a very manly way, for the first time in over 12 years.

“Oh... oh my...” She said and her blush filled her face. Ren thought she might pass out and shifted his stabilizing hand from her thigh to under both of her legs. He stood up and cupped Nathalia's mother to his chest.

“Oh My!” She exclaimed.

“Ren.” Nathalia said.

“What?”

“Put my mother down.”

“Her face turned red so fast after that fall, I thought she was going to pass out.” Ren said. “You're supposed to level out the flow of blood when that happens.”

Nathalia laughed. “That's not why she was blushing.”

He's holding me like I weigh nothing! Her mother thought.

Ren looked at Nathalia with a question on his face. “Then why...”

Nathalia smiled. “She's a woman... and if my guess is right... and I sincerely hope it is... she hasn't had a man touch her like that in about a decade.”

Ren looked down in surprise at Nathalia's mother, who looked up at him with embarrassment, and a little bit of longing.

“I'm terribly sorry.” Ren said. “I over-reacted.”

“So did I...” She said. “...I think.” She continued to blush.

Ren put her down gently, standing her on her feet, and found out she was the same height as her daughter at 4 foot even. Ren was a head taller than both of them.

“If I was in my right mind, I wouldn't help you.” Nathalia's mother said.

“Mother!”

Her mother smiled mischievously. “I think he would make a very fine courter.”

Nathalia's mouth fell open. “But... but...”

“Don't worry, dear. I'm going to help you.” She said and then turned to Ren. “I only have 2 conditions.”

Ren didn't say anything and crossed his arms. Teepo? What have you found?

“There's a keep down here, Ren. A big one.” Teepo said.

Really?

“The house is sitting on the entrance. It goes on for about half a mile below ground.”

That is pretty big. Ren thought. How's the condition?

“Terrible. Walls have collapsed, ceilings have caved in. There's really big spiders and some bats. It's actually really dangerous down here. I don't think it's been touched in decades.”

It hasn't. Ren thought. Her father was a tailor.

“That figures. It kills me to see a place like this waste away.” Teepo said, disgusted.

Me, too. What are the chances I can fix it?

“Slim and none... and Slim left town.” Teepo said and chittered in laughter.

Ren smiled.

“Just kidding. If you can get a good stonemason or something, then dig out the rooms above and fix them before trying to clear the lower levels...”

Hm. I understand. Have you found anything shiny?

Teepo chittered in laughter again. “How did you know?”

You're in a dungeon surrounded by spiders and bats, and you're in a good mood.

“Ha ha... I haven't seen anything really good... but there's veins of gold behind some of these fallen walls.”

Excellent.

“What are your conditions?” Ren said to Nathalia's mother.

“One... You pay a proper tribute, as a dowery for my daughter.”

“Mother, no!” Nathalia yelled. “You can't ask him to-”

“And the second?” Ren asked.

“When she is ready in 6 years, you come back and petition to be her courter.”

Ren looked at Nathalia's mother and knew she was scheming for something, and Ren's Haggling ability engaged. I see. Ren thought. “What would you consider a proper tribute to pay?” He asked.

“How much do you have?” She asked coyly.

“By the gods, Mother! Have you no shame?” Nathalia asked.

Her mother laughed. “Relax, dear. He knows what I'm doing, don't you?”

Ren nodded and smiled. Nathalia looked back and forth between them and didn't know what to say.

“Well... rather than offer you money...” Ren said to her mother's wide eyes. “...I'll offer to repair this place.”

Nathalia gasped. “Ren!”

“What?”

“You... you don't know how big this place is.”

“If you're referring to the size of the battlements outside, I know they're supposed to be on top of a structure at least... what? Half a mile high?”

Nathalia and her mother's mouths dropped open in shock.

“I've seen the outside of this place. It's practically crumbling. The inside? Something this old... there'd be walls collapsed and ceilings caved in, I think.”

“How... how....” Nathalia's mother said.

Ren shrugged. “I'll need to talk to a stonemason first, of course. I'd be scared to touch anything without consulting an expert.”

“You'd really do it?” Nathalia's mother said in disbelief. “You'd try to repair the Keep?”

“That's what you want, isn't it?” Ren asked her. “I was wondering why you'd want Nathalia working back home for 3 years after saving up money while working on a ship. There's not 3 years of work to what I've seen so far. There had to be a lot more to this place.”

Nathalia's mother turned to her. “Are you sure you don't want to keep him trapped in an engagement?”

Nathalia opened and closed her mouth, but didn't say anything.

“You're right.” Her mother said. “I've borrowed money to try and maintain this place all these years, but it's been too much for me to handle. Nathalia was kind enough to take a job on a ship to try and earn enough money to pay back what I owe.”

“What we owe.” Nathalia said.

Her mother smiled. “You see? She takes on the family's problems as if they were her own.”

“If you accept repairing the keep as the first condition, then all you'd have to worry about is paying back the money, right?” Ren asked.

“Why?!?” Nathalia and her mother said together, looked at each other, then back to Ren.

“Why would you do this for us?” Nathalia asked.

“I really have messed up your life's plan for the next handful of years. I want to do what I can to fix that.” Ren said, then smiled. “I'm also going to need somewhere to live while I'm here.”

Both Nathalia and her mother blushed slightly. A man living here after so long!

“I can't ask you to let me live here in the house.” Ren said. “The keep on the other hand? I can stay there... once I clean it up a little.”

Nathalia's mother looked at Ren. “I'll agree to the change of the first condition.” She said. “I won't budge on the second.”

Ren smiled. “Actually... your second condition isn't valid anymore.”

“What!” She said.

Ren looked at Nathalia. “Your second condition was based on her working for 3 years on the ship to save up to fix the keep, then 3 years here working on the keep itself.”

Her mother nodded.

“But now... I'm fixing the keep.” Ren said and grinned. “Plus, I've already petitioned to be a courter to your daughter. We're trying to undo that, remember?”

Her mother looked at him, trying to see where she was getting screwed over, but she couldn't see it. She stepped forward and put out a hand for Ren to shake. He didn't take it however.

“I can't agree yet.” Ren said to her shocked expression and she dropped her hand. “While I'm fixing the place, I'm bound to find something valuable. What should we do with it?”

Both Nathalia and her mother stared at Ren again.

“What?!?” Her mother asked.

“I'll eventually get really deep. There's monsters down there. If I kill them, who gets the loot?”

“You do, of course. If they are your kills, you get the spoils.” Her mother said.

Ren nodded. “That's fair. What if I find something in one of the rooms? Do I get to keep it, do you keep it, do we sell it, fix it, split it?”

Her mother huffed. “Just take everything that's not mine, dammit!” She said and stuck out her hand again. Ren smiled and took her hand. Instead of shaking it, he turned it towards his face and bent over to place a kiss on the front of her fingers. It was proper protocol, after all.

“It's an Honor to work for your House, My Lady.”

New Quest!

You have entered a contract with House Neram to rebuild Neram Keep. You will remain in Lady Narhilda Neram's employ until the contract is fulfilled.

No time limit has been set to complete this quest.

Rewards: Immediate Dissolution of House Ememay, ????

Narhilda blushed a deep red as she looked into Ren's eyes. “I-I-I'll have the improper paperwork filed right away.” She stammered.

Quest Update!

House Ememay has been disbanded!

Influence Lost!

Honor Lost!

Notice!

You have been fined by the Dwarven Council for using a false House name!

Fine Amount: 100 gold coins

Fines can be paid at the Main Keep. Time Limit: 1 day.

Well... crap. Ren thought.
