They were back at his parents' home, in the cramped living room of their two-bedroom, one-bath. It had been a little tight growing up with him, Derek, and Pete Jr., but they'd managed.

The decor hadn't changed since the eighties, and neither had the brown carpeting. At least it hid the stains. Three boys could wreak havoc.

He wondered how Ashton, Kingston, and Braxton were doing to his apartment carpet. Actually, never mind. He was never getting his deposit back.

Before taking his parents to the dungeon, Thomas had stopped by the Crystal Flea Market that morning and purchased four health mana crystals. The set had cost nearly five hundred dollars.. As more and more divers started exploring dungeons, the benefits of health crystals were becoming more widely known, and the price had shot up.

Still, Thomas could afford it now.

His father picked up the first one doubtfully. "You don't expect us to swallow these?"

"No, you absorb them," Sue said. "I saw this on Facebook." She frowned as she concentrated, and the crystal immediately jellified in her hand and sank into her palm.

A moment later, his father's did the same.

Peter took a surprised breath, then a deeper one, letting it out slowly. There was no wheeze. Decades of damage from smoking were now gone.

Beside him, Sue exclaimed in delight as she rotated her wrist and flexed her fingers rapidly. "I feel... good," she said.

Thomas grinned. This was what he had wanted when he originally dove the chicken dungeon. He opened his mouth to say something, then paused. There was a rosy pink mist rising from his mother.

A few seconds later, his father had a pink mist cloud too.

"What's that?" Sue said, waving the mist away as if it were a bad smell.

"I don't know. I've never seen that before," Thomas said. "It looks like health mana."

He used his health sight on his parents but didn't see anything unusual. It wasn't like he could diagnose anything with it.

After a few moments, the pink mana mist faded.

"Well, I still feel fine," Sue said. "In fact, I feel like I could go for a jog. I haven't felt this energetic since you were little, Tommy." She started to stand.

"Wait, before you go," he said. "There's one more thing. I know you don't want to dungeon dive, but I have some extra mana from my dives. You should take it."

He reached into his bag and grabbed two Ziploc packets of what he was considering the basics: one white, one blue, one brown, and one red crystal each.

His parents exchanged a look, and his father said, "How many dungeons have you been diving, exactly, to have all that?"

The question took him by surprise. "A few."

"I don't like it," Sue said. "I don't like the idea of you putting yourself in danger, especially for us."

"I'm not," Thomas lied like a rug. "You saw the Vegetable Dungeon."

"Yeah, but one wrong step and a carrot chomps your toes off," his father said. Then his dad and mom glanced at each other again.

Thomas knew that look. "What," he said flatly. It wasn't a question. He knew something was coming he wouldn't like.

His father hesitated, then sighed. "Derek said that you have a job opportunity at the hospital? And that you didn't take it."

Thomas felt a flash of anger. "Derek is full of shit."

"Thomas!" his mother scolded.

"I never had a job opportunity at the hospital," Thomas corrected, barely keeping his tone civil. He and Derek still hadn't talked, and now Thomas had the bad feeling his brother had been spending his time bad-mouthing him to the rest of the family. "Derek thinks I should look for a job at the hospital, and to him, that's as good as an order."

His father frowned. "What's wrong with a good medical job? You could train to be a paramedic. Surely it would pay more than what you're doing now."

"It would be good, consistent work," his mother added. "Right now, are the courts even running with all the nonsense going on? How much work can a paralegal have?"

Thomas sighed. He wasn't even a paralegal, but his mother had never actually accepted that.

"Mom, what's happening isn't nonsense, it's..." A probable restructuring of their entire society. Thomas shut his mouth.

His parents were adults, and even though they were on the verge of treating him like a child, he instinctively didn't want to burden them with what he knew was coming down the road. "Mom, Dad, I'm fine. I have my job situation under control. Meanwhile," he tapped the Ziploc bags, "I'd like you two to try to see if any of this mana feels right to you. You don't have to dungeon dive, but our world is going to be full of magic soon, and this is the fuel to make it work."

He must have said something right, because while his parents both frowned a little, they didn't push back.

Or maybe it was because they were both feeling too good to argue. His mother kept clenching and unclenching her hands, and Thomas noted that her knuckles looked a lot less swollen than before. His father intermittently let out gusty sighs, as if he wasn't used to being able to take in so much air at once.

Thomas had to explain the method a couple of times, but eventually, they got the idea of feeling out the correct mana. His mother picked a brown earth crystal, and his father picked fire.

They absorbed their crystals cleanly, and nothing drifted back out from them. Thomas studied them quickly with his healing sight, and if he concentrated hard enough, he got an impression of the beginning of their cores. His mother's was like brown tilled earth. His father's was already warm, like an ember.

There was no sign of the health mana he'd given them. It hadn't stayed in their bodies at all. After healing them, it had... what? Outgassed?

The first crystal Thomas had ever absorbed was a fat A-Grade health mana. He remembered exhaling out something like sparkles for a breath, but that had been it.

He'd been badly slashed by the boss chicken monster at the time. His parents, by contrast, had the accumulated wear of age to deal with.

It seemed like their bodies had accepted the health crystals to fix their ills but hadn't been able to retain the excess. Not the way he had.

****

Thomas was still thinking about mana as he drove back to his apartment. When he'd gone to the Crystal Flea Market earlier, no one had any level two Adaptation mana for sale. He could just go back to the Mimic Dungeon and pick up some level ones, but he didn't want level one mana in his level two core.

He would have to do some research: find a lead, a rumor, or simply a seller.

The sun was starting to set. It took him a few moments to realize there was someone sitting on the front stoop of his building. For a second, he thought it was Derek, and his annoyance spiked. He and his brother were avoiding each other, but Derek had gone whining to their parents, so they needed to have words.

But as he drew closer, he saw the silhouette was thinner than the more burly Derek. The man raised his hand in a casual wave as Thomas walked up.

"Thomas the mana-man," said Zach. "How's it going?"
