Officer Holly stared up at the ceiling of the kitchen. She had heard some laughter, and wondered what was going on. Even though the bed she was in was luxuriously comfortable, she just couldn't get to sleep. Not long after she had tucked herself into bed, she had started to doubt why she had let Ren co-opt both her and her mission... and her Reassurance Aura had disappeared as a result. She tried to get it back, but it just wouldn't activate for her.

I should check and see if there's any messages in real life. Officer Holly thought. “Logout.”

********

Officer Holly took off her VR headset and sat up in her recliner, and heard a squelch sound. “Goddammit!” She said as she looked down and saw her underwear was completely soaked through, and the now cool liquid had pooled underneath her. “No one told me this could happen!”

Officer Holly got up and stomped to the bathroom to get a shower, cleaned herself up and put on a thick bathrobe, then came back out with the right supplies to clean up the mess she had made.

Geez, there's a lot of it. Officer Holly thought, a little surprised, and then was relieved the recliner was made of leather; mainly because it was so easy to clean and disinfect. Imagine if it was cloth! She thought and chuckled. I'd probably have to throw the damn thing out. She stopped laughing and frowned. No, this isn't funny. She sprayed the chair cushion again with a disinfectant cleaner and wiped it off. He made me do this.

Officer Holly dried the leather and sat on a nearby chair. Oh, god. She thought and put her head in her hands. He did make me do this; but, only after he asked me if I wanted him to do it. She sighed and took a deep breath. Heaven help me, I really wanted him to.

Officer Holly picked up her phone to see if her partner had discovered anything while watching Ren's house, and she didn't see any messages from him. She did have one from Agent Smith, however. The hitman hired to take care of Ren was paid in untraceable cash that had been deposited in an offshore account, and the account it was transferred from had been closed out. The good news was that the guy confessed to everything.

Officer Holly sent a message back to thank him for the information, and that if she learned anything she would let him know. She put the phone down and looked at the VR headset.

I really should try and get some sleep. Officer Holly thought and sat down on the recliner. She hesitated for a moment before putting on the VR headset. I won't ask him to do that again. She thought, quite unconvincingly, and put the headset on and laid back.

“Flow Login Start.”

*

Officer Holly woke up in the bed inside Ren's house, and everything was quiet. She half-expected him to be standing over her to stop her from leaving, and that made her smile.

Ha! I left, and you didn't even know it! Officer Holly thought in satisfaction, and closed her eyes. This bed is really comfortable. She rolled over onto her side as she pulled the blanket up tight, and fell asleep.
