A tense moment passed, and Thane wondered if he had overreacted until he heard thumping and clattering sounds from the roof above. They were the unmistakable sounds of bodies and swords raining from the sky.

Floridawn's final line of defense had been taken out in an instant.

Thane peeked above the windowsill, his breath making the windowpane cloud as he saw the monsters down the street begin to move again. Except the shadows were now wreathing their forms like armor, making them look even more fearsome.

"I'm going to die," Thane said, and froze as the realization truly hit him. This was it. Decades of effort, gone. A life all but wasted. "No, no," he hissed, scrambling toward the staircase—cursing under his breath as he almost tripped and fell over the slumbering mortals. He practically threw himself down the stairs to the ground floor and rushed toward the door. He could escape by sticking to the back alleys and keeping out of the air. It might take some bribing, but surely he could sneak into Empyrea or even one of the canopy cities. Those should be safe from the...

He opened the door and came face to face with a shadow-cloaked being.

"Monsters," he said as it leaned into the room, forcing him back. It was massive, with hollow eyes and made from interlaced black wood. How such a being could even move was beyond Thane, as it seemed to lack any signs of organs or even a beast core he could target.

"S-Stay back!" he shouted, waving his sword uselessly at it, unable to conjure enough Qi from his Star Core to mount a defense. Is this what I get for trying to help the mortals? he thought as his mind raced. There had to be a way out of this, a way to survive.

"Greetings, cultivator."

Huh? Who was that?

The shadow being's head moved to the side, revealing a middle-aged man wearing a black robe embroidered with a red eye. His smile felt like a light in the darkness as he stepped into the room.

"W-Who are you?" Thane stuttered, finding himself completely bewildered.

"Me? Oh, nobody special. Just a loyal follower of the All-Seeing Eye," the man said calmly, "and I was hoping you would join me in his worship."
