“Like Whitaker’s beast,” Rose said with a mean little smile behind her wine glass. “But that may be why he picked Whitaker.”

“To circle back to the point, Arthur, you need a strong retinue,” Ismael said.

“Not those hatchlings,” the man from Worm Moon grumbled.

“Those are my riders,” Arthur warned. “I’m not getting rid of them, and I’m not taking in Rares from other hives.” These people were playing nice right now, but that was a guaranteed way to bring spies close.

Ismael smiled like he had passed a test.

Unexpectedly, Hale spoke up. He seemed to be a man of few words and had kept mostly quiet during this conversation. “No one is suggesting that. We’re saying make them stronger.”

“With cards?” Arthur asked, silently thinking of that empty library. Curse Chester.

“Well, that, too. But those babies of yours need to grow up. That’s where I can help.” Then to Arthur’s shock, he casually flicked out a description of his card.

Like Sands Through The Hourglass

Utility/ Spatial

Legendary

The wielder of this card will be able to create a medium-sized pocket dimension that will either run faster or slower than current time on a log base 5 scale, depending on the wielder’s will and rank of sacrifice shard. The wielder will have complete control over who is allowed to enter or exit this space, and may enter or exit at will. This card is able to create multiple pocket spaces, however each space will require its own sacrifice to create and run. This card does not use mana and instead runs off sacrificed shards, which are immediately powered into an hourglass that is visible in the pocket dimension in place of a sun. Denizens inside may sacrifice one shard to the hourglass to maintain the integrity of the dimensional space. The wielder may make this sacrifice while outside the space. Note: Refresh rates are based on time inside the dimension, not outside.

Pocket dimension shard cost:

Common: 1 to open, 1 refresh every 5 hours.

Uncommon: 2 to open, 1 refresh every 25 hours.

Rare: 3 to open, 1 refresh every 125 hours.

Legendary: 4 to open, 1 refresh every 625 hours.

“It’s great for growing crops,” he said. “Snow Moon’s even more northern than Wolf Moon, and it can make the difference between having a meal or having ice to eat.” Full of good cheer, he winked at Arthur. “It’s even better for making hatchlings and their riders grow up fast. You interested?”

Outtake:

“But he surely took Chester’s card,” blurted one man.

“My dragon took his card,” Arthur said. It wasn’t quite an answer, but he didn’t feel the need to hide the fact.

The man’s expression darkened. “I hear your dragon likes taking cards.”

Arthur flicked on a pair of sunglasses. “It’s kind of his thing.”

Then, flipping the double-bird, he jumped backwards off the ledge. Brixaby caught him mid-air, and for some reason there were explosions right behind them. Neither looked back.
