My prize was right in front of me. Naturally, I wanted the dino-rhino's horns, so much so that I didn't even hesitate to rush the beast when I thought it was about to run.

…..

Reaching to my side, I pull out the all-purpose knife I had brought with me and channel my mana into it. The sharpening rune engraved on its blade lights up as I move next to the unconscious beast’s massive head.

Looking over the defeated creature, I make my decision.

"What are you doing?" Tabitha asks me as I carefully start sawing off its middle horn. With Sense Mana, I make sure to cut high enough that I won’t nick any of its underline nerves. If it was anything like rhinoceroses back on earth, its horn should eventually grow back.

“Taking the horn I want," I reply as I work. The ebony horn is stronger than I expected, but my enchanted knife can still slowly cut through it. "Do you think it will be able to recover?" I ask while looking at the dino-rhino's bruised neck.

"It should be able to," Tabitha tells me as I finish removing the horn I wanted. I chose to take the middle one because it wasn't one of its three major ones, but it wasn’t one of the smaller ones either. The horn I picked was a foot and a half long and was more than enough to craft something with.

“You aren’t taking the others?” Tabitha notes as I re-sheath my knife and pick up my prize.

“No, it will need its other horns to protect its family," I say as I walk back to the stump where my bag was located. After stashing the horn and grabbing my pack, I turn to Tabitha. "Are you disappointed in me?"

Tabitha looks at me, then at the still unconscious magic beast across the clearing before turning back to me. “And why would I be disappointed?”

I’m surprised by her response. "Because I didn't kill it," I point out to my battle-loving teacher.

Tabitha folds her arms, “And that is your decision. As the victor, you have the right to decide if you wish to finish it or not. Just beware, you won’t always have this luxury, understand?"

“I do," I respond with a smile. Knowing Tabitha stood by my decision and wasn't looking down on me for it made me feel better. “Do you mind if we wait here for it to wake up?”

“We can do that,” Tabitha agrees, throwing down her pack and hopping back onto the stump, and taking a seat. “While we’re waiting, let us discuss your battle. You did good, but I'm sure you realized you made a few mistakes," she scolds me with a grin.

Tabitha starts laying into me about how that first lightning discharge shouldn't have hit me. I nod along to what she's saying, but my mind is elsewhere.

I was too excited at the prospect of a fight; the dino-rhino didn't attack me; I attacked it. That went against everything I thought I believed in. Kill the aggressive monsters I run into and spare those who try to flee, that was the motto I set for myself, and I came this close to breaking it.

Coupled with my trouble with the remnants last night, I couldn’t help but wonder if I was walking down the wrong path, and it scared me. I’ve seen what a person could turn into when they become consumed with the desire to grow stronger.

I refuse to turn into the next soul devourer.

Becoming stronger doesn’t require I kill everything in sight.

Looking back at the dino-rhino, I offer it a silent thank you in my head. If not for it, I might have lost a part of myself without realizing it. I’ll stay here and watch over it until it wakes up and can walk again; that was the least I could do. Thankfully, that shouldn't take too long for a creature at its level and stats.

What a day, I let out a long sigh.

“Are you listening to me?” Tabitha narrows her eyes accusingly and asks in an icy voice.

“Yeeesssss?” I lie

And it looks like my day isn’t over yet.
