Pluto watches the countless Imperial Soldiers leave the purple throne and flood into the Demonic Realm. He begins receiving the same messages as the knights, commanders, and generals, watching geo points light up all over the galaxy.

There are videos and energy scans coming from the knights and elites of every system playing in his mind. The glowing white demons themselves do not give off any scannable readings, but the dents in space they make and the scale of destruction they leave behind provide enough data to estimate their power.

They're like nothing he's ever seen before.

No Noble Demons from the strongest army generals in the Demonic Realm have ever shown strength like that. They are cracking planets in half just from floating by in the vicinity. Single attacks from their soul weapons, and some even just open palms, are enough to explode stars.

It's obvious the ones here on the Demon's home planet are holding back. There is something here that they cannot destroy.

Pluto borrows 1% of the borrowed stats he has available to him, and a celestial-grade stealth skill.

His earth dragon swoops down into the Vermillion's empty castle, activates the same borrowed stealth skill and the two of them fly high into the sky, away from the chaos. The two begin doing visual scans of their own to get a better idea of the threat at hand.

There are three demons that do not participate in the slaughter of Demonic citizens at all. They do not act like emotionless robots either; they only float above sectors of the Demonic Realm with their arms crossed, watching the destruction below.

One has a massive shield on its back, another is covered in daggers, and the third has a sharp, long sword.

Pluto cannot actually tell the energy density difference, as the shielding techniques on all of these demons are made of High Quality ether commands that not even they can manipulate. However, there is a strange aura about them that he cannot help but be wary of.

Even their High Noble Vibrations feel slightly off, like they're on the verge of becoming Royals.

More and more images start popping up in his mind, and he sees a few dozen strange outliers in the millions of sightings posted on the World Wide Connectivity system. A small number of these mindless Soldiers are stronger than the rest, and they seem far more conscious and intelligent than the others.

This information is quickly spread through the higher-ups channels. Even Raven and Arie take time to respond back to the claims as they soar through the green zone toward thousands of approaching High Noble bright white demons. About 15 of them show the same characteristics as Pluto describes. Their soul weapons feel heavier, and their vibrations seem far more dense and full of true confidence.

–

In the highest Zone of the Upper Realm, a purple Cored Demon sits on the edge of an incredibly large tree stump.

There are countless thin line circles that spread out from its center, billions in fact, showing that before it was cut down, this tree lived more years than most living beings can begin to comprehend. Between each growth ring, the distance spreads millions of kilometers, making the tree itself over a quadrillion kilometers wide.

There are small sprouts where its internal energy continues to produce life and tries to grow new branches out from its severed trunk, but it's clear these are trimmed and killed off occasionally to keep it from growing again.

Around this tree in the forest, there are thousands of saplings that are a few trillion kilometers thick each. Here, massive structures of an old civilization still stand. Many of the structures are abandoned and falling apart, but they are all still very rich with High-Quality ether commands and automated arrays from the past.

The domain walls of this specific territory are extremely large, spanning hundreds of times greater than most of the outer territories. It is in the center of the Primordial Garden, after all, and used to be where a Dryad's Sanctuary prospered.

The Imperial Family Head stares off into the Primordial Garden as countless wisps of ascended demons float through the air all around him. He speaks out loud to himself, but the many demons that praise him listen to his words attentively.

"They've managed to kill Lucian and Samir. That is a shame; I kind of liked those two... they were excellent guard dogs."

Muffled laughter comes out from the swirling white shadows of demons that group around their king.

Even more start flooding out of the thick forest around, as it's not every day the Family Head speaks or even acknowledges the existence of demons that no longer have their purple cores.

The True Purple Core in the Family Head's chest is fully saturated. The High-Quality ether commands filling his body are so bright that, even when not activated, he lights up their entire domain with a hot glow. Countless unique Glyph Imprints cover his cores, allowing him to use far more divine threads than he naturally should be able to.

None of his subordinates with purple cores are allowed to live in this domain; the High Royal Vibrations that fill the air would be damaging to their psyche if exposed for too long. However, in his current suppressed state, a short visit from the 1st Bloods is safe.

He mentally sends messages to his strongest subordinates but speaks his words out loud for those that have gathered around to listen in interest.

"We have intruders in the Primordial Garden... Send out warnings to all of the outer guard posts, have them survey the open wilderness. They couldn't have made it far. The Creator's Legacy I personally sealed in the Cyan Zone's Prison was broken into; that is a fact. However, even if they claimed it, there is no way to truly awaken it without the key beneath my feet. Without their Glyphs activated, they're as weak as Blue Zone lifeforms as far as I'm concerned. Don't hold back; grant permission to all of the outer guards to kill on sight. Then, report here to my domain, I will be speaking with the Overseer, then will give personal orders for all of you 1st Bloods. We're going to follow through and seal off the Lower Zones. The Primordial Garden will be the only remaining eternal Paradise."

The Imperial Family Head severs this mental connection, and many domains that are cloaked but nearby in the Purple Zone all begin activating the exit archways to visit other nearby domains and alert the outer guards.

All of the white mist-like demons in the air begin excitedly spinning and flying around in circles. Many yell out with excitement, as events like this rarely ever occur.

The Imperial Family Head scans them all with extremely calculative eyes. Deep down, they are purple, but they are covered and tethered to so many High-Quality ether commands that they appear purple-white to those without High Royal Grade Perception.

He shows a fake smile, then stands up from the edge of the tree stump, turning his back on his followers, and walks toward its center.

Reality bends and wavers while so many ether commands activate that the entire domain shudders. He slips behind an invisible veil of space once he walks far enough away, and his existence is deleted from the Zone.

All of the ascended demons disperse back into the thick forest of the domain.
