Zac had to admit that she made a good point. He was planning on heading into the gate of the Pathfinders before calling Roan, meaning he had to carve a path through the defenses. The Rosemore Sect would carry most of the burden, but they were heavily outnumbered. Having a top combatant like Tavza by his side would make his life a lot easier.

Besides, Ogras had K’Rav by his side. It looked like the goblin couldn’t understand the jammer’s schematic, but implementing Tavza’s solution should be a breeze with his help. Ultimately, they settled on Ventus and Ogras dealing with that part. Neither were frontline combatants anyhow, and they would have an easier time infiltrating the Rosemore Sect’s inner sanctum.

The group stayed a while longer to give Ventus time to read the flows of destiny. The sect had planted bombs inside the refinery as a diversion, and the Numerologist’s job was to calculate the odds of success. On his suggestion, Ogras assassinated two workers heading to work. He’d calculated they had some form of connection with the bomb and might interfere with the plan.

Mission complete, they returned to the hidden underground base. Zac and Tavza were ushered into a cultivation chamber while Ogras and Ventus completed all the arrangements. Hours passed with Zac’s anxiety gnawing at him. The sect hadn’t backed down, right? If they did, then Zac had no idea how he was supposed to reach the gate in time. Thankfully, the door slid open an hour before Tavza needed to deactivate her mark. Halvar stepped inside, now dressed in ancient armor. The whole corridor was filled with warriors.

“It’s time,” Halvar said. “Last chance to back down. You just arrived, so I won’t hold it against you. If you want, I’ll seal this room until the dust has settled.”

“I trust the judgment of my subordinates, and I’ve felt that energy first-hand. That’s not something that should be brought to the Left Imperial Expanse,” Zac shrugged as he got to his feet. “This isn’t how I expected to go out, but I’ve lived long enough. It’ll be nice to see my old companions again.”

“I heard you were a starred Veteran?” Halvar asked, his eyes lighting up when Zac presented the token. He was even happier when a monstrous wave of Killing Intent roiled out of the holding cell, almost knocking out a few of the weaker combatants. “Good! You two are with us. Frontal assault.”

Throughout, he didn’t acknowledge Tavza’s presence, despite her identity as a War Engineer of the Imperial Workshop. She was just the kind of talent they could use. It wasn’t incompetence on Halvar’s part; Tavza was actively channeling her personal Abyss, and Zac had noticed it included insights into Oblivion. She was erasing her presence and destroying any impressions of her, making the locals overlook her.

“Is there a plan?” Zac said as they joined the ranks, feeling like he’d passed an invisible trial.

“Sure there is. Kill everything that’s in our way,” the captain grinned, clearly unwilling to divulge any details.

The underground corridors were much longer than Zac expected. The group kept a rapid pace for nearly an hour until Halvar stopped. No one so much as breathed for the next twenty minutes, despite tremors growing stronger and closer. After what felt like an eternity, a trapdoor suddenly opened without warning.—

“Go!” Halvar roared, leading the charge himself.

Zac, Tavza, and the two hundred Hegemons emerged on the surface in his wake. They were greeted by a shelter alight with the flames of war. The acrid smell and deep thuds of projectiles hitting a sturdy barrier almost felt nostalgic. If only this was it. Zac could do war, even when the enemy's army was far superior. Squaring off against an ancient Supremacy with an unconfirmed method—where the slightest miscalculation meant certain death—was another matter.

"There's only one way to find out," Zac muttered under his breath.
