“Yes!” Stuart said, eagerness returning. “Its roots drink from concepts like connection, motion toward goals, <<precision>>, and creation.”

“Built on creation. Not destruction. Even though it’s capable of destroying. That’s what you wanted.”

Stuart watched him take another bite of the tasteless pudding.

Alden was still trying to produce enough saliva to get the remnants of it out of his mouth and down his throat, when Stuart said, “My father’s first skill is called Cleaver of Strength. Did you already know that?”

Alden shook his head.

“It’s a skill very different from mine really. Associated with concepts like severing, ambition, <<fair play>>—”

“Fair play?”

“Father always mentions that one. I doubt the people who designed the skill would have listed it as a core part, but the way we see our skill and the choices we make in the development of it matter. Attacking at the point of greatest strength with your own greatest strength is a sort of fairness. And that’s what Father’s skill is best at.”

“You do usually think of attacking a problem at its weak point, not its strong one,” Alden said.

“The skill is very complementary with Esh-erdi’s power. That’s one of the reasons he and Lind-otta spent time here. Esh-erdi has progressed quickly over the past years, and he and father wanted to see how well they might work together. The three of them could be a powerful team.”

Alden didn’t doubt it. Lind-otta slowed the enemy. Jeneth-art’h cleaved it, turning its greatest strength into a weakness—a crack. And Esh-erdi cleaned up.

“Father used that skill to kill Mother and separate her from my mind,” Stuart said. “As well as he could.”

Alden slowly set aside the food. What did he just say? What the hell?

He watched Stu-art’h’s face for some clue as to how he should respond. But before he could come up with anything that felt like an appropriate reaction, the Primary’s son went on: “Father and a few others once traveled to a world that had suffered a sudden and very severe chaos breakthrough. It was clear to everyone that there was an intelligence of some sort responsible. Those are often the most dangerous situations. Someone had to respond swiftly, and so there was little opportunity for Father and his companions to study the nature of the enemy before beginning their assault on it.

“It was an unexpectedly difficult place. Father says they struggled to know what direction they traveled in, and though they sensed the demon and understood how it affected them, they couldn’t find it. As the corruption increased, two of the three he traveled with became too weak to continue. They attempted a teleportation ritual, to send those two back home. It’s not easy to do from a place like that, and though the Contract here on Artona I did register a possible teleportation attempt and try to stabilize it…it failed. When the failure was reported, and no further attempts came, most people suspected that the whole group had died.”

Stuart let his hands fall to the ground beside him, fingers digging into the leaf mulch.

“A woman called Iella-inwer, who was ranked sixty-eighth, had become a dear friend of my father’s over the course of their meetings. They had sworn no promises to each other, but I’ve been told that most people hoped they would. Someday soon. When he went to that place, she was actually here at the house, <<mentoring>> Rel.

“She joined the first group that was sent to help with the problem. They teleported to the nearest stable planet and took a <<fortified ship>> the rest of the way. Almost a whole day before they arrived, they say she felt something about the chaos spreading from that place. She looked at the others and said, ‘How fortunate. This is the kind of enemy I have forged myself to face.’”

******

******

On the most beautiful day there had ever been, Stu’s family sat by the river together for a long time. His mother held him in her lap, combing his hair with her fingers. His father sat across from them, holding the rock Stu had given him as a present, even though the spell had worn off and it wasn’t warm anymore.

“Iella,” his voice said. And again. “Iella, please…”

Many of the things Father said had a way of falling away from Stu’s memory, until only the cadence and the fact of his voice speaking were left. But it was all right. Maybe the words were drifting downstream. Wasn’t that a lovely idea?

“Would you like to see one of the patient creatures in the water?” Stu asked suddenly. “Father, have you seen them?”

The pink eyes fell on him. “Have you only taught him the Rityan vocabulary? Not the whole unified tongue?”

“Because then we’ll know,” Stu’s mother said, her fingers still combing. “If he ever says a word that isn’t Rityan, we’ll know it’s slipped through and affected him.”

“Oh, Iella…”

“What’s slipped through?” Stu asked curiously.

A picture came to him—one of the clear and true ones—of the little blue wigglers he liked to watch, slipping in and out of holes they’d made in thick patches of spongeplant. And he knew that was what they were talking about.

So I might see one of those today, too?

That would be perfect.

******

******

“The behavior of demons is a never-ending subject of research,” Stuart said to Alden. “But the ones that are prone to <<remaining>> often have stubborn <<drives>> and urges that might be called goals. The one responsible for that breakthrough was probably a wizard who, before his fall, was obsessed with the field of mind manipulation. We’re almost sure that we know his name, but the being was so unrecognizable when Father finally located the last remnants and destroyed them, that confirming its original identity wasn’t possible.”

Oh okay then, Alden thought, feeling his own eyebrows trying to escape off his face into the sky. We’re just going to straight-up tell me that a single wizard can turn into a super demon and cause an apocalypse-level chaos event.

He’d sort of suspected that already. Kibby had said she had to be tested more often than the other people at the lab to make sure it was safe for her to live there without becoming the strong-authority version of the chaos-spreading  grasshoppers. So the wizard-to-demon type of demon had been a possibility in Alden’s mind.

He just hadn’t expected Stuart to casually confirm it was true and add in the fact that it could be really, really bad when that happened.

Stu-art’h, did you miss the class on proper discretion that the rest of your species gets, buddy? This is like Kibby all over again, only you have way more adult intel.

“My mother’s skill was The <<Ensnarer>> of Minds, and in some ways, the entire planet had become a chaotic mind snare under the influence of the <<origin demon>>. She was the best choice to find Father and help him push back the <<many-sided dangers>> until they could locate the perverse one and kill it.

“The others who’d come on the mission of rescue helped for a time, but eventually it was only the two of them left.” Stuart caught Alden’s gaze with his own. “My parents fought side by side in that <<agonyscape>> every day, cleansing it of corruption. Often, Father rested his mind and recovered in the shelter she made for him with her skill. And whenever they became worn by the struggle, they pleasured one another to remember the brightness of life. I was <<conceived>> in that way.”

Alden narrowly stopped his mouth from making a comment about not needing to know that much. It would be rude, and besides…he didn’t actually feel that way about it.

He was only startled the conversation had gone there, not embarrassed or offended. Minimizing the serious moment with an offhand remark wasn’t what he wanted.

Some kind of social reflex, I guess.

It was a garbage social reflex in this case.

Artonans had different norms. And they were poetic, especially about significant things. Your parents making you was pretty significant. Back at Matadero, Porti-loth was probably still muttering judgments about humanity because nobody had written down the exact spot where Alden’s umbilical cord had been cut.

“My mother was the one who made a victory that didn’t involve the total destruction of the world possible,” Stuart said. “But they were relying so heavily on her. And even though she was skilled…when a battle of minds wearies you, it can weaken you in ways that are difficult to detect. For some reason, she didn’t tell Father she was pregnant with me. Probably to spare him from the likelihood of my loss. But as they were approaching the end of the long fight, she told him she couldn’t go on. Escape vessels and <<backup>> had been sent to a <<solidified>> part of the planet by then. So it should have been all right.

“When Father finished his work and made it to the main ship, they told him she’d gone back to the Mother planet. By teleportation ritual. She’d made them believe that. He was worried for her, and he’d been away from home for so much longer than planned, so he had them send him right back here to see her in person. And he realized something was very wrong.”

Stuart suddenly stopped talking.

Alden picked up the pudding and took another bite so that it didn’t feel quite so much like they were having an awkward silence.

“At some point before she left him, she’d decided that their successes weren’t real. All the progress she’d made seemed like tricks the demon was playing on her, traps she was failing to detect.” Stuart swallowed. “When Father finally found us…she’d gone to a safe planet to give birth to me, but she thought we hadn’t really made it to safety. She thought her escape had failed, that it was all a mind trap—an elegant one, like she herself could create, not the sort of thing they’d actually encountered in that place. In her mind, the demon had become an impossible enemy who was always as strong, smart, and <<sophisticated>> as she was herself.

“So she’d waited for help to come. She protected me with her authority and tried to make sure that no matter what happened I wouldn’t experience suffering. She raised me in her own mind trap.”

Alden swallowed the greasy lump of pudding.

“She used her skill to remove everything that might be painful, frightening, or even slightly uncomfortable from my attention. It was the gift of the loving lie carried to its farthest extreme. When Father found us, I loved him at once. Of course. I had never felt unhappiness or known of a threat.

“I remember him trying to talk to me several times, to explain something, but most of those words are gone. She erased a lot of them because they might have confused me, and by then, she considered even that much to be a suffering I shouldn’t experience.

“He tells me he was fighting to hide how upset he was. That he argued with her in my presence when he couldn’t persuade her to leave with him or free me from the trap. But I don’t remember it that way. It’s all so…soft and happy.

“It was even soft and happy at the very end.”

******

******

Another most beautiful day.

Father and Mother had held him all morning. He liked that his life included two sets of slightly different arms. Two smells. Two great loves. More was better.

Now, they had words to say to each other that Stu could not hear.

They are talking about a surprise, he thought.

The only unknown things were surprises.

He looked down through the water at the patient creatures. They rested on the bottom, black and not quite round. Covered in sharp points.

Stu didn’t touch those.

I want to touch them, though. Why is it I don’t touch them?

Had he shown them to Father already? He’d meant to, but he couldn’t remember doing it.

I don’t think I have. That’s exciting! I’ll show him when he comes to the river again.

And then, suddenly, there was a feeling that had never existed before.

Like.

The world.

Breaking.

Something’s not-beautiful, thought Stu-art’h. Something’s the most not-beautiful.

And then he was lying on his back in the sand, and his mother was running her fingers through his hair.

“Mother! I love you.”

“You’re very happy today, Stu.”

“I am,” he agreed.

He heard footsteps coming, and then his father was there, standing above him. And his mother was gone.

So quick! Stu thought. So wonderful! She must have done it with a spell.

His father’s face was wearing one of those expressions Stu didn’t know. “May I sit beside you?”

“You may hold me,” said Stu. “That would be the most good.”

A moment later, arms were around him.

“I’m glad you’re all right. I have something to tell you,” his father said after a while. “It’s a surprise.”

“I knew there would be one!” Stu said. “What is it?”

“The surprise is that you have older brothers and sisters. And I’m going to take you on a trip to see them.”

Stu blinked. He blinked many times. He was sure he’d never had to think so hard in his life. “Brothers and sisters like some animals have?”

“Yes.”

“Do they look just like me?”

“No. They look different. But all of you…all of you are most beautiful.”

“Did you hear that, Mother?” Stu called excitedly. “We’re going to see my brothers and sisters.”

The arms around him shook.

When Stu called, his mother appeared. As she always had. This time it was very fast, and she was standing right in front of them. On top of the water.

Another special spell, he thought. One day, she’ll teach me that one, too.

******

******

