“The more he tried to reason with her, the more suspicious she became that he wasn’t himself,” Stuart told Alden. “Instead of persuading her that she was badly hurt, he was only making her think that he might be someone she had to protect me from, too. Pushing any more would make her fight him, and he was afraid that leaving would convince her she was right and make her panic.

“She was unwell enough and dangerous enough that if he had called for help from the Triplanets and explained the truth of the matter, the outcome would most likely have been similar or worse. So before she could hurt me or drag me completely beyond recovery, he struck her down with his skill.”

Oh my god, Stuart.

“It was a long time ago,” said Stuart, reaching over to touch Alden’s knee with a hand. Apparently, Alden looked like he needed comforting.

“And I was so young. The day of her death was much more awful for him than for me. I didn’t even realize something bad had happened. Because…” Stuart smiled, “…Father was much worse at cleaving than usual.”

“What do you mean?”

“Iella was so powerful. And I was so delicate. In some ways, her life had become her devotion to watching over me. If he’d struck at her point of greatest strength, he’d have been killing me, too. And he wouldn’t do that. So he was more <<tentative>>. Maybe she realized it was coming, too, and did something deliberate, <<enacted>> some final plan she’d made.

“Because a very lifelike version of her was still with me after it was done. Anytime I looked for her, she was there watching over me as she always had been.”

“The hallucinations you mentioned,” Alden said.

Stuart nodded. “She even went on protecting me from…life. For a time. What was left of the mind trap had holes in it, but they didn’t show at first. I feel so sorry for Father. He thought I was doing well enough on our trip home.”

The Artonan boy laughed a little.

Alden was shocked that Stuart could do that, but hearing the sound lanced some of the horror he was feeling.

“I was extremely unusual. Of course. But I loved the spaceship. I was happy. And he thought my occasional conversations with my missing mother were understandable <<coping>> and <<confusion>> that the mind healers would be able to fix. He didn’t realize I was still living in a world separate from everything else until we’d been traveling a while.”

Stuart touched his own bottom lip.

“I was running down a corridor on the ship, and I fell. I bit my lip. For some reason that was the first time the illusion completely failed. Nothing so shocking had ever happened to me. I’m sure it didn’t hurt much at all, but I had no way of understanding it and putting it <<into context>>. I was terrified. Even the sound of myself crying scared me. It felt like my body was out of control because I’d never sobbed before. And when I looked around for my mother, for the first time in my life, she wasn’t there…”

“I know it’s probably hard to imagine.” He looked at Alden. “But after that, I started having <<episodes>> every now and then, when she would disappear and I’d suddenly realize that the bed sheets were too itchy or the food tasted different than I was expecting. Those things were just as <<dire>> to me as actual injuries. I’d get confused and scared and start screaming. Father would do everything he could think of to figure out what was wrong and fix it.

“He didn’t even try to explain that Mother was really gone and that when I saw her it wasn’t her. Just the last gift she’d given me—the protection of the flawless world I’d always known.”

The breeze picked up, tossing the treetops. Alden watched a few of the fallen leaves skitter across the circular white stone Stuart had stood on to cast his spell.

“I understand why you picked your skill now,” he said. “You can cut with it, like your father. But you didn’t want to focus on the separation. You wanted to focus on the fact that…”

He couldn’t think of how to put it.

“The fact that the severing of something can be what connects you to a goal. Or a better place. Or people who love you in a better way,” said Stu-art’h.

Alden took another bite of his pudding. He was almost through with the stuff. Finally.

Stuart’s brow furrowed. “Do you enjoy eating it that way?”

“It’s not my favorite thing,” Alden said politely, “but my stomach is well-filled.”

“I see.” Stuart looked amused. “You’re eating it just to have perfect manners. You can stop that. We aren’t in the middle of one of the famines of old. I think the Triplanets can afford for one person to throw part of his second meal away.”

“I’m just trying to be a good guest for you. I don’t want anyone to say you chose wrong after I left. What is this stuff?” Alden looked down into the container. “It looks like vanilla pudding so I thought maybe it would be sweet. So much Artonan food is sweet. But this…is not.”

Stuart was grinning broadly now.

“What?”

The Artonan boy started laughing, much harder than he had a moment ago. “It’s oil. It’s for frying things in. Not for eating plain.”

Alden stared at him. “You’ve been sitting here watching me eat a cup of pure fat!”

“I thought maybe humans enjoyed that. You had so many bites.”

“We don’t enjoy that.” Alden was aghast. “I’ve almost finished the whole container!”

Stuart laughed so hard he looked like he was about to topple over.

“What is this going to do to my stomach?!”

“I don’t know what it will do to you,” said Stuart. “If you were an Artonan…ha!…if you were an Artonan it would probably make you shitty.”

“Stu-art’h!”

******

“I wanted to ask you,” said Alden, as they collected the supplies and the broken blocks for their trip back to the house, “if I can call you Stu. If it’s not all right yet, you can say so.”

The Artonan gave him a baffled look. “Obviously you can. I do like the special human name you’ve given me, though. Many people call me Stu. Nobody else calls me Stuart.”

“Oh…I…”

Started doing that a couple of minutes after I met you. When I thought you were a total dumbass.

“You only purposefully mispronounce my name and Kivb-ee’s. It’s so nice.”

“I’ll keep doing it then. Thank you. Stuart.”

Stuart nodded. “I guess Worli Ro-den asked you to mispronounce his, too. Joe.”

“He’s not Joe anymore,” said Alden, dragging the remains of the burst sackfruit over to the casting stone. “He’s lost the honor of being called Joe. Do you know he’s on Earth right now?”

“I recommended he go there,” said Stuart. “He was the most powerful wizard I was sure I could talk into leaving right away.”

Alden stopped dragging. The sackfruit tentacle felt like a giant gummy bear in his hand. “You sent him to help Anesidora?”

“I respectfully suggested…”

“Stuart, Ro-den’s a jackass, but he’s been a huge help. And you’re cool as fuck. Do look up all of those English words by the way. I’ll help you figure out the internet.”

“I don’t have trouble with the internet.”

“I’ll help you figure it out.”

“I’m not struggling.”

Alden’s stomach made a disgusting gurgling sound.

******
