As the poison maelstrom died down beyond the barrier, the battlefield cleared to the sight of hordes of dead and dying demons, and a sea of toxic slimes and rivers of poison. She could barely even see the Forest Guardians among the ooze.

And then, the monsters all turned to face the next wave of incoming demons.

“Enough talking. Ali, make me a hole,” Mato said, his voice rough and followed by a hacking cough. He was back in his Beastkin form, dripping blood from his eyes and mouth, holding himself up using the wall.

Hole? Oh… It was a simple matter to wield her Domain Mastery and turn a large circle of the flagstones into dirt beside the Elder Tree, and Mato immediately planted himself, transforming into his Tree Form. His aura burst outward the moment he completed his shapeshifting, covering the entire area, and extending even out into the battlefield beyond. For the first time since encountering Maalgaroth the Pit Lord, Ali felt the hold of the corruption – the nausea and dizziness – begin to loosen.

“Ali, maybe we should put some defenders on the door to the level above? Or at least block it off with a barrier – some of those demons could have flown up there,” Calen suggested, pointing out a flaw in her blockade. Indeed, she would be having nightmares of the bloodsucking demonic hornet swarms that had chased them through the mines, draining the life from her minions.

“Eep! What… is that?”

Ali’s head snapped up at the sound of the surprisingly high-pitched and terrified Gnomish voice that interrupted their conversation. She found Ryn, Brena, and Sabri all huddled together, staring with wide eyes at the devastation unfolding right before them on the opposite side of a very transparent barrier.

Behind them, silhouetted against the dim light of the library, Clarence swooped and dove aggressively, brandishing the terrifying glowing golden teeth and barrier magic she had glimpsed once before.

“Uh… I can explain…” Ali began and then trailed off. Can I? Her mind balked at the magnitude of what they had just endured, and yet somehow survived.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
