The classical human literature on cosmology holds that there are nine distinct realms. These include The Realm of Divine Intent, colloquially known as ‘heaven’. This is supposedly the home of those major gods who have the best interests of the mortal races at heart, and the origin of Celestials. Then there is the Realm of Infernal Anguish, or ‘hell’, where the ‘evil’ gods reside and the spawning place of demons. There are also the Spirit Realm, the Realm of Nature, and so forth.

This formulation is an act of pure fantasy, inappropriate even for children’s fairytales, and my colleagues would do well to discard it for the fabrication it is.

There are more realms than grains in the endless sands of Brast, brimming with myriad varieties of magic and creatures. I have personally unlocked the path to dozens of them and sampled their riches. Through those rifts, one finds wealth and power, beings of wonder or nightmare. And all it takes is the will to reach out and grasp them.

- Lecture at the Seventeenth Annual Pan-cultural Conference on Cosmology. Nevyn Eld [Guardian of the Realm], Professor of Domain Magic, University of Dal’mohra.

Stop them? So many demons poured through the tunnels of the mostly cleared Emberforge Mines that she couldn’t see or hear the end of it. How could she even begin to imagine stopping that? And yet Calen’s words had filled her with dread – what would happen to the people of Myrin’s Keep if they failed? Even just a single Hellfire Imp could set the entire town ablaze, killing most of the townsfolk before one of the few high-level people could stop them. Nor could they easily escape without unleashing a plague of corruption upon the unsuspecting citizens.

No, this horde would tear through the library, killing Ryn and burning Lira’s Forest without pause. Nothing truly substantial stood in the way of the horde reaching Myrin’s Keep. Those hornets alone could drain everyone, and whatever was left would be sliced up by the spider demons or burned to ash by the imps and wargs.

She threw up a barrier in front of her, blocking a volley of firebolts from the respawned Shards of Flame, but they ignored them, tearing past as fast as they could. In moments, the pursuing Hellfire Imps teleported in using the bodies of the Shards of Flame as fire destinations for their teleportation magic. But, although vastly outnumbered, the Shards and Lava Lurkers still managed to slow the demonic horde down just a little, absorbing the fireballs and hellfire breath until the rest of the demons could overwhelm them in a tide of slashing limbs and dreadful fangs.

But blindly fleeing while the blood of the Pit Lord slowly corrupted her mind was no solution either. And there was one more thing. “What are we going to do about those Sentinels?”

“I don’t think they can get through the rift,” Malika said. “Too big.”

“Are you sure?”

“Chuckles here isn’t prancing around like a tipsy ballerina anymore,” Malika panted. “Yes, the limitations of rifts are well-known – otherwise, history would be a touch different, shall we say?”

Mato snorted.

“Uh… sorry,” Calen said, trying to look anywhere but them. “I’ll… aah, keep an eye out, shall I?”

Finally, Ali burst out into the jungle – the pungent scent of trees and damp earth and the welcome sense of her own domain mana – and her mind caught up again. She had lost most of her minions to the demons, and by either instinct or luck, she had managed to protect two of her Kobold acolytes. Without their constant holy magic, even with her high resistance, the blood corruption would have killed her in less than fifteen seconds.

“Ali? Where’s your boss?” Calen exclaimed, his head swiveling left and right in alarm.

“I removed it,” she gasped. If only she still had the Hobgoblin boss she left guarding the entrance, but she regularly unsummoned it whenever they entered the mines as a way to conserve her mana.

I need a boss. She didn’t just need a boss; she needed a ridiculously powerful boss who could take out an entire horde of demons without dying. Like the Skeletal Wyvern, or the Inferno. It was clear that the Flamecaller Demon Hunter had been constantly guarding the rift against the incursion of the demons for centuries, and they had just happened by and killed him, ripping it open for the hordes to pour through. Then, they had naïvely entered the Abyssal Realm and poked the proverbial hornet’s nest. Literally. She winced, recalling just how easily she had been entranced by the siren’s call of that Sentinel demon’s mind magic. It would be at least six hours before the Emberforge Mines respawned the hunter, sealing the rift.

And she had already used her Arcane Recall. She frowned, trying to concentrate as the endless hordes of glistening crimson demons spewed out of the mouth of the Emberforge Mines and into the jungle, attracting the attention of all kinds of elementals: flame from within the dungeon, but also the flying Glimmer Shards and Coruscant Rays from the summoning pool. Her mind did not want to work properly, dizziness and disorientation playing havoc with her concentration, and now, even the world around her warped and shimmered in ways she knew were not real.

Her eyes scanned across the pitiful remnants of her minion army. She didn’t exactly have much left to work with. She had a single dual-axe-wielding Hobgoblin, a Hellfire Imp, two holy Acolytes, and a Sparkling Ooze that had managed to survive by hitching a ride on the Hobgoblin’s back. Dozens of Demonic Hornets twitched feebly from within the Ooze’s transparent body, slowly dissolving. Everything else had been wiped out somewhere along the way.

I have to do something. She had visions of the demons burning down the entire library on the way to razing the town. She slowed, forcing her mind to work via sheer willpower, and placed a hand on her Hobgoblin’s shoulder.

“Guard this area,” Ali told her and dredged up her magic.

“Yes, Mistress,” her Hobgoblin replied, turning the grim mask of her bloody face to the oncoming horde, raising her axes without hesitation. Even her Hobgoblin was suffering under the devastating corruption, but the raid domain enhancement should give her a lot more health.

Domain Respawn applied to Hobgoblin Warrior.Raid Domain Enhancement applied to Hobgoblin Warrior.

She needed her Hobgoblin to be powerful, but she did not have much time, so she chose the first things that came to mind, thinking only of what the essence of a warrior was.

Attribute Enhancement (Strength) applied.Attribute Enhancement (Dexterity) applied.Clone applied.Domain Enhancement complete.Your reserved mana has increased by +1081.

The Hobgoblin’s body swelled as the potent domain mana infused her with power. Her muscles bulged massively, and her body twitched as she let out a ferocious battle cry that caused the entire horde of demons to pause.

Domain mana surged within her, drawn like a great inhalation from the surrounding trees and moss, and she summoned a copy of herself. Then it surged again as a third copy appeared. All three identical Hobgoblins turned to regard each other for a moment. A brief nod was exchanged and then all three of them charged, tearing into the demons with a savage brutality that sent chills running down Ali’s spine.

The copies are not corrupted. She had the presence of mind to notice at least that. Yet.

“Keep running,” Malika urged.

The three warriors coordinated perfectly, guarding each other as they lashed out with an incredible flurry of dark Eimuuran steel blades and flying blood in a display of martial arts that would have made even Malika proud. The speed of their strikes was unreal, and so was the power. The strength enhancement on top of the two-and-a-half-times damage multiplier from the raid domain enhancement sent the smaller demons flying, limbs separated so violently that their obsidian bones ripped right through their tough hides. The dexterity boost granted speed, reactions, critical damage, and accuracy, all of which combined to produce a nightmare of steel and gore.

Ali’s notification chime sounded continuously as she fled the scene catching up to her friends. But she kept her Martial Insight trained on the senses of her newest raid boss, desperately hoping that she would be enough.

“Is it working?” Calen gasped.

But it quickly became clear that they would fall. Clouds of demonic hornets swarmed around the Hobgoblins with an angry droning, biting and stinging, spraying clouds of Goblin blood into the air that formed an ominous red mist that somehow empowered the swarm. Gleaming, scythe-like legs slashed and pierced as the stalker demons emerged like a dark and shimmering tide from the unseen shadows with vicious rending strikes.

Even with the power and enormous life and energy of the raid boss, all the clones were losing health steadily and many of the demons began bypassing them, leaving them to the never-ending horde that followed.

“No…” she said. The Hobgoblins would buy them some time, but she would need a second boss, and for that, she needed to get further away. “I need… something stronger.”

But what? She racked her brain to think of something that might be effective against such unimaginable numbers. The wargs and the imps were immune to fire, and the imps would heal the wargs. How can I even kill that? What seemed abundantly clear was that she needed some way to block the tide or an area damage attack to hit all of them simultaneously – anything that was not fire. Frantically, she threw out enormous domain-enhanced barrier walls, desperate to buy them just a little more time. She staggered, her barrier tipping sideways precariously before she caught herself, holding onto the blood-slick surface with a death grip.

“The Demon Hunter,” Calen panted. “How did he do it?”

As she was desperately searching for any ideas, Calen’s suggestion suddenly turned her thoughts to the Flamecaller Demon Hunter they had just slain, and with a kernel of hope kindling within, she opened the description for the newest ability she had learned. Mark of Prey would not be useful here, but the second one had been an ability called Slayer – specifically for demons.

Glittering golden text imprinted the ability on the aged parchment of her mind’s tome. She scanned it instantly, pushing her Reading skill to the limits in a frantic grasp for time.

SlayerRequirements: Enemy must be one you understand or can create. Source: Demon HunterChoose an enemy (monster, race, or category) to hunt. Your minion gains a substantial bonus to all damage when fighting the chosen enemy. Your minion gains a percentage of each slain enemy’s health over thirty seconds. The more specific your chosen enemy, the greater the bonus to damage done and health gained.Skill – Domain Magic

That’s it! As she finally passed the domain range for her Hobgoblin raid boss, she had her idea. Choosing her Sparkling Ooze this time, surprisingly her only perfectly healthy monster, she activated her domain magic a second time.

Domain Respawn applied to Sparkling Ooze.Raid Domain Enhancement applied to Sparkling Ooze.

She wished she had checked Slayer first before making the Hobgoblin boss, but now that she understood it, she could use it, and hopefully what she had in mind for the ooze would be sufficient. What she had failed to consider in the heat of the moment was healing and area damage – against such a multitude, they would be essential. Slayer would take care of healing, and she had a Sparkling Ooze.

Slayer (Demon) applied.

For her Slayer, she chose the entire category of demons, wanting to set the bonus against every single monster in that inexorable horde. It seemed she could choose anything her Grimoire was capable of making, all the way from a specific monster like the Hellfire Imp, through the broadest category like beast or humanoid. She just hoped ‘Demon’ wasn’t too general and that she got a substantial damage boost.

Clone applied.Nova Strike (Sparkling Bomb) applied.

For the rest of her plan, she decided she needed volume and area damage, so she cloned her Sparkling Ooze to ensure there would be three of them and enhanced their ranged Sparkling Bomb attack with Nova Strike to double down on the area damage.

Domain Enhancement complete.Your reserved mana has increased by +654.

Her ooze filled with a rush of domain mana, and it began to glow intensely. As it reacted to the vast power of her raid domain enhancement, she quickly set about finishing her plans, filling the area with massive domain-supported barriers with only small gaps between them.

The ooze summoned its clones, and they spread out, exploring the area Ali had given them. With the three cloned oozes all using Nova Strike to multiply their ranged light bombs empowered with slayer magic that was tuned to kill demons, she certainly hoped this boss would have more success than the last one. She fled the scene, desperately hoping for her plan to work.

Her mana twisted, and her senses wrenched out of the last dying Hobgoblin boss as it fell to the ravening horde that swept over it. She switched quickly to her Sparkling Oozes, feeling the rumble through the ground and the buzzing drone of uncountable demonic wings as the black writhing sea of bodies charged forward. She couldn’t even begin to count them.

“Is it working?” Calen asked as they continued rushing toward the library. He looked horrible, staggering drunkenly with trails of blood soaking the front of his armor.

“The Hobgoblin just fell, but I made a triple ooze with Demon Slayer and Nova Strike. I blocked them in with barriers.” She checked its sheet quickly and found that her Slayer magic was adding more than a hundred percent to her Sparkling Ooze’s damage.

“That’s clever,” he said, coughing, but Ali was still very worried. He hadn’t seen the sheer vastness of the demonic horde that bore down on them. As much as it terrified her, she scanned the tide of demons constantly, searching for any sign of those Sentinels which would spell instant doom, or worse, that monstrous Pit Lord. Or perhaps he can see more than me. His eyes are excellent. But to her dismay, she could sense the Hellfire Imps regularly summoning more imps with their accelerated casting paired with their terrifying ritual. With so many, it was rapidly reaching critical mass, and she had no idea how to avoid getting overrun. And within the horde, seen again only with her tremor sense, were hundreds of spider demons pouring forth in complete stealth.

