Erick came to town, and proceeded to help the people here solve their Elixir problem. When that news broke at the gathering a few days ago, Erick stood up and proclaimed Songli as violating its own usual operations by speaking of war instead of peace. Maybe, by speaking up, he had brought some sense to those people—

Nope. That was being naive. He didn’t bring sense to them, but at least he had spoken sensible words and made his mind shown.

There had been a distinct desire for war, for they knew war was going to happen. They had known all along, didn’t they.

Erick felt he had curbed that war, maybe not in that room of the gathering, but maybe later, when he revealed who he was to Zalindi and Ari and Tadashi.

Eh.

Maybe the pressure of the void of Ar’Kendrithyst, and the proximity of the success of Eralis’s chelation treatment, had simply caused that war to erupt in a different way than how it was always going to erupt.

War was always going to happen, wasn’t it?

Raidu had spoken of Goldie and Queen orchestrating something in the background...

But maybe… Maybe, though, Erick’s ‘talk’ with Raidu, before Xangu appeared with his soul spear, had caused a lot of others to not join this war. There had been no sign of the Rain Mage or the Fulmination Spear, yet. And that was good, wasn’t it?

Erick realized:

There was only one real choice he had when it came to this war.

He could choose to mitigate, or he could choose to inflame the atrocities of war even higher.

Back when he had little power in this Worldly Path, Erick had shut down the war between the Shades in Last Shadow’s Feast, by letting it run its course until he had to act, to ensure the right people survived. He needed godly help to survive that himself, too, but he had survived, and, it could be argued, the outcome of that Feast was the best possible outcome for the world, considering the possible outcomes.

And then he went to Treehome, and did the same thing on a much easier scale. He ended a minor battle between shadelings and orcols through a show of force, then he took the survivors back to Candlepoint, and then he pointed Treehome to the Forest, to give them a new target. A new conquest.

Looking back on his time with Tenebrae, the archmage had almost introduced him to a civilization of dragons, which was at constant war with itself… But he had chosen to step down a different part of the Path, taking him away from that confrontation, for Tenebrae would have died if Erick would have continued.

And now he was here, in Songli, perhaps the most stable nation of this land of Nelboor, where everyone warred all the time. Erick had helped to mitigate some of the battle, but he could have done more.

Everything was connected by war and conquest and the fate of the world, for the first step on this Worldly Path had inadvertently been to end the largest Evil that had ever existed on this Veird.

With a dawning horror, Erick saw the Path stretch out before him.

He saw the wars yet to come.

And he knew he needed to find another way. Some different Path he could take. Something more peaceful. Something less high-stakes than the fate of the world.

Something smaller.

But a dark thought made him think of this in another way.

If he acted fast enough, and decisively enough, along every step of his Path, he could end wars before they began. He could save thousands upon thousands of lives. He could end horrors before they had a chance to show. That’s what he had done in Treehome, wasn’t it? He helped the orcols to kill hundreds of thousands of monsters, for the good of everyone else.

If he had made that ‘Kill Everyone’ spell that Jane had brought up…

If he had cast that over at Terror Peaks, targeting ‘people’...

A few hundred thousand people would be dead. But millions would have survived.

Like Silverite once said:

It was simple math.
