“Vandy’s grandfather didn’t like the idea of it,” said Everly. “So she’s not going. I thought Tuyet definitely wouldn’t go, no matter what, but she seemed to be thinking about it until she heard Vandy was saying no. Maricel’s only around for about ten minutes at a time, but Tuyet says she talked to Fragment, and Fragment’s advising her to stay at CNH. So she probably will?”

“You must’ve worried you were going to lose all three roommates,” said Haoyu.

“I wondered if I would. It looks like we’ll be together again.” She reached for the basket that had held the buffalo wings and saw that it now held nothing but gnawed bones. “Kon!”

They ordered more wings for Everly and slices of pie for dessert. They all  took pens and styluses out of their bags and tried spinning them. Alden and the other globies ended up answering questions about home.

“You should tell your aunt to order special wedding supplies here on Anesidora.” Astrid was moving the salt and pepper shakers so that a bowl of extra whipped cream could land. “And then you can take it all with you when you go. It’s one of the perks of having an Avowed relative.”

Alden had just mentioned that he expected to attend Aunt Connie’s wedding sometime next year.

“And you should buy your American friends—if they’re real—something that they can’t get at home.”

“When did you guys all decide my friends weren’t real?” Alden asked.

“Right before pie,” said Haoyu.

“They’re fake,” said Astrid. “For sure. You were a loner in your old high school, but then you met us…”

“There are a few pictures of them on my Trime from like a year and a half ago. I told you they’re the reason I like this diner.”

“A year and a half ago.” Max shook his head. “Only a few pictures.”

“You’re getting in on this? Hang on. I’ll introduce you all to them. It’s only two hours later there, so they’re probably still up.”

[Alden: Boe, I’m at a diner with a bunch of people from school who want me to prove that my Chicago friends are real. That’s you. Want to take a call on your cell if you’re awake?]

[Alden: Jeremy, you up? I’m hanging out with classmates at a diner, and I told them about you. They want proof that you exist.]

They both came through, answering from their bedrooms at home and appearing on everyone’s interface.

“Alden’s American friends, our diner has twelve kinds of pie,” Astrid said after introductions had been made. Her hair was slowly getting longer and turning yellow blonde.

“Seriously? Ours only has four unless there’s a special,” Jeremy replied. “But the coconut cream is addictive. Right, Boe?”

Jeremy followed several of Alden’s classmates online because they sometimes mentioned Alden, or posted things like the gokoratch song video in which he could be spotted. He seemed thrilled to be chatting with a bunch of Avowed at eleven o’clock at night. And Boe was being a good sport.

“The coconut cream is human-style magic,” Boe agreed.

“I got coconut cream.” Jeffy was holding up a forkful of it. “Alden beat Winston up.”

“What wonderful news,” said Boe.

“You’re beating people up, Alden?” Jeremy clucked his tongue.

“In MPE,” Alden said. “There was no lasting damage.”

“I wonder if Winston would agree with that.”

“He hit him with a fifty-kilo sandbag, you guys!”

“The fight lasted a few seconds. Alden’s improved since we started school.”

“Winston was so sure he was going to win he bet his room.”

“He offended the mad Rabbit of Matadero, and that was the end for him.”

“Send us more giardiniera. Lute ate it all on ramen.”

“Haoyu’s ordering groceries from America? Can we?”

“Why would we? We have stores.”

“I want a deep dish pizza from actual Chicago.”

“I’ll show you how fast I can freeze a glass of lemon-lime soda if you tell me an embarrassing story about Alden.”

Boe’s polite smile suddenly turned genuine. “One time, Alden climbed onto the roof of a stranger’s house—”

“Don’t tell them this one,” Alden protested.

Jeremy, who had heard this story before, was already grinning in anticipation.

“—because he saw a cat up there he thought was his. And he thought it was having a medical issue. We were like five miles from his own neighborhood, so I don’t know why he was so sure it was his cat.”

“You helped me get onto that roof!”

“Of course the animal ran away from the sketchy guy who was trying to bother it. The owner of the house drove up at exactly the same time, and for some reason, Alden was just standing around where she could see him when she got out of her car.”

“Because you hid from her and weren’t there to help me get down! This story is just as embarrassing for you.”

“He was so nervous that he kept saying, ‘There is a cat here. There is,” instead of using the past tense, so basically he was hanging out on some lady’s roof in broad daylight, swearing he could see a cat that clearly wasn’t there.”

They were all cackling and snorting. They were laughing so hard that they were choking on their pie.

And it didn’t feel bad at all to laugh until his stomach ached, to accept over-the-top praise for a duel, and to be embarrassed in the middle of this group of people he was growing closer to little by little.

Alden looked at Boe making them all laugh. Maybe one day he’ll change his mind and come here.

He looked at Jeremy. We haven’t really drifted that far apart.

It didn’t feel bad to belong, for a while, on Anesidora.

******
