Nu narrowed his eyes and did what Delta always did with him.He pinched the sides of the box and dinged in alarm as the dungeon system registers the contact and screeched in distress.“Jeez, even I can hear that,” Ruli muttered and the box squirmed under Nu’s tender touch.

The box vanished and Nu growled.He spun and crossed his arms again.“I can’t do anything, we just have to wait,” he admitted and Ruli ran a hand through her long hair.“Dungeon’s making contracts... yesh, most people choose this time to utterly wreck a core or drain it since it does this,” she jerked a thumb at the contract dome. Deo tapped it and Vas inhaled some of the flaking mana.Nu didn’t like the golem. It wasn’t anything personal but the thing just didn’t give off mana upon its visit. If anything, it took tiny amounts.“Loud one, take the freeloader and go back to the first floor. Ruli, you are hovering and I need you to stop breathing in my general direction before I pass out,” Nu commanded and they all just looked at him.Devina sighed.“Master Nu... manners are key to any sort of diplomacy,” she offered and Nu’s nostrils flared. He flared them again with curiosity and then focused.“I do not need diplomacy. I need utter obedience!” Nu growled, feeling his emotions flare out. This body was so unwieldy.Ruli snorted and looked around.“Now that I’m not fighting a killer Mime... this is the second floor, eh?” she eyed the growing trees and spreading flowers.The distant walls looking like endless jungle and roots.She grinned.“I like it, I can hunt some real beasties in a place like this,” she rubbed her hands and Nu watched as his legs vanished next.“This form won’t last long but I may have more options for helping Delta if there are no people here. I would very much like to have her deal with you all while I plot on how to drain you all of the excess mana and sweat out precious resources,” he dismissed and Ruli scowled but then gave a sharp nod.“You’re an ass but sure. I want Delta back as well,” she admitted and gave the glowing dome one last look, she strode forward. Her slightly clawed feet, bursting from her tough boots, tearing the soil up as she walked.“MR NU! PLEASE MAKE MORE SIGNS!” Deo waved and Vas looked at the dome with a long look.“My Master has jars to contain things, Delta is nice and I still need to teach Mr Mushy more art. I will ask for some pots for the dungeon to use if she will not destroy her foes,” it offered and Nu didn’t say anything.He just watched as Vas passed under the Wylin tree, his skin absorbing the green flaking mana. The golem stopped to smile at the tree dreamily and then hugged it before Vas climbed the stairs.Once they left, menus appeared and Nu looked at the options before him.Complete and utter control of how to arrange, change, form the dungeon as he would like. He could see exactly where to put covered pits with spikes at the bottom. Fill the river with them...Grow mushrooms that would cause deep fevers and vines that would strangle foes. Make the river utterly boil anyone falling in. Add fish that would prune the skin off the bone like clippers to a bush. He could see exactly how to turn this paradise into a deep green hell and there was a part deep inside of him, that longed to do so.But as his fingers hovered over the trap menu, he felt an emotion rise up.“I’m going to make this place wonderful! Everyone is going to love it!”He closed the menu and felt these new fingers shake as the body vanished next, blue mana flaking off to join the orange.“This won’t work,” he said quietly and his voice, slightly lilting but firm. He looked around and saw Delta in every grass, a patch of mushrooms and droplet of water.It all gave off a feeling of serenity and Nu felt guilt curling up inside him again.He turned and made a flower appear.“There! Are you happy!” he shouted to the ceiling. Devina and Rale just watched him. Waddles floated restfully nearby in the river. Nu just waited but the pang in his lower gut just throbbed more. He was so painfully aware of how near Delta had been to death.“I need to protect her. She’s too stupid to do it herself, nothing lethal but I can do so much without killing someone,” he told himself and this seemed to spark, finally, a positive emotion.Anticipation.“I mean... Delta won’t be back... for who knows how long? I’m sure she won’t mind me... being worried for her and going a little crazy and set up some...harmless and interesting things. Just because obviously, I was worried!” Nu said brightly, the last part of his face that faded from the physical world was his wide grin. He stood there, only visible to himself now.Devina and Rale shared a worried look as Waddles opened one eye.----“Entertain us.”The words were not kind nor were the threat that followed, unsaid but not unheard.Delta watched as the circus carriages and beasts were lead down a long road that went underground. On either side were people. Delta could only call them that because they had two legs and two arms but their faces and bodies were covered by robes and dark hoods. Any time a carriage moved too far away or someone looked nervously towards the cave mouth, one of them seemed to inhale and the people on their horses winced.Renny pointed to the front where Renaird, looking much older, lead the way with a grim expression. Behind to him, a much older looking Renny, almost identical to the one next to her, shared the saddle.The line was lead to a large man in gleaming armour. He looked like a knight or some form of a nobleman. If men had such things as pupiless eyes and a hole in their forehead where something moved inside.Delta could see that the circus had not entered such a place willingly.“We take payments and manners when performing shows,” Renaird called coldly and the knight put a hand to his chest as if hurt.“My dear ringmaster! How very rude of me! Let me formally welcome you to the Tunnel of the World. Grand title but this homely little home is mine so I dare say I do own some proper manners fitting the Lord of the path of Ending Light,” he bowed his head, tight black hair looking slick with grime or sweat.He flicked his hand and Delta stumbled back, gasping as Renaird toppled from his horse, a knife buried in his throat. Renny shook next to her and the younger Renny dropped down and picked up the gasping man into his arms.“No! What is wrong with him!” Delta shouted and Renny only moved to sit next to the memory of himself.“Re...ny, my...boy,” Renaird gasped and then went still.Renny and his younger self both pulled their heads back and opened their black jaws wide in pain and anguish.“A ghoul... so well behaved. Well, as they do say in the business, on with the show!” The knight smiled cheerfully and the young Renny turned, teeth bared and black liquid pouring from the tiny dots on his face.He slashed and the knight stopped, hand to his throat as it was neatly sliced open by an invisible knife.The scene fluttered and Delta fell to her knees.“I...Renny- I am so...” she stuttered and the Mime just looked up at her, wiping a single trail away from his eyes, his white paint neither marred nor smeared.He walked over and helped her stand. He looked down at his hand and shook his head. He made the motion of gripping a knife then dropped it, something unseen clattering to the floor. He looked so ashamed of the noise that he turned away.The next scene appearing. The last scene, something deep in Delta knew.The orange and purple tent was in the cave, flat on the ground and not yet pitched.Renny looked around the room as a collapsed cave trapped the circus in it. The young Renny looked around at the few people alive, faces almost blurred beyond recognition as Renny himself had a large wound through his head. It didn’t seem to be healing. Delta listened as screaming made its way through the cave walls and all the circus people went quiet.The scene flickered and time had clearly passed. The tent looked older and the young Renny held a weak woman in his arms, she said something but it was too faded and distorted. She closed her eyes and Renny shook her and shook her but she didn’t open her eyes.Renny howled silently again but he picked her up and took her to near the back of the tent. Delta saw the people had all gone. Renny shakily began to mime a shovel and dug.It was then that Delta saw little wooden sticks planted in a neat row, markers with names on them.The scene flickered again and the tent had sagged a lot more and all the lights had burned out. Renny sat on the wooden chair, facing the tent opening. He sat there, guarding the now crumbling grave markers. Untouched by the Ghoul. The younger Renny looked so... thin, he looked over his shoulder and black drool leaked out his mouth at the grave markers but he did not move from his station.He waited and guarded.He waited and guarded.He waited…So long.Delta rubbed her eyes and shook her head as Renny put a hand on her shoulder. He was glowing and he shrugged as if to say ‘that’s all folks’.“Renny... you won’t ever be hungry again,” she promised and the Mime smiled, wiping tears away with a hankey that he mimed.Delta saw the scene fade and the menu appeared again.

Renny eyed it and kicked the dirt with his hands in his pockets, looking boyish as he grinned. Delta tapped it and Renny’s face glowed slightly. A red line formed some painted-on human shaped lips that could fool someone that Renny’ real mouth was there.Other than, he did not change.Delta was almost hoping for a beret...The light swallowed her and Renny and when she blinked, she was back in the dungeon.Devina was yelling about the bees and Rale was hacking at her wooden log bridge.“What... is going on here?” she asked and everyone froze, including the other human boy, a person made of blue light.He opened his mouth and his hair looked mad as if he ran a hand through it far too much.“Oh, you’re back. Listen, I might have... done some things,” the boy explained blithely and Delta stared blankly at him.He... felt familiar but the boy faded away and Delta moved forward but a box replaced the human shape and text scrolled across it.

Nu demanded with his usual words and Delta sat down heavily but she felt a cushy chair being pushed under her and looked up to see Renny grinning, bowing like a gentleman.“I have a mime, my jungle is in chaos, and Nu had boy parts,” Delta mumbled.Devina walked closer.“Mother... the Queen is very displeased,” she muttered and then a box opened up.

Delta inhaled and exhaled very, very, slowly.
