Isaac made his way back to the Development office – the official name that Mayor Caleb had slapped onto his group of architects, engineers and project managers.

He was bringing with him the results of his latest surprise audit at the railcar station's construction site. The audit had gone long as they kept finding minor discrepancies and deviations. Individually, nothing concerning, but their number was. He would have to run another surprise audit as soon as the two weeks of remediation time he'd allowed the worksite managers were up.

He fully knew that “The Auditing Lord” was a despised figure among the construction crews, but someone had to do it. The thick report in his hand was proof; had they allowed these deviations to continue further, they would have devolved into pure operational rot.

And that would not do; a project had to be kept on schedule, on budget, and on design.

Still, it was late, and he was only going to file this report away and retire to his lodging.

He turned into the corridor that led to his office, and his pace slowed for a step as he spotted the light coming out of the door's window.

Approaching, he wondered if someone had simply forgotten to turn off the lights again or if...

He turned the handle, stepped in, and froze, finding the one person he didn't want to find alone in the office.

The corner of Angeline's mouth curved upward as she looked up from papers on her desk and at him. “Lord Isaac, how surprising to see you still working this late in the day.”

He remained immobile for a few heartbeats before continuing as if his stride had been unbroken. “Yes, well, my audit ran long. I was just coming in to file away the result. You seem to be deep in work yourself, Miss Angeline.”

She tracked him as he walked past her and toward the filing cabinet. Were his steps a tad faster than usual? She smiled. “What can I say? The various unions and guilds keep trying to find reasons to dismiss all of the procedures a certain someone has been piling on them.”

He closed the cabinet with a loud bang and turned around. “If these indolent laggards had a shred of professional pride, I wouldn't need to drown them in procedures!”

She hid her giggle behind a hand, having an even harder time bringing herself back under control when he glared at her. “My apologies, lord Isaac, it simply continues to baffle me that a noble could be harder working and more conscientious than tradesmen.”

She picked up the wad of paper on her desk and shook it. “Still, someone has to deal with the after effects, right? We do want to avoid a repeat of the soup dispute, don't we?”

Isaac glared at the woman's impudent smirk, but forced his annoyance back with a deep breath and banished it with a long exhalation.

She kept her amused gaze on him as he stared back. His leg felt restless. He took a few steps toward her, his back rigid, and stood for a few more moments.

She quirked a brow at him.

He looked away for a second before dragging his eyes back to her. He wrangled the first words of what he wanted to say and forced his lips to enunciate them. “Miss Angeline, there is something I have needed to tell you, and it is through great cowardice that I have absconded from this duty.”

She blinked a few times, her own posture straightening. Her smile remained only thanks to her much-practised control.

Is he really going to....?

He continued. “I had initially wanted to tell you this within the presence of my brother, and perhaps your sister, but I later realized it would have been cowardly.”

His head nodded once. “I wished to thank you for all of the work and effort you have spent on supporting my endeavours on this project. I have long realized that the efficacy we are graced with would not have been possible without your particular touch.”

He bowed. “As such, you have my deepest appreciation for your help, and I hope I will continue to receive it further.”

Angeline stared, wide-eyed, smile gone and replaced with an o, as the young noble straightened back up and awkwardly tried not to stare back.

Then she burst out laughing, and his insecurity was replaced with a new glare directed at her.

Holding her sides with one hand and waving the other one at him, she managed to stand up, only to guffaw some more.

The last of her laughter left her throat as she flicked a tear away and looked at him. “Lord Isaac! Only you could turn a thank you into an impromptu ceremony!”

He turned his nose up at her. “Perhaps I should keep my gratitude to myself then, if I am only to be laughed at!”

She shook her head, a smile still splitting her face. “Oh, no, no! Please, lord Isaac, shower me with your gratitude! I am as human as anyone in that regard! I was simply surprised, that is all!”

He went from disdain and back to simply glaring. “I suspect your ego might be the only aspect of you that is human.”

She quirked an eyebrow. “Oh? Lord Isaac, do you then consider me a monster?” She asked, taking a step toward him.

He stood his ground. “Anyone who interacts with you for any length of time realizes that you are. A monster of the mind, able to slither into our thoughts and puppet our actions.”

She took another step forward. “Does that mean that... I am in your thoughts, Lord Isaac?”

“More than I wish you were.”

Her eyelids dropped halfway, and she took another step. “Hmm, I think that was a lie, lord Isaac.”

“Wardenfels do not lie.”

She cocked her head. “Tell me, lord Isaac, do I scare you? And, remember, Wardenfels do not lie.” She said with a predatory smirk.

He remained silent.

She went doe-eyed. “Oh? Lord Isaac, are you unwilling to admit fear?”

A bead of sweat rolled down his forehead. “I- I am a Wardenfel, I face fear with a steady heart.”

She stepped forward once more. “Yessss, you do, don't you? I actually scare you, and yet...”

Her foot crossed the last distance between him and her, with only a hand's width separating them now. She was close enough that he could feel her voice as she spoke. “And yet here you stand, brave, defiant.”

They stared at each other, she with a languid gaze, he with obstinate resilience.

Her tone was soft, almost purring. “You enjoy this, don't you? Me, being scary? It makes you feel alive. I can see it in the way you force yourself to interact with me more than strictly necessary.”

His nostrils flared, the only sign that he wasn't frozen solid.

She pulled at the flaps of his jacket, fiddling with them and refolding them as she let her gaze flow downward. “I very much like this trait of yours, lord Isaac. I can see how I unsettle people. Men, especially, either see me as a threat to be avoided or as something to be controlled.”

She looked back up, her bright amethyst eyes locking onto his own. “But you don't want to do either. You respect me for my talents, and force yourself to speak to me.” She spoke those last few words a finger's breath away from his lips.

His eyes were wide, his pupils narrow.

Then, the spell broke. She straightened back and gave him a wide, warm smile. “So, thank you, Lord Isaac! I'm sure we will continue to have many wonderful interactions together!”

She patted his pectoral, turned, and strutted out of the office.

Isaac remembered to breathe a few seconds later.

Angeline kept her gait until she turned a corner and found a nook to conceal herself in. She leaned against the wall and put a hand over her heart, willing it to stop bucking and trying to beat out of her chest.

She panted as the last few minutes replayed in her mind.

I almost kissed him.

That was the only thought she had. A near-miss, so close to disaster.

But if it was a disaster in waiting, why was that thought fluttering up butterflies in her belly? Why couldn't she do anything but smile?

Why did she desperately want to go back in there and finish what her mind had started without her consent, before she'd realized and shut everything down?

The pieces fell, rolled a little, and aligned.

They formed a heart.

Oh no...

The Allwarden compound began resembling a miniature town as work progressed. The “embassy” was completed, as was the guest house, and the public park's caretaker, hired a few days ago, had begun working on it, ordering bushes and flowers to beautify the space as well as designating seating and resting areas.

A small artificial stream, complete with a pond, was dug and rigged with running water. The chilled fruit water stand was set up and staffed, and was an instant hit in the high-summer heat.

The stand quickly began selling out before the day was over. Niala increased the amount of fruit water she prepared three times before she had to accept she wouldn't be able to supply it by herself.

David had then revealed that he had predicted the issue, and had ordered commercial-scale boiling, filtering and chilling equipment at the Old Woman Brewery. He had been stockpiling frozen fruits, and all he needed was the full recipe so his team could get started.

His faith in her success had made her hug him with glistening eyes.

The logo she found proudly displayed on the Old Woman Brewery had made her glare at him.

“That's an old me, isn't it?” She asked with pointed ears.

David gave her a wavering smile. “Yes. I thought it was fitting.”

“...because it's called the old woman, and I created it.”

His smile solidified. “Yes, that's exactly it!”

She kept glaring at him for a few moments, sighed, and marched past him and through the door into the brewery.

A large converted warehouse, the number of employees working inside stopped her mid-stride.

David came up behind her. “You have fifty-four employees, working on two shifts. Four on the transports, eight in the warehouse, two on maintenance, and the rest are for production.” He explained as she observed the production lines.

Everything moved like a well-lubricated machine; the people worked with either a smile or focus, many of them chatting with each other as they separated, stacked, measured, cut and packaged the Old Woman herbs. They even had two automated packaging machines.

She slowly turned her head toward him and stared.

He smiled like an idiot. “Impressed?”

“Why did you say I had fifty-four employees?”

“Because they're... your employees?”

She squinted her eyes at him, her ears lowering. “How can they be my employees if I never even met them?”

He shrugged. “I'm sure a lot of your father's employees never even met him.”

“That... that's not the point!” She exclaimed, tail snapping straight. “I didn't even know I had employees! My father might have never met them, but I'm sure he... huh...” She ran out of steam. Her father absolutely had people working for him that he didn't even know existed.

He smirked.

She punched his arm.

Niala quickly toured the sanitized space that David had reserved for the preparation of chilled fruit water. Several commercial freezers filled with fruits, all the equipment they needed, complete with water filters, and insulated carts to bring the liquid to the stand.

One thing didn't add up, however; even with the success of the stand, this was too much equipment.

When challenged, he revealed that he hoped she'd agree to opening another stand elsewhere in town. He already had the staff hired and waiting, and the stands built, just waiting to be assembled.

She pinched the bridge of her nose and told him to just do whatever he wanted, as long as the fruit waters were sold at a reasonable price, and the employees were paid fairly and had good benefits.

David had assured her that it was the case and offered to review the contracts and operating documents with her later.

For now, however, he had a townfull of people to introduce to another one of his wife's incredible creations.

Chilled Fruit Water.

The stands went up a few days later, in strategic, high-traffic locations, which David had sorted out with Isaac and Angeline, and paid for an operating license at the town hall.

It took a day or two, but soon every location ran at full capacity, and the production area barely managed to supply them all.

But barely meant they still managed, and the fruit water ran freely.

And then Linzy, genius Linzy, had David try something; the fruit water was made from pulped and concentrated fruit juice, which was then re-added to a larger amount of purified water. It was then “chilled” by adding a handful of ice cubes to the cup. The goblin had wondered, what if you just used crushed ice instead, and poured undiluted fruit juice on top?

It would be even more refreshing, since you'd be eating ice directly, and she figured you could serve smaller portions for the same price; since the whole package felt “denser”, the customers would think it was a better value than just water with ice in it.

He hadn't seen any issue with that. Niala had to be convinced about the smaller portion, but had caved in when they'd said that the customer could simply purchase the regular iced fruit water instead if they preferred.

The next day, the Old Woman Fruit-Ice was born.

And the money flowed in, about as fast as the chilled fruit water and the Fruit-Ice flowed out.