“Maybe they’re testing us on our ability to know the scope of our power and our limits.” Max, sitting beside Alden, spoke loudly enough for everyone nearby to hear him. “It would be stupid to throw your life away in a hopeless fight, right?”


The combat assessment group was made up of every rank and class here, but people had already fallen into the habit of clustering with their fellows. It was mostly B’s from the track test around them.


“That doesn’t sound right,” a girl behind them said. “Of course it would be stupid to do that in real life, but for a test? You can’t show off your creativity or your full talents or…or your perseverance if you just drop out.”


Max shrugged. “Just making a guess.”


Alden examined him. He didn’t have long to do it, though. About a minute later his first assignment popped up:


[Defeat Your Opponent]


[Dueling Block 6]


[Opponent: Tatiana Evans, Shaper of Sky]
 


Around a third of the people in the gym were standing and hurrying to their assigned spots. All of their forehead ranks had faded into invisibility on Alden’s interface, except for one girl’s.


It was the B-rank Sky Shaper from his running group. The one who could move pretty fast by altering the air around her. Her “B” was glowing bright green under her dark bangs.


He gave her a wave as they both headed toward their block. She nodded at him, but her expression was stiff.


Mine probably is a little, too. One of his palms was sweating against his umbrella handle. The other was sweating against a fresh temper sphere. Can’t think of how to use fishing line against a girl who plays with the atmosphere. She’s obviously doing something with just wind at this point, right? Beginner Shaper…some kind of air strike? I don’t think she could have anything else in combo with that technique that makes her run better.


And there’s not a lot of space in this set of dueling blocks for either of us to run around. It’s close quarters. All right, strange shield. Time to do your duty.


He extended the umbrella, finally letting it unfurl before he re-preserved it. Isn’t opening an umbrella indoors bad luck or something?


The dueling block was a rectangular space outlined on the floor in dull black lines that had appeared there like they’d always existed. As soon as he and the girl entered, a timer popped up.


“We’re supposed to fight for two minutes,” said Alden. “That’s not long is—?”


From around eight feet away, Tatiana Evans curled her fingers like she was holding an imaginary softball and thrust her hand out toward him. An invisible force struck the umbrella, which he’d been holding between him and the girl more because it was convenient than out of an abundance of caution.


His authority sense registered it as a smack. But not a very good one. He glanced down and then back up at his opponent’s shocked face.


“We’re getting started without even saying hi? You should have aimed for something else.”


Her face reddened, and she threw out her hand again.


Alden held the umbrella out to protect his torso and felt another strike against it. I just told her to aim for something else. She should have gone for my legs.


He was assuming she wasn’t willing to aim for his head because of the no-kill rule.


I guess I should try some offense?


He flung the temper sphere at her. To his surprise, the glass ball full of glittering sand smashed her right in the nose. She yelled and leaped back, clutching her face while the sphere rolled across the floor.


Oh. I guess she didn’t know I had it?


Feeling like a little bit of a jerk, Alden ran forward with his umbrella held out in front of him.


Instead of attacking again, Tatiana tried to dodge sideways.


Alden threw his leg out and kicked her in the knee as hard as he could. Kicks to the knee were the most effective attack he’d managed against Maricel earlier, other than the finger biting…which could only happen if someone’s fingers were already way too close to your mouth. The Sky Shaper cried out and fell sideways. She would have fallen over the line into the next dueling rectangle, but an invisible wall stopped her.


She slid down the unseen barrier, her eyes clenched shut. She threw out a hand, and Alden felt something whip the hair over his right ear.


Missed.


The timer told him their fight had only been going on for twenty seconds.


So two minutes was longer than it felt like.


Do I kick her again? While she’s still on the ground with her eyes shut?


He hesitated. She opened watering eyes and swung one of her own legs around hard enough to sweep his feet out from under him. He went down on his butt, and then she was grabbing onto his umbrella, trying to yank it out of his hand.


Fortunately, her first yank happened during the second when it was still preserved, before the stupid carriage requirement screwed him over.


I don’t want to have to fight with a broken umbrella for the rest of the day.


He scrambled onto his feet and swung the umbrella at her like a weapon. It was an iffy thing to do.


Alden lost preservation on objects when he allowed them to be partially borne by something else. However…if coming into contact with that something else was going to increase Alden’s burden instead of lifting it, the rule could be worked around somewhat.


It helps to understand when you know the right skill name.


Alden's skill was The Bearer of All Burdens. He was supposed to carry and protect things with it. Someone helping him bear the weight of his umbrella would end the preservation. Someone trying to take the umbrella when he didn’t want them to wouldn’t. Even though the two actions were physically very similar.


Likewise, setting part of the object on a table to get some rest would halt the skill, but smashing it forcefully into a table wouldn’t necessarily. If he could manage to make himself feel very committed to protecting his object from the very thing he was swinging it at. This was a recent advancement, and it required more focus. It felt unnatural, the physical impacts transferred to him in a way they didn't when he was using the skill normally, and Alden had to make sure he didn’t get casual about it.


Perception was heavily at play in this matter, and he was still getting the hang of it.


Fortunately, trying to fight someone with his preserved object was the opposite of casual. It was easy to perceive Tatiana as a threat to his object, and he didn’t think he was at risk of allowing himself to be overly assisted by her.


Especially since she was bellowing at him with pure rage while he whacked her repeatedly in the face with the pointy edges of a preserved umbrella, and she kept flinging her hand out in the gesture that made the wind strikes.


She finally caught him in the gut with one.


It was about the same as one of Maricel’s punches, so it made him double over. He felt nausea that was soon eclipsed by pain as a knee connected with his cheekbone.


She pushed him up against the barrier and drove another invisible ball of air into his ribs.


He shoved her off him.


Oh, he thought in surprise, as she staggered back from the push. I’m stronger than she is.


He’d been unconsciously comparing her physical abilities to Maricel’s, since they were around the same height. And Maricel was stronger than him despite claiming not to have put many points in Strength.


But he and Tatiana were both B-ranks. It wasn’t impossible for her to have more points in Strength than he did, depending on how she’d allocated her stats. But she might not. And he was half a foot taller than her. And he was a guy, and he was pretty fit.


That…isn’t the coolest way to win. But I guess I should do whatever works?


The hits he was taking from her shaping were the most offensive power she could dish out. She wasn’t very creative with how she threw them either. It was always straight out in front of her with the hand gesture. He’d been blocking them with the umbrella very easily, but…


The shield was unnecessary really. He could just dodge. Two free hands would be better if he was going this route. He cast the umbrella aside and launched himself at the girl, tackling her to the ground. She fell facedown and he pinned her there with zero elegance. He caught an elbow in the face in the process, but that was all.


She tried to throw her power with a backwards gesture, but she couldn’t aim with Alden behind her holding onto her arms.


She is so mad at me, he noted, while he held her there, and she cussed. Maricel got kind of mad, too, even though she was winning our practice fight earlier.


That was what had led to the biting.


Alden wished he could get a little angry. He was sure it would make this feel less awkward.


He’d been slightly nervous about his own performance to start with. But he hadn’t gotten anything like a real adrenaline rush during the whole course of this “battle.”


It’s weird.


It’s weird not to get at least a little fired-up or scared about someone hitting me, isn’t it?


My temper’s been hotter than usual about some things lately, why is it so flat right now?


Mostly, he felt sorry for Tatiana Evans. He wanted her to go ahead and concede. He also wished she’d quit trying to throw air balls at him because he thought the logical course of action might be to repeatedly “break” her fingers so that the pain would put her out of commission until the timer ran out, and he didn’t want to do that.


Finally, after an eternity, the two minutes was up and he scrambled off her.


She leaped to her feet. They were both panting. Her face was furious.


“You!” she said. “You…!”


Me what?


“Fuck you!” she screamed. Her hands were clenched into fists at her sides.


“They’re not exactly judging us on if we win or lose, I think,” Alden said. “I’m pretty sure it’s more about how we approach—”


“You hit me in the face with a ball!”


He blinked. “Well…yeah.”


“You didn’t even use magic! You were just trying to humiliate me!”


“I used magic on my umbrella.” That was really obvious. She had to know that. “And the ball’s a spell ingredient. It’s allowed. But I didn’t need to activate the spell during this fight, so…”


<<Someone’s a bad loser,>> said one of the A-rank girls who’d been dueling in the next block over. She tossed long blonde hair over her shoulder as she brushed by him. Her own opponent was a boy who was sitting on the floor angry-crying, so Alden wasn’t sure if she was talking about him or Tatiana.


I don’t even know how they fought, Alden realized suddenly.


He might not have been angry or afraid, but he had been focused enough to completely tune out what was going on everywhere else. Now that he looked around the gym, it was obvious emotions were running hot all over the place. Big Snake was hauling two red-faced Brutes toward the exit by the backs of their suits.


Maybe they hadn’t obeyed the stop timer?


Tatiana stalked away from him fuming. Trying to decide if he’d done well or not, Alden collected his umbrella and his temper sphere.


So. That was a duel between superhumans. Technically.


As he approached the bleachers, the next combatants were already taking their places and starting. A flare of orange light behind him made him turn. Someone had just cast one hell of a fire spell as the opener to their duel.


I should have brought a bigger umbrella.
 


******
 


He went back to the bleachers and made sure to sit as far away from his defeated opponent as he could. That meant he ended up surrounded by a bunch of S’s and A’s he didn’t know.


“Man, you’re sweaty,” said a girl. “From just that little fight?”


“I was running track for ages right before I got in here,” said Alden. “I haven’t had a chance to cool off.”


“Speedster?”


“Rabbit.”


The girl smiled at him.


“No, really,” said Alden. “I’m a Rabbit.”


“Um…right.”


No assignments popped up for him after the next set of duels ended either. So he guessed he was getting a break. He used it to observe what was going on with everyone else. He spotted Max heading for a dueling block. He was chatting amicably with another B-rank—a big guy whose jaw was clenched with stress. And on the left-hand side of the gym, people were playing a hero/villain game that involved rescuing victims. It seemed like they’d just gotten started, so they must have had an instruction period.


I know what my role will probably be there.


There were some people carrying the victims away while others protected them from enemy fire.


That looks kind of fun compared to what I just did.


“Some people are leaving already,” the girl who’d spoken to him earlier said to her friend.


“Foreigners probably,” her friend replied. “I don’t recognize any of them.”


Alden looked toward the people they were talking about. It was about ten of them, and…the girls weren’t wrong. He recognized most of them from the intake bus.


“I hear it happens every time. They aren’t expecting getting hit with powers to be so intense, and they get freaked out. And they take the bait.”


“They don’t let anyone into the program if they leave early, right?” Alden said. “That’s what I thought when they explained that you could.”


The S girls glanced down at him. Maybe because he was a B, they didn’t seem inclined to lie. “Unless something really terrible happens in your fight, they don’t. It’s supposed to be obvious that that’s the wrong answer—”


