“It is obvious,” her friend said. “This kind of stuff is what makes the hero track the hero track. Using the MagiPhys gym to test and improve your powers against other Avowed talents is one of the main reasons to come to this school. If you don’t want to be here for an hour and a half, you’re not going to want to be a Celena North student for the next few years.”


“But people tap out anyway. It’s not only clueless newcomers. It’s a lot of locals without hero-trained parents, too. And even some with.” She nodded toward a boy who’d just sat down by himself not too far away and lowered her voice. “Haoyu is a legacy. He’s going to be a Dura Brute like his mom and dad. He’s really well trained. I wouldn’t be surprised if he leaves after that duel though and tries again next time.”


Dura Brute wasn’t an official System subclass, but Alden knew what she meant. Usually it was Strength or Stamina Brutes who used the System’s willingness to micro-tweak to hybridize the two, sacrificing some pure striking power for extra endurance and toughness. Depending on which subclass they’d started out with, the skill options that pulled it all together would be a little different.


“They shouldn’t have let the Wright bring that weapon,” the other girl said angrily. “He just stood there, and Haoyu didn’t even get a chance to fight back.”


“What was it?”


“Some kind of pain inducement tool. The Wright made it himself and it draws on some skill he’s got to function, he said. So I guess technically it’s fair. But to keep a Brute down with it, he just pointed it and kept it active. Maybe the gym suits overshot the pain estimate because it was a unique thing, but…it looked awful. BigSnake canceled their fight himself.”


“Speaking of duels, they’re starting again,” her friend said.


Alden turned his attention toward the floor. He wanted to know how his own fight compared to the average, but it was kind of hard to tell. There wasn’t really an average. Everyone was fighting same-rank opponents right now, so the S’s obviously looked flashy compared to the A’s, who looked pretty flashy themselves compared to the B’s.


But there was a lot of variety within each group.


Some duels were downright boring, with people timidly trading spells like they were playing a game. And others were insane. There were two Brutes throwing each other at the barriers with so much force and such a total lack of concern for head and spinal injuries, that Alden wondered if they cared at all about the no-killing rule.


“I hate the idea of fighting Adjusters,” a boy sitting a couple of seats back muttered. “Are they going to burn you? Are they going to freeze you? Are they going to levitate your ass and laugh while you flail around up there? Do they have fast spells? Slow spells? A mix?”


“It is pretty hard if you don’t know what path they’ve chosen,” someone else agreed.


The first boy pointed. “Like that—what in Apex is that guy’s spell set?”


He was pointing at Max.


Max’s opponent—a B-rank Meister with a spear—was running at him. Without making any forward progress.


“He looks like he’s on a treadmill,” a girl said in fascinated voice.


“Why doesn’t the other guy just throw his spear?”


About ten seconds later, that was what happened. The spear flew. Max stood stock still and took it dead center in the chest.


His body crashed backward into the barrier. The spear clattered to the floor, and Max collapsed with his arms wrapped around his chest.


“Oh shit!” one of the S’s said excitedly. “That Adjuster absolutely baited him into that somehow. The Meister should have seen that coming. He should have gone for a leg!”


“He’s an idiot if he let himself be baited that badly. There was no way for a spear to be nonlethal if you aimed there…and yes. They’re done.”


The Meister had gone white as ghost. One of the faculty observers was headed over with a grim expression on her face.


Wincing, Max climbed to his feet, still rubbing his chest and gasping. And smiling.


I think he’s a little dangerous, Alden decided. I need to be careful around him.


The duels ended.


Alden got a notification that he was going up again shortly. It was against a Meister of Bow, and they were rank mixing now. His opponent would be an A.


He stood up and started to walk away.


“Wait! Don’t you need your umbrella and your spell ball?”


Alden smiled. I thought it would be her.


She seemed to be the nicest member of the locals group, so he’d left the umbrella and the temper sphere right beside her feet where she couldn’t help but notice them.


He turned back around and targeted her with a thought.


“What?” he asked.


“Your supplies!” she said. “Don’t you need them to fight?”


“I do. I should take them, shouldn’t I?”


She nodded.


That nod should be enough.


Alden stepped over and picked them up. He’d left the glass orb sitting where it would be touching the umbrella, so they came together.


“Whoa. It’s a glue umbrella? How does that work?”


“It’s a skill that preserves objects,” he said. “Thank you. I owe you one.”


“What for?”


“I’ll tell you later.”


He didn’t even really need the temper sphere preserved right now, but he’d wanted to prove to the observing faculty that he could sneakily get things entrusted to him. It seemed like something they might care about.


He headed toward his assigned dueling area and shook hands with a boy carrying a short, metal bow. A-rank archer sounds like a bad match-up, he thought.


Wasn’t an arrow going to move faster than he could react to it? And though they had been given a larger dueling block to work with than the last one, it wasn’t large enough that someone with that subclass was likely to miss him.


I guess he’ll have to be extra careful not to get lethals. I could focus on shielding my legs instead of my torso?


Taking an arrow to the torso sounded like it would feel really bad. But since another guy had just chest-bumped a spear and walked it off smiling, it was probably doable, right?


The Meister cheerfully called, “This is my first duel! The last person surrendered when they saw my class.”


“Seriously?”


The boy nodded. “They didn’t want to find out what it feels like to get shot.”


Understandable. I don’t particularly want to find out what that feels like either, even if it’s only going to last a few seconds.


“Getting shot doesn’t sound as bad as getting burned,” he said, thinking of one of the high rank Adjuster who was fireballing people into submission.


“I agree,” said the Meister, nocking an arrow. “I also think the large bludgeoning weapons are just the worst. Can you imagine the gym suits mimicking crushed bones?”


“Um…”


Alden felt a pinprick against his authority and brought his umbrella up. He backed as far away from his opponent as the dueling block would allow.


“Hold still,” said the guy, smiling at him. “I’m going to shoot you now.”


**********


The next two minutes of Alden’s life were aerobic and unpleasant.


Ow, he thought, fleeing with his umbrella covering his back as the archer dashed around behind him collecting the six arrows he’d just rapidly and delightedly shot Alden’s legs and feet with. Fucking ow. And the asshole doesn’t miss.


Pros — the arrows bounced off, and though the pain wasn’t fun, Alden had a high pain threshold. He could keep running around.


Cons — the arrows bounced off, which meant Jolly Robin Hood could keep picking them up and shooting them again.


Alden had tried to stop this from happening by grabbing one of the arrows off the floor, only to get his palm “sliced” open as the other boy recalled it magically. The fact that he didn’t do it unless Alden picked them up meant it must be a really puny skill he was worried about fatiguing before future fights, but it was a good deterrent.


Alden felt a pinch against his authority and spun, umbrella held out. He got it in front of the first arrow, but even as it struck, there was a second pinch, and then a third. Maybe he’d one day be able to tell what body parts another Avowed was targeting, but it wasn’t happening today.


He waved the umbrella around wildly, hoping for the best, and miraculously didn’t get hit.


“You’re amazing!” the archer called. “This is such good practice!”


A pinch. Most of them had been coming in low. Alden guessed and tried to reposition his shield.


And took an arrow in the shoulder. It hurt enough that his brain lied to him and told him he couldn’t move the arm for a split second. Which proved fatal.


The next arrow had a lot more power behind it than the others had. It hit him in the lower stomach and threw him back against the barrier.


He sat there, clutching at his stomach. He couldn’t move.


He knew in his head that he could. But his body wasn’t willing to do it quickly for him.


I guess it’s nonlethal, since I could conceivably be saved from being gut shot?


The archer bounded toward him with another arrow knocked.


“I can shoot you with that one again at close range, and you’d have to stay there. But…I don’t think you want me to do that?”


Alden shook his head, waiting for the pain to subside.


“Great! So you’re captured. Toss aside your shield. And after that, if you move, I’ll shoot you some more.”


“Noted,” said Alden, setting aside the umbrella.


“Ranged weapons are the best,” the guy told him conversationally. “You should get some long distance spells when you level up.”


Clearly this boy had never seen the B-rank Rabbit spell impression options.


But Alden thought of his auriad. “Working on it.”


When the timer ran out, he targeted the guy. “Could you hand me my umbrella, and the glass ball?”


“Sure.”


People are in a good mood when they’ve just won, he noted, taking his things. I wonder if there was something I could have done with the fishing line for this fight after all?


If he’d stretched it out long enough it would have given him some range to…smack the archer with?


It would have been distracting for him. I don’t think it would have won me the fight, but it might have at least given me ideas for future ones. I should make an effort to try more stuff in the next battle.


On cue, his next assignment popped up:


[Rescue Victims]


[Special Notes: Focus on Skill Use]
