Shiv let out a grunt of frustration, which turned into a choked cry as something hit him in the back. The blow thundered through his body, and he felt the air get driven out from his lungs. Before he could respond, a hand snaked around his neck and began tightening.

A hand that was promptly turned to crushed paste as Shiv seized it. He pressed inward with his gravitic field, and a scream came from behind him as he shredded the arm that dared touch him. Yet before he could do anything else, the six-armed automaton was upon him. Shiv flung the Pathbearer that just choked him at the automaton. Rather than swatting his ally aside, the automaton caught his companion and twirled in the air, draining his momentum.

Shiv spiked his field forward, and he prepared to detonate his sheath again and then move in another direction. Then, an unseen force pulled Shiv in. It felt like the world was collapsing—like left, right, up, down didn’t exist. But he had to move ahead. Shiv fought to keep his trajectory, spiking himself over and over. His inertial sheath exploded as he got within a meter of his foe.

The blast flung most of the other Pathbearers off their feet. Only the Vanguards remained standing. The Avatar, meanwhile, walked through Shiv’s attack like it was strolling through a rough gale. It somersaulted over Shiv in a blur. He spiked himself backward, driving his shoulder into the automaton.

But it was like water, and Shiv was a stone. It gave ground and sapped his might. With the sudden shift of their hip, Shiv found himself being launched off balance. He tried pulling his field back, but was forced to discharge his inertial sheath again when he realized he was going too fast. As soon as he discharged, the automaton struck. Three hard fists struck Shiv in the solar plexus, the throat, and the temple.

His vision darkened—but Shiv exploded forward in a second wind and tried to headbutt his enemy.

It caught him by the neck with one hand. The speed and force was ripped out of him. He went dead-still. Shiv hissed as he tried to pull back, but he was trapped in a force-drinking grip. And he ultimately found himself helpless. He strained with all his might, but the automaton casually drove its remaining palms into his body.

Gravitic Wrestler 187 > 190

A bomb went off inside Shiv. It was then that Shiv felt the true power of the automaton. It didn't deliver strikes to the body. It didn't even scratch his skin. No, the punch went straight to Shiv's mind. An entire section of his thoughts were rendered blank. Shiv reeled. Drool dripped from his lips as he lost track of where he was, who he was.

Three more punches hit him, followed by a kick.

When a semblance of coherence returned to Shiv, he was twirling through the air. His head bounced off the ground, but instead of feeling any pain, he was just utterly confused. Pure instinct spared him from a low kick that was scything through the air, coming straight for his head.

However, he was tackled back to the ground before he could fully get back to his feet. A blade was rammed into his ribs, and the blade broke against his ribs as Shiv triggered his Pillar of Orichalcum. He swung blindly, and his elbow connected with something. It was a sloppy hit, but he was strong enough now that the target let out a loud cry of pain. Shiv dragged his field and began to slide across the ground. Blood sprayed as Shiv dragged the Pathbearer trying to assassinate him along the floor like a whetstone.

When he got tired of her howls of pain, he flung her at another adversary and tried to rise—

Only for a crossbow bolt to punch through his chest. Shiv realized he'd underestimated those bolts, because it promptly detonated with more than kinetic force. A gravitic chain shot out from the bolt and connected him to the ground. Shiv stopped time—and the wardings immediately shattered his shell. The Avatar—which was suddenly right in front of him again—flicked its leg up. Shiv moved to back off—but its kick went from being a roundhouse to something more akin to a question mark. A blow meant for his body curved and struck his head instead.

Whiteness filled Shiv’s vision as the flat side of the bladed leg impacted him. When he returned to himself, he was gasping on the ground.

The automaton stood over him. Its fists were clenched, and it repeated its command. “Surrender. It is never too late.” Its voice was serene. Like the rustling of leaves. Like shaking grass.

Shiv was almost lured into a false sense of tranquility when his Psycho-Cartography Skill screamed at him.

More bolts struck his body. New gravity chains kept him pinned to the ground. He tried to struggle and break these chains, but they were too dense, and he was surrounded. His body was—

Wait, to hells with this body. I got enough vitality left to make a play at this.

The automaton said something else—but its peaceful demeanor broke into a shout of alarm as Shiv disemboweled himself with a burst of gravity. “What are you doing!”

Shiv flung his viscera and intestines over the automaton’s body. It swatted his gore aside—but was too late to stop him from killing himself. The rest of Shiv’s body imploded into a wet mess of splattered red. His Vitae slipped free from his corpse, unchained from the crossbow bolts. At the same time, the Avatar was distracted by Shiv’s brutal death and didn’t see a slithering strand of Vitae gliding through the blood and burrowing into its foot.

Pyromancy 15 > 18

Hydromancy 12 > 15

Psychomancy 19 > 26

Aegis of Assimilation 112 > 114

Pillar of Orichalcum 225 > 229

Gravitic Wrestler 190 > 195

Outside Context Problem 82 > 87

Vitaemancy 89 > 93

Vitality drain 89 > 96

As soon as Shiv made contact with the automaton’s body, he drained its vitality. He used the very same technique that weakened the Tarrasque against his divinely powered foe. The Orichalcum valley was bathed in a vortex of lifeforce. For the first time, the Avatar cried out in agony. Shiv resurrected in a near instant as an ocean of vitality surged through him.

The Avatar crashed down to its knees, and Shiv felt its inner flame flicker. In another few seconds, it would be nothing more than just ash—

Its hand shot out and seized Shiv’s. Its body came aglow with divine incandescence. The Deathless’s eyes widened as Cripple infused itself into the lesser automaton. Five of the avatar’s arms shattered into shrapnel. One remained, and it absorbed the broken pieces that composed the other limbs to create a colossal slab of fractured alloy.

“Fine, then,” the Avatar said, Cripple’s voice echoing through it. “You wish to seek another end? I will oblige.”
