Delta didn’t quite remember the next few minutes but from what Devina told her later, Maestro thought he had been challenged to an opera duel.She neared the only entrance to the room, a hole in the ground that led to an underground cavern. The reason why the room refused to be formed before. It could only be built underground.She peered in and something peered up at her.It was only about a foot and something big. It had large round eyes, little smudges of war paint on its face, a little skirt made from the grass of the jungle, a little hat to cover its cap made from sticks, and a flower it carried like a flag. Around its neck was string that led down to a pretty adorable wooden tribal mask that was easily pulled up to cover its face.At its side were three tiny wooden sticks and little tiny bags. Delta guessed they could be flutes. It tilted its head and made a little squeaking sound at her, waving almost shyly.Delta felt her heart explode as she leapt into the abyss to get a closer look.She completely missed another Pygmy Mushroom using one of its ‘flutes’ to blow a tiny dart at a curious Blood Hare that stuck its head in to look.She also missed the larger Chieftain drawing up a rough map of the jungle in the dirt, marking perfect ambush spots...Nu didn’t.Nu saw it all.He decided he would tell Delta about the new monster’s little issues...later. Much... much later.---“Seth, I think you’re pushing him too hard,” Quiss suggested as he watched Deo’s eyes read the first line of the book over and over.Seth looked haggard, like a water lily dried out and any remaining fluids replaced with coffee.“Deo has not passed one tricky word test yet. Ruli will be naughty schoolgirl for rest of existence!” Seth stressed. Quiss opened his mouth and then closed his eyes.“You need to learn context, seriously. It’s fine! It’s only been a day. Ruli gets free lunches as a student and the building has a dorm for sleeping. Deo, are you okay?” Quiss asked awkwardly, not used to being gentle.The boy looked up with deep wisdom.“I KNOW THE WORD ‘INSIGHTFUL’ NOW!” he bragged. Quiss gave him a weak smile.“Know it or know what it means?” he had to ask, and Deo grinned sheepishly. Quiss looked at Seth.“We have to do a Frenik,” he said simply and Seth’s eyes bugged out.“Frenik?! We help him learn like that, and Deo will be death!” Seth’s grip on the language slipped as his stress skyrocketed.“As much as dying would become a more cheery process with Deo in charge, I doubt it’s an issue. We simply have to encourage him to learn in a different manner. He’s like me, books and lectures? Not a chance,” Quiss grimaced and Deo’s mother came in with the 3rd set of refreshments since they arrived.“I heard... My Deo has good intentions; he is trying to learn,” she promised them and Quiss nodded at her, trying not to let her see how much her voice affected him.Even at a whisper, Isanella Brawndo had a voice that charmed the world; sometimes quite literally.The voice of a mixed heritage between love and beauty, which was then fused with the blood of rage and violence to give birth to Deo.It was a family tree that Quiss didn’t want to think about.Deo being Deo was more than anyone could really ask of the boy.“We know. I just want to test something, maybe see if he learns the way I did. Is that okay?” he asked her politely, and Isanella gave him a soft look of curiosity.“Mr Jones was very capable and he’s only been able to do so much,” she tried to point out and Quiss gave her a grin that seemed to take the woman by surprise. Quiss remembered how he tended to look when he smiled and dropped it fast as Isanella’s eyes went wide.“With all due respect, classrooms and tests don’t work with everyone. I’ve never had an apprentice and I think Deo will be a good test for my teachings,” he promised her. Isanella hesitated.“I don’t think I want my son to be...” she trailed off as she as she looked at Quiss then outside through the window.“Throwing fire about? Understandable...” Quiss muttered but the woman shook her head.“No, not the fire. The ducks. My husband went out to get rid of them and I haven’t seen him in about an hour...” Isanella pointed out.Quiss blinked slowly at her, not revealing anything. The blush on his neck was bad enough.“They... do tend to bring people back. If not, I can go find him. The Duck Portal does work both ways,” he assured her as Seth looked at his empty cup in his hands.Seth waved a hand over the rim and chanted.Space twisted, the souls beyond screamed, Quiss’ ears popped, and Deo seemed to have a vision, but then the cup was refilled with fresh coffee and Seth sipped at it with a blank expression on his face.“I hate that spell,” Quiss told the other mage. Seth met his eyes with a dark look.“I don’t trust boiling water or pots anymore,” he reminded, and Quiss’ own eyes went distant.“Hotter Quiss! Hotter! We will brew the tea of the age! Seth, more water!”“Pour me one,” he said finally as Deo stared down at the book.“I DON’T UNDERSTAND THIS AT ALL!” he sighed and his mother turned the book upside down. Deo peered at it and then made a sound of understanding.Quiss almost broke his neck to glare at Seth who looked away.“I... don’t read your words, merely speak. Thought looked odder than usual...” he muttered. Quiss opened the window to throw out another duck and it made contact with a man’s face.“Are you the Peacekeeper?” he asked slowly as he pulled the calm duck from his hair. Quiss didn’t know him.He was a stranger that looked new to town.This set of alarm bells in Quiss’ head.Quiss’ headache became worst and he merely nodded. The man held the duck in his arms as he began to speak.“Excellent, I need a tour of the dungeon as per dungeon law, article 12-B where it states that the local Peace-” the man droned on and on. Quiss closed the window and the man didn’t seem to notice that he was now speaking to himself.“Deo, burn the books, we’re going to see Delta. Seth, go back to school and learn to read,” Quiss said and turned to Isanella.“What’s the strongest alcohol you have?” he asked bluntly and the woman looked at the man still talking with his eyes closed outside the window.“Stuff to get my husband tispy. No offence, but it’ll hit you like a horse,” she warned and Quiss held out his hand. However, the woman pulled on her coat instead of fetching the desirable booze.“I will come with you, to see this dungeon and keep an eye on my son,” she stated. Quiss looked at his empty hand, but the woman snapped her fingers and her voice rose just slightly.“You’re working, go get ready!” she snapped and all three of the males jumped to attention.Quiss found himself almost combing his hair before he realised he didn’t care.He hoped Delta kept her dungeon tame. Mimes and frog people, if Ruli was right, was more than enough to make this trip a bother.Anything else could be... troublesome.
