The Shade was outside of the effect, for now. Gore rained on her, but she didn’t care, as a line of white dots —several grand rads— flowed from where the centipede’s upper third had been, into Fallopolis’s chest, like drops of radiant water. She breathed deep. She turned back to Erick.

“Got any good food in that bag?” She asked.

“I do. Do you want dessert, a beef and cheese sandwich, or a salad?” He asked, “Do you want a [Cleanse], first?”

“Sandwich, salad, [Cleanse]; yes.” She asked, “Hot sandwich?”

“I can make it hot.”

“Hot, then.”

Erick obliged with the [Cleanse], first, casting the spell at Fallopolis, erasing the bits of black shell and red insides that had fallen onto her. With a few other casts and a wait in a [Hot Ward], the Shade got her food. Erick copied a chocolate cupcake for himself.

Fallopolis seemed to approve of the sandwich, if her ravenous consumption of it was any indication of how she truly felt. But she took her time with the salad. She had spotted the creamy dressing upon it, and decided to eat that one second.

She did this, of course, as they were practically racing through the sky, double-stepping it further west.

When she bit into the first bit of salad, using [Telekinesis] to eat, she stopped in her tracks. Erick stopped with her.

With a quiet voice, she said, “This dressing. What is it?”

“Ranch dressing.” Erick elaborated, “Veird has the sour cream and buttermilk and such, but I recreated the black pepper, garlic, dill, and chives, and made better sour cream than what was available outside of Spur. When I first made Ranch, I thought that sour cream was a personal invention, too, but you guys just used limes, and your sour cream was neither prevalent nor available in Spur. My only actual change was to use lemons, which I did invent.”

Fallopolis began eating and walking again, as Erick spoke. When he finished, she had already finished the salad, and said, “That was pretty good. Both of them.”

“Thanks.” He offered, “Want a cupcake? Sour cream went into these, as well, to lend the cake a moister, tangier flavor. I had thought I had invented this technique, too, but a lady I recently met informed me that I had not.”

“… I want a cupcake.”

“Chocolate or vanilla buttercream? I recreated both of those flavors, too.”

“One of each.”

- - - -

They walked in silence toward the west, their footsteps shining dark and bright.

There were occasional monsters. Birds made of iridescent swords. Bugs too large to be normal. Another Kendrithyst Mimic, which was only level 75, maybe; Erick wasn’t quite sure, but the experience he gained was enough to put an actual, noticeable difference in his Status.

Fallopolis displayed her power in killing both large and small monsters, as Erick did the same. Erick had no idea what the Shade was truly thinking with this walk, and this civility, and this easy atmosphere of monster eradication, but it was easy to match her visible power against various hungry or territorial foes. Erick and Fallopolis fell into an easy ordering. She killed one monster, or group of monsters, Erick took the next. Back and forth it went, though sometimes the monsters fled before they fully committed to their attack. Those ones survived. Whoever's turn it was, took the next encounter.

It was hard for Erick to gauge how much either of them were truly holding back, for Erick had never truly tested himself in person, where he had to worry about his spells hitting himself, and Fallopolis was a Shade. Erick stuck to [Shooting Star] and the power of several Ophiel each wielding a Handy Aura, but he never used more than four global cooldowns out of his available eleven.

Fallopolis held vast telekinetic strength, but how much power did she actually have behind those invisible grips, and ripping thoughts? She only seemed to care about the grand rads inside a few of the monsters they met, but otherwise, she showed no signs of fatigue, or worry.

Erick was doing fine, too. Good thing he was a Scion of Focus.

Which bade him to again break the companionable silence, “Why do people choose Scion of Willpower?”

Without looking back, Fallopolis said, “Kirginatharp’s stranglehold on the proper teaching of magic is a problem with many facets. The predilection for Scion of Willpower is one of them. Kirginatharp is not a gifted mage, so when he made his spells, and since he is the Second of Rozeta, he had to fall in line with the workings of the Script or be ousted as Second.”

Erick wore a confused expression. “You’re going to have to break that down.”

Fallopolis easily elaborated, “In the beginning of the Script, there was another who could have become Second to Rozeta. Kirginatharp’s brother, Idyrvamikor. It is a tale never told in arcanaeum or most published books, for Kirginatharp controls both of those avenues to power.”

“If you’re trying to convince me that the Headmaster is a great evil, then you would have to try a lot harder than that. It was Melemizargo who cursed Dragon Essence into existence, was it not? Even if this story with Idyrvarmincor —or whatever. Even if true, all of the Headmaster’s cannibalistic tendencies are laid at the Dark Dragon’s claws.”

“The curse of Dragon Essence is a lie propagated by Kirginatharp.” Fallopolis said, “Idyrvamikor created the Dragon Curse, all on his own, for he was as much a Wizard as his grandfather.”

Erick listened, frowning, as the Shade’s voice filled the silence of the Dead City.

“Idyrvamikor was a right evil bastard, so it’s probably just as good that Kirginatharp won and his brother’s life is relegated to the Void.” She said, “But to condense a great history of hope and betrayal down to its core components: As the Script was being laid, and the process of rightful God of Magic succession was being usurped from My Dark God, the presumptive Seconds went to war. Kirginatharp, and his brother, Idyrvamikor.

“It is unknown who struck first, but it happened. The result was Archipelago Nergal, as half of that continent and most of that Underworld was consigned to the waves. Kirginatharp rose as the victor, but Idyrvamikor used the power of his death to cast the Dragon Curse.

“But even discarding the Dragon Curse, Kirginatharp’s victory was not a clean victory.

“This was over 1400 years ago, at the beginning of the Script, when no one was sure how anything was supposed to work. Idyrvamikor planned for the long run, and thus did not create any spells for that fight. Kirginatharp seized reckless power, tripping several failsafes in the Script meant to keep mages weak, and thus his spell costs ballooned. He won, but at the cost of his future advancement. He became a Scion of Willpower, because it was necessary in order to cast the magics he had created.

“For, as I already said: He was no great mage.

“He has never been a great mage. He gets by, with his stranglehold on learning, and his Elites succeeding as little as they do, spreading his power and bringing back treasures to him to further enable more power. It is in this way that his poison spreads in the minds and magics of those who attempt to learn from him.

“Scion of Willpower is purely inferior to Scion of Focus, for all that is necessary for Scion of Focus to truly shine, is that you learn to make your spells better. But they teach harmful techniques in every arcanaeum, which come from Kirginatharp himself, so people must choose Willpower, or else they lack the mana to cast the ‘proper spells’ that they have been taught to cast.” Fallopolis finished with, “And that, is why Scion of Willpower is more popular than Scion of Focus. For the political reasons of a megalomaniac who, if he broke his power and started again, even a little? Well. He would almost instantly be ousted by the hundreds of other dragons waiting to kill him and take his place as Second to Rozeta.”

It was too fantastical to be real. Erick said, “A conspiracy that large is too large to succeed.”

“And now the topic moves on to Draconic Society, the Mind Mage Cabal, and the Forgotten Campaigns of Veird.”

Erick frowned. He didn’t know anything about ‘Draconic Society’, and this was the first time he had heard those words with such emphasis, but he had already heard of ‘Forgotten Campaigns’, way back when he stood in front of gods and they argued over Particle Magic. It was only now, that he combined the idea of a Forgotten Campaign with the fact that the gods could not directly exercise their power upon Veird, and he realized that they would need intermediaries. He said, “I can already guess at all that, so there’s no need to elaborate.”

“Oh?” She smiled at him. “What’s your guess at ‘all that’, then?”

“Large-scale [Mind Wipe]s, or whatever the spell is called. They probably keep the dragons hidden, too, for obviously the Mind Mages would know who the dragons were.” Erick added, “Likely selectively deleting various memories.”

“Ah! Then you do know.” Fallopolis asked, “But did you know about the killings?”

The realities of Veird and magic were trying, sometimes, and this was no exception. Erick reluctantly said, “No, but I can guess.”

“No need to guess!” Fallopolis said, “Let me tell you of the hidden purges of both memory and physicality, all across the globe, led by the wrought. For while the dragons are a part of it, they stay out of it all for if they meet, then they kill each other.

“But the wrought! They have no such troubles. When a Forgotten Campaign is called, they spill out from their geodes in the Underworld, filling the world, culling everything that the Relevant Entities mark as a problem. And I’ve lived through one.” She looked forward, and almost spoke again, but she stopped. She paused in thought, and then she said, “I do not want to speak of this, but I will force some of the past to the surface.” With a dismissive hand, she declared, “My memory is spotty because of what they managed to do to me before I got away. All I know is that they attacked, I defended, I found salvation in Darkness, and I am still looking for answers as to why the gods decided to erase my Wizard mother from the world, and then sundered her soul.”

A wind blew. A monster died somewhere out of sight, down below, attacked by something else unable to be seen from where Erick and Fallopolis walked the crimson, purple sky.

The conversation had turned heavy.

Too weighty. Erick was too close to seeing Fallopolis as a person. It was much easier to see her as a monster.

Erick wasn’t naive, though he had certainly been called that now and again. He knew that people could be monsters, and that worse crimes had been committed by sapients, simply because they were in full control of their own actions, and they chose to do evil. He knew some people were better off dead. Unrepentant murderers. Rapists. Slavers. And in his darker moments, others made the list. Certain CEOs, politicians, bankers, pharmaceutical producers that gouged the public with insulin prices, polluters…

The unrepentant? The purposefully harmful? Those who didn’t want to be better? Those who reveled in their power and loved to harm?

Well they were better off dead.

And Erick hated himself for that dark, reductive thought. He hated that Fallopolis was likely using this aspect of him to ingratiate herself, to prove that not all Shades were as evil as they appeared to be. That she was one of the ‘good Shades’...

Erick changed the subject, “What are your favorite parts of Kendrithyst?”

She smiled wide, then said, “There’s the Planetarium. That’s where I killed the Astronomer. Then there’s Abyssal Lake. I’ve killed a hundred False-Shades down there. Then there’s the Crack, of course. I keep that place open and active and under my power, to let me try to dissuade untested adventurers from joining the dead of this grand city.” After a moment of thinking, she said, “The Spire is pretty to look at, but not much more than that. I only appreciate it because I’ve prosecuted more than three hundred and seventeen convictions against False-Shades, and then carried out those convictions to the satisfaction of all involved.”

She was definitely ingratiating herself to him.

Erick asked, “Which Shades need to die?”

“All of them.” Fallopolis swung her arm wide, across the lights and shadows of the city, declaring, “Every single Shade needs to die. They’re all monsters. But Melemizargo wouldn’t approve. So until the day that I’m allowed total power and personal appointment of every Shade, when I wouldn’t need all the rest of these self-indulgent Shades to avoid death at the hands of the Geodes and the misguided idiots who call themselves our ‘gods’, then I will have to suffer living with these monsters.”

Erick had no idea how to respond to that.

So he didn’t.

- - - -

Erick heard something in the air besides the breeze rushing through the crystal city, or a monster dying somewhere down below. It was a pounding sort of sound. Distant, but not too distant. Water, perhaps?

… It might be a lot of smaller monsters.

“Is that the North River?”

Fallopolis said, “Yes. We’re getting close.”

Erick stopped, then looked left, to the south, saying, “Time to turn south, then.”

They were too close to the river. Killzone had warned Erick about that. ‘Don’t go to any river’ he had said. They were all occupied by Shades. ‘Soon as you hear water, run the other way.’

Fallopolis smirked, then stopped walking. A brightness filled her darkness, as though she were the figurehead for another, or she had been hiding who she was this entire time.

… Shit.

Fallopolis fully turned to Erick, and her eyes became radiance incarnate, while her skin turned black as the void. Erick’s heart beat hard. He expected a breakdown in civility sooner or later, but nothing had happened! She just turned on all her power, and faced him! What the fuck?

Erick immediately activated [Lodestar], and assumed his [Greater Lightwalk] lightform self.

The air around him became an orb of inviolable light, tainted with ruby-red, violet edges, as his own body turned to insubstantial glows. He was theoretically safe from almost everything inside his [Lodestar], but he wouldn’t know until his power was truly tested.

