“You shut up,” Alexander said, and Seth’s throat shut down on the scream against his will. “You, bring me the bodies of everyone else,” he said, and the skeleton that had once been his Gran rushed off to do his bidding.

Seth’s mind fled into the darkness.

***

“You, come with me.”

Seth’s mind reconnected with reality at the disconcerting sensation of his body moving of its own accord. While his legs obeyed without his permission, following the necromancer, his mind screamed and railed against the compulsion that flowed from the collar, forcing his obedience.

But his body followed to where a woman lay in a crumpled heap against a thick wooden stake that had been driven into the ground.

“Tie her up, and then feed her this.” In his hand was a vial of the darkest black liquid Seth had ever seen. He shuddered inwardly at the aura of evil leaking from the vial.

Seth’s hands reached to do as he was commanded, and his mind railed against the compulsion once again, but to no avail. He grasped the potion and the rope and began to tie the woman to the post.

While his hands worked against his will, his mind was clear to observe what he was being forced to do. The person, or creature the necromancer had dragged unconscious out of the forest was easily the most beautiful person he had ever seen – smooth clear skin of vibrant green, with leaves clothing her body and filling her hair, soft delicate features, and elfin ears. She looked regal, even laid out on the ground. He tried to be gentle, but the compulsion forced his hands to tighten the bonds.

He removed the stopper from the vial, and immediately a dense black smoke began bubbling out of it, falling to the ground and seeping in. His nostrils were assailed by an indescribable stench, but still, his hands moved to lift the woman’s head, open her mouth, and pour the vile fluid down her throat. Within seconds, dark patches and bruises broke out on her skin, and a couple of leaves in her hair began to wither and die. He felt sick to his stomach, realizing he was hurting her, perhaps killing her, in some horrific way.

A loud tearing crack echoed out from the forest, snapping his head around. To his horror, he found the giant zombie troll walking out of the forest, dragging an enormous, uprooted oak, branches splintered, roots shedding soil.

No! Even though Lyton was a logging town, they always respected the forest, drawing from the new growth, and replanting the trees that they harvested. Never, never would they cut one of the ancient oaks. Gran had always told him they needed to respect the forest spirit that made its home in the dangerous heart of the woods. If they left the big oaks, the spirit would tolerate their modest logging.

But nothing reacted to the sacrilegious destruction of the ancient oak, and the zombie simply deposited it in the massive smoking hole the skeletons had dug, returning to the forest with heavy steps to get another.

Suddenly, he looked down at the bound woman he had just poisoned in horror, urgently using his Identify skill as he had been taught.

Dryad [Great Mother of the Deep Woods] – Sylvan, Tree Spirit – level ???

***

Seth’s mind fled to his safe, dark corner while his body carried out the necromancer’s bidding. He had been given the gruesome task of collecting the remains of the dead bodies of the villagers – most of them ripped and torn apart by the violent extraction of their own animated skeletons. If he had been in control of his own body, he would have fled, thrown up, and screamed. Instead, his mind recoiled from the sight of the gory remains of his friends and neighbors, screaming inside that he had poisoned the ancient forest spirit that they had all so revered.

When his mind finally re-emerged from hiding, he was standing again, watching the necromancer do something indescribably horrific with the remains of the flesh and the extracted ash from the giant oak trees burning in the pit. As he stood there, the zombies returned again and again, feeding the ancient, sacred trees to fuel the scorching fire, sending continuous black billowing smoke rising into the sky.

It was too much. His mind retreated into numbness as the necromancer molded the dead flesh and the ash with his evil magic.

“You, come.”

Seth stepped forward before his frightened mind could register the command. Several skeletons waited in a loose circle around the necromancer. He could no longer tell which was which. The necromancer, Alexander, lovingly caressed what could only be described as an abomination of flesh, reassembled into a chaos of horrifying nightmare. It was about the size of a dog, but there was no resemblance to anything wholesome or natural. A patchwork of random recognizable human parts stitched together in ways that made no sense.

The necromancer stood up and gave him a happy smile, somehow still immaculately dressed in his suit. With a gesture, three skeletons gathered up three of the twitching flesh monsters.

“Take these out into the forest. Walk in that direction and release one of these Patchwork Horrors every hour, and then come back. Use the skeletons to carry them and defend yourself if needed. Make sure you take care of yourself – I don’t want to lose my sacrifice gang unnecessarily. Just before you release each one, feed it one of these potions.” He handed Seth three vials of a similar pitch-black liquid, just like the one he had fed to the Dryad. “Any of the mouths will do.”

Without the ability to resist, he set off with his skeleton retinue carrying their nightmare flesh monsters, while hearing the necromancer repeat the instructions with each of the other collared youths.

His mind quavered and trembled, as he desperately tried to ignore the clacking of skeleton bones that followed him, and the abominations they carried. But the forest felt peaceful and quiet after the horror of the undead hive that the necromancer had raised from the ruins of Lyton Town.

After what might have been an hour, he stopped. His feet were bleeding, but the compulsion did not care. One of the skeletons deposited a twitching patchwork flesh construction at his feet, and he knelt to feed it the potion. It took him a moment to find something that resembled a mouth, eventually deciding to split the potion between two openings that seemed to coincidentally have several human teeth each.

He recoiled internally against the stench as he uncorked the vial, but his hands were steady as they poured the liquid in. For several moments nothing happened. Then the thing spasmed – and to his horror, scrambled to its – well limbs would have been generous. It had two isolated hands and one foot attached to various parts of its fleshy exterior. Three unconnected eyes sprang open, looking around with demented feverish urgency. An acrid black miasma began pouring from various orifices as it began to move.

The monster scrambled its way over to the nearest tree, belching its miasma. Wherever the dense stuff settled, plants withered and blackened, dying in seconds.

Blighted Patchwork Horror – Undead Abomination – level ??

His compulsion made him stand, setting out in the direction he had been instructed. His collar did not care that it made him walk through the dense miasma clinging to the ground, ignoring his mind railing against the absolute tyranny of the necromancer’s spoken command.

His chime sounded as soon as he walked through the miasma, but he didn’t need to read the notification to know he had been infected with something dire. It seeped into his flesh, spreading excruciating pain and blackening his skin in patches like the Dryad he had infected.

You have been infected with Undead Blight.A debilitating infection that grows stronger every day, rotting flesh and propagating to everything it touches.-1% to maximum health+1 count per day10% chance to spread Undead Blight on contactIf you die while infected, your body will be raised as a zombieSmall chance per vitality to recover from Undead BlightDisease – Count: 1

It was only by the time needed to release the third monster that he somewhat recovered his wits. It happened when he automatically pushed a face-height branch out of the way and suddenly realized that the action had no relation to the compulsion from the collar.

It didn’t stop me.

Cautiously, he began experimenting – probing the limits of his freedom. Very quickly he discovered he couldn’t bring his hands anywhere near the collar. Nor could he deviate from the path chosen for him by the necromancer. Any thought of throwing the vial away was simply ignored by his body, and if he pushed for it, he quickly earned himself a splitting headache. But minor changes seemed to be ignored. He could bend over, provided he didn’t stop walking. He could move obstacles out of his way, and he could look around.

Everywhere he looked, he found the lush and verdant growth of the ancient woods – oak trees as big around as houses. It was a forest that had sustained the small logging village, and provided their livelihood – and in return, they had respected the ancient woods. Yet Seth knew with certain dread that all of it would be gone in a few days, blighted, and destroyed by the Patchwork Horrors he was being made to set loose upon the revered forest.

He hung his head in despair, trying not to look at all that would be destroyed by his handiwork, while the compulsion forced him onward. But in the depths of his anguish, his eyes caught sight of something lying on the trail a few yards ahead. Something small and round.

An acorn!

For reasons entirely unknown to him, the acorn lit a tiny flicker of hope within his heart. Acorns were seeds, and seeds represented life and new growth. He had no idea what he was going to do with it, but he stooped down as the compulsion forced him to walk past and scooped up the acorn and put it in his pocket.

A small, and perhaps meaningless gesture of defiance against his plight, but Seth kept his eyes on the trail, hoping that luck may allow another acorn to cross his path.
