Ali coughed and waved her hand vigorously in front of her face to disperse the remnants of smoke from her recall potion. She glanced around at the familiar black marble floor with the inscribed runes of the teleportation locus slowly fading, the magical power that had transported her across kingdoms back to the Novaspark Academy receiving room dissipating into the dense stone.

Home. It was an odd thought. Myrin’s Keep was certainly not the nice peaceful town that she would have liked as a home, nor was it the center of learning she had grown up in – nor even the natural forest of her father’s Grove. Presumably, she still had an illegal open contract out on her life. But after Volle, Ali felt a sense of relief at returning – a homecoming, of a sort.

Myrin’s Keep broods over the ruins of my past… she shivered. No. I am here now. That’s all gone.

Yet so many vivid memories lived in her mind. Shivering again, Ali deliberately focused on her present. Her inbound teleportation from Volle was not cheap – traveling such a distance with something as weak as a Potion of Recall required a large infusion of mana from the Novaspark Academy Locus. She quickly arranged for a message to be sent to her friends at the Adventurers Guild so that she wouldn’t need to risk walking halfway across town by herself and then settled in to refill the mana reserves for the academy locus using her Inspiration.

While she waited, she turned her attention to the gorgeously crafted runework inscribed into the marble floor. Whoever had made it had been a true artist. The runes were inlaid silver in a delicate flowing runic script set flush and smooth with the dark marble. The soft glow of purple arcane mana illuminated the entire construct, flaring with bursts of energy whenever someone arrived.

Teleportation Locus – level 42 (Arcane)A magical locus that serves as an enhanced teleport destination.Runic Circle

Oh, I can see its level now! For some reason, this simple, almost trivial development drove home a sense of personal progress and growth in a way that defeating monsters had never done. When she had first used this locus, the advanced runic magic had seemed so powerful and incomprehensibly advanced that she had only imagined she might be able to understand it someday in a distant future.

It would take some time for the message to reach her friends and for her mana to regenerate sufficiently to cover her teleportation debt. She eyed the runes with curiosity and a growing hunger to know. The official was poring over his paperwork with the zeal of a dog enjoying its favorite bone, and nobody would be bothering her for a while. She snapped a barrier into the air and sat on it, elevating herself so her feet dangled over the runes, and then powered up her Sage of Learning’s Study Trance. I’ll just memorize all of this, shall I? she thought, as her eyes and mana sight followed the sophisticated mana tracery through the runic structure with her Runic Script and Arcane Insight skills. After all, the official had given her permission to do just that the first time she had used the locus. She gave herself over to the total focus of her studying.

“Ali! You’re back!”

Ali blinked and slowly tore her gaze away from the runes to find Malika rushing toward her with a broad smile on her face, followed close behind by Calen and Mato.

Runic Script has reached level 16.Sage of Learning has reached level 15.

The Teleportation Locus shimmered like a mana-imbued picture in her mind, complete and entirely understood. She had no idea if it would prove useful, but she didn’t care. I got it! I learned a new runic construct!

“Hi, thanks for coming to get me,” Ali said, hopping off her barrier to greet her friends.

“Chewing up a few runes?” Calen grinned, his eyes darting to the runic circle as he guessed exactly why she’d been so distracted.

Mato began, “She’s just hungry –”

“Of course,” Malika interrupted, giving her a quick hug. “How did it go? Here, let me help you finish paying the mana for this and we can talk on the way back.”

With Malika’s extraordinary talent and her own mostly regenerated mana, they quickly settled up and headed out.

“I got it,” Ali told them, answering the pressing question on all of their minds. “I just need to get back to the Grove and try it out on the lake.” She proceeded to tell them all about her adventures in Volle’s Dungeon and about Naia, the Anomalous Mimic Slime who had made it.

“I’m really conflicted now,” Ali said, after explaining how she had freed Naia from her imprisonment. They had just reached the shrine in the Grove, so Ali plopped herself down on a clean, dry rock and studied her friends’ faces, worried that she would find horror or disapproval there. “Dungeons are supposed to be a terrible scourge that are full of dangerous monsters like the Skeletal Wyvern or the Wights. But I just couldn’t leave Naia imprisoned like that. Did I do something wrong? Malika, I really missed your perspective down there. What would you have done? If you found a dungeon that was also a person, and you felt you could trust them, would you have helped?”

Her friends exchanged uncomfortable glances, and a complex set of emotions flickered across Malika’s face. Knowing Malika’s personal dungeon-related trauma, Ali was most anxious for her approval, but she was terrified that Malika would hate her for helping the dungeon. She didn’t want to risk her friendship, but she couldn’t see how she would have acted any differently.

“I would have helped, too,” Malika finally answered. She seemed conflicted and terribly uncomfortable and like she might be on the verge of saying more, but eventually she simply looked at Ali and said, “I think you did the right thing.”

A huge burden dropped from Ali’s shoulders. Knowing Malika would have made the same decision felt liberating and knowing she didn’t hate her for what she had done was a powerful sense of relief. Ali took a deep breath, settling the turmoil of emotions caused by the knot of worry finally untangling within her.

“So, what did you guys get up to? How was your lecture, Calen?”

“Oh! Lots of drama. Calen broke the guild,” Mato said, with a chuckle as Calen cleared his throat awkwardly and glanced down at the ground.

“What? What happened?”

“Half the guild walked out and joined the Garrison or the Town Watch. Calen’s lecture was great though, he did amazing,” Malika explained. “The newbies think Calen is some strategy god now, like a reincarnation of Lyeneru Silverleaf or something.” Then, between the three of them, they filled Ali in on the details of how it had happened.

“Wait, they joined the Town Watch? Isn’t that bad?”

“Someone has been assassinating guild members, and the Town Watch started offering cash bonuses to join,” Malika said. “Vivian leaned on the guild and the flakey members quit.” Malika went on to share the details of the exodus. “She was actually pleased about it, right, Calen?”

The Half-elf grunted guiltily.

“Right!” said Mato, wrestling his friend into a pretend headlock. “Right, Calen?”

“Oof, get off,” he complained half-heartedly.

Hmm… Ali had imagined some kind of disaster when Mato mentioned drama, but once they explained what Vivian Ross had said, she began to understand. Not sure if I agree though, she thought. Strengthening the Town Watch wasn’t something she would have done. But, if their recounting of the attitudes of the remaining adventurers stocking up on Potions of Recall, asking engaged and curious questions about combat strategy, and where to get better gear was anything to go on, the Guildmaster’s strategy would probably result in much smarter and more prepared adventurers in the long run. At least that’s something. I hope she knows what she’s doing. Ali could certainly appreciate the value of proper training and preparation, given she had started with no understanding of combat, and without her friends, and later the guild, to help her, she would have probably died many times already.

“Ok, I need to get to work,” Ali announced, climbing onto her barrier. Her friends still needed the elixirs made, and the mana-purified water wasn’t going to make itself. Alighting on the bank of her smelly and murky lake, she paused for a few moments to consider the problem.

Ugh, this is going to be nasty. First, and in her opinion, most importantly, she inscribed a Cleanse runic circle on the bank of the lake. Then she summoned three Luminous Slimes and retrieved her last remaining Underwater Breathing potion from her ring storage. This would be so much easier if Seri were here, she thought, but she didn’t want to take the time to travel back to the guild when she could help her friends right now. Wrinkling her nose at the necessity of what she was about to do, she downed the nasty potion and dove into the disgusting lake. While she could breathe easily, the potion did nothing to remove the taste of the stagnant waters, nor could it help with the greasy, slimy feel of it on her skin. She shuddered momentarily, and then struck out for the bottom, dragged along by her barrier magic with three Luminous Slimes in tow. She couldn’t see much of anything down here, but the glow from her Luminous Slimes helped, and at least her mana sight was unimpaired by the murk, allowing her to clearly pick out where her slimes were on the lakebed.

She opened her Grimoire and, guided entirely by mana sight, paged to the mushroom imprint, and began to summon her newest Psathyrella mushrooms. She summoned the tiny water-affinity mushrooms in broad swathes, as many as she could at a time, paying no heed to the mana cost. Whenever she ran low, she deconstructed anything she could find – rocks and dirt from the lake floor, or even the murky, stagnant water itself. Her mana flowed and mushrooms sprouted as she fell into the zone, trying to cover as much of the lakebed as she could before her potion ran out.

Imprint: Water completed.

Water? Ali looked at the notification for a moment, before deciding to dismiss it without adding it to her Grimoire. She couldn’t think of a good use for being able to summon water – especially the mucky stuff she had been using to refill her mana pool.

Unexpectedly, she inhaled a lungful of water that she suddenly couldn’t breathe. Amid the rising panic of drowning, she interrupted her magic, summoned a barrier, and shot up to the surface, choking and coughing up muck and dirty water.

“Hey, no dying out there!” Mato shouted.

“Sorry,” Ali spluttered. “Potion wore off.”

Yuck. In her focus, she had forgotten to keep track of her Underwater Breathing potion and it had expired while she was still at the bottom of the lake. She drew a ragged breath, spat out some more nasty water, and then made a beeline for her Cleanse runic circle, plopping herself down in the center with a wet splat and finally relaxing as the gentle prickle of the magic began to dissolve the stench and muck, and her clothes and body began to slowly dry off.

Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 22.

Out in the lake though, the greenish-brown muck stirred. Water and sludge swirled lazily downward, and, deep beneath the surface, she could make out the cascade of blue water-affinity mana spreading out from the bottom where she had planted her mushrooms. Over the next few minutes, streaks of blue broke through the dirt, growing broader and wider like the sky revealed by dissipating storm clouds, until suddenly Ali could see clear through the lake to the rocky bottom and the forest of underwater mushrooms she had planted. The change was remarkable – brownish-green sludge still poured into the lake from the tributaries, but it dissolved on contact with the larger body of water, leaving the vast expanse of the lake clear and blue. The change would take longer to percolate into the muck on the bottom and sides, she noticed, but this was a promising start.

“Well, that’s much better,” Mato said, staring out at the lake.

But as Naia had predicted, the water was just water. Nicely purified by the water-affinity mushrooms. I need to grow these everywhere.

She got up, finally clean, and paged through her Grimoire till she reached the Ooze imprint and summoned one of the Aetheric Slimes Naia had taught her when she had understood Ali’s quest. To her surprise, instead of one, her magic spellbook summoned six of them instead.

Aetheric Slime – Ooze – level 12 (Arcane) Swarm x6

Your reserved mana has increased by +41.

Ali puzzled over the strange behavior of her magic as the small ooze creatures crawled and wobbled along at her feet. Even the mana reservation seemed in line with a single monster, but there were six almost identical monsters, and she hadn’t been going for volume as she had with her mushrooms earlier. She couldn’t figure it out, but they did seem smaller and perhaps weaker than her other minions around their level. And they did Identify as a swarm, like those Stinging Jellies.

“Go,” she told them, shooing them toward the lake. Blobbing happily, the tiny blue monsters reminded Ali of Naia as they wobbled down the bank and into the water.

“Now what?” Malika asked. All her friends were watching intently.

“Now we wait, I guess…” Ali studied the lake carefully, watching the almost invisible blue slimes crawl around seemingly at random, exploring their new home. They left swirls of arcane mana behind that created eddies and currents in the ambient water affinity mana the mushrooms were producing, all of which was occurring within the weave of her domain that permeated the entire lake.

She watched for several minutes, searching for any sign that it might be working, but she had no idea what she was looking for. For all she knew, it might take weeks. Naia hadn’t explained much to her, so she began worrying that she hadn’t done it right.

Do I need more slimes? Or more mushrooms? Is the lake too big? Is there a missing ingredient?

As she was worrying, the swirls of mana within the lake began to synchronize, eddies and vortices began to flatten out and quieten down, and suddenly, the entire lake stilled, frozen, and unmoving as if waiting in anticipation. Deep in the center of the lake, a kernel of intense blue appeared. In the next instant, a shockwave rippled out from the center – a silent explosion of mana that shot through the entire lake in a fraction of a second.

What was that?

Malika gasped.

“Whoa,” Mato breathed.

Slowly, as she watched, the water began to glow, turning a deep cerulean blue that quickly spread throughout the lake, lighting up the trees and the cavern around it with a beautiful rippling light. A glow that she recognized instantly.

“Wow, you don’t see that every day,” Calen quipped.

