“An Ancient Fae doing real magic?” Malika grinned. “Astonishing, right?”

It worked!

Ali sat back, basking in the glow and enjoying the beauty of the lake. She didn’t even need to check; she knew it was mana-purified water.

“That’s so cool!” Mato said, his voice managing to be awestruck and excited at the same time.

Ali turned to find her friends grinning in delight at the radiant blue light that now illuminated almost half the gigantic underground cavern.

“Here you go,” Malika said, making a large steel bucket appear in her hand and offering to help Ali fill it from the lake.

“Why do you have a bucket in your ring?” It was rather handy, she had to admit, but even though their new silver rings allowed much more storage, space wasn’t free and there was almost always something better to put in there.

“I had Weldin find me one in the market so we could bring enough to impress Eliyen,” Malika answered.

“But… how did you…?” Ali’s question faltered, half-formed, as a grinning Malika winked at her and dunked the bucket in the lake.

But Malika is always so careful with money. Ali had felt so unsure of herself when she had set out to face her first dungeon alone. She felt a lump in her throat and a tightness in her heart as she realized Malika had believed in her enough to buy the bucket before she had even returned.

Why am I getting emotional about a stupid bucket?

She identified the bucket, not because she needed to, but more to distract herself from her embarrassing feelings.

Mana-purified water.

***

“Welcome back, Aliandra.” Eliyen’s expression was calm and serene, as usual, but Ali could sense an expectancy that might be lurking just below the carefully schooled elven features. Even the lack of an explicit query about how her quest had gone hung waiting in the air, unasked.

Ali retrieved the ten vials she had filled in the dungeon and placed them on the table. Not wanting to leave her hanging longer than necessary, Ali decided to start with what had not gone according to plan.

“I learned the mushrooms, but it turns out that they only clean the water, they do not create mana-purified water. And I chose not to kill the dungeon.”

Eliyen’s face fell, disappointed and sad, rather than angry or frustrated.

“But the dungeon shared the real secret, and I made this,” Ali said, making Malika’s bucket full of mana-purified water appear on the work surface next to the vials.

“Oh… Oh my!” Eliyen’s face lit up with a smile of joy. “Do you know how many potions I can make with that much? That’s more than I could get in a decade! You will have your elixirs – and know that your actions will save dozens of lives.”

“She made an entire lake of this stuff. You should see it, the glow lights up the entire cave,” Mato said.

Eliyen’s mouth opened and closed a few times, but all that came out was a choked spluttering and a cough. “A… lake?” she finally managed.

“Yup,” Mato answered, clearly enjoying the effect.

“Well, then…” Eliyen said, collecting herself with obvious effort. “Maybe we can save a few more than a dozen. Basil, come and learn how to make the Elixir of Vitality Rejuvenation. It seems we will be making lots of them in the future. And you, my dear…” she said, turning back to Ali. “I would love to hear the full story of your adventure. The dungeon told you how to make this?”

While Ali recounted her adventures with Volle’s Dungeon and Naia, Eliyen’s hands worked with practiced ease, retrieving dried herbs, roots, and various essences and tinctures that glowed with magical potency. Her movements were deft and precise, measuring and mixing with a continual flow of mana from her hands, and yet she never missed a word of Ali’s tale. Basil sat in rapt study beside her writing notes as the small cauldron boiled, and the various tinctures stirred themselves with the mana the Elven herbalist added.

She pulled out a small glowing green crystal, suffused with a dense nature affinity mana, and ground it up using an imbued mortar and pestle before measuring a minuscule quantity to add to her creation.

Ali surreptitiously Identified it.

Living Essence

By the time Ali finished up with her story, Eliyen filled three waiting vials with liquid from her magical brewed concoction, and the fluid slowly settled and began to glow with a soft green light.

Elixir of Vitality Rejuvenation – level 25 (Nature)Consume: A potent curative elixir capable of reversing severe maladies, poison, corruption, or diseases affecting vitality.Created by Eliyen Mistwood.Potion

“Take this with food. You should begin to see an improvement within a few hours. I recommend not doing anything too strenuous until you’re fully healed – which should take no more than a week. Come back and see me if it doesn’t fully clear up by then.”

“A week?” Mato groaned, stretching his back.

Calen said, “You can perfect some of your recipes, see your family…”

“Thank you,” Ali said, and her words were echoed by her friends as they each collected one of the elixirs.

As she turned to leave, Eliyen stopped her, “And Aliandra, please consider what sort of arrangement you would like for the water and let me know when you’re ready. You have no idea how much good we can do with what you have achieved.”

***

“Why was she so shocked when Mato told her about the lake?” Ali asked. The lake shimmered and rippled with new, active energies, sending the cascading blue light out in all directions. It was certainly beautiful, and it was full of an important reagent. But for someone like Eliyen to react so strongly, Ali was sure she was missing some important implication.

“Remember when I told you the vials were worth about a gold each?” Malika asked.

“Yes?” Ali answered. The rare mana-purified water was certainly an expensive reagent, making the elixirs all the more difficult to get. Ali’s eyes traced the pretty blue patterns in the lake before her mind made the connection. “Oh!” she exclaimed; her mind staggered by the volume of water in the serene blue lake with its shifting glowing light – and how much it might all be worth.

“Depending on how you choose to structure your deal with Eliyen, you have a real chance of breaking the potion market. Some of those elixirs are going to become dirt cheap,” Malika answered.

“Isn’t that a good thing?” Ali asked.

“For the people needing potions, yes,” Malika said, thoughtfully. “Provided the Herbalists and Alchemists can stay in business.”

“Hey, I just gained back some of my drained health!” Mato’s exclamation was met with all-around excitement.

That’s a relief. It was definitive proof that the aged Elf’s magic elixir was as potent as she had claimed. So much of the tension Ali hadn’t even realized she’d been holding vanished at the evidence that her friends were finally on the mend. Her solo experience in the dungeon had been successful but knowing that her friends would be fine was the final piece of the puzzle.

She took a deep breath, staring out over her now beautiful lake with her happy friends. Content, Ali finally turned her attention inward and pulled up her notifications.

Grove Warden has reached level 38.+10 attribute points.

Arcane Insight has reached level 21.Arcane Bolt has reached level 21 (+2).Barrier has reached level 28.Martial Insight has reached level 21.Empowered Summoner has reached level 19.

One level, for defeating a whole dungeon? She considered it for a few moments. I guess I did outlevel everything by a lot. Plus, these higher levels are becoming harder, as Calen keeps reminding us. Naia’s minions had been surprisingly effective, but the combination of the low levels and there being no boss monsters probably meant the challenge hadn’t been as hard as it had felt – and she hadn’t really defeated Naia in the end. But there were a few more golden glowing notifications waiting for her attention.

Requirements met for skill advancement.

Arcane Bolt has reached level 20.Intelligence has surpassed 150.Simultaneously tracked multiple targets in combat.Simultaneously used multiple targeted attack skills in combat.Defeated a swarm of more than fifty monsters.

Arcane Bolt gains Multishot.

Arcane Bolt – level 20Mana: Fire up to 3 [1 + skill / 10] small arcane bolts that accelerate and curve toward your mentally chosen target. Bolts can be independently targeted.Arcane, Ranged, Channeled, Intelligence

Accept this advancement?

Oh, that’s nice! Ali studied the skill advance for her Arcane Bolt spell carefully. There was nothing subtle about it – it was a straightforward power increase in her primary combat magic. Shooting three bolts at a time meant three times the power. The requirements were curious too, clearly the advancement was based on her ability to split her attention between multiple spell targets and monsters in combat – a mental tool she had needed to practice extensively to manage her minions and her skills simultaneously. As her intelligence attribute had grown, her ability to pay attention to more things grew commensurately.

The swarm requirement must have been the Stinging Jellies. That one seemed pretty obvious to her. But what were the multiple targeted attack skills? Directing her minions to attack seemed to not quite fit the requirement. She simply sent her instructions to them to use their skills.

Oh, wait, Barrier! She suddenly recalled the relentless Scalding Slimes tearing their way through her bone wall protections to get at her and shooting shards of her Barrier magic through the gap to puncture the aggressive oozes while simultaneously shooting with her Arcane Bolt spell.

It recognized Barrier as an attack skill… wow! I did not see that coming. Her practice while trying to get her Barrier magic to emulate the Glimmer Shards seemed to have paid off, but she had done that mostly as an intellectual curiosity. She had not expected it to be useful or affect her personal growth at all – and even in the battle, she had used it more out of desperation than any coherent purpose. Yet her work practicing her Barrier magic had somehow led to a powerful advancement for her Arcane Bolt skill.

This changes… a lot of things. She had been thinking of her Barrier skill as purely a defensive tool in battle, nothing more than a hard wall that could be thrown in the way of incoming attacks. Arcane Bolt was her only attack skill – but she already had ample evidence that her spells could be used in multiple ways. She regularly used her barrier to fly, and it had even gained the movement trait because of it. This was telling her there was more. Merely practicing using her skills in an unusual way had led to this powerful advance – an unexpected interaction between two of her skills. It was something she had always read and knew about, but seeing it play out suddenly made it a lot clearer. Practicing shaping her barriers into shards for attack, or spheres for defense might be the thing that unlocked her skill growth, paying powerful dividends in the future.

I have a week while the others recover. What else can I learn? Maybe I can ask Ryn if she has any new magic books… and Calen will have a lot of ideas for sure.

Requirements met.You have gained one primary class slot.

The notification chime reached down into the dark recesses of Seth’s mind, where he cowered quivering in horror and fear. The surprise of it shattered his fragile defenses, yanking his awareness back into the awful reality.

Why now?

He vaguely recalled he had been waiting for his class initiation to begin for several weeks now. Earning a Lumberjack or Logger class would have been such a boon for him and Gran. Only now, she was… his mind shied away from what lay down that path, and his eyes avoided the crumpled heap lying unnaturally still on the ground.

He stood out in the sun in what remained of Lyton’s town square. His skin was already cracked and reddened from exposure to the sun. Beside him were four other youths from the town – all from families he knew and had grown up with.

The only survivors.

The white-robed mage had descended on Lyton Town like a demon of ice, leaving behind a wake of frozen blood and broken bodies. He had knelt out there, not far from where he now stood, clutching Gran’s body as the ice lance through her stomach had stolen her smile, and the kind wrinkles around her eyes. He had screamed, frustrated and furious in the face of overwhelming power and the senselessness of it all, powerless to turn the lances of ice from his own flesh. And yet, inexplicably, he was still alive. Instead of taking his pain, the mage had bound him to a pole.

He blinked, his eyes blurred and filled with grit. From up ahead, a tall figure emerged from the forest. A figure dressed in an expensive tailored black suit. The ground shook. And then again, as if struck by something of immense weight.

“Put her over there,” the man said, his cultured and incongruously calm voice carrying clearly across the town square.

A giant figure emerged from the forest, dragging something behind it. Blackened tusks longer than Seth’s forearm protruded from its rotting lower jaw. An enormous three-toed foot raised high into the air and when it came down the ground shook once more. Seth’s breath died in his throat.

Zombie!

The man strolled across the square toward Seth, his eyes studying the prisoners. “Thank you, Roderik,” he said. “These will do nicely.”

“No problem,” came the response as the terrifying Ice Mage rounded the corner.

The man in the suit approached, and before Seth knew it, he produced a collar and snapped it shut around his throat. With a deft movement, Seth’s bindings were cut, and he collapsed to the ground. He lay there for a moment, coughing in the dust.

“Get up,” the man commanded.

I can’t… But to Seth’s horror, his body forced him to his feet at the man’s words.

“Stay,” he commanded, and Seth found his body freezing in place as similar collars were attached around the necks of the other prisoners.

“Do you need me for anything else, Alexander?” Roderik asked. “There are many demands on my time.”

“No, you can go. I have a lot of work to do.”

“Call if you need me,” Roderik said and promptly vanished.

“Time to get to work,” Alexander declared to nobody in particular and walked out into the square, pausing for a moment to glance down at Gran’s crumpled body.

“Arise!” he said in a voice, suddenly deeper and thrumming with power.

A scream bubbled up in Seth’s throat as Gran’s body twitched. It writhed from the inside, and before his very eyes, her bones ripped their way out of her body and stood up behind the man dripping gore onto the ground.

