Besides, talking took the pain out of your feet. Even the Order of Seasons didn’t object. From Talia to Markus, they were listening to the Goblin. More importantly—Talia silenced objections from those too far back to hear what was prompting the faster pace or cut break.
She was watching Rabbiteater. Or was it not him but…? Meisa glanced at Talia and narrowed her eyes too.
Trying to see.
“It all came from a place. An inn. Cookies and pizza and more. Good food. I wish I was there.”
Rabbiteater stared ahead at the sky, and everyone thought of their homes. Virilien nodded.
“I miss our cities as well. Pray tell, what made this inn so special?”
The Goblin looked up at the sky, and his friends heard his voice.
“…It was the first place I felt safe. I could walk inside and smell something cooking. There was a little furball. She ran around. My brothers were there. And there was always something to drink or eat. I ate all the time. I never starved.”
What kind of life did he have? Everyone listened, but the Goblin’s voice was only a bit sad. It was more wistful than anything.
“We had a drink. A special drink. It was blue. I only had it once. It was out of season. But so good.”
“Alchemical?”
He hesitated.
“No…like squeezed fruit. Like oranges. Just blue.”
“Oh. Orange juice.”
“Yes, that. But with blue fruits. The insides are very poisonous, but you cut the outside up and squeeze it. It’s very sweet. The sweetest thing I ever drank.”
“Does he mean Amentus fruit? You can get poisoned terribly from—”
“Shh. Probably. Izrilians are crazy.”
The [Knight] went on.
“Blue juice. Sweet. Then she’d take out a pizza from the ovens, and we’d all eat. And the furball would try to steal food.”
“What furball? A cat?”
“Sure. Close enough.”
Everyone laughed, and someone leaned over.
“Pizza now. You must be making this up, Ser Solstice. Or is some kind of super-[Cook] inventing a bevy of new foods?”
“Yes. Pizza is this round, hot thing. Dough in a crust and cheese and tomato sauce baked in the center. Hot, nearly melting. Don’t burn your mouth. It has toppings and…it looks like this. See?”
He tried to sketch it in the air. The Goblin [Knight] was not an evocative speaker. He didn’t use big words like the way the ovens crisped the tops of the dough; he didn’t know what leavening meant and assumed it meant beating dough with a rolling pin. But there was still something in the way Rabbiteater talked that helped people imagine the scene and fill in the gaps.
“Always warm—except when she forgets to put the fire on. Nice chairs. My brother took a blanket and wrapped himself up around the fireplace. Then everyone stole it, and the little furball set it on fire by accident. But we sit there. All five of us and her and the others and sip tea. With cookies. Or milk with cookies. Or just cookies. Blue juice is too sweet.”
“What does blue juice taste like, exactly? I’m having a hard time imagining it, Ser Solstice.”
Markus asked. The Goblin scratched at his head.
“It tastes like sugar. And blue. It is a bit thicker than orange juice. But not like sludge. It tastes not-sharp. Not like…acid? Or acid fly juice. Not that I tried. Nice and sweet.”
Listening to him describe taste without reference was amusing. Virilien took a sip of his flat water, wishing he could have any fruit juice as the [Knight] struggled. Then his eyes went wide, and he sprayed the water all over Markus’ shoulder.
“Eugh!”
Markus reacted with dismay as Rabbiteater broke off. The half-Elf gagged, checking his water bottle.
“I’m sorry—something in my water flask. That can’t be…huh?”
He poured some water onto his fingers and stared at it. Everyone turned to him, and then someone else exclaimed.
“Is something wrong with the water? Mine’s—!”
Other people began checking their flasks. Alarmed that they might have taken poisoned or bad water, Marshal Huges hurried over. But the water was good. Even Ser Ilm checked.
And yet…when Rabbiteater tried his water flask, he blinked. And his eyes went wide. There was a familiar taste to the liquid that ran out of the flask.
It didn’t affect Talia. Or a bewildered Virilien as he stepped away from the [Knight]. But as he returned, it returned.
Instead of water, Rabbiteater tasted…blue juice. That sweet, almost too-sweet at times flavor. So refreshing if you wanted something other than flat water.
“It tastes like Amentus!”
A half-Elf exclaimed. Everyone turned to Rabbiteater, and he looked blankly around. Then he heard someone exhale.
“There it is.”
He looked about, and then he felt it. Amid his recollections, the stories…
A sense that was as natural as breathing. He had thought it would feel different, but his [Aura of the Hearth] simply felt like nostalgia.
It felt like home. Talia Kalinad looked at Rabbiteater as the other Order of Seasons [Knights] saw the aura swirling around him. Uncontrolled, wild—but strong.
A Level 30 [Champion]’s aura. Rabbiteater sipped at his drink as more people clustered around.
“It beats water!”
Markus laughed as he took another sip of water. He elbowed Rabbiteater.
“Some aura, eh? Too bad it’s not as practical…”
Rabbiteater elbowed him back.
“Bad wind sword ability or free blue juice?”
“Hey! Rabbit! It’s not a bad ability—”
The joking between the duo cut off as Meisa urgently touched Rabbiteater’s arm.
“Try to concentrate on the aura, Rabbiteater! Make it into…oh, a sword? I don’t think it’ll work for Hearth. But try to manifest it! That’s the next step!”
“He can’t do it untested, Meisa.”
“He can try, Markus. Try!”
Now, everyone watched Rabbiteater as he walked. He felt it. And once he had felt how it worked, he thought he could do it again. But it wasn’t…well, it wasn’t an aura for war. Was it?
He’d made his armor like the walls of the inn. Maybe…
But even as Rabbiteater tried that, he felt, instinctively, he didn’t have nearly enough concentration of his aura or power. It would be like lifting a boulder overhead with only Mrsha’s weak arms. So he cast around.
Concentrate. Materialize something you know. Something from home. What did he know that was the hearth?
A frying pan? A chair? Yes, aura-chair. Rabbiteater rolled his eyes. This was stupid.
He still had some of his sandwich left. Grumpily, the Goblin began to raise his visor, turning his head to hide his face. His terrible, poor, no-good-taste sandwich. He was getting soft. It was a fine meal for any Goblin, but he could practically taste…
The Goblin’s eyes narrowed. And Talia Kallinad, watching, saw the aura change. She saw it concentrate, and the taste of blue juice faded from the flasks around Rabbiteater, much to the disappointment of all.
It was only a seeming. It didn’t turn the water to actual blue juice. That was impossible. That was closer to a miracle. Even so, it was impressive. She watched where the aura was concentrating.
By now, even Markus, a younger [Knight], had picked up on the aura, though he had to shade his eyes to see. He hesitated.
“Rabbit. What are you…er…”
He stared at the object that the Goblin was concentrating all his aura into. Talia rubbed at her forehead. Meisa and Ser Ilm? They began chuckling. Then laughing.
Virilien had seen many powerful [Knights]. Even the Lightherald himself, the great champion of Calanfer. He had heard the Order of Seasons could do fantastical things with their abilities.
But he had to own—this was the most surprising use of an aura yet. Talia Kallinad burst out after a moment.
“Is that your first manifestation, R—Ser Solstice?”
The Goblin paused as he lifted something into the air and cracked his visor open a hair. The [Soldiers] were laughing and pointing in delight.
“Sure. Why not?”
A slice of pizza dangled in the air, the tip gleaming with a bit of oil and cheese and sauce. A pepperoni pizza slice entered the vizor, and the Goblin chewed it down happily.
“Yum.”
He was getting the hang of this. Ilm was writing a note to the Fall’s Sentinel.
“Incredible. Even for his level—a first try, unprompted food manifestation?”
The Goblin just laughed at the scandalized [Knights]. What did they think a Goblin’s aura would be like? And he was sure Erin Solstice would have approved.
He was happy. But he decided—
He had better not get [Aura Pizza] after he slept.
The column of [Soldiers] and [Knights] continued on their way. Laughing, fascinated. If that were all, it would have been a salutary moment, the beginning of a friendship and respect for a strange [Knight]. But no one realized that Rabbiteater was, well, Rabbiteater.
He wasn’t as talented as Numbtongue or Badarrow in one thing, let alone Shorthilt. He wasn’t as strong as Headscratcher.
But he was tireless. Adaptable. The other [Soldiers] were getting hints of good food and finishing their rations when Virilien felt someone clap him on the shoulder with an armored hand.
The half-Elves started as Ser Solstice, the mysterious [Pizza Knight], pointed ahead.
“Good. We ate. We had fun. Bellies sort of full. Next question—can half-Elves march?”
The question would have provoked bristling an hour ago. The [Bow Leader] simply smiled archly now.
“Do you mean to ask if we can keep up your pace, Ser Solstice?”
“Yes. Let’s see if you can.”
He began to speed up. Again, not on horseback. The horse trotted after him, feed bag in its mouth. Talia had to object as she rode forwards.
“Ser Solstice. There’s no need to tire ourselves out. The scouts are ahead of us—but we are headed to safety. We’ll soon be behind the Dawn Concordat’s front.”
The [Knight] turned to her.
“Yes, so we get to safety faster. Marching properly isn’t tiring. I’m tired of slowness. Come on. Half-Elves can run. I saw Ceria run like shit from a skunk.”
And he had the hang of his aura. The half-Elves were only too willing to pick up the pace, if only to show the Humans how it was done. True, they were carrying [Archer]’s gear, so they were certainly lighter than heavy infantry, but everyone began to speed up.
Talia watched the pace Rabbiteater set worriedly. It was a Redfang’s pace, which meant that it was a jog. And it could probably beat most standard armies’ speeds if he intended to keep it up all day.
But it was not sustainable unless they had stamina potions. Everyone realized their legs would be burning by twenty minutes of this—those not accustomed to roadwork, that was.
Marshal Huges himself jogged up to Rabbiteater.
“Ser Solstice—this might be too fast. It’ll wear out the troops.”
“Then they level.”
“If we have to fight—”
“We fight tired. Everyone gets more energy when they’re about to die.”
The [Marshal] couldn’t fault that logic, but he wondered if the soldiers were willing to follow the pace. The ones around Rabbiteater—perhaps. But the others, like the Calanferians, knew perfectly well they didn’t have to move this fast and that they weren’t in danger.
There was a risk. And yet, as the Goblin began to run faster and even the Gaiil-Drome [Soldiers] began to look askance, Talia’s eyes widened.
There was no way. He did not have that kind of control.
But he was a [Champion]. And an [Aura Knight]. And she realized something. Meisa breathed it out.
“It’s two. He just doubled it.”
The convivial heat and warmth of an inn far away and long gone faded from the air. Something odd made Virilien’s ears twitch. Yet it was still…coming from Rabbiteater. The same aura, but something had changed. The [Bow Leader], as a very low-level [Commander] himself, had felt enough auras during the war and over seventy years to realize this was an aura.
But this…was something that even Sophridel had never conceived.
[Aura of the Hearth]. It did what it said. It was an aura of home and comfort. Hearth, which was a broad word with many connotations and meanings. Even so—perhaps never before had it been used this way.
Rabbiteater’s second aura informed and expanded it. But that was only in scope, such that Calanferians, jogging along and protesting to the [Glory Captain], who was rapidly formulating a civil protest, the Kaliv infantry, the Gaiil-Drome half-Elves, and Pheislant’s army…heard something in the air.
A perspective from an aura-wielder that no [Aura of the Hearth] had ever had before. Markus felt it, but he didn’t push the aura away. So, in its aegis, he kept turning his head.
“Rabbit, what are you doing? I think I can hear…”
Meisa was looking around. She heard a faint sound—voices. Something so familiar as to be nostalgic. But she didn’t quite understand. Not yet.
It was growing louder. The Goblin jogged ahead and turned his head. He heard it too. To Virilien and the others, it sounded like…
Cheering? The rattle of metal. Panting voices. Grunts. Footfalls by the hundred. But far more than were around the actual people present.
It differed, from person to person, though the perspective…was Rabbiteater’s. To Meisa, it sounded suddenly like her brothers were encouraging her to run, as they had when she was young and trying to train to be a [Page].
To Markus, it was the sound of the Spring Knights on their morning run around the keep. To Virilien, the thwapp of arrows striking canvas as his group trained. But what they all heard was the cheering. And if they didn’t concentrate too hard, if they just looked ahead, panting, feeling the burning in their legs and chests—they saw them too. And they didn’t dare slow.
It was one thing to stop alone. Or to say ‘I don’t care, I’ve had enough’. Quite enough to have someone ordering you on.
But it was one more thing to run in the company of a hundred [Soldiers]. No…warriors. Shadows, who ran out of the corner of your eye, telling you to hurry up. Maybe even a fist, ungently punching a shoulder when you slowed.
A company of warriors. A tribe of maniacs. And—Rabbiteater looked ahead and thought he saw a tall Hobgoblin, his father, who led all his sons and daughters in his tribe. A famous blade on his side, running ahead of him.
“Is this Hearth? This isn’t…”
Ilm was gasping, running in plate armor. Talia said nothing. She just looked ahead at the Goblin.
He was grinning, she knew. One arm raised and pumping, telling the others to ‘run’ without words. This was his home. More than the inn, even. This was what he thought of when he thought of home and safety.
A cheering band of brothers and sisters, daring you to push yourself until you tasted blood. Run until you dropped. And if you fell down—they’d drag you across the finish line. The [Knight] ran and ran, and the [Soldiers] followed him until they stopped and fell into their bedrolls. Then—Talia began to suspect his auras meant more than even she and the Fall’s Sentinel had guessed.
 
[Aura Knight Level 16!]
 
