“No. You will hear this later. No doubt the other nations will dispute the rumor, but a great battle has been won at the front. The Dawn Concordat is in full retreat, and we are poised to take Krawlnmak’s Pass. Our advance has reached one of Kaliv’s southern border-fortresses.”
Ryoka’s eyes went wide with shock. Cara-Greg whirled.
“What? I thought they were like, way away from there! Nice. Invisible [Knights]. My name’s Greg. I’m a [Guitarist] at—”
Chorisa ignored him. She smiled at Ryoka, not bothering to disguise her patriotic pride.
“News will spread, but no one will believe it. A Great General has taken to the front, the first in this entire war. Great General of Ages, Lady Dionamella, has broken the Dawn Concordat’s army, and she will not cease until Calanfer is taken.”
A Great General? Ryoka had met a Great Knight of Ailendamus, but she felt a sudden chill at that name.
“What’s…why would no one realize what’s happening until then?”
Chorisa hesitated, perhaps not knowing the entire reason herself, but a smug voice behind Ryoka spoke up. A tall figure with a goatee that made Cara-Greg back up a step swept past them, pausing long enough to deliver the news himself.
Duke Rhisveri frowned vaguely at the young man, but he paid as little attention to the Humans as he could. But he did stop to tell the Wind Runner why. His eyes were filled with satisfaction, as was his voice, as he headed off to a quick meeting with the real leaders of Ailendamus.
“That would be because she is my Great General. Not some half-wit fielded by lesser nations. I instructed her myself. She is a master of time magic.”
He enjoyed the looks on the other’s faces, then walked on, chuckling to himself.
“Competency. That should shut those whining flesh-blobs up who talk about strategic retreats. Competency doesn’t lose to begin with.”
Ryoka Griffin stood, poleaxed and possibly also gutted and stabbed as Cara whispered through Greg’s lips. Just one name. Her friend, whose very nation and fate lay at stake in this war. Countless people, but Ryoka knew one [Princess] who belonged to the Dawn Concordat.
So did Cara. The Singer’s head turned south, as if she could see the 4th Princess of Calanfer.
“Seraphel.”
 
——
 
Seraphel du Marquin stood on the battlements of Aielef’s fortress, never meant to truly be besieged. And never meant to be surrounded with her and two other [Princesses] inside.
But time…rolled across the valley and the pass as fleeing [Soldiers] ran past the fortress and others headed for the gates.
They were already under attack. Ailendamus’ forces were in hot pursuit, and lance-arrows, regular arrows, spells, and riders were harrying the panicked retreat.
It should not look like this. The Dawn Concordat would have rallied an army in the middle of a defeat, rescued their stragglers, and tried to rebuff this huge force’s advance before it could get this far.
However…Seraphel looked up at unchanging clouds. The ground below had shifted when the wave of time rolled over it. This entire battle, indeed, their siege had begun as someone had sped up time in a huge radius, letting them advance with a speed that defied comprehension.
A sneak attack worked if you had all the time in the world. She saw one of the Thronebearers race over to her as [Archers] tried to rescue as many [Soldiers] as possible. Some were being told to run on.
“We cannot house you all! Retreat to Calanfer! Go, go!”
The bulk of the defeated army raced onwards. Princess Aielef herself was arguing with the [Fortress Keeper], the commander, demanding the gates not be opened.
Ailendamus was coming. Their march was like thunder, but they had also employed massive, booming drums, and Seraphel watched a line of silver and purple and green snake down the valley.
Like some massive serpent from myth. Somewhere, the [Princess] could sense an impossibly powerful aura.
She was a [Princess] of Calanfer and could sense auras like a warrior, if not judge the pure martial prowess of it. But this one encompassed the entire army and more. Like a giant beacon similar to Pheislant’s lighthouses.
A Great General.
There was no chance of the three [Princesses], Seraphel, Vernoue, and Aielef retreating. The [Soldiers] were under fire, and if the three made a break for it, the Thronebearers’ leader had assured them that Ailendamus would probably launch an all-out assault.
So they waited. It would be a siege.
“The third one in two years.”
Aielef and Vernoue turned to Seraphel. Of all of the people present, even arguably the commanders, she was the most relaxed. Hands folded, hair blowing in the wind, she watched with a kind of weary resignation.
“I truly should have abdicated my class. This is ridiculous. Noelictus and our nations…are they going to erase every nation?”
No one responded. The drawbridge had lowered enough to let the last stragglers in. They would never make it otherwise; Ailendamus’ army was moving to encircle the fort. And to advance down Krawlnmak’s Pass. They were already elongating, one huge arm spreading out. In fact, Seraphel suspected that only one force would remain here to bottle them up.
That was how many troops Ailendamus had fielded. She was turning; even with her enchanted tiara, it was dangerous to be above, and she had no desire to see more people die or distract the defenders. If they were all captured, well. They would hardly be treated poorly, she suspected.
It just…was. Seraphel only looked back when she heard a desperate argument break out.
“Ten more minutes, Your Highness! Ten more! There are nearly a thousand [Soldiers] coming—they’ll be cut to pieces against our walls if we don’t!”
“They are nearly on top of us! Close the gates!”
Aielef was shouting. But the [Fortress Keeper] was begging her to wait.
“There are [Knights] in their number, Your Highness! We need them for the walls!”
“No! Close the—”
“Hold. Hold the gates open!”
Seraphel shouted. Her head whirled back, and she sensed something, nearly lost among the gigantic aura coming their way. The hostile presence had overshadowed many—nearly a hundred smaller auras.
Seraphel’s eyes widened. She felt…the bright energy of Spring. Heat of Summer, even the refreshing strength of Fall, waxing strong here. The tenders of the gates looked up, and Aielef turned to Seraphel.
“I am the [Princess] here! By my crown as 3rd Princess, I order you to—”
“[Royal Rebuke].”
Seraphel du Marquin had leveled during the last two sieges in Noelictus, in the company of the Singer of Terandria. Her finger flashed, and Aielef shrieked and stumbled backwards, tiara flaring protectively. The others gasped, but she shut up. And Seraphel was on the walls, shouting down, heedless of the danger.
“Hold open the gates! Let them through!”
The desperate band of the Dawn Concordat’s forces—and the banners of Pheislant and the Order of Seasons raced for the keep. And Seraphel looked down as Ailendamus’ advance slowed—letting them in?—and she looked for the strange aura among them.
Among the familiar auras of seasons, she saw a plain figure in armor riding through the gates, craning his head up. Seraphel looked down and sensed two auras coming from the figure. It reminded her of home. Home, and of courage. Like Cara herself, in fact. The Goblinslayer of Izril looked up and traced the royal aura upwards to its source.
Seraphel and Rabbiteater blinked at each other—then the gates were closing, and the fortress lay under siege.
 
——
 
The fortress was surrounded. The Great General of Ailendamus, Dionamella, the General of Ages, who had personally been taught by Duke Rhisveri, learned the secret of Ailendamus, and been instructed by Fithea, House Shoel, and others…
Preferred to be called Dioname. It was not much shorter, but Dionamella was too fanciful. She was composing a report back to the crown via [Message] spell, encrypted, but she gave orders.
“Hold the siege here. Attempt to crack the walls if you must, but leave the [Princesses] unharmed at all costs. Martyring one will prolong this war and make restoring order in Calanfer far harder.”
She looked to the time after this war ended in her decisions, and the lesser [Generals] and [Strategists] and commanders bowed to her will. Nevertheless, one did ask.
“Why did you allow that force of Pheislant to escape us, Great General? If I may ask—we could have attacked them.”
The Great General shook her head.
“They would have escaped our forward troops. We could have slaughtered two thirds, I have no doubt. But I have no time to waste on them. I would rather not have them harrying our back lines. We know exactly where they are.”
She nodded at the fortress. Her fingers touched the staff she held, and her subordinates nodded. There was more to Dioname’s words. A double-meaning.
I have no time to waste on them. The half-Elf’s fingers were an immortal’s fingers. Half-immortal’s. Like every one of her kind, she was caught between mortality and not. Some could grow old beyond counting, like the Claiven Earth’s. Or Archmage Eldavin, perhaps.
Feor was but a man who dyed his hair white. True age looked like…
Dioname. Her hair was silver, and her hands had developed the faintest signs of atrophy, a fraying of the skin. Her face had developed the first lines. She was the oldest half-Elf most had ever seen and would see, even in the oldest, most timeless villages.
She was only a hundred and fifty-six years old, but she had lived that time as a mortal, born and raised in Ailendamus. Each year counted, not wasted. She had served as a warrior, [Mage], and [General] for nearly a century, but had not been called on regularly.
Chronologically? She guessed she was over sixteen hundred years old. The Great General of Ages sighed as she looked down the famous pass that had won so many wars. Was this her end? She smiled and waited to see how the Dawn Concordat would hold it. Then she raised her head to the sky.
“To Duke Rhisveri. We have reached the mouth of Krawlnmak’s Pass. Time dilation has ended. Our advance in real-time has begun. I await the final army of Calanfer. Please let me know if the Five Families are coming.”
They would be a problem, but the Wyrm of Ailendamus had taught her well. The Great General looked ahead, then behind, and then to the sky. A great battle and, hopefully, victory approached.
But then, what was it she sensed? Something else on the wind?
In time, they would find out.
