“Okay, not me. Thien chats the Wind Runner up, okay? He pretends he’s interested in her—it’s a Greg move, but it’s convincing. If she knows us and she has to…we get to talk. If not, we know something’s up, alright?”
Rae could agree with that. But they could also get Cara. The two were hurrying over to Thien when Abebi saw something and went white.
“Oh no. That bastard. That Creler-headed idiot.”
Rae looked over and saw the worst person, ever, sidle up to Ryoka. She watched from afar as Greg introduced himself to the aloof girl, put his arm around her in a hug, and she recoiled.
“Greg!”
The two nearly went ballistic. Thien, sweating, looked up as he backed away from the crowd held back by security.
“Oh fuck. Is that Greg chatting her up?”
“Someone get me a wand. I’m going to kill him. Where’s Cara?”
Abebi looked around. The [Manager] took a deep breath.
“No—[Summon Subordinate]. Greg. Get your ass over here, or I will penalize you with a Skill so hard your balls drop off!”
She pulled rank. Rae felt like it was too late. Greg must have been resisting it because the Wind Runner was already—reluctantly—walking away with him as he chatted her up, eyes appreciatively on her chest. Talk about bad impressions. Abebi was frothing at the mouth, and she might have actually blasted the young man in the back when someone spoke up.
“Geeze, Abebi! What’s with the threats? I was just talking to them! I didn’t—hey, what’s with the looks?”
Greg hurried over, worried, as Abebi, Rae, and Thien turned and goggled at him. Greg looked at them and then peered into the distance.
“Wait, is the Wind Runner going? Who’s that with—is that me?”
His jaw dropped. Rae spun with a sudden suspicion. When all the Earthers barged into the wagon that Cara had definitely, 100% gone into and had no way out aside from a tiny window everyone would have noticed her squeezing through…
There was no one inside.
 
——
 
I am going to kick this guy in the balls, Earther or not.
Sleazy was the word for Greg. But he was Ryoka’s way of meeting with Cara. She really hoped he wasn’t as stupid as he sounded—but he had asked if they wanted to talk ‘in private’—and if this was an act, it was a good one.
“Listen, I can totally get you in touch with Cara. I’m her lead guitar. Do you know what that is? But I’d love to get to know you. Are you friends with that giant dude? He’s still with the band.”
“I…am. My rooms are here. They’re warded.”
They were after the Rhisveri incident. And guarded, too. Or rather, Ryoka was. Greg smiled widely.
“Awesome. Hey—warded. Good to know, right?”
He gave her a wink, and Ryoka twitched. It probably passed for a smile. She ushered him inside and spoke to the air.
“We’ll be in private, thanks.”
Someone half-materialized, and Dame Chorisa gave Ryoka a nod. But the Thirsting Veil Knight couldn’t help but give Ryoka the most dubious look of all time.
That one? Ryoka glared at her and shut the door. She heard a voice from inside as she turned, praying that the Thirsting Veil [Knights] knew her better than this. Not because it mattered or would ruin her pretense; if anything, it would help. But Ryoka’s dignity…
“Whoa. Amazing digs! Nice bed.”
That was it. Ryoka’s patience had lasted about seven minutes on the quick walk to her rooms. It snapped. She strode after Greg with a growl in her throat.
“This had better be you acting, because if you think—”
She stormed into the room, fist clenched, and saw a young woman with brown, frazzled hair shaking her head out. She wore casual clothing—from another world. Worn jeans, a shirt that had been carefully mended and patched, and she bore a single locket with a beautiful sigil of a scythe and crossbow, a coat of arms, melded onto dark metal over her chest. Two rings flashed on one finger, and when she turned, her light blue eyes pierced Ryoka.
Cara O’Sullivan, the Singer of Terandria, waited as Ryoka came to a dead stand-still. She looked Ryoka up and down, and her voice was far more precise, trained to enunciate, and direct, without mirth or hesitation.
“That’s better.”
There she was. Ryoka Griffin had, for an instant, a familiar feeling. The sense of walking into a cave, bleeding and dying, only to find a strange old man who turned out to be a Dragon. Or walking through a forest to meet three strangers sitting around a sword.
Looking up to see the Winter Sprites. You were expecting something else, or nothing at all, and there they were.
The difference was, it was a mortal who created the feeling. And this time—it was mutual.
The Singer of Terandria looked Ryoka up and down as the Wind Runner hesitated. She shifted her weight onto her back leg, the tips of her fingers in her pockets, thumbs hooked into her belt.
Casual.
Careful.
The wind rustled around the small room, blowing indoors, and Cara’s eyes flickered. Singer and Runner stood there in dead silence as Ryoka hesitated.
But only for a moment.
“That is an amazing Skill. Cara O’Sullivan?”
“That’s me.”
A hand with three fingers rose, and Ryoka extended it. Cara blinked down at the hand.
She didn’t take it. She twitched and folded her arms. Ryoka lowered her hand as Cara smiled faintly. With a reservoir of reserve.
“Pleased. Well and truly. I know I’ve sprung this on you, but I didn’t think we were going to get another chance, and you didn’t seek me out earlier.”
“Oh. I’m sorry. I was considering my move—”
“I get that. And in light of that, can I ask the most pressing question? We can get to the niceties and history later. But I do have to know—are we secure? I have Tier 5 obfuscation spells. But if we’re not, we need to be done or I need to know that.”
She spoke rapidly, Ryoka noticed. To Ryoka, it was analogous to Jericha or someone used to giving orders. But the confidence in leading the conversation? That was her. The question was fair too. The problem was…
“I think we’re secure.”
The Singer’s eyes narrowed.
“That’s hopefully a yes or a no. Can we be secure?”
“Um.”
Against Lucifen magic or Rhisveri’s abilities? I have to believe that Rhisveri is careful around me. Plus there was the incident with the [Knights]. The Lucifen are sticklers for rules, and they tend to regard me as a guest. So the odds are low…
Ryoka hesitated too long before replying. Cara looked to a window and frowned outside.
“We could go to my caravan. It’s theoretically more secure. Or if there’s anywhere you can personally go…”
The Courier halted her with a hand.
“No. Sorry, that wouldn’t work. If we are watched or someone suspects, that would really tip them off. And if they want to listen in—we can’t stop them. But I don’t think they are. So we’re probably safe, but I want to be honest. It’s more like—if we’re not safe, we’re never safe. It’s not about the quality of your spells. It doesn’t matter.”
Cara O’Sullivan stopped, mid-step, which took a considerable amount of physical coordination, and just turned her head to Ryoka. The Wind Runner’s heart sank at the sheer, exasperated look she got. It was somewhat familiar.
“…Okay. Let’s go with that. I didn’t like that answer, but if there’s nothing that can be done, then we’re on to question two.”
“I—ah—okay?”
Cara seemed used to this. She was the fourth Earther or group of Earthers that Ryoka had ever met in person. Was that right? Erin, Laken, the Magnolia group…she was on the scrying orb, and Ryoka had speculated with Erin and the others for so long about her. Now she was here, she was completely changed from the bright Singer.
Frankly, without makeup and all the glamor, she was virtually a different person. Ryoka saw the bones of the Singer in Cara—someone had clearly taught her how to sing, and she was coordinated. But the woman was simultaneously direct and irritable. Or maybe that was just the classic Ryoka charm at play.
“Question two: are you in danger? Do you need help?”
What was it with the hard questions? Ryoka knew it was meant to be more direct, so she hesitated and shook her head.
“No. Not immediately. I have a…situation, but I’m resolving it. Did you come here to meet me? Or…?”
The Singer’s eyes narrowed fractionally as she looked Ryoka up and down again. She exhaled, slowly, and replied.
“Blackmage told me you ended up here. And I’ve known who you are since I saw you on the scrying orb. I wouldn’t come to Ailendamus for that. You did see my music video, didn’t you? You’re half the reason I arrived here.”
“Oh. I did see the video. You were not a fan of necromancers, Ailendamus—and you hinted that Calanfer and half-Elves were good allies?”
Cara’s lips smiled a bit sardonically.
“Glad you got the message. It pulled in about eleven people. That’s worth a budget of about fifty-six thousand gold coins, isn’t it?”
“Fifty-six thousand…?”
“Most of it went into spells or reserving Wistram’s time. Yes, Ailendamus is filled with shite. I don’t think I need to tell you that? I was under the impression you were a prisoner.”
‘Shite’ was pronounced like someone from the United Kingdom. Well, Cara’s name was a huge tip-off to her origins. Wasn’t it the name of a famous singer, though? Ryoka saw Cara looking expectantly at her and tried to explain. But the Immortals…
There was a problem both women were clearly facing. Which was that this sudden meeting was inevitable, desired by both parties—and neither one was willing to lay their cards down.
Ryoka because she couldn’t. Some things like Rhisveri’s ‘trust’ would probably end up in her actual murder if she let it slip, and she didn’t put it past the Wyrm to have a trigger-spell like the one Az’kerash had placed on her. For that matter—no Necromancer talk? What could she say?
Cara seemed to have a similar set of reservations, but with a different twist. Ryoka saw her frowning as she tried to explain.
“You know Aaron? Blackmage? I…yes, I was a prisoner. But I sorted it out.”
“You sorted it out. One second, to my knowledge, you were in House Veltras. I sent you a [Message] spell. The next, you were in Ailendamus. That’s not just a Tier 5 spell—that’s the kind of magic that should be myth and legend. Can you tell me what happened?”
“It’s…complicated. How do you know Aaron, again?”
Cara’s eyes narrowed further.
“I talked with him. He’s in communication with some other Earthers.”
“Really? Who? Where are they?”
At this point, the Singer of Terandria looked around Ryoka’s fairly expansive bedroom and began to walk about. She passed by the closet that used to hold a teleportation spell from Visophecin and then turned to Ryoka.
“I’ll tell you everything that’s safe. Right now, what I feel like I can say is this: I’m the Singer of Terandria, yes. My band and I tour the continent—well, we’ve done mostly the lower half—earning money, getting famous, and acting as a beacon for people from Earth. Anyone who we find, who’s trustworthy and not being followed, we take in. They go to a place called Safety. It’s our base. My band and I—we’re in the limelight. And we have a target on our backs from at least a few groups. I, personally, decided to take us here when I heard you appeared out of nowhere. And to try and end this fucking stupid war with the Dawn Concordat.”
It was everything Ryoka could have guessed, but hearing it made it sound—more impressive. Safety? There was a place? And—end the war?
Ryoka almost smiled, but Cara went on, staring her in the eyes.
“I’m a high-level [Singer]. [Popstar] is my exact class, but don’t let it fool you. It’s a good one. I’m also a [Thespian].”
“Wh—really? That’s so interesting. Are you a fan of…”
Cara lifted a hand, and Ryoka broke off. She sensed Cara’s deep distrust now.
“I’m willing to try and break you out if you’re in danger, Ryoka. Or find a way to get you released if that’s the issue. But I need to know—who spirited you away? How did that happen? What do I need to know here? At the very least, why do you claim that a Tier 5 spell wouldn’t keep us secure? Do you know how powerful a Tier 5 spell is? You’re a Courier. Is someone capable of breaking that?”
The questions were pointed, direct—and all of them tangled with the exact things that Ryoka couldn’t say. The Wind Runner bit her tongue hard as she fumbled for the most economical answer that contained helpful truth.
“I can’t tell you what my situation is, Cara. I’m glad to meet you. I’ve met…others. From Earth, but we don’t have that kind of organization. I can’t speak about my situation, but it’s a noble thing you’re trying to do. Maybe fruitless. But I’d love to help. I agree the war’s foolish! But can we just say that there’s some high-level people who exist around here? That’s what I’m tangled up in.”
She thought that was the easiest and fairest way to explain it. Just think of the Illuminati. If Cara did—she’d get it. The Singer said nothing, face unreadable, as Ryoka waited. She could feel the faint prick of sweat and spoke after an uncomfortable silence.
“I—uh—how did you get here? Where are you from?”
Instead of replying to that, Cara sighed.
“Okay. This has been really unpleasant.”
Ryoka’s heart sank. The Singer looked at her, frustrated, and there was a snap in her tone.
“I’m here. I came into what I regard as hostile territory where I could possibly be executed because I thought you needed my help. I understand there’s a situation.”
“There is. I wish I could say, but—”
Cara spread her arms.
“There’s something. I get that. However, I’m here. You see me, I see you. We are from the same world. Earth.”
She said it, and Ryoka almost looked around to see if there was a reaction, but Cara was glaring at her.
“Everything’s on the table here, Ryoka. If we’re not on the same side, that’s how it is. But you’re giving me mysterious answers rather than anything concrete. So either I have an invisible [Super Assassin] breathing down my shoulder—”
She flicked a hand as if to catch someone out.
“—or you don’t trust me or we really aren’t on the same side. And that’s my nightmare, because someone is going to sell us all out. And when they do, I need to know I can trust anyone I’m up front with. I didn’t come here to dance about. Let’s try this again tomorrow. You can think about what you’re willing to be honest about.”
With that, she began to stalk for the door. The Wind Runner felt…
Well, she felt it was unfair because Cara was right and wrong. Right because Ryoka had given her spit for two questions about listening spells and how she’d got here. Wrong because those were the questions that Ryoka could not, under any circumstances, answer.
