Sammial waved a hand furiously, and Oesca, dabbing at her dress, looked up.
“I do have lessons—”
“Stuff your lessons! Just tell them to go away and use your aura. I do.”
“But I’m a [Princess]…”
Ryoka and Visophecin could have stopped this as Sammial sneered at Oesca, but neither one did. Ryoka because she slightly approved. Visophecin probably because he found it intensely amusing.
“Exactly! You’re a [Princess], and I’m a [Lord] of House Veltras. No one tells us what to do!”
“Don’t listen to him, Your Highness. He’s Izrilian. Please, your mother will be furious…”
The [Nursemaid] whispered on Oesca’s other side, like the Angel to Sammial’s Devil as Visophecin watched. Unfortunately for the [Nursemaid]…the real Agelum wheeled over, having decided Sammial knew the way of eating sausages. Gadrea furiously masticated as she spoke, eyes gleaming.
“Are we going to see the plays? I will go too! You only live once, Princess Oesca. I would rather not waste a single second! Visophecin, we might even have to make you do some acting! He would be a natural, wouldn’t he? I would love to see him try to cry on stage.”
She beamed. Oesca looked into Gadrea’s eyes, and Ryoka wondered if Queen Oiena would try to have her killed. First the [Knights], now this?
Sammial blinked at Gadrea and glanced at Ryoka uncertainly.
“Who’re you? You’ve got weird eyes. Why are you in a moving chair? Can’t you walk?”
Rather than take understandable offense, Gadrea just laughed and held out a hand.
“I am Gadrea, Visophecin’s cousin. My eyes are strange to you, aren’t they? I cannot walk, and I have heard you are from House Veltras, young [Lord].”
His eyes narrowed, but Sammial did shake her hand.
“I am a prisoner, you know.”
“I know. But not a poorly treated one, I hope? You must tell me if you are. And tell me about House Veltras! I have always wanted to visit, but I couldn’t. Some of my family hunted in Vale Forest…how is it?”
Sammial found his match in Gadrea and actually walked with her rather than running ahead as an odd congregation marched down the hallway.
“It’s okay. Boring, really. We can’t go anywhere fun, and Father says the forest isn’t as cool as it used to be. It used to have Unicorns and whatnot. I’m not a poor prisoner, I suppose. That old Duke keeps taking off her clothing, though.”
He pointed at Ryoka, and [Princess] Oesca looked horrified at Sammial. Visophecin turned his head to laugh, and Gadrea eyed Ryoka.
“Interesting. I might have to have words…but it is Rhisveri. Let me assure you his intent is—different. Not un-nefarious, but differently so than a lech.”
“I know. Ryoka loses her clothes all the time.”
The Wind Runner was about to kick Sammial out a window. But then Oesca turned to her.
“You do know so many individuals in Ailendamus, Courier Ryoka. Viscount Visophecin is…seldom at court. I find it so very exceptional.”
She hesitated as she inclined her head to Visophecin, and he gave her a perfect bow. It was a searching comment, and Ryoka replied as blandly as possible.
“Couriers meet people, Your Highness. I hope you don’t take Sammial at face value all the time.”
“Oh, I don’t. I know young men are prone to exaggeration, and I’ve heard my brother. Sammial is adventurous, though.”
Oesca had a mix of envy and amusement on her face as she regarded the chatting Sammial. Then she leaned over to Ryoka.
“My mother is very unhappy with you. I do hope you’ll stay safe. She told me not to emulate your example.”
“Which part?”
“I think…any of it.”
Ryoka thought that was fair, but she saw Oesca glance at her again.
“Even the trousers. Is it so very common, as Sammial suggests, that Izrilian [Ladies] can wear it? And…do other things?”
Ryoka turned beet red. She decided to tackle the less mortifying question first. No, wait! If she was in for it…
“I don’t think either thing is wrong. Although the other thing is, uh, private. We should be allowed to do what we want, shouldn’t we, Princess Oesca?”
The girl brightened up as Visophecin looked at the whispering duo.
“I think so too! But I am a [Princess].”
Her face fell, and Ryoka felt compelled to give her some sinisterly honest advice.
“I happen to know a [Princess] who uses a sword, does her own cooking, and even fights monsters, Princess Oesca. As far as I know, she levels up from it. And she told me once—she didn’t level up by doing the proper thing. I think she’s gained, what, fifteen levels in a year? And she definitely wears trousers.”
She gave Oesca a wink that a [Nursemaid] watched with the deepest distrust. But when Ryoka finished speaking, the woman, who’d been walking a good fifteen paces behind them, snapped her head up.
“[Detect Improper Learning]—Your Highness! Please disregard whatever that woman just said! It is most likely a lie, anyways.”
Oesca’s own mouth had fallen open. Ryoka, the diabolical influence, saw her stare uncertainly backwards and then twist something on her finger.
A ring. She peered at Ryoka.
“Were you lying, Miss Griffin?”
“Um…no—hey, what’s going—”
Ryoka felt herself suddenly being pushed away from Oesca. Hard. The [Nursemaid] was moving her apart from her charge, and even Visophecin stepped back, although he looked more like he was just doing it so he wasn’t inconvenienced. And it was too late. A Level 40 [Nursemaid] should have been here, not some low-level amateur.
Because Oesca had just used her ring to cast [Detect Truth], and her eyes were as round as gold coins.
Then they arrived at the theatre, and everyone stopped and gasped.
“My! What have they done to the Tenniath Wing?”
Oesca pointed as they came to a clearly new construction, with [Masons] still working on the outside. Ryoka gazed through an archway as Sammial ran forwards and shouted.
“It’s huge!”
Sophridel’s theatre was indeed one of the biggest venues for any actor that Ryoka had ever seen. The Met, which she had seen in person, looked incomplete compared to this room.
Mainly because Ailendamus had no cap on a budget or space. Unlike New York’s limited real estate, Ailendamus had no lack of land, and they had dimensional magic on top of it.
So yes, the first impression Ryoka got was of a room so vast she had to crane her head back. It had all that…gravitas of a cathedral.
And her first thought was, ‘this is going to suck for a play’. Because a play should be intimate, not dwarfed by the building itself. Then she realized there was a trick to the room when she gazed at the room itself.
Ryoka saw seats enough for six thousand people to sit in a broad semicircle around the room, and she again thought those on the edges would have a terrible angle because it was too wide. In other words, they’d have a view of the back-stage, which modern stages obviously accounted for, and were thus more vertical in design to put people at more appropriate angles.
However, Ryoka had given Sophridel too little credit. The Elemental of Masks might not have seen a play in its current incarnation, but he understood how plays had to be.
The instant Ryoka and the others focused on the play, the room distorted. Not visibly or in a sickening change of perspective, but suddenly the stage felt like it was mere dozens of feet from Ryoka. And the people walking about on it were as large as life.
“Ah, those would be the magnification spells we paid for.”
Visophecin’s voice was close by, but simultaneously far away. Rather, Ryoka saw and heard, even smelled a strutting man on stage rehearsing his lines before Sophridel…or rather, the fake half-Elf Sophridel pretended to be.
Ryoka inhaled the faint scent of blood, saw the man’s torn clothing and the rapier in one hand—another man was lying, grimacing as some very realistic blood and organs spilled out of his stomach. In fact, Sophridel spotted Visophecin, Sammial, and the others, and raised a hand, and the magnification spell abruptly ended.
Ryoka staggered as she felt herself standing far, far away from the stage. Sammial raced down the steps, shouting.
“Amazing! That’s so cool!”
He leapt onto the stage as Ryoka followed him and heard Sophridel speaking.
“We will adjust the gore and blood. Realism is a conceit; balance the two. No smell of rot and less of blood. It need not rain on the audience, either. Perhaps a dissipating magical rain…no, not for the first iterations.”
“Absolutely, Lord Sophridel. But I don’t know if I can match them. I, ah—we’re only Level 8. If we had just one of these Players…”
The nervous [Actors] on stage turned as they found a [Princess] in the audience and became even more apprehensive. Visophecin nodded to Sophridel.
“We have come to observe your work, Sophridel. Does the theatre match your desires?”
“The theatre, yes. But the actors will require much, much work to create a satisfactory performance. Perhaps months of practice. Justice must be done to each work before I will allow it to be witnessed.”
Sophridel’s voice was a sigh. Visophecin raised his brows.
“I believe the crown will desire a performance far sooner, to justify the cost and showcase the event, Sophridel.”
“Unacceptable. Art cannot be sullied by a performance ill-made. We have few experts, and the few images of the plays are insufficient, as are mere scripts. I require…someone who has seen how it is done. I would like to send the entire cast to Izril to witness a play at First Landing. Perhaps for two weeks. Then return here.”
Visophecin exhaled as Sophridel raised his arms. He was a largely unemotional speaker; Ryoka suspected an Elemental would be rather logical and dispassionate. But he had a fire when he spoke like this, for all it was contained.
Sammial looked disappointed, but then leapt on stage and began to badger the [Actors] to let him try their rapiers. Visophecin glanced at Ryoka.
“As it happens, perhaps Ryoka Griffin would care to instruct the actors? I believe she has witnessed some, if not all of the plays.”
Instantly, all the [Actors] turned to Ryoka, and Sophridel himself peered at her.
“Ryoka Griffin. You are a being of many surprises. Which I understood from your presence in the Court of Masks. It is a refreshing revelation to understand you also have a soul. Those without art are lost.”
He spoke like some kind of theater kid. Or the most passionate art-lover ever. Which…he was. Ryoka remembered the being of masks as she lifted her hands.
“I do enjoy a play. But I can’t dictate…I mean, I can tell you a bit, but I’m not a good actor. I don’t have the class—”
He ignored her, practically pressing her forwards and demanding she show the [Actors] how to stand and face the audience properly, project—watch their plays. Visophecin observed as Gadrea and Sammial dueled to the side. She tapped his chest with the tip of a rapier as he stared at her.
“How are you so good with a sword? You’re in a chair!”
“I’ll wager your father could beat you seated, couldn’t he, young man?”
“Yes…but you’re good! Let’s do it again! Oesca, grab a sword, and we’ll beat her!”
And so the [Princess] did. Ryoka watched a [Lord] and [Princess] fencing with an Angel out of the corner of her eye as Visophecin, Sophridel, and the [Actors] talked shop.
“We must go, Sophridel. Ryoka may return later. But she has other obligations. As do you. I remind you of tonight’s banquet. And our gathering?”
Visophecin had to tear Ryoka away at the end, but Sophridel refused to let her go without a promise to return. She looked at the passionate director and immortal, his eyes alight as she retreated.
“I haven’t seen Sophridel so happy in a long time. It truly does matter to him. And you have a gift with a sword, young man!”
Gadrea patted Sammial on the head. The [Lord] would have snapped at anyone who did that, but he gave Gadrea a wary bow. And rubbed at his bruises. She had taught him actual swordcraft and struck him a number of times in their bouts.
As well as the [Princess], who had already been healed. But Gadrea was an even-handed teacher and had happily cracked two bodyguards on the arms when they tried to stop her.
So passed Ryoka’s day. And as evening fell, and she took stock of the immortal’s projects that helped define Ailendamus, Ryoka saw it.
Fithea, the Minister of Forests or whatever her title was, was responsible for many half-Elves in their villages, untouched by Ailendamus’ rule. Sophridel tended to the arts and created the Court of Masks, which helped him.
Visophecin’s people ate Ailendamus’ criminals and created their courts. There were more immortals still, and the one above them all, the Wyrm, Rhisveri, launched wars and made his kingdom powerful so that it might be his guard and tool.
All of it was far from perfect. But there was goodness to it too. So Ryoka came to the conclusion that had fallen over her since…well, since her last meeting with Rhisveri. What she had wrestled with since getting to know Itorin and realizing what Ailendamus was.
As she walked with Visophecin back to her rooms to take a bath and freshen up, Ryoka turned to the Lucifen. He was watching her, and so Ryoka said it then and there.
“I forswear it.”
The Viscount raised his brows.
“Forswear what, exactly?”
Ryoka looked at him.
“My attempt to steal from Rhisveri. You can use a truth spell—I give it up. I’ve paid my dues to him, and we’ve settled things. I’ve seen Ailendamus. It’s not a perfect land…”
She looked around at the vast palace, made up of pieces of other palaces, kingdoms crushed. She looked at Visophecin and knew what he ate.
But if she was going to point fingers…she shook her head.
“It’s not perfect. But it’s not my enemy. Moreover, I don’t want it to be. I don’t want Rhisveri’s enmity, or House Shoel’s, or anyone else’s. I want…to save Erin. And you helped with that.”
She had read the scroll and seen them all trying. Ryoka’s voice trembled.
“I want to go back and see her when she wakes. I want to bring Sammial home. Then—then I can focus on the other battles. But Ailendamus isn’t one of them. If you can, I’d even pay you to send a [General] to Erin. At the least? I think I’ve done all I can here.”
The Viscount stopped in his tracks and regarded her. Ryoka exhaled slowly and looked around. She stopped looking at Visophecin as a possible enemy. She really didn’t want to fight them. So she smiled and saw his lips curve up, just for a second.
Gadrea wheeled by Ryoka in that moment. The Agelum looked at the Courier and grinned.
“Did I just hear you forswore strife with our nation, Ryoka?”
The Wind Runner nodded, still shaking a bit with her resolution. Gadrea eyed her and then looked at Visophecin.
“That was not one of my concerns for the fate of the kingdom.”
