They ran so fast and far that day and the next that low-level [Soldiers] leveled both days. And they were fast enough that they ran straight into…well. Rabbiteater held up a hand, and the [Scouts] shouted in alarm as the sky rippled. As the sun suddenly froze in the sky, and they ran into the first stragglers screaming of a terrible defeat. Trapped, fleeing ahead of an army. Into the aegis of a Great General of Ailendamus. An aura or power beyond the others.
It faded every Hearth to ruin, and Bravery could not overcome it. Seasons were helpless to its whim, and it humbled every [King] and nation. Even those without death by age bowed to it.
Time.
 
——
 
Cara O’Sullivan had her history with Ailendamus. Fortunately, it didn’t seem like the Kingdom of Glass and Glory remembered it.
Or, if it did, the people who wanted to see the Singer of Terandria didn’t know or care. And among those people was a half-Giant—at least, that was how he looked.
Menorkel found Ryoka Griffin as she was talking to Baron Regalius, agreeing to meet him for dinner. You didn’t just get a confession like that from the man and say ‘no, I’m busy’. He hovered as Regalius turned to the young man.
Menorkel looked like he was only ten feet tall. He was, in fact, far taller. And Ryoka had been told he was second only to Rhisveri in size. Even so, the half-Giant was thin, almost stringy. And he had his own sense of fashion.
It was nothing like Regalius, more like a modern approach—a scarf wound around his head, and he wore a long jacket that could have been a blanket for Ryoka and Regalius both. Ryoka knew some of the dress was to hide details about Menorkel, as well as the illusion magic.
Like his second head. The Titan was, for all of that, a nervous teen.
Oh, and he sang beautifully and was a huge fan of the Singer of Terandria. See? Connected. And Ryoka began to suspect Cara’s presence might have been partly to do with Menorkel’s desire to see her.
“Ryoka. Ryoka—Baron Regalius, I hate to bother you—”
“Nonsense, Menorkel. I was just finishing up—four days, then. If nothing comes up. I should actually make sure I’m not called upon to give a speech. The Master of Ceremonies sometimes prevails on me if there’s a sudden absence, and I oblige her—but it is good to have advance warning. Courier Griffin, Menorkel.”
He bowed and retreated. Menorkel practically hopped from foot-to-foot as Ryoka stared after him.
“The Singer of Terandria is here, Ryoka! You have to come with me to one of her concerts!”
“Huh? Me? Why?”
“Because I’m terrified to go myself! And I’ll never get to speak to her or show her my songs! You said they were good?”
“Wh—yeah. They’re really—did you know Regalius was nearly married to a [Princess]?”
Ryoka pointed to Regalius, still stuck on that. Menorkel shrugged.
“What…oh. Yes, it was a huge scandal. I remember that. He was exiled with his brother for years, until they redeemed themselves. They were on the border? Something like that. Regalius is very helpful, Fithea says, since he’s so responsible and does coronations—let’s go see the Singer! You have to come. Nemud and the others are too dry since they were at House Shoel, and Gilaw won’t go.”
“Wh—Menorkel, listen. I’m a bit—”
Ryoka felt herself being dragged by the Titan. Here was the thing—there wasn’t even the chance she could stop him. She could dig her heels in and break her legs, but Menorkel looked so eager she had to oblige.
“Actually, I want to speak with Fithea and the others. Will I get a chance?”
“Maybe later. I don’t know. Can you believe the Singer’s come here? She refused to come to Ailendamus for so long, I wonder what changed? I would have gone to see her on tour, but I can’t leave the capital without permission or an escort, and Fithea wouldn’t go. Did you hear her sing? And dance? It’s amazing. I saw her do that technique—moonwalking.”
To Ryoka’s amazement, he let go of her arm for a second and repeated the trick. He seemed to walk backwards across the ground.
You weren’t supposed to be able to do that without a slippery surface! But Menorkel did! It was a sight to see a ten-foot half-Giant do that.
No, Titan. Ryoka recalled how good he’d been with the baseball bat, not to mention how strong. If he was related to Greek Titans or that guy in the lands of the fae…she wondered what abilities he had.
“Menorkel, uh, can I ask a few questions if it’s not confidential? And we’re…in the open.”
Menorkel glanced at Ryoka and grew a bit warier.
“I…think I can answer them. What about?”
“Uh, how old are you? And what kind of abilities…do you have? Sorry, I’m just really curious. What about Gilaw?”
Menorkel sighed.
“I think I’m twelve. Fithea raised me, and we counted since she found me, so I’m ‘twelve’ in that sense. I grew up for a long time before then…I’m probably older than Ailendamus, but I think of myself as twelve. Which would be younger, if you understand.”
He raised his brows, and Ryoka gazed up at him. Twelve was obviously wrong. So he meant…younger than Ailendamus, which was 200.
So he was a hundred and twenty years old. To confirm, she muttered.
“That’s…by ten, not by a hundred, yeah? And you don’t count the time before meeting Fithea? Why not?”
Menorkel nodded.
“That’s right. And I don’t count the other parts because I didn’t do anything. I was just…there. Trapped. It’s a long story.”
His eyes shifted much like Regalius’ had, but Menorkel was not a man in his early thirties who had made peace with his past, so he didn’t elaborate. Ryoka saw him shrug as he went on.
“I’m not magical, if that’s what you’re asking. I’m really just like a half-Giant. Rhisveri keeps telling me to practice fighting, but I don’t like it, not like Gilaw.”
“Does she—she can, uh, turn? I mean, she rides a Griffin.”
“Yes. That’s one of her abilities. She’s just—stronger. Faster. She’s a Great Knight by our standards, but she’s still young, which is why she doesn’t fight in wars. I’m a bit stronger than her, but I don’t want to fight. I want to…you know. Sing.”
He whispered that last part as if that was the big secret here. And Gilaw was strong enough to match other Great Knights…which made sense since she was a Royal Griffin.
“So you don’t, uh, have any other talents?”
“I’m strong, I guess I’m tough…and I have two points of view. That’s about it.”
Menorkel looked embarrassed, and Ryoka felt she was pressuring the teen. She scratched at her head.
“Okay. Uh…well, I’m happy to go with you to meet the Singer of Terandria. I’d like to meet her too, but I doubt it’ll be easy.”
“Why?”
Menorkel gave Ryoka an odd look which she returned with interest.
“Because she’s the most famous [Singer] on the continent?”
“And you’re a Courier. If anyone would be able to meet her, it’s you.”
“Oh. I guess you’re right.”
When they got to the place where Cara was rehearsing with her band, Ryoka got to assess the Singer of Terandria, Cara O’Sullivan, and the caravan that had carried her across the continent at last, without surprise or panic. And she noticed some interesting things.
Firstly, Cara was from Earth.
It was the aesthetic. It was the songs. True, she could have murdered someone and taken their iPhone or found something by accident, which Ryoka had always banked as an outside chance, but Cara was too knowing. She sang words from the clearly-adjusted pop and rock songs and performed like someone from the modern era.
She mixed in elements of all the kinds of celebrity that worked. She was a personality, and it was manufactured.
Ryoka saw a five-foot-something girl, maybe a bit taller than average, but certainly shorter than Ryoka, who looked caucasian…and was probably Irish to judge by her name. She didn’t have any noticeable wounds on her face and hands or other unique details, although she was certainly fairly fit.
That was all Ryoka got physically, because Cara’s dress and even hair changed to match the [Singer]’s needs. One second, she looked like she was walking out with slightly curly, brown hair, waving at the cheering crowd of young people in a casual, if slightly odd white-and-black outfit of a modified t-shirt and pants—
The next, her hair shimmered, lengthened, developed gold strands, and she disappeared behind a curtain and came out in a blinding outfit of metallica like a popstar. No, Ryoka realized.
A [Popstar].
Her personality changed too. What did she call her fans? Cara put a mic to her mouth and shouted into it. Not a wire-and-electronic contraption either—the head of the microphone was a glimmering red sapphire built into a light metal base, which magnified her voice as she shouted.
“Hello my shining stars! I know you’ve been waiting all day—I told you, we’re performing tonight! But you’ve all waited out here—so just a preview, alright?”
They cheered madly, and Ryoka recognized the mentality as well. Cara had certainly brought the idea of celebrity to this world.
And Ryoka didn’t like it. She frowned and nearly jumped out of her skin as Menorkel cheered and Cara launched into a song.
She had speakers, or she could generate music on command! It was like having a portable karaoke machine, and Ryoka didn’t even know if the band was necessary; a few had come out, and one, a drummer, played along, but the guitarist and bassist didn’t.
Was it all show and glitz and glamor? Ryoka turned her attention to the band members themselves next and saw—Earthers.
Definitely Earthers. They were all Human, which was one sign, but the way they behaved was too familiar. The guitarist was signing autographs, while the other Earthers watched Cara or the crowd. One even pointed at Menorkel as they talked quietly. Ryoka’s eyes narrowed as she saw someone from inside the wagon come out.
Did she see the flash of an LED screen for a second there? Well, Ryoka bet that was how they got their music.
So you had this Singer of Terandria, who clearly plagiarized every popular song from Earth to make her career here. Ryoka wasn’t about to take her to task for that—it was hard to survive, and Erin had taken plays.
But she felt like this Cara had a target on her back from Wistram and all the rest. Still—she wasn’t a bad performer. When she spoke, every eye locked on her, and she had a presence that reminded Ryoka of the Players of Celum. Or even Erin.
A stage presence. Ryoka saw her entire caravan of wagons could create a wooden stage, and she had bodyguards—half-Elves, Dwarves, as well as Humans—and an entire team to keep her people rolling. Even what might have been a mobile kitchen. Cara had magical illusions, security, and she clearly didn’t hurt for coin.
What the Wind Runner didn’t realize as she watched it all, semi-disapproving, was that the Earthers were noticing her. Why? Menorkel was dancing around, attracting almost as much attention as Cara—and he was a good dancer; no danger of stomped toes with him!
Why indeed would a Courier, who looked like she was from Drath or somewhere else entirely, with two missing fingers and the power to harness the wind be noticeable? Oh, and the bare feet. A puzzler.
 
——
 
“Hey, it’s the Wind Runner. Ryoka Griffin. Do you think it’s her, the one we came for? She doesn’t look like she’s in trouble like Cara said.”
The caravan of wagons was parked in an entire courtyard in the palace. They didn’t have to sleep there, but Cara had requested it for the sake of entertaining her fans. While she performed on the temporary wooden stage they could deploy, her audience danced on the grass, to the horror of the [Groundskeepers].
And there, eying the entire caravan as she stood, arms folded, in the shadow of the dancing half-Giant boy, was the Wind Runner. The wind blew around her light clothing and her long hair at every moment, and a few magical items glowed on her body to anyone with the sight; an amulet, two rings…
The band saw her. The tall girl realized they were watching her and pointing.
“Is that…her?”
Rae wasn’t playing with Thien, so she, Greg, Abebi the [Manager], and two helpers—all Earthers—were observing the Wind Runner. She knew she should be playing, but she couldn’t turn it on like Cara, who could perform at any moment.
Was that her? A Courier—Rae knew how famous that was, and she had seen Ryoka Griffin on the news. It was surreal just seeing her here. She had some kind of weird, magical armband, and she looked—
Well, like other Couriers. Weird. Bare feet, yet surrounded by a magical wind and standing with a giant guy! Young man. In Ailendamus, where, according to Cara, the situation was dicey.
Yet Cara refused to tell anyone, even Abebi, everything, so they had to play it by ear. Greg objected, but Greg objected to a lot of things, and he was only too happy to sign body parts and cards.
Greg. Cara was going to kick him off the band and send him back to Safety later. That was the name for the place. Rae didn’t know where it was exactly, and that was good, because no one had heard from Elena in Wistram, and she had sworn she would come back within a month if she could.
That she had not was proof there were no real allies there. Anyways, Greg making his own list of people he wanted to jump into bed with wasn’t important. The Wind Runner was.
“I can go talk to her.”
Abebi slipped sideways, but Rae whispered urgently.
“Cara said not to! We’re being observed, and you’re the [Manager].”
The young woman hesitated. Cara had said that, but…
“We have to talk to her before she leaves anyways. I’ll be careful. Maybe I’ll ask if she wants to do a delivery. There’s worse people to do it. I’ll be subtle.”
That was true. Rae had gotten used to performing, enough to make this big important trip, but she was terrified of messing up and letting the secret out. Cara was as cool as glass, and Thien could do it, but he was doing a drum solo as the [Singer] took a gulp of water.
“One more song, my lovely stars!”
Her next song made Rae frown.
“Is she just lip-syncing?”
Normally Cara sang every song, but Abebi shrugged.
“She’s phoning it in. Don’t worry; they love it. She needs to head inside and rest, anyways. We’re only doing a few songs, but the banquet is going to be big. We’ll probably only get groupies, but Cara has to impress. Now, let me get to her…”
“But Cara said—”
True enough, Cara finished a short two-minute song as Abebi and Rae argued. She waved, blew the audience a kiss, and, to their disappointment, walked back to her trailer.
Odd as well. She normally did crowd work as Cara put it. But she must have been saving her energy. Abebi was just about to ask Thien to go out there.
