Oh, and also because Ryoka felt like Cara was speaking down to her. A previous Ryoka might have tried to kick her in the back and gotten a frying pan to the head.
This Ryoka? She just sighed as Cara stormed away.
 
——
 
The Singer of Terandria ate, breathed, and manifested stress. If there were an [Aura of Stress]—and there probably was—she was close to learning it.
The Wind Runner might be the first traitor to Earth—or at least, someone who had allegiances to powers on this world—that she’d met. And if it were Ailendamus, she was dead.
At the very least, she was a ball of mysteries wrapped in aggravating string, and so Cara walked, to calm down, take stock, and try this again.
It probably should have been Abebi here, anyways. She was reasonable and personable. But she didn’t know what Ailendamus was capable of. Cara had told her, but she hadn’t been there.
Every second Cara walked in this gigantic, ludicrously opulent palace, she felt like she was walking amid the corpses of people she knew. And she laid it all at Ailendamus’ feet.
Afiele and Ovela. Sins of the Kingdom of Glass and Glory.
So she left. Or tried to. Because as Cara heard a sigh, the Singer also heard a faint sound of something being unclipped, and an alien noise. Was it…tshing? As onomatopoeias went, it was notable because that was not the rasp of a blade in a sheath. It was entirely foreign.
The Singer swung around, suddenly terribly afraid. Was this it? Was it all a tr—
But the sword wasn’t aimed at her. And was it even a sword? The Singer of Terandria stopped, dead still, because while she had seen it from afar on the scrying orb, it had been tiny and looked like the Kaalblades, or a version of them, retailing now from the House of El at reasonable prices, shipping not included. And she had bought the line about it being an artifact.
Up close? There was no way she could see the glowing, flat blade of projected light extruding from the strange handle, the neon-bright glow that lit up the Wind Runner’s face, the Windsword as some called it, or as Ryoka knew it, the Faeblade…as anything other than something out of science fiction.
Ryoka Griffin met Cara’s eyes as the Singer stopped, and all her assumptions about who Ryoka could possibly be or her ulterior motives…floated out of her skull. Ryoka Griffin slightly smiled.
“I really want to say, ‘there are more things in this world than are dreamt of in your philosophy, Cara’. But I think that’s sort of lame.”
Cara met Ryoka’s gaze as the magic…no, technological sword winked out with the squeeze of a hand. She walked back over and took an abrupt seat in a chair.
“Okay. I’m clearly not ready for this stage. Your turn.”
 
——
 
In all her years of existing, Ryoka Griffin had never met someone who was more naturally suspicious or cynical than her.
It was refreshing and scary that someone like that was out there. But her name was Cara…or was it?
“You do know we can be tracked via scrying spells? Sorry, throwing that out there.”
“Yep. But scrying spells don’t, uh, account for kanji or non-English lettering. It helps me out a bit.”
“Interesting.”
Cara was drinking some tea. Ryoka hadn’t been about to make it, but the Singer had some for her throat, mixed with honey. It was still less sugary than how Magnolia took it, so Ryoka had a cup.
She was reminded of the complicated talk she’d had with Magnolia Reinhart, but this was different. For one thing, the biggest issue between them of Earth wasn’t a problem. It was the rest that they were negotiating about. Cara looked up after a second.
The Faeblade’s hilt sat on the table in front of them. She kept eying it but didn’t move to touch it. Still, it had convinced her that Ryoka was willing to talk, so she was far less visibly wary as she nodded at Ryoka.
“Let’s both agree there are things we can’t talk about. Safety, for instance. No one but me and a few others know where it is. Even people we take to it don’t know exactly where. That’s for our sake and theirs. They’re not prisoners; they can go. But I won’t have them lead people to our doorstep. Because there are people hunting us. Let’s get into that. Everything you and I think we can share, that any side, anyone from Earth needs to know—we put on the table, agreed?”
“Absolutely.”
Ryoka smiled a bit weakly, but Cara didn’t. She glanced at the hilt of the alien sword.
“I, uh…huh. Sorry. My head is spinning. I can go first. I think you’ve got the more interesting story, and believe me, I didn’t think it was possible.”
Was there a hint of smugness there in Ryoka? No, no…just satisfaction. Just a smidge. Cara looked at Ryoka and then launched into it.
“From the top—I’m Cara. That’s not my real name, but I am from Ireland. Swear to it. I came here from Earth in the year of 2018, from Galway. One second I was coming out of a theatre and crossing the street—the next I was in Noelictus.”
“Noelictus? Is that, uh…”
“It’s a nation to the west. Noelictus, the Kingdom of Shade. They have lots of undead. Lots of farming…I was there throughout the fall and into winter. When I left, I started up as the Singer of Terandria. Small-time at first, but I used pop songs and my levels to make a name for myself. The rest you can guess—I built up my reputation and tried to find other Earthers and established Safety.”
Ryoka blinked.
“Wait, hold on. Sorry—”
Firstly, it was amazing that she had created a song-empire or the start of one from just landing in…an undead kingdom. Or a kingdom with undead, unlike Khelt, Ryoka supposed. However, what threw her from the start was…
Cara obligingly halted and saw Ryoka frowning.
“I’m from Earth. Obviously, sorry. America, Ohio. I was on a jog. But I came from Earth in 2016, and I arrived just before fall too. Last year, I mean.”
The Singer’s eyes instantly narrowed.
“That’s…I won’t say impossible. It leads me into another point. Time’s different. I met someone from 2017 who came after me—or so close that our timelines mixed. And recently? Guess what year it is on Earth—at least from people arriving?”
Ryoka had a terrible feeling in her stomach.
“2025?”
“…2021.”
“Oh. Well that’s—five years for one?”
Cara saw that Ryoka wasn’t even that blown away. Shocked, but not stunned. Ryoka had some kind of context for this. Cara just shook her head.
“Something’s different. The people from Earth are arriving later.”
“Could they be lying? Sorry, just throwing it out there. I met people from 2017, but Erin—someone from Earth—and I just assumed that made sense time-wise.”
Cara shook her head again.
“That was my first instinct too. But guess what they had?”
Ryoka snapped her fingers.
“Phones.”
“And laptops, tablets if we’re lucky. They have new songs on them. Even new movies. New tech and updates…I’ve seen it. Our world is moving faster than this one. Or…something’s up.”
Cara’s fingers tightened until they were white on her mug. Ryoka Griffin just sat there.
“Yeah. That checks out.”
The [Singer]’s head snapped up, but Ryoka gave her a weary smile.
“We’ll get to it. I swear. What’s next?”
Cara rubbed at her hair.
“…It takes all day sometimes to convince people of that. When they’re not crying and asking if this is a dream. You know—well, you know we were connected via Blackmage? Some phone call. I didn’t get it. It would have really helped, but I think I came after. The first wave, I assume you lot are, at least knew there were more people. But a lot have vanished or been collected up, and the next wave has no idea save for me and other hints that there are Earthers out there. It doesn’t help that some right bastard told everyone this was a simulation; people are still saying if we die, we wake up.”
Ryoka burned bright red, and the Singer gave her a pointed look.
“No one’s going to try that. But I do know about you from Blackmage. Aaron Vanwell. He’s at Wistram, you know?”
“I—I know. He got in contact with you?”
Cara shrugged.
“When I became the [Singer], yeah. I was on his radar. He helped me set up the song crystal stuff, but I haven’t been able to trust him. He’s in Wistram’s grip, and they’ve tried to grab me before.”
“Shit.”
“Yep. Hence my bodyguards. But he seems like he’s trying to be helpful. When he’s not a complete idiot.”
“I…sympathize with that. Do you know other groups?”
Cara began counting on her fingers.
“Absolutely. And this is top-priority information: do not trust Wistram. Watch out for Roshal, just in general, but Aaron thinks some of them are grabbing us. And…there’s a group of Earthers on Rhir. A big one. You know about that?”
Ryoka remembered the American-group. She nodded, slowly.
“Yeah. So they’re well-known? Isn’t a world power, the Blighted Kingdom…”
“Fully aware of them. Wistram and the Blighted Kingdom haven’t said as much, but I’m fairly certain both know the others have Earthers. They have a ‘gentleman’s agreement’ not to shout out what they’re doing, but they’re not on the same side.”
Cara’s lips twisted, and Ryoka’s heart sank. The Singer watched Ryoka’s face appreciatively.
“I’m glad you understand why that’s such a huge problem. By the way, regard all three groups as dangerous, if not hostile. I can’t verify Rhir; I’m not sending anyone to be killed by whatever’s there. But I sent a close friend I trusted to Wistram, and she sent me letters proving she’s alive. She never came back, though, and they tell me she likes it too much to leave. Which I have a hard time believing since she swore she’d come back.”
Ryoka wondered if there were a tea for ulcers, because she might be developing them.
“I knew Wistram was getting people from Earth. They sent a [Mage] to grab some of the ones I knew. Twice, actually.”
“Damn. Is that confidential? Where they are?”
Again, Ryoka hesitated, and Cara lifted a hand.
“You don’t need specifics. I get it. Just…tell them that the Singer will help them if they want to come to me. There’s Safety. Half-Elves might be trustworthy…some of them know me. Not as a species, but you’d be surprised how they know each other. If you mention Piloriet the Musician…they might help.”
Piloriet the Musician? Ryoka decided to remember that. The Wind Runner just nodded.
“In that case—Liscor is a safe place. And so is…the Silverfang tribe. Gnolls. Mention my name, and they might help. At the very least, I can call in favors.”
Cara didn’t write that down, but she too committed it to memory, murmuring the names. Ryoka decided Pallass, Grimalkin, Magnolia Reinhart…less than trustworthy.
“How about House Veltras?”
“I…they don’t know me, but yes. Good point. I think they’d help if someone mentioned me. Oh, and Riverfarm. Riverfarm is…safe.”
Cara’s eyes flickered. They were specific places that Ryoka was mentioning, and that wasn’t nearly as secure as Safety.
“Are the other Earthers safe?”
“Safe. Ish.”
Cara sighed, and Ryoka elaborated slowly. She felt a growing pit in her stomach, but she said it. As naturally as she could.
“We had a safe place. Someone—an Earther had an inn. The Wandering Inn. But she’s dead or…her name was Erin Solstice. She might come back.”
Cara stared at Ryoka, and the Wind Runner told her a story. What did the Singer see when she saw Ryoka Griffin?
At first, probably, an aggravatingly vague person. Suspicious, shifty. Literally barefoot, stammering. An oddball.
Then perhaps a mystery. Someone who had seen something.
Lastly, as Ryoka told Cara about her meeting with Erin and her life, someone filled with regrets. Hands clasped, shaking slightly, voice breaking.
“I wasn’t there.”
“Cryogenics? They killed her. They just…”
Cara had to stand up. She turned away from Ryoka. Hiding her face. When she looked back, the Wind Runner saw something behind the [Thespian]’s own facade.
She had seen something too. But before they came to that, Cara nodded at the Faeblade.
“So you were a Runner who did…incredible things. Three death deliveries. And you kept doing it. You outran a Goblin Lord’s army.”
She gave Ryoka a mystified look, and the Wind Runner had to clarify.
“With help. That’s part of how I got this. There’s something else that I think I can share. Safety matters. Knowing who our enemies are matters. But there is a mystery to why we came here. And I think there’s one real threat, and one clue.”
Now she was calmer, Ryoka spoke more clearly. Cara raised her brows, and Ryoka laid out the best and only explanation she had. Something that Cara—everyone who could be trusted—needed to know.
Was it a risk? Absolutely. But if she could have talked to Erin after the Summer Solstice…Ryoka would have told her it all like this.
“Cara, there are more worlds than just this one and ours. I’ve seen them. There are the lands of the fae. Avalon. Perhaps they’re the center, but I suspect they’re just one of many gateways. There are other realities, and even other Earths out there. Perhaps it’s as many worlds as there are stories. All I know is that they exist—but the gateways from this world and Earth are few. But that was how we came here. Someone opened a door, and it sounds like it’s still open. And I think I know who.”
Cara lifted one hand as Ryoka looked at her, hands clasped together.
“Wait. I know it’s a mistake to say this—but are you being serious? Avalon? We’ve jumped from fantasy to myth. I’m exceptionally suspicious, but you must admit that’s hard to say with no basis.”
For reply, Ryoka just looked at Cara. She had no object of the fae beyond Nama’s wraps, and she didn’t think those would be that impressive. But the green eyes of the Wind Runner fixed on Cara, and the Singer turned.
The wind blew. For a second, across the trees and gardens outside, the wind kicked into a gale. But that was something every [Mage] could do. The Singer glanced dismissively outside. It was wind magic. Maybe not with Skills or a class, but…
She hesitated. And stared out the window and into the air. For a second, she saw a swirl of autumn leaves, the first to fall, fly upwards. And the yellow and red and orange leaves formed a giant, smiling face in the air. Just two dots of leaves and simple lips.
It…winked at her and floated apart. When she turned back, Ryoka had a bag open. And what spilled from it were stones, currency the likes of which Cara had never seen. Ryoka Griffin held up the very essence of magic, old runic stones. Obol of the Faerie King in one hand. With the other, she picked up the Faeblade and held it out to Cara.
