Rabbiteater scratched at his armor. Three days of food sounded like all the time in the world to find more to him. But that, he supposed, was the difference.
The Order of Seasons was really bad at roughing it. They could and had journeyed across Izril to get home without issue, but the instant they found they had chipped blades or were losing horses and such, or getting hungry, they started talking about finding their way back from enemy lines.
Huges seemed to agree. He cast dark eyes at the [Glory Captain].
“We’re poised to make a mess of their supply lines, Ser Solstice. A few more raids and we’ll have a real army following us if we don’t already. But it’ll take more speed, and I hope the prisoners can keep up. It might be better to send ‘em on their own way. Kaliv’s regulars are tough as the mountains they come from, but Calanfer is used to…protocol.”
“They suck?”
“Yes, sir. Not that I should say as much once we join ranks.”
Rabbiteater sighed. Soft Humans. Wonderful.
However, the Dawn Concordat’s spirits were actually higher than Pheislant’s and the Order of Seasons as Talia finished talking to their leaders, and they fell into line with the others. After all—allies were a welcome thing in the war the Dawn Concordat was losing.
“A floral lot, for certain. That [Glory Captain] talked your ear off, Dame Talia.”
“Hush, Ser Thaime.”
As the [Knights] regrouped for their discussions, apart from the regular [Soldiers] and without Huges, they talked over the recent arrivals and the battle. Rabbiteater rode with Thaime, Ilm, Markus, Meisa, Talia, and a few other veteran [Knights]. Markus shook his head.
“More hands won’t be too bad. More mouths to feed…they are good [Soldiers]?”
It was a question that earned him a slap to the back of the head—again—by Meisa this time.
“They’ve fought bravely, Markus. They didn’t just surrender. We’ll be well-served by them if we fight. I’d be more wary if we picked up four hundred Thronebearers.”
Quiet laughter. Talia frowned at Meisa, but she couldn’t hide a faint grimace.
“Let us not speak so in front of the Dawn Concordat—but yes, I think the [Glory Captain] was used to interacting with his own nation’s Order. And I regret to say it—but the Thronebearers of Calanfer have not stuck long in most battles. They are trying to hold the line, but the word is a huge army led by one of Ailendamus’ Great Generals is poised to meet them in battle.”
“Well, they must hold the line long enough for the Order of Seasons to push forwards. Knight Commander Calirn will be mustering a truer force to supplement Ser Greysten’s push. Once Summer regroups, I have no doubt Spring or Winter will push forwards on a separate front.”
Each Season would fight with reinforcements from complementary seasons, so the Order might have four different warbands as Rabbiteater understood it. Talia nodded.
“Then we’ll have to simply find our way back. Maybe to Calanfer—there’s a friendly pass—Krawlnmak’s Pass; it hasn’t fallen, and that’s one of the few main entrances.”
“Ah, the famed stand of the Dawn Concordat. One wonders why they don’t just pull back to there.”
Thaime shook his head, and Rabbiteater himself recalled Eldavin’s lecture. Even the Necromancer had held that place—when he had been the Archmage of Death, Perril Chandler. Talia just shook her head.
“Kaliv isn’t lost yet. But we should hurry. We only have three days of food, and Marshal Huges has recommended half-rations after tonight.”
The [Knights] didn’t audibly protest, but they looked gloomy at the idea. Rabbiteater just shrugged, and Talia turned to him. It was Ser Ilm—who didn’t know his real identity—who spoke up brightly.
“Ser Solstice. How do you think we should continue? Back or forwards?”
Thaime and Talia hesitated. They knew Rabbiteater’s identity, but the Goblin calmly replied.
“I’m not in charge.”
“Even so—you proposed the idea of a raid. What would you do?”
Rabbiteater shrugged.
“Keep raiding. Split up. Sixteen groups; we hit more prisoner trains.”
“What, like [Bandits]?”
Thaime was outraged. Rabbiteater smiled brightly behind his helm.
“Yep. Spread out, join up to hit any prisoner trains. When they come—run. Oh, and find a good hiding spot. This is a nice place.”
He nodded around, and everyone stared up at the imposing cliffs and mountain range that was Kaliv. It wasn’t the High Passes, but the mountains were wonderfully familiar to Rabbiteater.
“We live in caves. Probably some goats or deer live around here. Good eating. We need a deep cave…thing. Maze? Cave system. We hide, continue raiding. Four months.”
“Four months? What do we eat?”
Markus was horrified. Rabbiteater scratched at his head.
“Mushrooms? Mushrooms and goats.”
And bugs, but he felt that was a big ask. Ilm was fascinated.
“Those are historical guerrilla tactics, and I believe Kaliv may fall back to something similar themselves, Ser Solstice. But our arms? Armor? How would we maintain them?”
“You don’t. You try—then replace. Loot gear, and…”
“I’m afraid we won’t do that, Ser Solstice. It may be tactically advantageous, but that is not possible for our Order. We will regroup and take to the field with whatever army is nearby.”
Talia interrupted Rabbiteater, and the two looked at each other. The Goblin met her gaze and felt it searching him.
He had mixed feelings on Talia. She and he had stopped being, well, close after she discovered his identity. She had made it very plain how she felt about Goblins.
But she had also come after him to rescue him. So—Rabbiteater gave her a pass.
He shrugged.
“Suit yourself.”
Talia was in charge, so Rabbiteater wasn’t about to challenge her for command. [Knights] didn’t work like that, he was sure, and besides, he didn’t mind regrouping and hot baths and such. She began discussing their route back to linking up with the Order of Seasons with the others, but Ser Ilm, Markus, and Meisa beckoned Rabbiteater aside. The Autumn Knight regarded Rabbiteater curiously.
“I saw you using your aura in battle. Or trying to, Ser Solstice. No luck?”
“Nope.”
Three days of practice, and Rabbiteater was learning from the world’s greatest experts on aura-fighting…and he had failed to manifest his abilities. That was a higher-level thing, but the Goblin was having trouble with even beginner training.
“I, ah, put in that research request, and the Fall’s Sentinel’s reply is finally decoded. The damned cipher takes time, pardon my language. Fascinating higher-level manifestations. You know, we have no records of a dual-aura of Hearth and Bravery? You’ll be wonderful data. However, simply gathering your aura is still a first step. And that is…difficult? Even in battle?”
Ilm saw Rabbiteater shake his head. Markus frowned.
“Were you not being serious, Rabbit—Solstice? You sounded like you were having a laugh.”
The Goblin gave Markus a blank look.
“I gave it my best try. Didn’t work.”
“Even in battle? [Squires] have manifested their auras in battle. [Pages] too. I know it’s also tied to your level, but—Markus, you managed a wind blade for the first time. You were far too showy about it, though.”
Markus blushed.
“I know. I was doing pageantry…but the training did make it work flawlessly! I’ll be more discreet.”
Rabbiteater looked at Meisa and Markus and crossed his arms, frustrated.
“Hm. Can you two show me again?”
All three [Knights] obliged him. Meisa went over their lecture.
“You’d normally have years of training, so it’s not a surprise it doesn’t work right away, Rabbit. Markus hasn’t been able to manifest a blade ability until he leveled up from that big battle, but he practices the form. First, you learn to gather your aura, concentrate it. Manifestation is far harder.”
Ilm was nodding as the expert in teaching. He hesitated.
“…Why do you call him Rabbit, Dame Meisa?”
The Spring Knight hesitated.
“Er…because he’s fond of eating rabbits?”
That was very true. Although you could die of malnutrition from eating only rabbits. Ilm frowned.
“That makes no sense.”
Rabbiteater shrugged.
“Someone who likes killing birds is named Bird.”
All three [Knights] turned to him. Ilm’s mouth worked.
“Is this a common Izrilian naming practice?”
“Sure.”
Having further disrupted the Order of Seasons’ point of view on the world, Rabbiteater went back to his lesson.
“First…feel your aura. It is part of you. Think of things, triggers, that make you embody what you are. For spring—I think of gardening. Walking through a forest.”
“I think of a good rainstorm. Bracing. Fresh wind after all that snow. See, that is part of my image for the wind—”
“Shut up, Markus. It’s my example. Focus on that, Rabbiteater. Then…if you feel it, gather it around you. That’s step one. Even that can help resist [Fear] and some spells. And other auras.”
Rabbiteater tried. The problem was—he had two auras. And neither one was the [Aura of Spring] that Markus and Meisa had. He decided he’d try bravery.
Bravery, the heat of battle. Redfangs. He knew bravery. He had been in the company of twelve Goblins, the bravest he had ever known. Then less.
Then only five had remained.
Rabbiteater’s face changed under his helmet, but he held still as Meisa kept speaking.
“Your aura can do many things. What we tell young [Knights] to do is picture some element running into their blades. Talia burns. Markus harnesses the wind. I? Well, my aura is a bit different.”
The Goblin opened his eyes and saw her raising her shield. It seemed to him that he could faintly see vines, flowers, and brambles covering it. But it was more like imagination than sight; he didn’t see it, he felt they were there.
From experience, Rabbiteater knew that Meisa’s shield was reinforced with her aura, and it even ensnared blades striking it. The Order of Seasons had such…practical uses for their auras.
However, Rabbiteater felt nothing. And as Markus watched, the Spring Knight muttered out of the corner of his mouth.
“I don’t think he’s even gathering his aura. Rabbit, is something wrong? Can’t you feel it? What about your [Aura of the Hearth]?”
“Trying. Shut up, Markus.”
Rabbiteater tried. He tried to imagine the hearth, relaxing around a fire—or the clash of swords. And he did. He felt the memories coming, both good and ill. The Wandering Inn. A Human’s kindness. A little Gnoll who snarled at them and then…
They were in him. Just like Erin’s blessing and his memory of the two. The [Innkeeper] and the [General], who were the inspirations of his aura, Rabbiteater was sure.
He remembered them—but nothing came. Meisa frowned.
“I don’t understand.”
“He’s not within his aura.”
Ilm came to the same conclusion as someone else. Talia rode over, and the four trotting along looked at her. The Summer Knight frowned at Rabbiteater, but she fell into place with them and no one chased her off.
“Oh. He’s not feeling his aura? Not in it? That’s not a problem most of our Order has…”
Markus trailed off. Talia shook her head.
“We embody a season. We carry it around with us in deed and spirit. But Ser Solstice’s are more nebulous. It isn’t the aura of a [King], which is who they are. His are…Bravery and Hearth. He has to feel either to harness it. He can—but he has to still feel it.”
All the [Knights] nodded and turned curiously back to Rabbiteater. The Goblin inhaled; this all made sense.
“Okay. So my aura is harder. How do I fix it?”
Meisa frowned.
“Well…you just need to feel either aspect. I grant you—Hearth may be trickier here. But Bravery? What about when we were fighting? I imagine that would be the moment, right, Dame Talia?”
Talia Kallinad nodded. Markus eyed Rabbiteater.
“Didn’t you feel brave, Rabbiteater? During the latest battle? Just a bit? Think on that. Grasp it and…”
“Nope.”
The Goblin stopped Markus. The eager Spring Knight frowned.
“Wait, no? Not a bit?”
The Goblin looked about at the other [Knights]. Bravery? He understood the assignment now. And the problem. What, did they feel brave in that last battle?
He had felt not a thing. The Goblin rode onwards, feeling…odd. This was a war. He knew he could die. He fought because his friends were there. That was a Goblin [Knight]’s way. He would put his life on the line for them.
But it wasn’t brave. He felt no bravery riding around in armor fighting Humans on foot in the company of [Knights]. It wasn’t righteous, either. He had no interest in the politics that put him on one side or the other.
It was just what mattered to him. And that was okay. But he wasn’t getting his damn aura today. The Goblin sighed.
It had better be a really cool blade. Way cooler than Markus’.
 
——
 
This war was linked to Ryoka Griffin. The more you looked, the more you saw it.
It was not about her. But Rhisveri was wrong when he called her a minor [Thief]. Because of her presence at House Veltras, Tyrion Veltras had cause and incentive to lead the Five Families across the ocean.
Because of her, Grand Magus Eldavin—no, the Archmage of Memory had moved Wistram to war.
If it turned out Ryoka had helped found Calanfer on a Dragonthrone, the Wyrm was going to flip.
However, there were more parts to this war that even Ryoka Griffin had no idea about.
“My dear Miss Griffin. Why don’t you leave us for a little bit? I am sure you understand this is a trying time, and we must…recollect ourselves.”
Queen Oiena’s smile had made Ryoka run for the door faster than anything. When the Wind Runner got to safety, she started hyperventilating. Then she kicked a wall, flung up her arms, covered a scream with her shirt, realized people were staring at her…
And wondered how she was going to fix things.
She had to meet with the immortals. She had to do something about Sammial, even if he wasn’t being abused. Rhisveri’s sale of the scroll…just sucked? Oh, and what about the Singer of Terandria? Someone had to help her—she had clearly been successful, but she didn’t know about all the dangers in the world.
Ryoka had almost forgotten about Cara, but she added it to the immediate scramble-list. Stopping Tyrion and Eldavin were also on there. And figuring out how to revive Erin now that they had all the pieces.
It was then that Ryoka realized she was doing it again. Namely—trying to be the lynchpin in every plan. Trying to be the one fixing everything when time had proved that Ryoka’s idea of fixing a hole in the wall was creating a sinkhole so you could rebuild everything from scratch.
That calmed her down, as well as the frank fact that she had done this before. She paced down the hallways, muttering.
