“A research request and report on the battle. I reference ‘Ser Solstice’ as a [Knight] and [Aura of the Hearth] and [Aura of the Brave] for lookup in their libraries. I will now write the contents of the message, verbatim, and my own recollection of both auras in brief. Allow me two minutes.”
He produced a piece of paper and quill and wrote delicately. The [Servant] gulped.
“Yes, Lord Sophridel.”
She retreated, understanding why the [Spymaster] considered the Minister of the Interior Arts a resource to be called upon at need. Her respectful gaze on the tall half-Elf, a silver mane of hair drooped across his angular features, absently brushing at the locks as he stooped slightly to write with impeccable penmanship…
Was all wrong. All she saw was the mask.
She saw ‘Lord Sophridel’. The servant saw the half-Elf. If she wanted to, she could have touched him, and he could have eaten and enjoyed food—not that Alniesierr Carnevien had ever truly enjoyed food. He could be roused to great passion, of course, and if that woman with her hair in a bun and a killing stiletto holding it all together had professed a great love of Selphid writings and fine wine—and baths along moonlit shores on cold nights with the hot water steaming—he would have positively swept her off her feet in a courtship of unexpected passion.
‘Sophridel’ would have been able to do that too, rather admirably, in Alniesierr’s case. But cut him open and you would find no blood or heart beating. Behead him and you would find, among clothing and dust, only one thing.
A mask.
A perfect mask of the half-Elf’s face. In fact, a death-mask, which the eclectic Alniesierr Carnevien had once commissioned thousands upon thousands of years ago. When Sophridel did not have it ‘active’, it floated in a dark void upon his body.
The Elemental of Masks stood in a private room, each mask, from animal to person, staring outwards. Each one…had a quality.
Some were cheap. He held on to them for nostalgia’s sake. Others were expensive. But what mattered was how much they in turn had been worn. Or what they were made of in conjunction with their purpose.
The Court of Masks and the nobility who argued and debated in his rooms wore masks. Each one was suited to them; multiple people could wear the same mask, but the effect was diluted.
Hence, the rules. It would bear little fruit in their lifetimes. But if someone attended the Court of Masks every day for most of their life, wore the same mask…when they died, it would be their mask. And perhaps, one day, far in the future, that mask might detach from Sophridel.
Picture the dark room. Now—see a shadow darker than even that. A bit of the void given form. Anchored, holding, floating upon it, hundreds of masks in every direction. The very idea of masks, of identity, given form.
An Elemental of Masks.
That was who Sophridel was. He was not one mask. He was not an individual if you took away all the masks.
He was all and none, and his likenesses could stride about. Someday, after the man had long-since perished, perhaps Baron Regalius would stride about once more, the very personality of him captured, from his abilities to his demeanor. Or—if it came to battle—a snarling mask made from actual Manticore flesh might materialize.
With all the power of a Manticore. All their limitations and strengths; a mask had to be an accurate representation, even if it was still a mask. Break it and he lost it forever. Sophridel hated losing parts of him.
Hence, his current guise in the genius of Alniesierr, aiding the [Spymaster] from time-to-time. Sophridel drew on more than just that, though.
“[Aura of the Hearth]. Defensive. [Aura of the Brave]. Offensive. A combination is rare. In one entity denotes a conflict or event of the soul. Past history, perhaps. No known combinations exist to my memory. However, the materialization of both is often unpredictable.”
Auras—as any [Lady] or Order of Seasons [Knight] knew—were made up of three stages. Simply manifesting the aura like the King of Destruction was akin to a second instinct. A powerful commanding presence. The ability to withstand [Terror] spells and so on.
Materialization came next, as the Order of Seasons practiced. They could make blades of flame or wind, shields—even change the ambient temperature and so on.
The last stage, rarely obtained, would be such a complete zone of authority that even magic failed before the very concept of their aura. [Mages] often found to their horror that their spells would have less effect against powerful individuals of that nature.
Sophridel, or rather one of his masks, had once heard that auras were part of a natural chain of superiority and weakness. If magic defeated regular warriors, for instance, in basic concept, auras were meant to counter…something.
Something that the theory fell apart around because the theory hadn’t been able to concretely say that auras beat people with swords or magic; it was simply one kind of superiority.
Sophridel wrote on, listing all the notes he had for [Aura of the Hearth].
“Base form—reassurance, the manifestation of morale or nostalgia. As it manifests? Limited cornucopia abilities. Extreme defensive abilities in places of home or shelter. Aura of the Hearth once repelled a King of Avel from entering a mother’s home; they were of roughly equal level. To research—see Disgraces of the Crown, by Goldtongue. The most high-level effects include the creation of structures. My information is limited. Aura of the Brave is far more documented among [Heroes], [Barbarians], and other warriors. Inspiring, courageous as implied. Manifestation of weapons. Overwhelming presence in massed battles. Sheer manifestation at higher-levels has, when consolidated and upgraded, created entire zones of anti-magic.”
He ceased writing, handed the note over to the stunned servant, and let his mask take over and turn back to work.
That was the thing. Sophridel was everywhere at once. He could have multiple masks, although for secrecy’s sake he only used them in very safe, non-combat settings. But one of his other selves was, at this very moment, doing internal bookkeeping on all of Ailendamus’ records.
All the records. She sat in a rather sumptuous room, with every whim catered to. She ate her favorite food, and the [Secretary], a notorious recluse, had once very publicly said she would have quite enjoyed being locked in a prison cell and forced to work rather than be married and deal with the rest of the world.
In her mask, she got her wish, checking for mistakes or corruption internally. Another of Sophridel’s selves was a [Teacher] who imparted magical lessons every few months.
That was who he was. The main body of the Elemental of Masks juggled his selves effortlessly. Again, he was his components. He was no mere Archmage who had to wrestle with parallel thoughts and a limited mind. The Elemental of Masks grew according to his resources, and he had been empowered by all of Ailendamus.
The only question was—er, well…
Was that a bad thing?
It certainly was to Ailendamus’ enemies, as the Elemental had broken almost every cipher and encryption sent against him. And Sophridel was only one immortal in the Kingdom of Glass and Glory. The others could be even more scary.
 
——
 
The Ministry of Intelligence—spying—was one branch of Ailendamus’ actually competent government. Suspiciously competent, one might say, and somehow devoid of corruption on any large scale.
It was hard to do that in a nation. For instance—did you trust your judges? Did you have a judicial system in your species?
Gnolls had [Shamans] and [Chieftains], who could be…biased. Drakes did have a judicial system, but they had certain provisions where the Watch Captain or Council or army had a certain overruling presence.
Humans sometimes just went to the nearest noble, who in turn reported to a higher noble and then a monarch.
Ailendamus had a court system. Not unheard of, but it had [Judges], [Arbiters], and so on. Individuals who would administer an entire region, hold Watch Captains to account, and even punish adventurers who were often considered above the law. They might be ‘above the law’ in a city state.
Not in Ailendamus, where a greatbow would tap you on the shoulder instead of a Level 5 [Archer] with a shortbow. But who were the judges?
“They’re here. Eleven of them.”
The rumor of one of the more famous groups of judges and nobility among Ailendamus was overshadowed by the arrival of the Singer of Terandria and the war. Even so—eleven of House Shoel descending on the capital was a nightmare for any prisoner awaiting judgment.
The cold, impartial men and women of Viscount Visophecin’s family were known for their famous adherence to the law. They entertained no emotional arguments, and each one was rumored to have an emotion-suppressing Skill, because they would send doe-eyed young adults to the chopping block if the crime warranted it.
They could not be bribed or intimidated, and the few who had tried had learned to fear House Shoel’s reach. It seemed to most to be a miserable job, to be so feared and to condemn so many to death, because the judges almost always presided over the worst and most heinous of crimes.
What they did not understand was how much the Lucifen enjoyed it.
Ryoka Griffin sat in on one of the court hearings. She heard the fear among the witnesses hoping that a young woman who had committed a murder, a crime of passion, might get a lighter sentence. She watched with more insight than the rest.
This was what they wanted. A system by which people—terrible people, yes—were legally and swiftly dealt with. Where they could not only administer perfect, beautiful law in an idealized version of a nation, to them, but also reap the rewards of those condemned to death.
The question was to Ryoka—was it corrupt?
She felt it had to be, hence why she took time out of her busy day of panicking about anything and everything to check. The Lucifen were not impartial judges. They had, in legal parlance, a big fucking stake in the outcome of every case they presided upon. They ate the condemned. So surely they were biased and this was a bad system, right?
…Right?
Igolze, the steely-eyed Lucifen judge, wore a kind of grey suit unlike robes that should have looked terrible on him. But the air of faint metal and oil, his perfect, slim posture, and the way he gazed down upon the proceedings without a hint of emotion, even in the face of tears, made him seem like some kind of otherworldly judge.
Which he was. The Devil sat, listening, refusing to change his posture during the hour of discussion where the entire backstory of the young woman was brought up. Ryoka listened to a murder of passion against her lover—who had been abusive—and his mother, who had been culpable and aware of the entire situation.
However, it had been a premeditated murder, not merely passion, although passion was the inciting event; the [Murderer] in question had hidden a knife on her body during the final, fatal encounter. On the other hand, she confessed that she had kept the knife six times before that and only snapped in the final, pivotal beating.
Whereupon she had stabbed her former lover to death and ignored his pleas for a healing potion. After which, his mother, hearing the commotion, tried to kill the young woman, and it led to a brutal fight which…
If Ryoka had been the jury or judge in this case, she would have been forced to make either an emotional judgment or one that had to rely on the rules, because she felt for the girl, but, she had to admit, it was murder. But the abuse…
Igolze had no such qualms. He spoke, sipping from a cup of water after an hour of directing the [Guards], [Mages], and other people present in the room to administer [Detect Truth] spells and so on.
“I judge the following: the defendant is guilty of murder. She deliberately and knowingly planned to murder her lover.”
A groan swept up from the room while some of those waiting for justice looked up. Igolze continued, lifting a hand and sweeping the room with his piercing, faintly red glare. It lingered just a moment on Ryoka, watching in the stands from above. Anyone was free to enter and watch.
“I also judge the defendant was a victim of abuse and assault from both victims. Neither instance exonerates her; she acted in what would be considered self-defense in the moment. That she knowingly kept a weapon on her is indication that she was prepared for murder. I consider the second death, of Northa Vales, in part self-defense as the defendant was attacked with a shortsword. However, Ailendamus’ laws are clear.”
He looked down at the terrified [Murderer], bound by magical spells. Not one muscle moved in Igolze’s face for mercy or anger. He looked at her like a bug defiling his home. More like disgust. We have rules. Why would you bother breaking them?
“You were not prohibited from moving about. You did not fear for your life, and indeed, a [Guardswoman] inquired about your wellbeing twice, Miss Iusa. You could have alerted the Watch or another official.”
He stopped the protest with a [Silence] spell.
“You claim you were afraid for your life. However, the Watch has arrested officials of the crown and protected the innocent without fail. If they had failed, I would be sentencing the Watch Captain and every [Guard] who failed to act.”
He looked calmly at the witnesses, who shifted uncomfortably. Igolze looked back at Iusa and went on.
“I put a question to you: why did you take the matter into your own hands? The answer you gave was that he had to die. You had a choice. It was not truly motivated by fear, but vengeance. You are guilty of murder, but not sentenced to execution. I offer you the choice between labor, twenty years; conscription into Ailendamus’ ranks, eight years maximum, reduced depending on your service; volunteering for magical experimentation, which will last…”
He gave her a list of options, which included volunteering to be a test subject of alchemy or magic, fighting as a conscripted soldier, labor—none of it imprisonment. Ryoka supposed Rhisveri, or perhaps Visophecin himself, had designed the system with the belief that spending money on locking people up was wasteful.
And she was so glad. Not for the poor girl who chose labor. Not for the family who saw justice done or her own family.
Part of Ryoka was simply glad because she saw the Lucifen’s justice.
And it was not hers. The Devils had no pity or humanity in them, and it showed. She listened to how Igolze broke down the [Murderer]—Iusa’s options logically. But logic in that kind of situation? That didn’t exist.
She couldn’t say he was completely wrong in all of it. But he wasn’t right. He had no compassion.
