“They were the Order of the Hydra. The Thirsting Veil did better. They’re acceptable.”
The two Agelum were bright-eyed and missed Ryoka’s eyebrows climbing to the ceiling. As for what they had wished for…Uzine laughed.
“A simple thing. In Ailendamus—so Rhisveri has promised us—he will create a land where no one will ever die of hunger. Nor monster attack. The latter is nigh-impossible to achieve, I know, but the first…”
His eyes glinted.
“It will be done. Such that, even if you have no coin, a [Healer] will see you. No child without parents will starve before a [Guard] finds them. I have seen it done elsewhere, and Rhisveri has implemented laws that make us walk towards that goal. Someday, I will have it fulfilled.”
It was such a childish wish. Or…innocent. It was so genuine that Ryoka thought both Visophecin and Azemith slowed. She felt like shielding her own face from the simple compassion in Uzine. It made her uncomfortable.
It was like…speaking to Erin. She would have understood and been able to take the Agelum at face-value without making a joke or growing uncomfortable. Not Ryoka.
“So, uh, no palaces of gold? Or statues?”
She grinned weakly. Uzine gave her a blank stare.
“No. That would be what Rhisveri gets. I don’t understand his desires—but I am not a Wyrm. We don’t begrudge him his ambitions, so long as we get what we want. We have learned to compromise. Besides, for some, he is our only hope and shelter. Fithea…poor Fithea. She dreams of a day when he will give her a forest ten thousand miles across in every direction, untouched by even half-Elves.”
“That day will never come, even should we take all of Terandria.”
Azemith’s smile was crueler. Uzine shrugged his shoulders.
“Then Terandria and Izril? But in the meantime…ah, here we are. Part of her wish is this.”
They came to a stop, and Ryoka found herself looking up at the Royal Gardens. Not the hedge-maze of outside, nor, in truth, even the colorful walkways where visitors were allowed. For good reason. When they walked through the vast archway, they passed through a long hallway with lettering glittering on the walls. Ryoka gazed upwards and felt nostalgia, again. The messages—rules for visitors, really—were straight and to the point.
 
Littering is punishable.
Plucking flowers or any plants without permission is not allowed.
Do not stray off the paths for your own sake.
It is a crime to bring animals, insects, or other creatures into the garden.
Beware of the [Druids].
 
The area past the doors was so bright Ryoka shaded her eyes for a second. When she lowered her hands, she glanced up and blinked.
“Um. What happened to the ceiling?”
She stared up and wondered if they’d gone outside. For the ceiling was gone, and a bright, foreign sky, too bright for the day outside, shone down. The air felt more humid—and Ryoka would have looked for the rest of the palace if it weren’t for the trees.
The…trees she was sure that she had never seen before, because they would have been on-par with the palace’s tallest towers. Gigantic redwoods, as large as any of Earth’s biggest, and stranger plants still.
One tree had branches that were just long, with these spreading leaves such that it was practically as long horizontally as vertically. Impossibly suspended leaves fanned outwards, casting shadows a hundred feet overhead on thin, magical wood that was bright grey.
It could not physically exist on Earth because no wood or tree could hold that kind of weight, as impossibly thin and long as the branches were. One gust of wind or simply gravity would snap that kind of architecture.
But here, this tree existed, and it was thin and spread aggressively, fighting for light and water with the other trees. It was just one—but Ryoka’s eyes widened as she looked up at the…
“Blue fruit tree? Wait—is that a blue fruit tree?”
The Agelum and Lucifen were enjoying her reaction as the Courier spun around. On the ground were glowing plants, ranging from mundane plants like thistles, in their dangerous glory, growing without being pruned, to Sage’s Grass to…
It was like someone had taken a snapshot of every single plant they could and put it in this place. A vast preserve where plants were given leave to grow without end, even war with each other—but the existence of every species was preserved. Azemith craned her head to look at the blue fruit tree.
“It certainly has blue fruit. Please tell me that is not how your world names trees? What do you call apple trees? Red fruit trees? That’s the Amentus tree that Fithea wanted, wasn’t it? Didn’t the fruits poison some foreign diplomat’s son one time?”
“Poisonous pits, yes. I believe our Thirsting Veil Knights and the Ministry of Intelligence harvest the interiors. It’s grown quite large.”
Visophecin gazed up idly. Ryoka’s eyes bugged out as she stared at what she thought was a blue fruit the size of her head. What could Erin make with that?
“This is Fithea’s…wish?”
“In part. There is a ceiling, but we hid it with magic. Dimensional spells. She desired this, but her true dream lies to the north. Forests where half-Elves are allowed to live in peace. She wishes for trees thousands of years old to grow. Another Great Forest. But it will take millenia to bear fruit; the site has been marked for such a forest to grow, but Ailendamus is only two hundred years old. Still, Fithea’s dream may come true, if last of all of ours.”
The way they talked. The Lucifen sounded encouraging, like someone talking about this long-term project a friend had. The Agelum simply rolled around, inspecting plants. Uzine cautioned Ryoka not to emulate their example.
“This place is zealously guarded. Stay on the pathways, as the rules say. You wouldn’t even have access without us. Oh, and don’t pluck flowers. I know the rules say that, but the guardians really do get annoyed. See? There’s one watching us already. Hello! I learned my lesson last time!”
The Agelum waved a hand cheerfully, and Ryoka nearly jumped into the air as she saw there was someone watching them.
The [Druid] was nearly invisible as she stood in a maze of sunflowers. Her clothing actually took on the colors of the sunflowers, a bright yellow and brown around her hood, drifting to green and then brown lower down.
Oh, and she was a Dwarf. The Dwarf [Druid]’s yellow hood moved as she pointed a stubby finger at Ryoka. She had no beard, Ryoka couldn’t help but notice, but she did have a half-mask of wood over the bottom of her face. She spoke, voice slightly muffled as she pointed.
“You. Keep your wind harnessed. A sporing has begun. We will not have it blow across the gardens.”
“Er. Yes? Hello!”
The [Druid] then ignored Ryoka and glowered at the Lucifen, who nodded to her. Viscount Visophecin raised one hand.
“We are here simply to observe. Lady Fithea has allowed us entry.”
“She has.”
It was a grudging comment. The [Druid] shifted her glare to Uzine, who snatched his hand away from some kind of carnivorous plant, which kept snapping at a finger. But he kept evading it just in time.
Ryoka felt like she needed to say something. She pointed at the woman as the [Druid] turned away.
“Uh, uh—wait! I have something to say! N—Nath—Nathi—Nathal—”
The stuttering made all the Lucifen look at her. Gadrea leaned over to Visophecin.
“Is she having a heart attack?”
“Let me check.”
Azemith began casting a spell as Ryoka finally got it right.
“Nalthaliarstrelous! I know him.”
The [Druid] had been turning away impatiently, but at that name she looked back at Ryoka. The Dwarf woman raised her eyebrows.
“Nalthaliarstrelous of Vale Forest’s Circle?”
Ryoka nodded as Visophecin added that detail to his notes on her. The [Druid] stared long at Ryoka.
“I know his name too. Good for you.”
Then she walked off and vanished into the underbrush without so much as moving a branch. Gadrea and Azemith laughed as Ryoka stood there.
 
——
 
Name-dropping did not impress [Druids]. However, the final immortal’s present that Ryoka saw that evening concluded the decision she was coming to.
The Singer of Terandria was here, and the [Popstar] was dancing, singing, and captivating the entire palace. Most people were talking about her or the war, but Ryoka’s own arrival had resulted in the rare visit of the Agelum, Lucifen…and other events.
Like the Singer’s very arrival, although Ryoka could not know that. What she did know and even participate in were the plays.
“The what.”
Ryoka Griffin rubbed her ear as she sat at a late lunch with Sammial Veltras. After her visit to the courts and garden, Ryoka had gone to see him.
Their fortunes had changed such that neither were exactly a prisoner. Sammial was, more than Ryoka at least, but since she had paid her debt…he was given a free rein of the palace, albeit with an escort, and so was she.
That actually cut down on the problems the two caused. In fact, Sammial had spent all the morning in company.
Princess Oesca of Ailendamus watched Ryoka as she ate with a hovering [Nursemaid] glaring daggers at Ryoka and Sammial. The [Lord] speared a bit of sausage with a dagger and ate it with a grimace.
“What is this? I hate it.”
Ryoka eyed the green sausage.
“Why did you get it, then? Excuse me—plays?”
She turned to Visophecin, who raised his brows as he politely sipped at some soup, manners impeccable. He nodded, but Sammial cut him off.
“I got it because it was green. Duh! It tastes…weird.”
The Lucifen eyed the offending sausage.
“I believe it is made entirely of plant-matter. For half-Elves and other guests who would prefer not to eat meat.”
“No meat?”
In outrage, Sammial dissected the sausage. Ryoka took a piece and found it beat other vegetarian sausages she’d had. Indeed, the [Lord] chewed on his food furiously and relented.
“It’s good. If I put some fat gravy on it, I’d really like it. Do you have any?”
He turned to Oesca, and the [Princess] hesitated.
“I think we do? The [Chefs] can make everything, Sammial. Miss Ryoka, would you like some?”
Ryoka shrugged, then amended her statement.
“Er, I wouldn’t turn it down, Your Highness, but I don’t need any. Sammial—where are you going?”
“To get some gravy. Sausage needs good gravy. Aunt Buscrei told me that. Oesca, let’s go find some.”
That objectionable statement aside, what made the servants and bodyguards look on in horror was Sammial hopping off his chair, taking Oesca by the hand, and dragging her towards one of the kitchens. The [Princess] followed along, nervous and excited by turns at this breach of decorum. And Sammial’s aura meant that the [Nursemaid] had to fight to catch him.
Ryoka and Visophecin looked on as Ryoka chewed on Sammial’s sausage. She turned back to Visophecin and found he was staring at Sammial.
“…I do not interact with children often. That young boy seems unusually—gifted.”
The Lucifen frowned after Sammial. Ryoka shrugged.
“I’ve seen weirder.”
He focused on her with a slightly disbelieving look, which told her he really didn’t meet children. Just imagine what Mrsha would do?
Ryoka missed Mrsha. She stopped eating. Then she went back to Visophecin’s statement, to Oesca’s delight and Sammial’s interest. And Ryoka’s surprise.
“…Did you say there were plays coming to Ailendamus?”
The Lucifen nodded.
“We have obtained copies of the plays from the ‘Players of Celum’, I believe. It took some negotiating, but it is my understanding one of the palace wings is nearly finished with renovations.”
“For plays.”
“For a theatre, yes. Sophridel requested it, and since it would fall under the arts and not just personal…indulgence, Rhisveri approved the measure. Not that Sophridel couldn’t have simply put the request through our own systems. Indeed, it was already proposed. He simply enlarged the project.”
Sammial came back with about fourteen [Cooks], who placed a sample of over fifty sauces and gravies on the table. His first act was to dip a new sausage in a Sugarfish syrup and take a huge bite. Ryoka and Visophecin watched him in dead silence before Ryoka turned back to Visophecin.
“How big is this theater, exactly?”
The Lucifen pulled a folder out of the air and flicked through it. Princess Oesca watched the Viscount, normally so reserved, with great interest as she tried to copy Sammial’s example.
“Your Highness, a [Princess] does not eat an entire sausage or dip in syrup like…”
The [Nursemaid] tried to correct her, and Oesca lowered it.
“Just one bite?”
“Your mother would object, Your Highness. I’m afraid I must insist. Perhaps a small sample with it cut up delicately?”
“Oh—very well.”
Oesca’s face fell as the blond [Lordling] saw the nursemaid produce a knife and fork to manage her portions. Sammial, half-choking on a huge mouthful, still managed to force out one word.
“Coward.”
The [Princess] gazed at him as Ryoka twitched and covered a smile. Oesca’s brows crossed, and she snatched the fork and skewered the sausage.
“Your Highness, no—!”
Ryoka felt a tap on the shoulder and turned from pride, death by maple syrup sausage, prejudice, and Sammial, and saw Visophecin adjusting his spectacles.
“I believe it will seat up to six thousand people. The construction has taken…two months, and Sophridel implemented a number of design aspects, such as magnification of visuals, audio…extensive illusory spells. A chandelier? Rosewood flooring…”
He frowned at the cost. Ryoka’s eyes bugged out at the numbers. That had to be wrong. But Visophecin just hmmed.
“Sophridel is a lover of the arts, as you may understand. He was quite…passionate about the plays. I believe we have you to thank for the copies of the plays arriving. Your name helped persuade the Players of Celum to send them.”
“Me? Wait—how do you know—?”
The Lucifen gave Ryoka a steady look.
“You are listed on file as a close associate with the Players of Celum. It is not difficult to read a piece of paper. With an appropriately trained intelligence network, of course.”
“But I didn’t tell them to give you anything.”
Visophecin blinked at her.
“No, you did not. Perhaps the Players of Celum felt it was in their best interests to ingratiate themselves with one of Terandria’s biggest nations. Or that this would help your situation. They may have sent a [Message]. I could check?”
“No. It’s just…so you’re putting on plays?”
“Would you like to visit the theatre? I believe Sophridel may be presiding over the affair.”
“I’ll go too! Ryoka, you don’t take me to interesting things! I wanted to visit the garden! Let’s go, Oesca. And get your friends. Plays are interesting! That’s what Ryoka told me. If she lies, we’ll blame her.”
