But then Ryoka Griffin realized how far the Luficen’s idea of justice cut when Igolze rose.
“Remove the defendant. In light of this ruling—the next trial shall concern the Vales family’s culpability in the case of abuse of one Iusa Vales. As the defendants are present, I summon them to the court. I summon the following witnesses…”
Every head in the courtroom turned towards the frozen people, and Ryoka saw, just for a second, what she’d been waiting for. At his podium, Igolze, the Lucifen…
Smiled.
Just for a second.
 
——
 
Afterwards, Viscount Visophecin met Ryoka as she tried to have lunch. She ended up just sipping from a fruit drink; she wasn’t hungry.
“What do you think of Ailendamus’ judicial systems? Compared to Earth?”
He appeared at her table as she turned her head. Ryoka nearly spilled the drink all over herself, but an invisible force stopped it from tipping over. She turned and saw Igolze, Azemith and a fourth Lucifen all watching her.
Visophecin did not preside over judgements, but he appeared interested as Igolze watched Ryoka with keen interest. She took a deep breath.
“It’s the most horrific thing I’ve seen so far. Magical experimentation? You’re judging the people you…”
She hesitated, but knew they were under secrecy wards.
“…eat? Haven’t you heard of bias? Or are Lucifen above it all? And you had no compassion for that young woman!”
The Lucifen looked at her, each face unmoving. Then they did it again. They smiled, and Igolze leaned forwards.
“Separating the issue of our presence as arbiters aside from the individual ruling…how, exactly, did you find my judgment wrong, Ryoka Griffin?”
It was not hard for Ryoka to break down why she found Igolze’s judgment heartless for someone suffering abuse. What she expected was indifference or contempt. Not the instantaneous debate that broke out among the four Lucifen.
“I would have considered it understandable self-defense on all counts, Igolze. Two murders, albeit with cause? You have erred. Reconsider your verdict.”
Azemith needled her partner as Igolze frowned.
“The law is clear. She is aware of the power of the Watch—”
Visophecin broke in.
“That is not something she was in a fit state of mind to consider. If she were a child, would you hold her to that standard?”
Igolze glared, eyes narrowing, and the smell of oil and fire intensified at their table.
“I would not, Visophecin, and I resent the comparison. Her district witnessed two public arrests within the last year; she would be aware that the Watch held no fear of authority. I remind you she testified under truth spell that it was her determination for her partner to die.”
The fourth Lucifen, a woman, smiled coldly.
“And you cast the onus of her crimes upon her? Not the Watch, for failing to investigate further? Nor the family who was culpable? I trust you will hold them to fair account. I characterize you as lenient upon the unlawful and too fond of imprisoning the victim, Igolze. The rest of the family agrees.”
The Lucifen’s eyes narrowed to points.
“Is that so? Let’s review the cases of last month—”
“Only the female ones. Of abuse. You have a failing in your mind—”
“Convince me of that now, or I will put a void spell under your pillow.”
Igolze’s smile looked like he was contemplating a crime that would send him to the chopping block. Based on how the other Lucifen returned that dangerous smile—Ryoka was sure it wasn’t an idle threat.
She saw Visophecin look at her as Igolze began a heated breakdown of all the cases—and he could remember them perfectly.
“Do you see?”
She sipped at her drink and looked at Visophecin.
“Your people enjoy this? The Lucifen?”
His eyes glittered, and all three other Lucifen looked up.
“Law, to Lucifen, and properly administering it, is a joy we have. Seeing Ailendamus function without issue or resolve a problem within the system we have laid out is…as close to happiness as we find it among mortals. Your point that we are biased is well made, but I offer you this admittedly biased rebuttal, Ryoka. To have those with the power and incentive in the seat of judgment is clearly flawed. But we are not Human, mortal, or other species. Our purpose is to uphold order. As we see it, yes, but we desire proper law. Igolze, Azemith, Shierxun’s rulings all differ based on their understanding of the law. But their intent is to render justice in its most complete form.”
All three Lucifen nodded. Ryoka looked at them, then Visophecin.
“And the experimentation on prisoners?”
He raised two brows.
“They may volunteer. It is not an obligation. I see your…moral quandaries. But I simply say this. Without live participants, we learn less, and less quickly. It is not moral. But it is delightfully efficient compared to those who hold the lives of others to be a virtue.”
Now he did look at her, clearly hoping she’d shudder. Just to spite him, Ryoka took a big sip of her drink. She nearly spat it out when she saw the unmistakable sight of two wheelchairs coming her way.
Wheelchairs? It was odd because it shouldn’t have been to Ryoka, but she was used to a world without even the expertise to make wheeled…chairs…common.
Ryoka would have more expected to see a floating dais or enchanted artifact because, in a way, that was easier. Or a palanquin carried by people. However, Ailendamus’ foundries and metalworks were advanced enough, and House Shoel’s especially, that the two Agelum could move about like that.
And they were here. That was the big thing. People respectfully passed, or noticed the Agelum like Ryoka; oddities even among Ailendamus’ palace.
“There she is. I told you she was somewhere about here. You have to watch the [Knights].”
Gadrea was scolding Uzine. The two sat in their wheelchairs as respectful servants of House Shoel wheeled them forwards. They looked as frail as butterflies, their odd eyes with too many pupils staring about hungrily at the bustling palace. They looked like they were enjoying all the excitement—and from the way the Lucifen watched with concern, especially Visophecin, overexcited butterflies that could hurt themselves by their sheer eagerness.
The fair cousins to the Lucifen came to a stop as Ryoka half-rose.
“Gadrea, Uzine. I didn’t know you two went about the palace.”
“Oh, we do! And I’d get around faster if I were allowed to push myself, no offense, Ollena. But I’m afraid we do injure ourselves; hence Visophecin limiting the visits to once every blue moon. Literally. At least there are two. Ah—you two, take a rest. Have some food and rest yourselves. I insist.”
Uzine produced some silver coins, which he handed over to the two servants. They retreated to another table as the Agelum sat at Ryoka’s table. They were too low in their wheelchairs to sit at head-height. Until they rose slightly off the ground. Ryoka peered under the table and saw blocks of light magic raising them up so they could look around at eye-level.
Gadrea’s eyes twinkled as she smiled at Azemith, whose face was perfectly blank as she nodded to her cousins. That was what tickled Ryoka. Heartless, certainly predatory, and prone to cruelties as they might be, the Lucifen cared about the Agelum.
“So, what did you think of our cousins’ laws and order, Ryoka Griffin?”
Gadrea fixed Ryoka with one of her pupils as the other eye moved about. Ryoka had seen Gazi doing much the same, and she replied after a second.
“…I didn’t care for it. I, ah…well, it’s complicated legally. Our judicial systems are different from yours.”
“How so?”
And she had to explain it all over again. What was interesting was that the Agelum had a completely different take on the matter. No sooner had Ryoka laid out the case than Uzine began frowning and shaking his head.
“This is why I cannot bear to see it. Our cousins are…fair. In that they pass judgment regardless of rank and age. I could never do so.”
“Fair like the blade of the Hedag’s axe. It cuts too sharply. Which is why they vanished.”
Gadrea put in quietly. Uzine turned to Igolze, who looked uncomfortable as the Agelum gave him a hard stare.
“You put that poor girl in a labor camp? Igolze!”
“I have had enough of my kin passing judgment, Uzine. I may reconsider my ruling—but I do not believe the Agelum are fair mediators. Or what would you do?”
The Lucifen’s voice was put-upon. Uzine glowered.
“I? I would make a [Knight] of that girl! Offer her a place in the Thirsting Veil, or at least the Order of the Hydra, and let her be the one that falls upon that kind of wretch without mercy. As for that family…they knew of what passed?”
Igolze folded his arms.
“I will not speak of the case until I have heard the witnesses.”
Gadrea’s glower was no less intense than Uzine’s.
“Yet they did live under the same roof. In that case, sentence them all. Eat the family that would let such a thing happen and toss their bones to the worms.”
Ryoka sat back as the two glowered fiercely. Visophecin turned to her as the Lucifen shook their heads.
“You can see why we split our family between the two of us. Uzine and Gadrea’s kin…make poor judges of character.”
“They would have each murderer who killed in self-defense accept a knighthood. Self-defense is not always virtuous, Uzine, Gadrea.”
Azemith retorted, speaking up for Igolze for the first time. Uzine sat back, letting the matter go, if not his frown. He turned to Ryoka, resigned.
“I am glad you spoke to our cousins. They do not listen; we have had this argument for millenia, after all. If not always in the same places and contexts. Why, my great grandfather used to throw his celestial arms at—”
A cough made him break off, and Ryoka saw Visophecin tap a finger on the table. The Devil looked at Ryoka thoughtfully.
“Igolze’s judgment is but one case. Pray, tell us more about your systems, Ryoka Griffin. It may lie in the mere presentation of how we sit and judge. A jury is…”
The other three Lucifen sneered, but Visophecin did not.
“…undesirable. But I do take your point well about the impartiality of judges. Perhaps it is finally time to establish the royal courts and remove ourselves. The training process will take a decade.”
“Not to mention corruption within their ranks and overseeing them. They are also susceptible to Skills and magic, even if their character is impeccable. But I may agree at last when our kin debate the issue.”
Azemith, Igolze, and Shierxun all nodded, which, again, surprised Ryoka. She took another sip from her orange juice. Nothing special. Just orange juice. It tasted a bit less sweet, but…fresher than she remembered. Probably because there wasn’t corn syrup and these were actually, genuinely squeezed from oranges. Was it wrong to miss the preservative?
“Why the sudden turnaround?”
Visophecin flicked his fingers, looking slightly amused.
“Why, because you object to it so. Because if we present ourselves to your nations and are seen—Lucifen aside—to fall behind in decorum, we are lesser. How can we seduce other nations and individuals to our cause without impressing upon them the quality of our laws?”
The Lucifen nodded as one. Suddenly, Ryoka had to explain the concept of a jury of peers, recollect how a trial in the modern world was laid out, not to mention the court system…
If there was a group interested in checks and balances and the formation of government, it was Visophecin’s people. Not Gadrea and Uzine. Gadrea promptly began ordering the latest delicacies. Uzine, after twenty minutes, put his head back and slept, only waking up when they were done and rising. He turned to Ryoka with a bright smile.
“At last! Now you have seen our kin’s gift and pact with Ailendamus and Rhisveri. We shall show you ours, next.”
Ryoka raised one eyebrow curiously.
“Pact?”
The Agelum smiled broadly.
“Of course. Or did you come here without knowing? It is our deal, we of…long-lived persuasion. Our promise with Rhisveri. Did you think he kept it all?”
He offered her a hand, and Ryoka found Visophecin pushing the wheelchair as he showed her what she had been looking for, in part.
The immortal bargain that lay at the heart of Ailendamus.
 
——
 
There were parts of Ailendamus that were truly wondrous. Like the Court of Masks, there were projects, areas, or simply parts of the nation that were amazing. And that was because they had immortal hands behind them.
Uzine was only too happy to elaborate to Ryoka how it had all come about.
“When first we struck our pact with Rhisveri, it was of aid and mutual convenience. We had—issues. Did you hear what happened to the last palace?”
“I, uh, saw.”
The Agelum laughed.
“Teething issues. We weren’t the first, either! Some came to Rhisveri in a position of weakness, rescued like poor Gilaw. Others, however? He had to offer us something, so our dear Wyrm established the basic rule that governs us. A deed for a deed. What we wish for with all our hearts will come true if it is within Ailendamus’ power—if we provide an equal value, of course. Gilaw and Menorkel are far from that dream, but House Shoel has provided unending aid to the crown. Therefore…”
“The entire system of law and justice falls to the Lucifen. As they desire.”
Gadrea was being pushed by Azemith as the group proceeded through the palace. The Agelum got looks. The reclusive members of Viscount Visophecin’s family got looks. Ryoka, bare-footed, the Wind Runner, got the most looks.
Perhaps ‘look’ was too simple a word. It wasn’t goggle-eyed, more like a speculative gaze from afar from the court. The servants had wary respect for the Lucifen, eyed Ryoka like trouble, especially because of her bare feet, and looked as fondly at the Agelum as any servants of the palace.
They all had a reputation, which each group cultivated because they desired it. Agelum were well-loved busybodies. The Lucifen, feared and aloof. Ryoka was confusing.
“So what did you ask for, Uzine? Or are we going to see it?”
The Agelum waved a hand, smiling.
“We do not have a set thing. You’ve seen Sophridel’s conceit, haven’t you? Fithea’s is within the walls. We Agelum asked for something that cannot be seen directly. And I must say—we relied on our cousins to fulfill the worth since we are so…”
He gestured at himself. Visophecin murmured.
“The Agelum provide a number of useful talents. Not least training our [Knights]. Did you have a chance to meet any you remembered, Uzine?”
The Agelum sighed.
“Only a few. The rest are deployed or at war. And I can only swing a blade for a minute! But I didn’t hurt myself, and it was quite fun, seeing how the [Knights] did. Their polish is lacking. I put eight down. Gadrea, ten.”
