The [Soldiers] weren’t going to run or break or mutiny. This was a war, and they knew the stakes.
They just weren’t happy. Walking sucked. Being hungry sucked. Facing a giant nation like Ailendamus sort of sucked.
Rabbiteater felt someone poking him in the side and stirred.
What would she have done? What would she want him to do? On the heels of that thought was the obvious knowledge—he was not her. She had…died.
And yet, as Rabbiteater looked around and Ser Markus went to shake someone’s hand and Meisa talked about her home with a Kaliv woman…Rabbiteater knew he wasn’t Erin Solstice.
But he could try. He could do anything. He was a Hufflepuff. Whatever that meant.
He could try.
 
——
 
The half-Elves of Gaiil-Drome’s alliance considered that everything since their last battle was stupid. Their entire command had surrendered rather than be torn apart by Greatbows and the charging Order of the Hydra—who had badly outnumbered the Thronebearers—and the Thronebearers had quit the field rather than be surrounded.
Probably strategic, but the [Soldiers] were just grateful that the Ailendamus [Knights] hadn’t hacked them apart.
As for the Order of Seasons rescuing them…it was plain to see the Humans had gotten battered in their own fighting, for all they claimed a victory. Maybe they’d even won, but if they had, why were they here, clearly trying to find safety?
They were losing this war. So the half-Elves resented the [Knights]—Human [Knights]—trying to lie to their faces. Their fellow Human soldiers knew it was a blatant attempt to make them feel better. No one was a fool; Gaiil-Drome’s people just didn’t want to spare the effort trying to make the [Knights] feel better.
“Here comes the odd one. The Goblin Slayer.”
One of the half-Elf [Forest Archers] called out, and the rest of his kin looked up with mild interest. A few Spring Knights had tried to connect vis-à-vis the love of forests, nature, and so on.
They had failed because these were not village half-Elf recluses, but urban half-Elves. For a given value of urban, of course. But someone assuming you just loved trees was fairly speciesist. As far as half the [Archers] were concerned, the only tree they loved was one that would make a fine yew longbow.
This [Knight] was interesting, though. For one thing, he had a crimson cloak of…blood? Not cloth. His armor was magnificent still, despite the fighting, and he carried an enchanted axe with a jade edge. Oh, and he’d beaten half of the [Soldiers] he’d fought by throwing helmets.
They called him the Goblin Slayer. Already rumors were spreading about him in the Dawn Concordat’s ranks because all they could do was talk on the march. He was apparently an Izrilian [Knight] that never took off his helmet. He had taken a vow—but he was a feared slayer of Goblins who’d bested an Ailendamus [General]—no, three—in battle.
He was a friend of the Summer’s Champion. He was an excellent fighter and solo [Knight] of no known Order. Oh—and people suspected he wasn’t Human.
Already reason enough for the half-Elves to be interested. The rumor had it that Ser Solstice was either a Gnoll or Drake based on Izril. Possibly a Drake without a tail?
Interesting, in short. But the [Knight] looked like he was on the morale-raising trip, so the half-Elves nodded to him warily. No bows, no ‘Ser Knights’. The armored figure stopped and then dismounted from his warhorse.
“Hello.”
“Ser Solstice? Good day to you. Is something amiss?”
Their leader nodded politely to the [Knight] as the armored figure strode next to them, the horse plodding along with its reins in his grasp. It was just as well they were close to civilization; if they hadn’t been, the [Soldiers] and [Knights] would have made the hard choice to eat the horses’ grain—then the animals.
However, the strange [Knight] just regarded the half-Elves with blatant curiosity. It was a bit uncomfortable as he didn’t reply to the male half-Elf for a while. Then he nodded.
“Nothing’s wrong. I want to talk.”
Of course he did. The leader smiled politely.
“Naturally, Ser Solstice. I am [Bow Leader] Verilien. I would be very interested in learning about you. Or discussing our homeland? Did you have something you wished to discuss?”
A few ears perked up. This might at least kill some time, but he had better not say anything about the spirit of the forest or half-Elven grace or…
Ser Solstice nodded once and looked around.
“Do you all eat bugs?”
Someone tripped, and there were curses. The half-Elves turned to Ser Solstice.
“What?”
Verilien frowned at the [Knight]. Ser Solstice shrugged.
“You eat bugs? Centipedes, roaches? Worms?”
“Wh—no. Ser Solstice! What a question! Are you asking if we’re willing to supplement our rations?”
That was the only thing the flabbergasted [Bow Leader] could think of. The [Knight] scratched at his helmet.
“Huh. No. Thought you ate bugs. I know a half-Elf who does.”
For a second, a terrible thought flashed across the mind of a few of the older half-Elves. Not all were old. Many were only in their thirties. One was even in his late twenties. These were urban half-Elves who were still mature by twenty. So they looked very young, if adult. But a few of the older ones were eighty…and one of them looked uneasy.
“…Which half-Elf would that be? An [Alchemist]…?”
There was one half-Elf who might do that. To everyone’s relief, Ser Solstice shook his head.
“No. An ice mage. She eats bugs. She did it in her forest. I wondered if you did.”
“Oh. A rural half-Elf. One of the forest-dwellers.”
Everyone relaxed, and there were some incredulous looks. He must have met…
“So there are some of our kin on Izril, of course. We, ah, do not eat bugs. Ser Solstice.”
Virilien replied with mixed amusement and outrage. The [Knight] hmmed.
“Too bad. I thought half-Elves would be tougher.”
Every pointed ear froze for a moment, and eyes narrowed. Virilien’s smile was markedly less diplomatic.
“Do you object to our pace, Ser Solstice?”
The [Knight] looked around; the half-Elves were not far apart from the rest of the column, so his voice was audible to other Humans listening in.
“Yep. You’re all slow. Pheislant, [Knights]…you could move faster. But that’s okay.”
He said it so insultingly calmly that everyone picked up the pace instantly. Now, the mysterious [Knight] was the source of glares, but he just increased his speed.
“I regret to inform you we do not have horses, Ser Solstice.”
“Neither did I. You want to race? I’ll race you fifteen miles.”
Was it bravado? He sounded so cheerful—but Verilian recognized what he was doing. The pace was picking up, but there was only so hard the [Knight] could push them.
He was clearly a warrior who was used to motivating others. The half-Elves were now striding rather than walking, but they deliberately kept up their conversation.
“I hope we haven’t offended you in some way, Ser Solstice? I don’t believe our people have fallen behind Humans in any way.”
“Nope. I don’t know your fighting. Eating bugs is useful. You could go faster. This is just talking.”
Did he mean that? A few of the warriors glanced at him oddly. So why was he here? The [Knight] strode along without seeming to even feel the enhanced pace in his armor. Then he spoke.
“Gaiil-Drome is your nation, right?”
“Yes.”
Virilien frowned at the [Knight]. The stranger hmmed again.
“Never been. Do you have good food?”
It was the most blaisé talk ever. About to scoff, the half-Elves hesitated because he sounded uniquely, completely, innocently curious. To test him, Virilien gave him another fake smile.
“Have you never heard of half-Elven cuisine, Ser Solstice? I imagine our food does not differ from the fare you might find in other nations.”
“Okay. But I have never eaten half-Elven food. Or at a restaurant.”
Hmm?
That had to be a lie. Even a few of the [Archers] from villages that were reclusive or the forest towns grinned. But Ser Solstice’s helmeted head didn’t move.
“A pub then. Surely you’ve had a few…Izirilian pubs might not have that many half-Elven dishes. A Gaiilen Salad?”
“Nope. I’ve eaten salads. What’s Gaiilen Salad?”
“Oh—”
Flustered, the [Bow Leader] found himself being honest.
“It’s a national dish. It comes from the Hinterthere Melons that we grow. A magical one that sparkles; it grows deep in the forests, but it can be cultivated. It’s just a fruit salad, truthfully, but it’s a meal unto itself. An entire bowl full of fruits. Wild blackberries from home, sometimes Peckle Nuts—tiny acorns sprinkled in.”
Bellies started grumbling at the very thought of the salad. They had other foods, too. Salad was not what the half-Elves wanted. A brisket…but the strange [Knight] was making appreciative sounds. Was he smacking his lips?
“Is it good?”
“It…you’ve never heard of it?”
A bit of national outrage sparked in a few breasts. One of the half-Elves leaned over.
“There’s many derivatives, and most places could claim to serve a ‘Gaiilen Salad’. But the truly magical dish, prepared correctly, is never left out. It needs to be fresh, of course, but it isn’t uncommon for squirrels or birds to try to eat it. That’s an indication of the real thing.”
“It also makes for wonderful pest traps.”
“Really.”
There was a smile in the [Knight]’s voice. Virilien felt like he couldn’t get a grasp on this stranger.
“Are you planning on visiting Gaiil-Drome, Ser Knight? We would be happy to host you if this war is won.”
That was the kind of statement that was acceptable. Vague promises. But Ser Solstice just shook his head.
“No. Maybe. I don’t know. I’m just hungry.”
And he thought talking about food was going to help with that? The half-Elves didn’t understand a Goblin’s perspective on food. He talked about it because he was hungry. Why not? There was no better time to talk about food, because that was when you appreciated it. You should be starving when you get to a banquet.
“What, may I ask, is your preferred dish from your homeland?”
One of the half-Elves asked with a smile. It was a testing question. If he said some kind of distinctly Gnoll or Drake dish…but the [Knight] wasn’t playing mind-games.
“Hm. Cookies?”
“…What’s that?”
Another smacking sound from within the helmet. The [Knight] looked ahead as everyone listening in grew more interested.
“It’s a circle. This big.”
He showed them with his hands.
“Made of flour and sugar and…stuff. Butter? Eggs? It bakes in this oven. Doesn’t take long. You put cinnamon on it. And chocolate, but I’ve never seen any chocolate. Might not exist. You can put other things in it. Like oatmeal. Oatmeal is good. Gives it chewiness. It comes out hot, but it can sit there.”
“Oh—like a bread?”
“Nope. Chewy, sweet. Dessert. Or a snack. You can eat an entire basket.”
“I’ve never heard of that, Ser Solstice. Is it a particularly Izrilian dish?”
“Um. Maybe?”
He was so vague, but a few people who could detect lies or were simply judges of character didn’t think he was lying. He was, well, casually fascinating. Despite themselves, Virilien and a few other [Soldiers] marching quicker along drew closer, not just half-Elves. And they didn’t notice the march.
“Another one, then. Another favorite dish, Ser Solstice.”
“Hamburgers.”
“You must be making these foods up. I have been to Izril, Ser Solstice, and I’ve never heard of these dishes.”
“It’s new.”
“Very well, I will play your game. How is it made?”
The [Knight] was smiling behind his helmet. It came out in his voice.
“You take some bread. A nice, fluffy bun. Then you cut it open and put a meat-thing in the center. A burger. Patty?”
“What is…?”
The [Knight] was growing more animated. And he knew perfectly well he was speaking to an audience who could appreciate meat. Ceria ate meat; half-Elves therefore probably ate meat. It was only the weird village-ones who would be horrified.
And while Rabbiteater was no [Cook]—his Cave Goblins had learned to cook, Pebblesnatch especially. He’d helped Erin in the kitchen.
Moreover, he was a Goblin. He knew food. No sooner had he provided everyone with the mouthwatering image of a burger sizzling on a pan or grill than he began describing the other foods that he’d encountered at her inn.
Like a stack of pancakes so high that someone had had the idea to hollow out the center and fill it with syrup and butter. Then, as you cut into it, it leaked out, until a little Gnoll girl almost passed out from sheer decadence.
Every stomach was rumbling, and perhaps it was the hungry [Marshal] himself who ordered rations broken out on the march.
Which was almost a bad idea, because as everyone stopped, they chewed on preserved, flat bread. Jerky. Liberated supplies of fish, goat’s cheese from Kaliv, and Calanferian grapes.
Ser Solstice put all of that into a sandwich—including the grapes—and inserted it into his helmet in a quick motion while hiding his face. But even he didn’t sound too happy.
“Hrgh. Dry.”
“Tasteless.”
The half-Elves ate their fare without enthusiasm but went back to talking about proper food.
“Calanfer has fine vintages of wine, you know. Proper dates and grapes as fat as walnuts.”
“Surely those are the worst. They’d be all water…”
“Ah, but they aren’t. Not with the right Skills by the [Vintners]. This bread…did you say you enjoyed properly risen bread, Ser Solstice? With a good [Baker] with leavening Skills, I assume?”
“Nope. Baking powder. Who needs a Skill?”
“Go on. Surely you don’t mean there’s a powder that…? I have a [Baker] as an uncle, and he has never mentioned the stuff.”
“It’s new.”
“Like hamburgers, ice cream—which is gelato—cookies, soufflés, and all these other things you’ve mentioned.”
“Yep.”
Everyone laughed politely at the deadpan [Knight]. If he was lying, it was still entertaining. But then they came to water.
“Save those rations! We haven’t come to a river today, so drink it sparingly! Not that it’s the greatest issue, Ser Solstice.”
Marshal Huges reassured everyone that water was not going to be a problem. Kaliv had enough sources of water; this wasn’t Chandrar. The locals could find water.
Lovely river-water. Slightly brackish. Everyone’s first ravenous bites had stopped, so they munched on hard bread and their poor quality fare very, very slowly as they continued marching.
Or rather, Ser Solstice did. He gave them all about one minute before he walked on, and everyone followed, cursing and trying not to drop their fare. Did he have no sense of needing a break? But he could walk the walk he talked, so they followed.
