She rolled past Ryoka, laughing as the Wind Runner felt a surge of nostalgia. Immortal humbling. However, Visophecin shook his head slightly at his cousin.
“I think it is just as well, Gadrea. Especially because a citadel-class warship and one of the Five Families is at war with our armies because of her. With her help, we may de-escalate the problems in this war.”
Ryoka smiled in relief and nodded. The two kept walking, and as they were discussing how to do it, Visophecin pulled something out of the air and frowned at it.
“I just received a [Message] from Rhisveri to check the scrying orb. Wistram News Network. Let me see…”
The two saw the orb flicker to life, and both of them saw a half-Elf, soon to be an Archmage, standing in the halls of Wistram. Ryoka saw Grand Magus Eldavin giving his famous address as he was given his new rank.
“Oh! Eldavin!”
“Miss Griffin! Do you know him?”
Ryoka turned. Princess Oesca had come running, hiking up her skirt. She waved at Ryoka.
“Please have a pre-banquet repast with Father and Mother! Father wants to speak with you about matters of state, and Mother, um…wants to speak with you too. We have some of the popped corn you told us about!”
Visophecin waved Ryoka off as the Wind Runner shrugged. She followed Oesca and arrived just in time to see the Archmage of Memory’s coronation.
It really was good she’d given up on the entire war thing, Ryoka reflected as she licked her fingers and tasted the buttery popcorn. How could she really see herself fighting Itorin, who she liked? Even if Oiena was giving her sour looks…Ryoka chewed on some popcorn and wondered what Eldavin was up to. Did he not remember…?
She chomped down on her popcorn, feeling more relaxed than she had in a long time. Then she frowned as she began to catch wind of what was going on. She watched Eldavin turn to address his audience—and then cast a single spell. She slowly went dead white.
Ryoka thus had a front-row seat to seeing people in super-armor flying over Ailendamus’ army, Wistram entering the Dawn Concordat’s war, and Eldavin, Archmage of Memory, blasting his way into Terandria’s spotlight. The room…was so very quiet as the royal family looked at her, and Ryoka choked on popcorn.
That familiar pain in her stomach was back. But the churning wasn’t of the rapids in the river. The river styx had just turned into an ocean, and out of a whirlpool came a Kraken of anxiety.
She should have known, really. Murphy’s Law, remember? Ryoka Griffin and de-escalation had never been friends.
 
——
 
It never failed to surprise Rabbiteater how unprepared other species were for battle, let alone war.
Three days had passed since they had made their dramatic raid and escape, and already morale was fraying around the edges.
Mind you, the fighting didn’t help.
“Wind, be my blade!”
Ser Markus raised his sword overhead as they charged towards a group of surprised [Soldiers] from Ailendamus. It was a pell-mell melee, and Pheislant’s forces were skirmishing with the column of armored warriors.
Both sides had walked right into each other. Oh, they had [Scouts], and the Spring Knights with actual stealth-Skills had spotted the enemy. Unfortunately, they had been spotted, so the Order of Seasons had elected to charge rather than waste the moment.
Markus was raising his sword overhead as he bellowed, and it was a stupid move. Because even in armor, his guard was down. A [Crossbowman] on the ground—woman, whatever—aimed the contraption up at him. Then heard a loud donk sound.
“Hm.”
Rabbiteater had just hit her as hard as he could with the flat of his battleaxe. Definitely a knockout blow from the way she dropped, and she probably had a concussion.
“Stop leaving your guard down, you idiot!”
Meisa raced past Markus, charging another group of scattering archers. Markus, shamefaced, whirled his mount and saw a rider coming his way.
Not another [Knight], but the [Rider]’s spear looked like it was wickedly sharp. Had it grown barbs on the tip?
Definitely a Skill. However, Markus didn’t use a Skill to create the rippling air around the blade of his sword. Even as Rabbiteater watched, circling Markus from the side to intervene—the Spring Knight flicked the wind off the blade, then whirled it.
A practiced move. He might be new to his newfound power and level, but he knew how to fight with his aura. The gust of wind was no sharp blade, but it did slam into the [Rider], and Markus’ opponent flinched. The Spring Knight swung his blade into that guard, and one-two—
Rabbiteater saw the blood and the falling figure. Markus actually reached for a potion at his side—but there was nothing to heal. Rabbiteater rode past him and saw a charging man with a pike. He bent down, swung Headscratcher’s gold-jade axe, and cut the weapon in two. The shaking [Pikeman] raised his arms, and Rabbiteater pointed at him.
“Yield?”
“I yield, Ser!”
The [Soldier]’s voice shook with relief. Rabbiteater nodded genially.
“Okay. Helmet.”
The man stopped as he tossed his shortsword down. He hesitated, but the axe aimed at his face made him fumble it off. Rabbiteater took the helmet, inhaled the sweat and cramped fugue, and then turned and tossed it as hard as he could.
Another satisfying donk as it hit a [Knight] from Ailendamus dueling Talia. She knocked her opponent off their horse as they staggered and glared at Rabbiteater, but the Goblin just rode past the [Soldier].
Yielding was so stupid. Any Goblin worth their salt would stab him in the back. But since it was a custom, he was happy not to kill the Humans. But Rabbiteater did insist on his twist; he demanded helmets. It took a bit of work putting a helmet back on, it was easy to tell non-combatants apart, and not having a helmet was a big problem that discouraged people going back on their word.
He could be so relaxed in battle because, frankly, this was not a hot engagement. Unlike the Order of the Hydra, these were regular [Soldiers], and the Order of Seasons were [Knights].
Even so—as Ailendamus fell back in relatively good order, Rabbiteater gazed around, watching all corners, and felt that expectation.
Is this the battle I die in? He dodged an arrow coming at him from the side so fast a young [Archer] was left breathless.
[Aspect of the Champion: Greater Dexterity]. Nothing was more important than reflexes in a rapid fight where the danger was from every angle. Rabbiteater whirled and raised his axe as he rode down on the [Archer], who was backed up by one last squad. They aimed their weapons at him as he raised his axe overhead, shield guarding his chest. Markus turned as Rabbiteater, Ser Solstice, shouted.
“[Aura of the Brave]. Brave be my axe or something!”
Ser Markus watched as the enchanted axe rose—and the Ailendamus [Soldiers] scattered. Rabbiteater brought it down—and hit the third [Soldier] with the flat of the blade on the helmet.
A third person fell down. Rabbiteater hesitated, then flicked his axe a few times at a scared young woman. He pointed at her.
“Activate. Hm. Damn.”
She stared at him until he kicked her in the chest and rode off. Rabbiteater sighed as he looked around at the cheering [Soldiers] and [Knights]. He still couldn’t figure it out.
 
——
 
He didn’t want to kill the Humans. Ailendamus’ [Soldiers] were not his enemy, aside from them trying to kill him, and [Knights] tended to survive if they surrendered.
In fact, the rest of the Order of Seasons held that view, which was why prisoners were taken. Goblins took no prisoners; they could do awful things to them like the Mountain City Goblins or kill and eat them. There was no other point unless you subscribed to the monetary system and/or had a relationship where you could trade prisoners for coin or goods.
Or interrogation but the point was, Rabbiteater thought that was a funny attitude for two nations at war.
I don’t want to kill you, but we might. But we’ll try not to unless we have to. As he had observed—the Humans of Terandria were not ready for a real war.
A real war was like Liscor versus the Goblin Lord. A conflict where you stepped over the dead on either side and fought until you died. No surrender, no yielding—and if your side lost, you all died. But again, he had gone through this.
What surprised his comrades was that he was sticking around. Some, especially some who knew his identity, clearly expected him to ride off now that the going was not so good.
The Order of Seasons won another battle, but they had no Greysten, no senior members of their Seasons. Ser Ilm was one of three Fall Knights and the most senior. Dame Talia was the leader of her Season, and the young Ser Thaime was leading the Spring. Meisa and Markus could have easily challenged the role—that was how little leadership they had.
Most of the [Knights] who had been taken prisoner by Ailendamus had been lower-level. It made sense; it was hard for a veteran to be captured. And unfortunately, any high-level senior [Knights] had already been taken captive and sent to Ailendamus’ command for genteel interrogation and ransom.
Greysten and the more senior [Knights] had also survived, Rabbiteater knew. But Ailendamus’ army and the Order of the Hydra had forced his group to head deeper into enemy territory. On a raid. It was a Goblin idea: if the enemy prevented you from linking up, just make trouble for them behind their lines.
The [Knights] had taken it because it was strategically sound, and, frankly, they had no choice. The Order of the Hydra, despite losing their [General], were thousands strong. The Order of Seasons’ elite…ness…had struggled against them.
Plus, there was a half-giant [Knight] back there, and Rabbiteater would rather fight low-level [Soldiers] all day than fight someone who had a sword longer than he was.
Nevertheless, morale was flagging. And that was despite liberating another train of prisoners. Rabbiteater observed it as the three [Knights] leading their Season met with the commander of Pheislant’s armed forces accompanying them.
A [Marshal] Huges. Rabbiteater liked the man. He was the bluff sort who heard ‘charge’ and said, ‘alright, let’s go!’. And somehow kept his forces together and actually encircled the enemy while the [Knights] did their thing.
A fast-thinker, if not a [Strategist]. He was unto Humans what a Goblin Chieftain was. Without him…Rabbiteater suspected the Pheislant [Soldiers] would be in worse condition.
What bothered him were the [Knights] in his group. They were less-than-radiant, and their paint was wearing thin after so much fighting. They had ill-fitting mounts like the slipping saddle Markus was re-cinching. But they had no poker face; their dispiritedness showed.
“How many, Marshal?”
“Around four hundred. Mostly Kaliv’s lot, but we have all three nations in the Dawn Concordat. Not too knocked up. There’s a [Glory Captain] Mithn who’d like to speak with you, Ser Knights.”
Dame Talia dismounted and strode to meet someone dressed in the most idiotic colors Rabbiteater had ever seen. Calanfer, one of the three nations in the Dawn Concordat, along with Gaiil-Drome and Kaliv, was the most familiar to him.
And it was the [Glory Captain] of Calanfer who wore his national colors with pride. Calanfer’s colors were, as far as Rabbiteater could tell, royal blue, gold, yellow, and white. Mostly the latter three colors.
A bright yellow uniform was a terrible idea for any kind of terrain aside from…the desert on a hot day? A field of dandelions? It was probably a lovely target for an archer. Badarrow could have tapped him from a thousand feet away with ease.
Oh—and it got dirty. The [Glory Captain]’s uniform was dirty, taking away from the beautiful stitching of some kind of palace-throne that was their sigil as he saluted Talia.
“Honored Knights! You are a sight for sore eyes. Throne protect us—are you the Order of Seasons? Has Pheislant entered our war? I am sorry, I am Glory Captain Mithn of Calanfer’s Eternal Army, Dawnsong’s battalion…”
He was so…pithy. Marshal Huges rolled his eyes but turned his head away as Talia began to speak with the leader of the prisoners. Rabbiteater rode over to the [Marshal], admiring his arm.
He had great tattoos. Pheislant, as a coastal nation with strong navies, had the [Sailor]’s influence, and one of them was cool tattoos.
Rabbiteater, as a former Redfang, loved warpaint and tattoos. The [Knights] would never do such a thing, but Huges had noticed Rabbiteater staring at his bare right arm, which often swung a maul around.
“You didn’t get cut during the fight?”
Rabbiteater could have sworn he saw Huges taking a blow to the arm; it was a target like an unarmored head. The [Marshal] flexed one bicep.
“Don’t you worry, Ser Solstice. Armored tattoo. Got it special from a magical inker. It generally takes more than one hit or two. Hurts like a bitch—excuse my language, Ser.”
He caught himself, and Rabbiteater wished he could show the man his face so Huges could see his grin. Rabbiteater wasn’t a very verbal person, but he was improving. What he gave Huges was a quiet chuckle.
“I don’t mind. Good tactics. I like tattoos. Smart, having magic ones.”
“Really, Ser Solstice? I’m gratified you say so, sir.”
The Marshal looked Rabbiteater up and down, and the Goblin knew he was guessing. Even the other Pheislant [Soldiers] watched the mysterious ‘Ser Solstice’ with murmurs.
It was a Human thing. Goblins got curious, but they didn’t have to know. But put a bucket over something and write ‘do not remove, big secret’, and someone would take it off and reveal the detonation rune without fail.
That was a Redfang trick, incidentally. Ser Solstice had an allure of his own by virtue of having a secret identity. Rescuing all of Pheislant’s army from being ripped apart by Ailendamus hadn’t hurt his reputation either. Rabbiteater decided to ask Huges how things were.
“Calanfer. Dawn Concordat. We rescued prisoners. Why is it a problem?”
The [Knights] had acted like it was. The Marshal cast a glance sideways.
“Oh—we’ll have to rearm them, and it’ll slow our pace. Makes us a bigger target. I think it’s just the lack of supplies our leaders are worried about, Ser.”
He was cautious. Rabbiteater looked sideways at the [Knights] and shrugged.
“We have food for six days. Now…four? Three? Half-rations soon.”
Hughes nodded seriously.
“It’ll have to be, Ser Solstice. My hope is we either find a supply train, someone to barter with, or we reach a friendly camp, but we’re headed into Kaliv, and Ailendamus has most of the lowlands. I’ve heard we might even signal for a Griffin drop of goods if we can communicate with their crown.”
“…Why?”
