“An alien soldier gave this to me. This is coin of the Faerie King. I’ll let you have a coin or two; you might be able to learn magic from it. Real magic. The kind that Skills and spells have nothing on.”
She offered both to Cara, and the Singer reached out for both—and jerked her hands back.
She did not touch Ryoka. The Wind Runner noticed. And she had…a sudden suspicion.
“The Summer Solstice.”
Cara wiped her hands on her legs; they were a bit sweaty. She looked at Ryoka.
“I felt the Summer Solstice was odd. And that text message made me suspect Aaron or someone was…off. But did something happen to you during the Winter Solstice?”
Ryoka felt a chill race up her arms and back. Cara was sweating now, despite the gust of wind in the room. The Singer hesitated.
“Did you meet anyone? Anyone off?”
It was just a guess. The Wind Runner looked at Cara.
“Which three did you meet?”
Cara’s face turned pale. She hesitated, searching for words. Names she didn’t have.
Names better left unsaid. Now Ryoka knew.
Erin had met them too. Had Laken? She had suspicions, but Cara just whispered.
“I met three. Yes. A man who looked like he was dancing. Three women in one. And a younger woman with a bow. A warrior. They wanted to make me a deal. I refused to take their hand. I would have rather died there. I think they did something terrible.”
Ryoka knew all three. And if Cara had taken each one’s hand…Ryoka nodded to her.
“Good. Never touch them. They’re…this is the heart of what’s happened to us, Cara. You may not believe it. But I’ve seen enough to believe. We are up against dead things. Dead ideas. But they won’t stay dead. And I think they want to be believed in. They want bodies. Hosts. They want to be worshiped. The gods are dead. But you understand—they have to stay that way. Even talking about them, much less their names, is dangerous. They’re memetic. Do you know what I mean?”
Tamaroth. She wished she didn’t know that name. A memetic threat—not memes, but something that grew more dangerous the more you knew. The worst kind of foe.
Ryoka Griffin was prepared for some kind of exclamation or more disbelief. After all, this was bigger than Avalon being real, arguably. So why did Cara turn dead white? Why did she look like she was about to vomit? Her lips opened a fraction. She gazed at Ryoka with frank…then she whispered.
“You didn’t see the text? I thought you had a phone.”
Ryoka felt a sudden pit in her stomach. Laken had told her he’d gotten…but she had assumed it was limited. Had everyone…?
“Mine was stolen. What text?”
No answer.
“Cara? What text?”
Slowly, the Singer produced her phone and turned it on. It was listed under a simple number. Somehow, he had gotten it working. It was still there in her text log. Ryoka looked at it, covered her mouth—and rushed to the bathroom to throw up.
Cara deleted the message. She had saved it. Now, she deleted it and turned to Ryoka when the Wind Runner finished retching.
“Aaron sent that to everyone.”
“He’s…made a deal. He has to. Or he’s compromised.”
What did that mean? Neither one wanted to speculate. But Ryoka felt sick.
That explained why Oberon had failed to close the rift. Cara? She just looked grim.
“Great. I thought the worst we were up against were fools and monsters and bastards. So they’re behind it all?”
“I would bet the rest of my fingers.”
Ryoka raised her right hand, and Cara shuddered. She looked away.
“I can’t process this. I won’t even try. But you’ve convinced me. Let’s move on. If we’re talking about enemies, I have only two left. Ailendamus might not be trying to do…something all-encompassing. It’s just a warmongering nation with all that entails. I personally witnessed two attempts to destroy parts of Noelictus. They sent a [Necromancer] into the Kingdom of Shade to murder innocent people, and he killed hundreds. He raised an army of the dead. Ailendamus paid him to do it.”
Ryoka felt her mortal fear turn different in her stomach. She stuttered.
“You—you’re sure?”
Cara looked at her and spread her hands.
“I have no proof. But I personally witnessed it. All the evidence pointed to him being a sponsored assassin. And after that—one of Ailendamus’ war leaders invaded. Or tried to. He attacked Ovela. Both times I helped. I made the situation worse the first time. I had no idea what I did. The second…”
She closed her eyes.
“Ailendamus failed, but I was involved. It seemed like they didn’t notice me; I wasn’t the Singer of Terandria then. But I came here because I know someone in the Dawn Concordat. I want to stop this war. I hope you can help.”
Ailendamus hired a [Necromancer]? Ryoka wanted to believe it wasn’t true, but she could just imagine Visophecin lifting an eyebrow and asking what was wrong with it. Or Rhisveri snorting and…
“Yes. I’ll do that. I…I offended the powers that be, here. I can’t tell you, again. That’s dangerous. But I’ll help. Absolutely. I just don’t know if we can do anything.”
“We have to try.”
Cara looked resolved. She almost stood up, but one last thing reminded her of things left unsaid.
“We can talk about the rest later. The band will want to gossip about Earth. You won’t believe what’s happening. Our disappearances have been noted. But one more thing. On the topic of monsters…there’s little chance you’ll ever meet her. But if you ever should see a tall woman with a huge hat and strange eyes. Rings in her eyes. Her name is…I shouldn’t say it out loud.”
It was always connected. Ryoka’s head rose. Cara was hesitating, so Ryoka spoke.
“Belavierr the Stitch Witch.”
Cara nearly jumped out the window. She spun.
“You met her too? Is there anyone you haven’t met?”
She looked almost exasperated. Ryoka grinned weakly.
“I, uh—encountered her. Briefly. But she wasn’t after me. If she were—I’d be dead. She’s done other things that mean I have a grudge with her. Not that I think she’d notice.”
Mrsha. There would be a reckoning, but Ryoka doubted even the Faeblade would do much good. What about the other functions? Still doubtful.
Cara rubbed at her face, cheeks too-pale.
“I’m sorry.”
“Sorry? For what?”
The Singer of Terandria turned to Ryoka, and her smile was mirthless.
“I think I was the one who unleashed her. I ran into her, and she was…well. Making a kind of lair. I barely escaped, but I ruined her plans, and she evaded the Hunter’s Guild who went after her. You know how dangerous she is?”
Ryoka nodded. And she looked at Cara with newfound respect. Singer was one thing. But to offend the Spider of Terandria and survive?
That was the last thing that made the two like each other. Something about pissing off powerful immortals, despite their differences. Cara looked at Ryoka.
“I cannot believe you have no levels.”
“I can’t believe you’re a [Popstar]. And a [Thespian]. What’s your level?”
Cara gave Ryoka a polite smile.
“High. It’s thanks to both classes I can even walk around in disguise. Did you like my cover identity? That’s Greg—and he behaves pretty much like that. I played him up a bit.”
“…Can I not meet him?”
The Singer laughed.
“[Alter Ego: Greg]. The worst Skill I have ever used, incidentally. It does give me some insight into his mind. I just wish I could tell whether it’s his nature or…him not having a fecking brain. But I can certainly appreciate the female body while I’m in his shoes.”
Ryoka just shook her head.
“And here I thought the worst gift I ever got was an alien tech-blade that breaks if you sneeze on it with magic.”
“It does that? Could I try to…?”
Everyone wanted to swing a lightsaber around just once. Of course, you couldn’t activate it.
Not unless you knew how to re-tune it. Which Ryoka did, or rather, added Cara as a registered user. Which she now knew how to do.
Instruction manuals were very…interesting. Someone competent had written that one up. Even evolved apes could figure this one out. Honestly? Probably even apes.
Ryoka danced around Cara, not afraid for herself, but trying to let Cara know how sharp those edges were. The Singer gave her an amused look.
“Who’ve you met who’d slice their hand off like an idiot?”
“You have no idea. And please—remember, the gods are dead. I don’t know who you trust, but it’s a kind of thing where the less people know, the better. And again—I’ll absolutely help you as much as possible, but we need to pretend we don’t know each other. We should come up with a cover story. Are you leaving as Greg? When do I meet you tomorrow? We should come up with a plan—”
Her stomach began to tie a Gordian knot now that the initial contact had been made. Now, Ryoka was worried for Cara’s group. If she had been against Ailendamus…and now she knew about the dead gods, what did they do? Did they keep in contact?
Cara’s amused look turned to a quick analysis as Ryoka scrubbed her fingers through her hair. She turned, lowering the Faeblade as she turned it off.
“Ryoka, inhale and exhale for me.”
“What?”
“Breathe. Slowly. We’ll work it out. We can improvise. Yes, I’ll keep my cover. I’m worried too, but breathe. Come to that—you’ve nearly died how many times?”
“Uh…I don’t know. Lots.”
Ryoka saw Cara shake her head slightly.
“This is just a…question. Don’t be offended, but did you by any chance have any medication you were taking? I’m worried I’ll meet someone who needs something we can’t provide. And have you ever gone to a [Healer] and discussed nearly dying all those times?”
Ryoka instantly grew defensive.
“What? No. I had some prescriptions. Why?”
Cara eyed her.
“So you haven’t talked about nearly dying or checked on your health for…a year? Which is longer than our years?”
“N—that’s not a priority.”
The [Singer] raised both eyebrows as Ryoka realized how that sounded.
“So you don’t have any regular [Healer], friends, or therapists that help you after you nearly die of being shot through the back or getting your fingers torn off.”
“I mean…I talk about it. But I’ve been busy. I was in House Veltras after that run, and I didn’t get a chance to go back to the inn before Erin…”
Cara lowered the Faeblade. She put it down and turned to Ryoka with a bright, false smile. Ryoka backed up too late. Cara gave her a very gentle hug with one arm.
“I’m glad you didn’t let me storm off, Ryoka. I should tell you now, I have a terrible temper. And you are the most aggravating girl I’ve met. You breathe drama, and you have too many problems.”
Ryoka frowned, but Cara just laughed.
“You remind me of my best friend from Earth. We might get along after all.”
The Wind Runner was affronted, in the midst of denying it, and trying to edge out of physical contact. Then her brows crossed.
“Oh no. No, no, no…I’m not that friend, am I?”
The Singer of Terandria just gave her a look that made Ryoka want to hop out the window.
 
——
 
They had more to say. But they both agreed that Cara needed to prepare for her performances and spread word. Besides, they could talk about Earth with Cara’s band, so they resolved to do that.
Cara was still in a bit of shock—and just denial. She couldn’t encompass all of what Ryoka had told her. She had to go back to other planets.
“So an alien space-soldier gave it to you. What did they look like?”
“Uh…orange. Weird number of fingers. Fairly humanoid, actually. But they weren’t all the same. And there was this trick with perception. They had amazing battle armor that did squat against magic. This was a gift. Honestly, I’m glad it wasn’t a gun or spaceship. But I could have used both. It probably wouldn’t have helped, and there’s proliferation of tech to worry about.”
“Proliferation of…you’re worried about that?”
Ryoka frowned.
“You’re not?”
Cara gave Ryoka a cynical smile.
“It’ll happen. We can’t stop everyone. That’s where I landed.”
They had the same thoughts, but they landed on different points. Cara not worrying about that made Ryoka frankly incredulous and a bit jealous. But Cara frowned at Ryoka’s sword.
“Is there any chance of hitching a ride to space? I assume they’re somewhat friendly and we can talk to them? Or going to…another world? Home?”
She didn’t say it with the same longing as some, but Ryoka realized she had to explain about the closed gateways. Cara cursed.
“Wonderful. So it’s a one-way problem. And we’re closed off from the other places because…of them? How many are there?”
“Six. And countless weak ones. But six matter. As for why we’re closed off, that’s pretty much it.”
The Singer closed her eyes.
“So we have the interdimensional equivalent of a nuclear arsenal in this world?”
Ryoka hesitated.
“Maybe. But if it is, it’s aimed at us. Think of it more like a plague and no one wants to be infected. Or…it’s Chernobyl. And the fallout is still coming down.”
The Singer of Terandria turned to the Wind Runner.
“You have a fantastic way with words. Anything else?”
She had her hand on the doorknob when Ryoka snapped her fingers.
“Oh yeah. Another dead thing is under Rhir. So stay away.”
Cara turned back. Ryoka turned into a beet as she raised her hands.
“Sorry. Forgot.”
The Singer just rubbed at her brows.
“Okay. I can’t…we’ll take it under advisement. Let’s just go. Now—if I put my hand on your backside in the next few minutes—”
“I deck you?”
“Please. Just no permanent damage.”
Greg and Ryoka stepped into the hallway, and he was far less pleasant company. Still, there was something of Cara in Greg, but it was tempered by…Greg.
He was not a Kevin. He might not even have been a Leon, frankly. Ryoka assumed there was some depth to his character, but Cara chose to play a simple impression of a young man who had one goal in life represented by many, many women.
Was it slightly unfair? Probably. Was it convincing? Ryoka sighed. Absolutely.
The two did realize something was up as they passed through corridor after corridor of the palace, though. The Singer’s arrival in Ailendamus was the talk of the palace, but the banquet was also a celebration.
“Excuse me, Greg. Chorisa. What’s up?”
The Thirsting Veil Knight appeared, and ‘Greg’ nearly leapt into a wall with an oath. Greg-Cara gave Ryoka a look that said she was beginning to understand Ryoka’s paranoias as the [Knight] nodded to Ryoka.
“I believe it’s the announcement from the front. The banquet is being rededicated. The Singer of Terandria is the star, but His Majesty has announced a celebration.”
“For…Archmage Eldavin wading into the war?”
That was the only thing Ryoka could think of, and it didn’t fit. Chorisa’s lips pursed.
