“Okay. Don’t run off. Don’t panic or try to force things. Don’t, uh…don’t go near suspiciously inviting places in the faelands. Don’t accept requests from mythological beings. What else do I add? Don’t take on super-dangerous assignments? I tend to succeed at those. Only costs a finger or a few crossbow bolts to the back.”
The truth was, she suspected her best move was to petition Rhisveri to let Sammial go. After all—Sammial gone meant no Tyrion, correct? And if she left with Sammial, that meant no Eldavin war.
In theory. The point was, Ryoka knew she had to be at the capital to affect any meaningful change, and the immortals were de facto the most important people in Ailendamus. So she wasn’t doing the wrong thing.
She had just come to that obvious point when someone called out.
“Miss Griffin! Salutations! I hope I am not intruding on your thoughts?”
Only one man had that voice that was both commanding and impressive. And only one man used ‘salutations’ as a greeting.
Baron Regalius du Ecte, the [Baron of Ceremonies], styled harder than Visophecin in his dark attire. Ryoka had seen few men in a rosewood-colored tuxedo with the lapels thrown open—one of those older designs, clasped together by a silver brooch instead of buttons or lace—over dark leggings that had some kind of magical sparkle in the thread, and court-shoes…wear that.
Each part of the dark reddish-purple fabric was drawn with sigils of Ailendamus, naturally, and his cuffs had the insignia of his house drawn across the dark fabric in slightly brighter stitching. No silver, no gaudy gold or flash of metal save for the brooch and the sword-hilt at his belt. But hardly subtle.
However, she had also seldom seen anyone, male or female, pull off the cape he was wearing, which fluttered behind him rather than drag on the wind. Not a long-long cape; it was actually a huge overcoat, Ryoka realized, and it blew like he had a full movie effects team behind him.
It was the coolest and most useless Skill that Ryoka had ever seen, and she wanted it. Well, she had the wind, but the wind was hardly so obliging!
Regalius’ hair had a slight curl to it today, and the shining locks of it gleamed as he passed under a window. Ryoka wished she had her iPhone. Take a picture of this man and she could win any social media contest based on pictures.
No—he was born for another age like that. The most photogenic [Baron] she had ever met stopped, somehow half-in the light. Was he doing it on purpose?
The answer was, of course, yes. Maybe not always intentionally, but style was something you could cultivate, and Regalius, as a master of ceremony and dignity, had trained himself to look good.
“Courier Griffin, I am passing glad I caught you. Might I have just a smidgeon of your time? You have been with House Shoel, Minister Sophridel—one barely has to but raise a finger to the wind to hear your name.”
Regalius offered her a bow and an arm. Ryoka refused the arm, but smiled at him. He was a good man, she felt.
“Thanks, Regalius. I have time. I’m…a bit preoccupied, but I’m sorry I haven’t talked with you.”
“When Viscount Visophecin calls, a wise man answers. I can hardly compete with the royal family, and it is my delight you have seemingly redeemed this unpleasantness.”
Regalius and Ryoka strolled around, and she found he was calming because he had no knowledge of her identity or role in the greater drama at play.
…Right until he invited her to dinner.
“I believe I remarked upon it a few days ago. I hosted the Order of the Hydra at my estates in the capital—”
“I’m sorry I missed that. Uh, but I think I was with Visophecin—the Viscount?”
Regalius nodded.
“Ah, but my wife is simply besmitten with you, Miss Griffin. I told her about the Wind Runner and your exploits in the Court of Masks and elsewhere, and she ordered me to ask if you’d consider joining us at our estates. I know it’s an imposition, but she is terribly nervous at the capital. One can run into His Majesty and so many officials, you see. I should understand if you are too busy, but I had to tender it.”
It was so, so painful. Because he delivered it in the most easy way to turn him down. Which was the hardest. Ryoka squirmed instantly with the fear of social interaction…but she’d visited Garia’s folks, hadn’t she?
“I, er, maybe, Regalius. I’d love to, and you’ve been a good…friend. But tonight is a big banquet and—”
“Naturally not tonight! We should all be there, I think, myself included. My poor Yietha will make do…with her own friends. She’s quite willing to stay away, you see, rather than sit an entire banquet. She prefers the company of our animals or just herself at times. I can hardly tear myself away from any gathering, but we have our own quiet moments—in my frequent absence, she manages House Ecte quite amazingly. And our pets!”
Ryoka felt she might like this Yietha. She turned to Regalius, slightly tempted despite herself. But she had so much to do…
“You have pets?”
“Cats.”
“Huh. I expected dogs. No offense, but I can see you playing fetch with a dog.”
Regalius chuckled.
“A dog requires a bit too much time. I couldn’t treat an animal like that. Cats on the other hand…I will admit ours are a bit odd. Magical cats, you see. Strays from an incident in the palace. It created generations of magical cat breeds. Have you ever seen a flaming hairball?”
“No. They breathe fire?”
“Not mine, thankfully. I know a friend whose estate half-burned due to…well, mine were already an odd breed. Hairless. Very peculiar, but they’re quite endearing. They have the most unfortunate…or useful ability to stick to walls. So they get everywhere. More than once, I’ve seen a pair of eyes gleaming from one of the candelabras above me and spotted a doublet peeking down and thought I was about to be assassinated.”
Ryoka hesitated.
“Th—there’s a lot to unpack there. Did you just imply your cats wear clothing?”
“Indeed they do. The naked aspect, you see? Winters do get cold, and one day we dressed them up as a lark. The next thing I knew, we had a wardrobe, and they refused to be denuded of their clothing. Then a [Tailor] began doing clothing for pets…”
“I have to see these cats.”
Trust Regalius to have cats that enjoyed dressing up. The man smiled.
“Ah, then I needn’t tempt you with dining or anything else? If we are exceptionally lucky, we might see one of them sporting the new hats—at your convenience, Miss Ryoka. I know you have business here. I am not one to shirk duty. At least—anymore.”
Ryoka had had this feeling once. It was of thinking you knew someone based on how they looked. Like a puddle. Like Lupp. Then stepping into the puddle and almost drowning.
Regalius owned cats with hats. And that wistfully guilty look that flitted over his face as they stepped out of the shadow of the palace into the light and he shaded his eyes…
“Er…if that’s personal…what did that mean, Regalius?”
He started slightly, and a rueful look crossed his brows.
“Ah, oh. Forgive me. It’s such old hat—pardon me—at court that everyone would know. I would hardly like to conceal it. I have made many indiscretions as a younger man, Miss Ryoka. I suppose I should even go as far as to mention that House Ecte has had a troubled time of late. First in the past, entirely my fault, and now…”
Another wistful look came over his face. Ryoka saw his expression slip, and then Regalius smiled again but didn’t hide that look of brief pain.
“My brother passed away last year.”
“Oh, I’m sorry.”
“Thank you. I try not to dwell…it was a tragedy, and Their Majesties themselves…no. But in truth, he tried so hard to make up for my mistakes. You are aware noble titles can be awarded far more frequently in Ailendamus?”
“N—yes? A bit.”
Regalius nodded.
“Ecte is by way of being one of the stronger Houses, if I do say so myself. We occupy a newer province to the west—new is relative, of course, as Ailendamus is young—and we have been a strong ally to the nation in deed and the stability and profitability of our estates. Indeed, we are well thought-of, if I don’t mistake our nature at court. I have always believed we would have been elevated to a viscounty or perhaps even earldom by now. It was considered and in progress. But for me.”
Ryoka was fascinated. Someone moving upwards outside of marriage was exceptionally rare but unsurprising given Rhisveri’s views on the kingdom. A meritocracy was like him.
“Did you…do something?”
The [Baron] turned away and flushed slightly. He tugged at his gloves.
“Oh, absolutely. It’s an old story, so I won’t bore you with the details, Miss Ryoka. I’m ashamed to say it is a tale I cannot bear to speak long on. You see—when I was a boy, House Ecte was beyond itself as a rising star. The potential for an earldom or possibly even…marquis? My father took steps to ensure that and spent over half our capital in hopes of rising higher. So much so that he…arranged a marriage.”
Arranged marriages didn’t surprise Ryoka. What did was the complete look of shame on Regalius’ face. He went on.
“A marriage I promptly overturned to marry a [Shepherd]’s daughter, throwing us into disgrace for over a decade. My brother restored our name, and I have done my best to be a good civil servant. But it was no mere marriage.”
A boy overturning an arranged marriage for love. Checked out. Ryoka nodded slowly.
“You did love Yietha?”
Again, the [Baron] stopped. The shadow darkened.
“I do. But she was not the girl I tried to run away with. The elopement ended in an accident. She…the [Shepherd]’s daughter died. I married Yietha later. She was a [Merchant]. Is, rather.”
It was a tragedy worthy of any stage. After a long moment, Regalius lifted his head and turned to Ryoka. A decade had passed, and so he could talk about it.
“But Ryoka—it would have been one thing were it a…another family in Ailendamus, or even abroad, of similar rank. But promises were made, a fortune exchanged, all for what would have been. And I regret that perhaps this terrible war would not have come to pass. Perhaps, perhaps. You see, I was engaged to the 4th Princess of Calanfer, Princess Seraphel du Marquin, and I fear I am to blame for all of it. Including her own fate, as she has been married and divorced many times.”
Ryoka kept walking. She slammed into a decorative marble pillar so hard she got a nosebleed, and barely felt it.
It was all connected. And the genteel [Baron] who was so good a servant, whose brother had recently perished, and who had nearly been married into Calanfer’s royal family—offered her a handkerchief. Ryoka blew her nose into it and realized that was a bad idea a second later. She just had no idea what else was connected. What next?
Gnomes?
 
——
 
As they rode, Rabbiteater realized that the [Knights] really did suck at inspiring others. They did a good job with the Humans, Pheislant’s own especially.
But not with all. Especially not Gaiil-Drome’s forces.
Half-Elves.
They did not reach the pass Talia wanted to get to or friendly territory in three days. Well, maybe they’d reach it by the end of this day, but three more days had passed, and Marshal Huges was as good as his word.
Rabbiteater had to admit, he’d overestimated the abundance of life in Kaliv. The High Passes would have had a few Eater Goats coming to munch or be munched on after three days of riding, but he’d seen nary an animal aside from some birds who weren’t worth more than a mouthful or two and sparse game.
The [Knights] and some [Archers] tried, but it was hardly enough to feed nearly a thousand souls, even with dozens of kills on the march. The problem, as Rabbiteater understood it, was that animals weren’t stupid. They’d fled the war—and unlike Eater Goats, they didn’t head towards the sound of hundreds of horses and people.
“It’s a right mess, Ser and Dame Knights. Normally, there would be enough; we have enough animals for wild Griffins to hunt, and they’re the worst monsters by far. But not now. We’d hope that the Griffins that aren’t tamed go after Ailendamus; they’ve done it in other wars. But those Greatbows shoot even Griffins out of the sky.”
That came from a marching group of Kaliv [Soldiers] who were talking with the [Knights]. Ser Markus, Meisa, and Rabbiteater rode with them. Across from them, Rabbiteater could see Dame Talia speaking with some of Pheislant’s [Soldiers].
The Order of Seasons was raising morale. Theirs or the [Soldiers]’, it was hard to tell. However, morale had to be raised.
Unfortunately, the [Knights] had a classic type of way of trying to build character. Chin up, we’ll get through this! What’s your name, sir? My name is Markus, I hope we’ll both get through this, and I shall buy us all a round when…
Rabbiteater had heard all that almost verbatim from Markus. Meisa was a bit different. She conjured gusts of air, and it seemed like those around Talia seemed more energetic.
The spirit of summer. However, using an aura might work, and certainly Pheislant’s own cheered quietly as Talia rode on, but it was a bunch of people on horseback telling the foot-people to feel better.
As a Redfang warrior who had not been one of the Carn Wolf riders, Rabbiteater knew exactly how the infantry felt when the riders plodded on by and asked if they were doing okay. However…neither was he the [Hugfriend Commander of the Nice People] or an Antinium commander.
Rabbiteater’s opinion was that if a [Soldier] was feeling bad or hungry because of their growling bellies, they should suck it up and keep marching. He was a Redfang; this was not hard.
Even so. He was fascinated by the one group of [Soldiers] merely three dozen strong out of the four hundred rescued prisoners of the Dawn Concordat alliance.
Half-Elves. Rabbiteater hadn’t ever seen so many pointy ears since leaving Rags’ tribe to set out, and so many half-Elves?
Never. He knew Ceria, but she was one person, and they…
Well, they reacted to the [Knights] about as well as could be expected. With polite indifference or cordial gratitude as fellow warriors.
But no real enthusiasm. They walked, almost all of them holding bows. Gaiil-Drome was a forest nation, and they had sent almost exclusively [Archers] to aid the army. Good archers; half the kills of the wildlife had come from them.
Still, if Rabbiteater felt any pull…it was looking around at the trudging [Soldiers] and feeling the general dispiritedness in the air.
Not mutiny. Marshal Huges had claimed his soldiers could stand at least a day of no food at all, and Rabbiteater believed him. If someone shouted ‘down with the Order of Seasons, let’s all run for it’—he’d probably have his teeth kicked out in a moment.
