One of the reasons why the Order of Seasons was one of Terandria’s most respected [Knight] Orders had nothing to do with their combat ability. And, to be fair, they were considered to be one of the most superlatively martial Knight Orders on the continent. If not in pure Skill—their ability to utilize their auras was a fearsome thing.
They were numerous and had relics and a base that was founded on the bones of one of the half-Elven cities of old. A semi-autonomous Order not plagued by accusations of dishonorable conduct, with four individuals who were all on par with Named Adventurers—in theory, if not always practice.
Yet that alone just meant they were a powerful group of warriors. And what…
What was the purpose of an army outside of war? There was always a need for peacekeepers, monster-slayers, and lawbringers. But all the training, considerable expense, and authority of the Order of Seasons for a few thousand elite [Warriors] was a hard sell.
What made the Order of Seasons useful were their other qualities. Such as their ability to answer the question that came to the Fall’s Sentinel, Venoriat, the morning after the great victory where an unknown [Knight] broke Ailendamus’ lines to best their [General], liberate the imprisoned [Knights], and escape on a mad dash behind Ailendamus’ front, fighting for the Dawn Concordat.
It came via [Message] spell from one of his own [Knights]. A Ser Ilm of the Season of Autumn, who dutifully sent the entire message in a cipher.
[Message] spells were a tricky business. High-level [Mages] could eavesdrop on most sent in their area, and, because of that, the Order of Seasons used one of the many techniques to obfuscate their communications.
Nothing as fancy as the Walled Cities, who might use an old, encrypted system for top-secret communiqué; the art of encoding [Messages] was lost to all but perhaps Archmages of this era.
However, you could be clever even without magical encryption. For instance, did you know you could send a [Message] spell in Drathian?
Venoriat did not speak Drathian, and the Order of Seasons had decided their [Knights] could not justify the time to learn a second language—imagine the idea!—just to write [Message] spells. Besides, [Translation] was a known, if odd spell.
So, instead, they used ciphers. Venoriat himself designed them, using passages or sayings to alter a message so it was incomprehensible unless you knew how to decode it. He read Ser Ilm’s gibberish and translated it as he sat in the Order of Seasons.
It was a bustling time in the great keep, as even his own studious Autumn Knights, from pages and squires to senior [Knights], ran about, keeping tabs on Ailendamus and the Dawn Concordat’s movements, trying to chart where Rabbiteater and half of the attack force led by Ser Greysten were.
And preparing themselves for more battles to come. Ailendamus had not taken the Summer Champion’s declaration lightly, and Knight-Commander Calirn was with Pheislant’s commanders, preparing for an all-out war.
Not to mention coordinating the disastrous crusade on Chandrar. As far as Venoriat knew, the best [Knights] of Terandria, all the Orders’ contributions—including two hundred Spring Knights—were coming in waves across the sea, landing on Medain and the Claiven Earth’s coasts, and fighting with their armies.
And only managing to deadlock Khelt. They were unable to meaningfully advance against Khelt; they could have swept aside a hundred times their number in zombies or, at least, continued an advance, but Khelt pushed them back.
Astonishing. In another time, Venoriat would have devoted his entire attention to researching Khelt, finding ways to combat their Revenants, and plumbing the depths of how dangerous they might be.
However, he had little time to spare for such enjoyable academia, so Venoriat’s quill scritched as he wrote out the [Message] in correct wording. If it was not essential, even Ser Ilm’s question or [Message] would have to wait.
A group of [Pages] of Autumn hurried by with scrolls to be scribed by Autumn Knights for war. One tripped, and Venoriat winced; all the scrolls would have to be cleaned to ensure they contained the magic.
“I’m sorry, Fall’s Sentinel!”
The girl got up, red-faced, and Venoriat turned and waved a hand.
“Clean it up and continue. Falling in my presence or out of it should change little. Perhaps to the Knight Commander or another Season it would matter…not here. Watch your steps. A bit of time spent saves you an hour with a brush.”
The girl gathered the scrolls up and hurried back along the deep reds, browns, and violets of the Season of Autumn’s floor tiles. She passed by one of their courtyards; not the grassy expanse where you could rush about practicing your swordplay in the Spring or Summer, or the ever-snowing, solemn places to refine yourself in Winter through meditation or self-practice.
No, Autumn used their space to grow mushrooms. Rich, loamy dirt let a profusion of roots spread out, or Sage’s Grass, or other plants that were useful and practical. Indeed, the Season of Autumn was known to be the least-martial of all four Seasons. The most bookish.
And the reason why the Order of Seasons was so respected. After all, who but the ‘Fall Knights’ of Venoriat’s order could scribe spell-scrolls at will? Certainly not Greysten and his lot!
Venoriat’s Season often sold their scrolls at virtually no markup to those who might need them. [Bugward] and [Detect Rot] were very popular among [Farmers].
In times of war? Each scroll that the [Pages] were carrying would be written with magic. [Firebolt] or [Forceshield] or [Smokescreen]—and every [Knight] would carry at least one into battle.
As Venoriat finally decoded Ilm’s missive, his lips moved in a smile. He lifted the scrap of parchment and decided—it was worth prioritizing after all. So he rose and went to the one place that made the Order of Seasons so valued, at least in his eyes:
Their library.
 
——
 
The library of the Order of Seasons was as large as Pheislant’s national gathering of tomes in the capital. However, the Order of Seasons had a far more varied assortment of books and magical tomes.
It was a benefit without calculation; even if Venoriat did know exactly how many books were in the library—61,822—that was not enough of a marker.
The thing was—libraries were hard to maintain in a grand sense. Not immediate; you could throw a bunch of books in a room and call it ‘a library’. But were they organized? More importantly, were they maintained?
Did you have preservation spells on each shelf? Did you have anti-moth, bug, and stain spells? Were you fireproofing the entire place? Did you scrupulously check each book that was loaned out for damage and make a point of repairing it, or were you a coward who let people dogear their pages without folding their ears in return?
Because it mattered. Not this year. Not next year. But each wrinkle, crease, and lack of a stasis spell was another second, minute lost. And paper and ink faded so quickly. When a disaster struck, knowledge was lost forever. Even the best [Librarians] had watched their collections vanish as an Elder Creler blasted a hole through a nation. Or a Gold-rank [Mage] with too much to drink threw one damn [Fireball]…
Let’s assume, in the best case, you had a library that avoided any major calamity over your lifespan. Well, even then—your books would invariably be damaged by usage, because books were meant to be read.
You could get a [Bookbinder] to touch them up, but what happened when the paper itself began to disintegrate from age? Okay, enchant it. No problem.
…What happened when the magic itself began to get old? A [Librarian] suddenly had to find a book-enchanting specialist to remake a magical tome.
How did you re-copy a spellbook created twelve thousand years ago by an Archmage who practiced the Albezian school of magic and wrote using the crushed husks of an insect that had been extinct for over two centuries?
That was why a real library was impressive; one that maintained its books, organized them, and had the largesse to lend them out to people with no appreciation for all the hard work that went into keeping things the way they were.
Hence, the Season of Autumn’s value. A [Farmer] could send a learned daughter or son or come here themselves and take off their hat, put on some gloves or wash their hands, and then read on how to cultivate a certain crop or keep their soil fresh without Skills.
In fact, [Farmers] were preferred because they had appropriate respect for the library the Season of Autumn kept. A Summer Knight who’d toss a book across the mess hall for someone else to read or turn a page while riding and tear it as their horse came down too hard?
Well.
Those souls met with the [Librarian Knights].
Yes, that was a class. And yes, Venoriat went to one of them with Ilm’s missive. The [Knight] delicately turning a page in the book they were checking for damage was probably reading on-duty. But you had to be a real bookworm and love the job to get that class, so Venoriat made no comment as the man hurriedly stood.
“Fall’s Sentinel. Does the Knight-Commander need another lookup? Will you give us half an hour to proof them against ice and water? He does his best, but the temperature…”
The aggrieved [Librarian Knight] had an understandable problem with Winter Knights, who practically generated mildew. Venoriat was pleased not to have to deal with that.
“Not at the moment, Ser Tulnous. I have a research assignment for you. A rather…interesting one. I leave it in your care as I must go back to my work.”
He handed the message over, and Tulnous’ eyebrows rose. He took the slip of paper with one callused hand.
He was a halberd-expert who had little cause to use his weapon in his beloved library but was rather fearsome among his Season nevertheless. Tulnous’ Skills included the ability to pull any book he wanted in the library, repair minor damage with just a finger, locate any book he lent out unerringly, sense if a passing [Merchant] had any books not in the Order of Seasons’ collection—
And those were just his mundane Skills. His truly powerful Skills included the ability to have any book in his possession read out loud, in his own voice, whenever he wanted—a Skill that Venoriat privately envied—visualize the fantastical stories, remember up to three hundred thousand words of his choosing, such that he could recite any passage, poetry, or quote he pleased—
And his Level 30 capstone was the most impressive. [Cover to Cover, Revision Reader].
Which meant that he could read every single version of a book ever read. So if you had eighteen versions of a book he held? He could read any one.
He had recently put that Skill to use backtracking the rise of Ailendamus, spotting the truth amid many revised histories.
The most senior [Librarian Knight] read the slip of paper, and his lips curved upwards.
“I assume this is not an idle question from Ser Ilm in the field? It would not be surprising if so.”
Venoriat’s smile had a twinkle in it.
“I suspect that this is entirely pressing, Ser Tulnous. It likely has to do with our illustrious Ser Solstice. Do you think the information is extant?”
“In one book or another on Skills and auras? Certainly! One will be easier than the other, I am sure. How fascinating. A dual-aura [Knight]…”
Venoriat lifted a finger, cautioning his subordinate.
“To be kept secret, Ser Tulnous. You and two others may look into the topic. Not a word—and I expect a report within two hours, which I will forward to Ser Ilm.”
The [Librarian] bowed.
“At once, Fall’s Sentinel.”
He smiled as he looked at the little note. Translated, the part Venoriat had given Tulnous was not about the battle or Ilm’s other observations. It was simply a question—a research request into two rather unique auras. Two, contained in a single person.
[Aura of the Hearth] and [Aura of the Brave]. Possible synergies, dual-aura combinations, the usages of each aura, and any other pertinent information. The Order of Autumn was only too happy to help. After all—if anyone knew what Rabbiteater’s new Skills did, it would be them.
“Well done, Ser Solstice.”
Venoriat murmured as he walked back. Well done indeed.
Especially for a Goblin [Knight]. But that was most secret of all.
 
——
 
“Excuse me, Lord Sophridel? I have a communication from one of the Order of Seasons. Encrypted. I was referred to you by the [Spymaster]. It is, ah, pressing, so she regretfully…”
Elsewhere in Terandria, a nervous servant stopped as a tall, intensely tall, still figure turned and closed the book he was reading.
Lord Sophridel—in truth, an Earl—was a rather reclusive figure in Ailendamus’ hierarchies. He was ‘Minister of the Interior Arts’ which meant he oversaw the libraries, did some commissioning of artwork—but not on the same level as those who coordinated statues, great galas, and more—and, secretly, ran the Court of Masks.
Running the Court of Masks was his main task, and as such, if you didn’t know, you might think he had one of those plush jobs with no actual work. If you did know, well, you considered him an enigmatic spellcaster who did a fine job and faded into the woodwork.
If you talked to him? The tall, nearly seven-foot half-Elf with pale skin was an oddity even to his own kind. He had a ponderous kind of speech and reminded one much of some long-forgotten [Scholar].
Of course, no one saw Sophridel. They just saw a mask. It was his preferred mask when he had to be…outside.
The astute half-Elf extended two nearly-translucent fingers to accept the piece of paper with Ser Ilm’s missive. The servant was all too ready to wait in an antechamber, or come back and provide him with more references from the [Spymaster].
She was used to the very competent wing of Ailendamus’ spy networks and in fact was no mere [Servant], but a [Servant of Intrigue]. That she was personally running this request was because there were some letters so important that even holding them without opening them required you to be important. Even within the safe and secure capital.
So she knew Lord Sophridel was important. She had never met him before, only seen him from afar. She was also uncertain why the [Spymaster], a scrupulous woman who had once blown off her own arm rather than let the letter she was holding fall into enemy hands, hadn’t sent him an entire packet of material for him to help with codebreaking the Order of Seasons’ ciphers.
This was a single note. Lord Sophridel would need more references—and they changed their ciphers on the regular! Even their own specialists hadn’t been able to immediately code-break it. So that was why it was astonishing when the quiet half-Elf handed the note back.
