In that time, his apprentices focused on finding those impurities within their mana, addressing them where they could, and they made great progress. Already, their palewater shone brighter than it did before. Brighter than mages that had crossed the palewater stage and into darkwood, in fact. There was a benefit to this sort of training: it ensured this stage of their mana cores would be fully developed before they hit darkwood. Conventional palewater training did not. It focused instead on forcing the mana core to adapt as quickly as possible, often sacrificing some of its potential in the process.

Cale's apprentices mattered too much to him for him to let them squander their potential. Besides, they were adapting well to the training! On the second day alone they lasted in the divine void for an astonishing three hours before Cale made them leave, because he was starting to get worried about them. He'd never had to worry about his apprentices having too much determination before, but apparently that was going to be a thing, now.

Still, he knew it was only a matter of time before they ran into roadblocks. Not all impurities could be addressed with something as simple as a bit of meditation: pure intent was formed from a clear mind, and his apprentices all had real problems that needed to be addressed before they made any progress on those. Cale suspected he knew what they were, but he planned to wait until they told him themselves. It would be far too easy to accidentally set them back by making them focus on a problem they weren't yet ready to solve.

Especially if he turned out to be wrong. He didn't think he was, but it was still possible! It was important to remind himself of that sometimes.

In the meantime, Akkau made sure that the academy knew this training was happening, and other students and professors began to join them.

Thorn, Kryva, Featherstrike, and the other wyldfire mages of Brightscale Academy were the first. It became quickly apparent that they hadn't even known that the Black Vault existed; now that it had been brought to their attention, they were all eager to use it to train. They knew the value of it well, especially since they would likely be called to battle against the dark lord and his armies.

The experience was, of course, equally unpleasant for them.

"Difficult to cast within the Vault," Thorn grunted with annoyance. Before him was a field of [Thorn Lance]s, each one half-buried in the nothingness that served as the floor of the Black Vault. "Feels like the spell does not want to form. Cale?"

"That's pretty much what it is," Cale said, glancing up at him. "It's not affecting your casting speed that much. Other mages would still kill to have that kind of speed."

"Does not matter. The difference could get someone killed." Thorn was clearly frustrated.

Cale sighed. He wasn't wrong. He pushed himself to his feet and walked over to Thorn, focusing carefully on his mana sense. "Cast again," he said, and though Thorn bristled for a moment, he obeyed. Verdant energy snapped to life in front of him and took the shape of a lance, then shot forward, embedding itself into the ground.

The few darkwood students that had gathered to watch whispered among one another, impressed. It made sense—none of them had even managed to cast a spell in the Vault yet, though they were trying. Thorn, on the other hand, had cast hundreds and showed no signs of stopping.

Cale considered what he'd sensed for a moment. "You're putting too much force into your spells," he said. "Trying to shape it when it doesn't want to be shaped. Magic is a little more unpredictable in a divine void, but it's still your magic. Trust it to—"

Before he'd even finished his explanation, Thorn glowered, then raised a hand and cast the same spell again. This time, his magic blazed out of him like lightning and shot off into the void with absurd speed. When the glow faded, there was a thorn embedded three-quarters of the way into the ground.

"Hm. Better. Thanks," Thorn said, sounding begrudgingly grateful. Cale just snorted. Trust a wyldfire mage to pick up on that more or less immediately...

Although now that he was paying attention, he probably needed to help some of those darkwood students. They seemed appropriately awed by Thorn's display of magic and the efficacy of Cale's advice, but, well.

"Void Sage," one of the darkwood students called. Cale looked around him, hoping against hope that the student was talking to anyone else, then grimaced when he realized he'd acquired yet another title. "Please, could you come and—"

Mid-sentence, he doubled over and vomited. The divine void clearly didn't agree with him. Cale sighed.

Their visitors tended to be split into two camps. It was indisputable now that Cale had a great deal of power at his fingertips, and there were some that almost worshipped him because of it. Others were less certain that he had earned that power, and were skeptical that he could teach them anything relevant to their magic. All things considered, he preferred the latter group; this one, though, was clearly the former.

"All of you, work on being able to exist in here without falling sick first," Cale said. "Shore up your souls! Did none of you read the brief? I'm not giving you any tips until you stop vomiting all over yourselves. Especially you, Henry."

Henry—who was a gelatinous mass of a slime wearing the Brightscale Academy robes—wobbled guiltily. Cale supposed that as a slime he had no compunctions with reabsorbing any of the liquid he was involuntarily projecting across the Vault, but still. The darkwoods were trying to do too much. "There's a reason my apprentices are just meditating, and it's not because they're palewater," he added sternly. "You all need to take things one step at a time. Ganymede, stop trying to cross the stable boundary! The Black Vault will try to eat you!"

Ganymede fluttered back, also looking guilty, and Cale sighed again. Managing some of these mages was far too much like babysitting. They were all experienced enough to know better, but they just couldn't help themselves.

He supposed he could understand. It was the excitement of having a new way to train along with the fact that there were still unsolved mysteries when it came to the Black Vault. No one knew what happened to the Lost King, after all. There were rumors that he was still alive, wandering somewhere within these depths.

Cale was curious too, admittedly, but for now he had far too much on his hands. He brightened when a familiar face showed up at the door.

"Threek!" he greeted happily. That was the kobold—or kobolds, he supposed; there were still three of them in that trenchcoat—that had helped them out with the Abyssal in the Inverted Spires. "What brings you here?"
