That was the look. He was searching them for a challenger. He did not find it. The Drake lowered his blade. His eyes—turned hostile.
“I never wished to be undead. My service was kept by that wretched fiend, my bones and soul twisted to service. Such is the price of defeat. Now his grip wavers, I rebel. I am not cruel. The urge to destroy, to slaughter every living thing is in me—but my will is not so weak. Even the new whisper I ignore. I will never suffer another master. And yet—”
His eyes roved. His teeth bared; his jaw clenched.
“I cannot go quietly. My blade sang with more might than all of you combined. Challenge me! Show me the warriors of this age have not decayed to savages with steel weapons! You must—or I will never know rest. Touch me.”
He set himself, waiting. The adventurers drew back a step. Revi backed up with Halrac and Typhenous and heard the [Veteran Scout] curse.
Okay. Problem. The Drake was mad. The Revenant had killed the others, but he spoke like one of those insane battle-maniacs. Was he stupid? No one was going to challenge someone who beheaded a Giant with a single slash.
“Noble warrior. We are exhausted. We thank you, but none of us can match your class or level. We…will you not rest? We don’t desire battle anymore.”
An adventurer decided to copy Elia and opened his hands in entreaty. The Drake looked at him. He glanced up.
A Silver-rank was creeping away from the battle. One of the Waterborn Raiders, who had suffered heavily in the battle. The [Bandit Archer] had decided to make a break for it, sensing the same danger as the rest. Her mistake was going ahead of the others.
Revi saw the Drake cut the air in front of him. The woman stumbled. She fell, her neck and torso cut in two.
“Cowards.”
“Dead gods!”
Someone screamed. A [Mage] raised his wand; there was a flash—the Drake whirled, pivoted. He cut the spell in half. Then the [Mage].
Two adventurers died, red blood splashing the ground. The others were frozen, tensed—but seeing that the Drake had already set himself for another blow.
Now, the Revenant’s eyes drank in the night’s starlight. His glowing gaze passed from face to face.
“You will strike me. Once. One of you will show me you have the will and skill to earn my respect. Or I will kill all of you. Show me.”
He waited, ignoring the blood, the cries of the friends of the dead adventurers. It was then, looking at him, that Revi realized undeath had turned him to madness too. Just a different way.
No one spoke. Eldertuin looked around, his teeth clenched. Arcsinger was looking at him, arm in front of her daughter. Typhenous was tensed; Briganda’s face pale and white. Halrac stared at the Drake, then looked away, seeing the insurmountable difference in ability. Jelaqua was licking her lips…
It was then someone stepped forwards. Not Tyrion Veltras, who was far away and retreating, seeing to his sons. Nor Ryoka Griffin, who had been blown to safety and collapsed ahead of the retreating Humans.
Not Eldertuin nor even Zenol, who had been trembling, trying to…
Revi didn’t recall his name at first. Yet there he was. The man stepped forwards, rapier and parrying dagger raised. He smiled, almost ruefully.
“I am Instructor Tomoor, ser. I was considered a fair [Duelist] in my youth. If you will be satisfied—allow me to challenge you.”
The Drake turned and smiled. The two stepped forwards as the adventurers formed a wide ring.
The end of the raid on the Village of the Dead was encapsulated in a simple duel. The ringing of swords meeting.
It was in four adventurers who met in silence.
It was the heart of the city.
The Putrid One’s lair.
 
—-
 
Yvlon Byres had used all but one of her potions. She was stumbling, teeth bared. Blood ran down her arms. Not all hers. Not much.
How many undead had she killed with her hands? Her sword? She had sheathed it. Her arms had killed them. Turned into blades, spikes. She had bludgeoned them to death.
She found the Antinium, limping towards her. Yvlon stopped, the animal growl in her throat subsiding.
“Ksmvr?”
He wasn’t running, or jumping. Just limping along. Ksmvr raised all three crossbows as he saw her, then relaxed.
“Are you Yvlon or a trick? Please do not be a trick. I have had a bad day.”
He rasped, crossbows aimed down, but wary. Yvlon stepped forwards, hand raised.
“Ksmvr? Ksmvr, it’s me. What happened to you? I…see?”
She lifted her arm and made it change into the blade form. Ksmvr looked at it, and then nodded.
“Yvlon. I came, as Pisces told us. Something bit me. A woman. She dropped me when the Drake killed her.”
He rubbed at his neck. Yvlon saw green blood. Ksmvr stumbled forwards.
“I think I tasted bad. Why is that upsetting to learn?”
She caught him, gently, fumbling for her potion. He had used all of his and began to perk up as he drank it. For a moment, that was all there was. Him, held gently by her.
“Pisces shouldn’t have told you to come.”
He was so young. Ksmvr looked up at her.
“But I am a Horn of Hammerad. Or am I not sufficiently able to help?”
She almost laughed at him. Silly little ant. Laughed, and wanted to cry because that was always how he said it, how he saw himself.
“No. Never that. Come on. We have to find them.”
She knew they were alive. There was no logic in it. They just…had to be. If Yvlon had not found them, she would have wandered around until she died.
As it turned out, Yvlon and Ksmvr did not have to look long. They were headed in the same direction. It was inevitable; the city, like the Village of the Dead, had a heart. And it seemed every street slowly spiraled towards it, regardless of actual direction.
Ceria was supporting Pisces, his arm slung around her shoulder. The Necromancer looked—battered. His robes were torn, and his rapier had shattered from a duel. Ceria, of all of them, looked the best. She had scabbed cuts across her temple and body, where shards of ice had hit her in the titanic duels with the Frostmarrow Behemoth. She actually grinned when she saw them.
“See? I told you they were fine. We’re too stupid to die.”
“How dare you. I’m in peril.”
Pisces retorted, but he didn’t even raise his head until Yvlon and Ksmvr joined him. He brushed sweat-matted hair out of his eyes.
There they stood. The street was unsettlingly…empty. No undead pursued them. Yvlon had seen the Revenant with a sword cutting down undead in wide swathes, with every swing of his blade. She couldn’t imagine what level he was, nor had she bothered to stay and see if he would attack her.
“Here we are.”
The inner part of the city seemed to repel the lesser undead. Magnificent, empty buildings no longer inhabited, yet to crumble, lined the streets. Everything seemed to…curve inwards.
The heart of the city.
“The others have run.”
Yvlon felt like pointing this out. Ceria nodded. Pisces glanced over his shoulder.
“A sensible choice. But for that Revenant—we might never have made it. However, we might be safer here than…I can feel the power ahead of us. Lesser undead wouldn’t dare follow.”
“Which logically means there is a greater threat ahead, Pisces.”
Ksmvr pointed this out and everyone smiled. Pisces shrugged.
“Yes, well. Do we go?”
He looked at them. The Horns of Hammerad stood in the street. Yvlon didn’t know if it was even a question.
“We promised. Maybe we should let someone stay. Ksmvr…”
The Antinium [Skirmisher] looked at Yvlon, hurt. Ceria shook her head.
“We do this together. We…if anyone wants to stay, they can. But we have to. We can’t just turn back. We started this. We finish it.”
If they had all fought here, somehow, alone, perhaps it would have been easier. After the deaths, the fighting?
…No. Yvlon closed her eyes. They would have never turned back either way. Not until one of them died. She looked at the others.
“Let’s get that damn loot.”
They smiled and began to walk forwards. Together.
 
—-
 
His heart beat in the moments before the duel began. In that silent time, he had a conversation. One of two he had ever really had.
It happened in his mind. The living man, who had Skills, a class of his own, spoke. He was a [Fencing Instructor] and…a [Darkpact Duelist].
He had lived like this for ten years. Ten years, occasionally letting the Necromancer take charge. Mostly—feeding him information. Carrying out small, mundane tasks which he could sometimes see the sinister machinations in.
Other times not.
It was a deal Tomoor had taken, which kept him up at night. Haunted him. However, if you had asked him, even now, whether he would take it again…he would have in a heartbeat.
The Necromancer sat there, in a blank space in his head.
“You will give me control of your body and Skills.”
“Can you beat him?”
The silence was telling. Tomoor looked for a sign of Perril Chandler, the Archmage of Death. He thought he saw him at last. A trace of nobility, where he had seen only unliving rage before.
“You will…not survive, likely. I will attempt to win. This Drake is a master bar none, however. Even if he fights without his Skills or artifacts, it will take everything to strike him.”
Tomoor nodded. He felt light. Afraid. He was no hero. Az’kerash had fought in the raid using him like a puppet, directing him with his superior knowledge and ability, augmenting him with magic.
His heart beat as he lifted his rapier in a salute. The Drake performed some ancient ritual-salute of his own. Tomoor spoke to Az’kerash.
“If I die. We are quits. My debts are repaid. You’ll leave them alone? My family?”
The Necromancer’s gaze flickered, as if he had forgotten the day Tomoor had been driven to his bargain.
“They will live natural lives without my touch. I shall see to it they have gold to live on. You have my word.”
My son, my wife. Tomoor closed his eyes and nodded. He reached out—
When he opened them, the [Duelist] sighed. He was neither Tomoor nor fully Az’kerash. He finished his salute and faced the Drake of old, whispering a Skill.
The two met in a clash that would have killed Tomoor if he had been a step off. The Drake’s eyes widened and he began to smile. At last! 
They danced under moonlight, outside the dead village. A dance with blades and art and grace.
 
—-
 
The Horns of Hammerad staggered down street after street. At first the city conformed to a regular layout. Then it began to twist in on itself. Now—they walked down boulevards that felt slanted. Past walls they could see over, for all they were twice the height of the adventurers.
In and in. Yvlon felt sick. She felt death magic, at least, pressing down around her. A purity of power that even the non-[Mages] could sense.
“Pisces. I feel…”
Ceria cut off. Her bone-hand was trembling. She looked around, and then shuddered. Ksmvr stopped, aiming his crossbow, but Pisces held up a hand.
“Don’t. I don’t think…”
A wave of carrion parted in front of them. Scuttling beetles, some as long as Yvlon’s leg. Tens of thousands of them. Centipedes, rats—all undead.
They were lining the walls and street. Covering every surface. Ceria breathed, eyes wide.
“Undead beetles?”
Pisces murmured.
“Harbingers of plague and pestilence. I always knew it could be done. Yet this is…isn’t even a spell. It’s a byproduct. Don’t—don’t attack them.”
“If they swarm us—”
Yvlon began to walk, even so. The Horns advanced, slowly, seeing the mindless creatures parting in front of them like a wave. They were still.
Waiting.
“They’ll wait for an order. Something’s ahead. Do you feel it? Something—”
Pisces was shuddering. Now, the reality seemed to hit him. It had hit Yvlon from the start. She put one hand on her sword.
“Grab it and run. Whatever it is—the Helm of Fire, an artifact—one thing. We run.”
The others nodded. They walked ahead.
A silent building waited for them in the center of it all. They had seen it from the moment the world started warping.
There it was. A single, rounded building, half caved-in at the roof. A…cathedral? A building of old, pale marble ruined, moving with the insects.
The Horns of Hammerad staggered towards it. They reached the door.
Within, they found the Necromancer.
 
—-
 
The duel of Instructor Tomoor and the Revenant Drake was shown around the world. In silence, adventurers and viewers saw the two touch blades, strike at each other, pivot, attack—all without a word.
They had seen battle and bravery when the King of Duels earned his name against the King of Destruction. Yet that moment had been defiant action, blood and courage as both bled the other.
This? This was skill. The purest heart of it. Neither man nor Drake touched one another. They were both at the height of their respective disciplines. One with a dueling sword, curved, warding his areas of attack and defense in perfect unison.
The other a fencer, rapier and parrying dagger moving in a completely separate modality of combat.
It stunned viewers, who had not expected this display of talent. Tomoor’s family, his students, his son and wife saw the Human man fighting out of his mind, on a level they had never dreamt he knew.
Courage? Heroic inspiration? They would find reasons for it later.
The truth was Az’kerash. Perril Chandler. He pivoted, and Tomoor’s living body moved with him. When he uttered a Skill, it was one Tomoor knew. He lanced out in piercing thrusts, trying to touch that Drake’s scales!
The other blademaster was excellent. And his Skills—he was holding back. He could have cut Tomoor with words alone, yet he matched the man, using only the Skills the duel would allow.
Honor. Mutual admiration. Both were smiling. A wide, desperate, joyous, bloody smile that promised death.
How could you both admire someone and want to kill them in the same beat? Az’kerash felt his heart beating. He struck out, wanting to end the match and yet—
Prolong it another minute, another second! He felt alive.
The two nearly moved into the widening circle of adventurers, who fell back. They fought around a terrified Stitch-girl, who threw her hands up. She fled as the Necromancer pressed the Drake back, advancing in to slash with his parrying dagger.
This was what they wanted. The Drake was smiling.
“So you are the great champion of your time! So young!”
Az’kerash was laughing too, in his castle far to the south. Toren watched, awestruck. The old man was good. He had known that, but this?
Tomoor stepped back, blade flourishing. He raised it over his head as the Drake’s eyes narrowed. A taunt—across the world, Terandrians, Izrilians, Humans, were cheering his name.
Hero! Warrior of death, champion of blades and death! Perril Chandler was smiling. He lowered his blade and stepped forwards to end this.
