He bellowed at the terrified [Bandit Archer], who did as he shouted. Halrac leaned up. Acid threatened to do the same to him, but his eyes were closed.
He had memorized the position and took the shot. His arrow flashed through the skies, invisible! A [Mage]-killer, an ambush-specialist’s dream. Or a [Hunter]’s.
…But he missed. Halrac knew it. He looked from the shelter, wiping at the stinging liquid threatening to eat into his skin, neutralizing it with a potion.
The Lich hovered there, one of many, casting spells. Raining death down. Halrac cursed as he put another arrow to his bow. Yet—he was a [Marksman], yes, but he wasn’t Bird or Badarrow.
The skeleton was changing positions as it floated in the night sky, already torn by flashes of light, ruining his night vision at least six hundred paces distant. His enchanted arrow had to go around or through its magical barrier, and he was out of [Piercing Shots].
Halrac considered the second shot—and lowered his bow. He was still cold. His mind raced, and he never stopped moving, standing, turning, shouting.
“Follow me! We have to relocate! Move! Keep your heads down and out of the acid!”
…Cold, though. He knew the Liches were killing adventurers, but he let the one floating there and casting [Acid Rain] go. He had to focus on targets meant for him.
“If we go out there, we’re sitting—”
Halrac seized a [Crossbow-woman] and threw her out of her cover. He pointed.
“Go! Follow Thorven!”
The Minotaur was leading the way. He had realized the exact same thing Halrac had; they might be burned by the rain, but they were dead if they didn’t find adventurers with melee weapons when those Wyverns dove, or armored undead found them.
The [Archers] ran. Halrac was listening to Soew shouting orders, panicked reports. He broke free of the rain and whirled, not even bothering to wipe acid from his hair and armor.
There. There was his target.
“Turn! [Archers], turn and loose! There’s your target!”
As if he were back in the army, Halrac barked and the entire group turned at his [Voice in Your Ear], a low-level [Leader]’s Skill from those days. Panicked, through the explosions, screams, and confusion, they still turned and saw his target.
A Zombie Giant, wearing armor and carrying a mace of bone. It was advancing down one street. To the side—Halrac saw a Bone Behemoth grappling with a slightly larger, stronger undead.
The Frostmarrow Behemoth was winning, but it couldn’t fight two at once! The huge giant was swinging its club at unseen adventurers fleeing it.
“Hit the head! The head!”
Halrac drew an enchanted arrow—Airburst—and cursed. He fumbled for a better one and had a fiery arrow to his string in six wasted seconds. He drew—sighted at the target, and loosed.
This time he hit home. The Zombie Giant was a much easier target. Even so, a number of enchanted arrows went wide as adventurers missed the moving head. Enough hit.
Chunks blew out of the giant’s head. It turned, flailing its club and destroying a roof, but didn’t fall. Halrac drew another arrow.
More gigantic undead were appearing. He saw a mass of squirming limbs and bodies rear up in the shape of some kind of morbid slug. It took Halrac a second to realize it was a Wailing Pit rearing up. It collapsed, and if anything had been below—
“Commander Halrac. My count is six giant-class undead in range, not counting Wailing Pits. Let me focus on separate targets. We’re wasting—”
“Don’t ask, do it!”
Thorven nodded. He grabbed the [Magical Archer] and six others and pointed.
“Soew, we’re fighting—here! Dead gods damn it, tell us where to go or get us backup before the undead on the ground get us! We’re taking out those giants!”
“Captain Halrac? Standby—return to your position, Leader Melbret! [Restore Morale]—”
Soew’s voice was taking on an edge of desperation. Halrac cursed.
He saw Melbret and nearly twenty adventurers running past his street as the first zombie giant finally went down, an eye socket and that part of its head blown away. If it had kept the helmet that had actually been hanging askew…
Halrac’s head turned and then the [Veteran Scout] bellowed.
“Stop!”
The adventurers halted, saw the [Archers], and ran up.
“We have to get out of here! Fall back to the fortifications—”
Soew’s Skill hadn’t worked, or there wasn’t enough morale to restore. Halrac grabbed the [Armsman] and whirled him. Just [Armsman]. He was no Yvlon.
“Hold this position with us or we’ll be cut to pieces by those flying undead!”
He said that, but most were heading towards the army distant. Halrac was still shouting for the best shots to hit their wings; if the Veltras army ran…
Death, death, and death. He knew he should be thinking of where to run. Halrac knew it, but he also knew Yvlon and Eldertuin’s waves were standing and fighting. If it was time to run—they ran together. And if they didn’t see sense, he’d grab them and drag them back.
Yet they had no idea what the enemy was capable of. It was all chaos.
“Set up defenses here. Block the street—”
Halrac couldn’t risk them getting onto the rooftops and presenting a target. Adventurers began stringing up rope, wire, bear traps, even their portable palisade walls. They were attacked before they finished setting up the third street in the T-intersection.
“Draugr!”
“Slow them and anyone over Level 30, get in front and use your Skills! [Double Shot]! [Pinpoint Shot]! [Expert’s Shot]!”
Halrac activated three Skills in quick succession. Two arrows went through a Draugr’s head, each. Armored or not, they died when you destroyed the brains. The third kill was another perfect shot. The [Marksman]’s Skill that went after weak points if the owner knew them.
Three Draugr dead, and Thorven took down two more with an arrow that ricocheted between two, tearing pieces away until they fell. Archers got five more, and the adventurers had slowed them down.
Tripvine bags! Alchemical oil potions which made two Draugr slip! One even ran into a thrown, enchanted sword which pierced its chest. Halrac snarled at the waste of the weapon that hadn’t even killed the undead—when the adventurer raised her hand.
“[Recall Weapon]!”
The undead group died hard. Adventurers were poised to meet their charge when Halrac saw one more undead moving at speed down the street. A lot faster than—
“F—undead rider! Hit that horse!”
A skeleton on horseback charged them, holding a single sword in its arms. It wore light, painted leather armor. Halrac took aim, but Thorven was faster.
The X-bow thundered; the horse went down, bones blown to bits. The skeleton didn’t join it. It had already leapt, and landed on the street, still running. If anything, it came on faster.
The adventurers had dispatched the Draugr in a hand-to-hand. Now, they turned as the [Archers] took aim. Halrac muttered.
“[Curving Shot]—”
He loosed, and watched his arrow miss. Eight other [Archers] had shot with him. The bone-undead had dodged all eight in a leap sideways! Halrac’s invisible arrow it didn’t see until—
The sword slashed and cut the arrow in half. Halrac blinked. He’d barely seen that.
“Skeleton Lord? What the hell is—”
The undead raced under a bursting tripvine bag. It dodged another arrow as Halrac fumbled for one. He thought he had time—
An adventurer with her shield up gasped as the two-handed sword flashed at her chest. She lowered her shield.
“[Reinforced Block]!”
Halrac saw the sword curve under her shield. The skeleton cut up. The adventurer stared at her arms as they fell. Then it beheaded her and stabbed another adventurer in the chest.
It was so fast. It—Thorven swung his bow in a roar as the undead leapt past him.
The Skeleton Lord dodged. Halrac didn’t see a Skill, just anticipation. It nimbly avoided an adventurer’s slash, returned with its sword. A scream, gurgling, as the man reached for his cut throat.
Halrac missed from eleven feet away. His invisible bow launched the arrow at the back of the skeleton’s head and it dodged, sliding under the blow. It looked at him and the [Veteran Scout] cursed.
“Halrac! Get back!”
Adventurers were scrambling to let the Gold-ranks take another shot. Halrac ran backwards, still loosing arrows. He saw the skeleton dodge another one, almost lazily leaning aside as it ran. Its glowing magenta flame-eyes were seeing each strike! No—predicting them! It dodged swords, a jabbing spear, a mace and a vial of flaming oil, as if the world were a jigsaw puzzle and it had found the one place it wouldn’t be hit each time.
It was too quick. [Haste]. As well as that damn sword. Halrac found himself running towards a wall. He leapt up as the skeleton charged, intent on him.
The world was slow in the seconds of life-and-death. Halrac had one last arrow, unenchanted but a piercing arrowhead, in his fingers. He had it in his invisible bow—and he was leaping.
His boots struck the wall and Halrac tensed to kick off and leap over the skeleton’s head, back towards two Gold-ranks charging at the undead with weapons drawn.
The Skeleton Lord saw it all. Contemptuously, it whirled about to face the Gold-ranks.
Its sword swung up over its head, catching Halrac as he leapt. The Gold-rank Captain was struck across the groin, a sweeping blow that cut through his pelvis up to his ribcage. He landed, half of him bisected—
The Skeleton Lord didn’t hear the thump. Nor did it feel the slight impact in its sword. Its head turned. The perfect strike it had made—
Halrac had never leapt. He stood, his boots clinging to the wall, keeping him there like they were covered in glue, despite the unnatural angle defying the laws of gravity.
Boots of Stability.
“Idiot.”
The arrow went through the skeleton’s head and blasted chunks out the other side. Halrac landed, hitting the ground on his side as the enchantment on the boots gave out a second later. He just lay there, on his back, for a second. Then someone spoke his name.
“Halrac?”
He looked up. The Gold-rank adventurer offered him a hand; the other was bashing the Skeleton Lord’s body to dust.
“Thanks.”
He pulled himself up. Shakily. He reached for the speaking stone.
“Soew—Skeleton Lord under [Haste] or an even higher-level variant. Dodged everything nearly perfectly. Also, riding a horse. Watch out.”
“Understood.”
The [Marksman] breathed. In. Out. He listened to his frantic heart beating, and knew he was alive.
Then he went back to the street, to keep shooting arrows at the towering undead as the adventurers fortified again. That was the first wave of undead. The first ten minutes.
The second wave came six minutes later. Halrac looked up and beheld his death. Bitterly, he took aim.
 
—-
 
It was like a menagerie of undead. A playground of experiments. Everything he had ever tried or conceived—and some things he had not.
Too late, Az’kerash realized the limitations of his undead experiments. Where he had conjured massed numbers, he had never gone down the same road as this Necromancer. It was like seeing two completely different architects given the same materials and creating vastly different structures.
The dichotomy was simple: in life, Perril Chandler had been the respected Archmage of Death, the Undying Shield of Calanfer. A man who had once been cheered and honored as Silvaria’s noble protector, albeit with undeath as his weapon. He respected the corpses of those he raised.
The Putrid One never had. He had experimented, and found variations upon the undead that Az’kerash had only begun to learn after he had died.
Screaming Wyverns dove on the archers and adventurers that had made their unwise stand in the streets. Wyverns—bearing loads of Ghouls which leapt down, engaging the adventurers. Not deadly—but all they had to do was distract while the massive Wyverns tore the adventurers apart.
They might have survived that. However, Az’kerash beheld obscenely bloated piles of flesh; not Draugr, far bigger. Waddling down the street, dangerous despite their corpulence for they held tiny undead rats and other creatures waiting to pour out when pierced. Using them as shields came ‘boring’ Skeleton Knights.
Their bones were green and brown. Poisoned. Covered in it. Such an excellent combination of distraction, overwhelming aggression, and a final, insidious blow.
The adventurer’s morale broke twice. Wistram was covering the scene, but Drassi couldn’t say anything. She was watching in horror, silent, having torn into the paper she was holding with her claws.
If he could—no. Az’kerash had one card to play in this battle and it was…occupied. The Necromancer watched as a few adventurers made their stand, the rest trying to run. They would fall, and the lines would break. The adventurers were wavering already; they needed to flee or they would be overwhelmed. The only thing saving them was that not all the undead in the city were on top of them—yet.
What will you do, Pisces Jealnet? What will your team do? I will see it and never judge you, either way.
Az’kerash watched, then turned away from the slaughter as the man with the invisible bow cast it aside and locked shortsword with one of the poisoned skeletons.
 
—-
 
I see your death. I see you die. Soew closed her eyes. She had tried—but she had weighed the odds of someone stopping the undead attack and had told them to run.
Halrac’s group hadn’t had a chance to escape the Wyverns. The [Strategist] sat at her map of the Village of the Dead and the battle, knowing she had to sit and save what could be saved, despite the deaths of so many.
She was out of Skills. If she had another minute—she forced her eyes open. She watched the image of Halrac till the end.
 
—-
 
“I see your death. I see you die. It all rests on you. So make your stand. Not yet. Not today.”
Niers Astoragon saw it. The crumbling lines. The place to hold them. He raised his hand. At last! He could do something.
“[Raise the Banner: Hold, with Sword and Spell]! [Order: Throw Them Back]!”
He spoke, focusing his will. And on the scrying orb—the faltering [Veteran Scout] forced back the lock of blades. He sent the Skeleton Knight flying back, and raised his head.
Mrsha’s eyes widened as the screen began to glow. She looked up and the Fraerling laughed. As the battle changed, he spoke once more.
“[Reputation: My Famous Name].”
 
—-
 
Halrac had been about to die. Then—he’d hurled the skeleton, armor and all back half a dozen feet! He felt something fill him. A familiar sensation.
“Soew?”
It was like a rally Skill in the army! It had to be her capstone Skill too! Halrac felt—sturdy. His hand blurred and he blocked a second skeleton running at him. His boot came up and he planted it in its chest.
