She had named the greatest threats she had identified. Skeleton Lords were moving along with the greater undead. Each one could kill a Gold-rank. They were too fast, too deadly and too intelligent.
The giant-class undead were unstoppable if they reached adventurer fortifications. They had to be brought down from afar.
Lastly, the flying Liches were burning everything to ash. Most of the other fliers had gone to besiege Veltras’ armies.
“Can you do something about the Skeleton Lords?”
“Yes. Perhaps. But—”
“Then go!”
Two hands, one flesh-and-blood and the other bone, pushed Pisces hard. He stumbled—looked back. Ceria had drawn her wand.
“We’ll see each other again. Don’t worry.”
She saw him hesitate. Then the [Necromancer] nodded. He began to run, [Flash Stepping] across the street. He vanished, heading towards the first Skeleton Lord. Ceria exhaled.
Then…she turned back to the Frostmarrow Behemoth. In the fighting, the silence of her mind, she conjured ice.
She began to climb.
 
—-
 
“This is how we died. Every time, they wanted our bodies. Our bones. Our bodies for their armies, living and dead.”
Moore looked up and saw his kin. The face of the half-Giant was blank, rotten. It was nearly twice his height, and he was the tallest adventurer here.
It raised a fist and swung down at him. The half-Giant blocked it with a spire of earth. Stone powdered and rained down around him. He raised his staff and struck back.
A child fighting an adult. He drove his staff forwards. It was covered in barbs and tore at skin. The leg—he tore, his hands covered in vines. A blow sent him to the ground, but he rose. A healing potion crunched against his side. He went for the leg, tearing at it as Jelaqua kept the other undead off him, roaring orders.
The undead giant would fall. That was how they were killed. That was how they died. The [Green Mage] looked up at his ancestor. Female? He looked for something.
“Goodbye, Cousin.”
He swung again, his staff like an axe. Undead broke around his team as the undead giant fell. The Gold-ranks held their ground.
 
—-
 
Another team advanced, buoyed by no less than a dozen Skills. The Lifwail Blades on the ground had blown past two groups of Draugr, enchanted blades piercing their armor.
“We need to take those Liches out! Them—or find what’s controlling them all! What is that?”
The Captain of the Lifwail Blades was listening. He looked up and saw.
Thirty Liches hung in the air. All in the same spot, around a rounded building slightly taller than most. No one could halt them. No one could match them!
Typhenous had tried with some [Mages]. The Drakes had seen six [Valmira’s Comets] fly up; the Liches blasted them with spells and blocked the rest, massing their barriers.
The Gold-rank had never seen the like. However, the answer came through the speaking stone. A panting man’s voice.
“They’re…it’s a Lich Coven!”
“What in the name of the Ancestor’s bones is that?”
The Drake snapped back, his sword raised, peering up at the Liches. The reply was urgent.
“Look at their legs! Do you see? The chains!”
At last, the adventurers noticed the odd chains that had hung from each Lich’s legs. Yes! Why were they…they were shackled, the captain realized.
“They’ve been bound into a single network. So long as they’re there, they have the combined spell power to wipe out any group. They have to be stopped! I—Pisces told me the chains must be severed. Then the Liches will be free to move about, but weaker!”
“Pisces?”
The Drake hesitated. Hadn’t that been Pisces speaking? No—the young man’s voice came over the speaking stone.
“That’s correct…Instructor Tomoor. The Liches must be broken. Magic will not contest them, nor arrows.”
“Then we’ll take that building and hit them. Collapse the entire structure if we have to!”
The captain turned to the other adventurers with him. He pointed, turning off the speaking stone and made a hand-sign. The adventurers moved out in silence. They left the corner of the street—ran into undead in seconds.
Bone Horrors. Each one trapped so that bones would explode outwards in grasping claws, showers of deadly fragments if they were approached. The Lifwail Blades and adventurers were ready for the challenge.
The undead hadn’t noticed them. A [Rogue] went in, tossed two bags.
Tripvines exploded onto the Bone Horrors. The Drake Captain heard cracks as the trapped undead exploded into deadly showers of bones, scything claws—
Completely ineffectual.
“Go!”
His team charged and wiped the Bone Horrors out, carving them to pieces. Threat neutralized, he raised his claw again.
[Silenced Maneuvers]. The adventurers moved muffled and quiet, even those in heavy armor. They rounded another street, closing towards the damned Lich Coven. The heart of the city was…quieter. The undead boiling from every street were almost nonexistent here! Could they win? The Drake had no idea. There were so many and those giants…
Sixteen at last count. And the Frostmarrow Behemoth was about to be destroyed. They had to neutralize the biggest threat, fall back and hope that damned Human army could pull some weight.
“Captain! Contact!”
A whisper. The Drake spun. He hadn’t noticed another wave of undead.
There wasn’t a wave. A single figure stood in the empty street. It—was a Drake.
A dead Drake. His scales were mummified, some fallen away. However, the undead’s body was preserved. For a second, the Captain just stared. Then he gestured.
A [Rogue] loosed a crossbow bolt. The glowing shot flashed across the street, a probing shot.
It…never hit the Drake. The Captain of the Lifwail Blades hesitated. He hadn’t seen the crossbow bolt detonate. Nor had he seen it cut; it should have activated either way. The arrow just…vanished.
“The flying furry fuck was that?”
An adventurer whispered. The Drake shot him an irritated glance.
“Back up. Now.”
The adventurers were stepping back. They did not mess with threats like that. The undead Drake didn’t pursue them. Not at first.
He spoke.
“His power is ended. Did you do that? Yet you are not the army who has that strength. Then it is ill-luck, for you came so far to meet me. Descendants of my people. Is that the best skill at arms you have mastered?”
The voice. The Captain of the Lifwail Blades froze. That was the same voice which had so lazily called the undead to arms! The disinterested, almost self-deprecating tones. Bitter and tired and…
Sentient.
“Contact. Strategist Soew, we have just met the undead in charge of the others! It—it’s a Revenant. Confirm?”
“Confirmed. Fall back at once, Captain! [Expeditious Retreat]!”
He needed no further urging. The Drake pointed. The adventurers ran.
“Cowards.”
The word struck the Drake adventurer in the back. Drakes do not r—he ignored the taunt. He did cast one look back down the street, though.
The undead Drake wore old armor, custom-made for him. The insignia was so faded that the Captain did not know what it was. From head to toe, the gear looked enchanted. What was truly scary was the sword he carried, though.
A two-handed sword. Not as long as a greatsword; not nearly. A dueling blade. If the pattern was right, then it was a mark the Walled Cities had long ago stopped issuing.
A [Blademaster]’s sigils. Like a golden bell. The Captain knew his history. In those days, each Walled City would issue a mark, a delicate etching to be inscribed on the blade in some way. Each city had its expert, in those times. To best one city was to earn a mark. They did not carry the practice on in this time.
If they had…even if they had. The living Drake’s blood felt cold. There were nine marks on that blade.
The Drake did not move as the living ran. He stood there, face almost…disgusted. Then resigned, melancholy. He never lifted the sword hanging at his hip. Never touched it. All he did was…speak.
“Unlucky adventurers. [Thou Art Cut].”
The Captain of the Lifwail Blades heard the words with confusion at first. Then he realized it was a Skill and…slowed.
He reached for a potion. The back of his armor was…torn. He looked to his side.
“That can’t be. Did you hear th—?”
An adventurer collapsed, eyes blank. The cut had gone through his neck. Other adventurers cried out, cut to their very bones. The Drake reached for a potion, drinking with a shaking claw.
The cuts wouldn’t heal. He lay, bleeding, on the street. Words? Words? Not even a…
The Drake appeared, walking down the street. He stopped and looked down at the bitter expression on the Captain’s face. He bent to deliver a warrior’s mercy…but the Drake was dead.
The collapsed adventurers began to stir as the Drake lifted his claw. The Revenant stood.
“I resent it. I resent my servitude. I resent my death. If I could not…”
His sword rose. He studied it, musingly, as the Gold-rank adventurers walked back the way they had come, eyes glowing with the malice of undeath. They had forgotten who they were. The Revenant had not. All that he had been had stayed. Forced to serve. Twisted, but remained.
“If I could not. Strange.”
The sword in the Drake’s claws gleamed in the light. His beautiful armor shone. He stood there, in the street, eyes focused on the distant shape of the Frostmarrow Behemoth, a clear threat. He regarded his sword.
It did not move.
“How…strange. Could it be?”
The undead mused.
 
—-
 
Lord Tyrion’s army had not benefited from the Skills aiding the adventurers. The reason was simple: his was a Human army, the forces of a [Lord] of Izril. One of the Five Families.
Similarly, the adventurers who hailed from every place in the world were all individuals. The army was an army.
They fought with only a handful of Skills making it across the vast distance. And of them—
Tyrion Veltras cursed as he felt a hand grabbing at his authority, distracting him. His lance went wide, clipping the head of the Draugr. Such Skills interfered with his command of the battlefield!
“Break away!”
For the umpteenth time, his riders fell back with him. Less now. His forces had begun taking real casualties. His bloodless training battle?
A shrieking Wyvern dove from the skies, biting, crushing men and women and tearing about with brute strength, refusing to die even as it was stabbed countless times, showered with arrows.
Tyrion reached for his sword.
“[Thirty-foot Slash].”
His swing chopped halfway through the neck, but the Skill wasn’t enough. The Wyvern was distracted, though, and a flashing, glowing blade burning orange-green finished the cut.
Kaalblade. The House of El’s forces were fighting shoulder-to-shoulder with House Veltras. So were Terlands’ guards and the Golems.
Three of the Five Families, fighting here! And they were being pushed back.
“Jericha, the fliers are breaching your aerial cover! Pull the rear back!”
“Milord, we cannot move the trebuchets—”
Tyrion swung his sword about him, breaking clear of the melee. He saw a [Rider] go down behind him. He turned—but the man or woman was already dead, caught by the milling undead.
“Abandon them if you must. Guard the nobility and the coach!”
He looked towards the rear of the desperate fighting and saw the non-combatants sheltering behind Jericha’s magic, and all the archers. The crossbow-wielding [Mercenaries] were targeting the fliers, but there were so many and they were so hard to kill unless you destroyed their head!
Undead Griffins, Wyverns, and so on. Powerful undead coming out of the city. Tyrion turned.
The first undead giant had come marching towards his lines. He had not brought forces meant to fight them.
He should retreat. Yet the [Lord] was aware that if he did—the adventurers within the Village of the Dead were surely dead. He owed them only a promise to a Courier; there was little to gain here and—he looked towards the coach—everything to lose.
Lord Tyrion Veltras did not call the full retreat in that minute. Nor the next.
It would cost him…his head turned up as he saw coordination. Movement. Eight Wyverns loaded with Draugr dropped out of the skies towards the trebuchets. And the little coach.
He turned and began racing back, through the undead, his people. Too slow. Jericha was trying to bring them down.
Too slow.
 
—-
 
“The Lifwail Blades are dead. I cannot contact them.”
The battle was…were they losing or winning? He could not tell.
Prince Zenol saw two of his bodyguards die. He would have let them use his spare limbs—there was no point. One’s head was torn to bits, the life-thread destroyed. The other consumed by magic from above. What his people feared. Fire.
He could not tell if they were winning or losing. The undead had no quantifiable numbers, no morale. Thus—so long as adventurers lived, that was his only metric.
They were dying, though. He had gotten separated from Yvlon and Dorgon in the fighting. He had linked up with another group just by luck.
The Halfseekers were stalemated in the street. Moore, face covered in sweat and blood, was resting, drinking three stamina potions. The only reason this group of adventurers had survived so long was Moore’s strength—
And Jelaqua. She had burned through nine bodies already. Throwing herself into the center of the fire, demanding the undead’s attention, letting them savage her rather than the others who could not replace their flesh.
Zenol admired that. Yet he had no time to waste on words or platitudes. There was only time for—what had to be done.
“They’re killing us! You have to stop them!”
A Silver-rank’s voice. Zenol stared up. He saw the undead Lich Coven. They were hurling [Fireballs] down. Thirty [Fireballs]. Then thirty again. Then—
Nearly a hundred in two minutes. Zenol had heard of spells like [Meteor Storm]. He thought this was as close as he would see to it in his life.
The begging voice cut off. Perhaps they had survived, some.
“The Lich Coven must die. It must be severed!”
The [Prince of Sands] of Nerrhavia’s Fall spoke. He looked around.
“Where are the [Scouts]? It must fall! I will join you! Anyone who can take it down—distract them!”
“Agreed.”
A clipped voice. Halrac the Grim. Zenol saw a glowing arrow shoot towards the Liches. They pivoted, blocking the arrow—and then the volley, before returning magical fire.
“We’ll support you! Go!”
That was Revi’s voice. A babble of voices joined it. Zenol looked around.
“Captain Jelaqua, lend me your [Rogue]! I will give you my bodyguards—we have to bring it down!”
He pointed. Seborn turned and Jelaqua looked around.
“Your highness! You cannot—”
His [Mage] bodyguard protested. Zenol cut her off with a slash of his wrist. He checked a dangling thread from his wrist and gripped his sword tightly.
“I am a Gold-rank Captain! Do not presume to tell me not to risk my life now! Adventurer Seborn?”
