“Let’s go.”
The two ran towards the Lich Coven. More adventurers had made up their minds like Zenol. They fought, rather than run! That was what he admired about them.
“We have a route up! Keep the pressure on!”
Instructor Tomoor. Somehow—Zenol grinned as he saw two flying Drakes and the bounding [Duelist] ahead. They had created a way to take the fight to the enemy!
A [Light Bridge]. It hung in the air. A beautiful construction, leading from the ground to the Lich Coven’s tower. It was far more elaborate, magnificent even, than any other spell Zenol had seen of its ilk. As he and other mobile adventurers ran towards it, he blinked at the shimmering letters glowing in the air.
Courtesy of Grand Magus Eldavin of Wistram.
The [Prince] laughed and saluted the skies. He saw Tomoor leap up the staircase, four at a time, and the two Drakes followed him. Zenol was pointing with Seborn towards a street when the Liches noticed. They whirled—pointed.
“Dive!”
Tomoor’s scream came a second too late for one of the Drakes. One of the last two Lifwail Blades became a living torch. The other dodged the hammers of falling stone. Pillars of obsidian that smashed the bridge to pieces.
Zenol looked up, cursing. He saw adventurers falling back as the damned mages began hammering the streets around them.
“We can’t make it!”
Seborn dragged him back. Zenol looked over his shoulder, roaring in frustration. Someone had to—but the [Mages] were contesting the skies! If he could get close enough, his jumping Skill…
His eyes fell on a huge figure coming down the street. Moore, Jelaqua, and the other adventurers were in a fighting retreat from more undead. Zenol pointed.
“Half-Giant! Moore! I can reach the tower! But I need you to—throw me.”
Zenol’s bodyguards whirled. The [Prince] pointed at his personal [Mage]. The Cotton-caste woman looked horrified.
“Prince Zenol!”
“Do not argue! The scroll!”
Zenol was sweating now. He saw Moore raise his head.
“I can’t throw you that far.”
It was hundreds of feet. Zenol bared his teeth.
“I don’t need you to do it alone. Just give me a platform. Your strength and my Skill combined can do it. With this.”
The [Green Mage]’s objections were cut off as Zenol’s [Mage] produced one of his remaining scrolls. She opened it, looked uncertainly at him.
The [Prince of Sands] snatched it. He unfurled it and magic flashed around Moore and him. He saw the half-Giant’s shoulders rise and his eyes open wide. Zenol’s teeth ground as he felt the same, familiar power. If only it were enough.
[Ogre’s Strength]. An enchantment stored in the precious scroll. On a half-Giant?
“Launch me. I will end the threat.”
Moore looked down at the [Prince]. The Stitch-man had just whispered that. He stood, poised as if he was standing before a crowd.
Sweating. His eyes were fixed on the tower with the Lich Coven. Thirty mages in the skies.
“You’ll be blasted to pieces.”
“I’ll sever that chain and their combined magic. Nerrhavia’s oath on it.”
“Don’t be a fool—”
Seborn reached for Zenol. He was stopped by Moore. The half-Giant bent.
“Are you sure?”
His arm flexed. Zenol sighed.
“Do it.”
The half-Giant’s right hand held Zenol as the [Prince] balanced. Like a javelin thrower, Moore drew his arm back. He threw Zenol, nearly a hundred feet, staring at his own strength! The [Prince] soared through the burning skies. He touched ground once. The roof. The Liches spotted him and began to aim.
“Too late, wretches. [Like a Lion, He Leapt].”
The [Prince] flew, the momentum of Moore’s throw adding to the second jump. He soared high, higher—
Maybe I won’t make it. Perhaps…he was ashamed of the surge of hope. Perhaps he’d live—
He landed on the tower. The [Prince of Sands] hit the roof and skidded. There—there was the central object the Liches were bound to. His sword flashed once.
The bound, dead [Mage] kneeling in the center of the nest of chains was glowing with magical power, head bowed. Zenol wasn’t even sure if it was undead, or a [Mage] of a different era. It looked up once—he saw a woman smile gratefully.
His falchion severed the top of her head. The Liches screamed. They whirled as the chains shattered. Freed, but weaker. Their fingers pointed down at the man who stood there, sword raised, shouting.
“Nerrhavia’s Fallen!”
The [Prince] laughed, brandishing his sword at the skies and hoping they could see him. He saw the thirty skeleton [Mages] pointing at him, burning spells captured in their fingers.
Fire. A Stitch-person’s worst fear. Zenol’s smile was bitter as he stared at the skies. He had known there was no coming back.
Someone had to do it. Let them never say the [Prince] did not fight like one of them. I could live with their scorn so long as it was never true. 
To prove he was more than a [Prince], he had come here to die. If only he had a second Skill. His father’s legacy…
“Like a lion he leapt. With his pride, he died alone.”
Zenol murmured. He tried to keep smiling as he pivoted, waiting. There was nowhere to dodge. The Liches shrieked again. Their fingers unleashed—
Ksmvr landed on the first Lich’s head. He fired all three crossbows point-blank into the second. Zenol saw him fling something.
A jar of acid. It burst over the third Lich and the flailing undead failed to cast its spell. Zenol dove into the opening.
Fire flung him, burning, across the tower. He landed, rolling, and got to his feet. Alive. He saw Ksmvr land next to him.
“Antinium?”
“Only a fool fights alone, Prince Zenol. I believe I have a debt to repay.”
The [Skirmisher] raised his Forceshield, blocking a swarm of magical arrows. He pointed.
“The door! We will fight them inside!”
He and Prince Zenol ran towards the door as the Liches dove, maddened with fury. The [Prince] ran, heart pumping with terror, fear—relief.
He was alive. The Stitch-man realized he was laughing. He heard Ksmvr chuckling too. Madness? They were both mad! There was no room for anything else. Life and death. They had to fight like the insane. Only that had a chance of survival.
 
—-
 
She killed seven of them. Seven Wyverns died, falling to earth, their Draugr crushed by gravity or the huge beast’s weight.
Jericha failed to slay the eighth. It landed, Draugr falling around the [Mages] and Jericha herself, who drew a sword, screaming triumph.
Tyrion was riding faster than he ever had in his life. But he was always so…
Slow. He had missed the hour of Salva’s death. And now—
The Wyvern reared back, undead mouth gaping as it turned beyond reason, for the coach. As if it could sense everything that mattered to him was in there. It began to tear the enchanted wood apart as easily as if it were paper. Tyrion was too distant, Lord Deilan and the other nobles helpless. A scattering of spells from wands and a crossbow from a bodyguard peppered the thick hide to no avail.
A door slid open. The Wyvern turned, and Tyrion opened his mouth.
“No!”
He charged towards a group of skeletons, not even seeing them. He saw the Wyvern’s head rear back to strike like a serpent.
Then the bright sword blazed to life. The blade, thinner than paper, the length of a longsword. A searing light pink, artificially bright.
Tyrion saw the Wind Runner holding it aloft, uncertainly. She didn’t stand like a [Swordswoman]. She swung it, desperately, as the Wyvern dove.
 
—-
 
The Faeblade cut through the air as Ryoka Griffin swung it, hearing the screams from the boys within, Jericha’s desperate voice, the scream of the Wyvern.
The tip of the glowing blade met the side of the Wyvern’s neck. Ryoka saw its maw opened wide enough to tear her torso apart in a single bite. An undead monster far beyond anything she could fight. A magical being, a—
Animated piece of meat.
The Faeblade cut through the neck and passed through the air in an arc that left afterimages. Ryoka’s swing overbalanced her and she stumbled. Something hit her and knocked her flat. She cried out, flailing. Then—realized the jaws weren’t closing.
The head of the Wyvern lay half on her. The severed body had already collapsed against the coach. Ryoka’s burning sword stuck out of the body. She tried to shift the huge weight—then cut.
Her sword severed the Wyvern without effort. Like there was nothing there. Ryoka shoved two chunks off her and stood.
“Snicker-snack.”
She murmured. Then looked around and saw Hethon and Sammial staring at her. So was Jericha, who had run forwards, bleeding, wand and sword raised.
Ryoka looked at her gift from the lands of the fae. From the…she hadn’t thought it would work. She looked around, in the stunned silence.
Lord Tyrion Veltras had halted, over a thousand feet away in the fighting, and he was looking at her. Shakily—slowly—the man saluted her with his sword.
Ryoka waved. Then she looked at her sword. The words of the Faerie King began to echo in her head.
“The time has come for you to do more than just run.”
The Wind Runner looked around. Her face was lit by the glowing weapon she held. Hethon and Sammial had lost their jaws, perhaps never to be recovered. They stared at the Courier. She pointed at them with a shaking finger.
“Stay—stay there. Okay?”
They nodded. Ryoka looked around. She took a breath. Then she spread her arms. The Wingsuit caught the sudden breeze.
 
—-
 
Mrsha, Tyrion, an open-mouthed Drassi, and the world watched the young woman fly. She went nearly straight up, holding the glowing blade.
Straight towards an undead Griffin. It dove at her, shrieking. The Wind Runner swung, frantically—the wind slammed her right and the Griffin missed. Dizzily, the Wind Runner recovered—and was blown into its back. She impaled the Griffin, almost by accident, through the head.
She had the sense to whirl the blade. And—the Griffin fell, head diced to pieces. In a moment! In a swing! The Wind Runner didn’t have time to process that; the wind took her in a loop-de-loop, over another diving Wyvern’s head. She passed it—and her sword cut through one wing, shearing through and sending the beast falling to the ground.
Two monsters, dead. Ryoka turned, pausing for a second. Then she dove, and the winged horrors began to die.
 
—-
 
Lord Deilan’s mouth was so wide open that he nearly got a few droplets of liquid in it. He closed it hurriedly. Perhaps only he’d noticed that Ryoka Griffin had taken that moment to vomit after the sudden motions in the air.
The wind was blowing her as if it had a mind of its own! Slowly, he saw her begin to take command, dodging, rolling in the air with more finesse. She looped around a Wyvern and slashed through one wing, then the other.
It dropped like a stone. The [Lord] of the House of El couldn’t believe it. His eyes never left the glowing blade in her hands. It was effortless as it swung, a projected beam of pure energy that turned Gold-rank undead into corpses in seconds.
“Lord Deilan?”
A quiet voice from his left. The [Lord] stopped his frantic run towards the coach where Lord Tyrion’s sons had been about to…he shuddered.
“Yes? Desiree?”
The woman was looking up at Ryoka too. But she spoke, the [Message] scroll in her hand.
“We have now sold all one hundred and ninety nine Kaalblades in our possession. We have begun manufacture of the rest…for a backlog nearly three times that number.”
“Despite the cost?”
“Despite the cost. I have over a thousand requests for Miss Ryoka Griffin’s custom-made…Kaalblade.”
Desiree looked up. So did Lord Deilan El. He watched the Wind Runner slay another monster and send it falling as the people below cheered and pointed.
“What should I tell them, Deilan?”
His cousin looked uncertain. Lord Deilan’s mouth worked. The truth? He eventually responded.
“…Tell them the Wind Runner’s blade…the sword. The Windsword is clearly, obviously, a custom-made artifact and we cannot take orders for more. Yet. However, the House of El is pleased she is finding her artifact so efficacious in this battle.”
Desiree’s eyes widened, and then she smiled and nodded. Deilan went back to watching Ryoka as she scribbled urgently.
All the truth. Technically. He was getting better at this.
 
—-
 
The Wind Runner flew through the air, death to any undead trying to contest it. She was more nimble than a bird! Impossible to hit!
…Or rather, the wind was. Ryoka was just along for the ride and her sword did the rest. Even so—
Ceria couldn’t stop laughing. Elia Arcsinger heard it over her speaking stone as she rose. It was time.
The undead were still coming. The heroics of Prince Zenol had ended the Lich Coven. So the adventurers could fight. So many, though?
Elia looked up past her rooftop and shook her head.
“I have never seen so many. Even the Necromancer could not…so many kinds.”
What she saw was the full power of a [Necromancer] in their lair. The Named Adventurer looked up and saw a waddling giant like the smaller containers of tiny undead. More zombie-giants armored in metal. And a giant bone horror.
All smashing the Frostmarrow Behemoth. Yet Ceria was laughing, somewhere. Why? Because of her friend? Did she know the Wind Runner? She had said as much.
Elia had no time for questions. The Frostmarrow Behemoth had survived four battles with undead of its size. It was clearly superior to most of the mundane ones, but the faster-moving giant looked like a Draugr scaled up. Could that even happen? Her blood ran cold at the idea.
“The behemoth will fall! I will buy your group time to retreat with my greatest Skill. Eldertuin, fall back!”
“Acknowledged, Arcsinger.”
Her daughter looked up, eyes shining, and began shouting into her stone.
“Arcsinger is using her Skill! Fall back! Fall—”
The Named Adventurer tuned her out. The rest of the world grew silent. All she listened to was her own frantically-beating heart. She saw a memory. A charging monster, looking at her.
Her shot was urged on by more than just the need. Intuition. Now, the little voice urged her. Elia trusted in it. It wasn’t hers. She was familiar with that voice.
“[Line-Ender Shot].”
She drew back on her golden bow and her arrow blazed. At the same time, she heard the voice turn joyous.
 
—-
 
The King of Avel, one of the most famous kingdoms in the world for its archers, raised his bow. The Arrow of a Thousand Leagues was confiscated. However, the royal bow gleamed as he triumphantly shouted.
“Now!”
The power of his bow, one of the greatest artifacts of Terandria remaining, unleashed itself.
 
—-
 
[Bound Skill: Royal Command — Fourfold Volley]!
Elia fired. And four arrows pierced the sky. Adventurers and undead looked up as four lines of light shot forwards and—pierced—the heads of four giants.
