But her friends! Below, the adventurers were running. Some turned, fighting as they ran like Tomoor, Eldertuin, Halrac, loosing arrows, slowing the undead at risk of their lives.
The undead were so fast, though. Ryoka turned—but the wind was dragging her away. She felt sick. Her body was already burning with the exhaustion of swinging the blade so many times, weightless or not. She would have turned and fought, even so.
She could not. Ryoka Griffin felt her body…dying. For a second; then the wind blew her out of the range of that terrible eye. One look and its aura had sapped her energy. She had felt her very cells perishing, or so it seemed.
The wind saved her. The undead would have tagged her a hundred, a thousand times in the air. Her blessing of the fae…Ryoka looked back and down.
“No.”
They were coming out.
“Little worms.”
The greatest of the titans finally stood. He strode forwards, faster than the other giant undead moving through the city. He brought down his club and smashed the remains of the Frostmarrow Behemoth, pinned by the shadow-giant.
“Intruders who come so far. What are you? How dare you?”
A whisper through the skies. Ryoka saw something pursuing her. A woman—not a ghostly wraith, fading into obscurity, but fully-realized. Her dress was elegant; her body pristine, beautiful.
Oh—and she had wings. Fangs. The woman was dead, yet apparently even Vampires could serve after they had been slain. Ryoka saw one of Fierre’s ancestors swooping towards her.
Revenants. They moved forwards, finally awoken, taking wrath into their own hands. The undead Giant began to run, pursuing the adventurers. Ryoka saw the Vampire reaching for her; the wind blew her desperately away, diving towards the city.
In response, the woman transformed. A horror of wings pursued the Courier.
 
—-
 
Halrac looked up as the giant charged. No one would outrun that. With each step, he covered far too much ground. And he ran as fast as a normal man.
Revenant. Greatest of the undead. Trapped souls. It was laughing as it raised its club.
“Run, little worms. You will never escape this place.”
Halrac lifted his bow and shot an arrow. The glowing projectile hit the running giant and detonated on armor. It left not a scratch. But the Revenant turned towards him. It smiled, exposing the remains of teeth. Oozing things in its mouth, lesser undead squirming, waiting to be expelled.
“Damn.”
The [Scout] looked up as the club swung down. Dodge. He had to…where? He wasn’t Ksmvr. How?
“Idiot. I shouldn’t have tried to be brave.”
The club flashed to earth.
“Wrong. Courage is its own reward.”
An adventurer halted beside Halrac. He looked up—Halrac saw a grin. But wait. The adventurer was d—
The club struck the earth. The Revenant-Giant blinked. He lifted the club and looked at it.
A stump rose in his hand. The other half lay on the ground. Shocked, the undead looked down.
“Why? The living must die.”
The undead Drake lowered his sword and smiled.
“I am free.”
The huge face twisted overhead. Halrac saw the Revenant’s face turn from gloating glee to mortal apprehension. The huge, rotted mouth opened.
“TRAITOR.”
The Drake swordsman leapt. Halrac stumbled; the ground trembled with the force of his jump. He shot through the skies as the other Revenant tried to strike him with an armored hand.
Halrac heard no thunderous roar of impact. No booming voice. He looked up.
A giant’s head fell to earth. The Drake stood on its torso as the other undead turned. The collapsing body slowly began to sag. Yet in that moment, adventurers and undead turned.
 
—-
 
The Vampire broke off from its terrible dive. Fierre, who hadn’t breathed in over a minute, saw Ryoka fleeing. She saw the undead turn.
On the headless body, the Drake raised his sword. His armor gleamed. His dueling sword shone as he raised it high overhead. Keldrass stared.
Chaldion, Ilvriss, Saliss, Luciva Skybreath—every Drake across the world watching the broadcast looked at the distant Drake as the camera frantically zoomed in as far as it could.
He was so far away, but he bellowed across the city as undead turned. To the traitor. The Revenant. The blademaster shouted to the sky.
“Freedom! The Putrid One’s minions die! Face me!”
The Revenants and greater undead turned, swarming towards him. Enraged more than they were at the living trespassers by this act of—
“[Gigant’s Sword]!”
A giant blade cut the floating orb of eyes in half. The Vampire screamed curses as she flew at him. The Drake was laughing. He saluted the skies.
“In the name of the City of Dreams!”
Lehra Ruinstrider choked and her armband glowed. Everyone around her backed away as the Blade of Mershi began to shine.
The Drake stood alone, and cut them down. Hope from the undead? Honor?
Fetohep stared at the distant figure and wondered. He did not smile.
 
—-
 
The cry of defiance shocked him to his core. He felt it, heard that self-righteous voice. The declaration of treachery. But how?
“He’s…not listening. He has rebelled. As he swore he would.”
The whisper was shocked. Horrified. One of the greatest servants had been freed! He was killing the others! All the valuable protectors.
To his master, he turned. Now—terrible fear in him. The realization was so close. Held at bay only by denial.
“He is disobeying you. Master. Master, why have you let him go rogue? We are your most prized…or it is just me?”
Now he tried to touch him. His hands and body—his very being screamed with agony with each step. He had to retreat or face annihilation. Weeping, screaming, he shouted.
“Why don’t I feel your presence? Yet nothing has changed. Not even the greatest [Assassin] could have slipped in here?”
A broken servant knelt. Terrible truths rising in its mind. Like the Truestone Golem of Wistram, who knelt where she had fallen, still having yet to move from her place of grief.
It was time to ask. The head of the Putrid One’s greatest servant rose. He looked up and dared to ask the truth he had known in his chest since the presence had vanished.
“Master. Are you…are…? No. But are you…are you d—”
 
—-
 
“Come back.”
Lyonette’s eyes were fixed on the scrying orb. She whispered it.
The broadcast was focused on the fleeing adventurers, the Drake Revenant who was killing his own kind. Sir Relz and Noass had forced their way into the studio, shouting about Drake patriotism which could defy even the power of undeath.
Propaganda. She cared nothing for the art of blades. She only wanted to see them.
The Horns of Hammerad. Lyonette knew where they had gone. She had seen none of them in the images of fleeing adventurers.
She had to tell them to stop. If she could—Lyonette whispered.
“It’s for one person. No matter who it is, it’s not worth all you dying for.”
Her fingernails were digging into her skin. Even if that Drake slaughtered every undead in the city. Everyone knew the stories. What would you find there?
“She would not want this.”
Lyonette was too far for them to hear her. Too removed to do anything but watch what everyone in the world could see. Not the truth.
 
—-
 
As the adventurers regrouped, escaping the carnage in the Village of the Dead by the miraculous, amazing salvation granted to them, shaking with awe at how many had survived when all hope was lost, they faced one last trial.
Revi was still crying as Typhenous and Halrac ran towards her. Briganda was kneeling, touching at the body among the [Mages], ambushed by the undead. Levil was shouting.
“Bram! Bram—”
His friend was gone. So was Makki. The remaining war dog was standing guard over their bodies, howling.
Old Geni was dead. Something had killed her. She had put her wand in its face and—
The explosion had saved Revi. She’d stitched on a replacement hand. She raised her head, looking desperately through her tears.
“Where are they? Where…?”
The Horns were not here. She looked for them. Saw Jelaqua, Ulinde—Moore and Seborn were still fleeing.
Her friends were alive. Her friends were in the city.
Voices were arguing.
“We must keep running.”
“This is a disaster! We’ve been slaughtered and for what?”
One of Arcsinger’s Bows was screaming, looking for someone to blame. Eldertuin knocked the half-Elf girl to one side as he shouldered forwards.
“Blame later. Move! Is anyone left?”
“Stragglers. But the Horns—”
“We cannot save them. They have made their choice.”
That came from Elia Arcsinger. She looked towards the Village of the Dead. She was breathing hard, cuts crisscrossing her arm. The undead archer had nearly gotten her. Nearly—until the Drake Revenant had found it.
Yet all of her team was alive. In fact—Revi saw far more adventurers than anyone should have dreamed would survive this, let alone the final flight. She was looking at Halrac, trying to find the courage to say what she knew was impossible.
Let’s go after them? No. No…
Prince Zenol, the three Minotaurs, even Instructor Tomoor were all some of the last, limping out of the Village of the Dead. The adventurers were clumped up, but only a handful of undead were mindlessly shambling after them. The rest had stopped.
“Move out! Everyone, back to the camp and from there we’ll see where we go.”
Eldertuin bellowed. The arguing stopped. Soew nodded. Revi saw the first Silver-ranks turn, hurrying towards the surviving horses, wagons…
Amazing. Miraculous, again. Unprecedented. The giant-undead Revenant had been slain. The master-archer, destroyed. The flying wraiths weren’t following. An anti-climax. And all thanks to…
The Drake.
Revi heard a sound. The Village of the Dead was…collapsing?
She saw houses falling down. Crumbling to pieces, as if the enchantments themselves were being severed. She could not see the city within, yet something was taking the place to pieces. Not all of it; houses fell in a line towards the adventurers.
Cut to pieces. The living hesitated. Revi paled.
He walked from the Village of the Dead, sword bared. He had not survived unscratched. His armor was torn. Something had pierced his chest, his legs, cut across one arm and severed it; his helmet was undamaged, and his face.
And his sword. The Revenant walked forwards, calmly. His glowing eyes fixed on the adventurers.
He covered ground with each step like that horrible Witch had. Enchanted boots? Skill? The adventurers froze as the Revenant halted on the hill where they stood.
“It is done.”
That was all the Drake said. Revi, Eldertuin, Arcsinger—everyone looked at him, uncomprehending.
“Done? You—you saved us. Thank y…”
Levil spoke, voice strangled. He cut himself off. Thank you? The words wouldn’t come out. Not to the undead. And…Revi felt a tingling in her stitches. Something was…
“Done? Where are the undead?”
Arcsinger had moved to block her daughter, but it was Capoinelia, the younger, who aimed her bow defiantly at the Drake. Challengingly. Idiot!
The Drake gave her a dismissive look. He spoke to them all, searching their crowd for…something. The weary Silver-ranks and Gold-ranks, the two Named-Adventurers. He seemed confused. Or even irritated?
“The servants are dead. The greater undead.”
The adventurers looked at each other. Then at the Village of the Dead beyond. They saw a few wandering zombies, a crawling torso of a Draugr…
“You’re joking.”
Someone breathed. The Revenant turned his unearthly gaze towards the speaker.
“I have exacted my vengeance for ages of servitude. Whatever hold that [Necromancer] had over me is broken. For now. I would go back and seek his head. That of his last servant. But I will not risk my will being stolen again.”
Last servant? Revi’s heart was pounding. The H—
Her thoughts ran together. Unable to focus on the danger to her friends. She felt it, in her very cloth. The danger was…here.
“Thank you, brave warrior. You have honored your vows. Tell us your name, that we might remember you. Your city!”
One of the Drakes spoke. The last of the Lifwail Blades, who had only wept for them after reaching safety.
She did not know how her team had died.
The Drake looked at her, and his eyes were cold. He glanced around, measuring, searching again.
“My city was the Walled City of Dreams. I was the Drake who claimed the marks of all nine Walled Cities. They called me peerless, undefeated—until I was. Not by sword or might of arms, but by that treacherous [Necromancer]. Then they wailed as I was forced to slay my kin. I regret it, even now. I saw my city fall and walked the ruins, the instrument of its demise.”
His clawed hand lifted his sword, raising it to his own throat. The adventurers looked at him. Revi…had no idea who he was. City of Dreams?
“That is who I was. In life, my class was [Dragonbane Swordlegend]. Do you know me?”
He turned. The Drake, Soew—Eldertuin, Elia, and the others exchanged looks.
“Er…I’m not a Drake?”
Levil flinched as the Revenant turned to him. The glowing gaze fixed on him with pure wrath—then the Drake threw his head back and laughed, bitterly.
“If you do not know it, then it did not matter. It means my art did not stand the test of time. That my deeds were surpassed! It means…nothing. So.”
He stood there, and looked down. A flash of bitterness; that was all.
The living, and those via scrying orb, the King of Destruction, Fetohep, Chaldion…looked at the nameless Drake, forgotten by time, named the legend of his era.
“Thank you. We honor your deeds. At least tell us your name, and we will erect a monument to you. Rediscover your tale.”
That was Elia’s voice. She raised her bow in a salute. The Drake’s head rose and he looked at her.
“That is not what I desire, half-Elf. Not fame. Not glory. I have exacted my revenge. Now? I look at you, who somehow defied the Putrid One’s power. Who came into his domain when armies broke against him in life and he brought down the greatest coalitions with his power alone. When he slew me. And I ask: where is your art? Where is your talent at arms? I have seen you do battle. And I call it paltry.”
The adventurers stopped. They looked at each other, some in affront, others uneasily. Some, like Dorgon, simply bowed their heads in acknowledgement of that fact.
“We are not blademasters. We’re Gold-ranks…adventurers.”
“Yes. You are the seekers of your kind. The ones who delve into mysteries. Who fight. You stand before a Revenant! One of the great undead, a legend of my era, no matter how forgotten—and why do you stand silent? Does your blood not boil in my presence? Is not one of you willing to raise your sword and challenge me, to see what was called strength?”
The Drake lifted his sword, turning.
“Will no one touch me? Once? With spell or sword?”
