Ksmvr pulled up all three crossbows and fired. The paralysis affecting the others did not stop him from taking an obvious opening.
Three crossbow bolts buried themselves in the half-Elf’s body. Two in the chest; the last punched through the open mouth.
Blood sprayed. Blood and bone and…the half-Elf staggered. Yvlon and Ceria gasped. The figure tottered—then regained his footing.
He spoke through the hole in his head, ignoring the blood running from the crossbow bolts in his chest and down his cheeks from his eyes.
Now, his voice filled the cathedral. Booming. Vast. Far larger than his frail body should have been able to hold. The half-Elf spoke.
“I am Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer, the greatest servant of the Putrid One. My master’s will incarnate.”
“Oh no. He’s got a long name.”
Ceria whispered. She couldn’t have said why that was so hilarious that Yvlon started laughing. She lifted her sword, preparing to charge.
Too late.
Tolveilouka, the beautiful half-Elf, let his clothing drop to the ground. Ceria’s eyes bulged. Then she saw his body bulge.
His pristine flesh began to puff outwards, like someone blowing air into it. The ephemeral skin turned pallid. Dark.
Rotten. The half-Elf was six feet tall. Then eight. Then fifteen…
He rose, bloating, all that symmetrical beauty turning misshapen. Growing vaster still. His skin erupted into pustules and rotting meat. Another arm burst from his chest. His voice—
“Run!”
Yvlon shoved Ceria. The half-Elf raised a shaking hand and walls of ice began to block the entrance. Yvlon stepped back, waiting. Pisces was shouting something at the sky, yet he grabbed her and ran.
Ksmvr stopped, as Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer completed his transformation. The abomination towered higher, breaking through the walls of ice with a single flick of its body. The Antinium spread his arms and called to him, above Yvlon’s call to arms, the shouts of his friends.
“I did it. Your wrath should be directed at me.”
It was all he could say. The undead monstrosity’s head swung towards him. Yvlon charged, a scream on her lips.
As he listened, as he saw and heard the desperate pleas and what came next, what even he could not stop, Az’kerash, the Necromancer, covered his eyes.
 
—-
 
The Drake [Sword Legend] waited.
It was Eldertuin the Fortress who lifted his mace and shield. He strode forwards. The adventurers shouted his name. The last broken Golem raised its sword, as if to salute him or charge as well.
The Revenant watched Eldertuin place himself in front of him, like the banquet of the fae and the warrior from strange lands.
The difference was—they were both of this world. And there was no respect here. Only contempt.
“[Shield of the Fortress]!”
Eldertuin raised his shield as he charged. The Drake did not speak his Skill aloud. He swung his sword—
And cut Eldertuin. The sword shattered the Skill. It sliced through the artifact. It cut into Eldertuin’s side. Even his strike couldn’t cut the Named Adventurer in two. Yet, one cut—
Eldertuin fell. The Revenant turned. He shook blood off his blade again as the cheering turned silent. He shouted, his voice wrathful.
“Is this the greatest of your kind, adventurers? All of his might was in a shield and a Skill. Nothing more. The duelist had some grace, even stolen, but the rest of you? Who is next?”
No one spoke. Eyes turned to Elia, but she was shaking her head. She was an archer. This—
“I will challenge you. For the pride of the House of Minos. Face me, Drake.”
The next was Dorgon. The [Twinblade Linebreaker] strode forwards. He lifted his blades, unwilling to give a salute to the Drake. Not after what he had seen.
He charged forwards in a roar, blades singing as they cut the air. Trying to catch the Drake’s blade with his swordbreaker, strike with his shortsword.
His charge was all aggression, yet he moved with a mimicry of Tomoor’s grace. He knew how to fight. He was as talented as any of the best in Nerrhavia Fallen’s court, in Zenol’s eyes.
Not high-level enough, though. He was a touch too slow. He did not know the steps after he struck naught but air. He had never fought a Drake like this before. He was excellent.
The [Sword Legend] had slain Dragons. He evaded the head-long charge, the daring blow that invited a counter-strike, if only Dorgon could touch—
He whirled his sword, once.
“Minotaur—you are too inept. You shame your house. Do not pick up a sword again.”
Dorgon collapsed. He dropped his shortsword and clutched at the bleeding stump of one hand. He roared in pain and loss.
The Drake turned. Now, Zenol saw him for what he was. Pure arrogance, distilled. He did not care if the House of Minos bellowed Dorgon’s name as their champion, who had not disgraced himself.
“I will face you, Drake!”
The [Prince] spoke, forcing the words out. Another voice spoke as well.
“Me too.”
“Don’t! Pekona—”
Insill tried to stop her, and Dasha too. Anith just watched as the [Blade Dancer] from Drath moved forwards.
“Both of you. Try.”
The Drake waited as the [Prince] and [Sword Dancer] took flanking positions. Zenol met Pekona’s eyes. Saw nothing but calm determination. He gritted his teeth.
They moved without a signal. A flowing dance both of them had learned from the finest instructors, not the instinctual moves of a self-taught [Warrior]. They struck, coordinated—
Missed. Zenol pivoted. He lashed out. He called on his sword art.
“Prince of deserts, you are too slow.”
The whisper was followed by agony. Zenol screamed as a blade severed both arms at the elbow. He fell, and Pekona’s voice was a second later. She clutched at her hand.
Severed. Insill’s cry of horror was spoken over by the Drake as he walked back, addressing the two.
“Insufficient, [Prince]. You too, from Drath. You two dance, but you know only a fraction of the steps. So I shall merely exile you from this world. Not so for those who know nothing at all yet walk onto bloody ground.”
With that, he turned on the other adventurers. Zenol heard screams. He tried to rise, to help, but he could not. Eldertuin was trying to use a potion, but he was bleeding out. So was Zenol. The…he couldn’t turn his arms to cloth.
Whatever patience, pretense at this ‘test’ had been—was lost. The Drake turned. He began to kill the adventurers one by one.
A [Mage] cast a [Lightning Bolt] spell. The Drake cut it in two, letting it turn to harmless sparks in the air. He stabbed through the barrier. Turned, calmly. Slowly.
“We have to attack all at once! With me—”
Jewel of Glitterblade leapt forwards. Staggered…
Her teammates watched her fall, clutching at her stomach. They didn’t even have time to get within swinging range of the Drake.
He stabbed them, struck them without them seeing, across two dozen feet. He was using his Skills. The other adventurers prepared to fight together—broke into anarchy. Fleeing.
All they had to do was touch…? They couldn’t touch him. The Drake moved from one adventurer to the next. Those that attacked them were cut, and the wounds would not heal. They bled out on the ground, next to Eldertuin, Zenol, Pekona…
Those who didn’t attack or flee he advanced on, one by one.
The woman who was next lifted her shield. She spoke, as her hatchet raised.
“I have a son.”
The Drake regarded Briganda blankly. His expression crossed from puzzlement—to contempt.
“Then why did you come here?”
He lifted his sword. Briganda charged with a shout. The Drake took careful aim—
Whirled.
He deflected the dagger a fraction away from his back. He didn’t slash, but kicked Typhenous in the chest and shattered half his ribs.
The Plague Mage lay, curled up on the ground. The Drake blocked Briganda, sent her stumbling back. Yet he spared a word for the old man.
“Brave, old one. But too slow.”
Briganda shouted—stopped.
The sword in her guts withdrew. The Drake shook the blood off his sword onto her body and turned. He ignored Typhenous, reaching for the dagger, cursing him. Briganda was staring, glassy-eyed, at the hole in her stomach.
“Tell Cade. Tell…”
The Drake spoke over her, addressing the others. He blocked the invisible arrow streaking towards his face, as he had the last two. They just—vanished, as his sword touched them. Halrac was aiming point-blank at him, but the Drake just shouted at the others, the fleeing, the paralyzed.
“My anger grows without limit. For what did we strive for, if this is the petty future? If the small replace the great, I would rather it all end after all!”
He swung his sword and beheaded an adventurer charging him. Six came at him and they died as he cut them down in a flash. Halrac loosed another arrow. The Drake walked towards him.
“Halrac!”
Jelaqua charged, flail swinging. Ulinde pivoted, firing both wands. Halrac loosed another arrow as Revi shot a spell at point-blank—
Flail-cut. Spells, disintegrated. Halrac looked to the side. Jelaqua stared at the sword in her chest. Striking her inner self.
“Jelaqua!”
A booming voice. A scream. Echoed in Pallass. Jelaqua staggered back and the Drake looked at her contemptuously.
“Your inner body is here, Selphid. And I cut—”
He never finished. He withdrew the sword and Jelaqua fell back, limply. The Drake moved so fast Halrac only saw the conclusion.
He pivoted, thrusting the blade under one arm to stab the shadow leaping towards his back. At the [Rogue].
The Drake’s sneer…vanished. Halrac, reaching for his shortsword…stopped.
He saw the Drake look down at the dagger. Then—at Seborn. The adventurers looked up.
The tip of the blade was touching the Drake’s arm.
Was it luck? No. The blow had been calculated, as the Drake was speaking, his sword buried in someone else. Merciless. Cold—calculated for when it would work after seeing the other failures.
A strike with all his weight and speed behind it. Even then, the undead nearly dodged it. Yet the tip of the enchanted dagger—touched—his arm.
Had he flinched or slowed at all, he would have been too slow. Had he done either, the sword would not have run through him.
Seborn’s blood ran blue from one part of his body, red from the rest, mixing as it dripped to the ground. Already forming a pool of liquid he slowly sank into. The sword had run him through. His voice…was triumphant.
“Got you.”
The Drake touched his arm, where the blade had struck. He looked down, and the undead wrath, the ruination of the living in his eyes was replaced by a mortal look. For a second. He let go of his sword. He looked down.
“Well done. What is your name, warrior?”
Seborn stared up at the sky, and the beautiful light above without speaking. His eyes were open. His mouth didn’t move.
The Drake stepped back. He reached down—and a hand seized him, lifting him high as a voice filled with loss filled the air.
A half-Giant tore his head off. The Drake Revenant died as fingers ripped his body to shreds. However—the bones were already turning to dust, the scales disintegrating. The magical light had already been lost.
It was done. The adventurers knelt amid blood and death.
 
—-
 
She screamed. A shriek of pain that went beyond anything he had ever heard her make. Yvlon Byres stumbled back. Her beautiful arms of silver and steel—
Were black. Were twisted. The touch of that thing—
Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer. It raged as Yvlon stumbled away. Her arms were twisting. Breaking. The pure metal—corrupted by its body.
“You send men of metal against me once more? Half-made! Pathetic! My master’s blessing breaks all!”
He towered over her, corrupt flesh as Yvlon screamed and fell, writhing. She was the last.
Az’kerash watched. The Horns of Hammerad had fought. They had fought.
That was all there was to say. A half-Elf lay, crying out, unable to make a sound over the pain. Her skin was rotting away from her hands upwards. A [Necromancer] stared up at the sky, pinned by a spear cast through his stomach, pinning him to the floor. His bleeding had slowed. Become sluggish.
A voice cried out as a hand reached to slowly grind Yvlon’s body into a wall, pressing her until stone cracked—or she did. It was broken. Az’kerash did not want to hear it.
“Stop. I did it. I slew the Putrid One. I made him suffer as he died twice. He screamed, pitifully. Stop. Stop. Why do you not touch me?”
Ksmvr stabbed the monster with his weapons. He fired crossbows. He tried to block it. Tolveilouka ignored him. No—the mouth moved.
“Because this hurts you.”
It turned away. Yvlon had stopped screaming. She hung, limply, as he held her by one arm, her metal arms rotting at the touch, not able to hold off the infection.
This was their end. The Necromancer watched. His dreams of heroism turned against him.
Their last words.
“Ksmvr. Run.”
Ceria stared at her skin, falling away, her body consumed by rot.
Yvlon spat blood and defiance into Tolveilouka’s face. She gritted her teeth as it reached out for her shoulder, her arm held in one hand to pull.
“Go ahead and take it. I liked my old one more.”
Ksmvr was weeping. The young man murmured as he stared up at the sky.
“…tried. I really did.”
He touched the spear buried in his stomach; his hands were too weak to pull at it.
That was all they said. Yvlon screamed as her first arm broke. Metal snapped. Tolveilouka—the Chosen of the Putrid One—was laughing. Relishing this little revenge.
“Stop.”
Az’kerash whispered, but no one could hear him. Tolveilouka reached for the other arm as Yvlon spasmed, corruption racing up the rest of her body. A voice muttered in the silence.
“Is it finally done? Is it over at last? It is. He’s gone.”
The leering, bloated face, froze. The hand holding Yvlon dropped and Ksmvr dove to catch her. Az’kerash looked up.
That was not Ceria’s voice. The voice was deeper, cracked, husky.
The woman rose, pushing herself to her hands and knees. Her head had fallen from her shoulders; she put it on, slowly.
The [Paladin] rose. Tolveilouka whirled to face her. His face contorted in rage.
“You! You did this.”
The Dullahan’s head rose. Her eyes widened. She was dizzy, disconcerted. Her eyes found the fallen half-Elf. Her sword. Then they rose to touch the spreading stain on her cheek.
Her features slackened; grew composed. The woman rose to her feet. She looked around. At—the bones on the floor.
The great servant.
The fallen adventurers.
She took it all in, in a moment. Then she looked up at the towering figure. When she spoke, the [Paladin]’s voice was soft. Calm. Sad, yet triumphant.
“I did not. Would that I had the power, I would have done so long ago. Yet it was a true end. I felt him go, traitor. Servant of death.”
She touched at her cheek. The mark of death was still spreading, turning her skin from bronze to rotting black. Her death.
