Ryoka Griffin whirled as purple, no, amaranthine light shone down. Black light, though. As if it were the inverse of light itself.
A hole in the sky opened over her head. She saw a single, massive, blinking eye. Like a certain eye of a dark lord, a huge vertical slit of rage focusing on her. A voice boomed through the skies, ringing with fury.
“I’ve found you.”
 
—-
 
Jericha felt the spell breach the skies in the distance. She saw the Wind Runner recoil, fleeing, but the hole in the sky followed her. Was something…reaching for her? The bellowed words made her look for Hethon and Sammial, just to make sure they were safe.
A roar of fury. The Wind Runner was clearly just as startled as everyone else. The voice continued, filled with tones of rage.
“Thief! I see you—”
Ryoka Griffin whirled overhead as the wind blew her back towards safety. She shouted.
“Holy f—[Flashbang]!”
She pointed and her finger issued a single mote of light. It shot towards the opening and then—
Jericha went deaf and blind for a second as, almost directly overhead, the spell detonated. And that was from the ground. The hole abruptly closed with a shriek.
Ryoka landed, unsure of what the hell that had been. She’d just reacted instinctively when it seemed like the light reached for her—
She stood, unsteadily, then looked at Hethon and Sammial. They still hadn’t found their jaws and this wasn’t helping. Ryoka took off as Tyrion raced towards her to say something or ask what that had been—Jericha watched Ryoka go.
“Interesting. She knows the [Flareshriek] spell? It sounds—different. What was…?”
Jericha had no time to assemble this new puzzle piece with the old. She had to get back to the fighting. They were winning! Or at least, burning the undead down as fast as they came. Ryoka had the skies! Jericha would get her hands on that magnificent blade later.
And ask where it had come from, then. It…might…might be something Lord Tyrion should have been wearing, not Ryoka Griffin. If that was the case, how in the world did the Wind Runner have it?
 
—-
 
“Are they going to do it?”
“I don’t know.”
The reply was…morose? Apathetic. Preoccupied. It enraged the first, who snapped.
“Well, you’re not certain about much these days, are you?”
It was a harsh response. Typical—but not. Too aggressively pointed, too…bitter. Too much like a thrown knife, rather than a snippy comment. The second’s tone became even more defensive, taking on hurt like a shield.
“I didn’t say that. I just don’t know war. This isn’t about that.”
“I wasn’t suggesting that!”
One voice, bickering, concealing uncertainty via wrath. The second, defensive, almost sounding petulant as they argued. It could swap places. The hurt turn to wrath, the first’s voice turn to tears in a moment.
It would be music to her ears if she cared for such things. Not music; not for the [Witch]. Just a sense of satisfaction.
Lasica and Rufelt sat in their bar, trying to watch the scrying orb. Yet neither could quite focus. They didn’t meet each other’s eyes.
Like a ball of tangled thread. Tangling itself further as one pulled or the other resisted. They could have untangled the knot with time. If not for…
The Stitch Witch entered the bar. Rufelt dropped his mug. Lasica whirled. The arguing couple halted.
“You—I told you no! Why is she here?”
Rufelt whirled on Lasica. The Drake’s face became angry, for all she was worried.
“I promised her nothing! How dare you suggest—”
Another tangle. Belavierr smiled.
“I am only here to talk. Hello, Rufelt.”
“Begone. I’ll—I’ll call the Watch. I don’t want you here. You’re not welcome! You’re not allowed to come in if I don’t invite you.”
The Gnoll reached for a club under the bar. Lasica seized his arm, snarling at him.
“Don’t be a fool!”
“Be a fool?”
He snarled back. Belavierr tilted her head, waiting to interject her offer, another snarl. However…her head turned.
“What is that?”
She blinked at the scrying orb. Rufelt and Lasica halted. Lasica opened her mouth; he glared at her. She glared back and replied.
“The Village of the Dead. Adventurers, fighting.”
Belavierr had meant the news network in general. She’d forgotten it existed. She peered at the scrying spell. Her head moved. Left. Right. Inspecting it while being in the way as much as Duke Rhisveri had, oblivious to other people’s concerns. So it went with that kind of person.
However…Lasica was rewarded as the Stitch Witch’s head rose and she murmured.
“Ah. The Putrid One. Is he back again?”
The Drake and Gnoll stirred. They looked at Belavierr. No one had mentioned the Necromancer who had created this place.
“The…Putrid One? I don’t know. It’s a Necromancer. And the adventurers are going to win. Destroy the evil in the heart of that place.”
Rufelt spoke defiantly, trying to meet Belavierr’s ringed gaze. She regarded him. Rufelt was trembling. He hated her more than anyone he had ever met in his life. Hated that she had come here and offered—
“Really. Winning?”
Belavierr turned her head and looked at the scrying orb. Lasica and Rufelt both nodded. Belavierr’s head turned back. Carelessly; she wasn’t truly interested unless he was back. But if he was…
“I don’t see his greater undead. Are they already dead, then? It matters not.”
“Greater…?”
Rufelt whispered. He looked at the scrying orb. Then—realized Belavierr was gone.
She stood behind Lasica. Her broad hat casting a shadow even in the light of the bar. She smiled as she put her hands on Lasica’s shoulders.
“I came here to make you an offer, Rufelt. Let us talk.”
He made the mistake of staring at her. This time—the rings in her eyes dragged him in. Ensnaring him further in…
 
—-
 
Revi was panting. Her summons spent. She had used every trick, every bit of mana she could use. Her head rang from the mana potions she had drunk and she knew she was reaching overload.
Yet still…the battle continued. They needed her summons more than ever! She was half-considering knocking herself out in case she leveled.
“We have to go in there. We can fight! I can fight!”
The other [Mages] ignored her. They had refused; they weren’t hand-to-hand specialists, mostly. They had exhausted themselves countering the Liches. They were standing here, to ‘protect’ the other adventurers if they had to retreat.
Revi knew it was wrong to want to get them to enter the village. But could they just stand here, uselessly?
“Don’t worry, Revi. As soon as we recharge, we’ll be tossing more spells. We won’t sit idle. We also won’t be going into the Village of the Dead, is that clear? Not you nor me. My bones can’t take it.”
“I didn’t mean that, Geni. Not you—”
Revi grinned weakly. She sat, listening to the speaking stone. She hadn’t heard any more horrific undead coming in yet. The hole in the sky though…why had it followed Ryoka? What had she gotten herself into n—
A furious sound made Revi look up. Barking. The two dogs, which had been placidly sitting or watching the battle from afar had risen to their feet. Revi blinked.
“What’s wrong? Bram, right?”
The [Beast Tamer] looked at her.
“Sorry! I think they picked something up on the wind. Maybe the fighting? Makki, Mousey, what is it?”
The other [Mages] stirred slightly as the light guard around their position looked up. They didn’t take the dogs lightly. If they smelled something…
Revi was getting up when Mousey and Makki’s heads turned as one. They…tracked something across the ground, hackles raised. Makki snarled. Then—broke free. She raced forwards, tangled with something.
“Dead gods!”
Everyone saw the dog hit something in the air and float for a second. It hurled her down and Bram cried out, raising his sword.
“Makki! Mousey, attack! Everyone, get up! It’s invisible zombies! Inv—”
His shout was cut off. Revi stared as Bram stopped, trembling. Makki—the dog wasn’t moving. The way their heads had moved. Mousey was staring at something. Invisible zombies? It had been so fast—
Something hurled Bram down. Revi saw the [Beast Tamer] fall like a sack of bones. She raised her wand and a flare of light hit whatever it was as Mousey leapt. The blood of Makki and Bram were on it. With the flare of magic, as the [Mages] and adventurers turned, Revi saw the outline of what it was.
“Not invisible zombies. Invisible ghouls! Inv—”
 
—-
 
“Eldertuin, I need your fastest adventurers to return to our lines! We are under attack! Invisible Ghouls or other undead have assailed us! I am in the skies!”
Soew screamed into his ear. The Named Adventurer whirled.
“Invisible undead!”
He bellowed. Every adventurer in earshot swore. They checked themselves, and Eldertuin spoke.
“I’m sending you help!”
“Watch the skies. There are more undead. I see—more undead. Coming for your position and the behemoth.”
“Wyverns?”
Eldertuin turned his head up, looking for the Wind Runner. If she could keep them clear or contest them—
The Named Adventurer halted. His shield, battered throughout the battle yet perfectly intact still, rose. He lifted his enchanted mace, set himself.
“Those aren’t Wyverns. What is…flying undead. Halrac, do you see them? Arcsinger?”
Both [Archers] called out a slow affirmative. Eldertuin looked up. No, those weren’t Wyverns. They were too small. Nor were they Liches.
They came out of the skies, through the clouds like the dark sky itself had birthed them. Trailing dark vapor. They were no more real than a cloud was; yet hands gripped painfully-dark blades, scythes like a [Farmer] might wield.
“Wraiths. Reaper-Specters.”
Eldertuin breathed. He had never…never seen…the adventurers looked at him as one dove, like a slow-falling drift of fog. He saw hands lift the scythe and swing.
The Named Adventurer, Eldertuin the Fortress, raised his shield. He blocked, perfectly—and the scythe passed through his shield. He felt a cold, cutting pain sear through his body.
For the first time, he cried out in a scream of pain. His mace struck back, but the mist-body barely registered the blow. The undead recoiled and swung its scythe. A Silver-rank fell, dead. Heart stopped.
 
—-
 
Halrac saw the wraiths descend and his heart sank. These weren’t the undead he knew, or had even seen. These…
Something stepped out from behind the Lich Coven’s tower. It turned, as tall as the tower itself, and looked towards the Frostmarrow Behemoth, which had withstood everything and anything that had come at it.
The shadow had no real body. It was all angles and lines, no curves, no natural creation. It had no contrast, no depth. Yet it moved. It walked and Ceria looked up at it.
 
—-
 
Arcsinger shot an arrow and watched it pass through the giant’s body. She heard a mortal scream through the speaking stones.
“It’s there! Arcsinger, someone, kill it! Please! We can’t harm it!”
The shadow-thing? Elia put another arrow to her bow. Then she saw a second thing walking down the streets.
It looked like…her eyes widened. She lowered the bow and saw adventurers fleeing. It looked like a miniature version of a creature she had seen just recently. Another undead she had thought belonged to legends—no—which she knew belonged to that era.
The Jaw of Zeikhal, a smaller version, advanced down the street, ignoring the spells and arrows pelting it.
 
—-
 
Montressa du Valeross was crying. It was the only sound in the inn, again. Niers had raised his hand, but he didn’t know…these foes.
They were the same things Montressa saw every night. The same undead that had rampaged through…
 
—-
 
“Archmage Nekhret’s guardians.”
Pisces stood in the street, looking up at the floating undead. They were just one of many. Now, the [Necromancer] felt it in his bones. So that was the level of this place.
That was their folly. He hesitated, raising the speaking stone to his lips. He knew she was watching, from wherever she was, reliving his horror.
“Ceria? Ceria…Yvlon? Ksmvr? Can you hear me? We must…”
 
—-
 
It was then he spoke. The [Veteran Scout]. Halrac lifted the speaking stone to his lips. He spoke one word.
“Retreat. Run. Get out of the city. We can’t fight this.”
He saw Ryoka Griffin fleeing the skies. She had locked blades with a single one of the wraiths—and it had shattered her sword like glass with its weapon. Only a twist in the air had saved her.
He heard his word repeated from Elia, and Eldertuin, gasping with pain. And one more place. Halrac thought it was just someone with a copy of his stone, but then he turned his head.
Throughout it all, they had never stopped the broadcast. The heroism, the action, the adventure, triumph and failure had all been shown on the scrying orbs, through the eyes of [Mages] on the ground, through the skies—as close as they could get to the city before the spells began to fail.
Now, she sat there. No longer the observer who occasionally commented. Nor the [Reporter] bringing the story to life.
It was just Drassi. She spoke into the scrying orb.
“Retreat. If there are any adventurers listening to our broadcast—retreat. This isn’t a suggestion. Run as fast as you can. It’s not a fight for you. Is it? Your Majesty?”
“No.”
The voice was cold, but not heartless. It echoed—yet it was not malicious. The first caller-in in the world’s history, King Fetohep of Khelt, spoke into the scrying orb. The undead king, one of the last experts who could speak, looked past Drassi. Into Halrac’s eyes.
“These undead are beyond you, adventurers. Summon another army. Summon Named Adventurers in the quantities of Gold-ranks that were here. Mundane blades will not even touch wraiths or ghosts. The Jaws of Zeikhal can survive Tier 6 spells, even in infancy. That shadow will destroy the Frostmarrow Behemoth without a scratch. I tell you, run. A Revenant walks that city. You heard it speak. It has all the Skills it had in life, as I do. Flee. There is no cowardice in it. All that remains now is suicide.”
The Gold-rank captain closed his eyes. Hearing it made it no less painful. However, he stood.
“You heard him. Run. I need a rear-guard to slow them down.”
The adventurers in his company, who had fought to the bitter end looked at Halrac’s face. Then they turned and began to run. A few tried to slow the undead as the rest began to flee the slaughter.
 
—-
 
They came through the city, one final wave to end it all. The invaders had done so well. They had slaughtered the failures who had come before. They had killed rank-and-file. However, now they died.
The greatest undead were few in number. Yet what the adventurers had experienced with the undead was now reversed. The undead barely fell, and tore through the adventurers and army outside without slowing.
