It went flying, as if he were Moore. Halrac saw the other undead slowing, struggling as if they were running into a powerful headwind. The little rat-undead and other pests were pushed back, unable to even move forwards.
What was happening? The adventurers had halted. Thorven, stabbing his sword into a Wyvern’s neck, completed the hacking cut and the rotten head came off.
“Fight! We have a second chance at life! For the House of Minos and the honor of adventurers—fight!”
Gold and Silver-ranked adventurers whirled, moving faster, stronger! Tougher too! Halrac looked around as he reached for the blood-spattered distortion on the ground. He drew his bow and saw it at last.
Someone had planted it on the ground. Someone had—yet it wasn’t quite real. It glowed, and had that magical aspect to its colors that were almost too real, that made the rest of the street look mundane, fake.
It was a glowing standard. It stood, the tip of it flying as high as the rooftops. Halrac thought he recognized the sigils—but he was already loosing arrows. Those who stood below it fought like Demons, and a second Skill made undead fly back, light as feathers.
This was not Soew. Halrac felt as fast as that Skeleton Lord had been. He swept an arrow up; shot a Wyvern through an eye as it reared back unaided at thirty feet without hesitation.
Who? He looked up.
 
—-
 
“That’s—someone’s used a Skill! It’s—look at that! Look at that! It—it’s that guy!”
Drassi was leaping up and down, hugging Joseph as what she thought had been the scene of Halrac’s demise turned to a rallying point. Even other adventurers were making for the glowing standard.
Also, what lay above it. For if ever there had been something to rally to—some reassurance of hope in disaster, it was probably that.
For a moment, Ceria looked up from the titanic fight between the Frostmarrow Behemoth and an undead group of Ogres. Her eyes widened. The half-Elf saw it.
That guy. They had all seen him. He stood there, for a moment. Larger than life. Towering even over the undead, who turned to regard the figure grinning over the line in the sand he’d drawn.
“The Titan of Baleros.”
Joseph supplied. Drassi nodded.
Across the world, Tulm the Mithril’s eyes narrowed.
Foliana, who had been lying and facing the wall in a hammock, not watching the ‘news’, stirred as Perorn burst into her rooms, brandishing her scrying mirror. The Squirrel-woman sat up. She took one look at the smug expression on the astral-projection of the Titan—and smiled.
 
—-
 
Niers Astoragon lay panting on the beam when it was done. One Skill had taken a lot out of him. Yet he’d known it could be done, even before the news. Apista fetched him a cup of water…well, a tankard with water in the bottom fourth. The rest had been sloshed out.
More than enough for him. The Titan pulled himself up and grinned.
“Well, that’s torn it. Bee, fly me to Miss Erin’s room—then back here as soon as you can.”
He needed to use another Skill! However—Apista buzzed up the stairs and Niers burst into Erin’s room just in time to see it.
The magical chessboard moved. He saw the little message in code he’d written change. The [Strategist] laughed. Only a fool played one battle at a time! However, there was no time. Apista was already buzzing downstairs as Mrsha ran towards her, eyes shining with hope.
Rags turned her attention away from the scrying mirror where Drassi was flinging her papers up and dancing with Joseph—a copy of the common room of The Wandering Inn. She frowned, and rubbed at the back of her neck.
Was that a coincidence?
She thought about it as Mrsha caught the little bee and ran into the kitchen. Rags had no idea who this ‘Titan’ was, and obviously that was just Mrsha and Apista. No one could be there, even invisibly.
…Maybe it was just a coincidence. But in The Wandering Inn? Hah!
Then she turned her attention back to the battle. Slowly, Rags inspected the banner-skill and the adventurers, fighting twice as fiercely as before.
The [Great Chieftain]—no, the [Steelflame Strategist] raised her claw. She concentrated.
“[Burning Blades]. [Battlefield: Power of Fire].”
She felt a distant pressure in her mind. Like a bubble, one she could barely feel, let alone touch. It resisted her. Rags growled, struggling to force it through. Like lifting a Wyvern over her head; she had no purchase, no footing. Yet she had seen it could be done!
She failed the first time, panting. Six minutes of concentration resulted in a blinding headache and sweat pouring down her face so hard that Calescent checked to see if his spice had gotten in her bowl of popcorn instead of his.
The little Goblin tried again. What else could she do? However, as she watched—she realized something.
She wasn’t the only one.
 
—-
 
Look and see. There were so many facets of the battle that the limited scrying spells couldn’t keep up. They were…failing as they tried to enter the city. Only the [Mages] providing a direct link had any clarity.
What they showed was Halrac the Grim making his stand, saved by the glowing standard and the grinning Titan.
Also—cruelty.
The Silver-ranks led by Nailren’s team were lying on the ground. They had been cut off from half their group by a wall of black fire one of the Liches had hurled. Levil was fighting with Eldertuin and the others. Nailren had tried to link up, but…
“Fallen down.”
The Gnoll was running—then he was staring at a wall. No? The ground? He muttered. Why…? His legs kept running, kicking the air aimlessly.
“I fell down. I fell—”
Another adventurer stumbled past him. One of Earlia’s former [Miners]. She looked around. Bile or vomit was running out of her mouth. She walked, stumbling, as the other adventurers lay on the ground, or wandered around aimlessly. Nailren tried to stop and turn to face her, but the wall was in his way. Why was he…?
[Confusion]. Some kind of spell. The thick cloud of it swirled, revealing a group of Crypt Lords. One was…belching…the miasma. The rest dragged themselves over. Immune to the spell, they began reaching down and crushing the adventurers to death.
Nailren kept trying to run. He saw Earlia swinging her maul, flailing about at the nearest Crypt Lord. It watched her swing at the air six feet to its right and struck her, sending her crashing to the ground. Delighted, almost. Was it smiling?
 
—-
 
Arrows fell again and again, targeting the half-Elves and the archers. They were hunkering down as the deathly arrow killed another adventurer, just a cut—but the poison’s effect was immediate.
The hail of arrows stopped—then came again. So did the dark purple arrow. A challenge.
Elia Arcsinger refused to take it. She grimly leaned out, forcing her daughter back as she loosed an arrow at the largest opponent.
The Frostmarrow Behemoth was fighting two skeleton giants. Losing. Its icy body was being hacked away swing by swing as it struck back, paws colliding with their armor.
 
—-
 
The mocking Liches circled overhead. They were pointing, raining magical spells down at the sporadic counter-fire from the Halfseeker’s side. All the adventurers without bows or spells could do was fight the undead coming at them on ground-level. Even that was hell.
Seborn leapt away from a bloated zombie, shouting a warning.
“Get b—”
Too late. The zombie exploded. Adventurers inhaled the spore cloud and two fell, convulsing. The last stumbled free, towards his teammates.
“Help. I need an antid—”
“Keep back!”
Jelaqua grabbed him. The adventurer fought, crying for help. His team ran to grab him. Seborn tackled one.
“He’ll infect you too! Fight! Fight!”
 
—-
 
It was a dozen scenes like this. Flickering from point to point. Nailren, Arcsinger herself, pinned down.
Brave adventurers. Children, fighting the worst kinds of monsters from your nightmares. Gleefully, the Crypt Lords crushed another adventurer to death, savoring the cries from their stricken comrades.
You see it. You saw it, in all the manifest injustice. Did you come here to watch despair? Would you, if you could, sit idly by?
No.
Nailren heard a voice. It was female, and often drowsy. Not now. It spoke in his ear.
“[Begone, Ailments].”
He stared down at the ground. The Gnoll pushed himself up with a growl. His bow rose; he shot an arrow through the Crypt Lord bearing down on Earlia. Halfway towards the monster, the arrow morphed. It became a glowing swallow—a bird that pierced through the monster. Nailren heard another voice. Male, authoritative.
“[Blessing: The Bow of Wings]!”
Nailren drew another arrow and felt like he was holding a bird, wings fluttering against his paw. He drew and loosed as Earlia stood. Why was her armor—glowing?
 
—-
 
“[Greater Blessing of Armor].”
The King of Destruction had done it again. Venith slapped his face with his hand. Yet Flos Reimarch had been one of six Skills that spontaneously went off. Adventurers were rising to their feet, confusion gone. The Gnoll with the bow was loosing birds—or their simile—through the Crypt Lords, severing their bloated bodies with ease.
Another adventurer had gone into a berserk rage. The King of Destruction blinked. He realized it and laughed.
“Oh. Of course. Copycats.”
 
—-
 
The Queen of Desonis went back to hugging her pet sheep. A Naga-commander of Baleros sat back to raucous cheering from his mercenary company. He turned his head.
“Inform Wistram who used that Skill.”
His Skill was the one which had given the adventurer the raging fury to take on a Crypt Lord with nothing but an unenchanted shortsword—and win.
It was one of a dozen. Elia heard a whisper in her ears at the same time as adventurers across the city found their armor repairing itself, new strength in their arms.
A bolt of lightning hit one of the Liches mid-air and vaporized it. Drassi, overwhelmed and trying to commentate, saw an icon flash up on the scrying orb’s projection, without her even doing anything.
 
[Lightning Bolt], courtesy of Archmage Viltach.
 
The little indicator faded after a second. More began popping up. The [Reporter] finally realized what was going on.
They were using their Skills! That was obvious. But what she hadn’t realized was how many were using their Skills.
“That’s sixty two—sixty two Skills activated at long-range! I’m reading the Queen of Desonis, the King of Destruction, Commander Luxri of the Hanging Serpents—”
Why so many? Why now? Obviously—because they had been waiting, these [Strategists] and monarchs and [Generals]. They had prepared for this moment. Every single one of the many people who’d watched the first time and, individually, come to the same conclusion.
Why, if the King of Destruction can do it, I’ll do it next time and take credit, make a splash—
Hundreds of people all coming to the same original, completely un-unique idea to attract attention. What had made a splash because it was so unprecedented took on a different tone now.
Every continent in the world save for one was lending a hand to the adventurers in the Village of Death. The exception of course, being Rhir.
“They’re learning old tricks and calling them new ones. Do you see that? The Blighted Kingdom has known about this for ages.”
The [Lord] indicated the Skills exploding across the Village of Death, the renewed fighting among the adventurers. He turned to the [Knight] with dark skin and a worried look on his face. The younger man looked at him.
“Aren’t you going to do something, Lord Hayvon?”
“We don’t waste our Skills, Richard. Adventurers’ glory on Izril will not protect Rhir from the Demons.”
Richard stared at Lord Hayvon, and then turned to the scrying orb. He spoke, never looking away from the fighting.
“Maybe not. But if I could lend a hand, I would. Didn’t you say one of those teams was Hell’s Wardens? They’re people. Like us. Or does the Blighted Kingdom survive without help, Lord Hayvon?”
The man glanced at Richard, and his brows crossed. He stood there, thinking.
Then all five continents took part in the battle.
 
—-
 
“He is shooting birds! Do you see? Do you s—”
Bird was running around, all four arms raised and waving in the common room, crashing into chairs and tables. Selys was sniffing, holding—
She looked at Ulvama, whom she was squeezing with both arms. The Hobgoblin [Shaman] glowered at her. Selys let go.
“Where’s Mrsha?”
Her answer wasn’t needed. Mrsha came striding out of the kitchen, a bowl of dip in her paws. She put it on the table, sat down in between Selys and Ulvama and leaned forwards, chin on her paws. Every line of her body had changed from despair to determination.
Let’s help. She scrutinized the battle like a [Strategist]. Selys and Ulvama peered at her as the Titan resumed watching from the beam. However, Niers was searching for another target. Half the Skills had been just thrown into poor spots. With enthusiasm and effect—not efficacy. That was fine. The adventurers had far more of a chance with so many high-level Skills at their back.
Niers was frowning at Lord Tyrion’s army. They were being ignored—he raised his hand, hoping the scrying orb would focus on them.
Then the Antinium crashed through the front door and some ran out of the basement. The Brothers shouted in alarm—but the Black Tide of the Antinium was—
“I heard. Where—where are they?”
Pawn. Yellow Splatters, Belgrade, Garry, Chesacre, Thaina, Purple Smiles—all of them had rushed into The Wandering Inn.
They hadn’t known. Scrying orbs were only used by the Queen. Now, Pawn sank to his knees as he saw the fighting.
“It is for Erin?”
He looked at the others. Selys hesitated. Mrsha nodded, eyes on him. Pawn knelt. Most of the Painted Antinium copied him.
He began to pray. Niers Astoragon stared at him, sword raised. What was…?
 
—-
 
Skills were activating across the Village of the Dead. The city was still pouring out monsters, though.
“Pisces. We have to split up.”
Ceria watched, dreamily, feeling every chunk of ice torn away from the Frostmarrow Behemoth. Pisces turned.
“Why…?”
“We have to split up. You’re the [Necromancer] here! Find a way to take out the stronger undead. Go! I’ll—stay here.”
Ceria pointed at the adventurers fighting with the Frostmarrow Behemoth. She turned, and the breaking walls of ice holding off Draugr refroze. Pisces looked at her.
Strategist Soew had spoken at last as the adventurers were reinforced by Skills. They could run. If they ran—they’d be torn apart by the undead, flying and many as fast as an adventurer on horseback. So, while the Skills burned and they had a chance: fight.
