Tyrion Veltras locked blades with a wraith. He exchanged blows, his shield repelling some strikes; tasting cold pain in his chest as he took wounds his armor didn’t block.
[Deathbolt]. It was like a weapon made of that. His sword cut the undead; he saw it. His artifact could…hurt it…
Eight minutes the duel took. It was not a beautiful dance, though they were both good. Neither knew the other; Tyrion fought a floating, darting foe, it chased him on his horse’s back.
At the end, it screamed, a shriek of pain, and vanished. The sixth time he had plunged his blade into the thing’s ‘chest’, it had taken. Tyrion lowered his sword, arm numb with frost.
In the time it had taken him to kill one, over two hundred soldiers had died to the others. Jericha was blasting one with magic and it barely slowed.
“Retreat.”
He saw the Kaalblades cutting one down. Tyrion pointed, and the [Mercenaries] fell back too. Even so—he looked over his shoulder and shook his head.
 
—-
 
“Moore, run, damn you!”
Seborn was running, stopping, turning to look over his shoulder. Everyone was fleeing.
“I have lost Ksmvr! Where is Yvlon?”
Zenol was shouting. Something had torn off his arm. Blood ran, until he yanked the strings and changed flesh-and-blood to stuffing. He was with his three remaining servants, looking around.
“No time! Run!”
Jelaqua grabbed his shoulder. Both ran, stumbling, but they were still faster than the slow shape behind them.
Moore was covered in blood. He had seen the worst fighting. Taken the most damage but for Jelaqua, and her body could be replaced.
“Moore! Ulinde, spells, damn you! Slow them down!”
Seborn ran forwards, but he couldn’t even take Moore’s weight. He could only curse at the half-Giant, pushing him as he looked behind.
The [Spellslinger] tried—but the wraiths came on. They were walking now, advancing, cutting down everything they caught.
Ghosts. They looked like clouds grasping weapons sometimes, as they flew. The dead copies of people, now. Like Revi’s summons, but baleful.
Seborn’s arm was numb from where one had cut him. He pushed Moore.
“Leave me, Seborn.”
The [Green Mage] gasped. His voice rattled in his lungs. They had cut him multiple times and he was slowing.
“No. Come on!”
“I’ll hold them back. It’s time. I can’t…”
Moore stopped. Seborn grabbed his arm. The half-Giant was turning, lifting his staff, consumed by the same fury after Erin’s death. He wanted to stride forwards. Seborn gripped his arm with all his strength.
“If you stay. There will be two corpses here. I don’t want to die.”
His friend looked down at him. With a groan, he turned and tried to run. Seborn ran with him. He turned to look over his shoulder.
Yes. They’d catch them. Catch one. The [Rogue] checked the dagger in his good hand.
“Keep running, you idiot. If you slow down, I’ll stab you.”
Moore didn’t hear. He was moving now, blind, too exhausted to turn again. Seborn slowly came to a walk. Then a stand-still.
“Seborn!”
Ulinde screamed. He turned.
“I was afraid I’d die today. I should have stayed back.”
There was no such thing as a bloodless battle. He had only wondered when it would be one of his friends. That was what he cared about, heartless as it was.
The [Rogue] stepped back as the Wraiths caught up. Just behind Moore’s back. That’s all the distance he had to be. He closed his eyes for a second, pivoting. To strike—
Light bathed his face. Light, in this desolate place. Sure it was a spell, Seborn dove—then looked up.
“No—Moore.”
Yet the half-Giant was staggering onwards. What was…? Seborn glanced over his shoulder and saw sunlight.
Bright, beautiful, real. More enticing than any spell that had illuminated this damned place.
It shone down for a second. Bathing him in light. The [Rogue] looked up, awe-struck. Then saw something in the street.
The Wraiths had stopped. Uncertainly; the ghost-undead lifted their blades and regarded what had pulled itself out of thin air. A glowing figure. Seborn’s eyes widened.
“Antinium…?”
The two Workers never turned back. They glowed, with a radiant counterpoint to the specters in death. Armed with kitchen knives, an actual hammer, even a handsaw—they charged. Grappling, striking the Wraiths as if they were real things. The undead fell back, as awed as Seborn.
He? He looked up at the light and remembered an Antinium kneeling in prayer. Somewhere…Pawn spoke.
“Amen.”
Seborn turned and ran after Moore, grabbing his arm, hurrying him along.
 
—-
 
They were all running. The Minotaur called for her. Wered and Dorgon were the furthest in. They had fought, bringing down gigantic undead, without yield. Without quarter.
Yet they too were running. It was only logical.
Even so. Yvlon Byres stood in the streets. So frustrated she could scream. They were so close. And yet—
“Yvlon! Yvlon Byres, with us!”
Dorgon leapt back from a swinging wraith. It cut the air with rapid strikes, ignoring the powerful swings of Wered’s maul. Both Minotaurs gave up and ran backwards. Yet they looked at her.
Yvlon blocked a slash that numbed her hands just by the proximity to the blade. Frost covered her arms and armor. She cut back—yet her Sword of Weight passed fruitlessly through the specter’s chest. Wrong enchantment. Weight meant nothing to a ghost.
It was using a damned scythe, as if she was a patch of wheat! It wasn’t even a real weapon; if she had been able to strike it, it would have been dead two dozen times already.
“We were so close. So—”
Yvlon blocked a strike from a Skeleton Knight. It had given up on etiquette. She swung her sword and buried it in its pauldrons; down it went. She whirled. A monstrosity of a blob gaped at her. Her sword descended again and its body exploded around her.
The scythe swung. The [Armsmistress] ducked. Her sword whirled.
“[Curve of the Moon]!”
The undead around her disappeared—save for the wraiths. Now, both were bearing down on her.
“Not yet!”
Yvlon howled. She cut at both, but it was fruitless. Dorgon was bellowing her name, but the woman was fighting in the center of the street, refusing to retreat.
Like the Adult Creler, Yvlon saw only red. She cut, even trying a mordhau, screaming her fury at the undead. They didn’t care.
“Byres! There is no dishonor here!”
Dorgon tried one last time. But it was no good. Yvlon lashed out—then caught herself. Too late.
A scythe cleaved towards her head as her sword flailed in the center of the wraith’s chest, striking only air. The woman saw the deadly blade coming down and reflexively raised her arm.
Clang. The wraith recoiled. Yvlon heard the metal sound. Then—she looked at her arms. She felt the kiss of metal and terrible cold. Yet—
The wraith backed up, eyes flashing uncertainly. Yvlon looked at her arm as the other came forwards. She flung a fist out and caught it in the chest.
A scream. A shriek of pain! The undead backed up, and Yvlon saw steam or something leaking from the place she’d struck it.
She looked at her arms. The arms she hated so much. The wraiths stared at her. So did the Minotaurs, looking shocked.
“Silver and steel.”
The [Armsmistress] threw her head back. She began laughing, laughing at the sky. The two undead attacked her.
Yvlon Byres dropped her sword to the ground. She whirled.
Her arm went through one of the specters’ chests. It screamed again, but still tried to cut her. It—
“[Armform: Razorkind].”
For the first time that battle, Yvlon abandoned the Human shape of her arms. The silver-steel flesh rippled.
Spikes of metal exploded through the Wraith’s chest. Her arm turned into a ball of thin needles, shooting outwards like a porcupine’s quills.
The undead vanished in a wail and miasma of lights. The other swung its blade, desperately.
It locked its sword with Yvlon’s other arm.
[Armform: Duelist]. The woman’s arm was gone. All that remained was a metal blade, which she swung into it.
The Minotaurs saw the [Armsmistress] whirl as more undead came down the street. They shouted at her, shocked by the transformation of her arms. They saw her begin to run—
The wrong way. The woman grabbed a Draugr’s head and a spike of metal shot through her palm, knocking its helmet off as the undead fell with a hole in its face. Yvlon—ran deeper into the city. The words still on her lips.
Not. Yet.
 
—-
 
More horrors were emerging. The adventurers were all running, now. The encouragement of the undead king and the leader’s words had been the impetus. Though, if some had dared to stay and fight even now…
That resolve faded. Nightmares came out.
A floating orb of eyes joined the abominations in the air. But it wasn’t—wasn’t—
Right. If you imagined a giant floating eye, like a Gazer, you were wrong. If you imagined form, you were wrong. It was just…eyes. Tiny eyes, plucked from sockets, squished, assembled into one horrific orb that stared everywhere.
Such things were more terrible than he had ever seen. It broke the nerve of even Gold-ranks.
The ground moved and something peeked out, snatching at a running adventurer’s heels. It parted dirt and brickwork like water. Reaching to drag her screaming into—
This was the last guard. The final action of the inner city’s defenders. If there had been a—a mind controlling it all, they would have fought with the rank and file, emerging when the lesser undead in the village were under attack.
His mouth was full of bile and his body shook with terror. Worse horrors than he had thought could exist. Worse than the darkest pacts he had ever made.
He turned, even so. His legs carried him across the ground and he shouted, mouth moving in terrified defiance. Why did you scream your allegiance, cries of victory, even in the face of death, no matter how silly it was?
It was that or scream.
“The honor of Izril! The pride of d—”
He couldn’t finish the shout before the thing in the ground emerged out in a shower of dirt, ignoring the Gold-rank and turning for him. Death! He screamed. D—
“Now. [Lancing Thrusts].”
His voice emerged, calm, precise. The rapier in his hand—blurred. He saw his Skill hit the monstrosity across the face.
Piercing blows. The tip of his rapier caught the thing! Shattered the bone-mask on its face. Yet the undead beneath was all jaws—
It opened incisor-claws, ready to tear him apart. It lunged; he would be dead even if he leapt back. The terrible force within him knew that.
It carried him forwards. His enchanted rapier slashed, seeking a heart. A core—the jaws snapped. His blade was tangled; his arm constricted.
The other hand shot forwards, and the parrying dagger slashed. Tomoor fell, the jaws closing around him, screaming—
His arm cut something. The body went slack. The huge weight of the tunneling horror fell on him, but with immense strength, he pushed it up just enough to stagger out—
Adventurers stared at him. The perfect thrust! Tomoor had felt the precision, the daring to use that Skill to find the core of the undead he had…known…was there. A single step back, a single hesitation.
“Amazing.”
Someone breathed. Tomoor whirled.
“Run! Keep running, you idiots!”
They jumped and sprinted. That was his voice. It had all been his voice, his body. Yet that skill, that artistry—
No. That wasn’t him at all. If he could have told someone…he wouldn’t. He longed to, with all his heart. He wanted to run; he was no Gold-rank hero. He had not the Skills for this. He was barely—barely—Level 30.
The [Duelist] turned and set himself against a Draugr’s charge. He killed it in a single thrust, almost contemptuously. A wraith bore down on him, scythe raised, and he whirled. His rapier should not have been able to harm it—not with the simple [Piercing] enchantment on it.
He slew it in less than a second, his blade’s tip tearing the fragile ether of the ghost’s body. Tomoor stepped forwards, his arm moving so fast that he could barely process it.
Head, eye, joint—undead fell, slain in single-thrusts. Tomoor had never seen such exemplary swordsmanship save when he had seen two owners of golden bells dueling. Even the King of Jecrass…
“…missing. She ran into battle. Yvlon has gone into the City of Death!”
A voice over the speaking stone, panting. Dorgon, the Minotaur. Tomoor’s hand raised the speaking stone.
“Say again?”
“She’s gone into the city! Her mind is lost to battle-rage! Ceria, Pisces—pull her back! We cannot keep fighting shades!”
The Minotaur’s voice was urgent. He called for the rest of the Horns. Tomoor had barely known them, yet they seemed nice. The [Necromancer] he had expected to find a monster—a haughty young man, but polite.
The [Duelist] stopped in the street, listening. Suddenly, his attention was all on the stone. No—Tomoor’s mind was still gibbering, ready to run.
The Necromancer’s mind was focused on this. He spoke through Tomoor’s lips.
Dark pacts.
“Into the city? Pisces. Ceria. Ksmvr? Respond.”
Only silence greeted him. Halrac’s voice was next. None of the Horns responded. Because…they were dead? Tomoor wasn’t sure. Yet he felt a certainty creep up on him.
Not his thoughts. Sometimes they leaked. This certainty was different.
They are in a place where the speaking stones are dead. No scrolls, no outside magic. They have all gone in.
With that realization came a kind of…satisfaction. A longing Tomoor could not process. He shuddered; he had never felt anything but cold calculation or anger, hatred, from the Necromancer’s thoughts.
His voice spoke, triumphant, joining the others’ horrified realizations.
“The Horns have gone into the city.”
That was what Pisces had told the others. Tomoor’s head rose. Past the horrors. Into the heart of that place. The man and Necromancer both felt an emotion in their chests.
They would fulfill their promises. Or…
The [Duelist] walked forwards again. His rapier rose, saluting the undead which stopped, as if sensing the true danger here. Tomoor spoke.
“I will hold them off as long as I can. Brave adventurers—fall back. Fall back.”
The monster smiled using his face. Tomoor heard them entreating him, Arcsinger praising his resolve. If only he was…
He locked blades with a six-armed monster for a second, sliding gracefully into a slash that the multi-limbed undead could not stop. Who was the monster here? The City of Death had horrors of the unliving that Tomoor had never seen, even in ten years of terrible service.
Yet this was a magic different, but no less terrible than one of the horrors floating above. The living man walked, fighting with another man’s talents and will. A living puppet.
 
—-
 
Lord Tyrion Veltras’ army was streaming back, on a full, ordered retreat. Ryoka Griffin screamed. She knew he had to do it.
