As the last of the hopeless adventurers, soldiers in broken armies, careless wanderers, travellers and the lost who had been trapped here over millennia were finally released, their bodies destroyed, the Putrid One’s true army finally moved.
The illusion fell away. The inner city was revealed. It stirred. Undead, patiently waiting for so long, finally lifted the weapons they had been entrusted with. Ancient armor gleamed. Giant figures strode out of their resting places.
Monstrous undead climbed out of hiding places. Others took wing, or hung in the air, kept aloft by magic.
True undead. Not Draugr, not Crypt Lords or skeletons or zombies or Ghouls or any other lesser undead. Draugr were the foot soldiers, and these ones had armor.
The first undead Wyvern flew next to dead Griffins and even a Manticore, all three winged beast species flying high overhead, screaming soundlessly in parodies of life.
She couldn’t breathe, seeing it. Her heart was palpitating. She clutched at it, and felt the steady rhythm falter. It was—she was hyperventilating, clutching at the table.
It was her fault. They had gone because she had told them. Because she had suggested it. For Erin, they had said. But she had asked them—asked him.
They were going to die. Selys Shivertail sank out of her chair, unable to sit upright. She kept watching, though. Only Mrsha even noticed the Drake fall to the floor. She tugged at Selys, but the [Heiress] couldn’t speak or stand.
All eyes were on the scrying orb. The cheering in The Wandering Inn had stopped.
The story on the scrying mirror had been glorious. Desperate, action-packed, full of hope though. Each step the adventurers made, each time a spell threw the undead back, Imani and Palt had hugged, Bezale and Kevin and Troy had all taken a gulp of beer—then stopped after the three-dozenth time.
They had been on the edge of their seats, cheering, calling encouragement, as if this were a game. They had not been unaware of the stakes, but they had believed.
Now? Silence. The story had changed. Something—cruel reality—stole in like painful, bitter wind. The sun had set. It was cold, the chill of fear and certainty, the dark of night.
The first adventurers died within seconds.
 
—-
 
Yvlon locked blades with the skeleton commander and threw her entire weight behind the first clash as their swords met. The undead skeleton—blocked her.
It was weaker; it slid back, despite the ceremonial armor it wore, yet it parried her, redirecting the force of her blow. Its shield came up as Yvlon recoiled and struck out.
A calculated blow, to dizzy her and force her back as its sword went in for a stab. Yvlon recoiled, saw the blade coming as she tried to pull her sword down. She released her two-handed grip—lowered her arm.
The slash across her right arm was a scream of metal-on-metal. Yvlon recoiled, knocking the sword away, and brought down her sword once more, one-handed.
It met the shield and the skeleton commander staggered. She walked backwards, flicking her head, right, left. The other skeletons—!
Hadn’t moved. They stood in perfect formation, weapons ready—but watching her and their leader duel. It was so uncanny that Yvlon moved further back, sure this was a trap.
No. The skeleton leader with the plumed helmet set himself, sword raised high, shield angled. It struck its sword hilt to the shield, producing a challenging clash of metal, just like Briganda had.
It was then that Yvlon noticed she was bleeding. Red ran from the cut in her right arm. She looked down, mildly shocked.
The sword had cut her arm. Actually cut it. The blade was as enchanted as hers and…it had sliced open the silver-steel skin. Not deeply, but if it had done that to her arm—her armor would suffer the same fate.
Yvlon looked at the skeletons. She had heard nothing in the clash, which had taken all of ten seconds at most. Cut, parry, block, retreat.
It had moved as fast as she. That coordination! It was like fighting a Level 20 [Warrior]—no, a seasoned [Soldier] at least!
Then Yvlon heard the first screams of panic, confusion, cries for help. Then she felt the first impacts coming up from the ground.
Explosions. Death from the skies. Only, not from adventurers.
The [Armsmistress] looked up and saw them. Glowing fingers, floating bodies—
Liches. Skeleton-mages, casting spells from high above. They flicked [Fireballs], bolts of [Lightning] down, magical arrow spells, anything a [Mage] was capable of. Basic attack spells that killed.
A [Fireball] illuminated a trio of Silver-rank adventurers who couldn’t dodge. They were flung, blazing, onto the street. Another Silver-rank dove, and the lightning bolt arced, catching him on his metal armor. He screamed, but was able to grab a healing potion.
The magical attack was first. Second—the arrows. A volley flew from the skies, shot from far out of sight. Adventurers raised shields and a [Mage] had the presence of mind to cast a barrier-spell. The arrows glanced off; a professional, accurate grouping of shots.
The arrow with a pitch-black shaft and a glowing, purple-metal arrowhead snaked down and hit the [Mage] in the shoulder. He folded up without a word.
All of this was in seconds. Yvlon looked up and saw the shrieking undead monsters in the sky. She saw a huge shape, taller than the Frostmarrow Behemoth, raise a club of bone or something pale, advancing forwards.
The skeletons—advanced. Yvlon raised her sword, waiting, but only the leader came towards her. The rest were moving past her.
“Skeleton Knights. Say again: our group is engaging Skeleton Knights. Unconfirmed speculation—Skeleton Lord leading them!”
The voice was brisk, familiar, but not haughty. Just—taut with intensity.
Prince Zenol. His eight bodyguards were shielding him, eyes on the Skeleton Knights. And…Skeleton Lord? It looked no different than the others, save for its garb, but the way it saluted her, bone head turning as if to wonder if she and Zenol were going to flank it—
Zenol’s voice was one of dozens shouting into their speaking stones. Yvlon heard mixed voices.
“Liches! We need [Mages] here to battle them! We can’t shoot them down! Half have barriers—”
“Undead giant! Dead gods, Bone Behemoths too—”
“—just came at us—full of bugs—don’t get c—”
“Fall back. All groups, fall back to your fortifications.”
That was Soew’s voice, urgent despite the calm tone. Yvlon looked at the skeletons. The Skeleton Lord was just waiting.
“We have to fight them before they join up. Attack 2—first wave. We are fighting.”
Prince Zenol tossed the speaking stone to a bodyguard. He raised his sword, and looked around. Dorgon had moved forwards with some Gold-ranks and two Silver.
“Watch the skies for spells and arrows.”
The Minotaur spoke, looking at Yvlon. She nodded. No one had said a word, save for Dorgon and Zenol. They were watching Yvlon.
She hadn’t beaten the skeleton leader, and she had intended to in a single charge. Now—the adventurers were poised. To run? To fall back?
It depended on the next moments. Zenol strode forwards, as if to put their uncertainty to rest. Yvlon blocked him.
“Take the others.”
He looked at her. Then grinned.
“Don’t lose.”
The [Prince] whirled, and his Stitchfolk charged into the Skeleton Knights, fearless of the blades. Yvlon took a deep breath. She lifted her sword, seeing blood running onto the hilt from her arm.
The Skeleton Lord was waiting. It was grinning at her. Yvlon charged.
“Silver and steel be my guide!”
Her first stroke was a two-handed blow that made the Skeleton Lord stagger. It raised its sword, stabbing fast in the opening as Yvlon’s sword bounced off its shield.
A quick blow which could turn into a decisive cut before she could regain her balance and maneuver her sword. It scored a line down her cheek; no, a deep cut. Yvlon abruptly felt steel kiss the side of her tongue. The Skeleton Lord went to flick the enchanted blade through her skull.
Its arm never moved again. Yvlon had dropped her sword. Her silver hand had caught its sword-wrist. The undead recoiled—
She wrenched off its arm. It was hard, far harder than a normal skeleton’s, but this undead was still weaker than a Draugr. It looked down at its torn shoulder, and tried to drop the shield and reach for a dagger at its belt.
Both of Yvlon’s hands grabbed its helmeted head. She began to pull.
The Skeleton Lord stared at Yvlon, grabbing her arm with its remaining one. Gently—
She thought the light brown flames in its eye sockets were reproaching her. This was not how sword-wielders properly f—
The silver arms ripped skull and part of the spine from the body. The Skeleton Knights turned, those not in the thick of fighting, as the Skeleton Lord collapsed.
“Rhir’s hells.”
One of the adventurers breathed. Yvlon turned. She was holding the skull, her right cheek cut open.
The skull crumpled in one hand. She bent, to retrieve her sword. Then, Yvlon Byres stood. Her next words made living and dead flinch. It was a bellow, a raw shout.
“Silver and steel be my guide—everything dies! Forwards! Attack, you cowards!”
This time, when she ran, the adventurers charged down the street with her.
 
—-
 
They didn’t run. Eldertuin the Fortress planted his shield and bellowed a counter-command.
“Hold this street with me! Horns—keep those giants off us! If we all run, we all die.”
The Draugr were advancing at a run, their ferocious charge shaking the street.
The Named Adventurer put his shield down and gritted his teeth. His hair, already turning to grey in places, flashed.
No—the air did. Ceria heard him shout.
“[Shield of the Fortress]! [I Am Unmovable]!”
A pale, sage-green shield burst from his shield. It traced a teardrop shape—as wide as the street. The spells and Draugr hit it and—bounced.
The first armored undead swung their weapons and hit an unbreakable wall: Eldertuin’s shield. He braced, holding back the weight of their charge. His feet skidded back a foot, no more.
Then Levil shot flames into the Draugr, seeking to set them alight. Over Eldertuin’s shoulder, someone fired a crossbow, through the eyes of one of the Draugr.
“Pisces!”
Ceria shouted, and the [Necromancer] broke out of his stupor. He looked around; his hand flashed as he flicked it.
[Shatterbolt]. It went through two Draugr’s chest plates, but one got up. Ceria pointed.
“[Ice Spear]!”
The head vanished. The corpse fell back down. Ceria looked around.
“The street! Ward the street before my Skill ends! Arcsinger, get your archers over here! Soew! The Liches will slaughter everything they see! I see six—”
Eldertuin was bellowing, issuing orders. Ceria had no idea what he meant for a moment. Then her eyes widened.
“[Ice Wall!]”
Ice appeared and spread, thickening into the multiple feet of solid protection that could stop even the spells or a Draugr’s charge for a while. But not on the ground—it spread from rooftop to rooftop! Forming an aerial shield from the flying undead, spells, and arrows. Ceria lifted her hands, brows furrowing with effort as she created a fortress of ice. Pisces fought, stabbing, conjuring an orb of acid—but he never took his eyes from the heart of the city.
 
—-
 
Two places held. Three—four. That was all Niers Astoragon saw. The rest of the adventurers were fleeing, regrouping or just running, nerves broken.
He sat, clenching his hands, watching the battle unfold from above. He was too far away to ‘see’ the battlefield with his Skills. Yet he had to! He saw adventurers die from archers and whatever high-level undead had that barrier-breaching arrow.
Liches in the skies. Undead Wyverns? Not to mention whatever giants were out there, and armored undead infantry.
Where? He waited—vibrating with intensity. His was not the despair in the rest of the inn.
“Show me. Show me, you motherless mage-brats! Don’t pan over the battle, show me—”
He had to find it. The Titan’s whisper went ignored in the inn, even by the Gnolls. The only person who looked towards him was Apista.
And the frantic head of the little Gnoll. Niers ignored her. He was—waiting—
 
—-
 
A frozen grin on his face, the King of Destruction watched as the viewpoint of the scrying orb shifted. The smile had been genuine a minute ago. Yet contrary to what they believed, he did not enjoy this.
Tyrion Veltras’ forces were falling back as the Village of the Dead disgorged an armored legion fit for any Chandrarian nation’s best. He saw armored Draugr advancing, shields raised, ignoring the effective rain of arrows that had killed countless undead. They were using the other undead still on the field like shields.
Even the Lord of House Veltras couldn’t just charge into them. He did it once, with a group of a hundred and twenty. The rest of the [Riders] held back, circling, baiting the undead into chasing them, but something was leading them, such that the rest were advancing on the infantry, forcing a clash.
“He held back the rest of his [Riders]?”
Maresar didn’t understand. Tyrion Veltras was riding forwards, set in a jouster’s position. He surged up and down, his lance tip never wavering. Behind him came other [Riders] carrying spears and lances.
“The rest must not be high-level enough. They’ll die on the charge.”
Venith murmured. On cue, the image of Tyrion Veltras was lost as he accelerated.
A hundred and twenty lancers crashed into the Draug, their weapons piercing armor, throwing the hulking undead down. Dozens of spears or lances shattered and bent from the stress, but the [Riders] were already breaking away, following Tyrion Veltras.
He had killed two Draugr in a single charge, putting his lance through one’s head and then using the momentum to kill another. Those two did not get up.
Half of the Draugr did. Flos saw mortal wounds on any Human, Stitchfolk, Dullahan, or other species ignored as the undead picked themselves up with gaping wounds in their armor. Tyrion was circling, looking for another charge. But his head was turned, looking up. He was bellowing orders unheard, and his soldiers were scrambling to maneuver. Their formation had changed, scattered because of—
The flying undead. They began to drop out of the skies, interrupting the neat archery formations. Sowing havoc among the House of El’s noncombatants. Now Lord Deilan, the Terland delegation, and the [Mages] and trebuchets were under threat.
And Tyrion’s children.
 
—-
 
Halrac the Grim fought cold. He heard and saw adventurers dying.
Acid rained down from the skies. An adventurer clawed at her face and her burning eyes. A Minotaur—Thorven—charged out and threw her against the wall and overhang.
“Healing potion in her eyes! Highest-quality and you might save them!”
