Time had resumed for her. Not the Putrid One. He would never get up, ever again. The woman looked past the monstrosity as it writhed, unable to even put words to its rage. Disbelief.
“Who are these four?”
The Horns were dying. The abomination looked at the [Paladin] and reared up. Ksmvr, kneeling, looked up. He could not weep. He could not even properly cry. He whispered.
“Please. Help her?”
His body was being infected by the same contagion covering Yvlon. The woman looked at him.
She had no idea what he was. She had never seen his kind. Her eyes widened. Yet not in fear.
All she saw was an adventurer.
 
The woman looked for her sword. She drew it, and lifted it over her head in one motion as Tolveilouka screamed, dropping down towards her.
The [Paladin] spoke.
“[The Light Be Blessing Upon Us All]/[For So Long As I Stand Evil Shall Quail]/[Your Wounds Shall Close].”
And there was light. It shot upwards in a beam of radiance. Ksmvr looked up, and the plague touching him vanished. He heard the horror shriek and recoil.
The light.
 
—-
 
It shot from the Village of the Dead. A beam of true sunlight. Beautiful, piercing the illusion within. Destroying the enchantment.
It rose higher. The adventurers trying to stem the flow of blood from cuts that would not heal looked up as it bathed them.
Eldertuin gasped as he felt the mortal cut—close. Faster than any potion, more gently. As if he was being filled from within by sunlight.
Cries from the adventurers. Cut limbs did not heal. Yet blood slowed. Even those who looked dead—
Jelaqua gasped. She looked up as heads rose. People exclaimed.
The light. He opened his eyes and stared up at them. The man licked his lips, but it was salt-water. Great tears of it. He stirred.
“I thought I died.”
That was all Seborn said as Moore cradled him. The half-Giant looked down, and then up.
 
—-
 
Death faded. Az’kerash felt pain. He shielded his face, and this was just a distant image.
The abomination was cowering in a corner. The [Paladin] stood, holding her blade aloft. Yet—it was a Skill.
The light was already fading. She cast aside her sword. Looked around.
The Horns got up. Pisces, staring at the smooth skin of his stomach, the hole in his robes. Ceria, looking at her arms and seeing only her skeletal hand, not the ruined flesh. Yvlon—at her ruined arm. She shrugged.
“Thank you.”
Ksmvr spoke to the woman. She smiled. But…ruefully. Her hand rose to her cheek once more.
The sickness in her face had not stopped, only slowed. She looked at the Gold-ranks, and spoke, quietly.
“You must run. He will pursue you until the ends of the earth. I do not know how—but you freed me. Thank you.”
The Horns looked at her. She turned. Tolveilouka was already rising, his ruined flesh, destroyed by the light, regenerating. He was making a roaring sound, growing louder.
“But you—”
Ceria trailed off. Death was spreading across the Dullahan woman’s features and they all knew what that meant. She had known back then. The [Paladin] looked at her.
“Go. Just—just tell me one thing. Did they remember? Our sacrifice? My team’s? The Radiance of Canopies? From Baleros?”
The Horns looked at her wordlessly, in this Village of Death—which was a tomb so old everyone had forgotten what lay beyond. A death-zone without a proper name.
The [Paladin] bowed her head. She smiled, a copy of the Drake’s expression.
“Go. Blessings be with you.”
They ran. The Dullahan took off her head, holding it as she sank to one knee. In perfect repose. She glanced up.
“You will not outlive my master another minute, woman.”
Tolveilouka. He towered over her, dark wrath on his features. She did not bother reaching for a weapon. The [Paladin] just nodded.
“I know. It is done either way, monster.”
 
—-
 
The Horns of Hammerad ran down the street. They knew it was pointless.
“We’ll never outrun it.”
Ceria gasped. She felt it. That thing—the [Paladin] was seconds from death. Even if she fought, the servant would be on them in a flash. It was too fast. Too powerful. They couldn’t even slow it down.
“I will stay. I will stay. You run. The Horns must live—”
Ksmvr tried to shove Yvlon onto Pisces’ shoulder. Ceria spun. She grabbed Ksmvr, and looked into his eyes as the [Skirmisher] tried to turn back.
“If you stay, we stay. Get it right. Never say that again.”
He looked at her. She should have told him that from the start. Ksmvr began to run without another word.
Yvlon said nothing either, though she was stumbling, mumbling. A jagged stump of metal was all that remained of her right arm. She looked at Pisces, who was supporting her with Ksmvr. He was…speaking.
“Take us to safety. Please. Show us the way.”
To whom? She listened, half-fading in and out of consciousness. Behind them, a voice roared. It was coming. Yvlon heard Pisces entreaty again.
“Please.”
She tried to lift her hand.
 
—-
 
The Necromancer had nothing. Az’kerash had made it past many defenders, halting when he had beheld the Revenants, the true danger here.
The greatest servant of the Putrid One? If he had a link with Pisces as he had with his other puppets—perhaps. Perhaps.
Even then, he was not sure. Now? At a remove, with nothing to aid them, no agents left? The Necromancer had used his great artifacts. If only he had one…one scroll! One…
He looked through Pisces’ eyes as the woman mumbled, her golden hair trailing. The Necromancer saw Pisces look down at her remaining hand and what it held.
The golden law of adventurers in a raid. Az’kerash’s breath caught.
Steal everything.
One of the scrolls from the altar was grasped in Yvlon’s hand. Pisces moved a hand to grab at it. It couldn’t be…? Az’kerash did not dare to hope.
But what kind of scroll would a [Necromancer] keep close to hand? Might be in the process of using when he was attacked in his sanctuary?
The glowing letters burned Pisces’ vision. Magic of a kind written in an era long lost. Even then, it was so rare. So perfect.
[Greater Teleport].
 
—-
 
In that moment, Pisces felt hope.
In that moment, it was dashed.
The Necromancer of Terandria spoke in his mind even as Pisces slowed. As the cathedral exploded and something came, destroying streets as it heaved itself along, screaming vengeance.
“It requires a target. Coordinates.”
So send them—! Pisces saw Ceria pointing, creating walls of ice. Ksmvr dragging at Yvlon, who had fainted. He unfurled the scroll.
“Take us. Please!”
Az’kerash sat in his castle. He looked at the other three. His voice was quiet as he replied.
“They will never walk from my castle alive. I could not allow it.”
Pisces stopped, the spell scroll in his hands. There was only one place the Necromancer had coordinates to. Only a place of perfect safety, where he might escape. And that was only his lair. He might tolerate an apprentice. Not others. Not with his secret.
Bitter. It tasted so bitter. The Necromancer meant every word. Or so Pisces believed.
Yvlon was blearily looking up. Ceria was running back, seeing the shape bulge higher. Ksmvr was looking to the young man who had stopped in the street.
He faced the cathedral, where the Putrid One had been laid to rest. He spoke to the sky. His words were longing and bitter. He reached up, holding the shining scroll aloft in entreaty. Calling to him.
To them.
“You are more than a [Necromancer]. More than undead. You are something more than just death and bile, aren’t you? Please. What is there for me to believe in down this lonely road, then? You were a hero to someone, weren’t you? Give me something to…believe in. Please.”
Neither one replied. The young man asked for glory. He asked for beauty and meaning and hope. Had they both lost any trace of it?
Was there any glory, any goodness in death? Or was this how it ended?
Az’kerash sat there. Then his head rose. His eyes opened wide.
“Use the scroll.”
Pisces unfurled the artifact. Tolveilouka charged forwards, howling, realizing what they were doing. The Horns of Hammerad looked at Pisces.
“We might die.”
That was all he said. Ceria reached out. She grabbed his arm. Yvlon felt Ksmvr connect her to Pisces’ other arm.
“Only ‘might’? Then do it.”
Which one said that? They were smiling. Laughing. Pisces unfurled the scroll. He focused on the burning coordinates, the understanding in his mind.
A rotting hand swung down, promising death by consumption. It never reached the four.
In a flash of light, they vanished. Az’kerash cried out, already casting spells. Standing on his feet. The Putrid One’s servant roared, and then sank to the streets in grief.
The adventurers fled, as the Horns of Hammerad vanished. Vanished—using a scroll of ancient power. Among the dead and wounded, this bitter, dark day.
To…where?
 
—-
 
They flew across the world in a moment, past the shores of Izril, faster than ghosts, like four falling, glorious, broken stars. The spell tore at them, and Ceria felt her grip weakening.
“Don’t let go! Don’t l—”
Pisces screamed at her. They reached out, linking hands. Ksmvr was holding on to Yvlon as she gritted her teeth.
The spell bore them away. Not towards the Necromancer’s castle, but somewhere…else.
The only other place he might ever flee, in desperation. At the end of all things.
The one land where glory in death remained.
Khelt.
A [Message] beat them there, to Chandrar. As fast as thought itself. A frantic entreaty, explanation, from a source he had never thought to be so brazen, so careless.
Fetohep of Khelt halted on the grasslands of Jecrass, still watching the scrying orb, the folly of the undead. His preserved visage rose. His golden eyes flashed with alarm. He raised a hand.
This idea—? He saw the reason. The folly. The undead king bellowed at the sky, terrifying his mortal followers.
“No, you arrogant fool. You think there are no defenses? Not Khelt! Not—”
He reached out to catch them. But he was leagues upon leagues from his homeland. Too late.
The Horns of Hammerad, rushing through space—hit the barrier. It flung them, ricocheting them in ways they couldn’t understand.
All Ceria heard was screaming. Their voices.
“Don’t let go! D—”
Pisces’ grip weakened. He saw her connected—then torn away.
Ksmvr lost his grip at the same moment, thrown by the impact. Pisces howled as his friends vanished.
The last two, hurtling together, were Ksmvr and Yvlon. He clung to her with all three arms, but the magic was ripping them away, unable to sustain two so close together.
“I won’t let go. I won’t—”
He told her. Yvlon Byres just grinned. Her arm, holding the three of his, tightened.
“Don’t worry.”
Then the magic flung them apart. Ksmvr tumbled through the void.
Four magical comets landed across Chandrar. Four bodies, four adventurers thrown apart. Falling, striking the ground into unconsciousness. Wounded, exhausted.
Alive.
 
—-
 
The Horns never returned. So many adventurers lay dead.
So many survived.
A bloody, bleak group gathered together. The living had beaten the dead? No—they’d escaped. That was all they could say.
“So they failed. They failed. This was all a waste of time.”
Someone muttered. All their grief, all their effort…the bitter reproach was cut short.
“No.”
That voice came from Halrac. Halrac, who stood, holding his teammates with one arm—touching them—to make sure they were alive. His eyes were filled with silent loss. Yet he spoke now, facing the others.
“They did what they promised.”
The [Veteran Scout] bent. Slowly, outside the Village of the Dead, he reached down to what remained of the last monster. He sifted apart dust and lifted something.
Slowly, he pulled the bag of holding out of the pile remains. The adventurers stared at it. Then—the armor. And the blade.
The gleaming sword slowly came up in Briganda’s hands as she stared at it, wide-eyed. Weapons taken from the greatest swordsman of his era.
Last of all—Keldrass bent down, and picked up the familiar artifact. He had spotted it at the start. It was familiar. The Drake had never used it, but he had worn it. Poetic that he owned it. Slowly, he lifted it up and breathed the words.
“The Helm of Fire.”
The adventurers looked at each other in silence. Then…yes, then.
It was over.
 
—-
 
The people of the world watched the raid end with mixed feelings. Grief. Desolation, as the friends of the Horns realized more were gone.
Greed, seeing the artifacts claimed. Hope there might be more in the now-weakened village.
Fear of the undead, rekindled not least what might remain.
Fury at the Courier, the thief.
So many emotions. A handful of artifacts, dead bodies. That was all that remained from the raid, surely? All that effort for nothing?
In another world, perhaps. Here?
This is what they heard:
 
Revi Cotton, weeping for the Horns, stitches torn. For Geni and the others.
[Summoner Level 33!]
[Skill – Vessel of Oneself obtained!]
[Skill – Summoning: Pass Wounds obtained!]
[Skill – Summoning: Call the Great Ancestors obtained!]
 
Typhenous, lying on the wagon, his old bones still hurting from being broken and healed, but smiling bitterly and gently as he watched his team draw breath.
[Rogue Mage Level 28!]
[Skill – Invisible Cast obtained!]
 
[Knifefighter Level 23!]
[Skill – Flash Lunge obtained!]
 
[Conditions Met: Survivor → Underworld Survivor Class!]
[Underworld Survivor Level 20!]
[Skill – Street Invisibility obtained!]
[Skill – Greater Endurance obtained!]
 
Briganda, weeping as she ran towards Cade, shaken. Holding him tight and remembering the moment she had died but for grace.
[Shield Maiden Level 34!]
[Skill – Magicguard Block obtained!]
[Skill – Mother’s Flight obtained!]
 
The grim [Scout], sitting with head bowed, adding them to the list.
[Conditions Met: Veteran Scout → Bowman of Loss Class!]
[Class Consolidation: Marksman removed.]
[Class Consolidation: Fletcher removed.]
 
[Bowman of Loss Level 36!]
[Skill – Arrow of Regret obtained!]
[Skill – My Pain Is My Strength obtained!]
[Skill – Craft: Arrows of Will obtained!]
[Skill – They Walk With Me obtained.]
 
Jelaqua Ivirith, speaking to the worried Dullahan with a laugh, pretending to be fine. Shaken, but weeping with her own gratitude for the light triumphant which had saved them.
[Conditions Met: Steel Tempest → Steelforged Whirlwind Class!]
[Class Consolidation: Mercenary removed.]
[Class Consolidation: Bounty Hunter removed.]
 
[Steelforged Whirlwind Level 34!]
[Skill – Weapon: Extended Range (5 Feet) obtained!]
[Skill – Weapon: Moment of the Half Giant obtained!]
 
[Lover Level 6!]
[Conditional Skill – Lover’s Lucky Charm obtained!]
 
The half-Giant, adrenaline wearing off, covered in blood. Healed not at all by the blood he had spilled.
[Conditions Met: Green Mage → Bloodearth Mage Class.]
