Lunging, pirouetting under a stroke—lashing out with his hand, missing by a fraction of an inch—step left. Tilt your head and feel the score of pain across one cheek. Yet the dance was ending. He felt the Revenant’s resolve failing. Satisfied.
Then it happened. Az’kerash felt his beating heart swell and—something changed. The Village of the Dead’s influence? A ripple in his emotions? The scrying spells? Him?
He didn’t know. But for a second, the magical link between him and Tomoor—
Wavered.
Tomoor felt Az’kerash vanish for a second. The man slowed.
“I—”
His blade wavered. Elegance, poise, left h—
The sword ran him through and cleanly finished the stroke across his shoulder. Tomoor fell.
The cheering adventurers went still. Even the Revenant looked surprised, as if he had not expected the killing blow to land. He hadn’t. He lowered his bloody blade and saw the man’s body fall back.
His genuine pleasure, excitement—turned to bitterness in a moment. All the living emotions twisted by undeath. The Revenant spoke, shaking the blood onto the grass.
“I expected more.”
For a second, it seemed as if he might accept that. Then—the Drake’s head rose. His eyes glowed once more, with malice. Expectation.
“Who is next?”
The adventurers stared at dashed hope. Az’kerash shouted his fury, but it was too late. The Drake turned, setting his blade. Looking for the next sacrifice.
 
—-
 
They found the Putrid One seconds behind the huge doors that Yvlon forced open with Ksmvr’s help. They stepped into the giant chamber beyond, and saw him.
He was not hiding. He stood in the center of the room, as if waiting for them.
The adventurers froze. A crossbow came up; a wand aimed, frost glittering on its tip.
The Putrid One never moved. This was where he had been, all this time.
He was even facing them. Not looking at them, but gazing slightly upwards, caught in the middle of a gesture.
A half-Elf. Ceria had not expected that any more than the others. Her eyes went wide, focusing on his immortal features. The robes around his body. His beautiful, twisted expression.
He stood there, and they realized in the second moment that he was dead. Or if not dead…Yvlon’s eyes locked on the scene.
It all made sense now. In that way where all the pieces fall together. Why this place had existed. Why the undead were so uncoordinated, why some had gone rogue. Not why the power had vanished; they would not understand that. But perhaps it was just time.
The answer was in this scene. The Putrid One’s end. His body was still here, roughly in the middle of the room.
Behind him was his lair. His workshop. The vast room was his fortress, the container of his treasures, from which he could create more minions, protected by so many powerful undead that no army could have taken it by siege without giving him time to flee or destroy them.
A perfect abode. Yet he was dead.
He looked so surprised. Almost annoyed, but gratified. Ceria’s eyes traced the dance of magic and damage that had led them here. Broken floor, melted in places; destroyed rich, half-Elven furniture, each a piece of art, one table severed in two.
A short battle, no less intense; a surprise attack that exceeded all of his expectations. Begun by someone—a team perhaps—that had made it all the way here.
Just like now. Yvlon looked down and saw the fallen Lizardperson on the floor, bones outstretched, a wand aimed—another fallen pile of bones, there. They had turned to bone long ago, not even reanimated. The scene of the last battle preserved. Yet the Necromancer was untouched by time.
So was she.
Then—countless ages ago, the great Necromancer stood there. His hand was outstretched, touching her cheek.
Her cheek. The woman’s cheek had turned pallid. Pale. Streaks of black invaded her flawless skin. Just a single touch, yet it was her death.
The Horns of Hammerad looked at her next. They had not expected to find the Putrid One, but that went double for her.
The woman’s eyes were tensed, but relaxing. The marks of battle, the concentration that had brought her to this point, this final strike—was caught in the midst of evaporating on her face. Countless years of strife, a burden too great to bear, finally ending.
She was older, almost in her middle-years. Her armor was beautiful. Damaged, but beautiful. She had taken wounds getting here, and one last one in the final struggle. No blood showed though; her wounds had healed. She could not heal the last, though. Not that final touch.
The woman was a Dullahan, Yvlon realized. Her body tensed, her armor her body. She was…Yvlon knew it from the aura that hung around her, a radiance even now.
A [Paladin]. A warrior with more than just force of arms. More than a [Knight]. The enemy of the undead, the unrighteous.
They stood there, the [Necromancer] and the [Paladin]. A story so old everyone knew it.
Half-Elf and the Dullahan. Neither one moving.
Had they known each other? Were they faceless to each other until this final moment? Were they the oldest of nemeses? Friends? Lovers?
The truth was lost. All that Ceria knew was what lay before her eyes.
This was how the Putrid One had died:
The sword was buried in his chest, the tip emerging from his back. The killing blow—just as his final spell grazed her face.
“Silver and steel.”
Yvlon whispered. Ksmvr murmured.
“Awe.”
He had no expression for this. The tableau of the battle, the short fight—ended with the two in that pose. The Necromancer, head tilted back, finger outstretched, the grim [Paladin] delivering the final blow.
They stood there, the two. In…stasis. Perhaps some kind of final spell? A triggered effect? Both combatants were frozen. Preserved.
Hair, even particles of dust suspended in perpetual motion. Time removed from time.
How long the Horns of Hammerad just stood there, taking in the moment, Ceria couldn’t have said. A single second? An hour?
Urgency made her raise her head and move. She spoke, through dry lips.
“I’m going to say something obvious—no one get near that. No magic; don’t even say his…nickname. Got it?”
The other adventurers jerked. Pisces looked up and stood; had he been kneeling? Yvlon checked herself. Ksmvr lowered his crossbows and hung them at his side.
“So that’s how he died. She came through…did they come through the roof?”
Pisces looked up, eyes tracing the broken cathedral’s roof, which showed the sky. Ceria shook her head. She wrenched her eyes away from the glorious, terrible sight.
“We have to move. Wake up. Stay away from it.”
The Horns nodded. Shaking themselves, they edged around the room. Ksmvr bent to inspect the bone pile, but a sound made him look up.
“There. Look.”
Pisces was pointing towards the back. They all saw the glow of artifacts beyond. The Horns stirred.
The treasury of the Putrid One. It lay right behind the two. To get there, they would have to go around the battle in the center. Yvlon motioned and Ksmvr advanced. Ceria with Pisces on the other side. They kept along the wall, looking around.
They felt the danger. They tried not to touch anything, looking around. Surely there was a guard here. Or was the magic able to keep everything away? Yvlon felt her hair standing up. Ksmvr saw it, the closer they went to the stasis in the center—and that was as far away towards the walls as they could get.
“Traps. Traps. It’s like last time.”
Ceria was whispering to Pisces. He nodded. They were all remembering their mistake in Albez. He slowed, panting, as he reached the open door beyond. Pisces stared into the vast armory, beyond which a hundred sparkling lights waited. He raised his hand, well away from the entrance and concentrated.
“…I can’t sense…hold on. There’s so much magic…”
“If he was ambushed, maybe it’s not active?”
“Ceria, Pisces. There are scrolls on the altar. Here. See?”
Yvlon was staring at the workbench of the Putrid One. Ksmvr beheld a stone so dark on a pedestal that it stayed in his vision, searing his eyes even after he jerked his head away.
None of the Horns touched any of it. Pisces was biting his lip.
“I don’t sense traps! But I’m not high-enough level to…”
“Toss it in a bag of holding?”
Ceria was shaking. She didn’t—didn’t know what to do! They had to grab something! Yet she knew death-artifacts would turn her entire body to rot or waste her if there was a trap. Or even if they were relic-class. Yvlon gritted her teeth.
“I’ll do it. Just…where’s the Helm of Fire? I’ll grab that first and then—”
Pisces lowered his hand, sweat pouring down his face. He wiped at that with his other hand, but missed the injury on his other hand. Ksmvr’s head turned.
He saw a little trail of blood, running down Pisces’ arm from a wound opened, a scab torn. His mandibles opened.
“Pisces.”
The [Necromancer] looked down with Ceria and Yvlon. Too late, he jerked his hand up.
The little droplet of blood fell from a fingertip. It was just blood.
The drop touched the floor of the cathedral.
A single drop, touching the stone.
The Horns of Hammerad flinched. Yvlon swore.
“Pox-rotted—”
Her voice trailed off. The world did not explode. The Horns looked around. The two figures were frozen. The motes of dust in the air still held. They relaxed. Exhaling.
Ceria looked at the Putrid One and the Dullahan [Paladin], laughing shakily. Then her laughter caught and choked. Pisces followed her gaze.
At first, it looked as if nothing had changed. At first. Everyone was in the same position. But then…the young man noticed it.
The motes of dust were slowly drifting downwards. And—one of the two figures had moved.
It was just one motion. The eyes did not blink. Yet the half-Elf, the Necromancer, had turned his head.
The Putrid One looked at Pisces. The half-Elf’s face had changed. The Horns of Hammerad stood there, petrified. Then—time resumed.
The woman fell, soundlessly. Her armor crashed to the ground as her body fell. The Putrid One staggered back, sword in his chest. He—
He was smiling.
Smiling? He looked at Pisces, and then his eyes closed. He fell, blood pooling under him. He lay on the floor and did not move.
He was dead.
Ceria, Yvlon, Ksmvr and Pisces stood there in horror. They waited—but the Putrid One didn’t get back up. Ceria’s voice was shaking.
“Pisces?”
“It wasn’t me. It wasn’t—”
The Putrid One was dead! It had seemed to them all, surely, as if once the stasis was ended, he would get a second lease on life, another chance, however short.
Yet that never came. The undead [Necromancer]’s body never moved. Pisces repeated the words.
“It wasn’t me.”
It wasn’t him. The Horns had no way of knowing why the Putrid One was dead, though. How he had perished. Yet there they stood, as time resumed, as the echoes of the sound reverberated around the inner sanctum of the Putrid One.
Unheard by the artifacts, mindless insects and harbingers of the power here. There was no one here…
Except for him.
He came through the doors, steps hurrying, frantic. He had gone to check on something. The traitor, if he might be coming here. His one lapse of attention in this entire time—
The Putrid One’s servant returned at a run and found his master lying on the ground. Beyond him—the four adventurers.
“Master?”
Ceria was screaming inside her head. She was looking around, wand raised. Ksmvr was pointing at the treasury, and Pisces, horror-struck, was just staring at the Putrid One. Yvlon had set herself, sword in her hands. She saw the great servant, the guardian of this place burst into the room and stop, seeing his master fallen.
It was…a half-Elf. Younger than the Putrid One. Wearing noble dress-clothes of another era. He might have been around thirty years old in appearance, but that was all.
His hair was golden flax in color, his features beautiful to the point of being effeminate. He was far more attractive than Ceria, her hair tangled, her body grimy and bloodied.
He stopped as he saw the fallen bodies, then threw himself forwards. His voice was high, desperate.
“Master? What have they done to you? These insects? How could they…even touch you?”
He saw the Horns. Yet in another moment he was reaching down, heedless of the blood staining his clothing, feeling for a pulse. It was so…mortal…that Ceria couldn’t believe her eyes.
He was kneeling, clutching at the motionless form. Weeping. Tears fell from his eyes.
None of the adventurers were fooled for a moment.
“Silver and steel. We’re—”
Yvlon never finished it. She had strode over. The half-Elf was weeping as he held the motionless Putrid One. He too detected no life. Ceria stared at her as the [Silversteel Armsmistress] lifted her sword.
“Yvlon.”
Pisces shook himself free. He looked around. Now—his eyes were roaming the room. He looked at the scrolls, staggered over to the altar. Ksmvr was aiming his crossbows, back to the treasury room.
“We have to run. Yvlon—Yvlon—”
Ceria held up a hand. She was just looking at the servant. He could be just a…a mundane servant. A half-Elf, even mortal.
He was not. She knew it.
So did Yvlon. Her sword was raised for a coup de grâce over the motionless half-Elf’s head. Yet every instinct in Yvlon was telling her…not to swing.
The adventurers rushed, grabbing at random objects, one second of desperation—then flight. They dared not spend even another second. They were still too late.
All four had sprinted towards the door when the voice came again. Now—deeper. Now—the grief replaced by a burgeoning wrath.
“You.”
The half-Elf’s head had risen. He turned, laying his master on the floor, gently, folding his arms. The Horns halted at the door.
They should have kept running. But again. Every sense in her body told Ceria she could run and could have run for ten minutes and it would have been too late. So she faced the half-Elf.
She had to see.
“We didn’t do th—”
“Silence.”
The half-Elf was shaking. The two tear tracks running down his face had stopped. Liquid began to flow again.
Blood. His face contorted into a rictus of rage. He was breathing hard, his body shaking.
For all that, he seemed no more imposing than…Ceria. He was bare-handed. He had no magical armaments nor weapons about him. The Horns quailed.
“I do not know how. I do not know why. Yet you insects came here. You ruined his great army. His servants turned—you! And now this. My beloved master. I do not know how. But you will die for this, intruders.”
His voice rose with every sentence. Growing louder. Vaster.
“Run. Everyone just run.”
Yvlon stepped forwards, sword gripped between her hands. Pisces looked around.
“We need help. Please—help us.”
He turned to the sky. Had he gone mad? He was touching his temple. Was he calling for—
Ceria just watched as the half-Elf took a step forwards. He opened his mouth—
