With all relevant interviews, debriefings and reports completed for the “Fel kidnapping” event, Isaac returned to less stressful activities.

Namely, his work on the Riverwall development plan. Work on the road toward the Living Vault had resumed, though it now required a bridge built thanks to David's... aggressive landscaping.

Isaac still had trouble accepting what his brother was capable of, and he had been there.

Now, in his private office, he was reviewing the work that had been done during his absence. The first thing he had done on his return was order audits across all worksites and projects, and the resulting reports were piled high on his desk.

He'd gotten several complaints from the foremen about the work disruptions his audits had caused, but that was a small price to pay to maintain proper efficiency.

Had he been more vindictive, he would have found it quite interesting that the loudest complainers were also the ones with the most audit infractions.

He had instead limited himself to silently and publicly posting the audit results. No speeches, notes, or comments; only the results, for everyone to see.

He smiled as he thought back on how the complaints had disappeared faster than fog during a tempest.

And to think that, only a season prior, he would have gathered everyone in a productivity meeting, given a speech about the importance of following the procedures.

But such methods mainly catered to your own desires and concerns. The proper ways were much more oblique and subtle. If he'd learned anything from his collaboration with Angeline, it had been that.

His smile soured.

Angeline... she was still limiting her interactions with him to a minimum. No more toying, teasing, or manipulating. She listened to him, gave her opinion, and went on to keep everyone in line, as before.

The worst was that he didn't know what he had done to anger her so.

He frowned; even as he thought them, those words sounded false.

No, the very worst was that he was missing her toying.

He froze.

Where had that come from? It was obviously false, as well. He made to brush the thought away, but found that he couldn't. It was stuck fast and refused to budge.

He mentally wrangled with it for a few moments, enough to have a bead of sweat roll down his temple.

His eyes widened.

By the living saints.

He was missing Angeline pulling his strings. The puppet, free at last, was missing its puppeteer.

What had that woman done to him?!

The door to his office clicked open. His head snapped up.

She walked in. He stared.

She stopped after two steps.

Their gazes locked. Nothing moved.

She was the first to push words through the spell. “...Lord Isaac. Working late again, I see.” She said with a polite smile.

Isaac didn't answer right away. Where is your comment on my dedication despite being a noble? To bait me into your net? “I am. Reports piled up. The work does not stop simply because I am away.”

“I see... well, I'm afraid I have to add to your burden.” She said, holding up the stack of papers in her hand. “The weekly reports about the workforce's health and morale. Pain points, deficiencies, complaints, along with suggested solutions and actions. As usual.” She explained.

Busy talk. She knows I know. She's grasping for words. Why? “Ah, well, thank you, Angeline. Please put them on my desk. I will review them, but assume I agree with all of your recommended actions. They are usually the correct ones, after all.”

A flash of something flew over her face. A potent mix of several emotions that he couldn't untangle. Her smile deepened by a fraction, and she took the remaining steps to his desk, depositing the papers on an empty part of it.

She stood there, clasped her hands in front of her, looked at the documents on the desk for a moment before raising her head and meeting his gaze. “Well, there you have it. Please do not work too late, Lord Isaac. Your health is just as important as the work being done.”

She bowed and turned around.

Why are you not toying with me? Am I boring now? Used up? “Angeline.” He said, the word bouncing around the room.

She stopped, but did not turn around, and waited.

I don't know what I want to say. I just know I want to say something. “Have I... offended you, in some way?”

She turned her head, face hidden by her hair, to speak over her shoulder. “Whatever do you mean, Lord Isaac? I have been nothing but respectful, no?”

You were never just respectful. You always manoeuvre for more. “That's why I am asking. You were the most impertinently respectful person I had ever met. What has changed?”

“...Lord Isaac, are you saying you enjoyed my treatment of you?”

Oh, he could feel the corner of her mouth quirking up.

It sparked something in his heart. Something terrible, and scary, and dangerous. Something he wanted to see explode so, so desperately.

“I... did. I still would. This is... not you. You are not a dedicated aide or an underling. You are a monster that wears an exquisite skin. A director of men and women, pulling at the strands you have us grab onto, orchestrating our lives, using our actions to paint the masterpiece that only you can see.”

A shiver ran down his spine as he spoke. He saw something similar go down her neck.

Her words were light, unfettered. “Lord Isaac. If I didn't know better, I would almost think that you truly enjoy the woman that you so terribly describe.”

That's because I do. Despite my screaming instincts, I bleeding do. “Angeline. You are... dangerous. By the time I understood how much, it was too late. You could have used me for your own benefit. Sucked every single advantage out of me, and by extension, my family, to elevate your status.”

He stepped around his desk, his boots clacking on the hardwood floor, stopping a few paces away from her back.

He took a breath in and out. “But you didn't. I believe I have begun to understand the reach of your abilities, how you use them to control people. Yet, you only ever use exactly as much as you need. And only, ever, for the benefits of others. Your sister, especially, but everyone benefits from your guidance, even if they don't realize it.”

He took another step.

“You could do so much more. Terrible things. Grand things. You do not. I did not understand why. I was always waiting for the scheme to reveal itself. It never came. You, Angeline, wield a devil's tongue, but it is wielded by an angel's heart.”

The silence stretched. Her voice carried a tremor. “I might still reveal my scheme, Lord Isaac. Maybe I am still biding my time.”

He lifted a hand, letting it land on her shoulder. He felt her tense up under his touch for an instant. Slowly, he circled around, coming to stand in front of her. She kept her head turned to the side, but he could see a tear pooling at the corner of her eye.

Ever so gently, he grasped her chin with his hand and turned her head toward him. Her bright amethyst eyes were glistening. Her usual composed expression was cracking at the edges.

He let go of her chin, putting that hand to her other shoulder.

I wish I were a few inches taller. I should be the one looking down at her face...

“If there is a scheme yet to be revealed, then I know it will be for the good of all, and I would wish to be there, at your side, to see it unfold.”

A trembling smile formed on her lips. “My Lord Isaac, that almost sounded like a declaration. You ought to be careful.”

“Angeline... It was a declaration. If you will let me, I want to be by your side. The world deserves your influence, and I want to help you spread it.” He continued, more of a whisper now. “And, if at all possible, I would have you call me simply Isaac, as my equal.”

It was all that she could do to keep her shivering lips together.

He stared at her, then let out a breath through his nose, his voice back to its normal tone. “Now, that being said, are you done enticing me to declare my love for you? Or do I need to say it explicitly?”

Her expression stilled. Slowly, her lips curved into a timid smile, and her eyes twinkled. For an instant, he saw the Angeline he knew; the one who pulled at strings like a harpist playing a grand melody. He blinked, and the illusion was gone. In its place, a woman who was every bit the monster that he knew, but who was also alone.

A proud, intelligent woman who refused to be anything other than her full self, even if it isolated her, the people staying back with apprehension in their eyes.

She was there, before him, revealed, and waiting. Her voice had none of the usual certainty, though her smile attempted to be. “My dear Isaac, are you truly starting to figure me out?”

He stood silent for a beat, taking in a breath, and letting it out. “Did you really think I would believe, for one second, that you would display your inner fears overtly without it being a ploy to get something out of me?”

Her smile flattened as she blinked. “My... inner fears?”

He nodded. “Yes, your inner fears. You told me, back on the ship, that truth can be used to manipulate as well as lies, if not more so.”

She stared at him, mouth slightly agape. Her eyes softened, and a smile returned to her face. This one, however, was soft, genuine.

She wished he were a few inches taller, so she could rest her head on his chest.

Instead, she leaned forward and laid it on his shoulder, speaking softly into his ear. “It looks like you really are starting to figure me out, if you could see through that...”

He craned his neck so he could look at her, with an incredulous look on his face. “Wait, I was right?”

She frowned and straightened back up, his head turning to follow her face as she did. “What do you mean? Don't tell me you were... guessing?”

“Of course I was! Do you think you're actually fathomable? By the saints, woman! You're the most incomprehensible eldritch horror that has ever inhabited a human skin!” He exclaimed, hands still on her shoulders.

It was the vexed glare he shot her. She couldn't help it. She burst out laughing.

Folding forward, her guffaws came from deep within her belly. Along with them, they brought up something. Something warm that pooled in her chest.

He stayed there, gripping her shoulders as she let it all out. Eventually, she got herself back under control and wiped the tears out of her eyes.

She beamed at him, gazing deep into his eyes. His glare was broken by a smile as he stared back. He didn't know if this was her still controlling him or if he really had developed feelings for her.

Truth be told, he didn't really care. He was enjoying this, and she clearly was, as well. His hands pulled at her shoulders, toward him. She didn't resist, resting her palms on his chest.

She leaned forward.

Their lips touched.

Two hearts flared up and ignited.

Eventually, eyes fluttering, she pulled her head back, though she didn't step away.

Her words were as soft as the wind. “For the record, I would like to hear you say it properly.”

He stared, his eyes shifting to the side and back to her. “I... It's a bit awkward, just like that.”

She tilted her head. “Oh? My dear Isaac will kiss a monster, but is scared of a few words?”

He grimaced. “Urgh, fine. Angeline, I love you.”

Her face lit up. She pressed her forehead against his. “And I love you too, Isaac.”

He let out a breath, though a smile was on his face. “Could I ask why all the theatre? I don't believe for an instant that you didn't know I was caught in your web already. You only had to say a few words.”

“My dear Isaac, what's the fun in telling you my secrets? Why don't you try and guess this time, as well?”

“...Because the man is supposed to declare his love, and the woman then swoons?” He guessed

She chuckled. “We all have our little roles. Even I enjoy being part of a heart-warming play.” Her eyes twinkled. “Especially one that will end in marriage.”

He recoiled his head away from her. “Marriage?! We've just had our first kiss!”

She smiled. “And it was a very good kiss. But...” She tilted her head, uncertainty marring her eyes. “Are you saying this is only a tryst?”

He frowned. “What? No, of course not. I would not- Angeline, there are steps to these things! A proper length of time spent courting, then as betrothed, and then marriage!”

She flitted a hand in dismissal. “We've done the courting already, almost half a year of it. We can be betrothed, starting today, for a small season or two. That would cover the barest necessity, no?”

It was posed as a question, but it wasn't one.

He sighed. Then he smiled; something was definitely wrong with him; he was enjoying this. He was enjoying it because she was being honest with him, in her own way. She didn't want to wait; she wanted him by her side.

Whether it was to conquer the world or to conquer his life, he didn't know yet, but he'd be there to witness it.

Their gaze met once more. They shared their second kiss.