Sarah grew up in a pretty standard household.

If she had to name anything unusual about her life, it would be her sickeningly affectionate parents. Even after years of marriage, they still made kissy faces at each other in the mornings. It had made her cringe when she was younger.

She learned to appreciate that sort of thing as she grew older though.

Her own social life throughout school had always been easy. Say the right things at the right time. Laugh just before the silence stretched too long, and shift the topic when the air grew heavy.

Friends? She had dozens by her first year in junior high, and she had never tried for them. People were easy to get along with when you knew how to smooth things over.

It worked.

That was the problem.

One evening, over dinner with her parents, her mom asked her a simple question.

Which of them would she consider her closest friend?

For once, she couldn’t answer easily, and the realization made her oddly self-conscious.

After that, her dad pulled her aside, exchanging a knowing look with her mom. The kind parents gave when they already knew the answer to life’s problems.

“What is it, Dad? I’m busy,” she muttered petulantly.

He raised a brow. “Busy, huh? Didn’t know homework was giving you that much trouble.”

Sarah winced. They both knew she never had problems with her grades. Her schoolwork was usually done within an hour of getting home.

Dad didn’t press, he was cool like that. “It’s hard making a friend, huh?” he said instead.

She stared at him blankly. “Dad, you know I never have trouble with that sort of thing.”

He let out a light chuckle. “And you know I wasn’t talking about that.”

Sarah sighed and simply looked out the window of their suburban home. Their neighbors were arguing again, she realized, watching the couple next door walk toward their car.

“Ugh, he’s going to try to get me to go out for a drink again.” Dad groaned in mock despair. He had followed her gaze and caught it too.

“Yeah. You gonna turn him down like usual, Dad?”

“Nice try, kiddo,” he replied easily.

“Ugh, what do you want me to say anyway?”

“Nothing, actually.”

Sarah gave her dad an incredulous look. He simply leaned against the wall beside the window, his gaze drifting out toward the ordinary streets of their suburban neighborhood

She sighed again, then moved to take a seat. They were going to talk anyway, might as well get comfortable.

For a time, they simply looked outside, and the silence settled easily between them. Despite her initial reluctance, she enjoyed moments like this with her parents.

“It’s boring, isn’t it?”

Her eyes flickered to her dad, then back out again. “Yeah. Kinda.” A rare solemn tone crept into her voice.

“I had the same problem once. When I was your age,” he replied lightly.

“Does it get better?” Sarah asked. She wasn’t sure if she wanted to know the answer.

“Maybe. Depends on your luck, I guess,” he answered easily, his eyes drifting toward the kitchen for half a beat.

She let out a soft groan. “Guess I shouldn’t complain that much. There are worse problems in life,” she mumbled.

“Well, luck’s overrated anyway. If you think it’s too easy, make it a little more difficult yourself, then.” He looked over to meet her eyes.

“Ehhh...that’s a little...” she trailed off, prompting her dad to bark out a laugh. He reached over and lightly flicked her forehead, drawing an indignant squawk from her.

“Come on, your mother’s been wanting to watch that series again,” he said as he pushed off the wall and stretched.

“Ugh, isn’t that the second time this month? Can’t I pass?”

“Nope. If I have to suffer through it, you do too. Besides, I thought you girls loved that kind of show,” he shot back as he turned toward the living room.

“Yeah, the first time. Not the hundredth,” Sarah replied, following him anyway.

It hadn’t been much of a talk, but she found her steps lighter.

Her dad was cool like that.

They never had to say things directly.

She probably got that from him.

Sarah didn’t think too hard about her career choice when the time came. There were many, far easier options she could've gone with. Instead, she decided to try something a little more difficult and new.

And so, she chose to be a programmer. Her dad laughed when she told him but didn’t say much after that. Mom just shook her head ruefully though she did remind her not to cause issues at work, like she was a little kid again.

The company she picked after graduating was a pretty average one. The others were too high-strung for her taste. It’s not like she cared all that much about the salary just as long as it was enough to pay the bills.

As for the workplace itself, the people there were pretty blunt compared to what she was used to. Their interests were different too, though she had expected that much.

Despite those differences, she got used to the environment at work pretty quickly too and while her own skillset was somewhat lacking, she could keep up if she tried harder and spent a little more time at it.

Sarah assumed it would become like any other place, given enough time. The only thing unusual about her office was the constant gossips about a certain colleague.

She had thought it was just someone socially awkward and despite their age, people didn’t really change much when it came to things like this, even after school.

Sarah was having lunch with a group when gossips about him came up again.

"He really doesn't speak much huh? I asked him out for lunch with us but he just shook his head." someone said, a slight snark in her tone.

One of the guys, sitting at her side let out a sigh tinged with envy. "That guy's pretty good at his work though. He fixed up a bug I had been struggling with before I even came back with coffee for him."

"Ah, yeah. That's pretty much the only thing anyone knows about him in the office, I swear, that guy loves that drink a little too much." the snarky woman muttered, shuddering.

"...You know the reason why." Another woman cut in, something like morbid wonder in her tone.

"Ugh, don't remind me. Who the hell doesn't have social media in this day and age?"

Sarah couldn't help but cut in. "Wait, he doesn't have social media? At all?"

"Heh, Sarah. He's someone we like to call the office miracle worker." The guy sitting at her side said, a hint of schadenfreude in his tone.

"Maybe he frequents a forum or something? Youtube comments? Some people go for that sorta thing." Sarah asked, a little more curious now.

"If he does, then he must be using some weird ghost account method because I am one of those people." The snarky woman pointed out.

"...So he doesn't have an online presence? Not even a little?" Sarah pressed, a crease in her brow.

"He doesn't have any presence at all. Real life or online. That guy just doesn't talk to people." The guy beside her replied.

"...It's not even like he can't do it. I had to work with him a few times and we were talking just fine, that's the strangest thing about it." The woman who had the morbid tone sighed, "It's like he actively chooses not to engage in anything social with others."

...Now that was strange. Most people like that had reasons, like being too shy or awkward. She hadn't encountered anyone that simply chose not to do so.

And really? No social media at their age? That's a weirdo right there in her books! Sarah inwardly chuckled to herself.

Their lunch was pretty much spent gossiping about their company's miracle worker. Before long, the conversation drifted as it usually did, moving from one topic to another before settling into nothing in particular.

By the time Sarah returned to her desk, the earlier curiosity had already begun to fade into the background. She reluctantly resumed her work, once again going through the usual routine stuff. Nothing that was particularly difficult, just the kind of things that needed to be done on a daily basis.

Or at least, that was how it should have gone.

A small prompt blinked on her screen.

Sarah let out an exasperated sigh, leaning in to read through it again. It didn't seem like a complicated problem, just a minor bug buried within a larger function. It was the sort of thing that could've been resolved with a few adjustments.

"Hmm..." Her fingers moved across the keyboard, testing one approach, then another. She scoffed inwardly, wondering whose idea it had been to choose a line of work where the flow of things wasn't as clear to her compared to other stuff.

Yep, nice going, past me.

The prompt blinked once more, her eyes narrowing slightly as she leaned forward from her desk. Surely the solution couldn't be that difficult, it was just a little off.

“Okay…” she muttered under her breath, fingers moving again.

Sarah made a few more adjustments, clicking the execute button a little harder than she needed to.

And as if the code she'd been trying to fix was mocking her, the test ran fine for a brief moment. Then the error came back again, this time with something extra tagging along with it.

She blinked. "...Huh."

What should have been a simple bug no longer looked simple anymore. And for the first time since she had joined, the solution didn't come as easily.

She stared at the screen for a breath longer. "...Okay. That's new."

The error hadn't gone away despite Sarah’s repeated attempts. Each one felt close enough to work, just a little off in a way she couldn't quite pin down.

She leaned back in her chair, exhaling through her nose as her gaze lingered on the screen. The logic was right there, dangling in front of her yet remaining just far enough out of reach.

'Might as well ask', she inwardly sighed.

It’s not like it was anything complicated. Someone would probably spot it at a glance.

Sarah made her way over to the nearest desk, leaning slightly against the edge as she gestured vaguely toward her screen. "Hey, can I get a second opinion on something?"

The guy from lunch glanced up briefly, then back at his monitor. “Hmm? What is it?”

“Just a small bug,” she said easily. “It’s probably something obvious.”

“Ah.” His response came a beat slower this time. “I’m in the middle of something right now. Maybe check the documentation first?”

“Mm, I did,” she replied lightly. “Didn’t quite match what I was seeing.”

“Then...maybe try running it through again?” he offered, already turning his attention back to his work.

“…Right.”

Sarah straightened, stepping away as she moved toward another desk instead.

“Hey-”

“Oh, uh...” The snarky woman from lunch hesitated, her eyes flicking briefly toward Sarah’s screen before shifting away. “I’ve got something due soon. Maybe later?”

“Sure,” Sarah replied easily as she stepped back.

It was only after she sat down that something felt...slightly off. Their exchanges didn't seem wrong or anything but...the way it had flowed didn't seem like the usual thing.

She rested her chin lightly against her hand, her gaze drifting across the office. Nothing stood out to her, the mood around the office was just like any other day.

And yet—

A small pause, just a fraction too long, when she had approached. And the responses that came just a beat later than it should have.

She had seen this before.

Many times.

Her fingers tapped lightly against the desk.

…Ah.

The realization came quickly, a stark contrast to the error in front of her.

Sarah leaned back in her chair, her gaze returning to the monitor. She exhaled softly through her nose.

That was new too.

It was pretty much the same thing for the rest of the day. If anything, the distance became easier to notice once she had seen it.

Conversations that would have included her before now curved around her instead. Small discussions ended just as she drew near whenever she went to take a breather. Even the casual back-and-forth that filled the space felt...slightly out of reach.

Sarah didn’t comment on it, she knew this was the sorta thing that was normal. People reacted to mistakes made by others in much the same way.

Her gaze drifted back to the prompt on her screen, earning another tired breath from her. Seems like today was gonna be a long day, she rolled her shoulders once before leaning forward again.

If no one was going to point it out, then she would just have to work through it herself. It wasn’t the first time she had needed to spend a little longer on something.

This time around, it would just be longer than usual.

The office gradually thinned as the day wore on, the earlier noise settling into a quieter rhythm. A few people left, others remained, the soft hum of work continuing without much change.

At some point, Sarah pushed herself back from her desk, stretching lightly as she stepped away to go to the restroom.

As she made her way back to her cubicle, she paused. Her gaze fixed on the screen that now showed...nothing. That persistent prompt that had been plaguing her all day was no longer there.

Sarah sat down, leaning forward to examine the structure of the code. The changes had been minimal, just a few lines adjusted here and there. One of the conditions rewritten in a clean way that had minimal overhead.

Sarah blinked once.

“...Huh.”

Her eyes scanned through it again, slower this time.

This wasn’t someone brute-forcing a workaround. It was properly fixed and it was definitely not by her hands.

Sarah’s gaze lifted from the screen, drifting across the office. Like before, no one met her eyes or said anything. The earlier distance remained as if nothing had happened at all.

Her fingers tapped lightly against the edge of her desk. Someone had clearly stepped in and yet they hadn't said anything to anyone. Not a single word or call for validation that they had solved it.

She looked around the office once more, giving it a more thorough look before she stilled.

At the far end of the office, someone sat alone.

His head was lowered, focus fixed on the monitor before him. A cup with coffee stains rested near his hand, long forgotten as its contents had clearly gone cold.

The rhythm of his keystrokes was subtly different from the others, it was only because she was paying attention that she could even hear it.

He didn’t acknowledge anything around him.

Yet when the woman with the morbid tone approached to ask a question, he immediately turned to face her. They spoke only briefly but his attention remained fixed on the woman he was speaking with. He didn't turn toward his screen during their brief exchange, only doing so when it was done.

She had seen that before.

Just not from them.

Sarah watched him for a moment longer. She already knew who it was that had fixed it. There was literally no one else that it could be.

