I pull my hand out of the darkness right through the path it entered, and tight within my grasp is the orange beating heart.

It's hot to the touch, and the skin on my hand and arms is continuously being melted off and regenerated with my skills.

My mana stores are draining a dense supply from the creature's main power source, and my HP is being brought up to full over and over again as well.

Red Aura from my Hydra's buff is constantly flowing down my arm to refill the areas that are being burned away, and portions of the Wraith's black swirling energy body swirl toward the heart in my grip. Piles of its shattered bones gravitate toward me, but I don't hesitate to activate more of my skills.

Black flames cover the heart while spears of pink mana, stone, and ice are all forced through it as I air-step upward and hold the glowing mass to the sky.

In the same instant, I activate one of my oldest skills, Equivalent Exchange. The ability allows me to sacrifice as much of my own HP as I want in order to do the equivalent amount of damage on an opponent.

It only works when I can maintain contact with the target until the skill activates. This is the perfect moment to do so.

I input over half of my HP as collateral, and a blinding white light forms in my palm. My full body pulses, and I feel my health disappear instantaneously. However, with my lifesteal skill still activated, more HP soon returns.

After this barrage of attacks, the orange heart still glows... but once the casing of mana flames and elemental spears all fall from the punctured and battered heart, the bright orange light begins to dim.

Its bones and dark body attempt to follow me upward even further as I near the top of the dome, but its movements slow and the bright light flickers like a candle at the end of its wick.

I grasp it tighter, using a reinforced layer of legendary grade hydra infused body hardening in my grip, and finally, the heart bursts into pieces, and the light goes out.

[Level Up]

[Level Up]

[Level Up]

[Level Up]

[Level Up]

[Level Up]

[Level Up]

[Level Up]

[Level Up]

[Level Up]

[Level Up]

[1/13 Wraiths Defeated]

The outer flesh-like layer of the heart begins to dissolve into thin air the instant I hear all of the level-up notifications going off in my inner ear, bringing me to level 644. With it, the remaining orange soul energy leaves with it, drifting higher into the air and leaving my grasp. However, I still feel something round and extremely hard left in my hand.

I release my soul-crushing grip and my appraisal skill scans the clear marble-sized stone left in my hand.

[Wraith's Essence Stone][+155% Mental Strength][Hidden Passive Ability]

Inside the tiny clear orb, there's swirling black energy, similar to the mass that surrounded its energy attacks as well as the manifestation of its black cloak-like body.

My eyes dart downward to see the aftermath for myself.

Its white bones are left shattered in pieces on the arena floor, now being consumed by my residue of black flames. The body it once had dissolved away into the flames as well the moment its soul energy was dispersed.

I begin to smile, and accept my victory, but I'm stopped before the corner of my lip can turn up any further.

Deep in the back of the flaming arena floor, 4 blips of white light appear.

The extremely tall royal guard's voice resonates through my mind before I can even make eye contact with it.

"It seems you're weaker than we thought. You are not a threat, but I thank you for the show."

A notification pops up on my wristband, alerting me that my new platinum balance is just over 326.

The main guard disappears in a flash of white light, and one of the others speaks again continuing in its place while the two by its sides retrieve all of the leftover bone fragments of the Wraith.

"You're authorized to challenge stages beyond the 7th now if you desire. Just know, that was the weakest of the 13 Dark Guards. The Dark One is always watching."

This guard disappears too, and the other two that recover the ashy remains of the wraith disappear soon after. I don't even get a chance to respond. I'm still grasping the Wraith's Essence stone, floating high above the black flames in the stadium below.

Once I finally fall to the ground, I place the item drop under the ripped and burned rags that remain in the front of my Salamander's Cloak. It's beyond repair, but a fine cover for me to use to place the clear marble into my storage with no prying eyes.

I take a deep breath and put out the flames around me, finally deactivating most of my perception and stat-boosting skills. I keep my Red Hydra's Buff activated, as I have no idea what will happen to me if I shut it off right now. I'd like Abby by my side before I try.

The overwhelming roar of the crowd finally comes back to my senses, and my adrenaline spike ceases, letting reality flow back in at a normal rate and the excited announcer's voice echo through the entire arena.

"What a show! Our first challenger to ever face the 8th Stage! And he won! Let's hear it for the Flame Emperor, everybody! What an epic battle we just saw!"

Recaps and slow-mos are shown on a big screen while the announcer continues.

"Would you like to go on to the next-"

Before he can finish his offer, I put a big thumbs down in the air, and put my sword on my waist. Crossing my arms and shaking my head consolidates the point.

He laughs over the loudspeaker.

"Very well, have an excellent night. Until next time. Let's all make some noise one last time for The Flame Emperor!"

I feel the teleport magic kick in again, and the announcer keeps hyping up the recaps to the crowd as they continue to shake the arena with noise louder than any gathering I've ever witnessed.

The intensity of my aura that radiates from my body once I come back to the training room below the ring is powerful enough to instantly knock out every single non-ranked-up hunter down here.

Over a dozen people hit the floor at once, and even Max and Sia lean against the wall holding their heads. Ace manages to stay upright while Maria, Abby, and Monk stare straight ahead with serious looks on their faces.

A blinding green flash of light fills my vision, as the massive summoned rune of Abby's restore skill stretches toward me.

She walks closer at a quick rate, but even from a distance the skill is already taking effect.

I feel the warm energy seep into my body. Simultaneously, I take a deep breath in and out before deactivating my buff.

My body instantly wants to fall limp with fatigue. Every bone feels as if it's been shattered to dust and my muscles feel like they've turned to hot jelly. In the same instant, Abby's warm rejuvenating energy courses through my veins and keeps me standing upright.

Only a few seconds go by as I stand in place, but the mental battle feels like it goes on much longer. Both extreme pleasure from being healed and pain from the Hydra's aftermath clash at once making my mind want to go blank.

Staring forward, the white room blurs more and more, begging to go dark. However, I hold on tight to my consciousness and endure it.
