“What?” Jessica squeaked.

He didn’t answer, for he had a new victim to bully back Outside…

***

“Missed?” The Stranger’s voice was thick with disbelief. “Impossible. Cannot be possible. I struck you… I tore away everything of my flesh-existence around you.”

“Oh, so that’s what the messed-up vitality mana was.” Shiv grimaced. “Literally ripping chunks out of yourself to get rid of me. I can almost respect tha—”

The Stranger proved himself a terrible conversationalist by attacking before Shiv finished with his reply. This time, the Supplicant didn’t channel a beam of withering time magic or vitality, nor did it send forth a string of offensive spells. Instead, the damned monster vanished in a flash of Chronomancy, leaving but cascading riptides of golden mana in its wake, distorting the surface of reality, and leaving Shiv utterly unable to guess where or when the Supplicant would emerge.

***

“Ah, shit.” Shiv sighed. “It just jumped across time.”

Jessica scoffed. “Felling time magic.”

“Deathless: You must cast yourself into the future as well,” Tulveg suddenly interjected. “It is lurking across time, planning to strike at you when you least expect it.”

“That’s what it’s doing?” Shiv asked.

“If I am reading the temporal distortions it left behind correctly, yes.” Tulveg frowned. “It is admittedly difficult. A creature of that size and with a mana field that deviant might not follow the same lore exactly, but it casts from a lore nonetheless. There is a single constant in a battle between chronomancers: to face an enemy who can swim across time, you must dive and match their pace.”

“Okay,” Shiv breathed. “I—”

Then, without any warning, one of his bodies died.

***

Shiv’s stealth-focused form was ripped asunder by a vortex of temporal entropy. His skin was pinned to the present, his bones were charged with a magnetism that drew him toward his past, while his muscles and organs were struck so hard they were dragged into the future alongside the Supplicant. There was no resisting the attack with Toughness—no forewarning of the strike.

One moment, his body was trying to sink deeper into the garden, flooding the world with Creeping Void, the next it was gone: scattered across eternity.

Shiv hadn’t invested many Shapeless Tides in his expendable forms because this was to be an exercise in focused skill-leveling and creativity rather than a brawl, but something told him even if he'd had years to amass strength and Magical Resistance, it wouldn’t have changed his fate.

The Creeping Void 179 > 185

Inertial Overdrive 355 > 364

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides 549 > 553

Shape of Monstrosity 182

Atlas of the Flesh Scrierer 140 > 156

Not great, but I got some levels from that, Shiv thought to himself. Alright, time to dive into the time-streams and go hunting for the giant fish trying to eat me.

His Harbinger flared into existence around his sole remaining body in the Stranger’s Garden. Another great thing about the skill was how it could casually jump between all his bodies since it was a mobile mana field, thus removing the need for an animated skill infusion; the only drawback was how he only had a single Harbinger and ten bodies. He splashed into the future as his bound mana field accelerated, turning the present still.

The moment the world halted, Shiv saw it—less than a thousand meters away.

Again, the Supplicant’s terrifying speed took him by complete surprise, and its massive shape came blasting toward him like a warhammer about to splatter a bug. But in that final of moments, Shiv’s body reacted of its own accord, and he didn’t dive Backstage.

Rather, he drew something from the Backstage into the forefront of reality.

The Supplicant came.

Shiv ruptured his own flesh, and from his open wound sprouted a Garden within a Garden. But what came first, before any of the ruins or wounds, was that which the Unique Skill had bound itself to—the grafted hand of a God of Strife.

Where the Supplicant retroactively annihilated Shiv’s other body with a brush, its fingers tried to do the same again—but struck hard against the Red Rider’s Hand. The world went dark. Each of the Supplicant's digits was enough to leave cities drowned in perpetual night.

Shiv should have been wiped from existence like a stain.

But somehow, some way, the titanic Supplicant crashed against an extended fist that was less than a grain of dust by comparison—and it was the titan that stopped dead.

The Red Rider’s Hand, meanwhile, grew brighter, louder, and more animated than ever before.

The Red Rider’s Hand has received sufficient Devotion.

The Red Rider’s Hand has been awakened.
