In the end, Shiv guessed the beam to be four kilometers wide and perhaps sixty long. It was comprised of an outer layer of Chronomancy so dense it made even the Harbinger look like a raindrop, but at its core was a simmering violation of vitality. A twisted essence that sought to devastate and erode, a sort of anti-structure made manifest. As all that matter was converted into magic with Shiv, he realized there were black spots clinging to the corroded vitality he drank, and they fell away from him like absences gnawing upon existence, given unto the hollow nothing that served as the backdrop to the Backstage. The absences merged and vanished into the canvas of black. Shiv found himself reminded of Udraal’s foreign entropy magic, for these manifestations felt one and the same.

A long breath slipped out from Shiv as a surge of tension left him. “Alright, really glad I dodged that.” He looked to his left and regarded the other body hidden in the Stranger's garden with him. One was shrouded in a dense nest of darkness, using its Creeping Void as it moved alongside the receding branches. To his right, so far away it could barely be seen, were his other vessels, with his Severed Shadow glowing bright like a red star blazing with life force—for Shiv, his Revenant was the core of his being and the source of all his vitality.

Back over in the Stranger's garden, the Supplicant suddenly froze. No longer was it moving astonishingly fast, ripping through space like a meteor on the path of a fated collision. It couldn't remember Shiv. No one could remember Shiv, and he delighted in the Eldritch God's confusion for a few more seconds.

A peal of delighted laughter rang out behind him. “Never gets old, does it?” The girl sighed and pretended to wipe a tear away from the corner of her eye. “Watching the poor bastards try to figure out what they were doing. Doesn't matter if you're dealing with an Adept or a Legend, a mortal or a god. A quick visit Backstage leaves them trying to sort their head from their ass.” As Shiv’s Severed Shadow grew even brighter, she let out a wince and shielded herself from the flare. “Shit, Shiv, that might be the most mana you’ve ever brought Backstage. You might be able to stay here for weeks after that. Entire place feels like it’s warming up.”

Her words were accompanied by a similar sensation, but Shiv would use something stronger than "warming up". It was like he was within a cauldron and a flame had been set below. This place was boiling, and the power of a god was quite the thing to steal away.

“Good thing the Stranger's mind is all messed up,” Shiv commented. “The way it attacks is more vulgar than Longinus.”

“Because why did it need to do anything else? Finesse is when someone doesn't have enough raw power. With how the Stranger was more of a metaphysical phenomenon than an actual entity for all that time, it's not a surprise it didn't really develop any techniques, is it?” The girl folded her arms. “Which makes it weird that you're using this thing as a sparring partner instead of one of the Legends. My father is a man of unparalleled skill, not immeasurable power, right?”

Shiv hummed in acknowledgment. “Yeah, but there’s no way I'll be able to match Roland in terms of direct combat experience and mastery, according to Valor and Jessica. Not even if I was given decades to train.” Despite seeing logic in their declarations, Shiv doubted it emotionally. He wanted to surprise them. He wanted to defy their expectations. He wanted to defy Roland, not because of spite, but more because he simply wanted to grow. It was a part of who he was now; his gluttony for development was not going to be satisfied by the dull mono-flavor of power alone.

“There is one way the Supplicant is like Roland; I can't make a mistake with either of them. They both possess pretty weird skills that I don't have an easy counter to, so I need to figure out how to adapt on the fly, and develop more strategies of my own.” Shiv looked over his shoulder and saw the Red Rider’s Hand raised up in defiance, tight with anticipation of what was to come. “I can't rely on Continuity Error alone. Roland's got a bunch of skills he can fuse and evolve any time he wants. That gives him options, so I need options myself.”

The girl blew out a weary breath on his behalf. “Alright, then, Bruiser, get out there and start making that happen.”

Shiv saluted her, and took a final moment to gather himself. His Last Morsel was in hand, and the cooked flame within was ready for consumption. Probably won’t let me burn through the Supplicant or melt through its mana before I get destroyed, but between that and my armor, I might be able to perform some of that “rapid-repositioning stuff” the Culturist told me about earlier. Well. Time to give this strategy a shot.

Diving through the membrane of vitality that served as the border between the Backstage and Integration, all of Shiv's vessels reappeared where they once were. His other physical body inside the Stranger's Garden was out of position, leaving a dark spot amidst the hollow space now abandoned by branches. He tried to accelerate his stealth-focused body back into the foliage, but found a sea of red crescent eyes widening in surprise as the Stranger detected both of his forms.

“What… what is this… How did you… My will… I willed you to cease. I tried to banish your form and rend you from my memory… My memory. You’ve broken my memory. You’ve broken it…” Though the Eldritch God's voice was rich with malice, there was a hint of discomfort in the undertone. The Stranger was unnerved by what Shiv had done. To the Stranger, the past and the present were no different. The future was something to be consumed. If someone could wrench themselves away from the world and defy his understanding of the timeline and of existence itself, then he was facing something even more aberrant than its own nature.

A tendril of fear, thinner than a hair and twice as fragile, connected to Shiv. It was barely there, almost non-existent, and certainly unreliable as a chain to pull on, but it existed, and it fueled Shiv with terror derived from a shaken god.

“Yeah, so, you missed,” Shiv lied, gaslighting the Stranger just because. “It happens to all of us. Well. Most of us. I gotta say, the longer I have to suffer you, the more of a disappointment you turn out to be. I expected terror and incomprehensibility, but you barely understand what you’re turning into yourself, huh? All that consciousness is miserable for you to suffer through. Intelligence is a pain, and thoughts suck to process.”

At some point, his words went from taunting mockery to calculated truths. He could see a swirling typhoon of translucent mana twisting over the Supplicant's head and disturbing the vast limbs that formed the Stranger’s inner dimension. At the same time, the pitch-black emotional flames that roiled and slithered through the space grew ever more intense as fine cracks began to spread, as the budding rage of the Outsider god hatched as its temperamental volatility was distilled into enkindled flames.

“The inevitable alchemy of a feeble heart always twists toward betrayal,” the Harbinger whispered.

“Enough!” the Stranger whimpered, sounding caught between a sob and a shout. “No more! Do not exist anymore! I forget you, abomination! I… The world must forget you!”

And those words granted Shiv a spark of insight into the Stranger: He wasn’t just broken because he was infected with self-awareness; he saw himself as the world, and now there were things happening within his past-present memory, dancing before his eyes and in his garden beyond his control.

The epiphany made the Harbinger ignite with golden resplendence as Shiv grasped the truth of the trauma he was inflicting upon the Stranger. “We are worse than an invader. If he considers himself the rightful totality of the world, only to realize that he has been estranged from the greater existence of Integration, then we are as if an invasive virus that he simply can’t burn away. A virus that is slowly degrading his thoughtless omnipotence to narrow consciousness.”

For the first time, Shiv felt the Nihilist shudder in near sympathy. “Can you imagine how crippling it would feel to go from an absolute being to one defined by relatives?”

The embers of understanding cast forth by the Harbinger began a rising blaze for the Nihilist as Shiv grasped the closest thing he could to the Stranger’s perspective. The hollow flames he commanded swelled and raged, expanding out from Shiv in every direction.

Harbinger of the Tripartite Ruin 329 > 333

Nihilism Be My Hearth, My Banquet 103 > 105

The Creeping Void 175 > 179

***

“I’ve stolen his totality,” Shiv whispered to himself.

Heads turned, and breaths stilled.

“What?” Jessica asked.

“I understand why he hates us so much,” Shiv muttered. “I caught a glimpse of the Stranger’s perspective. The world is wrong because he was the world. And now he can’t be anymore.”

Jessica stared at Shiv in confusion and worry. “Shiv… what the fuck are you talking—” Uva injected Shiv’s comprehension over into her, and Jessica found herself speechless. “You—the—what the fuck, Shiv? You got all that just from a few words and by reading the state of its emotions?”

“He's honest,” Shiv replied, barely present inside his Severed Shadow. “He doesn’t fully understand how to lie properly yet. That’s why he needed hosts. Not only to survive on Integrated Earth, but to find something narrow enough to use as a way of comprehending our world.”

A choked sound came from Hymn, who struggled to process what Shiv grasped so casually. “That’s how the Stranger works? That’s why it’s like this? That’s—that’s his governing understanding of existence?” With every subsequent question, Hymn’s voice climbed a bit higher. Finally, he sagged in on himself. “Well, that’s just… sad. This was what my parents abused me for? This thing? This stupid, idiot god that thought it was all of existence?” A similar enkindled darkness lit up inside Hymn’s chest as an existential crisis threatened to take hold.

“Do his assumptions and thoughts matter more to you than his pain?” Shiv asked. Hymn’s enkindled flames froze. “The System used me to poison him. And I guess that means the god he was—and the god that you are feuding with—is degenerating in a way worse than even the Ascendants.” Shiv slowly turned to regard Hymn, noting how disturbed the Headmaster looked—how shattered of nonchalance he was. “Oh. I’m sorry. You told yourself that you were special because you defied him. Because you were studied and skilled in the Eldritch arts to defy and sabotage what was supposed to be your master and slaver.”

Shiv shook his head as he resisted pressing deeper into Hymn’s discomfort and stealing a measure of power and dominance over a figure holding such influence. “I’m sorry, Hades. I think the god you were preparing to fight has died—and continues to die every day. And I think the story you told yourself about yourself and your family isn’t entirely real.” Shiv granted him a bitter laugh. “Udraal hurt me the same way. So. I guess all of us get to build our own legend, but none of us get to live the stories we want.”

Hymn was speechless. Where Shiv stole but a sliver of fear from the Supplicant, the dread he earned from Hymn was thicker than a pillar and harder than adamantine. The way he looked upon Shiv changed. He, more than anyone else in the room, understood the true threat of Shiv, and it terrified him.

A pitch-black shadow loomed over Hymn. It was faint and weak—but ultimately there.

“He will not break easily,” the Harbinger warned. “And he sees us as a threat for the first time. I am not sure if talking to him in such a way was wise.”

But Shiv didn’t regret it, for the Headmaster swallowed and took a step forward, possessed of more urgency and motivation than Shiv had ever seen in him. “Keep going. See… see what else you can find out. Anything else…”

The other Legends watched the unraveling of Hymn’s facade with morbid fascination.

“Holy fucking shit,” Jessica muttered, shooting Shiv a nervous look. “That Harbinger shit’s starting to creep me out, I’m not going to lie.”

“I see why the Myth came for you,” the Culturist said. “I would not allow such a skill to flower in a savage child’s hands either.”

But even freed of the Challenger’s influence, the Legendary orc made himself too easy a victim. “You can only say that shit to me now because before Adam cut your leash,” Shiv replied. “You wouldn’t get to allow anything otherwise. The Challenger would decide everything, and he would be System-damned before he let you steal who I could be away from him. The itch is gone, Culturist, but your scabs are still here. Mind how you talk to me.”

More than dark flames of imbalance weighed upon the Culturist, for his flesh went glossy, and the scars his god had left were shatter-points Shiv could exploit at any time.

“Shiv,” Valor chided softly. “Direct that skill at your true enemy.”

“It is,” Shiv said, a humorless smile creeping across his face. “I didn’t inflict any of these injuries; I just made them real.”

Jessica’s unease grew by another magnitude, and she hissed a curse at his bullshit Chandler blood acting up—but her mind and heart were elsewhere, for it was gratitude that filled her core. He hurt her with his words before, back when the Harbinger was but the Sage of the Enkindled Heart; it would not take much for Shiv to crack her flesh now, with the only reason behind her wholeness a result of her wisdom and his mercy.

“Don’t mention it,” Shiv sent to her telepathically.

