A perfect enemy is worth a thousand masters.

But before I elaborate further, I would like to clarify what I mean by a perfect enemy. An enemy is someone who wishes to do you harm. In this regard, they are already different from your masters. The masters that you have will simulate difficulty and struggle for you. They might even harm you if they are harsh or determined enough to see you grow, but ultimately, you are their investment. You are their legacy. You are something they protect. Even if they do not care for you emotionally, they care for you on the basis of pride toward the exaltation of their own skills. They care for you, and so it will take extreme circumstances for them to destroy you. The same cannot be said for your enemy.

Your enemy has but one goal: your destruction. Your enemy will see you brought low and cut down, and will use any method against you if it means your defeat. That is the wonder of having a good enemy. They will teach you your weaknesses in ways your masters cannot, for your masters are devoted to seeing your strengths built. They might have an understanding of where you lack, but an enemy does not have a threshold where they stop. An enemy will not spare your family if they are a true foe. Your enemy will not let honor or indecency be a restraint. An enemy is inimical to your life; they are the axiomatic opposite to your survival, and they will do all they can to make sure that you are the one who falls and they are the one who stands.

A perfect enemy, then, is an enemy who can harm you but cannot truly finish you. A perfect enemy can deal you blow after blow but never cripple you, at least not physically or functionally. A perfect enemy is someone that is somehow as powerful as you, or at least close enough to threaten you, yet who cannot inflict true lasting consequence on your growth. The number of situations that will see you obtain a perfect enemy are near nonexistent.

Yet they can happen. I have obtained a perfect enemy in the form of an orc. The Culturist is a devious and vile foe, but he is also desperate to see my prowess matched by his own. He has an urge to grind his skills upon me like a whetstone. Death after death, he comes for me, and death after death, I prevail, if at times only barely. In him, I have sealed away vulnerabilities that would have seen me slain in the future. Through him, my foundations are reinforced, and because this is a battle of true mastery between us, our mutual development will continue, but I remain a step ahead. I remain unshackled from a single vulnerability that leaves him my inferior. He is a slave to violence; I am its wielder. I am the decider, and so I can always set the terms of our battle.

Never mistake the ability to choose pacifism over bloodshed as a weakness. If someone is only bound to violence, then they will find themselves trapped in a ruin of their own making. For when you make two enemies, do not be surprised to find yourself encircled on all sides.

But I digress. A good enemy is hard to come by. A worthy adversary is a teacher above teachers, but a perfect enemy. If you can preserve them, for they will teach you things about yourself that no other can. When you improve, they will refine you further.

I beg you, Pathbearer, if you are favored by the System, find yourself a perfect enemy.

—Valor Thann

387

Sparring Partner [I]

Legion of Self 177 > 180

“You! How dare you! Again, you return! Again! Again!” The Outsider god’s voice made the world tremble; existence itself rattled like a crumbling pillar within the Stranger's Garden. “Sacrilegious vermin! You… you… you… fuck!”

The Stranger's fury was more than deafening; it was palpable. Every section of his Garden was inflamed with unspeakable rage, so much anger that it boiled away at Shiv, refining his Harbinger like he was a pill in an abyssal cauldron.

“His condition is worsening,” the Harbinger noted.

Shiv grunted in agreement. “Many-eyes here didn’t use to curse, did he?”

“That's the lesser aspect. Look at his emotions. They're more human than ever before. The System is converting him at a rapid pace. Our favored nature has spread to him; our mana is consuming him. His time as an Outsider will soon end, and when it does, he will just be another god to another dimension within Integration.”

A pang of near pity rang inside Shiv like a bell. Though he despised the Stranger for what he was and everything he had done—especially for the suffering his minions had inflicted on Blackedge—there was something devious and darkly twisted about the System's ways. Sometimes it made Shiv think more of an infection than an actual entity spreading from person to person, spreading through their deeds, their stories, their legend—a smart virus that carried the contagion of attuned and unattuned magic.

“Even if the System wishes us dead, that does not mean it's beyond using us as a tool to further its influence.” The Harbinger hummed. “Think of how many centuries, how much effort it would take the System to finally bring down the Stranger and infest it with stabilized mana without us. How many lives.”

Well, if you got a Deathless, you might as well use him, right? Shiv thought sardonically.

His presence in the Garden was loud and uninhibited. He didn't even attempt stealth this time. At least not with his vanguard body. Instead, he crossed over, smashing through the pitch-black branches, slicing into the red and golden glaring eyes that tethered the Stranger's awareness to every centimeter of this reality. Shiv's mentors had instructed him to vandalize and brutalize, to be a hooligan as much as he could be. With that order given, Shiv delighted in his own obnoxiousness.

“Hey, Stranger, missed me? I’ve come to burn your Garden down again. But I'll be nice if you tell me where Enchanter Merrielmel's brother is. Or you roll over and let me kill you for good. Maybe if you call me uncle once, twice, or a thousand times, I won't embarrass you too badly before I do it. I won't put my foot so far up your ass that I'll be wearing you as a slipper back into Gate Piety.” Shiv smirked. “This is a one-time offer: You send that oversized eye bag of yours to personally apologize for killing me all those times, and maybe, just maybe, I'll give you a sweet and easy exit from this world.”

The Stranger made his existential decay known by raging like a slighted child. The noises that echoed from all corners of the Garden were rantings and ravings, far too human to be incomprehensible, far too emotional to be born from the heart of an unknowable God. The Outsider's fury was devoid of words, but the apocalyptic presence of the Supplicant arrived all the same. A tidal wave of invisible force slammed into Shiv, but where it would have dislodged bone and left him buried in a layer of contusions, he now simply felt his sternum bruise as a stream of invasive power licked at him, cleaving against his Magical Resistance over and over.

The Stranger's Garden began to change. The massive branches, dotted in eyes, receded, closing all at once as the shrubbery gave way, revealing a chasm of a clearing that expanded further and further until the woods encircled Shiv rather than surrounded him. As the woods parted, leaving the path ahead wide and bare, he was exposed to his titanic foe.

The Supplicant was, as Shiv remembered, a goliath in form, a set of oil-black, steepled hands fused at the wrists that dwarfed the Tarrasque by an order of magnitude. But more than merely its size, it was a true titan when it came to magic. A wreath of tarnished gold surrounded its form, and its hands sported thousands upon thousands of eyes that held eyes of their own—pupils dotted with focal points imbued with hateful Chronomancy. Its very presence was like a cataclysm coming to ruin the world: an unstoppable storm with but a single desire.

“Oh, there you are. Thanks, Stranger. Saves me the trouble of finding this oversized pretend-prayer.” Shiv taunted the Stranger's oncoming Avatar with a sneer of indifference. Though he held to a facade of arrogance on the outside, he understood his enemy and his present circumstance quite well. This wasn't a fight he was supposed to win; though the Stranger was mentally degenerating, he still possessed an immense quantity of mana—far more than any kind of Legend could ever muster. But victory was not the goal here. The goal was to improve Shiv’s other skills and to achieve a Skill Evolution in a very specific area that he'd let lag for far too long, so that he could experiment with new and risky strategies in a proper pressure-tested arena.

And, if this present distraction proved successful, Shiv might just be able to get back whatever was left of Merrielmel’s brother.

In summation, the Supplicant was Shiv’s sparring partner, and the Stranger was about to provide a service few others could with these coming battles.

“Well, come here already,” Shiv spat, pointing his Last Morsel at the Supplicant—a gesture made infinitely less dramatic since he was using a frying pan instead of a proper blade. “Can't wait to see what you taste like when I carve you up and cook the pieces. Give me a good recipe, fingers!”

The Supplicant answered him by unfurling its fingers just slightly, and between the gap of those arched digits came a glow of Chronomancy that physically weighed upon the world, and then a deep, dark red glare that seemed to fester the very nature of vitality itself.

“That… is new,” the Harbinger muttered.

***

Back in the Tutorial Bunker, a lattice of Psychomantic tendrils connected Shiv to his mentors and advisors. His Severed Shadow remained behind, for there was no need to risk the root of his being in such a desperate battle. Whenever one of his bodies fell, he would simply resurrect another, and thanks to a bit of convincing on his part, Jessica, the Culturist, and even Tulveg were willing to grant him vitality transfusions to facilitate his training—within reason. This meant that death still had consequences. He couldn't just callously throw his bodies away and continue on as if nothing happened. Every loss came with a price to vitality, and eventually it would delay his training and see him on worse footing against Roland if he didn't make the most of every death.

“Stranger's charging up a weird attack,” Shiv announced. “It looks like he's mixing in some corrupted vitality with all that Eldritch Chronomancy. Dodge?”

“Dodge,” Jessica answered without hesitation. “You always keep the onion in mind. If you can avoid a hit, you avoid a hit. You don't eat anything unless you have to. Remember, your Toughness and your Magical Resistance are your cornerstones, not your currency. You use them to get better options or to survive worse outcomes. Don't spend them for nothing. Remember the onion.”

Remember the onion, Shiv repeated. Don’t get detected, don’t be within reach, don’t be hit, don’t be damaged, don’t be killed.

“But do not hesitate to sacrifice one of your vessels if you must,” Valor added. He stared dead ahead, as if he were piloting Shiv's body himself. “Commit to pragmatism and make the best decision you can. Learn from what you do not survive and review those outcomes to adapt your strategies from first principles.”

Shiv wanted to reply, but found his words cut off as the totality of his focus was demanded back in the Stranger’s Garden.

***

A flood of bullshit came toward Shiv at nightmarish speed. If there was one thing Shiv hated about the Reflexes Skill, it was that once you got to a certain Tier, it made you unreasonably fast, no matter how great your mass. It was one thing to be facing a swordswoman who could chip and bleed your flesh with blurring flicks. It was another when something larger than a mountain range moved faster than a bolt of lightning.

But just because the Supplicant was faster than Shiv didn't mean he wasn't fast enough to respond. He had already built up so much momentum that his inertial sheath was rumbling like it contained an entire sky's worth of storm clouds. It yearned to detonate. It lashed and hammered at his body but did no harm, for his Toughness had been driven to the edge of near perfection. So when Shiv could only be struck down or barely survive by centimeters or scratches before, now he had a chance to react.

Shiv's counter was simple. He remained in place and waited, trying to hone his timing. He didn't intend to outpace the coming beam, nor did he have any chance to. He didn't intend to cast his Harbinger into the future and bring himself along with it. The Supplicant possessed a power that allowed it to strike someone’s present from where they used to be in the past. Their unnatural relationship with time was the biggest problem when it came to dealing with the Eldritch that didn't play by the System’s rules.

But Shiv had a bunch of filthy cheats hidden up his sleeve as well, and just as the attack was set to scour him from existence, Shiv dodged—and went off like a crimson bomb as he plunged Backstage.

The Supplicant’s spell had enough vitality and mana to burn a hole down to the very core of Integrated Earth and rip the planet asunder. It possessed so much socially-charged hatred that even if Shiv survived the magic, it would have burned him hollow emotionally and mentally. But he did dodge, and he dodged in the way no one else could. And as Unique bullshit was pitted against Eldritch bullshit, the former won.

