Like watching a sped-up video, she aged into her prime before dashing out of the way. She flashed in front of my eyes.

"I hope I can take both of our cores back by cracking you open."

She slammed her wing down, tearing my body apart. I melted before flooding over her. I solidified and enveloped us in singularities, but her form dematerialized. She wasn't able to fully utilize the magic as Event Horizon stole her mana. At the same time, I crashed through her mental defenses with each passing second.

However, I couldn't help but wince. I'd been using Event Horizon and my psionics since the start of the fight, but psionics were useless against her. She was like Valgus, and her entire sapience relied on a coalescence of mana. Unlike Valgus, she didn't use mental defenses at all, instead letting her mind form and reform time and time again.

I couldn't psionically drown that kind of mind with chaotic thoughts because she was already chaos given life. Firamnia operated on her emotions moment to moment, and those feelings guided her mind against me. Her attacks expanded in scope, becoming lethal. She tore through her lifespan with every strike, and that sacrifice gave her an unbelievable power. My body became a soft, molten material, struggling to maintain a solid form. I crushed under her swipes, and I melted into puddles at her feet.

Yet I returned. And so did she.

In time, every attack she unleashed resulted in another death. She sacrificed her entire lifespan in a strike of her wings. Explosion after explosion detonated from her, and she went berserk against me. Her dedication and sacrifice were like a reflection of my own fighting style.

As she had, I fought with my body on the line, and I had no qualms about embracing death. Firamnia was the same. We tore, gored, and gnashed one another time and time again. We continued our onslaught, turning the realm into a crushed, devastated hellscape of fire and gravitation. The torrent of assaults left the entire area beleaguered in perpetuity - the wounds would last for centuries.

After many hours, Firamnia's physical body was no different. She was an opponent whose physical endurance mirrored my own, being something beyond material in nature. However, she had exhausted her mind. She was unable to continue her persistent wave of emotion against me.

Hatred, anger, and even desire required fuel. They needed the fruits of a mind to keep them burning, but she was without one. Event Horizon devoured every lingering thought and emotion, hollowing her out into a husk. Lacking that directing modus, her battle fury lost its luster. She no longer had death in her strikes or fury in her magic.

Her movements became stilted and jittery. The magic that once burned entire regions became nothing more than directionless waves of dispersing heat. As they wilted, she collapsed, heaving for air underneath me. She struggled to move, but despite her weakness, she pushed through all pain and despair, while searching only for victory.

A victory that would never come.

My psionic strength held. My minds sprinted at her in a stream of psionic cruelty. Over and over again, I washed her mind away to nothing more than a babbling baby. Watching her writhe for a moment, I felt like a monster, but it was what I had to be to keep my people safe. No matter how I rationalized what I did, it still made my insides squirm.

Squirm or not, I didn't regret my decision. Firamnia was an enemy that would've left Mt. Verner as a pile of ash. After facing her, I had no doubt that she could pierce the barrier of even my strongest cities within a day. They might not last that long, and even Shalahora would've struggled against her.

Firamnia had been an all-around fighter. She was a warrior who put everything on the line, wielded it well, and abused her advantages to the fullest. I mean, a phoenix that used its lifespan with her attacks? It was honestly genius, and using her mana as an aging element against her enemies gave her another avenue of attack that was as unconventional as it was effective.

Her lack of reliance on her base mind also made her ferocious in psionic combat. True, her offense lacked any edge in that department, but she wasn't vulnerable either. It made her one of the strongest foes I'd ever faced, and she was far more powerful in a direct confrontation than Ghelid had been. That cruel coward had run the moment it faced me at full force.

Firamnia had faced me and charged. In a way, it felt unfair that she never even got close to genuinely hurting me. I simply operated on an axis she couldn't touch, so fighting at her level posed no threat to me. That was why I wanted her to avoid fighting me altogether. In the end, it devolved into a battle of matchups.

Such was life.

Wanting to end her suffering, I swallowed her in a singularity swarm, but she returned from the ether as I would. My eyes widened as Firamnia drooled on the ground, her eyes reflecting agony. A surge of panic rose within me. Did I have to torture her for eternity? I calmed down. Of course not. I opened my pocket dimension, ready to put her inside.

I'd hold her until I found a way to kill her. Hm. Unless another strategy would work. Something was tied to her being, a rebirthing mechanic that seemed to work without any regard for matter or mana alike. That meant it was likely built on some weird law mechanic like Ghelid's stasis. Taking that approach, I turned my pocket dimension to her and unleashed the shearing forces of colliding dimensions.

She was not killed, but a primal fear surged in her chest as the laws surrounding her dispersed. I swiped my hand, singularities encompassing us both. As I strode out of nothing, I was alone once more. I smiled. Unlike most other foes, I wouldn't forget Firamnia. Whether we agreed or disagreed on how we lived, we were aligned in how we would die.

In all regards, she was a warrior worthy of respect, and she would be remembered. I raised a hand and squeezed it into a fist.

For the phoenix who wouldn't quit, even in death.
