It reached the peak of the mountain before an explosion of telekinetic force rocketed it away. A tiny dot fell from him, and I snatched it out of the air. In my palm radiated the blue core the vanguard carried and charged up. I let the moment pass.

"Well, that just happened."

I gazed down.

"Alright then. Let's see what's in the pits of hell besides beauty."

Chapter Begin

I bolted downward, accelerating like a dimensionally loaded artillery shell. Where I passed, the wind whipped into a frenzy, the phoenixes glaring at my rudeness. After passing several kilometers, the pressure and heat surged. The surrounding stone melted into a quasi-liquid state. It all bled together, everything in a state of deliquescence.

The phoenixes couldn't live here; their nests were far above. They still dove down to this abyss, finding prey for their young to feed on. Tiny armored worms writhed in the liquified rock, feasting on the magma and eating the warmth. Along the sides of the pit, tremendous side passages lead to entire caverns with unique ecosystems.

A few of them carried mines that snaked for hundreds of kilometers, and others glistened from the overwhelming pressure that turned coal into diamonds. I dove into one of them, finding these stones far less animate than the last patch I fought against. Most of the rocks radiated with the same energy as the miasma around us, so I darted through several of these side passages.

I harvested the unique crystallized mana until I had an enormous reserve of crystals at the ready. Finishing my personal mining operation, I continued my descent. Further still, strange metals formed in the blurred abyss. They held many properties, a few even manifesting an ice affinity. However, the vast majority still had fire lingering within them, and I took a few of those metals as well.

By then, I was well over sixty kilometers down into the colossal mountain. The air shivered from the warmth, and the stone groaned against the overwhelming strain. Pinging cracks echoed all around as different creatures infested these caverns. A few munched about. I inspected these green, mushy caterpillars. They had blue heads covered in small beady eyes and mouths of circular teeth.

They moved near mana-charged metal and stole the energy. After soaking in the resources available, they turned around and expelled all over the metal. A quick molt later, and the caterpillars turned into butterflies that embodied whatever unique quality the metals once carried. The butterflies came together, fusing into piles of eggs that hatched into more worms.

In essence, they converted precious ores into stinking piles of refuse.  Before I expunged them, I continued exploring since each patch of infested ore exposed different states of decomposition and development. Some segments had portions where the rubbish soaked into the metal somewhat.

The oldest sections of steel had soaked in the refuse and shells, the two divergent materials fused by pressure and heat. That changed the metal to a green color. In fact, it was a familiar shade of dark green. A quick bout of gravitation ripped a chunk of the metal off, and I gawked at its exposed composition. This floating chunk possessed antimagical qualities.

My face wrinkled like a raisin.

"This...This is orichalcum. Wow."

The fusion process cleansed the ore of any lingering smell, and the insects' ability to absorb magic seemed to carry on into the metal. The longer it soaked into the orcichalcum, the greater the effect. Taking a minute, I inspected one of the writhing caterpillars.

Ancient and Elementally Imbued Orichalkipillar | Status: Protected | Level: 22,019 - This variant of the orichalkipillar is one of the most sought-after eldritch in Schema's known space. It can turn enchanted metal into the heavily sought-after orichalcum. The more magic in the metal it feasts upon, the greater the resulting antimagical qualities it manifests thereafter.

Many hypothesize the method it uses, but few know of its unsanitary origins. Regardless of how the metal is constructed, it supports entire empires and industries alike. Orichalcum is seven times stronger than steel, with a tensile strength that easily triples it. However, orichalcum is most famous for its ability to ward off a percentage of any magic sent its way.

The better 'forged' the metal, the more powerful this antimagic effect is. Throughout Schema's known space, few materials carry this innate quality, and that makes the demand for orichalcum extremely high. This is one of the few eldritch that you are not allowed to hunt down. They are to be reported to the nearest Overseer/Sentinel to be harvested for Schema's use.

As the finder of this resource, you will, of course, be compensated. Any samples are worth ten times their level in credits. Queens and colonies can be worth well over that due to the ability to breed more of them.

Note - If a sentient steals this resource for their own purposes, then they will be fined and given a bounty from the system. This is to protect both you and the system, sentient!

Be wary of greed's folly.

I read over the message, learning a bit about the industry. Finishing the message, I gawked at the creatures, their poor hygiene changing from a dirty secret into a pleasant hum. Suddenly, their writhing sounded like money printing machines. This was especially useful for my burgeoning empire.

After all, my worlds didn't need orichalcum at all since I could supply a near-infinite amount of my dimensional fabric. That made this a harvest that could make for an incredible economic backbone for my populace, one that didn't require my direct input. I took notes of all this as I traveled down. All the while, I harvested many of these worms by putting them into my pocket dimension.

After a few hours, I found more phoenixes diving downward. They kept plucking worms off the walls, but I couldn't bring myself to cull the horde. While still eldritch, the phoenixes hadn't attacked me on sight. Instead, they guarded their home as any animal would. I found myself observing a nest, the mother and father cooing over a pile of ash as one of them was born.

After a short while, I took a breath. It was a shame, but I had run out of time to dawdle. I turned my descent from an explorative tour to a blistering fall. After well over a hundred more kilometers, the magma streams solidified. After a thousand, they sparkled. The pressure turned even the falling stone into diamonds and other gemstones, and five thousand kilometers down, they began to explode.

I laughed at the sight where the temperature ignited the precious crystals. A wall of detonations appeared in my sight, the sparkling rain turning into a writhing, kinetic mass. It was madness, an absurdity for anyone or anything. I dove through the pulsing fires and pulsing waves, finding an end to this volcano.

It arrived with the end of all the treasures as well. Every valuable stone or chunk of orichalcum stored in the streams of lava was destroyed by the explosions, and they released the red mist that every creature subsisted on. It all pooled over a circular platform surrounded by magma. A hurricane spiraled over it as a miniature hurricane, reminding me of Ghelid's blizzard.

At the edge of the storm, I met a wall of laws demanding immense sacrifice. Instead of using my wake, I stepped across the veil and allowed the principles to course through me. I felt a wave of vitality swell, the sensation almost euphoric. Once past the torrent, I found my goal. A core rested at its center, lava circling the space. The radiant nucleus did what radiant nuclei should - it radiated out, a star given form and an eclipse given light. It supported the entire mountain above. A gorgeous phoenix circled its wings around the precious nucleus, gorging on the power within.

Firamnia, the Holder of Sacrifices | Level 57,030 - Firamnia was an entity that existed on [Rebirth] since its inception, along with the other pillars of the eldritch here. Firamnia is unlike her other eldritch kin. She is proactive in protecting her territory, and she was once a warlord of this world.

Long ago, she held complete control over this mountain's rare metals and gemstones. Using this forgotten trove's wealth of resources, she killed any opposition on the planet to her mining industries, creating a monopoly over all of [Rebirth]. Wielding this enormous leverage, she extracted endless piles of wealth for her absurd desires. She wasted it away, gambling on arenas of battle.

Eventually, the planet's history changed its trajectory. Events occurred that ruined the world she ruled, and with no outlet for her endless avarice, Firamnia turned to hoarding. She has a stockpile of objects once considered valuable in a pre-system era...

I kept that in mind for later.

...but they are of little value now. Her immense powers over the passion of others and herself shouldn't be underestimated. She can sacrifice her nigh-endless longevity for bursts of power that even Overseers fear.

Should you fight her, prepare for war.

I hovered down, walking up to Firamnia. She rested at forty feet tall, and her wings shimmered as if made of shining daggers. Etheral fire smothered her, the raging furnace creating a plume of rising air around her. Though a beautiful creature, she lacked the refinement I expected. I didn't mean that as an insult, either.

If anything, looking at the powerful creature made my blood boil. It reverberated in the melody of the other phoenixes, but this was the orchestrator of everything, a wager of war. Scars traced up and down her body, telling tales of bloody battles she fought. Each feather glinted like a crystal knife, and they turned her wings into serrated blades. Her beak glowed, containing the force of stars within, and Firamnia's gaze mirrored that sharpness. Even her voice cut through reality.

"Ah, Harbinger. We meet at the bottom of the world."

I smiled back.

"Awesome. This is going much better than when I fought Ghelid."

The phoenix's gaze sharpened further.

"You're the entity that killed it? I assumed as much, but it's good that my assumptions were verified. After a bit of inspection, I could've guessed. You carry other realms wherever you walk, and you hold many magics working in tandem. I haven't had a true battle in a long time, either, so this is quite opportune."

I let out a laugh.

"It is opportune, but not from the prospect of battle. I'm not here to destroy all of you and take your lands. I am here to try to help a friend. Nothing more and nothing less."

"Helping a friend? You've killed Ghelid and speak of peace in the same breath?"

I paced to the front of her, and her talons soaked in the magma's energy as if feeding on the world. I gestured to her core.

"The way he made his core was irreconcilable, and you sound as if you've met him before. Do you think I could've allied with him? After what he had done to anything he could get his claws in? To anything he could get his ice into?"

Firamnia's laugh was like the clatter of knives.

"Perhaps not, but our fight will be different."

"It would be, but that's not what I'm trying to discuss. Why do you want to fight me?"

Firamnia spread her wings.

"Many reasons. I love battle, and I wish to prove that I am above Ghelid. He put the scars across my chest and tore out my feathers for his children. He deserves the death he got, and I hope it was agonizing. Still, I respected him as an opponent, and to see his slayer only makes me want battle even more."

I furrowed my brow.

"How about this, I'll promise a battle if you share some of your past with me."

"There is little to say. I was an empress of this mountain, a monster that ruled for epochs. The others came here, and they exchanged their energy and wealth for my crystals and metal. I turned that wealth into experiences. Before long, there was nothing left to experience."

My eyes narrowed.

"Did you kill them?"

"I had no need to. The violet-skinned ones with white hair...They killed each other. Plagues. Wars. Machines and metal. They undid one another far better than any monster could."

I frowned. She talked about the remnants, and it gave me more to chew on than I had ever heard.

"Did they have Schema before or after the fighting?"

"Schema?"

"The machine."

"Oh." Firamnia adjusted her wings. "Yes, that invasive aura. It came and settled in long ago. Many, many millennia have passed since then. In many ways, time has lost meaning from its incessant march, its continuation undoing its importance."

I raised a hand.

"Philosophy aside, did Schema turn on the remnants, or did they turn on it?"

Firamnia laughed.

"The remnants created Schema to kill each other. It was their most perfect weapon, one that has destroyed while trying to keep them alive. It is a mother who breaks the wings of her children to keep them in her nest. It traps and bite and maims. All for the purpose of its makers."

I winced.

"Do you know why they made Schema that way and how he evolved into his current iteration?"

Firamnia's body swelled as energy piled into her frame.

"They waged war, and war catalyzed their technology. It was the fire of purpose, and they burned each other to embers in its glow. My children above would peer onto the dying world above, a smoking pile of cinders. It held the secrets of their race."

Firmania let out a burning laugh.

"Those were secrets of how to destroy. They spread plagues, altered genes, and sterilized their people. We monsters peered at them, our own defilers made into weeping mockeries of their brutality. Now, I have told you of my life. You will give me the battle I seek."

I held up a palm, energy snapping into my limbs.

"You will find no victory when you face me."

"I am unlike Ghelid. That beast tried to live by forcing others to carry its burdens. I am a different breed, and I have thrived on my own sacrifices."

I rolled my shoulders.

