"I've seen the abilities of your kin, and if my guess is right, you'll be easier to deal with than Ghelid. You may carve me into pieces, but that means little. You'll try to burn out my lifespan, but that means even less."

I oozed mana, the sacrificial red carved apart by Event Horizon's deeper crimson.

"For I am eternal, and your sacrifices against me will be in vain."

Firamnia let out a fierce cry that burned the space around us.

"I am blessed by the energies of worlds beyond this realm. I have evolved into an ever-growing god that once lorded over your races. I remember those days. If not for the coming of that accursed machine, then what would we worry about? You would be less than nothing, as those that walked this world were."

I spread my hands, letting my aura dwindle.

"I'd love to keep talking about those old days."

Firamnia tilted her head.

"What would a warrior want to know of those dead? Of those that undid themselves?"

My eyes widened, and I smiled.

"Anything. I'll take anything you're willing to share."

Firamnia peered up before looking back at me.

"They're all dead. As you will be."

I frowned.

"Yet I've killed someone you couldn't."

"Oh, so you think I'll die here? No. I will be reborn from my ashes, and I will try again. You think you're eternal, but I have lasted many eons. This will be no different."

I scoffed.

"We can fight without killing each other."

"Must I incite your rage?"

I gazed at the sacrificial mana coursing around us.

"There's no reason to."

"You reek of fear. Do you not believe in your immortality? Perhaps you fear mine."

Event Horizon crashed against the writhing energy, and I sapped the clouds will. The mana flooded my frame, and I closed my eyes. Cracks appeared over my skin as my lifeforce burned away.

"You won't revive if we fight."

"And why is that?"

"There will be no ash because not every death is from fire. Some deaths are from the starving darkness of gravitation. Other demises are from kinetic splintering so absolute that you disintegrate into nothing. I can do both and more."

The phoenix spread another pair of its wings, revealing four, then another, making six wings in total. It was like a flaming seraph from biblical texts, and it radiated with the energy of one. I kept siphoning in the mana around us, getting a feel for the strange energy,

"We don't have to do this. We don't have to put our lives on the line here."

My breath carried enough mana to poison a city. The phoenix let out a laugh, her voice like the hum of flowing magma.

"What makes you think that this is anything less than the most serious of matters?"

I raised my hand, and Firamnia's eyes widened. In my palm, a purple core hummed with spatial laws.

"Because I know you're a mirage that's connected to your real body. Because I know deep down, you're afraid, and you're trying to find my weak underbelly. You're going to find it hard to fool me."

Firamnia lowered her wings.

"How did you know?"

I spread my hands.

"Do you think I'm an idiot? I saw your phoenixes traveling here. It's not difficult to graze their minds and gather the context behind their thoughts. Panic. Dismay. Worry. They warned you about me, and they should have. I plowed right through this region, but it wasn't to declare war. I was merely feeling what the region was like."

"You killed my people."

I furrowed my brow.

"They are mindless monsters. I never killed a phoenix unless they attacked me."

Firamnia laughed.

"Perhaps I have no anger over the rampage you carried out. Still, I desire a battle. I wish to prove myself by burning away in a glorious battle. Can you offer me that?"

"I don't want to."

"But you will. If you do so, I will grant you what you want. What, precisely, do you desire of me?"

"It's simple. Cooperation. Unlike Ghelid, you haven't resorted to disgusting means for power. That left you with less energy than your brethren, but that actually works in your favor here."

She puffed out her chest, her wings tucked.

"I am stronger than Ghelid."

I narrowed my eyes.

"Or you've taken your region's core and started absorbing it since he died?"

Firamnia took a step back.

"That's a simple deduction. A child could surmise as much."

I tossed the spatial nucleus up and swiped it out of the air.

"Yes. I also know you're traveling to my city, but this will get me to you before you can reach my allies. Otherwise, Ghelid wouldn't have had one of these in the first place."

"What if I am far faster than he?"

I circled her, my gaze predatory.

"Remember that machine you cursed? It lets me message people, and those messages are instant. That's part of why I took my sweet time landing here; I gave them time to get to shelter. My allies have been in my city's walls for a while now."

I glared at her.

"You can try to destroy that barrier, but I used ten radiant blue cores to reinforce it. Fully charged, thats over a trillion mana, and unless you can blow this entire planet to smithereens, you won't puncture it before I get to you. My dimensional fabric and the system's augments also make the forcefield abnormal, but if you want, give it your best shot."

The mana around the facade cascaded outward in a wave. It swallowed the air, rendering it into a boiling venom. Firamnia's form enlarged, two heads taller than me.

"Tell me, child. Can you survive an armageddon?"

I shrugged.

"I think so, yeah. I'm still wondering why you want me to be your enemy?"

Firamnia scoffed.

"What I said earlier still holds true."

My body rippled, and my armor grinned. I raised a hand with my gauntleted fingers outstretched. The tips of the gauntlets sharpened to claws.

"Do I look like I'm afraid of you? Of your kind? Listen to me. I am offering mercy. Please, take it. If you back down immediately, then I can let you live."

The phoenix took a deep breath.

"I have seen untold ages pass. I have ruled this world and let that dominance fade to nothing. Do you believe you strike fear into my heart? A heart that has seen death a thousand times and survived?"

I frowned.

"Only a thousand deaths? Those are rookie numbers."

"You may tell tall tales, but I have lived them. You will be but another passage in my story."

My helmet flowed off my head. I ruffled the hair on my head in frustration.

"Come on. I'm trying to give you a chance here. You're not pure evil. I haven't seen anything that's remotely irredeemable. I want to know about the old world here. About its history. We could just talk about that instead of fighting to the death. We don't have to act like animals here."

She narrowed her eyes.

"And what is wrong with animals? They operate on instinct, and they are pure. They live within their means and serve a function they were born into."

I shook my hands.

"My point is that we can communicate. It doesn't have to end this way. Don't force me to kill you."

Firamnia snarled her words.

"Ghelid sent us messages embedded within ice crystals. It showed us how it begged for you to let it live, and you chose to kill it regardless."

I pressed my hands against my temples.

"Firamnia. He's different. He tortured his entire populace for millennia. Why can't you guys get that? Why does everyone want me to kill them?"

Firamnia seethed.

"I will not put my life in the hands of someone who would not accept a ceasefire."

I shook my hand in front of me.

"Your life was always in my hands, but your decisions chose what I'd do with it. I can't let a rogue element try to hunt my people down."

"You butchered Ghelid, so you speak nothing more than empty words, hollow as a burned tree."

I breathed in the coursing, orange mana of sacrifice. My life bled away in my hands, but it burned from an endless well. As my eyes widened, I glared at her, my gaze predatory.

"Then you'll see why I begged you for your life and not mine."

I squeezed the purple core in my hand, and it crushed like a ball of crispy ash. It was oddly satisfying. The laws of space rippled outward, infusing into my body in mass. I lost all semblance of orientation as my vision blurred. The phoenix shot at me, the mirage carrying all the power of the real entity. I took a step forward, and we clashed.

I dashed forward for kilometers, crashing into the side of the mountain. Firamnia's mirage body held firm, and she burned through her life force to create unrealistic strength and durability. I opened my minimap. Even as space turned into putty around me, my status screen remained unaffected. I kept my eyes on it before turning to my city.

I took another step, and instead of teleporting, I shrank the space between me and my goal. It reminded me of dashing in a video game as everything flowed past my vision at insane speeds. If not for my absurd durability, even the air itself would've crushed me. I crashed through kilometers of it and rock alike, bursting out of the ground. Another step taken, and I found myself deep in the Firelands. Another stride and another set of regions passed my eyes. Like some psychedelic trip, I flowed past the Firelands in a matter of seconds.

A minute later, I reached the beginning of the clashing center of Rebirth, where my city resided. The spatial fluctuations were fading from my body by then, and I peered at my status updates. Opal already sent a ping notification letting me know Firamnia's current location. I darted forward, finding the eldritch's true form. She traveled as a blinding sun, her body like the surface of a star.

But I had wielded stars, so what was the mere sight of one?

Using the last bit of spatial juice, I smashed into her, both of our bodies colliding. Like her mirage, Firamnia met my charge by crossing her wings. She howled.

"You think you're clever?"

I answered her words by spreading my hands, glowing as she did.

"You should know that some mistakes can't be undone."

A singularity swarm encompassed us both, and Firamnia faded into an insubstantial form. I wielded Event Horizon, siphoning her mana and consuming her mind, but she hadn't used mana for her transformation. She carried her region's core and drained its energy with each movement.

Taking a deep breath, I sent out strike after strike. I bolted around, jerking myself at unrealistic speeds using my gravity wells. The forces defied convention, not requiring any kind of flow or muscular exertion. Like a pinball bouncing around, I shot and bolted towards her as explosions of physical force erupted from yanking my body around.

And yet, Firamnia was faster. She raged, feathers withering off her body with each passing second. Every time she landed an attack, grazed my body, or wielded enormous plumes of fire, the heated mana of her realm soaked into my body. It imbued power into me, but it also burned through my resources. Health splintered. Stamina eroded. Mana melted.

I bled through my brio, but Firamnia's poison only augmented my abilities, and with every passing moment, Event Horizon whittled her health and mind apart. Despite my advantages, I couldn't strike her. Firamnia's speed reached a cosmic level, the kind of pace that could traverse the distances between planets. After all, she nearly passed the entire distance between her base and my city in minutes.

That speed wasn't only relegated to traveling. She remained agile, mobile, and in deft control with every slinking motion. Her dance of motion held as much technique as Opal and destruction as Althea. Even without the movement, Firamnia's magic was devastation incarnate. It was armageddon. It was an obliterating, cleansing force that left nothing in its wake.

Every swing of her wings melted entire mountains and burned entire forests. Every brandishing of her claws carried flaming waves that burned our horizons. They scorched the clouds and melted the earth. All her movements held the same effect as her magic. The unburned patches of forest near her would wither from burning through their lifespan so quickly before desicating.

Any animals in the way aged into decrepit, elderly versions of themselves in an instant. That mana coursed into my body, far exceeding the amounts I gained from my trail of carnage. It gave me a strength I had never known. My hands crushed the skies, and my feet destroyed the lands below. If not for my barrier, I would've lost myself in worry for the others.

But the barrier was there, so I could burn through every bit of myself. I could live for this moment and this moment alone. Gone were the crushing responsibilities of my empire and of holding my species afloat. I no longer had to stop Elysium or even destroy the Old Ones. I existed in the present and lived for every instant. I let out laughs of joy as I pressed my advantage over Firamnia. She laughed in turn, and we burned through all that we were as we fought.

Her feathers dulled. Her bones creaked. Her skin thinned, and her heart slowed. As gray found its way onto her feathers, I winced.

"It's a shame you can't continue. This...Was fun."

Firamnia spread her wings, burning even brighter. We clashed for several minutes before one of my fists pierced through her chest. I smiled at her.

"Sorry, but this has to end."

I threw her aside, holding her region's core in my hand. Every fiber of my being desired it, and my cells writhed in hunger and want. Satiating their desire, I swallowed the core, and a warm sensation coursed through me before Firamnia imploded. She howled out.

"There were five, and one tried to unite us. They failed, the power overwhelming them. Now they watch and wait, biding their time. You will fall in the same way."

My thoughts went wild with her declaration, and I imagined an entire history of what took place in an instant. Before I could properly digest her words, she desiccated. Firamnia turned into ash before she fell as a radiant egg. I reached out a hand and created a singularity swarm, but she once more imbued her mana into herself.

