There was a time when Zian thought himself friends with Chi Gan’s grandson, Chi Ang, but he followed in his grandfather’s footsteps and tied himself to Gulong as firmly as Chi Gan was tied to Rang Min. With that in mind, there was no appropriate social reason for Chi Gan to visit Zian, much less secretly watch him in battle, which led him to believe the Elder was here to take his life. Reaching for his sabres, he froze in place as the Elder abruptly turned to face him, his sour expression as unpleasant to behold as it was frightening. There was a slackness in one side of his face, and he walked with a hunched back and affected limp, all of which was faked in order to make him seem more mortal than Martial Warrior. It took immense discipline to live one’s life in the shadows, to be a Peak Expert of the Empire and possibly even a half-step Divinity, though Zian doubted it since Nian Zu still lived and breathed.

Snorting in derision, Elder Chi Gan waved a flimsy hand in dismissal, unwilling or unable to give up the charade, even in private. “I’m not here to kill you, boy,” he said, gesturing at Zian to fetch him a chair. Once settled into his seat, he continued, “It’d be a waste of a warrior, it would. The Clan needs more youths like you, even if you refuse the name you were born to.”

“My father was no Situ,” Zian replied, glancing at his tea set and deciding against offering a drink lest the Elder think it poison. For all he knew, it was poison to anyone who wasn’t him, since Jing Fei did so love to expose him to ‘small’ doses in order to build up his immunity. “He was a Lu, and as his son, I would dishonour his memory by not taking it.”

“He was, but he agreed his son would be a Situ.” Pulling an age-worn scroll out of his sleeves, Chi Gan handed it to Zian for inspection. Upon unfurling it, he found a contract detailing the terms of Lu An Jing and Situ Jia Ying’s marriage, which included, among other things, a section which stated their child would indeed take the Situ name. “What sort of respect are you showing by refusing to honour your father’s word?”

Though fascinated by the contract before him, it would be rude to leave the Elder waiting for an answer while he read through it, so Zian rolled it back up and cocked his head in question. “Is this why you’re here? To ask me to take up the Situ name again? Why? Rang Min must have been delighted when I announced my new name, for now he is no longer bound by Clan law and can openly move against me without reprisal.”

“True, but he hasn’t, because I refused to allow it.” Shrugging, Chi Gan reached into his sleeve, pulled out a gourd of wine, and took a generous swig before continuing. “The time has passed for internecine fighting, so now we must make amends. I come here to ask you to take up the Situ name once more, and work with us to bring glory to the Clan.”

“You want me to return to the Clan?” Narrowing his eyes in anger, Zian considered holding his tongue, but decided it wasn’t worth it. “Then bring me the person responsible for my father’s death.”

“So then it’s your mother you wish to kill then?” The statement rocked Zian in place as his anger drained away to be replaced by dread, wondering if Chi Gan’s words could be taken at face value. Canny, just as mother said, and the old bastard knew it too, because he waited just long enough to let Zian consider the implications before continuing. “Your mother killed him by bedding him, as surely as she would have if she cut his throat herself. We sent her to the Wall to charm Nian Zu, but she falls in love with a rising young talent instead. Then, when it looked like we were going to reject him and marry her off to someone else, she lied about getting with child so we’d have no choice but to accept him. Foolish girl. She would’ve been such a boon to the clan if she weren’t so selfish, but here we are, almost thirty years later and still paying for her mistakes.”

“Her mistakes?” Scarcely able to believe his own ears, Zian asked, “What mistake? Marrying the man she loved?”

“Bah. She knew him for all of a week before deciding to marry him, and only because she was worried she’d be shipped off to some other old fool.” Crinkling his nose, Chi Gan added, “Except we only sent her to Nian Zu to get her away from an insistent young fop who was enamoured with her beauty, but was too rich and influential to outright reject. Whether you, your mother, or even Nian Zu believes it or not, the clan looks after its own.”

“Then why was the Clan going to reject my father? Surely a talent such as he would have been welcome in the clan.”

“Oh Lu An Jing was a dragon alright.” Delivered with a sarcastic sneer which would strip rust off an iron rail, Chi Gan rolled his eyes in derision. “Thousands of Martial Warriors have talent, but this old man can count on two hands the number of young geniuses who made their way to greatness.” Nodding in grudging admission, he added, “Yes, Lu An Jing proved to be one of them, but how were we to know then? That said, this old man is willing to admit his wrongs. Lu An Jing was a boon to the clan, and his death hurt us all, but surely you can’t blame us for that? He was the one who insisted on freedom from Clan obligation, and he was strong and influential enough to deserve it, so we washed our hands and let him play Imperial hero with his merry band of friends while winning acclaim for the Society.” Taking another generous swig from his gourd, Chi Gan concluded, “The Defiled killed your father, that’s the cold, unchanging truth. Now, will you come back to the clan, or am I wasting my breath?”

This time, Zian thought before he answered, and Chi Gan seemed content to wait him out. “You truly believe Rang Min had nothing to do with my father’s death?” Zian trusted his mother above anyone else, so his answer would hinge on what Chi Gan said here. “That he would welcome me with open arms as a wayward son of the Clan?”

“Never said he would.” Neatly sidestepping Zian’s first question, Chi Gan threw up a Sound Barrier, one Zian only felt because he had his Domain deployed and ready to act. It was a strange sensation, having his Domain... enveloped, for lack of a better word, by Chi Gan’s, but it was a stifling, uncomfortable feeling and not just because it demonstrated just how much stronger this Elder truly was. “Rang Min is... unable to accept the reality of his situation.” Slumping in a way that was too genuine to be faked, Chi Gan showed his true age for the first time, a worn, weary man who was tired of beating around the bush. “He put forth a proposal to have the Clan reject the new Legate’s authority, on grounds of his past as a slave. Has a whole coalition ready to raise a ruckus about how Falling Rain is technically stolen property and therefore in no position to command, but it won’t end well. Legally, the Canston Trading Group’s assets were seized when the Bristleboar Divinity defected, meaning even if Rang Min’s argument held up, the boy would be property of the Imperial Clan, but it won’t come to that. Even an old, out of touch fart like me can see that the common people love their slave-turned-Legate, and unless South and Central also turn against him, nothing the Clan does will ever gain traction.”

“...You mean to depose Rang Min?”

“Of course not.” Scowling at Zian as if he were an idiot, Chi Gan asked, “Who would we even put in his place? Nian Zu? Bah. He might be an exemplary warrior and commander, but a piss-poor politician and unrepentant about it to boot. Rang Min is a fine Patriarch, save for his little obsession with Gulong. Even after all these years, he feels his grandfather betrayed him by siding with someone else over his own grandson, even though Rang Min was clearly in the wrong. Now he plays the doting father-figure he wished he had, but not only has he utterly ruined what could have been a fine young warrior, he’s also forgotten that the Clan must always stand above all else.” Heaving a mournful sigh, Chi Gan removed another scroll from his sleeve and handed it to Zian. “This is a statement demanding you be reinstated as Young Patriarch, signed and sealed by almost every Situ Clan Elder and Guardian save for a few with loose lips who could not be trusted. Take up your family name, return to the Clan, and we will bring this before the Patriarch, to remind him that the Clan does not serve the Patriarch, but rather the other way around.”

“And in doing so, focus Rang Min’s ire on me, rather than on all the elders and guardians who betrayed him.” Scanning the document briefly just to be sure it was what Chi Gan said it was, Zian asked, “Would this have anything to do with the Oath he supposedly demanded from you, verifying you were not, in fact, working with Falling Rain?” How he managed to drive a wedge between Rang Min and Chi Gan was nothing short of miraculous, but it was merely another item on a long list of unbelievable accomplishments from the new Legate.

“Huh. Guess you’re not as stupid as I thought.” There was no friendly smile to accompany the banter, only a casual shrug and non-answer. “If you won’t do it, we’ll find some other way to set Rang Min back on the right course, but I’d much rather you came back. If you’re afraid of Rang Min’s reprisals, then I swear to act as your personal guardian and will arrange for two Oath-Sworn Peak Experts to come into your possession. I’ll need your answer now though, because Rang Min means to act soon, and if you do not care to help your clan, then I must make other arrangements to save it.”

There it was, what Rain called the ‘hard sell’, giving Zian no time to seek advice or consider his options. If everything Chi Gan was saying was true, and that was a big if, he knew Mother and Jing Fei would urge him to accept, but alas, Zian still idolized his father, and knowing how he would answer made the decision easy. “I’ve no desire to become embroiled in Clan politics,” Zian said, offering the scroll back to Chi Gan with both hands. “Not so soon after extricating myself. Even when I was the favoured son of the Clan, I had no affection for the title besides what attention it brought me. I would make a poor Patriarch, but I suspect you already knew this, which was why you offered it to me in the first place.” Holding a hand up to forestall Chi Gan’s inevitable denial, Zian smiled and offered a small bow. “The Clan has given me much, and for this, I am grateful, but my Path has diverged from that of the Clan’s, and I must consider what is best for me and mine. If there is anything else the Clan requires of me, ask, and I will consider it, but no longer can I blindly pledge my loyalty to a man I do not trust.”

“So, that’s your final answer?” Something in Chi Gan’s tone put Zian on his guard, for all the good it would do him. Zian demanded the freedom to fight without a Peak Expert guardian watching over him from the shadows, because the mere knowledge that there was someone protecting him would change the way he fought, urge him to take more risks and push his limits even further because there would be little chance of death. Now, he was regretting that insistence, and also regretting he took this meeting in private, but alas, there was no cure for death or regret. “What about your friend, the Legate? Don’t you think you owe him this much, if only to help him out of a bind? What of your own circumstances? Think of the future boy, because it’ll be too late for regret when it comes calling.”

“My friend can look after himself.” Drawing his sabres in a flash, Zian smiled and readied to sell his life dearly. He didn’t have to kill Chi Gan, only survive long enough for someone else to notice the ruckus, preferably someone who was strong enough to stop Chi Gan themselves. “And as for the future? Whatever trials and tribulations may come, I know I have friends who will ensure those I leave behind are well cared for.”

Just as Jukai looked after him, though their time together was far too short...

“Tch.” Draining his gourd dry, Chi Gan pouted and muttered, “Damn it. Fine. You were right. The boy is no blind fool or wide-eyed admirer. Noble as his father was, for all the good it did him.”

“My son’s choice in friends is questionable, and his decisions suspect, but he is a man of conviction.” Slinking out of Concealment, Mother appeared seated atop his bed, her hands folded neatly atop her knees with Jing Fei beside her. Beautiful as the day was bright, his beloved favoured him with an approving smirk, though Zian himself was still unable to figure out what was going on. Ignoring his confusion, Mother turned to Chi Gan and asked, “Then are we in agreement?”

For once, Chi Gan seemed hesitant to reply, and it came as some surprise to see Mother in command of the situation. “...Yes,” he said, not convincing in the least, only to repeat himself in a firmer tone. “Yes. We are in agreement.”

“Good.” Patting Zian on the cheek as she stood, Mother said, “I’ve some work to attend to now, but I brought Jing Fei here to explain everything to you. Remember, a woman in her state needs plenty of rest, so try to keep your questions to a minimum.”

