Blind to the politics involved, Zian remembered taking great pride in his accomplishments as a self-taught warrior, which he ungraciously held over the heads of his peers. Unfortunately for him, at the end of the day, he was still merely a talented young man rather than a once in a millennia genius. After Condensing his Aura at twenty-three and claiming the title of Number One Talent of the North, he embarked on a self-indulgent journey of lust and hedonism to celebrate. Six months later, he noticed that his progress had stalled while his rivals were quickly closing the gap, and as so many geniuses were wont to do, Zian’s fragile ego crumbled apart the moment he encountered hardship for the first time ever.

It was here his earlier actions came back to haunt him, for as a prideful young man, he couldn’t simply admit his wrongs and seek out a Mentor, no, he needed to maintain his reputation as a self-taught genius, unless his Mentor was someone so famous people would call him a fool for turning him down. Thus began Zian’s journey to find a Mentor ‘worthy’ of his genius, one which ended in failure, and eventually, defeat at the hands of Falling Rain.

A defeat Zian had come to cherish as the turning point in his life, for it drew Jukai out of retirement to support the son of the man he once called brother. If only Jukai had come out and said it the first time they’d met, then Zian would have better cherished their time together, but the older Warrior who’d aged before his time kept his past a secret because of a promise he made to Mother. To this day, she refused to tell him why she was so against him taking vengeance for his father, but it was easy to see she was terrified of losing her son as well. A good thing she didn’t keep Jukai away though, for it was his guidance which helped Zian Form his Natal Palace, and eventually, become One with the World to Develop his Domain.

And now, without Jukai here to guide him, Zian was lost once more.

Or so he thought, until a few days past when news of the standoff in the Northern Citadel arrived, detailing the appearance of Yang Jixing, Goujian the Confessor, and the Bristleboar Divinity. The talk of the castle was about Falling Rain’s ignoble past as a slave, and there was a time when Zian would have cut ties with his friend for this, but he was a changed man and could hardly care less about Rain’s origins. The measure of a man was not the blood flowing through his veins, but rather his actions in times of troubles and strife, and in this, there were few who were equal to Falling Rain. No, what drew Zian’s attention the most were the tales of how his heroic Uncle Yang fought valiantly against the Bloody Confessor, with his movements most eloquently described as a perpetual force of nature which pressed ever forward in a never-ending storm of attacks.

Using only a single sabre, because Uncle Yang never could get the hang of wielding two sabres at once.

This was the whirling ring of death and defence which Lu An Jing was famed for, a tactic Uncle Yang learned for the sole purpose of imparting it to Zian. He still remembered those arduous training sessions, when Uncle Yang would call upon his guards to surround Zian and beat him bloody with their shields, forcing him to learn how to defend himself from all angles without thinking. A thoroughly unpleasant learning experience, but hard work and dedication paid off in spades once he picked up the skill. Over the course of many battles, Zian perfected this style of offensive defence, or so he thought until a few days past when Uncle Yang demonstrated the same style while wielding a single sabre. Now, a seed had been planted in Zian’s mind, for if he could master this single-sabre style like Uncle Yang, then he could dedicate one hand for defence and utilize the other hand independently for offence, rather than having to dedicate both to defence or offence at the same time.

Zian was no genius, he realized this now. He was merely fortunate enough to inherit his father’s penchant for dual-wielding, a skill many never truly mastered but came easily to him, and doubly fortunate to have two exemplary father-figures like Jukai and Uncle Yang in his life. The former taught him the frailty of genius, and the latter showed him the value of hard work, and without either one, Zian would not be the man he was today.

Fixed in the throes of Balance, he surged into the packed mass of savage Defiled with sabre in hand and cut his way into the gatehouse, utilizing flawed movements of the Forms which were imperfect in execution but perfectly suited for his current situation. Oriole takes Flight, only instead of driving his sabre low to high, he brought it about in a curved arc to block one sword, decapitate a Champion, and slice through the wrist of a third Defiled who was about to skewer Junyi beside him. The optimal follow up would have been Fluttering Raindrops to recover and defend, but Zian trusted the Situ clansman on his left to protect him and instead executed Standing Fury, his blood singing as the Clansman’s spear blocked a Defiled axe and Zian’s honed sabre carved the tribal savage’s torso in twain. Moving on instinct, he charged forward into the gap and shouldered his next foe aside, using the toppling Defiled as a barrier while he spun on his heels and performed Parting the Underbrush followed by Circling the Grass and Reverse Bite, cleaving through Defiled bodies and pushing past the inner doors and beyond the gatehouse choke-point.

This was what Jukai had once referred to as composing, taking the notes of the Forms and utilizing them to make music of his own, rather than merely playing them in the ‘optimal’ order. Despite knowing the movements were flawed and inexact, they felt perfectly suited to each particular situation, like pressing the last piece of the puzzle into place or sliding your feet off the bed and landing directly in your slippers without even trying. This was One with the Sword, but Zian took things one step further by becoming One with the World, coordinating his actions to take advantage of the chaos and order around him.

With his Aura and Domain billowing out in full force, he became aware of more than his senses perceived, which allowed him to make decisions and take actions in ways a lesser warrior could not comprehend. A spear darting towards his neck went ignored, because the soldier beside him sent his foe barrelling into the spear and knocked it askew. Another Defiled leapt into battle only to lose his head from an ‘errant’ pass of Zian’s sabre which had been aimed at a different foe, who also died under that same pass. A single step forward brought him face to face with a hulking foe, but Zian’s sturdy combat boots ‘fortuitously’ crushed his foe’s toes and sent him reeling back in surprise. Events like this took place one after the other, and while an outsider might see this and believe Zian blessed by fortune, he knew everything had gone exactly as planned. There were times when he simply fell into the rhythm of battle and it felt like he’d fought the current engagement a thousand times before, with every move planned and practised to perfection before meeting on the battlefield in a display of mutually coordinated bloodshed. If only the Defiled would be so accommodating to aim their weapons wide and run headlong into his sabre, but the ease with which he dispatched his foes was merely an illusion.

Every step into the gatehouse was bought and paid for in blood, pooling across the polished stone floor and turning the battlefield into a slippery mess. Using this to his advantage, Zian Lightened his steps and danced to a melody audible only to him, gliding through the gatehouse on stones slick with blood and making the Enemy pay dearly for the ground they took today. After the fifth close call, Zian stopped counting how many times he almost died and devoted everything he had to the mission before him, to retake the gatehouse and clear it of Defiled filth. Abandoning his pursuit of progress in exchange for utmost killing efficiency, he drew his second sabre and focused on the task at hand while committing the entire experience to memory inside his Natal Palace for future review, noting every sight, sound, thought, and sensation without fail. Despite having progressed farther along the Martial Path than most would ever see, Zian knew he still had much to learn, as evidenced by the jaw-dropping displays of Martial might he witnessed atop the inner wall parapets. From his position by the rear gates, he watched Colonel Hongji stand fast against the tide of Enemy Demons and Peak Experts and smack them down from afar, utilizing his Domain in ways Zian couldn’t even begin to comprehend.

Which was nothing compared to the sublime grace and elegance demonstrated by Rain’s Grand-Mentor, Akanai of the Bekhai. There she stood atop the crenellated parapets, her icy-blue eyes glittering out from under her helmet as she danced to a masterfully choreographed symphony of death and destruction, slaughtering Demons and Peak Experts like a farmer kills chickens while dominating the fearsome Dark Child who defeated two Exarches with a single attack during the withdrawal from the front lines. To the layman, her attacks seemed almost basic and utilitarian, a thrust here and a swipe there with a flourish or spin to connect one movement to the next, but Zian saw the superhuman simplicity within her movements, the Forms made her own as she strode about the battlefield like a god given flesh.

Again, these matters were for him to study another day, once he’d progressed to a point where he could comprehend the mysteries behind Hongji and Akanai’s attacks. For now, it was better to focus on the step before him, and then the one after that, and so on and so forth. Only a spectacular genius like former slave turned Legate Falling Rain could progress by leaps and bounds, but such was life, and Zian was content to move forward one step at a time. It was in this same manner he led his retinue to retake the gatehouse, first clearing the lower floor and setting soldiers to hold the various breaches in the steel gate, then slaughtering his way up the narrow staircase to relieve the beleaguered guards barricaded within the upper level. This was where the control mechanisms were located, and after passing along his orders through the battered bulwark which was once a steel door, he left the guards inside to their work and trudged his exhausted self back downstairs to congratulate his retinue for a battle well fought.

There was a hefty butcher’s bill to pay, not just in his retinue, but across the entire second line. Still, their sacrifice ensured Castle JiangHu would not fall today, and so long as Zian drew breath, he intended to see things remained this way for as long as possible. Though Jing Fei would scold him for it, Zian swore to see that the families of the dead and crippled were provided for, even if it meant going to Rain for help. Pride was nothing compared to camaraderie, and the soldiers who made the ultimate sacrifice here would not be soon forgotten.

Soon enough, a fresh company of soldiers arrived to relieve Zian’s spent retinue, so he led them back to their quarters to rest. The fighting had been bloody and arduous, but his part in the affair only lasted little more than an hour, and left him feeling as if he hadn’t slept in a week. Usually, Jing Fei would have a hot bath waiting for him and proceed to massage the aches and strains out of his battered body, but as she was away with Mother, he had to settle for a cold rinse alongside his soldiers after scrubbing away the worst of the grime and gore with soap and brush. Once cleaned and changed, he trundled off to his quarters in hopes of catching an hour or two of sleep before the reinforcements arrived and he was called away to castle-wide briefing. Unfortunately, as he opened his room door, Zian found an unwelcome guest waiting inside, standing with his back turned to the door even though it left him staring at the bed and the blank wall behind it when there was a large window to his left. Repressing a sigh, Zian rubbed at the stubble growing across his chin and idly wondered about growing a beard while greeting his guest. “Elder Chi Gan. To what do I owe this pleasure?”

Instead of answering the question, Rang Min’s right-hand man kept silent for enough time to make it known he was speaking on his terms, rather than Zian’s. “I watched you fight,” Chi Gan began, his cold, gravelly tone sending chills down Zian’s spine, because at a hundred and eleven years old, Elder Chi Gan was one of the strongest warriors of the Situ Clan and one of the few Warriors who might be a match for Nian Zu. No one outside the Clan knew this of course, since Elder Chi Gan’s strength was kept as a secret, but it was no accident when Chi Gan’s son, Chi Lok, became a Clan Guardian at the tender age of thirty-seven, an exalted title reserved only for Peak Experts. Mother warned Zian to be wary of the powerful Elder, for he held a grudge against the Bekhai and Falling Rain in particular over Chi Lok’s death, one which took place during the chaos following the Society Contests. “Damn fine show. You’ll outshine us all, provided you live long enough.”

