“Well, a waterfall? A meditative walkway—submerged stones in a lake? If you have to invoke the ocean, cliff-diving is a hugely popular tradition. Not just the villa experience—if they’re going to insist on the most basic staff and seaside accommodations, you might consider live-fishing, Erin. Or yachting if there was more space. I did that once, and you can buy these lovely enchantments and hire a Drowned Person to take you for an underwater stroll. Just basic, basic…”
He was speaking so enthusiastically and with such pomposity that he completely missed Erin’s expression until he looked down and saw the huge glower on her face. Ilvriss paused…and Xesci peeked out from behind Nerul again with a smile of delight.
She was angry. That was obvious. Hurt feelings radiated from the [Innkeeper], as well as pure embarrassment because Ilvriss was right. Ilvriss’ self-absorbed rant turned into a moment of introspection, and he hesitated. Then coughed into one fist as Mrsha slapped her forehead with a paw.
“Ah. You made the beach, didn’t you?”
He came to the truth as Erin folded her arms. Ilvriss wavered as his attempt at a new start and new line of social credit took a nosedive. He paused…and decided that Nerul was right. If you were going to try again—
“You could have consulted with me. I do know beaches, you know.”
Erin kicked him in the shins. Ilvriss swore, leaping back.
“Erin!”
“I’m regretting having you back already! Everyone loves my beach!”
“I’m sorry! I just meant—you still have Tyrion Veltras there.”
“It’s the greatest winter attraction there was and ever will be!”
The Drake backed up, but his mouth was moving faster now, and Nerul was laughing so hard he couldn’t interject. He had never seen this side of his nephew! Worse—Ilvriss was getting mad now.
“It’s not even winter-themed, Erin! This is just a denial of the season. Real winter experience would be making snow igloos, winter bonfires, snow lights—saunas—which I forget that you have no idea what they are.”
“I know what saunas are, you snooty idiot! My ideas are great!”
“They’re contrarian! Don’t kick me again! You offer a unique service, but I’m allowed to point out when it’s unimaginitive—”
“I created a beach in the winter!”
Erin was chasing him about, and the Drake ran past Silveran, Pawn, Ser Dalimont—all staring at the new guests—and they watched the Drake have it out with Erin.
What a brave, dead man. Even Jewel was watching with Normen, wincing and expecting Erin to roll Ilvriss in a second. But Ilvriss paused, turned, and his clawed finger pointed back at Erin.
“And you can do better! I’ve seen you work harder. The Erin Solstice I knew didn’t rest on her laurels!”
He got her! Lyonette gasped in delight. Erin came to a halt, slowing, and several heads turned as Ilvriss paused—and she turned.
“W—you—why don’t you shoot me in the chest with a crossbow, huh? I let you into my inn, I vouch for you, and this is what I get?”
Erin was red-faced, embarrassed, and instantly, Ilvriss’ face stiffened. Xesci saw half the inn freeze or wince—and Erin had made that comment on purpose.
Ruthless at times. Nerul himself just eyed Erin and nodded.
“The Courtly Fool. She’s also got knives. Delightful. She’d do the Winebreath Blaster in someone’s face on purpose.”
He rubbed his claws together, and Erin seemed to realize two of Ilvriss’ companions knew exactly what she was doing. She locked eyes with Xesci, then nearly edged back. She halted, threw up her hands, and smiled gregariously.
“Ilvriss. Why are we fighting? You said words you’ll regret, I said words I don’t—come on, let me show you around the inn first before you start critiquing.”
“I, ah—yes. That would be good. I apologize, Erin.”
She nodded to Ilvriss and distinctly didn’t apologize back. Erin stepped back and gestured to the kitchen.
“Listen, you’ll like my inn these days. I have a [Chef]—a Goblin guy who does amazing spices—and Imani’s cooking gets served in my inn all the time. It’s classy. You’ve met Nanette—well, just wait until you see the rec room, workout room, and other stuff! Plus—the beach isn’t done, obviously. I have a bunch of koi fish, and if I make it freshwater, not saltwater, we could definitely fish. Plus, I was always going to do a luau. We’re doing one tonight.”
“We are?”
Lyonette looked horrified, and Erin shot her a glare as Ilvriss raised his brows. Erin instantly upped the ante.
“Yeah, a luau. And we’re, uh—I’ll make a sandbar, and you can walk into the water! Waterfalls? I can do that, too. By the way, what did you bring, Ilvriss? For your fancy expedition into the north?”
His what? Some of the guests, including Bethal and Thomast, who’d been enjoying the argument from afar, paused as they ate breakfast. Ilvriss hesitated and crossed his arms.
“A bidet, for one.”
“A bidet. Pssh. No one likes that thing. Hey, Mrsha, guess what Ilvriss bought? A bidet.”
A what?
Mrsha was just as skeptical as Erin, but one person in the inn had frozen mid-bite and looked up with hope and salvation in his eyes. There was only one, just one person who knew what a bidet was outside of Drakes like Grimalkin and Chaldion. Pallass didn’t have bidet-customs.
“It’s this thing you use to wash your—butt. It sprays water. Gross, right?”
Half the guests took a second to realize what Erin meant, and this was not a breakfast-topic. Mrsha half-nodded, hesitated, and raised a paw.
Wait, it isn’t toilet paper?
“Nope.”
The Gnoll girl hesitated. The furry Gnoll girl thought about toilet paper and the grossness of it.
So it’s clean water that you use instead of gross paper you wipe everywhere? Like a civilized being I have never been before?
“Y—no. No, Mrsha. You’re getting the wrong idea. Bidets are weird.”
“Bidets are civilized. That Drake’s got a bidet? At last, someone with fucking class.”
The voice of support and Ilvriss’ first new friend in Liscor came from none other than the one person who was used to them.
Joseph. From Spain. A nation that practiced the variety in bathroom fixtures that were lacking in the United States.
The United States, a nation that was founded about two and a half hundred years ago and hadn’t had running water in its toilets for a hundred years, probably. Erin Solstice began to realize she was losing her audience.
Gnolls had fur. Fur was difficult to clean. Bidets were another, natural way of cleaning.
“But spraying water?”
Selys called out from the side, looking exasperated at Erin’s logical inconsistency. Which was sort of Erin, to be fair.
“Erin, do you not shower or bathe?”
“Yes, but that’s so gross—”
Ulvama poked her as she emerged from her rec room where she’d been napping.
“Grosser than using paper or leaves on butt? You’re weird. You sound like an old woman afraid of new things.”
“Ulvama, you too? Someone back me up!”
“I won’t. Humans are so pretentious. How do you think Centaurs do anything? Bidets are customary in Baleros.”
And in came Palt with the final blow! Which actually cleared up a question Erin had had about his own bathroom habits. She turned to him, and the Centaur was already talking with one of Ilvriss’ people.
“So you actually have one? Is it one of those fancy enchanted ones that doesn’t require plumbing? I’d make one, but I have no idea how to start, and Hedault refuses to make toilet-based things…mostly because he’d have to install and maintain them. Liscor’s got sewers and plumbing. We’ll pay for one at Barehoof Kitchens. I’ll pay for one. I’ll install it now. Please give me a bidet. I’ve had to use water spells for a year.”
Erin threw up her hands. And Ilvriss, smiling, adjusted his lapel. Someone had to bring back culture and finesse to The Wandering Inn. Or at least remind Erin when it was lacking.
Nerul Gemscale was observing Erin’s exasperated face, how she argued with her merry guests, and taking notes on the scale of the inn’s occupants. Ilvriss hadn’t mentioned the nobility or the high-level people. He had clearly not kept up with the inn’s rising prominence.
He leaned over to Osthia and whispered.
“I think we’ve been made by the nobility. Not good. I’d have preferred some jump time on them. My nephew’s got a fun relationship with Miss Solstice. I think my role is to be the professional, sadly. What a changeup.”
He was eying Bethal, who had slipped outside, and Osthia realized the games had already begun. Ilvriss, though…he was smiling as he began to argue with Erin over which was actually more objectively disgusting as a hygienic practice. The [Innkeeper] was annoyed, exasperated, secretly amused, and happy he had come back.
 
——
 
Xesci saw it all. She saw how Erin dropped her guard, and some of the walls fell only for Ilvriss. And how Ilvriss seemed to look younger, forget he was Zail’s son—
Yes, of course. He was outside of Salazsar. This was his adventure where the Wall Lord was still a Wall Lord, but no one knew what he was supposed to be. She was delighted by this insight, but again—
The [Courtesan of Change] had forgotten that when she observed, the [Innkeeper] noticed. Erin Solstice’s eyes slid sideways, and she noticed Xesci and stopped laughing a second.
The Drake politely ducked her head at Erin, trying to look normal and innocent. However, Erin was not the only person to have picked up on a shark swimming in Ilvriss’ wake.
Mrsha was mostly oblivious, just picking up on the smell, and she’d forgotten about Xesci as the Drake had intended. But Nanette looked sideways at Xesci and dipped her head as she noticed the Drake was holding an empty bowl with no idea what to do.
“Would you like more food, Miss…? Someone can take your dishes.”
“Oh, thank you.”
Xesci was not used to being waited on, but Nanette took it aside. Lyonette hurried over to Ilvriss and whispered as he engaged in the bidet debate. She’d gotten a list of his guests, and Xesci…
“Er, Ilvriss. About your companions. Is she an, ah—ah—a lady of the night? Really?”
Ilvriss hesitated at the wording, but nodded back and murmured.
“Miss Xesci? She is. An expert in—well, she’s a trusted friend and associate.”
Lyonette’s welcoming face became markedly worried. She glanced at Nanette, then practically dashed over.
“I can handle that, Nanette. Hello, Miss—”
She rushed to handle the dishes, or rather, let Dame Ushar take them for her, and Xesci’s smile markedly vanished as she noticed the [Princess]’ attitude change. Xesci didn’t hear what Lyonette said as she tugged Nanette and Mrsha away, but she just read the [Princess]’ lips.
“Stay away from that Drake, Mrsha, Nanette. She might be a bit…sick.”
Mrsha was confused. Nanette frowned at Lyonette and glanced at Xesci.
Sick? With Yellow Rivers?
Mrsha held up a card, and Nanette shook her head.
“No, she’s a prostitute, Mrsha. Miss Lyonette, she’s not sick because she works in that field. My mother knew plenty of women like that who were well. Soldiers and adventurers get sicker with parasites and illnesses in the field.”
“Nanette! That’s not something you talk about in polite company!”
“It’s hardly impolite.”
The witch girl frowned up at Lyonette as the Thronebearers gave her appalled looks. Well, except for Ser Dalimont. He had paused like the other Calanferian [Knights] in instinctual distaste, but he was thinking and listening to Nanette. Frowning at his frown.
Lyonette was not. Mrsha, by contrast, grew interested in Xesci now that she was told that the Drake was someone working a ‘bad’ profession and she shouldn’t be spoken with.
Lyonette’s dislike of Xesci was not unique to Calanfer; plenty of people would have shared her views. She was pulling the classic Self-Inflicted Footshot Maneuver that all parents used, in the Nerul handbook of diplomatic mishaps.
Actually, Erin Solstice herself might have had similar views of Xesci, but for two things: she had met many ghosts in death, of every class. Second? She recognized Xesci’s level before her profession, and Xesci herself—unnerved Erin.
Whether this was fair or unfair, it should have been a small, tiny part of Ilvriss’ visit. Already, the nobility were sitting up and taking notice. Ironically, it was one thing for them to swan into a Drake city. But the notion that a Drake had come to head into their lands?
Something was brewing, and it was coming fast, spreading at the speed of [Message] spells. It was about that, like one of the [Spies] alerting Lord Xitegen that Wall Lord Ilvriss was speaking of heading to the north.
It should have passed Xesci by, especially with her Skills. The Knights of Solstice, Grimalkin, and most of the nobility, even Chaldion of Pallass, heading into the beach, had lost track of her.
As they always did. She was enjoying this play and counterplay of watching how Erin shifted, putting up her shields and only lowering them around her friends. Her guard was like a [Fencer]’s; if it went down, she brought it up the moment she realized it had lowered. It was more instinctual for it to be up than down.
Xesci, for her part, wore the faces of women she had known. Drakes, Gnolls, and even Humans and more—but she was good about shifting from face to face that were similar, mostly.
Where she unconsciously seemed taller when she wanted to be, or more attractive or vivacious when she wanted attention or to persuade, she didn’t visibly shift from Gnoll to Drake unless she was surprised or doing it on purpose. Her taking Erin’s face had been a complete accident.
Ryoka Griffin strode back into the inn, pausing when she saw Ilvriss, as Xesci eyed Erin.
I could copy her face, but not really anything else. The [Courtesan] benefitted the more she understood someone. Not that she could absorb Skills, but she did take competency.
Erin was surprisingly good at fighting. She was a thinker and definitely good at chess. Everyone had a weakness, though, and hers was definitely a thin side to her interpersonal skills. She was good at talking to people, seeing them, getting to know them. Bad at when she had to reach out and touch someone in any intimate way.
So fascinating. But who did she love? Xesci ran her hand over an opaque wall of glass and couldn’t tell if the answer was ‘no one’, ‘herself’, or someone at all. She’d met closed people like that before, but even Turnscales just shone brightly behind a wall of fear and self-preservation.
She refused to burn, and that made it far more difficult and far more intriguing. Ryoka was striding over to greet Ilvriss, a smile on her face and an apology on her lips for Tyrion’s…everything.
Then she screamed.
