Zail opened and closed his mouth. He eventually managed to shake his head.
“I went through the same feelings you did, Ilvriss. You’re mourning. You’ll—”
“What? Come around? Forget? Give in? Let me leave. If I’m a ‘son of the walls’, I’ll return. Maybe that’s my fate, no matter how far I go.”
Ilvriss stared at his claws, then up with an almost sick look at Zail. And his father’s look of uncertainty was so bare that it turned to anger because the other emotion was too hard to endure. But again—he stopped. Closed his eyes. Then he tried to reach out, but Ilvriss recoiled, so Zail stopped and spoke.
“Just…tell me why. If you need to—why don’t I go with you?”
That threw Ilvriss, and he stood there a second. Erin saw his face turn, and Zail stared at his son.
“It’s me, isn’t it? You don’t want me to go with you.”
“No. Yes! You’re too old to risk your life. And you need to change to go to Liscor, Father. Maybe you could, but I also have to do this—myself. If you go there, I’ll stand in your shadow, even more these days. I have to go myself. Have you ever felt…called?”
Ilvriss closed his eyes, trying to explain how he felt. Zail’s angry, hurt glare turned puzzled.
“What do you mean?”
Ilvriss looked at Erin, then past her, towards the north.
“Called. That’s the best way I can describe it, Father. I thought I was being called to duty before, many times. I thought I knew what it meant to be a ‘Son of the Walls’—but I haven’t. That was just acting and convincing myself it mattered. Now, I feel it, and the true thing is different. It feels like something’s in my blood, telling me to start running. It’s not glorious, but it is real. Realer than anything I’ve felt. As if you’ve been preparing for something without knowing it all your life. Then—this is it and you’re terrified, but you have to go.”
He was trying to explain what was driving him out of his city. No—trying to explain what had happened to him. Zail stared at Ilvriss like he was looking at a stranger.
But they had always looked like that, son and father. It was just more honest now. Erin watched, wide-eyed, as Zail slowly nodded. He murmured.
“Yes. I have felt that before. Called? By what?”
“Need. A need to be something I can’t even see yet. A need to see it with my own two eyes, Father. It’s the biggest gamble I’ve taken. I would have loved if this came a month earlier. Then we could have talked. But let me go, please? If I delay, if I’m too late or underprepared—”
He looked at Erin a final time.
“I will regret it my entire life. I cannot be late.”
All of it, all of this conversation, was delivered with Erin in earshot.
The conversation was going low, and personal. Perhaps Ilvriss and Zail did not get to the bedrock, the purest things they could have said that would tear the air in a private sitting room. The knives were only partly out because they had an observer.
But then again, perhaps that most-honest conversation would have never come out if they were alone, and this one, dancing around the heart of it, was the only one Zail and Ilvriss could have, for now. The older Wall Lord hung his head a moment, then nodded.
“…Very well. That’s the point of the Last Defenders of the Wall. It is the point. Go, and tell me what you need, and you will have it from the City of Gems. Armies or funding. I will want reports and explanations.”
“Of course.”
Ilvriss relaxed in pure relief, but Zail was not done. Nor did either one smile. Not right now. Erin felt like she was watching them bleed, but the words were coming out. Zail reached up and touched Ilvriss on the shoulder.
“I have one demand.”
“Which is?”
Ilvriss tensed, and Zail gestured below at the City of Gems still celebrating the victory, adjusting to the new war.
“You are my son. Don’t go like a thief in the night. Go like a Wall Lord. Remember that.”
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss treasured that last comment as valuable. Because it was true; he was a Wall Lord.
He was no Zel Shivertail. No hero of the Walled Cities after all, and he had learned that. Neither was Ilvriss very good at being a common man, if he even understood what that was. He was an adequate leader of war, but he was no Tyrion. He was good at business, but Magnolia Reinhart and even Alrric could beat him.
What he was good at, he realized with some embarrassment, was being a Wall Lord. And that was a valuable insight, because he had half a day to get ready, and he needed to be a Wall Lord where he was going.
Unlike the City of Gems, he had to earn his value and people’s trust. Money might not buy what he needed, so Ilvriss prepared hard and fast.
“A celebration? For Wall Lord Ilvriss’ departure to Liscor? What? Now?”
Salazsar had a [Coordinator of Events] who managed the city’s holidays, fairs, and more. The quick celebration for the army was standard.
Throwing a second one in the middle of the first gave him conniptions. But the Wall Lords rammed it through because there was no choice.
“It’ll take Ilvriss a week to get to Pallass. What’s the rush?”
Navine wanted Ilvriss to stay for a multitude of reasons, but Ilvriss countered her in a flash. If he couldn’t beat his sister, then the line of people who wanted him to stay would walk over him.
“I will be in Liscor tomorrow, Navine.”
“Wyvern crap. How?”
“Pegasi. I’ve chartered a full dozen for myself, my closest staff, and bodyguards. Everyone else is going to catch up.”
Her eyes bulged, and Erin waved a hand.
“Whoa, whoa. You can get to Liscor tomorrow? How are you going to get to Pallass and use the door in a day?”
“You pay for a [Flight Master], a [Speed] enchantment, and you fly. It’s expensive even for a Wall Lord, but time matters.”
“…Wait, didn’t Pallass ban you from entering the city?”
Ilvriss waved this off as Erin remembered the hullabaloo with him leaving.
“That was over your door. They rescinded the ban afterwards. We’re petty, not idiots. Nerul, get Xesci and Asrira ready and grab everything we need.”
“Ancestors, Nephew! You’re just lucky I’m used to flying off for diplomatic missions. A full-flight in the winter on Pegasi? We’ll freeze our gonads off! Alright. I’ll be back.”
The [Diplomat] charged forth, and Erin heard, below, someone already beginning to shout the news and drum up a second celebration in the midst of the first.
 
——
 
How much did Drakes and Gnolls care that Ilvriss was leaving? Well, whatever lip service they might pay to even the most popular of Wall Lords became more heartfelt once free kegs of drink were rolled out from the warehouses.
If convincing the public to at least smile and wave him off was easy—the Walled Families had objections to him going to Liscor. But Ilvriss met with everyone from Calistoca to Brilm and Tasilt to get them not just behind him, but pushing him to go.
He’d need their support to get armed forces. To not bother him and, potentially, to back him with money, too. The Walled Families had to approve the Erchirite Spears or other forces going to Liscor, and politics could get ugly.
Even with Zail here, Ilvriss had to convince them before leaving. So…Ilvriss lied.
Ilvriss lied like he breathed. Quickly and with no regard for other people’s need for oxygen.
“I’m going to scope out the Antinium danger and prepare for their threat. The taskforce needs Human allies, Wall Lady Calistoca. We may not like it, but if a Third Antinium War appears…what better way to prepare for the foe than to observe the most dangerous Hive?”
“I’m going to avenge the Tidebreaker, Wall Lord Itreus. Or at least, honor him. Think on it. He perished in the north. Someone has to carry his mantle and see what drove him there.”
“It’s about foreign continents, Eschowar. They’re coming for the New Lands. An alliance between north and south might be the most unpopular idea ever, but what happens when the Nagas come back for another round and ally with Terandria? If they invoke the north…”
“I’m bringing back Archmage Valeterisa to the south.”
“I’m shoring up the defenses of Liscor against another attack.”
“I’m investing in a huge business opportunity in Liscor with the door. Frankly, you should too—”
“I’m going because my father is here, and I don’t want to be on the receiving end of him and all the old Drakes with their endless energy throwing their weight around.”
The last person to hear Ilvriss out paused, then laughed.
“That was the most honest reason I think I heard yet, Ilvriss. The others might buy part of your explanation, but…your father looked good. I can’t imagine how it would be, though, if my old man came back full of vim and vigor. We’d probably end up in another brawl.”
Tasilt, the Wall Lord that Ilvriss thought of as one of his closest friends, rubbed at a scar on his cheek. He’d gotten it from fighting his father in the streets of Salazsar when he’d demanded the right to marry a Gnoll. Ilvriss had been there and recalled.
“We’re not that bad.”
Tasilt gave Ilvriss a long look and sipped from a cup.
“Yes, you two don’t throw hands. That’s about it. You know, if you’re going, you’ll drag Salazsar with you. Not just your staff or people. Your sister’s already looking into renting carriages.”
“Navine?”
Ilvriss cursed. Her nosing about was the last thing he needed.
“You’re not following me, are you, Tasilt? I’m doing this for the city, but frankly, the city might get in the way.”
The Drake gave Ilvriss a long look.
“Ilvriss, we’re not that far by Pegasi. I may visit, but I have a family here. You should be more worried about how this connects us with Pallass and Liscor. Politics get messy, and…Salazsar knows Liscor matters. Be careful.”
“About what?”
Tasilt rolled his eyes. He leaned over, making a show of dusting Ilvriss’ collar as the two stood in one of the banquet halls, and whispered in Ilvriss’ earhole.
“About who they send to keep an eye on you.”
Ilvriss paused and realized that unlike last time when he’d gone off to fight Zel then been waylaid in Liscor, this would not be the same careless adventure. He was going as a Wall Lord, and the full weight of the City of Gems was behind him.
And they did not always think like he did. Zail was a good representative of some of their beliefs. Ilvriss cursed and looked around.
“No wonder Father was so keen on not letting me go!”
“Yep. Eschowar’s a snake, Ilvriss. He and Chaldion might begin squaring off like the old days. Go read a book on what he did.”
“I remember all the stories.”
Tasilt tapped Ilvriss on the arm.
“I mean, go read a book that’s not Zail reminiscing about it, Ilvriss. See what the other cities thought about it. But check it out from a Pallassian library. You rushing off means you’ve got the march on them. That’s smart. Don’t be a stranger.”
He hugged Ilvriss briskly, and the Wall Lord looked around Salazsar. There was so much to do in this city—but it would keep. He did want to go to Liscor. And he smiled then.
 
——
 
“What do you mean, it’ll keep? I asked you to help with the Turnscale thing, and you’re dropping it?”
Ilvriss had been told that his commitment to Erin’s agenda was lacking in some areas. He had thought he was taking it seriously.
Apparently not. He tried to get a word in edgewise.
“Erin, I’m far from home. I can’t—I’ll learn from you in person.”
“You’ll get my boot up your butt in person! I promised—people—you’d help! Argh! Okay, maybe you can do some good in Pallass. But when you get here—Mrsha! Mrsha, tell Peggy that you’re allowed to prank up Ilvriss’ room with whatever you want!”
Erin stomped around as Ilvriss made the final preparations to go. Ilvriss had already been assigned rooms in her inn, and he’d told her he’d need a bevy for Nerul, Asrira, Xesci, and his bodyguards.
In truth, he might need rooms in Liscor proper or somewhere else, especially because he might not stay. But Ilvriss needed to find allies and prepare for…a dig.
He was, in fact, worrying about what to bring. Not just his anti-Az’kerash measures. Those were standard.
“I need to win over the nobility of the north, Erin. I will have to cross into their lands, and I have gold; the Merchant’s Guild can withdraw what I want. But there’s the issue of guards. I will take the Rubirel Guard as bodyguards, and Salazsar will send forces after me, but an army marching into the north is an act of war. I need…support.”
“You’re digging.”
Erin swung around with a wary look in her eyes as a white Gnoll rushed off, groaning about having to find centipedes in this cold weather. Ilvriss bit his tongue, then met her eyes and nodded.
“I doubt I will be able to keep what I’m doing hidden. Digging, protecting the miners, slaying monsters—it will be a mess.”
“The nobles might not like that. Darn. I’ll speak with Ryoka and see how it is. How many people are flying by Pegasus?”
“Only my adjutants—you’ve met them. Bodyguards. You know Asrira. But there will be Nerul, my uncle, a [Diplomat], and Xesci.”
“Who’s that?‘
“A…an expert in her field.”
Erin gave Ilvriss a long look of confusion, and he refused to elaborate. In truth, Ilvriss didn’t know how useful Asrira and Xesci would be. One was a warrior, the other was a [Courtesan]…but they were part of the conspiracy, and neither thought they’d be much good in Salazsar.
It was going to be a lot of playing things by ear, but Ilvriss’ main concern was—value.
“We can load each Pegasus up with a chest of holding, Erin. What is the most valuable…item to bring to Liscor to curry goodwill or trade with?”
He was well aware you couldn’t buy love with gold. But you could buy it with other things! Ilvriss had a list.
“I’m planning on rushing all the Adamantium on-hand, magical gemstones…but that’s the kind of stuff that appears in trader caravans. Anything else?”
“The [Smiths] love Adamantium, and Valeterisa would pay you for all the magical gemstones you’ve got. I dunno. Sounds good to me.”
Erin gave Ilvriss a blank look and shrugged. Here was where the social, charming, brave, and helpful [Innkeeper] demonstrated an amazing unhelpfulness and ignorance about the world. Ilvriss paused.
“Can you think of anything? Foodstuffs? Sugar?”
“Uh…avocados? I need like thirty because the beach-group loves guacamole.”
“Erin. I’m talking trade. Avocados come from Oteslia.”
Erin threw up her hands, exasperated.
“Well, don’t ask me, then! I’ll go look around.”
She stomped off, and Ilvriss rubbed at his face. He was just about to tell Alrric to make a bunch of guesses based on his best information when someone appeared, and he nearly jumped out of his scales.
