She had fallen into it. At one point in her life, she had needed to flee, to hide, and it had either been giving something of herself to her class because there wasn’t much of ‘Xesci’ or dying.
The Drake didn’t regret it. The [Courtesan of Change] had a weak class in that she was no [Wall Lord] or [General], who, by definition, levelled slower and gained more power per level.
She was like the [Innkeeper], Erin Solstice. And she was also a patriot, probably, or at least believed in Ilvriss’ cause. She hoped she did.
Xesci thought she liked him. But who knew the truth? Even to her fellow anti-Az’kerash conspirators, Xesci had lied by omission.
She had told them her class…as it was. That was a simple trick anyone could pull on a truth stone. Just say ‘I was’ instead of ‘I am’. Or ‘my class is’, if you’d upgraded it. Word-games.
The truth? The truth was that [Courtesan of Change] was her old class. Her current one was a bit different.
Xesci was a [Courtesan of Reflected Facades].
She was also Level 50.
Exactly. She had been working towards Level 51 for the last six years. Until meeting Ilvriss, Xesci had doubted she would level again. There was no cause or need.
The Drake’s Pearl, the brothel where she had worked, was fairly safe. The workers were not always happy, but a bit of scheming in the Belavierr-form helped them stay out of trouble with their important clients. Xesci made money, and then a Wall Lord walked in with so much unhappiness he had fascinated her.
Because he wasn’t a bitter, poisoned apple ruining the relationship. He had loved Periss. She was dead. It was as close to a true love story as she knew.
Most people, when she looked into their hearts, didn’t have that pure honesty to them. They lied, they cheated on each other, they omitted facts, or they were just unable to hold up half of a relationship. Or—the moment the other half wobbled and dipped and needed support, they let go and wondered why nothing worked out and why this happened to good people.
Hence, Xesci liked Ilvriss the moment he walked in with his earnest regret. If he had asked her, looking like Periss, to spend a night with him, she wouldn’t have thought him as evil or wrong, she would have just lost interest. When he had looked at her and seen her true talent, hiding in the brothel, and brought her into the conspiracy…
It was fun. She was having fun, and the notion of this challenge? She wanted to know what the Necromancer was like. Everything she had read about him said she should know his ruined trust with his kingdom and his love. She had looked for it—a pit of betrayal—and never seen it, but perhaps she was too low-level.
She’d felt useless until Nerul’s comment. Now? She was excited again. Not least to meet the [Innkeeper].
 
——
 
The trip was cold, but Xesci was mostly interested in the goodbye and arrival. The Pegasi had custom saddles you strapped into, and the [Flight Master] was very diligent. The odds of you dying were remote since, even if you fell, you’d just be strapped into the flying horses.
Zail barely looked at her, but Xesci had already known him a long, long time. Helessia Gemscale had been more interesting as a young woman. She was a schemer, a planner, but age and sickness had done them both in.
Zail wasn’t deceitful like Itreus had been to Calistoca, or abusive or even neglectful. He was just not on the side he thought they all embodied, as sons and daughters of Salazsar. He looked to the walls. His daughter and wife looked to Izril.
As did Ilvriss. Xesci watched him shake claws with his friends, from Brilm—who eyed her wearing a Gnoll’s body covered in fur because it was freezing, a simpler Wall Lord—to Tasilt—who always thought of his family and was guarded and unhappy around the other Walled Families who didn’t like him—to Navine—who radiated suspicion—to Calistoca, a well of bitterness along with her estranged husband, Itreus, who stank of secrets.
But Itreus’ secret wasn’t like Az’kerash’s. She thought she knew him. He was simply a Turnscale, and that was an indictment in itself in the south. In the north, too, but she was used to them.
She occupied the dirt, the lowest floors, compared to nobility, and they ignored her as Ilvriss promised to make them proud. He was proud, nervous, torn up about his father, and relieved to head north. Relieved…because all the affection left in his bones was for Periss, his family, and Liscor.
How. Interesting.
The flight was boring. The conversation, not.
“We are currently flying above Izril, people! In theory, this is one of the most private moments we will get!”
Ilvriss barked at his team as they flew at the rear, the [Flight Master] leading the way. Xesci didn’t know all the loyal adjutants and aides around him. They were soldier-types or managers in his company, and they disliked her and thought she was a hanger-on he might be sleeping with.
Osthia was nervous, and Nerul was watchful. Ilvriss? He was fixed on the north. He was addressing his people, not Xesci, Nerul, or Osthia.
“I am going to share some top-level information with you. As you may be aware—we are not headed to Liscor merely to invest or even build up the anti-Antinium taskforce. These are certainly goals, but our real aim is far greater!”
Lie one. They believed it was an anti-Antinium force, not an anti-Az’kerash one. But then, the special forces unit being trained and equipped in Salazsar might well be used for many purposes.
“What then, Wall Lord?”
Ilvriss smiled tightly.
“At the Meeting of Tribes, I ran into General Sserys. The ghost of our people’s hero told me that a great conflict was coming. To be ready. He furnished me with locations. A risky task. Our goal is nothing less than to dig and find one of the lost Walled Cities of the north. To reclaim any treasures we can from it—and bring them to Salazsar.”
Gasps. Exclamations. Wonder, awe, excitement…it seemed genuine except in one of the Drakes. Xesci marked him, a…[Captain of Command], Vendoramt. She signaled Nerul quietly as she glanced at his Pegasus.
“Acknowledged.”
His voice came back tersely. Nerul was employing a speaking stone, but his Skill was [Diplomatic Immunity: Spycraft]. It made it nigh-impossible to ‘hack’ his speaking stones. That was why she was willing to risk even tipping him off. Nerul muttered.
“We’ll tell Ilvriss later. I knew we had a mole. Osthia?”
“Checking…he’s been loyal to Ilvriss, but if I had to guess—he’s from Salazsar’s army.”
“City spying on us. That’s fine. Excellent work, Xesci. Keep us apprised.”
Nerul was complacent, taking it as a matter of course. But Ilvriss went on, telling the others the plan.
“We are after any Walled City we can find, and I know several. People, I was honored to be picked by Sserys. Perhaps it was speaking with Zel Shivertail that gave me this great task, but I will try to be worthy of it. We will be as careful, secret, and diplomatic as possible, hence Nerul’s presence.”
“That’s right! No war, no issues! We can’t boulder our way into the north. I’ll be having a word about your conduct, people. Functionally, I give orders when it comes to diplomacy, and everyone, everyone listens, or I feed you to Crelers!”
Nerul shouted jovially, and Ilvriss nodded. Then he took a breath as the others leaned in.
“So you know, our target is to reach any Walled City we can, in theory. Most are buried or otherwise lost. Yet our specific target, the one we are after is…Grunvel, the City of Pacts.”
The only city built with Dwarven involvement. Gasp. Murmur. Surprise even from Vendoramt. Excitement, genuine, from him.
Lie.
The lie was on Ilvriss, a determined, icy lie founded on willpower and colder than the snow blowing around them. Xesci snuggled more into her coat and grew another layer of fur as she knew that he was lying.
They were not going to Grunvel, or rather, that was not the primary objective. But the thing was—it was a very useful lie because it told Salazsar and everyone else what they intended, but threw them off the scent if they wanted to interfere.
Their real goal was another Walled City entirely. Ilvriss had inspected the ones in the north, and of the ones he knew, the ones Sserys claimed were even remotely intact, there was only one he wanted.
Aside from, say, Mershi, which everyone was looking for, Ilvriss was after Naamreles. The City of Purity.
A very odd name for a Walled City, but according to every book that Ilvriss had pulled—it would have what he wanted. Namely—the artifacts of a city so obsessed with purity and refinement of all things that it had made treasures and sealed its doom by the same obsession that had turned into mania.
Among other things, tools and old methods of making high-quality ores and whatnot. But also—
Ways of purifying death magic. Death-bane weapons. Of all the Walled Cities, it was apparently Naamreles that had helped throw back the Putrid One in its time. That was as good a voucher as any that it had what Ilvriss needed.
 
——
 
Getting to Pallass by nightfall meant everyone was stiff, cold, and tired when the Day Strategist approved their landing and they were allowed to land.
However, it was a thirty-minute inspection of everything they had by Pallass’ Watch, and it was thorough and complicated…mostly by Xesci.
“High-level civilian. Passport?”
She handed it over as a suspicious [Guard] realized she was more than she let on. Nothing would do but they search her gear, but the real problem was when she forgot what she looked like.
“…You look nothing like your passport.”
“Can I see the picture?”
She made the mistake of shape-shifting her face to match, and when the [Guards] realized what she was doing, they called Salazsar to confirm she was who she said she was…and no one could prove that.
In the end, Ilvriss had to demand they let her into the city by threatening a diplomatic incident. Nerul got them in more efficaciously by suggesting that the Watch bypass her shape-shifting face and fingerprint and take a sample of her scales.
Xesci went along with it, even letting them take a blood-sample over Ilvriss’ objections. When he stormed off, she whispered.
“Don’t worry. I can change all three.”
He gave her an astonished look. Xesci then grew uncomfortable and looked around. It was cold, they were all tired, and the 9th Floor of Pallass was dark. While the city below was lit up, she just wanted a bed.
“Where to, Wall Lord?”
“Liscor. We’d better not have trouble with that door. We’re expected.”
At half past midnight, the group finally made it to the door to Liscor…only to realize that the door was closed.
Ilvriss tried it a few times, but it was dead. He stood there until a very sleepy and glaring Gnoll appeared.
“…whuzzha. You Ilvriss?”
“Wall Lord Ilvriss is expected by—”
“Shutblrr. Get in.”
Liska was sleepy, grumpy, and glared as she looked at the group she’d had to wait for all night. Ilvriss took a breath.
“Best behavior, everyone. Welsca, remember. Erin is an esteemed friend and a necessary ally.”
He turned to the female Drake, who had a history with Erin, and she blushed. Ilvriss turned back to Liska, and Xesci saw him smile. His mood, tired as he was, lightened. He was determined to make this return to Liscor go well, and he remembered all his old failures as old Ilvriss.
The new Wall Lord? He put a claw in his pocket and filled the cup by the door with silver and gold coins for the entire group. Then he placed something on the table as he strode through. Liska peered down and instantly sat up, and a good mood appeared.
“Wh—thank you! Is that for me?”
“Yes it is. A tip. Thank you, Miss….?”
“Liska.”
“Liska. I’m sure we’ll be making use of your services, and this is for any inconvenience—tonight.”
The gold coin was minted in Salazsar and fatter and heavier than some you could find in the north. Liska slid it into her belt pouch and actually got up.
“Let me show you into your inn. Do you have luggage? You can carry it right in…your rooms are ready, and you’re the last person in tonight. There’s also the beach, but there’s no villas available.”
“A…beach?”
Ilvriss had not been watching the news while his father was engaging Fissival. He trotted into the inn after Liska, and Xesci eyed the girl.
Turnscale.
She could tell. It wasn’t as if she could sense Turnscales directly. But she knew people, and Liska was obvious as she focused on Xesci, who looked like a Gnoll woman, and had zero interest in Ilvriss or male Gnolls in general.
The part about her being interested in Drakes and Gnolls wasn’t noteworthy. Most Drakes had a private interest in Gnolls even if they publicly said they were ‘only interested in other Drakes’. In fact, the ones who shouted that the loudest were the most likely to visit a brothel.
Xesci felt uncomfortable, though, as she followed Liska down the hallway. And she couldn’t place it until Nerul swore.
“Nephew, my scales are jumping. Is this normal, or are we not walking through a killzone?”
He’d spotted the hallway and did not like it. Ilvriss half-turned.
“Just don’t make her mad, Uncle. Is she awake?”
Xesci muttered to Osthia.
“That’s not the only thing in this inn that’s scary. I sense a [Rogue]. Shriekblade’s watching us.”
Both Nerul and Osthia spun. Xesci couldn’t tell them where, but she remembered the prickle of a Face in the area. And if she recognized them, they always recognized her.
But there was something else in this inn that made Xesci’s fur itch. It was like the inn itself was breathing, like it was watching her. It took her a second to realize she was walking through a gigantic aura, vast, perhaps weaker than a focused one, but covering this entire domain.
Erin Solstice was in the common room of the inn by the time Ilvriss walked in. Xesci heard her voice.
“Ilvriss! You made it without those Pallassian jerks!”
“Erin. Were you waiting for us? I’m sorry we were so late—”
“Nah, nah. I was up for entirely other reasons. Like, uh…hey, I know you. You’re that bath-Drake! Welcome. I guess. And this is…”
“Captain Shieldscale. And my Uncle, Nerul, and this is Xesci…”
She realized she was a Drake, plain-faced, the most innocuous she could be, and Liska jumped as she stared at Xesci, expecting a Gnoll. The [Courtesan] couldn’t say why, but she was suddenly trying to be bland as could be. Like when she’d met Larracel the Haven. Ilvriss moved aside, and she saw a young woman with brown hair, hazel eyes—
The two locked gazes, and both recoiled instantly. Erin stumbled back into a table, and Xesci flinched and hid behind Nerul. Erin spoke.
“Wh—who are you?”
And Xesci stared at Erin.
“Who are you?”
