He was not the only one who wanted to know. But it was one thing to assume she was doing this out of ignorance. Erin’s friends knew better.
Lyonette knew better. She was eavesdropping on the private dining room, wondering what had possessed Erin, as Ilvriss and Nerul argued with her.
“Erin, this will put the entire north against us!”
“Not all of ‘em. Some of them will want the Skill, and the <Quest> is there to tell the Drakes what you’re doing too, Ilvriss.”
“So you did it on purpose.”
Erin paused a second, and her voice floated out of the private dining room. Lyonette edged the door open so she could see Erin. She knew the [Innkeeper] might know she was here, but Erin was distracted. Her cheeks were flushed, and Lyonette, Ulvama, and the other people listening into the debate could hear her voice.
She was mad.
“—Yes. Okay? I’m not stupid. I posted the quest on purpose. Because Xitegen warned you.”
“And if they go after Ilvriss to kill him? Many would trade even Zeladona’s Skill to murder a Wall Lord.”
Nerul was genuinely curious what Erin was thinking. Her eyes flashed, and her voice rose.
“Let them try. That’s the point of the <Quest>. Ilvriss, I get it. I know you wanted to come in quiet, but the north sieged Liscor. Tyrion Veltras? Even if they didn’t openly say things, they’d do exactly what they’re going to do already. But you know what? Magnolia’s right. She is.”
Erin strode around the room, pacing, angry.
“In my world—there was this movement for civil rights. There have always been people who didn’t see eye-to-eye, and you don’t win by letting the bullies come after you or passively resist. You stand up and be counted. And you count them. If they come after you, I will knock them down. Even if I have to fight one of the Five Families.”
She made a fist, turning to Ilvriss, and Lyonette felt like someone was squeezing her chest. That was—
No, that was Erin. She had just never heard Erin actualize her thoughts like that. It was classic Erin and how she fought for the Goblins.
And it was wrong. The [Princess] felt it in her bones. All the righteousness in the world…that mattered, but this was hearts and minds. Erin was swinging a sword, not holding out a branch.
It reminded Lyonette of Maviola. It reminded her of a young woman waving a flag in front of an army. But it was not the right decision.
Lyonette wanted to tell Erin that, but Nerul got there first. The [Diplomat] was giving Erin a troubled look.
“You’re describing escalation in no uncertain terms, Miss Solstice. My job is to prevent people from coming to blows. Not to go around kicking towers down.”
“You sound like Magnolia.”
Erin snapped back. She shook her head.
“She’s done this like…I’ve seen how she does things. Celum. The Drakes. She plays ‘keep-away’ in diplomacy. She doesn’t poke you too much. She pushes, but she doesn’t get in your face. Aside from her pulling Tyrion off Liscor, she doesn’t challenge her own people. She should. If she wants peace with the Drakes, she has to draw a line in the sand and stand on it. This is the line.”
She turned to Ilvriss, and he threw up his claws as she sent his plans into chaos. Had he really expected she’d be a force purely for his benefit?
Silly Drake. Lyonette withdrew a second as she heard the voices rise and shook her head. Erin was right. She was right—and completely wrong. How could someone be right and wrong like that?
Perhaps…perhaps having the courage to do something didn’t always mean it was the right thing to do. But Lyonette saw Ilvriss striding out the private room a second later, furious, talking to Nerul.
He stopped when he saw her and hesitated. Nerul was just shaking his head as he spoke, though.
“I take it back. I misread her. Utterly. Completely. She’s not a [Fool] in a court. She’s a damn Marquin.”
Lyonette jumped at the term, and Ilvriss glanced at her.
“You mean, like—”
“No, I mean like Marquin the Radiant. She’s practicing Creler-wars diplomacy. What a mess. Give me a day to figure things out and get a read on the temperature, Nephew. I was going to talk to Magnolia Reinhart and ease us into the north. Now, we’re coming in like lions. Wonderful.”
Nerul stormed off, and Lyonette bit her tongue as Ilvriss stood there.
That was the way he came to Liscor and the north, after all. She wished she could say she was surprised. But this all felt unexpectedly expected.
 
——
 
The struggles of Wall Lord Ilvriss and Erin Solstice entered a new phase the next day. From being unwelcome in the north, Ilvriss found himself at the center of real hostility. He started his morning dodging chamberpots being hurled at him in Invrisil.
And that…well, as Nerul would say, that was just a classic Izrilian welcome.
