Erin stared at Ilvriss, and there was a shadow of Sserys’ look in her, even now. Perhaps he just imagined it. But she nodded and put the bowl of chips aside.
“I can’t wait for you to get here, Ilvriss. And if you need backup—I’ve got you.”
She flexed one arm.
“See? Look at these guns. I’ve got muscle again! I’m gonna punch whoever gets in your way! Hah! Ow, my back.”
She clutched at her back that hurt from sitting for three hours. She wasn’t completely healed, but she at least had muscle to flex.
Even if there was debatably less flex in that arm than a stick of gum. It was Erin’s way of trying to be reassuring, and Ilvriss smiled.
“I’ll hold you to that. Perhaps you could help talk to my father. Leaving will be…tricky.”
There was so much to do, but he was going. Erin sat up and nodded, and Ilvriss sighed. His breath spiraled into the air. So many things to do, and there was only one of him.
Now there was a Zail and an Ilvriss. One to guard the City of Gems, the other to leave?
If only it was that easy.
 
——
 
The best parts of Zail returning to form was meeting Erin in person. It was seeing Fissival get their tails kicked in.
The worst part of his father returning was that his father had come back. If not to Eschowar’s amazing level, he was strutting about without his cane, indicating a strength Skill. More than that…Ilvriss had seldom seen such a recovery of vitality in a few days.
It was more than just levels; it was willpower, purpose.
Ilvriss was glad, inspired by the older Drakes showing everyone how it was done. House Gemscale was stronger, Zail looked better, and they came to reinforce Izril at a time when every claw might be needed against great foes.
He wasn’t bothered by it at all. As proof of that, Ilvriss had to spend thirty minutes in the bathroom as his father made his way up to House Gemscale’s apartments. Then the toilet clogged.
Bathroom issues were not something Drakes usually spoke of. Not once in the year he’d known Erin had Ilvriss mentioned her outhouses except to ask where they were. Today, of all days…he put his face in his claws and then realized he should have washed his damn hands first.
“Heeeeey, Ilvriss? Your dad’s here. You out yet?”
Erin couldn’t knock on the door, or her hand would pass through, so she just made a knocking sound on her end. Ilvriss shouted back as he cursed and searched around the bathroom.
“Just a second!”
He was not going to walk out there and tell Zail to his face that he had a clogged toilet and the staff needed to get in there. It was true that his family did have staff, but they were ‘staff’ as opposed to servants.
A distinction that had very little weight outside of the terminology, he was aware. But Ilvriss refused to tell them to clean the toilet. He had to have standards.
“Plunger. Plunger. Where’s the damn plunger? This is why acid actually…”
An acid jar would be salvation at this point. He’d dump it in there, and damn the sewers and pipes. Then again, Ilvriss could just imagine every apartment below him complaining of busted and leaking sewage lines.
He finally found a plunger and stared at it. Yes, Drakes had plungers. Not rubber ones, but a kind of wooden contraption, a sealed cylinder that you pushed down to pump air through with a handle. Fancy apartments had a magical one.
“The Aeromancer’s Push, a Fissival-made product. Ancestors.”
He hadn’t had this issue in years. Ilvriss had to remember how to insert it into turgid water, and he closed his eyes a second.
“Today? Today?”
Then he tried to make the damn thing work. Here was the thing about Drake bathrooms. They had actual bathrooms, rather than holes that led straight into septic tanks. Even in a lot of Human cities you still had literal outhouses, or they tossed their waste into the street.
True, a modern, non-Drake city might eliminate the disgusting elements with magical spells, but that was still objectively disgusting, because if you incinerated it, guess what floated up and came raining down?
The problem, though, was that even though Salazsar had plumbing that literally reached to the top of their towers—a hellish thing to pump water up and down from and required magic—they had all the problems of modern Earth society.
In fact, Ilvriss could relate to Erin on a fundamental level neither had ever realized before. After eight minutes of swearing, Ilvriss heard a knock.
“Hey, um. Ilvriss. I don’t wanna bother you, but Zail is sorta here with Eschowar and Navine and your mom, and they’re all waiting for you. I think they’re worried something’s wrong. They were talking about the old Zeresian toilet assassin. Is that a thing, or is that Nerul guy making fun of me?”
“Both. Erin, please make an excuse.”
“Is anything wrong?”
“No. Yes! I’m just having a plumbing issue. Don’t come in here! Don’t—”
Erin Solstice had made a gamble that Ilvriss was not speaking personally and poked her head in the door, shielding one eye. She took one look inside his bathroom, and he shouted.
“Out!”
“Oooh. Clogged toilet. Wait a second. You’ve got a proper bathroom!”
Erin was outraged, astounded, and grossed out. But only mildly on the latter. She had sensed Ilvriss’ distress in his voice, and she sidled into the bathroom.
“I knew it. You don’t know how to plunge a toilet.”
“Erin. I respect you immensely. Get out.”
The [Innkeeper] folded her arms.
“No. I knew I heard sounds that no digestive system could make. You need my help. You’re angling it wrong.”
“I’m fine.”
“Why is there water on your bathroom—ew.”
Ilvriss paused, and he had to admit he needed help. And a change of clothes. The problem with the Aeromancer’s Push was that it was…powerful. He’d angled it wrong, and the plunger hadn’t formed a seal on the toilet. So all the air had blasted out and taken a lot of water with it.
Erin’s concern may have also had to do with the fact that some of the water had begun leaking below the doorframe. She whispered as Ilvriss stood in the blasted bathroom.
“They’re cleaning up the backsplash.”
“The—Ancestors. I just hit this button, and it—”
“You’re angling it wrong. Trust me, I’ve done this at least five times in my life. You gotta turn the water off first. Or dump some hot water in—that’s why it’s overflowing.”
“I tried flushing it.”
“How many times?”
“…Three.”
There was water everywhere. Ilvriss closed his eyes, and Erin stared at him. She was never gladder her theatre did not have smell-o-vision or transmit odor.
“Okay, angle it higher. Like that—no—you’ve got a gap. Wait a second, the plunger’s busted. See? There’s a crack there.
“Ancestors!”
“Maybe you should leave?”
“Covered in this? Absolutely not.”
“Okay, okay. But you’ve gotta get this—listen. It’s a nice bathroom, and I don’t wanna see it get worse. Actually, it’s a great bathroom. Wow. Look at that tub. You might want to clean it before anyone uses it.”
As Ilvriss, praying, angled the plunger and tried to re-engage the spell, Erin looked around, pretending not to hear the horrible gurgling sound. She glanced down, winced…
“There’s not much water left in the bowl. Get some hot water out of the sink and use it. Sometimes it loosens things up.”
There was nothing for it. Ilvriss had to walk over, then open the door after splashing water on himself. As he opened the door, several very concerned members of staff recoiled. They were worried because they’d seen the water leaking and they had heard Erin talking, then vanish into the door. Humans were abhorrent, disgusting, privacy-less creatures, but even so.
“Okay. Okay. Hello? I need a bucket. Change of clothes—tell my family there is a slight, em—no, no [Healer]. Plumbing issues. I have it under control! One of the plungers may be broken. A replacement would be welcome.”
He closed the door and took a shaky breath. Erin patted him on the shoulder. After a few seconds, a bucket was passed through, and Ilvriss ran some hot water.
“So. You’ve got hot water, huh? It’s even steaming.”
Erin was either the best person for this moment or the worst. Ilvriss’ mind had decided he was in denial and that this was just a horrible dream.
I’m not covered in poop water as my family waits for me below with Erin. I’m just giving her a tour of the bathrooms in Salazsar. Yes.
“Hot water, cold—it’s standard in any Walled City. Technically, I suppose, you do have to pay for the utility, so it’s cold water in poorer areas they have to warm with a stove.”
“Ooh. That’s not good in the winter. Do you guys have electricity?”
“Elect…that thing from your home?”
Ilvriss was conscious the staff might be listening. Then he had a horrible thought and turned to Erin.
“Erin. I’m not being broadcast in your theatre, am I?”
Erin looked around quickly.
“Nope. Actually, I’ll seal the doors of the theatre.”
“Thank you. What do I do with the hot water?”
“Let it sit for a few minutes? Then use the new plunger. So—you guys get clogged toilets?”
“Yes. We also have hot water for running baths and showers.”
Erin oohed, looking to the side as Ilvriss splashed more water on himself—and soap. Drakes really did have modern bathrooms.
“That’s so Earth.”
“I dislike how impressed you sound. This is standard, Erin. And frankly, these are some of the best facilities you could want to see—present circumstances excepting.”
“Has anyone else got better bathrooms?”
“F-Fraerlings? Royalty? What a question.”
She was trying to cheer him up, and Erin saw Ilvriss go over to the door and receive a new plunger. As he geared up for round two, telling the staff he would handle it—she looked around and frowned.
“Wait a sec. This is a swanky bathroom. It’s got a bath and shower, mirror, sink, toilet…but what the heck is that?”
The bathroom was one of those porcelain ones with huge, cream-colored marble tiles currently besmirched by brown. But it was interesting to Erin in a genuine sense. It looked like a fancy, private bathroom, one of many in the Gemscale apartments. This one had a huge, wide tub about three times bigger than hers that you could use to shower or have a lovely bath in.
Ilvriss, with some gold knobs, could turn on hot water or cold, and it was all analogous to her world. Admittedly, he had a [Light] spell, not electricity, but it was nice.
The toilet was a bit interesting. Not the poo part—Erin was trying not to embarrass Ilvriss further. But it had an interesting part on the back where you’d hang your tail while doing your business, for Drakes and perhaps Gnolls. Thusly, it was set further from the wall. Most toilets were close to the wall, but it seemed that was less comfortable for Drakes and Gnolls.
Bathroom layouts were a thing Erin had never considered in her entire life. Come to it…how did poor Moore handle things? What about Palt?
…What about Palt? She decided to ask him later in public.
But the thing that Erin had no reference point whatsoever for was this long, trough-like thing where you could sit and…
“Hey, Ilvriss? What’s that?”
He was pumping air into the toilet and hoping it was actually working. Ilvriss glanced over and grunted.
“Bidet. What, have you not got one of those in your world?”
“A bidet? That fancy thing from France? Pssh. Why the heck…how does this thing even work?”
“It sprays water.”
“Water? On what?”
Erin was horrified. When Ilvriss told her, she kicked at it, and her foot passed through.
“What the heck. Who cleans up like that?”
“…Erin.”
“Wait a second, this part’s for your tail. You put your tail in this thing?”
“It drags on the ground. Erin, please. Not all Walled Cities have them.”
“They sure don’t! Lasica and Rufelt don’t have this thing in their bathroom!”
“We got the design from Herizz, the City of Roofs. Erin, how do you not know what that is? It’s a perfectly natural—Ancestors be praised, it worked.”
He grunted in relief as he saw the toilet flushing, and Erin threw up her hands.
“Huzzah! But about this bidet—”
“Get out!”
He turned and screamed at her, and she ran.
 
——
 
A tired Drake appeared twenty minutes later, smelling of rosewater and nothing else, with a new change of clothes on.
Erin hadn’t told anyone about the bathroom incident, but his family still asked if everything was alright. Fifty minutes of waiting for someone to come out of the bathroom…
“Father. You look—incredible.”
Ilvriss paused as Wall Lord Zail turned, and Erin sized up the two at last. Zail was an older Drake with purple scales turned grey, shorter than his son, but all of that was because he had faded with age. He had actually been taller as a younger Drake, and, she had learned, a Swordsmaster of Salazsar.
Not that exact class—it was like being an Archmage of Wistram. He had been a war commander, a Wall Lord who took to the field in defense of his city.
His son was, in theory, like that, but Erin realized that Ilvriss was actually the less martial of the two. She thought of Ilvriss as being a sort of prim and arrogant Wall Lord who’d changed dramatically from when she met him; a businessman, really.
Zail was an older, pricklier version of that. You could see where Ilvriss had learned it from. In fact, he gave Erin a dour look, as the only Human in the room, but they had a chess connection, and Eschowar had insisted she be involved.
What was telling, to Erin, was how Ilvriss greeted his father, revitalized on triumph from the war. He hesitated, almost went in for a hug, aborted at the same time as Zail, and the two paused…then shook hands.
Uh oh. That one moment said a lot. Zail stared up at Ilvriss, seeming taller and more composed, and Ilvriss seemed shocked at the strength in Zail’s body.
“You’re not using your cane. Is it a new Skill?”
“[My Strength, Regained]. It only works for ten minutes, but it cycles around every three hours. Very handy. I always had [Noble Strength], but that didn’t stop the joint pain and whatnot. This new Skill makes me ignore it all. I could climb the Gemscale tower and not feel a thing from muscle pain afterwards.”
“Really? Dead gods. Not that you will.”
“I have better uses of ten minutes. You’re on your own feet now. Did the spell damage clear up? Was there internal bleeding from it? That happens.”
“—Mostly. You mean the issue with the restroom—that wasn’t it—”
Ilvriss looked like he was about to die, so Erin jumped in.
“Hello! Wall Lord Zail, we met, but this is our first meeting together. Ilvriss is a big friend of mine, and I’m honored you let me into your apartment! Hello, Helessia, Navine!”
