She waved at the other two Drakes, who stared at her for a second. Zail paused, looked away from Ilvriss—who gave Erin a relieved smile—and demonstrated a second time how he and Ilvriss were related.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss. My son is a Wall Lord, Innkeeper Solstice. Don’t forget. You are a guest of House Gemscale, but in my city—”
Erin’s smile faltered. Oh, this did feel familiar. Even though he was predisposed to like her—no, she supposed this was him ‘liking’ her. She hesitated, because even she wasn’t willing to blast Zail with her classic insolence in front of Ilvriss. But she was getting tempted already.
Ilvriss was the one who stepped in, to Erin’s and Zail’s surprise.
“Father, Erin Solstice talked to Zel Shivertail by name. Standing on formality with her isn’t something I’ve insisted on. It is upon me—Lord Eschowar, Major Khorpe, it is a delight to see you two.”
“Y-young man. Ah, my Skill ran out.”
Eschowar made an attempt to slap his leg, then sighed. Khorpe bowed, staring at Erin from the side.
“It’s on her too. I’ve never seen anything like that. See? She’s coming like a storm…but not yet.”
He actually held out a claw and edged closer. Erin smiled, uncomprehending as the other Drakes tried to shush Khorpe.
“Hello? Major Khorpe? What’s coming?”
“Death. But you’re safe for at least…eleven days? I feel safe around you. Not yet. Not yet. Then—”
Erin’s face went waxy, and Eschowar hurried to introduce the others. Zail, meanwhile, was talking with his son, and Erin caught a few whispers.
“The dignity of—”
“—Father, not the time now to—”
“—just a Human.”
It was clear from the way the other Drakes pretended not to hear that this was not the first time they’d been in uncomfortable moments. In fact, Helessia, the bed-ridden Drake, and Navine seemed like another side of the family as they greeted Erin.
“Miss Solstice, I regret we did not speak after all the unpleasantness at the Meeting of Tribes. You…and Lady Magnolia Reinhart…are the two Humans I have been most interested in meeting.”
Helessia coughed delicately from her bed, and Erin smiled at her.
“Me? I know Magnolia’s very important, but I’m just an [Innkeeper], Lady Helessia.”
“You sound so modest. My son can attest that you are not merely anything.”
The Drake smiled, and Erin grew uncomfortable. But that was nothing to how Ilvriss looked as Zail raised his voice.
“Eschowar has a head for the Walled Families and deciding the politics. Now things have changed—we might not have the energy to do everything, but if we portion our abilities well, Eschowar, myself, and several of the Last Defenders can put in an hour of true effort each day with our Skills. At least! I was thinking to press Fissival. There’s the mines to consider, and your own initiatives, Ilvriss. What if we stopped by Alrric’s office to gather materials and had a meeting in half an hour regarding the state of things?”
“House Erchirite as well could sit in. My own daughter has control, but dividing up responsibilities would be useful to coordinate.”
Eschowar seemed interested too, and Erin saw a full wince roll over Navine’s and Nerul’s faces. He whispered to his niece.
“Ancestors. Each house will now have at least two de-facto heads. Imagine the power plays. Mister Superior is going to have a field day writing those contracts up.”
“Mister who? Is that a name?”
Erin wasn’t part of this city. She had danced into it like the outsider she was, and so she could only sense the change from the outside because it was so obvious.
But Ilvriss? Ilvriss looked tired, and not just from the bathroom escapades. He looked at his father, insisting on a meeting, and Erin wondered why, even on this day, he didn’t seem quite happy.
Zail seemed to sense it too and paused.
“—We could speak with Innkeeper Solstice first, I suppose. Brunch? Regarding the family interests, I meant side-projects, not my assuming control of—”
“Father. Why don’t we go for a walk?”
Ilvriss broke in gently, and Zail blinked. Erin saw Ilvriss look out towards the light snow drifting down and pointed to the windows.
“Just a walk around the walls, perhaps. It’s cold—but would you give me an hour of your time? We could bring Erin too, if you’re willing.”
A walk? Between the two of them? And with Erin? Everyone stared at Ilvriss, but Zail just blinked, then slowly nodded. Erin pointed at herself.
“Me? D-do you want me?”
Both Ilvriss and Zail glanced at her and nodded. Erin looked around at Nerul, Helessia, Navine, and the others giving her the side-eye. Erin hesitated.
“…Why?”
 
——
 
The point of Erin’s presence was to act as the proverbial white elephant in the room. She was like the weird picture on the wall, the odd knick-knack, the conversation starter, the icebreaker.
And there was an iceberg large enough to sink the Titanic for Erin to deal with. The first fifteen minutes of the two Drakes wearing huge coats and heating spells was just them walking around the walls of Salazsar, pointing out more sights to Erin.
There were guards, but they saluted and let the two Drakes pass, and the walk along the walls wasn’t entirely circular. You had a magnificent view from mountainous Salazsar in every direction. Erin imagined it was gorgeous in the spring and summer, but the winter lent this austere snowy world where you stared down for miles at the landscape around the City of Gems.
All of it seemed to give Ilvriss the strength to bring up what he meant to say after fifteen minutes.
“I’m glad you’ve levelled and found a passion, Father. I was worried when you went to engage Fissival. I never considered the Scintillation Counter. Not that I could use it from memory, but I was just trying to rout them. My heart wasn’t in the battle. I got good Drakes and Gnolls killed and nearly died because I didn’t take my foe seriously.”
Zail ducked his head awkwardly.
“Fissival loves to prey on openings. We tricked them. In other times, they’d come prepared for the counter. Acknowledge the dead. We have enough funerals to attend, even with this victory. Their families will be repaid for their sacrifices.”
That was as close as he seemed to be able to come to reassuring Ilvriss. Erin listened to how Zail talked and saw how Ilvriss grimaced and looked sideways at her for a second. Then the Drake nodded.
“I will. Provide recompense, that is. I’d face them, but honestly, Father, your return to form I am glad of. It makes it easier for me to leave. I am heading for Liscor to begin an expedition of my own, a private venture. It may take months, but I have to go. Today, or tomorrow if not today. Fissival’s army has retreated, and now is the opportune moment to go before they attempt another blockade.”
Zail and Erin both started, and the older Wall Lord stumbled. Ilvriss reached for his arm, but Zail brushed it off.
“Today? Liscor? Are you mad, Ilvriss? You want to leave our home when we have all the opportunity? Eschowar is back, I can lift a sword—we could train together! I’ve seen you sneaking off to learn swordplay. And what about your company?”
Ilvriss put his claws in his pockets.
“I’ll let you and Alrric work it out, Father. That would be ideal. As I said, I can trust Salazsar will have someone to protect it, now. I know this seems like I’m running off, but—”
“I’m not intending to take the company from you, Ilvriss.”
Zail searched Ilvriss’ face, and the younger Wall Lord smiled briefly.
“I know.”
“This is just an attempt for me to help. You should—you must be the face of House Gemscale.”
“I know, Father. I’m not running away from you. I just—have to go. I told you, I was given instructions from the only person that outranks us.”
Erin’s skin chilled as his eyes settled on her, and Zail swung around to the [Innkeeper]. His lips compressed at the thought she was hearing secrets of state, but then he turned to Ilvriss.
“You can’t leave today, Ilvriss. Delay a week.”
“A week is too long, Father. I need to get in position. There is more than just my project at stake.”
Again, he looked at Erin, and Zail’s eyes narrowed dangerously as he glared at her.
“Are you seriously in love with her?”
“Wh—me?”
“Father.”
Ilvriss snapped, shocked. Zail folded his arms, standing in the snow, looking annoyed and imperious, and Erin saw his eyes flash.
“Answer me. I understand moving because you were given orders by ghosts. I understand doing things for the good of Salazsar, but you are a Wall Lord. Delegate! Send Alrric or Captain Shieldscale. The only time you’ve left Salazsar was literally to pursue the Tidebreaker because no one else would, and to combat the Goblin Lord. This is your city. You’re needed here.”
“No. I’m not. And your return proves that. Father, I’d love to reconnect, but this is something I can only…no, I want to do it myself. Please, just give me your blessing, and we will speak via speaking stone. But I have to go.”
Ilvriss’ shoulders were hunched, and he avoided Zail’s eyes, staring at his feet. Zail made a strangled hissing noise.
“You can’t delay for a single week? Think of what Eschowar could teach you! Think of—”
“Father. I’ve known Eschowar all my life. He can only teach me what you did, to be a better Son of the Walls and a Drake. I’m going to Human lands, to forge ties and alliances. It has nothing to do with my affection with Erin—I like her as a trusted friend, but I have no romantic feelings for her whatsoever.”
Ilvriss turned red, and Zail yanked a clawed hand out of his pocket. He stared at a flashing series of blue lights—then a faint red one.
The younger Wall Lord had forgotten his father carried a [Detect Truth] ring on him at all times. He slowly turned crimson. At this point, someone spoke up in a strangled voice.
“I, uh—should I go for a walk over there?”
Erin was backing up, but both Drakes turned and snapped.
“No. Stay.”
Even Ilvriss said that. It might have been because their conversation would get nastier if Erin left. And it was already going to the rocks. Ilvriss took a deep breath.
“My point stands. Father. I am going.”
“Everything has changed, Ilvriss. You are not.”
Ilvriss finally locked eyes with Zail, who had stepped forwards, glaring at his son. He leaned over, glanced at Erin, then spoke in a piercing voice.
“Nothing has changed. Only you, Father! Do you think this will magically change everything? Our family has always been a mess, and your ability to swing a sword—Mother and Navine barely speak to us most days of the week! We haven’t eaten dinner together in a month. No one in the greater Gemscale family talks to us except Nerul, and only because he’s our [Chief Diplomat]! You and I—”
He paused as Zail recoiled, blinking.
“You and I have always been like this. You can’t just win a war and fix things, Father. You never could. I respected you for never trying to do that. Please, don’t start now.”
At this point, Erin was edging down the wall, but the two Drakes started walking after her, conscious, but talking. Zail stared ahead as he marched forwards, and Ilvriss’ cheeks were filled with blood.
“I wish I could have done more.”
“No one blames you for anything. It was how it always—was. Everyone cheered when you routed Fissival. I swore I saw Navine punching the air. But that and this is different. Let me go.”
“You’re needed here, Ilvriss. Salazsar needs you to lead them.”
Zail looked beseechingly at his son, and Ilvriss shook his head, almost laughing.
“Salazsar needs me like it needs another rock to hold the city up. This city…our home doesn’t change, Father. You came out of retirement because the foundations rocked. Me leaving is better.”
“It’s selfish. She—”
Zail glared at Erin, and Ilvriss actually knocked Zail’s claw down as he began to point.
“Don’t lecture me on being selfish, Father. We’re Drakes. We do glorious things for petty reasons. Our entire species is selfish and idiotic. How many wars did you and Eschowar win that started over someone throwing a wine cup? This is the best thing I can do. I need to go, and you need to let me.”
Ilvriss’ comments made Zail’s head snap back. And then his father got angry. The Wall Lord pointed down at the walls as a [Soldier], marching along Salazsar’s walls, took a look at the two arguing in the snow and tried to hurry past. He stared at Erin, who was standing so far to the side she was floating in space past the walls. But she couldn’t escape Zail’s words.
“Petty. Petty? You want to say we’re ‘petty’ as you stand on the walls your forefathers bled and died on? Ilvriss! What about all the brave Drakes who’ve died for these walls? Your bones and blood are in this city!”
Ilvriss’ head was ducked as Zail raised his voice.
“Eschowar! Myself! Khorpe! Lastillel! They died for this ground! Lastillel died right there, with Pallassian arrows raining down. Chaldion’s son killed him, and you want to go there without thinking of your home? Itreus! Linvios—no matter who we are, we know our duty! Calistoca, Redrein, Allnot, Seiryene—”
He was howling names, and Ilvriss snapped. He screamed back, screamed into the frozen air.
“I don’t remember who they are!”
Erin’s head snapped back despite her hands over her ears, and Zail froze. His eyes widened with outrage, but Ilvriss had the screaming advantage.
“I never knew them! Father! They’re dead! I was a boy when you told me they were dead—some of them were dead before I was even alive! They’re your memories. Not mine.”
“They were sons and daughters of the wall. That’s all you need to know. Or haven’t you seen your own comrades fall?”
Zail hissed back after a second, his face turning white as Ilvriss’ turned deeper crimson. His son paused, then whispered back in a tone that carried down the entire wall.
“Of course I do. How many of them do I have to sacrifice to our city? How many names do I have to add? Brilm? Tasilt? I’ve given everything to our city, and what did it give me? Periss is dead, and I was ashamed of even telling people I loved her. That’s what I remember when I face her parents. How many more bodies do you want me to throw off these walls, Father?”
He was pointing a clawed finger over the walls and yelling. Zail inhaled to shout back—and he seemed to remember Erin was there. He and Ilvriss paused—looked at her and the [Guards] ducking down as if they were under fire—and stopped.
Both breathed. Just breathed, vapor leaving their mouths like Dragonbreath. Ilvriss stared down as if he could see blood running down Salazsar’s mighty stone walls.
“Whose are they, anyways? Whose walls? Ours? Or the dead’s?”
