And he was higher-level than Klbkch. Whether or not he was stronger than the Slayer in his heyday, his level was higher. Klbkch had never considered using the mental powers of [Recaptured Sublimity].
Well…maybe he had done it and that was as smart as he’d ever been. But Eschowar was giving Erin full Chaldion vibes. She wondered who he had been.
 
——
 
“Dead gods. He looks like the same Drake that taught you how to throw lightning bolts. I remember Wall Lord Eschowar’s storm offensive. He sent Weatherfur packing in the only weather war they’ve ever lost when they took the side of Terandria’s war. Does anyone else remember it?”
Half the Security Council were on their feet, and Dragonspeaker Luciva realized not all of them were old enough to even remember that.
Even Wall Lord Aldonss, who had been taught by Eschowar, looked dumbstruck at his return to form. The only two members of the council not present were Lulv and Rafaema.
Makhir was staring at Erin Solstice, but he broke away long enough to growl.
“Are we idiots? Eschowar’s presence makes me think we’re damn idiots.”
“What do you mean, Makhir?”
Aldonss took mild offense to the only Gnoll member of the Council voicing a comment he thought might be against his mentor. But the [Hunt Commander] just shook his head.
“Why did we allow him to retire? No, why did we not bring back our own veterans? I know we work till we drop in some areas, but—look at him. I heard Eschowar was one of the pivotal figures in Salazsar’s decision-making for decades. And we just let him sit and forgot all about him?”
He was agitated, and the Security Council nodded. Look at that. Even if it had been Skills that enabled Eschowar’s return to form for a while—
How could they have forgotten the potential? These older Drakes…none of their classes had left them. 
“We should take a census. Not just in Salazsar. If any Walled City or Drake city has underutilized talent—”
They began making plans instantly, and Luciva lowered her head. She looked at the empty seat.
“I know someone who’d tell us we were fools for thinking age mattered.”
Everyone turned and regarded the empty chair where their Dragon usually was. A newcomer to their number, General Williv, nodded, deadpan.
“Spearmaster Lulv would be cursing us all out. An incisive mind, that Gnoll.”
Luciva turned to stare at the General, and he gave her a grin. Dead gods, he was a jokester. She groaned internally, but then looked at the beaming Drakes.
 
——
 
They had taken even Erin Solstice off-guard. That was a statement enough in itself. The flustered [Innkeeper] on the scrying orb, Eschowar, Zail…
Why didn’t they keep leading their cities? 
All these recriminations, regrets, bright ideas…one person in Pallass had a different take on why they weren’t leading the world still.
“Three main reasons. Exhaustion. You think they wanted to have to lead every army, make decisions, and take the heat for it for another three decades? They get tired. Or hurt. Zail is a perfect example of that. He might have been a Swordmaster of Salazsar, but he became a liability and lost a step. That would have gotten him killed. He was fighting a battle where he had the drop on the enemy. They know they’re risking their lives.”
Grand Strategist Chaldion was smoking a storm as he stared at Eschowar’s image. He didn’t like the recent revelations at all. It felt like it was pushing him…and not just because Eschowar was a proper snake.
That was a high compliment from Chaldion. He went on, agitated, as he ranted to Duln and Shirka. He didn’t like how the map was redrawing itself so fast.
Especially around the Winter Solstice. What was Erin doing? Letting herself get pushed around by Eschowar? She was better than that! She hadn’t let him bully her, and now she was folding when the lord of lightning shot a few sparks?
Ridiculous.
“What’s the second reason, Grand Strategist?”
Duln was observing like the other leaders of their cities, but he was listening to his old leader, who had never retired. Chaldion growled.
“Culture. And the ambitions of those below. If that lot stayed in charge, they’d stifle their descendants and subordinates. The other half is that we do think once you get grey scales or grey hair—you should be in someone else’s care. That’s the stupid part. Mind you—there’s a need for it. You know why it wasn’t Manus that pulled out some old legends?”
“…Because they’re still in the security council?”
Chaldion snorted.
“No. Because they’re dead. Manus does have a veteran program, the best of the Walled Cities, but anyone over Level 40 they keep around until they drop. And they do drop, and their program for veterans isn’t the same as caring for someone who’s…old. Salazsar makes sure you have someone minding you. Oteslia’s the only other Walled City with a population that’s…”
He snapped his claws, looking for a word as it escaped him.
“Aged?”
Duln suggested. Chaldion glared.
“Vintage. Frankly, even if we searched, we’d find a handful in any good condition. Pallass, Manus, Zeres, and Fissival don’t have the same attitude towards taking care of their elders. If the family forgets—who checks to make sure they’ve gotten enough to eat? We have to correct it. Ram it through the Assembly of Crafts and then go back in time three centuries and fix it!”
He began throwing his ashtray and spare cigars across the room in frustration. The things he had observed with age were becoming actual failings of his city. Duln leaned aside as a few of the younger [Strategists] ducked.
“So Oteslia has a march on us. We have you. What’s the third reason, Grand Strategist?”
Shirka was largely unmoved by his tantrum. Chaldion paused, then hesitated. He stared at Eschowar’s face and gave voice to the third reason, which was too honest for him, but had to be said. The truth…
“The third reason is that perhaps they retired and quit because…they shouldn’t have been in charge. You think that’s a spotless Drake over there? What do you see?”
He jabbed his cigar at the glowing [Fulminous Lord]. All Chaldion saw was a stain. It clung to him and every Drake who had made it. The Grand Strategist’s gemstone eye glittered almost as dangerously as his living eye.
“The worst thing for us is having them come back and take control. Especially them. They’ve tasted dust and disrespect for decades. Now? They’re not going to sit back and be ignored. Go read a history book and recall why Eschowar’s retirement was cheered in the Assembly of Crafts. There was a time when that Drake was holding Manus by a leash and taking aim at the north and other continents. He nearly dragged us into a full-scale war that would have let the Antinium sweep over us when they arrived. The House of Minos had to march on us before he ‘decided’ to retire.”
Shirka and Duln looked at Chaldion. The Drake looked—nervous. He growled as he pushed back from the table.
“Let’s go to the damn inn. Someone grab Erin Solstice out of her theatre.”
 
——
 
Chaldion was unkind to call Erin hapless in the face of Lord Eschowar. He had her on the ropes when he found her out and got her pretty good.
She got most of Salazsar back when Wall Lady Calistoca and the other Walled Families, old and young, came to greet the older Drakes.
“The Last Defenders of the Wall. A formal title honoring your service to the city. Wall Lords, esteemed elders of Salazsar, we salute your courage. I believe I am the first to say that age is a meaningless number.”
Calistoca looked invigorated herself. She seemed to be picturing a newfound authority based on her age, rather than it being a detracting figure. The younger Drakes looked very unhappy, sensing, perhaps, that they were now going to be challenged on their monopoly on authority.
Where before they could push an older Drake to the side with age as an excuse, if they tried that now, they’d get a shiv to the shin. ‘The Last Defenders of the Wall’ was going to be an official title.
Worse? Still worse? Old people knew each other. And they would happily gang up and stop fighting amongst themselves to get their way over a younger generation.
They had learned how to work together if need be. Age and treachery was going to suck.
Erin Solstice saw it all as the Wall Lady turned to her.
“Erin Solstice, you are a welcome, famed guest to the City of Gems. In person or as an…apparition? May we have a few words?”
The scrying orbs were on her. And the Drakes were eager to get Erin’s comments. The [Innkeeper] was already a ‘guest’ of Eschowar.
Erin gave Calistoca a happy smile that set Khorpe’s [Advanced Dangersense] off. He performed an evasive dodge straight out of frame as she replied.
“Thank you for inviting and noticing me, Wall Lord Eschowar, Wall Lord Zail, Wall Lady Calistoca, and—everyone else. Your city is magnificent, and I just had to see it. Y’know, I only know Pallass, but the City of Gems is just as impressive as I hoped.”
“Mighty in war and economy. Perhaps you should consider a partnership with the City of Gems. Your famed door might not reach us yet, but there is a will and a way for our allies.”
Calistoca smiled smugly. Erin beamed.
“Absolutely. And I know Salazsar is a fine ally—it’s the only Walled City besides Oteslia that sent a proper army to fight for the Gnolls.”
A few Drakes puffed up even more at that public acknowledgement, despite Ilvriss’ glare because they’d just censured him over that. Calistoca smiled, but Eschowar looked nervous. He tried to nudge, silence Erin, or do something, but she was a projection without a body, and Skills just bounced off the Level 49 [Innkeeper].
“We are both the youngest Walled City and old enough to honor every vow. Salazsar is forwards-thinking to both Liscor and the times, Miss Solstice.”
Calistoca was preening. Erin, straight-faced, gave her a nod.
“I know. That’s why I was delighted to know that the City of Gems was going to help fund the Gnolls’ recovery efforts. There are Silverfangs in Liscor, and a munificent city that remembers its old friends would do nothing less.”
She enjoyed Calistoca’s face freezing over, and Erin’s happy smile really was happy. The older Wall Lady tried to come up with a suitable dodge as all the cameras slowly focused on her, but then someone put a metaphorical knife in her back.
“Innkeeper Erin is being a bit too forward, I think. It’s too soon to publicly declare any action without ratified treaties to prove intent. Salazsar is a city that honors the written word—you can refer to that.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss spoke up, and Calistoca smiled in relief. Zail gave his son a warning stare, but Ilvriss went on smoothly.
“Miss Solstice was just visiting the city to get a tentative treaty to the Walled Families. Any signatures would need to precede the announcement, or we would make a fool out of ourselves. I, myself, have already actually pledged to contribute House Gemscale’s mining taxes to the Gnollish recovery efforts.”
You low-born salamander. Every member of the Walled Families turned to stare at Ilvriss, and he gave them a polite smile and even a slight bow that was the largest middle-finger Erin had ever seen in her life. He really did hold a grudge over the censuring. She beamed—right up until Lord Eschowar chuckled.
“It seems we must all adjourn to the meeting rooms. Miss Solstice, you are a welcome guest twice over! We shall be back once we finish talking.”
“That’s so great! Wait—me?”
Erin had gotten Salazsar back, but they grabbed her foot on the way down. Eschowar gave her a bland look.
“We could not do without proper representation. From the Gnollish Chieftains, obviously, but you would want to make sure everything is going smoothly. May we plan on three meetings, Wall Lady Calistoca? We’ll need to establish old titles and reorganize the meeting—then hear proposals before debating. Miss Solstice, please, this way.”
“N-no—”
Erin tried to vanish, but she was trapped. She tried to run—and Krshia, Elirr, and several Gnolls who wanted gold more than they cared about Erin’s boredom actually appeared and pushed her back into frame.
And Ilvriss just laughed.
 
——
 
The City of Gems. Nothing gave Ilvriss more satisfaction than someone coming here and seeing it.
Even if Erin wasn’t there…she could at least see. And arguably, it was more fun for her to sit in her inn than stand in the admittedly freezing temperatures high on a tower with the wind blowing through enchanted clothing.
If anything, she was obnoxiously snug. She had a huge blanket on her shoulders, and she had a chair. She was wrapped up like a sausage, and the only gap was for a hand to slowly reach out and eat from a bowl of chips.
Crunch. Crunch.
It was the same trick she’d pulled on the Walled Families when they made her sit in their meetings. Huge bowl of obnoxious snacks. Unfortunately, the Drakes had retaliated by pulling out their food, and they were already sitting in padded chairs. Did she think they would sit in some stuffy room with hard-backed chairs?
They’d convened in a massage parlor, once.
Despite being tricked, her eyes were alight as she stared down as he pointed out the mines and parts of his city.
“That’s the Element of Brass concert hall. Designed by a metal-Dragon in the past. I can show you it up close, but we have the Adamantium mines—there. Our own library is there—and there—those are the largest two, and the Museum of Rainbows is there.”
“Oooh. Why rainbows?”
“All the gemstones.”
Erin leaned forwards, agog as he pointed down at the snow falling over his city.
“Oh! I think I see lights coming out the windows. Oooh, oooh—I’m gonna throw up. It’s so high!”
She stared down at the vertigo-inducing drop over the edge of the tower balcony. Even though she knew it was her Skill and she was safe on solid ground—it was terrifying.
“Is it? I suppose you get used to the heights.”
Ilvriss had virtually no acrophobia, having grown up here. He looked down at the thousand sights that made up Salazsar. And that was just the tourist stuff you pointed to to impress. He could descend into the streets that were made of generations of work, carved out of the mountain in different styles and to different purposes, and explore for days on end.
He loved this place.
That was why it was going to be so hard to leave. Erin noticed Ilvriss’ sad smile and turned to him.
“Are you really coming to Liscor?”
His head rose slowly.
“Past it. I’ll have to discuss the particulars with you. But I have an inherently risky venture…that I must undergo.”
He had been given the task, no, the knowledge from her own mouth. Just a different person behind that face.
