Neither one could get a lock on the other. Xesci had met people like that before, Belavierr, high-level individuals she couldn’t ‘read’ as naturally. She was used to that, but she had never met someone like Erin.
At the same time, Erin had no idea who Xesci was. It felt like she had turned—and a mirror had appeared in her inn. A mirror that had legs, a face, and smiled and waved. A mirror of a woman.
And imagine if you found a random mirror in the common room of your inn, a full-sized one. That was weird—but imagine if it talked and pretended to be a person?
Unnerving to Erin, who caught a flash of Xesci. But Xesci? She peeked at Erin as Ilvriss tried to explain her class, thinking that was the issue.
And Xesci was instantly, utterly, and forever fascinated by Erin. Until she figured the [Innkeeper] out—she had to be here.
Because almost no one had ever been immune to Xesci’s power. Cirediel and Rafaema had been unsettling outliers that made her wonder if they were even real. The only people who had ever bypassed her were monsters like Belavierr—and even then she’d felt something—Golems, and monsters.
Erin Solstice was no exception. ‘Saliss’ was no exception. She had met Djinni and old monsters hiding in plain sight, and she had once seen a Unicorn pretending to be a man, full of apathetic pride and lost nobility, buying kegs of liquor.
In Erin Solstice, Xesci could sense her emotions and interests, likes and dislikes. The unnerved feeling of the [Innkeeper] was clear to her.
Everything else? Everything else was hidden behind a wall in a box, concealed within a maze of crazy funhouse mirrors that was in a [Darkness] spell, and the maze had [Combat Butlers] who kicked the shit out of you every step you took.
She hid—everything. But she wasn’t perfect, and part of the reason Erin hid behind Ilvriss was because the two were staring each other down, trying to find the other first—and Xesci had more practice than Erin.
Ilvriss was much bemused by Erin’s sudden nerves around Xesci, and the [Innkeeper] pointed upstairs as she hid behind Ishkr, who had appeared.
“You’ve all got rooms. You’re welcome guests! Uh…talk to you tomorrow? I’ll even give you a beach if you want to stay.”
“We’ll want to get to work right away securing access to the north. If we could meet with some of the nobility—tomorrow. Thank you, Erin. It’s a pleasure to be here.”
Ilvriss beamed, and everyone headed upstairs. Erin stopped as Xesci passed by, and the Drake slowed.
“I hope I’m not disturbing you, Miss Erin? I’ll try to be an unobtrusive guest.”
“Y—no. Who are you?”
“A high-level [Courtesan] hired by Wall Lord Ilvriss. To help him with his great task.”
Xesci tilted her head, brushing at her hair, and smiled. Erin backed up a step.
“Stop it. Who are you?”
“Xesci.”
Erin raised a fist, and the [Courtesan] flinched—then realized she had skin, not scales. Hair…she raised her hands and felt at her face. Then she pulled out a hand-mirror she always carried and saw—
Erin Solstice stared at Erin Solstice. Xesci instantly changed to another form.
“I’m so sorry—”
“What happened to you?”
Erin whispered, and Xesci froze. That was not the response she’d expected. Indignation, outrage, fear—she looked up, and the [Innkeeper] looked straight at that mirror of a woman.
“—Nothing.”
This time, Xesci fled first, upstairs. She locked herself in her room, snatching the key from Ishkr, and stood, back to the wall, heart beating faster than it had upon seeing Ilvriss’ charge at the Meeting of Tribes. She slowly slid down—and realized she was smiling. She felt at her face, and a huge smile was on her lips.
So interesting. Who was she? Who did she love? What was that young woman? More than someone from another world. She wanted to talk to Erin, and the [Innkeeper] was as fascinated and disturbed by Xesci.
That was it. Neither one was completely at ease around the other. So Xesci lay back in bed—until she heard Ilvriss shouting. When she opened the door, he was rushing out of his rooms as a giant beaver crawled out from under his bed, sleepy. Xesci slowly closed the door with a laugh.
 
——
 
It felt like a holiday. Ilvriss returning, that was.
The moment Mrsha came downstairs and saw the funny purple Drake, she raced over, and he guarded his plate.
“Watch her. She steals food and plays pranks.”
He was giving advice to the other newcomers, as seriously as if he were a [Safety Inspector] at the mines. Nerul stared at Mrsha, and the white Gnoll girl stood on her two feet with a kilt and looked hurt at the suggestion she was a food-thief.
I have not done that in ages, Wall Lord Ilvriss. This is scurrilous libel. No, wait, it’s slander if you say it. Hello! What took you so long to come back?
Ilvriss was not up to date on Mrsha’s writing. He might have known she could do it, but he gave her a refreshingly goggle-eyed look.
“What penmanship. Young lady, have you ever considered a career as a [Diplomat]? The pique, the outrage, and the eloquence behind the barefaced lies…the world needs fewer people like us, but you could join our number and go far.”
Nerul was agog over the writing itself. Mrsha peeked up at the huge Drake and his twinkling eyes and decoded what he was saying versus how he said it. And she decided she liked him already.
“Hello, uh, Mrsha. Do you remember me?”
Osthia Blackwing didn’t have the exact same awful dye job on her scales, but Mrsha recognized the smell. She awkwardly held out a sausage link on a fork. Mrsha stared at it and turned away.
The meeting put a smile on Ilvriss’ lips, despite the sudden sense that the inn had changed markedly from his time here. He looked around, and a Hobgoblin was coming downstairs, yawning.
“Oh. Hey, Ilvriss.”
Nerul, the other Drakes new to Liscor, and a nondescript Drake that Mrsha hadn’t noticed until now all froze at the sight of the Hobgoblin. But Ilvriss just gave him a slow nod.
“Numbtongue. You’re looking well. Do you still have that Dragonblood crystal sword?”
“It’s got a few cracks. But yeah. You staying here?”
They were having breakfast, and despite his recalcitrance at first, Numbtongue and Ilvriss soon warmed to each other’s presence. They had been at odds for a long time, but the Hobgoblin still carried his ‘people-voucher’ that Ilvriss had helped make.
The inn really had changed, though. Numbtongue stood there, pouring himself a huge cup of orange juice, looking a distinctly darker shade of green than Ilvriss remembered. He was also bare-chested and wearing only swimming shorts, which was objectionable to some of Ilvriss’ company on its own merit.
Xesci kept staring at Numbtongue as Mrsha sniffed at her. She smelled like…well, a plain woman with the faint odors of the street on her.
Strange. Because Ilvriss and his entire company smelled like Pegasi, Pallass’ more alchemical odor mixed with the forge-scent, and even further and wilder places. Xesci? Nothing.
“We’re staying here or in Liscor. Many more Drakes and Gnolls will be arriving. Are you also a…beach person? I have to see that. Is Erin awake? Oh, and before you leave, I have a small gift for you and a few others.”
Numbtongue shrugged as Mrsha got instantly distracted. Gift? Was Ilvriss going to redeem himself for being gone with something fun? The [Bard] glanced at the stairs as he sipped from his cup, then tried to grab a bowl of fruits that was breakfast. He instantly got a kick from Peggy that made his eyes water.
“Ow. No, she’s asleep. Stayed up to talk to you. She sleeps in these days. I could show you the beach, though. It’s there.”
Ilvriss glanced at the open door to the beach. The [Garden of Sanctuary] itself had been wildly upgraded, but if Mrsha recalled right…he was a pre-garden visitor, really. Not that he’d been here all the time back in the day.
Chasing Ryoka to Liscor and sitting there for months, fighting with Zel before slowly becoming a trusted friend…he stared at the open door set into the wall.
“That’s new.”
Mrsha realized that Ilvriss hadn’t seen the garden. Heck, he hadn’t even seen…the statues. Her face fell, and she backed up a few steps then almost ran away.
Erin-level sadness incoming! I don’t want to cry today! She turned, and a girl peeking at Ilvriss shyly whispered at her.
“Mrsha, is that the Wall Lord that Erin talked about? Introduce me!”
Nanette Weishart was shy around Ilvriss, because her mother and she had been mostly confined to the north. And even then, she had never met Lords of the Walls since Califor had gone where she was needed and useful.
Mrsha, ready to run the moment she saw Erin or heard anyone invite Ilvriss into the garden, edged forwards and waved.
Ilvriss, this is Nanette, my best friend and a former [Witch]. She’s part of the inn family, so be nice.
“Hello, Miss Nanette. It’s a pleasure to meet you.”
She took Ilvriss’ claw and shook it as he stood slightly, blinking at her. To Nanette, Ilvriss seemed like an upgraded [Merchant]. Not in a bad way, but he was a handshaking, semi-formal person. Still more personable than Human nobility.
He was also on his best behavior, so she didn’t have Mrsha’s experience with the snooty Lord of the Walls insisting that Drake food was better. In fact, Ilvriss was arguably being a bit bland because he was trying so hard to redo his first impression.
He stood there as his company ate the fruit breakfast with omelets that was being served to the tanned and lightly dressed group. They were all mystified why everyone seemed so happy in the cold and snowy Liscor outside, but no one was leaving.
In fact, there were a lot of people coming in…and only a few people coming out of the beach door. Ilvriss really wanted to see this thing for himself—but he wanted to meet Erin. He was smiling, shaking hands, and doing more brownnosing than Nerul had ever seen his nephew do in his life.
“Ilvriss, there’s a line between being pleasant and being overly friendly, and we’re crossing it.”
“Hush, Uncle. I went the other way last time.”
“Overcorrecting isn’t a virtue.”
The [Diplomat] was advising Ilvriss on his presence, and Ilvriss hesitated. But he was keenly aware how many new guests of Erin there were. So he hesitated—then saw someone else coming out the door, ready for another beach-day.
“Hello there! I’m Wall Lord Ilvriss, just from Salazsar. Staying at the inn. And you are?”
He held out a hand, and a man reflexively grabbed it, stiffened, and stared at Ilvriss.
“Lord Tyrion Veltras.”
Tyrion appeared in the doorway with Sammial and Hethon, and Ilvriss froze. The two locked eyes.
Why was he here?
Ilvriss’ smile turned into a rictus.
“You…”
“Salazsar.”
Jericha, Ryoka, Ullim, Sammial, and Hethon all paused behind Ilvriss, and Ryoka groaned.
“Oh no.”
“Lord Tyrion Veltras. Why is the man who besieged Liscor and got Zel Shivertail killed here?”
Ilvriss couldn’t believe how young the other man looked, but his aura was familiar. His claw tightened, and Tyrion stared at him.
“A Wall Lord. I’m not here to fight.”
Tyrion slowly released his grip as Ilvriss forced himself to do the same. His head snapped around, and he stared at Numbtongue.
“Is he a guest of the beach?”
The Hob was about as friendly towards Tyrion as Ilvriss, but he called out.
“Yep. Erin tolerates him and Xitegen.”
“Why would she let—?”
That principled [Innkeeper]? Ilvriss was outraged, but Tyrion strode past him with what amounted to great tact for the [Lord]. He headed for the beach.
“This is neutral ground, Wall Lord. Don’t ruin the beach experience for anyone here. I will not.”
He disappeared into the beach, and Ilvriss’ jaw opened and closed. He almost charged after Tyrion—then stared into the beach. Ilvriss saw the sun, surf, and pleasant weather of another world for the first time. His eyes popped. He stood there, as the surf rushed over his feet, and stared about at the fake sky, the waves, Ekirra running around, and the resort guests trudging their way to breakfast.
“Wh—wh—what’s going on?”
He stood there until Pryde shoved him out of the way and looked around wildly. Then he ran to find Erin Solstice.
 
——
 
“What’s going on, Erin?”
After that scare, Ryoka had rushed off into the beach to keep Tyrion away from the Drakes and had missed Ilvriss’ group. Erin, correspondingly, had woken up and was explaining the situation to Ilvriss.
“I need their help, Ilvriss. I don’t like it, but I let Xitegen use the door—he doesn’t come in here—because I need his help for the Solstice. It’s a huge thing. I haven’t given you an invite yet—”
“You’re letting that monster walk into Liscor? The City Council allowed it?”
Erin paused as Ilvriss purpled further with fury. He was off his pleasant, welcoming demeanor in record time.
“They’ve got to. He’s one of the Five Families—”
“Where’s their civic pride? Ban the bastard! He sieged their city—if he wants in, levy a hundred thousand gold fine! A thousand gold for every citizen who perished!”
Ilvriss’ fist slammed onto the table, and Erin recoiled.
“Ilvriss.”
“There’s also Lord Xitegen? Lady Bethal, Lady Pryde? Are they trying to take over this inn? And what is this…garden? You have access to a dimensional space? I heard something about it, but this? And they’re using it as a beach?”
“Ilvriss, a lot’s changed—”
Ilvriss was tearing at his neck-spines.
“I don’t understand it. Are they threatening you? How much are they paying for—and a beach? If you can configure this garden-thing—I heard it was an actual garden, not a beach—it’s so tacky and tasteless. Just like northern nobility to insist on, really.”
Erin had been trying to get a word in edgewise, but now her eyes narrowed dangerously.
“Hah? Tacky?”
Lyonette was greeting Nerul and the guests and explaining the rest of the inn’s facilities. She groaned as Ilvriss, thoughtlessly, kept ranting.
“It’s just sand and water and, frankly, those ‘resorts’ look like someone cast [Sand Wall] a bunch of times and threw furniture inside. It’s not even an impressive beach. I’ve seen beautiful coastal retreats on Fissival’s coast, and Zeres has the entire market on waterfronts, obviously. You can do more with the space. Not that I’d expect them to.”
“Like what?”
Erin was smiling dangerously, and she was recalling one of Ilvriss’ main traits. Snobbery. She was so glad to see him—which was why she wasn’t going to snap. She wasn’t going to—
He clicked his claws together.
