Look and see. He blamed her for this, gave her credit for this even if she was not the catalyst. At this point, it was easier to say ‘Erin Solstice did it’.
Otherwise, you’d simply have to admit the world could be magical, and you had no excuse for not seeking it out. In the same way you talked about heroes and legends before your time as things that were impossible to live up to—the excuse was necessary.
Or was it? How large the world seemed. And, at times, how small.
There she was. Wall Lord Ilvriss stood in his apartments in Salazsar, using a crutch to hold himself upright. And there, standing on his rich carpets, looking down at the parade coming into Salazsar as the city rocked with cheers—
—was Erin Solstice.
All the staff were peeking at her as they clustered in the hallway. Ilvriss himself was chatting to her with the most normalcy in his tone.
But even he had been surprised when she appeared, for a social call, to check on him. Despite knowing she could do it—there was something intimate about Erin Solstice just appearing before you.
“A reminder. Wonders never cease.”
“I’m not the one who does it, Ilvriss. I just use them. That’s witch-stuff. But that was all your dad.”
He folded one claw behind his back, wincing as he almost fell on his face, and gripped the crutch more firmly.
“You’re sure you didn’t play chess with him and say something?”
Erin blew out her cheeks.
“Ilvriss. I thought he was you, remember? Why is it so hard to imagine that he did it all on his own?”
“Because…because…”
Because he hadn’t expected it. Because he was proud and amazed and embarrassed, and it was easier to say ‘you did it’ than to process it. Ilvriss ducked his head as Erin stared down.
“‘Old men in war are the scariest thing in the world.’ That’s what Relc said when he heard about it. He started talking about war stories—I have Menolit, Reynold, Grimalkin, Mirn, and a bunch of people sitting on my beach telling stories and singing. I blame you for this.”
“…Weren’t you the one who told them what was going on?”
Erin turned and ignored the question.
“I blame you for it, Ilvriss. Now, are you gonna go down and congratulate your dad or stand up here and tell me how it’s ‘all my fault’?”
He turned faintly red under his scales as the staff stared at him and rumors began to circulate like a magical hurricane. There was something about how Ilvriss spoke to Erin that prompted them.
The familiarity, that was it. He had never been as stiff as a rock, but he had always been imperious, your Wall Lord talking down or at people. Erin made him sound like a normal person.
Navine Gemscale had only ever heard him talk like that once before. To her, her family—and to Periss.
She watched her brother covertly and didn’t believe he was actually in love with her. Or if he was, it wasn’t reciprocal.
So this was the Human. Navine had multiple thoughts, and one of them was that Ilvriss, her brother, was entangled in something big.
The [Innkeeper], Liscor, Zel Shivertail…it was impossible to believe Ilvriss was a traitor, but that’s how they got you, right? She held back, wondering if, perhaps, it was a coincidence.
…No. No, he was speaking to Erin as she pointed below.
“That reminds me. Should I bring anything from Salazsar?”
“Uh—gemstones? I dunno, how about I put Lyonette in touch with you? There’s lots of trade going on, and a bunch of [Smiths] want magical gem dust.”
“That’s hugely valuable information. Can you elaborate?”
“Nuh. I don’t wanna.”
“Please put Miss Lyonette in touch with me, then. I want to leave soon, though my father’s new position will complicate things.”
“So you’re really coming? Great!”
He was leaving soon. For Liscor. During a war and with the New Lands ventures in full swing. Navine couldn’t believe it. But it meant something else mattered to Ilvriss more than his city or profits.
She watched as Erin hopped over to the balcony.
“I think I’m gonna go down for a good look. I want to see Zail up close. Tell you what, I’ll race you.”
“No, Erin. Let me introduce—”
“Too late! I’ll cause a huge commotion if you don’t go down and be a proud kid right now! See ya!”
She vanished, and Ilvriss cursed, then rushed towards the doors. Navine stepped smartly away, and she wondered how someone like that could be a traitor. Much less to Drake-kind.
No, she didn’t think he was a conspirator with the north. Navine tip-toed back to Helessia, her mother’s rooms, and reported to her.
“That was definitely the Human.”
“And did he seem smitten? Off-guard?”
Navine thought about the question. Helessia was lying abed, but she was being sat up by two helpers, and she was going down to see Zail herself. But Ilvriss demanded attention—
Helessia was looking better than usual. The news from the fantastic victory against Fissival had invigorated her, though all she had said was how idiotic Zail was that a war was getting him out of the apartments. But that was how you could tell she was feeling better—she had complained for four days straight leading up to the battle, then the moment she heard about the Fissival army surrendering. During that time, she and Navine had also been doing an investigation they had sweated over. Ilvriss’ sister spoke quietly.
“Ilvriss was off-guard, certainly. But he just seemed—normal. And if he was paranoid, he wouldn’t be speaking in the open.”
“Then it’s Pallass if anyone. Or he’s working against Pallass. I just cannot think he was actually conspiring with the Goblin Lord.”
“Nor I. Maybe he doesn’t know…?”
Helessia raised her brows.
“Navine. He knows. And if he’s leaving for Liscor, we may have to figure out more either behind his back while we have free rein or whenever he goes. Why does he have a dead Pallassian Wing Commander as a bodyguard?”
Asrira Shieldscale, or rather, Osthia Blackwing. She was Pallassian nobility, even though they counted it less. Niece to Thrissiam Blackwing, a Pallassian [General] who had perished during Pallass’ battle against the Goblin Lord.
How had she come into Ilvriss’ employment? Navine was burning to know, but caution made her and her mother observe. Ilvriss had always been ideologically opposed to Navine and her mother’s stance on reconciliation with the north. So had Zail.
What a mess the family was in now that Zail was actively taking a role in Salazsarian decisions. What a mess…but it was not all bad. Even Navine had felt a surge of pride when she had watched the scrying orb.
 
——
 
Old men with levels.
The parade entering the City of Gems was twice as large as usual because of the unexpected nature of it. And Salazsar was a Walled City. They knew how to throw a military parade.
Erin Solstice reappeared on the street, surprising the heck out of a few people, but largely unnoticed. She passed through members of the crowd towards the front.
She was not the only clandestine observer. There were dozens of scrying orbs, not just recording, but showcasing reactions.
That was the big trend of the day. People reacting to stuff. Giving commentary. [Strategists] loved to tell you what the Scintillation Counter was and why Fissival were idiots for not obviously anticipating that Zail would come out of retirement and use the exceptionally difficult and risky technique.
But that was overshadowed by the transformation some of the older Wall Lords and senior Drakes had undertaken. The person of this hour was not just Zail Gemscale, though he came into the city raising a sword overhead to raucous cheers.
Erin Solstice was more interested in someone else. She narrowed her eyes, looking around.
“Which one is it? Which…ah. There you are.”
She saw him riding in slowly, and at first, he looked like he was barely able to sit upright. They must have put him on the horse; there was no way he could sit properly, let alone hold the reins. But as he entered the main thoroughfare through one of the gates of Salazsar, Wall Lord Eschowar sat taller and suddenly, with sure confidence.
Erin Solstice saw his scales were pale yellow, or had been. They looked like dust now, and unlike Chaldion, he hadn’t withered and shrunk in height. Eschowar was a big Drake who had just…slowed. Slowed until he shook, unable to properly grasp objects.
But those eyes of his did shine with a pale blue color, like skies before thunder. Apt, for the [Fulminous Lord of Cabochon]—cabochon was a type of cut stone before it was set—had once been a master of lightning.
Once? That implied that he had lost it. Certainly, he had retired and sat unneeded by his city until he came out of retirement with Zail. But the world had conspired to reward him for his return, and it was he that Erin focused on.
She saw his lips move, and the Wall Lord wearing the Rubirel armor—save for the helm—whispered the name of his new Skill.
[Recaptured Sublimity].
And he changed in every detail but his actual appearance. A hush swept before him as the Wall Lord sat straight on his horse and captured the reins. The nervous animal danced forwards, then began to trot as he sat tall, at ease on his horse, inspecting his strong limbs—
The cheering grew louder, and a floating scrying orb showed a beaming Drake raising a cup in his old mentor’s direction.
Wall Lord Aldonss. Erin Solstice’s eyes narrowed as she saw the familiar leader of Manus toasting Wall Lord Eschowar and honoring his mentor.
It would be so easy to dismiss Eschowar and the others as putting on a show, or downplay what this meant. But Erin Solstice had heard Eschowar’s new Skill. And she was more aware of what it meant.
Klbkch the Slayer would flip if he realized who had benefited from the Skill he had created. But he’d flip twice if he realized that Wall Lord Eschowar, within a day of gaining his Skill, was doing more with it than Klbkch had ever thought to do.
Erin crept closer in the crowd, passing through people. Administrator Alrric, watching the parade, nearly dropped the ice-cream cone he was bringing to his daughter and wife as he saw Erin appear out of someone’s chest.
Look. Listen. Erin’s eyes narrowed as she heard Aldonss shouting and Eschowar talking over the roar of the crowd.
“Lord Eschowar! Are you going to be visiting Manus? The Dragonspeaker would love to host you! Your comrades, too!”
The Drake replied drily.
“I can only do this for a few minutes. We’re retired, Aldonss. Look to your own mentors if you want inspiration.”
“Sir, The Last Defenders of the Wall have captured our imagination!”
“That was Zail’s idea, not mine. You should be more concerned that we want to settle things with Manus after Fissival.”
“S-sir? Good joke!”
Lord Eschowar smiled, and now, Erin Solstice swore she could see his aura hanging in the air around him as he rode past her. She was too far away, and the [World’s Eye Theatre] didn’t allow her to smell or feel auras. But she definitely saw the sparks racing down the horse’s flanks and the crackle every time Eschowar talked.
His aura was at full strength. He was in complete command of his body, but more than that—the Drake’s eyes flickered to Aldonss, then the side.
“I’m more interested in strategic reports. If you want to do your mentor a favor, copy over everything of note in the last two years. I couldn’t keep up due to exhaustion. Now, I might have prescient insights. I hope this Skill works more than once per day. We should be more active in Salazsar, Zail.”
He turned sideways, and the Wall Lord walking with sword raised was scanning the crowd for his son. Zail turned.
“What? Why? We’re the last defenders of the wall.”
Eschowar leaned over as Erin walked left, listening to him speak.
“Defense when they come to the walls is a bad idea. You know that. Salazsar needs must move with the times, and the New Lands are a wave that’s kept everyone off-guard. With deference to Ilvriss, he never knew the Scintillation Counter. We may be old, but we have a different mentality to the modern generation. If we can shore up the gaps, now is the time to put everything we have left into it. Especially you and I. How’s the back? Tail?”
“I can’t even feel it hurting. I think I could go a few rounds on the practice courts again.”
Zail seemed greatly pleased. Eschowar smiled. Then he turned in his saddle.
“Don’t overstretch. We’re buying our glory days. I feel—clear. Clear and sharper than I have in the last sixty years. This isn’t just my return to form. This is a return to my peak. What a dangerous Skill. Insight tells me the first person to buy the goodwill of is Erin Solstice. If she can walk in Salazsar without anyone noticing—would you care to attend a Security Council of Manus, Miss Solstice? They should respect your feedback more than mine in this hour.”
Then he turned his head and stared at Erin. She froze, tried to back up, and nearly fell off the dais.
It wasn’t as if she’d been subtle at the near-front of the crowd, creeping along while passing through people. But Zail hadn’t even noticed. He whirled, and Eschowar winked.
“Uh—uh—hi! I was just—”
“I am sure you were. On behalf of Salazsar, welcome to the City of Gems!”
The Drake swung himself off the horse, landed on two feet, and then, to Erin Solstice’s horror, bowed deeply.
Every scrying orb in the city instantly fixed on her, and the crowd drew back. Erin waved her hands, but it was too late. Eschowar winked, then raised his voice.
“We have an honored guest! Why don’t you join us, Miss Solstice? Zail, move over.”
“Dead gods save me from the schemes. Wait…are you the one who gave my son the chess board?”
Zail’s scowl became considering, and Erin panicked as she was brought into the parade. She almost vanished on the spot, but that might be worse.
The old man had got her! Another Drake appeared and sheathed his blade.
“You don’t want me to cut the Skill off? She’s got death right behind her.”
Major Khorpe looked disappointed. Zail groaned.
“Khorpe, please stop. You didn’t get a Skill that helped with…?”
“Don’t need one. I remembered how to dodge.”
The Drake spoke more confidently than before. Eschowar raised a claw, and a parasol of lightning shot down, crackled around his claw, and he held it up as Ilvriss came running and saw an embarrassed Erin being escorted by the parade.
Wall Lord Eschowar. Erin glanced up at him and realized her fears or suspicions were confirmed.
Klbkch had never thought of this. Wall Lord Eschowar was at his utmost sharpness both mentally and physically. In fact, she guessed he was taking full advantage of his power to maximize his ability to think.
