“I know Etril Wellfar, but—Tyrion’s not going to like Ilvriss going north. You saw how he reacted. Deilan and Ulva? I don’t know if I have that kind of influence with them. They need a reason to let Ilvriss go, Erin.”
“Reason. Reason…I guess telling them what you want to find is a bad idea?”
Ilvriss, Nerul, and the others instantly nodded. Telling the nobles he wanted to reclaim a Walled City’s treasures was a great idea to get them off his back. Then they’d line up in front of him to steal the treasures and then front-stab him to death.
“Something to protect Ilvriss…I mean, if we can’t say what he’s doing…Ryoka, you go be nice to the war-freaks. I’ll go figure out something on my end.”
Erin frowned as Ryoka retreated from Xesci, Nerul, Osthia, Ilvriss, and his group, and Erin wandered off. Ilvriss hoped she had an idea and put his head with his team.
“We may want to tell Alrric not to send as many miners. It sounds like our presence is already agitating—recruiting locals would be better.”
“Trustworthiness is a problem, Wall Lord.”
Osthia pointed out reasonably. Ilvriss scratched at his chin.
“True…but what about locals from this region? Esthelm has a strong [Miner] tradition.”
“Not a bad idea. We’ll have to recruit, but having a bunch of Humans looks better than an entire army of Drake [Miners]. Security is an issue, Nephew. I suggest that while we hope for a windfall, we begin buttering up the people closest to our destination. Let’s prepare some gifts.”
“Will that look like bribes to the nobility?”
Nerul waved this off.
“If they accept, they accept. They can disavow us or give us no favors. A gift is something you give with no strings, Osthia. I just need them to talk, and I’ll do the rest and get it in writing. Leave that to me. The problem is, they don’t want to talk, and Xitegen is actually a weak point.”
“He just threatened Ilvriss’ life.”
Osthia was furious. Nerul raised one brow as he lit a cigar and puffed at it. Then he recoiled as a bee immediately flew into their private room.
“Dead gods. Wait, does that bee have a tiny cigar? This—this is a [Diplomat]’s pet. You float one of these bees into a room, and everyone starts talking first. This inn is a goldmine. Anyways, where was I? Xitegen threatened Ilvriss’ life—the other nobles wouldn’t even give him a warning. Telling someone you’re going to stab them means you’re less likely to do it. In the old days, the implication was that if Ilvriss so much as crossed the border, he’d get an arrow through the face. It didn’t need to be said.”
The Drakes didn’t know if they liked Nerul’s optimism, but the [Diplomat] had the lead here. He had made one huge mistake, though, which he didn’t seem to realize. It wasn’t his fault.
As Apista fanned her wings and Nerul eyed her, Xesci broke in, eager to help.
“Xitegen’s like a wall. He won’t budge for Ilvriss or the Goblins, but he’s not hostile. Tyrion Veltras is.”
Nerul pointed a cigar at her with a smile.
“That is the kind of insight I need. Xesci, I’m considering figuring out a way to get you into our meetings. Gauging who’s even receptive will cut down on my work immensely.”
“If I can help more…”
She looked frustrated, but Ilvriss assured her she could.
“We’ll set up and scope out our properties in Liscor. And we can at least look around in Invrisil today. We’ll want to move fast, but as I said, some of what we’re doing is waiting here for the Solstice…I meant to talk with Erin about that. Osthia, you’ll be with me for that. Xesci, can you and Nerul prepare gifts?”
They nodded, and Ilvriss began telling his adjutants where to go. He had a lot to do, and a lot of it was negotiations and tact.
Nerul was an expert, and he knew he had assets in Ryoka, Erin, and the others that he needed to leverage. He was honest with his allies, open about their goals, and thinking how to be careful and direct and avoid conflict.
He had made one huge, terrible error. Similar to how Mrsha had once trounced Ilvriss in a game of chess, Nerul had opened up a critical flaw in his negotiations.
It wasn’t his fault. He had worked off of his information and observations, but he had made a critical misplay that was going to bite him. And it was this:
He had called on Erin Solstice for help. The problem was that she was well-placed to render help as she saw it—and she didn’t always run things by her friends before she acted. Even with the best will in the world and knowing what she had done—Nerul didn’t think she was this fast.
The sound that ran through the inn was subtle as Ilvriss went to go to Liscor to check on his bought properties. He paused a second, hearing it go through the door, the floor, and air.
Toc.
“What was that?”
“Earthquake? That would be the last thing we need. Does Liscor have earthquakes? It floods like hell.”
Nerul glanced up. Ilvriss hesitated.
“No, I th—”
Toc.
This time, they all heard it. Nerul’s head slowly rose, and he frowned around.
“That…sounds like a Skill. A big one.”
Someone jogged into the room, and Ryoka looked around.
“I felt that. Erin? Shaestrel’s swearing up a storm. Is Erin—”
Ilvriss’ head snapped up, and this time it was louder.
Toc.
“Oh no.”
That came from Nerul. He surged to his feet, eyes opening wide as he realized what was going on too late. He began running, shoulder-charging Ilvriss out of the way.
“Miss Solstice? Erin Solstice, stop! Whatever you’re doing, I need to know. I need to plan—”
He began shouting, and Lyonette, sweeping the floors in the inn, had heard it too. She looked up, saw the [Diplomat] panicking, and whirled.
“She must be—the [World’s Eye Theatre]! I saw her heading there with some paper!”
“Where? Damn!”
He ran. But it was too late. The fourth and final time Erin swung the hammer, she was standing in the center of her theatre, nailing a shining bit of parchment to the air. Ilvriss slowed as Nerul ran, shouting, swearing, and he saw the words lighting up the sky.
Toc.
They pinged every [Innkeeper] and [Guildmaster] in a hundred miles. And the <Quest> ran further still, at the speed of gossip. Everyone in Izril heard about it within the hour.
It became news. Erin Solstice made the news, and this <Quest>? This one was unique. But Nerul just stared up at the glowing words with a waxy, sick face, and Ilvriss looked up too. Erin was smiling—until she saw Nerul’s expression.
“What? Don’t you think it’ll work?”
This is what the quest said:
 
<Heroic Quest – Keep Him Alive: Wall Lord Ilvriss!>
 
Limits: <Noble> class of Izril.
Wall Lord Ilvriss of Salazsar is in the north! This isn’t a big deal. He’s going to be doing business past Liscor, and I’ve been told that’s a ‘problem’. Well, if he survives for half a year—just half a year—you get rewarded. All of you! You don’t have to do a thing, just don’t be jerks.
Seriously, that’s it. That’s the quest! He’s a single Wall Lord of Salazsar, without an army or anything stupid. This is a quest for the nobility of the north.
Failure: The death or serious injury of Wall Lord Ilvriss Gemscale.
Posted Reward: Friendship with Salazsar! Lack of war! One free meal at The Wandering Inn!
Quest Reward: A <Quest> offering a Skill of the same magnitude as <Individual: Zeladona Ischen, [Blademistress of Ancients]> will be offered to all <Class: Nobles> of <Location: Izril>.
 
At first, it looked good to Ilvriss. Then he began listening to Nerul’s swearing. Then he realized something else.
 
——
 
Lord Xitegen Terland just sighed when someone showed him the <Quest>.
“I don’t think she listens to me. I warned her, and she did this. Maybe she thinks this is wise?”
He complained to his Golem servants, then sat back in his chair. Xitegen leaned so far back he caught his leg on the table and balanced there. He closed his eyes.
“Well done, Miss Solstice. At first it was just I who knew. Now?”
All the north knew. Every single [Lord] and [Lady] of Izril, and if she thought he was mean—
 
——
 
Lord Tyrion Veltras sat on the beach as Ullim read the quest out to him. He was not getting into it with Ilvriss. He had promised Ryoka, but he couldn’t help but point something out.
“The <Quest> implies that this Wall Lord won’t be the one making war. Technically, we could arrest him and jail him for eight months. If it comes to a battle, his survival is the only one that matters.”
“We are not planning on doing that, sire?”
Ullim’s voice was firm, and Tyrion stopped making a sandcastle for Sammial to attack.
“No. I was just speculating. What is he doing that’s so crucial a <Quest> needs to be put on him? Find out, Jericha.”
Her spectacles glinted as she adjusted them.
“We knew it was important given the actions at Salazsar. I will have a list of our best estimates, if not accurate information, within the hour, sir.”
“Good.”
 
——
 
Tyrion was the nice, understanding one. When Ulva Terland read the <Quest>, she paused over breakfast for a long time.
“That inn has the beach, does it not? The one we are copying?”
“Yes, Lady Terland.”
“I should visit. The Wind Runner talked it up greatly. Regarding this Wall Lord…find out what he is doing.”
“Yes, Lady Terland?”
The court of Terlands circulated around her as she patted at her lips and looked to her Golem bodyguards for support. Ulva flicked her fingers.
“Find out what quality of armor he has. Then prepare one of our Hunter-Killer Golems. We will not have rats infesting the north.”
“Yes, Lady Terland.”
 
——
 
Regis Reinhart was also furious—and paranoid.
“They think just because we’ve lost the Guild of Assassins, we don’t have means? What is that Drake after? No—no, that doesn’t matter. Where one goes, the others follow. Every single noble who’s still loyal to Izril will have to take a side. I want to know what he’s doing, and then he dies. First the Vampires, now this!”
It was all an opportunity, but the ghost floated left and right, biting at his fingernails. He didn’t like complications in his plan. Being found out at this stage…he didn’t like the idiotic Vampires who’d stirred up trouble against House Byres.
They were infringing on his plans. Something had to be done. He smiled after he came to a quick conclusion.
“This is all fine. It will be a cover. Swift-burning fires to hide the deeper embers. Prepare the Circle to move again. This Drake will be responsible for a lot of trouble before he dies.”
It was an excellent cover. Trouble was a fine motivator for Izril’s flowers, and if you could lay it at this Drake’s feet—he began to make plans.
 
——
 
And even the ones who didn’t have war or death on the mind thought this was a pretty bad idea. Lord Deilan El read the <Quest> three times and then rang a bell.
It took a while for his helper to appear. Unlike Zedalien, the half-Elf who had worked with Maviola, everything was so…imprecise. New.
The House of El was having pains adjusting to new leadership, despite all the business coming his way. So he couldn’t be blamed by Ryoka for doing this, could he? Deilan thought one moment as a nervous man waited.
“Lord El?”
“Mark up…all our crossbow prices by 50%. But then announce we’re having a sale in one week and slash it by one third.”
The younger [Lord] of House El gave Deilan a confused look, and the [Lord of Manufacture] shrugged.
“Profits. Hurry up and raise the prices. And make one of those ‘video recordings’ of someone firing one of our enchanted bolts through some armor. Everything seems to sell well once people see the crossbows in action.”
With apologies, Ryoka Griffin—he did have a business to run. And Deilan had a feeling business was going to be good. He made a few notes.
“Poisons. Daggers, blowdarts…trap spells. And all the counters to them. We’ll have to switch from Kaalblades to amulets for a while.”
My, oh my. He wondered if it made sense to send some of these artifacts to a popular Named-rank or maybe the Players of Celum. You could get them to…advertise the product?
What a neat concept. But then, it should be something fashionable, trendy. He needed to talk with a [Tailor], Desinee, a fashion expert—she’d know who to pick. Deilan rubbed his hands together and got to work.
 
——
 
Nobles, nobles, all with thoughts and plans. The Five Families were only the largest groups, and this <Quest> had reached them all.
Magnolia Reinhart had such a blistering headache she had to sip Ashfire Honey tea and massage her brows for a good seven minutes before it abated.
“She has no idea what she’s just kicked. They’re not interested in Liscor or the south. The New Lands already riled them up—now she’s sending a Drake into their midst? He’s going to be a training dummy surrounded by [Arbalists]. Ressa, summon Erin to—”
She caught herself and shook her head. Times were changing.
“No, I shall go to her. I wish she’d asked me! Damn our information networks. Drakes on Pegasi move too fast, and I was more worried about what Eschowar is scheming. Damn levels, damn old monsters for not dying, and if she posts one more <Quest>, I shall send Larracel after her! The Haven had more levels than Erin Solstice, and she played carefully with the flowers of Izril!”
She slapped her table as Ressa silently refilled her teacup. After a second, the [Head Maid] murmured.
“The times are a’changing fast, milady Reinhart. She’s trying to push us all faster. Isn’t this what we want?”
Magnolia shook her head.
“Not off a cliff, Ressa. She can’t make us fly. Wall Lord Ilvriss had best hope he can find allies and fast. So too for the [Innkeeper]. They need more than eight [Knights] and a beach.”
“There are more nobles in her inn over Level 40 than most cities have. She’s got Named-ranks for friends, and you can’t swing a rat without hitting a Gold-ranker.”
Ressa pointed out cautiously. Magnolia just sat there, staring at the ceiling.
“Yes, Ressa. But Tyrion, Bethal, Pryde, and even arguably myself, and certainly many of them like Saliss of Lights, even Sinew Magus Grimalkin and Chaldion? They are her friends. They are not there when the crossbows fire again. She has always needed support. Not friends and allies who drop everything and come running. By the time they took that first step, they were already too late.”
She paused a long moment as Ressa nodded.
“…If she cannot find someone, take an inventory of our staff and ask for volunteers to apply at her inn. Unmarried, without family in need or children. I dearly hope she’s ready. Or she won’t make it to whatever’s coming at the Solstice.”
 
——
 
Ilvriss really wanted to know what Erin was thinking. Why had she done this?
