“Ilvriss? That is—Wall Lord? Pardon me, I’m forgetting how to address you.”
Lyonette du Marquin appeared with a blonde Gnoll wearing sunglasses, and Ilvriss burst into a smile.
“Miss Lyonette. Were you about?”
“I can hardly afford not to be! Erin’s not in her beach, and she just deigned to inform me what was going on. That woman…”
Lyonette looked older as she put her hands on her hips. She might be…nineteen? Then again, Ilvriss had always observed age was more relative to deeds, and the young [Barmaid] was a [Princess] in the open.
“Wall Lord, I’m Yelroan, the [Mathematician] serving The Wandering Inn.”
“Oh, the legendary…you turned down our job offer.”
Yelroan fiddled with his sunglasses, embarrassed. Ilvriss knew for a fact Alrric had tried to headhunt him several times.
“Hardly, sir. Let me get your [Administrator] a list of things Liscor needs. Lumber, though it’s hard to put into bags of holding. He can use it for whatever group goes on foot. I have his [Message] contact.”
“Very good. Thank you. Miss Lyonette—let’s just go without titles, shall we? How is Liscor at this moment?”
Lyonette exhaled, but smiled brightly.
“You’d be surprised to see it! That new district is almost complete, and I know you have property there.”
Ilvriss snapped his claws.
“The property! I’d completely forgotten about—I’ll have to do something with that. Damn!”
She nodded, as if not remembering multiple apartments and pieces of land happened to you.
“One forgets one’s own head. But I would rather say that it’s good that you’re coming in person—this is a fine time to capitalize on Liscor’s prospects. If you were to bring anything, frankly, it would be a way to stand out around here.”
“Stand out…how?”
Lyonette fluttered her hands, trying to explain.
“Erin’s inn is an outlier, but the city has Pallassian guests, Invrisilian nobles—but no one stays in Liscor, because there’s not much to the city. With respect to it, of course. Krshia moans in my ear all the time about needing more cultural exports besides the dungeon. If you brought anything, I would bring opportunity or Salazsarian culture.”
“…Hmm. That’s interesting. Do you have any recommendations?”
The idea of bringing something the north might want was appealing to Ilvriss. Lyonette asked for Salazsarian pastimes, and she was very knowledgeable about Liscor and Terandrian customs. The problem was…
“Erin keeps inventing new food, so it’s a saturated market, Wall Lord. The same with pastimes. If you bring something, Wistram will just create another ‘Adventure Room’ experience, or Erin will literally pull a beach out of her back pocket.”
“The problem of having fascinating friends.”
He grimaced, and she smiled. Lyonette hesitated.
“Er—if you don’t mind me inquiring, what was the business with Erin screaming about outhouses? She mentioned we had dreadful plumbing, which I think is fair, but she was demanding to know how much laying pipework costs.”
Ilvriss turned beet red. He relayed a severely edited version of his woes, and Lyonette grimaced.
“The Eternal Throne has sewers, you know. We are a very modern city.”
She seemed keen on assuring him that Drakes’ infrastructure would never beat the Eternal Throne. Ilvriss refrained from asking her what her non-capital cities were like, but he did smile.
“It’s part and parcel to Erin’s world. Though she had no idea what a bidet was.”
“A what?”
This time, Ilvriss gave the [Princess] a look that said he didn’t believe her.
“A bidet. I know this is one of her jokes. Terandrian royalty would definitely know what…”
Lyonette was looking at Yelroan, and the [Mathematician] glanced up from writing.
“What is that?”
When he was sure they weren’t joking with him, Ilvriss indignantly strode over to a clean bathroom and showed one to them. They gave him a long look, and he got annoyed.
“It’s highly practical. How can you live without—that’s it. Alrric? Pack a bidet.”
He shouted into the speaking stone. The Gnoll paused for a long moment.
“You want me to pack a what, Wall Lord?”
“A bidet. Clearly, someone has to clean up Liscor, and no amount of acid jars will help. At least, not the way a bidet will. You want culture? Pack the bidet, and I notice no one in Liscor even knows what a damn sauna is. Heating stones, Alrric, and the stained gem-glass windows. If I have to have a room in Liscor, it’ll be cultured. And solar glass for a greenhouse! You don’t have any of those, eh? And bring—”
 
——
 
“Bring an [Enamel Toothmaker].”
“A what.”
Nerul Gemscale looked up as he tossed clothes into a go-bag. It wasn’t so much that he knew what to pack, it was mentality.
Clothing, documents, emergency medical and security supplies and walk. Everything else you could buy or acquire.
You had to be okay with either losing things or not having what you needed if you were a traveller, and Nerul, as a [Diplomat], was a traveller.
But even he acknowledged he had blind spots, and planning an entire expedition into northern lands to dig for a Walled City?
That was out of his area. He both wasn’t looking forward to it and he was, if that made sense.
Oh, the negotiations would be fire. He’d level—but the danger? The consequences?
He saw it and knew why Ilvriss wanted to go, had to go, but he feared it.
Yet he knew he would be valuable. Osthia Blackwing and Xesci, the two female counterparts of the team, were less happy about the trip because…
They weren’t sure they were needed.
Consider the facts with the brutality of a [Diplomat]. Osthia was a talented Oldblood Drake. But she was one-a-copper-penny when it came to warriors. The Rubirel Guard wore enchanted plate. Even armed, she was not an irreplaceable part of the team for just her combat prowess.
Xesci had it even worse. She had been invited to scope out Az’kerash’s minions and found zero. Now, she was clearly fretting about being useful.
She was a co-conspirator against the Necromancer. As far as Nerul was concerned, if you were loyal and smart, they needed you. But Xesci was reluctant.
The comment about a [Toothmaker] was the first she’d made all day.
“What…is so valuable about that, Miss Xesci?”
“The Humans don’t have them. If Ilvriss wants to bring something, bring that.”
“They don’t have toothmakers. But they brush their teeth. Well, everyone has rot. What happens if there’s trouble?”
“A [Healer] helps. If it’s bad, they pull it.”
“And?”
“And then they have a missing tooth.”
Nerul stared at Xesci, then he started laughing. He slapped his chest.
“Good one! Ah, you nearly had…”
He trailed off when he saw her flat look.
“No. They have replacements. I’ve seen [Storm Sailors] with gold teeth all the time.”
She shrugged.
“They’re [Sailors]. I think they get it done at harbors, and Drowned Folk have their own, but you’d go to a port or a really big city and hope someone could help you if you needed teeth. There’s not a custom or practice. No Guild of Enamelers in the north.”
“Really. Not even the House of El?”
“Custom teeth. They don’t sell them. You want a class that’s not widespread? Get a [Gem Cutter] who does teeth.”
It occurred to Nerul, as he fumbled for Ilvriss’ speaking stone, that Xesci might be valuable after all.
“You lived for years in the north, didn’t you, Xesci? You may be the one member of the group with actual insider knowledge of the north.”
She shrugged without much ego. The woman was living un-ego. She looked like a plain Drake at the moment, with literally no distinguishing features. Basic green scales, ordinarily plain features—you’d lose her in a crowd.
That made her so frightening. She could take on anyone’s face, and even change her height. She was a [Courtesan of Change], and she claimed she had forgotten her original face and form. Frankly…Nerul wondered if she was even a Drake.
“I suppose that is valuable. Though we’d better not sell any Rhir-teeth, eh?”
“…What’s that?”
Nerul chuckled, then realized she didn’t know, and they exchanged a blank look. They were completely different, Nerul and her, despite him frequenting pleasure districts as a matter of business and pleasure.
“Rhir-teeth. Nicknamed because they’re filled with something nasty. If you’re a [Spy] or an expendable [Diplomat]…you chomp down on one, and either you go quiet, or the entire building goes loud. The Blighted Kingdom loves them.”
The [Courtesan] shuddered.
“Oh, Gravedigger teeth. That’s what they’re called in my…circles. You bite one, and there’s a grave for you.”
“How apt. I used to have one back in the day. Then I had it replaced. See?”
He pulled at his lips and showed her a magnificent sapphire tooth in the back that he used to chomp down on hard foods. She gave him a wan smile.
“It sounds like you get treated like an underling in a gang.”
“That…is exactly the diplomatic corps, especially when you’re dealing with our military wing, Miss Xesci. I’m disturbed by how similar it is. Well, what can we expect in the north?”
He adjusted a fat bow-tie, wondering whether some better apparel would make him look like a gigantic buffoon. First appearances mattered. Being the drunk, bluff uncle to Ilvriss would be a great foil.
Besides, getting in with Erin Solstice mattered. From what Ilvriss said, she was as sharp as an Orichalcum blade and played soft power very well.
He was looking forwards to it. Intraspecies politics like his negotiations with the Trisstal Alliance were basic, really. You got some nuance from the Walled Cities, but unless the stakes were high, they just played at a low level because everyone knew the score.
The north? When you negotiated with them or foreign powers—and Drakes had done less of it these days—you dusted off your handbooks. Nerul had long lamented that he could only level so far if Drakes didn’t, in fact, talk to anyone.
“Erin Solstice. It sounds like she’s a natural practitioner of the old Courtly Fool style. You know, bumbling around while averting crises? No wonder she rope-a-dopes most opponents into thinking they’re rolling on her before she hits them low. The trick with someone like that is…either I go in and out-fool her or I go in serious like Eschowar. Frankly—I think honesty is the best approach. Treat her with respect.”
“Courtly Fool? Do you actually make up those terms like the Wineblaster, or is this real?”
Xesci was amused, and when Nerul turned—he jumped as a six-foot-six Gnoll woman, sleek-furred, leaned over on his dresser, smiling at him in a sultry way.
Ancestors, she’s good. If he saw someone like that appearing at a bar, he’d sweat. She looked like one of those diplomatic sharks you took one look at and realized you couldn’t get drunk with once on your entire trip.
Whether or not Xesci realized what she was doing, she was ‘fitting in’. Mimicking someone who might be Nerul’s associate at work…or someone he’d be interested in. She was also learning, and Nerul answered honestly.
“They’re real terms. We have all kinds of terms for the stupidest things. For instance, there’s this advanced technique where you slowly get someone relaxed if you’re trying to get them to admit to something, or make a deal, then ramp the pressure up slowly. You block the doorway, lean over, dominate space—we call this the Imposition Method.”
She snorted.
“Someone has to learn it, I suppose.”
He pointed at her.
“Exactly. We teach everything because you never know what someone doesn’t know. You can be a charismatic genius, and you still need to run through our lessons if you want to dance with the real diplomats. Actually, I love running into [Cult Leaders] and the like. I know all the tricks and how to pick apart the act. Well, my most fun is the really stupid techniques. Ever heard of Umbral Throne diplomacy?”
“…Doesn’t umbral mean shade? Shaded throne? Why would it b—oh. Gross.”
Nerul’s eyes twinkled.
“Exactly. Mutual suffering or extreme pity. Nothing makes you less on-guard than a poor [Diplomat] begging for toilet paper. My old mentor had a story about his master winning a huge treaty. The bastard took a laxative, then…it’s risky if you need to seem impressive, but I think Ilvriss performed a natural version with Erin Solstice just this morning.”
That made her laugh. She sat there a moment, and then she was a shorter, younger looking Drake, like some ingenue in a company, dangling her legs on his bed.
“Do you…think I’ll be helpful, Nerul? If I’m a burden, I don’t want to get in the way. But I want to help.”
He glanced over at her as he packed some scale cream and toilet paper into his bag.
“I think the value we bring is how much we put in, Xesci. After seeing old Zail get out there, I won’t make any bets on who’s useless. But neither Ilvriss nor I can ask you to do something. Not because we won’t; because we don’t know what you can do. We need you to take initiative.”
She looked thoughtful, then blinked as if he had said something she hadn’t considered all the time that she’d been helping.
“Take initiative? Oh. Well in that case, I can do that.”
She smiled, and Nerul was exceptionally glad that workplace fraternization was something he’d been taught to never partake in. Don’t dip your tail in the company inkpot and all that.
This entire time…had she been waiting for them to call on her talents? She smiled, then, and brushed at her neck-spines and turned like an orange blossom, all vivacious audacity, and even her dress looked sharper.
“Dead gods, who are you copying now?”
These were all people she’d known, but this Drake looked familiar. Xesci winked at Nerul, and he recalled she drew from their personalities and knowledge.
“Wall Lady Calistoca when she was younger. I’m thinking like a firebrand. Or maybe that was Maviola El…”
The [Lady] tapped her chin as Nerul stared, and then she shook her head.
“Too impulsive. Calistoca was never good at reading people, though. Who’s the best to think? The ‘Belavierr’ or whomever she was is too unkind and scheming—I keep thinking about how to stab you in the back—I wish I had met that ‘Quarass’ of Germina or a modern legend like Queravia.”
She flicked from form to form, and Nerul wiped at his brow.
Ancestors. He forgot, sometimes, that between him, Osthia, and Ilvriss—Xesci outranked them all in levels.
 
——
 
She really did.
Outrank the other Drakes, that was. Xesci could no longer recall what she had looked like. She had taken on too many roles for too long, and she swore she was a Drake, but was she really?
She was an example of someone who had been…changed by her class.
