The shriek was loud, visceral, and filled with fear. It came from Xesci’s right as the Wind Runner passed by. It made every warrior reach for a blade instantly. It was the sound beyond someone stubbing a toe or getting surprised.
It was the sound someone made when they saw something horrifying. Few people had ever heard a sound like that coming from Ryoka’s mouth. Ryoka couldn’t remember—she leapt back, crashed into a table, and tried to climb it. Trying to get away from—
Xesci. The [Courtesan] realized the Wind Runner was looking at her.
She instantly changed, growing more bland, more innocent, an older, friendly Drake lady. But the Wind Runner’s face was white.
“Wh—wh—”
She had drawn her Faeblade out, and the glowing pink blade burned into the inn in front of Ryoka as she held it in front of her. Erin whirled—
“Ryoka?”
“What is that?”
Ryoka swept the blade back and forth, looking at Xesci, then around at the alarmed people. She hesitated, took the blade in both hands, and aimed it—
“Xesci? Miss Griffin, what are you doing?”
Ilvriss turned, and Ryoka stared at him.
“Wh—”
“Ryoka? What’s wrong?”
The Wind Runner flinched as Xesci got up. The Drake smiled, feeling a sudden nervousness.
“Is something wrong, Miss…?”
She stepped forwards, and Ryoka retreated, her jade green eyes were wide with a terror that no one else had.
No one…except a green faerie, who had frozen on the way into the common room of the inn. Shaestrel stared at Xesci, and a disturbed look crossed her face. She flew to Ryoka, squinted, and kicked her in the ear.
 
“Stop staring. Look less closely.”
 
“Look less—”
Ryoka hadn’t been breathing. She stared at Xesci, and her perception…changed. Then she unfroze and began to breathe again. But she still seemed unnerved.
“Who—”
Ryoka backed away as Xesci tried to make herself even more normal and unassuming. She smiled, desperately, wondering why the Wind Runner was so horrified and feeling nervous herself. But Ryoka just backed away as Erin scolded her. But none of them could see—Ryoka Griffin looked even at Chaldion, who adjusted one eye suspiciously. At Erin—at Grimalkin? Ilvriss himself?
No one saw it? It was only the fae. The fae and Ryoka, who saw straight through the artifice of the world if they wanted to. No matter what Xesci tried, Ryoka backed up and refused to take her hand, despite the fuss. That fear—was so genuine that Xesci ended up retreating rather than draw more attention.
Ryoka didn’t want to tell anyone in the open. She played it off as Xesci sat, listening to her laugh and accept Erin’s apologies and behave like, well, a normal, nervous woman. High-level? On Ilvriss’ side?
Ryoka didn’t know. It didn’t matter. She saw what she saw.
Xesci…had no face. Ryoka didn’t see a Drake. She saw something that would have fit in that ruined city in the Lands of the Fae. A humanoid being of flesh, without face or features, sitting amidst all the other people. A disruption in reality. Like one of those disturbing paintings—the ‘skin’ a twisted, blended version of scale, flesh, and fur.
Like a more perfect version of the thing in the High Passes. That was why Ryoka had been terrified and was unnerved to see Xesci just sitting there until she turned off her vision and saw what Xesci ‘looked like’.
Her class had eaten her shape.
 
——
 
Apropos of nothing at all, Lord Xitegen of House Terland glanced up from his conversation with one of the inn’s spies. He was sitting in Celum, scoping out where new buildings would have to be laid and eying the walls and wondering if he could just move them out. He turned from having his Golem servants pour him a cup of tea and addressed the nondescript [Spy] wearing winter gear.
“And he wants to head into the north? A Wall Lord of Salazsar. The same one who was at Liscor before, yes? And was there when Tyrion besieged the city.”
“Yes, Wall Lord. Ilvriss of Salazsar.”
Xitegen drummed his fingers on the table.
“More trouble.”
He glanced up and frowned into the crowd a second. It was miserable and cold, but Celum still had people on the roads who had to work. Heating spells. He’d have to pour a lot of money into this place to get it up to standard. Celum had never had a sovereign [Lord], and they didn’t know they should expect more. But had he seen…? Xitegen hesitated, then shook his head and returned to the task at hand.
“I thought I heard something about Salazsar recently. I need a report on that and everything this ‘Ilvriss’ has done. Oh—and one more thing.”
The [Spy], grateful for all this work, was about to head to his Invrisil informant and collect an information package from ‘Bloody Secrets’, who did a reasonable and fast rate. When she was in office. He’d heard she had a new part-time job. He paused and looked up.
“Yes, Lord Xitegen?”
“This isn’t a request, but you did see Ryoka Griffin in the inn, didn’t you?”
“She was there with Lord Tyrion at the altercation.”
Xitegen relaxed and stopped peering into the crowd.
“Oh, very good. Nevermind, then.”
He turned away. He thought he’d seen Ryoka Griffin around here. But he was staring at the door to Liscor, so unless she’d flown in…no.
It must have just been his imagination.
 
——
 
Trouble came for Wall Lord Ilvriss by the end of his first day in Liscor. He was setting up with his staff as they refamiliarized themselves at the inn, and he was having a tropical fruit drink in the admittedly pleasant beach when someone walked in.
“Miss Solstice—oh, there you are, Ryoka. Miss Solstice, I am not here to cause trouble. I’m doing you a favor, so I would appreciate you letting me speak. I am trying to avoid trouble.”
Lord Xitegen said that. But he strode into the beach, looked around at the sand, and sighed.
“So this is what I’d get for getting in bed with the Goblins? Lovely. Pass. Give me a beach world and I’ll think about it before I refuse.”
He stood there as Ilvriss glanced up from drawing up a list of people they’d need to hire locally. Guides and miners and…
“Can I help you?”
“You are Wall Lord Ilvriss of Salazsar, correct? I am Lord Xitegen. Whereupon I bow, or however we do this between north and south.”
The [Lord] gave Ilvriss a slight bow, and the Wall Lord rose. He knew Xitegen, and his clawed hand extended with about as much friendship as he had to Tyrion. Xitegen paused, then shook his hand.
“Charmed.”
“I am delighted to meet one of House Terland’s sons, Lord Xitegen.”
The other [Lord] stared into Ilvriss’ eyes as they sized each other up. About the same, though Ilvriss didn’t like Xitegen’s bracer or his Golems. He didn’t like the feeling he might be outclassed in battle, but he felt like he had the edge in other areas. Then again, this man had survived the Goblin King, so it made sense his Skills geared to war.
“Thank you. Well, I can see we know each other by reputation. I came here as a token of respect, Wall Lord, and despite what Innkeeper Erin Solstice thinks—I do respect her inn and guests enough for what it is to issue a warning.”
“That’s what you said about the Goblins in Riverfarm. And my staff. You want to go for round two, Xitegen? This is my beach.”
Erin Solstice was dangerously unhappy, and Xitegen smiled at her.
“Miss Solstice. We never even danced the first duet. That was just Arcsinger, and with respect to her, it was all proxy. Let’s not start, shall we? And speaking of which—Wall Lord, am I to understand you’ve come to Liscor with the intention of heading north? Doing a bit of exploring? Seeing the north via the magical portal door, taking in the air for your health?”
His voice was overly casual. Ilvriss tried not to let his neck spines rise or tail curl up. He smiled with his teeth, though.
“I did hope to visit the north much like Magnolia Reinhart visited the south, Wall Lord. The door allows you to walk on Drake land. Is this an issue?”
“Oh, yes, absolutely. I came to tell you, like a reasonable gentleman of House Terland, that you should stay clear of anywhere but, say, Invrisil for some light shopping. Any more and I can’t guarantee your safety. And a war is the last thing we need right now.”
Xitegen’s face was smooth, and his words were direct. Ilvriss stiffened, and Erin inhaled, but Ilvriss glanced at her, and she let him talk. The Wall Lord decided to not cross his arms as Xitegen now did, but put his claws behind his back and stood straighter.
“That would appear to be a threat, Lord Terland. Or at least, a rather hypocritical demand.”
Xitegen’s chuckle had no mirth in it. No malice either, not openly, which was interesting. He was just—intent.
“Do as I say, not as I do. Wall Lord, you amuse me so. We’re nobility. We breathe hypocrisy. I am not threatening you myself, you see. Not at this moment. I am telling you—if my peers get wind of you walking around the north openly, I cannot guarantee your safety. So, out of pure self interest, I am warning you off. That goes for your expedition, too, or any body of Drakes who appear in the north.”
Ilvriss’ smile was starting to hurt. And here it began. He’d feared this might happen, but getting a warning to his face was classic humanity. Drakes would be more subtle. Even in Manus.
“And if I persist?”
Xitegen considered the question and tapped his lips.
“Would you…do me the favor of providing a statement in writing that you were here purely of your own accord, and your inevitable demise should not reach Salazsar or bring forth any repercussions from the south and Walled Cities? A certificate of justifiable insanity would do. Otherwise, no, there’s nothing left to say.”
“Xitegen. If you harm him—”
He turned with pure exasperation on his face and shoved both hands into his pockets.
“Miss Solstice. I needn’t even lose sleep over it. Magnolia went to Oteslia, and I thought I’d hear they had her head on a platter within the week. Do you think it’s easy watching a noble march across the border? Invrisil, Pallass, and Liscor are connected by your door and semi-neutral because Pallass and Magnolia play nice. I wouldn’t go for a stroll outside of Pallass. A random, accidental arrow might strike my heart. In the same way, I am reasonably warning Wall Lord Ilvriss that the weather up north is dreadful this time of year. Snow and sleet with a chance of daggers.”
He stood there, and Ilvriss regarded Lord Xitegen. His temper was flaring, but he held it back a second. His father might not have, but Ilvriss cleared his throat as Xitegen turned back.
“Tell me, Lord Xitegen, and I mean this with no rancor—is this a genuine, semi-friendly warning, or am I reading it wrong?”
The Lord of House Terland gave Ilvriss a mystified look and searched him up and down. He replied with a studied frown.
“You may not think I am being so, but I am being reasonable and warning you off, Wall Lord Ilvriss. It is ‘nice’ for a Terland; my dear aunt Ulva and old Petra would have been very offensive to Miss Erin’s sensibilities if they issued a warning at all.”
“So it is a kindly warning.”
“I like to think so.”
Ilvriss almost smiled. He coughed into one fist and nodded.
“Well taken, Lord Terland. Just so you know—if you delivered that to an association of Walled Families in Salazsar, it might be war if you were the son of a Walled City.”
Xitegen Terland’s brows bounced up and down as he blinked at Ilvriss, then he smiled.
“My. You Drakes are touchy. Fair enough. It’d be a feud and assassins in the dark if I said that to a delicate Reinhart at a banquet. I’m trying to avoid more. And I am a blunt man. Forgive me for intruding, Miss Solstice.”
He turned smartly, and Erin glared at him as he began to march back out of her beach. She strode after him as Ilvriss grimaced.
“Xitegen! Are you not hearing me about the Solstice?”
“Miss Erin, I hear you about the Solstice. I heard Miss Griffin loud and clear. New lands. Hypothetical teleporting Seamwalkers. Let’s all join hands against these universal threats. If that line of reasoning worked, we’d never have had strife after the Creler Wars ever again. Ask that Wall Lord why there’s a thousand graves in Lord Gralton’s kennels or Emperor Laken how he feels about all that ashed land around his empire. Tread carefully in the north.”
Then he was gone.
 
——
 
“It appears, Nephew, that the north likes to be open, or Lord Xitegen’s a bit of a renegade who speaks his piece. No wonder he’s gained support. I was hoping to secure private deals through each patch of land we needed to get to our destination, but that was a Drake idea. I’ve reassessed, and the north is going to take pot shots at us and worse all the way to the place—unless we counter it.”
Nerul’s job was diplomacy, and he took Xitegen’s threat very seriously. He was quite put out he’d missed Xitegen, but he could always meet with the [Lord].
Erin was mad. Ilvriss? Thinking.
“We have to do it. Even if I hold back, you and anyone we send will be tarred with the brush of ‘Salazsar’, of ‘Drakes’. I would rather be there to lend my Skills and authority, but we need to hold off from conflicts.”
It could, without exaggeration, start a war. Ilvriss’ death would lead to a conflict between Salazsar and probably all the Walled Cities depending on how it happened.
“You’re not even threatening anything! And they visit my beach! And they’re going to attack you just for coming through?”
“There was that incident with the saboteurs, Erin. And that was after Tyrion sieged Liscor. And the Bloodfields battle every year. And…”
Ryoka wasn’t taking the north’s side, but she was aware of how they had framed it in Reizmelt. She backed down as Erin glared hotly around, and at this point, Nerul addressed Erin directly. He smiled as she looked at him dubiously.
“Miss Solstice, as Salazsar’s top [Diplomat], it’s my policy to believe that if you want to make a deal with the other side in good faith, you have to admit what you’ve done. And we have done it all. They have every right to consider us backstabbing, treacherous murderers with no good intent. The question is: can you or can we provide enough value or good intent to buy ourselves the safety we need? The threat’s been made. If you have a solution, we’ll gladly repay you for any help you can render.”
Amazingly, this focused Erin. Ilvriss gave Nerul a surprised look, but the [Diplomat] was talking straight and without his usual panache for games or silliness.
“What…I have contacts. So does Ryoka. We can talk to them.”
Erin glanced at Ryoka, and the Wind Runner visibly hesitated.
“You know every member of the Five Families, Ryoka. Aside from Wellfar, I guess.”
