This served several purposes. It granted the furnace power even if someone broke the cables leading to it. It also stabilized the psionic flow, which was essential. These two would be wielding a lot of energy, and that mana carried with it a measure of will and intent. The blue cores stabilized that chaotic flow, letting them use more safely.

Lastly, the cores spawned a shield over their station, the writhing energy bubble insulating them from the rest of the Survivor's base. All of this gave the rulers much-needed space, something they didn't think they needed. They were wrong. These people required R&R more than they needed basic supplies.

Giving them that, I stepped out of the blue core shielding and spawned 'beds' where the sorcerers once channeled energy. I kept these beds simple, using steel grids covered with soft, lush plant life and soil. To keep the plants alive, I connected the beds to the mana grid and put in simple water creation runes. These sigils converted mana to water, and they helped clean the air.

Finishing the effort, I erected steel walls around each bed, creating a framework of boxed-in cubicles. Sprucing them up, I connected a simple tube to each water sigil, letting someone shower in them. Testing it out, it operated, but the water came out cold as ice. I put in ambient warmth runes over the showerheads, and it came out nice and warm.

Getting caught up in the project, I put shelves along the walls, nightstands on the bed, and a desk in the open space left. In all honesty, those parts took seconds to add, and they made each place look far less like prison cells. Completing that idea, I gave each steel box a door with a gravity well lock.

The gravity well unlatched with a ring's mana signature, each one written with a unique series of Schema-based runes. While handing out the jewelry, I made each ring with a few extra augments for willpower, regeneration, etc. Considering how many rings I'd already made, the task took little time or effort. Despite the ease of making them, the difference those circlets made was palpable.

Aliens stood taller, crawled faster, and rested easier. Most of the wizards lacked the energy or wherewithal to thank me with gusto, but the little gusto they had left was used to display palpable emotion. Shock, tears, and disbelief, the rulers showed feeling with a vibrance akin to a rainbow, each shade as striking as the last.

At the center of it, I relished the sight. Even if I did this for my own gain, helping people felt good. It was a really underrated pastime, and more people should try it out. In many ways, assisting others offered meaning and purpose to life. In my case, it happened to give me money too.

Anyways, I gained plenty of rapport while turning the lives of the rulers around. Even if I enjoyed the process, I maintained a professional attitude. Before handing off the rings, rulers signed the cipheric contract I made. The circlets gave access to the power network as well, along with the means of contacting the director overseeing the entire base.

It made the whole process streamlined compared to a more traditional building scheme. Having finished a hundred rooms, I rode my elevator back up before handing the rulers their rooms and rings. Many followed me down, listening to my explanation of the utilities within. This eroded the mountains of doubt they had for my abilities, and most of the holdout rulers signed the contract.

Those that sided against signing lacked access to the power network, the rooms, and all other utilities. It was their choice.

I rode down towards the barracks of this place, having many of the rulers enter their new living quarters above. Though the new layout distressed some, gaining privacy emboldened most. The mercenary leaders, military contractors, and royal guards entered the cipher contract without much resistance. Only the most die-hard rebels went against me, and once again, that was their choice.

Cracking my knuckles, I went about ensuring they regretted that decision.

Taking out blue cores, I constructed weapon after weapon made from my dimensional fabric. Simple swords and heavy hammers gained life from cipheric etchings and humming cores. These simple cipheric augments evolved the weapons into destructive forces, each weapon fitted for the one that wielded them.

I lost a few rulers because I constructed the weapons out of, well, me, but I was happy to see them refuse to sign. If all it took to stop them was an unordinary building process, then they lacked a mind open enough for what was to come. With willing subjects at my fingertips, I tested out my golem-based mechs.

All they needed to do was put themselves in a golem's body and deal with the psionic implanting process. Yeah, unpleasant, but it let them gain a titan's body without having to learn any fancy control scheme. It would be like a second body, one superior to their own.

And yeah, it stopped me from having to install fancy monitors and modern tech. I could do a lot, but that was beyond me.

Finishing twenty golem pilots, I rubbed my hand down my face. It was an attempt to wipe away my general fatigue, but to my chagrin, it didn't work. It never did. My time magic made everything much harder, the perpetual psionic dying turning into a tremendous burden over time. However, this all acted as a training exercise for me.

I'd be living in a temporally accelerated world for a long time. Adjusting to its eccentricities gave me options, and mastering simple, everyday tasks saved time. I repeated that to myself over and over because I turned what was supposed to be a rejuvenating break into another trial by fire.

But I needed to keep pushing. Exhaustion was no excuse to stop, and neither was the desire for comfort. The more comfortable I tended to be, the worse my life ended up becoming. In the trenches of hardship, I found meaning. On the battlefield of unease, I learned how to stand tall.

So I did so. Without taking a break, I armed this place with golem mechs, weapons, and basic armors. I kept the plate mails thin since my armor weighed most people down. Those that withstood the pressure were better for it, the additional resistance being an excellent training stimulus. The armors granted all the benefits my equipment always gave as well: mana, regeneration, and simple abilities.

The entire time, I talked with the rulers and discussed their preferences for their weaponry. This personalized creation meant each piece had a specific owner. Using my patented ring system, I made each cored weapon reliant on a ring's stimulus to activate. Otherwise, it would psionically attack whoever tried moving it.

They were like modified core golems but shaped like weaponry. Having living weaponry stopped rulers from stealing my stuff. It could still happen, of course, but the director above would take care of finding and hunting anyone who did so.

And I mention these precautions were for rulers stealing from rulers. No one, and I repeat, no one would steal anything I made here. I addressed all of that in my contract. Stealing of my property would lead to at least two deaths, and everything must be left behind on Leviathan-7 when the lottery ended, including the base itself.

This prevented people from turning in my hard work as their own. It also gave me more leeway in what I gave to the rulers. That's why I used just over two hundred blue cores for the remodel already. I'd get all of it back by the end. Getting ready to invest even more, I shuttled down towards the terrarium floor.

The blast of cool air from the plants refreshed me some as I reached the center of the room. To my left, Drelex sat in an algae pit, the humidity high and his catfish whiskers wilted. He leaned his head back, looking at peace with the world. He murmured as I walked nearby,

"You work fast...I'll get to the language ciphers once I've recuperated fully." He sank deeper into the pit, "Which, ahhh...Could take a while."

I gave him a nod before getting to the task at hand. This floor required the most basic sigils yet. Air, water, and plant generation were all these people needed from here. Of course, my artificial creations lacked the flavor or texture of the real thing, but they acted as a reliable food source. Fruits and vegetables proved easy to make in mass. Meat was a different story since my origin mana made cancerous creatures.

People could eat it...Uhm, if they wanted to.

However, they weren't this desperate, so I only made a few pens of the mutants before grabbing everyone's signatures for the contracts. With the signs in tow, I rode up my elevator to help Entilla. He installed the wiring for lighting and for recharging stations. He even created obelisk charging ports, and many rulers lined up for them.

In fact, many rulers joined Entilla in his remodeling. With access to power and relief, the constructive might of these rulers bloomed. They constructed a network for the place, letting everyone connect to one another. They created psionic relays that conditioned the mana for their personal use. Hell, the rulers even made recreational stuff like spas, gameboards, etc.

While I installed wiring, several individuals implemented programs onto the new network. They automated problems with daily life. From holographic projectors to real-time maps of Leviathan-7, they gave everyone usable, practical utilities. They even created a behemoth tracking system. In hours, these people turned this hellhole into a bastion of technology, the fruits of their labor ripening all at once.

And I wanted some of it for my cities.

After we finished the terrarium, I stepped up to Entilla. The blue lizard ruler created a heating suit for himself, having traded favors with a tailor-based ruler. I admired the tech for a moment before raising a hand to him,

"Yo, Entilla. Do you mind talking after we finish here? I might have a job for you after this is done."

Entilla raised his scaly brow, "Oh, really now? Do you need my help of all things? And here I thought you had a kingdom already."

I waved an arm while rolling my eyes, "Pshh, come on now. I was just trying to make sure I wasn't shaken down the moment I stepped into this place. It wasn't like I was trying to make anyone else look bad."

Entilla grabbed the edges of his tech-laden jumpsuit, "I suppose I can look past your transgression and help you...If I find the time."

He coughed into a hand, "Ahem, but in all honesty, when would you like to talk about it?"

I shrugged, "A few hours from now. I have no idea how long it will take to handle the last floor."

Entilla scratched the side of his neck spikes, "That's where the most complex machinery is. I would've insisted we helped them first, but most of their immediate needs were handled by you up top, like gravitation or radiation. If I were giving you an estimate, a few hours seems about right."

Entilla gave me a friendly shove on my shoulder, "Oh yeah, I was wrong about you. I, hm, I had a real chip on my shoulder, and you knocked it off. I figured I'll say what everyone else is thinking-"

Entilla smiled with sharp teeth, "It's good to be wrong sometimes."

I reached out a fist, "Thanks, man. Let's go clean up the last floor and get this over and done with."

Entilla looked at my hand before trying to emulate my gesture. He couldn't make a fist because his fingers ended with pointed claws. Doing the best he could, he made a loose fist and reached out. One of his claws caught between the plates of my gauntlet. When Entilla pulled his hand back, one of his nails pulled off.

Entilla reached his hand up to his face, his eyes wide. He stammered, "Agh, huck. Gahh."

I pulled the missing claw out while holding down a laugh. He snatched his nail from me while snapping, "Every time I try to give you an inch, you make me regret it."

A snicker escaped me before Entilla tossed his claw into an algae pit. He shrugged, "Anyways, let's get back to work. I'd rather deal with wiring issues than that demonic gesture of yours any day."

We rode the elevator down while other rulers followed behind us. In the medical bay, Iona walked around, panicking between patients. Several monitors buzzed and squealed out with high-pitched, panic-inducing sounds. I flung myself over with a localized gravity well, landing with a dull thud. I raised a hand to her, "What's up?"

Iona raised her hands and wings in tandem, "They're dying from barotrauma."

Answering my confused expression, Iona snapped, "You depressurized everything too quickly. Their tissues were already weakened, and they ruptured when you fixed everything so fast."

I tilted my head, and my eyes turned to slits, "Oh...Really now?"
