Erick said, “I guess the spells can’t function so close together.”

Kiri said, “Do it again.”

Erick obliged. A [Cascade Imaging] took hold not seven meters up; just above the trees. As it began to put out light, and take in the resulting reflections, a white fog lifted from the ground. Light began to carve out of that fog, soon enough.

Erick and Kiri watched as a miniature diorama of Windy Manor appeared in the fog, along with the radio-shadowed trees all around, making the house look like it was on the edge of a massive, impassible hedge. But minutes passed, and the radio-shadows began to break apart, as more information gathered through the spell.

Erick watched as a little white lightward version of himself appeared on the map, looking down at the center of Windy Manor’s yard. The map itself was not repeated in miniature, but everything else was. Kiri stood beside Erick, watching her own miniature self lean over and look at a blank spot in the air, just like Erick’s miniature self was doing.

There was a problem, though. Ophiel was on his shoulder. Sunny was on Kiri’s shoulder.

So what was the thing flying around them?

Erick watched as a tiny, floating thing, appearing like a white orb, hovered around the floating map, maybe two meters away. Erick looked up at where the floating thing should have been, at around head height, but there was nothing. He glanced back to the map. The white orb was still there. He looked up again. Whatever was floating right in front of his face, was completely invisible to visible light, but apparently not to radiowaves.

Erick got out, “Huh—”

Kiri reacted with a blast of fire aimed at the floating orb. She was slightly slower than Erick, but she did not catch her target; it was already gone. She did manage to catch the lemon trees on fire, though.

Poi reacted with a wide-range communication that came through much faster than it sounded, ‘Mind solidifying… Done. Minimal outside influences… Purged. Parasite testing... Clear.’

The groundskeepers, Vinsez, the incani man, and Powell, the human woman, who Erick had spoken to now and then, but mostly not, appeared in a flash to the side of the garden. Each of them were dressed in cream-colored robes and ready for battle. Vinsez held a spear, Powell held a sword and a shield.

Powell yelled, “I don’t see—”

Erick shouted, “He’s gone now!” As his heart began to beat slower, Erick added, softer, “No need to get concerned.” Erick pointed back down to the map. Vinsez and Powell were now a part of the resolving opaque-white lightward. The pixie, and Erick was pretty sure that it was a pixie, was gone. Or maybe it was just hiding out in the radio-shadows of the forest. He said, “Thank you, though, Vinsez. Powell.” He turned to Poi, “Thanks, Poi.”

Kiri blushed darker green as she waved her hand and put out the fire on the lemon trees.

Poi’s face held hard, as twenty intent-filled lines streamed from his head into the manasphere. But as moments passed, those lines dimmed. He said, “Nothing but a spy. I think.”

“Probably,” Erick agreed.

Vinsez said, “Apologies, sir. We—”

“No need to worry, Vinsez.” Erick said, “Thank you very much for your prompt reaction.” Erick joked, “I just hope that Messalina doesn’t think that this means I can find someone.” He added, “This spell is missing a lot.”

Vinsez nodded. Powell remained silent.

Ophiel trilled in questioning flute sounds, while a dozen eyes opened up across his tiny body; he didn’t notice the pixie at all, and if Erick was reading Ophiel right, he did not like not noticing the pixie.
