Erick hovered himself, Kiri, and his platform away from the statues, to set down on an empty spot in the center of all three; a small island of raised stone. The water flowed around the bases of the statues, and around the little island in the center. Erick looked up.

Up above, was a smooth, white domed alcove, five meters across. No light had yet been cast into that space; Erick had left it for last. If Erick had been designing the mana flow system of this dungeon, he would have put the main intake right there, at the top of this dome. But that was ‘bad design’, according to Apell.

The Headmaster spoke, “If you wish to try [Kaleidoscopic Radiance] in this space, I would not be opposed. I could always erase it later if it turns out to be a problem.”

Erick thought about doing just that, but he had wanted to put something personal, here. The only problem with that, though, was that ‘something personal’ might mess up the dungeon space.

After staring at the empty ceiling for a minute, Erick decided against a personal touch. He had already made the sculptures, and they were rather unlike the ones he had seen when he was researching art history, and accepted designs. They weren’t sacrilegious, but they definitely had that personal touch, already.

… But there was something that Erick could do, that no one else could. Not yet, anyway.

He cast a lightmask into the air that gave off no light, but anyone looking up at it could tell there was something purple, about three meters across, hovering in the alcove. If anyone thought to Stat-enchant into that space, they’d find a fun little secret. He briefly considered putting down the individual lightmasks of his purple prize into the four corners of the dungeon, but no; that would make it too easy to guess at the real purpose of this floating, purple space. Besides, if someone tried to enchant a single Stat out of the space, that would be hint enough. Erick had already tested that experiment and found that he could use the same purple lightmask to enchant individual Stats. All he had to do was channel mana through a single Stat, instead of through all of them.

Erick smiled, as he looked back down.

The Headmaster looked up at the purple area. He did not frown. He did not smile.

Erick teased, “I know that you know what that is.”

The Headmaster looked back down to Erick. He said, “I’m surprised you decided to put that up there. And that you made it permanent.”

“It’s cast into the space, so you can’t really move it, anyway.” Erick said, “And besides! All dungeons have to have a prize, right? I doubt it’ll still be a prize in ten years, but it’s nice to think about the actions made today leaving a mark on history.”

Suddenly, a few blue boxes appeared. And not just for Erick. Everyone standing around him, including the Headmaster, paused to read the air.

Kiri must have read hers super-fast, because she exclaimed, “Oh!”

Special Action!

Your <dungeon> has been accepted by the Relevant Entities you have chosen to <respect>.

You will receive <3> benefits for accomplishing this rare achievement.

<Koyabez grants you 1 use of [Divine Creation]>

<Phagar grants you 1 use of [Death’s Approach]>

<Rozeta grants you a Boon, for fundamentally advancing the knowledge of Magic on Veird.>

Divine Creation, <Koyabez>

A touch of the divine will enable the creation of an appropriate artifact.

<The hands of eternity achieve the impossible.>

Death’s Approach, <Phagar>

Become a being of untouchable mana for 1 hour, multiplying your base mana by 10, giving you endless mana, and instantly filling your mana pool. Your regeneration is damaged to a varying degree when the effect ends, cutting your regeneration to a fifth to a tenth of what it was before. Debuff lasts until you recover the mana spent while Death’s Approach is active.

<Ignite the entire candle to drive away the night.>

Rozeta’s Boon.

Make a decision:

(1) Reduction.

(2) Resilience.

(3) Recovery.

While everyone else read their boxes rather quickly, Erick was still stuck on his. As moments piled up, and the initial excitement of an unexpected bonus died down, Kiri nudged closer to Erick.

Erick whispered to her, “Did you expect to get anything?”

Kiri said, “I’m not even sure what I got.”

The Headmaster spoke up, “It’s a rare thing for non-clergy to gain access to sacred magics. You should hold whatever you got in confidence, and share it with no one.”

Erick gazed up at the purple spot above. He said, “Is this what usually happens to clergy of a god? Spells and such?”

“Yes.” The Headmaster smiled under the radiant lights, saying, “All we have is each other in this strange New Cosmology, and the gods know this more than most, though they do choose to be slightly cryptic when handing out their boons. You would do well to think on what you might have gotten, before you use it.” He turned his attention to everyone around, from Apell to Poi, and Erick and Kiri, “The dungeon is made. The gods have approved. Merith and Calzin are being tagged as the Keepers of this space, while Apell is to return to normal duties, as soon as she is satisfied with the final flows of this dungeon.” He turned to Apell, saying, “Thank you for your time.”

Apell simply curtsied, nodding her head as she dipped to the waters swirling around her feet.

The Headmaster continued, “Slimes have already begun to spawn and crowd on the first floors. Soon, they will no doubt be tumbling down here, too. Are you interested in pursuing [Lightwalk] at this time, Erick?”

“Not right now, but I am going to pursue this option at a later date.” Erick said, “I need to develop this [Particle Scan] spell, then get back to Spur to join the search for Messalina. If I don’t make any headway on this magic in a few days, then I’ve heard Silverite has plans to search out nearby Cloud Giant cities. I’ll join one of those task forces and contribute however I can.”

“I think that is an excellent plan.” The Headmaster said, “I have heard that you have partially figured out [Blink]. I can only hope that the rest of your pursuits meet a similarly quick step in the right direction.” He added. “Windy Manor is yours now, if you so choose. I require my tomes returned to me when you choose to return to Spur, but they will be made available to you, through Krigea, whenever you wish. I would like to call upon you before you leave, so that we might discuss other possible beneficial arrangements. Please ensure that someone contacts the appropriate people to ensure this happens. Either through Krigea, or through the Elites stationed beside your residence.” He did not wait for a response. He blipped away in a shattering of golden glows.

Erick smiled. “Having a vacation home would be really nice.” He asked Apell, “What are the taxes like around here? Do I need to pay for the Elites beside my house?” He joked, “Did I just lose my 25% revenue stream from this dungeon?”

Apell grinned. “I doubt he would do that. He might own Oceanside, but he has other people run it. I doubt they’d try to drag you through the walls. The Headmaster has supported many archmages over the years, so they know what he prefers, so your daily experience likely won’t change.” She asked, “Have you ever been down to the courthouse, before?”

“No. But I can do all that later, I hope.”

Poi spoke up, “We’ll take care of it, sir.”

Erick nodded at Poi, then said, “Then I have spells to make.” He guided his floating platform to Poi, who adroitly stepped onto the stone surface to join him and Kiri. Erick turned toward Apell, saying, “It has been a pleasure working with you. I’m sure something will need to change here, going forward, so please don’t hesitate to ask for more diamonds or otherwise.” He added, “I think we could do better on the front entrance, too.”

Apell chuckled, saying, “It has been a pleasure working with you, too. If you wish to adjust the front door, then you can do so whenever.”

“Maybe I will.” He added, “Your class certainly was fun.” As Erick floated there on the platform, in the center of the last floor of the dungeon, he briefly considered taking off his sunglasses just so he could get a proper view of the place. But that would have been a bad idea, so he did not. He simply turned to Apell, waving as he said, “Later.”

A blip of white crashed through Erick, Poi, and Kiri, as the platform whisked them back to Windy Manor, just in time for sunset.

Across the ocean to the west, where the dark water met the orange, pink, and yellow sky, the sun descended on another day. Erick sighed, seeing all that water, and knowing that this sight would be waiting here for his return, after Messalina no longer threatened Spur. As to what ‘no longer threatened Spur’ looked like? Erick had a vague idea. Right now, if he could find someone through [Polymorph] and at a vast range, then one or two or ten applications of that spell would, hopefully, make Messalina leave. That would be good enough.

There was a lot of magic left to learn at Oceanside, after all, but he was needed elsewhere, for now.

Kiri stepped off of the platform first, onto the front lawn, saying, “I was not expecting a boon.” She rapidly said, “I know it’s rude to ask—”

“You’re right.” Poi said, “It is rude to ask.”

Erick smiled toward the sunset. He said, “I don’t mind being rude. What’d you get, Kiri? I’m trying to decide on Reduction, Resilience, or Recovery.”

Kiri turned back toward Erick. She paled slightly, then said, “Uh. Just the use of a spell.”

Poi stressed, “Sir. Please don’t tell anyone what you got.” He added, “It is a massive breach of security for anyone to know anything specific about any divine magics you may or may not have received from any specific deity.”

“Okay okay.” Erick asked, “What do you think Yetta’s divine abilities were, then?” He sarcastically asked, “Can I ask that?”

Poi sarcastically replied, “That’s a fine question.” He turned and walked toward the house.

Erick laughed.

- - - -

After dinner, Erick still hadn’t decided which of Rozeta’s Boons he would take, or which kind of divine, Koyabez-assisted artifact he wanted to make. As far as the item was concerned, he was leaning toward a Staff of Exalted Storm, just so he could make non-divine ones by copying whatever Koyabez decided to make. There were some obvious holes in that theory, of course. It was quite possible, that whatever came out of [Divine Creation] would be a one-of-a-kind item; impossible to reproduce.

Phagar’s spell was very clearly an emergency-only spell. Erick hoped he would never have to use it.

Erick went to his workroom to make some progress on his other problems; specifically, the [Scan] problem. The [Polymorph] problem was too much right now. He would have to do that later, after he had solved the initial [Particle Scan] problem. He started off with summoning a chalkboard, and sketching out an idea. It was a rough idea, because Erick had a rough problem.

He had no idea how radiowave imaging would need to be adjusted to work with the magic of the Script.

In his course of researching all the [Scan] spells he could get his hands on, when he wasn’t working on the dungeon, or getting waylaid by the math of it all, he discovered that all the known [Scan] spells worked based on the senses. Sight, touch, smell. Those were the big ones. Hearing and taste factored into the more nuanced searching spells, but not by much. But broadly, they all worked on what the scanner knew, or could find out.

He thought back to when he first heard of [Scan] from Zago, the mage guildmaster of Spur. She had told him the normal recipe for [Scan], and it was [Find Target], [Force Wave], [Scent Tracker], [Scry], [Rebound], and [Identify]. [Force Wave] was there to provide the initial pulse of mana outward, which would then return with [Rebound], after it hopefully caught on the target, which would happen because of a combination of [Identify], [Find Target], and [Scent Tracker].

To do all this, [Scan] cost 5000 mana. It could only [Scan] out to 10 kilometers, too. Going over what he knew now, Zago was correct in her spell work, but the [Scan] in the [Script] was something that any decent archmage could easily beat, and most mages could beat, too. [Alter Scent] would throw off the [Scent Tracker] part enough to fool the spell half the time, while a basic [Polymorph] would fool the entire spell, a hundred percent of the time.

A [Particle Scan] spell was going to be a different beast altogether, because he needed to have the [Particle Scan] itself, and the ability to recognize what it was he was [Particle Scan]ning without the use of normal magic. There was no [Particle Identify] right now, and Erick did not want to reinvent computers; he didn’t even know where to begin with that monstrous problem. He still didn’t have Particulate Force, either, the one Class Ability that would allow him to combine normal magic and Particle magic, and he likely never would. He didn’t want all those non-standard Errors, and besides, he promised Jane he wouldn’t put himself in danger like that anymore. It was a promise he intended to keep.

Erick stepped back from what he had drawn.

It was a simple idea of a RADAR; a lightward fashioned into a concave surface that would rotate in the air, and send out a signal, and then catch that signal as it came back.

