Jake ignored her words and just kept trying to get more poison into her system. He knew that a certain amount of poison would need to accumulate before the Mana Allergy effect would truly kick in, making the dragon’s use of magic damage her every time, and luckily for him, it seemed that Yrelstromoz was more than cooperative for now with the way she chose to fight.

Yrelstromoz kept trying to attack Jake using a very simplistic fighting style, mostly ignoring his potshots as he landed one after another. Whenever he did, she merely ripped out the arrow before trying to attack again, seemingly more annoyed than concerned with being pelted like this.

That, or she was being cautious, not wanting to overreact to small attacks in case Jake could release another big one. Also, Jake had to admit that if not for his poison, his minor potshots indeed dealt little damage as he was also still only in the probing stage of combat. He didn’t want to be overly offensive, either, as he had no idea what she was capable of, and seeing as he was facing a True Dragon who hadn’t even bothered to take the visage of a dragon yet, he knew she had far more to show.

After about a minute of back-and-forth with Jake landing a solid dozen arrows, Yrelstromoz’s frown deepened as she stopped trying to attack.

“Odd, whatever boosted you to this level of power should have run out by now,” she said, looking perplexed.

Jake raised an eyebrow as he suddenly realized why she had fought the way she did. Yrelstromoz seemed under the illusion that Jake was using some external item, treasure, or extreme boosting skill to allow him to fight her. Something that would have a very short duration and lead to extreme consequences afterward.

In her mind, that was likely the only way a mere C-grade could keep up with her like this. She truly believed that Jake would burn himself out at any moment... something that annoyed Jake immensely.

Alright, fine, Jake thought as he gazed at her, his demeanor slightly changing as he looked forward to seeing just how long she could keep underestimating him.
