Blind idiots relying on the leader to save them and carry the fight. Weaklings. He served the ‘empress’ though he remembered her as a hesitant revolutionary so vividly, it was hard to think of her as some bigwig, because it was a national effort. The outlander girl, the dragon girl, the northern mages, the Hallurians, the Hadals, the heavies, even that old tanned cornudon hide masquerading as a person Poacher were part of the effort. They were part of what made Harrak a force to be reckoned with despite being objectively a group of talented rejects on the continent’s ass boil. He hated the Nemeti because they reminded him of him. Before he was given a chance to make a change. Back when any two-bits prince could destroy his life for five silvers per slave. Leaders couldn’t be trusted to achieve everything. Hell, most of them couldn’t be trusted at all. That was why he was the tip of the spear now.

The girl was lucky she had him. He would show her why. No resistance? That was their mistake.

“Spread out. Kill them all. Any of you cunts who slays less than fifty will be scraping shit off chamber pots till seeding.”

“You heard the fucker, get those machetes swinging!” Poacher screeched.

And they went to work.

***

Up and down, to the side. Viv and Arthur focused on defense and speed, forcing the avatar to fling ever more earth at them to hope to catch them. The ground around it was looking like a moon landing by now, and many of the elites were retreating, bleeding, or dead. Param was running out of options quickly and the gaping wounds covering the beast’s body didn’t seem to hinder it in the slightest.

“Another run!”

Viv didn’t know what else to do.

Between legs!

“Okay.”

Arthur accelerated to a speed that forced Viv to shield her face or be blinded. They closed in under another shower of rocks, Viv preparing an Excalibur. The pair raked the beast’s underbelly with fire and slicing hunger.

“Dodge!”

The time, a tail slap missed them by a handspan. Viv’s ears rang from the shock and Arthur shook. They managed to recover before being caught again. Solar used the opening to slice a finger off while Solfis tore at its open gashes.

“How much can this thing… oh.”

The damage was spreading.

Finally, after all this effort, the avatar was slowly coming apart at the seams. The explanation was not just the wounds but the wave of soldiers rolling over the praying Nemeti from all sides, executing them where they stood. With the power sustaining it being literally cut down, the avatar could no longer fully maintain its presence. Its scales grew less opaque, its blood evaporated. The physical shell slowed down, which Solar used to attempt a decapitation, failing when it was blocked by a paw.

Viv had concerns.

The Nemeti had proven to be as tenacious as they were vindictive, killing themselves to call for a creature capable of reversing the tide of battle. There had to be more aaaaand here it was.

The creature coiled on itself like a cat, or an ouroboros, head resting over its tail. Its defenseless posture should have been enough to allow Solar and the others a killing blow, yet the bleeding essence acted as a shield while the avatar turned from walking disaster to symbol. Power gathered in its center until it was visible as a shimmer in the air. For the Nemeti, that thing must have shone like the sun.

“Another pass!”

I cannot get close.

Too much fate mana.

It could be enough to undo even me!

“We need to stop that thing.”

Cannot get close.

Need some dispersal.

More mana.

“Spells?”

Any mana.

“Get me close to Solar first.”

The pair landed next to the sword saint and the quickly assembling elites. Most of the archers were still there, though their quivers looked empty. Concerned glances betrayed the desperation behind their stoic postures.

“We need mana-charged attacks to disrupt the spell before it finishes gathering.”

“We can do that but you’d better get the mages,” a northern blade dancer told her.

“They’re next.”

“Where should we focus our attacks?” Solar asked with urgency.

“The head, it’s always the damn head,” Duke Milderry spat.

Everyone looked at him.

“What? I’m a monster hunter. That’s a big monster. Get the damn head.”

“We’ll try, then what?”

“I have a finisher spell,” Viv said. “It’s fairly short range, very risky but since the thing is not moving anymore…”

“You can’t get close?”

“Too much fate mana. You will feel it if you get near.”

By that we mean, you will be unmade.

Arthur’s declaration was received in stupefied silence.

I am serious.

It will be your fate not to exist anymore.

“I’d better get going because I feel like this will be all of our fates if that thing goes off,” Viv said.

Arthur crossed the distance back to the Paramese lines at great speed, though by that time they were thin from the bulk of the forces finishing off the Nemeti. She first aimed for the circle where Sidjin still stood, but then reconsidered and made for the command group still monitoring the situation at the back. Arthur landed near Jaratalassi under the absolutely shocked gaze of the assembled strategists.

“Is she… is she riding a dragon?”

“By all the gods…”

“Now’s not the time to be amazed,” Viv reproached. “General, we need mana tossed at that thing, specifically the head. Any mana. Spells, anything, doesn’t matter. It will disrupt its working.”

“Understood, but will it stop it?”

“I’ll stop it alright, I just need an opening.”

“You will have it. Get ready.”

Arthur twirled and lifted off in a burst of air that sent papers flying. It was totally unnecessary.

I have been seen with a human on my back.

Mother!

I am disgraced!

Shame eternal!

My bank will lose reputation.

“I’m not a human, remember dear? I’m half-elemental.”

Oh.

Yes.

That is acceptable then.

And also she’d been seen over the skies of Helock but Viv felt it was not the right time to remind her daughter. The order coursed through the spread out Paramese alliance like a thunderbolt. The mages returned to casting with overwhelming fury, unleashing everything they had but the rest of the soldiers were closing the distance at a dead sprint and Viv realized why. Hybrid casters and ranged soldiers stopped where they were comfortable and attacked as well, then the soldiers themselves threw pebble-sized balls of fire, or fistfuls of rocks, or sprays of water in the general direction of the spell. Individually, they were droplets but there were tens of thousands of people and the newly manifested mana pushed the spent one forward. A nimbus of color formed around the resting form of the avatar like a lenticular cloud over a lone mountain and the alien mana was pushed up and away. The beast stirred but it was not enough.

“Get me closer.”

Viv started casting. It would be difficult. Very difficult. She’d never tried that spell while moving and she knew it was hard to maintain but there was no choice. Already, the shimmer was turning into a radiance and the closest soldiers had to run away, armor eaten away to nothingness.

“Come on come on come on. Ok, dear, we’re going to fly by and I’ll drop from your back, okay? Please trust me.”

“Squee?”

“I know you’re worried. I’ll be fine, I promise. I have a plan.”

The avatar was shaking now, shaking and disintegrating, but the spell was going to go off. She could feel it. They might be too late.

If they were caught…

“I have to go in now.”

You won’t make it!

“Maybe I will! No choice! Go!”

Arthur dove but Viv could read the mana on the wall. They were not going to make it.

And then she saw a form sprint through the deleterious aura. It was Milderry. Even though the fate concentration was thinner, parts of him were already blinking out.

“You old—”

“Have to show you young fuckers how to do everything!” the old monster hunter roared.

His disappearing silhouette jumped, massive sword held high. It didn’t last long, but it lasted long enough.

His massive weapon smashed into the avatar’s left eye, carving it like a melon. Blood and humor poured freely from the devastating wound. For the first time since casting the spell, the avatar reacted. Its head lashed out. The spell shook and fell apart at the seams but it was still strong enough to kill them all.

But that was all Viv needed.

Letting herself fall, she dove right at the avatar. The beast saw her with its one remaining orb. It opened its maw wide to receive the offering. Viv waited for the very last instant.

“Aspect of the destroyer.”

It hurt when Viv went from terminal velocity to no velocity at all. Something cracked and she tasted blood but it didn’t hurt as much as the jaws would have, snapping in front of her nose. The anchors on her shoulder blades strained but they held.

“You missed.”

All her remaining power flooded her conduits until they disgorged mana into the one spell she’d been casting all that time. It was much easier than expected. Perhaps it made sense since she was doing exactly what her aspect was expected to do. Excalibur blades bloomed in a full circle like flowers in front of her, then their cruel tips curved inward to form a ball encompassing most of the avatar’s head. She couldn’t really read reptilian expressions but the thing certainly looked surprised.

“Guillotine.”

The blades snapped shut.

Nyil hiccupped.

Viv swallowed a curse. She was forcefully unanchored, then pushed out, all spells dissipating. The concentration of mana of all sorts at the same place dispersed now that an overwhelming will was no longer here to gather it in one place. There was so much of it that it acted like a wind, buffeting her until she was forced to crash at a distance. The blow stole her breath. A sharp pain lanced through her body, strained as it was by her earlier sudden stop.

“I’m just going to stay here for a minute…” she mumbled to herself.

Arthur landed by her side and they watched the enfolding scene alone with the soldiers far in the back. The coiled form of the avatar dissipated, fading scales returning to nothingness. The vivid blood turned to transparent watery ichor and then to nothing. Even the bones underneath turned to ash. It was not the decay of death but an undoing, a bad dream fading with the morning light.

My loooot.

“Hush, we’re having a moment!” Viv complained.

Anyway, yeah. Pretty awe-inspiring. The disappearance continued until all that was left was a broken skull stabbed through by a corroded great sword. The piece shone strangely in her sights. All that remained of Edwin Milderry, Enorian Duke of Green Edge and monster slayer extraordinaire. Viv approached it, then stopped.

“Should we… bring it back to Green Edge?” she asked no one in particular.

“I don’t think it will work,” Solar replied. “Look again.”

In Nyil parlance, that meant use inspection. So she did.

[Artifact. Duke Milderry’s parting gift. A god with a plan. A man with a claymore.]

“I don’t think he wants to leave,” Solar whispered.

“So it is. May Enttiku carry your soul and may Neriad watch her back, you old bastard.”

Viv prayed to the two gods a bit. She was joined by a general sense of piety from the armies surrounding the remains, all humbled for having witnessed the death of an avatar and the making of an artifact. It was a good one too, and most could sense the old monster hunter had saved everyone’s ass.

Viv breathed out.

They’d done it.

***

All that was left was the mop up. It took a while longer for the Nemeti to finish dying, after which Jaratalassi organized the official looting of them and their camp. The creatures kept little iron and shared a disinterest for wealth, but a camp that size was bound to have some good stuff, Viv hoped. She was unceremoniously dropped by Arthur and decided to help with the sick instead. The avatar’s mana explosion had left thousands of men sick with mana poisoning and she was capable of pulling foreign mana out, though she couldn’t use it for her own. That made her invaluable in saving the most critical patients.

The Harrakans returned with pride but a somewhat frozen expression late in the evening, with Viv welcoming them at the gates. The Knights of the Blue Roses were part of the formation with the need for knightly unity over and offensive poetry back on the menu. Rollo and Ban shared in low voices that slaughtering the defenseless Nemeti had made them uncomfortable. Even as alien as they were, there was something fundamentally upsetting about slitting the throat of a defenseless creature. In a way, Viv was happy they had that much humanity left after the four days of hell they’d been through. She used a brief lull between a victory dinner and the inevitable council to check her progress.

Willpower +1

Always good. She was now at the middle of the fifth tier, something at the upper limit of human capabilities. It would help her last longer in a fight and get one step closer to the level of Elunath at his strongest. Only hopefully without the hubris.

Acuity reflex: Intermediate 8

That reaction speed had allowed her to stop the deadliest projectiles. Many of her skills were on the verge of the expert level. That was how she got the draconic intimidation skill so she had high hopes.

Leadership: Intermediate 8

Speaking of.

