Viv’s enthusiasm lasted as long as it took to take a second look at Turbodzilla. The creature was really, really, really too close for comfort. It wasn’t a couple meters away but everywhere was too close when the thing was the size of a building.

“Ok, back off.”

“Not me. I am going,” Solar declared without even looking at Viv. The large man unsheathed his blade and stalked forward with sure steps. It was an enchanted, Claymore-sized piece, the kind absolutely no one sane should have lent to anybody else but that was Solar for you.

Brick about faced while Viv jumped in the piloting seat of the shield array, pulling it back. She cast a glance at the confident heavy, just a little curious.

[Harrakan Imperial Guard, fourth step. Not very dangerous. Defensive melee expert. Formation fighter expert. Nemeti Killer. Undead bane. THE BRICK: will amplify friendly aura and negate hostile effect of any level through the power of unerring conviction.]

“Gods, I’ll need to have her carry a big flag on her back. Solfis, make a note of it.”

//I am not your secretary.

“Pretty please.”

//This is for the sake of Harrak.

//I will comply.

Viv had to stop the tank because her men were rushing past her to pick their discarded pieces of equipment with various degrees of shame, anger, and confusion. They also smelled a bit of piss which was unfortunate but not exactly surprising. The second reason Viv stopped was that Lak-Tak was frantically urging her off his spot. The Harrakan line reformed just in time to retreat, in good order this time. In front of them, the Nemeti avatar was advancing with the ponderous confidence of a creature fated to succeed. It seemed that Viv’s ability to cheat fate was once again working as the Paramese alliance was slowly recovering, regiment by regiment, in an expanding circle.

Some of the knights were already charging.

Viv watched them, utterly flabbergasted. Long range archers released entire volleys without prompt since the monster was hard to miss anyway. A cloud of projectiles gathered around it like a halo. For the first time since materializing, it stopped slowly plodding forward.

With surprising speed considering its size, the beast pushed itself upward until it stood on two hind legs. Its front paws accelerated on a collision course.

“Shit. Shield to sound enchantment. Sound!” Viv screamed in her communicator.

To her right, Sidjin’s shield activated immediately. For a moment, it looked like Lana wasn’t going to make it but the opaque hemisphere rose just in time.

KSH!

The beast clapped, the shockwave visible with the naked eye. All the arrows and spears were pulverized in an instant, then the explosion traveled outward. The knights and their horses fell. Thousands of men stumbled back. Only Viv’s formation was spared the worst of the damage.

If Hera ever slapped Zeus, it must have sounded like that.

“Fuck I think those knights’ heads exploded.”

//As I suspected, a powerful area-of-effect ability.

//My frame should be able to resist it.

//I will provide assistance to Solar.

And the golem was off towards the mighty warrior. Of course, that fucker had cut the shockwave in two in front of him because why not. Now he was just walking with the blade bare by his side like some Akira Kurosawa character. It was fine. Viv still had a mighty protector.

When are we going?

“You’re impatient to just go fight that off without a plan?”

Yes?

Scales look valuable.

“I am surrounded by lunatics.”

Mages were the next to attempt to break the beast. This time, it let the attacks pepper its hide without much apparent result. Artillery spell exploded and it did slow down but otherwise, the scales were intact.

Viv focused. There was something there, she could feel it. A sort of vibration. She couldn’t quite put her finger on it but her instincts told her that was important and they tended to be useful when the sake of the continent hung in the balance. It wasn’t normal mana.

Oh.

“Tell me Arthur, that big thing over there, wouldn’t it happen to have strands of fate connecting it to something else?”

It has many strands!

Going all around it.

Of course. She’d been so obsessed with the avatar, she’d almost forgotten what had brought it here.

“It's touching the kneeling Nemeti, the ones who are praying, right?”

Of course!

Else, how would it stay there?

“Right. Ban, take the troops around the avatar and kill the Nemeti. All of them, yes. The mages will stay.”

Viv backed up again, mostly because the creature kept walking. While the Harrakans marched south at full speed around the avatar, Viv watched Solar engage it, soon backed by Solfis. He was not alone either. The generals were no fools, they understood that only the most elite fighters could hope to survive that shockwave and so champions gathered to fight. An elite archer, a guy with a spear, she also recognized the crimson-armored champion of the Order of the White Orchard. Edwin Milderry was also charging down the slope with his stupidly large sword trailing behind him. Viv imagined the Enorian monster hunter duke must have been waiting for that moment since the war began. Now, he finally had a perfect target for his path. For a moment, she believed the avatar would simply keep going or clap again, but then, Solar struck.

The slice came like thunder on a blue sky. So far, every projectile the Paramese could muster had left the creature unfazed. Solar’s attack rang like a chime across the battlefield. A thin hairline fracture spread on the creature’s face, just between the jaw and the nose. The avatar paused. Viv had to use a lens enchantment to see the damage but it was enough.

The beast could bleed. Bright red, in fact. It put its colossal weight on its hind paws. The ground cracked under the clawed appendages and it pounced. Solar dove and sliced under it and the beast turned to follow, bloodied at last. The battle was joined.

“Ok, it’s no longer going towards us. Time for an array.”

Under Sidjin’s direction, all four archmages carved a large hex circle designed for the express purpose of overcharging Viv. Soon, reinforcements came. Baranese mages wearing different tabards.

“Jaratalassi sent us!” an old man explained as he picked up on the design in an instant. “Slave to master array? Really?”

“Trust us, trust her,” Sidjin replied without looking up.

More and more casters sprinted or flew her way while the Paramese army split in two to avoid the central conflict and reach the Nemeti as they kneeled exposed. The various mage orders had realized that only their largest constructs could hope to dent to avatar, and they worked hastily to build them.

Viv focused on the inner part of the circle, the casting one rather than the feeding one. Arthur stamped her feet at her side.

Mother!

I want to gooooo.

But I don’t want to leave you.

“Can you defend yourself against this thing?”

Of course!

Air shield for sound, wings, and gates.

I can do it all.

“Then you can go.”

This is not what worries me!

“Sorry, Arthur, I need to focus on this.”

Fine.

Viv added the finishing touch, then she had to wait because more people were plugging themselves into the circle, mostly court casters serving smaller lords. She activated the runes for hyperbeam and waited, the runes rotating in front of her chest where her physical core was. The circle helped stabilize the array and charge it more, then more, then more to a degree the original spell never intended. Power flooded in from casters and the reserves their focus still held. It filled the inner circle, converted to black mana by Viv and her spell. All the time, she kept an eye on the creature but it was too busy fighting the many ants gnawing at its heels.

It was weird how incomplete the avatar felt. There was so much wrong with it, so much that it should be doing. As more power gathered around Viv, her vision obscured. Colors bled out of the air until everything was monochrome and so very sharp. She couldn’t see fate but knowing it was there, the part of her that related to the soul perceived a loss, a handicap more damning than missing several senses. The Avatar should have been destiny marching over the infidels. Instead, it was just a mask, a husk with the appearance but not the substance of inevitability. Viv highly suspected… she’d broken it by simply existing. According to the logic of Nyil, she shouldn’t be here at all to begin with and without the power of Emeric, she shouldn’t have so much impact… but she was here and she was blessed with luck, and predestination served her to make her life interesting. The Nemeti relied on a power that was never meant to be used, only managed.

If that was true, no wonder the Nemeti were desperately trying to off her.

While Viv’s mind was overwhelmed with impressions, the spell reached a paroxysm. Saturated energies manifested as black, dancing forms around her. She pushed because she could absorb a little more energy. Just a little more. There was just so much of it. It was practically solid and so very beautiful. So impossibly so, the ability to bend the world. A blessing.

“V… Viv! The circle!”

The construct moaned. Terror filled the eyes of the mages around her. They didn’t trust her. That was fine. There was enough here to do what must be done.

“Hyperbeam.”

The world went gray. A rift now linked the space in front of Viv to the space inside of the avatar, a rift where nothing was allowed to exist. The hex silenced the entire battle, forcing the two sides apart. It didn’t land perfectly because fate was not yet written, but it landed well enough because Viv had practiced for such a moment.

Colors reestablished themselves. Even Solar hovered at a distance, uncertain. Viv held her breath.

Flesh and scales slowly peeled off the beast’s torso in the following second, cleanly shorn. Blood spurted like a cascade from the ghastly wound. A great crimson torrent stained the golden hide and the intact scale in a dripping blasphemy. The hit was devastating. Even a creature that size must have felt it.

The beast howled, painfully so. Its cry was the echoed cry of outrage of a thousand reptilian throats, and a nail on the thin fabric of causality, a grating sensation that this shouldn’t be happening.

“Fuck you, it should be happening,” Viv said with triumph.

It glared at her. The creature ignored wounds dug by elites in its flanks as it turned its gigantic body aside, its full attention dedicated to Viv. She felt the overwhelming weight of the rage of an empire directed solely at her. Then, the creature charged her down. Really quickly.

“Oh shit.”

THAT was what worried me.

Quick, mother!

Climb!

On the one hand, she could probably shadow walk away.

On the other hand, the rest of the mages might be on the path, her side could use the distraction, and this was the second time in her damn life she could do some offensive dragon riding. It wasn’t really a choice, was it?

“Let’s fly!”

“SKRAAAAAA!”

Viv jumped on Arthur’s back, then she hung on for dear life because the dragon used wind mana to accelerate like a jet, her wings fully open to catch as much as that sweet upstream as possible. Air pressure pulled Viv’s lips back from her teeth in a rather embarrassing display but at least it got her away from the creature. The monster stopped, inertia carrying it tens of meters forward in a shower of upturned soil and collapsing boulders. A drill-sized hand plunged into the earth, tore it off, and threw a veritable landslide at the flying pair.

“Gate?”

Cover me!

Viv raised a transparent shield to stop blunt attacks. The first gravel pinged off harmlessly. Larger boulder coming in. Cut it with a net.

The next was a fucking handball field.

“Arthuuuur!”

Air then air but less crowded. Arthur banked down while behind them, an uphill explosion swallowed where they’d been. That would have been difficult to block.

Time for vengeance!

Fly by!

Arthur roared and dove hard. Viv prepared a thick artillery spell and waited. The dragoness was the first to strike, vomiting thick fire on the back of the beleaguered avatar. The beast turned to strike at Solar who had landed a few good hits, then it tried to unlatch Milderry who’d somehow planted himself sword first in its leg. The fire and spell combo rolled on its back, leaving behind blackened scales but not much else to speak of.

Back, strongly armored.

“I noticed, but I’m not sure we should —”

Fly between legs!

“BEHIND YOU!”

A maw, open and filled with serrated teeth.

It took the pair everything to veer off, both gray mana, aerodynamics, and enough telekinesis to give Viv a headache. The avatar had risen on its leg and taken a tentative bite at the pair. Only collaboration saved them here.

Have saliva on my tail.

Ew.

“You wanted to fly against that alone?”

Mother.

It hates you.

Am just keeping you alive.

Focus.

“Damn. Oh it’s throwing stones again!”

Cover!

Viv sent interception spells at stones large enough to level a barn and wondered if this was what her earth friend Gevaudan meant when he used to talk about ‘bullet hell’.

***

The black tide crashed on the side of the Nemeti formation without resistance. The Nemeti merely kneeled and prayed, uncaring about their demise. Ban surveyed them and sneered.

Pathetic.

