And that was it. Not much for stopping this sort of threat, she thought, but the second of four aspects was a powerful game changer and, if she had to be honest, she lacked the foundation to progress much farther. It was always the same here. Practice, prepare, then reap the benefits. She was already very lucky, no need to push it. Even the aspect thing felt very timely. She suspected this brave old Nous had tilted the balance in her favor, helping her along so she could rise up to the occasion. The Nemeti were not exactly conducive to the development of civilization in Param, after all.

So, that confirmed it, there were other gods. Probably a great many. She wondered if pantheons interacted with each other in that city of theirs. She wondered if they warred.

Perhaps there was a dragon god. She might ask Arthur but… maybe she wouldn’t like the answer.

“My love! Food!” Sidjin called.

“Coming!”

***

By the time the closing meeting happened, troops were already departing the field on their way back home, even at night. Most others were celebrating a hard day, or hard days, of battle. The mood was festive and a little bewildered, as if they didn’t believe it had come to a close so soon. Inside of the command tent, the general mood was utter relief. Viv also realized that things have changed because, for once in her damn life since coming on that hellhole of a planet, people were happy to see her.

“Your Ladyship!”

“Capital work.”

“A brilliant display.”

“Is it true that the dragon is your adopted daughter? Your daughter? How did you manage such a feat?”

Viv, unwilling to admit that the road to power was paved with scritches and interest rate policy lessons, simply welcomed the compliments with a warm smile. There were handshakes, bows, and nods all around although Viv didn’t bow since she was the boss thank you very much. After that, the generals had a short meeting where it was agreed the strategy had worked exactly as intended until the whole god summoning fuckery, and it was time for booze and canapes.

“Solfis, please make a note that we need an Imperial Chef. It’s time to recruit.”

//Such fleshbag considerations are beneath me.

“You’re a dear.”

//Just get Brick her flag.

Viv mingled along with Sidjin. Even Solfis slinked out to talk to a spy at some point. The people she met would be an excellent point of contact for the next battlefield, and that one would be social. King Sangor was not the most pleased but he accepted her condolences graciously, at least.

“Sorry, you lost a great man here.”

“His sacrifice honors Enoria and the Nyil. The best expression of gratitude will be to make sure Green Edge flourishes again. His domain will become a new center for expeditions in the Deadshield Woods within the next two years. I will personally make sure it is so.”

“Great. Good luck.”

Seeing that the big man was free, Viv ambled towards him.

“Are you sure you don’t want to conquer the continent in a tide of steel and sorcery?” Jaratalassi asked her as he filled his pipe.

“Not my style, and besides, we’re still very small.”

“Hmmm.”

He seemed disappointed.

“You reckon the alliance will acknowledge me as a sovereign nation yet?”

“While it seems they have no choice but to do so, the terms you can get will vary depending on how you leverage your assets. Baran is firmly on your side at least. The king knows the value of superior logistics. So long as you retain a monopoly, you will also retain his full backing.”

“Also because he can piss Sangor off.”

Jaratalassi lit the pipe.

“Welcome to my world.”

After another hour or so, Viv excused herself before someone else subtly inquired about marriage options. The Harrakan camp was now in drinking mode and she roved from group to group, congratulating people then fucking off before things got awkward. She only remembered her poor temple guard and the plagued people later and felt sorry for it. A brisk walk to their camp confirmed they had received all the supplies they needed, at least.

“Everyone brought extra so we had quite a few boxes donated,” an exhausted priestess of Enttiku told her.

“Oh, good.”

“You intend to bring them back to your lands, do you not? They seem to hope for it. Fervently so.”

“Probably. Not like they are welcome anywhere else.”

“Yes, and they seem rather, ah, motivated.”

Viv frowned.

The priestess focused very intently on her sleeve.

Viv stalked into the camp and past a sleepy Lorn holding a small piece of paper with ‘I give up’ written on it. Panic rose in Viv’s throat. The prisoners were singing in low voices near the center of the camp. When she approached, delirious eyes zeroed on her with laser focus. The fuckers had somehow knitted a big banner and on it they had sewn the semblances a very dead fleshy humanoid, a very dead spider, a very dead man in armor, and a very dead Notzilla.

“It’s her! The Godbreaker!”

“What did I fucking tell you?”
