"Alright, alright, calm down," Shiv said. He looked at the heart and grunted. "Needs a life, huh?

“Well, where oh where are we gonna find someone to drain right now?" Jessica said. "It'll take a while to find a proper victim. And we are only going for proper criminals. Like you and your friends.” She smiled sweetly and batted her eyelashes at him. “You know, escaped prisoners.”

Shiv snorted in annoyance. “Adam? Gonna need your help now.”

"Where are you going?" the Gate Lord cried from his corner of the room.

"We're just gonna find someone to kill. Someone proper. Someone who has it coming. I got a heart to feed.”

"Alright. Just give me a—What? You're going to do what?"

"No wait," Toasty cried out. "Bring them back here, bring them back alive. There are other enchantments I must instruct you on. The heart possesses a great many powers, powers that you must now learn to wield if you wish to do honor to my skill."

"Got it," Shiv said. "Change of plans, Adam. We're gonna be kidnapping someone to experiment on using this here heart."

A pause followed, and it was promptly broken by a loud and long sigh as Adam stopped going through his own equipment nearby. A clatter sounded as the Gate Lord put down the massive greatbow he was restringing. "I'm going with you. System knows what kind of hell and savagery you’ll end up in without me.”

***

"Please, Ascendants, please! I won't do it again! I know I did wrong! I won't do it again, please! Just spare me! Spare me! I'll do anything you ask! Spare me! Oh, sweet lords!"

The heavily tattooed goblin cried and wailed, spewing blood and bits of broken teeth with every word uttered. His arms and legs were bound in twisted coils of metal, courtesy of Shiv. Nearby, three other goblins and two heavily built humans lay. They whimpered and writhed, too badly beaten to even beg.

This group of unfortunate misfits called themselves the Toad Hounds. They were what Adam called a squatter gang. Effectively, they took over a poor or run-down housing cluster within the capital's poorest districts, and whoever tried to live there needed to pay them protection fees—mostly to remain protected from them.

There were a near-uncountable number of squatter gangs across the capital. So wide and vast was the outer cityscape that it was inevitable some people had to suffer as the have-nots. However, this group drew Adam's attention due to the desperate wailing; they had been in the middle of trying to sever a toddler's finger as part of an initiation ritual for one of their new members, and also to teach a lesson to a desperate wailing mother about missing her due payments.

They then partook in some desperate wailing of their own as Shiv, Adam, and Jessica appeared out of nowhere. Said desperate wailing became choke-sobs and prayers for mercy, and thereafter whimpers for a swift death as Shiv and Jessica inflicted unspeakable brutality upon them. They were only kept alive thanks to Shiv's Aegis of Assimilation, but that wasn't going to last.

Back in their base of operations, the Deathless held his Enchained Heart in his right hand and glared down at the pathetic creature still capable of speech.

Here, in a sequestered crevice of the Colosseum's maze, Shiv stood amidst several boxes filled with dusty drugs and other contraband. He shushed the goblin, growing tired of his screaming.

"It doesn't matter. That's what you told that lady, no? That's what you told her when you tried to cut the kid's finger off. Well, I'm gonna tell you the same thing. It doesn't matter. System doesn't care about any of us. And right now, I'm gonna need you to get real quiet, because I want to figure out how this thing works."

Shiv held up the heart, and the goblin promptly pissed himself. "Oh, fuck me, man. Longinus, save me."

"Shiv?" Adam whispered. "How did we go from you defending the helpless, hapless elf to doing whatever dark deeds we're about to do here?"

"No idea, Adam," Shiv replied. "All I can tell you is sometimes it ain't just the System that's looking to exact a little strife. Sometimes I want to do a little bit of hurting too. Especially if the bastards have it coming.”

Adam grimaced again but said no more.

“That here enough?" Shiv called out, looking over his shoulder. Toasty’s cold iron cage had been placed right in front of the dimensional crevice, making sure no one could interrupt them, and also giving the fae full view of what was about to happen.

He gave a nod of confirmation. "Yes, four is more than enough. Now, when you take hold of the heart, feel the vitality ebbing inside of it. Concentrate your power upon it. Do you feel the heat? The flame?"

"Yeah, what about it?" Shiv asked.

"You need to shape it, sculpt it. Do not simply try to drain the pathetic creature of its life force. You wish to set them ablaze, to feed their essence to the heart."

Shiv did as Toasty instructed. As soon as he allowed his vitality to flow through his body, the heart came ablaze. The mithril and crystalline material lining it as a cage flared bright, and a roaring flame erupted outward. A thread extended out from Shiv, connecting to everything within the chamber that possessed a vast quantity of vitality. Dense fibers ran toward Jessica, toward Adam, toward himself, even toward those beyond this chamber. But most importantly, it connected him to the thugs he'd captured.

And he felt them. He felt their paltry life essence slowly bleed into him. He felt himself grow stronger. Bits of them were nourishing his being, making him more than what he was, though not significantly so. Still, Shiv came ablaze, and a rush of power crawled through his very marrow.

Shiv concentrated on the thugs, and the threads connecting them to the heart grew brighter. A trickle of fire crawled across the captives, and they each came aflame.

At first, it was like they were shrouded in a dense veil of embers, and the smoke rising from them was paired with the smell of cooking flesh.

Time to see what this Chained Heart can do, Shiv thought.
