As all the members of the 1st Galactic Trade Commission's meeting disconnect from the simulated chatroom Bri created, two individuals in particular are affected most by the discoveries today.

A bright yellow slug on the surface of a vast ocean on a world with its surface being 99% water opens up a telepathy channel that has been established with a neighboring star sector for millennia.

The Rising Emperor's new connectivity system is not necessary for it to make contact with one of its well-respected allies.

"What a pleasant surprise to see a familiar face in today's meeting."

The slug sends a wave of emotion through the telepathy link, showing that it is amused and quite happy about the events that occurred today. Even with the hologram transmitted across star sectors, this being has no defining features other than a small mouth and four retractable feelers where the majority of its mental energy is leaking out.

A rust-colored beholder with dozens of eyes floats above a black mountain, with thousands of identical peaks as far as its Divine-Grade All-Seeing Eyes can see.

"Alveron, it was more of a surprise to see you. I'm glad you seem to be doing well, even after the last demonic wave."

The slug vibrates at these words, glowing yellow with the full power of its saturated true core, and charges up transmission crystals deep within its ocean that resonate with all the worlds it controls.

Not only can it see the six 1st-Class worlds where over three billion total citizens have been connected to a strange connectivity system far more advanced than its own, but it also overlooks its empire stretching across 41 star systems with 219 planets holding advanced life.

This number was closer to double before the war roughly 20 thousand years back, as the beholder's voice reminds it; yet the transmission crystals on the dark, lost worlds are still sending back signals into its mind.

Many of these worlds are devoid of life, covered in dense clouds of demonic energy.

They have been drained of all usable resources and abandoned. Still, some search parties venture into these portions of the lost sectors to collect ambient divine energy deposits as well as ancient artifacts left behind on these worlds.

The telepathic slug replies to the beholder again.

"Matrek, I am glad you're alive and well too. Down to 25 worlds? That last wave must have been a big hit to your forces too."

Matrek blinks with all of his eyes and responds.

"Yes, we made it out alright. Lost a large amount of our high-grade worlds, but not the ones I was expecting to lose... These new-age demons are quite strange."

Alveron scans his lost worlds and sees the progress many of his scouts have made over the last few centuries to mentally tally how many artifacts they have lost, then replies.

"Well, it's not all about pure mana and divine energy deposits. Their actions are not as random as they may seem."

There is a silence between the two, but Matrek makes a comment back.

"So what do you think of this new powerhouse that has made contact? Do you believe their intentions are pure? They are giving us so much benefit, but have not yet taken from us or ordered control of our worlds..."

Another pause follows, but then Alveron resonates back with a strict and fearful emotion that surprises the beholder, as it has never seen this slug show weakness like this, even against over a dozen 1st-Class Demonic Worlds challenging its forces.

"With the resources to transfer visuals, aura, and live communication from the Upper Realm just to prove a point, no amount of worlds we offer could be of benefit to the creator of that system. Just the fact that we are connected means we are already theirs... The six worlds that were connected were previously taken by a Noble Demon, and I no longer feel the pressure of its dominance in my psyche. Either there has been a peaceful shift in power to a new Great Family, or a new Galactic Tyrant is being born in the Upper Realm."

Neither of them speaks, but the emotions of the yellow slug continue to transmit through their link.

All of the beholder's eyes widen as it conceptualizes the words of the being, but Alveron continues before it all sinks in.

"I cannot sense any malice in the administrators either, and that woman who brought us together is favored by the creator of the system for some reason. It would be best to appease them no matter the demand, and in return, our riches and influence will grow by magnitudes like no other era before..."

The slug's connection dims, and it stops sending emotions through after this. The beholder replies in a resolute tone.

"Understood."

–

Back on the human world in the Apex Region, Bri continues to bring worlds together and profit within the margins of every currency and culture conversion that clashes and eventually equalizes.

Some planets have abundant sources of divine threads, while others have too much mana to know what to do with.

There are endless profitable deals to be made.

Many human worlds have far more advanced craftsmanship and can fulfill custom orders for worlds that have always relied on dungeon loot alone for their gear, with no additional modifications.

Some higher races offer virtual training classes where mental spars can be simulated within the World Wide Connectivity system, so users can test out their new items and borrowed skills from the Rising Emperor that they now have available to them.

Those who dreamed of using swords or sending fireballs from their palms but were stuck with common skills on their worlds now have infinite opportunities at their fingertips and trillions of options to find the best prices.

Over the next few hours, Bri sets up the first advanced message portal for strong system users above level 10,000 to apply for instant multi-world travel between the 26 worlds that were present in the meeting. The four generals delegate the one-on-one interviews of each of the applicants down to the Crimson Army.

No one from the human world is permitted to leave the planet or accept other races here just yet, as Bri decides it's best not to allow any higher races access to this 3rd-Class world until proper infrastructure is put in place.

However, many 1st-Class worlds are already built up for multi-planetary travel, and some even have teleport platforms connecting their worlds within solar systems.

Adding another platform to connect their highest-class worlds to star sectors so far away they would never have had the option to travel there in the first place is an opportunity everyone wants to jump on.

The integration and regulation are very straightforward. Bri handles the majority of the heavy lifting while the generals are tasked with a more important set of orders; to prepare for their ascension.

–

In the time these trade deals have been set up, thousands of containment cases full of divine fragments of varying strengths begin to pile up in the Apex Region.

Far more than enough for them all to cultivate to the next level of strength necessary.

Raven helps sort everything out, dividing the yellow fragments up evenly between the four of them, and giving piles of red and orange fragments to Arie.

"This will be more than enough..."

They all borrow the item storage skill from the Rising Emperor and let these fragments fall into small white portals, then crush teleport crystals to disappear and leave Bri alone in a room full of treasure.

She just sits on the floor with a smile as the piles of divine fragments around her begin to build up again along with other items. She starts mentally checking off tasks on the recent shopping list from the Rising Emperor.

–

As a few more hours pass, the influx of new worlds stops coming in, and all system users begin getting used to their new reality once again.

The shiny new options before them become more dull, and everyone naturally finds their cliques within the message boards instead of having massive general chats overstimulating everyone.

A select few, in particular, that still haven't found what they want, however, are in Sector 1 of the Dark Continent near a large trade center better known as Valor City.

Monk scrolls through his connectivity system and reports his findings while his old master, the yellow-cored Grand Elder known as The Saint, curiously asks questions.

As he and many of his followers up in the northern icy region have lost access to the system and merely exist in their pure Qi forms, the old man is fascinated by the possibility of learning more about Originators and other techniques like his own.

Monk scans through thousands of messages a minute and even puts out requests for other system users that have come across stones that suppress the system and Qi techniques similar to his or his master's.

He finds many threads and private message boards about this subject, and a majority of 3rd-Class and above worlds all use some kind of Soul Energy to bond Qi to Mana in order to become stronger and elites of their races.

It seems to be a common and necessary step to strengthen one's mana control and withstand the overwhelming pressure of higher stages of divine threads.

While some red cores manage to stay stable without Qi, almost no orange and yellow cores live for long without the support of Soul Energy in their foundations.

Though, with this abundant knowledge, Monk becomes rather concerned at the fact that not a single search result has found anything to do with Originator Stones. Not a single user from tens of thousands of lively worlds has commented back on the message groups he's made about them either. It's like he is the only one in the entire system with this knowledge...

His old master and The Saint are quite concerned and confused too.

Copies of some of the recording crystals of The Saint walking through their storage room of ancient texts and artifacts are uploaded to see if anyone recognizes them or has similar treasures to share the knowledge.

However, despite this, not a single world has artifacts in the same language or capable of strange properties like suppressing systems.

Many of the texts they have studied their entire lives, which speak of ascending to a higher plane and being unified with an uncountable number of believers, are seemingly non-existent on all of these planets.

Some of the newer followers of their teachings listening in begin to have doubts, wondering if this is just some ancient religion here on the human world that has been over-exaggerated and interpreted the wrong way.

–

However, after many hours of silence, one system user see's Monk's calls into the void.

It's a yellow slug floating in an enormous ocean.

Its mental processing speed is thousands of times faster than the most intelligent humans, so it sifts through information in its system, absorbing new races' cultures and joining small private group chats under anonymous names to pass the time.

Doing so hardly diminishes any of its daily life functions, so it is happy to use 1% of its mental capacity to communicate with hundreds of worlds at once.

Though, it stops all of its fun once it comes across a post with zero comments or engagement at all.

Curiously, it opens its contents, and as the video plays, the entire sea for hundreds of kilometers around it warms up with excitement. It recognizes these texts very well from dead worlds its prematurely reclaimed from 1st Class Demons in the past.

A message is sent privately to the post's creator.

"It would be wise to delete all of your prior system messages about the Originators before the wrong eyes see them. What you have is far more dangerous than you seem to understand. If you would like to learn more, I would be happy to enlighten you."
