“You heard right, my friend, this beet sugar was locally produced and is currently priced at one-tenth the cost of honey, and one quarter the cost of cane sugar. There’s a sample in your gift bag, among other things, as well as instructions on how to make a purchase if you so desire it. Impersonal I know, but necessity demands it, as this is my wedding banquet after all.”

“Correct, good sir. We will be auctioning War Bonds in three days, provided the Master of Coin’s Seal arrives in good condition. If you are interested in learning more, there is a pamphlet outlining the pertinent details inside your gift bag, alongside various other small gifts to thank you for your attendance.”

“Debt? No, you are gravely mistaken. War Bonds are no debt. Would you consider wages paid to farm hands before the harvest a ‘debt’? No, of course not, it is an investment which has yet to be realized, and the same too goes for War Bonds. Simply put, they are an investment into the safety and well-being of the Empire.”

“Our brave Martial Warriors are giving it their all battling the Defiled on the front lines, so we mortal men and women must also do our part, and War Bonds are a means to do so. This is personal for me, as I can no longer contribute through strength of arm, and I thought this would be the perfect opportunity to help the noble patriots of the Empire contribute as well.”

“Yes, only five-hundred War Bonds, but we won’t be auctioning all of them off. I’ve already purchased the first hundred and invested close to one-million gold out of my own pocket, so there will only be four-hundred War Bonds going into circulation for this first batch. True, five million gold is a laughable sum in the grand scheme of things, but many hands make light work and every copper counts. What’s more, much like how one Warrior guides the spear and one General guides an army, we will now have one mind guiding these funds in a concentrated effort to better the Empire.”

“No need for compensation? I highly disagree. Those who care not for the interest are free to bid higher than the expected return, but it is only right that War Bonds should promise some profit. Do Martial Warriors not draw a salary? This is far from comparable, for it is dead gold rather than living blood, but purchasing a War Bond still requires some small sacrifice on our part, since you may or may not be able to invest the coin better on your own, and War Bonds are not a venture entirely without risk. Minimal risk, of course, as the investment is backed by the Empire, so I’ll say no more.”

Directing my latest guest to collect their gift bag, I take a moment to massage my jaw before signalling Kuang Biao to let the next guests through and Send me everything I need to know about them. All this fake smiling and enthusiastic pitching makes me feel like a slimy salesman trying to unload trash onto unsuspecting idiots. Make no mistake, it turns out I’m a damned good salesman, but I shouldn’t need to ‘sell’ War Bonds. They’re a legitimate investment tool, one which is not only economically and financially viable, but also backed by the Empire itself. So long as the Defiled don’t raze the Empire to the ground, the investment will be realized one year from date of sale, but everyone expects it to be a scam and is trying to figure out my angle. Problem is, I don’t have an angle, because there’s no scam and no need to pull the wool over their eyes, which for some idiotic reason makes everyone uncomfortable. It’s like I’m speaking in a foreign language, one they have a tenuous grasp of at best, because they don’t understand why I would work so hard to take their money at no benefit to myself.

Well... some small benefit. Okay, a huge benefit, but I’m not taking their money. I’ll just be using it for my own purposes, which coincide with the betterment of the Empire for all its citizens, and not just the wealthy bourgeois. Honestly, it would probably be easier to actually scam these rich idiots. All I’d have to do is set up a pyramid scheme and collect a ‘nominal fee’ for myself, and I could be richer than rich by next week, but nooo, I just had to be fiscally responsible and try to actually make things better. No one believes me when I tell the truth, and I know this because no one has asked me how I intend to spend the War Bond money. That would literally give the game away, because I’d have to honestly tell them, but even the Legate hasn’t said anything about the money, because he, like everyone else, assumes I’ll be pocketing the coin, at which point he will swoop in for his cut.

I doubt he’ll be happy to learn what I have planned, but I firmly believe it is always easier to ask forgiveness than it is to get permission. Besides, by the time it becomes an issue, I’ll have already announced my plans and set the precedent, so even if he doesn’t like it, there’s nothing he can do besides kill me, which I hope he won’t because I’ll have proved myself of value.

There’s little time to dwell on my mortality, because it’s only three in the afternoon and there are still plenty of guests to greet, and the questions come hard and fast here at the entrance to my banquet venue. Technically, the flower archway isn’t really an entrance, seeing how the venue is actually just the park next to Dad’s manor. There are no walls to speak of and the two-thousand plus invited guests are free to come and go as they please, but manners demand I greet the guests as they ‘enter’, so here I stand at this arbitrary end of the field. Not alone, since I have Mama Bun hugging my leg like clingy, needy baby bun, and Aurie drops in every now and then to check how I’m doing, before running back to partake in the festivities. There’s also my ever present army of Death Corps Guards, as well as today’s special addition, a cadre of clerks cataloguing my many wedding gifts, so I can keep track of who gifted what, where to send thank you notes, and how I should reciprocate if invited to a wedding by my guests in the future. Monk Happy is also standing directly behind me in full monk regalia, but unlike Mahakala, who sort of loomed in place chanting Sutras, Happy is much more open to approaching my guests to preach about Nirvana and the eight-fold path, which ensures they don’t linger around to bother me with more questions after they’ve picked up their gift bags.

I like Happy. He’s good people, but he’s not much fun to debate, always shutting down the conversation just when things get interesting...

The tepid response from my guests is a little disheartening though. I’ve been pushing beet sugar all day and no one seems to care, not here at the banquet at least. The civilians went crazy for it when they found out I was handing out free samples alongside the food and red pockets, which I guess makes sense. Rich people have access to honey and cane sugar, so beet sugar must seem beneath them. My mistake there, as I could’ve saved money by not giving free samples of cheap sugar to rich people who aren’t my target market, but live and learn. On the plus side, I’ve already made a decent amount of money supplying beet sugar to restaurants, so now that we’re ready to sell to individual households, I’ve got yet another massive stream of revenue incoming. Hell, maybe this time I can even keep it for myself, instead of spending it all right away, even if it was for a good cause.

Side note: I really should come up with a better way to hand out free stuff, because tossing it out into crowds isn’t the best solution. I’m thinking like household delivery or personalized packages for people to pick up, but that would take more organization and information, which will hopefully come when your average Joe can read, write, and fill out census forms.

Yep. That’s the dream. Widespread literacy to enable additional bureaucracy.

...

This new dream sucks. I want my fucking bear hands!

Speaking of hands, I really gotta hand it to Mom and the party planning committee. They did an incredible job arranging all this in minimal time, and it looks amazing. Rather than individual tables, I convinced Luo-Luo to accept round group tables, which saves on the cost of buying thousands of single tables and matching chairs, while also allowing me to group my enemies with their enemies who are not also my friends. It makes for marvellous drama, seeing people who hate me turn their hatred on someone else, and I got to use the money saved to buy clear glass centrepieces for each table. I wanted to show off my newest invention, but I think this was another miss. I couldn’t find anyone to make glass sculptures, so I had to settle on ugly and shockingly expensive glass jars to hold flowers in, meaning they’re nothing more than a novel extravagance.

Still, there’s something immensely satisfying about how round tables are neatly arranged in long rows, with plenty of space between them for flowers, ornaments, sculptures and other beautiful pieces of artwork, several of which were crafted by Monk Happy himself. Then there’s the livery, uniforms for the servants designed by Eun based on my suggestions, plain, unmarked shirts in a dark-green cotton, and dark, flowing pants to help them blend into the background, as well as a grey half-apron and matching neck scarf tied off like a modern tie. Don’t know why I feel so proud about this, but I do, because there’s been a lot of chatter about the servants’ uniforms and how businesslike they look.

So if this Minister of Finance thing doesn’t work out, at least now I know I have ‘fashion designer’ as a fall-back career. I should ask Eun to design me a set of comfortable everyday clothes...

Every detail about the banquet has been planned out, including a rope fence to keep the quins from sneaking into the banquet from the pond, where they are currently having a ball by splashing around with Ping Ping. Sir Inky and Pong Pong are in there too, but it’s impossible to spot them even with my anti-Concealment hacks. I also managed to foil Lin-Lin’s devious plan to seat our enemies (or anyone else) underneath the trees, because the last thing I need is for some upset noble to throw a tantrum because a Laughing Bird pooped in his tea.

Though it would be hilarious, especially if said noble noticed the poop too late. I can hear the rumours now, Falling Rain serves enemy Nobles literal shit at wedding banquet...

As the day wears on, I grow increasingly irked by this stupid custom of greeting all my guests, as well as my idiotic decision to do so on my feet. The Legate greets people while sitting on a throne, which I thought that was ‘too impersonal’, but now I see it was almost by necessity. Lucky for Mila, she doesn’t have to be out here, because she’s waiting for the big reveal on stage at dinner-time, which, as I check my pocket-watch, is still several hours away. Honestly, this banquet isn’t really for us, its just custom to throw a feast and show off how happy and prosperous the new union will be. I would much rather just spend the day with my new wife, but alas, there are still many hours to go before I am free from all the festivities.

With nothing to do but soldier on, I carry on with greeting veritable strangers like close friends and extolling the virtues of War Bonds at every given opportunity. Everything goes well until a familiar face arrives, and I’m forced to greet the Situ Patriarch with a smile. “Uncle Rang Min! Little Gulong!” I exclaim, spreading my arms for a hug. “Glad to see you could make it.” The warm greeting and over-familiar form of address was a calculated insult meant to throw them off their game, and it works beautifully. Unable to refuse and unwilling to move, Rang Min freezes up as I embrace him with my arms over his, and the tension is palpable. A tall, slender man with salt and pepper in his long hair and medium-length beard, the Situ Patriarch possesses an owl’s gaze and a hawk’s nose, sharp and strong on both accounts. At first glance, he appears like an austere older gentleman lacking in cheer and good humour, a persona which appeals to soldier and merchant alike. There’s a quality about him which lends itself to trust, a sense of honour and integrity which could not be further from the truth, but he does have his virtues. A creature of ambition and opportunity, he is someone who will throw himself into his work and doesn’t let emotion get in the way of success. There is no failure in his eyes, only temporary setbacks, for once he sets himself upon a goal, he will not stop until he realizes it.

Situ Patriarch Rang Min has long been an enemy of mine, but one I have only really recently come to understand, and what I’ve learned terrifies me to no end. A devious schemer with ties all across the Empire, treachery comes second nature to Rang Min, a man who is believed to have killed his own grandfather to seize his current position, and attempted to kill Nian Zu more times than even the Legate knows. What we do know is that Zian’s father was likely killed on Rang Min’s orders, and the divide between Patriarch Han BoDing and his brother Major General Han BoHai was probably engineered by him too. For the above statements, the Legate provided no proof and plenty of conjecture, but he did have more to share, as he revealed Rang Min pulled strings to have Han BoLao dispatched to deal with a problematic group of bandits, bandits who later turned out to be Defiled. Caught up in the Purge, Han BoLao, a promising young girl of great Martial Talent, was lost, and the Shrike emerged in her place.

