This is how Rang Min deals with his enemies. Like a snake hidden in the grass, he strikes from the shadows and aims at weaknesses in unintuitive and imaginative ways, luring his foes into an ambush before they realize battle lines have already been drawn. Until last year, I was nothing but a minor irritation to Situ Rang Min, the fly in his ointment which he could not extract. He tried, oh how he tried, first with the grand chase after the Society Contest and the subsequent trials at the Northern Wall, but then he struck again in Sanshu, when he made sure the Shrike would respond to the Purge. Granted, that might not have been a move solely directed at myself, since Zian also got caught up in that mess, but there’s more to the whole mess which even the Legate can’t be certain of.

When Yo Ling almost took Sanshu and the Golden Highlands Coalition was revealed to be a Defiled front, Yuzhen vetted everyone who had business dealings in Sanshu to make certain there were no more hidden Defiled cells to uncover. The Situ Clan was amongst the first to be given a pass, because they had zero commercial interests in Sanshu, which in and of itself is suspicious. Colloquially deemed the rice bowl of the North, Sanshu alone provides more than half the rice consumed by the Northern Province every year, but Rang Min bought all his rice from more expensive Central sources. On its own, this means nothing, but the records show that the Situ Clan went to great efforts to cut all ties with Sanshu’s Merchant Council, a move which cost them greatly and only paid off when Yo Ling rose up in rebellion almost a year later.

It’s not proof, but from what I can tell, it kinda looks like Rang Min knew about Sanshu’s Defiled problem well in advance, not to mention the bandits he sent Han BoLao to hunt. Even more telling is the fact that the initial reports of bandit activity in Sanshu were sent in by companies with close ties to Rang Min’s allies, in a concentrated effort to get Marshal Shing Du Yi to do something about the growing problem, which eventually led to me and eleven other young Warrant Officers being dispatched to Sanshu. Now, it might seem paranoid to say Rang Min manipulated events to have me, Zian, BoShui, BoLao, ZhiLan, and other problem children killed, but... well... what can I say? I’m a paranoid guy.

Everything I’ve learned since being raised to Office has only made me more wary of this man, one I’ve been hugging for far longer than is comfortable or appropriate. This is really the only move I have, making him grossly uncomfortable in public, and I follow it up by tossing Gulong a red pocket like I would to a young child. “I was worried you’d both be too busy to come celebrate, what with that horrible scandal back home.”

Too experienced to let his anger show, Rang Min curls his lip in contempt and shakes his head, the very picture of an irate patriot. “The nerve of those greedy bastards, falsifying inspection documents and supplying underweight shipments. During a time of war, no less, truly deserving of death.”

A sentence many caravan masters, official inspectors, overseers, and one Administrator Zei received, all of whom were scapegoats connected to the quarries, farms, and timber yards I’d pointed out to Luo-Luo just a few days ago. We, along with Marshal Yuzhen, had agreed to sit on the information and gather more proof before bringing our findings to a Justicar, but something in our investigation must have tipped our enemies off. The business owners brought charges to the Justicars themselves, who swiftly dispensed justice upon all ‘guilty parties’, namely the aforementioned scapegoats who’d been set up to take the fall. The big fish, the owners and business partners who run things from the shadows, they all got away clean, just like I was worried they would. The silver lining is that the Disciplinary Corps ‘recovered’ some of the ill-gotten gains, but the Empire is still out a decent chunk of change.

Which I think is lining Situ Rang Min’s pockets, for no reason than a gut instinct. “Despicable behaviour, but the scheme was rather well-thought out.” Studying Gulong’s expression out of the corner of my eye, I lean close to Rang Min and whisper, “And it’s not over yet. I have it on good authority that Marshal Yuzhen does not intend to drop this case.”

“Oh?” Raising an eyebrow in a passable show of confusion, Rang Min drawls, “What more is there to do? Was this not all arranged by the infamous Administrator Zei? Though the coward took her own life before the Justicars could arrest and interrogate her, they found a fortune in coin, art, and luxuries scattered throughout her residence, more than thirty-thousand gold in value. Several of her co-conspirators also named her as the mastermind before their execution, so I thought this ugliness behind us.”

Ha. Confessions extracted through torture, so fat lot of good they’ll do. I’m not surprised they named Administrator Zei, as I’m sure she was likely the highest point of contact those patsies knew about, but there’s no way the buck stops at a lowly Administrator. While it’s possible she actually committed suicide, I believe she was killed because she knew too much, but since I have no proof, it’s time for a gamble. “And how,” I whisper, “Did an Administrator counterfeit Seals from multiple Magistrates and a whole slew of Inspectors? What’s more, thirty-thousand gold is nothing. I ran the numbers, and this scheme would have earned that in two months, and this has been going on since the beginning of the war.” No doubt the coin and art was all planted in the Administrator’s house after the fact, since she was still living in a very modest, two room suite. Hardly the place one would hang silk sheets or priceless artwork, where any of her many neighbours might accidentally see it.

Rather than try and paint Administrator Zei as the culprit, Rang Min stops to think before asking, “And for what reason is Minister Rain sharing this information?”

“Minister Falling Rain,” I correct, which earns me the faintest hint of a scowl from Rang Min and an outraged glare from Gulong. Worth it. “And I am sharing this because not only has Marshal Yuzhen requested I delve deeper into the matter, but Marshal Yo and Marshal Quyen want assurances that these same crimes are not happening in their provinces, but the Disciplinary Corps consider the case closed and will not act without new information.” This is tacitly admitting I was the one who uncovered the conspiracy in the first place, but Rang Min gives nothing away. Neither does Gulong though, which means he probably has no idea what we’re talking about. Smart. I wouldn’t tell Gulong anything either, because he can’t give away what he doesn’t know. “Unfortunately, with the introduction of War Bonds soon upon us, the Legate has ordered me to drop all other matters until further notice. It makes me sick to know there is a criminal enterprise out there that profiteered from the war efforts and risked the safety of the entire Empire to do so, and worse, that they might actually get away with it, which I cannot abide. Thus, I can only turn to you for help in my time of need, and hope you succeed where I have thus far failed. Please, for my sake, look into this matter and send me any information you recover. Even if you are unable to uncover the true culprit, once I put your information together with what I receive from my agents in Central and South, a pattern might emerge and give us new leads to follow.”

The wheels are turning in Rang Min’s head, while tumbleweeds bounce through Gulong’s. The Situ Patriarch is hooked though, because he doesn’t believe for a second I’m asking for his help. This is a trap, and an obvious one at that, but there’s nothing Rang Min can do besides step into it. I’m asking for his help to bring a criminal to justice, and he has no good reason to refuse, because anyone else would literally leap at this chance to ensure Imperial Justice is properly dispensed, unless of course said Justice would come down on their own head. So now, Rang Min knows I suspect him, which I do, but he doesn’t know what I know, or more precisely, what I don’t know. What I’m hoping is that Rang Min thinks I’m a big brain individual who already has enough evidence to arrest the culprits responsible, but now I’m giving him enough rope to hang himself by appointing him in charge of this case. If he comes back with nothing, and I pull out a whole slew of evidence he missed, then best case scenario, he looks incompetent, and worst case, like an accomplice.

With luck, I won’t have to lift a finger and Rang Min will bring me everything I need to arrest the parties responsible, either voluntarily to prove his innocence, or involuntarily when he makes moves to cover up everyone’s involvement. Problem is, my plan falls through if Rang Min thinks I’m incompetent and does nothing, but then I’m just back to square one with nothing gained or lost. Also, I was lying about the Legate telling me to drop everything, but I want a few days off to enjoy married life with Mila, assuming she doesn’t go straight back to meditating in the bamboo grove come tomorrow morning.

Or I end up on a funeral pyre thanks to happy-fun-times gone wrong...

Wrapping up our conversation by promising to send him all the information I have, I step back and wait for Rang Min to present me my gift. Inclining his head to the exact degree of required respect, the Situ Patriarch hands me a wooden lattice box with both hands. “When searching for a wedding gift, I recalled Minister Falling Rain’s love of animals,” he says with a smarmy smile. “Inside you will find a wondrous creature which is rarely seen, but I should warn Minister Falling Rain that its bite is most deadly, even to Martial Warriors, so handle the beast carefully.”

“Oh... you... really shouldn’t have.” I’ve been saying this all day, and while I meant it a few times, this time I really, really, really mean it. Every primal instinct I have is screaming at me to throw the box away, because while the lattice framework lets air in so the creature won’t suffocate, it also lets in light and I can see the beast peering out. Hear it too, as it hisses in warning, with yellow, serpentine eyes glaring furiously in my direction. “Thank you for this thoughtful gift. Please accept this gift bag as a token of my thanks...”

Gingerly placing the snake-in-a-box down on the table of gifts, I stare at the little beastie in mild distress. Seriously, I thought everyone was going to gift me with floofs, and I was both dreading and looking forward to having pet rhinos, elephants, red pandas, and other exotic tamed beasts, but we’re more than halfway through the guest list and this stupid snake is the only pet I’ve been gifted so far. Worst of all, it came from my greatest enemy, which means the little snake is probably angry and starving to boot. Oh god, am I going to have to feed it live rodents? I can’t do that! Maybe it eats eggs or something, because if not, then this little gift is going to become one real spicy danger noodle for Roc to chow down on.

I guess it’s true. Your enemies really know you best. Still though... snake. Why’d it have to be a snake?

The rest of the afternoon flies by as I welcome my friends and enemies alike, but there are no more pets to be had. All the gifts are boring things like art, armour, tea, and incense, which undoubtedly cost a fortune when put together, which I will invariably pay back through some means or another. There are plenty of questions regarding War Bonds, and I’ve gifted a fair number of them myself, though they technically have no value until I stamp them with the Minister of Coin’s new Seal. Still no questions about what I intend to do with the money though, not even from the Marshals, which just goes to show how different this world really is.

A public servant who actually wants to serve the public is a foreign concept. Ridiculous.

Last to enter as always is the Imperial Legate, looking all high and mighty atop his stupid palanquin. His gift is actually really nice, a Runic bangle meant to enhance one’s skill with Lightening and Cloud-Stepping. While not exactly useful for me, Taduk will get a real kick out of studying the piece, as he’s been yearning to study Imperial Runic craftsmanship for some time now. When he’s done with it, I’ll talk to Mila and see if she’s okay with gifting the Runic Bangle to Lin-Lin, so she has a reason to keep practising her Martial Skills. My sweet wifey is great at Lightening, but I’ve never seen her practice anything else, which is fine since she doesn’t want to fight, but I would like her to have some means of self-defence, even if it is just a method to run away.

With the Legate seated on his raised dais behind my massive table, I stand by with Mama Bun to welcome my family on stage, arriving by seniority in their family units. Akanai, Husolt, and Song are first, followed by Taduk and Lin-Lin, but only because Grandpa Du insisted on coming in behind the Medical Saint. Yan struts out beside her beloved Grandpa and adopted brother, followed by my parents, who look as proud as can be, accompanied by Luo-Luo looking suitably subdued. Then comes Alsantset, Charok, and the twins who all greet me with a group hug, and the crowd falls silent in anticipation of the star of tonight’s show.

