And my wife does not disappoint. No longer does the beaded veil hide her adorably freckled expression, for this is the big reveal, and the sight of her radiant smile fills my heart with peace and is a memory I will cherish for the rest of my days. The stress from this past week simply melts from my bones as she makes her way over to me, so beautiful and dazzling, confident and capable. Mila is queen and goddess, wife and companion, rival and idol, and so much more. As she reaches my side, we lock eyes and her smile brightens even more, a feat I would have said was impossible only seconds before. “Dear husband,” she whispers, taking my hand. “I do believe you are drooling.”

“Can’t help it, dear wife.” Raising both her hands to my lips, I hear an audible gasp behind me as the audience is shocked by the scandal of this public display of affection, but I don’t care. They don’t matter. Nothing does, not right now, nothing besides Mila’s beautiful smile. “To simply call you beautiful is a disservice, but I lack the words to describe you. You are the sun in my sky, the air that I breathe, the rain on my skin and the ground beneath my feet. I love you, Sumila, my wife, my beloved, and I promise to spend the rest of my days proving it.”

With that said, I bring my wife to greet the Legate, before introducing her to the crowd, as Sumila of the People, Wife of Falling Rain, and Expert of the Empire.

And for the rest of the night, I pay no mind the unimportant details of dangerous gifts or Defiled schemes, impending complications or Imperial plots, and even my broken Core or inner anguish. Instead, I eat, drink, laugh, and make merry while enjoying this beautiful, festive wedding, and look forward to spending the rest of my life with this beautiful, amazing woman at my side.

As long as I have Mila, I can handle anything this shitty world throws at me...

This feeling lasts throughout the entire banquet and right up until we return to our borrowed manor, a gift from both our parents which sits close to my old home. Drunk with lust for my blushing bride, I can barely keep up as she drags me into our bedroom, at which point my mistaken sense of invincibility is crushed underfoot by the monstrous steel contraption awaiting our arrival, a twisted, foreboding torture device which looks like it sprung fully formed from the stuff of nightmares.

So... I guess this behemoth is what Mila conjured up to keep me safe on our wedding night, but as I gaze upon the multitude of chains, shackles, restraints, and clamps, I am far from reassured.

Opening my mouth to give voice to my concerns, the words die in my throat as I turn to find my beautiful wife standing with her silken dress in a pile around her ankles while she looks away with a shy, beguiling expression, both eager and hesitant at once.

...You know what? I’ve lived a long and rewarding life. No regrets.

Chapter Meme
