Ranthia could only watch in horror as the men and women that she had (however briefly) previously considered to be her peers—her allies—expressed their casual acceptance of a horror she could have never imagined. The shimagu were thinking, living beings—created by the gods, same as humans—and not a single eye was batted at a demand for their utter annihilation.

For the first time, Ranthia found herself wondering if the Sentinel Skill had some sort of mental effect that she’d never even noticed—it sure would explain why both of her class options had promised to alter the Skill! There was no way for an external Skill to directly affect the mind, but their own Skills certainly could—[Adamantium Will] was a great example of that. It was an outlandish theory, but Ranthia had to believe that something compelled every single other person in the room to callously accept the complete destruction of another sapient species! For Xaoc’s sake, Solace was supposed to be a [Healer] and she was smiling!

But for whatever reason, Ranthia was the only person in the room that wasn’t so accepting. Sure, the shimagu had gone terribly astray, but she had never wanted to see them excised from the face of Pallos… had she? Yes, she had been angry at them, but part of that was her misplaced anger at herself for Hylla’s—and later, Statia’s—death. But wanting the shimagu punished and stopped was (…hopefully) the limit, even back then. She’d long hoped that a military defeat would force them to step back from what they had become—that it would let them find a better way to coexist. The shimagu had their own language and, presumably, their own culture. Their existence had merit, so long as they ceased treating everyone else as cattle!

She refused to believe that the gods would have made any people wholly unable to coexist. Not even Seira was so coldly malicious.

…Her fury had dimmed once she made progress on herself with the [Mind Healer], and ever since she realized that she’d become a [Priestess], well, it just felt wrong to go against something the five great gods willed! Though Xaoc had been silent on the matter—He never admonished her. And it wasn’t like her hands were clean, there was a real chance that she’d killed more shimagu than anyone else in the room! She—

Ranthia was shaken from her own thoughts when Night’s eyes directly met her own blindfold-covered eyes. His gaze only lingered for a single—somewhat accelerated—heartbeat before he moved on, but it was a clear enough signal that he had noticed her lack of affirmation. He had given her an order, and she had just sat there staring into the distance, like some sort of blatant idiot!

“The operation will begin today, specifically one hour before sunset.” Night continued to speak, providing details.

Should she speak out against the orders? She was a hypocrite, fine, but the orders were wrong! Yet she was one woman, and it wasn’t like the operation came from Night—she was wise enough to know that he was merely acting on the decision that the Legion generals, senate, emperor, and/or Ranger Command had handed down. But if humanity erased the shimagu and invaded their territory…

Her outlandish theories felt far more real and certain than they had already been.

She should speak up. It might not accomplish anything, but if she could plant seeds of doubt among the Sentinels… Wasn’t that worth the risk?

Before she could convince herself to open her mouth, Night pivoted to a new topic, and Ranthia found her attention pulled in his direction once again.

“Sentinel Beast, I omitted you from the plans because I wish to assign you a task more suited to your expertise. The Legions that have been assigned to securing the region have encountered an unexpected problem. A hydra, believed to be around level eight hundred, has appeared and laid claim to territory that is directly adjacent to a site that has been earmarked as suitable for a future settlement. It is extremely aggressive and there have been casualties. The hydra must be dealt with, though I shall trust your discretion about whether it is best to kill it or drive it off.”

Beast’s hesitation was plainly writ across his face. The hydra might have better than two hundred levels on him and his pack—it was hard to imagine that he’d end the battle without losing multiple creatures. The man toyed with his long, scarlet hair as he struggled with his quandary.

And Ranthia wrestled with her own. If she spoke up, there would be ramifications. It was hard to anticipate what they could be—anything between a stern rebuke and a knife between the ribs laid down that path. At best, she would damage her standing as a Sentinel. At worst, she could be branded a traitor, and down that path some punishments were worse than others.

Bards love a heroic sacrifice, crowds adore it. But the concept is idiotic, dearie. I say any hero that knowingly or recklessly sacrifices their own life should be stripped of the title of hero.

Once you are dead, the number of lives you can enrich and the number of tragedies you can prevent are zero. You realize this, yes? A true hero chooses the battles they face, because they can bring no further good, no more joy, nor any additional chaos into this world once they are gone. In all of the history of Remus the list of situations where one must throw away one’s life for the greater good is vanishingly small. It is a scenario that is the product of fantasy and romanticization. Often, it is simply the product of those trying to justify the poor decisions a so-called hero made.

She hadn’t even thought of the woman, but Green’s words echoed through her mind. They were so vivid that she was half convinced that she’d—somehow—subconsciously found the memory with [Chest of Experience], but no, the Skill never leveled. It seemed as though some corner of her mind still carried her mentor’s words.

She truly never appreciated Green enough. Had Remus been a better place, the veteran Ranger would have made an incredible [Mind Healer].

But Green was right, if Ranthia spoke up she’d be risking her life—both knowingly and recklessly—for something unlikely to change anything. If she was so convinced that Remus was plotting against the dwarves, she had to be some sort of idiot to think that they’d ever let the shimagu live just because a single woman asked them to.

She was strong, but she wasn’t all-powerful. She wasn’t going to singlehandedly stop Remus at her level—she needed to focus on her own survival.

Beast seemed to have reached his own conclusion. He’d gritted his teeth and was visibly steeling himself to deliver his response.

“I’ll do it.”

But he wasn’t the one that spoke.

“I’m the best option; you should let me face the hydra.” Ranthia clarified. She was ready to finally follow Green’s advice—she was done pretending she had some duty that required her to risk her life, in the service of the greed of self-important men that hungered for more than they already had.

“Explain.” Night chose a rare minimalist response, which made his tone even more unreadable than it usually was.

It’s my best chance to escape.

Not that she was stupid enough to actually say that.

“No offense intended to Beast, but he doesn’t have the levels. If he loses the heavier hitters from his pack too early into the fight, he might not even be able to bring it down. I’m closer to the creature’s level and I probably have more experience fighting a regenerator than everyone else in this room combined after I spent years fighting against the troll twin. With a bit of prep and some tools, I’m certain I can bring it down—assuming it doesn’t flee before it succumbs.” Sure, she struggled with names, but even after over eighty years, she still had most of her lessons from the Ranger Academy ingrained in her mind. Even those regarding creatures she’d never actually encountered, apparently!

Her mind was so damned weird.

Night seemed to be considering it, assuming she was reading the tiniest hint of pursed lips correctly.

“Also, honestly? I’ve fought against people for, effectively, more than eighty years—closer to ninety, given what I went through during my time in Remus. For the love of Xaoc, I could use a good brawl against a beast!” Ranthia’s tone was jocular, but there was a genuine plight there.

She just had to hope Night would see it and be moved. It wasn’t even feigned; she was sick of culling people. She had no doubts that she would take lives again in the future—she was still immortal—but the weight of the war had been especially heavy in recent days.

Sentinel Beast started to laugh uproariously while he mimed raising a drink to her.

“She’s got my vote!” He shouted, before he resumed laughing.

…Had he forgotten that he’d been an utter ass to her? Why was he acting like they were suddenly friends?

“Very well. Beast, you’re with Sage and Gravity. Grace, I shall entrust the hydra to you. Does anyone have any other pressing matters that require discussion? If not, I would prefer to end the meeting here, as we each have preparations to make ahead of our respective missions.” Night made his decision.

Since only Sentinel Beast’s ongoing—and excessive—guffaws filled the silence, the meeting concluded. Ranthia received the scrolls with the scouting reports on the hydra on her way out and fought to keep the smile off her face as she shouldered her pack and set out for the Spearpoint markets.

Sentinel Grace was already dead, and it was time to make that fact a reality for everyone else. A large monster was the perfect cover; it was practically a gift from Xaoc Himself! Adventurers died every day facing off against oversized monsters, and a level 800-ish hydra could definitely kill her if she got careless.

So long as she was careful, no one would ever doubt the truth that she crafted.

She sorely underestimated how hard it would be to find anything in a base that was on its fifth day of continuous celebrations. Ranthia was forced to track down and outright harass some merchants to get access to their wares. The partying was dying down—and she was forced to carefully dance her way past crowds of unconscious drunks more than once—but Ranthia really didn’t want to go through a fourth all-nighter, just to hope the next day would work out better.

She was on a time limit, and if that meant she had to badger the dwarf [Alchemist] to make her some firebombs, she would! She could always buy the surly man with the curly beard a round once they were done.

“So, all I have to do is poke a knife through it? No fire?” Ranthia couldn’t help but feel dubious. Reman firebombs had woefully fallen short of her expectations, which was what led her to the dwarf in the first place—but she wasn’t expecting to find herself looking at a pile of hardened wax blobs by the time the man was done.

“If’n ye want to die ablaze, yes! There be a layer o’ wax sealin’ off the diff’rent compounds. Ye cut a big ‘ol rent ‘n mix ‘em up fast, ye’ll be caught in the blast! Ye want a small needle-poke or, better yet, rupture ‘em from afar, y’fool! Get a fooking bow!” The surly dwarf’s tone and expression suggested he was trying to pick a fight, but the dwarf that’d recommended him had warned her about it—that was just how this guy was.

“And you’re sure these’ll be enough? A full-grown hydra can get pretty big… Like I said, I’m planning to bait the beast into an ambush and I’m hoping these will do significant damage to it.” Ranthia pressed.

She was doing her best to make sure numerous witnesses could attest to what her plan was.

It would help to sell her staged conclusion, if she succeeded in making it look like things went awry.

“Th’ only reason ah’m lettin’ you have that many is ‘cause I dun wanna drag all this shite back with me! Sign da fookin’ ledger n’ piss off already!” The man thrust the page at her.

Ranthia signed, even as she decided against buying the man another round. Still, if the firebombs worked better than their Reman counterparts, she had everything that she needed. The sack of hydra bait—waterlogged entrails, which she’d been assured would attract any hydra in the region—was waiting outside of the [Alchemist]’s tent (by mutual agreement). She had some trail rations—snacks, in case she was forced to wait for a day or two for the hydra. She had a fairly decent chunk of arcanite tucked under her arm. And from a particularly rude [Merchant] that’d been pawing at an unconscious woman when Ranthia found him, she’d stolen a backpack that superficially resembled her own.

It was already late in the afternoon, but she was finally as ready as she was going to get.

By the time Ranthia reached the location she planned to use—a rocky low valley that often flooded during the spring—she had solidified her plan. She’d half considered just stuffing the bait in her damaged armor and leaving, but even if she was departing, she had no intention of leaving a dangerous monster loose in the area.

Besides, Sentinel Grace would never die to some beast without ensuring that Black Crow brought it along with her!

Instead, she planned to stage the area—she wanted it to look like the hydra had ambushed her before she was ready. The biggest problem was that, by the time she arrived, it was far later in the day than she’d hoped. The Sentinels were undoubtedly beginning their own operation, which meant she needed to hurry.

Ranthia dropped the sack of bait, the arcanite, the box of firebombs, her backpack, and the fake, then blurred into action as she set to work. Breaking rocks was easy and quick, but she also needed to leave scars on the land—damage that the Sentinels would assume was inflicted by the hydra’s teeth.

…Which would have been easier if she’d ever actually seen a hydra. But she needed to stage the scene first, then she could open up the bait and lure the beast into a trap.

Dancing helped. Ranthia allowed her inner rhythm to carry her across the valley as she delivered slashes—without using [Void Edge]—to damage the terrain. She crushed rocks and knocked over other formations. And between the building euphoria of having her escape route from Remus—and whatever horrific nonsense her former nation was getting up to—and the simple pleasure of getting to make a mess?

She was having fun. No matter how important it was to set the stage, the act was undeniably silly. But after all of the stress she’d been under, it was a joy to just let herself go and trust her instincts. She didn’t have the time or expertise to be perfect, she just needed—

