"What is it you want?!" he shouted into the mist, the desperation in his tone echoing back at him. "You can have Evaline! Just let me out of here, and I will direct my fleet back to the Celestial Empire and never set foot in the wilderness again. You have my word as the Grand Elder of House Vasthorne!"

A finger ran up his back.

"Evaline is still alive," the mist whispered into his ear. "You would abandon her so soon? How cruel..."

He spun around and saw the winged demon's shadow vanishing into the mist. Wrapping himself in cosmic Qi, he rocketed forward, burning through the mist after the shadow. He wove between trees that oddly dotted the various layers of decks as he followed the shadow down a few tiers, and just as he was about to grasp it, the shadow vanished.

Before him was an open doorway to the levels below.

A soul-curdling howl of pain tore up from the depths, ragged and raw. It was hard to be certain, but it sounded like Evaline.

The mist said she was still alive. His jaw locked. This is part of the demon's plan. It has to be.

Yet he had no choice. At least the mist seemed thinner down there.

Keeping his domain tight around him, stars hugging close to his shoulders, he stepped through the doorway and descended into the belly of the flagship.

The corridors were narrow and dimly lit. It was as if they were not built for a man of his stature, and the only sound he heard was Evaline's screaming, pulling him deeper with every twist and turn. This place was a ghost ship beside the strange shadows of small people who moved at the edge of his perception but never showed themselves.

His breath came out ragged as he kept moving, his entire body tense as if cold fingers were caressing his skin.

He descended three more levels and didn't encounter a soul besides the shadows. Eventually, he came across the room at the end of an oddly long corridor where the howls of pain were originating from. Reaching the door, his fingers touched the cold metal handle.

Please be alive. Aurelian paused there for a long moment, debating whether he should really enter. Gritting his teeth, cosmic Qi roared around him, and he kicked the door from its hinges.

Rushing inside, he found Evaline kneeling in agony before a tall, silver-framed mirror. Her back was to him. Her shoulders shook with each ragged sob, and her white hair hung limp around her face.

"Evaline," he breathed, and rushed in to grab her shoulder.

The Evaline on the floor turned toward him, tears in her wide eyes.

The Evaline in the mirror did not.

Aurelian's hand froze an inch from her shoulder. The supposed reflection in the mirror knelt exactly as before, trembling, howling in pain, and seemingly unaware of his arrival.

She had not turned to face him like the Evaline before him, because it was not a mirror. It was a pane of glass, and the real Evaline was trapped on the other side.

It was a trap.

The Evaline before him smiled.

Her pupils bled to black. Wings tore from her back with a wet, splitting sound, and when her teeth parted, they were suddenly too many. She rose as if pulled up by invisible strings, her body elongating into a demoness that was as beautiful to behold as it was monstrous.

"Such a cruel man," she whispered and licked her blood soaked lips.

"I wonder how your heart demons will taste."
