His words were unnecessary. Everyone was watching the strange new Antinium. Tyrion turned back to the battle. It was just a hundred. They couldn’t do a thing. He knew that intellectually. But for the first time since this battle had begun, he began to grow vaguely uneasy.
And on they came.
 
——
 
“Is that Pawn?”
Ceria stared down at the Antinium from the walls. She recognized the Worker. The other adventurers craned over the battlements, keeping a watchful eye out for more falling stones.
“It is Pawn! What is he doing? Has everyone gone mad?”
“Pawn, get back here!”
Jelaqua bellowed at the Worker. But if he heard, he never slowed. He was marching with the others. Ceria vaguely recognized Yellow Splatters. She turned to Ksmvr to ask what they were doing. And stopped. Ksmvr was staring down at the Painted Soldiers. And he looked far away.
“Ksmvr? Ksmvr?”
The former Prognugator didn’t turn. He opened his mandibles slowly.
“Yes, Ceria?”
“What are Pawn and the Soldiers doing? They’re not fighting, are they?”
“They are.”
“But they’ll die!”
“Yes.”
The Antinium looked up. His mandibles opened, and he straightened. He looked down at the Painted Antinium as the Drakes and Gnolls looked down. The adventurers stood together. Ksmvr nodded.
“That is what they are doing. Dying.”
 
——
 
At first, the Goblins didn’t notice them. They were harrying the retreating Solstice Goblins, pressing them back. It wasn’t easy. The Flooded Waters tribe was dug in. The Redfangs fought like demons. And the Cave Goblins refused to buckle. But by numbers they were losing. Eater of Spears was cutting back. Snapjaw was attacking from the flanks, skirmishing with the Redfangs. And Reiss had created a shield of bone spires. Now he was directing the undead to attack.
So it was little wonder that the Antinium weren’t spotted by the Goblins on either side at first. There were only a hundred. But they were different.
They marched in ranks of five abreast, Yellow Splatters and Pawn in the lead. Each Soldier’s body was marked by paint. Each was unique.
A flower drawn in black paint with white petals. Raindrops, the first ever seen. A series of numbers without reason. Words painted in every color that had meaning only to the Soldier who’d drawn it.
Their march was steady. Quick. And as they marched, they listened. The Goblins were ahead of them. But it was not on them the Painted Soldiers focused. It was on the Worker who marched at their head. Pawn swung the censer, his voice loud. The censer burned cinnamon. The sweet smoke drifted across the Soldiers.
Time seemed slow to him. Despite the urgency of their pace, Pawn felt like each moment was forever. Was this Erin’s [Immortal Moment]? His words echoed in his mind, across the Soldiers.
“We are going to war. We are going to fight, though this is not our battle.”
Click.
The Soldiers’ mandibles snapped together as one. Pawn heard the sound reverberate through his soul. He went on. His voice was shaking.
“We pray not for victory. We pray only that we might live. That we survive. That Erin lives. That our friends live.”
Click.
The Goblin Lord’s army had seen them now. Reiss turned on the back of his Shield Spider. His master uttered the first curse word he had spoken in three years. Reiss stared and then pointed.
Goblins in black armor moved to set themselves against the Antinium. They stared uneasily at the insect-people. But [Archers] were already moving. A thousand Goblins set themselves in place. Enough. The Painted Soldiers’ pace never wavered. Pawn continued, staring at the Goblins as they slowly took positions. They were so far away still.
“There are no gods for us to pray to. None that will listen to the Antinium. None that will care. We are alone. But we are still Antinium.”
Click.
“So. Pray not to gods, but believe in each other. Fight and survive. Believe that Heaven awaits. Arrows shall pierce our bodies. Steel rend our chitin. We will bleed and perish. But believe. We may fall, but we will find Heaven afterwards. Even if it only exists in our minds. And know that you will be remembered forever.”
Click. Now the Goblins were ready. A ripple went through their ranks. They were raising bows, aiming. A Goblin [Mage] conjured fire. Pawn’s grip tightened on his staff. He shouted the last words, or perhaps they shouted themselves.
“For so long as one Antinium lives, we shall never be forgotten.”
Click.
There was no signal. No command. The Painted Soldiers saw the Goblins draw back. Their pace quickened. The march turned into a run. Then a sprint. The Goblins aimed. They loosed as one. Pawn was running. He raised his staff up. The censer released smoke. And the arrows flew.
The Painted Soldiers charged. The Goblins were hundreds of paces away yet. But the arrows were falling. Like rain. They landed among the Soldiers, hundreds of them. First one volley, then another. The Goblin Lord’s archers never stopped firing. But the Soldiers ran on. They had no shields to protect them. Only an invisible thing.
Faith.
Believe. Believe they would survive to meet the Goblins. The first arrow struck a Soldier on the shoulder. It did not pierce far, but the tip cut past the shell of the Soldier. Blood ran down his chest. Still he ran.
Arrows fell among the Soldiers. They touched them. The Antinium bled. But none fell.
Perhaps it was a miracle. The arrows seemed to be missing. Or maybe it was the mud, the fighting. Poor visibility, a chance gust of wind.
The Goblins stared. They had expected a few Soldiers to fall. But the arrows were missing. And the Soldiers were drawing closer. The front rank of Hobs shifted uneasily. The Soldiers were as big as they were. And the one in front was bigger than the rest, or so it seemed. But they were Hobs. They held their ground. And the Antinium ran faster.
Pawn was in front. He didn’t know if he was screaming. He didn’t realize he’d outdistanced the others, even Yellow Splatters. He ran at the front rank of Goblins and then realized. He didn’t have a weapon!
The first Hobgoblin in black armor was turning, eyes wide. He had never seen the Antinium before. Pawn started to slow. The Hobgoblin had a mace. It raised it to strike at the Worker. Yellow Splatters charged past Pawn. His first fist struck the Hob across the face. The second grabbed the mace hand. Two more blows struck the Hob, and the Goblin fell.
Pawn saw the Goblins turn. One struck at Yellow Splatters with a sword. The Soldier punched, and the Goblin fell back, his face broken. A Soldier crashed into the Goblins next to Pawn. Another leapt. The Hobs looked up, and a Soldier landed, crushing one with a knee. And ninety-eight more charged past the rest.
It shouldn’t have mattered. They were only a hundred. A hundred bodies. A hundred fragile souls, nothing more. But they didn’t stop. The Painted Soldiers overran the first rank of Goblins, then the second. They didn’t stop.
“Go!”
Pawn screamed. The Goblins fell back. It could speak? The Worker ran with the Soldiers. They crashed into a wave of Goblins armed with spears. The metal broke on their bodies. It pierced them. It didn’t matter. They didn’t so much as slow. They had one thought in their minds.
Further. A Soldier reeled back, a spear stabbed through his guts. He looked down at the spear as the Goblin holding it twisted. The Soldier punched down, and the spear broke. He grabbed the terrified Goblin and broke its neck. Then he ran on.
Arrows flew down from above. The Goblin Lord was shooting at his own warriors! The Antinium looked up. One of them was struck half a dozen times. He bled. The raindrops on his body became green with his blood. And he did not stop.
The Soldier with raindrops ran on, ignoring the arrows protruding from his body. His fellows joined them. They had yet to fall. They would not fall.
On. There was nothing to hold them back. The Goblins began to flee in the face of the Antinium. They screamed and turned. Swords didn’t hurt them! They bled, but they didn’t die!
“Hold your positions! There are only a hundred!”
Reiss bellowed. But the Goblins were afraid. The Soldiers charged on, a wedge now. Led by Yellow Splatters. And Pawn. The Worker ran through Goblins, forging ahead. Towards Erin. Towards the Goblin Lord. He whirled his staff and struck a Goblin with the censer. With his other hand, he struck another Goblin with a mace he’d picked up.
It wasn’t enough. They’d never make it. The Soldiers were taking injuries. And they were beginning to slow. Pawn saw one fall. The one with numbers. But the others kept moving. They’d never get to the Goblin Lord.
But they didn’t stop. They overran formations, charged past the stunned Solstice Goblins.
Onwards.
The Goblin Lord’s lines began to break.
 
——
 
“Madness.”
Tyrion whispered. The Goblins were retreating. The Antinium were smashing through their lines. It was a suicide charge. But somehow, the Soldiers weren’t dying.
“Do they have some kind of special armor? How are they still moving? What kind of Antinium is this?”
Jericha stared at the Antinium. Her face was pale. The Soldiers should not be doing this. Even Antinium had limits. But not this group. And the Solstice Goblins were rallying around the Soldiers. Redscar pointed, and his Redfangs raced after the Painted Soldiers. Lightning flashed down ahead of them, clearing a path. Numbtongue roared, and Yellow Splatters looked up. The Goblins surged after the Antinium.
This was the spear they needed. The five Redfangs charged again. The momentum was again against the Goblin Lord.
But he had his army. He could still win. He just needed to slow them. Tyrion gritted his teeth. He looked around.
“Jericha!”
His aide blinked. She looked at Tyrion and then colored.
“My lord?”
“Tell the Gold-rank teams to deploy their [Archers]. Take down the Goblin leaders.”
The [Mage]’s eyes widened. She nodded and shouted orders. Tyrion saw the message race across the lines of his soldiers, to the group of irregular adventurers. They were behind the lines of cavalry. They had no intention of participating in the mass-combat. But at Tyrion’s orders the teams with high-level [Archers] came forward.
“He wants us to hit the Goblin leaders? From here?”
One of the Gold-rank captains exclaimed with dismay. Another, a man named Jackal, turned to the [Messenger].
“Which ones are we hitting? The Goblin Lord’s?”
“No, the Goblins defending Liscor.”
“Damn.”
Jackal swore. He looked at his team. The only other adventurer with a bow, their [Ranger], looked unhappy.
“Jack, what’s the point of this? You saw that girl. Are we supposed to shoot her, too?”
“Only the Goblins. Lord Veltras was very specific about that.”
The [Messenger] interjected unhelpfully. Jackal gave him a long look. The Gold-rank adventurer shook his head. He selected an arrow and put it to his shortbow. The odds of him hitting one of the Goblins from here was remote, but the other adventurers might have a shot.
“We’ve got orders. Tyrion wants those Goblins to lose. So…let’s support that Goblin Lord. Sight on those Hobs. That one on the hill with the bow.”
Reluctantly, the other adventurers took aim. They sighted on Badarrow, who was loosing arrow after arrow. Jackal’s grip tightened on his arrow.
“[Farseeker Arrows]. [Double Arrow].”
He could hear the other adventurers using similar Skills. Jackal drew back. He could see the Antinium pushing forwards. He gritted his teeth. And then he looked up. Something bright flashed in the sky.
“Dead gods! Take cover!”
Jackal pointed up, screamed, and threw himself sideways. The other adventurers didn’t bother looking. They dove. And then they saw what Jackal had.
The arrow that flew down out of the sky was glowing, its tip sparking with electricity. An enchanted arrow. It detonated as it struck the earth in front of Jackal’s team. The men and women cried out as the lightning earthed itself, mostly harmlessly.
“My arm!”
“It got my armor!”
“Who shot that? A Goblin?”
The Humans milled about in a panic. Someone blew an alarm, but the adventurers were more concerned with the attack. Jackal pulled himself up. The [Ranger] grabbed his arm.
“That didn’t come from the Goblins. Jack! It came from the walls?”
“A Drake shot that?”
Jackal stared at Liscor. It was far too far away for anyone but a Level 30 [Archer] to hit them from. And an enchanted arrow? His eyes widened. He saw a figure standing on the battlements.
“Five families save me. That’s Halrac. He shot that arrow!”
The adventurers looked up. Some of them uttered oaths. Jackal looked at his companions uneasily.
“Is he—”
“He’s covering the Goblins.”
“He can’t do that!”
Another Gold-rank captain exclaimed. Her face was pale. She raised her bow.
“There’s one of him! He can’t stop us from—”
A second arrow blasted a hole in the dirt in front of her. The adventurer recoiled. Jackal stared at the walls. The distant shape drew another arrow. Jackal looked at his team. Slowly, he lowered his bow. The [Messenger] stared incredulously at him.
“What are you doing? Lord Veltras ordered you to attack the Goblins!”
“Yeah. I don’t think so. You want to take them out, get your [Archers]. Halrac’s got the angle on us, and he uses enchanted arrows. And he’s got a new bow. Get the Kingslayer to do it.”
“She’s not—”
The [Messenger] clamped his lips shut. Jackal eyed him, but the man was already riding back. The Gold-rank teams stared as another arrow flew from the wall. But it wasn’t aimed at them. And then they saw more flashes of light.
“What are they doing?”
“They can’t be—”
“They’re supporting the Goblins.”
Jackal was surprised there was no warble in his voice. He stared at the walls. Halrac was loosing arrow after arrow into the Goblin Lord’s army. And he wasn’t the only one.
 
——
 
The first arrow blew a cluster of Goblins to bits. The second one was aimed directly at Reiss. He barely saw it. A wall of bone rose in front of him, and the arrow nearly shattered it. Reiss stared. Someone was shooting arrows at him! And then he saw a glowing ball of light falling from the sky.
A star. It shone with beautiful blue light, surrounded by a nimbus of blue energy. And it landed and bloomed. Goblins died as the first comet struck the earth. And then the second.
“[Valmira’s Comets].”
Typhenous stood on the walls. He pointed, and another comet fell to earth. By his side, Halrac loosed another arrow. The distance was incredible, but the [Scout] had calculated each shot. And he had a bow capable of making it.
