The most basic lesson in wardworking was to never anchor a ward to something precious. All wards had failure points, and those failure points would backlash into whatever the caster used as an anchor. Sidyrnus had long since abandoned that precept for the simple reason that he considered himself better.

His soul was impossible to target. He'd covered it in layers of wards so that even if the impossible happened, he would be protected. The protections he bore meant that it would take a truly apocalyptic amount of mana for any backlash to actually strike at his soul.

It also meant, he now realized, that if he was ever struck with that amount of mana, he would be forced to watch as it tore through each layer one by one.

Then, as if to add insult to injury, a tiny green figure appeared in front of him, just barely visible... and punched him in the eye.

Sidyrnus thought, as he flew backwards, that he must have accidentally inhaled some of the potion's fumes and was hallucinating violently. He would recover in a moment, and then deliver his prisoners to the Red Hunters as promised.

That was obviously the only possible explanation for this.

Mana overload detected! Attempting to compensate...

Adjusting spell construct...

[Wardbreaker Punch] has evolved into [Grand Cascade]!

[Grand Cascade, Level 1] [Twelfth Tier (Unique), Active] [1.0e32 Mana]

Focuses wardbreaker mana directly into your fists, primed to cause a ward cascade. Causes the complete erasure of any ward equivalent to eleventh tier or lower. Attempts to shatter greater wards by surging additional mana into the construct's focal points. Repeated casts may be necessary for the spell to take full effect in these cases.

In retrospect, Cale thought that perhaps a single punch might have been sufficient. Sidyrnus's ranting had caused him to start drumming his fingers impatiently on the ward instead.

To be fair, he hadn't expected someone called a Grand Warden to anchor his ward with his own soul. Not doing that was basic stuff! He had no idea what Sidyrnus was thinking. Even most liches weren't stupid enough to do that, and they seemed to love anchoring all sorts of things on their souls. Or other people's souls. Or just souls in general, really.

So he hadn't expected the backlash to wind back into Sidyrnus with quite that much force, which meant that he hadn't been prepared to call Orguk off.

Also he hadn't entirely wanted to.

Besides, the soul damage was worse than the physical damage. Orguk's [Mana Detonator] distributed the force of his punch enough that it sent Sidyrnus flying back instead of just exploding his eye, for which Cale was thankful. That would have been too much of a mess, even for him.

"Well now," Professor Rinkle said. Sidyrnus was lying on the ground and mumbling incoherently, glazed eyes staring up at the ceiling. Something about his wards being unbreakable. "I admit, I'm rather glad that we had you three in our class today! Goodness, what a disaster. Could you be a dear and break the rest of these restraints? I'm afraid my specialty is alchemy, not ward-breaking, and it will take quite some time to brew a potion to counteract these restraints..."

She trailed off and then laughed to herself. "Oh, dear, I'm being rude again," she said, mostly to herself. Then she leaned down to draw a circle into the ground. "Simply step into these and you will be restored to full size."

Cale was glad she'd remembered that, because even if he'd tried to respond, he was pretty sure she wouldn't have been able to hear him. Flia sighed dramatically.

"Finally," she said. "I can't believe you had me jet us around with water."

"It was the only way to get around efficiently!"

"My water is a portal into the Abyss, Cale. If we weren't tiny I would have ended up pouring half the room into the Abyss."

"Good thing we were tiny, then, isn't it?" Cale grinned unrepentantly, and Flia rolled her eyes. "Come on, it was fun, admit it."

"...it was kind of fun," Flia said after a moment, allowing herself a small smirk. "Nice to actually get to use my magic the way other water elementals do. I hope I can figure out the Leviathan's advice today. It'd be nice to do all this properly."

"If you need help figuring it out, just say the word," Cale promised.

Flia nodded. "I appreciate it. I'll work on it myself a while longer, but if I can't figure it out, I'll ask."

With that, the two of them stepped into the ring. Orguk followed a short while later, carrying both unconscious students on his shoulders and looking surprisingly thoughtful.

"Orguk thinks punching Sidyrnus was not satisfying enough," Orguk said. "Sidyrnus does not know it was Orguk that punched him. Orguk will do it again at full size."

"Perhaps after we clean up all these wards and report this to the Headmaster?" Professor Rinkle suggested, although the twinkle in her eyes told them she wasn't exactly opposed to the idea. Orguk thought about this for a moment, then nodded.

"Orguk will agree with that," he said. Then he turned to Cale. "Mana man! Teach me that ward-punch. Orguk wants to break Sidyrnus's wards in front of him with punching. Orguk thinks his face will be funny."

"I'm not sure you have the mana for it..." Cale began, and when Orguk shot him a look that was simultaneously deeply betrayed and offended, he snorted and acquiesced. "Okay, look, I haven't managed to teach any of my spells before. But you might be able to evolve a lesser version of the spell, and if you do it the right way, I bet you can break a few of his wards even without overwhelming mana. And I happen to know a few things about ward breaking, so I'll tell you exactly what to target."

He gestured for Orguk to follow him as he did his rounds. For all that Sidyrnus's wards were incredibly advanced and reinforced, [Grand Cascade] had the benefit of pointing out exactly where their weakspots were. They were cleverly hidden and would have been impossible to find without sheer brute force, but, well...

Sheer brute force was his speciality.

"Just out of curiosity," Flia asked. "Is this apparent ward breaking expertise because you happen to like wards, or did you just do a lot of magical crime?"

"You know me better than that, Flia," Cale said, giving her an exaggerated look of feigned offense. "It was obviously the magical crime. I broke people out of prisons a lot. Also a wizard tower and three varieties of plant-based traps. Now let me focus! I still want to experiment with my potions after this, and we don't have that much time left in the day."

Flia sighed. "If only I could have just one normal class," she muttered.

Orguk gave her a strange look. "Orguk thinks classes more fun this way."

"I refuse to agree with you on principle," Flia said, pretending to be affronted. She was grinning, though.

Excellent. Cale's mind drifted, now that the most pressing concern was over and done with. He needed those new potions figured out, but after that, well... he was looking forward to tonight.

The Red Hunters were going to deal with a whole new version of the Mad Mage.

Though come to think of it, he probably needed to deal with the nascent law of baking he'd unwittingly introduced first...

Eh. It could wait.
