Her huge beetle quivered with delight and gobbled up a large glowing boulder, sprouting fresh, glowing veins across her already unimaginably priceless shell. With her Grimoire competing with the brood queen for radiant illumination in the cavern, Ali consolidated her domain with Stonecap mushrooms. After waiting a few minutes for it to stabilize, she filled her lair with more mithril ore attached to the domain so that it would respawn.

“This looks like a good spot,” Ali said, glancing to Seth.

“Yes, especially if you can redirect the passage so that people are forced to come through here,” he agreed.

“I think the presence of mithril here will be enough of a lure,” Ali speculated. It was the ideal location for the Brood Queen to settle down. While it was technically a ‘small’ vein – if it were any other ore – there was more than enough to last Myrin’s Keep for ages. Her beetle boss would always have fresh mithril for her shell and would respawn.

Domain Respawn applied to Subterranean Brood Queen.Raid Domain Enhancement applied to Subterranean Brood Queen.Earthquake applied.Amplify Skill (Augmented Armor) applied.Attribute Enhancement (Endurance) applied.Domain Enhancement complete.Your reserved mana has increased by +658.

“Do you… need me to keep this a secret?” Seth asked, as they both returned to the main cavern and began making their way back to the library.

“No. Feel free to share it with the guild.”

His eyebrows waggled. “Ready for the rush?”

“I guess I’ll have to be. I’m going to go drop a pile of this ore beside the anvil for Thuli to experiment with, and I’m sure he will want a steady supply as soon as he figures it out. You’ll probably see collection quests on the jobs board pretty soon.”

I’ll have to check through the rest of my defenses, I’m sure Calen will have a few ideas… She was looking forward to seeing how well her queen performed – it was the perfect level for many of the guild raiders, and the mithril ore would have incredible long-range effects on the power of the guild as soon as the crafters learned to incorporate it into useful equipment. Even for her friends – she couldn’t wait till Mato commissioned a set of mithril plate armor or Calen found a fletcher capable of crafting mithril arrows.

***

Ali jerked up from her studies in surprise as her domain mana surged unexpectedly, but her instinctive reaction to danger faded quickly as she sensed the origin of the effect. Way down below the library, in the final chamber of the Emberforge Mines, Thuli stood at the giant black anvil with billowing waves of ember-affinity mana pouring from him like the sweat dripping from his brow and his thick muscular arms. He laid his hammer to the side and retrieved something small and sharp that blazed with pure brilliant radiance in her mana-sight.

“Congratulations, master,” Kavé said, crowding closer beside Tarek to see what the master Smith had created.

“What did I tell ya about the master thing, lass?” Thuli said, but he was grinning from ear to ear as he held out his work for his apprentices to see.

Ali’s Grimoire reacted to the tithe enchantment on the Anvil of the Emberforge, immediately recording Thuli’s discovery.

Variant: Arcing Mithril Dagger of Agility added to Imprint: Dagger

That was quick!

It wasn’t the most impressively enchanted dagger in the world – merely a magical creation with a dexterity enchantment and additional lightning damage on hit, but no crafter who saw his mana signature on a mithril piece would miss the seismic significance of the weapon.

Using a Glitter Dragonet she’d left in the chamber, Ali stared down at him and his excited apprentices with eyes of satisfaction. She hadn’t had a chance to talk with Thuli, but he had clearly discovered her gift beside the forge and had made two breakthroughs – smelting and refining the ore into pure bars of mithril and the forging of the dagger itself. Most likely, the smelting and the proof of the supply of ore would be the most significant discovery.

The pages of Ali’s Grimoire riffled past to a second imprint, and an insistent chime pinged.

Variant completed, but the imprint is full. Make space or select a new chapter.

Based on where the Grimoire fell open and what Thuli had just made, Ali was pretty sure she knew exactly what it wanted. Mithril was an evolved metal with an extremely high affinity for all kinds of magical enchantments. The fact that it was exceptionally rare, forming only in silver-bearing rock that had been exposed to extremely dense mana for ages, and that wars had been fought over the discovery of even small deposits, didn’t bother her at all. No, she couldn’t wait to try it out with her own runic magic.

Eagerly, she selected a precious empty Grimoire chapter that she was used to hoarding by habit now and offered it up to the metal imprint.

Variant: Mithril added to Imprint: Metal.

The resulting flurry of activity only made her smile broaden. Wow, it’s complex! I wonder if I’ll ever understand the half of it? Ali rubbed her temples as she partitioned her awareness away from the deluge of information. She was still worryingly tired. More sleep, more tea.

Thank you, Thuli, she thought, sending her feelings of gratitude toward the grinning, happy dwarf down in the depths of her dungeon. His Eimuuran steel would serve admirably for any un-evolved class, and she knew he had already taught it to Kavé, but Thuli was an evolved blacksmith now, and he would need to make items used by people higher than level one hundred in order to gain meaningful experience. Mithril was the perfect metal to get him going. That mithril dagger he had just crafted would be a perfect reason for her to work on leveling her kobold Dagger Rogues, and she was certain Calen would want a set of mithril arrows as soon as Thuli figured them out.

With her Grimoire already open to the right chapter, Ali created a fist-sized chunk of mithril on the desk in front of her. As soon as it appeared, it began to shine, lighting up her desk and the books strewn about her with a radiant silver-blue light. She studied it intently, fascinated by how the mana of her domain was channeled through the lump of metal, flowing and twisting before being shot out in various directions with much more energy than when it had been absorbed. It was the reason for the intense glow, an effect she had learned about from books but was far more fascinating to see in person. The tiny bar of mithril would act as a mana density detector simply by the brightness of its glow – although nobody in their right mind would use the astonishingly expensive metal for something so mundane.

Unless they’re a dungeon, Ali grinned. I have a few decorating ideas in mind! Yay! Another reason people like enslaving dungeons. She grimaced. Let’s keep it a bit cheerful.

She twisted the metal before her, using Domain Mastery and Sculpting, creating a small statue of her mithril-coated Subterranean Brood Queen, and then using the left-over pieces to fashion several tiny runes, watching excitedly as they began absorbing mana on their own.

“Is that…” Calen gasped, leaping toward her table to see the cause of the radiant glow.

“Mithril,” Ali confirmed. She hadn’t realized how much of a scene she was making, but the entire library fell into a sudden hush as everyone stared at her and the glow. “You probably want to talk to Thuli soon.”

“You found mithril?” Calen said, still breathless, as he sat down beside her to stare at her tiny creations.

She pushed the sculpture of the queen rock beetle toward him. “My beetle found a small vein of ore in the mines yesterday. Thuli did the rest.” It was rather unsurprising that the mithril ore had been down there. After all, Dal’mohra had been excavating deeply into those caves for ages for a reason, and the Emberforge Mines dungeon had been spilling dungeon mana into the mineral-rich rock for the better part of three thousand years. All she had needed was the proper set of perception skills and a monster that could dig.

They sat there in silence for a few minutes as more and more people stopped by, wanting to see or touch the legendary metal.

“Ali,” Calen said, breaking off his amazed stare to look at her. “Mom says your new shoes are ready. If you’re feeling well enough to venture out, we can go pick them up whenever you like.”

“Oh, sweet!” Ali said. She had been hunkered down in her dungeon recuperating, spending her nights curled up in Mato’s Sanctuary to try and heal from the damage her powerful magic had wreaked on her body. But she was getting cabin fever – she hadn’t visited the guild or any of her friends in town since she had come back. “I’m almost halfway healed,” she said. “Do you think it will be safe?”

“I can come with you,” Malika offered. “I want to ask Lydia to make me a shirt out of some tougher fabric so it doesn’t keep tearing. Maybe some of that Frostweave or the demonic silk she had been working with lately – it seems pretty rugged.”

“Mato, do you want to come, too?” Calen asked.

“If you want more protection, I will,” he said, glancing at Ali. “Otherwise, I want to chat with Thuli about some gear.”

“I think Malika and Calen will be enough of a deterrent for any thugs,” Ali said. “And I’ll bring my shaman, too. Go get your armor.”

“Can you ask Thuli about mithril arrows when you see him?” Calen asked eagerly.

“Elfie needs some shiny new toys?” Mato chortled.

“Oi, you rotter!” Calen blushed deeply, which only seemed to make him more uncomfortable as Malika and Ali hooted. “I don’t see you turning down some shiny new armor.”

“A bear’s got to look his best.”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
