Among those few in the know, wild rumors circulated that she had mated with a Nightmare Unicorn, or molded the twins out of the blackness of space, or wrenched them out of the dreams of one of her enemies. Such speculation seemed mad, and yet if anyone had managed to seduce a Nightmare Unicorn, an entity barely bound by the normal laws of rifts, it would be the Sect’s Master.

It was in many ways more plausible than imagining the Lady having had children with someone… normal. Some people said that she might have had other children, but Long Zhiyuan knew of none of them. Nobody dared peer too closely at the Lady of Ill Dreams, for she had earned her title a million times over during her reign of terror upon the battlefields.

Even his own Sect Master, at Tier 47, spoke of her with a mixture of fear and trepidation. Even if he himself was likely to be unaffected by her curses, she would surely make him pay for any insolence just as surely as a sect elder being disrespected by some outer disciple.

If her children were here, it was eminently possible that she was as well, lurking unseen by all, looking to see those who would disrespect her progeny and preparing to inflict mighty vengeance upon those who gave insufficient face. Long Zhiyuan did not know what Tier she was at this moment, but even if she were Tier 25, he would never have a chance to see, let alone challenge her before he was defeated.

It would be a waste of a clone to even bother simulating it, and possibly even dangerous. The Talent diviner had called his clones daydreams, and he dared not challenge the Lady of Ill Dreams in her own domain.

Nevertheless, he was surprised to see the twins present for such a dangerous mission. When he had learned of their existence, he had been cautioned that their mother had once killed a man, and cursed all the immortals in his entire family, for simply loosing a small measure of killing intent at the same auction as Jai Meng and Jai Xilu.

What if they died on the battlefield?

Long Zhiyuan didn’t like any of the answers he got from that simulation. Masters were weird and from all reports battle maniacs. He didn’t want to know if her ire might fall on the twins' allies if they fell. For all he knew, she would congratulate the actual killers and rip everyone else's spines out of their backs slowly.

He made a simulation dedicated to avoiding such responsibility before giving up. If a Master wanted him dead, there was nothing he could do to stop it.

At least the twins were easy enough to tell apart with sight. Their inverted skin and hair colors more than offset simply how identical they appeared to his spiritual perception and other senses. Though, he would be hard pressed to tell them apart if they were hiding, so he immediately put a clone on working that out.

With an effort of will, Long Zhiyuan pulled his eyes off the twins and inspected the rest of the people in the room.

Maven barely bore consideration after her repeated failures, but Gan Le was a fellow former Young Master with a reputation for being invincible. Long Zhiyuan expected such stories were overblown, but the simulations he was running of the man had yet to find a weak point. Time would tell, but he had yet to find any actions which so much as ruffled the man’s long, untied black hair.

He would, if nothing else, serve as an adequate shield-bearer of sorts, with the ability to share his invincibility with those that he was near.

Long Zhiyuan also approved of the man’s lack of visible iris and pupil on his eyes. With some training to disguise the focus of one’s spiritual perception, having no obvious visual indication for the direction of the man’s gaze would make the man’s actions less predictable for an enemy.

Following his fellow Sect-mates, the Federation individuals were most interesting, albeit mostly in a morbid way. Of the three Great Powers represented, they had sent the most representatives. A group of eight stood iron-faced on one side of the room, while two others lounged on the other side. All ten of them were, of course, the hideous blend of metal and flesh which the Federation debased themselves with, but the stark divide in bearing and position was most interesting.

The old guard and the new guard.

The difference was notable enough that Long Zhiyuan wondered if the Federation would end up splitting again. Unlikely, as there was no way a Tier 50 could rise up and challenge the current one, but the obvious divide was interesting.

From his reports, the eight soldiers were part of some experimental program, with cybernetic enhancements to greatly empower them, as well as share that power in certain circumstances. He’d expected something like that to be blindingly obvious to spiritual perception, but the alleged enchantments were so perfectly integrated that he saw no sign they were even there. He saw a handful of metallic graftings, of course, but they were all trivial and typical for the Federation, nothing particularly experimental or powerful. Perhaps the secret was that, like some intelligence had suggested, they’d been first implanted before awakening. Similar concepts seemed to have worked for the Clans in the past, and Long Zhiyuan could imagine the Federation uncovering something similar.

A truly interesting way to develop oneself.

The other two were far more typical for the Federation, their spirits very obviously showing the joins where their bodies had melded with crude metal, in a twisted attempt to gain the power of metal with none of the discipline. Saziel Omdahl scarcely attempted to hide his bastardized nature, thick silver bands like blocky tattoos tracing his limbs and defacing scarred and stitched flesh. Yet somehow, Eliana Ellrin managed to be simultaneously more and less grotesque.

Her body was almost entirely machine, a thin veneer of skin running from the top of her head to the upper portion of her torso was the only ostensible remnant of her humanity. A golem-like torso and limbs, a potent yet exposed silver spine, and countless whirring cogs were a blatant affront to Long Zhiyuan’s eyes, yet to his spiritual perception, she shimmered in a not-hideous superposition of wholly woman and wholly item. A side effect of her Talent, no doubt, which was believed to cause her body to be simultaneously artificial and natural, yet always in the way which benefited her the most.

Undoubtedly, she had been chosen as a foil for Ascender Legion. The Empire’s newest Masters were remarkably good at fighting entire armies, and that was in part due to Legion’s ability to turn one’s own body, or the body of one’s weakest allies, into her own weapons. Yet Eliana was entirely immune to any body or blood-based spells she personally did not desire to affect her.

That left the Republic fighters.

First was the duo of Oskar Koita and Valentina Rana, the pair which Long Zhiyuan was most fearful of outside of Synoid and Crastor. Oskar was by his own merits a potent tank and mobility expert, though naturally inferior to Gan Le, but was most valuable when serving as a spotter for Valentina. The woman had a truly terrifying record of reported kills, including of elites. In the last war she fought against the Sects, she had slain two Dao Children without them so much as detecting her presence.

In his simulations, she was always their best chance at killing one of the enemy Masters, and even Long Zhiyuan himself struggled with the hyper long range sniper when he pitted them against each other.

Ari Kai was no more interesting than before, simply eating an apple with a bored expression on his face, so Long Zhiyuan moved past him to Lorlael Drisan.

The woman, wearing a long brown coat and dark glasses, was something of an inverse to Valentina. While the sniper focused upon singular overwhelming attacks, Lorlael’s magic built upon itself with each cast, gaining strength and a myriad of effects the more she attacked. The exact mechanisms eluded discovery, but it was undeniably most effective when focused upon a single individual. It was frustrating for his clone to practice against her, as a one-on-one mage duel was where she was most potent, but that same strength would make her an adequate ally.

Long Zhiyuan was even hopeful that she was a half-decent counter against Master Light. In his simulations, the seemingly random secondary effects caught the Master off guard more times than not. Though, that admittedly could be based on the faulty model he had of the man. He would need to see him fight in person, with his techniques and Revelations watching and learning before he could rectify that misconception.

The final core member of the Harmony Accords was Colton Johnston, a second gunslinger from the Republic. It always stymied Long Zhiyuan that the Great Power had such a prevalence of the crude, inferior, expensive weapons. But it was a testament to their fighters that they were as capable as they were with such weak weapons. Colton was leaning against a tree, a large brown hat pulled down to obscure his eyes, and he kept impatiently drawing a small gun from its scabbard at his waist, twirling it around his finger, then replacing it in a single motion. While he didn’t know of the man’s Talent or Revelations, nor did the information that his Sect Master provided reveal them, he had a reputation for lightning-fast precision attacks.

The man dipped his head slightly as he noticed Long Zhiyuan’s attention upon him, but if he planned to say anything, he was cut off by a new woman entering the room.

Her deep purple skin was stretched tight across her bones like someone had attempted to dehydrate her and paused half way through, however, under that feeble appearance was a master of planning that undoubtedly dwarfed his own.

Supreme General Alicia Fortan glared at the collective audience as her eyes darted from person to person. “Good, you are all here. Follow.”

While some of the others looked disgruntled at the casual treatment of some of the strongest elites in their respective Great Powers, Long Zhiyuan immediately liked her. Straight and to the point. He and this Republican tactician would probably get along, which made him eager to see what he could learn from observing her.

As far as his information sources indicated, Alicia had something between a foresight Talent and a simulation Talent. Her own answers were often contradictory in nature, but that only highlighted her battlefield genius.

While she didn’t excel at directing war fronts, any battlefield she was personally commanding was almost guaranteed to win… so long as the numbers were relatively even. Even masterful planning couldn’t turn a rout around, after all.

The briefing room they entered was simple and clean with zero artistic touches, which felt a bit too “Federation” to Long Zhiyuan, but he put his personal feelings aside as he took his seat.

The moment they were seated, Alicia started speaking. “I’m sure you all know each other by now. I’m sure you will be best friends by the time our training period ends, but before we can start training, we need to learn about our enemies. Obviously, everyone knows bits and pieces of this briefing, so don’t complain if you see something you already know. If you have something that isn't covered, do feel free to speak up after that person's briefing. For the sake of this briefing I will be using ‘Ascender’ to refer to the Master, Slayer or Gladiator.”

Immediately, a picture of Masters Light and Shadow appeared in the hologram in the center of the table.

“Ascender Light, Ascender Shadow. This duo is most devastating in small-squad contexts, with overwhelming power leveraged surgically at any and all weak points presented to them. They are versatile, flexible, and nearly impossible to contain.

“We have a pretty good understanding of Ascender Light’s capabilities, but knowing what he can do and being able to counter them are two different things. He is a prismatic mage with an unprecedented level of control. He is capable of countering and stealing spells with utmost ease, twisting them and redirecting them in nearly any way he desires, including changing its aspect. Furthermore, he utilizes both arcane and void mana to great effect, though only rarely uses the latter. Any elemental weaknesses will be mercilessly exploited, but even when using no spells his ability with a rapier is not to be underestimated.”

After a stream of data about his capabilities flickered past, the hologram changed to Shadow. “Ascender Shadow. Teleporter and spatial manipulator, and incredibly slippery. We’ve yet to fully be capable of blocking her teleportation, which implies she has multiple redundant abilities which may be used interchangeably. We have a few methods which we want to try, but go forward with your training under the assumption that she will have access to some degree of teleportation in every fight. In combat, she fills the role of a support assassin, directing Light’s spells with pinpoint accuracy, welding daggers which she can freely control the size and sharpness of, and augmenting her already chaotic movements with shadows for additional uncertainty about where and when she will strike. Furthermore, we strongly suspect that she is attempting to conceal some form of long-range teleportation ability. The exact limits are unknown, but she is at minimum capable of interplanetary teleportation with mass limits extending up to medium-sized spacecraft.”

Long Zhiyuan cocked his head at that suggestion but hesitantly agreed. The stories of the Ascender’s response time and awareness of attacks implied either multiversal-level teleportation or predictive power which rivaled that of the Master Cosmind. If true, it certainly would make scoring an actual kill on one of the enemy Masters nigh-impossible should they wish to escape.

