“Their next set of Ascenders, Ascender Titan, Ascender Legion, and Ascender Wraith, are not to be underestimated despite their comparatively new standing. These three may be the most infamous for their potency against entire armies, demolishing hundreds of troops with as much or more ease than most Ascenders facing a singular squad.

“Firstly, Ascender Wraith. She was, by all reports, found as an arctic fox egg bond by Ascender Titan circa Tier 1 or 2, but has since modified her bloodline twice, moving from ice to winter at Tier 10 or 11, and more recently from winter to aurora. Our analysts indicate that she is not content to remain there, and may transition at some point to yet another element. In combat, she is incredibly elusive and indirect. Expect large-scale debuffs, potent antimagic, massive illusionary trickster fields, and general tactics designed to harass and disable your strongest abilities. However, she does not lack direct offensive options, and most notable are her ability to manifest a skill in the form of an elemental, with corresponding shapes and abilities. She has only ever been seen utilizing two of these simultaneously at any given time, though it is possible her true limit may be higher.”

The image changed to show the redhead of the group. “Ascender Legion, who some have taken to calling Immortal. It is our job to prove that assertion wrong. As the daughter of the Empire’s two Tier 48s, she demonstrated exceptional mastery over fire even as a child. After Awakening, she devoted herself more to the utilization of blood magic, but remains a quite powerful pyromancer. In combat, she acts as a nigh-invulnerable berserker, draining the blood from those she wounds or kills. This blood is either consumed by herself or her weapons for additional strength, or usurped to empower further spells she casts, such as forming clones with nearly the full strength of the original.”

A recording from a Federation soldier showed Ascender Legion explode out of the body of a Federation woman. Then they watched as Legion flowed around the attack of an ambushing soldier before she started cutting into everyone around her as more and more clones appeared.

“Expect blood curses, swarm tactics, and insidious poisons from her primarily, but do not underestimate the breadth of abilities she has demonstrated mastery with. She is an excellent pyromancer, and can certainly match any hydromancer with her grasp of kinetic blood skills. However, she does seem to maintain a spiritual connection to all blood under her control, giving it a strong resistance to most anti-magic tactics.”

The image changed to a blond man. “Finally, Ascender Titan. A former no-name, he has proven to be an exceptionally potent generalist, with impressive physical and magical cultivation. His primary focus, however, appears to be on self-buffs and enhancing his longsword skills. We have identified both [Regeneration] and [Archmage’s Presence] skills active, making him devastating in close combat, but he certainly does not lack for ranged ability either.”

A recording of the Master firing a crude [Pillar Of Pure Annihilation And Destruction] and cutting through dozens of soldiers before the recording changed to an unrefined [I Shatter The Walls With My Might] many times larger than even a group casting should have been able to manage. Then the image showed one Long Zhiyuan was familiar with, and he once more watched the Master take a core detonation to the face and return to the fight just moments later. It was a feat he was still trying to replicate in his simulations.

“He is also a master of high-mana spells. The [Breach] in that recording contained over a hundred million mana, and was utilized as an opening move. Current analysis suggests he might have a Talent which allows for lossless absorption of mana stones, though there remains the possibility that it is simply cover for an alternative source of mana, such as one of his teammates or his armor. It is possible to drain mana from him, but this seems to be of negligible impact to him. In combat, expect simple overwhelming power behind both his sword and his skills. He utilizes fairly straightforward elemental effects to devastating effect, though favors lightning and neutral-mana spells, and utilizes a suit of power armor second only to those of the Paladins.”

Alicia’s sunken eyes flicked over the group. “I expect all of your utmost focus to be upon defeating these five individuals, as well as the suite of elites they travel with. Are there any questions?”

Long Zhiyuan only had one. “When do we start?”
