“Yes... I figured that would be the case. However, no cause for concern; I do not consider myself as foolish as others. This multiverse clearly has beings far beyond our comprehension, and given that, would it not logically follow that we are so far beneath them that our matters don’t truly concern them? Instead, we should approach it selfishly and see how the existence of these beings can benefit us, even if it means we may need to alter some actions to earn the favor of a god,” the Great Sea Serpent said, being pretty damn spot-on.

For the most part, anyway.

Gods were generally beings that rarely interacted with mortals and didn’t concern themselves with mortal affairs. It was just that Jake and even those around him were massive outliers, nearly entirely due to Jake and the effect his existence had on people.

Villy had told Jake a long time ago that one of the reasons other gods and even Primordials had been so personable with those like the Sword Saint, Casper, Sylphie, Carmen, and many others was that they could actually interact with them. The presence resistance Jake granted made conversation possible. It made the interactions actually interesting.

Still, outliers were outliers for a reason, and the Great Sea Serpent was scarily good at realizing something like that with such limited information. Perhaps because he himself was a long-lived creature who probably didn’t bother interacting with many of the weaker denizens of Venus.

“Then do you know the form this benefit takes?” Jake asked, wondering if the snake could also guess that.

“Would it concern you that my first thought was that consuming you was how I would gain my benefits? Though it was short-lived, the thought did pass through my mind. Naturally, I no longer consider that, even if it does appear slightly tempting,” the Great Sea Serpent said in what Jake hoped was a joke.

Not wanting to drag things out anymore, Jake just smiled awkwardly. “Rather than try to explain... how about I just show you? I’ll need physical contact to do it. Don’t worry, I swear that if you don’t like the nature of this benefit, it isn’t anything you have to accept.”

Jake had expected the Great Sea Serpent to need a moment, but the snake appeared right in front of him in an instant, moving faster than Jake could register as it looked down at him from above.

“You may proceed.”

Nodding, Jake reached out a hand and touched the scales of the Great Sea Serpent as he intended to bestow a presence... and upon doing so felt the Viper channel himself through Jake as the snake’s eyes blanked over. The serpent’s consciousness shifted elsewhere, and Jake couldn’t help but smile as he felt that the peak A-grade had just gotten a personal audience with the biggest snake of them all.
