“So how much do you know? Have you read my file? All of it? It’s not that well hidden. If you know to look for it.”
Ferris sighed through his nose. He straightened, adopting a military pose for a moment as he clasped his paws behind his back.
“I know everything, Lady Rafaema.”
She paused. Rafaema went to the battlements overlooking Manus. She stood there, on the inner walls. Then she looked suddenly at Ferris.
“How old am I? I forget.”
“A hundred and twenty-three, Lady Rafaema.”
“Huh.”
She hadn’t known that. She’d thought she was around a hundred and eighteen. But there it was.
Rafaema was over a hundred years old. Old, for any species in the world. Only half-Elves could face that so easily. But Rafaema had lived it. A hundred and twenty three years of…growing up.
“It doesn’t feel so long. But I’ve stopped taking naps. When was the last one?”
“Twenty-seven years ago, Lady Rafaema. If you are feeling—”
“No. Shut up.”
The Gnoll fell silent obediently. Rafaema stared over her city. And for a moment, the young, vibrant Drake looked a bit lost. She looked like someone in her early twenties. And that was accurate. She liked looking how she felt. Well, she might be old, even for this appearance.
“Sleeping…bothers me. Not regular sleep. I—didn’t I sleep for seventeen years one time? And—how long was the other time?”
“Nine years. Among other periods. Your latest periods of slumber have grown shorter, Lady Rafaema. It is a natural—”
He shut up as Rafaema looked at him.
“Do your books tell you about Dragonspeaker Telimer, Ferris?”
“Yes, Lady Rafaema.”
She was in a bad mood. Ferris’ fur tried to stand up on end. Rafaema gazed across her city, moodily. There was an outer city as well; Manus’ outer walls had only been taken twice. The Walled City was huge, but it felt small to her.
“It took me four decades to figure it out. Four decades. I know I was a fool when I was that small, but I didn’t understand. They kept putting me back to sleep, and I kept waking up and wondering where everyone went. I didn’t understand it until I was—forty. I kept thinking they were out there somewhere. In another Walled City.”
“The…records indicate that it was a mistake to do so, Lady Rafaema. The Dragonspeaker thought—”
Rafaema looked at Ferris and he went quiet. She was the image of a Drake. If you stared at her shadow, it was just her. She wasn’t concealing anything. Her body was the size of a Drake. But the magic only went so far. Her eyes sparked.
“I didn’t step outside the keep until I was fifty years old. And when I did, they put an entire army on watching me. I like Manus, Ferris. I really do. I know how much I owe the city…did they tell you what I did for my eightieth birthday?”
“Oh yes.”
Ferris was watching her now. Rafaema grinned. She had a toothy, perfect smile.
“How good are you, Ferris? Exact level and class?”
“I couldn’t say, Lady.”
“Do you think that if you tried, you could get away before I threw you off the walls? I don’t have levels, but I’m still me.”
The Gnoll wasn’t sweating. Which was really impressive at this point. He looked past Rafaema.
“I believe I’d survive that. Lady Rafaema, if you dislike my presence—”
“I’m thinking about it.”
Moodily, Rafaema turned back to the view. Her tail was lashing the stones. Ferris watched her and wondered if the transformation magic was bothering her.
In previous generations, the Dragonspeakers had dealt with their sacred charge in different ways. Some had made mistakes. Others had done well. But the growing Dragon entrusted to them had never been an easy charge. She had been a child. Intelligent, but a child for decades. And her wrath on finding she’d been deceived was written in the history books.
But that was the thing. At age eighty, Rafaema had thrown what could only be described as the worst case of adolescent tantrums in Manus’ entire history. But she had been…a teen.
Dragons were considered young adults, able to strike out on their own when they were two hundred years old. They were immortal, able to live forever, gifted with more innate magical ability than any [Mage], far beyond that of even half-Elves. Their scales could deflect arrows. They could fly, transform, and had a diversity of abilities second to no species in this world.
But they paid a price for their power. And it was only in one thing: they gave birth to precious few. Their young aged so, so very slowly. For that reason alone, there were almost no Dragons left. There were rumors, and people knew there were Dragons. Somewhere.
That was what they said. But if you were trusted, trusted beyond reproach, you could go into a vault only the Dragonspeaker and a handful of others knew about. Like Ferris, who was the best out of every graduate in his academy, and whose loyalty and ability had been tested to a degree not even Manus’ [Generals] were expected to meet. He had read the document.
There were only two in all of Izril. Only two left. And one of them was a moody young…woman. After a century and a quarter of waiting.
Part of that century, actually, a lot, had been sleeping. It had terrified the scales off the first Dragonspeaker when the baby Dragon had slept for a decade the first time. But apparently Dragons slept for long periods if they needed to.
Their bodies were masterworks of perfection. Rafaema might have been transformed, but she kept her strength, speed, and toughness. She could probably throw Ferris a long ways if he let her catch him. She didn’t need Skills, and in fact, it was just as well that she couldn’t level. If Dragons had been able to level, they’d have ruled the world forever.
Whatever was bothering Rafaema, she hadn’t shown it in the war council. Ferris was aware of the decisions that Dragonspeaker Luciva and the others had settled on. Rafaema had been part of those discussions, and a respected voice, since the war council knew who she was. They listened to her now. But when all was said and done, Rafaema was still their ward, their charge that they had faithfully kept safe for generations until she was ready.
The hope of Dragons and Drakes, known only to two Walled Cities, was staring blankly ahead. Ferris waited. One of the reasons he’d been chosen was because he was very good at his job. The other was his personality. No one wanted a disaster like Kelis, or Amessia again. Those two agents who’d been assigned to Rafaema fifty and thirty years ago had nearly caused disaster.
Managing Rafaema’s mood was…tricky. She’d been angry ever since her friend, Dragonspeaker Luciva’s daughter, had died. Rafaema made few friends to begin with. She had once been a social child, apparently. But Ferris had read that she’d made fewer and fewer friends with each decade.
That too, had concerned previous Dragonspeakers. Ferris had read their thoughts and the times when Rafaema had reacted to the deaths of her friends over decades. Her entire history was in a book in the vault where she had been protected as an egg.
“You know, even though I didn’t think about it for a long time, Izril doesn’t really change. It’s been over a hundred years and I’ve seen the Humans attack, lose, win, the Walled Cities fight—they nearly took Fissival one time, you know? Pallass. We had wars with the Gnolls, a war with Baleros—I think. Even the King of Destruction. But it never really changed to me.”
Ferris was silent. Rafaema went on.
“The King of Destruction never made it past Zeres. The Goblin King scared everyone, but there was the other one. The Hundred Days one, in Terandria. All of that was the same. To me. I’ve seen it all before. But the Antinium? They’re new.”
She glanced at the Gnoll. Rafaema did train in the practice courts. She was rated highly with a blade, even if she pretended to use Skills. Ferris had heard that Spearmaster Lulv was teaching her to use a spear against the advice of the others, who wanted Rafaema to use a sword.
A Dragon with a sword. But since she wore her transformed body, it made sense to let Rafaema learn to use a weapon. The young Dragon shook her head.
“Does your book talk about when I was…ninety, Ferris? Right up until the Antinium arrived?”
“Yes, Lady Rafaema.”
The Dragonspeaker at that time had not been happy. Rafaema had, among other things, entered into a number of relationships, tried almost every illicit substance she could find, and caused a lot of trouble for her wardens. But Dragons couldn’t mate with lesser species. Well—bear offspring.
Rafaema must have read the unspoken words crossing Ferris’ mind. Her eyes narrowed.
“I was lazy. But when the Antinium attacked—they sieged Manus. Even Manus. I wasn’t allowed to fight. Not in the first war, or the second. So I started training. Do you know how long it’s been?”
“Two decades.”
“Yes. But I don’t level. But I trained because I realized the Antinium are a threat. The war council decided to send spies to Liscor. To figure out what’s going on. We thought the Hive there was planning to take over Liscor. But instead—there was that one. Bird. The Hunter. But that’s not what I care about. I want to know about the Human.”
Ah. She’d gotten to the same topic Ferris had seen underlined in a dozen reports. The Human.
“If you want me to find you a summary—”
“I’ve read the summary. It’s all Wyvern crap. A Human who appeared in Liscor. No one knows her nation of origin. She employs Hobgoblins. She’s an [Innkeeper] who led a Goblin army against the Goblin Lord. She’s got ties to the Antinium. She has bear teeth. She can spit blood, arm-wrestle Minotaurs, and she runs about barefoot! I saw her in the battle with the moths. Why doesn’t anyone know about her?”
The Gnoll nodded slightly.
“It’s an oversight, Lady Rafaema. I assume that the [Strategists] didn’t place a high level of credence on the rumors about her. And she was located at Liscor—”
“Our border city with the Humans! Does everyone forget they stopped the Antinium twice?”
“I believe the Walled Cities disagreed strongly with the decision to place a Hive under Liscor. That decision went against all the Walled Cities at the time. And since the trade road was overtaken by the Bloodfields—”
“I told them to figure out a way to burn it. But they thought it was fine. And the war council and the Dragonspeaker make the decisions. I’ve only been allowed into the war council recently, because I’m responsible now.”
Rafaema snorted and the air grew charged. Ferris felt his fur standing up on end. He’d have to buy an anti-shock ring if he was going to work this job. But Gnolls had been rare attendants of Rafaema. Few were trusted with this much knowledge. He coughed lightly.
“The Dragonspeaker and the war council respect your opinion greatly, Lady Rafaema.”
“But they look at me like I’m still a child. And I’m older than any of them by decades.”
The Dragon’s eyes were flashing. Oh yes, she was a Dragon, even if she had only ever met one other of her kind. And she did not like condescension, among other things. Part of Ferris’ job was to clean up after…problems. Or prevent them.
“Lady Rafaema, I’m sure the war council doesn’t mean any disrespect. If you have an issue, Dragonspeaker—”
“Quiet.”
And he was. Rafaema drew herself up. Dragon. Secret hope of the Drakes, even if most of them didn’t know it yet. She still had time, over half a century to go. But look—
She was real. Rafaema looked at her home, the only city she had ever known. A pleasant cage. She had gone beyond the walls before, but never long. And since the Antinium—
“I want to go on a trip.”
“We can arrange a visit to another Walled City—”
“Not another Walled City. I want to go to Liscor.”
Ferris paused.
“I’m afraid that’s impossible, Lady Rafaema.”
“Oh really? Because of the Antinium?”
“Among other considerations, yes.”
“So, I can’t protect myself? Is that why I still can’t leave Manus?”
A delicate pause. Ferris didn’t feel like flying today. He bowed his head.
“I am only doing my duties, Lady Rafaema. And I have clear instructions. The Dragonspeaker—”
“Fine.”
Rafaema turned away. Ferris blinked. And then immediately grew wary. The young Dragon looked back at Ferris.
“I understand. I’m not a child. And I can understand Manus’ need for security. But I’m also older than I was. And I want authority. This is my city. And I’m going to do what should be done. The war council is making their decisions. And I’m making mine. So if I can’t go to Liscor—I want that Human to come here.”
“Erin Solstice?”
The young Dragon smiled.
“Yes. Bring her here. Manus is going to send her an invitation. And you’re going to help bring her here. Tell your [Infiltrators] or [Spies] or whoever else is going to make that happen too.”
“Lady Rafaema—”
She stared at him. Rafaema’s tone never grew less pleasant.
“I want to meet her. She’s an asset to the Antinium or she knows about them. I want to meet her. You’re going to get her to come here so I can appraise her. She’s just an [Innkeeper], right? I’ll make her an asset.”
“It might be difficult. We cannot kidnap a Human—”
“Who said kidnap? Just get her here. Offer her gold. I don’t care. But bring her here so I can make plans. This is my operation, by the way. Which no one is going to know about. You’re assigned to me, so you’re under my authority.”
Ferris paused. Each generation, and each handler had their struggles. He was sure his would be an eventful entry. Even if it was…short.
“What if, hypothetically, I found reason to take issue with your request, Lady Rafaema?”
She shrugged, smiling.
“Then the Dragonspeaker will be finding a new minder for me. Because the old one went flying with all his fur burnt off by lightning and his bones broken. Before he landed.”
Ferris stared at Rafaema. The beautiful, old and young, gifted and levelless, experienced and sheltered Dragon of Manus looked back at him. The Gnoll considered his options and sighed.
“I’m part of a rotation of your security detail, Lady Rafaema.”
“I know. But you’re in charge. Tell the other three they can cover for you. By the way, I know who’s on my detail. I have access to everything. I also know where you live. My 80th birthday isn’t anything compared to the trouble I can make now. And if I really don’t like what I hear, I’ll fly over those walls right now.”
The Gnoll paused, but there wasn’t really an option. And Rafaema and he both knew that. He looked pretty competent. Manus didn’t assign idiots to her, and the Gnoll was a [Soldier]. Rafaema watched him hurry off. And then she turned back.
