Her city was a cage. But she was tired of it. She wasn’t about to wait eighty more years, not with the Antinium. Not when she knew her duty. Yes, duty. Investigating the Antinium and making the right decisions was something Rafaema could do. After all, she was a Dragon. And she could wait, at least until it was time to make her move.
She had forever, after all.
 
——
 
“Alright! We’re not in trouble! There’s no war! And I am back! Cheers!”
There was a lot of plotting in the world. Lots of big, dramatic speeches, underhanded ploys, schemes—and you know what? It was all stupid. Erin Solstice knew what mattered. Sometimes it was about preparing for the future. Sometimes you had to think ahead.
But if you did that too long, you forgot to smile. And she had stared into the depths of her guilt and sadness. And she had seen her happiness. One was preferable to the other.
Erin Solstice raised her mug filled with apple juice and stood on a table. The inn cheered as her friends and family raised their mugs. The [Innkeeper] smiled and drank the sweet juice.
Lest the present slip away and be lost, smile. That was what she did on her first real day back. Erin drank the juice, sighed—and grinned. Around her, people drank deeply. But Erin wasn’t an alcohol drinker, mostly. Not only did she have [Immunity: Alcohol] until she turned it off, she didn’t really need it.
After all, she liked being in the moment. Erin climbed down from her table as Mrsha finished her cup of milk and smacked it onto the table. Next to her, Relc finished his substantially stronger drink and slammed it down.
“Hah! That’s right! This is how it should be! Whoo!”
The Drake was in good spirits. He cheered and Erin stared at his broken mug.
“Hey! Stop that! Restore!”
She waved her hands and her [Partial Restoration] Skill activated. Relc went cross-eyed as the mug in his hand fixed itself. He grinned.
“I love this place. Hey Erin, can I break a chair? Just for fun?”
“No! Stop that! Put it down!”
Erin Solstice laughed. And that was it. She was back, and the long-delayed celebration was happening at her inn. Relc paused in picking up a chair.
“Aw, come on. For old time’s sake.”
“No! Put it down!”
“Break it, Relc!”
Jelaqua shouted across the inn. The Halfseekers had come through the door to Pallass at the promise of parties and cake. She was sitting next to Maughin. The Drake raised it over his head.
“No! Stop it! Don’t encourage him!”
Erin pointed at Relc. She could have used her aura—but she wouldn’t. She saw people ducking as Relc turned. Then—Mrsha leapt at him.
“Ow! Hey! Stop that!”
Relc yelped as Mrsha climbed onto his shoulders. She hung onto a neck spine and began energetically beating him with one paw. He tried to get her off—gently, despite his curses—and the laughter intensified.
“Mrsha, stop that!”
Lyonette scolded. But Mrsha hung on. Relc eventually pried her off and handed her to Lyonette.
“Hah! Ow. That little kid’s got some good muscle!”
“I’m sorry about that—Mrsha, apologize! You’re not a [Thug]!”
“What? No way. She’s like Embria at that age. You’ve gotta teach them to fight.”
Relc waved off the apology. Lyonette was angrier than he was. She scolded Mrsha, who fled behind Relc. Erin laughed. She looked around her inn.
Not everyone was here. The Players were still absent, having yet to appear through Celum’s door. Klbkch and the Antinium had left, save for Bird, who was in his room, punished. Erin didn’t see Numbtongue, but the Goblin didn’t like crowds. Olesm and the Council were still missing—
But Selys was here. She was chatting with Drassi. Yet—the Horns of Hammerad were gone. They’d left. Erin felt a pang.
New came with the old, though. Palt, Montressa, and Beza were all present, all of whom wanted Erin to discuss matters of import with them. Erin wasn’t sure she liked the trade-off in guests, but she smiled as she saw a new crowd.
The Halfseekers, Rufelt, Lasica, Maughin, and Pelt were all present. They’d come through the door, although Moore had been forced to charge it up. The tired half-Giant was being plied with a large vessel of wine at this moment by his friends for his hard work. And indeed, today was a celebration of the heroics in Pallass as much as anything else.
“To the Halfseekers, for their hard work!”
Erin raised her apple juice and everyone toasted the Gold-rank team. Jelaqua got up and took a bow. Seborn just grunted as he drank from his cup. Moore smiled and Mrsha bounded over and leapt on his lap.
“Cheers! And to not having a war!”
Relc laughed, ignoring the moment of silence his words caused. Erin sighed, but then grinned.
“Cheers to that too. And to Relc, who’s a hero!”
“What? Hey, stop that—”
Relc turned red, much to Erin’s delight as she got another cheer. The Drake [Guardsman] covered it with a long drink. But it was true.
 
——
 
In Liscor, the city was toasting more than just the aversion of war. They’d heard or seen the battle—mostly heard, since scrying orbs were expensive and rare—but those who had watched it had seen Relc and Olesm defending Pallass. Lism, in between arguing in the Council’s meeting room and sending [Messages] to other cities, had an incredibly smug look on his face. Undeserved, but proud.
As for Wing Commander Embria, she was smiling widely for no reason whatsoever. The High Command had gotten on her tail hard about Bird, but you wouldn’t know it to look at her. And indeed—nothing could dent Embria’s mood.
Because 4th Company was being bought drinks, or being stopped on the street as they patrolled or as they relaxed off-duty. And all the questions were about Relc. Relc, whom everyone knew as Senior Guardsman, that idiot Relc. But also as Relc, the Gecko of Liscor and former [Sergeant] in the army.
Normally, his name was mud and dung in 4th Company’s books as someone who’d quit the army. But at this moment, the Drake who’d gone into Pallass and faced the Wyvern Lord was a hero. And the [Soldiers] had been faced with the same choice as Liscor’s Army. Embrace Relc or…not.
“Sergeant Relc? Of course. We heard all the stories about him. He was actually 4th Company’s secret weapon. Back in the day he’d take out the enemy officer. Even a [Commander]-class once or twice! Just charge in, cut his way through, get away. Hit and run. Classic tactics. Of course, Captain Wikir served with him. Credit to the army. [Spearmaster]. Just like Wing Commander Embria. She learned it from him.”
Captain Pielt was speaking loudly to a crowd of listeners. Embria smiled as she finished her drink—she was getting countless requests for war stories about Relc. And reluctantly—reluctantly answering them. She…couldn’t stop smiling.
 
——
 
There was time to laugh. Erin found herself sitting at a table with Rufelt, Lasica, Selys, Relc, and a handful of others. Pelt was happily getting drunk—Erin had promised him a maximum discount and the Dwarf seemed as content as Erin had ever seen him. Right now, though, Erin was just smiling.
She’d deal with the rest later. Including her [Garden of Sanctuary] which hadn’t appeared, even outside. Maybe she needed actual dirt and stuff? Lyonette had the flower pots in her room upstairs. And they were blooming well—half had been lost in the inn’s destruction, but Mrsha had helped bring them back.
“So we’re not in trouble? Promise? You’re sure?”
Lasica nodded. She was having a juice, like Erin. Rufelt had provided drinks for the others. Lasica took a few fries from the bowl and dipped them into Erin’s ketchup.
“The Assembly is hopping mad, but no one’s calling for your head. Or—Bird. Really, if the Walled Cities were organized, they’d probably do something, but they’re all fighting. Half are blaming Pallass for the attack.”
“It wasn’t their fault. I could have told you—Wyverns can do nasty tricks like that frost attack.”
Jelaqua sighed. She was chewing happily, and feeding Maughin’s head fries. It was a funny sight. Lasica shrugged.
“You know the cities. Erin, those are decent fries.”
“Thanks!”
“But why is it so salty? Do we need to have another cooking lesson?”
“Hey! Maybe! But this is fun food.”
“Greasy, is what I call it. Come to the bar later and I’ll give you another lesson.”
“And I’ll teach your [Bartender] more tricks. We owe you, Erin. I’m sorry about, er, everything during the battle.”
Rufelt looked embarrassed as he hugged his wife. Erin smiled.
“Hey! No problem. And congratulations! How do you know?”
Both husband and wife coughed. Relc looked blank as he drank from a mix of Antinium Rxlvn and a very sweet syrup. It was apparently the only thing that could make it flavorful. Also—Relc was one of the few people it wouldn’t knock out instantly.
“Well, it’s not a matter of knowing, Erin. We ah, you know interspecies couples have to purchase specific charms? It’s…effective.”
“If you buy the right ones. And I’m only a few weeks into it, so someone can stop treating me as if I’m glass!”
Lasica glared at her husband. He blushed again under his fur. You could tell by the way it rose. Erin laughed in delight.
“It’s still so great! But you’re so sure? When—”
“Well, we had a conversation—”
“Oh. You two had sex.”
Relc burped, finally catching on. The table exploded into laughter as Jelaqua leaned back, howling. Maughin had turned bright red. The Dullahan cleared his throat.
“That may be an inappropriate topic with children around.”
He looked at Mrsha, who was wandering the tables. Jelaqua nudged Maughin cheerfully.
“Don’t worry, Maughin. It’s just sex. You don’t have a problem with it, normally.”
The Dullahan turned even redder at her wink. Erin felt a bit hot around the ears. She looked at Mrsha—but Mrsha was a Plains Gnoll. And she was totally uninterested. She hopped up onto a bar stool and stared at the Dwarf.
Pelt was older than Dawil. He was also grumpier than Dawil. Drassi leaned over the bar as Pelt motioned for another whiskey.
“Hey, Pelt, right? Do you know Dawil by any chance? He’s the only Dwarf I’ve ever met. Member of the Silver Swords?”
The [Smith] paused in reaching for another drink. He stared at Drassi and his eyes widened.
“Dawil? You mean, the Dawil? The adventurer? The one who won the axe-throwing competition in the mountains back at home?”
“You know him?”
Pelt nodded.
“Of course I do. Listen up. Dawil is—”
He waited until Drassi leaned over, then shouted in her earhole.
“Another damn Dwarf! What do I care? Serve me my drinks and fuck off!”
Drassi recoiled. She glared at Pelt as he downed another drink. The Dwarf laughed to himself as Drassi huffed over to Selys. Then he turned his head. A pair of brown eyes in a white-furred face stared at him.
“Eh?”
Pelt flinched back from Mrsha. He stared at her. The Gnoll cub stared silently back. At Pelt. Then at the complimentary bowl of peanuts. Roasted with a bit of sugar and then salted. The Dwarf eyed Mrsha. He vaguely tried to shoo her off.
“I don’t like brats. Get lost.”
Mrsha stared at him. Pelt noticed her looking at the bowl.
“You want this? Take it and go away.”
He shoved it towards her. Mrsha grabbed the bowl and vanished. Pelt was clearly a good Dwarf. Best Dwarf. Mrsha scampered over to Seborn and Moore to share her prize. Apista flew over and grabbed a peanut. Because even a bee wanted a beer snack.
“It’s random if you don’t have a charm to ward against pregnancy or buy one that encourages it. Mine was random. Gotta be careful!”
Relc was talking to the table about sex. A conversation that would have probably done the impossible and wiped Embria’s smile off her face if she’d been here. Erin was laughing. Maughin looked like he wanted to be anywhere else.
“Don’t tell me, Relc! At least we’re safe! The other cities are really fighting?”
“Oh yes. Pallass embarrassing itself by letting an Antinium and the Wyverns onto its walls is just as important as the rest. Why do you think the Wings and Grimalkin and everyone else are nowhere to be seen? They’ll argue about it, but I think you’re fine. At least for now.”
Lasica rolled her eyes, exasperated. Rufelt had to nod along.
“The Walled Cities are always competing. But then—Drakes. You know the saying, surely?”
Erin glanced around the table as Lasica elbowed her husband. Maughin, Jelaqua, and Beilmark, who’d come over since she wasn’t part of the Council, all laughed.
“Wait, what saying?”
Rufelt looked at Erin, eyes twinkling as his wife glared. Relc was just laughing.
“There’s a saying about Drakes. If the entire world was reduced to dust and there were two Drakes left, they’d fight over who had the most dust, yes?”
The [Chef] glared, but Erin laughed with everyone else. Then she frowned.
“I’ve heard that one, actually!”
“Wait—wait, I know another!”
An eager voice rang out. Erin saw a female Gnoll waving a paw. Only—it wasn’t a Gnoll. It was Ulinde! The newest member of the Halfseekers was happier than Erin had ever seen her. She spoke, laughter in her voice.
“Okay. Do you know how to tell the difference between a Drake and a Lizardperson?”
“Hey!”
Relc glared. Erin pushed him in the shoulder.
“No, how?”
“Drakes are the ones who complain about being asked!”
More laughter. Relc and Lasica glared around the table. Selys, who came over with a mug in one hand, caught the last of the joke. She pulled a chair up.
“Oh, very funny.”
“But it’s true!”
“There’s tons of sayings about Drakes. Any about other species?”
Erin was genuinely curious. The others nodded. Beilmark grinned. Erin didn’t know her well, but the Senior Guardswoman was friendly.
“Tons! I know one about Gnolls, yes? It is a bit of an inside joke—but shall I tell it?”
The others nodded. Beilmark took a grin, and then began.
“Hrr. Okay, a Plains Gnoll and a City Gnoll walk into a bar. The Plains Gnoll says she’s never seen so much alcohol in her life. She asks how something like this can come to be.”
She nodded at Rufelt. The Gnoll smiled, a rueful look on his face. Erin stopped laughing. Beilmark went on.
“The City Gnoll says it’s because she worked hard all day and night and distilled the liquor and built the bar they’re standing in. The Plains Gnoll says that’s all very well, but the City Gnoll’s forgotten her roots. And both are arguing so loudly they don’t notice the Human [Thief] stealing all the alcohol.”
The silent table erupted into guffaws. Even Erin, who’d been worried the saying was getting pretty political. But Beilmark and Rufelt were laughing harder.
“Definitely a Gnoll joke.”
Selys smiled over her cup. Erin laughed.
“But Humans are the punch line! Hey! We’re not all like that?”
