Lasica raised her eyebrow. The Drake put down her cup of juice and looked around.
“Oh yeah? How about this, then? If someone drops a gold coin on the ground, a Drake will take it and never give it back. A Gnoll will bring it to his tribe. And a Human will plant a flag on the ground and claim this was their land forever and that they’ve always lived there.”
This time Relc choked on his drink, he was laughing so hard. Jelaqua pounded the table, and even Maughin chuckled. Erin put her hands on her hips. Some of the Gnolls sitting at another table were chuckling.
“Hey! That’s—”
She wanted to say inaccurate, but knowing the history of Izril made it a tiny bit hard. Selys was laughing next to Erin. She raised her claw.
“I’m sorry, Erin. But really—okay. Here’s one. The only thing a Human won’t mate with is a Creler, and that’s only because the ones who tried got eaten!”
“Hey! That’s not funny!”
Erin protested. Some of the others agreed, but even Seborn started laughing. Erin looked around. As one of two Humans in the room—discounting Moore, and maybe Seborn who both seemed to find it funny—she felt a bit hurt. More people began calling in jokes. Erin stared as Seborn shouted.
“My turn. What’s the only difference between a Human and a Selphid?”
“What?”
“One of them only steals bodies.”
Jelaqua sprayed her drink out. She began hitting the table as she and Ulinde howled with laughter. Erin glared.
“Hey! Hey! I don’t have to stand for this!”
“How many Humans does it take to conquer a Walled City?”
Half the inn shouted.
“How many?”
“I don’t know! They’re still counting!”
Relc was howling with laughter. He bellowed for attention as Erin shouted around her inn, glaring and laughing.
“Classics! My turn! The only good feature about Humans is that they’re edible! And even then, they taste like crap!”
The room fell silent. Relc paused. He saw everyone staring at him.
“Hey. It’s just a joke. I don’t know myself. It’s sort of funny. Right?”
 
——
 
Just a moment in the sun. Erin Solstice went upstairs for a break. Partly because, even after Relc’s joke, the entire room had decided to roast Humans. And they had a lot of jokes. Mainly, she wanted to check on Bird.
“Bird? Hello? Are you okay? You can come down to eat food. Not birds.”
She wanted to make sure he wasn’t too upset. As Erin knocked on the door, she heard a clatter and an oath.
“Numbtongue?”
Erin opened the door and saw Numbtongue getting up from Bird’s Fortress of Fluff. The Hobgoblin had a bottle of whiskey in his claws. Bird was sitting still in his Fortress.
“I am not doing anything bad!”
The Worker protested to Erin. She blinked at him. And then the cups.
“Oh. Oh.”
She looked at the Hobgoblin. Numbtongue gave her a shrug.
“Sorry.”
“No, it’s fine! I didn’t know where you were either, Numbtongue—I was just going to check! Hey! It’s fine! Great, actually! If you want, I can bring you something—”
“No, no. Too many people. I ate enough.”
The Hobgoblin reassured Erin. He looked uncomfortable—Erin knew he didn’t like crowds. She smiled at him.
“Sure! Hey—you might like the jokes they’re telling downstairs. It’s all about Humans! But that’s fine. I’m gonna check on the Workers on the roof—they’re still working, although all the other Antinium are gone. Maybe some sausages. On a stick! You two have fun!”
She closed the door. Numbtongue and Bird waited a beat, and then Bird pulled out the half-eaten Wyvern wing from out of his Fortress. Numbtongue let out a sigh of relief. He gestured at Bird and the Antinium handed him a piece.
“We are being very bad. Which is good. I may be drunk.”
 
——
 
Erin Solstice wandered over to the Workers with some sausages on sticks. It was easy for the Workers to eat that way, and she passed a basket to the Worker who silently took it and bowed. Erin smiled at him, and then went back down to endure her roasting.
“Jerks. I’m gonna come up with a joke about Gnolls. Gnolls—if you shave them—no, wait. Gnolls…Selphids! No.”
But she was smiling. Erin treasured this moment, jokes or not. She almost felt like she could conjure fire—but she didn’t want a memory. She wanted to experience this. This was home.
Only one thing stopped her as she walked to the stairs. Erin turned to her door with her nameplate on it. And—she hesitated.
Then she entered her room.
Two boards sat on the table. Erin peered at them. The ghostly chess pieces. And the Go board. It probably hadn’t been enough t—
The pieces had moved. Erin bit her lip. The Go board was the largest version of the ones she’d shown Olesm. Not a 9 by 9 for beginners, but a proper 19 square by 19 square design. You could play games on that one. She had spelled out a message to her opponent on it.
 
who r u?
 
Just a message. A sign of something new. Erin had spelled it in the black Go stones, arranging them to form the words. She hadn’t known if her opponent would respond. Or when.
But they had. Now, Erin saw white stone shimmering on the board. Her breath caught. They had seen. And replied. She stepped over to the board. She was shaking with nerves. She stood over the board—realized she was reading it the wrong way—
Then saw.
 
a fan.
 
That was all. That was all the board said. Erin’s breath came loose. But even then—she felt shocked. She stared at the board, then looked around. The sun had barely moved. Whoever had seen the message had seen it fast.
Maybe—they were still watching the board. Erin didn’t know. But slowly, hesitantly, she reached out a hand.
This time she moved black stones. Arranging the pieces to form a…line below the first one. Like a primitive message board, or some kind of alternative messaging system. No, that was exactly what it was. Erin placed the pieces. Stepped back. Her new message was longer, but abbreviated out of necessity; the Go board wasn’t exactly easy to spell on.
She hesitated as she looked at her response. But it was the only one she could give. What could you say to someone you’d never met? Yet—one that Erin knew, through the game. She knew what the boards must cost, knew…but her message was still simple. Honest.
 
wnt to b frnds?
 
She looked at the pieces. That was all. Somewhere, someone was reading it. Erin couldn’t know who, or what they thought. But the reply suddenly came. Erin jumped as white pieces moved. Left the board. Then they floated back. She stared, but she read the message before it had finished. A single reply.
 
yes.
 
That was it. Erin sighed. Then she smiled. And somewhere, she thought, someone was smiling as well. She saw the white pieces tremble and then move.
The board cleared itself. Black stones floated back into the container. So did white stones. Then, gently, a single black stone was selected. It appeared on the same spot Erin had placed it to begin with. 4-4, upper left corner. Then a white stone floated to face it diagonally.
A game. It was a message, as much as anything else. And Erin saw her chess board waiting. She looked at both. Some things never changed, or if they did, it was subtly, slowly.
Erin Solstice smiled, as her inn relaxed. Normality. She looked at the chess board, the Go board. And then she flicked both stones off the board.
“Not yet.”
Erin Solstice dragged the chess board over. She knocked the chess pieces off it. And then she laid chess pieces on the chess board, sideways. And the Go stones clattered onto their board. Black, for Erin. Spelling messages across both surfaces. Creating words.
 
nce 2 meet u! I lke chss. hv u plyed 6-way chss?
 
She couldn’t know how fast the other person read. But she knew they were there. So Erin spelled and destroyed her messages, trusting that her opponent had read them.
 
evr plyed Shogi? hw abt Tafl? cn teach!
 
Erin Solstice waited. And then, shakily, someone replied. She watched as a message came back, across the world. And Erin smiled as she began writing, and the people downstairs wondered if they’d told too many Human jokes. But it was fine.
When the world moved, it danced.
