Pisces looked mildly insulted.
“Of course. I attuned it to you already. This skeleton will obey all commands and faithfully guard you and your possessions. Give it a command and see.”
Erin really didn’t want to. But the skeleton was standing too close for comfort. So she pointed to a corner.
“Go over there.”
Immediately, the skeleton turned and walked to the corner, navigating around the tables and chairs. There it stopped and swiveled its head, watching for Erin’s next command.
Somehow, having a skeleton standing in a dark corner staring at her was even worse than having it right next to her. Erin shuddered.
“I don’t like it.”
She ordered the skeleton to come back. It obediently walked closer, and Erin walked around the skeleton. She had to order it to stand still first, and then the skeleton stood, like the creepiest statue, in place.
“Why did you think this was a good idea, Pisces?”
Pisces glanced at Erin, put out by the continued questioning.
“I have heard your repeated complaints about inadequate protection. And when I noticed the, ah, state your inn was in this morning—”
“Oh, yeah! Did you do that?”
He raised his hands and backed away.
“Not I. The culprit had already departed when I arrived.”
The mage’s eyes shifted. Erin wondered if he’d been the one to help himself to her coin—or more food. She growled, and the skeleton moved. It jerked into a low, fighting stance and faced Pisces of all people. He looked as alarmed as Erin.
“Call it off.”
“You’re the [Necromancer], you do it.”
“I made it so it would only obey you. Call it off or I’ll have to dismantle it.”
“Hey, stop!”
Erin smacked the skeleton on the back of the head. She immediately regretted it. The feel of smooth bone on her hand was—
The skeleton swiveled around to stare at Erin as she wiped her hand on her shirt. She pointed at it shakily.
“Don’t attack him. Unless I tell you to. Understand?”
It nodded. That was creepy. Erin shuddered.
“It is a competent warrior that will fight for you. And I do believe that is what you need, unless I am completely in error.”
He was right, but the way he was right was completely wrong. Erin just didn’t know how to explain that to Pisces. He clearly thought he’d done Erin a favor, and he was getting snippy in the absence of her unconditional gratitude. But then she noticed something else that was wrong.
“If it’s some kind of warrior, shouldn’t it at least have a sword?”
“Swords are expensive, Miss Solstice. And I am—regrettably—short on funding at the moment. Surely you could afford to equip your new bodyguard yourself?”
And she’d just given the short sword and buckler to Rags. Erin ground her teeth.
“Okay, fine. You’ve given me a pet skeleton. What does it do, exactly? Besides fight and scare me to death, that is?”
Pisces shrugged.
“Whatever you wish. It will obey any command you give it, but, ah, its capacity for thought is quite limited at the moment. That may improve with time. I have made several improvements over the traditional undead animation spells—”
“So it’s a special undead skeleton monster. Wonderful. And what happens if it breaks or goes nuts?”
“The spell will not wear out. The body might in the course of normal combat though, it is true. I would be happy to repair any damage done for a nominal fee—”
Erin shook her head.
“Skeleton repairs. That’s how they get you every time.”
Glumly, she stared at the skeleton. Was it because she’d gone nuts or just gotten used to this world? She wasn’t half as freaked out by the skeleton as she felt she should have been. And what was worse, she was even considering keeping the thing.
“And this is supposed to pay off your tab? All the gold you owe me?”
Pisces cleared his throat awkwardly.
“Well, the price of an advanced reanimation spell such as this is traditionally worth—”
He cut off fast as Erin turned her head slightly.
“I suppose a full repayment of my debts and some credit towards the future would not be too much to ask?”
“It might.”
Erin stared glumly at the skeleton. It stared back, waiting patiently for orders.
“Okay, let’s say I accept this. Won’t the Watch get mad?”
No response. Erin sighed.
“And this wouldn’t happen to be a body belonging to anyone in Liscor, would it? But no—it’s a Human skeleton. Except—”
She frowned. Now that she looked, the skeleton didn’t look quite right. Sure, it had a Human head, but its ribs looked a bit different than the books she’d read in biology class. Come to that, some of the bones around the pelvis looked subtly different.
“Hey, you didn’t rob a bunch of graves for this, did you, Pisces? Because if you did—hello?”
Scowling, Erin looked around. She saw no unhelpful mage, just the skeleton. Just an open door and a very noticeable absence of mage. He was gone.
Erin stared at the open door. Then she wondered if Pisces were still in the inn. Invisibility spells and all that. Quite deliberately, Erin walked around the room with her arms spread, trying to hit anything invisible and listening for sounds.
Nothing. He was probably gone. Probably. But Erin would be changing under a towel from now on.
She sighed, turned, nearly ran into the skeleton, and bit back a scream. It stared at her expectantly.
“Go over there!”
Obediently, the skeleton walked away, but it turned its head, waiting for orders. Erin tried not to freak out. She could not deal with this. Even if it did seem like an answer, it was the most back-handed, slap-to-the-face answer she’d ever found.
What to do? What to do? The first thing to do was get the skeleton out of the room, possibly out of her life. Erin stared grimly at the skeleton and realized she was going to lose any staring match.
She had an idea. Erin pointed at the skeleton.
“You. Skele-thing.”
It stared at her expectantly.
“Follow me.”
Erin walked into the kitchen, grabbed a few items, and shoved them at the skeleton, who had followed her.
“Carry this. And follow me.”
The skeleton walked behind Erin, silent as a ghost. Its bony feet clicked silently on the floorboards as she made her way upstairs. It was a part of the inn Erin seldom visited for one real reason:
The dirt.
It was everywhere. And while Erin could keep the bottom floor of her inn mostly clean thanks to her [Basic Cleaning] Skill, she hadn’t even bothered to take on the upstairs.
If cleaning the common room of the inn had been akin to a short jog in terms of effort, the upper floor would have been like summiting the Himalayas back-to-back. Even the skeleton seemed impressed by the layers of dirt in the room Erin led it to.
“Give me that.”
Erin pulled the bucket and old rag out of the skeleton’s hands. The days-old water slopped onto the floor, instantly dissolving several years’ worth of accumulations in a moment. She dipped the rag into the water, squeezed it, and then handed it to the skeleton. It took the rag and looked at it blankly. Erin pointed to the room.
“Clean this.”
The skeleton stared at her. Erin waved at the dusty rooms and mildewed boards.
“All of it. Clean it. Understand?”
Slowly, the skeleton looked at the rag. It looked at the floor. It tossed the rag on the floor and began wiping weakly with its foot. Erin shook her head.
“No! You take this—”
She grabbed the cloth and scrubbed energetically at the floorboards, removing a layer of dirt, dust, and black stains, which immediately turned the dustrag black.
“—And clean up. See? Just like that.”
The skeleton paused and then tried to copy Erin. She watched, correcting, pointing out errors.
“Scrub harder there. No—don’t move the rag like that. A smooth, circular motion. Like this. See?”
After a few minutes, Erin was begrudgingly impressed as the skeleton revealed a shiny patch of floorboards underneath the carpeting of detritus.
“Good.”
The skeleton paused and looked up at her. She waved her hand at it.
“Don’t stop! Keep going!”
It stared around the room, confused. Erin shook her head. She walked to the doorway and showed the skeleton the other rooms.
“See this? This entire floor. Clean it. Clean the floor, the walls, and the windows. Don’t stop until you’re finished!”
Erin stomped down the stairs, leaving the skeleton upstairs in the half-light. It stared down at the dustrag. Then the skeleton stared around the room. It was covered in residue left by moisture, open windows, dust, animal excrement, and rot. Even the ceiling was speckled or sometimes splashed with unfortunate stains. And this was one room of many.
Skeletons couldn’t sigh. It was a lung thing, as in, skeletons didn’t have them. But the fires in this undead’s eyes dimmed ever so slightly. Then the skeleton bent down and got to work.
It didn’t level that night. Skeletons couldn’t become innkeepers. But it did have something in its mind. Something unique to it. Words that had echoed when it was first created. Words that no undead had ever heard before.
 
[Unnamed, Level 1 Skeleton Warrior]
 
It wasn’t sure how it felt about that.
