Erin left her inn three times over the course of the next two days. The first time she went out, she visited Selys, and the two had a long chat—lecture, really—about not going out and fighting monsters alone. Then they visited a bathhouse, helped Erin pick out more clothing, and went to see the ruins.
The ruins were about ten miles out from the city, but such was the traffic going to and from the ruins that it was easy to hitch a ride on a cart. Erin wondered why the mysterious ruins were safe to visit until Selys pointed out the countless adventurers of various levels congregating around the ruins.
There were at least a hundred mostly Human adventurers now in the city and in the makeshift tent city that had already appeared around the ruins. ‘Mostly Silver and Bronze-ranks’, according to Selys, which seemed to suggest that this wasn’t too impressive despite the numbers. But for all the shanty town’s size, it was dwarfed by the size of the excavated ruins.
They were massive. The excavation site itself was a giant pit in the ground—three times as large as a football stadium—that had unearthed a dark stone opening, a massive doorway into a crypt, or so Erin and Selys were told.
They didn’t go anywhere near the building. Few of the adventurers did either, and the [Traders] offering goods had parked their shops on the edge of the crater.
Apparently, the ruins were still filled with dirt and dried mud from years of being buried. Thus, adventurers were digging while fending off the monsters that lived within. Apparently, the place abounded with giant, burrowing rats—which Drakes did not eat, according to Selys—various types of the undead, varieties of spiders, and other low to mid-level monsters.
That was slowing up the adventuring teams, along with the sheer size of the ruins. But the main truth of it was that none of the diggers hired wanted to dig far in case they found something, and most of the adventuring teams felt the same. True, several had found small caskets of valuables, like silver and jewels, indicating this was at least partly an old crypt, but several of the more adventurous teams had advanced further in and never come back.
Or they’d come back shuffling and moaning, trying to eat the flesh of the living.
That was the first visit, and Erin was lucky enough not to see any dead zombies—especially because she had a lovely lunch with Selys as they watched everyone mill about and not do anything much around the ruins. She attracted quite a bit of attention herself, being known as the innkeeper who slew Shield Spiders and, more notably, the Human innkeeper.
Several Human adventurers came by to talk to Erin, but didn’t get very far with Selys glaring at them. They promised to visit her inn later, a promise Erin didn’t know if they’d keep when she told them she wasn’t serving alcohol yet.
 
——
 
The next day, Erin went out and visited Selys again, only this time, it was for business. The business of being paid, to be exact.
Erin happily held up the cloth bag and shook it. It made a dull metallic sound. She frowned, but the lack of any satisfying jingle wasn’t enough to get her down.
“Money~!”
Selys smiled at Erin as she put away the signed receipt under the counter in the Adventurer’s Guild.
“Just don’t spend it all in one place, okay, Erin?”
“Sure, sure. I’ll just spend it on important stuff. Like—fancy dust rags! Or alcohol! Or…a dress?”
Selys eyed Erin sternly and shook her head.
“How about a weapon? You could probably afford a good one with that much money.”
All told, the bounty on the Shield Spiders plus the fee she earned from selling their carcasses earned Erin just over eleven gold coins, reduced some because some of the spiders had been burned too badly to use. That was generally agreed to be a lot of money, but not a lot for the bounty on the carcasses.
One of the more senior Drake adventurers not currently staring at the Ruins leaned over the desk to talk to Erin. He was friendly and yellow-scaled, and Erin couldn’t remember his name.
“You could have gotten a far better deal selling the spiders’ bodies elsewhere. Probably half again as much, especially if you went right to the right merchants. The Guild charges far too much for its service.”
Selys glared at the Drake who had spoken.
“The Guild pays a good rate for monster parts! If you’ve got a problem, Ylss, take it up with the guild master—or the council.”
Ylss flicked out his tongue dismissively.
“The Guild won’t listen, and the council won’t either. But I’ve been talking to the Human adventurers, and they say their guilds pay them far better than ours does.”
“That’s because Human adventurers go out and fight monsters instead of their city Watch. If you want to negotiate prices, go slay a Shield Spider nest yourself. Erin here—”
Selys glanced around. She spotted Erin with her hand on the door.
“Erin, are you going already?”
Erin waved and smiled and opened the door before Selys asked if she wanted to stay. She did not, especially if it meant listening to another argument. Drakes were surprisingly—or was that unsurprisingly?—hot-headed.
It was time to go back to the inn before she splurged on everything. Erin only bought a few essentials from Krshia, a few more from other shops, fended off the Gnoll’s attempts to get her to have a cup of tea, and went home for lunch.
 
——
 
When Erin returned to her inn, she found it had been ransacked. She spent a few minutes staring at the trashed kitchen and her upended bags and supplies. They hadn’t ever been neatly organized in the first place, but the person—or people—who had visited her inn while she was away had tossed everything onto the floor and trampled it.
They hadn’t taken much. Erin didn’t have much. But they’d taken quite a bit of food, spilled the rest on the ground, and taken other of Erin’s vital necessities.
Like her toothbrush. When Erin realized that was gone, she finally flipped. She grabbed the bag of her money—noting that the rest of the money she’d hidden in the inn was also missing—and stormed back towards the city.
 
——
 
Selys had to half-jog to keep up with Erin as the other girl stomped through the market.
“So let me get this straight. You don’t mind monsters attacking you, but the instant someone steals from your inn, you want protection?”
Erin glared at Selys.
“Yes!”
“But they didn’t even steal anything important. Some food and a few coins—”
“One gold coin and three silver coins!”
“Why didn’t you hide it better? Or put it under lock and key?”
“I don’t have a lock. Or a key!”
“We can buy a vault or an enchanted lock and key if you want. I know a good shop—”
“No. I want a weapon.”
“Suit yourself. Here’s a good shop the adventurers talk about.”
Selys pointed, and Erin made a beeline for the store manned by a burly Gnoll. He bared his teeth at Erin and nodded silently at her.
“Erin Human. Greetings.”
“Hi there.”
Erin smiled back at the Gnoll, showing her teeth as well. It was a Gnoll thing that she had learned. Selys just nodded at the Gnoll without showing any teeth.
“I’m looking for a weapon.”
The Gnoll nodded and spread one hand to indicate his wares. Erin stared at a veritable armory of weapons on display. Most made sense to her, but only in the sense of having seen them in movies. They all looked sharp.
“For a friend of Krshia, I will do my best to oblige you, yes? Do you fight with any weapon besides your hands, Erin Solstice?”
“Um. No. No…in fact, I’ve never held anything larger than a knife.”
The Gnoll paused as he unhooked a devilish-looking scimitar from a weapon rack. He put the weapon back and nodded.
“We have many weapons for beginners and self-defense, yes? Daggers, clubs…these weapons would be best.”
Erin stared at the dagger he carefully offered her hilt-first. It looked pointy, and the metal was polished until she could see her vague reflection in it. But that was about all she knew about weapons.
“I’m not too sure a dagger would help against most of the monsters I see wandering around my inn.”
Then again, she doubted even the battleaxes would help if she were fighting a Rock Crab.
“…How about a crossbow? Do you have one of those?”
Selys snorted.
“Erin, those fire once. Ever tried reloading them? Not exactly fast—”
“But they are good for amateurs. I do not stock them, but Drake cities make use of them. We Gnolls—less so.”
The [Shopkeeper] grinned, indicating racks of bows. Erin hmmed.
“I can’t shoot arrows well. I’d like a crossbow. Would anyone sell them for…”
She showed him how much she had, which was a bad business move, but the Gnoll just peered at the coins and shook his head.
“They are pricier than a cheap bow, Miss Solstice, due to how they are made. Especially good ones from the House of Minos or Noelictus. For what you have, an ordinary crossbow is possibly out of reach, let alone an enchanted one.”
“Okay, no crossbow then.”
Erin sighed and stared at the racks of weapons. Selys tapped her shoulder and coughed discreetly.
“You don’t have to buy a weapon, you know. I keep telling you our adventurers will guard your inn.”
“For eight silver coins a day per adventurer? And that’s for the lowest-level ones, right? No thank you.”
Erin shook her head. She had a better idea than Selys’ option in mind, and fortunately, it didn’t involve her learning to poke people with bits of metal.
“Do you have any good short swords? Is that a shortsword? It looks short.”
The Gnoll nodded. He pulled a bronze sword that was indeed short off the display and placed it on the counter. Erin poked the hilt gingerly before picking it up. Selys hovered beside Erin, making sure the Human’s hands were well away from the blade. Both she and the Gnoll seemed more anxious than Erin was around bladed weapons.
“You know buying a sword won’t immediately give you any classes? You need weeks—months of practice before you’ll learn any Skills. And I wouldn’t try swinging it around by yourself Erin, I really wouldn’t.”
“I’m not stupid.”
“No, but—”
“How much?”
“For you, two gold coins and three silver.”
Erin looked at Selys. The Drake nodded cautiously.
“That’s expensive. But it is good craftsmanship.”
“Fine steel. You will not find better in the city.”
The Gnoll nodded and tapped the blade. He seemed honest, at least in that Erin hadn’t met a dishonest Gnoll yet. They were a bit more straightforward than Drakes, while Drakes were more like Humans.
“Okay, how about a shield? A, uh, buckler? Is that what they’re called?”
She pointed, and the Gnoll brought out a metal shield rounded in the center. It was a tiny shield, meant to be held in the hand to deflect weapons rather than arrows.
Selys objected.
“It’s too small. Look, you need a larger shield if you really want to equip yourself. Which I still don’t recommend, by the way. And even if you have both, you’re not a trained warrior, Erin. I could beat you, and I don’t even practice.”
Erin, the vanquisher of Shield Spiders, gave Selys a slightly indignant look. The slim [Receptionist] seemed serious, too.
“I know what I’m doing, Selys. Anyways, it’s not for myself. How much for both?”
“We do not sell many bucklers. I will sell both for four gold coins, Erin Solstice, so long as you promise not to use either without first being instructed.”
She grinned at him, her hands already going into her money pouch. It was a lot of her remaining coin, but Erin forked over the four fat coins at once.
“Deal. But like I said, these aren’t for me. They’re a gift. Or maybe a bribe.”
Selys was shaking her head as the coins changed hands and the Gnoll found a sheath for the short sword.
“A bribe? For who? Who’d use something as small as—wait. You’re not thinking of—Erin! No!”
Erin lifted both weapons into her arms. Even with her [Lesser Strength] Skill, they were heavy. She turned to Selys and copied the Drake’s exasperated expression.
“Why not? They’re cheap, I know them personally, and they live around my inn.”
“They’ll stab you in the back when you’re asleep!”
Erin walked away from the Gnoll shopkeeper, arguing with Selys as he watched them in bemusement.
“They haven’t done it so far. Besides, these are the good ones. Well, sort of good. I already feed them.”
“This is a terrible idea, you’ll see.”
“No, it’s a great idea. You’ll see. And I could beat you in a fight, Selys. No offense.”
“Erin, you really couldn’t. I had to take [Soldier] training—every Liscorian citizen has to be at least Level 1 for the army. Plus, my grandmother and my uncle gave me lessons. You’re good in a fight, but no soldier.”
“That’s a joke, right, Selys?”
The Drake put her claws on her hips as Erin tried not to look amused.
“Want to stop by the training grounds on the way to your inn?”
 
——
 
Half an hour later, Rags stared down at the shiny weapons Erin offered her and then up at the Human smiling at her. Well, sort of smiling.
Erin was wincing—mostly because of the bruises on her butt and sides. And scratches. Selys had given her a bit of healing potion, but even with that—
Who knew [Receptionists] could fight dirty? Let alone fight with their claws. 
Not just claws like a cat would scratch you, but a set of steel claws you wore over your hands, like brass knuckles. Apparently, Selys sometimes tested Silver-ranks, and she had given Erin a lot of scratches. 
Then again, she wasn’t here because Erin had kicked her in the stomach hard enough to make Selys lie down. Erin felt bad and good about that. Anyways, now Erin was proferring her new gear to Rags, and she was smiling expectantly.
Right up until Erin realized the Goblin wasn’t taking the gear. Slowly, the small Goblin shook her head.
Erin’s face fell. She thrust the sheathed short sword at the Goblin, and the Goblin backed up into her bodyguards.
“No? Why not? Come on, it’s a great deal!”
Rags shook her head again, and the other Goblins following her moved in front of her and barred Erin’s way. The far taller [Innkeeper] scowled at them, and they quailed a bit, but there were seven Goblins including Rags in the inn and only one Erin. If it came to it—
They’d probably run. But strangely, Rags was confident Erin would never try to hurt them. She was a strange Human, possibly a good one. She just had terrible ideas, like the deal she was offering the Goblins.
She was no longer the smallest Goblin. She was now Rags—and her tribe was no longer really a tribe.
Some Goblins ate and slept in the cave, but most had left or wandered off. Rags was finding them and making them come back and eat in the cave—and gather blue fruits and hunt. The Chieftain was dead.
