Valor's skeletal hands tightened into fists, but the god continued without pause. “My intention was something of communal divinity. No more Ascendants. Or rather, that everyone can be an Ascendant unto themselves. That they could tap into the divine wellspring of power we all share. Power of the people, to the people. A unified skill that they could draw upon. But the other Ascendants were not interested in such a thing. They wished to make their faithful into Phylacteries. Phylacteries to reinforce them. Sacred Phylacteries that they could devote to the Great One, to further cement themselves as an unchangeable truth."

"Unchangeable truth?" Valor snapped. The Legendary Pathbearer sounded livid. "You are trying to usurp the very mind and being of a fallen god. One even its children don't understand. One that has provided the Abyss with everything!"

"I know," the Starhawk said, his voice filled with mourning. "And it is worse than you think, Legend. For my fellow exiles are turning on each other due to this very fact. Because though we are all Ascendants, we are not equals. We all have different numbers of faithful connected to us. Right now, it is most likely that Kathereine the Songbringer will be the priority personality that takes hold of the Great One. In function, this will make her the First. First among Ascendants, first above all others."

"Broken Moon," Adam whispered. His gaze swayed from face to face until he found his eyes locked with his father. And in that moment, both Arrows shared a look of sour misery.

"It's true," Roland said. "It's part of the reason why you were born at Blackedge. Why I've been here for so many years." And Roland clenched his jaw before the next words finally left his mouth. "It is the reason why I descended into the Abyss with the Eclipsebreakers, why I disobeyed a direct command from the Republic, from the other Ascendants. It's why I escalated the war and sacked Submission."

"I don't… I don't understand," Adam muttered. His hand was beginning to shake. “Sullain was not lying?”

"No," Roland said softly. "He wasn't. I didn't intend for…" The Town Lord stopped himself and closed his eyes. "It doesn't matter what I intended. A city was burned. Countless innocents were killed. All so that I could steal a few Sacred Phylacteries stored in the Vicar's vault."

Adam looked ill when Roland finished. He turned away from his father entirely, and that ripped Roland's heart wide open.

"Wow, this was quite the story," the orc Biomancer said, sounding pleased that he managed to hear the entire accounting before getting killed. "The Challenger applauds the audacity of your comrades, and he commends you for your willingness to stand against them. It must wound your soul so terribly.”

"I care not what the orc god praises," the Starhawk said, derision heavy in his voice. "I care only to make things right. To make right what I should have made right years ago." He held out a hand, gesturing pleadingly at Valor. "They were my family. To stand against them takes more from me than I can offer. Many days, most days."

And for the first time, the lich's posture softened. He looked away from the Starhawk and nodded in understanding. "It is a weakness that you are not alone in. It is a weakness that I understand as well. But still, it changes nothing."

The Starhawk nodded in agreement. "The past is set in stone. The legend has been written. Only the future awaits. And it is only in the future that I can make things right. So, with this spoken, with these truths revealed, what say you, Valor Thann? Are you satisfied?"

"Satisfied? No, I will not be satisfied. Not after all I've learned. But I will aid you, Starhawk. I will aid you regardless of the wrongs you have committed. For you alone seem to be still trying to do something right."
