“Another day.” Smiling at their half-hearted attempted, the boss declined without thinking. “I’d make for poor company and I have to get home and dig a warren for my bunnies. I didn’t think they’d be so confrontational, so I’ll have to separate them from my other pets. I’d hate to wake up and find my wildcats had themselves a midnight snack. Strange as it seems, I’m under orders to keep these bunnies safe and sound. Besides, you’re overthinking things. I really haven’t been holding back, it’s just the movement technique I used today is too easy to counter once you’ve seen it.”

Nodding once more, Li Song spoke up, the chattiest Dastan had ever seen her. A beautiful woman, but too cold and impersonal for his tastes, or so he thought. Perhaps she merely needed to come out of her shell. “It’s a matter of perspective,” she explained. “Rain’s aggressive stance draws his opponent’s focus to both weapons. By keeping them in place, it gives off the illusion of stillness while he slides his feet into position. To counteract this, place more attention on his feet and shoulders instead of the weapons themselves, which allows you to easily track his duplicitous movements.”

Cracking a smile, the boss said, “See, what’d I say? She’s a smart one, my junior Martial Aunt, although I’d appreciate it if you didn’t tell Zian. He’ll probably figure it out on his own, but no sense making things easy for him.” Shaking his head with a rueful chuckle, he added, “No idea how I’m going to win one out of three matches from here on out. I don’t have many more aces up my sleeve.”

Striding out with Li Song, the boss left his friends to puzzle out yet another cryptic idiom. What was an ace and why would one keep it in a sleeve?

“Well,” Fung said, flashing a grin, “What say we get that drink and celebrate for our grumpy friend?”

“I don’t think he’d like that,” BoShui replied. “Not after he just lectured us about it.”

“Too bad for him, Rain’s my friend not my father.” Smile fading away, Fung put an arm around BoShui’s shoulder. “Who I intend to speak to regarding your circumstances. I thought we were friends? Why go to Rain with your problems when you could come to me? Rain is strong but knows nothing of politics.” With a wink, he added, “Dastan, I’m sure you have plenty to add to the conversation, so why don’t we all discuss this over a drink or three?”

An incorrigible rascal, Fung seemed determined to pull them into a drinking party but Dastan stood firm and refused. “He’s your friend but he’s my master. I am a slave to his whims, which means I must return to train. Such is life.” Chuckling to himself as he strode off, he marvelled how he was already laughing about his status not six months after swearing his oaths. Despite his dour moods and curious ways, being Falling Rain’s slave wasn’t the worst thing in the world.

“Oh what a shame,” Fung said, feigning a sigh. “I promised to meet these three lovely sisters later this afternoon and they were adamant I bring the numbers to match. Why I’ll never understand for I myself am enough to satisfy all three of them, but they insisted and I am nothing if not a gentleman. Now where will we find a third gentleman to join us?”

Pausing mid-step, Dastan spun on his heels and returned to Fung’s side. “He’s just in a bad mood, it’ll blow over by morning. Besides, the boss is a kind and forgiving man. I’ll resume training early tomorrow to make up for lost time.” Though the boss treated him well, Dastan still held a slave’s status which meant few women cared to spare him a glance, especially in the presence of eligible bachelors like Fung and BoShui.

Sorry boss, but even a slave has needs.
