I shouldn’t care. Her loss right? But I do care, and it pains me in ways I cannot even explain, so much as I would love to forget her and cherish the people who love me instead, I cannot help but feel as if it’s my fault she cast me away.

Which probably explains why I never liked Gerel much. Even though I can’t consciously remember anything of my time before the mines, these emotions I feel towards my birth parents are proof enough that there are memories still buried deep, ones I subconsciously remember and act on. Gerel, my mother’s little light, a name I would’ve recognized instantly and known he was the brother I always hated, because he had a place in our parents’ hearts, whereas I was merely a replacement who failed to live up to the hype. Much as I would love to connect with this blood brother of mine, I can’t help but resent him for having the love of our mother and being everything I wished I was. Noble and heroic for starters, with the hair of a male model and a face and body to match it. Tall too, which is just an extra kick in the nuts, to say nothing of his incredible Martial skills which have brought him to one step short of true greatness. It’s no longer a matter of being ahead of the pack, for Gerel stands at the forefront of three generations, outmatched only by Peak Experts approaching the realm of Living Legend and a Warrior to be reckoned with on the battlefield.

Especially when supported by his formidable grandfather, Naaran the Unyielding.

A title he earned in the same battle which saw Akanai dubbed the Herald of the Storms, for while she commanded the movements of her Sentinels to shape the battlefield to her advantage, it was my grand-dad Naaran who held the front line with his partner, Kharuul the Spiritual Quin. Together with a thousand Sentinels, they held firm against an army of fifty-thousand Defiled and Demons as they danced about the battlefield, buying time and space for the two-thousand mounted archers behind them to cut the Enemy army down to size. From what I remember of the story, Naaran even led the final charge himself, a seemingly suicidal offensive which saw him slaughter several Demons, Champions, and even the commanding Chieftain to break the spirits of the Defiled and send them fleeing back towards the wastes. Here in Shi Bei, he embodies that same unwavering determination as he stands firm against all comers, blocking, parrying, and Deflecting every attack aimed at him, Gerel, and myself without blinking an eye.

Because despite his marked absence from our lives, Naaran still loves us dearly, but he’s so terrified of losing us that this is the only way he knows how to show it.

Behind me, Lin-Lin sidles up close to Luo-Luo, in search of and to provide comfort. Though a young Divinity and a deadly combatant should she be forced to fight, my sweet wifey is no Warrior or soldier. She’s just a young girl untrained in the ways of war, yet she refuses to leave because almost everyone she loves and cares about is here too. With Mama Bun in her arms and Blackjack on her head, Lin-Lin is ill-equipped to respond to an attack, and the same goes for Luo-Luo who’s clutching her zither close, yet I cannot fault them for being afraid. I’m terrified, and I’m a veteran Warrior who trained for the better part of a decade for this, an experienced commander with well over a hundred engagements under my belt, so how could I expect two untested young women to be unafraid? The Half-Demons have thus far ignored them both, but only because Taduk still stands guard overhead. Though the battle between Divinities having come to a stalemate, neither side wants the Treaty broken, because that might well ring in the apocalypse, but even Zhen Shi is unwilling to risk my teacher’s ire by attacking my sweet wifey, and for good reason. Even after seeing Taduk wreak havoc first-hand and slaughter the first-ever Demonic Divinity without breaking a sweat, I find it difficult to accept that my goofy, kind-hearted teacher and father-in-law ranks highly amongst the most dangerous beings alive in the world, but there’s no denying the truth.

All this and more unfolds in the opening seconds of renewed battle, and it will only get worse from here. These Ascended Half-Demons are a formidable foe, each one comparable to a regular Demon in strength yet still in possession of their intelligence and tactical acumen. That right there is why our forces are being overwhelmed so quickly, the Enemy’s ability to maintain discipline and work together to use their superior Martial strength to systematically dismantle the Imperial Army. Were they regular Demons, it’d be possible for us to fight defensively while elite kill squads take out the Enemy one at a time, because Demons generally don’t work well together, but these Ascended Half-Demons fight like cunning Warriors rather than ravenous beasts. Though their formations are a complete mess and their battlefield tactics non-existent, but they’re still able to fight together in twos and threes as they work to bring down the greatest threats on the battlefield.

For the first time ever, the Imperials have the superior force in terms of numbers, yet our rank and file stand no chance against these Enemy elites as they carve through our lines like wolves among sheep while their best and brightest keep our Generals and Living Legends occupied.

I need to do something to turn things around, but I am left paralyzed with indecision over my complete lack of options. Grandpa Wolf warned me not to use Sword Force again, but I’ve done so repeatedly because it’s the only weapon I have that can harm Zhen Shi. I threw everything I had plus the kitchen sink at him, both here in reality and out in the Void, yet he shrugged it all off like it was nothing. Add in the poisonous or corrosive aspect of his attacks that is still eating away at my body, mind, and soul, and I had no choice but to bring out the big guns before I died in the Void or worse. Aside from Sword Force, the only other thing that’s made him flinch is whatever voodoo the Abbot is cooking up, but from what I can see of the old monk, he doesn’t have much left in him to give. Whatever hocus pocus he’s using to hit Zhen Shi with is draining him dry of stamina and more, for despite being a lofty Human Divinity, the Abbot seems ready to keel over from a stiff breeze.

And even if we could kill Zhen Shi in the next second, this army of Ascended Half-Demons is enough to slaughter every last person under Divinity in Shi Bei.

So what else can I do? Aural Swords might still be effective, but I can only really target one Enemy at a time, and I could swing my sword all day and still have more Ascended Half-Demons left to kill. What about regular Emotional Aura? Unlikely to work, because the regular Half-Demons already had the ability to utilize Emotional Aura before Zhen Shi’s mass upgrading spree, and I doubt he’d leave such a critical weakness behind. How many Ascended Half-Demons can I kill with one swing of Sword Force? Not enough, and I’m not sure I even have the strength for another swing left in the tank, not without succumbing to Zhen Shi’s poison. Another tidal wave would be nice and all, but my own limits aside, even if I could summon a wall of water to wash away our foes, Zhen Shi and his Divinities aren’t just gonna stand around and twiddle their thumbs while I break the spirit of the Treaty, if not the actual letter of the agreement itself.

So what does that leave me with? A sword, shield, and rifle glaive to fend off more than a million Ascended Half-Demons who are hell-bent on slaughtering every last person standing in Shi Bei. Situ Chi Gan is the first notable Imperial to fall, bulldozed by nine foes who leave eight corpses behind to bring down the formidable Clan Guardian, a Warrior to his last breath. Nanda Bayin falls next, dragged kicking and screaming over the battlements and dying before his body hits the sands below, joining his honour guard who died to the last to keep him alive this long. Nian Zu and Han BoHai fight back-to-back in the city below, supported by the Famed Fifty whose numbers have dwindled to two-dozen at most, and continues to fall as the Enemy presses their advantage. Exarch Gam, Broken Blade Pichai, Marshal Quyen, Jeong Hyo-Lynn, the lives of these foremost Warriors of the Empire hang in precarious balance as they stand firm against the tide, but others fare much worse.

Fung and Seoyoon meet up on the battlements just as a cadre of fresh Half-Demons converge around their position, and in what might well be their last moments alive, they lock eyes and smile. They’re finally being honest with themselves and each other and express how happy they are to be standing next to the person they love, but alas, it is too little, too late.

Wu Gam puts all his effort into a singular swing of his staff, hoping he has strength enough to bring down a single Half-Demon before his death and make his Mentor, brother, and father-figure proud. Little does he know his mother is watching him closely, and might well have acted to save him if not for the attention of two Enemy Divinities just waiting for an opening to strike. It’s a strange familial bond they have, but it’s there nonetheless, even if Wu Gam has yet to realize it.

Rustram fights like a man possessed with his rapier in hand, holding his ground with instinct, experience, and determination alone. Though ready to sell his life dearly, he is happy that his beloved wife isn’t here to see him die and is certain I will get her away to safety as soon as I am able to. Even now, in his moment of despair, he has faith in me to make things right, because in his eyes, this defeat is merely a minor setback in the saga of Falling Rain.

Erupting in a pillar of flames, Tenjin embodies the firebird as he fights to keep his wife safe, but he knows it is a fruitless struggle and only hopes that he will die before she does so he never has to experience that pain. On the contrary, Tursinai is still filled with hope aplenty as she fights with sickle in hand, unable to deploy her chain yet unwilling to give up despite being sorely outmatched.

Alsantset, Ghurda, BoShui, Taewoong, Hongji, and so many more fight on here in Shi Bei, but less than five seconds have passed since the battle began anew, and our positions are almost completely overrun. If ever there were a time for desperate measures, that time would be now. A quick check on Blobby shows that the Elemental Spirit is not even remotely interested in Devouring Ascendant Half-Demons, for their souls are still human enough to be unappetizing to his palate. Given my current emotional well-being, or lack there of, he’s much more interested in Devouring me however, which is alarming to say the least. Not because I’m afraid of what he might do, but because I’m terrified of what his interest implies. If he’s uninterested in Half-Demons because they’re too human for his tastes, then what does that say about me?

My next port of call is to check on Pong Pong, who is so scared he hasn’t come out of his shell since Zhen Shi’s Ascension, yet is still unwilling to leave me behind to flee for safer waters. Seeing this, I cannot bring myself to ask him to expose his existence on the exceedingly remote chance that his singular emotional Aura is enough to bring this army of over a million Ascended Half-Demons to its knees. “Leave,” I Send, not in words, but emotions, a fond farewell and best wishes while holding back as much sorrow and fear as I can. The little guy responds in the negative without poking his head out at all, determined to leave with me or fight to the end, though he would much rather flee than go down with the ship.

A deluge of misery and desperation threaten to overwhelm me where I stand, the sum total of which bubbles up from within. I am but one man, one lacking the ability to engage even a single Half-Demon in close-quarter combat, so how can I possibly stave off inevitable defeat and lead the Imperial Army to victory in a mere handful of seconds? I can’t. That’s the answer, especially not while contending against Zhen Shi’s ghastly energies still wreaking havoc on my body, mind, and soul. Despite the long and arduous path we took to get here, all the trials and tribulations I’ve overcome, this is where my journey ends, in calamitous defeat for us all. We have the numbers, but the Enemy is just too strong for us to overcome. It’s not fair is what it is, because this war was all but won before Zhen Shi snapped his fingers and created a million plus Peak Expert equivalents in the blink of an eye.

…

So what’s stopping me from doing the same?

Lack of preparation and resources for one, but I don’t need Demons or corpses to empower my allies. Zhen Shi needed them because he was aiming to create Half-Demons, hence the need for corpses and Spectres, but a Peak Expert only requires comprehension. What is a Peak Expert except a Martial Warrior who's really, really, really good at fighting? I don’t need to bulk up my allies, I just need to give them the tools needed to injure these Ascended Half-Demon, and our superior numbers will do the rest. Domains, that’s what our soldiers need, and what makes this even better is the fact that I already know how to get this done. Not only did I just watch Zhen Shi go through this process, I’ve also done it before with Rustram and the Stormguard, among many other examples, so I just need to do the same thing again, but better and more.

