I am not a vindictive man.

Brash, reckless, petty, and disrespectful, but vindictive? Nah. For the most part, I am happy to live and let live, with the only exceptions being my long-standing grudges against bristleboars and baldies. The former needs no explanation, while the latter has none, or at least not one I’m consciously aware of, but who cares about baldies. These two allowances aside, I’ve been known to show mercy on more than one occasion, and have even turned some former enemies into stalwart allies. More than one friend has tried to kill me before, and some of my most loyal soldiers are former bandits I captured and subsequently recruited. Hell, I still have no idea who poisoned me during my wedding banquet with Luo-Luo, and honestly, I don’t really care enough to put any effort into uncovering the culprit, because at the end of the day, there was no real lasting damage.

That’s just the way I am. I’m not saying I’m some saint who believes wholeheartedly in turning the other cheek, but I offer mercy where I can and try not to harbour too much resentment over past grievances. Mostly because I have hatred enough for bristleboars and baldies as it stands, and I find that it’s not worth the emotional effort to hate someone over something as trivial as trying to kill me. It seems crazy to even admit this, but I get it. I’m kinda a dick sometimes, and I’m very good at making people angry, both on purpose and accidentally. Plus I have no regard for face which others take far too seriously for their own personal health, though I suppose many of my trials and tribulations could have easily been avoided if I wasn’t so stubborn and stupid. Seeing how I’ve made no effort to change these aspects about me however, I can hardly bitch and moan when my flippant and somewhat contemptuous attitude leads to someone trying to kill me. I’m not without blame, because I could totally conform to the cultural norm and learn how to give face, but I choose not to because it’s dumb and I don’t like it. For better or worse, this means I’ve implicitly accepted the fact that my words and actions will rub people the wrong way, so I must accept the consequences that emerge from this.

I mean seriously. I’m lucky I didn’t die the first time I visited a city. I got drunk and punched a noble brat in the face, after beating the crap out of his guards by the way, which nine times out of ten ends badly for me. Rather than take this for the wake up call it should’ve been, I doubled down and decided I would stay true to who I am and give absolutely no face regardless of the consequences, mostly because I still don’t entirely understand it. Of course, my guilty conscience is not the only reason why I’m so quick to forgive, because I’m also not a huge fan of killing in cold blood. I’ve done it before, most notably when I captured Defiled to torment and torture them for the sake of drawing out more Defiled, but in truth, I was just so hurt and angry that I wanted to hurt someone else instead. It’s the same senseless reaction I gave into the day Dad and the Iron Banner freed me and I took up a club to beat Gortan to death. Though I wouldn’t say I regret my actions, I wouldn’t say I benefitted much from them either, and those killings still haunt me to this day.

Strange, right? I hated those bristleboar guards who tormented me for months, but despite having seen them all die with my own two eyes and killing their leader myself, it’s done nothing to ease my trauma or suffering. Would I be worse off if they all lived? Couldn’t say, but I do know that seeing them die didn’t help as much as you’d think it would. Killing in cold blood has never sat well with me, so I avoid it whenever possible. Now, I’m no innocent pacifist, but I’m no murderous psychopath either, meaning I’ve no qualms against killing in battle, but outside of it, I’ll try my best to spare those I can, or at the very least give them the mercy of a quick death.

That being said, my benevolence only applies to those who wrong me, meaning that if someone targets the people I love, then all bets are off. I can forgive and forget so long as no one gets hurt, but if I see even a single drop of blood from someone precious to me, then I will repay this debt in kind. Zhen Shi has crossed this line too many times to count, but much as I would love to see him dead and gone, I lack the means to do so now that he’s Ascended to something beyond Divinity. Though I sent him running from our battle in the Void, my narrow victory was not without cost as I stand here wracked by foreign energies running rampant throughout my body, mind, and soul. This insidious force reminds me of Wraith poison, except it’s been dialed up to eleven and no longer physical in nature, a potent stream of unknown energy chipping away at my vitality with each passing moment and a festering infection which I cannot Heal or purge away. It’s taking almost everything I have to keep those energies in check by isolating it within, proving once again how powerful my enemy truly is, as not even Panacea or Blobby are able to do anything about this.

To make matters worse, I fear that Zhen Shi is even more formidable here in reality, for I am unable to Manifest memes in the physical world just yet. The substantial pressure he emits by virtue of existing is almost too much to bear, a pervasive sense of foreboding which seeps through all my defenses and fills me with dread and trepidation, alongside a yearning to obey. An unspoken Compulsion or overbearing Aura of some sort, one he radiates without effort or intent, for before us stands what might well be the next step along the Path, a superior being who has transcended the limits of mere mortality to become something… more.

And as his army of Ascended Half-Demons surges into Shi Bei, I fear the worse will soon come to pass as the Enemy targets my loved ones with the feral voracity of a pack of starving predators.

Powerful ones at that, Peak Experts one and all, though most are middling at best. That still puts them head and shoulders above even your above-average Martial Warrior however, and thousands of Imperial soldiers fall in the opening clash. While the heroes of the Empire have the heart to stand and fight, their strength of arm is sorely lacking as the Transcendent Half-Demons’ chitinous armour and Domain Plating allow them to slaughter with impunity. Not all Imperials are helpless before their foes as pockets of resistance form up around select individuals. Grandpa Du is a sight to behold as he cuts his foes down two at a time with sabre and Wind Blade both, encircled by his students and supporters who fight defensively in the vain hopes that the Sanguine Tempest alone can carry the day. Kyung seeks to emulate his beloved grandfather, but he lacks the necessary Blessing, experience and versatility to stand unopposed. Two Half-Demons are injured by his sabre before he takes an injury himself and is forced to fall in line with his allies and fight defensively to hold on.

Both Kyung and Grandpa Du are desperate to make their way over to Yan, who’s fighting a hundred and fifty metres away from them atop the battlements, but my most gallant of wives has taken to this rough and tumble battle like a fish to water as she wields her Blessing of Air with a mastery far beyond her years. Taking her title as the Sanguine Whirlwind to a whole new level, Yan summons a windstorm to encircle her and her allies, one which slaughters every Half-Demon who approaches her, with a myriad of Wind Blades shredding through their Domain Plated defenses to seek out the gaps and crevices left behind by their chitinous armour before rending their bodies apart. A most formidable display of strength and comprehension, for it is not one stream of wind driving the storm, but countless streams which circle around a core few which continuously spit out new Wind Blades to carve Yan’s foes apart.

But even operating at peak efficiency, Yan’s limited Chi reserves are rapidly being depleted, and it’s only a matter of seconds before she can no longer sustain this defense. The moment the wind stalls will likely be the moment she dies, for her Peak Expert Guards are all engaged in bitter combat against the tide of Half-Demons streaming in and unable to save themselves, much less save my most independent and free-spirited of wives.

Things are even more dire by Mila and Li-Li, who stand side by side as the Enemy swarm in around them. Paragon is an exceptional Weapon with incalculable variation and unlimited potential, but my freckled, fiery beloved needs a few years more before she’s ready to take on Peak Experts with her magnum opus. Strong and confident though she might be, Mila is also pragmatic to a fault and knows well her own weaknesses, so she fights with spear readied and shield raised to ward off blow after blow after blow. She possesses power enough to go toe to toe with most Peak Experts and Half-Demons, but her lacking speed, reflexes, and perception means she is sorely outmatched in a true one-on-one match, to say nothing of the chaos on an open battlefield. All she can do is stand firm and endure while utilizing her Radiant Chi to dazzle her foes as she guards her beloved sister’s flank. As for Li-Li, she stands stoic as ever with her sabre sheathed at her hip, making clear her intent to trade her life with the first foe who steps into her range without any hesitation or regret.

Thus far, none are willing to make that trade, and all their feints and probes prove fruitless, but it won’t be long before the Half-Demons slaughter their way to Mila and Li-Li’s position through sheer volume of bodies, if not superior Martial skill.

An outcome anyone with eyes can see, and one which has driven their parents to desperation. Slaughtering their foes like gods amongst mortals, Akanai and Husolt fight their way through the crowd in a desperate bid to save their daughters, and their teamwork is breathtaking to behold. The massive half-bear’s sweeping staff is akin to a force of nature as he sets it to whirling about with a keening howl of steel and wind. None can stand before him, and the fools who dare try are pulped with a single pass, their armoured chitin and Domain Plating about as useful as paper and air before this papa bear’s unrestrained fury. In contrast, Akanai appears as cool and collected as always on the surface as she weaves in and around her husband’s attacks, picking off those Half-Demons clever enough to target an opening in Husolt’s attacks as easily as turning a hand. Though her husband’s show of martial might is far more impressive, Akanai’s efficiency is nigh unmatched as she kills with every thrust of her halberd like a fisherman spearing fish in a barrel.

And yet, even with an Honour Guard of Bekhai Peak Experts to support them, their ferocious offensive is not enough to cut their way through the crowd, for the Ascended Half-Demons pay no mind to their losses as they throw themselves as this married Peak Expert pair. With so many high-level foes launching themselves onto the battlements, the Imperial Living Legends dare not Cloud-Step carelessly about, meaning Akanai and Husolt are fighting on foot and have more then a hundred metres to cross before they make it to their daughters’ sides. A hundred metres may not seem like much, but factor in the throngs of eager Half-Demons thirsting for their blood and it might as well be ten-thousand kilometres, especially once the Enemy’s most deadly combatants make their presence known. Resplendent in his glass-like armour, Mao Jianghong arrives in a hail of ice and blood as his twin swords scythe through two of Akanai’s honour guards. Not one to let their deaths go unanswered, Akanai responds with deadly force as she executes Pierce the Horizon at the former Guard Captain, a Movement so fluid and natural it appears as if she were ready and waiting for him all along. Only a select few can tell that she’s playing this by ear and making it up as she goes, which only makes her efforts that much more impressive, yet her superlative strike glances off Jianghong’s translucent, sapphire armour and merely knocks him back a single step.

And from the gleam in the traitor’s eyes, I know he was ready and waiting for just this moment as he unleashes his gathered Ice Chi in the form of a sharpened spear hurtling towards my Grand-Mentor’s unprotected belly.

If Dad could see this, he’d likely be frothing at the mouth, but he has his hands full dealing with another of the Enemy’s elites. This one hits close to home, and I don’t mean just in proximity, for the man who took me in is locked in bitter combat with the man who cast me out. My dad versus my sire, both so close I could almost reach out and touch them as they trade blows in a flurry of dynamic violence. Dad’s Crescent Moon bardiche rattles off a symphony of steel against the amber-eyed Half-Demon’s spear, yet the true killing weapon is his Bloody Fang, the short-sword twin to my own which plunges down from the Heavens high above. My progenitor moves as if he doesn’t see it, and for a brief moment, I almost believe that Dad has won this match in the opening act, only for the Bloody Fang to ping harmlessly off the Half-Demon’s armour as they continue their frenzied trades uninterrupted. My mother everyone, who’s apparently seen better days, and the tasteless joke sets my heart to aching as I mourn the bond which we never shared. I don’t remember a single thing about her, except I know beyond the shadow of a doubt that she didn’t love me, that I failed to live up to expectations and make up for the son she truly loved and left behind.

