The process is simple enough. I need a Natal Soul to act as a medium, a willing recipient to meld with it, and the requisite Heavenly Energy to empower the process of Insight or Enlightenment or whatever. Repeat as many times as I can before I’m spent, and pray that it’s enough, because I’ll likely run out of Natal Souls before I run out of willing recipients, though I should probably do my best to help the strongest soldiers first in order to ensure the best chances of success. That being said, while Natal Souls and willing recipients are in ample supply, I’m all out of usable Heavenly Energy and there are no Demons or Spectres available to replenish my reserves. Necessity is the mother of invention however, and in this time of great need, it occurs to me that technically, raw Heavenly Energy is ‘usable’ in all ways, just almost impossible to control.

But why would I need to control it?

That’s always been one of my greatest barriers to the Martial Path, my inability to accept things as they are. I like knowing enough to make sense of the senseless, but I’ve seen where an obsessive need for control will take me. A desire for extreme control would ultimately take me down Zhen Shi’s Path, a cold and calculating one which measures only gains and losses without a care in the world for irritating inconveniences like empathy and humanity. Me? Much as I love having answers, I’m also a man who ultimately follows his heart and gut, for better or for worse. That’s what I need to do here, to take my hands off the steering wheel and let the Heavens guide me, or rather guide the soldiers I’m trying to help. I’m not here to create super-human soldiers. All I want to do is bestow Insight upon my allies and lead them to success in Domain Development. The keyword there is Insight, meaning not my Insights coloured by my perspective, but Insight derived from the Heavens themselves that is applicable to the recipient’s perspective. For this, control is not necessary, because all I have to do is bridge the connection, and the Heavens will handle the rest.

The Void opens up around me as I gather Buddy in my arms, nuzzling him close to keep him from crying any more. He knows what I’m about to do and what it will cost me, but this is the only choice left to me which I can accept, and a price I will gladly pay. I am not capable of abandoning my friends and family, not just because I love them too much to let go, but also because I am too afraid of failure to give up. Give me victory, or give me death, because I’ve seen what life would be like without the people I love, and that is not a life worth living.

The Void and world lurch around me as I split my eternal soul into too many Natal Souls for my divided focus to keep track of, each one as equal as I can make them save for the soul holding my dog, who gets just a tiny sliver more, as well as the sum total of Zhen Shi’s harrowing energies ravaging my physical and metaphysical self. Barrelling through without hesitation for fear I won’t follow through, I Visualize my Will and harness the Energy of the Heavens around me. Allowing myself a brief, infinitesimal moment to wallow in regret, I quietly bid this life farewell and look into my dog’s big, brown eyes, wishing I didn’t have to part with him so soon once again and hoping he can survive without me. “Love you, Buddy,” I whisper, kissing his furry head with a sigh. “Good dog. See you in the next life.”

And then there is no more time for regrets as my Natal Souls swarm out onto the battlefield alongside my countless brethren, just moments before Zhen Shi’s insidious poison breaks free of my restraints and rampages throughout my body, mind, and soul. The world blurs before my eyes, and all I can do is pray that my efforts will be enough to turn the tide.

Or at the very least, buy time for my loved ones to retreat and regroup, but either way, I fear my saga ends here today.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Insight flooded through Mila’s mind to illuminate her Path, but rather than the joy of success, she felt only dread and apprehension as her husband opened up his heart to reveal everything weighing on his mind.

Not in so many words, because he was an idiot. A well-meaning idiot who didn’t want to say anything to distract her in battle, but an idiot all the same for thinking she wouldn’t notice something was wrong. All his emotions were laid bare as their souls merged together as one, a rather romantic gesture if not for the fact that she knew he’d done the same with every last one of his Stormguard, among so many others. Grievances aside, Mila knew Rain well enough to know he was trying to hide something from her, and doing a poor job of it in the process, but what, she could not say. He was so sad and apologetic without even uttering a word, yet so loving and affectionate that she could not help but smile, for she knew the depths of his love and could not imagine ever finding anyone who would love her more.

And she loved him too, even when he was being oh-so infuriating like he was being now. Something was clearly bothering him, and he refused to say what, refused to say anything besides how he loved her so. Much as Mila enjoyed hearing it, she also wanted him to know that she loved him too, and that she would always be here for him if he should need her. They were partners, husband and wife, yet he almost never came to her for help anymore, and it saddened her to see him shoulder his burdens by himself. They would have a nice long chat about this after the battle, one in which she would make clear in no uncertain terms that he was to stop trying to solve everything on his own. While Mila was far from able to match his accomplishments, she was no dainty princess to be waited on hand and foot either, and she’d bash him upside the head if he thought to turn her into one.

Putting her worries aside for now, Mila made use of her newfangled Insight to empower herself even more, for she saw now that the Sun was not just a source of light and heat, but also a source of energy unto itself. Not that this revelation was new or anything, but now she knew how the sun generated this energy, a process she could replicate within herself. Ever since she first Awakened to her Blessing, it had bestowed upon her benefits beyond even what other Awakened Warriors received, and she’d never truly understood why until now. She’d been drawing energy from the sun and storing it within her body, mind, and soul, slowly building herself up year after year so that she might one day become a source of energy unto herself.

And now, that time had come. A few years early perhaps, but any later and she might not live to see it through. There was power within Creation, and power in Destruction as well, and within the Sun, Creation and Destruction worked in tandem to create all manner of different energies. A process Mila put to use herself as she broke down the energy stored within to begin the process anew and ignite her Core, setting forth a chain reaction which threatened to consume her from within. Though the Sun itself was able to sustain this process almost indefinitely, she had yet to gather the requisite mass to do the same, and might well never succeed given the vast disparity between herself and the sun. Despite that, she had resources enough to unleash hell here on the battlements of Shi Bei, and she did not hesitate to do so. Her Core thrummed with the power of the Sun, an energy unlike Chi, Heavenly Energy, or anything else she’d ever seen before, but also as familiar to her as the sunset, of which she’d seen far too many to count. As this newfangled energy swelled from within, she felt herself growing weaker and lighter at a frightening pace, but only by physical metrics. Such was the cost of ignition, the accumulated density of bone and muscle mass which made her so formidable a Warrior consumed to create this newfangled sun energy, but not only could she recover this in time, she sensed that she could, with more practice, find an equilibrium between Destruction and Creation and bring her ignited Core to Balance.

Not here and now, but eventually, and for today, she would simply have to settle for sacrificing almost a decade’s worth of energy in one, glorious blaze.

Her body grew hotter than a lit forge until she could no longer contain the staggering power of the Sun within, leaving her no choice but to unleash it all in a singular burst of Radiant Chi. The results were staggering to behold, for before, her unleashed Radiance was the product of Chi and nothing more, but now it was so much more, for the base quality of her Chi had improved to the point where she wasn’t sure if she could even call it Chi anymore. Instead of merely dazzling her foes, the furthest Half-Demons saw their eyes permanently blinded by her Radiance, their corneas seared off by little more than a glance, while the closest were set aflame and burned to a crisp immediately upon entering her Radiant Domain, one which Developed and Manifested itself in less time than it took to blink an eye.

Rain’s work, that Domain bit, and his Natal Soul was apologetic for overstepping his bounds, though Mila magnanimously forgave him considering she’d cleared an entire section of the wall singlehandedly. She’d been wary of accepting too much of his help, worried she’d become reliant on it to progress, but she saw now that his Natal Soul was merely helping her bridge a connection to the Heavens which helped guide her along her Path, the same way a random burst of Insight or Inspiration would.

Of course, there was a cost to this power, and a cost to Rain for guiding her to it, and Mila’s heart froze in her chest as she collapsed to her knees and went over the implications in her head. Spent though her body might be, her mind was still sharp as ever, and she quickly realized why Rain’s emotions were in turmoil, and why he was both loving and apologetic. Praying she’d somehow arrived at the wrong conclusions, she desperately yearned to find her husband and make sure he was alright, but that would have to wait until the battle was over and won, for she had no strength left in her after that singular burst of power, one which bought her allies a moment of respite before the next wave of Half-Demons arrived. “Don’t be stupid, Rain,” Mila muttered to herself, but in her heart, she knew this was like asking the sun to set in the east and rise from the west. He was her beloved husband and she loved him more than words could ever describe, but that didn’t change the fact that he was an idiot through and through.

A lovable idiot, one she hoped to share many more years of married bliss with, and not just the single year behind them.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Energy of the Heavens surged into Yan’s Core to replenish her reserves, but the accompanying deluge of emotions almost unmade her.

There was love and passion enough to drown her a thousand times over, and plenty of other emotions to elicit joy and delight, but all of it was tainted by a tinge of contrition which Rain tried so hard to hide. There were no words shared, no message delivered, but his presence was so strong Yan could almost feel his arms wrapped around her waist, and she knew her husband well enough to know that he’d finally gone too far. They’d touched on this briefly before, and never went into greater depths because they lacked time to discuss it, but there was a cost to using his Natal Souls to deliver Insight and Heavenly Energy both, a cost he might not be able to easily replenish. He knew it too, knew it and paid the cost regardless, because he would rather risk breaking her heart and dying long before his time than see her die before him. Tears spilled down Yan’s cheeks as her Sanguine Whirlwind picked up in pace and intensity, fuelled by the grief and sorrow welling up from within even as her Domain was made Manifest in reality thanks to the Heavenly Energy bestowed upon her by her husband’s valiant sacrifice of his soul.

Much as she wanted to launch herself towards him to check if he was still alive, Yan knew better than to abandon her post. Too many soldiers had died to keep her safe, and there were still more alive who were counting on her support, so she couldn’t leave them to die no matter how much she yearned to be at her husband’s side. Her grief turned to rage as she delivered howling death to her foes who forced her husband to such extremes. Though she knew the folly of hatred, today, she loathed the Defiled with all her heart as she fought hard to hold fast to Balance in a tumultuous struggle unlike any she’d ever experienced before.

But one she would not lose, not after everything her idiot husband had sacrificed in the name of victory, and Yan could only hope she’d still have a husband to scold after all this was said and done.

