“Still,” Paco continued. “The road to being an artist, a Charting Artist, is long and hard, and there are no guarantees. Yet, tonight, several hours ago, Sony Music gave Zara a contract for two songs.”

+ Karmic Causality

There were gasps from the crowd and intermittent applause.

“Zara did not write these songs. This girl did. This girl over there, with the hair that looks like spun gold—” Someone whistled. Eppie grew redder yet.

“She did not have to share the songs. She is an accomplished musician herself. She did not have to ask Zara to help. She had her own connections at Sony. She is the God-Child of the big man there!”

+ Karmic Causality

He raised the glass higher.

“Her name is Euphemia Fontaine,” he said. “She is fifteen years old. She wrote a song for Father Parson at Reedley and gave it to the church, asking for nothing. I am fifty-two years old—” Paco’s voice suddenly cracked. The room grew quiet.The hard man swallowed his feelings. “—and I have never met anyone like Señorita Eppie. She has taught this old man something. Something I never knew in my youth. When you raise someone above you, it feels far better than lifting yourself.”

+ Karmic Causality+ Karmic Causality+ Karmic Causality

"Salud," said Mateo, raising his glass Eppie’s way.

“Salud," said the table.“Salud,” said the patrons from as far as the door.

Scarlet as a cherry tomato, Eppie picked up her mystically refilling sangria, raised her glass in turn, then sculled the lot.

Then Zara came back.

Her friend had changed into a new dress. A flamenco dress in searing scarlet, deep and red enough to touch the floor, made from the kind of fabric that hugged the body like a possessive nudibranch. Her hair, which had been in a bun, showed off the elegant lines of her neck and shoulders in a way that flirted with the sangria inside Eppie.

Without a word, Zara came to her, and in front of her family and the restaurant, she held out her hand.

The owner said something in Spanish, and half the place roared with whistles and laughter.

Eppie knew when she was beat. She took Zara’s hand.

The tocaor took this as the cue to start playing—in a second, the compás lifted into a tune that warmed Eppie’s body, triggering her [Clockwork Pulse] with a bulería groove that moved her feet unwittingly.

“Follow me,” Zara’s breath was breathless and sweet with a hint of flan. “I know you can.” The girl danced around her, inviting her to join in. Zara’s bright red flamenco heels struck the floor, the clavo striking the wood in a staccato step that activated latent musical neurons in her brain that Eppie didn’t previously know existed. Carried by nought but rhythm and an [Agility] of 20, she did her best to follow, despite knowing nothing.

This was a different stage from the Whitman Theatre. This wasn’t the music of conspiracy or the music of competition, or petty jealousy, or ego. This was—

Trait Acquired

[El duende]Causality Tier (A) “It is not a question of ability. It is a question of blood.”

For your Karmic labours, the pantheistic powers that be have awarded you with the blessing of El duende. When the Usurper performs in a state of tragedy-inspired ecstasy, with a sense of proximity to death, audience resonance is greatly enhanced. Audiences with a high Karmic Resonance will perceive cardinal truths.

This trait cannot be improved.

Alright. Eppie acknowledged the [System]. This was el duende.

“Eppie! Catch up!” Zara’s dancing reached a new cadence. Comparatively, she felt like a dumb log being pecked at by a flaming woodpecker.

From somewhere in the room, someone started clapping. Then someone else. The compás spread outward from the stage like a wave, drowning the whole restaurant and everyone in it. Zara’s eyes flashed in the light, her body swirling around Eppie like a flaming flower.

“¡Agua! ¡Agua!” Someone was out of table water again.

Paco was clapping along. Carmen had her chin in her hand and was smiling at something private. Pilar was executing the palmas claras flawlessly. Zara's father was crying, as if his daughter had been given away to some wayward Californian boy from West Hollywood.

Eppie was clapping along before she realised it, then—

Trait Acquired

[The Clockwork Pulse] Causality Tier (A)

You can hold a perfect cadence. You feel the metronome in the marrow of your bones. You have the talent to modify, challenge and subvert the rhythm without breaking the law of the tempo.

Beyond (A) tier, this trait can only be improved through Karmic Causality

A second gift! All without a single spot of [Causality]! The system was generous indeed! Just as she was about to try out her new internal metronome, the music shifted.

Eppie felt it before she understood, because she was so god-damn attuned to the rhythm. She could feel the minute changes of the guitarist’s blurring hands loosening into something faster, less fatalistic. The spontaneous had given way to the rigid.

The cantaor grew silent. Zara stepped forward, and the skirt came up with a flash of her toned legs. Her arms opened. It was an invitation of sorts—a challenge—a tease. Eppie stood stunned.

She understood the action. She knew the move.SHE KNEW WHAT TO DO. How?! Her [Memorisation] fired up all her remaining neurons.

A long, long time ago, in another world, as a younger woman who still dreamed, Lana had a film that she watched over and over and over, because she was a girl, and even studious girls had their fantasies. Scott Hastings had been her teen crush, and his punk-rebel ballroom steps had given her tingles she was too ashamed to tell her mother, but not so ashamed as to wear out the rewind button.

She stepped into Zara’s circle.

It was involuntary, in a way, because [Clockwork Pulse] had a goddamned mind of its own. Her legs just kind of made the decision for her, much in the same way that her guitar playing was causality, moving her fingers independently of her brain.

Zara saw her coming, and something shifted in her face, something joyous, something daring and inviting.

I’ll show you Spanish dancing! Eppie heard the sangria talking too late, because a second later, she was doing the Scott Hastings thing. She became the matador: waist back, chin up, two hands above her head, index and fore fingers out as twin horns. Now. I am a Minotaur. No. She was a matador. Shut up! The sangria said. Just go with the flow.

The guitarist almost lost the beat, and the clapping grew jarring for a second before picking up again. Zara, professional, Jerez-trained, almost tripped on her own heels before her face made a smile pretty enough to launch ships.

The dress went up, another flash of calf, thigh and heel, then Zara became the cape.

Years in the future, when Zara Arriaga became a household name, the patrons of the restaurant would speak of the night’s travesty in hushed tones, as if it were a dirty word that was nonetheless enticing and titillating. “It wasn’t Paso Doble.” Men would whisper in the dark.“It wasn’t flamenco.” “What is it then?”“El Flamenco Borracho.” Then, there would be a hushed, uncomfortable silence.Rodrigo would join the conversation, as if summoned. “No. Ea el Diablo,” he would say, then walk away, leaving the patrons with more questions than answers.

In truth, Eppie’s legendary dance was something that had never existed before in any Federation rulebook and would never exist again. It was a dance created from memory and driven by pure instinct; her body unconsciously moved by [Clockwork Pulse] in response to Zara’s teasing staccato feet.

She stamped. Zara swirled. She advanced, horn in hand. Zara retreated, skirt flaring, one arm arcing overhead in a move that was absolutely flamenco and absolutely a response to being led.

Her brain told her that she was drunk and doing the man's part of a dance from a Baz Luhrmann film at a private dinner in a Spanish restaurant. The sangria shouted YOLO. Then, [El duende] activated, and she managed to catch Zara through the flaming cloth by the waist.

“Wha—” her lady made the cutest protest as she arrested Zara’s hourglass waist with both hands and tried to advance as Scott Hasting did, her body low and folded, with perfect pose and control. “¡Ay, Dios mío, Eppie—ay—!” Zara’s protests came hard and fast as she was dragged across the floor like a weightless, life-size Flamenco Barbie. “Eppie—stop!”

Zara’s parents made sounds as well, as did everyone else, wincing sounds. The musicians played while studying the ceiling. Eppie glanced down, past the skirt, past the one white leg, past her own delusion and saw that she had laid down her [Strength] of 20 as divine punishment into Zara’s dainty red feet, via her military-grade Mary Janes.

Muse Acquired

Strictly Ballroom Directed by Baz LuhrmannScreenplay by Craig Pearce

[SYSTEM MESSAGE]

You lack Causality Penalties have been applied due to Karmic ReciprocityPenalties are amplified by Prophet of Profits

The cost of Baz Luhrmann’s virgin work was astronomical, but it made sense. There was cinematography, costuming, dance sequences and, most importantly, songs.

Still strapped to her snap-trap arms, tears rolled down Zara’s paling cheeks. The dancer looked like a jilted wife who’d just been ravaged by her wife-beater-wearing husband. Gingerly, guiltily, Eppie returned Zara to her feet like a girl putting a broken doll back on its stand. The guitarist resolved into a rising rasgueado, and Zara's foot came down once at the same time as the clappers, final, fatal, like a door slamming for the last time.

Silence.

There was no applause. Someone sniggered, then the room burst into gales of laughter. Patrons who knew their Paso Doble could be seen rolling at the tables, bent down, knelt over, holding the chairs and tables for support. Rodrigo, having finally picked himself up from the floor, was purple from the neck up, muttering something about el Diablo.

Eppie stood there breathing harder than she'd expected, her body a blow torch of embarrassment, sweat and sangria streaming from every pore.

Zara looked at her for a long moment, wiped away her tears, then hugged her about the shoulders. Eppie welcomed the suffocation. If the [System] gave her extinction now, it would be worthwhile.

Inhaling the citrus scent on Zara’s neck, she swore to never drink sangria again.

“Eppie, thank you,” Zara’s whimper was that of Haydée’s plea to her Count, her indistinct murmur a millimetre from Eppie’s ear. “Thank you for having me.”

“I am the one who is grateful,” the careless Count whispered back in slurring Inglese. “Thank you for being with me”
