Emmanuel dropped onto the couch next to Carissa, letting out a soft groan.

“How did it go?”

“Better than I'd have expected, worse than I hoped. All and all, about right where I guessed. Matt is pissed after learning about Icliz, but he’s processing it. I nearly shit myself when he threatened to walk away from the deal. JR is… himself.”

Peering through the walls, Carissa nodded. “I can tell. Poor boy is moving like a rusty automaton."

Opening an eye, Emmanuel peeked through the walls himself to see no such thing. Sighing, he flicked Carissa a summary of the meeting as he lay down on the couch, using her lap as a pillow.

“Oh this is far better than we expected. Sure, it's not a full alliance, but a defensive pact is just as good for what we need.”

Emmanuel agreed with a hum but didn’t say anything, letting his wife go through the highlights and come to her own conclusions. Any talking might interrupt her idle fiddling with his hair. It was simply nice to hear her talk and he let himself enjoy the moment until his internal clock became too loud to ignore.

Sitting up, Emmanuel rubbed his face as he slowly let himself enjoy his own victories. “Thankfully, JR wasn’t able to clean me out entirely. Best of all, I think I might have gotten something really big. I think I might have found the source of the dwarven bloodline. If that wasn’t good enough on its own, I stole it right out from under Virgil’s nose.”

Emmanuel bit the inside of his cheek to stop himself from smiling as Carissa’s face went through a dozen hues before she cracked first and started rifling through his pockets.

“I wanna see it! Where is it? I— Ohhhh. That's pretty.”

Showing his wife the silvery object, Emmanuel explained what little he knew so far. “I believe this is the third cultivation core. The ones humans are missing. If I’m correct, this reward is something like a carrier mixed with a seed. Honestly, I don’t know much else yet. I need to do serious testing, but Matt’s thing interrupted me.”

Instead of taking the opportunity to make him feel better about the extortion he just experienced, Carissa only reached out and patted his hand murmuring quiet apologies.

“When are you going to use it?”

Emmanuel shook his head, “Far too risky for me to use it. I— what?”

Finally turning away from the reward, Carissa didn’t try to hide her disbelief. “How is it too risky for you to use it? Who else would use it?”

Emmanuel tried to explain his logic, “I’m too obvious. If I show up with a bloodline, a true war might start immediately. I’ve been considering giving it to someone else, someone hidden, to use as a trump card, which writes off most of our strongest people, honestly. But we have a few.”

Holding her hands up, Carissa got a glint in her eyes. “First, we need to know what it does. What does it do? How does it work? Will it turn you into a dwarf or something else? Once we know more, we can make a decision. Let's not be too hasty either way.”

Finally able to investigate the orb without worry, Emmanuel spent a full fifteen minutes scanning it with Talents. Almost all of them came back with negatives or question marks, but a few Talents worked better with time and secondary items he now had access to without his fellow Tier 50s scrutinising his every move.

Sharing what he found with Carissa, he performed far more through testing once he had a crack in the item’s defences.

After an hour and a lot of mana, Emmanuel felt like they'd figured out most of the seed’s rules.

Seeing the results as they came in, Carissa slapped her leg, "That's enough! I have seen enough! I’m calling in my favor from when we first started dating! Use the seed yourself.”

“I—” Emmanuel shook his head to try and deny her, but hardly got a single word out before Carissa put a hand over his mouth, silencing his protests.

“I'm serious. This item is too valuable. You need to use it. Not someone else. You need to empower yourself and we can absolutely keep it a secret as long as you don’t go transforming right in front of people. You already have your Talent as a cover for anything weird you might do, so don’t lie and use your station to say no.”

Pulling her hands up to kiss them, Emmanuel shook his head. “You're pregnant.”

After a moment of silence made it clear that was all he was going to say, Carissa looked down and pretended to be shocked. “No way?!? I hadn’t known. Oh, I’m going to succumb to the vapors.” Shrugging, she finished, “I know I’m pregnant, but I’m not seeing the issue.”

Emmanuel explained the conclusion he’d reached on the way back. “It wouldn’t be fair to our firstborn child. They won’t have the bloodline. Secondly, you remember as well as I do that my father didn’t like the idea of a bloodline on the throne so soon after the Collective’s formation, and the logic behind those reasons hasn’t really changed. We said we wanted three kids, and if I take the Heart’s Emberseed, we are saying no to any more children. I… want to be selfish here. We waited so long to finally have the family we’ve dreamed of. Three kids, that was our goal and I refuse to change that because of one item. Maybe after but I—”

Carissa pulled him into a kiss before shoving him back with one hand while snatching at the night stand with her other.

Seeing a storage ring in her hands, Emmanuel didn’t quite understand until Carissa pulled out the two backups they’d been sitting on in case she couldn’t get pregnant before their deadline.

Feeling the essence pulled from her cores and hovering an inch from the orbs, Emmanuel felt his mouth grow dry. He hadn’t allowed himself to invent alternatives or solutions on the way back to settled space, knowing that path only led to madness.

Carissa had already given up so much for him, he didn’t want to take away one of the few things she’d been looking forward to.

Sensing his worries, his wife used her free hand to cup his cheek before she tapped her abdomen. “I’m fine. We’ll have one natural birth and use the orbs to hide the other two’s date of conception. They will still be our children all the same. Honestly, I think this will be a good thing.”

“Oh?”

“You said that using a particular beasts blood will probably give that bloodline, so once we have more seeds the kids can pick their own bloodlines or take whatever you end up with if they so desire. Same thing in the end, but now we are that much safer because you got a little stronger. Do it. Don’t be stubborn here. Please.”

Emmanuel tried to find a reason to say no, but realized he was being stupid. Instead of arguing when Carissa would be the one to have to deal with consequences, he smiled and put his hand on top of hers, matching her strand of essence with one of his own.

Together, they activated both orbs, but instead of inspecting their second and third borns, they celebrated their conception, letting things remain a mystery.

The Emberseed, on the other hand, was not left for too long.

Having a fairly good idea of what was about to happen and what he needed, Emmanuel plundered the private Imperial vaults for any bloodline related items and Natural Treasures.

Dripping a drop of his own blood on the Heart’s Emberseed, the treasure began to glow vibrantly. Then, he swallowed it, and Emmanuel felt his consciousness dragged inside, where he found himself face-to-face with… himself.

Who he could become.

Who he would become.

***

Emmanuel’s eyes snapped open as he felt himself come out of the Heart’s Emberseed.

Looking at where the orb had vanished he couldn’t help but become speculative as he reviewed what he’d done. If the dwarves were any example his new bloodline could well become an entire species patterned after him.

He’d long grown accustomed to having the power to dictate the lives and deaths of countless people which had made his choice easy. Really there was but one option, one aspect of him which worked with anyone.

His Talent.

He was the face of so many people, so many hopes, dreams, and abilities. It was that which he built his Bloodline upon.

Inspecting himself, inspecting his three cultivation cores, Emmanuel couldn't help but grin at Carissa.

“It worked?! I didn't notice anything. Show me! I wanna see!”

Reaching into himself in a way he’d understood but never experienced, Emmanuel pulled at his spirit and cultivation core. Like a tarp being pulled over his very being, he felt the world shift and blur for a moment, except nothing changed.

H—

Emmanuel looked at himself. First with his eyes, then with his spirit. He was still humanoid, but his face had gone away, leaving a featureless, mannequin-like expanse. His skin was mostly gray, mottled with semi-fractal triangular patches of darker and lighter skin, with white dots spread out semi-regularly across his body.

He was slightly shorter than before, and his arms and legs were a hair longer and more gangly than they had been.

Knowing it wouldn’t work but trying it anyway, Emmanuel tried to make himself invisible.

It didn’t work.

Until it did.

Staring at her hands, Emmanuel inspected invisible but distinctly feminine hands. Reaching up, she felt manicured nails scratch her overly sensitive scalp as she ran her fingers through hair that was far longer than it should have been.

Stepping to a mirror, Emmanuel stared at herself. Or rather stared at Gina Talborrow, whose Talent for invisibility she was currently using.

Dropping the Talent, Emmanuel felt his body shift back into its gray, default state. Switching back, he once more tested his bloodline and how it interacted with his Talent. Swapping to a few bloodline forms, his smile grew wider with each change.

While in his bloodline form, he could take the shape of… anyone.

A little testing showed it wasn't truly anyone, but anyone whose spirit he knew, which amounted to the same thing. At least for him, that meant anyone whose Talent was kept in his own Talent. But even if he cut that avenue off, he could still transform into Carissa though it was harder. There were nuances to the ability but he’d expected nothing less. He could spend a lifetime working through and discovering small tips and tricks without finding them all.

But what was most immediately useful was the ways in which the essence he moved to his bloodline was used. Transforming into Emmaeus of Blood Moon, who had replaced one arm thanks to a Natural Treasure, showed that supernatural abilities could be copied so long as they were a part of the person’s physiology.

It wasn’t a perfect copy but it opened up an incredible number of new Talents which Emmanuel could now properly utilize. His only regret was the constant drain on his bloodline. The ability to mimic other people's unique physiology was quite taxing, making it one of the more expensive bloodline powers, similar to a phoenix revival.

Not that he could argue with such a price.

Suddenly, he was very happy that the Knight program had been restored well before his trip, as it would make his subsequent expansions of that program less obvious.

Grinning, he spent another few minutes testing random forms, much to Carissa’s delight as they bounced ideas off each other.

His new bloodline still had limits. Plenty of them he was able to work around thanks to the wealth of Talents and archives of knowledge he had ready access to, but others would require far more work to overcome, if they even could be.

Nonetheless, his new bloodline also meant there was now a new thing that Emmanuel needed to work on growing and improving. He ought to get some more phoenix blood from Mara, and utilize the dragon blood Matt had originally found as the fuel for his bloodline development.

He also needed to return his Royals’ fingers to them.

Swapping to Allie’s Talent but not letting his bloodline change his shape, Emmanuel swapped back into his human form before grinning at Carissa.

“I’ll be right back. I need Mara’s blood, so I might as well drop everyone off.”

Stepping through space to his office, Emmanuel grabbed the miniature ‘clones’ and rapidly cycled through each Royal's capital twice, in a large but fast loop. There was a lot to do before both the highest Tier explorers returned home and JR’s deal went into effect. But most importantly, he needed to give Carissa a new favor for keeping him from doing something stupid.
