What he saw was a creature that looked to be made out of water, leaves, plant matter, and pure toxic sludge. It stood on two giant, stumpy legs and had two equally stumpy arms that separated into dozens of vines at their ends. Jake estimated it to be at least fourteen or fifteen kilometers tall, truly taking its size into the realm of what Jake would call ridiculous. Just each of those vines that swung around were thick enough to crush entire city blocks. Using Identify, Jake confirmed this monster wasn’t weak either.

[Elder Boglord Titan – lvl 411]

The lake it was standing in was naturally even more massive, practically an ocean in its own right. He wasn’t so sure the lake was made of water, though. His Sense of the Malefic Viper gave off a strong response, making it clear that taking a bath was not recommended unless one had sufficient poison resistance.

This monster was surprisingly fast, sliding through the water as it swung its vines from its arms, with more randomly shooting out elsewhere on its body here and there to try to swat away its attackers.

Because yes, it appeared that Jake had stumbled across quite a scene. Around the huge Boglord were five small figures flying around, keeping mostly together while trying to outmaneuver the far larger monster. All five looked to be around four meters tall, making them big by humanoid standards but absolutely tiny compared to their massive opponent.

These five attackers moved like a coordinated squad, working together to avoid being caught out, as they were individually far weaker than their opponent. Observing these creatures, Jake wasn’t quite sure how to classify them. They all looked like vaguely humanoid frogs, with three of them being big and bulky, and two of them being slim.

The three bulky ones had shell-like growths covering their bodies, while the two slender ones wore clothes made of plants, indicating some level of civilization. The bulky ones also had simplistic clubs that they repeatedly used to block or attack the Boglord, while the two slender ones seemed to be casters of some kind.

Shooting an Identify on one of the bulky frog monsters, Jake confirmed two things quickly. The first was that these were indeed creatures Jake had never heard of or read about. Which made sense, considering the second fact:

[Venusian Warrior – lvl 388]

It turned out that while it was still perfectly possible that men were indeed from Mars, women were not from Venus. Frogs were. Then again, it was entirely possible these were all female frogs.

Jake would have to further investigate if any of them survived their encounter with the Boglord, because while they were working pretty well together, they were definitely not winning.
