“<This book is incredible, my love. The initial chapters were very clear about the fact that the house of the male lead was a family of artisans, yet in this chapter they are scholars of renown! And I would have to consult with an expert, but I am rather certain that the acts described here are metallurgically impossible.>” Avyna gestured aggressively at the book, while Ranthia carefully steered her elf around the rain barrel that she was about to run into.

Ranthia had created a monster, and she had regrets.

She had just wanted to see if Avyna thought the dullahan book could be included in her shop’s books available for rental. Sure, she knew that meant that Avyna needed to investigate the book to some degree. At first, the elf was confident it might get some interest because it provided a look into the politics of the dullahan houses. Then she began to express doubts about the veracity of some of its depictions of life within the Dullahan Dynasties. Which required her to read further.

Ranthia’s entire afternoon had turned into a struggle to run the shop—so much more complicated than Avyna ever made it seem—while the love of her life fell deeper and deeper into the depths of the book. The accursed tome was written in a tight hand on more sheets of paper than Ranthia cared to count—which meant that Avyna had barely put a dent in the book, even after spending the bulk of the day lost within it.

“<Gemheart, can we please talk about something else?>” Ranthia begged.

“<Allow me to get through this section. I need to see that the sister of the female lead faces justice for what she did.>” Avyna belatedly answered while she turned the page.

“<Avyna, light and love of my life—you said something similar when you passed on lunch. I want to discuss dinner options with you!>” Ranthia took desperate measures—she grabbed her beloved’s shoulders and let notes of pleading enter her voice.

“<I told you that I am not—wait, dinner?>” Avyna blinked and—thank Xaoc—finally looked up.

Ranthia just held her precious lover’s shoulders and waited.

“<…When did we leave my shop? Oh prisms, when did it get so late?! I had customers, did I not?>” Avyna’s voice was quiet, yet openly aghast.

“<You did, yes. I managed as best I could, but you should really check your accounts tomorrow to make sure I didn’t do you harm, Gemheart>.” Ranthia answered, relieved to have finally wrenched Avyna from the grips of that frightful book!

A shudder passed through the elf. She snapped the book closed—forcefully. For a moment, Ranthia thought that Avyna would discard the book into a nearby pile of firewood… but the elf sighed and tucked it under her arm.

“<It is a terrible book, but I despise wasted assets.>” Avyna grumbled.

“<Maybe we can send the book to the shimagu and ruin their civilization.>” Ranthia offered, letting a relieved, but jovial, grin spread its way across her face.

“<Oh, that would be lovely. Imagine, a cursed book that could fell nations with its horrid pacing and total lack of consistency!>” Avyna laughed into her free wrist.

Abruptly, Avyna stopped laughing and both women eyed the book warily.

“<So… books can’t really be cursed, right?>” Ranthia asked.

“<I know not, my love. We can find a safe storage solution once we are home.>” Avyna decided.

“<Such a weird day.>” Ranthia grumbled as they made their final turn…

…and found a barrel blocking the entrance to their home.

“What on Pallos?” Ranthia approached it…

Only for a head to pop out from behind the barrel—a bald head that shone beneath the waxing moonlight. Ranthia was already forming her knives, alarmed, but a dreadfully familiar voice interrupted her moment of panic.

“Oh, there you are! About time, I got so impatient that I was in the midst of trying to figure out how to bypass those silly enchantments of yers! Quite rude to just leave all day when you had an unexpected guest waiting!” Said dreadfully familiar voice chided.

“Y…you…?!” Ranthia stammered, taken aback.

“Didja ferget already? Dimlit the 41st! Now I know my scientific achievement fell somewhat short before, but—” The powder white beard (powdered white, more honestly) quivered with indignation.

“How did you even get here?!” Ranthia interrupted the diminutive dwarf’s ongoing tirade.

“Why, I had some pickled cave spider eggs couriered to my uncle! A life tip for ye, no one eveeer checks the contents of a couple of barrels of pickled cave spider eggs. Even when you accidentally make a noise when they set ya down too hard, no one wants to investigate! They just set something heavy on top of the barrel, but if ya gots the art of timing your exits down while they unload, it’s easy peasy to sneak through!” The obviously still entirely too young dwarf—which raised major concerns about their last encounter, five years ago—bragged.

“…You have an uncle here?” Ranthia carefully selected what she assumed to be the least potentially upsetting question that his words raised.

“Why, ‘tis you, of course!” He smiled brightly.

“…I’m a woman!” Ranthia snapped in annoyance—she chose poorly!

“Oh? Jolly good for you! Why I’ve always admired people who define their gender for themselves, instead of just sticking with whatever humdrum bits they’re born with!” The short dwarf clapped his hands.

Ranthia sputtered. She was filled with righteous indignation and an overwhelming urge to correct the dwarf that she was indeed born a woman, and yet she also—exceedingly grudgingly, under the circumstances—genuinely approved of his stance! Would correcting him damage his point of view? …Was he just messing with her?

Ranthia’s gaze snapped to the elf at her side when she finally realized that Avyna was laughing. Ranthia didn’t even try to hide her sentiments of shocked betrayal.

Avyna just laughed a touch louder at Ranthia’s look and slipped an arm around her partner.

“Noble Dimlit of the 41st generation, how may we assist you this evening?” The elf asked in Creation, once she managed to get her mirth mostly under control.

And only mostly—she was enjoying Ranthia’s plight entirely too much!

“Well, at least yer horny lady servant knows some manners! The answer is, ye cannot! It’s too late today! I have completed the generation five redesign and after countless tests it is finally ready to show it to the world, so I sought ye out again but now it’s too dark out!” He shook a fist at the moons.

Ranthia felt no small amount of schadenfreude when Avyna stiffened at being referred to as Ranthia’s ‘horny lady servant’. Ranthia smiled a touch too sweetly at her beloved, before she addressed the dwarf again.

“My horny lady servant and I are tired after a long day and were about… …Wait, generation five? Wasn’t the last one generation three? What happened to generation four?” Ranthia had hurriedly cast about for a topic shift to avoid mentioning that they were about to make dinner.

She was not about to inadvertently invite Dimlit over for dinner. Madness, regret, and a dead dwarf no doubt laid down that path. Even if she was more than a touch frustrated that she remembered the generation of his ‘science’ so clearly after the intervening years.

“We. Do not. Mention. Generation four.” Dimlit spoke in a harsh tone, a faraway look in his eyes.

“…It couldn’t have been worse than generation three.” Ranthia muttered not quite quietly enough.

“You shouldn’t mention the one that you destroyed with yer reckless flappings either!” The dwarf fumed.

“Noble Dimlit, perhaps you and my lord may take this up tomorrow when they will actually be able to help you? I may be a humble, and most horny, lady servant, but I do require my lord for the night.” Avyna cut in, in a surprisingly—and familiarly—glib tone.

Hey, Ranthia was rubbing off on Avyna! …In non-literal ways!

“Eh? Oh, right! Quite gross indeed. Yes, meet me atop the mesa to the east tomorrow when the sun is at its zenith! The tall mesa, that is! History shall be forged and so forth. Don’t be late!” Dimlit declared, before he squatted down, lifted the barrel up onto his back, and hobbled off as quickly as he could manage.

“<…If you call me your lord again, we’re not having sex tonight.>” Ranthia deadpanned while Avyna checked the enchantments woven into the tent flap carefully—the elf hadn’t forgotten that Dimlit had threatened to try to mess with them.

“<Oh? That is too bad, I assumed a proper uniform for your horniest of lady servants would be an apron and nothing else.>” Avyna replied breezily.

Ranthia’s face turned red as her mind conjured detailed mental images.

“<…I suppose I can be a lady lord.>” Ranthia mumbled.

Avyna laughed into the side of her wrist once again, nodding her assent before she finally decided the dwarf had inflicted no harm. With a touch, she opened their home.

The next morning, Ranthia left Remera in full kit. She had spent the night—okay, no, she had spent the earlier part of the morning trying to convince herself that she needed to ignore the dwarf’s existence. Yet every time she convinced herself to follow the path of reason, she imagined the winged ogre. She had spent years seeking his head, and if she could just prevent his escape when they next clashed… Gods and goddesses, if the dwarf’s invention miraculously actually did work, it could save so many lives…

Was that not worth some personal indignity and a small amount of personal risk? He had said that the latest ‘science’ had gone through “countless tests,” which was promising. Ranthia chose to assume the intervening years meant something, and decided to meet with him, much to Avyna’s amusement.

To the east, Ranthia eyed the two mesas, made her choice, and circled her chosen mesa until she found the climbing spikes drilled into it. She had learned her lesson five years ago; obviously the young dwarf needed a way to climb up! Yet at the top of the mesa, she found… nothing. There was no trace of Dimlit or his gear.

…And realized that the other mesa—a short distance away—was, indeed, taller than the one she had ascended. It had seemed shorter from the ground!

Ranthia shifted to the ground, then made her second ascent—in a somewhat sourer mood.

“Oh, good, there you are! I got worried that ye did something dumb like climb the wrong mesa or something.” Dimlit called over, in lieu of a greeting.

Ranthia took a few deep breaths to calm herself. She had no idea what it was about the dwarf, but he seemed to actively make her a worse person. She could practically feel her mindset backsliding into the vengeful, hurtful woman that she used to be—that she had sworn to grow beyond!

“Well, don’t just stand there like some drab guardsman standing in one place unendingly! Get over here and get that armor off!” Dimlit thumped his barrel heartily.

“…What?!” Ranthia sputtered. She was not getting naked for the dwarf!

“Don’t you what me! You’re beardless, not deaf! You think the generation five is going to somehow magically self-modify for whatever random crap you happen to wear? Nonsense, that’s generation seven material, at the soonest! I mean, yes, obviously I’ll incorporate protective plating into the generation six, but I hardly had your exact measurements! Stop expecting ridiculous things and get naked! We’re all men here! …Well, generation five is a woman, but she has no eyes so yer fine!” Somehow the dwarf managed to make her regret her choices in life more with every sentence he spat.

“…Will a tunic suffice?” Ranthia asked through gritted teeth.

“You beardless sorts are so weird. ‘Oh no, I can’t let someone see my tiny beardless bits, I am shamed.’ Pah! Fine fine, just hurry it up! Should’ve approached one of those centaur sorts, I bet they respect flight.” Dimlit muttered, while he carefully began to extract items from the barrel he brought.

Ranthia made him promise to not look, then hurriedly—and awkwardly—removed her Sentinel armor and pulled a tunic on over her mistweave undergarments. It wasn’t her mistweave tunic, just one of the cheap ones she had brought from Remus that she kept stuffed in her belt for emergencies.

Dimlit was oddly reserved afterwards—and started referring to her as a woman—which definitely had Ranthia glaring daggers at him.

At length, Ranthia was equipped in the new generation five ‘science,’ freshly reconstructed from a mass of disparate parts. It was… Well, it was wildly uncomfortable.

“Is it supposed to be poking and pinching me this much?” Ranthia asked.

“If it’s comfortable, it’s not progress!” Dimlit non-answered, reenergized now that they were near the demonstration of his masterpiece.

The thing looked… skeletal, like a mass of metal bones that clamped onto—and into, she wasn’t kidding about it being uncomfortable—her body. The thin tunic was a mistake too, since the pointy, poky bits of metal pierced straight through it and into her skin. Every little movement brought dozens of pinches and pokes. The wings themselves were massive and leathery, like a bat’s wings, rather than feathered like a bird’s wings. Everything except the treated, oiled leather seemed to be made of metal.

“No wood this time?” Ranthia asked. Honestly, she knew better, why was she trying to indulge her curiosity with Dimlit?!

“Of course not! Metal and wood, pah! Wood is for art and beauty; metal is functionality and practicality! We need functional, not pretty!” The dwarf scolded.

“…And you say this version is tested?” Ranthia had serious regrets.

“Oh, aye. Countless times!” The dwarf enthused.

“How many is ‘countless’?” Ranthia was almost ready to beg for some level of reassurance.

“I literally said I didn’t count them. …Are you sure you aren’t considered stupid among your beardless peers?” The diminutive inflictor of ‘science’ squinted at her.

Ranthia had no response to that. She was having similar doubts herself.

“Now, ye’ll note that there’s no need to rely on your own terrible flapping prowess this time. Nope, the generation five is idiot-proofed! Even for the likes of ye! Ah’ll just wind it up like a clock and it’ll flap itself! Easy as anything, ye just dangle there. I’ve got faith in your abilities!” Dimlit condescended.

Ranthia had no idea what a clock was, but if it was tested and handled the flapping itself, it seemed… safe?

“Okay, anything else I need to know before we do this?” Ranthia asked.

“Ye do know how to dangle?” He asked seriously.

“…Sure.” Ranthia narrowly managed a response that didn’t involve violence.

“Then no! Now stand at the edge and lemme wind ‘er up!” Dimlit ordered.

