Every step in the air forward into this deadly battlefield makes my smile grow wider.

As much as I enjoyed putting that Ancient Demon in its place in the Ravine, it wasn't really even a close or fair fight at all. The seals in that strange dark abyss made it even more unsatisfying.

Yet, as dozens of invisible attacks that could easily kill me if they hit me straight on before I figure out how this energy source works, it fills my Vibrations with ambition. My soul sword dents space even deeper than it did with my last attack, desperately wishing to enjoy the thrill of a real fight just as much as me.

A trail of red flames is left in my wake as I twist and turn my body through the orbs of death in the air. Out of the corner of my eye, I watch Maria brimming with the same energy, flapping her wings and getting closer to our target as well.

As loud bangs begin to shake the birdcage, signifying the first wave of missed attacks, I yell out to gauge what exactly this Family Head knows, and what else he can tell me that I don't...

"Of course it's possible. We claimed the Creator's Legacy in order to leave the Imperial's prison. I've killed two Royal Demons before, you're no different, I'll do it again."

Then I send a full-powered attack his way, but give it a slight curve off from his center of mass.

The same stunt of his soldiers jumping in front of the blast plays out, but there are less than half of them still standing after the last attack, so I watch two hydra's heads lunge forward to get in its way.

"It wouldn't be the first time the Legacy was claimed... it is just inopportune timing. That is all." Samir replies.

A massive burst of various energy waves ripple through the air, and both heads of the Hydra that moved to block are obliterated. A wave of ice collides with the tortoise's shell on the Demon's opposite side, but he still does not seem fazed. In fact, he yells out even before the residue clears.

"Billions... no.. hundreds of billions of times, actually. Claiming it is one thing, but actually fulfilling the Creator's Legacy has become somewhat of a myth to us that started our reign in the Demon's first generation... Destiny this. The fate of the system that... I'm sure the Fallen One has fed you all sorts of lies. After all, betraying his own kind for eternity has only worn him out, figures he'd try planting seeds in other races' heads as a last resort."

Samir laughs out loud, and my mind becomes split, interpreting his words, but also absorbing the memories from the Hydra's heads I just destroyed.

The all-out war I gained glimpses of before starts to rush back into my mind, this time in far more clarity, and on a much broader timeline.

Many years, decades, centuries, millennia pass and the war rages on. Demons continue to arrive from the Cyan Zone and relentlessly attack the civilizations peacefully living here.

At first, the Hydra's were obliterating the Demonic Forces, holding them off; and even creating safe citadels where citizens could live out their lives while the war continued to go on.

However, once millions of years began to pass, and the spurts of Demons that arrived here began growing stronger in raw talent; citadels started to be targeted and struck down into the sea.

One after another, they all began to fall, and armies of Demons claimed their stake in this Zone; creating their own citadel and a place to rest and cultivate warriors to fight back.

I can feel the end of this glimpse of memories fading, but I can tell it's nowhere near the end of this war...

"That wasn't enough..." I mutter under my breath, looking at the remaining 29 heads of potential memories, but also seeing that Samir's eyes have changed again. He's realized I'm gaining something from destroying these heads.

Samir shifts his stance and moves his aura in front of the Hydra before sending back a counter of erratic pulses of invisible aura from his palms.

As I react and blow up massive balls of celestial energy beneath my feet to move fast enough to dodge and gain new positioning, I realize something about the memories I just gained.

I could feel the Vibrations in the air... and the energy purity. The Celestial Energy and Divine Threads were all very similar to the current day. The Vibrations were almost all High Nobles, the Demons, and those local to the Zone.

However, there is one thing that wasn't present. This invisible energy that Samir referred to as the power of the Primordials.

To act while he's still transitioning his stance and positioning, I burst all the way to the far left side of the birdcage, and release a strike that would force him to either let the Hydras take another blow or risk getting hit.

There are not enough soldiers left to lessen the blow.

My grin widens as I feel this Demon hesitate and revert back to his natural angle. Not only allowing for my attack to land on his Hydra, but unguarded, as he needs to move upward to avoid Maria's attack coming from the other side.

In a violent collision of fire, ice, rust, and bronze; serious damage is dealt upon our enemies.

Four whole heads are disintegrated by the blast, and the tortoise's shell cracks near its back leg, beginning to seep into its flesh; making the bronze hue of one of its feet start to turn sparkling white and blue... yet deep within, an invisible pressure seems to be cornering this Sentinel's soul, even affecting Samir's next decision.

I watch him aim his palm downward, and one of the invisible orb bursts collides directly with the infected area of the bronze monster. Its entire back leg and injured area of shell is deleted as a half-moon-shaped hole is left in space where it was hit.

He sends a relentless counter at Maria, forcing her to stop advancing and spend most of her energy dodging.

Yet he turns his head toward me, and raises his other palm.

"The two of you are strong, I'll give you that. One of the current generations of Demons could never stack up to this raw talent. But you're still a hundred million years too young to challenge someone like me. If that Fallen one was with you today, maybe you'd have a chance... like he did once before."

I watch far more glyphs and arrays start swirling around Samir's armor, and they all shift down toward the one palm pointing my way.

The gravity in his one hand feels like his entire body, mind, and soul have been compressed into a tiny point. The rest of his body is visible to my eyes, but my senses are telling me it is an illusion. Like reality itself has forgotten about the rest of his body for a moment.

Consecutive bursts of invisible energy begin shooting out of his palm, flying at me from impossible angles that shouldn't exist. Or at least, their direct flight paths don't compute perfectly with my current depth of understanding.

I sense his True Royal Vibrations intent as a base to all of this, and feel the sense that he wanted me to exploit the opening he created to get me close enough to try this.

As I start to channel my energy to move and counter, the memories of the four Hydra heads I just destroyed rush into my mind.

The war gets far more complicated.

Not only are the Hydras being suppressed and pushed out of their own zone, the Tortoise clan that claimed a small stake in this Zone to live in harmony after stepping down as overseers long ago; they're beginning to be targeted by the Demons too.

Millions more years pass, and the only forces truly capable of holding these Demons off become the Light Elves... Yet they are not confrontational, nor ready for high casualty battles if attacked directly. They create arrays that shield Citadels from the Demons' reign long enough for them to back off or be killed by the native monsters.

They do not look very different than the birdcage I'm in now.

However, this strategy only works for as long as either side can wait.

The current race in power is only getting weaker, and the Demons being funneled up to the Blue Zone are only getting stronger.

I watch in awe as the total destruction of the Blue Zone occurs.

Not in a grand all-out battle to finish the war, but in a slow and painful decay.

There is only one main Citadel remaining, covered in so many arrays of Light Elves, it looks like it will be another few million years before they're worn down. Hydras and Tortoises surround this citadel, protecting all they have left while Demons and their dragons continue breaking through from the Cyan Zone up here to surround their prey.

Just as I'm about to see what happens, the memory's strength begins to fade, and I realize something strange.

A soul tie is forming... between my sword and the owner of these memories. My mind is just the vessel that happens to be gaining the benefits.

They're being given willingly, not forcefully absorbed.

My eyes widen as I stare into the Hydra's remaining 25 heads and see new depth in its aura. A depth that certainly wasn't here before this fight began. The weight of my sword grows again, as it feels like it's growing more wise, resonating with another semi-awakened Amplifier for the first time.

This doesn't solve the immediate danger however, and I don't believe I'll make it out unscathed.

I've fallen into Samir's trap, so I use all of my strength and speed to avoid the bulk of his barrage sent my way.

However, I'm too close, and his attack is too unique and unreadable.

Despite twisting, turning, and launching myself out of the way and into the sky, I feel two of his invisible death orbs make direct contact with my Royal Sacred Body.
