Calen careened around the corner onto the last street and sprinted for his life. In the distance, he could see his friends waiting.

It’s too far. He knew it with a sense of certain dread. The wyverns and the bat were still in hot pursuit, and he could still feel the searing toxins tearing him apart from the inside. Still, he ran, sprinting as fast as he could, his breathing already ragged.

11…

He was still more than fifty yards out.

6…

With a thunderous roar, Mato charged him, tearing across the open square and sending dust flying with the force of his accelerated speed.

He looked at his friend sadly and felt the pulse of the poison.

6…

What? He had definitely felt the poison tearing at him – in fact, it was still doing so. But his health refused to budge. Mato spun as he sprinted past and began following him even though he was falling behind. What the – Mato?

Oh! How did he know? He slowed down a touch, making sure he didn’t outrun his friend. He had forgotten Mato’s incredible ability to redirect damage to himself. As long as he remained close enough…

Malika was also in motion, sprinting across the square to join them, sending searing healing through his body and he finally reached the marked Runic Circle and stopped within it, amid the storm of arrows, bone spears, lightning, fire, and arcane magic that Ali unleashed toward the monsters closing in.

Poison removed.

The soft warmth of holy magic settled into his body, like the kiss of a warm sun on his skin, and his health surged, his arm knit itself back together, and his headache ebbed and faded.

That was way too close. Damn! He mentally sent a thank-you to all his friends for saving him. Again. He retrieved his bow from his ring and began unleashing his arrows. Time to make these shots count.

Ugh, this is stupid!

Mato stood in the middle of the battlefield while all the action raged on in the air above, well out of reach. After the first near disaster, they had moved their ambush spot much closer to the bridge and made certain Calen had a few more antidote potions. This had radically improved the safety of their fights and now they were tearing through the bats and wyverns rapidly.

He angrily watched the latest group wheel around, diving toward Ali’s minions or Calen to attack. They didn’t even bother with him, even standing in the open.

I’m just standing here doing nothing. It was humiliating. His only useful skill in this battle was Arboreal Sanctuary. And while he had saved Calen with it during the first fight, he was now relegated to rushing around the battlefield, giving whichever of Ali’s minions had been hit with poison a little extra time to get a heal. He stooped down and scooped up a fist-sized rock. Winding up, he threw it at the annoying bat with all his might. It made a satisfyingly loud whoosh and vanished from sight, but the pesky bat simply dodged, taunting him with a shrill screech.

He tossed several more, but he just didn’t have the dexterity or skills for ranged combat. Frustrated, he switched to Bear Form, simply to have access to his Charge skill.

If only they would fight a little closer to the ground… Ali could send me up there on one of her barriers – but if I fell, I’d be a ton of bloody bear pancake. No thanks. Even the idea of floating high above the safety of the ground on a flimsy transparent disk made his stomach lurch uncomfortably.

As if in answer to his prayer, a large crack of lightning lit up the sky and one of the bats spiraled out of control, crashing to the ground nearby.

With a surge of excitement, Mato charged, tearing toward the downed monster and his chance to finally be useful in this terrible fight.

The bat turned to face him, and he received a chilling premonition of danger before the air rippled and shimmered, sending pain stabbing through his mind.

Awareness crashed back into his consciousness. Mato found himself spread-eagled on the ground with a splitting headache. He opened his eyes just in time to see the bat taking off, returning to the air beyond his reach.

Fuck these fliers! This is totally stupid.
