Orjin stared as two platters and two entrées were served up—and he eyed the fried scorpions on one plate.
“From Scaied. A delicacy. Honey for them…and a marbled texture to this meat. A better dining experience than I thought.”
Even the Fury looked impressed as he pointed out fatty lines in the meat. Orjin was uneasy.
“Do we have enough to pay for this? You have ordered too much for us.”
“Orjin, we have gold. You act as if you have never dined in such places.”
“I have not. The last time I did was when I was fifteen. Xil took me out of Pomle.”
The Fury nearly dropped his fork. He blinked at Orjin and realized—Orjin had only actually eaten in an establishment with a roof over his head once in his entire life.
The amount of food and the quality of it did not mesh with Orjin. But he ate and found the first bite of meat—so disturbing that a huge frown came over his face. The [Bar Owner] and [Waitresses] stared at him, as if worried he had swallowed a bone.
“Something wrong, Orjin?”
The Fury was eating in good humor, and he saw Orjin was keeping up. In fact, Orjin had finished his main dish and half the entrées and still looked like he could eat. He was large enough, after all, and he had been exerting himself heavily these last few days.
“You could have another dish. We have the coin.”
It was a strange thing. Orjin was used to buying Yellats or even planting them to harvest later. The idea he could buy as much as he wanted was disconcerting, and his frown deepened.
“I should not.”
“Why? Watching your intake?”
“No…I should not enjoy eating. And I do.”
The Fury blinked as he used a toothpick to clean his teeth. The listeners relaxed, and some laughed. The Fury looked at Orjin.
“Why is eating a sin?”
“It should not matter. Dedicating your life to eating is a waste.”
“…Why is it a waste?”
The former Strongest was perplexed by the question. If you compared it to a life of refining your talents as a [Martial Artist], of course it was inferior. But the Fury demurred.
“A [Gourmet] is a kind of class, and they seem happy to eat. If I had the coin, I might try, but my stomach is too small. I enjoy a refined dish now and then. So too do Pomle’s masters.”
“They do not need such things. Nor have I ever seen Xil demand high-quality cuisine.”
Though he had brought Orjin to a restaurant to ‘show him what good food tasted like’. And he would leave the oasis now and then. The Fury seemed to be able to pick apart Orjin’s arguments.
“Ah, but they enjoy it. I would bet half my levels upon that fact. Some might be keen on privation, but enjoying something in its element is not wasteful. Or would you rather everything tasted like mush?”
Orjin would prefer that. He was getting increasingly annoyed by the Fury, but that was not when he got—angry.
He got angry when a group of warriors, including at least one adventurer claiming to be Gold-rank, came in and challenged him to a match.
 
——
 
“I am not the Strongest of Pomle.”
Orjin repeated himself for the sixteenth time. Everyone else was tense, but the Fury of Skies was leaning back in his seat, and the eleven men and two women refused to relent.
“Strongest or not—you’re Orjin of Pomle, the one who fought in that battle, aren’t you? Former Strongest will do. Let’s settle this with blades or fist. Or are you a coward?”
“I do not wish to fight you. I refuse.”
Orjin’s face was blank. He folded his arms as he stood there—and the Gold-rank adventurer pushed him with one hand roughly. He nearly pushed himself over; Orjin didn’t move.
“You’re more of a coward than I thought. Don’t you warriors of Pomle always talk about improving? I’m a Gold-rank adventurer. Oresen’s Steel Brigade. You think you could take me down without a scratch?”
“I did not say that.”
“But you’re too good for us, eh? Typical. No wonder Pomle’s been losing. You’re all talk about fists being able to beat swords. Too afraid to take on an actual warrior with an artifact.”
Slowly, Orjin’s head rose. His voice was level as his black hair, tied back with a bit of twine, shook slowly.
“You could not beat half the warriors in Pomle. Even with that blade. Pomle is not weak.”
“Ah. Prove it or swallow those words, coward. You’re not walking out of here now!”
The Gold-ranker shouted, and the [Bar Owner] wrung his hands.
“Outside, please! Not in here!”
Orjin went to leave; they had already paid. But a hand grabbed his arm roughly, and he turned as a local [Mercenary] or [Thug] sneered at him.
“You can duel us and show you’re not all words, ‘Strongest’. Or we can do this all at once, and you w—”
His mouth kept moving before he realized the huge hand covering his face was cutting off his voice. The Gold-rank adventurer recoiled. The other warriors fell silent as Orjin’s other hand removed the hand from his shoulder.
It was a gentle squeeze on the man’s face. When Orjin let go, the red face tried to wrench his other arm free of Orjin’s grip.
He could not. Orjin had hold of the iron gauntlets and the man’s wrist, and he spoke very slowly, enunciating his words.
“Listen to me. I am not the Strongest. Even if I were—I would not fight you. Because I cannot hit you.”
Faces wrinkled up in confusion at Orjin’s words. The [Superior Martial Artist] looked the other man in the face. A Stitch-man, burly, probably at least Level 20—maybe verging on Level 30? Iron armor, but brawny enough. His nose had been broken at least once, and he probably could take a punch from someone else.
“I cannot hit you. If I do—I will kill you. Do you understand? I cannot exchange a blow with you. Because I will break every bone where I strike you and rupture your organs. And you—you cannot hurt me. I do not fear your fists. I do not fear your sword. You cannot make my blood boil.”
“That’s a lot of—talk—”
The Gold-ranker looked slightly uneasy, but his companion said nothing at all. He was grabbing at Orjin’s wrist—and then someone swore quietly.
“Lanterns out. He’s…”
Every ear slowly heard a sound. And the sound was the creak of metal. Orjin’s grip was closing. And it was closing around the iron gauntlet, bending the metal as the Stitch-man tried to make him let go.
It didn’t even look like Orjin was struggling to bend the gauntlet. And that was terrifying. When he let go, the man fell to his knees, trying to remove the metal that was compressed into his skin.
And Orjin?
He stared at the man—at the Fury’s delighted smile—and he was ashamed.
He had lost his temper. He hadn’t done that since he was…nineteen.
 
——
 
“There is nothing wrong with proving yourself. Or losing your temper. Some warriors fight hot.”
“Not I. That was a lapse in judgment. I hurt that warrior.”
The Fury scoffed as Spitty chewed on something and sauntered with the other two [Martial Artists] down the street. They were given a wide berth this time—and the group that had accosted them was not demanding a fight. The Fury nodded back the way they’d come.
“You saved the bar from damage and prevented a fight.”
“I lost control. The last time I did that, I injured my opponent. Badly. We cannot lose control, Fury of Skies. You know that.”
Orjin was staring at his hand. He had always known he was stronger than many others. Even without levels—he had been a large boy and seen the damage his fists could do. The Fury eyed him.
“I have injured opponents before by accident. You?”
“Yes. I was angry, as a boy. It took a long time to learn to quell that. I was hot-headed.”
“You? Truly. Then I see why you love Pomle.”
“It gave me discipline. It made me who I am.”
If there was one truth Orjin believed in, it was that. If there was one person proud of Pomle—
It was him. And the Fury of the Skies’ critique of how he lived in his isolation did not mean the Strongest was some passive hermit who would never raise a fist. It was just that Orjin saw no value in a random challenge from a low-level warrior.
“Sirs. Sirs. Did someone say you came from Pomle?”
A voice called out before the two [Martial Artists] were at the gates of Ixen. Orjin turned, ready to refuse someone else—and found not that.
Instead, he saw a grinning, furred face.
A Fox Beastkin. Another one—hobbling at them. He was older, and several people ducked back when they saw him and looked around warily.
—Because he was a beggar?
Or—
He had no eyes. His empty sockets focused on them, and he lurched forwards with a cane, uncannily coordinated. The Fury answered for them.
“We come from Pomle. But we are not representing it. Do you want tidings of news or war? All we know is the war around us.”
“Oh. Oh—but you are closer to Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
“We have fought them.”
The Fox Beastkin grinned as he leaned on his cane. Something was wrong with his arm. It looked healed in the wrong way.
“Then they are fighting Pomle and the Empress of Beasts. And—have you been north? Have you seen the King of Destruction? He is coming, isn’t he?”
Orjin blinked. The Fury of Skies stared at the Fox Beastkin, then glanced down the street. Someone was pointing at him, and a few Fox Beastkin were hurrying forwards.
“Grandfather…don’t ask. You’re going to get in trouble.”
“They’ve seen him. Haven’t they? He’s coming. The King of Destruction. We have been waiting. We couldn’t abandon our homes and make that journey so far. But you…they called you the Strongest of Pomle.”
He focused on Orjin. The [Martial Artist] opened his mouth to deny it, but the old Fox Beastkin was speaking on.
“He’ll visit you. If you see him—tell him we’re waiting. We will be waiting when he returns. But most of us will be hiding. The cowards here have put down our voices like they did to Sottheim’s monks. To others. But we are waiting. He will return. That breaker of traditions. Just like last time.”
“The militia is coming, old man. You had better lower your voice—or run.”
The Fury of Skies observed quietly. The Fox Beastkin just gave him a toothy grin. It had—no fear. It disconcerted Orjin, and he saw the other Fox Beastkin running as he picked out armored soldiers.
“They have already visited me enough times. You see? I thought I had better tell someone who would meet the King of Destruction. I am out of time.”
He passed a paw over his empty sockets. Orjin fixed on them suddenly. Then on the grim-faced Stitch-folk.
“Treason against the Auguries of Corzein. It’s you, Gavros. There’s no point lying or running.”
One put a hand on the Fox Beastkin’s shoulder and grabbed him roughly. Gavros, the old Fox Beastkin, bared his teeth. He leaned on his walking cane.
“Running? You’ll find me later. But I—”
He whirled, and Orjin saw a Skill activate. Gavros’ swing might have crushed the warrior’s arm and ribs with the force of it.
But he was blind. And they had seen it before. The walking stick missed the cursing warrior, and another struck the Fox Beastkin from behind across the knees. Down the supporter of the King of Destruction went.
“Treason! For the third time. You could have lived as a beggar, you fool. No more. By Corzein’s will—you will be executed for this.”
Two warriors with spears lifted them as the Fox Beastkin struggled, a foot on his shoulder. He shouted, to the street, to his people watching, to the city people gathered to watch in hushed silence.
“The King of Destruction is coming. He’ll uncover what Corzein has done and shatter the Lantern Lands a second time. Wait as long as you have to. He’s—”
The spears thrust down, and in that moment, Orjin kicked the first Stitch-man into a wall. The Fury of Skies slashed the haft of the second spear in half with a knife-hand and a sigh.
The two warriors recoiled. Their leader opened his mouth.
“What are—”
Orjin punched him in the face but pulled the blow. He thought he broke a number of the man’s teeth, and the head snapped back. The Stitch-man went over onto his back, already out. The rest of the squad turned—and Spitty expectorated onto one’s face. The Fury leg-swept another, turned—and Orjin lowered his hand. Three more warriors collapsed as someone began to scream.
The Fox Beastkin had his teeth bared, but he scrambled up, confused, and someone—the [Waitress]—dashed out with her face covered.
“What are you doing?”
Orjin wasn’t sure if she meant him or Gavros. But she was tugging the old Fox Beastkin away.
“He needs to leave the city or he’ll be slaughtered.”
“We have kin—but you’ve made an enemy of the city! Thank you—run! A hundred soldiers will be on you in a second!”
Someone was screaming an alarm in the distance. Orjin looked at the terrified [Waitress].
“How long do you need to get him to safety?”
“How long—? What?”
The [Martial Artist] stared up at the sun. It was almost halfway overhead. Then he lowered his gaze to the City of Ixen. It might not have had the same elements as a Watch—some kind of militia—but they were coming.
Spears, mostly, for fighting Sandworms, he suspected. The tips sparked—they must be enchanted with lightning to fight monsters around here. They slowed as they saw him.
“An hour.”
The Fury of Skies did a double-take. Orjin saw the Fox Beastwoman stare at him.
“Longer, if you need it.”
Then he turned. The Stitch-folk slowed as Orjin walked forwards. Then he shouted, as if he were in Pomle and they were challenging them.
“I am the St—I am Orjin of Pomle. Halt or I will face you all.”
He said nothing more. The Fury of Skies stared at Orjin then began laughing at his back.
“I thought you were not willing to fight!”
“Not for no reason. Pomle has always been willing to take a cause. But it must matter. ‘Give me all the righteousness of your cause. Stand there with all the passion to defy the sun. I shall be the strength in your arms.’ I have seldom found reasons like this to fight in Pomle.”
The words came to Orjin suddenly, and he had never thought to speak them because he had never quoted the First Strongest before. But he felt they were true.
No duel with any challenger had made him feel as steadfastly determined. He looked back—and for a second, he thought the blind Gavros’ stare was finding him. Orjin raised his voice and his head.
“I am no King of Destruction. But I will stand here a while, Gavros of Ixen. For I find you worthy of respect.”
The warriors of Ixen slowed—until more gathered. A dozen. Two dozen…they called for bows and slings, and Orjin stared at the sky. He looked down at them, and they hesitated. There was no reward for this, but he stood in front of those gates. And the Fury of Skies?
