Slowly, the Antinium glanced up. Then he looked Wil in the eyes and spoke quietly.
“Wil Kallinad. I have had a low impression of Terandrian Humans of late. But I can see yours is a people capable of great change and insight. Thank you. It will never replace the trees in House Byres I have lost. But now?”
He put two hands behind his back and stared towards Loeri in the distance.
“Tiqr. Loeri. It is a pleasant thing to own trees. I wish I had known this when we were in Loeri. It would have made every meal taste sweeter. Or more woody, I assume.”
Wil grinned in relief, and Merrik slapped him on the back.
“We can go back sometime, Ksmvr! And once again, I’m glad we can make this up between us. I see the value in owning trees now, myself.”
That was just a silly, little thing that kept everyone laughing until they stopped at a Drake city called Marwsh after another full day of riding. This place had lots of cats and more Gnolls than you might expect.
Nailren disappeared at once as Yvlon marched up to the city’s Watch Captain. She presented her team to him and asked if they had any monsters they needed slaying—trying to emulate Eldertuin. The bemused Drake looked her up and down and said yes…yes they did.
 
——
 
A somewhat abashed Yvlon found the rest of her team watching a caravan setting out from Marwsh. Wil was excited as he spoke.
“They hired Professor Perorn? And she charged them hand-over-foot?”
Merrik beamed hugely.
“Classic. And they’re sending a caravan out. With…hunting cats?”
Marwsh was another weird Drake city. They were all weird. In fact, one of the [Beast Tamers] called out.
“It’s our specialty! We don’t use them in warfare—they’re not attack dogs. They’re only pumas.”
Pumas, as in the giant cats that could get up to eight feet long from head to tail and weigh over two hundred pounds.
The ‘hunting cats’ of Marwsh were huge predators that got head-scratches and belly rubs when they wanted it—or they’d nip you. They were padding alongside wagons of Drakes bound for the new lands.
“That’s an interesting strategy. Cats are natural hunters. It must be hell getting them to carry a kill back, though.”
“If they kill or track something down, who cares? Free meat.”
Merrik and Venaz were debating how useful they were compared to dogs, but it was clear this caravan had a specialty. Marwsh’s citizens were almost as fond of the Horns being here, though.
“‘Ow’s that compared to them Yoldenites, heh? Nothing like those weirdos. Mrremenyot!”
A cheerful Drake with the weirdest accent Yvlon had ever heard elbowed Pisces. He made a sound akin to a rumbling cat, and the [Necromancer] hesitated.
“Er—”
“You that bone-person who raises undead? And that’s an Ant-thing. Can I see it?”
Ksmvr was once again beset, but Marwsh too had seen the famous Horns—and Yvlon was just coughing to tell them the city had hired their considerable talents for a…particularly fun monster…when Peki flapped down.
“I have done it. I have done it!”
“Done what? Peki, what did you do?”
Wil’s ebullience turned to extreme paranoia as the Garuda [Martial Artist] folded her arms. She looked entirely smug—and pointed as the local [City Planner] marched over.
“I said, wait—we have to do a ceremony, Miss Peki! You paid the fee and ran off—who am I according the trees to?”
The what? Wil’s face went slack, and Peki started laughing all by herself as Ksmvr looked over. The Drake recoiled when he saw Ksmvr.
“We’re giving two of our trees to an Antinium?”
“You bought him trees?”
Wil was outraged. Peki held up three claws.
“I bought him three trees. Because I am a better friend to Ksmvr than you.”
The [Strategists] were not without some coin—especially since Niers had hired them as officers. Peki had decided it was only fit to buy three trees in one of Marwsh’s gardens and dedicate them to Ksmvr. The Antinium puffed up with delight, and an entire crowd gathered to see—and debate—the Antinium being gifted trees.
When they heard Peki had put down no less than three hundred gold coins for them, they decided the Antinium could take the trees and began arguing how the money should be divided up. Wil nearly shook Peki’s feathers out at how much she’d paid, but no one had ever claimed Peki had passed their budgeting class in the academy.
“Venaz. Venaz. I think you know what’s happening.”
Merrik whispered to Venaz as Yvlon watched Ksmvr being awarded a written contract. The Minotaur whispered back.
“I know. Wil and Peki may have struck the first blow. Next city? Four trees. And a rock.”
Merrik gave Venaz a sharp nod. Yvlon covered her eyes—but this made her smile. It seemed like this was becoming a game, trying to get Ksmvr land-grants.
Her attempt to give the Horns personality was, uh…not as successful. She had not realized the fallacy of Eldertuin’s style, and it was this:
Sometimes the monster needing to be slain wasn’t deadly. It just sucked.
 
——
 
“Yvlon. I know Ksmvr’s grand moment is above, and you are not willing to trust Ceria with this. But please. Let’s trust Ceria with this.”
Pisces would have gotten on his hands and knees to beg Yvlon—if they weren’t standing in Marwsh’s sewers.
Their huge, smelly sewers that made him glad his robes were enchanted. Yvlon stood with literally crap running by her in the giant cisterns and stared blankly ahead.
“I told him we could take on Marwsh’s monsters.”
“Yes, but…a giant rat?”
“It’s supposed to be sixteen feet long. The cats won’t go after it.”
Pisces covered his face with a hand. Yvlon’s face was grim—and she was avoiding looking at him.
“I already agreed, Pisces. Let’s just—get in, kill it, and get out. The Silver-ranks haven’t taken it out. Most are too low-level, and it’s a sixteen-foot long rat.”
“Or maybe they didn’t want to find it.”
Pisces groaned. Yvlon said nothing. Yes, that was probably it. She could have asked Ceria for help, but the [Cryomancer] freezing half the sewers might get them in trouble.
Besides—if you walked wide of the stream of literal sewage, there was some slippery, gross stone to walk on. Pisces chose each step carefully and decided he was buying new shoes for fencing grip—and because he was never using these shoes again after this.
The fee that Yvlon had agreed on might be enough for some decent shoes. Yvlon called out to Pisces.
“At least you can get some rat bones out of this. I thought your stores were low?”
“Of smaller bones, unless I want to shave down Gargoyle bones. I could use some smaller fiddly ones to complete a project I’ve had in mind. Yes…and the smell shall ever linger. But I will take them. I guess.”
Pisces muttered. He wished he could just send a Bone Horror at the giant rat, but—
“Everyone keeps bringing up the salient fact I am a [Necromancer], Yvlon. Despite me not going around with any undead to speak of. I find it rather annoying. I cannot think what Ksmvr must feel, but I am glad the trees are cheering him up.”
“Well—maybe you should. Then they can complain about it.”
Pisces raised his brows. That was a…spicy suggestion. He tapped a finger to his lips—and nearly slipped and went over in the muck.
Yvlon caught him, and Pisces shuddered.
“Yvlon—we have to kill this thing now. [Detect Life]! Oh. Eugh. There’s things in the sewage. And the rats—there are so many rats. How do the cats not eat them?”
“If you were a cat, would you want to eat sewer-crusted rats if you lived in a city that fed you for nothing?”
“…Point. I see the rat. It’s that way.”
Pisces pointed, and Yvlon’s pegleg splashed in the muck as she raised her sword. Pisces eyed it.
“That’s not your old Sword of Weight, is it?”
“Yep. Hedault remade it, remember?”
“Yes…but why don’t you just spike the rat with an arm?”
Yvlon glowered at Pisces.
“I’m an [Armsmistress], Pisces.”
“Yes. And it seems to me your arms are more deadly than your sword at this point. True, your sword is enchanted…”
“Why do you have a rapier if you’re a better [Necromancer] and can cast [Deathbolt]?”
“I withdraw my objections.”
They were bantering, and Yvlon was smiling when the giant rat attacked. It was indeed sixteen feet long and six feet high—no regular puma would tackle this huge, matted beast with yellow fangs and fur encrusted with a hide of…crap.
But the danger was actually the smaller rats, some as large as pumas, who came in a swarm at the two adventurers. Pisces shouted.
“Rat attack! Rat—”
It was the stupidest thing he’d ever said, and he instantly regretted it. The [Necromancer] cast three spells.
First—[Bone Wall]. The rats were clever enough to come from behind—so he walled off behind them. Then he pointed.
[Flame Swathe]! His rapier was in his off hand, but the rats flinched and burned as the flames coated them. It wasn’t ideal in the wet sewer, but Pisces steeled himself for a rush of tiny fangs. He flicked his hand.
[Shatterbolt]. The ring sent a white piercing light at the giant rat. It hit the rat in the face, and Pisces heard a crack. The giant rat convulsed, slowed—and skidded in a slosh of slime and debris. Then it fell over, mouth open.
Pisces stared at it. The rats recoiled—turned to their leader, and Pisces realized his shatterbolt had hit it in the head and probably destroyed its entire skull.
…Was that it? Yvlon’s sword cleaved the second-largest rat’s head off as it darted forwards, not realizing its leader was dead. The other rats stared at the corpse of the largest rat and then fled in a shrieking swarm.
“Better wipe out as many as we can. Er—[Deathbolt]! [Deathbolt]!”
Flustered, Pisces began shooting the Tier 4 spell and saw rats keel over as the death magic passed through them. He stared at the main rat and wondered if animating it to attack its kin was worth the effort. Certainly, the bones might be useful…
“Yep, let’s get them, P—”
Yvlon charged after the rats, and Pisces heard and saw the sound that came next. She had good footing when she was walking, but she tried to break into a charge, and her pegleg…
Slipped. He saw Yvlon go forwards and straight into the sewer muck. Pisces’ eyes went wide in horror as Yvlon tried to close her mouth, catch herself—
Splut.
 
——
 
The bounty on the dead rat was small. The effusiveness of the Watch Captain who was relieved to see the corpse—worth more.
The smell that clung to Yvlon and her experience in the sewers? She sat, wrapped in towels after eight baths and showers combined, and looked sick.
It was not a good adventure, and even Colth refrained from teasing Yvlon. Mind you, her world-ending fury had abated, and now she just looked ill.
“I hate this city.”
Everyone stayed away from her. Pisces had cast a deodorizing smell, and they’d bought some of the scent bombs from a local [Alchemist], but the knowledge of what she’d fallen in and her complexion made it so only Ksmvr stayed by her side, patting her on the arm.
All the Gnolls decided they were riding, and as it happened, one of them, Gireulashia, found herself running beside Nailren the next day as they left Marwsh. Ksmvr, the owner of more trees, was a fun character. Yvlon was too intense, Pisces was interesting, and Ceria was funny and sharp.
But Gireulashia felt, more and more as they headed to the Great Plains, the weight of her new class.
[Chieftain]. She paced alongside the horses, running rather than riding. She could ride a horse—but few wanted to carry someone of her height and weight. She eyed Nailren, though, the entire way.
He had vanished when they entered Marwsh. Unlike the visible [Strategists] or the Horns and Colth, who attracted attention, Nailren did the opposite. No one knew the Silver-rank leader of the Pride of Kelia. He could introduce himself and win some basic respect, but he was an interesting person.
“Chieftain Gireulashia. Do you want something from me?”
He turned his head, and the black-furred Gnoll grinned at her as Gire stared. The Chieftain of Ekhtouch sniffed.
“I don’t know. Do I want something from you? Do you think I should want something?”
He gave her a puzzled look.
“I’m just a Silver-rank Captain, Chieftain.”
“Mhm. I know who you are. Hawkarrow’s Eitha never mentions you. Even though you’re part of her tribe. And also the Chieftain of the Fletchsing Tribe. Which doesn’t exist. Larr knew that, and he’s part of Eitha’s tribe. I asked around and figured it out.”
Nailren rolled his eyes.
“Good for you. Are you going to shout it to everyone?”
Gire huffed. She had been keeping her voice low for a private conversation between them.
“What do you do in cities like Marwsh? Ask around and see if Gnolls are unhappy?”
He exhaled hard.
“You make it sound like I have specific duties. I do what I want. If you’re worried I’m like the Doomslayers from Plain’s Eye—I am not. Go bother someone else. Another Chieftain. They can tell you I’m well-known. To [Chieftains] and [Shamans]. And I am not high-level.”
“Sure. Silver-ranker. Want to spar like the adventurers are doing? I’ll do bows, but it’s dangerous. Swords? Spear?”
He carried a sword at his side. The other Gnoll shook his head.
“I’m not dueling a [Paragon] of Ekhtouch. You’d learn little from it, and I would only learn what a concussion feels like. But I will say you should spend some time training…however your class does it.”
“You don’t think I’m right for the job as [Chieftain]? What do you think as [Chieftain] of your ‘tribe’?”
At last, Nailren gave up and glared at her. The Fletchsing tribe he claimed as home didn’t exist. Or if it did, it ‘existed’ wherever he went. It was the kind of thing that was funny if you realized how it worked.
Fletchsing sounded like a tribe. No one would ask about it. If someone inquired, they’d probably hear ‘yes, it’s around the Great Plains, I think’, and think no more of it. Only if you really dug would you realize members of that tribe were few and far between.
It was a nice cover, especially if a ‘Gnoll of Fletchsing’ did something untowards. Like, say, wipe out a group of Drakes ambushing Gnoll tribes. Or gather intelligence on a Drake city.
Or masquerade as a Silver-rank team.
Mind you, Gire was fairly sure that Nailren was an adventurer too, but his dual-purpose made him resigning as a Silver-rank and joining the exodus to the New Lands all the more odd.
“Are you really leaving just to explore?”
Nailren’s silence was pained before he spoke.
