And because he was old—he had a grey mustache fixed to his face, a bushy walrus one like Silveran wore. And every time he felt older, he’d turn it greyer. Her silly little friend would be one of the reasons she’d never grow tired.
Yes. Of them all, Ksmvr would be there. And she would be there for him. Yvlon didn’t know if he’d ever fall in love—but maybe that would be Pisces.
He’d show up with either someone who was like him, some sniffing, female Pisces with noble blood, or someone who could balance his craziness.
And Ceria? Yvlon had forgotten she’d forgiven her friend. She didn’t see or feel Ceria’s cool hand on her forehead trying to draw the burning heat away.
That Ice Weasel…she and Ceria would fight now and then. But the half-Elf would look annoyingly the same after two decades. Young…and come out talking about going on dates and tell Yvlon they should go dancing when Yvlon was old.
That was her retirement. Was she happy? Happy being stared at for her metal arms? Of course not. But Ksmvr was there, and she was happy. Maybe she’d go to his wedding. Someone would love that silly Antinium, and Yvlon would have to vet them.
When he finally got the right one, she’d have to make him stand there without his mustache. Pisces would probably insist on being the ‘best man’, and giving a longwinded speech until Ceria made him sit down. And Yvlon would be there, watching as someone she trusted could take care of Ksmvr. Because he was two decades younger than she was, and Yvlon wanted to make sure he was happy.
The entire wedding—obviously she’d volunteer her cottage and maybe have it outside—had a surreal feel. It was as if she was drifting away. Yvlon looked at that vision of Ksmvr and smiled.
And she was happy. Yes, that would be exactly how it went.
Then…Tolveilouka would show up and kill him.
He came in like poison. A half-Elf who broke through the wedding, laughing, took a glass and changed. Bulging, turning rotten, until he seized Ksmvr and Pisces and Ceria and killed everyone. One by one.
And Yvlon couldn’t kill him.
He stood there, in her dream-imagination, laughing as an older Yvlon thrust a blade into his chest, lanced him with arms of metal—and he tore them off her. He healed from every wound, and she screamed. Screamed for air—drowning—in the toxins he’d thrown into her blood—
It was too real. Yvlon fought, trying to figure out a way to kill him. And she realized then, in icy cold—
We never killed him. Unless we kill him, he will come back in my happiest hour.
I can’t do it.
The retired Yvlon was choking to death, airways swollen, breathing out blood as someone tried to get her to breathe. Shaking with cold even as she burned up.
Part of her accepted it. But another part stared up at the laughing half-Elf. At the Adult Creler, its overbearing thoughts beating down on her as she hammered at its body. At Skinner.
And it refused to give.
I will see you dead. She needed—something. Something to protect that silly, older Ksmvr with his walrus mustache and the potbelly he kept pretending he had. Her arms—
How could she kill him? Slice him to bits. Slice him with arms like blades.
“—her arms—get back, Ksmvr—”
No. It didn’t work. She knew it without even having to see him heal. He was a monster of another era.
Dice him into pieces? Now she imagined it. Her arms…her arms turning into nets, wrapping around him and squeezing. But it didn’t work.
Something more. Somethingmoresomethingmore—a blade? No, her arms had to be—
 
——
 
“Ksmvr!”
The wagon was exploding. The undead horses tore free, and Peki saved Wil by grabbing him and backflipping off it. The blade of Yvlon’s arms barely missed her.
“What is she doing?”
“She’s still asleep! She’s barely alive—Ksmvr!”
The Antinium had refused to let go of her. He was dead. Wil knew it. He stared at Yvlon and saw…
What were her arms? He couldn’t even describe them. 
First, they’d just shifted to razor blades, sword-arms. That was normal. But then they’d begun to elongate.
Like the roots of some tree. Only, so narrow and wire-like that he had never seen it before. Even the tooth of a comb…they moved and splintered, growing out like some kind of artificial structure. The lattice of a gemstone, perhaps.
Not a spider’s web. There was a logical symmetry to them. Like the roots of some mechanical tree, Wil thought. A Golem tree of metal—like the roots of something not of this world.
It cut into the wagon, into the ground. It destroyed everything, and Yvlon’s team took cover.
“Ksmvr!”
Ceria rose and shouted. Wil rose, fearing the worst—and he saw the Antinium there, holding Yvlon. Ksmvr was trembling—but Wil realized as he saw the metal structure slashing around Ksmvr, forming a cocoon of silversteel—
It wasn’t touching Ksmvr. Not a single strand. In fact, as his antennae twitched, the metal wires moved around him.
A fractal shield—as if Yvlon were trying to shield him from something. Wil looked at Peki, and the [Martial Artist] took one look at the maze of blades—and backed away.
“You first.”
Even Peki would not get close. But Wil’s awe turned to worry as Yvlon’s shaking grew worse.
“The wagon—”
“Forget it! Colth—we need to keep moving! I’ll make an ice sleigh!”
Ceria shouted. Ksmvr gently pulled the metal back, and Yvlon’s arms withdrew slowly.
“Yvlon. Yvlon, don’t die. Alright?”
She didn’t open her eyes.
 
——
 
No. The metal didn’t work. She could shield him, in her dream, but she was missing something.
It would have killed Thelican or Skinner or many foes.
Not Tolveilouka.
He laughed at her, and she remembered what he had said.
Men of metal. He had called her one of them. Half-made. And he had fought them.
She feared it. Feared the conclusion—but then she saw a bright-eyed stare. Silver—more beautiful silver than the images of Yderigrisel, the Silver Dragon and protector of their house she’d always thought was a bit too glorious in their images of him.
She remembered what the man who called himself Taletevirion had said.
 
“It will define you, or you will define it. It is not your master unless you allow it. Choose. Women of metal forged themselves with hearts harder than the hammers they endured.”
 
The woman was dying. Yvlon Byres, the elderly, retired woman lay in a puddle of her own bile, dying as poisons ate her apart. Disease consumed her frail flesh.
But she clung to it. She didn’t want…want to be metal. She wanted her arms. She wanted their strength. But her flesh?
Yvlon looked at Yvlon, and she saw the scar over features that people had called beautiful. Faded, no longer as vicious as it had been when Skinner tore at her face.
But hers. She imagined it made of metal and revolted. Then she stared at her hands.
Metal hands. If only they weren’t so foreign. They were hers and not hers. They felt so…cool. The only part of her not burning up.
Yvlon stared down at her hands.
“I would love you if you belonged to me. If it didn’t feel as fake as this leg. But I need you. I’ll take your strength. But only if you’re part of me.”
She pulled an arm off. Or did it fall off? Detach from flesh too weak to hold it? A body no longer living, but dying? It felt like someone was shaking her now, and her heart was failing.
Yvlon stared at the blank metal shaped perfectly where her shoulder had been. Graceful metal imitating flesh. But…
Aha? There? She wanted to wave her arm around and show someone to complain. She had always known it.
It’s just metal inside. Yvlon had seen arms laid open. Pisces had his precious bones. She knew there was sinew and muscle; she could feel herself tearing them, and her arms had none of it.
It was just solid silver-steel that morphed as she desired. No wonder she could make it telescope and change. There was nothing really there. Just an ingot formed by will. It could turn into anything—but like Colth said, that was all only if she could imagine.
And her imagination was so limited. Yvlon Byres stared down at the arm. Now she felt like she could see into it. Imagine the poison clotting her veins, killing her. Her faltering heart…
Where are the veins? Her blood circulated her body without her arms. Her arms had no blood in them. They were…
At least have veins. Yvlon had traced the blue vein in her skin down her fingers, seeing how it connected and split and ran up her arm. She held her arm and recreated it now. From memory. Imagining the veins, hollow tubes that ran throughout her arms. Bones. And…the blood running through the silver flesh.
That was an arm.
 
——
 
“Her arm’s back on.”
The metal had begun pooling, detaching from a stump on her shoulder. This was Yvlon’s final hour.
They were too far away. Pisces was howling with Colth, racing them down the night road as snow fell. Yvlon’s arm had detached, and Ksmvr was holding her. And so was Ceria.
The half-Elf felt at the arm, and it was back to normal.
“Is she—is she—?”
Ksmvr was holding Yvlon tight, but he had no ears. Ceria pressed her ear to Yvlon’s chest. It was hard below the howling of Gnolls and the rush of the wind and her own thudding heart—but she heard it.
Lub-dub.
A dying heartbeat. Yvlon had stopped coughing, but Ceria did not think that was better. Ceria held Yvlon’s hand and looked around. She spoke, distantly, as Ksmvr put his own head to Yvlon’s body, listening.
“I am going to freeze her. Just like Erin. Pisces.”
He looked back, wild-eyed, and Ceria remembered what Erin had said.
The dead will not come back.
“She’s still alive, Ceria. I hear her. I hear…”
Ksmvr begged the half-Elf to wait. Ceria bent down. She couldn’t hear it—then she yanked her arms back.
“She’s warm.”
“She’s cooler than she should be. She’s dying. If you’re going to do it, Ceria. Don’t hesitate!”
Colth shouted at her. Yvlon’s fever had turned cold—and her body was cooling too fast as it ran out of energy. But—Ceria touched something and yanked her hand back.
“It’s warm. It’s not been warm—”
She was holding Yvlon’s metal arm. It was lying there, limp, and Ksmvr raised his head.
“Her heart is still beating, Ceria. Even I can hear it. See?”
He held up her arm, and Ceria stared at it. The silver flesh…
“There’s no blood in her arm. Is—”
She put her ear down, and Pisces and Colth looked back. Yvlon’s arm was warm. And Ceria heard, louder than anything thanks to the metal conducting the sound—
Thum. Thum.
Her blood rushing. The half-Elf lowered her wand—and looked at Pisces and Colth.
 
——
 
There it was. Yvlon watched in satisfaction as the blood ran through silver. She had heard, of course, of her aunts and uncles who got silver poisoning from working their job.
But this was different.
Who had not pictured sickness in their lungs as something they could scoop out? Or a twisted back muscle as something that could be unknotted?
Well, Yvlon was imagining just that. Imagining the corrupted blood and whatever else was wrong was running through the silver. Being leeched of toxins. Purified by soft silver. She clenched one hand—and then looked down.
She stood in front of that mirror, and an older Yvlon looked down as she waited for Ksmvr to give her another red flower. She began to hobble to the door on her one good leg—then decided she would rather walk.
So Yvlon stared down at the silver foot and shook her head ruefully. Then her head rose, and she forgot about it. She opened the door—and welcomed her friends into her home. And she felt Ceria’s hand as she took it. And it felt, for once—
 
——
 
“Cool.”
That was the first thing Yvlon said. She looked up, and a half-Elf blinked away water.
“What?”
“Your hands are cool. They’re cold.”
“What are you talking about?”
The [Cryomancer] gave Yvlon the most mystified look in her life—then she flung her arms around her.
“Easy, easy! Get her a stamina potion—Yvlon, you need to stay awake!”
Colth shoved Ceria aside. The bewildered [Armsmistress] looked at him. She tried to speak and coughed.
“What—what’s wrong with you, Colth?”
Then she looked around.
“Why is it night? What happened to the wagon?”
They were riding on a chariot of ice. The Horns and Colth were the only people present; had they split up with the [Strategists] and Gnolls?
“You were dying, Yvlon!”
“Me? No I wasn’t. I told you. My fever was back this morning.”
The Horns looked at each other.
“This morning? That was a day and a half ago! You took a turn at midday, and we’ve been trying to get you to a [Shaman].”
“Me?”
Yvlon Byres sat up. She felt incredibly weak—but her arms took her weight. Then she realized she felt more from them than she ever had before. They were…warm. She touched her arm and felt the pressure from one fingertip. Like flesh.
She had always had feeling, but now her arms felt cold. Cold enough for her to want to put on a jacket. Almost too sensitive. She could feel a tingle as snowflakes landed on them—and when she thought it was unpleasant, her skin seemed to ‘harden’ or ‘solidify’, and the sensations vanished.
But then she reached out and touched Ksmvr’s hand, and he jumped.
“You have cold hands too. You need gloves.”
She scolded him. He nodded as someone else stood up and raised his voice.
“Peki! Peki, tell the others Yvlon woke back up! We’re checking on her—hold a moment!”
Colth was shouting up at someone flapping through the falling snow. Yvlon felt Ksmvr hugging her.
“You didn’t die.”
“I wouldn’t do that to you, silly. I have to wait until you put on a mustache so you take it off.”
The slightly disoriented woman mumbled, and Ksmvr paused. Pisces poked his head back and stared at her. But then Yvlon yawned.
“I did a lot of thinking, Colth. I think…I’m really hungry. Can we stop at the nearest restaurant? But I’m going to take a nap…”
She lay back, and everyone promptly shook her awake until Yvlon clarified she was tired. They still didn’t believe her, but her heartbeat was stronger, and whatever had been in her system—
Was gone. When Yvlon did get to city and the relieved Horns who hadn’t eaten all day began to tuck in, she ate twice what Gireulashia and Ceria combined managed. Yvlon actually stared at her stomach, wondering if it would rupture. But it did not, and she was ravenous.
Plus…
The stump on her right foot was itching. When the [Armsmistress] passed out again, the voice was waiting. And it said this:
 
[Silversteel Armsmistress Level 40!]
[Skill – Limb: Imbue Skill obtained!]
[Skill – Silversteel: Structure of Species obtained!]
[Skill – Body: Aspect of Iron obtained!]
[Skill – Body: Aspect of Silver obtained!]
 
