That man with all his posturing in arrogance hesitated. Then he leapt forwards and took a stance next to Orjin, calling out a challenge, and he with all his silliness and his own faults seemed to still be there.
But if you sifted deep enough through the sand, you might find a sliver of something better. The first gleaming edge of it looked like courage to Orjin.
 
——
 
The sun had moved about two hour’s length down the sky when he walked out of the city. Orjin walked, then began to jog. The Fury of the Skies was clinging to Spitty’s back, exhausted.
Ixen was silent. The warriors not playing dead—and none were dead that Orjin had hit—were lying across the street and walls. Part of the gates were blown open, and Orjin bent the steel crudely back into place to prevent a monster from easily getting in. He couldn’t do anything about the buildings with their walls blown in.
His skin was cut and felt burnt in several places. Someone had shot him with an arrow in one arm. He had yanked out the arrow, but it stung. [Piercing Shot].
Besides that? Orjin walked out of the city and left two hundred of Ixen’s warriors and half the Steel Brigade’s members lying on the street.
“That was a deed worthy of the Strongest of Pomle.”
The Fury crowed about it all the rest of the evening predictably. To his credit, he had taken out at least forty himself, but he had tired before Orjin. Yet his wind-attacks had kept the arrows from hitting them mostly.
“Did that girl make it? I could tell it was her, from the bar.”
Someone had whispered to Orjin that Gavros was safe. The Fury just shrugged.
“They might suspect her. But I think they will not be able to prove it if she’s clever. You can defeat truth stones, and Fox Beastkin are tricky. It will be hard for her people despite what you did—because of what you did. But it is always hard for such people.”
He spoke a kind of truth. Orjin shook his head.
“If she had been a warrior of Pomle…”
The terror in her eyes seeing one of her people about to be executed without having the power to do anything about it—he remembered that more than the fighting. The Fury shrugged.
“Not everyone can fight.”
“They can all learn. If she had been Salthorn’s disciple, she could have done something about it. Or not. Perhaps…only a few of Pomle’s masters could do what we just did. We have seen our weakness in this war. That is what I am here to find.”
The Fury of Skies looked up, and he began to understand part of Orjin’s journey. He exhaled as he leapt from Spitty’s back at a watering hole, and Orjin sent a bucket plummeting into a well where travellers could haul off water. This one was only for camels—but he took a drink of the brackish water himself. The Fury shuddered, but Orjin had a Skill.
[Consumption: Increase Nutrition] and [Stomach of the Hermit]. Even Spitty gave him the side-eye as he gulped from the salty water.
“So that is the former Strongest’s desire. To make his martial art accessible to all. I see, now. You know, I am much the same; my Windcaller’s Wrath took in those like that [Barmaid]. Taught them self-respect, gave them community. You and I are not that dissimilar, Orjin.”
The Fury of Skies smiled. Orjin paused in hauling another bucket of water up and thought about that. He nodded, shortly, coming over to offer the bucket to the Fury. The man instantly refused. Orjin cradled the bucket in one arm as he replied.
“You may not be wrong, Fury of Skies. I have much to learn—and perhaps we are similar. But if we must travel together, I will say one thing about your Windcaller’s Wrath cult and folk.”
“Oh?”
Soloxenethn’s smile looked welcoming—until it turned into alarm. He tried to step back, but Orjin’s fist smashed into his nose. Then the Strongest of Pomle tossed the bucket of water into the Fury’s face and hit him with the bucket.
Round two of Orjin and the Fury of Skies’ duel looked much like the first. After Orjin had punched the Fury of Skies enough times, he let Spitty spit on him and tossed him into the well.
And the man caught up later that night. For some reason, he refused to leave. Perhaps he realized the same thing Orjin had.
They both had a lot to learn. And whether the Fury realized it consciously or not, it was why Orjin let him catch up and sit, silent and bruised.
He looked like a picture of how he had seemed after facing the Prophet. The difference was that this time, Orjin had not broken his teeth or beaten him so badly he couldn’t walk. Yet he had hit the Fury.
Not in uncontrolled wrath alone. But like he had fought for Gavros or first offended Nerrhavia’s Fallen by freeing slaves after seeing them being beaten by that [Prince]—Orjin looked at the Fury, and the man flinched. Angrily, uncomprehending.
He had been a reasonable man this entire trip. More reasonable, at least, than Orjin had ever known him. And that was well.
“You don’t—approve of my presence, Orjin? I thought we had gained an understanding.”
His eyes flashed with that uncomprehending anger. The other [Martial Artist] sat cross-legged, face impassive as a campfire’s light flickered across his features. When he spoke, it was with a shake of his head.
“I am on the same journey. I failed Pomle. My martial art and yours seek improvement. Truth. I found some of that, with Gavros, at Ixen. I considered you a braver warrior in that moment, worthy of Pomle.”
“Then why strike me?”
The Fury of Winds leapt to his feet, and the winds howled a second. Orjin looked up, a simple cup of water in hand. And the winds stilled around him. The Fury hesitated—
For he realized Orjin was truly angry. But he held it like every measured word and drop of water he refused to spill.
“You are on a quest to define yourself, Solo…”
“Soloxenethn.”
“Yes. But I see little guilt in you.”
“Why would I be guilty?”
The man’s face looked so confused and blank that it became, once again, eminently punchable. But Orjin did not move. He sat and spoke, and after a moment, the Fury sat once more and listened.
Perhaps so he might figure it out. Orjin hoped that he would. The difference between the two was that both were searching for something.
But one of them had redemption to seek.
 
——
 
Yvlon did not apologize to Ceria the next day.
She didn’t feel like she had to. Sometimes, you were 101% justified in getting angry at someone, and Ceria just spreading malicious rumors about other people qualified to Yvlon.
She expressed this to Ksmvr and Pisces when he asked her why she had not made up with Ceria—who had apologized for her prank. Yvlon said it reasonably and heard them out and told them how she felt, and they dropped the topic.
Yes, it had put a bit of a damper on their visit to Loeri, but Ceria was not going to do that again in Yvlon’s earshot most likely. They had gotten lucky that no one had given them more than a fine for breaking the peace.
Colth was just as understanding as everyone else when he rode with Yvlon, behind the others, and had a talk. He nodded along as Yvlon explained her rational position.
“I’m not just angry about Ceria’s circlet, Colth. It’s because she’s lying to no point, she doesn’t trust her team, and she’s not behaving like a Captain should.”
“Very understandable, Yvlon.”
“Thank you. Is it wrong to take a moral stance against what Ceria is doing?”
Yvlon couldn’t see any other way to think. Colth gave her a calm smile and shook his head.
“Absolutely not.”
“Thank you.”
“You are a [Paragon of Virtue] and principle. Gire could learn something from you.”
“That might be too much flattery, but I’ll take it in the spirit intended.”
Yvlon kept her face straight, and the [Supporter] raised his hands.
“Oh, no, I’m serious. You’re doing what you think is right. It makes you an ethical woman. And a poor teammate.”
The [Armsmistress]’ own slight smile turned into a scowl. But Colth wasn’t wary of that glare at all.
“Everyone’s got foibles. You think Deni’s team likes him doing half the things he does? Viecel’s got a gambling addiction. Eld…well, he’s unnaturally nice, and he has some things I won’t say, but look at Valeterisa. Killed over a hundred people trying to wake her up. I love her to pieces, and so does Larra.”
“That’s not right. Are you going to ignore what she did?”
If Yvlon thought of that, the Archmage of Izril disturbed her even more. Colth raised his hands.
“Oh, no. I’m upset, and I think Valley’s the most upset—if she would ever focus on her feelings. But she is my friend.”
“So you’ll put her over a hundred innocent dead people?”
Colth thought about it as Yvlon’s eyes flashed.
“Hmm…yes. Yes, I will. And I think you’d better ask whether or not you’re being entirely truthful with why you went after Ceria like that. I’m not holding you to my morality; I’ll stab someone in the back to save a friend. But wouldn’t a more reasonable Yvlon have pulled Ceria aside rather than gone straight to ‘shatter a pitcher over her head’?”
Yvlon flushed at that, because she didn’t like the Named-rank’s own code of ethics. And she didn’t like him being right either.
“—I’m going to visit Berr. You can stop harping on about my temper.”
She snapped, and Colth nodded so calmly she wanted to hit him again. But he switched gears at once.
“Alright, then. In that case, let’s talk about your personal improvement as an adventurer.”
“What about it?”
“Ah, not the right question, Yvlon. Where is it?”
She was so outraged about that she and he began arguing. Yvlon struck her chest.
“I practice every day! Ceria’s the one who has to be bullied into training! Do you not see me and Ksmvr train?”
“I see you doing that, yes. I said ‘self improvement’, not ‘daily maintenance’. Improvement isn’t simple. You’re not training a new style. He is. And so are the other Horns.”
 
——
 
Ksmvr spent a good deal of his time not sitting in the wagon practicing with his swords. He had the blades he’d looted from Hscel in Chandrar, and while they were no Relic-class weapons, he claimed that having two balanced blades fit his Silver Illusion Sword School.
In fact, he practiced with Wil, Venaz, and anyone else who wanted to try him and claimed it was good practice. Even against the inexperienced Wil, Ksmvr was…well, it was hard to say.
He tried to explain it to Pisces as Yvlon listened in one time.
“It is very hard to explain, Comrade Pisces. It is not as simple as…performing a move or even a series of moves. Or sticking a sword into a weak spot.”
“I don’t follow, Comrade Ksmvr. Please explain.”
“Oho. The student has become the master. Very well. I understand many sword schools where you have blade patterns. It is like a dance; you adjust, but you might follow a series of pre-planned moves. It can be effective unless you break the dance. There is also just knowing how to strike a weak spot. Like how most [Fencers] fight.”
“Yes…that’s how everyone fights.”
“Not the Silver Illusion school!”
“So you don’t stab someone when you see an opening?”
“I…create an opening, Comrade Pisces. Or create a wall.”
Pisces’ blank look could have been used to plaster the wall of a house. Yvlon herself scratched her head. Ksmvr tried to elaborate, and his explanation grew more esoteric.
“Imagine the world is made of light, Comrade Pisces. Which it is. But this is a figurative world where eyes are like a cone of light. You can only react to what you see, but the rest of the world is immutable. Things move, and you have to see where they move, but an expert can still predict everything.”
“Yes…I think I understand.”
Ksmvr nodded happily.
“Well, the Silver Illusion is all about taking the world and reflecting that cone of light with the blades. Twisting what is seen—so the cone of light thinks it sees a slash but only sees a silver glitter. That is the first step. The second step is to change the world through trickery. To create a wall of silver that is such a good illusion it makes reality believe it was there.”
Pisces’ blank look escalated into complete stupefaction. Yvlon…
“That sounds like magic, Ksmvr.”
“Only a tiny bit. In dimensions. The Key-Style of Samal does the same thing. Locks and unlocking. My studies showed that you could lock a blade or unlock it in a clash of swords; very inconvenient.”
Pisces stroked his chin, fascinated, while Yvlon sat back, head hurting already. Ksmvr’s blade-school, and her training him, had gone from the material to the esoteric.
The problem was, she sort of got it. In their spars, Ksmvr would strike and parry with her, but when he dueled Venaz and Wil in a three-way fight—
She swore she saw him produce a third blade at one point during the fight. Despite only having two shortswords, and his daggers or Stan’s crossbows in his other two hands, Wil leapt back from a third sword as Ksmvr threatened Venaz with the first two.
If it had touched the [Lord], would it cut? 
The point was that Ksmvr was learning a highly distracting, mobile sword school that was capable of a lot of tricks. To say he had grown since Chandrar was an understatement, and he had a path.
In fact, he had two paths. One was his journey as a warrior in Klbkch the Slayer’s footsteps.
The other, it seemed, was to become a [Baron of the Trees].
 
——
 
“Ksmvr, I have something to give you. In light of our quarrel over your lost, um, acreage, I made a few arrangements at Loeri. It would give me great joy to bury the hatchet, so to speak.”
“Bury it where, please? In the back of someone else?”
Ksmvr was wary as Wil and the [Strategists] presented him with something over lunch. Yvlon saw Wil unroll a scroll and clear his throat nervously.
“Nothing so grim. Rather—this is a small deed from Loeri. The city itself is obviously a mining one, but I inquired around, and their Council did say they had a local forest nearby. For a fee, they graciously offered two trees to me. And I would like to remit them to you now.”
The scroll was a deed to two trees in a forest. Ksmvr stared at the title, which recognized him as owning two trees in the middle of a forest. Ksmvr the Antinium, owning trees in Drake territory.
Merrik couldn’t believe Wil had pulled it off. But Peki had put the idea in Wil’s head, and the [Lord] had effected it through a combination of judiciously applied gold and suggestions to the Drakes that they were selling two trees they’d never bother cutting down anyways at a landmark profit.
To an Antinium. Ksmvr stared at the scroll as Pisces, Yvlon, and Ceria held their breaths. The Gnolls were laughing their tails off, but everyone waited to see whether Ksmvr would be happy or throw this in Wil’s face.
