The Strongest kept running. He never made to wipe at the blood. Perhaps—he didn’t even know he was weeping. Like sweat, like the pain from his feet—he might not have felt it. He might not have even felt how he was wounded.
He had been the Strongest of Pomle. He had had a home. But right now, Orjin ran. Ran—and the vision of him vanished as Nanette and Mrsha stood there, staring at his back. They were holding each other as the [World’s Eye Theatre] returned around them.
Then a voice snapped.
“Aha. I knew my little girl was too quiet! Especially when you always have to go to the outhouse in the middle of the night. What are you two doing?”
Lyonette looked at Nanette and Mrsha as they jumped. A sleepy Ser Lormel had answered the call and used his Skill [Locate Ward (Person)] to find them.
The [Princess] was ready to scold the two—but one look at their faces made the young woman hesitate.
“What happened to you two?”
We saw something sad.
Mrsha wrote and then burst into tears. She ran over to hug Lyonette’s skirt, and Nanette wiped at her own eyes. Lyonette put her hands on her hips—then gathered Mrsha into a big hug.
“Ser Lormel, milk with honey. You silly little girl, Mrsha. It’s Erin’s Skill. You don’t play with that kind of thing until you want your heart broken. There, there. What happened?”
Mrsha, gulping, tried to explain, and Lyonette’s face fell. She turned to Lormel as he paused by the doorway.
“Something’s happened in Pomle. Find out.”
Why can’t Erin have one happy thing that doesn’t also make you sad?
Mrsha wiped her nose on Lyonette’s skirt. The [Princess] sighed.
“The problem with Erin is that she shows you true things. Let’s go to Miss Larracel’s inn tomorrow, why don’t we? She knows how to lie sweetly. Sometimes you need that.”
She ushered the tearful girls into the common room of the inn so they could be cheered up, scolding forgotten. That was fine for them—but Orjin kept running.
Running and running until Spitty collapsed. Then Orjin slowed down. Only when he wiped at the sweat on his face did he wonder if he’d been hurt. He touched the blood dried on his cheeks, and…his expression didn’t change.
But he was a poor liar.
 
——
 
It was travelling that gave you time to think and reflect on your feelings. Like sadness. Guilt. Loss. The future. Something about having nothing to do but either talk or sit in a bumping wagon or carriage and think for hours on end was either appealing for a while—or a kind of torture of its own.
Mind you—Yvlon Byres did jump out of the undead-pulled wagon and run for at least a few miles every day. It was hard, and Pisces had to slow down their pace to let her do it—but the [Necromancer] did it himself too.
By the third day on the road, he had even taken to changing into a tunic and leggings rather than his eternal white robe because he kept tripping over the hem and faceplanting.
The sight of Pisces in anything but his white robes was so odd that Yvlon would stare at him for the first few minutes of the run. Then she’d have to concentrate on running.
The peg-leg did not make it easier. In truth, the wagon was slowed to about a jog, and Yvlon ran on her healed stump. It—hurt. The prosthetic needed to be re-fit, and Peggy had suggested Yvlon get a better one. The Horns could afford it.
Slamming her weight into her tender right leg where the prosthetic joined just above her ankle did hurt. Yvlon ran through it. She had to run hard and not waver because it was also difficult for her, missing limb aside.
She was a Level 39 [Silversteel Armsmistress], courtesy of participating in Zeladona’s Trial of Blades. Yvlon was a Gold-rank adventurer, a seasoned warrior, and fit enough to run in armor.
Running for a few miles even with the peg-leg should be easy…but she was heavier than she used to be.
Two arms made out of metal added to her weight. And swinging them around as she ran made her tired. Yvlon…could barely do two miles each morning, which was disgusting.
By contrast, Ksmvr ran for eight miles, all the while keeping up a non-stop discussion with Pisces about what would be the best pet to own. He only stopped when he noticed Yvlon counting the miles, and she felt bad about that.
Then again, he was a [Skirmisher], and she would never say anything bad about him. He could do nothing bad in her mind, really. He was a child—and a brave one.
Pisces, by contrast, was an annoying prat…who had gone through unbelievable torment in Chandrar. And who was not so much the self-centered [Necromancer] she had first met as a brave man playing a two-copper role as if his life depended on no one finding out who he was. To say she respected him—not least because he put in six miles before he crawled into the wagon and lay there, swearing about the agonies of physical exertion—was putting it lightly.
If Yvlon did not like her team, she would have left long ago. She liked Pisces, though the unspoken agreement was neither would ever acknowledge that under torture. She explicitly took care of Ksmvr and tried to teach him life lessons since everyone else was doing it wrong.
Yvlon loved her team. Pisces, the noble contradiction of a [Necromancer]. Ksmvr, the lost Antinium she thought of like the little brother she’d always wanted.
And Ceria, her Captain. Who was a weasel in half-Elf flesh, a gluttonous, possibly inbred rodent with all the morality and personal hygiene of a Creler in a sack of shit. A treacherous slug. A…
“Yvlon, come on. I’m sorry. Don’t hit me, though.”
Ceria tried to get Yvlon to open up during a lunch. But the half-Elf—who had been riding with the Ekhtouch in their own group—got only a scowl from Yvlon that was so deep that Pisces and Ksmvr immediately distracted her and blocked her with their bodies.
If Yvlon got in range of Ceria, she might punch the half-Elf on purpose. The separation was for everyone’s own good.
The fight had raged for two days, and even Venaz seemed disinclined to get in the way of it. But then, Erin’s traumatic booning of him might have added to his introspective silence. Yvlon stabbed Yellats with a fork, piling them up until they were the length of the tines. Then she took bites of the roasted lunch in deep silence.
Ceria had lied about the circlet. She had lied to the adventurers who had risked their lives at the City of the Dead. Lied to her team. Lied to everyone and convinced everyone else to take a smaller share of gold.
Yvlon got why Ceria had done it. It was the kind of thing she might think to do as an adventurer—save the Relics, pay less gold for how much the Horns had risked and almost lost in the Village of the Dead.
Oh, yes, it made sense. Yvlon would have been tempted to do what Ceria had done. If she had all the morality of Todi.
No—even Todi was better than that. Yvlon said nothing as Ceria coughed.
“I saw you having fun running, Pisces. Even Merrik and Peki. The Gnolls did the same a ways back. Ekhtouch can run.”
She nodded to Gireulashia, who paused as she wolfed down entire Yellats to shrug. She was eating twice what anyone else was, and the nine-foot-tall [Paragon] always seemed hungry.
“Not you, Captain Ceria?”
“Eh. I don’t want to.”
Pisces glowered at Ceria along with Wil and the other [Strategists]. Everyone had been so inspired by fighting Zeladona they’d resolved to work out, and Pisces had picked up a [Fencer] class, even. Because he wanted to change and embrace…well, his love of using the rapier, regardless of his personal history.
The only person who didn’t go for runs was Ceria. Yvlon muttered out of the corner of her mouth without looking at the half-Elf.
“I should have known that some people won’t ever try to improve themselves. Even after meeting a literal legend face-to-face.”
Pisces sucked in his lips, and the lunch group fell silent. Ceria opened and closed her mouth—then replied. She didn’t seem—angry. Which pissed off Yvlon no end. In fact, she seemed to hide a moment of amusement before replying carefully.
“Personal fitness is good. But I’m a realist; if I’m going anywhere fast in a fight, I’d skate instead. You saw me doing that. Different method, same mentality.”
Yvlon didn’t reply. She stared at her plate and ignored Ceria completely. The half-Elf had been skating on her floors of ice, sometimes obnoxiously well with her Skill, other times building up practice there.
The [Armsmistress] knew Ceria had been doing that each night, and she’d still made the comment to annoy Ceria. Yvlon clenched one fist and resisted the urge to punch Ceria.
She was so angry.
—And the problem was that a lot of it, most of it, was Ceria’s fault. But some of it was due to Yvlon’s Skill.
[Berserker’s Rage]. Yvlon could sense Ksmvr watching her anxiously, and only that stopped her from getting up and—
She did not want to attack her team again. And as if he were a reminder of that himself—Colth the [Supporter] leaned over.
“Everyone’s exercising hard, there’s no doubt about that. But—given how tense things have been on the road, what say you all we stop at the next big settlement we come across? It would give us a moment to break, relax, and rest up. Pay for an inn?”
There was a murmur of agreement about that. Yvlon bit back a remark that forced its way out anyways.
“We don’t need to waste the coin, Colth.”
He raised his brows. Colth, as ever, looked younger than he was. He was in his early thirties but looked five years younger, with brownish-green hair and youthful features, sometimes innocent and kid-like.
Similar to Ksmvr. He carried so many objects on his adventurer belt that he looked like some kind of wandering [Peddler], but his eyes were pale violet and always seemed—knowing. He was a kind of amateur-expert on almost everything, and he was friendly, the glue in a relationship.
Right up until he was fighting or serious when you saw his eyes turn into blades. And when he smiled, really smiled—
Well. He nudged Yvlon with a smile, ignoring her sour tone. She swatted at his hand, a bit too hard—and his arm blurred.
He grabbed her head with one arm and rubbed his knuckles into her hair. Pisces inhaled some of his food and began choking as Yvlon shoved him off—and Colth danced back with a laugh.
Fearless. 
“Yvlon. I respect your pique, but you are speaking like a Silver or Bronze-ranker. Coin? I’ll pay for everyone if you want, but the Horns can pay for any lodging at the finest inn without sweating. If you want to live like a [Monk], feel free, but you’re not going to level without the class.”
He winked, and Yvlon turned red—because she realized he was right.
The Horns were loaded with coin. Yvlon sometimes forgot how much they had—not least from Albez, but all their adventures since! Gire broke the silence with a growl from her stomach.
“I—wouldn’t mind stopping to eat.”
“Now there’s someone who’d strain even Deni’s budget.”
Colth remarked, and everyone laughed. Yvlon settled back, cheeks red, and still the anger bubbled and seethed.
She’d really thought she’d gotten better at it since Nerrhavia’s arenas, with Menorome’s help. But the Ceria thing had set her off, and she thought…
She thought that Colth was right to insist she go meet Berr the Berserker. She needed help. Her Skill was overwhelming her.
It was not all her fault, though. Yvlon was…she truly was betrayed by Ceria. Her team captain, who they had gone through so much with, was wearing an invisible Relic on her head.
Colth knew. Pisces and Ksmvr knew, and sometimes some of the Gnolls or one of the [Strategists] would stare too long at Ceria’s hair, but it was impossible to see. Even touching Ceria’s hair, like trying to drag it off her, didn’t work.
She refused to take it off. She claimed it only gave her intelligence and had a few ‘minor side effects’, but Yvlon refused to believe it.
The fight between the Silver Killer of the Horns and the Ice Weasel had put a damper on the trip so far. However, they could at least eat lunch, and Yvlon Byres could be sociable.
She sat there with Wil Kallinad as Merrik tried to play cards on the bumpy wagon with Venaz, Peki, Ksmvr, and Pisces. Ceria was with the Gnolls, levitating a spellbook as she rode, and one of the other people heading to the Meeting of Tribes was snoozing in the wagon.
“So. Lord Kallinad.”
“Wil will do, Miss Yvlon.”
He seemed—reserved. Yvlon put on her friendly smile, realizing she had not made the best impression so far. He might not have seen her accidentally attacking her team—in Liscor—but watching her punch through walls of ice as she threatened to throttle Ceria to death—
Yvlon could see how it would affect his view of her. Or maybe it was her morphing arms. She kept them very still, in her lap, as she sat with her back straight.
Good posture, friendly demeanor…and good conversation. Yvlon thought for a second, then nodded.
“—What do you think about the Ailendamus conflict now that the migration to the New Lands has begun? Pheislant, nor many nations, have not actually signed a peace treaty. I even understand Wellfar is pushing the remaining Ailendamus ships at sea, and the Order of Seasons continues a limited campaign along their borders.”
Wil gave Yvlon a blank look, then a weak smile for some reason.
“Oh—that’s what I’ve heard. The Order of Spring and Summer have a front along one of the western borders—Ailendamus is defensive, pulling back after losing so many warriors and their Great General. I imagine this might turn into a war of a hundred skirmishes until one side is willing to pay rather than continue the conflict. They might draw up another large army, but I don’t believe the political will is there.”
“So do you feel Pheislant will try to claim any lands?”
He hesitated.
“The Order’s front has some Pheislant soldiers, but no, the nation proper hasn’t committed a full army for fear it would escalate the fighting once more. That would be what I’d do—so I believe the Order of Seasons is mostly harrying the soldiers themselves and trying to overrun positions without fortifications.”
“I see. And how are the courts reacting to the new lands?”
“My father himself might go to Izril, if that’s any indication. They are abuzz, as you can imagine.”
“Izril and Terandria both seem to be preparing for the journey.”
She nodded with a smile, and he nodded back. Then a deep silence fell over the two. Yvlon began another line of inquiry regarding how he thought Calanfer was doing, and Wil responded. It was going well, though they did have some moments of silence. It was hard to keep a conversation going, and she reflected she might well sit and think—but it was worth trying to talk for a bit.
 
——
 
