Venaz protested mildly. Colth rolled his eyes, and Yvlon tried not to breathe a bubble of snot out her nose. He passed her a handkerchief. Then he glanced at what came out.
“Colth, I swear—”
Bloody. The [Ultimate Supporter] spoke cheerfully.
“Do you know what your weak spot is, Yvlon Byres? You have powerful, transforming magical arms. You’re strong, you’re fit—present you aside—”
“What’s my weakness?”
“You’re uncreative.”
Yvlon stared up at the sky. One of her eyes rolled and glared at him. After a few seconds, she croaked.
“Why’s that matter?”
“I thought your brother was like that, actually. Ylawes Byres—a known quantity. Good Gold-rank, solid, brave as heck—and about as creative as a rock tied to Lord Tyrion’s head. No offense, but I thought he’d never make Named-rank. There’s a reason I didn’t tap him for fighting Facestealer. And that’s because Named-ranks are creative. Before you bring up Eldertuin, he just knows that most threats fall over if he hits them hard enough.”
“Creativity is my weak spot? Really?”
“Your arms can become anything. If I were you…I’d use those arms and see if I could learn to pick locks. How far do they stretch? Can you lay a tripwire like that [Assassin]?”
“I don’t know. I could find out.”
“Yes, well, I don’t see you doing that. Work on it, hmm? Try this…”
Yvlon took a drink, gagged, but it went down, and she lay back. Colth knew he sounded like a broken speaking stone, but his advice really did work. No one really took him up on it, though.
“How about this? You get some rest. I’ll check on you in a bit. I’ve been wrong, by the way. Ylawes Byres is creative. He took out Facestealer, and he had the guts to keep going at it. Maybe he’s not that imaginative, but I thought if you threw something at him his [Knight]-brain didn’t process, he’d freeze. Turns out he just headbutts it. That’s Named-rank quality.”
“Colth. How am I supposed to be creative?”
He looked back and sighed. House Byres really turned out winners in the mental department, didn’t they? But it wasn’t her fault, not really.
It was just that she was a swinging sword or a hammer. And ever since meeting Pisces…perhaps since running into Skinner, he guessed that Yvlon Byres had found things that couldn’t fit into her world. She had done a very good job…but she looked lost.
And sick. He patted her on the head and looked up. Colth stared at something for a moment, then spoke.
“Why don’t you daydream?”
“Daydream?”
“Imagine it. Don’t you ever imagine things?”
She gave him such a blank look he had his answer. Colth grinned.
“Come on. You’ve never had a dream about being a Gold-rank as a girl?”
“When I was six, maybe. Are you serious?”
“You win up here. [Mages] do it—why can’t a [Warrior] think up a battle plan? Do some thinking. And get some rest.”
Colth walked across the wagon and had a talk with the others. Yvlon lay back on the pillows, staring up at the sky. She had been bundled up, and the snowflakes fell coolly down—but all she felt was wet sometimes.
The sky was hazy. Yvlon closed her eyes and tried to do as Colth suggested.
What she didn’t realize was that the ‘clouds’ she thought she saw overhead? That was steam. It was not impossible for someone to warm up so much that in cold or freezing weather they steamed. It was a bad sign for someone who hadn’t done more than lie there to be that hot.
Yvlon didn’t notice the wagon suddenly pick up speed; Colth and Ceria and Pisces were casting a spell to keep it from bouncing as much as possible. But rather than mix more medicines, the [Ultimate Supporter] just climbed into the driver’s seat and began activating speed Skills. They began to send [Messages] asking if Theikha or an expert could meet them.
They were three days away from the Great Plains’ heartland.
 
——
 
Imagine things, huh?
It sounded stupid, but like all of Colth’s suggestions, Yvlon just bet…there was a serious truth in the silliness.
And she felt—pretty bad, even for her, so she lay there, shivering now and then, trying to do what he bid.
She wasn’t that much use anywhere else. She couldn’t train, she’d hurt Ksmvr…
Imagine.
…How did you do that?
Well, it was obvious to Yvlon. She knew you did it like a dream. As a girl, she had pictured herself being called Dame Yvlon and so on.
But Colth had said it was something more. Creativity. Yvlon resented that. She was plenty creative in a fight. She enjoyed…the arts. Paintings and such. Statues.
Nailren had said her conversation was boring. Was she as boring as Ylawes? No way.
Focus. It was hard, but at least Yvlon could try. Imagine something.
…
She had no idea where to start. How did Yisame do it?
Her [Reader]-[Queen] friend wrote her a letter each week via [Message] spell. Yvlon tried to write back, but Yisame always had more to say about a book or goings-on in Nerrhavia. She claimed everything was well and that she was supporting Zenol as best she could.
But she was also imaginative, and apparently, Sandquen was getting some notoriety for her stories. She wrote…stories. And they were often embellished and often around the Horns.
How did you do that? Just pluck something out of your head? Yvlon tried. She focused as hard as her dizzy mind would allow. She kept coughing. But this wasn’t meditation, was it? She wiped saliva off her mouth, and it tasted like iron.
Imagine something crazy. Like a new undead. It would, uh…be like…
A…skeleton…with a huge eye? Like a Cyclops.
No, wait. That was a Cyclops made of bone. A new thing. What about…a new spell? It would be, um…ice? Ice that exploded?
This was extremely hard. Yvlon felt like steam was rising from her head, and someone put a cool cloth there. She murmured a thank-you.
“Yvlon, I have found a little flower. I will put it here. Please do not die, alright?”
“I’m not dying, Ksmvr. Just sick.”
She tried to smile at him. The Antinium didn’t look convinced as he put a little red bloom—not a rose, but red like one—on her chest. He overreacted to things all the time. She was going to get better just to stop his worrying.
Imagine.
Yvlon managed to get to it after a coughing fit that took ten minutes to stop. Colth insisted she drink more of his horrible tonic and water. She lay back down. She stared blankly at nothing—
And her mental world was literally empty. Yvlon felt like her head was empty as the snow. A pure, white world.
That was all she could do. Fill it with something. Anything.
Like what?
Her eyes focused on something red. The little flower. Yvlon imagined a flower in her head.
Flower.
Good. She was imagining a flower. She was doing it, everyone. And her flower? She had a flower.
…What else? Her mind prodded her, and Yvlon tried harder.
The flower was…red. Damnit. That was literally not imaginative. But maybe the flower was…
Did the flower have thorns? No. Wait, yes. And the flower was red, but it had petals like one of those lovely children’s flowers, round with a stem in the center. Not like a rose.
…Didn’t flowers smell? Yvlon realized that after a while of listening to people mutter in the background. And wouldn’t the flower feel lightweight when you picked it up?
Dead gods, imagining was hard. She regretted her flippant comments to Colth. She could barely represent a flower authentically. She forgot to imagine smell, a…a sweet, cloying smell? And it would prick your fingers?
An hour passed, and Yvlon had visualized a flower in her world of mental imagination. She was so tired by this cognition she passed out.
—She woke up two hours later and couldn’t move. She tried to sit up, but she was too weak. So she lay there.
Imagine something new. 
I feel bad about Ksmvr.
I have to pee.
What did a flower—I have to pee—go with? The harder Yvlon tried to focus, the more creativity slipped away.
When you thought of something, even fiercely, it had an ephemeral quality. As if your mind couldn’t recreate something in perfect detail. This was why Yvlon didn’t bother. The real world was far more interesting.
I can’t get up. Flower. I feel bad about Ksmvr. Have to pee. 
I think I’m dying.
Thoughts ran together, intruding, repeating in obnoxious ways. Like they did. Someone helped Yvlon sit up. It turned out to be Ceria.
“Your forehead’s hot. You okay, Yv?”
“I need to pee. I can’t move—I’m fine.”
Ceria looked around.
“Sure you are—Gire, Peki? A hand?”
The next few minutes were embarrassing as they stopped the wagon, and Yvlon was finally bundled back up after more water. She spat out all the phlegm leaking down her throat. Ceria stared at it.
“Bloody. Maybe I bit my tongue?”
“Yeah…come on. We have to get the wagon moving.”
“Can’t we stop? Or are we between cities?”
Peki looked at Ceria. The half-Elf nodded.
“We’re between cities. Come on, we’ll try to make it comfortable.”
Back she lay. Yvlon decided she hated imagining things. It didn’t work. She wanted Colth to come over so he could give her more hints.
Okay, a flower. It sat in the white void of her creative genius. A red flower, remember. She kept forgetting. What did flowers go with?
A bug. It suddenly appeared, and Yvlon saw a roach crawling towards the flower. No, eating it. Roaches didn’t eat flowers, did they? This one did.
I don’t want to imagine that. Yvlon squashed the bug mentally. Was she really going to imagine bugs? What kind of…stupid thing was this?
The bug kept coming back. Was it immortal or something? Did she imagine immortal bugs?
Imagining sucked. Yvlon was so fed up with it. She didn’t have the ability to create new things. She…she just knew the world. So she supposed that was where to start.
Why would there be a red flower, anyways? Well—unless it was in the wild, on a bush or something—maybe the flower was in a vase? A glass vase where you had water in the bottom.
The world dropped away from Yvlon as her breathing grew labored. She didn’t notice what was going on around her. Ironically—as her connection to the waking world diminished, the imagining grew easier. So she sank into a kind of waking dream.
 
——
 
It would be…a glass vase with a rose in it, right? That’s what she, Yvlon Byres, would have.
Why? She didn’t know.
Maybe it was a gift. She got roses, she supposed. If she had a house, that would be where it was.
A house? Why would she have a house?
Well, it was the kind of thing that she had vaguely decided she might have when she first became an adventurer. When you got to Silver-rank, you thought of such things.
The Silver Spears. She still could see her friends. They were all from House Byres. All [Warriors] who had grown up knowing each other.
Maise with that weird e on the end when you wrote it.
Veronika.
Dalia.
Samite.
She hadn’t told their families, personally, what had befallen them. If only…if only she’d not been such a fool.
Focus. She was imagining a rose. But who would give her a rose? A gift, perhaps that she’d put in a house. She could buy a house. She wasn’t going to inherit the manor. Ysara or Ylawes would do that.
Not the youngest daughter. So Yvlon then saw a house rise with white plaster walls, solid beams of wood—a sloping roof overhead, maybe with windows on the roof to let in the sun. Something fanciful, but nothing too extreme. Nothing costly—she wasn’t in love with marble floors.
Nice wooden floors, right. Big enough for…one person to walk around, maybe tend a little garden outside, a room for reading, sitting, a kitchen—she didn’t cook, and a cellar downstairs?
That was already more than she wanted. But Yvlon could see herself being happier here than the manor.
She had forgotten in her delirium the mansion had burned.
Yvlon pictured her bed, neatly made, and had some satisfaction in the dream. A nice apartment…and on one of those simple round foot tables in the hallway she’d put a gift like that red flower.
But it still made no sense. Yvlon’s mind struggled with the red flower. Why did she have it?
Well—it was a gift in her house. This was probably some alternative Yvlon who was…ten years older? Twenty? She’d retired from adventuring.
Would she do that? Yvlon didn’t know. Let’s say she was a successful member of the Silver Spears. All she had wanted was to be as famous and successful as her brother. It was an obsession that had pushed her team, a rivalry with the far-better Silver Swords.
It had been good at the time, but Yvlon of then had never considered what would happen if she actually got her wish. Say she made Gold-rank as she was.
What would happen?
Well, this Yvlon imagined herself being accoladed, treated like an equal by her brother and parents. Smiling—
—And then leaving Izril. Leaving Izril for Chandrar or Baleros or Terandria.
Why would she do that?
She—she didn’t want to stay. That was why. That Yvlon was unhappy. She was in her brother’s shadow. She wouldn’t have stayed in Izril.
Strange. The Horns had changed her path entirely. The other Yvlon would never have had a house. Could this Yvlon?
Maybe. Maybe if she’d never lost her arms. Would that Yvlon be happier?
No. That Yvlon would be dead when the Adult Creler came. So maybe this Yvlon had retired and owned a house.
“Yvlon? Yvlon. Drink something. Yvlon.”
The voice drifted away. Yvlon Byres thought—the house was okay. She had probably saved money on it. So why was that red flower here?
An idea drifted up, and she almost smiled. The house shook slightly as someone shook her and then was made to let go.
Maybe my husband gave it to me? What a silly idea. After all—
No one would ever marry me with my arms. Let alone my foot.
Now that she remembered she’d lost it, Yvlon Byres saw a woman. She had faded blonde hair, turning white, and a peg-leg. She still had some athleticism, but she was definitely alone. A friend? Then she had it.
This wasn’t imagining. This was more like…predicting things. And Yvlon could do that. It never occurred to her how similar the two were.
The flower probably came from the one person who’d give her something like that. Ksmvr. Just like before—
He’d given her a flower.
The Antinium. How would he retire? Ksmvr would probably go around hugging his trees, finding things to do. She’d kept him safe, she bet. She had to. She wouldn’t be there. But how would he age in twenty years?
Antinium didn’t age. Yvlon revolted at the idea his lifespan was short—so he’d just be older. Did—did Antinium get wrinkles or change shells? Then she had it.
At the door to her little cottage came an Antinium in a suit. A silly suit with that red flower. He probably had a horse he patted too much and overfed, and he’d come every week, at the least. Probably twice a week.
