“You seem pretty welcoming of Antinium for a Drake city. And here I thought the Yoldenites were the odd ones.”
The Loeri Drakes’ faces turned at the mention of them.
“We’re not blind to the news. Don’t associate us with them. They’re—completely separate. Now, if you are intent on entering our city, I will give you the basic explanation all visitors receive. You must have an anchoring rope on you in any marked area. Anyone who goes without, Named-ranks or not, is fined. It’s not for your safety, it’s for everyone’s. Break no laws—and I will assign you, Captain Ceria, with a marker tally. If you commit any transgressions, it will be noted, and you will need to present this marker upon leaving the city. Failure to do so will have great implications. We obey the laws in Loeri…you will too.”
If they sounded ominous—they let in the Antinium with surprisingly little difficulty. And that was because Loeri respected two things:
Law. And rope.
 
——
 
“I hear they have a group of enforcers that actually supercede the Watch. So their Watch is more like their army.”
“A Watch above the Watch? What, are they made of Zevaras?”
“They’re called the Gallowsmen of Loeri. So—don’t break the law.”
The Horns took that seriously, as did the Gnolls. They all had to climb up the ropes to get into the city. They could have taken an elevator for a small fee, but everyone could climb. Colth was worried about Yvlon, but she didn’t even use her feet—she just pulled herself up with sheer upper body strength, and the Drakes were so impressed they shook her hands.
Loeri was a weird city. Pallass had multiple floors that went down towards a center like an inverted pyramid.
Loeri…had shafts. You could walk from shaft to shaft, which had openings to pass from one section of the city to another, and most of the eighty-foot drop from the walls was honeycombed with stairwells. At any time, you could attach your ‘anchor rope’ to one of the freestanding ropes and rappel down.
Rappel…a climbing term where you kicked off the wall as you descended. It was a new experience for everyone but Nailren and Colth, and Ksmvr hated it.
“I do not like heights. I do not like heights!”
Loeri’s folk had heard an Antinium was coming, and a crowd had gathered, tightly-packed and semi-hostile.
But the sight of Ksmvr panicking and clinging to a rope as Yvlon tried to coax him down sort of undermined the terror of him.
“Ksmvr, I will catch you. I’ve seen you jump higher than this! How can you be afraid of heights?”
“I do not like dangling! I am not a spider! I will jump down myself!”
A Watchman instantly shouted back.
“Not allowed! Obey the rules, Ant, or you’ll get a slash on your marker!”
“Yes, get out of the city you—you—monster!”
Someone shouted. A Drake [Trader] had been staring at Ksmvr in horror. Now, he raised the nearest object he could find—a Prelon off a stand—and threw it. Ksmvr batted the Prelon away as Yvlon turned, fists balling.
Before she could do anything, Colth, prepared to stop her, saw the most funny and gratifying thing happen.
Which was—instantly—for someone to loop cord around the surprised [Trader]’s wrists and cinch it up. Then a Drake with a braided series of rope running down his arms shouted.
“Attacking a guest of Loeri! Throwing an object in a rappelling zone! Stealing fruit from a stand! Three transgressions, to be decided now!”
“Wh—but he’s an Antinium! Let go of—”
The [Trader] yelped, but then his eyes bulged, and a rope was pulling his arms up and up—he stood there, tethered, as one of the Gallowsmen grabbed his marker tally hanging by his waist and began to write the offenses down in some kind of permanent ink.
The law of Loeri.
“Wow, they are strict.”
Ceria was staring in perplexity as the [Trader] complained. Colth called back as he watched more Drakes using the rappelling zones, going down marked spots or climbing up others. There were handholds or ladders and ramps for others, but Drakes liked the ropes.
They had to have great body strength to do this. But if a child did this all their life, like the Drake child nimbly climbing past him…
“You don’t fuck around with heights. Someone fights where the ropes tangle and you can kill people in more ways than falling. Loeri’s strict with the rules. Plus, they’re good with rope.”
The Gallowsmen. But while the Horns were reassured of Ksmvr’s safety—if not a warm welcome from all—Colth was drinking in what made the city unique.
It wasn’t just their extreme altitude that made him smile. You could stare down a dizzying way anywhere in the city, and some of Ekhtouch looked nervous about the height. But the rope-decoration…was everywhere.
“Apparently, they have some really good wool, hemp, and other materials. Did you see the throwing bolas? I want to buy some here. You need good bindings for anything, from vehicles to climbing gear—you come to Loeri. See? It’s even decorative.”
He pointed, and Pisces’ head turned. The [Necromancer] saw a passing Drake citizen with a kind of knotted lattice-work on her tail of all things.
It was hard to explain. Someone had taken rope and created a pattern by looping it so many times in a precise way that it created a net-like effect that clung to the tail. The Gallowsmen or Gallowswomen had black bindings on their arms—it seemed like that was a uniform.
“Ooh. Artistic.”
Ksmvr observed. Ceria raised her brows.
“Kinky.”
Yvlon glared at her. The Drake looked hugely embarrassed by everyone staring at her. Colth elbowed Pisces, and the [Necromancer] flushed.
“Eyes up a bit. Or don’t stare at the female Drakes, maybe?”
The tail decorations were common, though. Colth supposed it was akin to fishnet stockings—and there was a practical element to it too. If your anchor rope, the sturdy rope you clipped to your belt or a harness, broke—you wanted to have a backup.
They were still a city of Drakes, though. And as Loeri would say vehemently—they were normal, just specialized, compared to the Yoldenites.
As such, the Horns were getting a lot of attention. Adventurers, people who had seen their exploits, people angry about Pisces or Ksmvr or who wanted a word—the only thing keeping them from swarming the lot was the rules about crowding the rappelling zone.
“Why don’t we split up? Let’s all meet…at Cormidoon’s Rock Grill! I’ll sort us an inn, eh?”
Colth called out, pointing at a nice-looking place. Then he slipped off as people were focused more on the Horns than some random Human. The irony was that since scrying orbs were so new, everyone knew the Horns’ faces and names more than Colth the Supporter.
 
——
 
Here was what made the Horns different from Colth, now. By the time he came back, Colth saw the Horns hadn’t largely moved. Ceria was laughing and talking with some blushing Drakes about something he decided was definitely lewd.
Ksmvr was alternating between introducing himself and shaking hands alongside Pisces with Drakes who wanted to tell him personally how much they hated his people and Pisces his undead.
By contrast, the [Strategists] seemed to have headed out to explore, but Colth had seen a flock of people crowding around Wil asking for autographs and the embarrassed [Lord] being rescued by Venaz.
Yvlon was stiffly shaking hands, and he wondered if she had shook a thousand. Colth walked over, hands in his pockets, and told them the bad news.
“Horns of Hammerad. I like you guys. You’re my kind of crazy—but you lot have less style than a single strand of Deniusth’s dyed hair.”
They looked up, greatly offended, and Pisces sniffed.
“Style is a self-possessed quality, Colth. I do not lecture you on your attire—and I hope you would not do the same to me.”
Colth blinked at Pisces. Colth wore enchanted chainmail over cloth, color-coordinated for his dyed leather leggings to be a deep, natural green. Dyed steel, and a natural kind of cloth-and-metal armguard design that made him look suitably armed without clanking like a full [Warrior] every time he walked around.
His belt looked like a menagerie of items. He had a grappling hook that some of Loeri were nodding at, three wands, two visible potions, a belt of alchemical items—on the front, and his twin blades hanging at his side.
He looked like an adventurer.
“Pisces. I have apparel. You have white robes. We are not the same. Adventurers—the ones who have a career—have a style. Even Griffon Hunt and the Halfseekers do. You want to see mine? Stand back. I wasn’t going to overshadow you, but I didn’t realize you were lying flat on your faces.”
He motioned them back, and the skeptical [Necromancer] snorted—until Colth grinned—and looked sideways.
A Drake was going up the climbing section at amazing speed. Even for a native of Loeri—he was climbing claw-over-claw with such smooth motions it seemed like he was gliding up the floors. His scales were a teal color, burnished darker, and he was a [Climber].
One of the highest-leveled in the world, not that it was a wide class. He had summited lesser mountains of the High Passes. His name was Zebvron Leywing.
—He was so focused on heading up to the higher floors to ask what the commotion was about that he only noticed the voices and the person climbing next to him after a minute.
That wasn’t odd; you had all kinds of climbers you shared space with. What was odd was that it was a Human keeping pace with Zebvron. His form wasn’t as good, but he was strong and fast.
—And he was going up as fast as the [Climber]. Zebvron ignored him and climbed a bit faster—and realized the Human was rising higher than he was. And he was speaking.
“[Fast Hands]. [Kneader’s Grip]. Let’s see…[Speed].”
His eyes glowed as he cast a spell. Then the Human accelerated.
This was more than Zebvron would allow. He glanced down, saw a huge crowd, and realized the Human was racing him.
Him? The [Climber] almost laughed. He began to pull himself up with a will and realized the Human was accelerating. Zebvron began using his own Skills. You could have jogged slower than they were going up now. The Human was using magic and Skills—and Zebvron got annoyed, so he called out.
“[Free Ascent: 50 Feet]!”
He grabbed the rope with one gloved claw, grinned at the Human, who twisted his head to stare with fascinated violet eyes—
And Zebvron rose. The rope hissed in his gloved hand as a force pulled him up smoothly, and he pulled as he reached the topmost floor—and gently landed on his feet. He instantly felt embarrassed—but then heard merry laughter. Seconds later, the man appeared, and Zebvron turned to him.
“Who are you, stranger, and who taught you how to climb like that? An adventurer? Most people who come to Loeri can’t even travel a single floor easily.”
For answer, the Named-rank adventurer spread his arms and beamed.
“They call me Colth, the Ultimate Supporter. Named-rank adventurer of the north. And you are Zebvron, the great [Climber] of Loeri. I would love to challenge you again and learn how to climb like a master.”
The [Climber] blinked as people called out and looked around, and Colth bowed. He gave Zebvron a look of genuine respect.
“I have travelled three continents, and all I have found is there is always more to learn.”
 
——
 
Colth’s style was to be…obsequious. Or perhaps the word was, rather, ‘ubiquitous’. They looked vaguely similar.
Pisces was reminded of how he had first seen Colth performing with the Haven’s band. He did that—he would work himself into a group and take up whatever they were doing with considerable natural talent.
And it seemed he was known for going from place to place and begging, ingratiating, or challenging local masters to teach him their craft. He would pay for the honor, do you a favor, or put in enough work to make it worth their while.
In fact—when he came back from climbing and talking with Zebvron, the first thing he did was walk into the Rock Grill’s kitchen and come out to fry their lunch on a heated rock slab with the damned [Chef].
What they did was take embers, shove them under flat rock ‘grills’, and fry food in front of customers. The sizzling of strips of meat had Pisces’ mouth watering.
“That’s what I meant by style. Like him, hate him, Deniusth’s first move upon entering a city is to put on a performance with Orchestra publicly. Then seek out the most expensive inn and attractive company.”
Colth was telling them—nicely, between stirring the meat with long tongs and copying the [Chef] sprinkling the food with salt and spices—how to be adventurers.
“What does Eldertuin do, then? Elia?”
“Oh, Eld’s an old hand at this. Viecel will just hit the gambling dens—that’s a style of its own, selfishness. Eld will go ask a meeting with the local Council or [Mayor], and the man will humbly—remember, he is one of the Five Families—ask if they have a great monster and offer to take it down for them.”
“Five Families. You Humans and your odd customs. This is the first time I’ve served an Antinium.”
The [Chef] was slightly hostile, but Colth grinned.
“You don’t know the half of it, Chef Rivvip. But I have never seen someone grilling with stone like this! I’ve seen metal—is there a reason for stone?”
The Drake was instantly distracted.
“Oh—the stone keeps the flavor, obviously. My father’s father used this very same grill! You can use metal, but this is legacy. [A Taste of Generations]. A Skill passed down across my family.”
Colth was good. The Drake was distracted, and with a wink, Colth went on.
“Now, Elia Arcsinger is a bit odd. She and her famous team will consent to be invited to the richest restaurant or noble’s manor where she will eventually be coaxed into telling the famous story of slaying the Goblin King. Whereupon she will give the tale—I have it on good authority she has the speech memorized, but she does it well, you see?”
“Ah. Style. Do Griffon Hunt or the Halfseekers have one?”
Nailren had an answer for that.
“Jelaqua always found people like her. Different. Moore walking in is a style. Griffon Hunt? Halrac comes in, sits down, and you think someone’s just died.”
Everyone laughed about that. Pisces was very happy, though, because some fried buckwheat noodles, vegetables, and the sizzling meat combined for a hearty bowl the [Chef] served—but he gave them a special because Colth was here.
“Bone marrow.”
He had two halves of a bone, and he placed the sizzling marrow on the grill—then let the fat drizzle over the bowls. He was going to stop when he got to Ceria, but the half-Elf slapped the table.
“Give me that marrow, my Drake. Extra serving and as much sauce as you’ve got!”
