“I have remembered my cause, Pisces Jealnet. Remembered my fury against Terandria—and so I will arm you. Arm you, for you have great foes in Roshal. And someday, you too might return to your nation and claim vengeance for what it has done to you. Ailendamus.”
He spoke the word, and Pisces felt a moment of his own anger and memory. The two [Necromancers] looked at each other, and they understood something then. Az’kerash nodded.
“Just so. When you hear what occurs, Pisces—disavow any knowledge of me. I hope I will not be revealed for a long time. But when you hear it—know and understand the depths of my rage and betrayal. You have felt it too. I—”
He leaned forwards and looked Pisces in the eyes. The Necromancer stared at Pisces, and his reflection shivered. Az’kerash spoke softly. Almost…wistfully.
“Do not make the mistakes I made. Go, and I will watch your deeds and hope for a better future for you. But I will have my vengeance. First on the fools who come so eagerly to Izril’s shores. Then?”
The appearance of that undead man. That lich, that myth flickered out, and his voice was all that remained.
“…Whatever else occurs. I will set myself against them all, as both Perril Chandler who was betrayed. And as the Archmage of Death.”
 
——
 
[Tree Collector Level 7!]
[Skill – Recital: Litany of Possession obtained!]
 
“I am Ksmvr, by right the owner of fourteen trees and three rocks of Tiqr, two burnt trees of House Byres, two trees of the City of Loeri, three trees of Marwsh, four trees of—”
His power knew no end. Ksmvr’s new Skill let him recite all of his holdings, and everyone hated it but Ksmvr.
“It’s a waste of a level. Colth—”
“It’s a waste of a level.”
Even the [Ultimate Supporter] had to acknowledge that one. But Ksmvr would not relent. For he had great power.
“Yvlon, Yvlon. Comrade Pisces. I have great power. Would you like to see?”
“Not another litany, please, Ksmvr.”
Yvlon was still sick, and Pisces was a bit subdued—but he seemed to be reading a lot of books. Ceria glanced at the tome he held.
“Nice book, Pisces. Did you pick it up in a local shop?”
“…Yes.”
She said nothing more, and the two very deliberately did not show it to the [Strategists]. To cheer up the sickly Yvlon, Ksmvr pressed all four hands together in front of her.
“Observe the most powerful Skill I have, Yvlon. [Bound Spell of the Collector – Summon Leaves]!”
Pisces looked up from his book. Yvlon Byres sat up. Ksmvr opened his hands and revealed—
Thirteen leaves. One for each tree he owned. Yvlon stared at them. Ceria stared at them.
“Are they…real leaves?”
“They do not vanish. They are my fiscal earnings. As you can see—waitwaitwaitwait—”
Too late. Ceria flicked one into the fire warming their rented hut, and it flared up a bit.
“Huh, real leaves. Ksmvr’s good free kindling.”
“My leaves!”
Ksmvr was horrified. Ceria looked guilty as Pisces and Yvlon glared at her—until Ksmvr tossed the rest in the fireplace.
“That is okay. I shall get more tomorrow. They’re not very valuable.”
He looked up, and Ceria’s guilty face turned puzzled—then she burst out laughing. Ksmvr raised his hands.
“I have fooled you! Ha-ha!”
“Ksmvr, I love you. This is why you’re a [Teammate]. Now, I’m off. It’s raining freezing cold water, and I’m going to make another statue of myself.”
Indeed, the rainfall had turned into hail and then snow, and Ceria skated out the door, laughing and ready to impress Herizz’s folk.
She was now a mixed [Prankster] and [Cryomancer], and the magic circlet was deepening her magic. Pisces? Pisces sat with a spellbook in hand as his Skeletal Champions fought their way through another sewer against semi-frozen Sleet Slimes threatening to block up the system.
Ksmvr was a [Brave Skirmisher] and heir to the Silver Illusion school, a [Tree Collector], an [Animal Friend], and a [Teammate].
Yvlon was sick. She looked up from her stump of a leg, and Ksmvr’s happiness turned to sadness whenever he saw her ill and hurt and he could do nothing for her. She whispered, as if this slipped out of her mouth from being ill, unguarded.
“It must be nice—having a path. It must be nice to be rewarded like that.”
Ksmvr’s mandibles fell. He sat there, bowing his head until Pisces looked up and Yvlon’s face turned guilty. Then she punched herself.
 
——
 
Ceria Springwalker slid down a ramp of ice and nearly ran into Nailren. This wasn’t Loeri, so the sight of a slip-sliding half-Elf zooming across the City of Roofs on her ramps of ice was more entertaining than a reason to summon the Watch.
“Watch it, Ceria.”
Nailren dodged the half-Elf, and she slammed into a wall. Ceria sat down and groaned.
“Couldn’t you let me hit you?”
“Nope. Can’t you stop?”
“It’s hard. I need those blades on my boots or to figure out how to make the ice not-slick. I’m working on it. What are you doing?”
The Gnoll swung himself up higher, climbing to the tallest point on the tower of overlapping buildings below him. A few Ekhtouch were loitering around on the lower levels. They glanced up as he and Ceria bantered a moment.
The half-Elf and the Gnoll were the two most sparsely-dressed people in the entire city. Even Pisces had put on a fur coat when he went outside, and the Watch had similarly lined their armor with cloth. They looked like hooded, hunched figures in their armor, shivering despite that as the wind blew.
But Nailren had his fur, so he ignored the drifting snowflakes sometimes flurrying sideways. Ceria had even less on her. She wore a light tunic and leggings, and she made people feel cold just looking at her.
She was a [Cryomancer], though. The grey skies above her and the snow piling from the rooftops and around the city were a stark wonderland. But when she looked at it, Nailren was reminded of running around in the snow as a cub.
It could be a cold death out there. But the half-Elf embodied a winter of snowballs, of ice forts and sitting around warming up after the snow had fallen, icy breath rising into clear skies. She fascinated the Drakes, who followed her around the city, but it was Nailren that interested Ceria at this moment.
What the Horns and [Strategists] didn’t always see was how Gnolls interacted with Drake cities. The adventurers were welcome…the Gnolls?
The first thing a lot of Drakes said to Nailren was that they didn’t support the action of the Walled Cities. Just like people brought up Pisces’ class and Ksmvr’s species—that was the first thing they felt compelled to do. As if he could absolve them or it changed things.
Well, Nailren appreciated that anyone felt the need to clarify. It was never pleasant when the next thing they said was ‘but’ or tried to tack on something else to that broad statement.
He was standing on the highest roof, which actually poked over the walls in height. Per code, it was metal-plated in case of enemy attacks, and you technically weren’t allowed up here. Nailren had ignored that by pretending he was an ignorant visitor, and the Watch hadn’t summoned him down.
Not with all the Gnolls about Herizz, many of whom had come to meet Chieftain Gire or Ekhtouch. Not Nailren himself; he was a nobody.
Gireulashia was shaking paws, talking, forging connections with City Gnolls in a very clever way. Even, he suspected, earmarking talent that Ekhtouch or another tribe might steal. But Nailren?
That was not Nailren. He had a purpose, and so did Ceria.
“Are you really making another ice sculpture?”
“It’ll be outside the walls. Something they can look at. How’s a forty-foot sculpture of Pisces’ face sound? I can make the nostrils huge.”
She was a powerful [Mage]. The fact that—even in winter—she could throw up a sculpture like that in a few hours spoke to her power. Nailren was curious, though.
“You’re not doing this because you want to just annoy people, right? What’s the goal here?”
Ceria paused, one foot raised on another ramp. There was no way Nailren could have known about her [Prankster] class—but he had met many people in his years. And he saw something more than just a troublemaker.
Her pale-snow eyes turned to him, and the half-Elf smiled. And that too was fair. If you defined Ksmvr as an Antinium—there were certainly things about his species that made him Ksmvr. Similarly—it was not all Ceria.
But she was over sixty years old. Older than he was, and she was ‘young’ for a half-Elf. Ceria looked out and sighed.
“I realized this in Chandrar, or perhaps before that. When I lost my team—and at Albez and elsewhere. I really loved being noticed. Everyone likes fame. But I liked something else there. Guess what it is?”
“…Hm. From what you’re saying, respect? Being acknowledged?”
She laughed, and she sounded older, then. Like [Shaman] Theikha the first time Nailren had met her as a [Junior Scout]. And Theikha had already been an experienced [Shaman].
“Close enough. I want to be remembered.”
“Ah.”
That made sense. Ceria pointed out across the snowy landscape and then turned. She waved a hand as Drakes and Gnolls looked up, and some cheered her.
“Ice Squirrel. Ice Squirrel!”
“The name’s sticking. That’s not bad. Yvlon hates being called the ‘Silver Killer’, and I get it. But me? I just want to be remembered. Even if it’s as the lying half-Elf who pranked people. Colth comes into a city respectfully, but it’s for him. His style is to learn from people. I would rather they think of me a decade later.”
That was slightly fascinating to Nailren, and he leaned against a strut on the top of the roof, ignoring a Drake trying to tell them to politely get the hell off.
“Odd, for a half-Elf. I’d have thought living so long would make you not care.”
“I know, right? But I? I don’t think I’ll make it that long. Not if I live entangled with mortals. And if they remember me—they’ll remember Calruz and Gerial. And all the rest. It means when I go travelling, no one will ask what team I used to belong to. I want to be the Lightning Thief they talk about even after he’s dead. Not a nameless Necromancer who clashed with legends and was lost to time.”
It was some ambition, because Nailren suspected the Putrid One had once been the talk of the world. But the half-Elf spread her arms and began sliding down the ramp. She glanced up at him as she called back.
“And you, Captain Nailren? Do you have any style? Or does one of the Gnoll’s Secret Chieftains, their elite warleaders, have no style now he’s retired?”
Nailren rolled his eyes as she called it out too loudly. This was the problem with Chieftains like Gireulashia. They said the part you never said out loud, and everyone heard it.
But that was fine. For answer, the Gnoll turned and lifted a paw as he put his back to Ceria and looked…west.
The wind blew on his fur, and little snowflakes clung to him, slowly melting away. Always, and ever, the New Lands called him. Style? Nailren stood taller, and as Gnolls of Herizz and Drakes looked up at him, he inhaled deeply. Then—he began to sing.
 
“Westwards of the Great Plains is there I see it lie
The newest lands of Izril risen from the tide
Unearthing magic and secrets; our people’s home
And the last place I will ever seek to roam.”
 
It was the tune of a famous song, one of the oldest songs in Gnoll culture, but this verse was new. It made Ceria turn as she slid down, and Nailren had worked on it city after city.
Great Plains Sing. He knew the rest of the lyrics. They sung of places across the world. The resting place of Seru’nial, the grave of the Queen of Gnolls. Igawiz’s Jet.
Places that called to him. But this? This made him sing. He stood there as Ekhtouch Gnolls joined in on the chorus that they knew. Nailren kept singing as the Drakes looked up and Gnollish heads rose. There, clinging to the spire of the tower, he pointed.
An adventurer and explorer yearning with every fiber of his being to go. To run—and to fulfill that claim that had echoed in Satar’s books. 
We went everywhere. So Nailren sang—and the half-Elf laughed as she saw the passion that drove him. They looked at each other, and though they were different—
It would carry them into the new world.
 
[Clandestine Chieftain of the Arrow Level 33!]
[Skill – Faster to Untamed Lands obtained!]
 
[Prankster Level 10!]
[Mischief Skill – Spell: Rampant Magic obtained!]
 
And Yvlon Byres was still sick.
 
——
 
You had to feel bad for Yvlon, you really did. She got sick—again. Colth had heard of the plague metal thing. It had come up when he and Pisces amiably discussed Chandrar.
Anyways, he was currently mixing a bunch of alchemical items from [Herbalists] in Herizz. No [Healer] they had met had been able to do much with their home remedies, but Colth decided he’d give it a shot.
He was, after all, about as good as a Level 30 [Healer] if you combined his Skills. Maybe not perfect, but short of a [Shaman] in the Great Plains, he was Yvlon’s best shot.
And they were three days away yet. So—
Colth was mixing next to Yvlon, checking her as she lay, panting and sweating. The rest of the wagon was quiet—not that she seemed to notice.
Her fever had returned with a vengeance on the seventh day. After that first day, they had expected her to pull through whatever had hit her. But unlike the eggs—
Colth’s tone was light.
“I heard you were jealous of your teammates.”
“I took it out on Ksmvr. Is he upset?”
The [Ultimate Supporter] looked up and pretended to frown. He saw Ksmvr staring his way along with Pisces as they talked tensely.
“…He doesn’t seem to mind.”
“Good. They keep passing me.”
Yvlon blinked as Colth offered her his first try. Water—if nothing else. He turned.
“Anyone got some broth? Put a bit of fat into it. Did you eat anything yesterday, Yvlon?”
“I drank water. You’re…you kept trying to teach me how to improve. What was that about? I might as well listen if I’m like this.”
She kept shivering as Colth spoke lightly. And honestly.
“I meant that it does you no good. I saw you challenge Venaz when you were on your feet. Do you feel like you got a lot from it?”
“Fought him. Why?”
Colth sipped from his broth and gagged. Leeches? No, he was no expert on them. And whatever it was, he feared it might be poison in her blood or something like that. Damn sewers. It could be rust or crap or…the Yellow Rivers stuff didn’t work one bit.
“He’s a [Strategist]. You’re a warrior whose most deadly weapons are your arms. I heard you cut up Nerrhavia’s arenas with just them. Few people can do that.”
“It’s…”
“If you say it’s cheating, I’ll hit you. You’re an adventurer, not a [Honorbound Minotaur-Headed Duelist].”
“Hey. I resent Minotaur-Headed.”
