In the darkness crept a pair of wicked little girls. The scariest creature in horror to some. Their sinister…heads…and whispering voices terrified people in the mid-shadow gloom of early night.
There was something about seeing a little figure standing there in the middle of a hallway when you didn’t expect it that could trigger instinctive fear. Certainly, Numbtongue nearly choked on his toothbrush when he saw them.
He debated telling on them, but he was more on their side than not. So he waved them off with a faint glare.
Thus, Nanette and Mrsha tip-toed through the inn, giggling now and then as they stealthed past the inn’s late-night guests and staff. They used Mrsha’s [Natural Concealment], and Nanette could be rather stealthy herself.
This was, in fact, a combination of ideas between the two. Mrsha had the idea…and Nanette said ‘why not?’. That delighted the Gnoll girl to learn that her new friend was an even bigger troublemaker than her.
They managed to get past the guardians half due to luck, half because the conditions were right.
Namely—Ishkr was on his day off. The [Head Server] was too canny to miss the two. But the Antinium weren’t as perceptive that this wasn’t allowed, and the Goblins…didn’t really care, did they?
Plus, Erin was asleep. The [Innkeeper] knew where everyone was, so she was practically impossible to fool unless she was distracted. But the signature move was Mrsha and Nanette planting the idea that Lyonette deserved a night out with Drassi, Zevara, and everyone else they could bundle into Pallass. As it turned out, Maughin and Jelaqua had decided to do a group night with Rufelt and Lasica.
The adults were fools. When Lyonette, tipsy, got back to her room, she saw Mrsha rolled up in her bed, and the [Princess] fell asleep almost at once. Then Nanette opened the door, Mrsha rolled up some pillows, and they crept out.
Where were they going? Where else? Not the new gardens. That was potentially dangerous. Instead…Nanette and Mrsha appeared in Erin’s [World’s Eye Theatre] and, laughing, high-fived.
No one was here. Which sort of disappointed the two.
“I thought Mister Kevin was going to play the older films.”
Nanette sighed. Kevin had been over the moon and was organizing a late-night viewing of what he called the ‘gorier’ or more ‘adult’ films. The problem was—the [World’s Eye Theatre] drew from what Erin had seen.
If you thought people bullying her about her taste was bad, you should have heard the argument about her movie selection.
Doesn’t matter! Let’s go have fun! Want to bother Fetohep?
“That’s your go-to for everything. You’ll get in trouble.”
Yeah, because he’s sort of cool. Don’t tell him that.
Mrsha was embarrassed, but Nanette smiled. She looked up and exhaled.
“Show us…the secret adult movies!”
The [World’s Eye Theatre] didn’t move. The glass ‘eye’ didn’t blink, and Mrsha scratched her head in confusion.
Maybe we need to know the name. Creler testicles.
“I suppose so. Then—let’s see someone interesting. It’s night—but we could talk to anyone!”
Like Fetohep!
Nanette’s face fell. Mrsha had good ideas, but she sometimes lacked creativity. She was creative for the idea itself…like someone who invented fire. And then used it to just bake potatoes instead of burning a bunch of brush to scare prey into a trap.
“How about someone more interesting, Mrsha?”
G-Gire?
“How about someone we don’t talk to regularly?”
Mrsha’s eyes lit up as she followed Nanette at last. The two thought for a long moment. Who was someone they wanted to speak to—or would be really cool to talk to but couldn’t?
The problem was all their cool people were here. Mrsha came up with a few ideas.
Rabbiteater?
“Shouldn’t you do that with Miss Erin? I’m sure she’ll want to talk. Someone fun, Mrsha. Like…like…don’t you have anyone you’ve been dying to meet?”
Mrsha was struck by the thought. She wrote.
Honestly, it’s Lehra! And she’s less fun in real life.
The [World’s Eye Theatre] blinked in response to Mrsha’s comment. And there—was Lehra Ruinstrider!
In the center of the dome, Mrsha and Nanette saw the world change around them, mimicking their destination. And then they saw Lehra in front of them.
…Sleeping. In the inn’s guest bedrooms upstairs. She had somehow rolled herself into her blanket and kicked half of it off her so it hung around her neck like a cape while her lower half was slowly sliding off her bed.
It was the most amazing thing Mrsha and Nanette had ever seen in a vague sense.
“How does she sleep like that? She’s practically vertical.”
Named-rank Adventurers have all kinds of weird talents. Who else? Who’s your favorite, Nanette?
The witch shyly fiddled with her braids.
“I had some witches I liked…but they’ll be angry if I bother them. And a lot of my heroes are—I don’t want to bother them and get in trouble.”
Come on, give me someone!
“Well…if only we had this twenty years ago! And I back then! Then I’d be able to talk to all the legends when they were young! Like the King of—”
Nanette stomped her foot and then clapped her hands over her mouth just in time. Mrsha’s eyes widened. This could be dangerous.
But super fun. Nanette sighed.
“I wish I was eight years older. I bet you soon everyone including Miss Lyonette will be using this to talk to the really popular people. I’m surprised no one’s asked for the, um…Lord of Jigs. From Nadel?”
Handsome guys? Bleh. Boring.
Mrsha stuck out her tongue, and Nanette pointed accusingly at her.
“Just because you don’t see the point—you wait! In four years, you’ll get it. Maybe less. Besides, you like the books on the Lightning Thief and such. You’ll like them more later.”
Yeah, because he’s cool. He steals lightning. 
Mrsha realized Nanette’s enjoyment of the famous series might not be purely due to the Lightning Thief’s famous coolness! She was about to have it out with her friend and their precarious alliance seemed in jeopardy when the [World’s Eye Theatre]—
Blinked.
Nanette and Mrsha whirled. Nanette’s eyes opened wide, and Mrsha’s did the same with confusion.
Wait. He was dead. The book series had never gotten to his death, but no one had seen the Lightning Thief for over a decade. He was dead, right? He was definitely dead.
So what was—
The [World’s Eye Theatre] blinked. Then—the glass shivered. Both girls waited, frozen in place—and the glass eye blinked again. Then…
Nothing happened.
“Wh—what was that? Did it fail?”
Maybe. Does that mean he’s alive? No way. 
Mrsha looked at Nanette. The girls stared at each other, and then Nanette had a very witchy idea.
“What about…Archmage Zelkyr?”
Mrsha’s head snapped up, and they both stared at the dome overhead. They stared and stared, and the dome…
Did that eye twitch? Mrsha’s gaze fixed on it, but she couldn’t be sure if it was her imagination or not. Did she see the slightest quiver or was it her own eyes?
…She couldn’t tell. There was no big sign. She gave Nanette a wide-eyed look, though. This was getting a bit scary.
Which was awesome.
You think if we named, like, the biggest [Assassin] ever it would work? Or the BK of Rhir?
“Don’t do that. Let—let’s be safer, Mrsha. You know what? Let’s do someone safe. Like—what about someone who knows us?”
Nanette was reconsidering the real implications of cold-calling a living legend. Mrsha nodded rapidly. Someone they knew who wouldn’t get too mad and post a bounty on their heads—but someone cool.
What about…Human Grimalkin? He seemed cool. What if we ask him to teach us how to perform a super-punch?
“Human Grimalkin? Oh—the Strongest of Pomle? Why not? Show us Orjin of Pomle!”
Nanette looked up in relief, and Mrsha smiled. The dome shivered—then the eye blinked, and the world around them vanished. And they were transported to another world in image, sound, if not feeling or smell.
It was not where they expected, though. Mrsha and Nanette expected to see Pomle by night, the oasis and maybe the Strongest training or sleeping.
They…had not heard the latest news from Pomle. If they had, neither one would have considered this an appropriate person to call. Not right now.
What the girls saw was cold Chandrar by night. The night sky was in full bloom, and stars of every color shone down—a thousand thousand scattered across the sky, so vivid that they looked up in wonder.
It was so clear here. But then the girls looked around for Orjin.
What they saw—was a brick road. Not yellow, but pale brownish-red, like the soil of many parts of Chandrar. Old clay—more ancient than the roads the King of Destruction had laid in the east. And—pooling light below each lantern post—
Lanterns.
They hung from ancient metal poles, each one a thousand paces away. But on this endless road in the Lantern Lands, it meant there were countless lanterns stretching out into the distance, marking the long road as it split.
Glowing marshflame, will o’ wisps dancing below perfect cones of colored light. The nearest one was yellow, like one of the lights from a movie about Earth in the mean streets of some city. Mrsha stared at it and saw the ball of light within the enchanted lantern moving.
Where is this?
“This…is the Lantern Lands of Chandrar. My hat! It’s so beautiful! Mother told me their lanterns had endured from ages past. You—you’re not supposed to stray from them when the mists roll in. I’m glad we’re not here in person! It’s dangerous at night!”
Nanette was instantly agog. She stared at the lanterns with the awe of a traveller. Mrsha just scuffed one phantom-foot at the road. It was a nice road. This place was so flat, though. Flat and dry, the ground disappearing into the distance, cold.
Not nearly as cool as the Great Plains of Izril, even. But…then Mrsha’s eyes picked out something in the distance.
Wait, is that a cloud?
She pointed, and Nanette turned. A billowing cloud, probably a mile long, was slowly drifting on the ground over parts of the road. Only the faint lights of the lanterns shone through it. Nanette’s jaw dropped.
“The mists. That’s no cloud, Mrsha. They’re magical mists that blow in from the sea or something in this land lets them exist. It’s dangerous to be caught by them.”
Now that Mrsha looked around, she saw more pale clouds littering the landscape. Something about them vaguely triggered her [Dangersense], even from here. She shivered—looking again at the lanterns and realizing they were here for people’s protection.
Some had failed—but most had been kept out of necessity through the ages.
So this is a kingdom of Chandrar?
“A region. The kingdoms within the Lantern Lands aren’t as permanent as the geography itself. This is close to the Empire of Scaied. Remember the one that Yvlon mentioned? She had a [Gladiator] friend from there?”
Giant scorpions. Yuck. Wait a second—where’s the Strongest?
It did beg the question why they’d been given a view of this night road. Mrsha and Nanette had been standing here for about half a minute, and they realized Orjin was nowhere in sight. So they looked around. At first—they saw nothing until a shadow passing by one of the lanterns to their right made Mrsha point. Nanette turned—and they saw him.
Orjin. The former Strongest of Pomle was here, hence the [World’s Eye Theatre] focusing on this place. But he was moving so fast that it had apparently decided to place them ahead—or at a spot where they could reasonably talk to him.
Mrsha waved her paws, and Nanette cupped her hands to shout.
Then…they stopped. The two girls looked into the distance, and they saw him pass under another lantern’s light for a second. What they saw was a running man.
Arms pumping. His huge arms and legs flashing in the light, running despite the late night as if nothing had yet slowed him down. That fell in line with what they thought the Strongest of Pomle would do.
What made them stop and hesitate was realizing that Orjin wasn’t alone. Something else was following him.
Up, down, up, down—Orjin’s arms pumped, and his bare feet hit the ground so fast that when they heard it, it sounded like Kevin on the drums.
Tomptomptomptomptomptomptomptomptomp—
He was running full-tilt. And only when Mrsha saw his face did she lower her arms and hide behind Nanette. Suddenly—aware of how rude it was to bother someone without Fetohep having to spell it out to her. Nanette looked up—then she and Mrsha were pushing at each other, trying to push the other girl in front.
They ended up hiding behind one of the lantern-stands. And that was because—
This was not the moment to interrupt Orjin. Mrsha had seen something behind the Strongest…and it gleamed in the light.
It looked like—paint. It was blood. The soles of his feet were bleeding. He left a trail of footprints behind him on the brick ground. He was running so fast that Nanette had to wonder—
If he was at Pomle last they knew, and he was in the Lantern Lands right now? He had passed through the entire Kingdom of Scaied, then. In a single day?
How fast was he moving?
The answer was so fast that he would have left Ryoka Griffin before she got her wind powers—and arguably even now—in the dust. He was running, without stopping or resting, so incredibly fast that the panting camel galloping full-tilt after him could barely keep up. And the Empress of Beasts herself had blessed Spitty with a Skill. He was barely keeping up, and Orjin was carrying all of his possessions in the bag of holding.
That was one thing. The pure intensity of movement. The huge [Martial Artist] running in silence, so fast that he had passed by several of the Lantern Lands’ mists by just outrunning them.
The second thing that made the girls hide was…the other blood. It was a trail behind him, the soles of his feet scraped off as he outran Ryoka Griffin’s wildest dreams. But she would have known how Orjin ran—because she had once run like that.
Run—because there was nothing left. Run—because it beat sitting still. Run without feeling pain or without ever wanting to stop.
The man who had been the Strongest of Pomle passed by Nanette and Mrsha, and they saw his face. He kept running; he hadn’t spotted them. Nor did they call out.
Blood was running down his face. Not from a wound. Mrsha looked up, and she saw it running down his cheeks and down his chin onto his chest, falling behind him.
Blood? The twin trails of dark liquid made Nanette stare. Because they were—
Tears.
She had never heard of such a thing. No—hadn’t her mother told her that she had sometimes seen men and women literally sweat blood in times of such great stress? Tears?
