It was a bit—barbaric to Pisces and Yvlon’s sensibilities as neither had been raised to eat bone marrow—and after one bite, Pisces decided this was another thing his home culture had gotten wrong.
Chef Rivvip’s smile was smug at his expression.
“Now there’s a use for bones, eh, Mister [Necromancer]? Or would you like to animate the pieces?”
He laughed, and Pisces looked up warily, but the Drake waved a claw.
“I saw you on the news. I’m fine with your presence or I’d have you out and the Gallowsmen over here. Just don’t bring a zombie into my restaurant!”
Pisces gave him a weak smile, but it seemed like fame cured all ills. Somewhat cynically, he reflected that it had not saved Az’kerash—or helped Ama—but he would take this small victory. He was a Horn before he was a [Necromancer].
And that was alright.
Mind you, it was weird for even a law-abiding Drake city to be this cool with Antinium. Even with the Gallowsmen around, Pisces had this prickling feeling on his back even as they ate lunch. Nailren was coolest; the Ekhtouch were almost as wary as the Horns—although that might have been because of the bill as Gireulashia ate enough for six refills of her grill.
The onlookers kept coming, though, and they gave the Rock Grill enough business to keep everything moving. The copper coin finally dropped when someone came up.
“I never saw the Necromancer, and his undead never got to us, but I saw what his hordes did. I don’t like undead, and the Antinium will never be our city’s allies. But I hope you can see we’re better than other Drake cities. Councilmember Drinn.”
“…Pleased to meet you, sir.”
Pisces’ nose twitched with the effort it took not to sniff. The Drake nodded a few times and then hesitated. He peered around.
“With all that said—do you think there will be an occasion to get on the scrying orb sometime during your visit? Loeri could use the publicity.”
Pisces’ face went blank as he realized part of his protection was—Yvlon’s face was colorful, but Ceria got up, cackling.
“Councilman Drinn? I’m delighted to meet you. Captain Ceria.”
“Oh, of course. I take it you’re enjoying your stay, Captain Ceria?”
The Drake shook her hand, and Ceria looked around thoughtfully. The snow that had covered Izril made this restaurant’s heat welcome, and the vertical city was fascinating. She smiled genuinely.
“It’s fascinating. And I’d love to look around. Your customs with rope—your ability to climb everywhere—I might want to borrow some of the designs and ideas. Especially the fun ones.”
The Drake’s face reddened immediately, and Yvlon reached over to punch Ceria in the shoulder. Hard.
“—I’m sure I can introduce you to some of our finest designers. Is there an occasion?”
The half-Elf [Prankster] kept smiling beatifically.
“I have at least one friend considering it. Well, no, two. Captain Jelaqua Ivirith is always interested in new things. And of course, Sinew Magus Grimalkin and Lady Pryde’s impending nuptials could use some interesting attire.”
“Sinew Magus Grimalkin of Pallass? And Lady…”
“Lady Pryde Ulta. Their marriage, yes. Don’t spread the word, but it’s coming up.”
Every head in the restaurant turned, and people in the know who realized that was not a Drake name dropped their utensils. Worse—Pisces saw at least one truth stone flashing serenely blue as people consulted it. Because of the damn circlet.
Ceria’s smile was huge.
—Right up until Yvlon grabbed a pitcher of ice water and poured it over Ceria’s head. Then hit her with it.
 
[Prankster Level 9!]
 
——
 
Anger was something difficult to manage.
Everyone saw the most extreme examples of someone who blew up and said, sometimes very reasonably, that they were out of control of their own emotions. Especially if the instigating event seemed petty.
The truth was that no one could know another’s thoughts—unless they could read minds, obviously—so they saw the final straw, sometimes of a wagon that had been filled with straw over decades.
Nevertheless. There was no excuse for losing control if your strength exceeded those around you. If your class focused around honing your technique, your own emotions were another muscle to work on.
Orjin of Pomle knew this. He was careful about how he acted. He could not get angry—because he knew the consequences of rage, both in how he fought and to others.
—It was odd. As Strongest, even when fighting Vandum, he had not often had to work on his fury for nearly ten years.
As Orjin of Pomle, travelling—he was tested sorely. There were multiple factors. Losing Pomle…was worse than his class. If he could have just travelled by himself, with naught to do but run and think and rest, he might have suffered not at all.
However, in her great wisdom, Salii had decided Orjin needed a mount to at least help him carry his burdens. So she had asked around, and Tiqr’s soldiers had provided Orjin with their ‘finest steed’ whom Nsiia had personally blessed and could keep up with the Strongest’s speed.
That…was fine. Although Orjin had not known why Spitty was called ‘Spitty’.
He now respected it and realized why the soldiers were so eager to give up on this fabulous animal…who made every rider’s life a living hell. The camel was grumpy, irritable, and uncannily intelligent. He had spat on Orjin.
To be more precise, he had managed to tag Orjin, the Strongest of Pomle, with his noxious spit that smelled like rotting date fruits and was warm and sticky and impossible to get off easily even with water.
Spitty had nearly died of dehydration the first day, because he kept missing Orjin. The Strongest would dodge at point-blank range with his back turned and seemed to regard the spit-based attacks as a kind of training.
That night, Spitty waited until Orjin was well and truly asleep. Then he spat twice. Orjin actually dodged the first glob of spit. He did not dodge the second.
Anyways. If it were just Spitty, Orjin would have been happy with his companion. He respected a camel who could strike him with phlegm.
The companion he did not respect or want was the one who rode Spitty or sometimes ran with the camel, two arms spread behind him in a ‘V’. The worst part was that he could keep up with Orjin, and sometimes he would do a flying leap, especially if someone were watching, and land hundreds of yards away, conjuring a gust to slow him as he landed.
The Fury of Skies would not leave. The [Cult Leader] and [Martial Artist] of Windcaller’s Wrath, who used his showy wind-based martial arts, had mostly healed from his defeat by the Prophet.
But his followers were rather disillusioned with him, and with the other masters of Pomle diminishing his already-dissolving flock, he had announced he was going on a ‘journey of personal enlightenment’.
Especially when he had ferreted out the fact that Orjin was going to visit Torreb, the highest-level [Warrior] in the world.
“Go away, Fury of Skies.”
“My name is Soloxenethn, Orjin of Pomle. We are both diminished in class and stature. Let us be fine companions.”
He had…some kind of amazing power that let him sit on Spitty’s back, no matter how hard the camel tried to buck him. Orjin stared at Soloxenethn.
“I shall call you the Fury of Skies. I do not want companionship.”
“Does the Strongest of…no. Does a [Martial Artist] of Pomle turn away seekers on the great path?”
The man folded his arms, sitting cross-legged on Spitty’s hump. He seemed to weigh far less than he should—probably how he executed his flashy jump-attacks and why Spitty wasn’t constantly complaining with him around.
Orjin disliked sophistry. It was not a word he often used or had in his lexicon—but Soloxenethn was sophistry embodied. The problem was that Pomle did teach such things, and Orjin believed it.
He just did not like the Fury of Winds. Anyone—Raul, Salthorn—Vandum would have been a better companion.
 
——
 
“I do not respect your martial art. It is wasteful and showy.”
“Yet with it, I can strike a man a hundred paces away. Can you do the same, Strongest?”
“I can do the same with a rock.”
“Hah! Seeyaw! Fft!”
The Fury of Skies threw three sharp punches with a decent amount of speed—emoting as he did. Orjin saw the air ripple, and three blades of air cut some of the mist drifting by them in a dangerous cloud to their right. The man turned to Orjin.
“My Skills do not run out. Your rocks do. If I had fought Revine, I would not have been forced into a hand-to-hand battle so quickly.”
She would have killed him. The Fury was—annoyingly—above the level of an apprentice by far. He could take down a number of Pomle’s lower-level fighters. He was, sadly, Level 41.
Orjin couldn’t believe it. He refused to believe it, but it did make sense; the Fury of Skies could throw his wind strikes around as long as he could throw a fist.
“I was a great [Leader of the Devoted Path] before I became a [Cult Leader]. My class consolidated with [Windfist], which turned into [Windtouched Martial Fist], into my final class. [Martial Fury of Skies]!”
Why did everything he say have to sound like he was endlessly proud of it? The Fury of Skies beamed with self-satisfaction—then frowned at Orjin.
“And you, Strongest?”
“I leveled up from training.”
The Fury waited, but that was all Orjin had to say on the matter. And the Fury’s teeth clicked as he shook his head.
“You have little aspect of a leader about you. No wonder Vandum replaced you.”
“That is not how Pomle works.”
“No? I am a leader of men and women, and you inspire little, Orjin of Pomle. A leader should be bold. They should be seen to move and live in style, to show others what can be aspired to. If nothing else—Pomle should know your strength, but you do not show it! Perhaps this journey will teach you more than you think.”
Was this what it was going to be for weeks? A month? Orjin stared across the Lantern Lands. The Fury of Skies had fallen behind that night he’d run as far and as fast as he could—partly to lose the man. But the Fury of Skies had caught up that morning, looking smug. The wind was on his side, and his entire class revolved around being mobile, after all.
“Let us stop at the first city we come to. We lack for provisions. Besides, you have a hefty bag of coin.”
“I am not wasting it on you.”
“At least let us buy provisions! Or do you intend to starve our camel here?”
The Fury slapped Spitty’s side and dodged the return-spit, but it was true that they had little feed for Spitty, and the animal looked weary from going so far. That swayed Orjin. He grunted.
“Fine. Sandworm.”
“Excellent. Wait, what—”
 
——
 
The average Sandworm could be up to fifty feet long. It had a circular mouth with teeth lining the interior, like a leech, and it would lie in the sand, sometimes for ages, before erupting up and trying to consume anything it saw.
Its hide could deflect arrows, and the Fury of Skies’ wind-slashes bounced off it. But the great beast was not that fast—if you circled, it had to either try and strike you with its tail or encircle and devour you.
Orjin finally managed to make it writhe away and retreat after his fifth [Quake Palm] to its side. The wounded monster left a trail of yellow ichor as it fled.
He guessed he’d damaged its internal organs fairly badly. The Fury looked…rather impressed as he stopped running around in circles, trying to get a shot at the beast’s vitals. Orjin hadn’t run—he’d just walked as the Sandworm tried to enclose him, striking the monster in the same spot as he kept his pace.
“Again, you refuse to show off! You have greater Skills!”
“I was saving them for another Sandworm or a pack of them. If I can defeat a foe with a Level 5 Skill, I will. Your style looks impressive, but it cannot hurt many foes. As I proved.”
That took the wind out of the Fury’s sails, and he was quiet for a good two hours after that. However, once they got to the city, he was talkative once more.
“A bar. To it! Feed, drink, and food for us!”
It was called…Spotlight of Ixen. Ixen being the city they were in.
The city of Ixen was sovereign to a kingdom in the Lantern Lands, but Orjin didn’t know the name. He did not know much outside of Pomle aside from where warriors came from, and Ixen was certainly strange enough to him.
Every street had a colorful lantern hanging up. Not all were magical, but they glowed, especially at night. It seemed to Orjin to be entirely too colorful compared to his Pomle, and the citizens all had side-lanterns at their side.
They stared at the two [Martial Artists], especially the Fury of Skies’ swagger. To Orjin’s surprise—they knew him.
“Strongest of Pomle. It’s the Strongest of Pomle, here? I saw him in the scrying orb Wistram sells…”
No, he wanted to tell them. That is no longer me.
But he did not feel the need to speak. Nor did he want to stay at the bar, but the Fury had somehow gotten a hold of the bag of coin that Orjin had packed away, and Orjin had to follow to avoid him spending all of it.
“Two warriors? No blades bared. And coin up front!”
The Spotlight’s owner looked wary, but the Fury assured him neither Orjin nor he intended to bare a blade. He placed a gold coin down, and the [Bar Owner]’s face lit up.
“Fine food. Something hot—and a drink of barley tea for me. Fine feed for our camel, and summon your highest-level [Stablehand] to rub him down.”
“At once, sir.”
Orjin disliked the presumptuous way the Fury ordered people around. He stood, uncomfortably, until the Fury beckoned him over to a table.
“No stronger drink?”
He had expected the Fury to order some alcoholic beverage. But the other man just scoffed at the prospect.
“It is not night, and we are travelling. I do not partake of such substances unless I am resting. We have just defeated a Sandworm; more such monsters might come.”
His loud voice attracted some attention, and a Fox Beastkin [Waitress] turned as she delivered two barley teas to the table.
“You fought a Sandworm? And you’re alive? Where?”
“Not a mile outside the gates. We chased it off, and it dug down so we could not follow.”
The Fury spoke airily, and he began to regale a crowd with the tale—and told two nervous [Guards] where it had been on the road.
Orjin was silent throughout all of this. He was so uncomfortable that even the Fury noticed.
“What is wrong, Orjin?”
“I dislike bars. And bragging. Are we—disrupting the custom of this place?”
He looked around. They were certainly the center of attention. Warriors were giving them challenging looks, and he had heard ‘Strongest’ more than once being spoken. But the Fury was airy.
“Not at all. A loud voice means little. Ah, our food.”
