Someone else was listening to the smalltalk between Yvlon and Wil. And it was smalltalk. Unlike Yvlon, they had a different reaction.
Dead fucking gods. Yvlon Byres made him want to throw himself under the wagon. And to look at the [Lord]’s face, Wil was about five minutes from that too.
It was…amazing, actually. A kind of inverse talent. You had Yvlon Byres, a Gold-rank woman with arms of steel who had just been to Chandrar, who knew a Courier who had participated in said Ailendamus war, and an [Innkeeper] that was exceptionally high-level and talented and involved in countless current events.
On the other side, Wil Kallinad, student of the Titan, sharp as a whip, possessor of a Relic-class blade, and also related to as many events.
Somehow, Yvlon made the conversation banal. Oh, she asked about current events, but like—like a Golem. Like someone thought they should make for ‘interesting conversation’.
It was so bad that the unwilling listener couldn’t take it. Eight minutes, and he sat up out of the pillows the Horns had placed for naps and cleared his throat.
“Er…I may not know about Terandrian politics, but would you let me join the conversation?”
Wil turned so fast it looked like the guess about his desperation was spot on. He nodded and paused.
“Absolutely, er—I beg your pardon, I’ve forgotten your name.”
He reddened a bit, and Yvlon nodded as the Gnoll chuckled deep in his chest. He rubbed at his black fur, and his light brown eyes opened a bit wider with his toothy grin.
“Nailren. Captain—former Captain of the Pride of Kelia. As I am disbanding my team.”
“Ah, that’s right. We hadn’t talked much—”
The Gnoll shrugged, waving it off.
“It’s nothing, yes? I’m the small adventurer compared to Gold or Named-ranks. I thank you all for taking me with you. It’s been entertaining.”
And informative. Erin Solstice’s new powers, secrets about Ceria…and just observing some high-level people at their job. Yvlon turned.
“Did you have opinions on the political situation in Terandria?”
Please, no.
Wil’s eyes begged Nailren for relief. His problem was that the [Lord] could still be timid. Nailren thought for a second, scratching at his chin.
“I do have a pressing Terandrian question.”
“I—have as many answers as I can give.”
The Gnoll smiled slightly.
“Your sister, Talia Kallinad. One of the [Summer Knights], yes? Is she the one crossing tails with that ‘Ser Solstice’ or is it someone else? One of the [Princesses]? Any gossip from there?”
Wil’s eyes bulged, and the Gnoll chuckled at his expression.
“Captain Nailren! I don’t know if that’s fit to talk about.”
“It’s funny. Ah, Humans and siblings. I’d know something like that about my sister in a Gnoll tribe if I had one. If it is too personal, I apologize.”
“I don’t—I know she’s friends with Ser Solstice. Nothing more, and I am not intimating any other way!”
Wil spoke hurriedly, face still red, and Nailren waved it off. But that was interesting conversation. You saw the difference? He demonstrated again by leaning over.
“Then—let’s talk Pheislant. When they come, will they agree to respect any Gnollish tribes or will they come with fire and sword?”
Wil paled a bit at the pointed question, and the others playing cards looked up. The [Lord] was even quicker to respond.
“I can’t imagine we would do anything against the tribes, Nailren. My kingdom was horrified by what they saw.”
“Yes…I hear that a lot. Everyone is horrified. But that means nothing to Gnolls. You understand that if you come to our lands and we find an army where a new tribe has settled, that tribe will assume at some point your horror will be for all the innocent Gnolls you accidentally had to kill in self-defense. I’m sure the Chieftains will ask you the same thing.”
The young man was not a fool. He saw the obvious point Nailren had made. Yvlon looked highly uncomfortable by this. She would never say something like this—but she would punch at Ceria hard enough to shatter six-foot thick solid ice. Strange how people worked.
“How—how would we assure you of our good intentions?”
Nailren hmmed theatrically, despite knowing his answer.
“Send a caravan to the Meeting of Tribes. I heard you promised Honored Feshi—hah, Chieftain Feshi now—a trade caravan next year. Well, it is a new year coming up. Send it with [Diplomats] and enshrine a peace treaty in writing and magic. That will put you ahead of many nations.”
“I can suggest that. I can’t promise it…”
The [Lord] looked intrigued by the thought, and Nailren shrugged and spat over the side of the wagon.
“Someone must. Your courts will not, and I tell you, it’s the only thing we’ll respect. Not words. All Humans will look alike. Just like we must look to you by the thousands, you understand?”
“I understand. Thank you for your candor, Captain Nailren. I’ll write my father—now, actually.”
Wil fussed with a [Message] scroll. Nailren winked at Yvlon, who seemed taken aback. But there it was.
Fast conversation, interesting, with merit—and he hadn’t even brought up the fact that Wil’s people were stealing lands meant for Gnolls. But then, it was a friendly conversation. Nailren would have pulled out that other card if he got annoyed.
The fact that great ghosts of Gnolls had literally pulled the land up from the sea for their people was a fact—but it didn’t matter. The fact that the rest of the world was coming to grab what they could and enforce it with armies despite not being Izrilian didn’t matter.
These ‘facts’ would be countered by other people with statements that were also true for a given value of ‘I want to believe this’. Like ‘there was a lot of land there, far too much for the Gnolls to use’.
‘If you can’t hold onto it, you don’t deserve to keep it’.
And so on. These convenient facts were practical, true, and also lacked for any kind of morality. But they were true, and Nailren was a pragmatist. You didn’t need any real reason to be a bastard; they just made you feel better.
If anything, that was what he liked about Ceria Springwalker. She made no excuses to Yvlon for what she did. She wanted to do something and did it.
“So are you going to the new lands, Captain Nailren?”
Yvlon said this as if she didn’t know the answer. Another boring question, but it didn’t have to be a boring answer. The Gnoll smiled at her.
“Of course I am. I have dissolved my team. Once I go to my tribe, I will tell Chieftain Eitha I am done. Hawkarrow’s Gnolls may come with me, some of them—but I will not go as a Silver-rank adventurer nor as a Gnoll of a tribe. I go as an explorer, and whether I found a tribe, come back, or perish there—I am going. I wish I had waited for your brother, in part, but I thought he would delay my journey at least a week, possibly a month. And I will not wait.”
“You intend to be first to the New Lands? Does it matter that much? Unless—you’re staking a claim?”
Yvlon blinked. Nailren shrugged.
“Maybe I shall, but that is hard to enforce, no? I am going fast as I can, Yvlon Byres, because there is a glory in being first. First to see what no one else has. First to walk a new soil. Does it call to you?”
She was an adventurer. Surely she felt some of it in her blood. Yvlon turned—and he saw a spark of it in her. But only a spark. So little…the woman just shook her head, troubled.
“I think my team has more than enough on its plate right now. It’s appealing, but we have no goals there, Nailren.”
“That land is a goal in and of itself.”
She looked at him, and his eyes shone. Shone like they never had since he was a boy—and he looked at her in great sympathy.
“You do have much going on, Yvlon. For me, this is a defining time in my life. For you?”
The woman looked at him and then shook her head.
“I suppose I don’t feel it.”
He sat there, as the wagon bumped, and exhaled.
“Drakes’ Ancestors. You do need help.”
Then he put his head back and stared up at the sky, as if it were all fresh. Yvlon looked offended—then seemed to realize he was absolutely right.
 
——
 
The Horns of Hammerad were a fascinating lot. They had shot up from out of nowhere in a year to become Gold-rank, so they were filled with an amazing amount of competence in some areas—and absolutely zero ability in others.
As a unit, they were solid. The fight with Ceria and Yvlon notwithstanding, Colth rated them highly on his personal ranking charts.
And yes, he had charts and statistics and character sheets. As individual fighters and together, the Horns looked excellent and were still growing.
—As adventurers, they sometimes sucked.
A fine example of this was when they stopped at the city of Loeri.
Loeri, an interesting city. You had Liscor, with walls forty feet in height, which they planned on upgrading. Taller than even a major Human city like Invrisil’s—though Invrisil did benefit from Magnolia’s [Aegis of Grace], so it wasn’t entirely a fair comparison—and on the level of most Drake cities.
You had Pallass with walls four hundred feet high. Massive, defying physics, and the greatest walls in the world save for Rhir.
Most Drake cities did not even come close to the top. There was an exponential cost to building higher, hence the average wall height being ‘only’ thirty feet.
Thirty damn feet. Imagine how much stone went into that? To enclose a city? Anyways, the point was—
Loeri’s walls were eighty feet high.
To be fair, they had done it cleverly. The city had first developed on the igneous rock pitted and cavernous, filled with lava-tunnels of a long-dead volcano. The first people to live here had been scavenging for one of the things Drakes loved so much. Gems, metal ore, or gold.
Loeri had been the gold. It had long since run out of the gold, though, and the deep shaft-mines had eventually been turned into living spaces. They had built down—and as either [Geomancers] or erosion reduced the height of the land, Loeri had risen.
It was a vertical city. Also—it gave most people an insanely unstable feeling as they approached.
“…Did someone knock the city over?”
“A Giant pushed it once, I heard. And earthquakes have sent it tilting. See how the wall’s slanted like that?”
Loeri was leaning. In fact, a wall had once gone over such that it was now a slant—and they had rebuilt around it so it was more like a ramp-wall. In fact, even some buildings looked shifted diagonally; ones made later were properly upright.
“What a jungle of a city! It looks like a mess. Can we visit? We have to visit.”
Ceria Springwalker was delighted, and even the Gnolls agreed this was a place to go to.
“Is it safe? Did they come after us during the war at the Meeting of Tribes?”
Gire was a bit worried, but Nailren reassured her.
“Not Loeri. They would not attack tribes unless they were formally at war. And they have no ongoing wars with Gnolls. Not that they’re the most hospitable to our tribes all the time—but we haven’t clashed. The harder part will be Ksmvr. And Pisces.”
Antinium. [Necromancer]. The Horns’ ebullience faded, and Pisces and Ksmvr looked at each other.
“Perhaps, ah, we could remain outside? We shall not die for want of seeing a city.”
Pisces remarked, and Ksmvr looked disappointed, but Nailren hmmed.
“You may be able to get in. Loeri’s strange. And Ksmvr is famous. Let’s try.”
They headed over, and Colth rubbed his hands together. He loved this. He hadn’t gone to the south of Izril for a long time, and the opportunity of the New Lands?
He knew of Loeri, of course, but visiting? So worth it.
 
——
 
Here was the way that the Horns and Colth differed. It might be hard to see at first, because the [Ultimate Supporter] hung back to see what they would do. And longer still to get them into the city.
Firstly, it took the Horns ten minutes to realize Loeri had no gates. Literally none. They were heading along the walls when polite laughter made them look up.
“Entering or looking for someone? State your names—passports if you have them.”
The Watch on the walls were staring down at them. They had odd throwing weapons that made the Ekhtouch Gnolls eye them warily, but both sides kept their hands free of their weapons. Ceria shouted back.
“Hello! We’re the Horns of Hammerad! No passports, but we’re an accredited Gold-rank team! Can we come in? We’ve got, uh—”
She indicated Ksmvr, and the Watch shouted.
“Antinium!”
They recoiled, seeming to see him only now. A lot of people did that. The feared Black Tide was so reviled that they seemed to think Ksmvr needed war drums or ominous tingling in the air to be present.
“And a [Necromancer]! Listen, if they’re not welcome, we’ll go!”
“Stay there! Someone summon the Watch Captain on duty! Procure a passport if you have one!”
The Horns had no passports, but they had the advantage of fame. In short order, the Watch came down to meet them in the way Colth hoped they would.
They swung down on ropes. They placed a line on some anchors and rappelled down. They were nimble!
“That must be hell to import goods into their city with.”
Ceria remarked with amusement to Colth as they waited. The [Supporter] whispered back.
“They’ve got elevators. I hear teams of up to a hundred haul goods up and lower them down into their city. Plus, Chests of Holding make this viable. Things go down—”
“And how do they go up?”
“They try not to take anything heavy down. Otherwise, it goes up—painfully.”
“And Pallass didn’t sell them their fancy elevators?”
Colth snorted.
“They’re not perfect yet—and it’s a matter of pride among Loeri. You think the Yoldenites are the only weird Drakes?”
Ironically, the Yoldenites came up as the Watch Captain strode over. He was one of those grey-scaled, hard-bitten types with a scar along his tail. Loeri had seen monsters, and he carried two bolas—ropes with heavy weights for tossing—along with, of all things, a harpoon. The end had a rope.
“My name is Watch Captain Yegosi of Loeri. I know you, Horns of Hammerad. This…Antinium is alone?”
“Yes, Watch Captain. I’m Captain Ceria, and this is my team. With us are also Gnolls of the Ekhtouch Tribe, a Silver-rank Adventurer, and Colth the Supporter.”
The Watch Captain and some of the Drakes stared at Colth, and he bowed to them, hands folded together. Yegosi grunted in approval.
“We like Named-ranks who obey the law. And it is law Loeri respects. The City of Ropes will welcome the Horns if you give us assurances under oath this [Necromancer], Pisces Jealnet, and Ksmvr of Chandrar will cause no harm.”
They were famous! The Horns still seemed surprised everyone knew of them. Ceria even said it with a tight grin.
