“Someone who can’t make their hobby synergize with their job—or make a secondary class inform their main one—is just uncreative. Every single class synergizes. [Knitter] synergizes with [Swordsman]. [Mage] informs [Cook]—it works. Level up, Ksmvr. Your passion is worth more than doing things ‘optimally’.”
His air quotes were derisive. Ksmvr looked at his teammates.
“I would like to level up in [Tree Collector], please. But if my team believes this is truly a bad thing…should I not level up in my other classes?”
“No, [Brave Skirmisher] is fine, Ksmvr.”
Everyone assured him…until the Antinium went silent. Yvlon turned her head.
“Wait. What level are you in [Teammate] or [Animal Friend] now, Ksmvr?”
If she recalled his report right, he had been a Level 5 [Teammate], a Level 2 [Animal Friend], and a Level 1 [Dancer] when leaving Chandrar.
Ksmvr gave her a double-salute with two arms, one from each side.
“I regret to say that I have not been a good member of the Horns and have only become a Level 8 [Teammate], Yvlon. But I am a Level 6 [Dancer] by virtue of sometimes doing Mrsha dances with Mrsha. And, um…I have been studiously levelling in my other class too.”
“…How much?”
The Antinium squirmed. He avoided everyone’s look as the little dog that was the mascot of this inn poked its head up over the table. He had been feeding it scraps and petting it with his classic four-fold petting and scratching technique. The dog’s head was lolling off his lap to the horror and jealousy of the Drake owner.
“U-um. I may be a Level 13 [Animal Friend].”
 
——
 
The revelation that Ksmvr had gained ten levels in [Animal Friend] was the talk for the rest of the day. It was not a combat class.
But as they progressed from city to city, sometimes stopping just for an hour, Yvlon saw the power of Ksmvr’s class that he truly did like. For instance—among the smattering of Skills he had picked up, Ksmvr had gained his Level 10 capstone Skill:
[Animal Respect: Friend by Deed].
If that was a confusing Skill, the effect of it was this. Not all Drake cities liked the Antinium. Some literally refused to have him in at the gates and had to be persuaded by Colth or Ceria to let him in. Others had very vocal people who wanted to tell Ksmvr what a monster he was and how he should be executed at once. They usually didn’t try anything; Ksmvr was more dangerous than almost anyone else, and he had a group of high-level friends.
The pets didn’t care one bit. They would flock around Ksmvr, and Drakes did own lots of pets. The most obvious and amazing example of this was when they came to the Rooftop City of Herizz, where you climbed on roofs to higher points of the city—literally walking over the homes of people—and where rainfall could often sleet down over the roofs in thousands of cascades dribbling down to the impressive drainage system below—Ksmvr was walking across a crosswalk from which a bunch of cats were hanging out.
These were not giant cats like Marwsh, just alley cats, some pets, some feral, lounging around just over the heads of pedestrians. Occasionally, one would swat at neck-spines or a hat from their vantage point.
They spotted Ksmvr, and as the angry crowd of Herizzian citizens kept protesting Ksmvr and chanting ‘Ants get out’, the [Animal Friend] spotted the cats. He marched past them—and Yvlon saw, with her own eyes, the cats lower a paw.
Ksmvr high-fived a tawny cat with brown spots on white, a black cat, and a blue cat with white stripes as they passed. Drake jaws dropped.
Adventurer jaws dropped. That had to be a fluke. Someone tried that with the cats and raised their claw, and the cats ignored them. An enraged Drake, mad at this betrayal by animals of all that was good and proper, hurled a pebble at the cats. One of them leapt on the face of the offending Drake and turned into a whirlwind of claws.
Ksmvr might not have won Herizz over…but the sight of the feared Antinium trundling around with a cat sleeping between his antennae on his head did something to Drake hostility towards Antinium.
Mind you, Pisces was also doing his part as a [Necromancer]. His Skeletal Champions were often refused on sight when he made the Drakes an offer to do menial tasks with them, and he instantly obliged.
But he liked provoking the discussion. In fact, the [Necromancer] had begun a cunning plan courtesy of Ceria.
You might hate her circlet and new penchant for pranks…but she had suggested he offer the skeletons’ services for as long as he stayed for the price of—one copper coin.
Slay a monster? One coin. Do hauling jobs? One coin for as long as they worked. They could dig, clean—poorly—and do anything, but you had to accept it. And if you didn’t…
That was an aggravating style that fit with Pisces. You want to turn down free help? Go ahead. He enjoyed watching the Drakes struggle with the idea immensely. They were indeed all unique cities—but one thing that unified them was that they were not that dissimilar to each other. Some could fit right in with Liscor, and some held people he would never care to associate with.
They all claimed to be ‘unlike those damn Yoldenites’, but Pisces thought there was too much resemblance—probably why the connection was so vehemently denied.
It was evening in the City of Herizz, and he was listening to the delightful patter of raindrops on the roofs overhead. Apparently, the buildings were so good in the city that you could use the roofs as walkways—and owners customized the sound the raindrops made when falling to be soothing, like music, or so on.
“Someone asked to join our team again. Where’s Yvlon?”
“Still sick.”
“Still? Tree rot, it’s been six days!”
Ceria came in, shaking water off herself as the rentable ‘home’ admitted her. Herizz hated inns, so you rented an apartment, but you could go down to the restaurant below if you needed to. Otherwise, there was plumbing, beds, everything up here. Even…Pisces waved at Ceria.
“Who wanted to join our team? By the way, watch out for the restrooms.”
“Oh no. Did she puke in it? And it was some Silver-ranker Drakes. Three. Do we ever want teammates? This lot said they were ‘even fine with the Antinium’, so I let them down gently.”
Pisces’ lips quirked at the idea. He could not imagine hiring a teammate so lightly. But—teammates? He shook his head.
“I don’t know about teammates—and no, Yvlon was just sleeping last I checked. But there is, ah, an odd water feature. In the toilet.”
Ceria gave him a blank look and decided to find out. The shout from the toilet largely echoed the one Pisces had made, and she came storming out.
“What the heck is that? Who puts water there? It’s hilarious. Are we being pranked?”
Pisces shook his head.
“I asked, and apparently it’s a Drake invention. Something about their extensive plumbing…it’s called a ‘bidet’.”
A look of pure delight spread across Ceria’s face.
“Has anyone else used the restroom? I have to see what happens when the others do it.”
She hurried off, and Pisces wondered how badly she’d prank someone now. Then…as he was sitting back in his chair and wondering if Yvlon could stomach some soup—he heard a voice.
“Pisces.”
Az’kerash’s voice spoke to him, and Pisces sat bolt upright. He had not heard the Necromancer for some time.
“Archmage! How can I help you?”
He instantly began to sweat. As he always did, but he had gotten more used to the sporadic calls. The Necromancer had been…helpful. He had helped free Pisces from Chandrar.
The debt kept growing. Yet—there wasn’t the conversational tone that Pisces was used to from the Necromancer, as if he sometimes called just to talk or give Pisces tips on magic. He sounded different.
“Are you free of distractions at this moment?”
“Y-yes, of course, Archmage.”
“Then—kindly find a private space. I shall cast [Greater Scrying] that we might see each other. I have—the desire to speak face-to-face for once.”
Uh oh. Oh no. No…but Pisces didn’t know what to say other than to agree and find the nearest surface. Which turned out to be a metal plate.
Az’kerash’s spell touched it, and he appeared perfectly on the cheap metal surface. He sat there, and for the first time, Pisces saw the Necromancer fully.
His blood went cold. He saw a man with white hair.
No—he saw a figure in spectral black robes that flowed around him with all the magic of another age, glittering with spells of a true [Archmage].
No.
He saw those black eyes and white pupils that stared out across the world from the other side of life itself. With such intensity—and with a disarming humanity to them that focused on Pisces with a faint smile on those lips. A smile of…a kind of affection? But the pain in those eyes had pierced them white. And what lay beyond in the depths of those pupils was pure oblivion.
The courage of a man who had once been called the Undying Shield of Calanfer. The intelligence of the Archmage of Death of Wistram. The integrity of the Necromancer of Silvaria who had made war on Roshal for Pisces.
And behind it all, the hatred to consume it all and turn nations to ash.
This was the Necromancer. He looked at Pisces, and the young man froze in terror. What Az’kerash said was this.
“Young Pisces…no. Pisces Jealnet. I must apologize.”
This was not how he talked. Pisces sat in his room, cloaked in silence spells, terrified not that someone would come in—he’d locked the doors—but of this change in Az’kerash. Something had happened.
“Apologize for what? What could you have done wrong, Great Necromancer?”
“Great…necromancer.”
Az’kerash savored the words, as if considering them for the first time. He shook his head.
“Do not call me that. Call me—Az’kerash. Do not call me Perril Chandler. That man is dead. Do not call me Archmage of Death any longer, for I have long forsaken and been forsaken by the Academy of Mages. I feel as though I have been woken from a pleasant dream. I call you to apologize, for I gave you hints and scraps of magic—spell tomes, yes, but riddles and games. I indulged in teaching like I was the Archmage and you were a student. No longer.”
Uh oh. Pisces was trying to figure out what to do. Yell to Yvlon, leap out a window—was he coming to give Pisces orders? To—end Pisces?
“What then, Az’kerash? You—you told me to go to the New Lands of Izril. Is it about that? I am going, I assure you. I am simply delayed by my team. But if you wish to call in any deed—and I am aware of all I owe you—I will fulfill it to the best of my abilities.”
The Necromancer sat there. Pisces’ heart thundered. Please…not now. Az’kerash blinked at him, and the man—and he was a man now, a man and undead conjoined—shook his head.
“A favor? Not now. Not…I am aware of debts of honor, Pisces. But I do not need anything from you yet. I—am aware of who I am.”
His lips quirked slightly, and Pisces breathed a bit. In confusion. Then—Az’kerash pulled something over. It was…a lunar calendar. It had been noted with the months of the year and dates, and he flipped through it absently.
“In two days, the moon will be full. Both of them. A rare dual full moon. It comes once every three months at most. Rare convergences are as many as seven months apart. Lunar magic is—odd. But it does inform our powers. During the full moon, in the eight hours where they are closest to full—regardless of whether you can see them—it is the opportune time to conduct any ritual spell. You have the [Ritual of the Lord of Bones]. I am correct in this?”
Pisces’ brain was snapping across each thing Az’kerash said, memorizing and growing confused.
“Wh—yes, Archmage? Az’kerash?”
“I believe I said not to call me the former.”
Az’kerash looked up, and Pisces froze—but a slight smile played over Az’kerash’s lips. He waved it off with a finger.
“You have summoned one Skeleton Lord. At your level, it may be your limit. Most [Necromancers] are at least Level 40 before they even gain the spell—so you are ahead of your time. What you do not know because there are so few tomes of Necromancy that spell things out easily is that you can empower your Skeleton Lord with the ritual. Send him armaments and bind weapons or spells to him. You would have…a binding limit of three, I infer. You probably bound that stone to him in one section. I suggest [Fireball], if you know the spell, and perhaps another weapon.”
Pisces mouth opened wide.
“I—I can do that?”
“Yes. Draw the ritual out via your spell, place the scroll or weapon within—and fuel it with your mana. Remember, your Skeleton Lord is limited by the mana it possesses, so unless you give it more power, [Fireball] may be too much. The same for artifacts; to ‘recreate’ it, it will need enough mana, so a mundane sword is sometimes better than a Relic. Especially if yours is in Chandrar. Now, you are no fan of flesh-based undead. I noticed the Skeleton Champions by chance as I scried you—just to make sure I wasn’t interrupting you. I shall send you two tomes I wrote that have doubtless been burned.”
“Wh—”
What’s going on? Pisces was flabbergasted. The Necromancer had never been this straightforwards. He had taught Pisces [Deathbolt] via writing it on an undead, once, and hinted at Bone Behemoths and more, but now?
“You seem confused.”
Az’kerash observed softly. Pisces nodded.
“Why are you—ah, so direct in your illuminations, Az’kerash? I don’t—understand what I have done to deserve such an honor.”
“Honor.”
The Necromancer repeated the word and closed his eyes. He looked pained, then stared at Pisces.
“You call it an honor, and I have heard [Necromancers] before my time and after I died speak like that. We are a…an odd class. We have apprenticeships, and we guard our techniques zealously. Every [Mage] does, but we are also artisans. Yet you, Pisces Jealnet, grew up in an era of persecutions. Thanks to me. You taught yourself, and you would have been a prodigy even if you had tutelage—is it ‘honorable’ to give a [Necromancer] a basic spellbook and teach him without making everything a riddle? You should have grown up able to buy a book of spells on necromancy. I have played the same game in my arrogance and age. No more. I will send you the books—then I do not know if we will speak long again.”
“What has changed, Az’kerash?”
Pisces was afraid. The Necromancer looked tired. He looked pleased to speak to Pisces, and Pisces felt an odd—sense of elation at the compliments. Prodigy?
It was all he had wanted, but then he saw Az’kerash’s eyes flicker. He looked up and spoke.
