“Chieftain Gireulashia. It may be hard for you to understand—but I have lived for over three decades—almost four now—and done everything I can for my people. Seen how we’ve diminished, seen the politics, and now—seen a Great Tribe, multiple tribes, meet their end or take a mortal wound. Is it so hard to believe I want to embrace the greatest deed of Gnolls in ages and see something new?”
When he put it like that—no. Gire exhaled. She ran along, then a bit of her nerves leaked out.
“Then…how am I doing? You’ve met a lot of Chieftains. Do you think my tribe’s not asking enough of me? I think they’re coddling me.”
Nailren’s brows rose. He glanced at the Ekhtouch Gnolls riding at a respectful distance.
“No one’s challenging your authority, Chieftain. I can confirm this, if nothing else.”
“I know that. I meant—they don’t expect as much of me as they should. I’m a [Paragon]. The first in four generations! I’m their [Chieftain], and they’ve always said…Firrelle always used to say how I’d lead them to greatness. But I haven’t.”
She was worried she was letting them down. Nailren exhaled.
“Ah. Well—to hear it, you identified the Healing Potions crisis and bought up a small fortune’s worth of them. And your tribe is moving to secure a well in the New Lands. You’ve taken charge of Ekhtouch and are reforming them—more than other tribes can say after this debacle.”
“But that’s basic. I should be—hunting down a Wyvern Lord. Or they should expect it of me. Why don’t they?”
Her people had stopped pushing her, for some reason, once she’d become Chieftain. They stopped telling her what to eat, stopped telling her that she needed to rise to a higher standard—Nailren laughed quietly.
“Perhaps that’s because they’re smart enough to know that pushing you might just hurt everyone. They don’t want to lose you, Chieftain Gire. They probably have the highest hopes for you. That you will be a genius and a great leader. But they can wait. You’re young. And between you and me—it would be wise to know you are young. You don’t scare the Walled Cities yet.”
Gire’s reddish fur rose a bit as she got annoyed, and she shot him a glower.
“I don’t scare the Walled Cities?”
“You don’t scare me. You are dangerous, a [Paragon], and your tribe is mighty, however small. But Chieftain Gireulashia. You are sixteen. If we sparred, you wouldn’t be frightening to me even when you inevitably bonk me on the head and knock me out. Maybe work on that, if anything—though it is not something you can train like the adventurers.”
It was the most perplexing thing Gire had ever heard said, especially to her face. She frowned.
“How am I not scary?”
Nailren thought of how to explain it. His voice dropped, and he looked ahead with less of a smile—but a faraway look that she knew betokened someone going into memories.
“…You have never held a rearguard action, Gireulashia. For all you have seen war, you’ve never seen that.”
“Not true. I have fought in a rearguard before. Twice.”
True, she’d been supported by her tribe and they had been skirmishes, but—Nailren looked at her and shook his head. His faintly yellow eyes had an intensity to them.
“No. You have never fought in a rearguard that was overrun, Chieftain. Never seen it wiped out and seen a slaughter. I have. The desperation of that—I will never forget it. You can defeat a Drake [General] with your wits and strength. But I am not frightened of one of Marwsh’s pumas, however big. I am frightened of rats, if that makes sense. Desperate rats who can sometimes take down cats twice their size.”
He bared his teeth, and Gire got what he meant. Nailren chuckled into his fur.
“In that sense—the Doombearers were always more dangerous than Plain’s Eye. One grew fat and complacent, nevermind that Xherw and Ulcreziek were dangerous by themselves. The others? Survived. I will be going to the New Lands and do what I must there, but if you ever run into a situation in Izril, I would advise you to think not like a champion of Gnollkind, but a desperate rat, Chieftain. And I hope you never have to see that rearguard action yourself.”
Their conversation troubled Gire as Nailren rode ahead. But she did listen, and she looked at the Gnoll’s back and realized something.
Of all the spies that had ever gone to The Wandering Inn…Nailren was one of the only ones that had never been identified, humiliated, or suborned by Erin Solstice and her staff. She stared at his back, then jogged forwards hurriedly.
“If—”
He turned to her, and Gire hesitated.
“Ekhtouch cannot continue being small. Some things we do well, but I have a lot of plans. If we go to the New Lands ourselves, would you consider joining the tribe? You can marry whomever you want once I get rid of that stupid rule. Not me. That’s gross, and I’m not doing it, like Mrsha. But I want you for my tribe.”
The Gnoll gave her a wide-eyed look as her Ekhtouch warriors turned with chagrin to stare at him and her—and some with excitement—and then Nailren threw back his head.
He laughed and laughed, and Gire sulked for half an hour. Headhunting people was always hard.
 
——
 
By the time they got to the next city, two things had happened. Pisces had been messing around with bones, and he had created six skeletons, which he proudly announced had all of his current artifice and talent in them.
They looked…
Different. Oh, they had regular Human skulls and humanoid bodies, but each one was six and a half feet tall and bulky.
“I call them…Skeleton Champions. Not Skeleton Knights, you see—as I have not the armor, but they are a grade above a Skeleton Warrior. More durable. Capable of basic tasks. Lift that tree there!”
They ran over to a fallen tree where the others were camped. Six Skeletons heaved—and the tree shifted a bit, then half their arms fell off.
Ceria nearly laughed herself into the fire. Pisces turned red.
“Their strength is still somewhat deficient. But I can animate them whenever I need! And they are durable! Would anyone care to try them out?”
Venaz, Peki, and Merrik offered to give them a go. So did Gire—but after dodging a few blows and punching in one’s skull, Pisces banned her from the test group.
“Hey, they fight like a Level 15 [Warrior]! Not as strong, maybe, but—umph—they take a beating!”
Merrik had to bash his skeleton’s leg in, then hit it on the head—and it still kept coming as Pisces pumped death magic into it. Peki punched hers repeatedly, noting how their reinforced ribs and frame kept them going.
“Pretty tough. Good bodyguards. Expendable.”
“Hmph!”
Venaz bisected his in one stroke of his greatsword. He turned.
“Is that all a Level 40 [Necromancer] can do?”
Pisces raised his brows. He was not Level 40. Yet. But like Yvlon was preparing to set forth onto a new capstone…
His Skeletal Champion rose as Venaz turned back to it. The Minotaur nodded.
“That would be the advantage. You didn’t say what level you were.”
He gave Pisces a look, and the [Necromancer] smirked silently. His new bodyguards were a helpful group. They could perform menial tasks like digging a latrine, stomping out the campfire, hauling buckets of water even without him supervising them.
They could also piss off every Drake city they came across, which was why he’d made them. Pisces turned to Yvlon.
“What do you think, Yvlon?”
“Hah?”
She looked at him blankly, and the [Necromancer]’s face fell. Yvlon was wrapped in a blanket and shivering, and her face was pale—but she was sweating. Ksmvr was patting her on the head with washcloths.
“Uh oh. She’s really sick.”
Ceria got up, and Colth swore.
 
——-
 
The septic dive had definitely given Yvlon something. She was burning up and cold—a classic fever, and it had come upon her within a day of leaving Marwsh. She didn’t even know what city they came to next.
All Yvlon knew was that she was miserable, sitting in the wagon corner with blankets on her, and she snapped at Ksmvr not to catch whatever she had. When they came to the city, there was enough commotion that Yvlon’s head rose. She turned and called to Colth, who was watching something from the ground.
“What’s happening?”
“Pisces’ undead.”
“Damn. Time for a fight?”
Yvlon thought she could punch something, at least. She got up blearily and began stumbling around, fists raised. She saw a few Drakes, headed at them—and stopped when she saw the weirdest thing ever.
…A bunch of Pisces’ Skeletal Champions were currently and energetically running with a bunch of boxes past some nervous Drakes through the city gates. Yvlon saw a number of Drakes pointing and Pisces rather nervously talking with an equally wary Drake.
“What’s he doing?”
For answer, Colth grinned at her.
“Style.”
Pisces’ skeletons were hauling goods around! And apparently, he had offered to send them into a sewer in lieu of himself and Yvlon to kill some obnoxious Sewer Slimes that had formed a colony down there.
Style. Colth had been right and wrong. The Horns might not have had much of it when it came to interpersonal affairs, but they had always had style.
Charging into battle clinging to a chariot being pulled by undead bears or horses was pure style. Ksmvr being awarded two trees was style.
And Ceria? Even the half-Elf had her own style. She stood outside the gates, and people stared as she created a huge ice sculpture out of the snow. Yvlon saw walls of ice rising, and Ceria slowly adjusted a sculpture to create a huge, grinning…
“Silver tarnishes. Really?”
She glared—but the cackling half-Elf stood on top of a giant ice squirrel. And she had even cut stairs into the side so you could climb up and slide down the tail like a ramp.
“Don’t be mean, Yvlon. It suits Ceria. It’s funny, memorable—oh wait, I think she’s doing a caricature of the Watch Captain. That definitely looks like him.”
The ice statues were huge, and thanks to the cold, Ceria’s power was at its largest here. The surly Drake with a cartoonish expression of outrage—and a mustache—might last until spring if it wasn’t knocked down first. Pisces’ undead emerged from the sewers and were promptly sprayed with water and exiled out of the city, and Ksmvr collected another group of trees from the city during their visit.
Yvlon threw up three times. Two times were due to sickness. The third?
The third was when they tried to cure it.
 
——
 
“Yep, she’s sick.”
A [Healer] took one look at Yvlon and gave his official diagnosis. The Human woman glared as the [Healer] put on, of all things, a weirdly-scented mask.
“What’s with the cloth mask?”
“I dunno. But the [Doctor] of Baleros uses it. Something about not being breathed on. I can’t healing potion this even if I had enough to waste—but let’s try a serum. I’ve got some Yellow Rivers mold here…”
“Yellow Rivers?”
Yvlon instantly swatted at the strange liquid, but the Drake clarified hurriedly.
“No, no! It’s the mold that kills Yellow Rivers. You know, the cure? I’ve found it works on other infections too. In fact, I have a liquid solution I mixed up with a few Skills. [Efficacious Medicine]. Very proud of it. Your choice, but whatever you’ve got looks nasty. Your fever’s very high, Miss Byres.”
She knew it was. Yvlon’s skin was red and flushed, and she drank water, though she could barely keep it down, because she kept sweating. Only her arms were cool and normal. She took the terrible medicine—and promptly threw up fifteen minutes later.
…It didn’t help. Whatever was wrong with her, it wasn’t fixable with the helpful mold, and the [Healer] claimed he’d encountered types of disease that the mold medicine had no effect on.
“In that case, I’ve got a few other herbal remedies. Let’s give you some of them—but you may want to find a [Shaman] or expert. She fell in a sewer? This is why adventuring is never worth it.”
 
——
 
Yvlon had a terrible rest of the evening and night. She didn’t eat with her friends—she just lay in her private room and sweated and threw up water—and had a time on the toilet she would never recount to anyone.
But her fever did break sometime in the night, and the next day, she was more lucid and able to eat. She was still ill, but she toughed through it—especially when Ksmvr came out of his rooms with an announcement.
“I have a new class!”
He raised his four arms, beaming, and everyone stared at him. Colth banged on the table.
“Alright! What is it?”
Ksmvr gave them all a huge smile with his mandibles.
“It is…[Tree Collector].”
He beamed—until Ceria fell out of her seat laughing. Yvlon rounded on the [Strategists], some of whom put their heads in their hands.
“You need to stop giving him classes.”
“It is, uh, an interesting class, Ksmvr. What level is it, pray?”
“Three. I have also received [Collector’s Bargain], that I might acquire more trees.”
“It’s not even [Lord]! Just [Collector]! Oh, dead gods.”
Ceria wheezed. Wil looked abashed.
“I am so sorry, Miss Yvlon—we’ll stop.”
“Stop? But it is proof of my trees.”
Ksmvr looked hurt. Yvlon shook her head, and that made her dizzy.
“Ksmvr—you don’t have unlimited classes. It might slow your growth.”
Everyone knew that. Pisces nodded, and Ksmvr hesitated—until Colth came to his rescue.
“Don’t listen to them, Ksmvr. Listen to me—every class is useful.”
“I like this advice. I will respectfully pretend I never heard my teammate’s comments. Thank you, Adventurer Colth.”
“What?”
Aforementioned teammates were outraged by Ksmvr’s sudden betrayal. They began arguing hotly over breakfast, but Colth refused to relent.
“No, no. Shut up. Who’s highest-level here? Me.”
“Me.”
Peki raised a hand. Colth punched her on the shoulder so fast she couldn’t dodge. Lightly—but the [Martial Artist] opened her beak—stared at her shoulder—and went to stand in a corner. Pisces was shaking his head.
“Colth, with respect, everyone knows new classes are to be desired and celebrated. But having multiples—and Ksmvr is also an [Animal Friend]—can be egregious. Levelling in one is ideal. Miss Lyonette and Miss Griffin have both vouchsafed this to me. And one is a…you know what.”
Colth raised his brows.
“One’s a Rulebreaker with no levels? I know.”
He relented.
“Yes, the other one has ‘royal knowledge’. And is she higher-level than me? Or am I twice her level? Listen, Pisces. Class consolidation makes up for this.”
“Not everyone consolidates, though.”
Ceria frowned seriously. Colth rolled his eyes.
