“Any role I can play would be great,” Artemis smiled. “I suspect you already know this from the Viper, but the second you created the True Royal, an echo of Records was sent throughout the entire multiverse. Even I subtly felt it. The shift. This ability of yours can give birth to what perhaps once was or what could have been at the Origin of any Path. Of existence itself.”

Artemis looked down and straight through the floor toward the Warpsnatcher that was currently busy sorting shiny rocks into three perfectly evenly sized piles. “With all our talk of concepts, I don’t believe I need to tell you that the conceptual power involved in this ability of yours transcends anything I’m capable of. It’s not merely the creation of life, but alterations of Origins. Of entire Paths.”

Turning her attention back to Jake, she looked him directly in the eyes. “Thank you for trusting me with this knowledge. I strongly suspect I entered a very exclusive club of those who are in the know.”

“You have,” Jake nodded with a small smile.

“Imagining the other members of this club does feel a little frightening,” Artemis chuckled.

“Hey, if it’s any comfort, then I've got plenty more secrets that only the Viper is privy to. And a bunch that he doesn't even know about,” Jake said in a joking tone, despite what he said being perfectly true.

“How comforting indeed,” Artemis shook her head, briefly glancing down at the Warpsnatcher again. “Say, if you plan on effectively adopting this Shimmerfur Warpsnatcher, have you had any more thoughts on what to call him?”

“Maybe he already has a name,” Jake said in a hopeful voice.

“Only the enlightened or those who frequently interact with the enlightened tend to bother having names,” Artemis said.

Jake cursed a bit internally. Vesperia had been so nice because she already had a name for herself. Jake didn’t have to do anything there at all. However, now, it seemed he was forced into another situation where his horrible naming sense could lead to him getting bullied by half of the people he knew if he ended up choosing another stupid name.

I guess Snatchie is off the table already, Jake told himself as he tried to look at Artemis for help, as he nervously scratched the back of his head.

“Say... you wouldn’t happen to have any good name suggestions for a Shimmerfur Warpsnatcher?”
