Searching for ‘people’ would reveal everyone, though; not only potential Hunters. But in all such cases, Songli would investigate and either send out a strike team or some ambassadors, depending on what the initial search revealed. Anyone found would be relocated. Songli did not appreciate people camping outside the border, as it was usually a sign of people waiting to attack predetermined locations inside the border. This made sense to Erick, so he agreed to their additional request for his Imaging services.

For he had an addition of his own.

Erick said, “I want to learn the spells that allow the clan mountains to come into being.”

The heads of the High Clans went silent on their [Viewing Screen]s.

In that instant, Erick realized something important.

He asked, knowingly, “This spell is already out there, isn’t it? All I have to do is ask around and I can find it, can’t I?”

Lingxing ignored Erick’s deduction, saying, “We will, of course, teach you this magic, and ask that you do your utmost to ensure that it is not further spread by your actions.”

“… I agree to that.”

There were a few more plans made and a few more clarifications given, but there would be no Imaging today, for the day was almost over. Tomorrow, the search would start.

- - - -

As Erick lay in bed, he thought about his journey so far.

He was not a warmonger, as Tsung had implied.

Wars happened around him. People died around him.

But he had also directly killed people, on purpose. A lot of people. They were coming after him because of what he did with farming or Particle Magic or whatever. The killing of Shades, and the Hunters of the Crystal Forest, and the Halls of the Dead, did not make him a warmonger. He was not a warmonger for helping with chelation and then trying to stop that resulting war, and then coming down hard on Terror Peaks when it became obvious that they had no interest in peace.

But he had certainly made some poor choices here and there.

Erick did not agree with Jane, that he should press the genocide button before problems devolved into war. He truly appreciated Xue for bringing him back from that particular edge, and telling him that everyone had to look out for themselves, in some ways.

But some people were too strong for commoners to face. You wouldn’t expect a farmer to defend himself from skilled killers, would you? Absolutely not. That was the state’s responsibility; the farmer’s responsibility was to grow food for the state.

And so, as someone who was able to take actions on the level of a state, Erick had a certain responsibility. He already knew he had something of a responsibility to use his power well. ‘Power is a responsibility’ is something he even told Kiri, way back at the beginning.

But it was only now that Erick was realizing how deep his responsibility went. How truly far he could take this burden, and how beautiful the end result could be, if he navigated his responsibility well.

Investing in Everlasting Light University was a test.

Tomorrow would be a test, too.

He had already undertaken smaller tests without realizing it, back when he [Cleanse]d the Crystal Forest of Hunters, and the Forest of the orcols of Deathsoul Shrooms and Moon Reachers. But tomorrow would be a real test of his power. He could end a shadow war, as Warlord Niyazo called it, before that war could begin, by allying his own responsibility with the responsibility of the High Clans of Songli.

Did he have that right?

Or was that the trauma and War Response talking, impelling him to take swift action before actions could be taken against him?

Well. Anyway.

Sleep now.

War tomorrow.
