Erick smirked. “While I admit ‘Delirium’ is a bit sinister, the naming convention merely has to do with the separation of interior mana from exterior mana in an effect along the edge of the working that is confusing to the manasphere; it has nothing to do with the effect upon the holder.”

“Oh!” said the man behind Shani, looking like a minor revelation had taken hold behind his eyes.

And then he looked right embarrassed since Erick looked up at him.

Shani recovered fast, introducing the man. “Archmage Flatt, this is our Warder, Azrin Severing Crescent, of the main house. He’s responsible for the various spellworks to help our charges to stay inside their own minds; to make the walls act like proper walls, to allow privacy and boundaries for those who grow up knowing none.”

Erick acknowledged the man, saying, “Maybe you can figure out this [Delirium Charm], then. Here.” Erick held up his hand and cast the spell. To a mana sense, the world vanished past three meters out in every direction, and then a whiteness coalesced into Erick's hand, pulling in expanded spellwork, allowing mana senses to see outward once again. To sight, sound, and every other sense, nothing changed, except the appearance of a white charm in Erick’s hand. He held it up, “That’s the base spell; I can shape it however you want if you want smaller blockings. Other than that, it’s a simple charm. Place it against the wrist and it will wrap around like a bracelet, and activate. Should last the full ten days, too.”

Erick demonstrated the spell by attaching it to his wrist, the world once again vanishing to mana sense in every direction. He pulled the charm off his wrist and the world came back. He set the charm in front of Shani, and waited.

Shani stared down at the white charm like it was a miracle she didn’t want to touch. And then she reached out, and faltered. She gave a short, wracking sob, complete with small tears, and then banished that emotion completely, giving an immediate, “I am so sorry. I did not mean—” She silenced herself, and then controlled herself. Her reaction was over almost as soon as it began, lasting about four seconds, then she said, “We welcome your assistance to our House. Thank—” She wiped away a tear, saying, “Thank you, Archmage Flatt.”

All this while, the kids had already been listening from upstairs and elsewhere, some of them excited, others already crying themselves; finally they would be free, like a normal kid. Some of the kids even said as much, though Erick had to lip read them to understand what they were saying. This place was rather soundproof; likely a result of the spells cast by Azrin.

Erick wiped away a tear of his own, saying, “You’re quite welcome.” And then he started casting the spell, laying out charm after charm on the table between them. “How many kids are there? I only count fifteen.”

“We have thirty four children here.” Shani asked, “Could we please get 40 char—” She paled, as all of her emotions faltered. With a vacant look down at the bounty piling up before her, she said, “We cannot pay you what you are due for this service. We are already… We’re at budget.”

“Don’t worry about that. Mana is cheap.” Erick smiled, saying, “So 40, then.”

“… Yes, please. 40.”

Soon enough, the pile of charms needed a box to hold them all, so Erick conjured one.

Azrin and Shani and every nearby child looked on. A few of them were adventurous enough to rush downstairs, trying to get here first, but some caretakers blipped in front of the grand staircase and cut them off. They started to complain. Loudly. Erick could actually hear them from here, now. Their caretakers complained right back at them, telling them about boundaries and protocol and politeness and how they were abusing their mana sense.

The kids countered with ‘So let us cut it off already!’

Erick smiled, and said, “If a three meter diameter is too big, let me know next week, okay?” He added, “You could probably put a box out front, or somewhere, and I can refill it without having to bother you. I likely won’t be able to be contacted myself, for there’s no telling what might happen, but we can work out some sort of system. Leave a note in the box, if you need a change in Shaping.”

Shani said, “Of course, archmage. It will be as you desire. Thank you so much for this. The kids will… It will change a lot for them.”

“That’s why I’m doing this. Everyone deserves a good future, and when you have a better childhood, that better future is easier to attain.”

Shani wiped away another unruly tear. “Right.” She breathed out, then in, controlling herself, then said, “This changes everything for us, so I will be introducing these pearls to the kids on a trial basis. After a few days, would you mind a contact, to reevaluate?” She spoke to Erick, but her words were for the kids yelling down at her from several floors above, “I am sure that some of our kids would be happier with smaller diameters; since you can shape the spell.”

“Of course.” Erick smiled as he conjured another small box, and began casting more charms into the space, saying, “These ones are two meters wide.”

“Thank you,” Shani said, her voice almost a whisper, as if she couldn’t believe this was actually happening.

They spoke more of particulars and Erick asked more questions about the House of the Wandering Soul, and how they fared in the recent battles. They all saw the fires and the explosions from the roof, but the fighting didn’t reach all the way out here. Erick was glad for that. Erick wanted to ask more about what the House of the Wandering Soul provided to the kids, but the conversation didn’t get much past that, because the kids were starting to gather at the staircases in large numbers, begging to be allowed to visit the archmage, to be allowed to get their hands on one of the charms.

At that point, Shani politely asked Erick if he could come back some other time. They did not allow visitors, no matter who they were, direct contact with any of their kids. Erick got the distinct impression that if he voiced the slightest hint of a demand to see the kids, or to see how the kids took to their new toys, that Shani would make an executive decision and allow him to do this much. But he didn’t want to put Shani in that position, and he didn’t want to break what were perfectly reasonable rules and boundaries (which seemed more important here than in most places) and so, he left.

Erick, Poi, and Teressa, left out a side door to avoid the kids and their guardians standing at the grand staircase in the center of the building. Soon enough, when the three of them stood on the white Teleport Square, the caretakers at the stairs finally relented. Erick got to see some excited kids rush down the hallways, to the meeting room, before they passed beyond his mana sense. Some of them waved him goodbye.

Erick smiled, and waved back.

And then, with a wrapping of white light, Erick, Poi, and Teressa, stepped away from the House of the Wandering Soul, headed toward the next destination.

- - - -

“The secret to a painless [Drain Ward],” Doctor Tsung said, with an air of slight annoyance, as he sat behind his desk where paperwork piled high, “Is the consent of the patient.”

Erick was not happy with that answer.

He had been directed here, to the Everlasting Life University and Hospital of Eralis, by Elder Varo. This place was a massive compound of a dozen smaller buildings. Most of the buildings were open to students, with only the adjacent hospital open to the public.

As of right now, almost all of the classes were on hold, and the compound was 75% shut down. With the targeted assassination of Clan Red Ledger, the power behind the university, it was all hands on deck at the hospital and other healing locations all across Songli.

But some people still remained in the university side of things, of course.

Like Doctor Tsung; a professor of magic-assisted healing. He was, according to Poi, Elder Varo, and all the rewards and diplomas and paintings around the office, a very learned, accomplished, and politically connected man. Erick even saw a painting of Tsung accepting a scroll from the Headmaster, with that scroll unfurled next to that painting. It read ‘Headmaster Kirginatharp of Oceanside University has conferred unto Doctor Tsung Red Ledger the title of Grand Mage of the Healing Arts, in this our year of Post-Sundering, 1391.’

The good doctor was a good deal younger in that photorealistic painting, but he was still in his thirties. The human man sitting behind his desk, in front of Erick, was in his late 70s.

In his own seat, across from the man, Erick said, “That’s not a good enough answer. For instance, how can you make a [Drain Ward] that is painless on an unconscious patient?”

“They won’t know the difference.” Tsung said, “But I can see that isn’t good enough for you, so let me tell you a little secret that I’d appreciate you not spreading around for reasons that will become obvious once it is told: No one becomes a Doctor because they want to cause pain; they become a Doctor because they want to heal. That mindset separates a [Draining Ward] that removes Health in order to allow a Healer to operate within the body of the injured or diseased, and the [Draining Ward] that harms in order to allow a killer to have an easier time of killing.

“One of the ways that we separate would-be Healers from would-be Harmers is that the Healer is able to bridge this mental gap all on their own, in a way that they don’t need this phenomenon explained to them. Some realize what they’ve done later in life, but most never do. Harmers never bridge this gap, even when we give them direct instruction on how to bridge this gap, and when it becomes obvious that they cannot do this mental leap, they are usually expelled.

“So if you cannot bridge this gap, you will know yourself as a warmonger. You will know yourself as a man who came into my life to cause pain. You may excuse yourself from my office.”

Tsung’s voice had stayed steady as he spoke, but the words themselves were anything but kind.

Erick’s second emotional response was to take a step back upon hearing the vitriol in the man’s words.

Erick’s third emotional response was to remind himself that he was talking to a big shot in Red Ledger, and possibly the Elder who would take over now that 90% of his Clan was gone. Even so, Erick did not expect to be so rudely dismissed. He wouldn’t blame the man for his curtness, though; almost everyone Tsung had known had been targeted by Terror Peaks for assassination.

Erick’s first thought was to blast the guy into dust. To maim and murder. To vent and purge. To be as angry with Tsung as Tsung was obviously angry with him. But Erick locked that swell of dark emotions down after a flashing red second.

For Tsung seemed unstable, behind his piles of paperwork.

And Erick could understand that.

Erick was unstable.

And yet…

When Erick came back to himself, he decided to allow Tsung the opportunity to accept that he had spoken in error, by saying, “I am sorry for what happened to your Clan. I am sorry that Terror Peaks did what they did—”

Tsung went apoplectic with anger, his face turning slightly red, but he said nothing, and he locked down his desire to interrupt.

“—I don’t know why Elder Varo of Devouring Nightmare directed me here, to you, for surely he would have known that this sort of reaction from you would have been in bad taste, and I don’t believe that Elder Varo is that sort of incompetent person. Unless you are the only one in all of Songli who could answer my question? No. I thought not.” Erick said, “If you have a need, then ask, and I will see what I can do in return for proper knowledge.”

Tsung almost said something, and then he thought better. He came to a decision, then said, “I need money. Lots of money. Enough to rebuild Red Ledger and to pay off our debts. About 2.3 million gold, by my current estimates. It might be higher.”

Erick sat stunned for a brief moment at the shift in conversation.

“… Okay.” Not what Erick expected, but okay. He asked, “Did they steal all of Red Ledger’s bank accounts or— Oh. Ah. You have no access. You’re the one left over.” Erick only realized how callous he sounded after the words had already left his mouth, but he made no move to take them back.

Tsung breathed in and out, then said, “I have access to the accounts— And wasn’t that a terrible ordeal! Ha! … I have access. A day later, I am here, and I have gained the Sight to see the true extent of the disaster laid against us. There’s only about a hundred of us left in the Clan. Having to inter my son and my daughter-in-law was a large enough…” As his voice trailed away, he wiped off a sudden tear and then gestured at the papers piled up around him. “These papers… They’re bills. Outstanding and new. A hundred thousand little hits, all adding up to a disaster that I cannot overcome. A hundred thousand people, all unable to pay their bills, and so, we are unable to pay ours, and so, our debts to fellow clans and commoners alike will be our downfall.

“We sent our students out into Songli as temporary healers, you know? They will likely have to put up shop wherever they are, and hope that people can pay them in food or shelter, and that their lack of accreditation can be overlooked. They likely won’t be able to come back for graduations, for there won’t be a university if this tragedy is allowed to continue.

