Over a shared drink, and a bit more talking about taxes and payments and how all that worked, mechanically and lawfully, Erick felt better and better about this decision. There were a great many problems that Tsung needed to solve, but Erick was fully capable of solving most of them with a nice injection of cash.

Or rather, an injection of cores.

Tsung said, “We can’t actually take the cores as currency, ourselves, for we don’t do much enchanting here. We have a few small enchanting schools as offshoots of the University, but we need the gold; not the cores. Therefore, we will be completing this transaction through the Clan Exchange— Ah. The Mage’s Guild. If you do not mind. They can take the cores and the Grand Bank of Songli can take the gold.”

“Fine by me.” Erick asked, “How many other offshoot schools do you have? Or is it just the enchanting school?”

“The University has three campuses. The main one, here. Then there’s the main hospital— That was destroyed by a [Gate] bomb.” He paused. He continued, “Some of your money will be used to clean up the main hospital; those Extreme Light bombs certainly made a mess of things. Some of the people who survived that attack are housed here now, plying their trade and helping whoever comes through the Teleport Square out front. The last campus is for enchanters. That’s far to the west of Eralis, in a little city called Juun.” He added, “There’s also hundreds of smaller offices everywhere in Eralis. The majority of our Healers are out in those locations right now, but much of the initial horror of Terror Peaks’ assault is over, so a few people are moving around again.”

“What about healing clans in Alaralti or Holorulo? You’re not the only hospital around, are you?”

He said, “Alaralti and Holorulo have smaller healing Clans, but they have no Doctors. They have Priests and Shrine Keepers and Light Healers. They’re hired out to heal special afflictions, but mostly they tend to their own cities. It’s a different way of doing things.”

Erick said, “Healthcare is so very different here than it was back on Earth. We didn’t have magic, so you can imagine how much more difficult healing a wound would be.” He laughed. “I bet you’re one of the few people who could actually imagine that.”

“Aye. Long term healing doesn’t happen very often. [Treat Wounds] is a miracle.”

“Not just that. Even [Cleanse] is a miracle. If I had that one spell back on Earth… I would have been able to save so many lives.”

“Ah. Yes. I can imagine, though I am sure my imagination fails to reach the target.” Tsung asked, “Is that why you’re helping Red Ledger get back into the fight?”

“Partially.” Erick said, “In another way, it’s easy for me to solve a monetary problem. In yet another way, I healed a lot of people in the aftermath of the battles, and I never felt smaller, so helping this University and helping Red Ledger is helping everyone else. In a third way, I saw a lot of bombed-out Red Ledger healing stations and the people therein killed, but in the places that survived, I saw the Healers of Red Ledger out there in the thick of it all, healing and helping as much as they could. Very few demanded gold. Many gave out as much healing as they could.” Erick said, “Much of it was not enough to save everyone. If your Clan hadn’t been targeted in order to cause a cascade of healing failures, then I am sure that hundreds of thousands of more people would have survived this recent horror.”

Tsung nodded, seriously.

Erick said, “There are a lot of small reasons that I am going to help you.” He tried a small joke, “What I cannot help you to accomplish, however, is your own protection detail. You have no guards in this building aside from the security man we met on the way up here. You’re the Patriarch of a Clan. Don’t you need guards?”

Tsung smiled, saying, “That ‘security guard’ downstairs is more than capable of defending me.” He laughed, adding, “And this old man hasn’t fallen that far from personal power. Thank you for your concern, though.”

Erick nodded, saying, “It was good talking to you, Tsung. I’ll take your thoughts on [Draining Ward] under advisement.”

Tsung looked extremely embarrassed for a moment.

Erick continued, “But it is time for me to depart, and to get in contact with some banks.” He stood up.

Tsung stood with Erick, saying, “A thousand thanks to you, Archmage Flatt. We will be able to continue to heal the hurts of Eralis because of your generous investment.”

Erick waved him off, “See you soon.”

Erick departed in a wrap of light, taking his people with him.

- - - -

Tsung sat back down in his chair.

He wasn’t quite sure how it had started, or why he had asked Archmage Flatt for assistance, but he had followed through and then...

They had spent the better part of an hour discussing healthcare in Songli. Tsung did his best to disabuse the man of his preconceived notions, to explain how the tax system worked, to explain how healing worked, and to explain how Red Ledger worked. Even though Erick had understood, he did not agree with some of the financial decisions Tsung had explained, and so, now that their talk was over, and Tsung knew that this was actually happening, Tsung got the distinct impression that things were going to change around here.

And look at him; Tsung was already thinking like this was a done deal. It wasn’t; no way. Not until the money was in the university account, and he could pay all the outstanding bills and—

And he could afford to hire about thirty new people to completely replace the staff that had perished in the attacks, and then those people could spend the money properly. Tsung was capable of understanding the depths of the hole that Red Ledger had been placed into, but he was not capable of getting them out of it. He was a professor and a Doctor. Not an accountant. This was going to be a headache.

Oh, sure, he could block the archmage from assisting. In such a case, Tsung would then have to go the traditional route of assistance and accept the offers on the table laid down by Star Song, or Void Song, or even Devouring Nightmare. Red Ledger would become even more beholden to the Clans above them, or they might even ask for a complete absorption of Red Ledger. If he remained in his current position, Tsung would gain some other overseer, likely someone who only wanted money, who only saw that Red Ledger’s accounting was in the negative. They wouldn’t see that Red Ledger helped millions each year. They wouldn’t see the people they had healed, and helped get back to work without worrying about a healing loan hanging over their heads, as so many were forced to do. They wouldn’t see that the economy ran on the ability for people to be healthy and productive. All they saw were numbers on record books.

If Tsung accepted these normal offers, nothing would change. Nothing would get better.

But Archmage Flatt saw more than that, and it was clear to Tsung that there would be changes, now that Erick had a decisive say in matters. Sure, the man claimed that he wouldn’t interfere too much, but the implicit threat there was that he would interfere in some ways.

Tsung had never been much for politics, with much of his own views settled firmly between the Reformists and the Traditionalists, but Erick seemed like a true Reformist, even if Erick didn’t know what that meant.

Which was fine.

Better than fine, actually.

Maybe Tsung could stay out of most of those politics, too. As soon as he got some money, the problematic bills in front of him would go away. Financial independence from the usual forces of Songli was important to maintain.

Red Ledger’s warriors were always going out and hunting cores for Clan Exchange gold, and herbs and resources for the university and the hospitals to lower the costs of care. It was the only way that they could stay financially independent. Now that most of those warriors were dead, including…

Including his son and daughter-in-law.

Now that those warriors were dead, even the normal money coming into Red Ledger had dried up, meaning that every day that passed, the clan got more and more into the negatives. And yet! There appeared a light. An archmage, willing to help, fulfilling the role of the warriors the clan had lost, but on a scale unheard of by Red Ledger.

And better yet! Erick was here for all the right reasons.

Tsung wiped away yet another unruly tear. He was too old to be so emotional; to have so much joy for having the solution to a world-ending problem step into his office. Ah. ‘World ending’ might have been dramatic…

He paused, then laughed.

This was Erick Flatt he was thinking about. Maybe ‘world ending’ was the exact sort of thinking to have…

Ah. Shit.

Maybe Tsung should have thought about Erick’s offer a bit more.

… Whatever the case, he needed to send his old friend Varo a bottle of wine and some dried fruit for the connection he helped to forge today. That bastard always liked candied tarip, didn’t he? Or maybe some ‘lemen’ candies would be more appropriate. Erick did invent these new citrus fruits… Right? Maybe Tsung was mistaken. Was it ‘lemen’? No. Tsung knew he was close, but he was off, somehow.

Ah.

He needed to do some research on the archmage. He opened a drawer in his desk and pulled out a file of Knowledge Mages. Ah. Yes.

Here we go.

Upon contacting his first Knowledge Mage, Tsung was glad to find that the man had packets of information already prepared regarding Archmage Flatt. They were cheaper than usual, too. There was a reason Tsung contacted this particular Knowledge Mage first. Tsung sent a runner after the packet, and ten minutes later, he was reading about his newest patron.

Tsung read the first pages, then skipped around a bit. As he read about Last Shadow’s Feast and felt terror at the implications of it all, a memory was jogged, but not due to anything written in the information. The memory came out of the depths of his mind, hitting him sideways.

The now-dead Scion Yaro had spoken of ‘Ezekiel Phoenix’ and his strange ideas of stations of [Greater Treat Wounds] on every corner. Such an undertaking would bankrupt Red Ledger in multiple ways, for sure. When Scion Yaro had said as much to Tsung, Tsung had agreed. Who had ever heard of such an outlandish idea! Pure insanity.

But just now, Erick had spoken on that idea, as well.

It was one of the first things the archmage had said to Tsung, and Erick kept coming back to this idea of ‘universal healthcare’, which, to him, meant stations of [Greater Treat Wounds] on every corner.

… Tsung sat back in his chair.

Ah.

Erick had been in the Highlands for a while, then?

Tsung flipped through his information packet, and found the information therein was wrong. It claimed that Erick arrived after having his Particle Magic being called out as Wizardry by Raidu, in the only honorable battle of the Chelation War.

After a few more inquiries to other reputable sources, and with a lot of difficulty in a few novel ways that eventually required him to use his Compact-appointed power as a Patriarch to acquire High Clan Knowledge Mages, Tsung decided two things.

One: He was not going to get involved with Erick Flatt overmuch, except to take his money and his goodwill. In return, Erick would be allowed to do whatever he wanted, within reason.

For Tsung did not appreciate the resulting visit from an Enforcer of Void Song. He especially did not appreciate how the enforcer had popped out of the air behind him and stabbed down into his desk with a sword, giving him a whispered warning to play nice with Erick, and telling him that he was being watched.

The enforcer had also wished Red Ledger good luck on their financial solvency, so that was… something.

Two: Erick had been in Songli for weeks, by now. He had likely gifted Chelation to Star Song, too, but he didn’t want credit for that monumental breakthrough? Was the man just… Going around the world and solving problems?

… He was, wasn’t he.

- - - -

The shadow war against the face stealers was decided by the time Erick got back to his temporary house.

While Erick sat down in his chair in his front room, a trio of [Viewing Screen]s appeared, with Hangzi, Lingxing, and Tipanri, all informing him of the results of their deliberation. The three High Clans voted in favor of Imaging for Hunters and face stealers, but with some heavy caveats. During that conversation, Erick got the distinct impression that the three High Clans were performing for each other, to ensure that each of them knew the limits of what they were agreeing to, more than they were informing Erick of how they would accept the offer that he had provided. The High Clans were more concerned with themselves and Songli, after all, and Erick was an outsider whose demands had all been met.

The first round of the counter-shadow war would involve three hundred and fifteen known targets that fit Erick’s criteria of (A) probably not dragons and (B) having committed high crimes in bodies that were not their usual bodies and (C) if they were dragons, then they needed to die, anyway. Some of the targets were thought to have been active for hundreds of years, and were a particular thorn in the side of Songli.

The second step of this counter-offensive, after those first targets were found and neutralized, would be for Erick to search for ‘people’ outside of the Border Clans of Songli. Songli had regular army patrols that scoured the surrounding lands all the time, but it was easy enough for people to escape those patrols. With the use of Erick’s Imaging, it would be decidedly more difficult for potential Hunters to escape the sudden knowing of where they were.

