A deep voice barked as heavy footfalls descended on us. I looked over at the patrol of Human guards arriving with their spears, a [Mage] accompanying them with an uncaring face. The [Mage] raised a hand and water shot out. The fire immediately dimmed, groans and complaints rose amongst the gathered group. But they slowly got up, scattering from the dying flames like wisps of cinder.

The large man from earlier cursed.

“Damn guards, taking away our fuckin’ fire but not even giving us food or shelter...”

Getting up, I started for one of the distant fires. I felt a hand tug me. I turned back to Seb, a smile spreading across his lips.

“Miss noble, I actually happen to know a little bit about these Calhoul Coins.”

I blinked. Then I jumped excitedly.

“You do?!”

“And is this really all you know about the Calhoul Coins?”

Daniel studied the face of the farmer. Hugh wrinkled his brows and placed a hand over his mouth, covering his crooked teeth.

“I really don’t know, Mister adventurer. When they sold mah boy back to me, they told me to meet them at the river just outside of ta city.”

“I see.”

Sighing, Daniel nodded at the farmer and thanked him. There was almost nothing Hugh said that the [Hero] didn’t already know. The only thing he actually learned was the meeting at the river, which didn’t actually help at all.

“Do you think we should at least search downriver? See if the bandits maybe built some kind of a hideout there?”

Daniel suggested. Apparently, Edithe had been lost in her thoughts as she jerked back, a look of surprise on her face for a moment.

“I’m… not sure. It’s just a meeting spot. And I guess it doesn’t hurt to look. But I can’t help but think it’s a waste of time.”

“Right. I thought so too.”

He agreed with her as she glanced around the tavern. Daniel saw her gaze lock onto Piero who was talking to a large man. The tavern owner was giving out some food— he had been doing that almost all morning.

Daniel didn’t focus on that. Instead, his thoughts focused back onto the guard captain.

“Do you think we should try to investigate the town guards instead?”

“Maybe… but will that actually help us? If the guard captain is really affiliated with the Calhoul Coins, he’d make sure his tracks are covered, at the very least.”

“Yeah, I guess.”

Narrowing his eyes, Daniel noted how Edithe’s eyes glazed over. Her focus seemed to be elsewhere; her rejection of every option was almost uncharacteristic of her. She had been hotheaded— assertive— when he first met her. He was used to being the ‘voice of reason’, arguing against fighting the Greater Demon with the Title of the Destroyer.

But since he came back to Viechester— since the siege of the Valiant Dreamers Company— she had been different. Aloof. More reserved. And while Daniel knew the reason behind it, he couldn’t help but ask her about it.

“Is… everything alright, Edithe?”

The red haired woman blinked. She faced him as he cocked a brow.

“You seem out of it today. Is something wrong?”

Taking a deep breath, Edithe slowly answered.

“I… it’s Salvos. I’m a little worried about her. She said she would return by morning. And she’s still not back yet.”

That’s what it is? Daniel couldn’t help but let out a small giggle at her concerned. Edithe shifted uncomfortably, crossing one arm across her stomach to grab lock onto her elbow.

“What?”

“It’s nothing. I mean, it’s good that you’re concerned about Salvos and all. But I think she’s the last person you should be worried about.”

“I’m not worried that she’ll be in danger. I’m worried about how oblivious she is sometimes, you know?”

Edithe’s worries became apparent to Daniel. That’s true, he thought for a moment. But he wanted to wave it off. He knew Salvos was not the most socially aware person, but she was sharper than she often came across.

Or at least, that’s what the [Hero] tried telling himself. There were some cracks in his confidence, he soon found out. Because moments later, when Piero approached the pair of adventurers with news from the night before, he couldn’t help but feel panic seep into his heart.

“Hey, uh, Ms Edithe, Mr Daniel? I just spoke with a friend of mine and he told me about this weird girl— one whose description seemed awfully similar to your other party member— that he met last night. I just wanted to let you know that she was spotted leaving Lulica with a stranger some time after midnight.”

Daniel turned to Edithe and saw the worry spread across her face. The [Hero], so confident before, felt only a single word leaving his mouth.

“Salvos...”

I followed Seb as he led me out of Lulica. I glanced back at the walls in the distance, speaking with uncertainty.

“Are you sure this is the right way?”

We had been walking for a while— very slowly at that. He trudged ahead of me, seeming like he was waiting for me to keep up with him.

“Of course. My friends who know all about the Calhoul Coins live just outside of the city. If you just follow me, I’ll take you there.”

I nodded eagerly.

“Alright then!”

We continued through the forest until the town was no longer in sight; we reached a river and started in the same direction of the running water, before reaching the mouth of a cave just a little bit away from a roaring waterfall.

“This is it.”

“It is?”

I cocked my head and followed him into the cave entrance.

“Your friends sure live in a weird place.”

“They do. But don’t worry about that. They’ll tell you everything you wanted to know about the Calhoul Coins. After all—”

He spread his arms wide as figures appeared around me. Rugged, armored Humans wielding all sorts of weapons cut off my exit. [Mages], [Warriors], [Rogues], [Archers]. A few of them had non combat Classes, but still they came. Dozens of them.

Seb finished.

“They are the Calhoul Coins.”

“Huh.”

I looked over at the group of men and women standing before me. They had greed in their eyes; Seb, the man who thought he tricked me, had thrown off his hood. He now wore the same malicious gaze of the others, revealing what I had seen in him the night before.

I paused and crossed my arms.

“You are aware of my status, yes?”

Seb snarled.

“That’s right, you stupid woman! You’ve fallen right into our trap! Now hand over all your belongings and tell us what family you’re from.”

Licking his lips, he drew a dagger.

“Or else we’ll have to kill you.”

I nodded slowly and reached around my neck. I unhooked the clasp of my necklace and tossed it at Seb. The Human man happily accepted it and took a step forward.

“Good. And your gold?”

“I don’t have any gold.”

I spoke the truth. He snapped back at me.

“What kind of a noble doesn’t have gold?! You’re a fucking liar!”

“I’m not a noble.”

I shook my head simply. Smiling sweetly back at the bandits surrounding me, I pulled out my bracelet and set it down on the ground gently.

“I’m a Princess.”

I corrected them with a wave of my fingers. Seb sputtered.

“Princess? What kind of bullshit is that? You’re not a fucking Princess.”

“Well, that’s what I say I am. A Princess. So show some respect and—”

I bared my teeth, choosing the first of my new Skills to test out as my body rippled with power.

“KNEEL.”
