“Bah. That just shows you how low we’ve fallen. I don’t think you can master it, but I’ll make a note to tell Valeterisa. Now…allies. I have to find out what happened to that other Archmage who was missing. What’s her name.”
“Amerys?”
“Aha. Good, yes. Bright young man. Can you fetch me…I have some stamina potions there…mana potions too. My mana’s completely depleted. Good lad.”
Eldavin directed Trey about. The half-Elf breathed slowly as he gulped a few potions. His eyes cleared more.
“Yes. Report to my quarters tomorrow morning.”
“It is morning, sir.”
“Ah, then go get some sleep and report back in…four hours.”
Trey hesitated as he scooped up Minizi and headed to the door. He looked back.
“Are you alright, Grand Magus? Are you sure you don’t want me to get…?”
Eldavin waved him off, a bit irritably, but appreciating the concern. The door shut, and the half-Elf lay there.
Madness. He had nearly died! He was lucky beyond belief that Trey had found him and stabilized him.
What had gotten into him? That Cognita…Eldavin didn’t even know what he’d been doing up there. Trying to free her? Madness twice.
He got up after a moment, hobbling around, feeling at his arm. He’d nearly ruined everything with his death. The Terras faction, the opportunity he’d seized upon to come here as magic waned…
“I can’t die yet. I’ve not even become an Archmage! A proper Archmage, that is.”
The half-Elf growled to himself. He looked into the mirror, shaking his head. He had to shake things up. The Terras faction was good; he already had an Archmage on his side. He wanted more, trustworthy allies, to which he would share the proper spells, of course. Ryoka Griffin too; he didn’t forget his debts, his connection with Magnolia Reinhart…
Eldavin put a hand to his head. He felt like he was forgetting…something…but it eluded him. The half-Elf stared at himself in the mirror. But for the broken arm, he was as ideal as he’d ever been. Eldavin, half-Elf from Terandria, who had made his abode in the High Passes.
He smiled, shaking his head. He was sure it was just something he’d forgotten. The half-Elf went to sit back down, already trying to figure out how to explain this incident, use it to his advantage. If it was important—whatever he’d forgotten, well—
He was sure he’d remember later. Right now?
Eldavin was going to bring Wistram Academy back.
