Something was up. The courts of the fae were abuzz with confusion—a rarity. They were all gathered around the pools of water in vast basins that the Kings Arthur were most familiar with.
Well—two of them were. The old one and the King of Knights in his prime couldn’t stand some of the perspectives the fae flitted across, and they were ever-changing.
The boy who had yet to draw the sword from the stone, Arthur Pendragon, was always more adaptive. But the other two preferred the image of the fae dressed in a variety of styles of clothing from cultures before and after Camelot, standing in the marble palace, speaking and talking in what seemed like plain English to the two men.
Then again, even in this fashion, there were oddities; there was no roof to the palace, just the vastness of space and planets, magnified until they filled the sky. A fiery red planet, like Jupiter, with two crisscrossing rings was glowing with some interstellar war as, in the middle of the court, two people who looked mostly Human were dancing; one had a black vest and a ruffled, voluminous blue undershirt and complementing similarly-black leggings. His partner had on a swirling dress that opened and moved like a chrysanthemum flower, bright red and flaring to orange.
They were being watched by someone in a uniform that was stark white and who had a round helmet under one arm; a disconcerted emissary complete with a space gun. At least they were wise enough not to draw it.
“They seem confused.”
The oldest Arthur dragged his attention from the everyday spectacle of the courts of the Faerie King to the scrying pools. Indeed, he spotted Ivolethe, Melidore, and an entire cluster of fae standing and arguing around a pool reflecting the sights of that world.
That world. There could only be one. It was why the two Kings named Arthur were here too; they’d taken a personal interest, and it seemed like that world had always mattered. At least, more than most.
It was personal. Both eyes stole towards the empty throne, overgrown with dead vines and wilted flowers; nothing ever grew there. As for the second throne next to it, a canopy of green leaves and outstretched tree limbs—
In better days, it would have filled this entire place and blotted out the stars or been so vast as to twine its branches amidst the very planets. These days, it was refrained, tired, a small growth to celebrate the summer.
Nevertheless, they bowed towards the silent figure sitting and watching the proceedings, unmoving.
The Faerie King said nothing, nor did that green stare acknowledge the two bows. He waited, and the Kings Arthur turned and moved closer so they might hear the argument.
“…makes no sense. Hit it again.”
One of the faeries obligingly gave the scrying pool a damn good kick. The waters rippled, and the glowing vision below changed. The youngest King Arthur, a boy of thirteen, dashed over, seeming guilty and hiding something behind his back as the other two peered down.
Young Arthur Pendragon had a smartphone he shoved into his pocket. The older two gave him a reproving stare; he innocently stood on his tiptoes as a Wyrm grudgingly moved aside for him, giving the other two famous dragonslayers a wary glance. Indeed, it wasn’t just fae watching the scrying pool. A number of the other guests of Avalon were watching, perhaps because they had nothing else to do or felt they had some stake in this.
“It’s not working! See?”
It seemed fine to the Kings of Knights. The mirrors very clearly showed Ryoka Griffin, running screaming from a giant Squirrel-woman who’d poked her head out of the young woman’s closet. She was in some kind of palace…it seemed in keeping with her character from what the Kings had seen of her.
A disapproving Nama was watching Foliana’s antics. The Kings Arthur and other guests stood well apart from her, giving her plenty of room on one side of the scrying pool. It was large enough for everyone to see, a massive basin of water twenty feet across, the water as clear as a mirror, if rocking a bit from the kick. And Nama merely seemed like a five-foot-tall squirrel woman with an apron and half-moon spectacles. Nevertheless, she had about a dozen feet of clearance in every direction around her.
It didn’t matter what this perspective showed her as; no one wanted to stand right next to her. The King of Knights in his prime, the middle-aged one in his thirties, gazed about.
“It seems to be working just fine.”
“Tisn’t showing the right perspective. Kick it again, Ivolethe!”
One of the faeries who had pointed, elfish ears and green skin called out, and a woman dressed in blue and radiating cold kicked the scrying mirror again. The waters flickered—
—And switched to Erin Solstice being served a fried bug for breakfast as Ulvama and the Battle Hamster looked on. A grinning group of Fraerlings was offering her the food.
The date was unclear; the faeries tried to keep the timelines more or less contiguous, but it was a lot harder with multiple perspectives, especially in a realm that made no sense. It was the continuation of her particular story.
However, it wasn’t what the group wanted right now. The faeries around the Kings of Camelot began muttering louder.
“It’s not the right one either. Has this happened before?”
“Nary that I know of.”
“Strange. Could it be that this is our fault?”
“Can’t be, can’t…well, it probably is. The flowers, eh?”
“Which idiot gave the [Innkeeper] the lot?”
“And how were we to know she’d do something intelligent with them? But if they’re meddling in their own way, it’s beyond what anyone’s expected.”
“It’d be funny if we could see.”
“Aye, if.”
Flowers? The youngest King Arthur stood on tip-toes to see Ivolethe slapping the side of the bowl.
“Show us the white Gnoll! The child, Mrsha! Where is she?”
Nothing. And that was interesting because…there were few things in any realm that were invisible to the fae. The oldest Arthur Pendragon addressed the summer figure standing next to Ivolethe, one of the greater fae.
Melidore.
“Is this an issue of magic, Sir Melidore? Perhaps we might call for Merlin, if he’s here?”
Half the watchers around the pool turned and gave the oldest Arthur, the one about to return the sword to the Lady of the Lakes, a long stare. A few hecklers called out.
“Ye can’t solve everything with Merlin.”
“Psh. He’s not even that good at magic. I’ve seen better.”
“Shut up, old man. Leave this to the professionals.”
The oldest Arthur snapped his mouth shut and glowered as Melidore gave him a more courteous response.
“Even if he were here, this isn’t a matter of magics, Arthur Pendragon. It is odd. Though perhaps—not unexpected.”
It certainly seemed to have flummoxed the others, but one slight nod from Melidore’s head indicated who he meant. All three Arthurs turned, and the youngest one sighed. The Faerie King was watching them, face blank, giving nothing away as the tips of his antlers brushed the lowest-hanging leaves growing from his throne.
“Well, that doesn’t mean much. Nothing surprises him.”
“Perhaps. Though maybe it is a surprise. And if it was, who could tell?”
The middle-aged Arthur commented, and all three nodded and turned away. The faeries were taking turns kicking the much-abused scrying pool now, giving it orders. Most of the other watchers were drifting away to pools showcasing other events while they waited for something to happen. Then the youngest King Arthur saw someone pushing their way through the crowd.
“Excuse me. Excuse me. I need a good look at that scrying pool. Damn, am I in the right perspective? They’re having technical difficulties with the big-screen television. What is with the frames of reference in the courts these days? At least nothing’s abstract. I can’t stand abstract.”
A short man with a blue beard and half-bald pate—and a spacesuit of his own—was pushing through the crowd. He was shorter than the boy, three foot something, but he sounded full-grown.
He was so short, in fact, he could barely see above the stone lip of the scrying bowl and tsked. He clicked his boots together and then hovered up several feet, nearly headbutting the Wyrm, who glowered at him.
“You are giving me offense, mortal. Begone before I lose my temper.”
Sikeri’val-Toreshio-Maresssui’s voice was warning and dangerous; she hadn’t been pleased by recent events, or she was just naturally foul-tempered. Probably both. Her long, forked tongue flicked out as the Human-seeming woman with serpentine eyes glowered at the man.
The Gnome just grunted.
“I haven’t been properly mortal in ages, young woman. And I will thank you not to issue threats in this place. It never ends well. I’m here as a guest; I have a personal reason to be here. What are we looking at? Malfunctioning scrying mirrors? Has anyone tried emptying the basin and refilling it?”
A Gnome? The youngest Arthur edged over as the Wyrm opened her mouth wide—then hesitated and eyed the friendly smile the man gave her. She retreated slowly, pretending she was just bored, as Arthur came over and tapped the newcomer on the shoulder.
“Excuse me. I’m—”
“Arthur Pendragon. Hello! How d’you do? I think we’ve met. Reimesk at your service.”
“Oh, have we met? I—uh, don’t recall.”
Flustered, the boy shook a hand with the gloved Gnome, and Reimesk chuckled.
“It was about sixty…no, it’s got to be seventy thousand years ago. Someone’s beard, it’s been ages. It was just when the dust was settling after the war. I passed on through and spent some time here with a handful of my kin who decided to leave.”
“Oh, the war with…?”
A glance at the empty throne. Now, several of the fae were glancing around, even Melidore, and recognizing the Gnome. Reimesk nodded. He took a heavy breath, though his smile remained pleasant.
“The very same. When I heard things were heating up, I made my way back. Not to interfere; the gates are all closed, I understand?”
“Sealed by order of the Faerie King himself.”
Reimesk nodded again. He touched his beard, then his chest.
“Then I wouldn’t have a way back even if I wanted to. Which I don’t. Nor do I quite fit the old stomping ground. Nor do I have the right to return. I just want to see how it ends. You know? I thought it might be a reunion, but the others might be dead. Or busy. No one’s seen any Gnomes about, have you? They said they’d pass on naturally, and I said, ‘what a waste when we could explore realities!’ But they felt like it was their responsibility. Terrible thing, responsibility.”
He laughed, rubbing at his balding head, and Arthur glanced at the scrying orb.
“I saw a few Gnomes. In the lands of the dead. They were fair glorious, and they performed an important role, I think.”
Reimesk’s laughter stopped, and his smile flew off his face. He stood there, swaying suddenly, then his boots stopped hovering, and he landed hard enough to stumble. The young Arthur steadied him, and Reimesk looked up.
“I’ll…I’m sure there are recordings. In another point of view. They sat there that long? Kasign—those lands endured?”
Arthur didn’t know what to say except nod, which he was embarrassed and annoyed by. He had remained here, in his incarnation as the boy about to draw Excalibur from the stone, for ages.
Young Arthur was older than any mortal being, and yet he was perpetually the young, uncertain boy untried by fate. It annoyed him and left him with little desire to mingle—and predisposed him to like those like him, such as the girl who’d run through here recently, Ryoka Griffin.
Reimesk didn’t need an answer. He just leaned on the stone bowl as it flickered again, then produced a swirling tide of grey mists. The cursing of faeries rose, and the Gnome stared into the waters.
“Who are they searching for?”
“Mrsha. A white Gnoll girl. She’s fallen out of the [Garden of Sanctuary] into…somewhere else. Following the roots of the flowers of Avalon, which dug through the Skill itself.”
It was one of those statements so incomprehensible to outsiders that one of the space-people watching the entire affair had to go and get an explanation from someone. However, Reimesk just processed the statement and nodded slowly.
“I have little experience with the Prowess of the Accomplished…”
“The what?”
“An older phrase for such things. Nevermind. The flowers of here? Mixing with…oh, I see. That could be quite messy. I told the designers they couldn’t account for everything. And this girl. Somewhere even we can’t see?”
He was watching on. Ivolethe caught sight of him and swept over.
“Reimesk. You missed Zineryr’s final death.”
“Lady Ivolethe! I knew he was dead the moment I said my farewells. But let me see it and mourn him again, milady. Thank you and greetings.”
They embraced like old friends, and Ivolethe turned to the young Arthur. Since she seemed to know the most, he nodded to the pool.
“Do you know where she went?”
“Somewhere deep and where she shouldn’t be. Somewhere we ought to see…lest it lies where not even we have the knowledge of. Aye, and if she is, like the adventurer Halrac? It bodes ill for the little child.”
The faerie was grim and worried. Emotions at odds with the usually cheery and flighty Summer Court, but she was in her winter aspect. Reimesk scratched at his beard.
“It surprises me they warded anywhere from your sight, Lady Ivolethe. Then again, one assumes they meant it to avoid the gaze of other pantheons and rivals as well as here. If the girl’s that deep—is she in the heart of it all? She could unmake reality itself. Or find an object left by the creators. Tools of gods.”
From what the young Arthur had observed about Mrsha the Great and Terrible, he felt like this was not a good sign. Ivolethe clearly shared Reimesk’s concerns, but she shook her head.
“If she fell that deep, and ‘twere it so easy, I think it all would have fallen apart long ago. Somewhere between the garden and the center of things, I think. But what? And where?”
“And who might know?”
Now, all three of them were stealing glances towards the throne. The entire courts of the fae were abuzz, like a great thrumming of bees made of fate. They knew almost everything. They saw the future and played games of what might be against their opponents and each other, trying to find the best paths forwards.
They cheered Shaestrel, Theillige, young Vofea, the damned and glorious, and the mortals they had decided they liked and were on the right side. They did not interfere as a general rule, and when they did, it was by breaking the rules as they felt was acceptable.
But mostly, they were waiting to see how it ended. Like the Gnome. Like so many. Today, though, something had happened that not even they could predict.
Where was the girl?
