There was a reason for poetry and verse when speaking of the Tuatha Dé, the Fair Folk, the Farthest Travellers, the folk of myth and legends. The reason was simple: even for the mortals who had journeyed to their realms and back, describing the people and sights of that otherworldly land was unto the madness of beholding the rot between worlds.
And if you could write it so superlatively well, bleeding visions and perspectives onto the page with mere ink and imagination—you’d have written something with the nature of that place. That object would have the power to distort and play tricks with your own world.
That was dangerous in and of itself. So, just like the things that should have never been named nor learned to think or exist—poetry was used, meter and verse, to chain together simpler concepts.
The very nature of iambic pentameter existed to give structure to something otherworldly. A painting became a safer portal to view greater truths from via the mind of the artist and the strokes of their brushes.
However, there were still truths to the lands of Avalon, the realms of the fae. They were perspectives, shifting, overlapping, even contradictory, but they had themes and natures. One of the truths was this:
 
In the court of the fae, at the heart of everything, between time and reality, where they passed from season to season, there was a copse of trees; a forest of ancient, proud woods, conifers and plants far more exotic, adorned with overgrown shrubs and wild mushrooms twisting towards the very sky. However, the land was scarred, showing the ruined remains of where a true forest had once thrived. Rot, weather, and insects had left many trees pitted, eradicating others down to their roots. Shadows played around this empty glade a visitor sometimes might stumble into. They would see a single oak, a world’s tree, growing and find tears springing to their eyes without knowing why.
 
…there was a court of nobility who stood in august and dignified graces and impressed upon any visitor their wild civility. But for every dancing pixie or burst of wild laughter and chaotic moment, the halls of the palace echoed with silence. There should have been countless millions; now, the emptiness grew so loud that entire wings of the palace were silent.
Each member of the court looked exactly like the species you belonged to and had the accent of old power and infallible manners. Yet their shadows seemed to cavort and twist out of the corner of your eyes.
The windows and paintings would change and flicker, and it felt as though each and every eye were always upon you. Yet there was safety, so long as you obeyed the rules. 
If only you knew the rules. But no one had ever written them down…
 
—a summer’s flare of light illuminated wild folk, half-insect, voices buzzing with new life and promise, and the air hummed with magic. Mere words had the power to bind, and the bright folk circulated and danced amidst a hundred changing rooms that left the unwary visitor, even the divine, trapped and at their mercy.
Woe to anyone who visited this place, for it was both fell and fair, yet even at their most rabid, the Summer Court would turn and acknowledge the empty throne next to the filled one. They gathered in brief bursts of frantic activity, then fell silent, drifting away, speaking to the air, to the dead, before growing recalcitrant, sulky with grief.
They buzzed amidst their petty games and rivalries like disinterested flies around a rotting grapevine or courtiers playing the game of statecraft out of habit. Each one waiting.
Waiting.
 
They had enough to do, the fae. Play tricks on the many visitors who came in and out of their realm. Pursue old feuds or just investigate the many realities they still had access to.
A fad had been taken up; it was unclear when it had begun, but it had come from the group that departed often from the courts.
 
Lesser fae, and even greater ones, who would continually flit about come each winter, as if they had just remembered their duties. One would slap her forehead, shout ‘ach!, it’s time to bring the damn snow again’, and gather a group.
Faeries would be muttering curses, taking the guise of small frost pixies, beings of ice and simplicity—at the best of times, they were a cloud of gaily singing, impish figures, considering their job a lark. At the worst, they’d be a sullen storm, or a panicked one, late, because none of them had remembered, hauling snow by the bucketload to their destination.
Sometimes, they’d chant great incantations of cold and whirl blizzards into the sky; other times, they’d steal the snow from somewhere else and carry it with them in their pockets. Most times, it was of little note; groups flitting out of the court and returning with little news.
Most faeries did it for a lark and didn’t bother to go back a second time. But a few of the courts, even the greatest and oldest, would go again and again, like the thunder of frost-laden mountains compressing into silly snowflakes for the trip. Returning in silence, with little to say.
Until recently.
 
—weary travellers, lined and snappish with age, would take the ‘young’ ones with them. Though, young was so subjective that the youngest were still grown adults annoyed by being treated like infants.
They bundled up, wearing thick winter woolens, tucking away their valuables, stripping away any possessions they had. Almost naked, despite the clothing that covered all but their eyes. Penniless beggars when they should have gone with grand escorts and been received at their destination by a host of servants and treated lavishly.
But there was no embassy, nor anyone to welcome them. And if there had been…? No. Not anymore. So normally, the groups that went were small and tired, bickering constantly.
A woman in her mid-forties would stop packing her blue socks as her elder, nine times her senior, would stride over and ask if she’d packed enough cold. They’d bicker, but then line up, unfailingly, to catch the train from the platform as it slowly pulled into the station.
There was only one car left on this train; the rails were battered to hells and back—literally—and bullet holes stood out on the once-beautiful metalwork. There was a real fear it might derail, but the Conductor of Worlds always inspected the tracks—there was no iron in them, of course—and had certified they were good to travel.
For a while, at least. 
Everything had changed with the last circuit. Now, there was no arguing, and a vast congregation saw off the last group to take the train.
The last visit had been unsanctioned, but they had still gone, tickets or not. A group of eleven on a one-way ticket, riding with the windows covered, the only light visible from inside a pale-blue glow as security rode on the top of the train, holding swords made of frost and the largest-caliber guns they could carry.
Under the watchful eyes of the security, the group of eleven had gone from person to person in the somber congregation standing on the platform. Shaking hands, hugging as they boarded. Then they hung out the windows, waving at their friends, as the battered train creaked out of the station. 
Then they were only shadows flitting into the distance, and the tracks had fallen as silent as the night they vanished into. On a long, winding track through the depths of space, to a station that had once been a hub for countless tracks—obliterated by war.
The eleven travellers had brought no weapons, nothing that could be used against them. 
The train had still not come back.
It likely never would. Or if it did—
Then it would be time for war.
 
The little fad sweeping the courts of the fae had not come from the doomed eleven. No, it had started a while back when a group that had left to bring winter had come back bursting with tales of another world.
Earth (aren’t they all?), tales of a Bard, and heroes of legend. Of course, the court of the fae knew those stories well. They had lived them. But they always liked hearing them told a new way.
There had been some fun, lately. There had been a disturbance in the woods. A little chase, an amusing visitor—
A Faerie King’s trick. For a while, it had felt like the old days, and the courts had come to life. Then eleven had left, and a long, sullen silence had fallen. A battle had been won, or at least, not lost.
Four were gone forever. One of the Wild Hunt itself, fallen in glorious battle.
One had left for mortality; dead already, even if she yet breathed.
Six remained.
There was no celebrating that. But as if in sympathy, any number of the courts were, well, reading stories.
 
They sat reading books from the library as a few harried librarians ordered new books by the thousand for the impatient guests.
They even had to make new sections in the library; the non-stop ‘beep’ of scanners was only replaced by arguments over whether the stories were any good, or accurate, or if someone wanted to read a book in high demand.
And that was the old-fashioned crowd; Melidore could be found here, day after day, first on the old computers he had grown used to, but he’d quickly realized he was behind the times he remembered. At least, with this particular world.
 
——
 
The librarians kept bringing in new devices and setting them up. Newfangled PCs with mandatory updates and changing interfaces that dazzled the eyes. Most of the new visitors poked around with them, and the younger ones, as were their wont, were all on board immediately, clicking through different interfaces and consuming stories—including the loud ones, games of diabolical monsters attacking you, where you were the hero.
Melidore was old-fashioned and stubborn about change. When he learned something, he resented moving away from it, so he had remained with the computer he’d mastered a long time ago. A long time ago for the fae, at least. Time didn’t really matter in the same ways.
The Altair 8800 required manual I/O (input, output) cards and other devices; Melidore used the ASR-33, which allowed him to insert punch cards, as well as a CP/M (control program and monitor), which he used to enable the actual functions of the computer. Namely, reading old stories and playing the oldest of games on the clunky device.
Other visitors would peer over the scowling Melidore’s shoulder, glance at some 4k or 1980 x 1080 display monitor running ray-traced graphics of beautifully rendered people and places and compare them to the basic texts on the flickering cathode-ray tube monitors that Melidore was straining his eyes to see.
They moved on. Even the others, who’d learned to use the device a long time ago, had decided to upgrade to a different point in time. But Melidore sat there, scowling and asking for more stories and games from that time.
But they were limited, at least, from this world; time had gone on. Moreover, they were dated. All the stories that the other visitors to the library were reading were new, founded upon the stories that were now classic and tired, and Melidore couldn’t even discuss stories to his satisfaction.
So, eventually, he turned off the old Altair 8800 computer with a sigh and demanded a new device. He packed away the old computer with some reverence. 
It had mattered, back then. Some of the best stories that had enthralled the faeries and their friends had come out around that time and shaped…so much.
When Melidore and other visitors had sat around the library tables in times of old, they’d played on this device. Rolled dice and laughed about the stories those foolish mortals came up with, swapped tales and speculated with some on how you’d make the best story of all. The best game—until the Head Librarians got mad at you for shouting and chased everyone off.
Wonderful, nostalgic times. Melidore had laughed back then. Until one day he’d risen from the books and tales of yore and picked up a sword to murder his old friends.
But that was just the story of how they’d all gotten here. Told in a different way.
 
——
 
Today, Melidore was back to games, albeit of a different kind.
He’d upgraded to a smartphone, which he poked at with growing ire, annoyed by the touch interface, irritated by all the weird commands and functions that overwhelmed him, until something ‘clicked’. Then he’d bent over the device and become lost all over again, like he always did when he found a story he liked in any kind of world.
Melidore and a cortège of addicted fae would sit around, playing on the phones. It was apparently some kind of game, though one that had both story and characters.
“Yon device keeps charging me for more ‘rolls’. It’s a game where you play and gamble for the right to use great heroes.”
“…Where’s the story in that?”
Two of the fae were arguing as Ivolethe stared at the brightly moving pixels. She pointedly closed her book as a faerie with a snake’s head, who hadn’t slept for eighty days, gestured at the screen.
“No, it’s got a story! I swear! I’ve nearly got all the S-ranked characters! It’s a gacha game and—”
Ivolethe rubbed at one ear.
“How are you paying for it? What money does it charge? Coin? Funny paper bills? Aught else?”
“Uh.”
The other faerie grunted at her with a flick of the tongue and shrug of her sinuous shoulders. She tapped the smartphone, and the screen wavered.
“Number money of some kind. I don’t have the ken of it. I just keep telling it I have enough. See? Wait, I’m rolling again. Ivolethe, give me some luck. I need this new character that came out—”
She was staring at the glowing screen as she added more money to the game. Ivolethe wondered if someone else would get into trouble when they found out the money didn’t exist. 
Well, it wasn’t her problem. She went back to reading. It was a story of magic and monsters; that she understood. But she frowned as she flipped another page.
The levels were odd. Was this a trend? She missed the old stories that hadn’t had such things. But then…she sighed as she recalled that oft-annoying, frantically energized figure demanding the very first of the books here and running them back to great discussions with other fae and his guests.
Isthekenous had found the first books here so fascinating. And that had been a long time ago. It was one reason why she and Melidore kept reading, even if it was pointless and the real battle lay with Shaestrel and the others.
They both felt responsible. They had both known the travellers who’d sought shelter here and argued for their cases until things had changed. Then marched to war. Now, they were reading books and waiting. But today…Ivolethe frowned down at her book and saw a sleep-deprived Melidore look up from his smartphone. The huge projector on the far side of the library was malfunctioning. Again.
 
