Yet another facet of the lesson she’d learned from her time in the bamboo grove. All the secrets of the Martial Dao already lay at her fingertips, everything from Core Creation to whatever lay beyond Domain Development, and while Song didn’t understand how she’d gotten so far and knew not what lay ahead, she was determined to continue forward one step at a time.

By the time breakfast was ready, Song and Teacher Du had gone through the Forms five times and had just started a sixth, but neither one was willing to put off eating just to finish this last set. As they strode towards the dining room, Song discovered it was Teacher Du slowing their pace, taking short, deliberate steps while looking as if he had something to say. After what felt like an eternity, he finally cleared his throat and said, “You are a talented young girl Song, and I am happy to see you in good spirits. I did you a grave disservice in not... not safeguarding you from Jin Kai and Jin Tok. I make no excuses, and can only offer my heartfelt apologies. Should you ever need anything, speak and I will endeavour to do what I can to help.”

There was a time when Song would have been beside herself with joy to hear Teacher Du say these words, back in those dark days when she had been nothing more than a slave and only found solace and direction in progressing along the Martial Path. That was her purpose, the reason for her existence, but now she had new purpose, one given to her by her loving family which was to simply be happy. There was nothing she needed from Teacher Du, not his guidance, his approval, or even his apology, though she was gratified to have it. He was a part of her past, and as much as she respected him, she no longer envied Yan who had his affection, because Song had something so much better.

She was Li Song, daughter of Akanai and Husolt, sister to Sumila, and a Sentinel of the People, and despite her rude awakening, today was a wonderful day.

Rather than saying all this, Song merely nodded and walked Teacher Du to the dining room, where she took her seat next to Mama and waited for everyone to arrive. To her surprise, Rain emerged from the kitchen, rather than from the baths as Song expected, carrying several dishes of delectable delights he no doubt cooked himself. “Hello everybody,” he said, placing the dishes down with a flourish. “I trust you’re all well on this fine morning?”

“You seem in a fine mood today. I cannot even remember the last time you cooked a full meal.” Presenting her cheek for a kiss, Sister-in-Law Sarnai beamed as Rain obliged and asked, “Is there something you’d like to share?”

Though Rain and Brother Baatar likely didn’t notice, Song spotted Sister-in-Law Sarnai’s eyes dart across the courtyard and land directly on Luo-Luo’s door, no doubt wondering if the Imperial Servant had anything to do with Rain’s good mood. Unlikely, since Ping Ping, Aurie, and Mama Bun didn’t make a fuss about being forced to sleep outside, which was a sure sign Rain was up to no good. Flashing a knowing smile, he held his tongue until he returned to his seat, tickling Tate’s ear and tugging Tali’s braid as he passed. “Why yes. I believe I stumbled across an important revelation last night, a missing piece in the perplexing puzzle which is the Martial Path.”

“Seems you disregarded my advice after all.” Chuckling at their private joke, Teacher Du shook his head and smiled. “Well? Out with it then. I’m too old to sit around and wait for dramatic reveals. How will this help?”

“I’ll talk about it after breakfast, if you care enough to stick around.” Shooting a glance at the adorable twins and another in Song’s direction, Rain hoisted Mama Bun into his lap and said, “It’s nothing too specific, but I’d still rather not risk leading anyone astray.”

Song found it mildly annoying to have interesting tidbits dangled before her like this, but at least he was finally learning to watch his words. Mama nodded in approval while everyone else simply took the news in stride and ate their breakfast without comment, no doubt because Rain’s revelations were usually something which was on the cusp of making sense, but never really quite made it there. Perhaps that was why Mama even let Song stay for the post-breakfast discussion, as Nephew Charok offered to teach her class since Tali and Tate were going to join the lessons anyways. A good thing too, because Song was a terrible teacher and had no earthly idea how to control a horde of enthusiastic children with more energy than sense.

Grateful for the reprieve, Song followed Mama out into the courtyard and took a seat by the cherry tree with Princess in her lap, while Rain helped Sister-in-Law Sarnai and Teacher Du into their chairs. Papa and Brother Baatar couldn’t stay, as they had duties to attend to, so it was just the five of them for now, and they all gave Rain their full attention after Mama confirmed they were under Concealment and a Sound Barrier. “See,” he began, grinning as Ping Ping eased her head under Mama Bun’s fluffy behind to rest her chin on Rain’s lap, “It all started with something the Legate said, after the whole kerfuffle at Mom and Dad’s manor.” Only Rain would refer to the near death of a highly ranked Imperial Scion as a ‘kerfuffle’, especially since Brother Baatar was facing harsh criticism for ‘allowing’ this debacle to take place in his own home. There were even nobles demanding he be held liable for the Legate’s injuries and punished by Imperial Law, which was the height of foolishness, but politicians were not above looting a burning house to take advantage of another’s misfortune.

In defence of Rain’s ignorance, he did seem a little distracted and out of sorts ever since he woke from his coma. Despite all the good tidings of a successful withdrawal and heroic accomplishments, he barely cracked a smile and spent all morning moping in the courtyard comforting himself in a pile of pets, only to abandon them after breakfast and lock himself up alone in his room. Then, after a visit from Luo-Luo and a brief appearance to request Song use Aura on him defensively and offensively, he ran off to Brother Baatar’s manor to work, since apparently his room was not isolated enough for his liking. In hindsight, she realized he might have already been in the throes of Inspiration since the moment he woke up, but at the time, she didn’t pay much mind to his ‘strange’ behaviour, since it wasn’t exactly out of character.

Especially considering he just spent two long weeks in a coma after helping Ping Ping ascend to Divinity and bring Guan Suo back as an adorable red panda. As miraculous as it was, a small part of Song hoped he might one day do the same for her as well. Though largely left to their own devices, the wildcats might never know true freedom, but they didn’t seem to chafe at their restraints or boundaries, and Song hoped to one day experience that feeling for herself.

Oh how blessed it must be to live without a care in the world, never yearning for true freedom or envying those who squandered it...

After going over his discussion with the Legate once again and reiterating what everyone present already knew about the notes he’d written, Rain finally got to the point. “So before the Seneschal brought him away, the Legate said I had a glaring mistake in my notes and that the Core is not the powerhouse of the Martial Warrior. It’s merely the medium through which we harness Heavenly Energy.” Shrugging, Rain looked around at all the blank, unreadable expressions and said, “Yea, see? I didn’t get it either. I thought it was a difference without a distinction. If Heavenly Energy is a river, the Core is the waterwheel which powers the millstone. Yes, it’s technically the water powering everything, but without the waterwheel, the millstone doesn’t turn, and the water and millstone become worthless for our purposes, which is to metaphorically grind... things. That’s what we use millstones for, right?”

It was strange to think Rain knew so much about the world, but wasn’t sure what millstones were used for. It was Mama who answered first, since she was well-accustomed to answering all of Rain’s silly queries. “Yes, but your conclusion is flawed. Even without the waterwheel, the water still has use, and the same is true for Heavenly Energy.”

“Exactly!” Grinning like a madman, Rain offered Mama a salute in respect. “You understood it right away, but alas, I am not as wise or experienced as you, Grand-Mentor.”

“Call me Mother-in-Law, boy, else you and I will have words about your improper relationship with my beloved daughter.”

“A thousand apologies, Mother-in-Law.” Rain would go back to calling Mama Grand-Mentor in a matter of minutes, but that was their way, always manufacturing good-natured conflict between them just so they could butt heads and fume about it. “Anyway, as I was saying, I’m kind of stupid, so I didn’t get what the Legate was trying to say until late last night when everyone was heading off to bed and Grandpa Du offered me a word of advice.” Offering Teacher Du a salute, Rain explained, “He said I should get a good night’s rest, which I promptly ignored, and then he said, ‘Do not underestimate the value of love, for love makes heroes and monsters of us all’.” Grinning as he panned across his audience, he asked, “Anyone care to guess my internal response?”

When his gaze came to rest on Song, he raised an eyebrow in expectation and she realized she knew the answer. “You thought it was nonsense.”

Teacher Du coughed and Rain went red with mild embarrassment at her blunt wording, but still nodded in confirmation. “I mean, it’s very poetic and not entirely wrong, but that’s not how it is with animals. They love, they hate, they get angry or sad, but they don’t let those emotions control or poison them, nor do they pursue them above all else. They still get up every day and set out to forage or hunt, work tirelessly to survive until they find a place to rest their weary heads. While we say life is ‘trials and tribulations without end’, wild animals truly embody this, because no matter the odds, they continue to struggle and persevere until the bitter end.” Lifting Mama Bun up a little higher, he revealed Ping Ping’s adorable head hidden underneath and gave the sweet girl a vigorous pat. “And that’s when it all came together.”

Unable to follow Rain’s logic, Song looked to Mama for help, but she seemed as perplexed as everyone else sitting in the circle, save for Rain who was busy congratulating Ping Ping for being ‘the best girl ever’ while the sweet turtle emanated her Loving Aura for everyone to experience. It was nice feeling this again, for Rain only showed it to Song the one time, but Ping Ping was a sweet girl who used her loving Aura as often as possible, and Song imagined she herself would do the same. It was difficult to show affection, whether it be taking someone’s hand or leaning close for support, because she wasn’t sure how well her actions would be received or if the message would even be received, but to share how you felt about someone through Aura left no room for misinterpretation.

A shame no one could explain how it was possible to use Aura in this manner, but Song hoped Rain’s notes had something to say about it...

For a minute, time paused as they all sat together to share in the warm, unadulterated love radiating from this most Divine of turtles, until Sister-in-Law Sarnai cleared her throat and caught Rain’s attention. Had it had been anyone else, the fiery woman would have snapped at them to stop dawdling and explain, so Rain sheepishly offered an apologetic dip of his head before saying, “I’ve been going at the problem all wrong. When I considered the Martial Path and all the glaring gaps in our knowledge, my first instinct was to compare and contrast Imperial methods to Defiled ones.” This earned him a glare from Mama and Sister-in-Law Sarnai while Teacher Du shifted uncomfortably in his seat, but Rain weathered it all without blinking. “It’s the logical comparison. Anything we do, they can emulate, except the Defiled tend to progress faster at the expense of their sanity, which also tends to limit their prospects unless they turn into Demons. I know people who I helped claw back from the brink of Defilement, and I’ve seen their strength increase by leaps and bounds. I have former commoners in my retinue who suffered through gruelling conditions and were able to become Martial Warriors with limited guidance. I’ve experienced the Defiled Path firsthand, and know that despite all the differences, at the end of the day, the Imperial and Defiled Martial Paths are two sides of the same coin, with less separating the two than most would care to admit.” Sitting up straight as if to brook no argument, Rain continued speaking over the nonverbal protests. “And therein lies the problem. The two Paths are too similar, so there is nothing to be gained from comparing and contrasting them. I should instead take the best from both and eliminate the worst so I can come up with something new, a fast-track along the Martial Path without an increased risk of Defilement.”

