Despite her initial abhorrence to his claims, Song realized Rain was uniquely qualified to make these claims since he himself had experienced both Paths, albeit through a manic episode of mental dissonance in which he played the part of two different individuals residing within the same mind. Mama and Sister-in-Law Sarnai seemed to realize it as well, while Teacher Du was too shocked by all these revelations to do more than sputter for words which would not come. Logically, what Rain was saying made a certain sort of sense, but it was also... well, blasphemous to the extreme. All this time, Rain had been heralded as the Mother’s Chosen son, and here he was advocating to join Her Path with that of the Father’s.

Should word of this spread, death would be considered a mercy, but when he finally found his voice Teacher Du’s outburst was not to condemn Rain’s thoughts, but to question them. “...And how would this even be possible? How can you take from the Father without falling victim to His lies? Not all are as blessed as you, little Rain, for even the Mother’s goodwill is not without limit.”

“I mean no offence to your faith, Grandpa Du.” Having said this, Song was certain Rain was about to offend, and he didn’t disappoint. “There are risks and obvious pitfalls, yes, but I see Heavenly Energy as a natural phenomenon, one no different from the flowing river or the raging winds. We have waterwheels and windmills to harness those energies, and I believe it is possible to harness Heavenly Energy in a similar way. Looking at it another way, you could say we are all novice swimmers who brave the raging seas in an effort to make it through to the other shore, when what we should really do is figure out how to build a proper boat, or better yet, a contraption to fly through the skies and carry us over the troubled waters in safety.”

Inwardly shaking her head at Rain’s fanciful dreaming, Song wondered how he ever came up with these ridiculous ideas. Perhaps next, he would suggest they build a water-tight coffin to lay in so that they might explore the sea depths. Oblivious to the puzzled glances being traded about the courtyard, Rain continued his rant without pause. “We mystify the Martial Path and elevate it to this ineffable process because we ourselves do not understand it, but look back in history and you will see many similar examples play out. Our earliest ancestors venerated fire, for it illuminated the darkness and kept predators at bay, but over time, we unlocked its secrets and used it to bake bricks to build walls we could hide behind, and to forge better weapons and tools with which to defend ourselves. Now, fire is a part of our everyday lives, and we give it no more thought than breathing. Some people still sacrifice animals to the Mother Above in hopes of favourable weather or a bountiful harvest, but we laugh at their foolish ways because we know weather follows a general pattern and that droughts and forest fires are merely a part of nature. The Azure Sea was considered dangerous and impassable until we learned to build flat-bottomed junk ships to navigate through the shallows, and now it is the most trafficked trade route running through North, West, and Central.” Tapping the side of his head, Rain smiled and said, “That is the power of knowledge, and with it, I believe we can go from treating Heavenly Energy like some Divine Power, to something similar to fire which we use each and everyday.”

It was clear Mama, Sister-in-Law Sarnai, and Teacher Du didn’t approve of Rain’s line of thought, but they had no words to refute him either. Once again, Rain had said many things which almost made sense, but fell woefully short of reaching a point. “How?” Song asked, drawing the glares away from Rain, if only to sate her curiosity. “How do you even begin to combine the two separate Paths without grave risk of Defilement?”

“By comparing and contrasting with a different Path,” Rain replied, surprising Song who expected him to shrug and say ‘no idea’. “One which we know has no chance of Defilement, and as an added bonus, is even capable of Shattering the Void to reach true Divinity.” Understanding dawned as Song’s eyes were drawn down to sweet Ping Ping sleeping in Rain’s lap, her eyes closed and cheeks puffed as she dreamed pleasant dreams. Happy to have someone understand him, Rain nodded and said, “Yep. Animals. Again, this goes back to what the Legate said, that the Core is the medium through which we harness Heavenly Energy. We. As in ‘we’ Martial Warriors. I didn’t understand it right away, but Grand-Mentor already pointed it out. We take Heavenly Energy into our Cores and turn it into Chi, but that is not the only way to use Heavenly Energy.”

Though Song still didn’t entirely understand what Rain was going on about, at least he seemed to have some inkling of what was going on, so she gave it some thought. “We have Runes,” she said, after a moment’s thought. “That is another method through which we harness Heavenly Energy.”

“True, but I don’t know enough about Runes to pursue that.” Shrugging, Rain said, “I wanted to ask Teacher about it, but he was already gone by the time I came down, so I suppose it’ll have to wait. For now though, there are other avenues to explore, namely animals, and I’m beginning to suspect they not only have a different Martial Path, but that they don’t have Cores at all and simply manipulate Heavenly Energy at will.”

“...Mother in Heaven.” Eyes wide with alarm and admiration, Teacher Du whispered, “...I never even considered the possibility before, but you may be right. There are marked differences in how animals use Chi compared to Martial Warriors, namely their Spiritual Hearts and complete and utter lack of Aura.” Glancing down at the slumbering Ping Ping, Teacher Du corrected himself and said, “Until now. Now we know animals hold off on Aura Condensation until after achieving Divinity, but why? Does this not leave them susceptible to Demonic Aura? Without humanity to defend them, the Enemy would scour the world clean of life in decades, for such is their purpose, to ruin the Mother’s most cherished Creation, so how can this be the right Path?”

“You told me the answer yourself, Grandpa.” Smiling in a way which made him look all too smug, Rain said, “After all, love makes heroes and monsters of us all.”

“Enough grandstanding,” Sister-in-Law Sarnai snapped, finally tired of Rain’s quiet gloating. “Explain.”

“Sorry mom.” Offering the top of his head with a hidden smile, he visibly brightened when she stroked his hair and explained, “See, I wrote a bunch of this stuff in my notes while under Inspiration, but I didn’t really put it all together until afterwards while considering love and stuff, which brought me to Emotional Aura. Something that always bothered me was how animals always skipped Aura Condensation, and yet aren’t exactly susceptible to standard Aura. Instead, they react unpredictably, either panicking, fleeing, growing angry, or just plain confused, whereas humans all freeze in place when subjected to Aura. Now, I initially speculated Spiritual Hearts were to blame, which doesn’t make sense since not all animals have one, but all animals react unpredictably to Aura. Then, I realized I myself wasn’t exactly susceptible to Aura, seeing how I eked out a narrow victory against Zian despite not having an Aura myself.” It said something about Rain’s eventful life that everyone present had forgotten such an incredible feat, but he merely laughed and said, “Yea, I forgot all about that too until just yesterday, when I learned I was susceptible to Aura again. I wrote off my... resilience, for lack of a better word, as inexplicable good fortune from earlier misfortune and bad experiences, but now, I’m wondering if I inadvertently did what animals do, and somehow... I dunno, dampened the effects of Aura in some way, without actually using one. No idea, but I’m looking forward to hearing your thoughts and exploring the matter further.”

“Our thoughts?” Blinking owlishly as she stared at Rain, who was too busy smiling at Ping Ping to notice, Mama asked, “Is this all you have to say? What use is any of this... this...” Song thought she would say ‘useless drivel’, but Mama caught herself and said, “Speculation?”

“It offers new avenues to explore and uncover.” More excited than he had any right to be, Teacher Du’s leg twitched in place as he lost himself in thought. “Promising ones considering we have a prime example of success here before us.” Glancing up at the red panda hiding in the treetop, Teacher Du added, “Possibly two.”

Nodding along with Teacher Du’s thoughts, Rain said, “I think the key lies in how we wield Heavenly Energy. There are two main methods I can identify, which I’ve been calling Visualization and Intent. The former is self explanatory in how we utilize Visualization to control Chi, whereas ‘Intent’ can be used to the same effect, and I believe is the sole method through which animals use Heavenly Energy. Most really only use it to enhance what they can already do, whether it be climb trees, run faster, hide better, or whatnot. ‘Intent’ also covers all the instinctual, intrinsic uses of Chi that we might not notice, like how Tate can’t consciously use Reinforcement but can almost lift Aurie off of the ground when it suits him. It shouldn’t even be physically possible, but Heavenly Energy has made him much stronger than he appears, but when he tries to utilize that strength on purpose, he’s only as strong as any other ten year old child. It also covers things like regrowing teeth, which you’ll have to believe me, is not normal when you’re a fully grown adult. You get two sets of natural teeth, and that’s it. Any more, and you’re using Heavenly Energy to grow them. That’s the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.”

Somehow, Rain’s theories always circled around to teeth, but the strangest thing was, aside from the teeth bit, Song actually understood what he was going on about. That said, he was missing a third method, and she felt compelled to speak up, but she had to wait until there was a lull in the teeth debate to say, “There is a third method of utilizing Chi or Heavenly Energy.”

“Just saying Heavenly Energy is fine, because they’re essentially the same thing, but that’s neither here nor there. Also, I have a theory about why you can do things with Heavenly Energy that you can’t do with Chi, but we can get into that at another time.”

Urging her to continue despite his caveat, Rain waited with bated breath for Song’s answer. “Emotion,” she said, wondering how he missed it. “We control Chi through emotion as well.”

“Right!” Smacking himself in the head, Rain’s eyes went wide with comprehension. “Emotion! How could I have overlooked it? It was right there in front of me. I even had that whole section on how we bind Chi with Emotion... Hang on.” Running off to his room to get his notes, Rain left everyone behind to stare at one another in shared confusion, save for Teacher Du who was already lost in his own thoughts. Frowning, Mama said, “Girl, I think it would be best if we left now, for I fear even I can not hold true to my Path in the face of the boy’s... incomprehensible yet oddly compelling leaps of logic. As things stand, we cannot afford to question the very foundation of our strength, not with the Enemy bearing down upon us.”

“Go, go,” Teacher Du said, waving them away, even Sister-in-Law Sarnai who seemed undecided whether to stay or go. “This sort of theoretical debate is more to my tastes than yours anyways, and I’m old and spent, so even if I falter and fall, nothing of value will have been lost.”

Taking Mama by the hand and offering Sister-in-Law Sarnai the other one, Song gently led them both out of Rain’s manor and off to the marketplace. Though she herself wanted to stay and listen, this was Rain’s Dao, not hers, so she trusted Mama’s methods to find her way. Since her schedule was already thrown off, she decided it would be best to have her post morning lessons pastry early today, which was perfect since she normally had to spend a half-hour or so standing in line for a table and having to rush to meet up with her sparring partners. Since she was early today, maybe there wouldn’t be anyone there, and Song could treat Mama and Sister-in-Law Sarnai to something delicious. As for Rain, for better or for worse, it seemed he found new purpose again, but Song had her own Path, and she would not deviate from it now, not without significant proof of a superior one to follow. One step at a time, that was her Path and she would forge it with Mama’s help, but perhaps Rain would do the impossible and develop a new, superior Path which would allow others to take three steps at a time. If anyone could pull off a miracle like this, it would be Rain, but it shouldn’t matter too much, because regardless of the path taken, they all led to the same destination.

As for now, there were freshly steamed sweet buns to enjoy on Song’s path, and there were few people she would rather enjoy them with than her beloved Mama and respected Sister-in-Law.

Chapter Meme
