Torix laughed, "Perfect. The utility that infinite mana of yours gives us is quite useful. Just as well, I've used our Sentinel friend to disperse a few spies at key tactical locations based on this map. I've learned an inkling of the strategy that Tohtella imposed here."

Torix walked over to the map, gesturing to it with his hands.

"You see here? This is a string of positions attacked by their forces. It creates a distinct line that prevents gialgathens from escaping the landmasses of Giess."

I walked up to it, the map looking a bit like Pangea,

"Yeah. It kind of looks like they're attacking where the silvers haven't infested yet. Weird."

"That is precisely so. I believe their plans involve pinning the gialgathens onto the mainland of Giess. There they intend to limit the mobility of these flying creatures. Once forced into the Rak'Sha desert, they shall weaken due to the lack of moisture. After baiting them into a poor position, they will prove easy to capture."

I clanked my fists together, "Then we'll act as the stronghold here then."

Torix nodded, "You understand my intent entirely. We shall do so by using gialgathen guildsmen to assist refugee gialgathens across the Rak'Sha desert to this location."

Torix waved a hand, "You see, the gialgathens within Schema's system are far less susceptible to the perils of the elements. The system's resistances grant the necessary fortitude to traverse these extreme distances. We should be able to confound their operation in this manner."

I crossed my arms, "Knowing how they work, they'll figure this plan out fast, though."

Torix raised a hand in expectation of that point, "Well put, and I've devised how we shall avoid this informational fallout." Torix walked over to a pile of papers before pulling out an overlay for the map. I leaned back,

"Where did you find the time to get one of those?"

Torix waved off my question, "Lichs have their resources. Now-"

He placed it over the locations on the map,

"We have access to various resources as well. I've invested my time researching into common hacking methods. Using Althea and her various agents, I've implanted a few surveillance devices onto many of her targets. Her shadow group was the spies I mentioned earlier. They have given me a sea of data that I intend on using."

I pointed my finger at the overlay that Torix was holding onto the map. Clay holds formed along the corners of it, freeing up Torix's hands.

"Thank you."

I lowered my hand, "No problem."

Torix made a circle over several of the larger cities in espen territory,

"Using Althea's knowledge of the Adair's organization, we're isolating the individuals that control the flow of information. By manipulating what they see and hear, we're confusing this critical resource."

I raised my eyebrows, "Well, damn. That will buy us some time."

Torix raised a finger, "It will do more than that. A troop of the students from our guild has come here from Earth during your stay in the compendium. They are the elite mind mages I've been curating since we established ourselves outside of Springfield."

Torix waved his fingers maniacally, "Using them, we shall create decoys and misdirection during our attacks, allowing us to save more gialgathens. While our own psionics pale in comparison to the Adair's, we simply need to avoid the true masters of mental magic they have. Using these methods, we shall eradicate their implanted forces here on Giess."

I stared at Torix in silence as he continued,

"Furthermore, we shall be using your assaults to throw off the Adiar's finding of our location here in Elderfire. Your blitzes will be targeted in such a way as to cause them to incorrectly guess where our base is located. The Sentinel's teleportation shall be key in this. This shall give us the time needed for the final piece of our operation."

Torix cackled a bit before spreading his arms towards the map,

"We shall be training and leveling gialgathens along with our own troops during this time. The silvers act as simple catalysts towards this end. This shall enable us to build a retaliatory force that shall be stationed here in Elderfire. By the time they discover this place's location-"

Torix let out a bout of evil laughter before turning back to me,

"Even an assault led be Lehesion shall prove futile."

I soaked in the extent of Torix's plan for a moment. After a while, I shook my head,

"I'm glad you're on our side."

Torix stood up straight while holding his head high. He interlocked his hands behind himself. The guy was in his element as he met my eye,

"You've spent your time honing yourself into a weapon. I've long thought my responsibility was and is to enable that pursuit of yours. You gain power, and I shall arm you with the tools necessary for your position. You shall lead from the front and inspire others to follow, both our vanguard and our immortal leader."

Torix's blue, fiery eyes flared,

"And I shall assist you, hidden within the tall shadow you cast."

I turned a palm to him, "You don't have to do that, you know. I have no problem sharing the credit."

Torix shook his head, "Though the sentiment is appreciated, it is unnecessary. I am at home in the darkness, and I find satisfaction in a plan well executed. I may do both of those best here, hidden from prying eyes."

Torix waved his hands, "Besides, a target on your back is far less threatening than one on my own."

I snapped my fingers, "That's right, your new body. It sounds like you got this plan locked in. I'll let you do your thing while I do my own."

Torix turned back to his map, "But of course. By morning, we shall be prepared to counterattack. I wish you farewell."

"You too. Cya Torix."

I walked off into a different room of the temple. Once within its depths, I exchanged a few messages with Althea. It had been so long since I last saw her because of the compendium. I missed her quite a bit, so even though I despised 'texting,' I preferred it to no communication at all.

After devising something resembling a loving message, I got to work on Torix's new body. I shifted to dominion mana, letting the aura leak over me. My armor responded in kind, grinning an evil, insidious smile. The dark gray of my skin darkened to a pitch-black as I gathered several tons worth of the material, regrowing devastating wounds in seconds.

After getting the dominion laden metal, I shifted to quintessence. With The Rise of Eden, I emboldened my mind with the will to create. Wielding Apotheosis, I melted the armor into a mass ball of molten metal.

Instead of vibrating the particles like I did with Ascendant mana, I injected raw thermal energy into the metal. It was actually easier to do. During this, I mixed some of the metal harvested while traveling to Elderfire as well. Once pliable, I shifted out globs of the heated metal before setting to work.

I formed black bones, Torix's preferred form. I stuck with solid outer shells instead of a solid structure. Otherwise, the skeleton would prove too cumbersome. I left a framework of supporting structures within the skeleton's bones to keep it sturdy though. Once I finished with the bones, I aligned the metal by pulsing gravitational waves through it. This eliminated air bubbles and evened out the metal's grain structure.

Once I finished up with the body, I added a bit of flair onto the skull, hands, and shoulders as well. The scapulas acted as slightly thicker plates, the skull carrying Torix's signature crown of thorns over his head. On the hands, I kept short spines on the outside of his fists. I kept the features of the skull hollow and menacing, though I did interlay a few supports through it.

The idea was that when Torix stepped out onto a battlefield, I aimed for our enemies to feel fear. After finishing the crafting of the skeleton, I created hundreds of thin wires. The practice from my previous armors helped me out here, allowing me to complete a large pile in only an hour.

I set those aside before using several bouts of quintessence. After a few failures, I eventually created a gray ball of fabric. I weaved it with the wires, creating a robe similar to his current one but much denser and more protective. I also made a cape for his back composed entirely of the thin wires. It was large enough to cover the entirety of Torix if he wanted it too.

It would be a makeshift shield if he needed it or perhaps a kinetic dampener. Either way, it would be useful and look cool at the same time. As far as I was concerned, that was a win-win situation.

With suitable proportions for the new body, I ended up with a nine-foot-tall robe. The black on gray created a nice contrast as well, appearing malevolent and powerful. With that finished, I took a few golden rings from my pocket dimension and melted them down. Proving much easier to work with than my own skin, I embroidered the trim of the robe with Torix's classic touch of gold.

This livened up the clothes a bit, making them look less dreary. I also created a thin shoulder plate for the cape to hang from. On it, I crafted dull, angular tines that jutted up. They protected the sides of his face, and when worn, Torix would appear broad and menacing.

Once finished with the main body, I looked at the time. It took about 8 hours in total, far less than I imagined it would. The Rise of Eden did wonders for my productivity. With the little time I had left, I worked out some of the runic inscriptions. Instead of the watered-down runes Schema used, I decided to use the cipher. The idea was that he would wear the robe over the carvings, keeping them cloaked from prying eyes.

With the cipher at my disposal, I scoped out a quick synopsis of what I viewed Torix as. Diligent, ruthless, and astute, I carved out the idea of a mastermind with a familial side. Even if he'd given up on life, he found something worth living on for in his undeath.

In the end, Torix turned into a father figure for me. I never had one really, and he did a pretty good job of it. At the same time, he was a teacher and mentor that enjoyed sharing his hard-earned knowledge. Despite this academic nature, Torix kept grounded even when there was chaos erupting around him.

Even in the eye of a hurricane, Torix always headed towards an efficient and effective solution for any problem he faced. He never struggled to learn from those younger than him either, his humility impressive. At the same time, his rage was a dark, abyssal thing and well worth fearing.

His ability to command tactically was unequaled as well. He maneuvered our troops around Yawm's followers with absolute brilliance. His new plan was both cunning and capable, and he would no doubt execute it with deadly efficiency.

The more I mapped out my understanding of Torix, the more confident I was of my conclusions. The Torix I knew was a dark overlord, not some old skeleton about to break from a stiff breeze. When I finished this, everyone else would understand that too. I would make damn sure of that.

Immersed in my work, I lost my sense of time and sped through it with cold efficiency. As Torix tapped my shoulder, I just finished my notes on my status. I shook my head, stunned that he snuck up on me.

He peered up at me as I stood up straight. I found that standing was the most natural thing in the world now that I was so dense. If I didn't force my body to move, it was stiff enough to just lock in place. If I wanted to, sleeping while standing was utterly possible.

I didn't have time to waste, however. Torix glanced over my shoulder at the bones on the floor,

"Ahh, it looks rather malevolent...I quite like the design you're going for. What inspired it?"

I shrugged, "Eh, some card games and other stuff from way back in the day...Is it time to head out?"

Torix nodded, "Yes." He steepled his fingers,

"We'll show them the might of the Harbinger and his legion, one broken bone at a time."
