The four people down below, each of them wearing very nice peasant clothing, were bowing to him with equal parts reverence and fear. Jane supposed that was okay. With a twist of light, her father activated the mechanics of the stairwell, and shut it behind him, waving one last time.

Jane smirked, saying, “Your food is hot.”

“Oh yeah. Thank you.” Erick said, “They just wanted to thank me a bit more than I was ready for.”

“You deserve to be thanked, but what about your cronut ingredients?”

Erick happily announced, “We’ll have supplies in the hour. But for now, that fried chicken and rice.”

Jane smiled.

- - - -

The supplies for the cronuts arrived within the hour, a bit before sunup, just in time for Erick to get to work. Making dough was easy enough; he had been making it from scratch with dried yeast packets, wrapped in paper, since his second month of Veird. Making sweet dough was as easy as adding sugar and a few other ingredients. When that was done, he allowed the dough to proof once, getting some of the rest of his supplies ready in the meantime, then he went back to the dough to turn it into pastry.

Kiri had made pastry dough once, and the girls at ‘And Dessert!’ had some good pastry selections, but mostly, pastries were not a normal thing. Erick had only done this once before, but that had not turned out well. This time would be better.

Erick rolled out the dough into a nice square, then layered cold butter on the square, keeping everything nice and chilled inside a [Cold Ward]. Dough folded over dough, then hard light rolled it out again. Erick turned the dough, added more butter, and folded it over itself, into the center, then rolled it out again. He turned the dough, folded without extra butter this time, and rolled it out again.

He rolled out the dough until it was a 2 centimeter thickness sheet, about 60 centimeters by 60 centimeters wide. Then he left it in the [Cold Ward], and went to the oil.

A [Heat Ward] went around the vat of cooking oil to kickstart the heat, while a twist of the knob on the stove turned on [Prestidigitation] flames, to lick at the bottom of the vat to bring it up to proper frying temperature.

On the other side of the kitchen, Erick had a sugar and cinnamon station ready for the hot cronuts. He was surprised that cinnamon was available here, but apparently Lingxing liked all of Erick’s inventions, and all of them were growing here and there in various gardens and such, with some more popular than others. Cinnamon was slightly popular, but nowhere near the level of tarip or the various fruits that people usually used to flavor their desserts.

As the first rays of morning sunlight streamed in from the eastern windows, brightening the rooms with golden light, Erick cut the first cronut out of the pastry sheet, and dumped the first donut into the hot oil. It sizzled up and filled the air with the smell of baked goods.

And then it fell apart, the layers stripped from each other—

“No no no!” Erick said, “Shit! How the fuck—”

He fished out the separated cronut from the bubbling oil.

“Oh.” Erick looked to his cronuts. “You need to proof again, outside of the cold.” Erick canceled the [Cold Ward] and turned off the [Heat Ward] on the oil, but he left the stove at a low simmer. “You can stay a little hot, while I cut out these guys.”

Erick cut out all the cronuts he wanted, and then he sliced up the remains into appropriately sized pieces. All of those went onto metal trays to wait in the warmth of the room, to proof again.

Half an hour later, the sun was up and the pastry had doubled in size. They looked much better after another proofing, and this time, when they went into the oil, they fluffed up; perfect.

The hot pastries all went for a cinnamon sugar coating, but only half of them got glazed.

Erick held one in front of him, imagining how good it was. And then he took a bite.

Crunchy! Chewy! Flaky, too! It was fried bread and sugar and cinnamon; what was not to like?

According to the rest of the judges, they were pretty great, just as he knew they would be.

Jane ate her third one, saying, “Pretty good, dad.”

Teressa was on her fifth, saying, “These are great.”

“That’s a lot of sugar.” Poi said, “You always have way too much sugar in your breakfast foods, Erick. I enjoy some cactus syrup on my pancakes as well as the next guy, but this? This is pure sugar.”

“Don’t forget the butter and oil, Poi,” Teressa said.

Erick laughed. “And that’s what makes it breakfast!”

Erick had the flashing realization that he shouldn’t be having fun right now. He should be sorry for the people he killed. He should be working with Ophiel to fix the problems out there. How could he have wasted precious hours to make these stupid fucking cronuts? He could have been out there, saving more lives! Healing more people with Ophiel!

And then the problems of vulnerability seeped into the forefront.

He had been thinking a lot about the vulnerability of all of that. To solve this, he could turn himself to light and make himself small like Ophiel, and hunker down with [Animadversion], while Ophiel went out and expanded to full sunform, to touch people with [Greater Treat Wounds] as he moved and helped to restore buildings. Erick could be growing more crops for people, right this minute.

But—

Ah. Fuck.

Yggdrasil…

Yggdrasil couldn’t make himself small. A soul spear attack on Ophiel would be a soul spear attack on Yggdrasil as well. Dammit.

Well. He could still help people the hard way.

But instead he was eating a breakfast that had taken him three hours to make.

The pastry felt like nothing inside his mouth, but he chewed and swallowed anyway, as he tried to make the dark thoughts go away.

He knew enough about what was happening to recognize the symptoms of PTSD; he had helped some veterans get through some of this stuff back home, though admittedly, he mostly helped those people by moving them on to other social workers who could help them better than Erick could.

Erick grabbed one of the donut holes, and ate half of it, as he listened to the conversation happening all around him, and tried not to think about how everyone here could be dead at any random time. Someone could just [Teleport] in nearby and [Ward Destruction] all of his defenses and...

For the first time, Erick thought that Melemizargo’s [Teleport Lock] was a good idea.

[Teleport] should not be in the Open Script.

If only the monsters weren’t so dangerous, and the people weren’t so distant from each other, and society wasn’t so fragile, and…

If people didn’t have [Teleport], then this war never would have happened.

[Gate] should be harder to get, too. 10 points? Bah! Terrible. Too easy!

But on the flip side…

Without [Teleport] being in the Open Script, you’d have people trying to go to war in the traditional manner, but then some competent caster on one side would be able to assassinate whoever they want, because they’re the only ones with [Teleport]. And archmages like Erick, or Syllea or— Or especially Tenebrae! If an archmage went bad— Tenebrae would be practically unassailable by the common man. He's up there in a flying, hiding castle! Impossible to find, for who’s gonna go looking for that thing? It’d take a month of searching the mountains west of the Firemaw, and even if you got close to his castle, you’d never know it, for Tenebrae would just move the castle.

Hmm.

There was no easy answer to this [Teleport]ing war problem, was there? If you take [Teleport] away, you remove the ability for nations to connect with one another, and to fight the monsters where they need to be fought, and to escape when someone comes committing war against them.

So that’s not gonna work.

The Void Song of the Singers of Songli was a great sidestep to that issue, by simply multiplying the mana cost of [Teleport] from 250 per person, to something like 100,000 mana per person, to deny the use of the spell inside the city. Erick wasn’t exactly sure of the cost, for he had not done experiments under the Void Song himself and what he had overheard was hearsay, but he had gathered that the cost was high up there.

But then the Singers had been targeted and killed, and the Void Song went down, and then everything went to shit.

But sidestepping the issue of everyone-having-[Teleport] was a good solution; the Singers just hadn’t done enough.

Erick circled back to an old idea. His [Renew] spell.

He added another idea to it, though.

[Anti-Teleport Ward]. It would be like the rune warding that people put up to prevent [Teleport]s in a large area, but instead of requiring runes and clunky mana oils, he’d make the spell itself, and then link it to a [Renew] spell…

Which he had a new idea for.

His new idea came from a spell he had just made.

Draining Void, instant, close range, 500 mana

Drain WIL Health and Mana per second from every target in a large area. Lasts 24 hours. Lasts longer based on resources drained.

[Draining Void] drained Health and Mana, with the duration for the spell increasing based on resources drained. How large of an increase? Erick wasn’t sure. He’d need to do some experiments on that one.

But a better experiment would be to make one of these that just drained mana, and then used that mana to maintain other connected spellwork.

But...

Was this possible?

It was magic, so it was probably possible.

This would be an easy way to keep a [Gate] running, too. No need to enchant the spell into a physical gate, either, which was great, because Erick was rather terrible at enchanting. He could just cast the [Gate] itself, and then link it to a mana-draining [Ward] which would keep the [Gate] open and active—

Maybe not always open and active.

The [Gate] would likely need to enter a period of dormancy, sometimes, but then it would open when enough resources had been drained from the people wishing to operate the [Gate].

Would that work? Did [Gate] have a dormant part of the spell?

Erick had seen a copy of the spell in Tenebrae’s notes, and it was one of those spells that said little, but meant a lot. It was something like: ‘1000 mana, connect two places.’ Very simple description.

Erick pondered as he ate breakfast.

… Was this a valid idea?

Erick had another cronut, and this time it tasted better.

It was much easier to think of magic than it was to deal with death and destruction.

Ignoring his trauma was likely not a healthy coping mechanism, but oh well! He had too much shit to do to talk to a proper therapist!

Poi looked over to him, and frowned a little.

Erick pushed the pile of cronuts at the Mind Mage, saying, “You put on a brave front, but I can tell you love these.”

Poi reluctantly took another.

- - - -

Erick was feeling mentally terrible and likely a bit unstable, no doubt about that, but he was ready and willing to put his mind beyond the problems of right now. Best way to get over a problem was to make more for yourself, right?

Er.

No.

That wasn’t right.

Erick was just looking to expand his magical horizons. That’s it. He went with that one, and sent out a message to Ari, ‘Hello. I wa—’

Instant rejection, for a dozen points of False Damage. Erick had barely made it through the first three words. He felt like the denial of telepathy would have hurt a lot more if he wasn’t so well defended from all sorts of damage. Maybe she was busy? Erick went to go find Poi in the next room, and ask him about all that.

After a moment of checking, Poi said, “She’s with a client. She’s clearing that up and will be able to speak afterward about the soul spears and Raidu. Maybe an hour.”

Erick smiled. “Excellent.” And then, because he was curious, he asked, “How do you know all that when all I got was a straight-up denial?”

“Mind Mage secrets,” Poi said, with his own smile.

“Bah!” Erick added, “And oh yeah. That reminds me. I’m thinking of asking Hangzi and the rest to let me into their books on magic. How do you think that would go over?”

“They’ll politely deny an open-ended request, but if you had something specific, they might approve.”

“That’s what I figured, too.”

- - - -

Ari showed up at Erick’s rooms wearing soft yellow robes, fit for a lady of Holorulo’s Court; which she was, now, apparently.

Erick welcomed her into his temporary house, wearing comfortable clothes. He felt a bit embarrassed about that, actually, but it was whatever. He received her in the sunroom, facing south. Beyond the large windows, the beauty of Holorulo’s rural land stretched out to the green horizon.

Erick poured Ari tea, saying, “Thank you for coming, Ari. I know you must be rather busy.”

“Thank you for the invitation.” Ari sipped her tea, then said, “Good blend.”

“I got it from a store that is now gone. Oh, the store is still there; someone [Mend]ed it back to wholeness. But the people are gone.”

“As it is everywhere. Those whom Terror Peaks did not kill are still affected by the pain of all the rest, for that dead nation also targeted our markets and our storage houses.” Ari said, “A cruel attack.”

Erick had a moment of profound melancholy, but he pushed it away as he sipped his own tea. He did not remove the emotion from his face fast enough to go unnoticed, though.

Ari asked, “I don’t mean to be forward, but I must know if you are experiencing any side effects of the healing. You shouldn’t be, and while I ask for your forgiveness for gazing upon your soul, you seem to be intact. Unfortunately, untoward soul issues do happen even when we don’t expect them to happen.”

Erick gently smiled for Ari’s concern, but it was misplaced. “Thank you for looking out for me, but I seem fine. Just some problems with killing people, leaving mental scars. I don’t appreciate the necessity of it, but I understand the need.”

Ari arched an eyebrow. “You didn’t call me here to see about your soul?”

“Ah. No? No, I did not.” Erick said, “I asked after you to discuss a few different magics. The soul spear, for one. A few other smaller, or perhaps larger magics; I’m unsure at the moment.” He added, “And to ask you what you saw and what you think has happened to the people I Blessed. I understand you’re overseeing much of that.”

Ari nodded, and set down her tea cup. “Let us tackle the last concern, first, as it is the easiest for me to discuss.” She said, “The people you Blessed have been tattooed to remove their Mana and Health, but other than that, they are under watch in a decently nice temporary prison. They’re being questioned, of course. Some people wish that we would question them with more extreme means, but your request for them had been honored. We are showing them leniency, to allow them to be better than who they were.

