“Many of them have renounced who they were. Some have not. The assassin who had been wrapped around the soul spear, Beniza Wounder, has been extremely vocal about renouncing who she was. Her story is similar to most. Beniza claims to have had the part of her that saw other people as people broken and removed from her soul, and now that part is intact again, she sees that she has done wrong.”

Erick frowned. Unsure, he asked, “They did that to their people? Removed parts of their souls?”

Ari shook her head. “Know that Beniza believes what she is saying, but I do not. It is easier for her to believe that something had been magically done to her to make her an assassin, than to instead believe the truth; that she had been groomed from a young age using perfectly mundane techniques to kill the parts of her that see other people as people, in order to turn her into who she is.” Ari said, “She still believes in Terror Peaks. She still believes in the mother who raised her and subjected her to life inside of a tank, where her brothers and sisters physically cut her down so that their mother could build them up again. But under your Blessing she has gained ire for the failures of Terror Peak’s middle clansmen; the people who decided that they needed to go to war. If we let her go, she would likely try to seek out Patriarch Xangu and Elders and otherwise, to form back up into their cell-based society, whereupon she would try to undo the damage that the middle clansmen did to their society.

“And then the cycle of Terror Peaks falling back to war would repeat in 40 years.

“Though the specifics are different, this is how Terror Peaks operates. We have no reason to believe that allowing her or any of them to do as they wish, will actually end up doing good in the long run.”

Erick frowned. “The Blessing didn’t do anything for her, then?”

“She repents for every person she has ever killed, but she has no sympathy at all for monsters. Beniza thoroughly believes in the idea of Terror Peaks.” Ari said, “Most of those you Blessed are the same, with the most notable exception being Raidu. His self-execution was far beyond the norm.”

Erick asked, “How did Raidu get that block on his soul, anyway?” He asked, “Have you encountered any soul magics like it upon anyone else?”

Ari frowned a tiny bit. “I don’t mean to be rude, but how much do you know of Soul Magic? Your Blessing is a work of art, and you managed to come back to yourself with a simple ease that most people are not capable of achieving, but this question… ‘Get that block on his soul’. The answer is that he was prepared against you, specifically. He said ‘no’.” Ari said, “But I managed to tap his soul in a certain way, to break loose his concentration, thus allowing your Blessing to take hold.”

“A simple ‘no’, huh.” Erick said, “A part of me considered that it might have been a divine protection from a Converter Angel.” Erick said, “Though I made the Blessing, it was Koyabez who helped put it into the Crystal Star, so I figured it was a similar divine source that might have blocked it.”

“Ah. I see.” Ari said, “When you sent out those images of what the Conversion looked like, I was one of the people to scan and root out that problem over here. We only had a few people affected, though, thankfully, and rather minimally, at that.” She said, “The High Clans sent a formal desist request to the angels, and the next day, all of those people so affected were suddenly freed. None of them remembered being affected.”

Erick sat up straight. “The Converter Angel removed their conversion? And because you asked?” He said, “Pardon my ignorance, but that seems suspect.”

Ari smiled, then said, “This surprises you, but it should not. Songli is a society that firmly believes in neutrality in the Quiet War.” She lost her smile, then shrugged, and said, “We’re always dealing with some complicated Quiet War angle, but when those factors become apparent, a quick missive to the Angelic Host or the Demon King usually clears up any large-scale nonsense. On the smaller scale, something untoward is always happening with some angel or some demon here or there.

“But almost all of us have parents or grandparents on one side or another of that Grand War and none of us wish for a civil war of any kind. Events of that sort that seem to lead in those directions are quickly quashed.” She frowned. “But now that Koyabez’s temples are destroyed… and all those priests are gone.” Her face scrunched. “We’ll have to keep an official eye on that situation more than we usually would.”

Erick was surprised. He said as much, “That’s… very unexpected.”

Ari said, “But back to Raidu’s protection:”

Erick nodded, and listened.

Ari continued, “It is possible that he had had some divine protections, but I do not believe so. But! There are certain things upon the soul that are easy to see when it comes to detecting Soul Magic, and others that are near impossible.” Ari asked, “How much do you know of the soul? Of blessings and curses?”

Erick realized that this could be a very large talk, but he also didn’t want to reveal everything he knew, so he said, “The main thing is the mind-body-soul trinity. Memories are contained in the mind, which is in the body, but the body is also in the physical, which is in the manasphere as the soul, and the soul also contains the memories. Or maybe just a copy of the memories? I’m not too clear on that. Apparently, there’s a mind-body-aura-soul philosophy over here, but I’m still not sure what that’s about.” Erick said, “As for magics and Status and Stats: All of that is contained inside the soul, which then influences the physical and the mana.

“All of the soul is made of soulstuff, which until recently I had no idea that any parts of the soul were truly separate from any others. I thought it was one big messy soup.

“This soulstuff can be tainted or heightened or whatever you want to call it, in order to create curses and blessings.

“It is this act of self creation, inside the soul of the caster, which makes a blessing or a curse, which is then shared with others in order to bless or curse them.”

Erick finished, and Ari blinked.

She said, “That is perhaps the most succinct description of the bless/curse process that I have ever heard. People usually try to obfuscate these things so that lay people don’t hurt themselves trying something beyond their station.”

“I’m the only layperson here.”

Ari nodded, then said, “We will stay away from the mind-body-aura-soul versus the mind-body-soul discussion, and focus on the soul itself. The soul is what you are, at your core. This core is widely believed to contain two densities. The exterior soul, the Shroud, is rather unimportant to this discussion, as it is the part of you that has yet to become the real you. Soul spells must punch through this layer in order to affect the inner soul, but in the end, the Shroud doesn’t really matter.

“The Shroud does matter in one specific case: By disrupting the Shroud, and then destroying the physical mind, and then healing the physical mind, one can make a person forget recent events. This might have repercussions for this discussion, or it might not.

“I will explain.

“The inner soul is where your long-term self is contained. This is where you have correctly stated that the souls and stats are stored, along with long term memories and otherwise. But you are slightly incorrect in stating that memories are stored in the soul. What is going on there, is that the mana in your body remembers itself based on the mind.

“This is why some people —not many!— can sometimes lose their heads, and if they’re healed fast enough, and well enough, their heads can come back, and they’re fine. This is because the memory in the mana did not have a chance to dissipate.

“Think of it as a [Mend] replacing a broken teacup, and since that teacup is back, it can once again be filled with tea and enjoyed, which will then continue adding into the mana history of the item. In time, it will be as though the break never happened. But if you break that teacup as it is holding tea, like breaking the short-term Shroud of the soul, that tea, that Shroud, will go away, and never come back. It is lost to the memory of the item.

“I see you understand. And yes, it is a large concept, but also the simplest way to destroy the short term memories of a person.

“And now, back to Raidu’s unusual resistance to your Blessing.

“… And before we get to that, we must discuss curses and Curses; both the kind cast by Hedge Witches and the big ones, cast by those such as the Shade who was the Witch.”

In the other room, Teressa perked up.

Ari continued, “Most of the soul is hidden from the viewer, as you have no doubt figured out. One of the main hidden things is the mana pool of a person, but all together, the soul is 95% hidden from mortals. Gods have easier access, but we are not gods.

“Anyway. In that 5% of visibility, small curses are easy to see upon the soul.

“Small curses are restrictions and crushing force and sequestering and dimming. You can spot smaller curses all throughout all levels of the soul, both the inner soul, and the outer soul, but short-term combat curses mostly linger in the outer soul, where they seep in and attempt to poison the inner soul.

“If a small curse is left alone for long enough, sometimes they can become major Curses, but this usually only happens when someone doesn’t realize they have been cursed. Curse slimes are particularly good at this level of cursing.

“Thankfully, I heard that those have mostly been eradicated, so we’re all happy about that.

“Anyway. Most Curses I end up removing start off as curses; as bunching and squeezing of the soul. Unnatural eddies that betray blocks in the soul.

“That’s how to spot a curse, and a Curse. The deeper it is, the larger the effect, the easier the Curse is to see.

“And now we get to Blessings.

“Blessings are magnifications. They are empowerment. They are brightenings. Smaller blessings are easy to see, for they are like someone has taken a lens to the soul, to make a small part bigger, or to make it more pronounced. Some blessings deepen the density of a specific part of the soul. Small blessings, when left alone and helped along by the person so affected, can sometimes transform into larger Blessings.

“And then there are the Blessings that start off large.

“Your Blessing of Empathy is a large Blessing, and it creates a magnification upon the entire soul. Your Blessing works from the Inner soul to even affect the Shroud, pointing the soul in a direction of growth and connection with other people. And then there is the secondary effect. When someone so Blessed does harm, it is as though their whole soul lights up. Those internal connections made to others in the mind of the Blessed soul are magnified to an overwhelming point.

“And now for Raidu’s unusual reaction:

“I watched as that man basically Cursed himself, strangling the footholds of the Blessing you gave him, until I undid his self-Curse with minor blessings, whereupon your Blessing took hold like a detonation of white light upon his red soul.” Ari said, “Your Blessing soaked into the man, becoming a part of him, to then fade into the background of red that was Raidu. And then it magnified. His entire soul lit up like a red beacon. He was still in the act of committing harm with his words, which were already out there, and he couldn’t stop what he had done, so he took his own life to end the pain. That is what I believe happened.” Ari said, “I saw no other magnifications upon his soul. If anything, he had been cursed slightly, though it is hard to tell the difference between a curse and a denial of outside interference, sometimes.

“Both Blessings and Curses can be denied if the will is strong enough, but usually some of that magic sticks even if a person resists it. Strangely enough, smaller curses and large Blessings both usually get through that resistance. This is the only reason why I think it might be slightly possible that Raidu was cursed to resist your Blessing, as your Blessing was well known even all the way over here on the other side of Veird.”

Erick tried to reconcile Ari’s words against what he already knew. It all sounded correct. And that part about the memories and the body! That answered so many questions about how orcols were able to lose their heads sometimes!

But it opened up a lot more.

Was Erick his soul, which seemed like a recording in the mana, or was he his body, which was… well, his body. And his body had already been destroyed by that soul spear.

Was Erick still Erick?

… Teressa was still Teressa. So…

Erick was still Erick.

He gave a small sigh of relief. No existential crisis today, thank you very much!

Erick came back to himself, and moved right along, asking, “I heard about a Court Necromancer that would summon the souls of the dead for final farewells and questioning. Could we call Raidu back for questioning?”

Ari said, “He was already summoned back into his own corpse by Patriarch Hangzi of Devouring Nightmare.”

Erick had wondered if they had done that. But since Ari didn’t lead with that, and based on what she hadn’t yet explained...

Erick concluded, “He has no memory of anything important.”

No one knew anything important, it seemed. Not a single assassin of the entire group had given Erick any answers, but then again, he hadn’t really questioned any of them himself… Maybe he should.

Ari nodded. “Even though Raidu has been summoned into his own body, he is missing memories that he should have had, thus my earlier explanation of the mind-body-soul connection. This phenomenon is rather normal in specific instances for many of the normal returned, as questioning the normal dead about such things as ‘what did you eat last week on firstday?’ will almost always result in confusion. But certain things he should know, such as the reasons for the war. And yet, he does not know anything besides the broad strokes. He doesn’t even know why he said all of those words he said when you confronted him in the sky over Terror Peaks. One thing that he should know, for sure, is why he was calling you a Wizard. As you can imagine, we did ask him that, specifically.”

Erick frowned, and said, “When he was alive, he told me that the creation of new Basic Tier spellwork was Wizardry.”

