“Which is fundamentally wrong, and he even knows this, as we questioned him about this, also specifically. Something has been done to him, and he doesn’t know what. The most telling proof that something was done, is that Raidu is missing the conviction he had in life to stop your Blessing from working.” Ari said, “And so, right now, he is fully immersed in his Blessing. He knows he caused the destruction of his society, which is normally against monsters, by foolishly going up against the man who killed the biggest monsters in this world, and he has no idea why he would do such a thing.

“He is baffled at his own actions.

“Which… is not a phenomenon that I am unfamiliar with.

“This ‘objectivity of death’ is a known phenomenon, which makes ghosts baffled at their actions in life, but your Blessing has made that objectivity highly apparent. And so, he repents the pain he caused and is working with us to figure out what happened, but it is difficult with his missing memories. Added to that, simply being summoned is… inordinately painful for ghosts like him. Most summonings of normal people are cut short, for the return to life brings pain far beyond the physical, but Raidu’s pain is… much more than physical.”

She had said the word ‘normal’ way too many times for it to not mean something. It caught Erick off guard at first, but it shouldn’t have. Humans could become angels after they died, if they died pledged to Celes, while incani naturally became demons upon death, their souls automatically transferring to Hell. Humans could actually go to any afterlife. Though Erick had stayed away from much of that theology of Veird, it was hard to not pick up on some stray facts here and there.

Erick still wasn’t sure what happened to demis, though. From the various funerals he had surreptitiously witnessed, he imagined that they could go either way, depending on the person. Or depending on the family which had gone before.

But as for Raidu… Erick had assumed him as some angel, or something, and angels were certainly not ‘normal summons’.

Erick asked, “So Raidu did not ascend to become an angel? He was a normal person?”

Ari paused, then said, “Ah. I see the misunderstanding.” She elaborated, “Terror Peaks, historically, has never sided with the angels, because the war against the monsters was much more important to them than the Forever War. This did not stop Terror Peaks from being racist against anyone non-human; you no doubt saw their cities were full of humans and little else. Even with such a population, though, last I heard, they had ties to both Hell and Celes. Humans can go either way upon death, after all.”

Erick listened, feeling that Ari wasn’t quite getting what he was putting down.

He said, “This is my worry, Ari: Terror Peaks was just the start of a larger war. A war where everyone will fight. A world war. A Converter Angel was already summoned to Veird, but now that her network has been destroyed, she’s hanging out on Celes, waiting for the right moment to come back.” Erick said, “The Celestial Host is planning for the long term, and I fear that this action by Terror Peaks is just one of the opening moves.”

Ari went from listening, to quiet dread, to acceptance.

She said, “I believe they already did much of their questioning in that particular direction, but I will have them try again. Give me a moment.”

Erick nodded.

Ari sent out a tendril of thought.

After a minute, and a few facial expressions, she disconnected from her call, and said, “They had to [Stasis] Raidu’s ghost in order to halt soul degradation, but your direction of questioning has been added to the docket.”

“Thank you.”

Half of him wanted to know how they would question a ghost. The other half didn’t care. That man had been a bad faith actor in life, and he was likely a bad faith actor in death.

Erick asked, “Can ghosts lie? Truthstones shouldn’t work on the mindless dead, should they?” Erick looked to Poi, standing in the corner.

Poi shook his head; no.

“There are Soul Magic ways of telling truth from lies, but it is right to be concerned, if we are indeed walking through angelic plots.” Ari said, “Since you have brought up this idea of him being an angelic actor, we won’t be allowing his soul to return to the mana. When he dies, we will sunder his soul as befits a man of his nature. Before that ultimate End, we will inform him as much, to see how he reacts to knowing he won’t go on to whatever End he has planned.”

For a brief moment, Erick was appalled.

Sundering?

But.

Even the Headmaster wouldn’t sunder a soul. He called it the worst punishment that was possible to inflict on a person. But also, sundering souls was what gods did to make mana; apparently it was painless for them to do it…

Erick had a lot of sudden, overwhelming emotions about the sundering of Raidu’s soul. Mostly, recoiling dread. But also perverse joy.

He ignored those emotions, for now.

Erick moved on, asking, “Have you been able to discover anything about the soul spear?”

Ari seemed glad for the change of topic, possibly because she was worried over how he would react to hearing about the proposed sundering of Raidu.

She moved right alongside Erick, saying, “Those spears are [Duplicate]d in some way, as you suspected.” Ari said, “We’ve taken apart two of them and all but confirmed that hypothesis. I don’t want to alarm you, but when this fact was discovered, the Headmaster was informed, as necessitated by treaties we already have with Oceanside. The Headmaster is sending out Elites to uncover whatever happened there.”

Who would the Headmaster send? Someone Erick knew?

Erick said, “I suspect that the spear’s base object is either [Duplicate]d and then each one was enchanted individually, which is the medium-worrying idea, or maybe there was an artifact in Ar’Kendrithyst that copied artifacts completely, which is the high-grade worry.”

Ari startled, slightly, betraying a great, new worry. She calmly asked, “There are artifacts like that?”

“I have no idea, but the Armory was cleared out. All of the artifacts are gone.” Erick said, “I would be surprised if none of them turned up even all the way over here, in Songli. This nation is one of the most populous in the world, and that means a lot of people come through this way.”

Ari focused. “If there are such artifacts here, then I am not aware of them. We’ve— Star Song has captured a great many magical items out of Ar’Kendrithyst, mostly after they’ve caused problems here or there inside Eralis— None of them were artifacts, though. Just major magical items. This is not a new problem. If there are actual artifacts… We haven’t captured anything like that, at all.” She frowned. “Not to my knowledge.”

Erick said, “It hasn’t been that long since Last Shadow’s Feast. I have expected to run across one of those myriad artifacts, and maybe this is one of them, but I suspect most such artifacts to be sequestered in hiding holes until needed.”

“It’s entirely possible that some smaller clans or even individuals have found Ar’Kendrithyst artifacts and are hoarding them for themselves, but it is more likely that they were given over to High Clans for favors and prestige. But now that the war has killed so many… If any one of the Clans has captured any such artifacts, then they are likely lost; stuffed away in hiding holes that no one will ever know are there until decades later during remodels.” Ari paused, then said, “It’s possible that Terror Peaks somehow acquired one such artifact.” She added, “A lot more likely than angel interference, too.”

Erick had thought that they had gotten somewhere with Raidu being angelically aligned, so he asked, “Why do you say that?”

“This has to do with the Compact of Demogal, signed 550 years ago by the High Clans before they formed Songli. One of the tenets of that compact was to forgo clan-level partnerships with either the angels or demons. It still happens, of course, for both sides still entice mortals with power and life after death, but that action happens on an individual basis. Usually.” Ari said, “The compact is simple words on paper, though, so that means about as much as people want it to mean. Terror Peaks usually adheres well to this particular compact. It was only three years ago that they demonstrated this adherence. Terror Peaks fought against an angel-aligned clan known as Steel Edge, who had been killing primarily-incani clans over on their side of the Tribulations.” She shook her head. “The more I think of it, the less I believe that Raidu has anything to do with angels, and more to do with some odd artifact. Possibly even an artifact that copies the soul spear, as you have hypothesized.”

Erick frowned. “Are you sure there’s no angelic interference?”

“All I can tell you is that I have seen no angelic interference upon Raidu’s soul.” Ari said, “Erick. In Nelboor, the Quiet War does not happen between nations. Nations work to quash such happenings.”

And now they had arrived at the crux of the matter.

Erick said, “But that was before Particle Magic, before the creation of a potential World Tree, which will potentially open up new worlds.”

“As you have said…” Ari said, “I am not sure that Hell or Celes would want all-out war, though. They do tend to pull back from all-out war when it looks to go that way.”

And now they were going around in circles.

Erick moved on, “Thank you for listening to my concerns. I hope Raidu’s answers are satisfactory to us all.”

Ari nodded.

“Moving on: Does Songli have any hints to understanding [Gate]?”

“You would have to speak to the High Clans about that.” Ari said, “It was always the Patriarch’s responsibility to direct those who asked about that ancient magic. I do know that the sculpture in front of Star Song— Well. It’s gone now; destroyed in the fighting. But that was a clue. Unfortunately, Zalindi has already gone to his final End and I am not…” Ari said, “I no longer have many duties with Star Song. Perhaps Patriarch Mirizo would know more.”

Erick felt his heart go out to the woman, for she had been outed as a Soul Mage because of him. Not directly; no. But somehow, someway, Ari had been outed as a Soul Mage, and now she was here in Holorulo, in Court dress. And, it was not hard to see that she wasn’t exactly happy.

Ari asked, “Is there anything else you would like to ask?”

There were a few things. For starters: Did she need help with something? He hadn’t expected this practical interrogation when he asked her to come over, but maybe he should have?

“There is one thing.” Erick said, “I’ve been working on this spell for a while. It doesn’t have a name, but I’m calling it [Renew]. It’s to be a Basic Tier spell that anyone can purchase, that will allow them to renew and reinvigorate any ongoing magic. The goal is to allow laypeople to [Renew] the ongoing magical effects that others can cast; to allow a normal guard to upkeep the [Grand Shield] that an archmage can cast upon a city, for instance.”

Ari asked, “Do you mean, like a City Shield?”

Erick smiled. “Yes! Exactly like that.” He added, “City Shields are the normal magical items, but the artifact is known as the Tears of Aloeth; they’re Old Cosmology artifacts. City Shields were the New Cosmology creation. Apparently they’re not that good, but I haven’t seen any, so I don’t really know.”

“We have some City Shields. Back in Eralis.” Ari said, “Here, too, no doubt.”

“You do?” Erick smiled wide. “I need to see one.”

“This is easily accomplished; I can direct you to a Border Clan, or you can ask after one here, in Holorulo. They might even be able to sell you one to experiment upon, if you wish. They’re not very useful, but Border Clans use them sometimes against monster waves.” She said, “They’re terrible at stopping people, though.”

“Ah! This is great. First good news I’ve had all week, it seems.” Erick asked, “But let us talk a little about expanding that functionality to more than just a simple shield. Let us speak of a [Renew], a new Basic Spell that would work for anyone to restore any ongoing magic.”

Ari went silent for a moment, thinking, then she said, “Everyone’s individual spellwork is different; everyone’s soul casts a little bit differently. This is only the first problem with this [Renew] spell. Even City Shields collapse if people don’t attempt to harmonize their mana to the same colors.”

Erick smiled, then said, “This is all new information for me, so let us talk about it for a while.”

Ari seemed to relax a little; becoming less stiff under Erick’s enthusiasm, perhaps.

She began, “Well. Spells work off of parts of the soul, which is different for everyone, which...”

They spoke of souls and magic.

A few hours later, and just as Ari was starting to smile and Erick was able to tell a terrible joke that elicited a laugh, Hangzi called upon Erick for an evening meal in a few hours. When that happened, Ari turned cold again. She decided to return to her duties as a Soul Mage of Songli. Though she had never said so, Erick saw that Ari was not happy here in Holorulo.

Erick saw her off, saying, “If you need help with your new life, or whatever may come, just send to me, and I’ll be there.” He looked to her, the seriousness of his words evident in his eyes. “I mean it, Ari. Ask, and I’ll be there. You deserve this much and more. Thank you for saving my life.”

Ari smiled, a sad expression, then she discarded that emotion, and said, “Thank you, Archmage Flatt. Perhaps we can share another pot of tea and discuss magic again, some other time.”

“I would like that.”

As Erick watched Ari blip away in red light, he had a sad moment.

It was the way in which Ari had said ‘Archmage Flatt’, and not ‘Erick’.

Ahh. Dammit.

Erick missed ‘Ezekiel’. That was a simpler time, for sure.
