The ring of Holorulo’s clan mountains stood dominant upon the land; the largest geological feature of anything for a thousand kilometers in any direction. From far away, they looked like squat white pillars decked in gold.

It was all a bit gaudy, if Erick was being honest. Golden pagodas adorned each clan mountain like gold coins stacked high. Smaller golden accents adorned the sides of those white pillars, here and there, giving glimpses into the living spaces beyond. The space between the mountains was a ceremonial land of overlarge buildings in the same color schemes, and it was all way too gaudy.

And also rather desolate.

Millions of people lived in Holorulo, with most of them living inside the clan mountains and some living outside on the rural land below, but Erick had trouble seeing any people who didn’t want to be seen.

Well.

He didn’t have trouble. His mana sense had gotten decently better since his experience with that soul spear. Erick’s range still wasn’t what it had been, but he was up to 45 meters. And with that range, he could see the servant passageways down below this top level, where the golden pagodas of the clan mountain reached high into the sky, atop a land of white.

Erick and his team left their appointed pagoda behind, and stepped out onto a land of quiet excess.

Wind gently blew across chimes that hung from the corners of curled roofs, while small bridges connected each pagoda’s land to each other, and gentle streams of water burbled around the artificial mountain plateau. There was an artificial lake off-center of the clan mountaintop, where fish congregated, and noble children fed them while under the watchful eyes of their guardians; mostly guards, though maybe that one person was a noble, for they had dressed the part.

Erick’s own clothes were a set of his own making, using threads from his daughter. All of the clothes the four of them wore were those that he had made, himself. While everyone else’s clothes were in colors except for red, Erick was back to wearing white. Ophiel sat upon his shoulder, in his normal, winged and eyed form. Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye sat on his other shoulder, simply watching.

But there wasn’t a whole lot to see.

The buildings were gold and ostentatious, and the entire land was an immense work of beauty and a showcase of power. But as for the people? Erick didn’t know much about them. All he truly knew is that almost the entire population stayed hidden at all times. Only the nobles and their people walked out in the open, upon this pristine land.

And it was pristine. A lot of people had spent a lot of time getting this place back into shape.

A year ago, Erick would have faulted the people here for forcing laborers into repairing their grand structures when so many people had recently experienced personal loss, but magic was a thing, and Erick knew better. Repairing this place was probably as arduous as holding active a [Mend Structure Aura] and flying around using a different aura. The only hard thing to replace in a location like this would have been the spellworks here and there, and indeed, many of those were still down. Erick saw wardlights missing everywhere he looked; metal sconces devoid of their usual golden fire. Half of the lights that were still active were out of position, glowing outside of their appropriate sconces. This was likely due to those wardlights either getting pushed out of position by large magics, or by their sconces getting destroyed out from underneath them.

There was no one to fault over anything, here. Everyone wanted to get back to normalcy, and so, people had worked toward that goal; the commoners most of all.

While most of the casualties suffered in the recent war were suffered by nobility, with every single clan losing between half, and in some cases, 95% of their people, the nobility still controlled much of the resource distribution, mainly in the transportation of goods to inner-city markets. Because of that, food was vanishing from markets all around the Highlands. The commoners were picking up the slack and making their own connections to each other and to distant markets, of course, but the system in place had been disrupted, with many moving parts simply missing in action. Everyone was having a difficult time, but when the nobility was happy, then the commoners were happy.

Or at least that’s what Erick overheard through Ophiel, repeated here and there, mostly by the commoners. He also heard a lot of problems regarding the lack of good food.

The nobility still had decent food, though.

‘Decent’. Not ‘great’.

Terror Peaks had targeted Alaralti hard, killing much of the usual food distribution at its source.

While Erick and his people walked toward the appointed meeting, Erick thought, and watched the land around him. Half of his sight was given over to Ophiel, to watch him fly everywhere, and look at everything from a higher perspective.

The Void Wall around Holorulo was almost up again, but that didn’t matter right now, as there were no Singers to sing in Holorulo. Terror Peaks had targeted the Void Temples hard. Even with all of the Singers’ defenses, and denials of magic, they still couldn’t stop high-tier spellwork that well. Eralis and Alaralti still had Singers, but the public wasn’t allowed in Holorulo anyway, so that mattered less than those other two locations.

The natives to this land could trust each other to not harm each other with spellwork, but they did not trust the unruly barbarian tribes to adhere to the same rules. It was always a culture clash when the barbarians came to town, and adventurers from overoceans were the worst of them all!

Eralis needed to get their Void Song up and running, though, but the other two could do without for a little while. There were problems to getting that done, though.

The Alluvial District of Eralis, which included many of the people who would be rebuilding that Void Wall, was still heavily damaged.

Star Song’s clan mountain was mostly intact, but the mountain right next door that belonged to their branch family of Diligent Scribe was half gone. The potion houses of both clans were wiped off the face of Veird. Terror Peaks had targeted Diligent Scribe rather hard, for Diligent Scribe’s participation in the creation of chelation theory. The schoolhouses of Eralis would be hurting for a while, as many of those teachers had been targeted, too, in an effort to prevent the ideals of Songli from spreading to kids.

A lot of tragedies like that had happened while Erick wasn’t watching. He still felt small every time he found out another event had happened outside of his sight.

Luckily, though, the four Alchemists who got Intelligence survived without a scratch, and even managed to rescue Tadashi, but Wabi, Tadashi’s brother, was killed in the battle. Tadashi was alive, but injured. He pulled through. He was missing his lower legs, but he was naturally healing.

Xue apparently had a great showing as a Blood Mage. He tainted red soldiers with fast-acting disease that he then triggered, draining afflicted soldiers of Health. Without the protection of Health, the Blood Mage exploded those soldiers into fine mists, which spread that disease upon other red soldiers.

Erick wondered how Tadashi and Xue were doing. He had spoken to both, but not very much. They were both hurting after losing their loved ones; Tadashi’s brother and Xue’s wife.

Erick sighed.

Then he put on a stronger face, and strode forward, across a wide, white bridge, to stand before his destination. The golden pagoda stretched upward, looking like it was ten stories tall, but there were only five levels inside.

Ten soldiers in white armor with white spears lined both sides of the five-step staircase leading inward, to an archway. Their gazes and chests had been turned toward the exterior world until Erick came close. Then they all looked to him, the sounds of their boots and the butts of their spears stomping upon the staircase as they turned, as a single unit, to face the new person in their presence.

Scion Caina stood at the stop of the staircase, in the open archway, wearing official white armor with gold accents to denote her station as a Scion. Her father had survived the war; Caina was still a Scion. Her brother, Ored, was dead, though. She would have to learn how to be a future matriarch without her brother to lean on.

She seemed lost, but she was able to hide most of that.

Erick stepped to the bottom of the stairs, and looked up.

Caina looked down.

A world of protocol separated them.

Caina seemed to find her lines, as she said, “Greetings, Archmage Erick Flatt.”

Erick said, “Greetings, Scion Caina Small Scare. I thank you for the invitation to this land.”

Caina paused, as though judging her own actions, and then, deeming them acceptable, she stepped backward, into the building, saying, “Please come inside. We have much to discuss.” She said to the soldiers, “Rest.”

The ten soldiers on the steps, who had been standing at attention, relaxed as a unit, turning away to face the exterior once again, the sound of their stomping feet and spear butts striking stone the loudest sound at the moment.

Erick walked up the stairs. His people followed.

Caina led the way across a mostly empty golden room, to a double grand staircase that curled upward, in a double helix. The only furniture in this large first floor were scattered tables that would be suitable for any large social gathering, but which held nothing of note.

Erick followed Caina up to the second floor, which was much the same as the first, except for a few crucial differences. The tables up here held a few scattered maps, while nearly thirty people were hard at work discussing and deciding various needs, and how to implement those decisions across the whole of the Highlands. Several people were actively relaying those decisions to others, outside the room; the proof of that evident in the dozen tendrils of thought swirling around their heads.

Though Erick knew most everyone here, by virtue of his open ears and myriad of senses, and the Intelligence needed to piece it all together, five of the people in this room mattered more to Songli than the rest.

Matriarch Lingxing Void Song, a demi, with white skin and violet eyes, who wore the lush golden robes of a Singer.

Matriarch Tipanri Severing Crescent, a dragonkin, with white scales and red eyes, who wore conservative golden robes. She had small white horns, which was different than most dragonkin in the world, but which was common to half of the dragonkin of the Highlands.

Patriarch Hangzi Devouring Nightmare, a demi of white skin, hair, and horns, who wore golden robes in a warrior’s cut.

Sister Kaffi, who was not the pale skinned, red eyed demi woman she appeared to be. She was likely the most dangerous one here, but that was just a guess. Erick had no real idea of her true capabilities, and though he had seen most of the other people in this room here and there, for some reason or another, he still guessed that Sister Kaffi was still the most dangerous person here.

… Those people in the corners, doing nothing, might be more dangerous. Erick recognized one of them as the gold fire woman, and another as the black ooze man.

And then there was Elder Arilitilo, the purple skinned woman who saved Erick’s life, and who allowed him to get back in the fight against Terror Peaks. She looked ragged, but well dressed, and terribly proper. Apparently, those soul spears had been used on lots of people. Most didn’t survive, but half of those who did survive had been treated by Ari. She’d been outed as a Soul Mage, and now she had to deal with the consequences, which apparently meant a higher station and more work. She was still a part of Star Song, though, as far as Erick knew.

Erick suspected only the heads of the High Clans were going to speak to him, though, for as he ascended the stairs, Lingxing, Tipanri, and Hangzi, were already standing together, beside a single table, waiting for him to fully appear.

The room had been a susurrus of small sounds until Erick ascended, but now, as he stepped forward, all was silent.

The heads of the High Clans faced Erick.

Hangzi stepped forward, and bowed, going for the full 90 degree deference. Lingxing and Tipanri followed his example, the cuffs of their robes dragging on the ground at their action. And then, as one, everyone else in the room took a knee. Some went all the way to the ground, kowtowing. The gold fire woman kowtowed. Caina kowtowed.

Erick had an emotional reaction, but he kept up decorum. He wouldn’t debase these people’s culture by asking them to raise their heads, either. This was a big deal for them. Massive.

A moment passed in silence.

Then Ophiel chirped three times in happy violins, and that broke the spell.

Hangzi, Lingxing, and Tipanri rose first, followed by the rest of the people in the room.

Hangzi stepped forward, and said, “The Songli Highlands thanks Archmage Erick Flatt for his service in this trying time, for the surety of attempting a peaceful resolution, and for the actions taken when peace was no longer an option. You have proven yourself an ally to this land, and we will always welcome you.” He stepped back.

Tipanri stepped forward. “The Songli Highlands will be a long time recovering from the ignoble attacks perpetrated by Terror Peaks, but it is thanks to you that we have cut short their planned trials of terror. It is thanks to you that Alaralti is able to restore much of the provisions of grain and otherwise which Terror Peaks tried to eliminate. The Highlands will always welcome you.” She stepped back.

Lingxing stepped forward. “The Songli Highlands would welcome you as a member of our land, if you didn’t already have obligations elsewhere. But if ever you should change your mind, please consider this land that you have helped to save. You’ve already done so much for us, so we would like to do whatever we can for you. Is there anything you wish for that we could provide?” She did not step back; she waited for an answer.

A moment passed, with Erick unable to speak for the lump in his throat. And then a second moment passed, and the lump lessened.

