Obolis smirked, "But based on statistics, we know where an outlier is far more likely to form."

"Sure, but you'll miss some of those outliers if you look at people as just 'backwater savages,' don't you think?"

Obolis leaned back, "Can you name a counterexample?"

I pointed a thumb back, "My whole team, including me."

Obolis inspected my city for a moment, "Touche."

"Remember, there are others like us out there. If you never allow them to showcase their abilities, you'll never know they have them." I rubbed the back of my helmet, "But, you know, I'm not ruling ten plus planets. Take my words with a grain of salt."

Obolis contemplated before giving me a curt nod, "I've thought of this before now many times. Others have even discussed it, but you offer more than words. You are a living example of your idealism coming to fruition. That's why I'm even entertaining this discussion."

He smiled, "I'll accept your deal of the ahcorus's aid for Tera and his clan. Despite granting you an elemental furnace, we both understood that simply wasn't enough of a reward for facing Plazia. I'd intended on a different payment, but this will do nicely."

Obolis shook his head while furrowing his brow, "So do what you must for them, though don't voice complaints of their worth to me once they're under you. Also, don't expect the skeptiles to be as agreeable or as cultured as my own kin. They are brutish, but you'll uncover that soon enough."

I raised a palm, "I need to know a few things first. How large is Tera's clan?"

Obolis's eyes widened before he burst into a spate of hearty laughter. He chuckled and chortled until tears brimmed his eyes. As he wiped away a tear with a claw, he gave me a begrudging smile, "I must admit, Daniel. No matter what anyone says of you, they must admit you are bold."

I flushed from embarrassment, but my helmet hid the tell. Obolis waved his hands, "Do excuse my enjoyment. It's simply been too long since I've been that reckless myself. I could learn a thing or two from it. That boldness wrought excellent results during your discussion with Elysium as an example."

Obolis straightened himself out, "But yes, the clan that Tera holds is millions strong. You will gain many times your current guild's size from this trade. As I mentioned, I am not unfair to my subjects, and Tera is among them. I would not have him earn me a planet and not grant him a hefty wish in turn."

He opened a portal, stepping back into his study, "That should act as a suitable reimbursement. It's more than the ahcorous may give me, but I haven't forgotten your arrangement with Elysium. By ceasing their attacks on our strongest worlds, it's made our position far firmer. Think of this somewhat lopsided deal as a thank you for that."

He gave me a nod, "It's good we had this talk. I'll have a Speaker draft the contract you mentioned, and we'll sort out the details then. Just as well, do keep that boldness, would you? It's a delight to see in these dark times, even if it should show its consequences soon enough."

Obolis stepped away, his portal snapping shut like a celestial guillotine. Once gone, pondered about the situation. He could be right about the skeptiles being primitive or useless, but I doubted it. In general, the Empire showed severe bias, and that favoritism led to them throwing certain people aside. To me, it was ironic, honestly.

Obolis was a treasure hunter looking for loot on some far-off planet. He chased those stars, hoping for the next big find. All the while, he stood with a fortune right under his feet. He could gain so much from letting people like Tera rise to their proper positions. That might be why his Empire's military might floundered behind their economic prowess.

By cushioning the albony, Obolis made many of them soft and weak. Races beneath the albony hardened over time, but those people never demonstrated their skills. Tera was the epitome of that, his position holding him back. Even with just a few more cases like Tera, a large chunk of the Empire's might was squandered behind arbitrary pecking orders.

It would be like me putting Torix or Kessiah under random humans for no reason. That wouldn't exactly leave those two in the prime position to show me what they were capable of. I banked on those ideas with this transfer of resources. I mean, if Tera took over a planet while under someone like Phillip, imagine what he was capable of on his own. He could topple empires.

Or perhaps help me build one.

But I couldn't know until later on. Even then, Obolis had a lot of experience managing an Empire. My input could be coming from my lack of experience, but I still wanted to voice my thoughts either way. After all, the fastest way to end ignorence was to voice it. Someone could correct me then, and I just had to have the humility to listen. Yeah, the latter was definitely the hard part.

Either way, I inspected my surroundings to get an idea of what was going on. By now, most people slept soundly in their beds or floating over them using my rings. Without the worry of constant invasions, many people got their first night of quality sleep since coming to Blegara.

Others toiled through the night, some of them having chosen the willpower perk so they'd never need to sleep again. I followed suit, preparing for the journey tomorrow. Along the way, I found the mana crystals of our new hospital flaring fully. I stepped inside, finding Kessiah helping out a few members of the legion.

She stayed lively, her complexion no longer as pale. Kessiah already wore the suit I made for her now, and she tapped a quintessence crystal anytime she exhausted herself, taking bursts of its mana for her use. Walking from patient to patient, she restored the missing limbs of those that lost them in the war.

Unlike me, most people lacked the sheer endurance to restore missing limbs. This was accentuated by contact with the Hybrids. Often, people chopped arms or legs off that contained an infestation of the orange pustules and writhing cords. From those nubs, some restoration might occur, but rarely did full limbs come back.

That's where Kessiah came in. She congealed bones from her blood before moving to skin and tissues. Once formed, she connected vital nerves to restore function and the like. I smiled at the somewhat grotesque process, but I also raised an eyebrow. She toiled with a fire in her eye.

Staying busy, Kessiah only looked up from her work once to hiss,

"I'm not going to take what Spear said lying down. We'll show him what we're made of. I say we start with demonstrating how we treat our own."

That was the right attitude to have about the whole situation. I let Kessiah go about her business before inspecting the center of our unnamed city. At the core of it, Schema installed a warping station and a galactic trader. Even if the AI forgot our quests, he didn't forget this part at least.

Maybe he had a good reason for neglecting us, as Spear said. In the end, my guild and I suffered for it, so Schema's explanations didn't really matter to me. He was cutting us off for some reason, and I aimed to discover why. Warping towards Mt. Verner, I stepped out into the open, forested air.

I floated over toward our base's peak. The crisp cold and thin air swept against me while I sat on an icy stone. Snow surrounded this elevation, one of the few hills in Michigan where that was the case. From this vantage point, I stared at the rolling hills beyond our mountain's reliable peak. Out in the distance, birds flew, and the dew of dawn settled on oak leaves and pine bristles. Between these wooden spires, I found eldritch skulking. Small and underdeveloped, they squeezed between our extermination forces. I sighed, knowing even here, we hadn't kept the eldritch fully contained. Sending a few golems over here, I smiled at the impact even one of them would have. The countryside would flourish, and we'd expand to the far-off horizons.

I'd finally be pulling this place, my home, up from Schema's culling. Only one task stopped me now, but it wouldn't stop me for long. I stared into that vast distance while cracking my thumb knuckles. As they popped, silver fluid dulled the otherwise sharp, metal cracking of my joints. Those cracks boomed loud into the air around me, causing birds to fly away in the distance.

All the while, I read interesting tidbits on my ciphering. I synchronized another mind, pulling out another elemental furnace from the treasure we gained. The ancient lettering stood out as newer than my current furnace, the gray, matte surface showing a graphene exterior. One of my disparate minds tapped into this furnace in my hand, and from that eternal fire came unbounded energies.

It revved into action, turning bits of generated matter into plumes of mana. That psyche took a small portion of the generated energy, strengthening itself further. Focusing deeper than before, this anima extracted more mana from the furnace by concentrating deeply. Once it unlocked the full potential of the device, the furnace reverberated with power.

I stored that power in my cipheric runes. These two furnaces added billions of mana every minute, but from my storage, I pulled out several more furnaces. Lifting them up around me, manifolded minds synced with one of them at a time—each blistered energy of untold volumes into my cipheric carvings.

The sun rose in the distance, and I stood with it. As I did, my aura trembled from seven furnaces firing at total capacity. A distant, sauntering cloud blocked my view of the gorgeous dawn. It lingered so far away that the massive plume appeared small in my eyes. Despite that distance, I raised a hand.

The cloud warped, wisping to a singular point of water. That liquid plopped to the earth, my view of the sun cleared. I gawked at the display, the range of my abilities far exceeding what I believed of them. Dwelling on what I was capable of, I allowed my mana to effuse ever so slightly. The air around me blurred from it, the dimension around me warping.

I hoped Plazia was ready for me.

Because I was ready for him.
