Brovose glanced at Anton, then sighed and stepped through the door. Using Barrier Shaping, he sculpted Arcane Bulwark into a dome, then placed the modified spell over the cowering innkeeper, blocking him from Hegar’s wrath. He also layered a few more augments into the barrier, imbuing it with the strength it would need if Hegar was really serious about harming the man.

Hegar lowered his fist, then glared in Brovose’s direction. “What the hells are you doing, Sleeper?”

“Saving you from yourself,” Brovose said, yawning.

“I wasn’t going to hurt him,” Hegar snapped. He kicked at the barrier like a petulant child. As his foot made contact, there was a flash and a crack of thunder. Hegar’s boot was blown away by the backlash, almost sending him to the ground. “Gah!” he shouted, hopping on one foot, the other one smoking slightly.

Anton laughed, slapping Brovose on the back. “Lightning? Nice touch.”

Brovose smiled. “And fire.” He snapped his fingers, and the barrier seemed to vanish. In reality, he’d only made it invisible. Using Barrier Shaping again, he shrunk it down, then used Affix Conjuration to tie it to the innkeeper so it would move with him. There was no sense letting the mana he’d already spent go to waste. Besides, it would be funny once the man realized he couldn’t touch anything without the barrier pushing it away.

Brovose rubbed at his chin. Hmm. I should probably reclaim the elemental aspects before he burns down the building…

As Brovose worked to further modify the construct, Hegar stomped over to him and Anton, then past them and back into the street. “Come on. We’re going to their camp. They took her.”

“Really?” Anton said, following.

Brovose raised an eyebrow. Finishing with the barrier, he nodded to the innkeeper. “That should last about thirty minutes. Have fun.” He turned and followed after Hegar.

Just before he reached the door, a flicker of motion caught the corner of his eye, and he glanced at the stairs at the back of the room. There was a distortion in the ambient mana there, so he switched to the active version of Mana Sight, revealing the crouched figure of a person watching them.

Whatever spell the person was using to veil themself appeared to be purely visual, unlike any concealment spell Brovose knew of. The technique was obviously flawed, however. It didn’t block Mana Sight at all, allowing him to see the mage’s mana flowing, plain as day. They were no threat, judging from the volume of power he was seeing.

Hmm.

Smiling, Brovose waved to the strange, invisible figure, then ducked out of the inn. Hegar beckoned, then stomped off in the direction of the gate.

Brovose chuckled to himself. No, I don’t think I’ll tell him yet. Let’s see where this leads.

Hegar set a quick pace, and before long, they reached the impressive earthen walls of Ascension’s camp. There were no sentries atop them, and while Mana Sight couldn’t penetrate solid structures, there were no disturbances in the ambient mana that would have indicated recent spellcasting. It’s deserted? Interesting.

“Right, we’re going in,” Hegar said. “Let me lead. Remember, we don’t know what their leader can do, so let me do the talking. Try to look tough.”

“There’s nobody here, Hegar,” Anton said. He pointed. “No sentries.”

“Bah,” Hegar said. “They don’t need sentries with walls like that. Come on.”

Passing into the tunnel through the walls, they found only a single burning evertorch and a shut wooden door at the end. Hegar knocked, but didn’t wait, pushing it open and striding confidently into the camp.

“Fuck!” he swore almost immediately.

Brovose snorted, following him through, then looking around. Other than a large stack of firewood and some evertorches burning here and there, the camp was just as abandoned as he’d suspected.

“Told you,” Anton said.

“Shut up, I need to think,” Hegar said, sitting on the ground and rubbing at his temples. “I underestimated them, no, him. I knew he was pretending the moment I saw him, but I never thought he’d be this cunning…”

“Uh-huh,” Anton said skeptically. “Sure you did. Can we please just go kill things already? Your stamina must be fine by now.”

“In a minute!” Hegar snapped. He pinched the dirt in front of him, then rubbed it between his fingers, holding them up to his eyes. “They’re two steps ahead of us. They somehow found out about my spy and then captured her and moved their camp before I even realized. Just who is he?”

Brovose yawned, then dragged his hand over his mouth. That is the question, isn’t it? I do wonder. From the expensive armor and the level of mana I saw on him, he’s clearly a hybrid warrior-mage of some type. That Musk Wolf would have put his cap at eighteen, and if he chose Dynamo, that would explain the rapid growth and how he learned the language so quickly… Perhaps he’s a foreign noble? He’d need to be rich to afford armor like that. If so, what was he doing alone and unawakened in the forest?

“Ahh!” a sudden cry from the tunnel made Brovose look up. Anton had drawn his bow and was pointing it at a sword-wielding man with a torch who had just come through the tunnel.

“Who are you?” Hegar shouted, jumping to his feet. “Are you one of them?”

Brovose raised an eyebrow, checking the man with Mana Sight. He wasn’t wearing one of the white cloaks that would have marked him as a member of Ascension, nor was he a mage. That didn’t mean he wasn’t awakened, though, nor that he wasn’t dangerous. A powerful warrior could read as completely manaless, right up until they stabbed you through the heart.

“Please, don’t shoot me,” the man said, dropping his sword. “I’m with the militia.”

“What are you doing here, then?” Hegar asked angrily. “Hey! The rest of you! Come out here! Hands where I can see them.”

One by one, several more men and women filed into the camp, a few more bearing weapons, but most unarmed. Brovose relaxed slightly but didn’t stop focusing on his magic. It might be needed, yet—not to protect himself from the newcomers, but to protect the newcomers from Hegar and Anton.

“Please, C..Crimson Gar, Skinner, don’t hurt us,” said the first man, still staring at the tip of Anton’s drawn arrow. “We’re just here for the wood.”

“What?” Hegar snapped, glancing at the pile behind him. He turned back to the man. “Explain.”

“The mayor sent us to get it,” the man said, gesturing to the people standing behind him. “They’re just laborers, I swear.”

“Then why do you have a sword?” Hegar asked, drawing his own rapier and pointing it at the man.

Brovose rolled his eyes, deciding that this had gone on long enough. “There are monsters everywhere, Gar, of course he’s got a sword. Stop scaring the man before he wets himself.”

Anton snorted, then lowered his bow. “You’re no fun, Sleepy.”

Brovose ignored the misuse of his nickname. He hadn’t wanted to have one in the first place. He walked past Hegar, lightly pushing the tip of his sword out of the way. He placed himself between him and the laborers, then addressed their leader. “You said the Mayor sent you to collect this wood?”

The man nodded vigorously.

“Do you know where Ascension went?” Brovose asked.

“They went north, honored Sleeper,” the man said. “They should be at their new camp by now.”

“Where?” Anton asked coldly.

The man flinched. “By the crack, I heard.”

“WHAT?!” Hegar roared. “Those bastards are jumping our claim!”

“Looks like you were right, Gar,” Anton said, smiling, though the expression didn’t touch his eyes. “They are two steps ahead of us.”

Hegar slammed his rapier back into its scabbard with more force than was strictly necessary. “FUCK!”

Brovose tilted his head, frowning as he considered the invisible mage in the inn in a different light. Hmm. Could Hegar’s paranoia actually be warranted?
