Stint sat alone at one of the stone tables in the room that Ascension had decided to call the ‘tavern’. The name was fitting, for all that it lacked a ceiling and had a dirt floor, dirt walls, and tables and chairs made from rough-cloven boulders. The steady glow of the light bulbs behind their stretched-linen shades made the place seem somehow cozy, despite the chill in the air. The sun was just peeking over the horizon, filling the sky with rose-hued light.

The new camp was, without any understatement, amazing. Seeing Ameliah raising walls and breaking rocks with a gesture had been an eye-opening experience for Stint. He’d been asleep—unconscious, really—when she’d constructed Ascension’s camp near Vestvall, but this time, he’d been able to watch.

Ameliah was strong. Unbelievably, inconceivably strong. Stint knew that there were people out there that far outstripped her—his former employer for one—but seeing someone casually levitate a rock large enough to smash him into paste left a certain impression.

I have a long way to go.

Stint ripped off a piece of monster-jerky with his teeth and began chewing laboriously. It was just before sixth bell. He’d finished his watch and saw little point in going to bed. He’d only end up being woken again—first by their stupid wake-up call, and then by his system alarm two hours later.

Almost as if summoned by his thoughts, an aggressively-peppy tune began belting out from beyond the curtain dividing the tavern from the rest of the camp. It was being played on a flute today. Stint groaned and set down his jerky, covering his ears.

Oh, gods. Why?!

A sudden movement from near the line of hearths along the wall made him jump. The woman from Vestvall was struggling to free herself from a pile of furs beside the one fireplace that was lit. She dazedly sat up, looked around the room, and then suddenly shot to her feet, pressing herself against the earthen wall. After a moment, she seemed to relax, laying a hand over her heart.

Stint smiled and took another bite of his jerky. I’m right there with you, lady. Gods know, I’ve woken up in plenty of strange places.

As the flute finished its jaunty melody, the Vestvallan woman seemed to notice him. After a moment, she moved hesitantly toward the table, then spoke. “Um, excuse me, sir, what’s going on? What was that music?”

“They call it ‘reveille’.” Stint said, swallowing. “It means it’s sixth bell.”

The woman blinked. “Okay…”

Stint rubbed at his temples. “I don’t have the faintest idea why anyone would choose to live like this, but they always get up two hours before true dawn.” He let his forehead thunk to the table, then spoke with his face smooshed against the stone. “Every. Single. Day.”

“You’re not with them?” the woman asked.

“What?” Stint raised his head to look at her.

“You said ‘they.’”

“Oh.” He glanced at the white cloak covering his shoulders. “No, I’m a member. I’m just new.” He coughed. “My name’s Stint, by the way.”

The woman’s mouth made an ‘o’ of surprise. “Stint? The archer who was living in Ebert’s old barn?”

“That’s me,” Stint said, feeling Rain’s Winter aura wash over him. He shivered involuntarily, but the woman didn’t seem to be affected. A moment later, the curtain leading to the company hall was jerked aside. Carten led the way into the tavern, laughing and hauling Rain after him in a headlock.

Neither man was encased in armor for once, and Stint wasn’t sure who was dressed more inappropriately for the weather. Rain had on a thin linen shirt and trousers, while Carten was wearing a sleeveless monster-fur vest, open at the front, with shaggy pants to match.

After a bit more struggling, Rain broke free of Carten’s hold, then glared at him as he tried to straighten his hair. Winter subsided for a moment, then a blindingly bright pulse of Purify filled the tavern, making both Stint and the woman flinch.

Stint quickly recovered, licking his now-clean teeth and looking back to see Carten laughing. The big man raised his arm and made a show of sniffing at his armpit, but his mummery was swiftly interrupted.

Tallheart had followed him into the room, and he hoisted Carten from the ground like a dockworker lifting an empty barrel. He casually carried the struggling turtle aside, clearing the way for Ameliah to follow him.

Like the captain, Ameliah was only wearing a simple shirt and trousers. She walked over to stand beside Rain, and he leaned close to whisper in her ear. Carten, who had recovered from his involuntary displacement, began laughing again, pumping his fist into the air. Rain glared at him, then he and Ameliah walked away toward the lit hearth. As they moved, Rain slipped an arm around Ameliah’s waist, and after a moment, she returned the gesture.

Stint snorted. Love ducks. He gnawed off another chunk of jerky. Lucky bastard.

“They’re…together?” the Vestvallan woman asked, taking a seat next to Stint at the table.

“Seems so,” Stint said as more company members began entering the tavern in varying states of consciousness. He gestured to the woman. “What’s your story, anyway?”

“Oh, sorry, I didn’t introduce myself. I’m Lana. Rain and Ameliah invited me to stay with the company for a while.”

“Why?” Stint asked, inspecting her discreetly while she was distracted. She didn’t look like a fighter, just an ordinary young townswoman. She was wearing a tunic that was too large for her and a baggy skirt to match.

She turned to look at him, and he quickly looked away. “They’re protecting me,” she said.

Before Stint could ask why she needed protection, Carten crashed down next to him. “Mornin’ Stint,” he said as Stint flinched. “Who’s yer friend?”

Lana glanced at Stint as the silence stretched. With an effort of will, Stint forced himself to relax, but not before Lana introduced herself.

“I’m…Lana,” she said haltingly.

“Carten,” the big man replied, pointing at his hairy chest with his thumb. “Don’t even think about it. I’m taken.”

“What?” Lana asked.

“He means I’ve claimed him,” said a white-cloaked woman whose name Stint didn’t know. She sat beside Carten, then leaned against his shoulder, patting his bare arm. “I don’t mind sharing, though, if you’re in the mood for some fun.”

Lana blushed furiously and looked away as Carten laughed, freeing his arm and wrapping it around the unfamiliar woman.

“That’s enough of that, Evonna,” Rain said, approaching the table carrying a steaming mug. Ameliah was walking beside him, carrying two more.

“Yes, leave her be,” Ameliah said. “No teasing. Not her and not us.” She set one of the mugs down in front of the Vestvallan woman. “Here you go, Lana. It’s just tea.” She turned to stare at Carten and Evonna as she continued, her voice hardening. “If they’re bothering you, just tell them to stop. They will.”

Stint didn’t see the pair’s reaction to the implied ‘or else’, as he was more interested in what Lana was doing. She had tensed at Rain’s approach, just as he had at Carten’s, freezing like a mouse cornered by a cat.

After a visible struggle, the Vestvallan woman reached out to take the cup, her hand trembling. She paused, then took a deep breath. The shaking stopped. She took the mug, raised it to her lips, and hesitated a moment before taking a sip. She nodded to Ameliah in thanks before shifting her gaze to Rain, taking another deep breath. “Sorry.”

Rain smiled at her. “It’s not your fault.”

Stint looked between them, then his eyes widened as he realized what was happening. This must be the soul-wind thing people were talking about yesterday.

“There’ll be food ready in a little while,” Rain continued, still speaking to Lana. “Ameliah and I are going to go scout around. Just tell Jamus what you want to eat. It’s his turn on breakf—oh, Jamus isn’t here, that’s right. Hmm. Stint, can you cook?”

Stint blinked, surprised by the sudden question. “Kinda?”

“Great. We’ve got a rotation going. Can you cover for Jamus this morning?”

“I guess…” Stint said, glancing over at the hearths. A teenager with unnatural cherry-red spiked hair was walking down the line carrying an armful of logs. He tossed the last of them into the fireplace on the end, then began walking back the other way, blasting each hearth with a Firebolt to get the wood burning.

Stint looked back at Rain, then jerked his chin toward the kid. “Is he cooking too?”

Rain looked in the indicated direction. “Kettel?” He turned back to Stint and nodded. “Yeah, it was supposed to be him, Jamus, and Mereck today. That’s Mereck over there, by the job board. With the black hair.”

Stint glanced in the direction Rain was pointing, then back at the fiery-haired teenager. Dozens of questions were bouncing around his mind, but the one that came out was likely the least important of the bunch. “What’s going on with that kid’s hair? Is it a Fire Mage thing?”

“Hmm?” Rain asked, in the middle of sipping his tea. He looked over at Kettel, then laughed. “No, he’s just going through a phase.”

…what?

Rain nodded. “Right, then. No sense letting all the tasty monsters rot. We’ll be back in two shakes of a lamb’s tail.”

Two shakes of a—?

“Don’t ask,” Carten said with a chuckle. “It ain’t worth it.”

Stint looked at Lana, who was clearly as confused as he was. He looked back at the departing form of Rain just in time to see Ameliah shove him playfully, making him stumble and almost drop his tea.

“Lucky bastard,” Carten said out loud, echoing Stint’s thoughts from before.

Evonna cuffed Carten in the back of the head so hard that his face almost slammed into the stone table.

“Ow!” Carten yelped. “What’d I do?”

Rain hugged himself, rubbing at his elbows as he stood atop the wall, looking out at the surrounding hills. Nothing moved. The sentries had been doing their jobs, and it was light enough now to prevent most spawns, at least out in the open, but there could still be things lurking out there beyond the hills. He glanced back at the camp. I should go get my armor…

Ameliah stepped up next to him, then looked down over the edge. “Come on, stop worrying so much.” She jumped down, landing lightly, and with one last moment of hesitation, Rain uncrossed his arms and followed her. He didn’t bother to use Force Ward to absorb the landing, relying instead on his boosted stats to counter the three-meter drop. He had the Malleable Ring on a chain around his neck, Frodo-style, having finally worked out the concentration trick required to wear it as an amulet.

The smell of blood and death rose to greet him, so he activated Purify in response. He kept the radius tight, only clearing the air around him and Ameliah for the moment.

The area beyond the walls was a frozen horror show of gore. Rain had taken the first watch, and repeated exposure to Immolate had melted the snow and frozen earth, turning it all to mud. Over the course of the night, the mud had been churned together with monster blood and entrails, creating a disgusting slush that had gradually frozen solid. Corpses were strewn about everywhere, piled deepest near the wall and extending out to a considerable distance, many of them riddled with arrows.

It had been a rugged defense by recent standards, thanks to the proximity to the crack, but it was nothing compared to the first few nights they’d spent outside Fel Sadanis.

And to think I’ve gotten used to this.

“Okay,” Rain said, closing his eyes and focusing inward. IFF couldn’t help with what he needed to do next; it was a pure effort of will.

Fungiform Stumpers, Murder Shrews, Ice Coursers, Whooping Snails, Vine Shufflers, Sakeren, Dire Sakeren, and Emouiles are all FOOD. Everything else…

[⟬filth⟭!]

The sudden intrusive thought stopped Rain moments before he activated his modifiers, his focus slipping.

Damn it, Dozer! Rain sighed, rubbing at his neck. [So you finally decided to wake up, huh?]

[Rain-King! ⟬filth⟭!] Dozer sent back happily.

Rain could feel the slime heading in his direction, dropping down from the partly-disassembled forgewagon. Rain had stashed Dozer’s crate near the smelter in the room that was to be the company’s workshop, knowing that the slime liked the warmth. Even with such prime bed placement, it had taken quite a bit of convincing to get Dozer to sleep there last night, rather than between him and Ameliah as it typically preferred.

“Problem?” Ameliah asked, raising an eyebrow at the delay. “Did you want to check for new types first or something?”

Rain shook his head, walling off the slime’s excitement about filth, as well as some unrelated filthy thoughts of his own. He smiled. “No, it was just Dozer distracting me. We’ve got better things to do than to sort through all this.”

He focused again on his list of monsters, and his senses faded as he boosted Purify with Aura Focus, though he compressed the range down to only ten meters. He’d found that Purify tended to respect his wishes better the closer he was to whatever he was targeting. When he opened his eyes, the killing field around him was a much cleaner place. A few corpses of the chosen monster types remained, along with dozens of arrows and the odd Tel or Cryst.

“I still don’t understand how you can do that,” Ameliah said. “I think your brain is weird.”

Rain snorted. “I know my brain is weird.” He pointed. “Watch out.”

Ameliah turned just as Dozer flung himself at her from the wall. The slime landed well short with a wet thud, then quickly reformed and began oozing toward her. Rain relaxed his hold on the connection between him and the creature, allowing its thoughts to come through once more.

[Ameliah-Queen! Awake!]

“Dozer says good morning,” Rain said as the slime extended a vaguely fist-shaped protuberance for Ameliah to bump.

[You’re getting better with the fingers, Dozer,] Rain sent, receiving happy confusion mixed with pleasure at being praised. Finer meaning often eluded the simple creature, but it still was amazing just how much it could understand. [Do you think I should tell her your name for her yet?]

[Yes!] Dozer sent, though Rain could tell it hadn’t really followed the question.

Rain smiled and shook his head. [Later.] Sensing that Dozer was hungry, he activated Essence Well to send the slime a quick burst of mana. That would hopefully stop it from being annoying while he and Ameliah worked. It was already creeping toward one of the reserved monster corpses. [That’s not for you, Dozer! Leave it! Go collect arrows.]

