[Arrows! ⟬order-need⟭!] Dozer swerved, then began slurping up arrow after arrow, shifting them within himself so they formed two bundles: broken and unbroken. In both cases, all of the shafts ended up pointing in the same direction within Dozer’s gelatinous insides. [⟬order⟭! Happy!]

Rain smiled. Oh, to be so blissfully uncomplicated. He wasn’t sure he would have been able to keep himself together this well for this long if not for having his very own therapy slime.

Leaving Dozer to his mission, Rain and Ameliah continued on theirs. Rain repeated his Purify trick as needed, while Ameliah used Attract to collect the scattered Tel and Crysts the spell left behind. Using it on arrows wasn’t actually as bad of an idea as one would expect, but Dozer had things under control there. As for the gourmet monsters they were leaving behind, they’d deal with them soon enough; they still had plenty of time before anyone from Vestvall would show up to collect them.

Before long, Rain and Ameliah reached the crack and the barrier of gravel she’d raised surrounding it. She hadn’t been able to do more than that, already strained from building the camp, but it had been enough. Rain could easily see all the places where the gravel had been disturbed during the night.

The idea was that the loose stones would send a climbing monster tumbling back to the depths, or at least stall it long enough for the defenders to hit it with an arrow or two. Invariably—on Rain’s watch anyway—any monsters so-struck had beelined for the waiting defenders, just as they’d hoped. He would have to check with the other watch-leaders to determine if that had remained true or if they’d had to stage any sorties to prevent anything from escaping toward Vestvall.

Careful of the treacherous footing, Rain began climbing toward the edge. He had to windmill his arms as the gravel abruptly shifted beneath him, but he quickly caught himself, finding solid ground beneath his feet. Not just any ground, in fact. Stairs.

He looked to see Ameliah smiling at him, then she yawned enormously.

Rain smiled back. “Tired?”

“Sorry,” she said, waving her hand in front of her mouth as she moved to join him on the stairs. She smirked. “I didn’t get as much sleep as I should have.”

Grinning back, Rain moved in for a quick kiss, but a sudden alert from Dozer made him whip his head to the side.

[Enemy!]

Rain spotted Dozer near a neat pile of arrows, but his eyes quickly fixed on something else. There was a monster headed for his slimy companion at a dead sprint.

Dire Rat - Level 3

“Shit!” Rain swore. A Dire Rat was a credible threat to an unawakened human, even if that human was armed. Dozer would have no chance, but as Rain watched, the slime began oozing to meet the Labrador-sized rodent head-on, heedless of the danger.

Before Rain had even taken two steps, an arrow slammed into the Dire Rat, and a chime informed him that it had been killed instantly. He stumbled to a stop, looking at the camp wall. Hanes lowered his bow, then waved to Rain and Ameliah in greeting as Dozer pounced on the corpse of the Dire Rat.

[⟬kill-need⟭! Protect Rain-King!]

Rain pressed his hand to his chest in relief as Dozer wrestled with the dead rat. Suddenly, Dozer’s thoughts shifted from anger to pride as it realized the monster wasn’t fighting back and wrongly concluded that it had something to do with it.

“Well,” Ameliah said, lowering her hand. The jagged spear of gravel she’d formed fell to the ground with a crunch of impact as it broke apart. She laughed, turning to look at him. “At least I’m awake now. Odd. I thought monsters usually ignored Crystal Slimes.”

“So did I,” Rain said, waving back at Hanes in thanks. He returned his attention to Dozer, watching as the slime began trying to swallow the rat whole, despite it being roughly the same size as itself. He shook his head. “Other slimes will attack them, but Dire Rats definitely leave them alone. Unless… Did Dozer aggro it somehow?”

[Dozer, did you decide to attack it first, or did it decide to attack you first?]

The only response Rain got was happy confusion. Dozer had finished engulfing the monster and was wobbling as it tried to stabilize itself. Slowly, it began to roll. With its rat-filled center, the slime’s membrane was too taut for it to control itself properly. It looked like one of those plastic hamster balls, only significantly more morbid, and it would only become worse as the rat began to dissolve.

Rain shook his head, then began to laugh. “Damn it, Dozer.”

Jamus drilled his knuckles into his temples, scrunching up his eyes. He was beyond tired, to the point that his throbbing headache was probably the only thing keeping him on his feet. His three companions looked little better, seated around a dirty table in an even dirtier inn called the Hole and Oats.

“Spawn! To arms! To arms!”

Jamus’s head shot up at the cry, and he shook himself free of his weariness and lurched to his feet, knocking over his chair in his haste. “Come along, the break is over,” he said, hoisting Tahir to his feet by the elbow and waking the healer in the process.

Tahir groaned but quickly grabbed his bow from where he’d stashed it and headed for the door. Lago was already there, having been the fastest despite the heavy steel breastplate he was wearing. As a future Defender, the dark-haired man’s stats leaned toward Endurance, giving him an advantage when it came to staying up all night, though he’d yet to take the class.

Not to mention that he hasn’t been using mana for almost twenty-four hours straight, Jamus thought as he righted his chair. He glanced at Val, who was heading for the door. The Osaran man looked like he was wilting in the pale light of the Lunar Orb hovering above his head. He’d unbound the cord that he typically used to bind his hair, and it hung limply about his face, hiding the scars on his cheek.

Jamus shook his head, then grit his teeth against the continuing pain in his skull and followed Val out into the torch-lit street.

“I think it came from over there,” Lago said, gesturing with his shield.

“For Vestvall!” A cry came from the indicated direction, then a chittering screech that Jamus recognized as coming from either a Dire Rat or one of its elementally-aligned variants.

“Go!” Jamus snapped, then dashed after Lago, who was already moving. By the time they reached the source of the cry, the excitement was all over. A circle of Vestvallan militia surrounded the dead monster in the middle of the street, indeed a Dire Rat. An older man in a nightgown was slumped against the side of a house, breathing heavily but seemingly unharmed.

“Anyone hurt?” Lago asked, startling one of the militia members badly enough that the man spun and swiped at him with a cudgel, coming nowhere close to hitting him. Lago ignored the hostile reaction, spreading his arms wide to show that he hadn’t drawn his sword and wasn’t a threat. The light from the militia’s torches danced across his breastplate, revealing the painted creature that was his namesake.

“No,” answered a different man, the patrol leader by Jamus’s guess. His equipment was of higher quality, marking him as a noble, perhaps even an awakened one. It wasn’t anyone he recognized, but the man was young, so he would have been a child when Jamus had left the city.

“Well, now, hang on, there,” said another of the men, pushing forward. “I’ve had this ache in my knee since three winters ago and—”

“Sorry,” Tahir interrupted, sounding suddenly irritated. “I can’t help with that.”

Jamus laid a hand on Tahir’s shoulder, then stepped forward to intercept the man’s response. “Pardon me, but our mana is limited. Additionally, that sounds like an old injury, which would be beyond all but the greatest healers. I am afraid we can do nothing for you.”

“Oh,” said the man dejectedly. “Damn.”

“You’re Jamus, right?” cut in the patrol leader, a note of hostility entering his voice. “Didn’t you work for the Bank?”

“Yes,” Jamus said, raising his hands, “but not anymore. I quit. I’m with Ascension, now, as well as the Guild.”

“Good,” the patrol leader said, then spat. “Bankers. Fuck ‘em.”

Jamus smiled. The sentiment against the Bank was something he could easily understand, given how they’d cut and run, combined with their general reputation. He’d worked for them, true, but even after his long years of service, they’d never given him a membership plate. He’d only been a lowly unawakened clerk. He felt scarce loyalty to his previous employer, especially now that he’d seen how vast the world really was.

“Come on, let’s go check on the barricades again,” Lago said. “We’re already out here. Might as well.”

Jamus nodded. He glanced at the recovering man in the nightgown, then to the patrol leader. “We’ll leave you to it, then?”

The nobleman nodded back. “We’ll be fine.”

“If you need anything, just scream,” Val said over his shoulder, already walking away.

“Not that way, Val,” Jamus said, pointing. “Take that alley. It’s faster.”

“Pays to know a local,” Val said, swerving in the indicated direction but hesitating as he reached the mouth of the alley. “Ew.”

Jamus looked, then sighed. Someone—possibly multiple someones—seemed to have been using it to dump their chamber pots.

“Ah, yes. Shit,” Lago said, marching past Val and into the alley. “I’d almost forgotten what it smelled like. Come on, it won’t hurt you.”

Jamus shook his head, then followed. His thoughts weren’t on the alley, nor its contents, but on where it led.

If I have us go west along Miller Street, it will bring us right by Bens’s house. It won’t hurt to check on him one more time…

A sudden clang from the direction of the bell tower startled Jamus out of his thoughts.

Eighth bell already?

His book didn’t appear. He’d learned to disable the automatic notification a few weeks ago—an achievement he was still proud of, as few members of Ascension had managed it. His present companions certainly hadn’t. They were all staring into the middle distance at the moment, looking at interfaces that he couldn’t see.

Though Jamus’s head was throbbing in time with the ringing of the bell, all he felt was relief. Monsters would now be skulking back to their holes as their daytime instincts took over. There were still plenty of shadows to be found in the beleaguered city, of course—the threat of an unexpected spawn never really went away—but the danger was markedly less than it had been mere moments ago.

“Day at last,” Val said, waving a hand, perhaps to dismiss his interface, or perhaps in a futile attempt to waft away the stench.

“Let’s head back to the camp and get some sleep,” Tahir said. “I’m just about done with this place.”

“I vote we rest here,” Lago said. “Not the alley, obviously. We could go back to that inn. I could probably manage the hour’s walk to the camp, but not if I have to carry you three.”

Jamus nodded. “We’ll go to the inn. We’ll rest for a few hours, then catch up with Mlem when he comes to trade.”

“This was not worth it,” Val said, tiredly. “I don’t care how many extra shares we’re getting.”

Jamus shook his head, too tired to argue. Earning a few extra shares of the night’s spoils was all well and good, but that wasn’t why he’d agreed to this job. Helping the city was part of it, but that wasn’t the real reason.

I need to talk to Bens before I go back to camp. Maybe he can invite Alden and Dami to a meal to get them away from their mother, and then I could…

He sighed, shaking his head again. What? Convince them all to join Ascension?

“Jamus, you coming?” Lago asked.

Frowning, Jamus nodded, then moved to follow the others, leaving the stinking alley behind.

They’re safe. There’s no need to rush things. That bastard Urs can afford his own guards, and despite how we’ve been dashing about all night, the militia has things mostly under control. I’ll get some sleep first, and then… Then I’ll see.

“Wake up! Wake up! Wake up! Wake up! Wake up! Wake—”

Brovose caught Hegar’s arm, stopping his hand just short of striking his face. He worked his jaw, wincing at the sting coming from both cheeks. “Ow.”

“Finally,” Hegar said, pulling free from Brovose’s grip and climbing off his chest. “Get up, you lazy ass. Gods help me, if you go back to sleep again, I’ll do things to you that will make you wish…”

Brovose stopped listening. There was little point in paying attention to Hegar most of the time. There was also little point in trying to explain the benefits of Torpor, even if he’d had a mind to reveal the workings of the hidden passive. Hegar wouldn’t care.

With a mighty yawn, Brovose pushed himself up into a sitting position. Working at his own pace, he climbed out of bed, then donned his robe and checked the pockets for any surprises or missing equipment. Finding everything as it should be, he grabbed a cold sausage from one of the trays scattered about the room, then began gnawing on it as he followed Hegar and Anton down from the room and out onto the street.

The entire time, Hegar had been nattering on and on. The gist was that Lana hadn’t returned from her mission yesterday and that Hegar wanted to track her down.

Brovose frowned as he considered this. He hoped that nothing terrible had happened to her. A sulky Hegar was even worse than a regular one. Besides, she’d seemed nice.

I wonder if she decided to run away, he thought, fighting back another yawn. He glanced at Hegar, then quickly hid a smile. I can see why she would. Hegar needs to learn to stop trying to steer the river. It’s much better to just let it carry you along.

“Wait here,” Hegar snapped suddenly, startling Brovose with a hand against his chest. They’d reached what looked like an inn, one of only three that he knew of in the city. The weathered sign depicted a man pouring grain from a sack into the gaping mouth of the fattest horse Brovose had ever seen. The words ‘Hole and Oats’ were burned into the wood beneath the faded picture.

Brovose snorted as Hegar disappeared inside. Ridiculous. I love it.

“What?” Anton asked, looking at him.

Brovose gestured. “The sign.”

“What about it?” Anton asked.

“The horse,” Brovose said. “Look how fat it is.”

“Oh,” Anton said, then paused, looking at the sign. “That’s supposed to be a horse? I thought it looked more like Hegar’s mother.”

Brovose grinned. “Nice.”

“THEY DID WHAT!?” Hegar’s voice boomed from within the inn. “WHY DIDN’T YOU SEND SOMEONE?!” There was a crash that sounded like an overturned table.

