Already distracted from her studies, she opened her Grimoire and began creating daggers, getting the higher quality steel daggers on her second and third try. “Give me your old daggers, and use these instead,” she told him, exchanging weapons with the rogue. He inspected them carefully, and just like her other rogue, broke into a wicked-looking grin. Ali guessed it was not really his fault, his face looked like a cross between a dragon and a lizard, and he had so many teeth. From her connection, though, she could tell he was genuinely happy.

She stored the poor-quality crude daggers in her ring and turned back to the moss and the puzzle of her domain.

“May I take this?” the Kobold asked, interrupting her thoughts before she even got started. The black-scaled creature was bent down over one of the Forest Amanita mushrooms she had made when she was trying to plant a Common Glowcap earlier.

“Sure,” Ali gave her permission but then looked a little closer. The mana surrounding the red and white spotted poison affinity mushroom was green, but it was a sickly green, in contrast to the vibrant mana of her Verdant Moss. As the Kobold dug it out of the ground with his dagger, the mana rippled and the sickly color began to fade, replaced quickly by the stronger green and gold of her domain flowing in to fill the gap.

The other Amanita toadstool was still surrounded by the sickly green color, and very little of the golden arcane mana was present nearby. The Blackened Deathcap sat in the center of a well of darkness that seemed to have decayed the mana of her domain immediately around it.

That’s interesting, she thought, feeling that she was close to understanding something. What if he removes the other ones?

“Can you make a poison from this?” Ali asked, pointing to the dark black Deathcap mushroom.

“Yes. A necrotic poison, but it’s lower level than this one,” her Kobold answered, holding up the red and white Forest Amanita.

“Can you dig this one out anyway?” she asked him. “And that one?” she pointed at the other Amanita mushroom. “If you can’t use them, can you get rid of them for me?”

Quickly following her instructions, the Kobold removed the two mushrooms and Ali observed the sea of her domain mana flowing into the holes left behind, building in strength until nothing was left of the foreign mana. A few moments later, her maximum mana pool increased by one point.

I got it… I think. The plants created by her Grimoire drew in ambient mana from the ground. Or the air, she realized. And once they drew it in, they did something to it before releasing it again. More research is needed. In the case of her plants with a mana affinity – like the Verdant Moss or the Common Glowcap – they transformed the mana into an abundance of their own affinity, releasing much more than they absorbed. For the neutral plants like her trees, they simply spread the mana over vast distances, which resulted in the dilution of her domain density, but didn’t actually contribute to her mana pool. The Blackened Deathcap was drawing in her domain mana and the ambient mana of the environment and making death-affinity mana which was actively impeding her domain. Because Poison was much more compatible with Nature, the Amanita mushrooms didn’t disturb her domain nearly as much.

Ali’s personal affinities were Nature and Arcane, and it was abundantly clear that it wasn’t the mana that represented her domain per se, but the structure of the weave of her two affinities. This is why the Verdant Moss and the Common Glowcap are both required to grow my domain properly! Aha!

She had hoped that the trees would help grow her domain, but it seemed that they were a bit of a disappointment. Although… With the amount of distance her mana was spreading, the trees would be incredibly helpful for crossing the stream without making a connected expanse of moss. She had already demonstrated she could connect isolated moss patches through the domain spread by the tree.

It was far from a rigorous theory, any scholar would agree, but for now, it would serve her as a working hypothesis. She looked outward, taking in the ominous-looking mana just outside her domain.

Now, I just need to figure out what happens when I grow into that.

She moved to the edge of her domain, and at the maximum extent of the mana emitted by her tree, she planted a patch of moss and finished it off with a few mushrooms, deconstructing the ones that wouldn’t contribute to her domain.

Nibble, nibble, here comes trouble…
