Titus, prepare thy aged eyes to weep;Or, if not so, thy noble heart to break:I bring consuming sorrow to thine age.

TITUS ANDRONICUS

Will it consume me? Let me see it, then.

MARCUS ANDRONICUS

This was thy daughter.

TITUS ANDRONICUS

Why, Marcus, so she is.

The “this was thy daughter” was her point of entry. The big reveal. The moment where the audience gasped, looked away, took out their iPhones and called the Education Board.

For a normal actress, the role was beyond comprehension. For Eppie, she had Mio. Perhaps her [Persona] could still recall the bruised body she picked up in the locker room, the weight of Mio’s pain as she carried her home.

Eppie closed her eyes and allowed the [Sublime] to take her.

The weight had to drop first, shoulders forward, spine curved like something had been removed from the centre of her being, not just her hands. When Lavinia looked up to her father, the tiny movement must come at an immense cost. Her knees should have been slightly bent, balance kept low and uncertain, as though the floor could no longer be trusted. The Suzuki they were doing had taught her that it was possible.

She shouldn’t rely on her face. After all, she couldn’t talk. Her mouth was filled with blood. Her eyes would do the talking. For this, she had an advantage, because her eyes were enormous. She would look at their faces, their hands. She would open her mouth, then something would fall out—blood clots. A bit of tongue, perhaps.

There would be exhaustion as well. She knew exhaustion—but not the kind that came from trauma. Her imaginative sympathy for Mio would have to fill in the blank spaces.

Their group was 4th in line.

Group one played the opening. Group two played the killing of Tamora’s sons. Group three played the closing of Act IV.

The students watched and clapped, their hearts not on the stage, but on their own scripts.

"When you're ready," Cooper said.

They began.

Jamal spoke first: the long, terrible cataloguing of Lavinia's wounds.

Titus, prepare thy aged eyes to weep;

They arranged it so that Jamal stood in front of Eppie while speaking to Atkinson. When the line was delivered, he would step aside, revealing Eppie. The Senior was quite good in Eppie’s opinion. His facial expression was spot on, and he hit the horror through his voice, breaking the moment she came into view.

Will it consume me? Let me see it, then.

Eppie shuffled forward, her feet turned inward, as though they were bleeding and in pain. She stared at the floor, in shame, her mouth firmly closed to hold back the blood that glued her lips.

Atkinson read from the page, his body language far too melodramatic.

Speak, Lavinia, what accursed hand.Hath made thee handless in thy father's sight?

She slowly raised the hands that were not hands. Her hands were sticks. Where blood and bone once existed, there were now cauterised stumps, the bleeding staunched so she could live to shame her father.

Her enormous eyes did the talking. So inhuman she was, so pitiful, so damaged.

"Stop," Cooper said. “Good.”

There was no criticism, no directorial commentary. Around the young actors, the room came back to life.

Atkinson was holding his script. He sighed a little.Someone in the semicircle made a small sound and tried to cover it with a cough.

As they descended, Tyker’s eyes were full of undisguised approval, while Cooper remained completely professional. That was the difference, she guessed, between a Producer looking to make the best stage possible and the school’s official Theatre Chair.

Then, Dr Cooper announced a list that rolled across the Playhouse like thunder. “Group 5. Valorie Sanders. Joshua Ramone. Charles Cranshaw. Elizabeth Moore.”

Val took to the stage with perfect confidence.

Eppie’s group retreated to the margins. Atkinson tried to apologise, but Eppie told him he did his best. The Senior concurred, wished them good luck, and left to join his usual friends.

Valorie had drawn a less technical scene, but one with far more emotional nuance. She had drawn the scene of Lavinia's plea—Act II, Scene III, the forest, before she’s dragged away. Lavinia was still in possession of her hands, her tongue, every instrument she would later lose. Valorie would play Lavinia as she had existed.

Joshua read CHIRON. Charles read DEMETRIUS. And Elizabeth read TAMORA.

The actors took their places in the light.

Valorie wore her theatre tights, the type that inspired late-2020s workout brands like Lululemon, leaving only her midriff exposed. The grey-black garb hung on her frame like a second skin, creating the effect of an exquisite Grecian statue.

I should have worn my Sony clothes…Eppie realised too late. Because her Kmart theatre was fairly unflattering, not that Eppie had much to show off. Valorie, on the other hand, was making people sit funny. Her audiences were teenagers, after all, and they were of the right age.

O Tamora, thou bear'st a woman's face—

Chiron and Demetrius held Valorie down, twisting her arm so that she was facing the audience while speaking to Tamora’s feet. The effect was mildly comical, yet terrifyingly symbolic of her desperation.

I will not hear her speak; away with her!

Tamora knew exactly what would happen next, and chose, woman to woman, to look away anyway.

Valorie struggled, pulling against the boys in a tug-of-war. She escaped—just a brief second, and touched Tamora’s leg.

Sweet lords, entreat her hear me but a word.

Valorie’s voice bounced from the floor, filling the theatre. The actress playing Tamora was excellent. She gave Valorie a look of such disgust and pity that even Eppie felt it—that conflicting emotion of vengeance and womanhood.

Unfortunately, vengeance won. Valorie’s pleading fell on deaf ears.

Below the stage, Eppie found herself bashing her fists, growing more and more angry, more irrational, and more upset with every passing moment.

Valorie didn’t just perform Lavinia's plea—every inch of her figure transmuted the despair, the horror, the anticipation of something irreversible. Her tears arrived unforced, her beauty made vulnerable by the rawness of her emotions, every tremor in her voice begging Tamora woman-to-woman, daughter-to-mother. The pity in her eyes wasn’t acted; it was recognition, as if she already knew exactly what it cost to ask for mercy from a parent who had decided not to give it. Lavinia’s righteous grief surfaced only at the end, restrained, dignified, devastating. It wasn’t rage at her captors but despair at being unheard by a mother who could have stopped this and chose not to.

Eppie felt a flaming desire to run up to the stage and drag Valorie back into the light. HOW DARE SHE?HOW DARE someone who understood the moment so well, so vividly, ignore what happened to her classmate? Someone who was destroyed by intent and word?

The scene ended. The students stood. There were murmurs, actual murmurs, the soft currency of proud theatre kids recognising a good cold read.

Val was freed from her captivity. Elizabeth helped her re-compose her messed-up attire and hair.Joshua and Charles watched, their faces red, probably hoping the scene could continue.

Valorie beamed at her audience with her peerless smile. She was Composed. Appropriate.She was once more the Senator’s Daughter.

Costello applauded. Cooper nodded. Tyker gave two claps, then returned to her note-taking.

Valorie’s eyes moved across the room and found Eppie's.The actress’s face remained proud, and her smile remained even, even though Eppie stole her joy.

Eppie looked away, her eyes scanning the surroundings.Valorie was lucky there was no planter pot nearby.

Evening. Eppie bought a large pepperoni pizza from Danny Boys to battle her depression.

She was halfway through the pie when her iPhone informed her that someone on her contact list had sent her a message.

The text was from Uncle Paco, but it wasn’t about Zara.

Will you and Zara attend? Father Parson would welcome you both.

With PrayersPaco

Eppie read it twice. February 1st. Seventeen days.

She held the phone in one hand, and her slice in the other, and felt violent feelings radiate across her body, beginning from her head, travelling down her torso into her feet.

She wrote back that she and Zara would absolutely be there to support Mio.

Jesus Christ. Her head felt dizzy with the immensity of it all. She wanted to cry into the pepperoni pizza. In seventeen days, Mio would be an unwitting mother.A wholly innocent child would be born, and William's crime would be made concrete for all of eternity. How would she raise the child? What can Mio do? What can she do to make it right? To take a wrong and make it right? If what she would do to William were to succeed, what would it mean for William’s kid? Was that why the [System] wanted his penance?

Her phone buzzed again.This one was from Maddie.

Eppie 😇😇😇

Grammy Awards Feb 10 — 50th Annual. Kellie has confirmed you're listed as a stage guest. ✊Free up Feb 9 minimum. More details to come.

—MF  🎥

The Grammys. The Staples Centre. Kellie Noah in whatever Valentino she'd chosen, winning Umbrella while watched by forty million people. Herself, somewhere behind Kellie, wearing something she’d have to query Mirabelle about.

Seventeen days, then Mio. Twenty-six days, then the Grammys.

The pizza grease wept. Eppie felt sick from the whiplash. For once in her life, she replied immediately that she would be there.

A REPLY?  😭 The text from Maddie read. WHO ARE YOU AND WHAT DID YOU DO TO EPPIE? 😡😡😡

Eppie snorted despite herself, sending Diet Coke into her sinus.

How could she frown when her Media Manager was Maddie Filmore?!
