“That was quite the presentation.” The Dean of Sciences said. His face had closed down at some point during Gloria's speech, and he kept that immobile face as he spoke. “Ms. Rayford, pack up your things.”

“Wh... wh... excuse me?” Gloria stammered.

“You are no longer going to need them.” The Dean said.

“But... sir...”

“You're done.” The Dean said, then smiled and held a hand out for her to shake. “Congratulations on passing this course.”

“WHAT?!?” Gloria yelled, then absently took the offered hand and shook it. “You... you mean...”

“You can pick up your graduation certificate from my secretary at the end of the week.” The Dean said.

“But... but... you can't be serious!” Gloria said. “I have 2 more courses to take next term!”

“Not any more.” The Dean said. “You see, when I heard some of the rumors about what was happening, I took it very seriously. I looked into your background and your situation, especially with relation to the faculty of this institution... and I found out a few things.”

Gloria looked at him with wide eyes.

“I wondered why all you had was morning classes, and no afternoon or evening classes.” The Dean said. “To my surprise, I discovered that you had a full-time job during those times and couldn't take classes even if you wanted to.”

How did he find that out? Gloria asked herself. I didn't add that to any official records!

“During my investigation, I also came across some very important data.” The Dean of Sciences said. “I never imagined that any of this program's students could have a registered student internship on a ground-breaking state-of-the-art medical research project.”

Several other students nearby started to talk openly when they heard that bit of gossip.

“It... it's only on the weekends.” Gloria said, and the Dean chuckled.

“Modesty will only get you so far.” The Dean said. “But in this case, I've checked the first submitted data.”

“You have?!?” Gloria exclaimed, and he laughed.

“Of course I have.” The Dean of Sciences said. “Each stage is submitted for peer review.”

“But... but...”

“Your exemplary work in engineering new hardware for the project was highly praised by the woman who runs it.”

“Stella!”

“Is that her first name?” The Dean smiled. “She's a striking woman. Hard as nails and strict on procedure.” He said. “Thanks to her recommendation and the extensive report on your work, your last two courses have been credited to you.”

“So... really... I...” Gloria stammered.

“Yes, you really are done of your classroom time.” The Dean of Sciences said and grinned. “Now go out there and show them what a properly accredited engineer can do.”

*

Denise had given Ren a toast and cheese sandwich, which he ate gratefully, and then he washed up.

“Denise? Can we go for a walk?”

“Sure, Ren.” Denise said. “Do you want to change first?”

“Only into jogging pants and a t-shirt.” Ren said and she took them out of the drawer by the bed. She helped him change into his workout clothes and they went for a walk. They went down the hall to the elevator, then outside to look at the people moving Barbara and Donald's stuff.

“Hey, take it easy with that!” Donald nearly yelled at two guys that had picked up his ratty-old recliner and tossed it out of the back of the truck.

“Sorry, man.” One of the guys said. “I thought it was junk.”

“It's not.” Donald said and rubbed a hand over the torn leather surface. “This chair is a part of our family.”

“What about the couch?” One of the other movers asked. “Is it part of the family, too? I hope it doesn't get jealous of the lazy boy because you spend so much more time with it.”

The other mover laughed and Donald frowned as he clenched a fist. Ren saw this and walked over to stand beside him, with Denise right behind.

“You're being paid to do your job, not to make jokes.” Ren said in a commanding voice to the movers, and everyone looked at him with surprise on their faces. “I suggest you keep your thoughts to yourself.”

“Ha.” The guy said. “Who are you to-”

The other mover grabbed the guy by the arm and tugged on it to cut off his words. “Let's get to work, man. The faster we get this done, the faster we can get out of here.”

“Yeah, yeah.” The mover said, and they picked up the couch and brought it down the ramp. The movers went into the house and the front door closed behind them.

“Thanks.” Donald said without looking at Ren, who had glanced down to see Donald's fist wasn't clenched anymore.

“He's the one that should be thanking me.” Ren said and pointed to the guy inside the house. “I didn't want any blood on my brand new driveway.”

Donald snorted a laugh. “You're a good kid.” He said and pat Ren's shoulder lightly. Surprisingly, Ren didn't feel like Donald was being derogatory when he called him 'kid'. “Now go on back inside and do your physical therapy.”

Ren looked at him with wide eyes.

“Yes, I know all about you and your daily schedule.” Donald said. “You're all Barbara talks about, remember?”

“I'm sorry about that.”

“Don't be.” Donald said. “You make her happy by letting her take care of you.”

“I meant...”

“I know what you meant.” Donald said and smiled. “You know you're as big a part of her life as I am.”

Ren nodded slightly.

“So go and keep your strength up.” Donald said. “You can't stay in bed all day and not suffer for it.”

“...and you can't sit in a recliner all day and not suffer for it.” Ren chuckled. “Your spare tire is fully inflated.”

Donald looked at Ren with raised eyebrows. “Excuse me?”

“You're getting fat, old man.” Ren said and poked Donald in the belly. He expected it to jiggle and move; but, it just sat there like a solid lump. “That's going to take a lot of work to get rid of.”

“Hey, I'm in shape.” Donald said and flexed his arm muscles. They were big, but they weren't well defined.

“Round is a shape.” Ren said and laughed. “I'm going inside to use some of the fully-stocked workout room right now.” He said and walked towards the house. “If you feel up to it, why don't you join me?”

Donald looked back at the moving truck and saw that it was just little things and a multitude of brown boxes left to move, then looked at Ren.

“Are you having that much fun just standing there and supervising them?” Ren said and goaded Donald a little, grinned, and went inside the house with a surprised Denise right behind him.
