“As you wish. I’ll have a bed delivered to your cell within the hour. As for the weapon…” Drathok waved his hand, and in a flash, he’d summoned a silvery coin that seemed to glow in the darkness, made of a metal Markus didn’t quite recognise. Drathok handed it to him, and the coin took on a light red hue. “Take this to the smithy below. Have the blacksmith refine a weapon of your choosing with it. Metals like this bring out unique properties within a weapon. You should find it to be valuable.”

“Neat,” Markus said, taking the coin and pocketing it.

“Perhaps you’ll opt to actually take such a weapon with you to future bouts, presuming you don’t get bought out first.”

“How do you know I’ll receive an offer I even like?”

“It’s in your best interest to,” Drathok stated simply.

Markus narrowed his eyes. “Meaning?”

“Meaning that your display earlier was either a result of excessive hubris or was an ill-conceived attempt at rebellion. Your contract compels you to fight in earnest. It doesn’t say you can’t stack the odds against yourself first.”

Drathok gestured to the food around them, all of it piping hot and untouched, consisting of various meats, cheeses, vegetables, and what looked to be something similar to a cake. “I brought you here to show thanks to you, but also to broker an understanding between us.”

“And what is that understanding?”

“That your value diminishes greatly if you die. If you wish to keep rejecting offers, feel free. It only drives your price up further. But you will accept one eventually. And soon. With each fight that passes, the value of my hold over you depreciates.”

Markus grabbed a slice of hot, salted ham and began to munch on it. “And that’s my problem?” he said between bites.

Drathok growled, his throat rumbling with heat. “It very much can be your problem. For everything I hold the power to give, I can take just as freely. I’m happy to make your stay here easy, pleasant, so long as I feel you’re trying to secure a good deal for us both. I’m willing to give you a little longer to find one.”

Drathok leaned forwards, his voice dropping to a whisper. “But if I get even a hint that you’re attempting to spite me, that you’re refusing to cooperate with these proceedings simply to try and fulfill your contract, I will make your life hell. I will make you wish for the hopelessness you felt when you first arrived here. I will squeeze every drop of joy and hope from your spirit and make you beg for death.”

“Gotcha,” Markus nodded, munching on an egg as he spoke. “Make a deal soon or you’ll torture me, blah blah blah. You could’ve just led with that.”

Drathok stood. Electricity radiated through his entire forearm. He weathered a sigh. “Enjoy your meal. Enjoy exploring this place. Find an imp if you become lost.

“And Markus? Torture isn’t the point. Make a deal, or you’ll die here alone.”

With that, Drathok left, and Markus immediately dropped the food he was holding.

He wasn’t hungry, despite how little he’d eaten lately.

No. Instead, Markus felt determination.

He wasn’t stupid. He picked up as much food as he could carry, loading it onto a plate and taking it with him as he walked his way back to his cell, taking things like bread and cheese over meat, stuff he thought would last longest. No guarantee when he was next getting fed, after all.

When he eventually found his way back to his cell, his bed was already waiting for him.

He tested it out. It was as comfy as it looked, perhaps moreso. Compared to any bed he’d slept on in his life back on Earth, this was a massive leap in quality. It felt like he was sat on a cloud that’d been stolen from heaven.

And yet, even in the aftermath of the most grueling fight of his life, Markus didn’t feel the urge to sleep. He sat upright on his bed, watching as his recent injuries very slowly began to close.

He still couldn’t move his right arm fully, and his legs felt numb. Ember’s healing would’ve been useful right about now. He wondered where that dog had gotten off to.

More than that, Markus wondered how likely it was that he’d encounter a deal good enough to take in the coming days.

He wondered if anyone could offer him what he truly wanted.

He drew out one of his two remaining Essence Stones as he considered the notion, attempting to drain away as much of the excess mana that he could, planning to allocate whatever stat points he needed to right after.

He had four level-ups to go through, 32 stat points to spend, and a whole bevy of other notifications to deal with. He’d do it on his way to the blacksmith.

As Markus reduced his Mana Poisoning, he started to consider Drathok’s words more deeply. Would he feel the need to make such threats if he were confident Markus would do what he wanted, or even to bribe him in such a manner?

Markus didn’t want to be here. He didn’t want to be fighting for his life and he didn’t want to incur Drathok’s wrath. He didn’t want any of this.

And yet, this determination he felt was unshakable. There was a feeling within him that transcended his own concerns, his fears, that pushed him solely in the direction of defiance, that made him want more than anything to tear down any prospect that demonic asshole had of a happy outcome.

He didn’t just want to ruin his deal and deny Drathok’s payday. He wanted to ruin his life, tear this whole operation down around him, and destroy this sick institution once and for all.

Eight more fights… Markus wasn’t thinking about it like a checklist, like a list of trials he had to get through in order to earn his freedom on his own terms. No. That’d be too simple, and Drathok would never allow him to go through with it if the demon could help it. He’d do everything in his power to deny Markus that.

So rather… eight fights was a timer. Markus had that time to find a means to destroy his contract, to escape this fate, and to end Drathok’s hold over him.

First, he needed to become powerful enough to do it. Drathok had said power was everything. That power was freedom. In this situation, he was likely right.

But power wasn’t just levels or stats. No amount of grinding alone was going to get him where he needed to be in time, not if this was the path he wanted to commit to. What he really needed beyond anything else was information. That and allies, plus enough mana stored away to take out a powerful enemy, or at least have a halfway decent shot at it.

Time to get a lay of the land. He’d meet who he could, learn everything he could about Drathok, this arena, and the world beyond, and start amassing resources and strength towards his final goal, no matter how lofty it might’ve been.

From now on, no compromise. No matter what. Not again.

First thing’s first, get a new weapon, and find a good place to use it.
