That fit pretty well with Markus’ damage profile. He was in need of something sturdier, too. Really didn’t like the idea of his glaive breaking like that again…

When he’d been through his options an entire second time and was still happy with his choices, Markus selected Soul Slinger and his slab of tetricite.

“Ah, you’re done. Awesome. Good choices.”

“You can see what I picked besides this?” Markus asked, staring at the glinting, lightweight metal in his hand.

“Of course. We’re linked now, remember? I can look at your system, and I can put quests in your new quest menu… why don’t you take a look?”

Markus did just that and opened his quest menu for the first time.

There was a single quest sat there waiting for him. He stared at it and laughed.

“Walk ten paces? How is this worth anything?”

“It isn’t. I’m kinda taking a loss on this one, as you completing this won’t empower me much at all. This is more just me showing you how it works.”

Well, Markus wasn’t gonna argue with a free point. He did as he was bidden and took ten steps. As soon as he did, his system flashed up, informing him that he’d completed the quest and been rewarded 20 silver pieces, which had been sent straight to his inventory, alongside a singular Faith point.

“I won’t be giving those out like candy,” Serena noted. “Anything you buy from them comes directly from my power. That means I need you to generate me power.”

“And how exactly do I do that?”

“Do real quests. They’ll either give it to me directly or make it easier for me to seize on my own.”

“You gonna give me a real quest?”

“I’ve just given you six.”

Markus clicked his menu to check.

…oh.

Over half of these were kill quests.

One for Elasar, which promised over two hundred Faith points as reward.

One for King Magul, who apparently controlled this region.

One for Drathok… hell, would these have been mandatory if he hadn’t gotten the assurances that he had before signing? Would he have been forced to try and kill these people?

Markus wasn’t sure what he’d been expecting, but it sure as hell wasn’t this.

And then, finally, one for…

“Randall?” Markus announced, sounding as if he was choking on something. “How the fuck am I gonna kill Randall? You couldn’t kill Randall!”

“Good question! How would you kill me, Markus?”

Markus’ blood froze.

That wasn’t Serena’s voice.

Serena wasn’t speaking.

Markus turned.

The man himself was stood right between them.

The smile on his face was every bit as disturbing as Markus remembered from before.

He fought every urge he could to scream.
