Ameliah closed her eyes as she rubbed at her neck. “I’m fine. It’s just a little headache.”

“Liar,” Rain said. “That’s what you said an hour ago.” She wouldn’t have sat down if she was fine. He looked back at the jungle, actively pinging with Detection rather than leaving it to his macros. Sound was starting to return as the animals recovered from the shock of the explosion.

Rain frowned as his sweep returned several monster echoes, not just the one from before. Animals run away; monsters run toward. If that saying is true, why haven’t they attacked yet? He turned to tell Ameliah about what he’d sensed, but she was already pointing toward the trees, another Fireball forming at her fingertips.

“More coming,” she said with a grimace as she struggled to rise.

Tallheart stopped her with a hand on her shoulder. “Wait.”

Ameliah glanced up at him, not dismissing the Fireball. Rain could feel the heat rolling off of it, his armor working overtime to keep him cool.

Tallheart rumbled disapprovingly. “Do not strike unless they do. It is day. Their instincts will keep them within the shelter of the trees.”

“You’re sure about that?” Ameliah asked.

“I am sure,” Tallheart said.

Ameliah nodded, closing her fist. The Fireball winked out of existence, leaving a glowing afterimage in Rain’s vision. Tallheart nodded slowly, removing his hand from her shoulder.

Ameliah watched the edge of the jungle for a few moments more, then got to her feet unsteadily, refusing Tallheart’s assistance when he offered it to her. She ran her hands through her hair, looking down at Rain. “Okay. Give me some mana. We’ll lure them out one at a time.”

Rain opened his mouth to reply, but Tallheart cut him off.

“No. We should retreat to the <something> passage to rest.”

“The what passage?” Ameliah asked.

“<Something>,” Tallheart said, offering Rain his hand and pulling him effortlessly to his feet. “It means in-between.”

“Huh,” Rain said, dusting himself off.

How about…liminal. Sure, let’s go with that. Man, it’s been a while since that’s happened. At least Ameliah didn’t know the word either. That makes me feel a little better.

He looked at Tallheart for confirmation. “So there’s a liminal space between biomes? Am I pronouncing that right?”

“You are,” Tallheart said. “Monsters tend to stay within their own territory during the day unless provoked. The liminal spaces are…safer. Not safe, but safer.” He paused, tilting his head. “Usually. Sometimes, there is war.”

Rain tilted his head, filing that away under ‘questions for later.’ He shook his head. “Okay, back to the packs, I guess.”

We should probably have lunch anyway. I’m starving. Seriously, it feels like I’m hollow inside for all that I had three ration bars earlier. I’m not that unbalanced right now, so it has to be something about the accolades.

“No,” Ameliah said firmly. “We should deal with those monsters first. I’m not ready to turn back yet.”

“I am,” Tallheart said. “I require rest.”

Bullshit, Rain thought, but he kept it to himself, seeing what Tallheart was doing. Unfortunately, it seemed that Ameliah did as well.

“Seriously, I’m fine,” she said. “If everyone could stop fussing over me, that would be great. Now come on, Rain. Mana me.”

“No,” Rain said. “You’re pulling a Val.”

Ameliah blinked. “You take that back.”

“It only stings because it’s true,” Rain said. “Come on, Ameliah. We’re going to be down here for weeks, at least. There’s no need to hurt yourself by pushing so hard. You don’t have anything to prove. Please. Let’s just go have lunch and then come back once we’ve rested a bit.”

Ameliah clenched her jaw silently, then looked away. “Fine.” She sighed. “I just wanted… We can’t be taking it easy down here. This is the depths. You haven’t been an adventurer for long enough to realize how big of a deal that is. We have to make the most of the time we have.”

“I’m not arguing that point,” Rain said. “I’m just saying this is our first day. We’re still figuring stuff out.”

A branch snapped in the jungle, and all three of them tensed. Rain spotted a pair of eyes staring at them from within a dark bush, but they vanished moments later with a rustle of foliage.

“Let us have this discussion elsewhere,” Tallheart said, turning and heading back up the passage. Rain and Ameliah glanced at each other, then back at the trees, before following.

They made it back to their packs without incident, finding the area still lit by the evertorch Rain had wedged into a crack in the wall. Ameliah sent her Lunar Orb up to hover near the ceiling as Rain struggled to unstrap his shield from his arm. Once he was free of it, he turned immediately to his pack, digging around until he found a pair of large canteens.

“Here,” he said, pulling them free and offering them to Tallheart and Ameliah. “One of those is potato, and the other is chicken.”

“Hmm,” Tallheart said, accepting one of the canteens. “This is…soup? From Jamus?”

“Yup,” Rain said, smiling as Ameliah took the other canteen. He turned and dove back into his pack, looking for bowls. “Should we make a fire or something? It will be better warm.”

“We don’t have any wood,” Ameliah said. Rain heard her unscrew the cap of the canteen, then sniff. “Potato. Here, trade.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said.

“Wood,” Rain said, tossing a log onto the stone floor of the tunnel with a clunk.

Ameliah snorted. “Of course you brought wood. How much do you have in there?”

“Some,” Rain said, not looking up. Damn it, where are those bowls? Everything has shifted. It’s all so…disorderly. Damn it. He sighed, fighting through the sudden need to dump everything out and repack it. Oh, what I’d give for a bag of holding.

“We should not waste fuel,” Tallheart said. “I doubt trees below will be useful in that regard.”

“Yeah,” Rain said, finally finding the bowls and pulling them free. He tossed them on the floor with a clatter, then went back in for spoons. “I’ve been meaning to ask you, Tallheart. How come you can’t just make a tuned up heater plate or something for cooking?” Belatedly, he remembered that he could use Detection to help him find the spoons and did so. Of course they’re all the way at the bottom.

“It is possible, but not efficient,” Tallheart said. “Heater plates that are used to warm air require little mana. To make something truly hot requires…hmm…exponentially more. It is the same reason that my smelter uses traditional fuel. It captures heat. It does not create it.” He hummed to himself as if coming to some decision. “I will make something tonight. We will have plenty of Crysts by then, and mana is not a concern with you around.”

“It’s handy having a Dynamo, isn’t it?” Rain said, holding aloft a pair of spoons in victory. He passed one of them to Tallheart, then another to Ameliah, debating whether he wanted to bother trying to retrieve a third for himself. He wasn’t exactly planning on using it.

“Here,” Ameliah said, offering him a steaming bowl of soup.

“How…?” Rain asked, looking at her. He could feel himself start to salivate as the delicious aroma reached his nostrils.

“It’s handy having a Fire Mage, isn’t it?” Ameliah said, smiling.

Rain chuckled, accepting the bowl. “I suppose it is. How did you do that without making a soup explosion, though? ‘Heat Soup’ isn’t a spell as far as I’m aware.”

“The same way I can summon a Firebolt without launching it,” Ameliah said around a spoonful of soup. “Practice.” She swallowed, then tapped her spoon against the side of the canteen with a clink. “When metal saturates with Heat mana, it gets hot. A few seconds was all it took. The trick is not melting through.”

“Ah,” Rain said, taking a deep breath. He set down his empty bowl, then reached for the canteen.

“Did you even chew?” Tallheart asked.

Rain snorted. “It’s soup. You don’t chew soup.”

“The accolades are really having an effect, aren’t they?” Ameliah said. “I can feel it too. I just took them off, and I feel like I’ve improved for the first time in years. The hunger must be a side effect.”

“Oh?” Rain asked excitedly. “How much progress have you made?”

“You know my interface doesn’t work like that,” Ameliah said with a shrug. “I can still tell, all the same. It’s pretty amazing. I could do without the headache, though.” She sighed, closing her eyes. “You were right. I was pushing too hard. Ever since we came down here, it’s just... Sorry. I was only trying to protect you, but you’re not as fragile as you used to be. It’s just going to take me a while to get used to.”

“It’s fine,” Rain said, smiling. “After what you did to that frog, I’m feeling pretty damn fragile.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said with a satisfied rumble that had nothing to do with the conversation. “I must remember to thank Jamus when we return. This is delicious.”

Rain nodded in agreement. “If you don’t mind my asking, how did you and Snowlilly get by down here, anyway? Did you bring food from the surface or what? Plant monsters aren’t all that common as far as I’ve seen.”

“We brought what we could, but mostly, we made do without,” Tallheart said, frowning. “Cervidians can survive for months without food.”

“So can humans,” Ameliah said, gesturing with her spoon. “That doesn’t mean we enjoy it.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled in agreement. “Water was the real problem. Hmm. I do not know how much Rain has brought. I will need to make a filter.” He tilted his head. “Unless… Will Purify work?”

“Will it work on what?” Rain asked. “Like filthy cave water, or…”

“Blood,” Tallheart said, taking another spoonful of soup. “Hmm. Unfortunately, I cannot consume it directly without…unpleasant complications. Monsters are a good source of resources, even if it requires some effort to extract them.”

Rain stared at Tallheart in horror, picturing the antlered man with vampire fangs and blood running down his chin. It was a striking image, particularly because cervidian canines were less pronounced than human ones. “You say that like you’ve tried it.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “I have. Lilly and I were desperate. It was long ago, before I learned to make filters for nonmetallic materials.”

Rain set down his empty bowl, slightly queasy at the prospect of a third refill given what he’d just heard. “Tallheart, have I mentioned how unreasonably metal you are?”

“You did so when I told you the name of my class,” Tallheart said mildly.

“And I stand by it,” Rain said. “Runic Powersmith? I mean, come on. I need to find a luthier, teach them the difference between a lute and a guitar, figure out how to make a pickup, an amp, and a distortion pedal, and then learn to play so I can teach you what Iron Maiden sounds like. You’d love it.”

Tallheart rumbled noncommittally.

Rain chuckled, then looked at Ameliah. “Are you ready to tell me what your class name is yet?” She froze, her spoon halfway to her mouth, and Rain quickly raised his hands. “You don’t have to. I’m just curious.”

“Fine,” she said with a sigh, lowering her spoon. She looked from him to Tallheart. “But you both need to promise that you’ll never tell anyone.”

“Of course we won’t,” Rain said. “Right, Tallheart?”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said.

“Okay…” Ameliah said, looking away. “It’s…uh…just a little embarrassing.” She looked back at Rain, blushing in the pale light. “Uncertain Savior.”

Rain blinked, then grinned wide. “You’re right. That is embarrassing.”

“Says the Night Cleaner,” she said, punching him in the shoulder. “Shut up. I didn’t get to pick it.”

“Hah, sorry,” Rain said, still smiling as he raised his hand to where hers had deflected off his armor. “I actually kinda like it. It fits you.”

“I know,” Ameliah said. “That just makes it worse.”

Rain shook his head. “No, it doesn’t make it worse. It’s really cool. Not as cool as Runic Powersmith—because honestly—but still. I bet I’m going to get something dumb, like ‘Auric Mana Furnace’.” He chuckled. “What trees did you have when you picked it? It seems more related to your base class than anything else.”

“I don’t remember, and I doubt it had anything to do with it,” Ameliah said, setting down her bowl. “Jacks don’t get specializations. You know that.” She let her head fall into her hands, rubbing at her temples again.

Rain frowned, watching her. “Is the headache getting any better?”

“No,” she said with a sigh. She reached for the canteen to pour herself some more soup.

Rain nodded, his own eternal headache throbbing in sympathetic pain. He was used to it, though, and his judgment when it came to discomfort was shot. Ameliah’s wasn’t. “You should lie down for a bit.”

“I—“ Ameliah began, looking up. She stopped when she saw his concerned expression, then sighed deeply. “Okay. Just a few hours.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “I will sleep as well.”

Rain blinked, looking at him. He smiled. “And leave me on watch alone?”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “As I said, the liminal space is safe enough during the day. Once the night falls, that will change. We should explore the jungle before then.” He scratched at the base of one of his antlers. “You cannot keep watch at night, Rain, but you may keep watch now.”

“I still don’t see why I can’t help—“ Rain started, but Tallheart shook his head.

“We have discussed this. It is not that I do not trust you; it is that you are soft and weak. Like dough.”

Ameliah choked, spluttering as she almost spat the last of her soup out across the floor.

“Why, thank you for that brutal honesty, Tallheart,” Rain said.

“Mmm,” Tallheart said, busy refilling his own bowl. “You are welcome.”
