At these words, the holograms of the warlords dissipate, and I make the divine energy manifestations of my generals evaporate too.

Though, I do keep them on the call. A fifth general pops up in the void within our linked consciousnesses, and Ava looks through my eyes.

She turns to the other four human minds watching, but I tune out of everything said after her words of, "Nice to meet you all..."

I just finish activating my concealment technique and use real demonic energy from my core to cover my body.

Ember flaps his wings and slowly glides around the back of the room, leaving trails of demonic energy behind.

I take a deep breath in and out, then press the accept button to allow the foreign call to connect to the Ellipsia Citadel central tower.

–

The room goes silent, and I retract my aura inward, using the full extent of my power to conceal my true being and replicate a believable disguise of the first Noble Demon I killed.

My mind is calm as I feel prepared for anything, but curiosity and caution still cloud my outer senses.

The residual fear and loyalty of the memories from the exile guardian and Andras Vermillion surface in my mind.

They are not my own memories. But when the holographic call connects, and I see a towering shadowy figure appear with two long horns, there is no mistaking this domineering being.

The first thing I feel is cold air washing through the room, and extremely strong vibrations of a noble bloodline shake the space.

I don't flinch, as no physical or mental attack is being sent out. It feels like some kind of illusion.

There is no face on this figure that stands over double my Noble Form's stature, and as the call connects, all I hear from it is a low growling sound.

To keep up appearances, I place both arms behind my back and do not dare speak until spoken to. However, I decide not to bow in the Family Head's presence. While this is common courtesy for a newly ascended in the presence of their king, I have different plans.

The room grows colder the longer I wait, looking directly into the dark, black shadowy void where the Demon's face should be.

Its low growl ceases, and we wait in silence even longer, until the Demon's raspy throat, as if it just screamed for hours, begins to turn to a slow chuckle. The massive hologram leans forward.

"Drako Vermillion. Quite bold of you to directly send me proof of you breaking one of the sacred family rules: to never kill a fellow demon."

Wisps of dark black energy drain behind the hologram as it leans closer. The wisps that leave its body dissolve into threads of green divine energy, then dissipate into the atmosphere once out of range from the transmission device.

It reminds me that we're not actually in the same room, but the vibrations and cold feeling I get just from looking at this massive demon make me second-guess myself. So, I stay on guard while answering.

"I was taking out the trash. If you expect me to work alongside a cowardly demon that cannot stare death in the eyes with a smile, then this family is not what I came to the Upper Realm to serve."

I stare up at the shadowy horned hologram without a hint of fear in my eyes, and the cold presence of the Family Head returns, though its vibrations speed up and become stronger.

"Your resolve is what all True Noble Demons should have. To act without care for the consequences, for the only goal is progress, strength, and prestige for the Demon Race. There are no races stronger than us. Your infractions will be permitted just this once..."

It pauses, standing up straight again while the room returns to its normal temperature and its vibrations calm down to a steady state.

"You may call me Lord Miriel Vermillion. As one that walks the path of Nobility, I will honor you with knowing my true name. Though, in the presence of lesser bloodlines, you must address me as the Vermillion Family Head."

The room fills with silence, and I nod once, allowing this Demon to speak again.

"The Ellipsia Citadel is yours. However, in order to learn the proper commands to control all of its properties, specialized training and avatar upgrades must be carried out in a place we call the Fortress."

My gaze sharpens, and I reply back.

"I refuse..."

I cross my arms and stare up at the outline of the shadowy demon, speaking again as the aura around him vibrates and the room grows cold.

"No amount of avatar upgrades or specialized commands could satiate my hunger. Sitting atop this Citadel as its Lord is no less boring than taking over that puny Third Class human world you tasked me with. I've had no match since leaving my home World. Give me a true challenge now that I've made it to the land of the gods."

The vibrations and cold sensation don't stop growing more intense this time around, as the Family Head seems to have initially thought my rebellious nature was enticing; but I've hit its limit.

I hold my resolve, but plan to tone it down after this Demon's next words.

A loud roaring voice that makes my whole body reflexively shiver and tense up echoes through the room.

"Be careful, young one. Aiming for the top is admirable, but do not mistake a superior being when they are right in front of you! I am the Royal Vermillion Family Head for a reason!"

The cold aura grows and grows, so much so that I feel the energy coursing through my veins begin to slow down. My senses are dulled, and I have to work many times harder to keep my disguise up.

The noble vibrations rippling through this video call feel extremely eerie, almost the same sensation I felt while facing the Exile Guardian in the first half of our battle, when I hadn't awakened my Noble Form yet. There is something deeper happening here, but I cannot sense it at all.

This strikes genuine shock through me, especially the fact that this being is accomplishing all of this through a hologram from millions of kilometers away.

My head starts to spin, my mind grows foggy, and my sharp concentration wavers; but the cold and tense vibrations retract the moment I grit my teeth.

"You will come directly to the Grand Citadel instead. If you truly wish for a challenge, I will give you one. There is a monthly fighting event held here. The next event is in 22 days, using Grand Citadel Time. That is an order. There is no room for negotiation."

The room falls back to completely normal, and I nod once to agree with his words with widened eyes. This time, I'm not playing a character. Miriel speaks again.

"I have high hopes for you, Draco Vermillion. Continue pushing the boundaries, but do not disappoint me."

A flicker of coldness comes through these words, and he waves one of his hands.

"I will have a servant from here in the Grand Citadel sent over beforehand. There was an issue calibrating and linking your avatar; it will be fixed before the monthly cycle begins again. I look forward to watching your performance. Again, Drako Vermillion, Welcome to the Upper Realm."

His hand finishes waving, and the connection between us severs, allowing his hologram to fully vanish. I let out a long sigh.

My eyes are still wide open as I stare out the window, replaying that cold aura and strange vibration over and over in my head. Ember circles down to ground level, then shifts back into his hybrid form while touching down.

He makes a comment while showing a grin and reaching into his Ether storage.

"Looks like Asic was right. Just about three weeks to prepare... Well, a little more."

He walks up beside me and pulls out a glass bottle filled with a translucent liquid, then tosses it in my direction.

My gaze shifts, and I use a small amount of telekinesis and divine threads to stop it from falling through the air and move it to my palm, which still has a bright [1] on it.

While I allow the demonic energy all over my body to flow back into my core and let my ethereal white Noble Human Form be exposed. I turn my head to Ember.

"What... is this?"

He's already turned around, borrowing my concealment skill, and shrinking into his smallest two-meter-tall form while using a random human appearance as a false identity.

"It's an ether refinement elixir. Considering your race's lifespan, it's safe to say you can only use a low-quality elixir like this one time. So, I would wait until you've gathered as much ether as possible before using it."

He waves while tapping on his system, connecting a new member to the transmission device in the room, and opening up a hatch in the floor.

"Just hold it in case of an emergency. Considering the strength of that Demon you just pissed off, you'll need it."

He chuckles and jumps down the hatch.

"I'm off to train with Zashen. You have an important lesson on Nobility to attend."

His eyes point back to the transmission system, which now shows Seraphel, the Blue Wyvern, pending and ready to talk.

I take a deep breath, toss the elixir up and down in my hand a few times, then open a storage portal below it to let it fall inside. Next, I send out a message to the five generals still in my consciousness.

"Well, 22 days. Think you can manage that?"

Raven is the first to answer.

"It should be impossible... but we can try..."

Maria's voice sounds out next.

"Nothing is impossible. We'll figure out a way."

Abby follows.

"Those black trees are still in the desert, the artifacts you brought back from the Divine Construct—we can use that to cycle energy faster."

Arie comments last.

"We'll keep you updated."

The four of them exit the mental link, and Ava stands alone in my mind.

I speak to her first.

"Tell the others with you what you saw. After my talk with Seraphel, I'll have a real battle strategy figured out."

"Understood," she says, and I'm left alone in the room.

Then, I accept the next incoming call and watch a massive visual of the Noble Wyvern appear in front of the glass separating me from the green city in the sky.
