Azure Guard encampment, Riverwall

Sybil threw a step back, half-turning with the motion. The fist coming her way swooshed by. She grabbed at the arm, bringing her other foot around and giving her the leverage to pull forward. A snap of Strong Arm multiplied her over-the-shoulder throw, sending her opponent flying a few meters away.

Before he had even landed, she Quick Stepped a single kick back. Her naturally strong leg muscles rocketed her forward as she brought her other leg into an Iron Bodied Strong Arm spinning kick.

Her opponent yelped, his entire body glowing blue with Iron Body to keep the scything limb from breaking him in half. The impact still kicked the wind out of his lungs as he went flying into a pile of training supplies, landing ass over head.

From his sprawled, upside-down position, Sammie glared at Sybil as she hopped between her two feet, her fists up in a fighting guard, and a shit-eating grin plastered on her face.

A voice rang out from the side of the training square. “Alright, that's three for Sybil, and one for Sammie. That's Sybil's win. Again.”

The bunnykin dropped her stance and walked up to Sammie, throwing out a hand to help him up. He slapped it out of the way and let himself tumble to the side, and then back to his feet.

He grunted as he unfolded and cracked his back. “Seriously. You don't have to go all-out every time.”

The grin hadn't left her face. “Of course I do! Remember Lord Gustall's words? If you don't push yourself during training, you won't be able to do it during a real fight!”

Sammie massaged his flank, where he'd just been kicked. “That doesn't mean all the time! It just means to... go for it, now and then.” He countered.

A third voice stepped in. “Sybil has the right idea, soldier. The more you push, the better you learn your limits.”

Both their heads turned toward their approaching lieutenant, who'd refereed their spar. The elf woman, Allimaya, came to a stop a few paces away, her weighted ponytail slapping at her back. “Especially if it came from Leandro. The old man has trained enough champions to fill an entire division.”

She crossed her arms and stared at Sammie. “Now, explain to me why you're letting her win.”

Sybil's long ears twitched as she snapped her round eyes toward Sammie. “What?!”

The man shrugged. “Because she'd keep asking to fight until she did win. I'm not a masochist.”

The bunnykin glared at him. “As if you could win, anyway! I'm the better fighter!”

The elf woman scoffed. “No, you're not. You're more enthusiastic, but that also means you're losing yourself in the moment.”

As Sybil's face fell, the lieutenant pointed her chin at Sammie. “He, even though he's way too lazy, has better awareness. It's how he manages to almost make it seem like he's not creating openings for you to exploit.”

Sammie looked at his lieutenant, then at Sybil, who was looking at him like he'd just grown a second head, and shrugged with a smile. “Nah, it just looks that way. Don't worry, Bunbun, you're the better fighter.”

A smile began to form on Sybil's face, only to turn into a suspicious squint. “Is it true, or are you just trying to avoid more spar until I can beat you for real?”

Sammie nodded vigorously. “Totally the first. It's all true. You kick my ass. Don't need to keep proving it.”

Allimaya let out a breath. “Well, no matter. You're both heads above the rest of the unit, ever since you came back from your little adventure with the Allwardens and Leandro.”

Sybil looked at the lieutenant, a smile returning to her visage. “Oh! Yeah, that was super instructive! I'd never fought so much in my life! And it's good, too! Since we're going to be part of the personal guard for those two!”

Her eyes widened. “Oh! LT! Did you hear anything back about that? Have the papers come back? Do you know when we'll be officially transferred?”

The elf shook her head. “The official orders haven't arrived yet, but I heard they'd be part of the next mail delivery, and it shouldn't be long after that. We can go and get settled somewhere in their new compound until they find us a place to stay, after that.”

Sammie quirked a brow. “We?”

Allimaya smirked. “Yes, we. You lot are going to need a solid officer to keep you under control, and that's me.”

While he ran a hand down his face, Sybil's eyes widened in delight. “Lt! For real? Oh! But it's just us three? Do you know when we'll get the unit filled? There were ten spots total after all, might be hard to find enough.”

The elf scoffed. “Hard to find enough? Girl, we had to beat the volunteers back with a stick when we officers started asking.”

A hard and content smile drew across her lips. “We ended up having a small tournament. That was fun.”

One of Sybil's long ears folded down. “Really? I would have thought the rest of the unit wouldn't have wanted to, uh, emigrate. Why were they so eager?”

Allimaya sighed. “Bunch of reasons. Like you, a lot of them owe their lives to those two, and for some, that's worth a lot. For others, it's the prestige of being part of a personal guard, or they think it'll be a cushy job where they'll just stand around and look mean.”

Her teeth glinted as she smiled. “Obviously, it won't be. I hope at least some of them volunteered while thinking that it would. It'll be fun to crush their mistaken dreams.”

Sammie let his head hang as his shoulders slumped. Both women ignored him.

Sybil frowned. “LT? Do you think... we should get official outfits?”

The elf angled her head. “Hmm, it would be more appropriate to at least have the proper heraldry and house colours.”

“It would, right!?”

Sammie sighed. “You just want to stand out.”

She glared at him. “I do not! I just want to honour our saviours!”

He scoffed. “Yeah, and stand out while doing it.”

“I just really like the colours!”

He lazily nodded. “Yeah, they do stand out a lot.”

He barely had the time to trigger his Iron Body before she grabbed his tunic and threw him over her head, toward another pile of crates and barrels.

Riverwall Market Street

“Mabel! Is that you? I haven't seen you in a few days!”

A familiar voice called after Mabel. She turned to find Yvonne, a long-time friend who lived on the other side of town, trotting up to her, a half-filled hand basket hanging from her folded arm.

A smile drew across Mabel's face. Her five teenagers kept her busy at home these days, so she didn't have a lot of time to socialize. “Yvonne! So good to see you! Still using the basket your daughter wove for you, I see?”

The slightly older woman glanced down at her slightly frayed, oft-repaired basket. “I guess I am. With my Nina halfway across the continent, it helps remind me of her.” She said with slightly glistening eyes before looking back up at her friend. “But enough about this old woman, how are you? Your little swarm not giving you and your husband too much trouble? And don't lie, I know how teenagers can be!”

Mabel's smile turned tired as she shook her head. “Every day is a new adventure. I'm glad I let Jeremy talk me out of having a sixth like I wanted. I don't think I'd be alive right now, otherwise!”

Yvonne squinted as she leaned forward a bit. “Hmm, you do have bags under your eyes. You're not getting enough sleep, are you?” She asked with concern.

The younger housewife sighed. “I try, really, but Ivan, my oldest, keeps getting into trouble, and my youngest, Myron, wants nothing to do with his parents. Between that, my other three kids, and all the changes happening in town, I can hardly sleep. I wake up as soon as Jeremy turns in his sleep.”

“Oh, my poor dear! Stress'll be the death of you! You need your sleep!” She resettled the basket on her forearm. “Have you tried some herbal infusions? I can give you my family's recipe for a blend that helps calm the nerves.”

Mabel dipped her head. “Thank you, Yvonne. I'm sure it'll help. It's just a tough time to get through, I suppose.” She said with drooping eyelids above a resigned smile.

“Well, at least one solid night of sleep a week could help you. Have you tried a sleeping aid potion?” The older woman asked.

Mabel glanced over her shoulder, in the direction she'd been heading, and then back at her friend. “Actually, I was just heading to Brenson's. I was thinking an energizer could help. Sleeping potions always leave me so drowsy the next morning, and I can't function until almost noon. That doesn't work out for me.”

Yvonne shook her head. “Energizer's no good. If your body's got no energy left to give, you'll feel even worse once the effect wears off.” She looked at the younger woman with pursed lips. “If Brenson's sleep potions aren't agreeing with you, why not try the ones from Panacea?”

Mabel frowned. “From the catkin girl's shop? Haven't you heard about what happened while she was working at Brenson's? People said her potions made them sick and that she then tried to lie about it.”

Her friend tutted. “None of that. Niala is the sweetest little thing ever. That whole business with Brenson sounds like a huge misunderstanding, if you ask me.”

“You... think? But even if she's nice, if her potions are no good...”

Yvonne scanned their surrounding before leaning in a bit. “You remember my grand-nephew, Olin? He swears on the saints' heads that the only reason he's alive is thanks to that shop's potions. Been turning my ears red with it, he has! But, I admit it made me curious, so I went to have a look.”

Mabel looked around herself, leaning in a bit further toward her friend, lowering her tone. “I admit I've heard the same stories, but her prices are so high as well...”

Yvonne waved her hand. “Pfah! That's not true anymore! I asked the girl, and she told me that's because she was only selling adventurer-grade potions before! But now, she's selling much more reasonably-priced common-grade ones! I'll admit, still a few bits more than Brenson's, but they barely have any side effects!”

Mabel blinked. Potions without side effects were things that the common man and woman knew about, but rarely, if ever, got the chance to experience. “They do?”

The older woman nodded. “I'm telling you! And that's not all; you know how, on some days, I wake up light-headed, and I need an energizer to get me through the day, but those always gave me heartburn and upset bowels the next day?”

“Ah, yes, you've told me before.”

Yvonne smiled. “Well, I talked about it with the dear girl, and she listened to everything, even asked me questions about my health! She said that I might have a mineral deficit because I don't eat a lot of meat or bread- you know how those give me gas! Anyway, she asked me to come back the next day, that she'd have something for me.”

Mabel found herself leaning forward. “And? What did she have for you?”

The older woman put a hand to her collar. “Oh! The dear had gone ahead and brewed me a personalized potion! For little old me! Said it would help balance my deficit if I added a bit of it to any soup I ate, and that she'd added a bit of a fortifying effect to it, and even went ahead and spiced it with her own blend. Oh, let me tell you! I can't stop adding a bit of that potion to all my soups now! If her talent was just on coming up with spice blends, I'd already sung her praises, but I also haven't had a spell of weakness ever since!”

Mabel squinted. “But how much did she charge you for that? A personalized potion isn't cheap.”

Yvonne smiled, “She gave me the first one for free! And she said she'd brewed a small batch, so they'd be available if I needed more, for just a few more bits than one of Brenson's energizer!”

The younger woman's brow rose. “Free? Really?”

“Free, with no strings attached! I couldn't believe it! I almost felt like a bandit! And since I started using that potion, and how energized I've been, I've felt even more guilty! I'm telling you, Mabel, that girl's a little gem. So sweet and caring! Don't listen to all that bad blood from before.”

“But... what about that, huh, the rat-monster, that I heard guards her shop? Isn't it dangerous?”

The older woman scoffed. “What? Papo? Mabel, dear, one look at that cute little snout of his, when he wiggles his whiskers over his tiny smile, and you'll realize the precious little angel wouldn't hurt a fly!”

Her smile turned a bit strained. “You just, uh, take care around the goblin woman. She's a nice girl, but she can sell you a broken glass bottle, and you'll think it's the greatest table centre piece you've ever beheld.”

Mabel took another look around the two of them, watching for anyone eavesdropping.

Brenson had been a household name in Riverwall since she was a little girl. He dealt fairly with everyone, and his potions were very consistent in their quality.

But...

Maybe...

She could give Panacea Potion a try.

She was so very tired all the time, after all...