"A… promiscuous woman?" The orc was taken aback. "For what reason do you wish to know this word?"

"That's what it means? My skill called me that."

The Culturist laughed, Helix laughed, and not far away, he heard the Educator cough as she quickly flipped through her tome, trying to hide a laugh of her own.

The Deathless absolutely did not laugh. Hey, eat my ass, skill.

A Glimpse of Perspective: I would bite my thumb at thy stupidity, but you may bite your own thumb on my behalf, ye dung-headed beast of brainless burden. Now, hear this: Trapped. Trapped is the Culturist. Trapped between the fullest experience of an individual and the brutish, bestial nature of a monster. Trapped is what an orc is, capable of indulging both, but unable to leave either. Trapped, damned, but capable. It is exposed to the air, to the winds, yet it is bound to the will of what was. A chain holds on to the Culturist, and it envies you, for though it remains stronger than you now, someday you will ride free and, so long as you are not struck down, you will blossom. You will hatch from your cocoon, and you will be grander. You will be the flame, and it yearns for that very same liberation. In summation, if you wish to see the world as the Culturist does, imagine things from the perspective of an aborted metamorphosis or an incomplete apotheosis.

You really like to talk a lot, don't you, Skill, Shiv thought to himself. When the Skill didn't reply, the Deathless snarled. Yeah, okay, fine. Be quiet now, you prick.

"I take it you advanced your Philosophy, then." The Culturist's smile grew ever wider. "I am glad to be of service. And you're welcome."

"You shut the hell up too, asshole. I’m gonna go… read a book. Or write and shit. Felling… made up words."

The Culturist perked up at that. "I can recommend you some literature."

Shiv walked past him and pointed a single finger at the orc. He chuckled behind him, further fanning the flames of Shiv's furor.

***

Dear Idiot “Grandson”:

It appears that when your father finished inside Udraal, he forgot to release the bit of seed that carried one’s brain cells across into the embryo. Have you any idea how close you were to being discovered? How much Harlock wished to descend upon you? Have you any understanding of how stupid, how maladroit, how incompetent, how clumsy you are? If your life were a play, I would have to find an awakened ox with cerebral palsy to take your role, for only so simple and crippled a creature could match your incompetence in these recent days.

Also, do not assume that I'm unaware of your dealings with the Neath. Nor should you think that the Headmaster will offer you sanctuary and succor if I demand he hand you over. Remember our arrangement. I have left you spared for a specific purpose. You could have never escaped without my allowance, and it's best that you hold on to that and be thankful for my magnanimity.

And as for the letter you wrote me a few days ago, I've ignored all the profane portions, struck out all the invectives, and corrected all the spelling, grammatical, and syntax mistakes you've made. You can find an updated draft of your message that I've written in my own manner, and you can learn from that so that you might someday finally, perchance, reach a semblance of sapience.

I beg of you now, get a proper writing tutor, learn your letters, and do so quickly before the academy realizes that they've let a mental invalid into their halls.

Additionally, I hope you understand that I will be coming for that slipgate the moment it reaches fruition, and that I am doing everything I can to occupy Maiden's attention.

Do work quickly and do not assume your own safety. Everything you do is allowed by me.

Yours truly,

Veronica Chandler

Postscript. And good God, boy, find someone to fix your handwriting. I know an Awakened Chicken who can scratch words better in the dirt than you can write them. The chicken's name, by the way, is Theodore Thaddeus Thalmo III. Why do I know this? Because I trained this chicken as a challenge during my girlhood, and despite having the brain the size of a pea, it managed to complete a university degree before graduating with honors.

I suspect you won't be able to do the same. Lamentably.

Some apples don't fall far from the tree. Others tumble into the gutter and are carried in the sewer before finding their way into a Gate made from festering excrement.

"Oh, that godsdamn old bitch," Shiv hissed, seething at the Sync-Letter.

Adam was shivering next to him, trembling with withheld laughter. The Gate Lord's face was red, and his cheeks were filled with air. It was all he could do to hold it back, and a low whistle escaped from him.

"You can laugh if you want, Adam." And that was all it took. Adam doubled over in laughter. He had broken down at several points while explaining specific words in the letter to Shiv. Words such as "magnanimous" and what “postscript” meant.

The message Shiv had received from Veronica was the opposite of useful. Instead, it was a barrage of insults and a reminder that she had her eyes on him, and she made it clear just how much she knew. She was aware of the slipgate, which meant that she was probably already aware of the Culturist’s presence and the imminent evacuation of Blackedge.

This meant Blackedge faced more than just one threat. The Fingerlings and the Strangers were one portion of the danger. The others were Udraal, who continued to lurk in the shadows, and the Prismatic Guard alongside the Ascendants, who were likely capable of attacking at any moment—held back only by Veronica's self-interest. She likely wouldn't make a move until Udraal showed himself, and he likely wouldn't make a move until she did something first.

Or that was how the situation seemed thus far. A game with the Deathless trapped in the middle.

But Shiv doubted this détente would last. Once they secured Blackedge and reclaimed Starhawk's Perch, there was more than a small likelihood one or both sides would try to move on the Starhawk's Sacred Phylactery—along with all other Sacred Phylacteries it held. In that process, they would likely try to recapture Shiv, Adam, and everyone else from the town.

As such, Shiv and Adam began devising plans of their own, plans that only the other knew about. Together, they schemed against absolutely everyone. Against the orcs. Against Veronica. Against Udraal and the Educator. Against Hawgrave. Against the escaped prisoners that had accompanied them so far. Finally, they considered Can Hu. Though it made Shiv uncomfortable, Adam brought up an important point about the Penitent.

"We must consider the bitter possibility that Can Hu has been subverted by Udraal in some way. It claimed that Udraal restored its skills, and considering how powerful Udraal's Animancy is…"

Adam didn't need to finish the rest. That didn’t make dealing with the problem easier for Shiv. "We can try reaching inside Can Hu, but we'd probably need to surprise it. Otherwise, assuming we're right, Udraal will notice, and I don't think he'll just let us remove his control or whatever he's got over our bot."

"I don't think we should do anything yet." Adam spent a moment considering the situation. "We don't want to give away our suspicion. That's one of our edges against Udraal. The more ignorant he thinks we are, the more likely he'll do something overt, something we might be able to notice."

"And what then?" Shiv asked. "We don't really have any means of countering him, even if we do notice. He's powerful. He's got too many bodies. For all we know, he could spend and kill Can Hu, and then just infect someone else down the road. Shit, if I was Udraal, I'd be planning more chance encounters with us, if you know what I'm saying."

And that brought a new dimension of discomfort to their conversation. "I do know what you're saying. And I don't bloody like it at all." Adam sighed. "It wouldn't be hard for Udraal to smuggle one of his vessels into my Gate eventually. As if it isn't compromised enough already."

"So, what do we do in the meantime? Just keep an eye on Can Hu? Feels wrong not letting it know."

"It is wrong, but it's also the best choice we have right now. I don't want to play passive, but there are too many unknowns and too much at risk." The Gate Lord forced down his discomfort. "And I've been considering speaking with the Culturist using my Commander's Foresight. He's here. He's not listening. I can feel him. His mind is elsewhere. He does it to give me my privacy, and I'm thinking he's trying to build trust with me. It's..." Adam hesitated. "Working to some extent. Damn the orc, and damn his charm."

"You sure about this?"

"No, I'm not godsdamn sure, Shiv. I'm not godsdamn sure about anything anymore. It's been a chain of 'I'm not godsdamn sure.' This orc is just another node in a long chain. Doesn't matter that he tore me apart. What's the difference? It's just another week, just another day. It's just another near-death experience. My body's practically not my own anymore. It's just clay for the System to beat and mold. And I'm just kindling. Just kindling."

Shiv really didn't like how Adam sounded.

"Kindling for what?" Shiv asked.

"For you, you fool," Adam muttered. "The Culturist is using me to hurt you. He intends to hurt me as well, and fashion me into a weapon, but I'm being burnt, I'm being tormented because I am alongside you. Now, don't get this confused. I'm not blaming you, but it's like everything around us must burn. Everything must be reduced to ashes, tormented and fashioned into an instrument of absolute strife, or destroyed to feed said strife."

Adam went quiet for a while, and Shiv's new Philosophy skill triggered. He gained a glimpse of how Adam saw the world, how he saw himself. He wasn't a hawk, soaring with talons bared, prepared to rip the flesh from fleeing prey. He wasn't an archer standing high above all, preparing to release his arrows to strike down foes beyond sight. No, Adam felt like a burning feather, withered down, spent, driven to the brink.

"I still get jealous of you sometimes," Adam admitted softly. "Not the same as before. There's no true rancor there, but—"

"What's rancor mean?" Shiv asked.

Adam couldn't help it. He laughed. "It means loathing. It means hate. Remember how we started out? A little bit like that. There's no hate there anymore, but I wish—I hope—that I could have your mind—the fact that you don't break—the fact that the System cannot shatter you so irrevocably that you are not yourself anymore. I'm jealous of that."

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Don't tell him you're sorry. Don't tell him it's understandable. Agree with him. That's the only thing you can do. This isn't your fault, it isn't his fault, but that doesn't make his feelings any less real. The Culturist's words to you before matter. He was right. You should feel, but you should also stand beyond your feelings.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart 129 > 131

Shiv didn't need to tell Adam that. Their minds were connected in that moment, and the Gate Lord heard Shiv's skill clearer than the Deathless himself did.

"I know, I know. I thought these thoughts myself. But still, I'm not like you. It hurts, Shiv. Getting nearly killed hurts. Being so close to death, being mangled, having an orc take hold of my skill, my soul. And then instead of even being a proper monster, he plays gentle. He whispers to me and protects us from further harm. He takes a role of mentorship, one we cannot outright reject. And he tells us the ugly truth that he will hurt us, that he must, that he cannot avoid it. But he will build us up in the meantime. What are our lives? What monstrosities do we live? It's like we're pills in a cauldron. The heat just goes up and up and up simply because neither of us have broken yet. Neither of us have dissolved. But I'm not a pill, Shiv. I'm a person. I'm a person. And the fire is getting to me. I'm afraid. I'm afraid that I will—"

Adam didn't finish. Shiv did. "That you'll break?"

"Yes," Adam admitted. "I'm afraid I'm not enough. No—I know I'm not enough. In far too many ways, I'm not enough. For all the skill, for all the mastery, for all the training, for everything I am, I'm not unbreakable. I am eminently fragile compared to you, compared to the Culturist. I'm fragile, and I despise it. I despise the fact that my mind is brittle. I despise the fact that I get scared, that I can't throw myself into the violence like you do. I despise the fact that I might not be here. I'm terrified of the fact that I might be struck down. I don't know what comes after. I don't want to think about it. I don't think about it. But more than that, I find myself burdened and distressed, worried about what might happen to you."

"What do you mean?" Shiv asked, but there was a building lump inside his metaphorical throat.

"I don't want to leave you alone with the monsters," Adam said. "I don't want to leave you alone in general. I don't want to leave. I don't want to die. But I will. For the people I care for. For Blackedge. For you, for Uva, for father—I will die. I will give my life willingly. But I don't want to be gone. I don't want you to be unprotected. I don't want to give you to some orc to mangle."

"I feel the same way," Shiv admitted. "I don't think I'm gonna die. At least, I'm gonna try not to, and it's pretty hard to put me down, but I know. I don't have any bullshit for you, Adam. I can't say that you're stronger than you know. And you are stronger than you know by a whole godsdamned lot. But I don't know if strength matters here. Caught a glimpse of how the Culturist sees himself, and even he's trapped and miserable."

"Yes, but his problem is different. Among orcs, he's quite the drama queen, isn't he?"

Shiv considered that and laughed. "Yeah, he's got a lot he complains about. It's pretty melodramatic at times."

