Let me tell you something, reader. You don't know what it feels like to be a hero until you've liberated a town under siege. You don't know what it's like until you see the lights come back in those eyes. Those sunken eyes… trapped and starved for months, on the brink of despair. Desperate to sell their deaths dearly. Desperate to fight for their homes, knowing that there's no way out. And then all of a sudden, you're there. You change everything. You drive back the people at their walls. You give them what they want, what they need. And there's a fire that grows inside of them. A fire that is infectious. A fire that yearns for life.

And they love you. They truly, truly love you for saving them. It might just be the truest love you'll ever know. Because there's nothing purer than a person that's been starved down to their bones. That's on the brink of losing touch with who they are. Of what they are. And then you pull them back. It's like saving a drowning person. You are that breath of air. You are everything.

And those moments baptize you. They teach you how fragile life is. They teach you that people matter to each other, that people can truly matter to you.

We may live alone and evolve alone, but we live among others, and that’s what gives a lot of people their purpose.

The world is worth fighting for. The people in it are worth fighting for. Do the right thing. Whenever you can. Just do the right thing whenever you can. Please. Mithril and power are not purposes unto themselves. Do something that feeds the heart.

-Memoirs of a Master-Tier War Mage

271 (I)

Liberation [I]

No unforeseen crises unfolded in the following two days leading up to the slipgate’s completion. Shiv would have called it a small miracle, except he knew it was mainly a factor of Hymn closing down the central part of campus to allow maintenance to unfold. That, and also because the Culturist decided to quell any issues before they got out of hand.

Though Shiv hated to admit it, the orc was on another level of skill and power. At several points, Adam detected hired mercenaries and assassins lurking in the dark, results from the blood feud created by the family heirloom switcheroo. Yet, attacks that were supposed to happen were suddenly cancelled. Killings were halted abruptly. Pathbearers lurking in the darkness sheathed their blades, as if suddenly possessed by a new notion or objective, and with that they turned away and went home, overcome by a peaceful urge.

"I have no idea how he's doing this," Adam begrudgingly admitted. "I have no idea where he's casting his spells from, how he's influencing their minds. I suspect he has a Divination Skill too. Something like Andra's skill—the one she used to cast her javelin using the System’s narrative or causality itself.”

And though the two of them had cast wary and near-belligerent looks at the Culturist, the Legendary orc took no offense and even gave them respectable distance. Indeed, it seemed like the Culturist was empathic when it came to Adam. Everything the Culturist did, he did carefully and subtly, trying not to traumatize Adam further. It was as he'd promised: he would seek to build them up. He would refrain from violence as much as he could until he next lost control of himself. And he always reminded them that he would inevitably lose. But there was a feeling of dissonance, a growing lull. As if the Culturist could beat the darkness inside. As if the Culturist could become more than an orc. And that was just a thing that was human psychology at work: the urge to hope.

Such was the worst thing about the Culturist. He made you hope. You couldn't help it. Shiv suspected it was part of his Charm skill, but it truly felt like it was at the core of his personal philosophy, that yearning for virtue. On top of this, the Culturist was different from the other orcs by magnitude in power and action.

Shiv could beat down Helix, could tear Mortar limb from limb, could overcome Whisper, and could pulp Tequila into paste with barely a flick. The Culturist was different. Shiv suspected he would need to die well over a hundred times before his skills were strong enough to contend with the Culturist. And even then, he suspected that the greater divide between them was experience—combat experience, life experience, and general intellect.

The Culturist's gaze was gentle but piercing, and Shiv felt transparent before him. It was an unnerving feeling. The Deathless liked being unpredictable, liked having a psychological edge. He was willing to suffer unspeakable pain, die, and return to surprise his adversaries. But that wouldn't work on the Culturist. There was too much insight in the orc. More importantly, he was also too damned understanding.

"It's an understandable feeling," the Culturist said, approaching Shiv out of the blue as he and the rest of their group tried to communicate with one of Kura's temporal shadows. The elven Chronomancer had managed to dispatch a few of her time clones out from the temporal gateway. However, there was an issue of what Jessica called lag: time dilation between the pace of progress inside the Gate and the actual world beyond it. As such, Kura’s clones would take a few steps, go still for half an hour, and then only carry bits and pieces of sentences across, leaving communication a bit of a jarring mess.

As such, it became necessary to start piecing what she said together, syllable by syllable, writing it down in a notebook until a coherent message was delivered.

"What's that?" Shiv said, turning to regard the orc.

"How you feel toward me. It's an understandable feeling. You're worried about your friend. You're worried about your own security. And you do not trust me. You regard me as a deer would a wolf."

That made Shiv scoff. "I'm no deer, and you're no wolf. We're both killers. Now, you might be a bigger killer than me right now, but I'm no easy meat. Don't get that twisted. If we fight, you'll kill me a hundred times, a thousand times, a million times, and whatever other numbers come after that. But there's going to be a point where I'll be more than you can swallow. And then I'll choke you, and then I will be the one that eats you."

The Legendary-Tier orc chuckled and nodded in agreement. "Indeed, indeed. I'm not disputing that, and that's part of the reason why I didn't kill you overmuch during our encounter. I was saving that for the future. I think you would be better sculpted by more precise deaths. Having you die to pointless brutality is not efficient for your development.”

"And let me guess, you're going to be the one that delivers these deaths."

The Culturist almost curtsied. "It is a mutually beneficial proposition between us, and more importantly, it allows you to overcome the anxiety you are feeling."

"Not feeling any anxiety," Shiv said. But as soon as he finished those words, his body vibrated with doubt, and the Culturist noticed just as much as he did.

Gardener of Doubt: You can't lie to this one. He sees through you. He sees deeper than even I. He has more insight into your psychology than you can possibly fathom. Be wary. He might not be able to break your mind for good, but he can break your mind, and he will at some point.

"Keep your pride, if you must, but understand that I know where you stand. I know how you feel, or at least some approximation of how you feel. After all, Valor has engendered the same feeling in me time and time again. Of all my adversaries, he is the one I never got anywhere close to slaying. He is always a step beyond, a step too far."

The orc paused and let the implication settle into Shiv as words drifted uncomfortably close to the Deathless's innermost thoughts. Then the Culturist turned away from Shiv—a deliberate and dramatic action. "You find yourself wondering, 'How? How can I match this creature? Perhaps if I am strong enough, yes, with enough years, with enough effort, with enough dedication, with raw power, I could overcome everything else.' But there is that something else. That intangible something that you cannot fully grasp yet. A superior intuition, a deeper reservoir of understanding and knowledge, an intellect that you cannot match."

Shiv sneered. "This is a really cute way of boasting about yourself, orc."

"I'm glad you agreed, Pathbearer Shiv. But it's not about boasting. This is about the value of discomfort, of coming to grips with your inferiority and learning what you can do with it. It is an important lesson, and for very many Pathbearers, they learn it when they are still Adepts. You, on the other hand, bypassed this lesson. You faced too many monsters that simply slayed you. Too many Pathbearers who got ahead based on raw talent or power, and they slayed you until they could not keep slaying you, until you were more than they were. The System has poured so much power and strife into you that you bypassed many critical teachings. And here is one of them: how to avoid the bigger monsters. How to survive in their shadow, so that one day you might become greater than they. And how can you understand where they are greater than you? So that you might be able to sculpt yourself to counter their advantages, to learn from them?"

"That's why you call yourself the Culturist?" Shiv asked. "Because you learn from your enemies?"

"I did not coin this title myself. It was a term of mockery, originally." The Legendary orc scoffed. His bitterness seemed true. "You know about the orcish cliques. Some of us are called 'Exos' for our interest in other cultures, for our willingness to take in skills that are not born of the Challenger. I collect such skills. I try to find a higher path beyond our base animal rage, psychopathy, instinct, and urge to hurt. And it has guided me well. But some of my own kind find this an insult to their self-esteem. Some take it as an ontological challenge. The statement that the orc is not the prime of all races, that they are not better, that our civilization is not superior."

"And you're saying it isn't," Shiv said, prodding the orc slightly.

"I'm saying we don't have a civilization. You've been to the Tutorial, Pathbearer Shiv. Tell me, what great works of art did you witness there? Structures, yes. Fortresses, yes. Weapons, perhaps, yes. Implements of war, of course. We are capable of that. But what lasting monuments are there? Did you even see ruins? Did you see aqueducts? Did you see anything for the commonwealth of my species? No. It is practically an ever-decaying tomb. A tomb we harvest from. A tomb that we use as our domicile. But we are as if rats living in a greater being's corpse. We feed off the festering rot, and we lurk there, dying and resurrecting, never truly growing, never building anything that lasts."

The Culturist's lip curled, and the full extent of his disgust played upon his face. But a second later, he mastered himself, and his stoic calmness returned. Serenity was the orc's desired state, and he seemed to cling to that whenever he could. "Regardless, the lesson of hierarchy and the balance of power is best experienced rather than learned theoretically or from text. If you can face these feelings, if you can channel your anxiousness into something worthwhile, then you will have ruled your own mind. And that is something absolute, that is something beautiful and to be proud of."

"The lesson I should learn is when to play the role of a little dog and whimper in the presence of a proper monster?" Shiv retorted mockingly.

"It could be the lesson you choose to learn, yes. But I would argue it would be a mistaken lesson. A lesson learned because you are too obstinate and emotionally fragile to face the actual truth. The lesson I hope you learn is that you are more than your emotions, that though your feelings are valid, though your worries have weight behind them, you can confront the realities of the situation; that even being lesser than someone doesn't mean things are hopeless."

Shiv's tongue was moving before his thoughts formed. His instinct was to say something acidic. Yet, the orc's words pushed one of his skills over the edge, a final hit of insight watering his Philosophy.

Philosophy 46 > 51 (Skill Evolution Reached)

Skill Evolution: Philosophy (Initiate) > A Glimpse of Perspective (Adept)

Suddenly, as Shiv regarded the Culturist, a faint vision appeared in his mind's eye, a vision connected to the orc. Something emerged from a place of roiling darkness. Something surfaced from the depths of Shiv's mind. It seemed like an insect of some kind, halfway hatched from a cocoon but still stuck inside. Ultimately, unable to break free. Part of its body had turned into a butterfly, while the other half lingered in the form of a caterpillar.

Shiv stared at the thing appearing in his mind’s eye with incomprehension. What the hells is that supposed to represent?

A Glimpse of Perspective: Ahem. Herein lies the Culturist's great pain, ever damned to be the moth and never the flame—

Wait! Shiv thought. Isn't this supposed to be like a butterfly? Why are we talking about moths?

A Glimpse of Perspective: I'm being metaphorical, ye stupid fuck.

Hey, don't call me a stupid fuck. You're my skill. If you're insulting me, you're insulting yourself.

A Glimpse of Perspective: I would do a great deal more than insult thee if I could. I would choose to end myself for being hatched in a mind as blunt and brutish as yours. Now, allow me to finish my monologue, ye unwanted hoebag.

Shiv’s jaw opened slightly in offense. The felling hells does that even mean? Where are you getting these words? Are you just making them up?

"Did you just gain a Skill Evolution? Have you evolved your Psychology? Or was it Philosophy?" The Culturist's wide grin was annoying, and Shiv nearly told him to piss off. He hated how much the orc could see through him. But just then, another urge took hold of him.

"Do you know what 'hoebag' means?" Shiv asked.

