Each crossing took more time while presenting fiercer resistance. It felt like the perception was only seconds away from locking onto their position when they found the fifth river’s exit. They wouldn’t make it out in time if they adopted the same approach for the next battlefield.

“We could wait a few hours,” Esmeralda reluctantly suggested.

“I’m not sure we can survive the break,” Zac hesitated.

The moon was beating down at them with no less intensity than a sweltering sun. Zac could feel his Soul Aperture wither under its glare, and the corruption in the fifth band was simply unbearable. The sands shifted like they’d heard Zac’s thoughts, and a sandman rose from the dune. Dispersing it with a forceful kick didn’t change anything. Another sandman began taking shape, followed by even more.

“Are they trying to escape the containment of the rivers?” Esmeralda blurted upon seeing their familiar shape. They looked just like the armored soldiers inside.

“We’ll have to give it a try. Give it to me,” Idiche said.

Zac hesitated a moment before handing over the dagger. She’d assured them she was strong enough to take them across the whole river with energy to spare. Should that fail, she would bring out another lifesaving treasure left by her master. Having witnessed the power of the Eighth Elder’s other gift, Zac had agreed with the idea. He’d just hoped to save the solution until the next river.

Idiche dragged the edge across her palm, and the sacrificial tool greedily accepted the offering. It released a pulse, and the hidden road stretched out across the water. They only got halfway across before Idiche grunted, and the bridge collapsed. Zac quickly snatched back the dagger as they plunged into the water. Zac had already been prepared for the outcome yet chose to go ahead anyway. He believed that entering from the middle of the river would put them closer to the exit.

It was too early to tell if he was right, but it had clearly made a difference. This time, they fell through unstable clouds instead of appearing shoulder to shoulder with the shadow army. Zac swore upon realizing his powers of flight were sealed, his voice cracking when hundreds of soldiers looked up at the same time.

“Backup plan?” Idiche said, her cheeks flushed with exhaustion and embarrassment when Zac turned to her.

“I was growing tired of playing tag anyway,” Zac comforted her with a crooked smile.

“I guess we have no choice. Ten seconds, make it count,” Idiche sighed as she took out a crystalline bottle filled with starlight.

She tapped the stopper against Zac’s hand before pouring out its contents on the soldiers below. Suddenly, Zac was no longer descending alone. A hundred copies of himself descended on the battlefield like a calamitous meteor shower. They were illusions, yet not; in some ways, they were more real than the corrupted army.

Dozens of soldiers were torn apart in the blink of an eye, and Zac’s descent was no longer the focus. In fact, his presence was completely gone, shielded by a swirl of stars. The enemy lines were in chaos, and the powerful perception grew scattered as it began investigating the deadly squad that had appeared out of nowhere.

Zac turned into a blur the moment he landed, cutting the closest soldier in two. The shimmering light hiding him held steady, and not even the powerful entity noticed his actions. Idiche had called the bottle a one-time escape treasure that conjured copies of oneself while hiding your presence. But the copies had more than half Zac’s strength, so it could just as well be considered a terrifying offensive item.

There was no time to lose. Zac left a streak of starlight in his wake as he set out at maximum speed. He didn’t bother weaving back and forth to minimize casualties. He became a harvester of lives, feeding death into the seed during his mad dash. Now that the situation had reached this point, Zac only had one goal in mind. Idiche had given him a ten-second free-for-all, and he intended to make it count. How to cross the last two bridges was a problem for the future. For now, he had experience points to collect.
