Chapter 363

The once pristine marble around the rift was positively bathed in blood.

There wasn’t a single spot in the surrounding area that wasn’t completely soaked in blood, and looking up, the cause was obvious.

There was a battle happening in the sky above, while lower Tier sect members fought street by street.

The moment they appeared, several spiritual perceptions roughly scanned them, but none got through their defenses and the perceptions slunk away after the five of them lashed back out.

Sien was standing off in a corner watching the show and waved them over. “Look at what you guys set off!”

Phoenix Liz cocked her head so far, it was nearly upside down in confusion. “Us? How did we manage this?”

Sien chuckled darkly. “The corrupt local official was apparently bought out by another sect, and your issues exposed his connection, which caused the attacking sect to launch their attack early, before their influence was completely scoured from the local one. Well done!”

Matt scanned the surroundings but found that there were almost no low Tier unaffiliated people in the city, let alone mortals. They must have been evacuated before the fighting started in earnest.

That, or they had been slaughtered completely before they had exited, but Matt didn’t want to think of that possibility because that would force him to act.

Allie fingered one of her daggers even as her eyes darted around, but Sien waved her hand and created a portal out of a nearby shadow. “Best not to linger where we aren’t wanted.”

“I’m surprised they are letting us leave so easily. Unless you informed them of your identity, Sien.”

Zack's question reached the heart of the issue, but Sien shook her head. “I said I was incognito for this trip, and I shall remain so.”

“Except for tea service," Aster quipped.

“Or that time at the pastry cafe,” Allie added.

“Or—”

“A woman of my station needs her luxuries. Besides, it's completely different here. If they had known exactly who I was, they never would have launched this attack, and how boring would that be?”

Matt shook his head. “Are the Sects usually this… involved? I feel like everywhere we have gone, things have been hectic.”

Sien nodded slowly before shrugging. “Yes and no. We are in valuable, high volume systems, and that leads to conflict more than average. I’d say what we are seeing is average for these systems, with the understanding that this region is more contested than most.”

From there, they broke into chaotic space and traversed seven worlds to reach their next destination.

The rift there was a fun puzzle-jungle theme that they actually delved twice, as there were two main ways to beat the rift, each with their own typical rewards, and they wanted both.

The first was the typical way to delve the rift by solving the puzzles, piecing together the clues until one was able to fix the hidden area with the boss.

The second was to fly up and punch the hidden boss, the false sun that loomed large in the rift.

Anyone who could kill the hidden boss was able to get an otherwise inaccessible rift reward, which was typically a Solar Oculus, a very rare Natural Treasure, which could be sold in the Empire for a large fortune to any fire mages who wanted the ability to shoot fire out of their eyes without a spell.

On their first delve, they got a giant block of Icarus marble that was a decently valuable floating material that they intended to sell back in the Empire. The second delve, the one where they fought the sun, instead gave them a mediocre [Warmth of the Sun Shines Down on All Below Me Thereby Initiating the Growth of Life]. The pretentious name aside, the Tier 32 skill was a fairly complex plant growth encouragement skill that could sadly be replicated by any decent formation master, which made it fairly worthless.

They were going to sell it, but Aster brought up a good point. They might be able to give it to Luna if she ever tried to turn Liz into a heat lamp, like she had done to Mara more than once. And if that didn’t work, the portable volcano might serve as a good heated bed.

Matt doubted it would work, personally, but it would be funny to try.

Allie wanted to try for a third time, but they ended up dragging her to the next location. But Matt was sure she made a waypoint at the system so they could return at any time. It was more of a question of if she would bring the rest of them, or delve the rift on her own when she inevitably slipped in.

Days quickly morphed and elongated into years as they kept delving. Not all of the rifts were that interesting, but the progress felt amazing. It could easily take centuries to millennia to Tier up, starting in the late 20s, as rift slots became ever-harder to come by and healing cooldowns absolutely skyrocketed. But with two teams of Ascenders working together, meaningful wounds were quite rare, and the Sects were footing the bill for the rifts they ran.

Were it not for the unavoidable injuries adding up and the time constraints they still had to deal with, Matt felt like they could make it to Tier 27 in as little as a half a century given their current pace. They weren’t even pushing that hard. Well, not by his standards of the Path and mid-war rushed delving, anyway.

At one point, they completed a set of rifts that was scheduled to take them almost a year in two and a half months, so they ended up going back to Yun Me’s planet where they spent the rest of the year messing around with Sien.

Yun Me and Gan Le were nearby, but the only one they saw was Gan Le, who was always battered and bruised when he came to visit.

Matt personally wanted to clash with Yun Me, it would have been a fun battle to see just what level a ‘normal’ person could reach with a million plus years of training. But she must have sensed that, as she never showed up in person.

During that time, Matt did get a better understanding of Gan Le and his powers. He had about as much offensive capabilities as a baby kitten. Well, by Ascender standards anyway. He was probably decent by more ‘normal’ comparisons, but Matt was self-aware enough to acknowledge he had no real clue what normal people their Tier were expected to be able to do. On the other hand his defensive prowess was top notch.

He even got to see it first hand, as at Sien’s encouragement, they went into a local rift that had a giant tentacle ooze monster as its final boss. When neither Matt or Liz wanted to get close, Allie, at Aster's laughing suggestion, simply kidnapped Gan Le and they tossed him into the monster as a distraction. Despite yelling about the indignity, he didn’t actually get hurt in the entire fight, which was a statement of power all its own.

Even their time between rifts was rather fun. As part of Zack and Allie’s buyout, they’d ended up with access to a decent number of Sect experts for training and lessons. A lot of them were too directly connected to their respective specialties to really be useful to Matt, Liz, and Aster, and others refused to give their lessons to anyone except strictly those they’d been paid to teach. But with a bit of help from Sien, they still ended up spying on those.

Through the process, Matt’s overall impression of Sect skill modification culture ended up somewhere between skepticism and awe. It seemed like they were a bunch of superstitious, often-backwards self-righteous maniacs who were intentionally giving them bad advice at times… but at the same time, “might makes right” was a very literal proof that at least some of what they were saying had some truth to it.

Imperial modification techniques were rigorous, straightforward, and reliable. They’d been honed over eons for maximum effect, and a properly-honed skill was one with no extraneous effects, optimized for pure performance. Sure, if you wanted maximum performance you couldn’t just blindly follow a guide, but that still meant you just needed to learn the underlying principles as to why and how a given action would improve a skill’s efficiency, or power, or cooldown. Only then could you effectively apply them to your skill.

Aster could drastically cut back the prominence of the portion of her [Astral Path] skill that was responsible for generating aurora mana, for example, because the mana she supplied it was already aurora mana, and therefore didn’t need to be converted. It was simple, mathematical, and logical.

His prior exposure to Sect modification techniques, such as the one he’d built his [Analyze] based on, had led him to believe that Sect techniques were similar enough, though more elaborate and involved at earlier Tiers. But that was proven distinctly wrong as he spent time learning from the respective masters directly in the Sects.

Where an Empire module might guide someone to improve their [Fireball]’s cooldown speed by repeatedly dry-firing it while spiritually pulling on a particular portion of the structure, training the skill structure to prepare to fire faster while under stress, a Sect technique might involve a very specific and complex dance that needed to be memorized and mastered while tying the skill’s effect to completing that dance. Then, one would slowly pare down the dance itself until it got simpler and simpler, faster and faster, all the while reducing the cooldown it had been associated with.

Matt had, when first learning about it, commented that it was like intentionally giving themselves training wheels, then removing them to improve their overall performance. Luna had swiftly disabused him of the notion, pointing out all the ways in which his analogy was incorrect, even on a surface level. But the main thing he’d taken away from that whole experience was that Sect skills often went through periods of intentionally making themselves worse before they became better, sometimes overtaking the more-regular improvements of Empire methods, sometimes not.

He was only now learning just how true that was. Sect skill modifications could sometimes absolutely cripple the base skill, sometimes with no expectation that it would ever surpass the basic effect, just for entirely nebulous or incredibly rare benefit. There was a [Fireball] modification known as [The Blooming Of The Pyroclastic Garden] that was worse in every way than the basic skill, but was nonetheless quite popular, because if you later got ahold of an Embers Of An Ashen Rose, it almost instantly became an insane cascading multi-stage conflagration that coated everything in burning ash and opened the door for a dozen other improvements.

It wasn’t like skill modifications that depended on a specific natural treasure were unknown in the Empire. Matt’s own Sliver of True Night’s Sight was the basis of a modification he’d made to [Telekinesis] to help him with sensory feedback. There were even a couple of modifications that effectively subsumed a natural treasure as part of their modification, requiring you to drink a potion made of the treasure or absorb it like a skill shard while performing some form of spiritual exercise. But he was starting to suspect that those rare modifications may have been leaked or copied from Sect equivalents, rather than happening organically.

Matt considered himself fairly good at skill modifications.

No, on a second thought, he considered himself excellent at skill modifications.

His mana regeneration meant he could modify skills far faster than most people, an advantage only further amplified by his flexible innate skill slot from Minkalla, and he had taken lessons in skill modification from the very best teachers in the Empire. His skills had almost no truly wasted mana, with peripheral benefits resulting from everywhere it spilled beyond its bounds. If he had perfect mana control, his [Cracked Phantom Armor] wouldn’t glow slightly, but until that day came about, he’d rather benefit from it being harder to dispel. He knew all of the fundamental laws and basic principles for how skills worked and the ways they interacted with the world, the difference between good skill design and bad skill design, and had come up with several quite successful custom modifications.

He was damn good at skill modification.

Compared to Sect techniques, though, he was a baby playing with building blocks.

Maybe.

He still wasn’t entirely sure he wasn’t being messed with.

According to one of the visiting teachers, what phase the local moon was in had a drastic impact on whether or not a given modification would work, and the world absolutely had to have exactly one moon, or else the modification would completely backfire. Another lecturer claimed that a certain modification must be performed while unconscious, advising that while an AI was acceptable, it would be better if either a dedicated skill- specifically, a modification of [Copy Text] of all things- or a Domain was used to do the mod. Oh, and while sleep was allowable, it would be better if it was due to passing out drunk while in a room filled with incense smoke. A specific kind of incense made it even better, supposedly.

By far the most outlandish one, though, was the woman who claimed that certain classes of skill modification techniques, performed in the same way by different people, could have different outcomes solely depending on whether someone was married or not.

That didn’t even make sense, but she had enough anecdotal evidence that made Matt question things.

