Then again, there was a lot of stuff that didn’t make sense. Some skill patterns, from what he knew, couldn’t work. One modification for [Endurance] created a section of the skill completely disconnected from everything else that only functioned as a timer of sorts. Nevermind that it wasn’t built like a timer, and he had no idea how it kept track of time. But if that timer was removed after it was created, the entire skill stopped working. Even the basic skill effects that shouldn't have been affected at all were disabled.

He was so close to calling the person who told him that out as just trying to give him bad info, but Sien confirmed that it was all true, as she had done a similar mod when she was a lower Tier, except hers had required her to be eating coconut as well.

So in the end, Matt was forced to acknowledge that there was at least some stuff going on that he didn’t understand, and that skill modification was more complicated than simple mathematics.

A good half of what he was learning had to be pointless superstition, but there was no way to figure out which half or what grains of truth might be hidden within without decades, probably millennia, of testing. How anyone was supposed to figure out custom modifications in this framework was beyond him, but apparently very few people made entirely custom modifications. Those who did frequently had a Talent or Domain helping them, while everyone else managed to figure out a way to modify a modification to apply to a different skill.

Overall, the most tangible advice he picked up was regarding skill merges, how to identify what he thought of as “nodes of attachment,” and how to develop an eye for what apparently-harmless modifications might completely ruin everything. He’d need to pick up a bunch of low-Tier skills and experiment before committing to anything, but he had a few skills that he wouldn’t mind merging. Even at a very basic level, [Archmage’s Presence] and [Cracked Phantom Armor] were two skills that he basically never used separately, and even being able to get the benefits of his innate skill slot to both of them simultaneously was tempting.

It was probably Liz’s eternally optimistic attitude on how well things would go rubbing off on him, but depending on how he managed the merge, he might be able to make [Cracked Phantom Armor] into a true channel, entirely removing its normal mana throughput limits and freeing him from his everlasting efforts to keep it capable of keeping up with him.

Or maybe he’d be able to enhance [Archmage’s Presence] with his Tier 25? As a life-aspected spell, he couldn’t use his Talent’s skill-reinforcing mode to strengthen it, but having flexible mana crystal [Cracked Phantom Armor] embedded in his body would probably do something impressive if he could properly integrate the spells together. He’d been very pleased with how his Millennium Willow Lifesap had strengthened him, and tying the merger of [Cracked Phantom Armor] and [Archmage’s Presence] into the effects of that natural treasure could be very interesting.

Going for both would probably be… not impossible, nothing was impossible. But he would undoubtedly be forging new ground with such a merger.

The most likely outcome would probably require him to make one skill or the other a primary, and the other a more definitive subservient skill. As far as merges went, he was practically a complete novice, and none of the people he spoke to in the Sects had any experience too applicable to his exact situation.

Regardless, he needed to first finish up his modifications to help [Archmage’s Presence] stack with his lesser buffs like [Mage’s Retreat], [Ranger’s Sight], [Barbarian's Hide], and the like. It was possible to get two buff skills that functioned in the same way to stack, but doing so would typically harm efficiency when only using one of the two. Not that Matt cared too much about that, not when doubling up would increase his effective maximum buffs and help him benefit from more than just the lower-Tier skill’s secondary effects. But it was an annoyingly long process, even if an entirely known one.

That meant it would be a long, long time before he tried to do that particular merge. Even beyond everything else, cracked skills and high-Tier skills were famously difficult to merge individually, and he was absolutely not going to risk his first skill and his highest-Tier skill until he was certain he wasn’t just throwing them away.

His first major target was probably going to be merging [Tribulation Strike] and [Mana Charge]. It was a good mid-term goal, as [Tribulation Strike] was already heavily modified from its original form as [Lightning Torrent], and if he could pull off a merge of a ranged channel skill and a melee weapon empowerment, he’d consider himself ‘pretty good’ at merges.

With just a few months left of their time in the Sects, the seven of them were out shopping. Gan Le had been dragged along, as he was the only one to have actually gone to the secret market they wanted to visit, when they had another incident.

Gan Le, over one of their dinners, had mentioned a black market he had visited when he was a mortal that had had a treasure Liz was looking for. Trees of Beginnings were rare, and all of the known ones weren’t set to flower for a few thousand years, but Gan Le suspected that the black market’s tree had flowered in the last fifty years based on when he had seen it last and their typical blooming cycle. If true that meant they might still have some of its pollen. Pollen that Liz wanted to augment her blood lemon tree.

Trees of Beginning were life mana treasures and their pollen was incredibly potent, almost dangerously so. It could, if transferred to other tree type Natural Treasures or items, rapidly age them without significant side effects.

Liz’s lemon tree was still incredibly young for a dryad spawn, which limited its maturity cycles. She believed that was why no matter how much mana and blood they fed it, the tree was slow to produce Rank 2 bloodlines and seemed to refuse Rank 3 ones all together.

Sien hadn’t even known there was a black market at that location and volunteered to get them close, despite Gan Le’s insistence that he could go there and get some of the pollen himself without creating an incident. Frankly, Matt agreed with him: Gan Le was nothing if not low key, and if he went to buy something no one would look twice at him, whereas their group was anything but and from what he had seen of the Sects, a black market was bound to be a truly lawless place.

Despite his misgivings, between Sien, Aster, and Allie wanting to go, he and Liz decided to just tag along.

After hearing that Gan Le had stumbled on the location when he was just a mortal, Matt hadn’t expected much, but he was proven wrong almost immediately. The black market was like a pocket dimension inside a slum that even Allie couldn't pinpoint until after she entered the first time because, as she explained, it wasn’t actually a pocket dimension and they weren't using spatial magic at all even if it looked like it.

Once they entered, they immediately found the Tree of Beginning, which bloomed with light as tens of thousands of paper lanterns were hung from its branches. The tree was far older than Gan Le had implied, and even Sien whistled upon seeing it.

“We can avoid the market itself and reach the House of Beginning in a few minutes. Their exchange house manages the tree and keeps its discards.” Gan Le almost seemed to beg them.

At least Matt imagined that was what he was doing as he tried to steer the group away from the bustling central market.

Allie laughed as she headed in the opposite direction. “Not a chance. Let's check the stalls. I see a pair of bracelets I want to check.”

“This is a very lawless place. I recommend we complete the mission without detours. I—”

“Booooring.”

Matt shrugged as he and Liz followed Aster and Allie, who ran ahead. “For what it's worth, I agree. We should buy the pollen, then window shop.”

“Is it really window shopping if the businesses in question don’t have windows?”

Matt contemplated Liz’s comment but shook his head, denying her. “It's an expression. You called it window shopping when we checked out weapons a few decades ago, and they had the weapons laid out on mats, so I’m going to count this.”

Zack shook his head. “Window shopping is just looking without an intention to buy. Simple. But Allie always wants to buy things, so she can never go window shopping.”

Gan Le opened his mouth to say something, but simply shook his head, following behind and resigning himself to his fate.

They made their way through three different stalls without seeing anything too interesting, but on the fourth one, Matt found a rift-made pillow that was said to be unstoppable once in motion. As his Intent had a similar but opposite effect, he wanted to test the item and see if, like his heart of a black hole, he could use it to hone his Intent just as he had done to his Concept.

It was cheap enough that he was pretty sure the effect would be minimal, but at worst, he was out a few seconds of regeneration.

Sien even picked up a vial of silvery liquid said to induce nightmares from a stall selling poisons. She immediately downed the bottle like a shot of liquor, which terrified the seller so badly they immediately swept the rest of their belongings into a spatial ring and fled the hidden realm, not even taking her proffered payment.

Sien merely dabbed the corners of her mouth with a procured silk cloth. “Curious.”

“Did it do anything to you?” Liz inspected Sien like she was expecting the other woman to sprout tentacles or something horrendous.

“Naturally. However, I am far superior to it, and even nightmares know to defer to their betters. If you are so inclined, I could expose you to a recreation of its effect.”

Matt quickly denied for both of them, even as Gan Le quickly backpedaled before Sien’s gaze could travel to him. “I think we are good.”

Aster was two stalls over, looking at the Natural Treasures laid out, and Matt hurriedly followed Gan Le to join her, dragging Liz along.

That was part of the charm about this black market; things were so intermixed it was impossible to guess what the next stall would have.

Liz, clearly copying Sien, picked up a Tier 20 flower crackling with lightning and popped it into her mouth, chewing through a grin at Matt.

The vendor looked horrified, but Matt just started bargaining. Liz eating the merchandise put them in an awful starting position, but he was determined not to get fleeced.

Just as Matt was getting the woman down to a reasonable price, a shout from the side wretched their attention.

“Get out of my way and hand it over. I saw it first!” A Tier 28 woman was in Aster's face and shouting.

Asters response was curt but she didn't back down. “It was in my hand first. Buzz off.”

The Tier 28 seemed a little surprised to hear a lower Tier talk back, and her response was to flex her cultivation, trying to pressure Aster. It might have been impressive or threatening, but not even a hair on his bond’s tail fluttered, which made the display pitiful instead. “Hand it over or I’ll take it.”

Matt felt Aster’s hackles rise and his own reaction was to get ready for a fight.

Sien had vanished to somewhere, clearly not interested in interfering.

Zack didn’t visibly do anything, but Matt noticed the small formations start to appear around his hand as he prepared for combat. Allie likewise had her daggers out and her expression had gone flat.

Matt took a step away from Liz, giving them both room in case things turned hostile. Part of him wanted to tell Aster to just back down, no Natural Treasure could be worth the bullshit that would follow, but he deferred to Aster.

Matt even noticed that Gan Le had spread his aura of protection over Aster, which at this distance would be enough to ensure she survived even a fatal blow.

The Sects didn’t have any punching down laws. Even if it was fairly rare for a higher Tier to besmirch their honor by attacking down, it wasn’t prohibited.

Not that a similar number of Tier 28s were any threat to the five of them.

Aster started to shimmer as the woman leaned in close enough her nose almost touched Aster’s. “Now.”

Instead of immediately responding, Aster sent them a message. ‘Let me handle this.’

Aster looked the woman up and down before she sneered. “No. And if you don’t back down, I’ll put you on ice.”

The Tier 28’s hand blurred as it wound up to slap Aster, but before the attack brushed his sister’s hair, the woman vanished in a puff of wintry air. Aster smiled slightly as a snowflake-laden breeze caressed her face. In a move he was sure she had practiced, Aster caught a single snowflake on the tip of her finger and licked it off with a vicious, tooth-filled grin.

Matt nearly laughed at Gan Le’s instinctive shiver, but instead got ready to defend Aster from the remaining part of the group.

One of the party members shouted even as he ran at Aster. “What have you done, you wench? Do you know who her father is?!?!? You court death by offending the—”

Aster raised a finger to her lips and blew a puff of air in the direction of the offended man. The faint gust of wind picked up a glimmer of aurora as it traveled, and as soon as it reached her new target, he too vanished.

Matt didn’t bother to hide his smile. Aster’s Tier 25 Talent hadn’t seen much use beyond being an extra store of mana in the war, as it functioned on spatial magic principles, and the countermeasures aimed at Allie blocked Aster’s own efforts quite well. But out here, with no Ascender-grade spatial blocking to be seen? They didn’t stand a chance.

