A pair of marketplace guards appeared, both Tier 28 and brimming with combat buffs aligned with a formation buff that was activating around them. It moved to suppress the six of them and boosted the guards into Tier 29 levels, but that meant nothing as Zack raised a hand and a fractal appeared above them, nullifying the formation around them.

At the same time, the two guards moved to apprehend Aster and Matt could feel dozens of other cultivations flare as more and stronger guards started to respond to their disturbance.

Liz teleported in front of one of the guards and drove her spear through his chest in one fluid movement. It wasn't lethal, Liz having not activated any of her more sinister attacks that would have targeted the guards spirit, but it stopped the guard in his tracks.

Gan Le, despite still providing his defensive aura to Aster, did his best to fade into the background. That was until a stray lightning bolt from one of the guards struck him dead-on, it didn’t make him so much as flinch, but it did prompt him to take a bit more of an active role, and he tossed up a few barriers meant to hamper their attackers.

Seeing they had things well in hand, Matt tossed the vendor he had been bartering with a Tier 32 skill shard to cover the flower Liz had eaten and the disturbance they had caused next to her shop. She was already packing her goods away, but took the skill with a nod before vanishing.

Matt, just like Liz, used their bound rings to teleport forward and drove his fist through the chest of a third guard that had arrived.

The fourth and fifth who had arrived with him moved to attack Matt, but their heads separated from their bodies as Allie’s daggers flicked in and out of existence.

Trying to ensure things didn’t escalate more than they had to, none of them were using lethal blows, so Matt and Allie allowed the three to retreat instead of finishing them off.

Matt sighed and looked over to the base of the tree where the pollen they needed should be sold.

“Any chance they might let us buy the pollen if we ask ni—” Sighing he shook his head as he realized just how ridiculous that statement was. “Never mind.”

Instead of waiting, Phoenix Liz flew forward to the shop just to get intercepted by close to a dozen guards.

Liz squawked and drops of golden blood flew out and struck the leading few guards.

They seemed shocked as the attacks not only pierced their armor, but their defensive spells as well, and that quickly morphed into horror as the blood started corroding them from the inside out. The moment they started to flee the corrosion stopped, but before Matt could see if they returned, he was forced to teleport forward to punch a mage who had conjured a bolt of void mana between their hands.

Zack appeared next to him a moment later in a burst of travel mana before he punched the air and a series of invisible walls that were forming around them fell apart like planes of glass.

More guards rushed in, but this time they were Tier 30s, and Matt knew their little game was about to end.

Flashing forward, Matt entered the House of Beginning with Liz to find a pair of terrified sales people.

Stepping forward, Matt forced out a smile. “Hello, we would like to buy two doses of Tree of Beginning pollen. I—”

The man pointed to the side and shouted and Matt just sighed as he found a vault a few rooms away. It was incredibly secure, made out of Tier 35 materials and enchanted to its gills but Matt ignored all of that.

Pressing his hands to the wall, he started dumping mana into the formation. It had anti overload shunts but they were meant to handle backflow and not close to fifty million mana a second.

The runes started to glow before they went critical and failed not even a second later.

Zack was ready and drove a single glowing finger into the metal which parted around him like he was repulsive.

Inside the vault, they found Allie holding two massive bags filled with seemingly everything in the vault.

Phoenix Liz, perched on his shoulder, laughed even as Liz, Aster, and Gan Le arrived in the building but Matt put his foot down.

“We are only here for the pollen. And two doses, no more. And we are paying.”

Allie theatrically sighed. “You're no fun.”

Dropping the bags, she pulled out two small wax paper packages. “Sadly, I expected that and was prepared.”

Doing some quick mental math, Matt tossed what he hoped was the appropriate price onto the ground, along with enough to hopefully cover the damage to the vault he and Zack had caused.

He then doubled it, as he was pretty confident that Allie had pilfered a few things before they arrived, but his deliberation was cut short as the Tier 30s were bursting through the front doors.

Allie waved to a shadow next to the door. “See you back at Yun Me’s!”

With that, the six of them appeared at the guest house and Gan Le sighed before taking out a new set of robes.

“Why couldn’t we just buy the pollen first.” He seemed to be working up a head full of steam and pointed at Aster and shouted, “And why not give her the Klipiso Scale!? You don’t need it! It's a defensive Natural Treasure! Why can’t Masters be normal? What is wrong with you all?”

Aster reeled back as if struck, but Matt could tell she was thoroughly enjoying herself.

Gan Le rubbed his face before peeking out between his fingers with his pupil-less eyes. “Are they at least alive?”

Aster twisted her toe into the ground, giving Gan Le her best puppy eyes and Matt could feel she was needling him trying to get another rise out of him. “Define alive?”

“Ahhhhhhhhh!”

Seeing she had thoroughly broken him, Aster laughed and waved a hand. In a puff of cold air, five blocks of ice appeared in the guest house.

Allie looked from Gan Le to the statues . “Hey, how come you didn’t turn into an ice pop when Aster put you on ice? Should we try again?”

Gan Le sneered, his attitude turning around immediately. “As if I could be bested by such a trivial technique.” Catching himself, Gan Le took a deep breath before closing his eyes and saying, “At least they are alive. How long will it take them to thaw out?”

Aster shrugged. “Maybe a decade or two without a good ice mage or fire mage to remove the ice? Depends a bit on their cultivation. But possibly longer if we stick them somewhere cold.”

Before she could say any more, Yun Me appeared in the living room and inspected the statutes. Her next question was flat, like she expected to hear news she didn’t want, but knew she couldn't avoid. “How many dead?”

Allie sighed. “Zero. Matt didn’t even let me pilfer the place either. I was waiting for something like this to happen for the last few years, and he ruined half of the fun.”

Yun Me impassively looked at all of them, her expression unreadable. “Very well. I shall impress upon them the futility of pursuing revenge for this humiliation, though their survival at least lessens the likelihood of their families pursuing you. Regardless, I do believe this serves as an adequate conclusion to your time here. My servants would escort you out, but I know you do not intend to wait for them. Goodbye.”

At the curt dismissal, Allie laughed, and Matt felt a wave of teleportation pull them back to the Empire.
