“Clear out your things, Janice.” Connor said and took out her contract. He wrote 'fired for misconduct' on it under the completion terms, and it glowed for a moment. He picked it up and tore it in half, and in half again. It was a bit dramatic, but it did show Ren that her contract was officially terminated.

“I hope you have a good life.” Connor said, and waved a hand in dismissal. Janice stood still, obviously in shock that her life had changed so drastically in only a few minutes, and Ren tugged on the hand he still held. He opened the office door and guided her out into the hallway. Once the office door shut, she took a deep breath and sighed.

“Well, I guess that's that.” Janice said, and went into the change room to gather her things. She kept a hold of Ren's hand and brought him in with her. Several of the girls there stared at her and covered themselves up because she had brought a male into their change room. Ren purposefully kept is eyes on Janice as she grabbed a large sack and started to empty her station.

“What's going on?” One of the girls asked.

“I got fired.” Janice said.

“Why?”

“It's my fault.” Ren said, and both women looked at him. “I showed her something she shouldn't have seen, and when she told the manager, he fired her.”

“That jerk!” She said. “You're a great waitress!”

Janice snorted a laugh. “Yeah, that was a reason, too.”

“Aw, I'm sorry.” She said. “He pulled the 'not enough clientele' card, didn't he?”

Janice nodded and kept packing her stuff.

“What are you gonna do now?” The girl asked.

“I don't know.” Janice said and stopped packing. “Oh, god! I don't know!”

Ren squeezed her hand slightly to get her attention, because she was starting to have a panic attack.

“I told you I'd take responsibility.” Ren said.

Janice looked at him and their held hands. “You don't even know me.” She said, and tried to let his hand go. He wouldn't let her, though.

“Keep packing.” Ren said. “You can worry about the little details later.”

“Little details?!?” Janice asked. “I've got things I need to take care of! I can't do that without a job to make money!”

“I said not to worry about the little details.” Ren said and concentrated on his Command Aura. “Pack. Now.”

Janice heard the tone of Ren's voice and knew he wouldn't listen to any more of her complaints; so she turned back to her station and threw some more of her things into the large sack.

“So forceful.” One of the other girls said and came over to them. “Hey, can you... um... order me around a bit?”

Ren looked at her, and unlike the other girls, she didn't try to cover herself up. He didn't stare at her lack of a bra and instead looked at her face.

“I'm not sure that's a good idea.” Ren said and looked around. “There's not really a lot that I can order you to do.”

The girl smiled wickedly. “Oh, there's lots that you can order me to do.”

Ren chuckled. “I could order you to not do things like that anymore.”

The girl frowned. “I wouldn't like that order.”

Ren nodded. “I figured you wouldn't.” He said. “The most I could do is order you to get dressed.”

The girl laughed. “Does my being topless bother you that much?”

“Not at all.” Ren said. “I sleep with 5 topless women every night.”

There was a sound of a few different things as they hit the floor, and Ren looked around to see what happened. Janice had dropped her large sack, one of the girls had knocked over a chair when she tried to brace herself with it, and another girl sat on the floor. They all had shock on their faces and stared at him.

“Did he just say...”

“He has to be lying...”

“There's no way...”

“No one can sleep with 5 women every night!” One of them exclaimed. Ren bent over and picked up Janice's large sack and handed it back to her.

“Are those the several women you mentioned before, that you have at home waiting for you?” Janice asked him, because she still didn't quite believe it; and Ren nodded.

“No way!” One of the girls said. “It's not possible!”

Ren didn't try to convince them that it was the truth; but, he also didn't tell them that he meant he literally goes to sleep in the same bed with them, either. He stood there and smiled at their shocked faces and watched Janice as she finished packing. When she was done, she stored the sack and looked at Ren.

“Now what?”

“Do you live around here?” Ren asked her, and she nodded. “Let's go to your place.”

“Oh, my god!” One of the girls said. “Janice is taking a customer home!”

“He's not actually a customer anymore.” Another of them said. “Janice got fired.”

“Oh, yeah.” The other one said. “Never mind.”

Ren almost laughed at the girl's reactions, and Janice led him out of the change room and through the employee only door to the main area.

“I'll wait here until you talk to your friends.” Janice said, and Ren looked at her. He got the distinct feeling that if he let her hand go, she would run right out through the door and he'd never see her again.

“Come with me.” Ren said. “You can be the excuse I need to duck out early.”

“I...” Janice sighed. “Fine.”

Ren smiled at her and they went through the curtain to the back area and saw that the party booth was getting a little rowdy. The girls were topless already, and looked to be on the verge of being bottomless soon.

“Guys? I'm heading out.” Ren said. “I'm taking Janice home.”

“Ha! Have fun, man!” Tommy said.

“We're plannin' anothah quest fer nex' week, or 2 days Adventurer time.” Clint said. “Can ya make it?”

“Sure.” Ren said.

“We'll meet at tha ranch tha morn-goddamn!” Clint said as the woman in front of him took off her underwear and tossed it at him. He didn't say anything else because he was transfixed by the sight the move had revealed, so Ren left the back area. He took Janice through the main room, and out through the front door.

System Notice!

You have left an Adult Only business (The Pink Pearl). What happened there, stays there. The Blue Screen protocol has been deactivated.

Notice!

You have experienced your first foray into the seedy underbelly of the Adult Entertainment Industry, and kept your cool in a dangerous situation.

Intelligence: +3

Wisdom: +3

“Damn, that reminds me.” Ren said, then sent a message to his friends about the private rooms and the two-way mirrors that people could watch them through. He didn't want them to get peeped on, too. “So, where's your place?”

“It's about an hour's walk that way.” Janice said and pointed down the road. “It's not much, but I call it home when I play the game.”

Ren kept a hold of her hand and went over to Princess. “Feel like going for a walk?”

No. Princess responded emphatically and shook her head. I want to run!

Ren chuckled. “Okay, but only 10 miles each way.” He said. “Don't trample anyone.”

Princess huffed at him, and he felt her annoyance that he needed to remind her of something so basic.

“Stay to the side and let any carts have the right of way.”

Princess rolled her eyes in exasperation, and Ren tied her reins to her saddle. He scratched her chin with his fingers.

“I only say these things because I care.” Ren said. “I don't want you to get hurt.”

No cart that exists can hurt me. Princess thought to him. Thanks to you.

“Just be careful.” Ren said. “I'm not only worried about your physical well being.”

Princess looked at him, then reluctantly nodded.

Teepo? Do you want to go and... Ren thought, and Teepo hopped over to stand on Princess' helm before Ren could finish the thought.

“All right. Go and have-”

Princess took off like a bolt that was shot from a crossbow and disappeared down the road, with Teepo riding high and chittering in laughter.

“-fun.” Ren finished and then laughed, too. He felt Teepo's and Princess' enjoyment only briefly, then they were out of his Aura an instant later and he didn't feel anything else from them.

“What the hell was that?” Janice asked. “It looked like a giant ram, but... was it wearing armor or something?”

“Yeah.” Ren said. “She's definitely handy to have around.”

“I can imagine.” Janice said. “We better start walking, or we'll never get there.”

Ren nodded and started to walk like she suggested. It was a little awkward at first, because Ren was over a foot shorter than her; but when she set the pace and he matched it, things evened out and they walked hand-in-hand easily.
