I walk along the village's edge until I reach the path that leads to Master's house. As I walk along the small trail, I think about how well Kervin's cart will fit through here. Kervin's cart is slightly bigger than the one Master, and I use to move ore around, and it's already a tight fit getting it through here.

I have no intention of transferring every bit of ore Kervin is bringing me between our two carts and hauling it back and forth. It will be much easier to expand this pathway and just have Kervin drop my ore off in Master's clearing.

If I ask Dad for some help and convince Master to get up from his bench, I’m sure the three of us could widen the path enough in two or three days. Just another thing I need to talk to Master about.

Despite this being the third meeting today, I find myself looking forward to this last meeting the most. When I reach the edge of Master’s clearing, my eyes immediately fall on the stone kin who appears to be sleeping.

Making my way over to Master, I know he has already noticed my approach, but I decide to play along for the fun of it. "Master, you asleep?" His eyelids don't even quiver as I call out to him.

Is he really asleep this time?

I decide to test my prone master the best way I know how, with a bucket of water.

Like a ninja, I move over to the nearby well and fill a bucket up with water. Before I walk over to Master, I clear my head of any ideas involving dumping water on him. After some experimentation, I've learned Master's Danger Sense skill doesn't activate until you commit to an attack. If I walk over to Master thinking about throwing a bucket of water on him, his skill will warn him before I ever get close. But if I say I plan to set this bucket of water down next to him, his skill won't be alerted.

It's hard not to think about something you know you want to do, but I always enjoy a challenge. I slowly make my way next to Master with the intention of setting the bucket down next to him. Right before I set the bucket down, I change my grip and prepare to dump its contents all over Master.

As a savage smile crosses my face, in one swift movement, I see Master’s hand reach out to the bucket and flip it backwards on me.

“Damn, why do you always have to have that blasted skill on?” Master sits up and complains that Mana Skin kept me from getting wet.

It takes me a moment to realize what just happened; Master flipped my prank on me at the last second!

“You never know when it’s suddenly going to rain,” I give Master a gloating look.

“Or when your apprentice will try and mess with you when you’re sleeping,” Master grumbles.

“Oh, come on. Were you really asleep?”

"Maybe?" Master doesn't sound very convincing. "Why are you here?" He asks, standing up.

“Because I thought my master would like to know if his apprentice made it back safely.” I grin at Master.

"And why would I need that? I have a monster as an apprentice, and I'm sure she can handle herself." Master crosses his arms in front of his chest.

I move in and give Del a hug. "I missed you too," I tell him.

Master grumbles like a cranky grandpa, but I see the smirk he's trying to hide.

"Alright, get off of me," Master gently pushes me away and sits back down on his bench. “How did your trip go? Did you get the materials you were after?”

I move over to the closest bench and sit down with a huff. “You have no idea.”

For the third time today, I explain what happened during my trip. I know Master doesn’t care too much about how I found Sandra and Richard in the forest, so I gloss over most of everything until I get to my talk with Mr. Grey and everything that resulted from it.

"I told you time and time again; merchants are the true monsters of this world." I let Master rant and tell me how he told me so.

"You were right, ok! You think I haven't heard all this from my mom already," I complain.

“Does that mean you’re starting to listen?” Master levels a challenging look at me.

“Hey, if I wanted to listen to someone yell at me, I would head home right now. I thought you would be more interested in the big ass shipment of materials I have coming in."

“Got a scolding waiting for you at home?” Master asks curiously.

“More like my punishment for using my skills on my parents before I left.”

"Then I guess I don't have to worry about you bothering me for the next few days," Del jokes.

“What does that mean?”

"Think about it, brat. Does any of your mother's punishments leave time for you to come to work?"

Oh, gods, he's right! "But we need to…"

“Wait for you to return,” Master interrupts me and laughs so hard he grabs his stomach.

I feel my face starting to blush while I wait for Master to calm down.

I hope Master's prediction isn't correct. The path needs to widen, and I still need to test my physical limits before I start crafting for real. I spent most of my resources crafting the general's arrow and couldn't do much else until I got more. That left me with little to do, so I've only crafted a few spears and arrows for the village.

I’m ready to get behind the forge again and push my skills further. And once Kervin brings me my kaglese, the first thing I’m going to do is make a new sword and knife.

“Can we get back on track now?” I ask Del as he starts to calm down.

"What do you feel we need to discuss?" Master lays back down on his bench.

"The first thing that comes to mind is where are we putting all the ore that's coming, and how are we moving it here?" I place my hands on my hips, but Master has already closed his eyes again.

“I’m assuming you already have a plan in mind,” Master Del remarks without looking at me.

Fine, if you want me to get to the point, I will. "We need to widen the path that leads to your house." Finally, Master cracks an eye open. "This probably won't be my last large delivery, and neither of us wants to shift around a whole cart of ore. It will be easier if we make room, so Kervin can drive up and drop off or pick up whatever we need."

"You want to bring the merchant to my house?" Master looks at me like I've gotten into his special drink.

"It makes the most sense," I point out to Master. "You can wait in your house when they come by, but it's getting to the point moving all the goods I make to Kervin's campsite is getting old. Silver Herd has already told us they know who you are, so it's not like you need to remain mysterious. Besides, having a scowling stone kin behind me might make negotiations easier."

Master Del doesn't exactly appreciate my joke, which I can understand why. Master is used to remaining out of sight, but I think it will be good for him to see more people, even if those people involve Reel.

"Do what you want," Master reluctantly agrees and rolls onto his side, facing away from me.

His pouting makes me want to tease him. “Cool, I’ll ask my dad to help us after I appease my mother.”

Master quickly sits back up, “who said I would be helping?”

“Because if you leave me to do it all by myself, I’ll cut down trees until your house can be seen from the village.”

“You wouldn’t!”

“I would!”

“Why did I have to pick such an annoying disciple?” Master hangs his head and shakes it back and forth.

“Funny, I remember deciding to make you my master, not the other way around.”

Master sighs in defeat. “Alright, so what happens after we widen the path and you get your materials? What’s your plan going forward?”

I'm about to make a joke about kicking ass and taking names until I notice Master is asking with a serious expression. I discard my playful banter and layout what I want to do. "My first goal is to research the kaglese and find out the best ratio to mix it with steel and mithril. Then I need to forge myself a new sword and knife."

“And after that?” Master Del asks.

“Then we finish making the rest of those special arrows. And with the rest of the kaglese, I'll make some magic weapons.”

"To sell to this, Mr. Grey?" Master brings up a good point.

“I’ll worry about that in the future. We have four months to craft what we want before I have to deal with him,” I tell Master the short version of my plan.

“Is that all?” Master looks at me like he knows I have something else in the works.

I look Master straight in the eyes. "I plan to start making short trips into the magic dense zone."

Master stands up from his bench, looking like a concerned parent. “Why would you possibly want to go there?”

"The same reason anyone ever goes into magic dense regions," I reply. "I want to look for new ore samples, magic ingredients, and I want to see the creatures that call the region home."

“Just because you can probably face a chameleon spider on your own doesn’t mean you can hunt every magic beast.”

"I didn't say I wanted to hunt magic beasts," I correct Master. "During my trips away from home, I realized I want to see more of this world. I don't plan on leaving yet, but I owe it to myself to start expanding my horizons, and that includes seeing what lies deep in the forest.”

“Have you told your parents this yet?”

I scoff at the idea. “Do you think I’m that crazy? I know I’m not ready to travel into the magic dense area yet, let alone tell my parents my plan. I need to get a handle on my stats and skills, and that's not even considering the gear I'll need to make."

“Why did you have to tell me this?” Master rubs his face.

"Because you asked," I tell him. Master lowers his hands and meets my gaze. "I know Master has my best interest in his heart, and I want you to know my plans, all of them."

“Torrow’s forge! How am I supposed to yell at you after that?” Master sits back down on his bench. “I can’t condone letting you go into the magic dense region of the forest… not without me.”

"Sounds good to me," I happily exclaim. "I always wanted you to join me, but I didn't know how to ask. Thanks for volunteering.”

Master Del looks at my happy expression in shock before a reluctant smile crosses his face. “I guess I walked into that one.”

“Would it make you feel better if I said you were the best master an apprentice could wish for?”

“It might.”

“Well, you are,” I tell Master Del with the biggest smile ever.

"So that's what a demon's smile looks like," Master jokes.

"Does that mean you're selling me your soul because I've seen it, and it looks delicious?" I lick my lips, and Master goes silent. "Too far?" I ask.

“Too far,” Master quickly agrees. We both share an awkward laugh before we sit in silence together. “Do you plan on staying here for the rest of the day?”

“No,” I groan, standing up. “I need to go home and face a real demon.”

“Good luck with that.” Master lays back down on his bench and closes his eyes. “I’ll see you if you survive.”

“Thanks for the words of comfort,” I say sarcastically. “I’ll probably be back in a few days, so be ready to remove some trees by then.”

Master grunts in confirmation and waves his hand like he’s shooing me away.

I guess now's a good time to tell him about the village meeting tomorrow. "By the way, we have a village meeting tomorrow morning, and attendance is mandatory. Make sure you're up in time.” I playfully chastise Master as I walk away.

I don't look back at Master, but I think I can hear him swearing under his breath.

Did our door always look this intimidating?

I stand outside my house, contemplating my life choices that got me to this point.

"Ok, that's enough drama for one day." I reach out and pull our front door open. It's fun to exaggerate to an extent, but there is a time and a place for everything. I made a choice to use my skills on my parents, and I accept responsibility for it.

I know mother would never hurt me, and the only reason she still scolds me is because she's a good mom.

Deactivating Mana Skin and switching out my shoes, I confidently walk over to my mother, who is stitching one of Dad's trousers in her sewing corner.

“Back all ready, sweety?”

"Yeah, I finished talking to Camden, and Master Del. Figured I’d come home and see my beautiful mother.” Overexaggerating doesn’t include brown-nosing.

"That's good to hear," is all mother says, and silence falls between us.

I stand in place while mother’s hands dance across father’s pants, sealing any and all nicks and tears.

Finally, Mom speaks. “I want you to clean the whole house.”

I can't help but be a little shocked by her request. Sure, cleaning the house might seem challenging, but with my skills, I could do it in half a day if I hurry. Heck, I can get most of it done before dinner if I start now. "I understand, Mom. I'll get started right away."

As I turn away to get the cleaning supplies, Mom says, “I don’t think you do.”

I turn back to face Mom as she sets Dad’s pants down. "I want you to clean the house using that spell of yours. I want everything to look brand new by the time you're done." Now that sounds more like one of Mom's punishments.

I want to complain, but I know that will only make things worse.

“And then when you’re done with our house, I want you to clean your brothers.”

The sudden doubling of my work is too much, and my mouth moves before my brain catches up. "Why!?" I whine.

Mother answers me with a cold smile. “Do I need to have you clean Sarette’s house as well?”

"No," I hang my head, knowing when I'm beaten.

“Good, you can start tomorrow after the village meeting,” mother picks up Dad’s pants and finishes her work. I know this is where I should walk away.

I move to my room without saying anything else and gently close my door behind me. Flopping down on my bed, I groan into my sheets.

