RUN AWAY!

My highly trained instincts scream at me to flee as soon as possible. I know better than to turn around and glance back at the monster behind me. Digging my boots into the ground, I prepare to launch myself into the distance with everything I have.

Just as I’m about to execute my escape, the gods see fit to throw a wrench at me in the form of a smiling Nicolas. “Aaliyah! Good to see you back. Morning Mis Silvia.”

Nicolas happily walks up to me without noticing my tensed posture, greeting me and my mother, who I’m assuming is standing in our doorway.

“Father heard you were back already. If you’re free, could I ask you to join us at our house? The whole family is interested to hear about your journey to Drey. Oh, where are my manners? Would you like to…?”

"Perfect timing, Nicolas; let's go see your dad." I interrupt the fool before he invites mother to join us. I spin Nicolas around and start pushing him towards his house before he accidentally gets me killed.

“But I was just about to...?” Nicolas stumbles over himself as I push him harder into the distance.

I don’t hear anyone following us, so I look over my shoulder to see if we’re in the clear, hoping the dragon retreated to its den.

I'm forced to swallow a lump in my throat when I see that mother is still standing in our doorway, smiling at my retreating figure.

I almost pick Nicolas up in a bid to run away faster.

My body finally untenses and I quit pushing Nicolas as soon as we round the closest building, putting us out of sight from mother.

"What was that all about?" Nicolas asks, confused about the situation.

“Don’t ask,” I flatly tell Nicolas as I start walking towards his house.

“But?”

I turn on the future leader of our village. “D-O-N-T A-S-K,” I slowly spell it out for him with fire in my eyes.

Nicolas rapidly nods his head and doesn’t say anything further during the short trek to the headman’s house. Pushing Camden's front door in and walking over to the drawing-room almost feels second nature at this point.

"Aaliyah, dear!" Sarette springs from her seat and swiftly moves in to hug me as soon as I walk into the room.

“Welcome back,” Camden offers me a greeting from his seat, content to let his wife be the hands-on one.

“It’s good to be back,” I say half-heartily, still not having emotionally recovered from my last encounter with mom.

Sarette pulls back from me and looks me over. "Is everything ok?" Crap, I forgot she's just as perceptive as Mom. Sarette looks over to Nicolas, who walks past us and joins a spot next to his brother before frowning. “Did your mother not come with you?”

It's hard keeping my body from shivering at the mention of my mother.

“I tried inviting her, but…”

"I already discussed everything with my parents earlier," I cut off Nicolas before he can throw me under the cart.

Nicolas looks like he’s ready to say something else but stops when I give him a death glare.

Sarette looks between her son and me before a sly look of realization crosses her face. "That's ok; I'm sure your mother will stop by later." Sarette gestures for me to take a seat.

Camden doesn’t waste much time, only waiting to start asking me questions until my butt touches the seat. “If you’re back early and uninjured, I assume your run went well?”

I lean back into my seat and wait a few seconds to answer. "Yes, and no," I tell everyone in the room.

Camden leans forward, “did something happen?”

"I have good news and bad news. Which would you like first?"

Camden turns to his wife, and they share a silent moment between the two of them before turning back to me. "The good news first, please."

A smile crosses my face. “The good news is that Sandra and Richard are doing fine. I ran into them on my way to Drey. They left Drey before the news about Scholl taking the fort reached the city.”

“They’re on their way here!? My baby’s almost home!” Sarette shouts with joy.

I know it's terrible of me, but I giggle at Sarette's antics, knowing Richard and Sandra aren't exactly going to be home soon.

"What?" Sarette quickly notices me, trying to hold back my laughter.

"It might be longer than you think before the two of them make it home," I tell her.

I go into detail explaining how Richard and Sandra are traveling with the slowest bivol I’ve ever seen and that it could take them days before they make it back to the village.

Camden and Sarette stare at me with mouths open in shock when I finish telling them everything while Sandra’s brothers are trying not to fall over laughing at their sister’s misfortune. Being a good friend, I make a mental note to tell Sandra how her brothers laughed upon hearing her dismay. I mean, we younger sisters have to stick together.

Camden and Sarette slowly come out of their stupor and share a small laugh at the situation.

After a few minutes of everyone enjoying the news of our family members' inevitable return, Camden asks me with a hopeful voice, "I don't suppose that was the bad news?"

The laughter fades when I don't say anything.

"That's unfortunate," Camden anxiously rubs the back of his neck. "Well, don't keep me waiting; what's the bad news?"

I make eye contact with Camden and decide to rip the band-aid off. "Scholl started their march on Drey two days ago."

"Already?" Camden asks in disbelief. "Are you sure?"

I nod, confirming his fears. “I got the information from Mr. Grey, a branch manager from Silver Herd, so I'm sure the intel is accurate."

“Is there any chance Drey will be able to hold out against Scholl?”

“Not a chance,” I confidently tell Camden. “Everyone of importance is fleeing the city as we speak.”

I tell everyone how I witnessed the guards taking bribes and how all the merchants were either running away or shoring up their businesses. Everyone becomes shocked the more I tell them just how bad the city was while I was there.

Camden leans back into his chair and ponders over everything I just told him. “If you talked to the branch manager in Drey, did he mention how Silver Herd is handling the situation?”

“Silver Herd is taking the same approach we discussed earlier and pulling back their people for the time being. I bet they’re waiting to see how Scholl manages the city after they take it and what their plans are in general.”

"So, you think we should wait for the city to fall?" Camden asks me for my opinion.

"More now than ever," I respond. "Probably in less than two weeks, Drey and its surrounding villages, which includes us, will be under new leadership. If our loyalty is questioned in the future, we just have to say we sent a cart of supplies, but by the time it reached the city, Scholl had already taken over. If that wasn't enough, Mr. Grey gave me the impression that he thinks our village should stay secluded and avoid what's to come altogether."

“That might be our best option,” Camden lets out a deep sigh.

"You should call for a village meeting later today or tomorrow morning," I offer my thought on the matter.

“Do we even need to tell the village?” Brandon asks. “Wouldn’t it be better if they stay ignorant of the situation? People might panic if we tell them Scholl is invading.”

“That’s all the more reason to tell everyone,” I flatly respond to Sandra’s second brother.

“Why?” Braddon gives me a challenging look for an explanation.

“She’s right,” Nicolas cuts in between us. “The village needs to know what’s happening. No matter how you look at it, Scholl will be our new ruler soon. If they come to the village and no one is aware of what's happening, we could have a major problem on our hands."

“People could die,” Camden looks up from his chair at his two sons.

“And we’ll lose all the trust we’ve built over the years,” Sarette points out to everyone.

“Plus, there is the long game we have to think about,” I add. Everyone gives me a puzzled look, not understanding what I mean. “All your reasons are important for the short-term, but I'm thinking about what might happen in the future. What if, in a few years, Olebert retakes everything? If any of the villagers are questioned why they didn't support Olebert, it will become quickly apparent they had no idea what was happening."

"All the blame would go to," I look at Camden, who's gone a little pale. I don't need to finish my sentence.

Camden clears his throat. “Aaliyah is right; we need to tell the village what's happening. We'll keep it a secret that we plan on dragging our feet until Scholl conquers Drey. But we'll still have the village prepare supplies that we'll 'send to Drey.'" Camden stresses the last part.

Everyone in the room nods in understanding.

"Nicolas, Braddon, I want the two of you to spread the word that there will be a village meeting first thing tomorrow morning and that attendance is mandatory." Camden gives orders to his two sons, who both nod in understanding.

Camden turns his attention to me. "When I explain everything to the village, I'll mention your experience in Drey. Is that alright?"

“Do what you have to,” I tell him.

“Thank you for everything,” Camden bows his head towards me.

"Oh, stop," I tell him, feeling a little bashful. "We're practically family, and I love this village as much as you do."

“Awwww,” Sarette gets up from her seat next to her husband and moves over towards me, and wraps me in another hug.

“That’s the best thing I’ve heard all day,” Camden remarks with a smile. “Is there anything else you can think of before I send my boys off to notify the village?”

"Anything else?" I stop and think. Have I forgotten anything? I informed them of Scholl, Drey, and when Sandra should be back; does anything else matter? My deal with Mr. Grey is my business, and I don't plan to do anything about it until Kervin drops off my last delivery.

Oh, shit! I forgot to mention Silver Herd will be pulling back their deliveries for the next few months.

"What is it?" Camden notices I thought of something.

“Well, there might be one thing I forgot to mention,” I sheepishly reply. “Kervin is delivering a large supply of materials for me around the same time Sandra and Richard are supposed to return to the village.”

“And why is that something I need to be concerned about?” Camden raises an eyebrow in suspicion.

“I told you how Silver Herd is recalling their people; well, the delivery Kervin is bringing me will be the last one for a while.”

"Come again?" Camden doesn't look too happy to hear the village is losing one of our best assets. Having a merchant regularly come to our village has played a significant role in everybody's lives. It was thanks to Kervin that we were able to get enough meat when the chameleon spiders drove the local wildlife away.

"Silver Herd doesn't want to draw suspicion towards our village. After Kervin drops off my supplies, we'll need to send people to Drey if we need to purchase anything like every other village."

Camden brings his hands up to his face and rubs his temples. “That’s just great.”

Sarette releases me and moves back over to her husband to offer her support. “It will be ok; didn’t Braddon just tell you a few nights ago that the hunters noticed fresh game tracks near the village?”

"That's right, Dad," Braddon helps to relive Camden's worries. "Now that spring is here, the animals the spiders scared away are returning to their hunting and grazing grounds."

“And don’t forget our fields are rapidly expanding thanks to all the trees being cut down. This year we’ll have our largest harvest ever,” Nicolas exclaims.

Not wanting to feel left out, I offer my own words of encouragement. "Our village has overcome everything thrown at us this year. You think not seeing Kervin for a few months is going to break us?”

Camden looks up at me, and I can see his mood brighten up. "You're right; not having a merchant visit our village isn't a big deal in the grand scheme of things. Our village will do just fine by ourselves. It's good that you told me about this now so that I can cover it during the village meeting tomorrow."

“Sorry I forgot to mention it sooner,” I apologize for my oversight.

“It’s fine… but that is the last thing, right?” Camden hesitantly asks.

Everybody in the room turns to look at me like they're daring me to give them any more bad news. I wave my hands and shake my head, "that's everything, I promise."

It’s funny to see Sandra’s entire family let out a collective sigh of relief.

"Now that all the important stuff is taken care of, would you like to have some tea with me, Aaliyah?" Sarette gives me one of her beautiful smiles.

It's tea time already!? I need to get out of here before mom shows up. "That's very generous of you, but I still need to visit Master Del and let him know I made it home ok." I move to leave the room.

Sarette frowns for a moment before she starts smiling at me again. “Maybe tomorrow then with your mother.”

“That sounds nice,” I lie through my teeth. I face Camden, “thanks for having me.”

“It should be I thanking you,” Camden chuckles. “I’ll see you at the meeting tomorrow.”

"Of course, and I'll tell Master about it, so Nicolas and Braddon don't need to walk all the way out there." I wave goodbye to everyone and quickly exit the drawing-room.

I take brisk steps until I'm at their front door, and as soon as I'm outside, I take off towards the nearest tree line. Thank goodness I didn't accidentally run into mother; I'm not ready to know what she thinks my proper punishment should be. Mother is usually quite fair, but she can be vindictive at times, and she knows me well enough to come up with a punishment that takes into account my skills and status.

No, I shouldn’t think about that right now.

