Rane grunted. “So, his actions were to… what? Destroy himself and Lea? They’re supposed to be Reality tainted. How could such a creature harm Reality like that?” He motioned toward the massive hole. “It defies reason.”

Tala looked with her threefold sight, seeing that new reality threads were already forming and strengthening between the various things in the hole. “It’s not.”

He glanced her way. “What? It’s not what?”

“It’s not harmed. Reality. It wasn’t harmed like a gate harms Reality. It is more like Reality was given a new edge, and it’s now easily moving to fill in the gap. This was a surgical cut, meant to pare away something harmful. Me. I believe that I was the primary target, but in the same way, I suspect that this effect might have taken a good chunk of the city. Sure, the method clearly wasn’t ideal, especially when they can remove gated in other, more efficient ways, but as a last resort? I can see the logic.”

That caused everyone to fall into silence once more.

Master Grediv arrived a minute later. With the threat to the city seemingly gone, it was no longer foolish to leave the city undefended. He arrived and got the few details he’d been unable to glean at a distance filled in.

Then, they all turned to regard the rather haggard body of the black automaton where it lay a dozen feet to one side.

The older Paragon hmmed to himself before nodding. “From my knowledge, it’s a ‘scout’ class automaton of the Legion, the weakest of their number in raw fighting ability. Still, we haven’t had such a solidly confirmed encounter in millennia. It’s possible that it was away from the main group of Black Legion when they were contained, and it has simply managed to evade destruction for all this time, or…”

Rane groaned, rubbing at his temples. “Or, it’s possible that the Black Legion is starting to break free."

Master Grediv gave a serious nod. “That may be. Yes.”

Tala shook her head and sighed. “We need to be sure. We have the facilities to repair the body and make it ready for study. Maybe we can learn something from it, and until then, we’ll keep the body in the sanctum to be safe.”

There was a moment of collective silence as everyone else looked first toward Lea, then back to Tala before Master Grediv cleared his throat. “No, I don’t think that you will.”

A round of laughter rippled through the group, relieving some of the tension. Lea herself shook her head. “I’m not ready for a brother, mom.”

Master Grediv grinned. “But yes, I think repairing the body and studying it will be the right call. It seems that we might be fighting the Legion in the near future, and we need all the information we can gather. It’s been far, far too long since humanity got a good look at these constructs.” He frowned for a moment. “We need to speak with Eskau Meallain as well. I think that the Major Houses will need to be informed.” He gave Tala a meaningful look. “Regardless, we have a lot of work to do and an unknown amount of time in which to get it done.”

That brought everyone down from the momentary humor.

Tala glanced to her daughter, then to her husband. Well… Rust.

Homebound, Book 13 of Millennial Mage Ends after the Bonus chapter accompanying this one.

FREE, HERE:Chapter: 604 Bonus - Verity, Weltraum, and Lisahttps://www.patreon.com/posts/132505870
