A black mist reverberates throughout Maria's pristine white angelic Immortal body.

It is both familiar and foreign.

The laws emanating from this power are exactly that of every void creeper I've ever seen looking back through my memories. It aligns with the eerie sensation I feel when fragmenting my consciousness and allowing my thoughts to drift outside of this universe to that dark space where the void creepers have all been waiting in silence.

This power also trembles and pulses at the same frequency of the membrane artifact we rest in now.

When I watch her move her hands and shift her glance my way, the black mist that tethers to all of the laws maintaining her Immortal form.

There is a ripple effect of reactions, as when her consciousness makes a move, the membrane reacts as though it is following her instructions to a certain degree.

As she realizes this fact too, the actions become more and more in sync.

The folds of darkness around us latch onto her Immortal form. There is not only black energy permeating from every drop of her icy Emperor's essence, but the semi-conscious, galaxy-devouring artifact we rest inside begins to assimilate and adapt to her like she is its very core.

There is no longer any other life, construct, or complex system for this artifact to link to and fulfill its purpose for any longer.

When looking through the fluctuations in laws left behind in this universe, it is clear that this enormous device was carried from galaxy to galaxy with Ember's strength.

Yet, the golden dragon shows no signs of interfering. In fact, the stretched darkness around him slips by as though he is invisible and weightless, unaffected by reality shifting around us.

My eyes widen as I feel the edge of this membrane bending and contracting as it compresses inward toward Maria's Immortal form.

On the surface, the physical manifestation looks erratic and filled with chaos, as though it's impossible to control. Yet, all of the laws within this layer of space are being compressed and smoothed out. The rippling, rounded lines that fight to bounce off each other become still and straight, as they all point toward a single direction.

It is deep within Maria's Immortal Core, where the epicenter of her infinitely stacked pseudo cores rests. They have all been perfectly dispersed throughout her Immortal form, unable to be torn apart, as though the infinite energy has become a single entity. Yet, in reality, all of this energy is still only stored within a single point of space the width of a Planck length.

It manifests with the visual effect of her Immortal Emperor's Body in order to exist within the current depth of laws in our current singular universe.

Under the scrutiny of my blade, or Ember's eyes, there is far more than just an undefined center point. It is not something I can comprehend, but based on the reactions of our surroundings, it is not a perfect self-replicating source of energy. There is a flaw that can still be exploited using complexity that is not naturally present in this universe.

Since the day back on the human world when Maria's soul energy core began to show strange signs of this very same incalculable presence, Ember's attention never left it. I always knew it was special, a mutation in the system, something like my affinity to absorb.

Until now, it never occurred to me how important it really is. The membrane around us ripples, and a perfect mirror image of the ripple occurs within the point in her chest.

At the same time, my outer perception monitors the void beyond this universe, where the white stone tablet that every void creeper gathers around begins to flicker and threaten to turn dark like all the others. The very fabric of this strange dark space where the void creepers reside ripples on an unfathomably massive scale, resonating with the same pattern that occurs in an infinitely small area of space right beside me.
