"A goblin? This is what all the fuss is about? What happened to the green zone after our lord left?"

The Demon yells down in a demeaning tone, laughing afterward while his flesh, horns, and the dense demonic energy around his body grow in size.

Even the soul weapon in his grasp grows, making the size difference in the clash against Ava's smaller form far more exaggerated.

Yet, it holds its ground.

Ava even activates the latent ability inside the hammer, using the old Relic Class commands of a soul weapon from many wars ago that Torvak and Asic saved for tens of thousands of years to place in a soul weapon.

An additional unexpected effect that occurs is the inheritance left behind on Ava's home world that has given her "instincts"—really, the seed to starting her own path. A feat Lower Races are usually incapable of. These warm vibrations that ripple through her fill the white hammer in her grasp, making it glow green, and an Astral Form of it erupts outward.

It's extremely light green and only appears around the soul weapon itself, making it grow in size by a few times, reaching about 100 meters tall.

In Ava's Goblin Queen form, she hardly reaches 10 meters, but grasps the massive hammer like it is normal and form-fitting.

It is no heavier or harder to wield, but its range has multiplied, and its power erupts to even higher degrees.

The tens of thousands of new worlds being added to her borrowed stats every few fractions of a second only make it stronger.

The Demon that thought it would easily kill this goblin and get on to its real objective is completely baffled.

Not only was it stopped in place, but it's sent flying backward, up and out of the dome through the hole it cracked through.

The Goblin Queen rushes upward and out of the dome, with her eyes locked on the enemy.

They clash again in the air, outside of the Grand Citadel's dome, and send shockwaves into the open air and endless green clouds.

This adds to the vibrancy of the multicolored sky, stained blue and purple from the battles taking place in the Ellipsia Citadel and above the Sea of Corruption.

Below her, however, near the far side of the dome half a million kilometers away, a blood-red tint pours out from another intense battle taking place.

–

The other five demons from the Morvale family are also in for quite the surprise.

What they thought was going to be an easy extermination mission turns out to be much more daunting than they believed.

The strongest leader, who uses a Dark Mist ability and a bright purple long sword to try and trap Zashen in a blind cloud, is sorely mistaken on this monster's limits.

Zashen dives headfirst into the cloud of darkness and collides head-on with the demon's blade.

Bursts of scarlet aura erupt from the dark black cloud of mist meant to trap him or keep him away and hesitant while the other four demons attacked.

In reality, the dark cloud becomes stained blood red, and the demon inside is forced to deactivate it in order to use the full extent of his power to block.

The bursts of scarlet aura grow larger and larger until the entire massive dark mist cloud disappears, and left behind is a Noble demon being pushed back, blocking two hot red swords aimed at its neck and core.

"What happened? The Scarlet Clan I fought was never this strong... It feels like... you're a true descendant... That's impossible..." it grits out, yelling while accepting that he's lost this exchange.

Then twists out of the way, but at the detriment of losing a large chunk of flesh in his right leg.

It heals back almost instantly, but a painful scarlet burning aura is left behind in the wound.

Zashen laughs at the scene, and the persona of a battle-hungry Berserker, totally locked in and only focused on killing his prey, becomes the sole programming in his mind.

The intelligence behind his eyes dulls, but as a result, the intensity in his aura becomes even hotter. He grows in size, larger and larger, and makes the green zone glow with a red light, vibrating with more intensity than Noble Vibrations for hundreds of thousands of kilometers.

The lingering embarrassment and shame he felt from losing the exchange with Andras Vermillion weeks ago is starting to fade away, as now he's certain he could kill that puny Noble with a flick of the finger.

In fact, weaklings just like him surround Zashen that can prove his point.

The wide sadistic grin of an insane battle junkie grows on this Berserker's face, and a dense trail of scarlet light follows his tracks through the air. Instead of bursting upward to attack the main enemy, he decides to get rid of all the distractions, so he can focus on the only real danger.

The four Nobles that blocked his wind blades seconds ago are still recovering and finding Zashen through the blur of auras and explosions. Some of them even heal cracks on their soul weapons from the overwhelming attacks he threw before jumping into the darkness to fight their leader.

Not a single one is ready for what happens next.

The blur of red and white aura fills their vision.

Many overheat, and their minds are fried instantly, as a wave of hot red vibrations overwhelms their system and their senses.

Dense scarlet swords tear through their bodies, from behind, overheating their avatars, shattering their cores, and slicing through their necks.

A quick and ruthless slaughter of four Noble Morvale guards is completed, sending notifications of more dead demons through the chain of commands all throughout the Upper Realm.

His battle roar gets even louder after this victory, completely restoring his pride, while he jumps upward through the sky to attempt finishing the job.

Both his scarlet swords aim toward the commander of this squad.

Though, this Demon has a few tenths of a second to react, and does not wish to face the same fate as its fallen soldiers he could not protect.

They weren't fast enough to use their life-saving techniques...

The cyan-colored M on this Demon's forehead starts to glow bright as Zashen strikes with full force at his neck.

–

While I'm sent flying backward by Miriel's Celestial Energy release, I feel these hot red waves bursting through and cracking a portion of the outer walls of the citadel.

Above, I even feel the vibrations of Ava's clash.

Miriel yells out, confirming that these energy releases are my allies winning rather than them needing support.

"You have no idea what you've done! A member of the Scarlet Clan is helping you? And they've killed our demons too? For this, I will have the entire human race trapped in the Lower Realm forever. Any that try to ascend will be enslaved or killed upon entry. You've doomed not only yourself, but your entire race!"

More and more of the Inner City citadel that I fly over is absorbed into my greater form, but this increase in power isn't enough.

Even using my strongest defensive move, I was completely overpowered.

Using every one of my perception perks, I try to focus on this strange glistening energy that surrounds and ripples through Miriel's corruption form, yet it makes no sense.

Usually, I can dissect the energy makeup of greater forms or attacks—even Noble vibrations have a very distinct feeling that I can understand.

This power just feels hot, and foreign, something higher than my current level of energy understanding.

It is quite literally Celestial.

But that doesn't mean I can't gauge its power...

Just like divine energy, using enough mana—tens to hundreds of times greater quantities—pure mana control could still overpower a red core awakened.

The only thing I can do is run, and grow stronger... much stronger...

I've already consumed over half of the Inner City. Draining the rest of it will make my armor and ether pool twice as strong at most.

I need to use more material than just this.

Instead of trying to change directions and slow my momentum after being blasted backward from a failed attack, I take advantage of it, and use Miriel's overwhelming force to give me over a full second to prepare my next move.

My back crashes into the remaining ether commands in the cylindrical great wall separating the wilderness from the Inner City.

It shatters completely, making a massive hole over a hundred thousand kilometers wide in it, allowing my Astral Form to be exposed to the unaltered wilderness.

More green divine threads to plunder, and hundreds of thousands of biomes and ether commands worth of Citadel mass to consume.

The mountains, deserts, rock canyons, volcanoes, forests, grasslands, and everything in between get pulled up from the ground.

I'm a massive magnet, pulling tens of biomes up from the ground at a time, leaving a huge empty tear in the Citadel's ground as I pull up all of the artificial land.

Safezones are consumed, and I feel my Astral Form grow even larger, now pushing past 250 kilometers tall.

Out from the burst in the great wall, an angry Demon covered in corruption follows me, with tendrils of black coiling energy, now sparking with a Celestial glimmer, flaying out of him.

It looks like he has tens of thousands of arms, like a mutated sea monster, but his angry yells are still the same Demon.

As my momentum from the blast starts to slow, I turn in the air to try and make a full loop around the entire wilderness, and manage to pick up about 10% of its mass during my trip.

Yet, instead of following me, Miriel moves in the opposite direction, making sure I can't use momentum to my advantage any longer.

My greater form grows to over 300 kilometers tall, and in front of me, a massive Demonic force comes—too large, powerful, and fast to dodge.

I'm going to collide with him again.

I swing my blade and summon tens of thousands of soul sword manifestations around me to collide with his corruption.

As my hexagonal defensive array is shattered again and my soul sword bashes against his bare palms, he reaches forward with his sharp claws. Yet, another series of dings sound in my inner ear.

______

[Congratulations! Rising Emperor's Domain Milestone Reached!]

[100,588,905/100,000,000 Worlds Claimed]

[New Perk Unlocked: Galactic Footprint]

Info:

The [Experience Share]][i] interface is now accessible for the Rising Emperor and the 5 Generals.

The Rising Emperor may now borrow an additional 5% of all Base Stat Points and Mana Control efficiency from all subordinates under the allegiance of the Rising Emperor.

Members affected by this perk are not required to be within range of the Rising Emperor's Domain.

This buff stacks with the [A Light in the Darkness] perk, [Path to Domination] perk, [Authority among Worlds] perk, [Ruler of Worlds] perk, [World Collector] perk, [World Domination] perk, [Imperial Reach] perk, [Expansion] perk, [Dominance] perk, [Authority] perk, [Power Holder] perk, and [Ruler's Gaze] perk if used simultaneously.

______

The additional boost in power is enough to stop us both in place.

Since our last clash seconds ago, I've gained over 5 times more worlds, and drained a massive amount of Citadel mass.

Yet, looking deep into this monster's eyes, and making contact with its flesh, allowing me to peer into its soul, I feel a cold unlike anything he's shown me before.

"You see it now? Do you understand this is pointless? Do you understand why the Royals will never fear the Lower Races?" He yells in my face, as a dense purple and red aura starts to flow out from his eyes.

I finally have enough perception to see the last mystery buff on his status activating: [Royal Bloodline Transformation].
