Of course, it wasn’t as easy as that. Just like in any other job, a lot of people needed things explained two or three times. A few tried complaining or debating the points of the plan. Jaggor actually did end up pummelling one particularly belligerent, drunk Tavungor. But finally, we found ourselves back at our own part of the grasslands, in our bed rolls, looking up at the alien night sky.

“Is this a mistake?” I asked.

“We should sleep.” Steve said. “We need to be fully relaxed for tomorrow.”

Feeling my upper lip curl in amusement, I asked. “Can you actually sleep right now?”

“Well… no.”

“Right on. So… is this a mistake?”

Nix spoke up. “Not for me, it isn’t. I’m not spending my life on the run. Besides, I’ve got my favourite niece back home who needs to know I’m still alive. If that means I need to risk my life, then so be it.” She tittered. “Besides. Back on Earth I was planning to earn a living by streaming and becoming famous. Saving humanity on Ademia should help with that fame, don’t you think?”

Haddock grunted in agreement.

I waited, but apparently that was all the philosophizing we were getting from him.

Steve eventually chimed in. “I’ve already gotten what I came to Ademia for. I’ve seen sights and experienced things I never imagined. But… I’m nowhere near done. This place is so filled with wonder and magic and mythical things to see.” He paused, an ineffable smile playing on his face. “I have no doubts I’ll go out like my namesake, Steve Irwin. Killed and possibly eaten by some beast. But I am planning to see and live as much as possible until then. And for that, I need a home base. Somewhere to relax and recuperate. Is that worth risking my life for? Dunno. But I’ll try anyway.” After a while, he added. “You?”

“I don’t much like people.” I started.

“Hey!” Nix said.

“Present company excluded. Except for Haddock and his farts.”

“Offense taken.” Haddock grumbled.

“Okay. Serious now. I… really don’t care about Earth. Sorry, but there it is. Earth hasn’t exactly been a wondrous place for me. That’s why I didn’t mind dropping everything I owned to get here. On top of that, the entire thing, where humanity sees this as yet another colonization, where we scramble to outpace each other and loot the place, while we put the indigens in their place? Not a fan. There are a few people here and there back on Earth I’ll miss, but all told, I don’t really care if the portal burns.” I paused. Nix’s eyes met mine, and I looked away from the compassion in them. “But, after a while with you guys, I don’t mind admitting that I’ve reconsidered, a bit. I don’t think humans should be allowed to run amok on Ademia. But I don’t want to do this alone either.”

“Aw. That’s sweet.” Nix said. “We’ve been nice enough, you’re willing to let humanity live.”

We bickered and made fun of each other for a while. Eventually, we fell asleep, grabbing whatever rest we could, in what very well could become the last day of our lives.

Haddock’s farts were truly pestilential.
