Ren nodded, and she let his hand go. He went downstairs and out of the shop, then ran down the street and out through the West Gate. Thanks to his new boots that let him run twice as fast, it only took him an hour and a half to get to his County. Once there, he went into the main building and saw that the cement has set well, and he made a new container out of wood to mix cement for the second floor. It didn't work as smoothly as the metal-lined one he had used before; but, it worked well enough because he wasn't making much anyways. Ren filled the second floor walls with cement, then went downstairs to build the rafters. When he finished the last one and stacked it with the others, Teepo told him it had been just over an hour.

“Nice.” Ren said. “I'll be able to finish this tomorrow.” He took off running, and neither of them noticed the young boy that had been sitting in the tall grass, and had watched Ren work.

*

“He was there today.” The boy said when he arrived at the farm house, and interrupted the village meeting. “He made this stuff and poured it into the walls of that big thing he built.”

“What is it?”

“I don't know what the stuff is, but the thing he put it in has holes for windows and a door.” The boy said. “I think it's a house.”

“I've never seen a house like that before.” Patty said, and shook her head. “And I've been to Aurora.”

“Maybe it's a new kind of house?” One of the other people there said.

“It doesn't matter what it is.” Patty said. “It's far enough away from everything that we can keep ignoring it.”

“Should we, though?” Someone asked.

“What do you mean?” Another asked.

“Well, he's the new Lord, right?”

“Yes.” Patty said.

“Shouldn't we help him or something?”

“He hasn't asked us to.” Someone else said.

“Does he even know he can ask us?” One of the old ladies asked the group.

Everyone was quiet, because they all knew that none of them had told the new Lord that they were available to work.

*

Ren was tempted to stop in and visit Elerlyth at her place, but he ignored the urge and ran all the way back to Aurora. He went to the Library, and went inside to see Rosie sitting at the reception desk.

“Hello, Ren.” Rosie said, and giggled.

“Hi, Rosie.” Ren said. “I was wondering if you have a book on farm equipment.”

“Of course.” She said. “Let me see your Library card.”

Ren handed it over, and she stared at the 'C' rating.

“You've been cheating on me, you rascal.” Rosie said, and grinned.

Ren chuckled. “I have read a couple of books, but what happened there was...” He explained about proving his knowledge of the Dwarf Civil War to another Librarian, and Rosie nodded.

“Yes, acquired knowledge can count if it is extensive enough.” She said. “This is the first time I've heard of someone doing it, though.”

“I was surprised by it, that's for sure.” Ren said. “So, what kind of book can I get?”

“I'll surprise you.” Rosie said. “You can go and have a seat while you wait.”

“Thanks.” Ren said and walked over to a nearby table. He sat down and looked around. Since it was the end of the day, there was only a couple of people reading things. While he waited, Ren finally got a chance to look at the sack of loot he had received from Lord Lodur. He took it out and looked at the contents. There was a coin pouch, a House Lodur signet ring with what Ren assumed was Lord Lodur's initials on it, a bracelet, a small wooden box, and a scroll.

He started with the coin pouch, and saw there was 235 platinum coins in it, and dumped them into his own coin vault and put the empty coin pouch back into the sack. Ren examined the ring next and was disappointed by the lack of information in the popup.

House Lodur Signet Ring

This ring was made specifically for the Lord of House Lodur, and bears his initials.

Ren used Enchanted Eyes, and the House Lodur signet ring didn't glow. He was tempted to put on the ring, but he didn't know what that would mean; so he took off his House Neram pendant instead, and slid the ring onto the chain. He put the pendant back around his neck, then picked up the bracelet and examined it.

Bracelet Of Importance

This bracelet grants the wearer an Aura (Importance). Artificially boosts Influence and Honor by 100,000. Distance: 50 foot radius.

Warning: Binds to the user when equipped, but unbinds and drops when killed.

Wow. Ren thought. I had no idea something like this existed.

“Like they would tell you if it did.” Teepo chittered in laughter. “You know dwarves like to keep their secrets.”

Ren tried to use Appraisal on it, and got the N/A result. Either it's priceless, or my skill isn't high enough yet.

“A hundred thousand Influence and Honor?” Teepo asked. “I'd say priceless.”

Ren nodded and looked at his wrist. Should I put it on?

“I don't see why not.” Teepo said. “Except that it increases your Aura by another 50 feet.”

Yeah, that's the downside. Ren thought. 100,000 Influence and Honor, though...

“Maybe you should wait until the right time to use it.” Teepo said. “It's not like you need the Honor and Influence right now.”

Ren nodded and stored it, then picked up the small wooden box. He identified it, and smiled at the popup.

Small Wooden Box

This is a box for holding small things.

He opened it, and nearly dropped it as he gasped. Inside the box was two rows of shadow coins. He counted them, then counted them again.

Thirty! Ren thought in astonishment. There's 30 shadow coins in here!

“If each one is worth 100 platinum coins...” Teepo said. “...then Lord Lodur had 3,000 platinum on him, and didn't know it.”

Ren shook his head. The worst part of this, is that there's room for another 15 markers. He thought. Either he didn't have enough to fill it, or...

“... or he already used 15 of them.” Teepo said.

Ren sighed, and was tempted to dump the coins into his coin vault; but, then he thought better of that decision. He picked up one of the coins, and identified it.

Shadow Marker

This is a Shadow Marker.

Ren used Appraisal on it, and surprisingly, got the same popup.

Shadow Marker

This is a Shadow Marker.

Ren closed the box and stored it, then looked at the last item. A scroll. He picked the scroll up, and Rosie came over to his table with a book in her hand.

“Here you go.” She said, and handed him the book on farm equipment. “Are you going to do some farming?”

“Not really.” Ren said. “There's a farmer on my land that's having a hard time using the land that he has, and I wanted to find something to help him.”

Rosie put a hand on his shoulder. “You're a good man, Ren.”

“I am?” He smiled up at her. “I wonder what happened to the cute boy you thought I was.”

“I got to know him a little better.” She giggled, and squeezed his shoulder slightly. “If you need anything else, I'll be at my desk.”

“Thanks, Rosie.” Ren said, and she walked back to her desk. He looked at the scroll in his hand, then at the book. Decisions, decisions. He thought, and Teepo chittered in laughter.

“The book.” Teepo said. “You want to know what you can make before seeing if that's a spell or not.”

Right. Ren put the scroll aside and flipped through the book. He saw pretty much every farming tool he already knew how to make, and then near the back of the book was the large plowshare, then a wheeled contraption for gathering wheat, one for making the holes for seeds, and a couple of other things. Ren smiled as he memorized the contents and closed the book. He got up and brought the book over to Rosie.

“That was fast.” She said. “Did you find what you were looking for?”

“I hope so.” Ren said. “I should be able to come up with something for the farmer.”

“That's great!” Rosie said. “Is there anything else?”

Ren grinned. “Well, there is something...”
