Soon, the group entered a steady routine of taking the test, receiving feedback, and returning to the audience. Elise and Sophie were both about halfway down, and got to witness dozens of people go before them. Unfortunately, the device seemed to be truly randomized in terms of what kind of attacks it used. No two tests were the same, so Elise had no way to prepare for any specific attacks.

She did get a few ideas on defense though, which was good because she had never actually tried defending before. She had only gotten {Mana Shield} a couple days ago, and before that, she simply dodged everything, as she did not have the ability to block. Originally, she simply planned on doing her best with the {Mana Shield} Skill she had barely practiced with, but one of the other students ahead of her gave her a good idea.

She didn’t necessarily have to block every attack. She could also intercept them. The other student, clearly a pure mage, did this quite effectively, using {Magic Missile} to block two of the projectiles, making them explode into light before they got close to his body. However, this failed when an especially large projectile came his way, passing through his own projectile and crashing into his barely-protected chest. It was not the first time that they saw a red flash, but it was most definitely the brightest red flash.

After that, he was more cautious, and while he still intercepted the weaker attacks, when a stronger one came, he made sure he had a magical shield at the ready. Seeing this performance, Elise got a few ideas of her own. Her {Mana Shield} was brand new, but {Magic Missile} was one of her staple spells, and she was quite good with it.

When it came time for her to try defense, she did her best to imitate the other mage’s technique. The first projectile, unfortunately, was a powerful one that her spell passed through, so she had to try to block it with a hasty {Mana Shield}. The projectile flashed red, and now that she was closer, she saw that it looked almost like a heat map over her mana barrier, brighter in places where the shield was weaker.

She barely had time to note this though before the next projectile was already on its way and she had to give her attention to it.

In the end, her performance was… not quite as bad as she was worried it would be. She managed to intercept two of the projectiles, and got her shield between her and the rest of them. Her shields were not good, but she earned two levels in the Skill in the brief time she was using it, so the drill was definitely useful, and her final shield was noticeably better than the first. Her scorecard more or less confirmed her own thoughts, but she was pleasantly surprised that the giant rated her Reaction Time quite highly.

Power: 4

Reaction Time: 8

Efficiency: 4

Consistency: 4

Notes: New Skill? No defensive experience. Low Physical Stats. Practice more. Avoid trying to block real attacks at all costs.

The notes were succinct, but basically summed up Elise’s skills. Still, it stung a little to see her scores so low. And she suspected they would be even lower if her {Magic Missile} wasn’t so efficient and consistent.

Sophie performed a bit better than Elise in some aspects, but worse in others. The poor girl had never been attacked before, so she froze up at the first projectile, barely getting a weak shield up in time. On the second, she overcorrected, and on the third, she overcorrected the overcorrection. She had somewhat settled in by the seventh, but then the test ended and she didn’t have time to improve further. Bartholomew rated her defensive power all the way at a six though, and her efficiency was higher than Elise’s, which Elise found mildly annoying. If she had time to practice with {Mana Shield} beforehand, her efficiency would have been significantly better. She did not make her annoyance known though, as Sophie was quite sad about the big fat 1 on her consistency, and didn’t need Elise’s own negative feelings too.

Near the end of the defensive drill, it was time for the giantess to go, and to nearly everyone’s surprise, she did not react when the first projectile came. She just stood in front of it with her arms crossed, and only at the last second did her mana flare, flowing through her body to strengthen it. To everyone’s further surprise, when the projectile exploded, it flashed blue.

For the entire drill, the giantess remained motionless, simply taking the blows with her body, only moving her mana near the end to strengthen wherever was getting hit, and every single projectile flashed blue, even the big one with more mana than any others Elise had seen. Her face remained expressionless the entire time, giving her an almost bored look, and it remained that way even after receiving her feedback.

“Well done, everyone,” said Bartholomew. “Even those who scored poorly. Not everyone has the Skills or Stats to stand and block attacks. There is no shame in having a weakness, but it is important to be aware of what that weakness is so that you can make up for it in other ways. Now, we’re tight on time, so I won’t say any more. Your next station is Dame Lindsay’s, where your offensive capabilities will be tested. You are free to go.”

He pointed toward the section of field closest to the classroom where they started. The female knight seemed to be giving some closing words to her group of students as well. As Elise’s group started walking toward her, the female knight’s group turned to head around to the knight on the opposite side of the field.

As they approached, Elise was much more excited for this test. She had never tried defending, but had plenty of experience attacking. And now that she knew that she was being graded, she wanted to score as high as possible.
