“For all of us.” The healer said, and the wall of spiders shifted slightly and opened up.

“So, they finally chained you up.” Grimlow said and laughed. He was nearly 9 feet tall, only a few inches shorter than Lylyth, and his hair was just as white and his skin just as dark.

“You have not been invited into my throne room.” Lylyth said and stood. “Leave. Now.”

“My Queen.” Grimlow said and bowed deeply; but he did it mockingly, and Lylyth scowled at him. “I merely request an audience.”

“Denied.” Lylyth said. “Get out.”

Grimlow laughed. “Your Command ability seems to have weakened somewhat.” He said. “I didn't even feel a twinge of obedience to you.”

Lylyth took a step towards him and the slack in the chain disappeared and it stopped her. “I will rip off your head and spit down your neck!”

“Ooo, scary.” Grimlow said. “Your threat is hollow, My Queen.”

“You dare!”

“I cannot be touched by you, or anyone else, until my rival appears.” Grimlow said and grinned evilly. “At least, according to your own rules.”

“Bah!” Lylyth said and sat down on the floor again. “Why did I ever agree to that?”

“Your people agreed and you had to go along with it.” Grimlow said. “They would have deserted you all those years ago if you hadn't.”

“Oh, right.” Lylyth said.

“It's taken me decades to earn enough Influence to reach the rarefied heights of Dark Elven Society.” Grimlow said. “I had thought when I maxed it recently, that I would earn the spot by your side.”

“It's not that easy to win the Queen.” The healer said. “She would have had several men like you before now if she was.”

Grimlow scowled. “There's no other men like me.”

“Oh, please.” Lylyth said. “Arrogant? Self-centered? Full of himself? Believes everyone else is below him, even his peers?” She laughed. “You're just like every single elf I've ever met.”

“That doesn't matter.” Grimlow said, because he couldn't argue her point. He actually was all those things. “I've gained the Influence, and you will accept me.”

“You didn't do it first.” The healer said. “You also don't have a connection to the Queen.”

“Ha, like that matters.” Grimlow said. “She can feed from me only when I allow her to.”

Lylyth looked at her attendant. “Why didn't you have him killed before he gained enough Influence like I asked?”

“I tried, My Queen.” The attendant said. “He killed both assassins.”

Lylyth sighed. “I wish it had worked.”

“I know you do.” Grimlow said and grinned. “Your feelings of despair are so delicious.”

“That's not despair, you ignorant fool.” Lylyth said. “It's resignation. He is not going to be happy that he has to fight for me, especially after my message reminding him of his promise.”

“Ah, a reluctant champion.” Grimlow said. “His emotions will be sweet and tasty.”

“You can't feed from him!” Lylyth said and stood up again. “He is mine to feast upon!”

Grimlow smiled. “Hit a sore spot, have I?” He said. “I will use my ability to it's fullest extent when we battle, to suck every bit of emotion from him!” He chuckled. “I will leave him an empty husk!”

“RAAHHH!” Lylyth yelled and swung her arms. It lifted the heavy chunk of floor that her chain was attached to, and she swung it at him.

“AhhHH!” Grimlow hollered and jumped back out of the way as the 5 foot wide and 3 foot thick chunk of stone turned in an arc and passed mere inches in front of his face.

Lylyth's temper eased away as she felt fear from Grimlow, and she let the chunk of stone fall to the floor.

“Mmm, fear from someone with such high Influence.” Lylyth said and drank it down. “Tasty.”

Grimlow pushed his fear away and replaced it with anger. “I'll come back when you are more reasonable.” He said and turned towards the wall of spiders.

“I'm so glad I'll never have to see you again, then.” Lylyth laughed, and the wall of spiders parted to let Grimlow leave the throne room and Lylyth's sight.
