“No! He can use that!” Ali shouted, reflexively snapping a large barrier wall into place in front of herself and her friends, but it was too little – and far too late. With a sharp flicker of familiar death magic, a dark apparition materialized beside Nathaniel. Ornate robes swirled around the black billowing cloud that would have been his legs, swirling on an eldritch wind. The withered face, obscured by his crimson blindfold, turned slowly back and forth as if to survey the surrounds while his oppressive aura of dread burst forth, crushing will and sapping spirit.

Once again, Ali found herself confronting the Blind Lich from the other side of a thin wall of transparent, glittering gold. Once again, she quailed in the face of his monstrous presence, despairing as she thrust her woefully inadequate magic at him in a futile attempt to save those she loved.

“Nathaniel?” Lyeneru groaned. “What have you done?”

You have gained Clarity.

In that instant, a spherical pulse of Malika’s magic flowed out across Ali, and she felt her mind drawing back from the precipice. Lyeneru’s bow flared into her hands, but her arrows simply ricocheted from the archmage’s barrier. Calen swore, drawing his own bow but not firing as he realized the futility of the gesture. Mato growled, his body gaining mass and substance as he shifted.

“At last…”

The Blind Lich’s chilling words cut through the screaming and wailing of the novices like a scythe through silk. In the wake of terrified silence, he turned to face the Well of Souls.

“Nathaniel Sunstrider, you have done well. Ask anything of me and it will be yours,” the Lich said.

“I wish for immortality, Master,” the Archmage said, kneeling before the grim visage of Nevyn Eld while the eldritch tendrils fed upon his essence.

Master? Did he summon Nevyn Eld… on purpose? Ali reeled from the shock of this horrific revelation – but there could be no other explanation. She had found the Archmage to be arrogant, selfish, and aloof – not entirely likeable, but never in her wildest imaginings could she have conjured a nightmare like the one unfolding before her. This… this was her darkest fear – the primal terror her mind had conjured the day she had first seen him in the Spirit Realm come to life.

“Immortality?” the Lich said, seeming to study the kneeling archmage before him for just a moment. The hoarse whisper of his laughter grated on Ali’s ears and sent chills cascading down her spine, despite the soothing of Malika’s Touch of Clarity. “Always with you scholars, it’s immortality. Even Kryostria craved it. Very well, you will have your reward.”

A dense coil of darkness erupted from the Blind Lich’s palm, tearing through Nathaniel Sunstrider’s chest.

Sacrifice! Oh, no…

Ali instantly recognized the Lich’s spell from the battle at the Temple of Aman Rak, but before she could do anything, Nevyn’s bony arm shot forward, plunging deep into Nathaniel’s chest with the help of some form of incomprehensible, spectral incorporeality. His clawed fingers closed around something ethereal within him, snatching it, writhing and wailing, from the Archmage’s chest. The lich held it up in triumph, ignoring the limp body slumping to the dirt beside him.

“Arise, Nathaniel, and serve.”

The ghostly blueish-purple energy separated from the corpse sprawled on the ground and coalesced into a shifting, translucent humanoid shape. Only then did Nevyn Eld release what he held.

Elder Wraith – Undead Spirit – level ??? (Arcane, Death)

Ali shuddered, her heart clenching within her chest. She had seen its like once before: the day the Lich had forced this same tortured existence upon the Elven King, Thaldorien Stormshaper; the day Nevyn Eld had taken her mother from her. The wraith retained Nathaniel Sunstrider’s likeness, only hazy now and transparent, brimming with potent death-affinity mana that stained the previously pure purple of his arcane. It writhed as if continually tormented by its very existence.

“Secure Ciradyl while I prepare the Well,” Nevyn Eld said, and turned his attention to the serene beauty of the Well of Souls, dismissing the Elder Wraith. “Kill all who live.”

“Yes, Master,” the wraith hissed.

Nevyn Eld floated forth, passing smoothly through Nathaniel’s barrier as if it were not even there, and plunged his blackened, withered arm elbow-deep into the waters of the Well of Souls. An enormous surge of midnight-black mana swelled within him, rushing down his arm and out from his fingers. The Well convulsed, once, and then stilled like the deathly quiet of anticipation before a storm. Nevyn’s mana flared once again, reaching an even greater crescendo, and the Well of Souls convulsed a second time, but this time Ali saw it right as it began. A dense kernel of black coalesced deep within the well, pulsing like a gruesome heart. Tiny tendrils sprouted from it, consuming the magic all around it and staining the waters with impenetrable darkness.

“Attack!” Lyeneru screamed, her voice hoarse and cracking. “Defend the Well!” Her bow thrummed with power as her arrows hammered into the purple dome.

Calen responded first, adding his arrows to the storm, and then Ali mustered her two trolls while her friends sprang into action. But the Archmage’s barrier weathered the storm with unbelievable resilience, and the Lich shrugged off the attacks with far more ease than Ali recalled from the fight above Aman Rak.

In seconds, the waters of the Well of Souls turned pitch-black. But it didn’t stop there, hungry black tendrils slopped out over the stone retaining wall, poisoning, and corrupting the surroundings as they voraciously consumed the delicate tapestry of soul magic that Ali had so admired. Everywhere the corruption grew, elves collapsed, screaming in agony – the lower-level ones withering and decaying in seconds, while the higher-level ones fled in terror.

Ali threw up another barrier as the corruption came for her, feeling an enormous surge of reclaimed mana as her glittering wall fended it off.

As soon as the death mana touched Nathaniel’s wraith, it was drawn in and a ripple of darkness infected his entire domain, tainted by the touch of death. Then, an unearthly wail scratched at Ali’s mental defenses with claws of insanity, and a form glowing with a sickly green light emerged from the pillar of light above the Well, now entirely black, stained by the Lich’s profane ritual.

Banshee – Undead Spirit – level 124 (Death / Sound)

The Banshee’s ghostly maw opened, widening well beyond the borders of natural into the realm of nightmares, and unleashed a shrill, soul-crushing shriek. Fleeing Elven novices collapsed in droves, hitting the ground and convulsing in fear, dying as the creeping corruption caught up with them.

Then, another form emerged from the Well. And another.

Wraith – Undead Spirit – level 29 (Death)Ghost – Undead Spirit – level 16 (Death)Wraith – Undead Spirit – level 47 (Death)…

The nascent trickle of undead swelled into a torrent; the unholy glow of their foul existence casting an unhealthy pallor across the breadth of the once-beautiful sacred forest grove of the Wood Elves. Spirits kindled into being by the unholy fusion of the immense source of soul magic and the Blind Lich’s corrupting touch flew from the Well, tearing off in all directions, assaulting the air and minds alike with their wails and screeches, preying on the paralyzed or fleeing Elves in a sudden eruption of chaos.

Ali flung up a broad barrier before the horde of screaming spirits, gasping at the sudden jolts of reclaimed mana as the magical undead rammed into her golden wall like a siege assault bouncing off battlements. Behind her, Lyeneru took to the air, joined by Calen, unleashing a storm of arrows into the oncoming waves of spirits. On the massive boughs of the tree city, shocked Elves mustered in small groups, adding their magic and arrows to the resistance.

A surge of evolved nature mana pulsed as a new Elf appeared in the air beside the flying archers. His powerful voice rang out, demanding answers in clipped Elvish that betrayed traces of shock and urgency, “Lyeneru! Situation?”

“Nendir,” Lyeneru said. “Nathaniel has betrayed us all. He invited the Blind Lich in, bypassing the wards with that evil artifact. The Well of Souls is lost.”

“No!” Nendir rasped, his voice cracking.

“Hold the spirits back! Save the novices!” Lyeneru cried, her fire magic roaring as she wove lightning through it in an immense volley of bolts that drove the wave of spirits back momentarily.

Ali glanced to the side where they had first found Nathaniel Sunstrider finishing his lecture and found dozens of Elven bodies, lying like crumpled, discarded rags where the draining spirits had left them. As the creeping black that oozed up out of the Well reached the bodies, a chilling moan arose. Bodies stirred and the shambling dead began to rise. Desperately, Ali tossed out what little barrier capacity she had remaining to try and save the pitiful few who’d managed to outrun the blight while Malika and Mato tangled with the zombies.

How could you be so stupid? You should have trusted your feelings, Ali, have you learned nothing? How could you let them convince you he was… Ali’s eyes stung as she saw the corpses strewn everywhere. Her ears quailed at the rising screams of the dying. I should have kept it, she thought, eyeing the floating shrine. Hidden it. This… this is all my fault.

“I’ll mobilize the guard. Rally the Pathfinders,” Nendir said.

“Most of the higher ranks are with the campaign in the north, holding back the Lich’s armies,” Lyeneru said, biting her words off with a grimace.

“Lunaré, save us,” Nendir prayed.

“I fear it might be too late for that,” Lyeneru said. “He has cut out the heart of Ciradyl in one fell stroke.”

“Malika! Help!” Ali yelled as she struggled to protect the screaming and catatonic.

“On it,” Malika shouted. She vanished, to appear again among the fallen, pulsing her magic as she danced above the corruption with grace and speed. In her wake, Elves recovered from the paralyzing grip of the Banshee Fear and fled for their lives.

“Mato, can you handle the corruption?” Ali asked, immensely regretting not bringing more minions. Without them, she barely had any options.

“Yes,” Mato said, stepping forward to the barrier and transforming. Moments later, his enormous branches spread wide, reaching far over Ali’s barrier. As the spirits tore into him, clawing and biting, he suddenly ignited. Holy magic flared up and down his trunk, spilling out across his branches and roots and spreading the holy fire of consecration across the ground, reaching nearly four hundred meters in all directions. Spirits screamed, recoiling in pain, while the border between the creeping corruption and the white fire sizzled and crackled in violent conflict.

“Heal everyone,” she told her shaman.

“Yes, Seeker,” her Troll said, unleashing ribbons of blood magic that arced across the field to touch the stricken and wounded.

“And you, shoot those spirits over there,” she instructed her ice mage.

“At once,” he said, grinning widely as his Ice Shield crackled and his fingers flung lances through her barrier into the swarm.

Please buy us enough time, she thought, bending to the ground and inscribing a runic teleportation circle amid the ghostly flames of Mato’s Consecration.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
