Those who thirst for power, beware, lest it burn you up like dragon’s fire.- Artur Dragonsworn [The Rule of Law], Human King of Dal’mohra

The Ciradyl receiving room and the teleportation locus etched into the polished wooden floor were exactly as Ali remembered them; gorgeously crafted runes glowing with the subtle flows of circulating mana. Elegant, white-robed priests and acolytes of Lunaré stood in quiet attendance, several shining under mana sight as they fed their mana into the floor to power the locus. The rich Ciradyl heartwood forming the walls and floor of the room had been grown out of the trunk of the giant, living tree without hampering its vitality in the slightest – as clear an indication of wood-crafting mastery as Ali could imagine.

Mato ran his fingertips across the wall, touching the wood with an expression as close to reverence as Ali had ever seen from the big Beastkin.

“Pretty impressive, isn’t it?” Calen said, with a touch of pride evident in his voice.

“Wait till you see the rest of the city,” Lyeneru said, showing a rare smile of pearly-white teeth. Then she flared her wings and headed for the door. “Follow me.”

Ali gathered her minions to her side, only two for this trip. She chose to travel light, knowing full well that wandering around the peaceful city with an assault group would be inappropriate. Not wanting to sacrifice her intelligence and wisdom enhancements, she had picked an Ice Mage and a Blood Shaman as her escorts, but she had deliberately chosen not to bring Joraa, just in case the betrayer was recognized outside of Aman Rak. Mato joined her and her minions on the barrier disk as she levitated the non-flying members of their group out of the room.

Emerging from the tree trunk chamber, Ali couldn’t help but stop and stare in awe.

“What do you think?” Lyeneru asked.

“Amazing,” Ali whispered. She found herself floating several hundred meters above the distant forest floor among giant branches that served as the highways and boulevards of the arboreal elf city. Everywhere she looked, elves walked those broad boughs chatting or conducting business with the vendors and merchants under their tents or more permanent stands grown directly from bark and branches. Nature and plant magic was evident in every construction.

Above and around the branches, elves took to the air, flying about with graceful swooping and soaring wings or seated upon strange artifacts or creatures. Despite the organic, natural theme, a pang of melancholy nostalgia for the busy Dal’mohra of her memories squeezed her heart. Infused into the very air, the branches, and even herself, she saw something that she had not been able to perceive before.

“Soul magic,” Malika said, inadvertently echoing Ali’s thought.

Delicate and subtle, its wisps and threads filled the vast expanse of the city, cradling everything in a gentle ambient pulsing energy that seemed almost like a domain, only much more organic and subtle. Even the trees were linked to this vast spell.

Ciradyl Tree – Elder Tree – level ??? (Soul)

Since she last visited, Ali had grown, earning more than thirty levels and advancing to the second tier. She had added sixteen levels to Arcane Insight. More than that – across her Arcane Recall mastery and the bonuses granted by her evolution to arcane and knowledge spell power, Arcane Insight had a cumulative enhancement of two hundred and twenty percent. She had added an additional one hundred and twenty perception, and more than four hundred intelligence, granting an extraordinary improvement to her ability to perceive, understand, and resolve mana. It was like returning to a dark room and seeing it by the light of day for the very first time.

When she had first witnessed this city, she had missed the uniqueness of the mana that cradled it. Previously lost in an indistinct background haze, now it wasn’t just mana – she could see its very structure, an intricate tapestry of soul magic infusing the entire city and its surrounds. The Ciradyl trees propagated it, but an immense source all the way down among the giant roots sent up a beacon – a pillar of shifting blue and white light. It was a pulsing, vibrating, ever-changing organic formation that seemed almost alive.

“Come on, Ali,” Calen grinned, bouncing a little on his toes in mid air. “You’re going to love this!”

The Well of Souls. She gasped at the sight of so much power, of such beauty. She couldn’t wait to see it up close. What was remarkable was that not even the Elven Archmages knew precisely what it was for – the artifact supposedly dated back all the way to the first age, and she was curious what Lira might know about it. Or maybe His Grumpiness, the Troll, she thought, not relishing the idea of asking Val’korr, but if anyone knew about the origins of something so ancient it would be him.

“Nathaniel Sunstrider is giving a lecture to the initiates and novices down there,” Lyeneru said, and to Ali’s delight, she pointed in the general direction of the pillar of intense mana and light. “Let’s go, he should be almost finished, we can meet him there.”

“Perfect,” Ali said, swooping down after the ebony Night Elf, enjoying the long, scenic descent through the branches toward the forest floor.

I wish I had brought Clarence, she thought, but there would be time enough for a detailed study later. Now that she had created her teleportation circle to Ciradyl, she could spend as much time studying this extraordinary magic as she wanted. Besides, it would be bad if Nathaniel figured out that I have the original book. Despite her friends’ assurances, she was still wary of the archmage’s arrogance.

They landed on soft, springy ground that was covered with a thick layer of composting leaves, moss, and patches of clumped grass. She dismissed her barrier and took a few steps closer to the bright glow of the well, barely noticing the strong scent of damp earth and growth kicked up by the passage of feet. Despite its name and reputation, the Well of Souls was a broad pool of still water, nearly twenty meters in diameter, held in by a simple construction of ancient and worn stone blocks. Her friends gathered beside her, captivated by the beauty they beheld. Malika sighed deeply, her mana sparkling in her eyes and softly resonating with the immense source of soul-affinity mana that flowed through everything.

Nathaniel Sunstrider cut an imposing figure in his flowing white archmage robes, edged in glowing purple spellthread of precisely the same shade as his mana affinity, finishing his lecture while silhouetted against the pillar of light behind him. A continuous eruption from the Well of Souls launched an unimaginably immense geyser of soul mana into the air, manifesting as soft aurorae of blue and white within which danced countless wisps. Ali didn’t even hear what the archmage said – she just stood and stared, entranced by the sight of the ancient, mysterious artifact.

“I trust you are recovering well,” Nathaniel said, jerking Ali’s attention away from the mesmerizing display of magic, but he was facing Lyeneru. Scattered about, the Pathfinder novices and initiates had broken up into small conversation groups, presumably discussing their lecture.

“I am well enough to travel,” Lyeneru said, “but it will take another week or two before I’m fit enough for missions and combat.”

“Very good,” Nathaniel said, and then turned to study Ali with an inscrutable expression. “I wanted to thank you for your notes on the Death Knight array. I found them to be extraordinarily enlightening – the Blind Lich wields immense power and proficiency. I just wish I could have seen it in action, some of the functions are difficult to understand from reading the runes.”

“I can explain what I saw,” Ali offered, recalling just how illuminating it had been to see the array light up. “I can probably recreate some of the pieces in my domain if that would help.” With Adaptable Mana, and what she had learned from the fire runes in the mines, she knew all she would need was a death or soul-affinity area. With her array of matching flowers, it would be a simple matter to produce the required affinities. She paused for a moment, suddenly shocked by the realization that if she put enough effort into it, she could very likely recreate the full array from her notes and memories.

Does that mean I can make Death Knights the same way he did? That idea sent chills down her spine, but she caught herself before Nathaniel noticed her distraction.

“And what of the artifact Lyeneru said you recovered?” he asked.

“I brought it with me,” she said, retrieving the heavy artifact of stone from her storage enchantment. It suddenly popped into existence in front of them, a polished geometric pyramid of black adamant onyx, floating a bit above the ground and slowly rotating as the runes etched into its surface complemented the glowing backdrop of the Well of Souls.

“Extraordinary,” Nathaniel said, staring at the artifact intensely and Ali recognized the naked hunger of a scholar presented with the final key to unlocking the knowledge he had been seeking for an age.

“I turned off the teleportation locus,” Ali explained. “But maybe you shouldn’t leave it out for very long, I don’t know if he has other ways to locate it.”

“Do not worry about that,” Nathaniel said, heavy wards of dense arcane mana snapping into place around him as he wielded his rune-covered spellbook. “I am not a novice. Please step back.”

Ali stepped back along with her friends to give the archmage the room he needed, reminded that this was a mage of unfathomable experience and power – still beyond her ability to identify. Mana surged and a purple glittering arcane shell snapped into place, isolating the Elf and the shrine behind a dome barrier the likes of which Ali had never seen. What kind of ward is this? Ali’s Sage leapt like an excited puppy.

“Finally, time for some answers,” Calen said, his eyes dancing as he followed Nathaniel’s every move.

A black leather book with glowing silver runework sprang to the archmage’s hand, flipping open as he referenced its contents. A familiar book. Ali waited with bated breath for something to happen, but Nathaniel stood calmly, consulting Nevyn Eld’s book occasionally. It still gave her chills to see it, but it was the most complete reference on dungeons she had seen in all the libraries she and Ryn had access to. Most likely Nathaniel, as an archmage with centuries of experience, had none of her squeamishness about using the Lich’s work to understand his construct.

She couldn’t help recalling just how shocked he had been when he had first seen the book resting on her shelf. In fact, everyone who had seen it had made sure to impress upon her the dangers of dabbling in death and dungeons. Having studied its pages herself, and witnessed the workings of the Lich’s awful runic creation in Aman Rak, she was convinced none of them understood even the half of it. Ease up, Ali. He knows what he’s doing, she thought, pushing her dark ramblings into the background. Who am I to question an Archmage?

Eventually, she began to lose interest in the archmage and his inscrutable studies, turning toward the only thing more interesting.

“Do you see it?” Ali asked, turning to Malika. “The magic of the Well of Souls?”

“It’s beautiful, isn’t it?” Malika answered.

Ali immersed herself in the sight and flow of the vibrant soul magic emitted by the ancient artifact, content to observe using every skill at her disposal – in much the same way as she might pause and just be in the presence of a great work of art.

The familiar shape of an unfolding flower of mana snapped her out of her reverie. Tendrils of mana burst forth from the artifact Nathaniel was studying.

“Watch out!” Ali shouted, but the tendrils flowed into Nathaniel, filling him with the mana of the shrine.

“Please do not interrupt me again,” Nathaniel said, not breaking his focus on the shrine and the mana pouring from it under the glittering purple of his ward.

“He knows what he’s doing, Ali,” Calen said, placing a reassuring hand on her shoulder. “Come, we should let him work.”

“But, the binding is permanent…” Ali said.

“You seem to have forgotten that it was I who unraveled the secrets of shrine crafting three centuries ago,” Nathaniel sniffed, fixing her with an unimpressed glare for a moment before returning to the shrine. “I understand the dangers far better than you ever will.”

Just like it had been with her witch doctor, he grew under the influence of the domain magic flowing through him and billowing out into a tiny circle. A new dungeon, born under the dome.

“He just became a raid boss?” Calen said, confusion filling his voice.

“Guildmaster?” Lyeneru asked, sounding openly shaken.

“Do not interfere, Lyeneru. These matters are beyond your understanding,” he declared, earning a troubled frown from the legendary archer.

Ali recognized a fresh surge of mana erupting from the tiny domain.

Did he amplify Runic Script? What is he doing? Ali had no idea what Nathaniel was thinking, but she recognized Amplify Skill, and he was using it to proliferate thousands of runes on the ground in the domain – far more rapidly than she had ever imagined possible. In seconds, a large purple crystal pushed up from the ground, pulsing with mana. The fledgling arcane domain flowed into the crystal, making it thrum with power, and then the crystal pulsed, emitting the arcane domain over a much greater area, nearly filling the space under the dome of protection.

“Lyeneru, I have a very bad feeling about this,” Ali said. Nathaniel was following the same path she had to explore the artifact, testing the major features, and now growing what looked like arcanite to propagate the domain. But her gut twisted with an unsettling premonition. Binding to the shrine was a permanent action, the primary reason she had not experimented with it personally and instead used her minions as a proxy. She could only hope that with his experience making artificial shrines he knew of some way to undo it, otherwise he would be bound as a dungeon here forever.

“Me too,” Mato growled.

“You wouldn’t understand,” Nathaniel muttered, hunching over his book and gesturing fervently with his right hand.

She sensed her friends gathering behind and beside her. It was like watching an avalanche rolling down a mountain. To Ali’s horror, dark snaking tendrils of restless black mana began phasing into view, their maws clamping onto the Archmage’s back and shoulders like leeches. They twisted and writhed as they appeared to be feeding upon his essence. “Malika, do you see…” And then, the shrine’s locus activated.

