The massive Cyan Cored Demon is hit with blue and green gravity waves from above his city, yet he sends back a dense pulse of his own Royal Vibrations to negate all of their mental attacks.

His unsealed Royal Form stands at nearly a million kilometers tall, head to toe.

The Soul Armor all over his body is infused with dense cyan threads, white celestial energy, and layers upon layers of his Royal Vibrations.

The chain that glows hotter and hotter white wraps around his left arm, all the way up to his shoulder. It looks like it is squeezing this Demon, and asking to be released at the Wyvern before it, but Lucian holds back.

Instead, he lifts his right hand in the air and raises a dark black and purple two-sided axe.

It's completely shifted colors and auras after unsealing his final form, and so have the six horns now protruding out from his forehead. The front two are the smallest, and the brightest white, while the two in the middle shine purple with demonic energy, and the final two furthest up his head curl backward to protect his skull and even the back of his neck. They are dark black with shimmering purple essence deep within them.

The Cyan Demon's eyes shimmer with this demonic presence for a moment too, and a dark ripple of Vibrations fills the air while he swings his axe forward.

A black gravity swell in space dense with demonic essence pulses out of it, creating a crescent wider than both Abby and Seraphel's combined greater forms it rockets toward. It looks exactly like the attack an Ancient Demon used from his black daggers the first time it met Jay and Maria in the Ravine. This one is just thousands of times larger without any seals or restraint holding it back.

Lucian yells out into the open air while massive ether commands activate below him to project the Cyan City.

"We cut off all ties for the Wyverns to reclaim their Legacy. How could you possibly have come here?" His tone is angry and assertive, but there is an underlying confidence that instantly washes away the excitement of their successful takedown of all the City Guards.

There is no time to answer.

Instead, Seraphel lets out a burst of white and blue light from his mouth while Abby grabs her staff and creates a massive green defensive array with white glyphs spinning inside it in front of both of them.

The wave of blue Celestial Water bursts through the back of the spinning green circle as though it's a hologram and slams into the center of the black crescent coming their way.

It is powerful enough to disrupt its flight path and explode into dismembered shockwaves. The momentum of its demonic essence does not stop coming forward, but the front-facing side of Abby's barrier blocks every single stray source of dangerous essence. It's blown off to the sides, and the intensity of the impact only stimulates her new battle form further.

Strange memories begin unlocking in the depths of her mind, and ones that seemingly have nothing to do with Wyverns. The connection to the legacy she picked up on Kelfar resonates stronger in her soul, and the imagery of all kinds of races in the Lower Realm flood into her consciousness.

A majority of them are long extinct, ones that she has never seen connected to the World Wide Connectivity system before. With all of them, she sees long beautiful branches of an old tree. It looks to be floating out in the depths of empty space, and she feels as though she's watching time fly by from its perspective, watching many races sit under its branches and fall asleep as more time passes.

These memories don't make sense at all, but the more that flash by, the deeper her Vibrations' weight in reality becomes, so she allows them to sink into her mind.

As the explosion of Demonic Energy and Celestial Water disperse, and slide off a massive white dome below them that has formed to protect the Cyan City, Lucian yells out again.

"At first, I thought you were a human! But no... the Vanguards have told me stories about that old race. No wonder we couldn't figure out who was sabotaging us. You're the mastermind aren't you? A dryad. That's what all the old texts called you monsters."

Abby is confused, as she knows she's a human. However, unconsciously, as she blocked the residue from that strike, the subtle manifestation of growing vines has appeared, wrapping out from her Soul Energy core to twist up around her shoulders and others down her legs.

They sparkle with the same Celestial Light she manifested the day she awakened her Immortal Body.

Seraphel yells out into the air after seeing Abby's hesitation, "Why did you betray the Wyverns? You had a deal. Just like we had with Elves once they gave up the Overseer's throne. There was never any need for war... we could have lived side by side." He then sends another blue beam of light through Abby's array.

Her eyes widen as she realizes these changes but also creates a counter while the opportunity is open. Her staff pulses with more white and cyan-colored runes, and she uses her Celestial Grade Earth Magic to create spears of stone all around the outside of this green ring.

They burst out and surround the jet of water, streaming green residue behind.

Lucian laughs and swings his axe at full strength while bridging the gap to be right above the Cyan City.

He lets out a Demonic Roar and slams his dark soul weapon across his body to completely eliminate all of the attacks sent his way. The shockwave makes the clouds around the Cyan City disperse for over 500 million kilometers in every direction.

He yells out again, "Insurance. That was the only reason I was ordered to take you out before our shred of kindness doomed us all. The Fallen One became very friendly in your ranks, and even made deals with the elves."

The explosion of demonic essence and Celestial energy falls all throughout the Zone like a waterfall of Celestial energy and stone shrapnel destroyed in the blast. Lucian keeps yelling as he starts swinging his axe about and moving on the offensive rather than just testing their strength with warning shots.

"The Dragon that betrayed us over and over again, forcing us to protect ourselves in the Upper Realm... You know, those stories of a Dryad I mentioned, the ones the Vanguards spoke of... The only reason I was told such sensitive information about an Overseer before the Hydras, or the Great Tortoise Clans; it's because of the old legend that went with it. One of the original Demon's Generations came across a Dryad's Tree in the Lower Realm. Some say it was far out in deep space, near the edges of the galaxy where no one could find it. Others say it was near civilized worlds, but was moved closer to the source over time. Some even think it's the source itself.

"They believed as long as one member of a fallen race stayed connected to this tree, touching its roots; that all of its fellow brothers and sisters would be preserved with eternal life once the tree withered. Until now I believed this was just a metaphor meaning certain races could somehow be preserved and entered into the system's database to spawn new worlds after the reset... but maybe the tree was real."

Lucian doesn't let up, and sends a dozen demonic long-range axe attacks at Abby and Seraphel from all sides. The Royal is larger and more powerful, but he is not faster. He uses strange preset ether commands in the airspace of the Cyan City to get better angles and move with ether commands faster than his natural body should be able to.

Abby spawns six runic circles on all sides of them, creating a box. It blocks all attacks coming in; but Seraphel is able to send attacks out as though the barriers aren't even there. Abby sends waves of earth spears outward too.

Throughout the explosions, neither the human nor Wyvern are touched, but a few spears manage to nick Lucian's armor, and Seraphel lands a solid hit on his right leg after breaking through one of the Cyan City's ether command structures to slow his movement speed.

This doesn't seem to bother Lucian, as he still rants loudly, charging up the chains around his left arm brighter, and relentlessly countering back with his axe.

"Some races would fight amongst each other beneath the tree to claim a root for themselves, while others share roots in harmony. However, there is one race that the tree rejected... When a Demon came to claim its stake in the tree of life, it was turned down because it refused to submit to the tree's will. The Demon tried to plead with the tree, but it always responded with the fact that it was not good enough. There was something missing. A soul bond that refused to rest under the lush leaves of this tree.

"The Demon looked up at these leaves filled with vitality, and saw its dragon flying in circles far above. It called for it to come down day after day as more races filled in the tree's roots and solidified their futures in harmony, but the Dragon would not come flying down. In fact, it began releasing an aura to poison the tree. More and more days passed, and fewer new races came to live beneath this dying tree. Once it withered away, its vitality and all the life with it rested in the base of its roots. The Dragon swooped down right in front of the Demon and grabbed this seed with its front claws. It flew away alone, off into the darkness to plant a new tree."

The chains around Lucian's left arm twist, squeeze, and glow so bright it almost outshines the rest of his aura. The end of the chain creeps around his shoulder and down into his chest, locking in toward his chest and drilling deep into his Divine Core and Royal Demon Core; connecting deeply to his soul.

He begins sending off dozens, then hundreds of demonic axe strikes, filling the air with dark residue. For billions of kilometers the cyan clouds clear out, even revealing the bottom of the entire zone.

"So if I do kill you out of spite, it is out of necessity. If Demons are left behind, we can only die as a race... never to be included in a new reset. So, we will do what any cornered beast does, and choose self-preservation above all else. We shall seal the Upper Realm without any more Legacy Races getting in our way!"

Seraphel has managed to do some damage on his other leg as well, and even lands a hit on the Royal's mid-torso. Abby even gets a few of her earth spears lodged into his right shoulder to slow his axe swings, and a few in his lower back, but he doesn't even react.

The Demon's eyes stay calm as his chain's glow peaks in luminosity and he throws the curved blade-like attachment at the end of it forward.

It bursts through the air so fast, it makes the axe strikes look like party tricks.

In fact, it slips through one of Abby's defensive arrays, leaving a strange invisible shockwave behind, as though the physical manifestation of a soul bond is covering its outer edges.

The white blade on a chain flies straight past Abby's shoulder faster than she can see, and it pierces through Seraphel's chest.

It stops right in the center of the Blue Wyvern's Soul Energy core, and the battlefield goes into a total standstill.

Lucian has let go of this chain that was wrapped around his arm, but it is still connected to his chest.

Seraphel's eyes widen as he feels his soul bonds starting to be manipulated, as now a heavy white chain of Celestial Energy connects his chest directly to that of a Royal Family Head.
