Eyes wide with surprise, Rustram steps back and delivers a rotating thrust at empty air, trying it out for himself. It’s as simple as rotating his wrist as he drives his blade home, which will affect his aim, but that only matters against opponents in Runic armour. So long as the tip is pointed towards centre mass, he can hardly miss his target, as the little circles he ‘draws’ in the air are barely more than a centimetre in diameter, maybe twice that once you account for the flexibility of his rapier. I’m proud of his accomplishments, this second-in-command of mine, now a Domain-capable Expert of the Empire who stands upon the threshold of the Martial Peak. Though he is still a ways away from calling himself a Peak Expert, he’s ready to begin tackling this penultimate hurdle of the Martial Path at an age when most of his peers are still shoring up their foundations. Much of this has to do with Mom’s gruelling training methods, but to say I had no part in his progress would be a lie. When I helped him Develop his Domain, I catapulted him forward along the Martial Path, but since then, he’s made great strides all by himself. Unlike me, he’s able to grasp his Insights and make use of them freely, and now, he is indisputably the strongest Warrior of my retinue under Peak Expert.

Once he’s got the hang of his new rotating thrust and I’ve recovered enough to not have to work at looking calm and collected, we go for a second round during which the mindset of water comes more easily to me. I don’t have to block, parry, or Deflect every attack, as I can just allow some to flow past me uninterrupted, but the instinct to avoid danger is sometimes too strong to overcome. This becomes even more apparent as I switch partners with Yan to spar with Song, as her attacks are every bit as fast as Rustram’s, yet contain far more power behind them. Though lacking a Domain, Song is a more formidable opponent than Rustram when it comes to these Chi-less spars due to her superior speed and strength, and she is far less adept at limiting herself than my second-in-command. Even overlooking how she sometimes utilizes Chi skills without really meaning to, her true strength comes as something of a surprise until I realize she was previously always holding back against me whenever we sparred. Not because she was going easy on me, but because her Oaths would never have allowed her to go full-throttle, but now she is no longer handicapped when we fight and I am struggling to keep up.

My new mindset of becoming water helps me scrape by and emerge victorious by the narrowest of margins, one a bee’s dick would have trouble slipping in between, but a victory nonetheless. Sharing my thoughts on her fighting style earns me a stoic, stony-faced nod, but also a warm and gracious Aura of gratitude and respect. Her love for me is not romantic in nature, but rather built upon a foundation of trust and respect, so while it was what woke me from my latest coma, I’m desperately fighting to keep my expectations in check. Song is my friend and Martial Aunt, a woman I should love and cherish like a sister, nothing more, nothing less.

I mean c’mon man. Keeping two wives satisfied is already exhausting enough, and soon you’ll have Lin-Lin too, and while she might not be the most physically active woman around, my sweet wifey is not one to exercise restraint when it comes to things she enjoys. I sense many exhausting and exhilarating nights ahead with our wedding just over the horizon, the date set once this round of Body Tempering baths are done and we head back to the Central Citadel for the festivities, so I should probably stop being greedy and focus on the women in my life who were gracious enough to marry a schmuck like me.

Yan, Chey, Dastan, Lang Yi, Wang Bao, Ulfsaar, Neera, Sai Chou, Ravil, Siyar, Jorani, and other familiar faces come out to spar with me, and though I am able to defeat each and every one of them, victory does not come easily. The Warriors of my retinue benefited much from my brief bout with limited omniscience as my Natal Souls focused on the people I knew and cared about first, over strangers I’d never met. Bulat especially, who has shed all his excess flab after months of gruelling training to transform into a burly, heavy-set Warrior whose nimble movements and deceptive cunning augment his prodigious strength well, a combination which makes for a difficult foe. Yan aside, these men and women form the backbone of my retinue, the most trusted Warriors under my command and people who I am proud to fight beside, so it’s high time they received the recognition they deserve.

At the end of our sparring, I gather the entire retinue to bear witness to a round of past-due promotions, and there are plenty of cheers and merriment to accompany the announcement. Sai Chou, Lang Yi, Chey, Wang Bao, and Ulfsaar each receive a promotion to thousand-man commander, equivalent to a Senior Captain without the obligations of military service. Ravil, Siyar, Neera, Lang Er, and many others are also promoted to hundred-man commanders, or Captain equivalents. Though not as adept in battlefield command as I would like, I promote Jorani to the equivalent of a Major and my second-in-command, while keeping Bulat and Silva at his side to help him with the transition. As for Mister Rustram, Mom will throw a fit if I keep her Disciple in obscurity beneath me, so I promote him to a Major in the Imperial Defence forces under the Sentinels and present him with command of the Stormguard as his own personal retinue.

Once the celebrations are over and done with, I accompany my former second-in-command out of the Citadel to inspect his new retinue, who have thus far sat fallow and waiting as they trained under Akanai’s guidance. As we arrive at their training camp, the Stormguard file out to greet us, standing at full attention in neat and tidy formation without the need for any officers to browbeat them into line. Though they’ve only been Martial Warriors for less than a full year, I have never seen more disciplined soldiers outside the Death Corps guards. Unlike the black-armoured Oath-bound Warriors however, the Stormguard are filled will eager faces and reverent gazes as far as the eye can see, these three-thousand some odd Warriors having somehow come to the conclusion that I was responsible for their unasked for and unexpectedly successful Core Formation.

I mean, they’re not wrong, but they have no proof, yet still they choose to idolize me like a hero out of legend. Can’t say I enjoy it as it’s incredibly unnerving, especially since now I have an obligation to live up to their unrealistic expectations, but those are the pitfalls to command.

After greeting the Stormguard and introducing their new commander, I rest on my laurels and watch Mister Rustram take command. Though I offered him the pick of his officers from my retinue, he only brought Pran, Saluk, Viyan, and Birca with him, as he intends on promoting the majority of his officers from within the ranks of the Stormguards themselves. A fact he makes known before he begins his inspection, which raises their morale to staggering heights. A few months ago, these men and women were mere Irregulars, commoners who were looked down on by every Imperial Soldier in existence, and now, not only were they Martial Warriors in truth, but they also had the opportunity to become Officers themselves. A Junior Officer, but even a mere Lieutenant would have commanded great respect in any of their hometowns, so the chance to become a Captain or even Senior Captain was almost unthinkable, so they give it their all in the ensuing demonstrations.

As they all break into groups and pair off to show off their Martial skills, I note that individually, there’s nothing too remarkable about the Stormguards’ Martial strength, which is to be expected from Warriors who only recently embarked upon the Martial Path. What’s more, these Warriors were much older than average when they Formed their Core and thus lack the lifetime of training most Martial Warriors possess. While Akanai has helped them build the beginnings of a sturdy foundation, it’s evident that these Stormguards are sorely lacking when it comes to experience, as their duels are largely disappointing to watch. Maybe I’m expecting too much from them, but in my defence, I spent a lot of Natal Souls to make this happen and was hoping for an army of super-talented Martial Warriors.

Instead, I got what I should have expected, which is a bunch of peasants with little more than a year of training, and thus can barely manage to hold their weapons without embarrassing themselves.

In light of my disappointment, I stand far enough away from the proceedings so as not to give my thoughts away with Aura, at least not to anyone involved. To be fair, they’ve come a long way in so short a time, just not long enough to become the elite fighting force I’d hoped they’d be. Then again, they’re still stronger than you’d expect from a group of novice Warriors, able to at least hold their own against a Defiled tribesman or three, though they’re solely outmatched by Chosen in heavy Runic Armour, yet another thing I need to study and look into. Reminded of how valuable my time is, I begin making plans to head back to the Citadel and check if I’ve received word from OuYang Yuhuan regarding the Defiled Runic Armour I sent her, but then the sparring comes to an end with pitifully few stand-out talents to pick from. However, rather than announce his chosen Officers, Rustram instead has the Stormguard fall back into formation, only to arrange them into different groups of about a hundred men each. Intrigued by this new development, I stick around to watch the first clash between squads and see how they measure up against Imperial Soldiers, though this time I am careful to temper my expectations appropriately.

Only to have them all blown away.

While their individual strength is nothing to write home about, seeing the first two squads fall into formation sends chills down my spine. Standing shoulder to shoulder with almost no room in between, the Stormguard lower their blunted spears and ready to meet their opponents in combat. Rather than charge headlong at one another, they advance in coordinated fashion, moving neither quickly nor slowly as they march forward in lockstep. Though eager to prove themselves, not a single Warrior sets foot out of formation until they are within range, at which point both sides deliver a wave of synchronized thrusts with a single, unified shout. While their strict discipline falls apart in the heat of battle, both squads manage to maintain formation and even begin wrapping around one another in an effort to bring more spears to bear, utilizing tried and true tactics developed by none other than Liu Xuande himself.

It seems like such a basic thing, to fight in formation as part of a unit, but it’s surprisingly rare to find soldiers capable of doing so without falling apart. Ishin Ken-Shibu’s retinue is one such example, but he only has a hundred or so exemplary Warriors while the rest are just there to fill in the gaps. The Southern Warriors tend to do well when fighting in groups, but their tactics begin and end with the line formation, which is great for defending a static position, but of limited use out on the open field. The reason it’s so difficult to train soldiers like this is because Martial Warriors are literally the one percent, the elites of humanity who stand above the rest. As such, pride and ego will inevitably develop, which run counter to what is necessary when fighting in formation. Why join a retinue where you’ll be treated like some faceless grunt when you can lord over peasants as a City Watchman or Noble Guard? Why give up all your freedom to join the army when you can instead travel the world as a caravan guard or mercenary Warrior? There are far more glorious alternatives to joining the army, so few Martial Warriors would ever care to enlist if soldiers were subjected to the harsh and rigorous training required to fight in tight formation, but the Stormguard are still lacking those ingrained egos. Partially because they’re recently elevated peasants, but also because Akanai has kept them largely isolated from the public and limited their exposure to the adoring masses.

Resulting in this disciplined fighting force before me, ones who are novices in the ways of battle, but well-trained in the ways of war. These Stormguard will set the standard for soldiers moving forward, because with the inclusion of Irregulars and the introduction of the Runic Cannon, gone are the days of the massed melee in which every Warrior fought only for themselves and maybe the people directly beside them. Even the greatest Peak Expert of all time can’t overextend on their own anymore, because they’d be targeted by every cannon and crossbow in range the moment the lines of fire are clear. While the Stormguard could benefit from a smattering of Demon Slayers and Peak Experts scattered about their ranks, they will prove to be a formidable fighting force under Rustram’s command. With a million soldiers like this, I could break entire armies of berserk Defiled tribesmen with minimal casualties, granting me a force to match the Emperor’s Death Corps Guards, but alas, the Stormguard only number three-thousand strong.

Still, it’s better than nothing, which is fast becoming my rallying cry in this War against the Enemy, but for now, I still cling to hope. Falling Rain, eternal optimist, that’s the new me.

Ha.

Chapter Meme
