“Work’s DONNNNEEEEEEEEEEE!”

Emerging from the closed bathing area with a victorious cry, my sweet wifey skips across the garden in a vision of pure delight. Without any need for Aura or treats, her charming presence alone is enough to entice the roving quins and thieving rabbits to follow her away, trailing behind her in a convoy of adorable floofiness. Culminating her short jaunt with a hop into my open arms, Lin-Lin hugs me ever so tightly and exclaims, “Let’s play, ya?!”

Her eager smile and wide-eyed anticipation are made all the more adorable when paired with Blackjack’s eager dance of excitement, pitter-pattering his front paws in between Lin-Lin’s hare ears while swinging his head side to side. Lifting her off the ground and twirling her about, I Cloud-Step ever so lightly and leap twice my height off the ground, before Lightening enough to almost drift back down to earth. Even this minor effort is enough to put a strain on my Chi system and leave me light-headed with exertion, but it’s totally worth it to see the look of glee on my sweet wifey’s adorable face, to say nothing of sweet Blackjack’s unmitigated delight. “Sounds like a plan,” I reply, my grin mirroring hers as we land lightly back on the ground, with so many adorable animals circling us in excitement. Reluctant as I am to release my hold on her slim, soft waist, I can’t really carry her like this and walk around at the same time, so I turn around and offer my back for her to climb on. Dainty thighs are nice to hold too, and I resist the urge to squeeze too much or roam anywhere untowards as I bid farewell to Taduk before heading out of the grove with Mila, Song, and the floofs in tow.

Though I intended to leave Yan to meditate Insights, our quiet passing is enough to interrupt her trance without repercussion, and she greets us all with a smile. Hopping to her feet without so much as a word, she falls in line behind us like a graceful dancer gliding through a practiced routine, her steps weightless and bouncy as if walking on air. Our little discussion has left her in high spirits as she lifts Banjo into her arms, cradling the sizable bear like a baby in her arms before lowering him to the ground to entice three rabbits to hitch a ride on his belly. As our eyes meet, she flashes me an impish grin of smug satisfaction and smouldering passion hinting at a later reward for my help, one I look forward to with eager anticipation, but our salacious endeavours will have to wait until later as I can hardly abandon Lin-Lin after three hours of hard work.

While three hours of effort each day isn’t a lot, for my fun-loving, free-spirited wifey, three hours might as well be three days. In her defence, there’s a lot to pay attention to when conducting the Body Tempering baths, as it takes a lot of focus and on the fly calculation to ensure the concentration of Heavenly Energy stays at optimal levels for Body Tempering. Too much is just as bad as too little, but the requisite amount can change from minute to minute as the beneficiary of the bath acclimates to the process. Taduk tried explaining how he senses the ‘flow’ of Heavenly Energy being drawn into the recipient’s Core, but as far as I can tell from his descriptions, it’s mostly intuition. Unlike with Demonstrating Purity, I can sense no palpable change in the ambient flow of Heavenly Energy, which is largely indistinguishable unless there’s a disturbance taking place. Instead, Taduk is able to hone in on an individual's metaphysical circulatory system using his Divine Sense, which is what I’ve taken to calling that ineffable awareness that comes from having a Core and years of experience with Chi and Heavenly Energy.

Unless you’re a hidden dragon like Lin-Lin, who can somehow also utilize her Divine Sense despite her complete and utter lack of training and hard work. People call me the Mother’s Chosen Son because of my talents, but there are times when it feels like everyone around me is more talented than I. I have bursts of greatness, but it’s unreliable at best, though I have gotten better as of late. Putting aside the things I don’t understand, the skills I can utilize 100% of the time put me somewhere around Peak Expert levels of strength, though I lack the comprehension required to call myself one just yet.

Which, to be fair, is none too shabby an accomplishment if I do say so myself.

Stopping at the nearby district to pick up my sister and her beautiful family, we all head out to the river for an afternoon picnic, with refreshing tea and scrumptious snacks prepared for us all by Tali and Charok. Rakky, the bears, and the quins paddle about in the river, with the pups having a grand old time teasing the slower, clumsier tiger and climbing all over him in the process. As we take a seat by the bank to watch the show, Tali shoos the rabbits and Ping Ping aside before plopping herself down in the dirt beside me. Hauling her hefty basket into her lap, she puffs hard to get her bangs out of her eyes while carefully uncovering the goods hidden inside. “I made scallion pancakes Rainy,” she begins, pulling a steamer out for me to take while her braids dance in the spring wind. “Start with those first, ya?”

“Thank you sweetling.” Inwardly laughing at her grave expression, I resist the urge to tease her by taking my time to appreciate the animal antics and instead dive right in. Little Tali has been hard at work perfecting her cooking skills ever since I accidentally let slip that she succeeded in cooking Spiritual Dumplings, a secret everyone else was keeping from her so as not to skew her expectations and set her up for disappointment. If she were able to naturally figure out the process on her own, then all would be well, but if she set herself on this Path and failed to find success just like so many others before her, then it would have been tragic indeed. Luckily, I made up for my gaffe by leaning on my Brotherhood contacts and convincing one of the monks to teach Tali, as it was clear from my time at the monastery that they knew how to prepare and cook Spiritual Plants for proper consumption. The head chef, a portly, Fire-Blessed man with cheeks so wide they sometimes cover his eyes, took an interest in the matter when he heard Tali already succeeded at cooking with Spiritual Plants once before, and has since been giving her lessons each and every day. From our brief exchanges, it’s clear the head chef hopes Tali will one day lead the charge to establish the Sisterhood, the female counterpart of their organization which I so rightly criticized them for not having.

Exciting as all this might be, I really hope that’s not what life has in store for Tali. Being a nun doesn’t seem all that suitable for my carefree little niece, though it does have the added benefit of ensuring that none of the horrible men out there will ever lay their hands on her. Men are the worst. I should know, I’m one of the worst of the worst when it comes to being a man. Or is it I’m the best at being the worst? I dunno.

Biting into the delectable treat, I revel in the aromatic zing of the scallions mixed with the crunch of the crispy fried pancake, which is nothing like the light, fluffy, syrup lathered breakfast treats of memory. Rather than sweet, these are a savoury snack made of lightly salted, non-rising dough, and Tali has mastered the art of frying them to perfection. “Delicious,” I exclaim, shoving the rest of my piece into my mouth before holding one out to my wifey, who chomps down without hesitation. Sharing with my beloved wives is fine, but Tali will pout and glower if I share any with the animals, because it takes a fair amount of effort and exertion to cook with Spiritual Plants, not to mention the distinct lack of ingredients now that most of Taduk’s efforts are focused on growing the plants needed for the Body Tempering baths. Hugging her tight as thanks for all her hard work, I bask in the warm pride of knowing she’s found her Path and the minuscule part in which I played. “Thanks so much Tali. You make the best scallion pancakes.”

Beaming at the praise, sweet Tali urges me to hurry up and finish so she can bring out the next dish, which plays right into my plan to have her ‘begrudgingly’ allow others to help me clear my plate. It’s not that I don’t appreciate her hard work, but considering I’ve already Refined my body into a Spiritual Heart, these Spiritual dishes are wasted on me. Mila, Yan, Lin-Lin, Song, and Tate would all benefit more from this, especially my rambunctious and too-serious little nephew who is now a full centimetre shorter than his happy-go-lucky sister. Poor little guy, he works so hard and trains all the time, but Tali still beats him in almost every measurable metric when it comes to the Martial Path. Doesn’t matter though, because as long as Tate keeps it up, he’ll catch up in no time flat before leaving slacker Tali behind in the dust.

Unless Tali turns out to be a second Lin-Lin of course, though I don’t think that’s likely.

As we eat and enjoy our meal with Tali making sure I get all the good stuff, I idly wonder if I can become a Spiritual Chef too. The process is probably somewhat similar to creating Chi Tea, though Tali doesn’t steep in the food she serves us. Instead, during the cooking process, Tali infuses her Chi into the meal, delivered through her strong emotions and driven by resolute Will to transform the Heavenly Energy within the Spiritual Plants into something that anyone can absorb through eating. This is only possible because her faith in the Spiritual Plants and desire to help me recover is so strong it somehow allowed her to miraculously succeed at this Spiritual Cooking, with the Energy of the Heavens driven to fulfill her Intent, in the same, autonomous manner wherein regular commoners regrow their teeth. It’s even more impressive when you take into account that not only has she succeeded several times since, this is also technically a form of External use of Chi. Granted, most of the power required for the transformation process comes from the Spiritual Plants themselves, as well as the heat of the cooking fire, meaning Tali’s Chi expenditure is next to nothing, but it’s not nothing, which is something. Ten years old and already so far along the Dao, I could not be any prouder.

According to Monk Happy and the other monks I’ve talked to, one benefit of eating properly cooked Spiritual Plants is that it helps with Core Formation, the same as Taduk’s Body Tempering baths. While both are currently limited by ingredients, this is something we can solve, unlike the latter’s need for an experienced Healer to supervise the process. Though Pong Pong’s poop can only sustain so many plants, I now know that it’s possible to grow Spiritual Plants using human corpses as fertilizer, information which is considered a closely guarded secret of the Imperial Clan. I’d love to know if animal corpses would work too. I assume not, since we’re not in the habit of cremating animals, though I would love to know why. Probably has something to do with why Spiritual Beasts turn into humans too, but that’s neither here nor there. Even though using corpses to grow Spiritual Plants takes longer than using Divine Beast poop and is akin to regular farming, it’s probably more sustainable since I can’t imagine there are too many of Pong Pong’s peers lurking about who are willing to trade poop for food. There’s a process to making the good fertilizer that Ping Ping doesn’t understand, as her droppings are far less effective than her tiny cousin. That being said, even if I could convince the outer provinces to stop cremating their dead, I doubt the Emperor would just sit idly by while I spread the secrets to the Imperial Clan’s success.

Sooner or later, I’m going to have to do something about the Emperor and the Five Supreme Families supporting him. Their efforts to stymie development and progress of the human race is stupid and short-sighted, a means to keep the outer provinces under their boot by holding onto the secrets of power. Much as I would love to share the secrets of Spiritual Plants with anyone who will listen, doing so would put me firmly at odds with the Emperor as it would abolish their monopoly on Martial power. Granted, the outer provinces would likely be on my side once they realize they can even the playing field against the Imperial Clan, but I’m not keen on leading the outer provinces in bloody revolution. Unfortunately, I believe conflict is inevitable given the goals I have set for myself, namely righting the balance of power in the world and helping the many stand against the few.

Regardless of the cost, I am now resolved to change this world for the better, even if I have to lead a damned rebellion to do it.

Idly glancing at the Death Corps guards patrolling the perimeter, I’m reminded of yet another reason why the Emperor won’t like my meddling, because I also would like to tell the world that shattering a Martial Warrior’s Core will free them of all Oaths. This world is built on slavery, of both the mundane and Oath-bound variety, but the latter is far more insidious and absolute, which makes it all the more heinous a crime. With easy access to Spiritual Food or Body Tempering baths, the practice of enslaving Martial Warriors through Oaths might well become a thing of the past, or at least offer hope to the hopeless once they learn that a cure exists.

