Though I want nothing more than to scream this secret from the rooftops, we’ve kept quiet about the connection between Core shattering and Oath breaking except to tell Grandpa Du and Kyung, because we can’t risk upsetting the Imperial Clan, not while we still need their financial support. That being said, I’m hopefully optimistic that an alternative solution might exist, one in the form of Impartation of Heavenly Energy. During my brief bout with limited omniscience, I remember noting how my Natal Souls were able to identify and mend the imperfections in the souls of my Irregulars, thereby allowing them to Form their Cores on the spot and become Martial Warriors in truth. My Natal Souls were also able to patch the Cores of seasoned Martial Warriors allowing them to progress by leaps and bounds, which leads me to believe that I might be able to remove a slave Oath without having to shatter their Core.

Why is this important? Well, the obvious benefits of creating Martial Warriors aside, one important detail to note is that Death Corps don’t have Spiritual Weapons. The ones I thought had them were simply using Domain Plating to mimic a Spiritual Weapon, which is another kettle of fish altogether, but given how the easiest way to shatter a Core is to break their Spiritual Weapon, we’d be hard pressed to free even a single Death Corps guard from their Oaths. However, if I can figure out a way to break Oaths while keeping Cores and Spiritual Weapons intact, then I could free hundreds, if not thousands of slaves in a day, all at the cost of my Natal Souls, a resource I have a theoretically infinite supply of so long as Spectres and Demons exist. The Imperial Clan holds power through the superiority of their Martial Warriors, but numerically, they’re outnumbered by the outer provinces the same way we’re outnumbered by the Defiled, so the balance of power will undoubtedly change in my favour if I can figure out this whole Impartation business.

The biggest issue is I am sorely lacking for time. Whether it be Spiritual Cooking, Body Tempering, Oath Breaking, or Impartation inspired Core Formation, it all requires time and training to take effect, but my enemies will not sit around and wait until I am ready. Now that my personal strength and the destructive power of Runic Cannons have been revealed, I cannot imagine a world in which Zhen Shi and the Azure Emperor will sit idly by and allow me to grow unchecked, and I fear a reckoning is soon to come. There’s nothing to say about Zhen Shi, but if the Emperor comes bearing unreasonable demands, then I will stand fast against him, because I will not be chained by any Oath, not ever again. Difficult to fight a war on two fronts, but here’s hoping the Emperor waits until after the Defiled threat is taken care of before acting on his avarice, though it’s difficult to predict a man who had has taken no direct action against me just yet. That being said, if we were ever to come into conflict, possessing the means to free the Death Corps guards from their Oaths en masse would be a great way to pull the rug out from under the Imperial Clan, assuming the Death Corps aren’t also brainwashed and utterly loyal to the Emperor, even without their Oaths.

A poor assumption to make considering even the people of the outer provinces treat the Emperor like a god given flesh, a figure they’ve never seen, heard, or really know anything about besides the fact that he exists. Then again, even if the Death Corps remain loyal to the Emperor after the fact, I still intend to break their Oaths, because slavery is an abominable practice that I cannot stomach. This is every bit a driving part of my Dao as my desire to do awesome things, my hope for a better future in which slavery no longer exists, because I do not want others to suffer what I have suffered, and what so many still suffer to this day.

By hook or by crook, I intend to change the world for the better. I have found my resolve, and I hope that my convictions do not cost me everything I hold dear, but that is a matter for another day.

Thus, the only thing I can do in the short term is improve my personal strength, which seems silly at first. No man is an island, so no matter how much strength I personally attain, I will require support to retake the West and stand firm against the Imperial Clan. Or so I thought until Dad told me about what happened after I passed out in the Azure Sea. More than a dozen Divinities showed up just for little old me, not because I’m strong enough to threaten them personally, but because the power I exhibited with Blobby’s assistance might well tip the scales of balance firmly in my favour, so long as we’re restricted to strictly mortal combatants. Essentially, I’m in a weird spot where I’ve exhibited more power and control over Heavenly Energy than any mortal should rightly possess, while falling short of being able to call myself a Peak Expert, much less a Divinity. While this doesn’t necessarily mean I’m unmatched in single combat, my potential for widespread damage is too high to be overlooked, to the point where I can single-handedly defeat an entire army on my own, without the unsettling side effect of indiscriminately killing everyone present.

Assuming I ever figure out how to use my power on demand instead of being forced to wait for a bout of Insight inspired by a near-death experience.

That being said, there’s little I can do until I recover from my current debilitation, so I spend the rest of the day in the happy company of my loved ones. Much as I would love to spend every day frolicking in rivers and riding across the plains, I drag myself out of Mila’s arms early the next morning to join Song and Yan on the training field. A bevy of familiar faces are there to greet me, the first and foremost of which is Mister Rustram’s, who has finally shaved his stupid pencil thin moustache and no longer looks like comic-book villain. “Ready?” I ask, once all the small talk is out of the way and we make our way onto the sparring grounds. “I won’t be using Chi, so try not to poke too many holes in me please.”

“Ready,” he replies, with a grin that makes him look so much younger than his twenty-something odd years. “But no promises.”

“Then begin.”

As soon as the words leave my lips, my second-in-command darts forward with a probing thrust, one I readily bat aside with ease, even limited as I am without Chi to Reinforce or Deflect. Having kept his weight on his back foot, Rustram easily recovers and thrusts again, and again, and again, his light-weight rapier moving faster than my eyes can follow. Bereft of Enlightenment, I can only rely on my judgment and intuition to pick apart his pattern of attacks, which makes for good training since it forces me to think ahead. High, low, centre, high, Rustram constantly changes his angle of attack as he advances upon me to the beat of his chiming blade, a devastating rush which many an opponent has succumbed to.

Were I only wielding Peace, I would soon suffer defeat at the hands of his rapid-fire offensive, but I have Tranquility to make up for my lacking speed. Try as I might, I’m unable to find the timing to catch the rapier between my shield’s protruding twin blades, though I doubt that even matters. Rustram’s rapier is flexible enough to simply slide out of any catch, unless I exert enough strength to literally bend the Spiritual Steel, which I cannot do without Reinforcement. Though we are both limiting our use of Chi in this match, some things are too ingrained into habit and instinct to easily overcome, and the use of Reinforcement and Amplification is one of them. Though his jabs are light and quick, if any one of his attacks were to cleanly connect, he could easily Reinforce and Amplify to turn this probing strike into a deadly thrust. Even without the Chi skills, a simple repositioning of his feet could do the same, a quick forward step and push to drive the point home.

As if reading my thoughts, Rustram does exactly that, adding in a quick side-step that sends his rapier slamming home against Tranquility at an awkward angle to pin my shield against my chest. Going with the flow, I retreat before his offensive and try to bring my shield back up to defend, but he’s one step ahead of me as he drags his blade down and out, forcing me to extend my numbed left arm as he whips his rapier about in a flourish and lines it up for a second thrust. Pivoting hard on my right foot, I step back and parry his attack with what looks like relative ease, but inside, I’m sweating at how close he came to skewering me. There’s no time to relax however, as Rustram presses his advantage, keeping to my exposed left while brandishing his rapier about in a dazzling and deadly series of slashes. Our weapons clash in a symphony of steel, reminding me of how lacklustre my sword skills truly are. When Geom-Chi and Fung traded blows, their weapons barely touched as they repeatedly avoided head on clashes to limit the effects of Amplification and Resonance, but against Rustram, I have no choice but to meet his attacks head on.

The worst part is, thanks to Mom’s insane training regimen, Rustram is barely even breathing hard after several minutes of sustained attacks. I can’t remember the last time I saw him stop to take a breath, yet there is not a trace of sweat on his brow as he continues his unending offensive. Then he kicks things up a notch and starts mixing tiny brandishes into his pattern of attacks, aborted thrusts that serve as both feint and distraction that conceal where his next attack is aimed at. It’s such a minor thing, just like drawing a tiny half-circle with the tip of his sword, but it adds a whole new layer to his offensive that I have to account for. Worst of all, he has yet to fall into a predictable pattern and has a tendency to attack sub-optimally to catch me off guard, happy to aim for my foot or hip rather than a more prominent, promising target that might well end the fight. Of course, those tempting targets were baited traps I devised for him to step into, so it’s a good thing he avoided them, but still frustrating to say the least.

“Go with the flow,” I remind myself, trying to recapture that feeling of using Zian’s whirling ring of defence or riding the coursing currents of my Natal Sea, but falling woefully short without Insight to help me along. “Be water.”

Empty your mind.

Focus on nothing and find everything.

Be aware of nothing but awareness itself.

Be formless, shapeless like water, a thought that sparks a distant memory of something from my past life.

Put water in a cup, it becomes the cup.

Put water in a bottle, it becomes the bottle.

Put water in a teapot, it becomes the teapot.

Be water. Be adaptable. Be flexible.

Despite the growing tension of my current situation, my body relaxes as I find Balance not in my mind and soul, but in the moment. This is more than just Spiritual Balance, but a balance in our exchange, an ebb and flow to our movements if you will. This is not Insight, but observation and understanding, a comprehension that has nothing to do with the Heavens and everything to do with my training, knowledge, and experience. There’s a rhythm to Rustram’s attacks, and though he has yet to fall into a predictable pattern, all I need to do is disrupt his rhythm. Soon as I see my chance, I seize it without hesitation, taking advantage of the split second during which he feints a thrust to turn the tables against him. Swift as a coursing river, I advance on Rustram with the force of a great typhoon, flowing past his oppressive offensive and yielding to his attacks without giving way. The first thrust slides past me, the follow-through slash misses overhead, and then I am inside his range and our roles are reversed, with me on the offensive while he backpedals away to try and rally a defence, but in these extreme close quarters, I can hardly miss. The rim of my shield clips him in the ribs and I tap his knee with the flat of my blade, just hard enough to show I could’ve taken his leg off if I cared to. Were this a real fight, I would follow through with a flurry of attacks, something along the lines of Bear’s Standing Fury or Snake Swallows the Horse, but I can hardly afford to lose my second-in-command, even for the few hours it would take for him to Heal. Stepping back with a smile, I clasp my fist in earnest respect for my friend who has come so far, and his brilliant smile shows there are no hard feelings from our match, only heartfelt admiration.

“Damn me,” he exclaims, returning my salute with one of his own. “Thought I had you there, but didn’t expect you to turn on me like that.”

“You almost did.” Grinning hard enough to strain my cheeks, I clap him on the shoulder and marvel at how far he’s come in so short a time. “Your offensive was near flawless, and if I hadn’t seen that opening then and there, you might well have won. The little flourish you do every time you feint is clever and distracting, but you only ever use it as a feint. Mix in a little flourish on some of your real thrusts and you’ll really throw your opponents for a loop.”

