I worked on Torix’s helmet next. The goal was different here. I could reinforce him much more since his senses weren’t as important as Althea. With his magic flies as his eyes and ears, he barely needed eyes. His helmet left a slit for his eyes and that was it. There was crown of thorns on top of it, each thorn covered in runes for pain. It was an evil artifact once I finished, something fitting for a wielder of the dead.

I left Hod’s armor as the last addition. It was the hardest to make by far. I created adjustable, interlocking segments for his wings. After pressing those together, I made the claws with his shadows in mind. They were curved away from him, letting the claws catch on whatever he swung at. That would increase the contact his shadow claws had with anyone.

After that, I molded a helmet for him. Instead of a solid piece like Torix’s, this was a thin exoskeleton. It would coat his face, preventing his head from cracking like an egg at any impact. I connected a series of plates that would run down his spine and neck. That would prevent him from having his legs and arms taken from him during a fight.

I finished the armors and gave them the needed runes. Dominion and control for Torix. Speed and precision for Althea. Savagery and darkness for Hod. I laced the runes with my own mana, circling the runes with my silver blood to hold the energy in. My silver blood even let me overcharge the runes, letting the items act as consumables with permanent enchantments.

I took regular breaks during this process, keeping myself sharp. I ate several times too, taking care of my body. All food was soft now, like mashed potatoes. I bit into a rock during one of those breaks, and it was like chomping into a cracker. Everything was like that.

The world felt so different now. During one of these breaks, I tried accessing my own dimensional storage. I could do so by swallowing things with my armor teeth. It gave me a solid idea. I was always worried about drowning, so I just swallowed a few roomfuls of air into my dimensional storage.

I couldn’t do this with my ring’s storage because it was limited by my mass and volume. A few lungfuls of air was all it could hold because of that. This other storage could hold an almost unlimited amount of it. Considering this was one of my biggest weaknesses, covering it this easily was a pleasant surprise.

So I finished all the armor, jewelry, and weapons while patching one of my glaring weaknesses. It only took two full days of effort for a huge gain. During that time, I visited Althea once and had dinner. It was a nice respite from all the crafting. I had to admit, making armor and whatnot was a lot of fun though. Shaping nothing into something valuable was oddly satisfying. Why, I can’t really say exactly. It simply is.

What I can say is that I put all the armor and weapons into my dimensional storage with ease. The lack of a volume requirement turned it from a meh utility into something ridiculous. Whenever I checked my weight, I was 25,000 kilograms. That’s about 54,000 pounds. I could hold anything I wanted within reason.

I planned on abusing it as much as possible soon. First I had to hand off the armor and explain what it was good for. I walked over towards Torix’s base, anticipating his surprise at the gift. He knew I was coming hundreds of feet away because of my aura skill.

As I neared the door to the suburban lair, he willed it open with a hand. Inside a room coated with maps, ffigures, and runes, Torix glanced at me. His blue fire eyes cast a blue tint over his noble robe, golden stitching running down from his shoulders to his feet.

“Well then disciple, what brings you here?”

I made my armor grin, the red aura leaking out. Torix raised an eyebrow as I reached into the mouth. I pulled out his staff then his helmet. I tossed them towards him. Before they crashed into him, I raised a palm. I slowed their descent with a gravity well, laying them into his hands with a gentle touch.

“I made these for you. I think you’ll like them.”

Torix lifted them towards his eyes. He narrowed his eyes,

“Impressive. This is your armor no doubt, and it’s much harder than steel. It was a pleasant weight as well. That makes it feel valuable. There’s six notches in staff’s top for imprinting gemstones into it. Useful for mana gems or consumables.”

He lifted the helmet up, inspecting it close towards the room’s light, “And this is a helmet with many of the same features. You even made it evil looking for aesthetic purposes. I must say Daniel, I never expected this level of...finesse form you. Especially after seeing your battles with Kessiah and Dakhma.”

I shrugged, “It took a bit of time is all. The runes had some carry over.”

Torix nodded before glancing at my left forearm. On the inner portion was two characters of the dimensional cipher I carved. Torix pointed at it, “Is that...one of the eldritch runes.”

I wanted to tell him it was the dimensional cipher, but the system banned me for learning about it. I got a pass because of my unique situation. Torix might not be so lucky, so I answered, “Basically yeah, except it’s two letters.”

Torix nodded, “They are for strength and speed. I can see it.”

I frowned, “How can you?”

Torix met my eye, a wry grin growing on his face, “They remind me of you, for some peculiar reason. Regardless, I thank you for your gifts. These will help tremendously with storing and channeling my mana. I suppose I can offer paymen-”

“Don’t worry about it. Think of it as repayment for all the dungeon cores.”

He pursed his lips, “Are you certain?” After I nodded back, he continued, “Well I suppose I can accept a gift or two from you...how about the plan for killing Elijah. How’s it shaping up?”

I raised both my hands, “It’s shaping up nicely. I should be able to send you a review of it soon. I’m going to hand off some other stuff to Hod and Althea during the meantime.” I turned around, pacing out of the evil lair Torix made out of the average house,

“Practice with both of those before the next weekly meeting with Elijah if you can. Cya Torix.”

He nodded, “Excellent work disciple.”

I reached over towards Hod’s room. He was stationed with the other Eltari in a suburbia. Most of the Eltari talked and spent time on the roofs of their houses. They would fly around, groom their feathers, and play games in the air while they were bored. They did all those things and more as I reached Hod’s house.

He had a colorful sign that said, “Hod’s home. Hod’s friends welcome here!” He had a scribbling of himself beside the sign. It looked like a child had drawn it. In essence, it was perfect for him. I walked inside. Straw, twigs, and feathers littered the scratched floors. He wasn’t taking advantage of the housing, that’s for sure.

I shouted, “Hod, are you here?”

Hod crashed through a door, his taloned feet slipping on the hardwood like a dog’s paws,

“Hod not sleeping. Hod aware and ready for action!”

He fell down, a plank of wood cracking. Hod looked at me then the plank. He bit into the plank,

“Hod break floor on purpose. Hod need extra fiber in diet. Harbinger know how it is.”

I pinched the bridge of my nose, but I couldn’t help but laugh,

“Yeah, I suppose I do. Anyways, here’s a little gift.” I reached into my armor smile and pulled out his exoskeleton armor. He ran up and grabbed it, gushing over the metal,

“Hod not break Hod’s wings now! Hod not like broken twig anymore.”

I shrugged, “That’s the plan. Anyways, I gotta go.” I turned and walked out of the house, “Train with flying in that. If doesn’t fit or doesn’t work out, send me a message letting me know why and I’ll fix it for you.”

Before I closed the door, I looked at Hod. He was still chewing the wood, grimacing as he did.

“Oh yeah, and don’t finish eating that wood. It’s a recipe for an awful few next hours. You know, unless you enjoy painful shits and all.”

Hod spit out the wood, “Harbinger wise. Sometimes, Bathroom is nice. Other times, bathroom is battlefield. Hod prefer nice bathroom.”

I didn’t want to hear anymore, so I closed the door. Hod could do whatever it is that Hod does during his free time. I went back towards Althea’s tent. After having another lunch, I handed off the armor and went back towards planning. I wrote a brief of the plan, sent it to Torix, and got an ok from him after a few adjustments.

Just like that, the next few days passed as I experimented with my new legendary skill. Torix and I grinded out all the details of the plan over a half an hour long meeting. He liked the plan, though he discussed the need for a battalion of the legion to join him. He didn’t want to risk all of his summons for Ajax’s attention. Considering how dangerous he was, I couldn’t blame him.

Just like that, the day of the plan dawned, the skies gray and cloudy. That night, the glowing green aura around Yawm’s world tree seeped into him now. Once it emptied, he would awaken. We didn’t have time for a plan B anymore. The goal was to kill Elijah then regroup. We didn’t think it was even possible to kill Ajax yet.

How we were going to kill Yawm...the dimensional opening seemed more and more likely. We would make a last ditch request for early rewards from the quarantine. We’d create a rupture in dimensions before I shoved him in. If we both fell in, well, I guess I would die.

I shook those thoughts from my head. Killing Ajax after we killed Elijah was a possibility. If we could finish Ajax before Yawm awakened, we had a chance of finishing this.

After clearing my head, Althea and I set out towards Elijah’s weekly worship. Elijah would perform it near the lake beneath the world tree. Elijah always stood on a root of the world tree as he spoke, and the named ones stood below him. Hod would use the trees as cover, and Althea would just use her own stealth. I would walk out of the ground and grab his attention before they arrived. They would strike and I would charge.

Torix organized a meeting with the legion before all that though. They needed a moral boost, and I had turned into a symbol for them since killing Dakhma. We would leverage that fact, turning me into someone the army could get behind. We would need whatever advantage we could grasp considering the odds.

They all clustered right outside the new quarantine zone. Yawm hardly controlled a square mile of territory anymore. All that remained was the world tree and the dense metropolis at the center of Springfield.

The floating islands remained, their beauty marred by the monsters that writhed upon them. There were no more yellow forests covering Springfield. There were no more ghosts of people, made of deformed flesh squirming through the city. With a cold, unyielding hand, Torix decimated their entire population over the last month.

Althea and I reached the meeting point. Torix stood on a raised platform of earth. As I shot through the air towards them all, I reached out a hand. I created a gravity vortex, carrying myself towards the pillar where the others stood. Torix grinned at me, a proud look on his face. Kessiah wasn’t there. She was off training the newer recruits.

The Eltair were circling through the air. Many of them landed along the edges of buildings and in the empty sills of broken windows. At least a thousand troops were grouped up between four buildings, the massive quarantine shielding us from Yawm.

Althea and I landed with all the members of the legion staring at us. For some reason, I wasn’t nervous. It didn’t seem like the legion was either. The constant fighting hardened them into veterans. They were averaging level 500, a ridiculous level just a few months ago. Now they were a unified army, united under a single purpose.

We stood there for a moment, the crowds murmuring a roar in our ears. It was awe inspiring sight. This was a horde going off towards war, a war of survival. Torix gestured at me,

“Go rally the troops. They’ll listen to the human that killed a follower.”

Hod nodded, “Hod already told Eltari. Eltari know Harbinger’s prowess in combat. Eltari follow you.”

Althea grinned at me, and I grinned back. I turned towards the crowd, I spread my arms wide. When I spoke, Torix amplified my voice. It echoed off the nearby skyscrapers and into the sky,

“Who here is ready for war?”

The legion roared, raising their rifles into the air.

“That’s good. We’re here to fight one. We’ve pushed back the nightmare. We’ve taken our city back. Springfield was dead, and we brought it back to life. Now the last stronghold lies behind this final barrier.”

The eldritch swarmed behind the barrier, unable to pass the field left by the quarantine zone. Abstractions twitched behind the barrier, hungry and waiting for the coming feast. We would teach them who was feasting on who.

“Do you see them? They’re the monsters we once feared. I remember when the system first started. I was a scared child.” I pounded my chest, the clash of metal on metal resounding through the crowd,

“Just as you all have, I forged myself in the flames of an endless war. We all stood at the brink, hopelessness crawling up our spine like the breath of a monster at our necks. We turned towards that monster, and we smiled and we laughed. We struck fear into that shadow. Today, we make sure the monsters never forget that fear.”

My armor grinned as I raised my hands, “We will teach them fear. We will carve it into their skin. We will bury it so deep that even their children will fear us. We will crush their bones. We will rip apart their skin. They believe that they feast on us. We are the ones that feast on them. We are the coming storm. We are the rising tide. We are the force nature, unleashed in all its fury.”

