Zac didn’t push to know why. Instead, they crept closer to allow Idiche to get a better look. Doing so only strengthened Idiche’s conviction, but Zac stopped her from infusing her energy into the door.

“Opening it might trigger something. I want to see if we can get a look at whoever ransacked this place first.”

It didn’t take too long to find what they were looking for, and they weren’t swept into any more memories on the way. The Lodge was by no means an impossibly large building like the Technocrat research station or the Centurion Base. It was at most a few miles across, making it a toy castle by Multiverse standards. It took them five minutes before Zac heard a rumble ahead.

Two more minutes later, they found a hidden vantage in a servant room. Its inner wall had rotted to the point where there was a fist-sized hole, exposing the main lobby on the other side. It was significantly larger than the changing room, nearly a hundred meters across. Its ceiling was nearly thirty feet tall, and a huge spherical window was placed above the outer gates.

The arrangement might have possessed the holiness of a cathedral back in the day. Now, it was corrupted beyond redemption. Tremendous amounts of moonlight poured through the window, causing the pillars on the sides to cast sinister shadows. It was on a completely different level than the contained breaches they’d encountered thus far. It was no wonder it had become their enemies’ main base of operations.

Over thirty cultivators stood in the middle of the chamber under the protection of a sturdy barrier that covered most of the hall. Zac didn’t see the mysterious outsider among them, but he was certain two of them were Monarchs. Both stood in the center of the group. One was a warrior who constantly looked around for threats. The other held an intricately carved magician’s staff adorned with a sapphire the size of a football.

The mage was using his weapon to draw all the moonlight into the barrier. Doing so prevented the Lodge from expelling it. The moonlight condensed into a thick mist until Zac could no longer see the enemies within the shield. At that point, the mist flooded out of the barrier all at once. It took the shape of dozens of twisted figures, from soldiers to mutated beasts.

The mist army flung itself at the great doors leading to the heart of the Lodge. From what they’d gathered so far, the Hall of Abundance might actually be right down the corridor on the other side. Each time a mist creature struck against the gate, a pulse full of divinity struck back. It only took the sealed gate two to three counters to disperse an enemy.

“There are real people too,” Idiche whispered, and it took Zac a moment to spot them as well.

There were actual soldiers hidden among the conjured creatures, concealed beneath a shroud of moonlight. They looked and acted almost identically to their counterparts. However, something didn’t seem right about their frenzied attack. It was too spread out, too even. They were performing surgical strikes at weak spots while the summons whittled down and distracted.

The soldiers quickly returned to the safety of the barrier before their shrouds collapsed. However, one of them proved a step too slow. His guise collapsed just before he reached safety, and the Lodge’s reaction was immediate. A lance of unidentifiable energy burst out from the gate and tore a hole straight through the man’s torso. He stumbled into the barrier and collapsed, his life and death unknown.

The barrier was already filling up with moonlight again. The attackers were mounting a strike every three minutes. It was hard to say exactly how many attacks the gates could endure, but Zac doubted it was more than ten.

“So that’s what the moonlight is for,” Esmeralda muttered. “What do you want to do?”

Zac deliberated for a few seconds before turning to Idiche. “How sure are you that you could open that door back where we came from?”

“I don’t know? Eighty percent?”

“That’ll have to do, I suppose,” Zac smiled. “We’ll head back after I give them a little surprise.”
