“I haven’t heard from him. This is worrying, of course. He’ll show up like a wraith when it’s least beneficial. Be ready for that, for that is all any of us can truly do when it comes to the Old God of Magic.”

Kromolok bowed a fraction, saying, “Thy will be done, my Goddess.”

Rozeta nodded. With her message complete, she vanished in a splash of divine, golden fire.

And Kromolok went to work.

- - - -

Dinner was done, and it was Jane’s turn to put away the dishes. The only problem was that plates were already stacked high in the stone cupboard, and there was no room for more. When did they even get this many plates? Must have been Kiri. She liked to go antique shopping. Teressa too, Jane supposed. Well whatever. Jane opened up the other cupboard and began making some room among the cups. There weren’t too many dishes in this particular cupboard, since all the stuff here was the ‘good china’.

Some of the good stuff could be moved around, though. So that is what Jane did—

A cup fell out of the cupboard and smashed into the counter, for Jane’s hands were too full of plates to catch it. The tinkling-crash was loud in the relative quiet of the kitchen.

Jane set down the plates.

And then she stared at the shards, puzzled for a handful of reasons. Why had she not reacted to grab the cup before it could break? She could have with her new aura. Activating her aura was possible outside of the Script Second. With that thought, she opened herself to her prismatic light and her power flowed across her skin. She touched the shards of the cup and [Mend]ed it whole—

She jolted.

Jane recognized the cup. It was a part of a cup and saucer set that her father had gotten months ago, at one of the antiquing excursions that had seemed to become more and more commonplace since then.

Now…

Jane did not believe in signs or portents or omens, but she finished putting away the dishes and, with sweat trickling down her back, she went to find Teressa—

Teressa was currently upstairs, in the middle of the third floor hallway, alone, eyes open as she gazed upward at nothing. Her face was slack while her sight danced with grey light.

Jane’s worries ratcheted up several notches.

Nothing had happened for two weeks since her father had been abducted by the fae, except for the letters from him and all the yelling and talking by a lot of people far above Jane in the political landscape. Jane wasn’t privy to any of that, except when those conversations concerned her and what had happened with the Soul Slime.

Teressa had been looking for Erick’s return on the daily, though.

Jane slowly approached the tall woman, asking, “Teressa? Do you see something? Teressa?”

Where was everyone else? Surely it wasn’t just her and Teressa in the house right now? At this late hour? Had Kiri fucked off somewhere? Maybe she had, actually. Maybe she was talking politics with someone right now. Poi would have gone, too, if there had needed to be talks. Everyone usually did their own thing after dinner, anyway, or pretty much all the time now, actually. Jane kinda missed Nirzir, too, but the princess of Songli had gone back home not seven days ago. It might actually be just Jane and Teressa in the house right now.

Teressa wasn’t answering, but the grey light in her eyes seemed to deepen, and brighten. A book lay at her feet, half opened and on its pages. It was a novel she had been reading. For some reason, she had wandered out here into the hallway and then just… dropped her book to stare at the ceiling, to have a vision.

Jane waited.

And then she couldn’t wait anymore.

“Teressa? Teressa. Teressa.”

No response.

Jane ventured closer and poked the woman in the hand—

Jane jumped back.

Teressa giggled and sudden tears poured out of her eyes, down the sides of her face. She turned her head to look at Jane and her eyes were still full of grey light, but somehow the grey was diminished, and in its place was white.

She looked happy.

With a voice of pure emotion, Teressa spoke, “I see it all, Jane. A possible future. It’s never been so clear... before.” She pulled back from that brightness. “But… It clouded?” She frowned, and then her emerald eyes came back. She blinked several times in quick succession, then said, “I think… I think Erick will be fine? Maybe. Something happened. Something big.” She looked to Jane. “We need to talk to Poi.”

But Poi never spilled his guts over anything. He wouldn’t even talk to her about the mental impressions he had shown her back during the assault on the soul ooze.

Jane asked, “Specifically, Poi?”

“Yes. He will know more.”

So they went to go find him.

- - - -

All across Ar’Cosmos, in every layer of the city, the mana shifted.

In the depths of Nightly Road, where the land was tight-packed with tenements and tenants both temporary, and who had lived there all their lives. Some of those people had barely breached the higher layers to see Central City, or any of the other parts of Ar’Cosmos. Portals opened in that twisted place, and houses were suddenly split in half. A lucky woman opened the door to her bathroom and saw a storage room filled with gold. She giggled in nervous joy.

Along the causeways of Central Road ten thousand people hawked their wares to any who would buy, and there was always a buyer. The entire world of Veird, as curated by the dragons who lived out there in secret, came here to sell their gains and their creations for chances to rid themselves of their Curse; to join a House, and not have to live in the shadows anymore. In the middle of all this a river opened up, flowing down from the farmlands.

Chaos flew through Central Road for long moments while houses suddenly appeared on skyways, and skyways suddenly replaced houses. The guards of House Carnage moved fast to reestablish order but they had no idea what was happening, either.

Thieves and opportunists escaped in the flow of change, darting through walls that should have been solid, but which had been replaced by farming fields, and bright, bright sunlight.

The tall skyways of High Road ended in cliffs.

- - - -

A woman with a crown made of her bright red horns, like red stone, gazed across her well-appointed study. She set down her paperwork, for there was a more pertinent problem than payroll. Her study was half missing. Half of her monster trophies were gone somewhere else, for half of her room had been replaced with half of a classroom.

Luckily, Inferno Maw was in that other half of her new room, and so the woman’s bright, bright smile had a better target than the students. The students likely had nothing to do with whatever this was, so good for them. They were already cowering in fear, as was right; uninvolved people needed to get the fuck out of the way when danger happened.

“So what’s all this, then?” Bright Smile asked.

Inferno Maw frowned, narrowing his grey eyes at the division that separated the classroom from Bright Smile’s study. “The rooms are perfectly aligned… Mostly.” He looked to the left, where a broken wall met open air, and wind whistled into both rooms from outside. “Someone was doing Fae-based Wizardry, but the only one I know of who could do that would be Redflame… But he was supposed to wait till tomorrow to try for [Renew]. But even then… This is his [Gate Space]. Whatever this is should not have happened if he caused it.”

Bright Smile finally rose from her chair, smiling all the while. “Shall we go see the man, then?”

Inferno Maw told his class, “Dismissed for the day. Do be diligent with doing your— Ah.” He whispered to himself, “Yes. Fae Magic, then; I was speaking in alliterations.” He turned back to the students, “Don’t forget your bookwork.” He turned to Bright Smile. “Let’s be off.”

Bright Smile gestured in the direction of Redflame’s cliffside mansion, which was directly across the classroom. The problem was that there was most of a classroom and likely many buildings in the way, but they weren’t Bright Smile’s classroom or buildings. With a flick of power a tornado of red light opened a hole directly through Ar’Cosmos, stabilizing the space in a tunnel, opening up a path through to the forest that surrounded Redflame’s home.

Bright Smile stepped into the air, gliding on red Carnage light, into the suddenly-existent tunnel, saying, “Uncle Redflame was supposed to wait for me to see his creation.”

Inferno Maw eyed Bright Smile as he floated alongside her, slightly annoyed that she broke through his classroom. He did not quip at her, though anyone with Sight to see could tell he wanted to. Perhaps he wanted to say ‘of course he didn’t wait for you’, but he did not. Quipping at Illustrious was one thing, but Bright Smile was too serious by far, and she made sure everyone knew that—

They had entered open air, and both of them paused. They stared across the length of Ar’Cosmos, toward their destination.

“I do believe you were correct about Uncle Redflame, Inferno Maw,” Bright Smile said. “He was the cause.”

“Something has happened by your uncle, but Ar’Cosmos wouldn’t react like this to Redflame using Fae Magic.” Inferno Maw said, “That’s not how Fae Magic works."

- - - -

Illustrious Moon stepped out of City Hall, flying fast toward Redflame’s mansion, her ten violet tails stretched out in all directions, propelling her forward. She had already organized her people to repair the damage done, but it was easy to see where the destruction had originated.

Redflame’s white mansion was a wreck of floating white stone and broken towers, like someone had taken a glass-painting of the place and shattered it, and then combined the broken pieces haphazardly with broken glass paintings of all the other layers of Ar’Cosmos. Apartment buildings and farming fields and libraries and walls, all tried to dominate their own spaces, and all failed. Most of the building had crashed down, but a lot of it remained standing due to pure luck.

Or perhaps the lightning was providing structural support?

An unknown lightning filled parts of the sky that were too broken to be anything but rubble. It was iridescent white. It looked like a spell had interacted with Ar’Cosmos in some oddly broken way, but it hadn’t acted from a single source like an explosion; it had done something much odder.

One of the towers was wholly intact and absolutely ringed with the iridescent white light, like lightning frozen in time. Whatever had happened, that was the epicenter. That was where Illustrious needed to go.

And so she did.

While she flew as fast as she could, she counted her luck that whatever had happened wasn’t worse.

Luckily there hadn’t been an actual breach in Ar’Cosmos’s walls. If there had been a breach, then the resident Free Dragons of Ar’Cosmos would already be fighting each other down below, as the Script and their Curse would have returned in full force. Illustrious breathed a sigh of relief that that had not happened.

As she flew toward Redflame’s remaining tower, navigating the broken rest of the city between her and her target, she saw Bright Smile and Inferno Maw already on their way, far to her right. That was good. They were both alive, and that meant this wasn’t an attack.

That had been Illustrious’s first fear; that the outside world was trying to find and retake Erick with force. But if that was what was happening, then assassins would have already been trying to kill her, or Bright Smile, or Inferno Maw, as well. That everyone was alive and… decent, was a good sign.

She would worry about the residents when the crisis was over; other people were on recovery, she was on a warpath. But since she had time and nothing too horrible was happening right now, Illustrious started going down the list of possible reasons for this event.

Redflame could be dead. Assassins might have gone after him and succeeded. Top of the list. Worst possible outcome. Also not likely. Ar’Cosmos was still intact… Mostly.

Redflame could have tried for [Renew] and failed spectacularly… Possible. Likely, even. This option became Illustrious’s primary idea of an explanation.

Fairy Moon could have been struck hard enough to actually permanently injure her. Second worst possible outcome. Near impossible.

Erick did something…

Either Erick did something, or Redflame had fucked up his [Renew] very, very badly. Possibly both.

Illustrious wasn’t exactly prepared to talk to Bright Smile and Inferno Maw about how Erick was a Wizard, so hopefully it was a failed [Renew]. Hopefully, Erick wasn’t involved at all—

And then she reached the tower, seconds after Bright Smile and Inferno Maw. All hope to avoid a conversation about Wizards went out the window. Since nothing was happening aside from what was happening, though, no one spoke right away. They all saw what she saw, and while Inferno Maw was his usual dour self that made Illustrious want to reorganize his house again without him knowing, and while he was inside, Bright Smile’s reaction was less than great. The (relatively) young woman stared, eyes as wide as they could go, as her smile turned full of fangs.

Inferno Maw broke the silence, “I would not have thought Particle Magic to be fake, but I suppose it must be.”

Illustrious responded, “You’re the one that told us that it was real!”

“He’s obviously a powerful Wizard,” Bright Smile said, smiling. “One to help us take over the world.”

Illustrious tried to snip that branch before it could grow much larger, saying, “Fairy Moon is already making a House out of him, and I suspect that’s what this is.”

Inferno Maw and Bright Smile whipped around to Illustrious, both with varying degrees of shock upon their faces. They weren’t heads of house for nothing; quick on the uptake, they were.

Illustrious said, “I’ve known about Erick a while; this is true. I did not expect them to birth the new Element here and now, though, but every time I think I know Fairy Moon I realize I do not. I doubt you’re getting this Wizard, though, Bright Smile. Erick is Fairy Moon’s, and that’s that.”

Inferno Maw was silent; contemplative. He turned back toward the spectacle in front of them.

Bright Smile lost some of the sharpness of her namesake as she, too, turned back to the frozen tableau before them. She said nothing, but Illustrious could tell that the gears of war were turning in her mind. A new House was not a powerful Wizard that she could wield against the enemies of Ar’Cosmos, but it was something. Something important. Perhaps she could use a new House as an ally? Such an addition would send the politics of Ar’Cosmos into a frightful Decay-spiral, though.

