Fairy Moon's hand was burned to the bone, charred and bloody, like she had stuck her hand into lightning. Maybe that was exactly what she had done. She looked happy, though.

Erick’s hand was fine.

Redflame’s eyes were frozen wide open, in uncertain fear. Maid Maria was behind Erick, behind the bar, cowering behind a metal tray.

And to the left, beyond three different windows, floated three different people. Erick knew two of them, and the third was easy enough to guess at; Illustrious Moon, Inferno Maw, and a person who could only be Bright Smile. Her namesake was on full display, and Erick thought her ruby-red crown of horns a bit too ostentatious for his liking. Other than that, there seemed to be a distinct family resemblance between her and Redflame—

Something twitched inside Erick’s core and a new sense unfurled across his vision.

In the space of a blink, Erick realized there was something about Bright Smile that he saw even when his eyes were shut. A thin tendril of iridescent white lightning, so thin it might as well not even be there, coiled around the dragon woman’s neck like a living snake the width of a hair. She did not seem to notice the hair-thin lightning.

Bright Smile was a knot of possibility. Tiny. Barely present. But she undoubtedly was, and because of that focus she was a lightning rod in Erick’s sight that demanded attention. The living white lightning even had sparks pointing inward, like an inverted spiked collar. That meant something rather simple, but it was too early to tell the exact meaning.

Fairy Moon had no collar. Redflame had no collar, either. Maid Maria was another normal person to Erick’s sense. Inferno Maw and Illustrious had nothing around them. All of those people had various magical effects happening, from flying spells, to protection spells, but none had white lightning around them. Erick was surprised at that. Whatever this was, and he had his suspicions it was somehow Elemental Benevolence, he would have expected Redflame or Fairy Moon to have a marker of some sort, if only because of their sheer power, or possible influence on future events.

For there was one more lightning manifestation in the room, though it was a lot different from Bright Smile’s.

Thick lightning poured in and out from Erick’s core, filling his mana veins with unseen power, wrapping through him like some sort of Elemental Body. Which it probably was, actually. But it was more than that. If he focused on the lightning at all, he saw the light inside of himself even before he opened his mana sense to truly look. When he used his mana sense to truly see, all the lightning turned absolutely solid.

The meaning behind all that would likely take a while to untangle.

But time had resumed.

Time to face the music. He was a Wizard, and they all knew.
