Illustrious would have sighed in relief if it wouldn’t have given her away. The potential crisis of Bright Smile had been averted for another day.

Illustrious turned toward the scene, and regarded what she saw.

Time was frozen inside the tower. The tower was intact. Erick and Fairy Moon had met with Redflame for some reason, and if Illustrious had to guess, their meeting would have to have been about [Renew], but also about the strange runic devices sitting on the table between the three of them.

Here and there, iridescent white lightning clung to Erick’s skin, highlighting him as some center of power in a space that looked normal, but which was not normal at all. That lightning barely touched Fairy Moon, but she had reached for Erick, and where she touched his hand, her own hand was blackened and covered in Erick’s lightning. And yet, Fairy Moon had a happy expression on her face.

Redflame’s eyes were very wide. He was outside of the immediate effect.

Maid Maria was far outside of the effect, and protecting herself with a silver tray.

Inferno Maw spoke, “The birth of an Element is not usually so… Timeless.” He added, “I have never actually seen such a birth up close, though.”

Bright Smile said, “Time Magic. We suspected Erick had a connection to a god besides Koyabez. He must have a connection to Phagar. Or he’s just a powerful Wizard and he has taken that power for himself.”

Illustrious said, “It’s Fae-based and Time-based. It’s an anti-Sundering Element. That was the goal as per my understanding.”

Bright Smile lost her smile.

Inferno Maw turned paler than usual.

Illustrious continued, “I doubt we’ll actually get to control this, at all, and it will be complete war if we attempt to control it. Besides, I think Erick was trying to attempt Elemental Benevolence, which I highly doubt will be useful for war, or anything approaching war, at all. Now that we’re at this juncture, though, we should turn Erick back over to the wrought, but not before we demand some nice concessions for this action. I’m thinking of demanding the secret of [Duplicate] from Kirginatharp.” She added, “I think those runic things are [Renew] rings. Not sure, exactly, but I do know Erick made that spell weeks ago.”

Bright Smile’s namesake returned in full force as she opened her face wide. She laughed loud, and greedily.

Inferno Maw turned heavily sarcastic, “Ah. So with this Elemental Benevolence I Sight we’re on Particle Magic version 2— Or is it 3? Ah. Elemental Benevolence is number 3, since he made [Renew] a while ago, as you say, and that one would be world-shift number 2, according to your timeline. Any reason why we’re only finding all this out now?”

“The breakdown of Ar’Cosmos and the fact that these secrets can’t be hidden anymore,” Illustrious said, offhandedly.

“Sure,” Inferno Maw said.

“Sure,” Illustrious responded.

Bright Smile continued to cackle like a madwoman, red light filling the sky all around her.

Two heads of house continued to speak for a while, while the third reveled in the possibilities. Eventually, the third came back down to reality, and took part in the conversation. All three recognized that they had time to kill, and that all current projects were on hold until this event finally resolved in front of them. Other people were already handling the immediate repair of Ar’Cosmos, after all.

Time would resume for Erick, Fairy Moon and her Maid Maria, and Redflame, sooner or later, and possibly more sooner rather than later. If one looked closely, they could already tell that slowly, ever so slowly, the iridescent lightning in the cracks in the sky was slowly retreating, back to the tower, back to their creator. Back to Erick, at the epicenter of it all.

“Oh!” Inferno Maw said, “I nearly forgot Erick’s other world-shifts; Yggdrasil and new worlds, along with Melemizargo’s sanity and the Last Shadow’s Feast of Ar’Kendrithyst.” He nodded to himself, then loudly declared, “I want him gone from Ar’Cosmos at our earliest convenience.”

“I agree.” Illustrious said, “But not before we get something from this.”

“We’ve already gotten everything we’ll ever need. So!” Bright Smile happily said, “Seal Erick and Banish him from Ar’Cosmos. Shove the problem onto someone else, and don’t let him be used against us.”

“I disagree,” Illustrious said, knowing that she had fallen for a trap only after the words had left her mouth. She powered through, anyway, saying, “I know I sent over a briefing on how Erick reacted to the mind control, Bright Smile. We will not be Sealing him, at all.”

Bright Smile’s namesake gained its usual edge. “There was never any way we were ever going to let him leave without some sort of Seal upon his memories. He knows too much, and according to what I see in front of me, he is too much. Therefore we must either enter into some sort of binding agreement with the man, or we must kick him out and make sure he cannot be used against us. According to you, though, kicking him out without his memories is not possible, which means that we must bind him to our goals.” She said, “I say we demand Erick assist Ar’Cosmos by using him to enter into a binding non-aggression agreement with Kirginatharp and the wrought and the Angels and Demons. Now that Uncle has gained [Renew], we will spread out from Ar’Cosmos, as we should, to secure the Surface and secure our destiny among this New Cosmology. We must take up land, and our power must spread. And then, when the time comes, we will take over this entire world, but before that happens we must first gain power.”

Bright Smile was rather smart, and so she had correctly deduced everything that was made possible due to this new development. One did not become the head of a house by being stupid, after all.

But Illustrious had been at this a lot longer than her.

Illustrious kept her face perfectly normal, as though she was considering Bright Smile’s ideas on their own. She said, “I would rather we get [Duplicate] from Kirginatharp and secure and expand Ar’Cosmos with this new power of [Renew], but in addition to that, know this: Erick has plots to take back the Crystal Forest. He needs allies, both because of what he is, and what he can do. He has already spoken about helping us to remove the Curse, and whatever happened here was obviously Erick reaching out to Redflame, which might work out in our favor, depending on how this event finishes. For all these reasons and more, I desire to ally with him in all the ways that matter. Your timeline of inevitable war is not something I agree with, but I do agree that binding agreements with all the other forces out there must happen.”

Bright Smile simply nodded, and turned back toward the intact, time-frozen tower.

Iridescent lightning continued to flow backward, out of the shattered spaces of Ar’Cosmos, into the ephemeral air surrounding Erick, like cold cactus syrup.

Inferno Maw said, “I would prefer to live on the Surface. I would also prefer Kirginatharp to come to the table and help us to remove the Curse that has plagued our people since those two brothers fought. I would prefer no war at all.”

Bright Smile said, “Full dragons exiting from Ar’Cosmos will bring about a world-shift as large as Particle Magic, or [Renew], or the opening of new worlds. They’ll never let us take power like we should, Inferno Maw, and Kirginatharp will never allow the Curse to be lifted. You should content yourself with destroying all who oppose us, as I already have.”

“Diplomacy will be tried before war, Bright Smile,” Inferno Maw said, with as much authority as he deemed necessary. “But what needs to happen first is the fixing of our realm, and our people... If [Renew] works how Redflame wishes it to work.”

“Of course.” Bright Smile said, “And now that there are true options for us outside of Ar’Cosmos, when diplomacy fails, I will be ready to go to war to secure the future of our people. I hope that by that time, you will have come around to my way of thinking.”

Inferno Maw said nothing, his dour face focused forward, on Erick, and Redflame, and Fairy Moon.

The conversation died, for the lightning had mostly retreated. A specter of iridescent radiance still connected Erick to Fairy Moon, but that part seemed the most dense of all the lightning. That spark would likely be the last to go. The retreat of the structural lightning had already caused several parts of the rest of Redflame’s castle to collapse, though, which was a problem.

Illustrious spoke, “Anyone volunteer to hold the tower up so it doesn’t collapse around them?”

Inferno Maw started weaving a spell, saying, “There are other forces out there besides just the wrought and Kirginatharp. There are also the undead kingdoms of the Fractured Citadels. They would demand peace, though.”

Bright Smile grinned brighter, as though she was a shadowcat waiting to pounce.

- - - -

Erick floated in a white room that had no floor, or walls, or ceiling of any kind. It was an endless white space.

Something big had happened.

And now, he was here.

The exact nature of ‘here’ eluded him.

It seemed like a godly space, or something along those lines, but there was no god here. Rozeta’s domain was one of blue sky and clouds, so this wasn’t that. Phagar’s space was whatever normal setting you happened to meet him in, sometimes with the addition of stained-glass-like possible futures hovering in the air all around. Koyabez held court on the surface of the silver moon, with Veird hanging in the sky overhead.

Erick was pretty sure that there weren’t any other gods that were capable of pulling him into—

Erick finally realized. He had been doing something important—

He had been talking to Redflame, telling the man about [Renew] and his own Wizardry, and then Fairy Moon had asked a question about Benevolence…

And then Erick answered?

Yes. He did answer.

And now he was here.

“So where is here?” Erick asked the empty, white expanse. His voice flowed outward, without touching a thing, endlessly vibrating out into the air all around. There was no echo at all. “Hello?”

His words left him and went outward, without reflecting on a single surface. Erick had only ever experienced a similar effect when he was flying high in the sky, and the ground was twenty kilometers away. The sensation of sound just going away and never coming back was an emptiness that was hard to experience unless one went looking for that experience.

He inspected himself next, holding out his hand to see if he had hands, but also because it had only occurred to him to do such an inspection at that very moment. His body existed and he was nude for some reason, so that was fun. But more than that, as he saw himself he wondered if he could move through this space like he usually did while flying, and at that thought, he began to move forward.

Thought caused action.

… Thought caused a lot more than action.

A realization and another event occurred the very second Erick tried to activate his mana sense.

The white world became a jumble of everything and nothing and eternity and oblivion and hopes and dreams and dead drama brought back to life and lightning coursing across his skin as the panes of reality shattered like a stained-glass window. But this was not Phagar’s domain. The only one in this space was Erick.

He was in the mana.

The very moment he realized that, he shut his mana sense off, turning the world back to white, but that wasn’t what had happened at all.

What happened, Erick realized, was that he had only thought his mana sense was responsible for the shattering of the sky. Therefore, turning that sense off caused the sky to return to how it was. But that’s not what had happened at all. Everything was what he wanted it to be; nothing was stable at all.

Erick was inside the mana.

And the mana was possibility.

Erick had no idea why he had his next thought, but as soon as he had it, he knew it to be True. Whatever he demanded to happen next, would happen, and that would be it; his demand would turn real. This timeless moment would be over, and he would be left with the aftermath of his creation.

He could solve anything he wanted to solve.

He could even take himself and Jane back to Earth.

He had seen an image of Earth back when his mana sense was on, and the white world had fractured. There, his previous home sat in the far distance, but also close by. Close enough to touch. Close enough to reach. He could even reach all the way back to Spur, to pluck Jane out of that hallway with Teressa, to bring her with him as he took one step through the mana, and landed them both back on Earth.

But.

No.

His home was here. His home was Veird, and Spur, and here.

His problems were here.

And his problems had no easy solutions.

So he spoke the words he had already spoken once before, but slightly different.

His voice was a slow tidal wave that built and built.

“For the good of all, and every individual, we give assistance to those in need and do what we must to prevent apocalypse before it happens, to found and cultivate an evergrowing cycle of less war, less horror, and more hope, for now, and for all always.”

The white room began to fracture, and reorient. Iridescent lightning collected upon constructions that were not there, revealing knots in the future and in the present that had to be untangled before they threatened the whole of creation. Erick could only tell the shape of those threats by the lightning they collected, but all of those threats were so far away that they were more like stars in a night sky, than actual dangers.

— Wait.

Erick had no idea how he knew what he knew, for it was half instinct and half how-he-wanted-it-to-work, but some of those knots were turning points; not ‘dangers’. If they were navigated correctly, then many future knots in the tapestry might vanish completely; many future problems might not exist at all.

With a tiny chuckle, and relief flowing through him, Erick said, “That’s good.”

And then, it was done.

The room turned to light, and lightning, some dissipating, but most retreating back to where it had started; back to Erick’s core, his soul.

- - - -

Erick’s sense of sight and touch and bodily sense and mana sense, all came back, like they had been hidden by an illusion that was more real than reality. He had never shut his eyes, either, so for three moments before everyone else, Erick saw the frozen world all around him. He saw how Fairy Moon had reached for him, for some reason, and now a single spark of iridescent lightning connected her hand to his, which he had left propped out there because he had been explaining things to Redflame.

