… Erick did not say what he wanted to say.

Erick deferred, “I have many concerns of my own, and since I was not privy to the multi-month discussion you all had, then I will need to make my own investigations into this matter, as well as clear up many other smaller affairs of my own before I can explore something as dangerous as The Sundering.”

Melemizargo sat tall, saying, “My Shades are all tasked with making this happen. Explain to them what you desire in this world and they will make it happen as cleanly and as succinctly as possible, so that you may journey into older places, and find out what killed the Old Cosmology so that we might prevent that from happening ever again.”

Erick did not frown, but he almost did. He tried another tactic to get out of this, saying, “I’m not a Wizard yet. I would be vulnerable to whatever I find.”

“Then you can detour your Path to find out how to better become a Wizard. All of that information is in the Old Cosmology. You merely need to go to it.”

“… I’m not sure how to get out of this new obligation, because if I pass this up then someone else will be appointed… ?”

“Jane is the backup,” Melemizargo said.

Erick glared at the big dragon, said, “Fuck you,” then he spoke to everyone, “I feel like this is something that should not be done.”

“I agree,” Rozeta said, “But the Relevant Entities have spoken, and they deem the threat minimal. Personally, I deem the threat a risk that simply should not be undertaken at all, but I have been outvoted.”

Melemizargo cocked his eyes at Rozeta, saying, “It’s not that much of a risk, and you know this.”

Rozeta said nothing, which spoke volumes.

And then Melemizargo said to Erick, “Finish with whatever you want in Greensoil then we can talk more, but know that this is my task for me to release my hold on Yggdrasil’s seal.”

- - - -

Erick said to Darundi, “This concern of how you manipulated the dungeon breaks of three years ago, and how you and your people continued to pull out ancient horrors from the Glittering Depths in pursuit of power, is now lower than other concerns. I wish to have all of the people you have taken from the Glittering Depths, and also for Odaari; as said in the meeting before you had to be returned home. In return, I won’t visit reprisal against you.”

Darundi had been walking to a meeting in the Viridian Palace when Erick spotted him through the sky, using his All-Seeing Eye to look through the many various [Ward]s and obfuscations and misdirection around the Palace. Erick had then simply stepped through a [Gate], bypassing all of those protections, to stand in the grand hallway before Darundi, and his few guards. Erick had managed to speak first. And now, Darundi weighed his options, while his personal guard snuck around Erick, and placed their hands on their swords, or other weapons. No one made any direct attacks, though about a hundred Scanning spells whipped across Erick, trying to decide if he was real or not, while people in other observation rooms were very close to panicking.

Darundi calmly said, “I do not wish to test your reprisal, but for the sake of completion, what sort of reprisal am I looking at?”

Ah. So he had been about to revoke that agreement he had said back in that room? How very Greensoil.

Erick threatened, “All Gate Network access revoked. I trample over your cities to find the people I want to find. Atunir pulls support, which means no [Exalted Rain] among other desolations. I oversee all of your political decisions for however long it takes for me to decide that you are not a threat, which likely ends with me solving your nation’s problems for you. Ways out of this ultimatum include [Reincarnation]s and Empathying, but first, a simple murder and [True Resurrection], so that you are required by world-wide treaty to abandon all personal wealth and power and become a new person under the anti-[True Resurrection] laws.”

“Take your people and good luck with solving the coming crisis.”

“Thank you for your cooperation. I apologize that this happened like this.”

“We are all kings, Erick, who understand the pressures that we face. But just like how you are doing what you need to do today, I will be demanding concessions in the future. Be ready to accept those concessions.”

“I welcome the coming talk, Darundi. I hope it will create better opportunities for growth and possibility for us all.”

Erick left.

It was easy to find Rebecca, Odaari, and also… The Summoner.
