Fyuri listened and barely betrayed her anger. But soon her anger changed. A tiny smile formed on her blood-red lips, as she gazed at Erick with bright, amber eyes. She ignored everything Erick said, and attacked, “You’re Ashes. You are the Summoner.”

“Yup,” Erick said, “Everyone in power at Greensoil already knows. I’m sure more people will be learning that soon enough.”

“I’ll take that [Reincarnation], however you want to make me, and an Empathy as well.” Fyuri said, “Make me yours, Erick Flatt, Wizard of Benevolence! My Summoner!”

… Erick walked away.

- - - -

Erick stood on one side of a courtyard, ringed in power and spellwork. People in prisoner tunics and brown pants stood on the other side, unshackled and yet not trying anything untoward. They were the Riamites captured by Atunir’s paladins, and they knew what was about to happen. Those paladins of Atunir, standing on the walls around the courtyard, and Champion Yetta, standing at Erick’s side, watched Erick work.

Erick explained, “You will be given [Reincarnation] paperwork. As you have proven yourself as malcontents, working to undermine the authority of the powers of this world, you will be given a Blessing of Empathy as well. Beyond that, you have two choices, based upon if you choose to fully reveal the depth of your activities working for Shadowclaw, or if you withhold information. Those who fail to reveal the full depth of their activities will be turned over to Greensoil. Those who cooperate, will be reintegrated into society at Candlepoint. A new life is ahead of you, men and women of Riam, and in a few cases, Utopia. If you choose to accept it.”

Erick waved a hand, and paperwork appeared.

An hour later, every single person was on their way to Candlepoint. None of them wanted to be handed over to Greensoil. One of those people was the Artillery Archmage from the second floor, whom Erick had killed without knowing it the first time around that land, and whom he had killed another time with his golden staff. That Artillery Archmage’s True Name was Terrance Nightenflit, and now he was much younger and with a better direction in life, and with a new name of his choice. All of them would get a lot more choices, this time around, for they were free men and women. Mostly.

Erick’s [Reincarnation] and Empathy had yet to fail catastrophically, or really, at all, but some people were still watched after the transformation, and these people were added to that list.

- - - -

A non-fancy, circular stone table rested on a white stone floor, in the center of a grand hall made of white crystal with gold striation laced through that rock, almost artistically. Four chairs sat around the table, each of them as important as the other, while the lights of the room allowed for no great shadows at all.

Lightning-ringed portals opened at four sides of the room at the same time. Four people stepped into that space.

A king of black metal, shaped into an orcol.

An older man in gold and white robes who had forgone taking the title of ‘king’ for himself many times before.

A king in green, who was the focus of this meeting.

And a king in white, with black edges to his robes, and lightning in his eyes.

King Stratagold. The Headmaster, Kirginatharp. The Viridian King, Darundi Raivo. Erick Flatt, the Wizard of Benevolence and the Apparent King.

It had taken Erick nearly 7 days to reach this point, all that time filled with letters and meetings and back-and-forth, and complete [Force Wall]ing from Darundi, and in many cases, fury. The Viridian King’s fury at Erick was well-hidden, always, but it was still there. Erick had a lot of fury of his own. Now that Erick was calling Darundi on his bullshit, the Viridian Throne didn’t want to own up to any of their misuses of the Dark, and relations were deteriorating.

Erick had almost simply broken into the Viridian Palace, to steal both Odaari and the Summoner out from Viridian control. He didn’t do that, though. He refrained. And now, he was here, at a major meeting between powers. He wasn’t going to let Darundi get away with anything.

It was time for a full overhaul of everything about Greensoil.

That was Erick’s goal, anyway.

Darundi had his own set of goals.

Stratagold was here on Darundi’s side. Kirginatharp was here on Erick’s side. But all four of them sat down around the round table, with no one actually on anyone’s side at all.

Kirginatharp stood, and began, “As the oldest, I will open this discussion.

“Based on the discrepancy between the positions of House Benevolence and the Greensoil Republic, I doubt we will reach an understanding that both sides are happy with, but it is important to have open dialogues about these sorts of things, in order to prevent forceful events that would further erode the trust and cooperation we great powers of the world have in this new era, here on Veird.

“Onto the discrepancy.

“House Benevolence desires the complete turn-over of the Glittering Depths to the Church of Atunir, and the complete ousting of all of Greensoil interests therein. It also desires the Republic to turn over all great evils that it has dredged up from the Dark, for subsequent [Reincarnation] and Empathying, or, in the cases of weapons of mass destruction, for categorizing and dismantling.

“If these were normal dissatisfactions, such a request would be a complicated national-level series of talks and organizations between House Benevolence and Greensoil, and neither King Stratagold or myself would become involved.

“But the Republic is mining the Dark for great evils, and then trying to use those great evils to increase their military might. On the nature of weapons, I doubt you will get what you want, Erick. But on the nature of evils, we have much to talk about.” Kirginatharp said, “The purpose of dungeons is to train people how to handle magic and themselves in worlds of simulated and real danger. Recreating evils is perhaps the greatest issue here.”

Not an unexpected angle from Kirginatharp.

Darundi did not stand, for that part of the meeting was over. He simply said, “The evils recreated from the Glittering Depths are greatly exaggerated, primarily because the Script already keeps the greatest magics out of the hands of everyone, and because the archmages and powers of the Glittering Depths are from an ancient age, where magic was different anyway. Not a single one of the archmages brought forth from that land and made real have been able to achieve anything above tier 6 spellwork; they’re not technically archmages anymore.” He looked at Erick, adding, “And you cannot say that the Glittering Depths were not useful, for you gained power there yourself, Erick. Who are you to deny others the right to power that you have grasped? To do so would go against everything you already stand for, would it not? Perhaps you have been affected too much by your time in the Dark, and it is you who should be censured.”

An infuriating start, Erick thought.

“Perhaps I should be censured, yes,” Erick said, responding the only way he could to such an oddity, and surprising no one except Darundi, who struggled not to show that surprise. Now was not a time to hide any cards, though, and so, Erick continued, “I’ve already taken steps to step down from my position as absolute Gatemaster. My apprentice, Kiri Flamecrash, has taken up many of my old duties, and is working on providing the world with a second person capable of overseeing the Gate Network.”

Kirginatharp was not surprised; for he knew about Kiri, and how Erick was getting ready to reseal Yggdrasil, and all the rest. Stratagold had not been informed of all that nearly as much as Kirginatharp, but he knew. While Kirginatharp withheld his judgment—

Stratagold spoke, “Perhaps it is for the best that you take a step back from absolute power, Erick, though this is the first I am hearing of it in quite so plain wording. I assume that Kirginatharp knew? But this is a new revelation for you, is it not, Darundi?”

Darundi withheld his words for the moment.

Kirginatharp said, “One person should not have as much power as Erick has. This is a fact he has stated himself many times over, and now that he has the opportunity to give up some of that power to the next generation, I congratulate him for being able to do so.”

So that was a bunch of words that amounted to Darundi’s stance against Erick being approved, because Erick stepped back himself, and in that action approving of Darundi’s stance, but in return for stepping back, Erick was about to demand a lot in return. And Darundi knew it. So did everyone else.

Erick held his tongue, though, and let Darundi fuck his position up even more, because that’s what tyrants did when you gave them enough rope to hang themselves with.

“You’re working some Wizardry, aren’t you, Erick. That ‘Benevolent Path’ you spoke of inside the dungeon,” Darundi said, as he narrowed his eyes. “You’re doing some sort of Fate magic right now, because you went to the Glittering Depths after you started to elevate Kiri to the new Gatemaster. That you are giving up power due to being influenced by the Dark… All that is just a Wizardry you have created in order to harm Greensoil with unreasonable demands that we open ourselves up to having a dungeon overlap the entire Dark space of the capital. A place that is already infested with known demonic conspirators. We’ll just have more demonic murders, and you want that to happen.”

Erick wanted to throw all of that back in Darundi’s face, saying how he was reaching for answers and trying to maintain credibility… But Stratagold and Kirginatharp looked to Erick, too. Perhaps he did need to parry this attack, and go on the offense himself.

Erick said, “I might be on a Benevolent Path. And if I am, it is undoubtedly to fix the major problems I can fix, while they are fixable. This includes what happened down at Storm’s Edge, and what I see happening in Greensoil, with you trying to dig up ancient evils for your own gain. That story of Atunir’s is a holy one that should be told to people, so that they know what true evil looks like. It is NOT a story that you should mine for gold.

“Therefore, we need to slap you down for that, but there’s a lot more to this problem of Greensoil than you all poking at the ancient evil that is Riam.

“I heard a funny story the other day, and I went looking into that funny story, to see the truth. I saw a lot.

“Back when those dungeon breaks happened in Greensoil, back when Greensoil and the Wasteland had a direct connection, there was one dungeon near Riski, on the southern coast of Greensoil, where demonic forces were actually found. You blew those forces way out of proportion, claiming they were connected to the Halls of the Dead, which used to have their base to the north of Riski, in the mountains. And that particular dungeon break did have some cousins that were distantly connected to the Halls of the Dead.

“But that was a cover story.

“For in all the other dungeon breaks that happened all across Greensoil, that was due to Greensoil mining dungeons for magic. This caused some sort of chain reaction in the Dark, causing a great many dungeons in Greensoil to fall apart…” Erick looked around the room, where shadows lay, where they had not laid before. “Please, Melemizargo, I will ask for you and Atunir to speak later, but I wish for that speaking to come later.”

The shadows vanished. A gold glint in the lights of the room similarly faded.

Kirginatharp and Stratagold were outwardly calm, but inwardly worried.

Darundi was sweating buckets. He had expected to deal with powers today. Not gods.

“As I was saying,” Erick continued, “There was a fracture in the dungeons of Greensoil 3 years ago, and according to sources I can provide evidence for, it was because Greensoil was mining every dungeon for every ancient evil and power it could find. You have many such powers under your control right now. You have three living powers that I am most interested in, and that I demand to be turned over to me, immediately.

“Odaari, because I demand it.

“Rebecca, because you cannot hope to contain her.

“And your living copy of the Summoner, because I won’t let you have a copy of my previous reincarnations, or whatever they are. I’m still not sure myself.” Erick added, “And I demand your entire nation quit with its human-centrism, because, since I’m stepping down from absolute political power, I can step into the realm of activism without being so threatening that we would have to resort to war to resolve our differences. I can still be incredibly influential, though. But that’s the stick. Here’s the carrot: Perhaps, if your human-centric policies were to end, you wouldn’t find so many enemies in the shadows waiting to stab you.”

Darundi had regained his composure by the time Erick had finished. He simply said, “I reject your claim of power over Greensoil.”

Erick stared. “If you think I’m a bastard to deal with now, just wait until Kiri gets her claws into the Gate Network of Greensoil. She hates you, for a great many legitimate reasons.”

“No,” Darundi said simply.

Erick frowned. “Let us return to the current issue: You’re digging around in the Dark for horrors of the Old Cosmology. That has to stop.”

“I disagree,” said Stratagold. “But only in the assertion that absolute avoidance of evil is wrong. Individual cases might have merit. Fighting against Riam has merit. Mining Riam has no merit.”

… Erick wasn’t happy with that, but he let it lay.

Kirginatharp said, “While I believe that Greensoil’s endeavors are misguided, and that some sort of censure needs to happen to prevent the worst outcomes, the ability to pull the Old Cosmology out of memories is too great of a power for this world to leave unexplored. Evils should not be mined. Good should be mined.” Kirginatharp let that lay for a moment, then continued, “But for right now... For now, this exploration of Riam and the proven monstrousness of Riamites does demand a certain ban on those types of people pulled out of ancient history. Why not explore the dwarven worlds of the Radiant Depths? Or the Silvery Lands of ancient Lastine, of the Light Elementassi, and the angelic human hybrids of the Alvani? Surely places like that have merit, Darundi. Let Atunir have Atunir’s history.” He looked to Erick. “As for you, Erick. We have spoken of the horrors of Earth before, even though you stay away from the larger ones, but why not Earth? Spun fully-created from your own mind? ”

