Erick walked through golden fields, under a blue sky.

Atunir walked beside him. “Hello, Erick.”

“Hello, Atunir,” Erick said, then he went right into it. “Something needs to change about that dungeon. We can’t have world-wide threats being made and released into Greensoil’s power. Into anyone’s power, really.”

“Is that what you want to start with? Not that you are the Summoner, a Wizard who doomed a world and saved another through a supreme Paradox?”

“… I suppose we could start there, with how apparently the Summoner was a Wizard, too? When you invited me into that dungeon, did you know that was going to happen?”

“No. What I said last time remains true. I have memories of that time. You are a Wizard of Paradox. Either you are, or are not, related directly to the Summoner, but I’m willing to bet that you are. A part of his mana lives on in you.”

“And you’re not worried about that? About Wizardry?”

“He’s not a Wizard anymore.” Atunir said, “And you said it yourself; you put yourself on a Benevolent Path. Either intentionally, or subconsciously, you are orchestrating the future of this world into one better for us all, through the exploration of your past. Right now, that Path forward seems less than solid. Dangerous. But from what I see in the Benevolent Sky, and in all my other methods of checking the future, it appears we’re on a clear course to some brighter land. Everything happening right now is a stepping stone toward that future.”

Erick breathed in the dreamy air as he thought. Then he said, “Are the Summoners and Fyuris released from the dungeon… Are they a problem you can help with?”

“Yes. I have paladins, and I have already dispatched them to locate and purge the corrupted dungeon remnants. They are done with that job, and have collected six soldiers of Riam, four commanders, and three archmages. They are currently in talks with Greensoil about turning them over to Greensoil, but if you wish to turn them into better people, then I will make that happen instead.”

“I will take them,” Erick said, with perhaps too much ferocity. “Do you know where Fyuri and the Summoner are?”

Atunir looked at him, and softly said, “They are just people, Erick, and your Node Network [Renew] magics make much of the world a lot more stable than it used to be, cutting off their chances of changing the world down to near nothing. Fyuri was a woman most renown for her cruelty and power to control people through charisma and guile, and while that threat might remain, the Summoner that she managed to pull out of floor 5 was a Wizard in the original, but no longer. Fyuri took his staff, none of his magics work like they should, and he’s in the custody of Darundi Raivo right now, talking of pasts and magics that he no longer has any connection to. That Fyuri you fought is free, however. She is in Candlepoint, posing as a traveler and applying for light dungeon access, to regain her [Greater Lightwalk].”

“… I’ll be taking care of Fyuri first, then.” Erick asked, “Are there any others?”

“Aside from the ones captured by my paladins, and taken in by the Inquisition, Kinder has found and killed 19 more conspirators, all while remaining hidden himself. He retains plausible deniability that he had anything to do with any of it, which is true, but which won’t matter if you bring up any words against him. The only threads that remain active outside the Glittering Depths are the Fyuri Riamiteer at Candlepoint, and the Ashes Woodfield at Greensoil.”

Erick connected a few dots. “When you asked me to come to the dungeon… Was it to solve this problem? Or did Kinder ask this of you?”

“I had hoped, and so did Kinder, who prayed for it, but I wasn’t about to put that on you. Aside from closing this Kill and Exterminate Quest with Odaari, the only thing I truly wished for was you checking out the meta-artifact idea, to see what you thought. Maybe it would have helped you with your Wizard crystallization, but that’s a personal journey that I cannot interfere with directly, and nor do I want to interfere.”

Ah. So Kinder did pray to rid the dungeon of this problem. The Dungeon Master knew of the problem, but he couldn’t actually do anything against Fyuri and otherwise, because to do so would be to show how little actual control he had over the dungeon. Ah. Well that was pretty shitty.

“The Kinder before this one…” Erick asked, “He tried to speak up about the problems in the dungeon, didn’t he?”

“Back when the dungeon breaks happened three years ago, one Kinder tried to speak up about how the Greensoil Republic was purposefully mishandling the dungeons. Then Greensoil decided to blame all the dungeon breaks on the Gate Network between the Wasteland and Greensoil, to blame the incani on what was wholly a Greensoil created problem.” Atunir said, “It was a lie that worked on you because in a few cases, it was true. In 90% of cases, though, the problem was Greensoil taking NPCs out of the dungeons and using them to try and make new magics. One of those dungeons they targeted for harvesting was the Glittering Depths, and it was there that several Fyuris, some abominations, and some ritual magics were extracted, and tested inside other dungeons. The results of those tests were the dungeon breaks and my paladins cleaning up those Fyuris and otherwise.” Atunir finished with, “But now you’re back, as Melemizargo has said, and as you have proven. I wasn’t even aware you were gone, but it makes sense, now that we’re here. And now that we’re here, I ask you to solve whatever problems you see among my people as much as you desire, Erick. You have my blessing to do so. I wish you well.”

A hundred thoughts flitted through Erick’s mind.

He landed on one of the most important ones, “Where are those other escaped Fyuris? The original ones from the dungeon breaks 3 years ago?”

“Dead to the last. I ensured it, as soon as they crossed lines which I could not abide. The only one who has survived for a long while is Rebecca, and only because she could kill to sate her hunger down there in the Glittering Depths because she wasn’t actually killing anyone.” Atunir added, “Greensoil is getting smarter about using my gifts to the world, and turning them into weapons. I might have to close the Glittering Depths, or else open another dungeon in the Wasteland. I hope I do not have to do either, though.”

Erick had no answer to that right now.

All he could say was, “I’m going to lean hard on Greensoil, and I might drop your name.”

“I suggest a coalition of forces, Erick. Kromolok and Rozeta. Kirginatharp. And of course, my paladins and Champion. I can have my people gathered in Odaali within the hour. Or I can give you days to prepare.”

“I’m going to capture Fyuri first. Then… Then I’ll go to Odaali. I would have every single conspirator turned over to me, to be transformed into better people. I’ll be offering [Reincarnation]s of a more normal sort to anyone living in the Glittering Depths who wants one, but I have no real good way to get in contact with them now. Can you tell them that they are welcome in Candlepoint?”

Atunir nodded. “I’ll let them know.”

The world faded.

- - - -

Erick woke.

It was midnight but the shadows never slept, and Enforcement slept even less. Burhendurur was out of the office right now, so Erick just ordered the next man in line to quietly secure the area around the Light Dungeon.

Under the dark, beneath the scant lines of light from the node network that stretched across Candlepoint, lay the hill that hid the Light Dungeon. Erick’s magic preceded him, power unfurling in the sky with all ten Ophiel, spreading wide. Light came to the night. Forty three people who were lined up for the dungeon all went still as multitudes of white and black armored men and women stepped out of the surrounding lands, to contain the delvers, and one delver in particular.

Erick descended to the ground, right in front of his target.

She was a woman, eleventh in line for the dungeon, who made no attempt to hide. She did not look like Fyuri or Rebecca at all. Blonde, thin, armored and ready for battle, Fyuri did nothing but stand firm, unlike everyone else near her, beneath Erick’s white hot gaze.

“Hello, Fyuri,” Erick said, as he opened a [Gate] to the side. “This way, please.”

“If you do not mind, I would like to assume my normal form for what is to come.”

Erick retracted his Domains from her, and her alone, daring her to act as he said, “Go ahead.”

Fyuri’s armor evaporated, her form twisting, as she became a sudden cat monster ten meters tall and with a dozen tails, her mouth full of fangs, shadows spearing out, aiming for Erick—

Erick smashed down on her back with black claws ten times her size, black wings unfurling and white lightning dancing inside his maw. He held down Fyuri like she was an unruly kitten. She sparked with red lightning beneath his claws. Erick sparked harder, opening his maw and pouring forth a storm of white lightning directly onto the evil woman, his power dancing down in a column, constrained in effect but eradicating Fyuri from existence. When he was done with her, and satisfied at his rage abating, Erick closed his mouth and pulled back. He had carved a divot in the ground a bare ten meters across and half that deep, and only because that’s how far he chose to take it.

Erick sighed as he flexed his wings outward, rustling the air with the sound of a far-off storm, his tail flickering. And then he relaxed.

In a flickering moment, Erick flashed healing throughout the area, repairing whatever eyesight damage his lightning might have unintentionally caused. And then he shrunk down into his normal body, his clothes reappearing as he stood above the empty void where he had erased a remnant of the past that did not deserve to plague the world ever again. She had proven herself as evil. She did not deserve redemption…

But that was Erick’s anger talking.

He hadn’t actually erased her soul, and that made all the difference.

- - - -

Erick stood on one side of a solid diamond glass wall that was reinforced with a bunch of solidification magics. Fyuri regained consciousness on the other side, inside a very well-made containment chamber, deep below House Benevolence. She had a bathroom, a kitchen, and a bedroom, all of it well stocked, but with absolutely no passageways from here to the outside world. The only way in or out of there was through a [Gate]. The bathroom cleaned itself and the air with [Cleanse], the food was delivered daily, and she had a few things she could cook, along with a bunch of books on being a better person, and containing and redirecting one’s anger. Erick wondered if they would help her. Fyuri would have no interest in those books right now, but she would, eventually. This was solitary confinement for now, but right across the hallway lay an exact copy of Fyuri’s containment rooms, ready and waiting for someone else to show up, to need to stay here while they acclimated to their new personality.

Erick had a few of these rooms. Only one was in use right now. He wondered if he would need to actually use more of them.

Fyuri pretended to be asleep for a little while longer, but she realized that wasn’t going to work, so she sat up on her bed, and looked at Erick. “Hello, Wizard Flatt. How good to meet you. Don’t know what came over me out there.”

“Sure sure. So there’s a pen and some paperwork in front of you, on that table. It’s [Reincarnation] paperwork. Make some choices and I’ll be back to enforce them soon enough.”

“You won’t stay and talk for a while? It might be normal for you to hand down judgments like this, but from my perspective this is quite a difficult time in my life.”

Erick was trying not to be baited, so he had acted flippantly… But now he needed to stay and talk, if only for propriety. “… Go ahead, then. Speak.”

“I ask for amnesty from Greensoil. They are murderers, all of them, and they would see me dead… Which is why I assume that you killed me so publicly, and brought me back here, underground and under observation. I would speak of the truth of the Republic as a cesspit of horrors that need change, and I would help you bring that change. Admittedly, I did try to sneak in, instead of contacting you directly, but I wasn’t quite sure how an actual audience would work… Or if you would even listen to what I have to say, considering what Ashes has likely told you. I just had to flee that place, for they would surely kill me as they had already done to so many of my copies.”

Surprisingly, Erick did not find himself becoming angry at Fyuri’s carefully crafted tale.

So it was with calm, that Erick began, “Allow me to pull apart some of your lies, for what they are.

“You did not seek amnesty when you came here. You sought to rebuild power and then to find Ashes and burrow into his heart in any way that you could, hoping to harm him and also gain power in the process.

“You also sought to have a new life entirely, through that body you face-stole from an unlucky woman who was at a bar in Gambler’s Rest, who you killed and ate and then sundered her soul, and perhaps not in that exact order. I was not able to [True Resurrection] her though, so we can’t ask her for her order of events, and you cleared the manasphere rather well so I can’t see what you did to her, either. Her family is calling for your head and death, but I won’t give them that, because you are allied with Hell, now.” Erick said, “Hell doesn’t want you anymore, by the way. I have a contact there that has discovered your attempts to inflame the Forever War, but she was coy about it, because Demons and Angels do absolutely hate each other, and inflaming war in Greensoil is good for Demons. But I convinced them that you would only use Hell for your own gain, and then ruin them in the process. That was not a hard sell. Within the hour, that contact came back with a full report of all your misdeeds.

“So if you’re wondering why you didn’t wake up in Hell as a demon, then that’s the reason; I [True Resurrection]ed you and stole that future from you, before your soul could get there in time.” Erick said, “So here’s what’s going to happen. You’re going to fill out that paperwork, and then I’m gonna strip you of all of your power, and then Blessing of Empathy you, to ensure that this sort of horror never happens again. In a week, or whatever, you will be asked questions and you will spill everything you know about Greensoil’s dungeon weapons programs, and we’ll see about your future after that.”

