Erick stared hard, unsure what to say, or how he felt. Mostly he felt like this was a terrible box that did not need to be opened. Even if nuclear weapons simply did not work here on Veird, there were other things that could come through a dungeon to ‘Earth’, like… Well he wasn’t quite sure. But he didn’t want it to happen anyway.

Erick had a good answer, though, “We don’t need to open that box, because that’s how you get elves again. That’s how Evil Gods are born. That’s how you unleash Primal Lightning into this world—”

Erick paused.

There were four more seats at the table, all placed around the room equally.

Fairy Moon, dressed in pink and green and white, sat beside Erick on his left, between him and Stratagold.

Rozeta, wearing her white-wrought human woman form, in a pantsuit. She sat between Stratagold and Darundi.

Atunir, dressed in a simple yellow tunic and brown pants, with her braids in a bun, took her place between Darundi and Kirginatharp.

And then there was Fallopolis, looking composed in a dark suit, with white accents. She sat between Kirginatharp and Erick, while her black crystal staff floated behind her. Erick’s own gold staff was suddenly floating behind him; a bright gold thing that was confused by the black, crystalline thing. Erick had left that staff at home, and even Ophiel was outside this room. But now, the staff was here.

New people all around.

Erick rolled with it, saying, “Greetings, others. Glad you could join us. Was it the part about uncovering the Sundering that finally prompted this joining?”

Darundi looked like he wanted to be anywhere else but here, and yet he also had a king’s crown to uphold. He maintained. But he also fell to the background, hoping not to be noticed too much.

Rozeta spoke first, “In light of recent events, certain things need to be said. Of the mortal lands, the request is simple. Greensoil must deliver all Riamites awakened into real people unto Erick. Erick, you must rescind your other requests of Geensoil; this includes any adjustment of their governance. Besides, you’re already taking all of their good people from them and filling up the Crystal Forest with real forest and civilization. It’ll only be 30 years or Darundi’s natural death or assassination before all of Greensoil falls into a civil war. At that time, more extreme measures will be taken to ensure that Greensoil does not fully collapse, and that the people remain as alive as they can.”

Darundi’s eyes went wide at what was essentially a divine prophecy. He wanted to rebel, but then he thought better, and suddenly all his words fled him. He had no idea how to deal with that information at this moment, so he went silent.

Erick picked up the slack, “I will accept this lessening of my desires of Greensoil. I would hope to avert this horror you mention, though. I would assist Greensoil in a transition over the next twenty years. If Greensoil implements grand, sweeping reforms, everywhere, at every level of governance, I will help them do so. Or we can all just wait for Darundi to die, and then pick up the pieces afterward.”

Darundi regained composure, saying, “Rebecca, the Summoner, and Odaari will be transferred to House Benevolence. We’ll talk about the rest later.”

Erick breathed a small sigh of relief, and so did Kirginatharp and Stratagold. Darundi was still tense, but who could blame him. Fallopolis, Atunir, and Fairy Moon had yet to speak.

Atunir added, “The Glittering Depths will become self-governed, without Greensoil interference.”

“Agreed,” Darundi said, “I’ll pull back influence to minimum-checkup levels, and will no longer pull out resources from that land except for those who desire to leave on their own, and mana crystals for study.”

Atunir said, “Acceptable.”

… Well that was unexpected. Erick wasn’t sure what to make of that. Perhaps having gods tell you you’re fucking up should happen more often; Darundi obviously didn’t give a shit if it was just Erick telling him he was being a shit.

Rozeta spoke again, “Now let us speak of the Old Cosmology being revived from the Dark.”

Fairy Moon rapidly spoke, “This boon of Dark Dungeons gives birth to great beginnings and can cause greater Ends.” She looked to Fallopolis. “I ask the Dark to decree evil gods no more, never to manifest again.” She looked to Atunir. “And you should find a fiction that better gets you good believers. Destroy the Glittering Depths, and all the evil they detail. Let Riam rest. Gain a greater good in any of the other scripture stories you sell.”

Erick didn’t agree with all of that, for he wanted the Glittering Depths to remain… He was pretty sure he wanted them to remain. But he did agree with Fairy Moon asking for the Dark to curtail memories of evil gods in dungeons.

But it was Atunir who spoke next; not Fallopolis.

“The evil of the Glittering Depths is the evil of humans and a fictional god that was never born,” Atunir said. “It was the best choice, and though it was turned to profit by some humans, it is still a lesson that needs to be taught, over and over and over again to all mortals, forever more.”

Well that was true, too. Riam never got their plan to work.

Fairy Moon frowned, showing her displeasure, but not speaking again.

Now Fallopolis spoke, “My God has seen the Glittering Depths and judged them worthy. That Grand Dungeon is among the best of this world, and will not be gainsaid by anyone. As for other dungeons, Benevolence has already pointed the way to any that might prove problematic, and though Erick has not done the deed himself, his daughter has. She kills problematic dungeons all the time with Benevolent guides. This solution works fine.”

Erick froze. “… Melemizargo is working with Jane?”

“I would say it the other way around, Erick,” Fallopolis said, not looking directly at him.

Erick had not known that Jane was working with Melemizargo, at all. He wasn’t even aware that Jane was using Benevolence in any real shape or form, except that she was just as good with that Element as she was with all the rest… So of course she was using Benevolence to find problematic dungeons, possibly even before they became problematic.

Rozeta directly asked Fallopolis, “Are there dungeons where evil gods exist, or are capable of existing?”

“The former: no. The latter: of course. But are they near that level of danger? Not at all.” Fallopolis said, “However, since we are here, and since memories in the Dark can be real if other observers witness them, I am informing you now that My God wishes to have people of suitable natures explore the Sundering, to see and to understand what caused the Primal Lightning events that destroyed the Old Cosmology.”

Gasps all around.

Erick suddenly felt like the floor had fallen away. He had spoken of ‘unleashing Primal Lightning’ before, but that had been in hyperbole. To actually search for the answer to the Sundering? Crazy as shit!

Rozeta launched to her feet, anger writ large on her face as she slammed a hand down on the circular table, cracking it in half. “ABSOLUTELY NOT.”

The air filled with power. The table disintegrated, casting aside all barriers between her and Fallopolis, and everyone else.

Darundi looked like he might be having a heart attack—

Rozeta flicked a hand and Darundi vanished into a cloud that was a [Gate]. “It was an ill-formed idea in the first place to believe that a mortal could stand up to this sort of discussion.” She looked to Erick. “Send him my apologies for his rude dismissal if you desire to take advantage of that.” She looked to Fallopolis, and to the shadow looming behind the Shade. “Let us relocate this talk to a larger venue.”

Melemizargo spoke through Fallopolis, “I agree.”

- - - -

Erick stepped down onto a black volcanic crater, not too far off-center.

The horizon was a ring of black, jagged rock, that sieved a heavy mist. That mist hovered in the air above the uneven, cooled black ground, and people stepped out of that mist. Erick recognized Adavido, the Helm of the Angelic Host, with his glittering white-gold armor and wings made of swords, daggers, and all sorts of piercing and cutting implements. Dinnamoth, the Demon King, with his red skin and red horns, and a black leather suit, stepped out of the mist on the other side of the crater. More gods and Relevant Entities followed. Koyabez, lithe and pale purple, wearing nothing but a loincloth. Sininindi, looking storm-tossed in her ship’s sail dress. Then came Fangorl, and Zephyrspray, and Sumtir. Aloethag, the Goddess of Beauty and Brutality, and of the orcols, stepped down into the arena, wearing a blood-red dress. Erick wondered if she wanted the elves back; she probably did.

Atunir stepped onto the stage, just off-center. Her yellow tunic and pants remained from their meeting from before.

Rozeta in her white pantsuit remained the same, as well.

Stratagold stepped to the edge of the arena, nearer to Erick but still far away from the center. Kirginatharp joined Stratagold. The two of them were invited observers, but they were not central to this event. Fallopolis stepped out of the fog next to them. It seemed she wasn’t central, either, but she still warranted inclusion.

Fairy Moon appeared at Erick’s side, between one blink and the next, and then Rozeta glared at her, and Fairy Moon put up her hands and backed away. She did not retreat to the edge, but neither did she step fully out of the center of the black caldera.

Phagar, looking like a copy of Erick, stepped down into the center of the space, right as a great black shadow enveloped half of the sky, before condensing down to be merely ten meters tall, laying down to Erick’s side. Melemizargo nodded to Erick, and then he turned toward Rozeta.

A good hundred other relevant entities appeared in the mist, but did not fully form. Erick could name 80% of them, but they were mostly just watchers of the world that never did anything unless needed. Several of them were ancient wrought; the kings and queens or hidden powers of the Geodes. Others were archmages hidden around the world, who also never did anything. Angels, demons. Gods both minor and not-so major as the ones already standing nearer to the center of the crater—

Rozeta began, “We are here today to discuss the unveiling of memories in the Dark, through the dungeon core system put in place by Melemizargo eleven years ago. The memories of the Old Cosmology can be made real through interactions with them, but they are not actually real. The difference is academic at this point, for a diamond created through pressure and heat has the same composition as a diamond created through Particle Magic’s [Crystallize Diamond]. A Shade is just a Dark reflection of a person’s existence, made real through the transference of a soul. A shadeling is an imperfect reflection that has yet to be made real through the realization of their buried soul.

“Evil gods might once again come out from the Dark, if they are searched for too closely.

“But old lands might come about, as well. The Radiant Depths. The Green Expanse.

“And the cause of the Sundering.”

Hope had filled the air until Rozeta mentioned the previous End of Everything.

And then anger spilled out in the air; louder than thunder, but quieter than a breeze, happening somewhere just beyond Erick’s sight and senses. The very world seemed to shake and reorient as gods argued with gods and rage spilled across everyone. A second passed, full of fury and taking much, much longer than a second. And then calm returned, though Erick knew that the calm was a facade, and that single second had been so much more than that.

Koyabez was now nearer to the center of the caldera. Atunir had moved backward. Fairy Moon stood beside Erick, her gaze resolute and solid against Melemizargo. The audience was half gone, but slowly, eyes appeared in the mist, and they returned along with so many other people.

Rozeta breathed, then continued, “After 76 days of deliberation we have reached a consensus—”

Erick almost complained right then and there. What the fuck! 76 days? And he wasn’t involved?!

“— Melemizargo will not be allowed to pursue the question of the causes of the Sundering. Not directly. He will be required to appoint a mortal researcher for the task. As has been suggested, and as has been accepted as a suggestion, we have Erick as an acceptable researcher. The vote commences now.”

Erick spat, “Now wait just a fucking—”

The world flickered.

Rozeta spoke perfunctorily, “The motion passes. Ancient evils are allowed to be explored in side-ways explorations, where those ancient evils are never directly mentioned or explored at all. The sole exception is Melemizargo’s exploration into the Sundering.” With more emotion, Rozeta added, “Woe be upon us all for all of your shortsighted desires.”

Melemizargo said, “It won’t be that bad, Rozeta. I can handle anything that comes out of myself.”

“Doubtful,” Rozeta said, and then she sighed. “But then again, you won’t be handling anything except for the layout of the dungeon.”

“I think we can dispense with this ‘dungeon’ word, now.” Melemizargo said, “It was useful for describing something in terms that the mortals would understand, as an allude to the elemental dungeons that they’ve been making for the last 1451 years here on this liferaft of a world. But my exploration of the Sundering would be a Path, with memories of the Old Cosmology that were open and active all around. A Benevolent Path, that would avoid falling into the worst of the Sundering, but which only a few could follow. Sorry, Erick. I will be using what you already started.”

Erick was too full of words; if he let a single one out, then he would say something awful, for sure.

“This was your goal all along with agreeing to reseal Yggdrasil, and I don’t approve of that, father,” Rozeta said, “This is a dangerous game you play with this world.”

“I am fully aware of that, and I will be taking extreme measures to ensure that nothing untoward will occur.”

“Fortunately,” Rozeta said, looking at Erick. “If he doesn’t agree to it, then it won’t happen. So make your decision, Erick.”

Erick’s instincts had been going haywire, with half of him wanting to scream out ‘No! What the fuck! How can you even suggest such an irresponsible excursion into unknown territory!’ while the other half saw the way Melemizargo was looking at him. The Dark Dragon was inordinately serious about this, in so many different ways it was hard to understand. Melemizargo was perhaps more serious than Erick had ever seen him. Not to mention the gazes of those all across the caldera. Many, many Relevant Entities wanted this to happen.

