Zel remarked as he stared back at the door. He eyed it, and the adventurers who were beginning to split off, leaving only the five mages to talk about what should be done. Lyonette thought his eyes lingered for a long time on Ksmvr.
“It’s a magical door. It must be incredibly powerful if it can teleport someone so far.”
“Yes. It’s an artifact worth—I can’t imagine. But it clearly has its limits, as your boss seems to have discovered.”
He did not look impressed. Zel turned to Lyonette.
“She has a very scattered personality.”
“It was an accident. She was—um.”
Lyonette stared at the door as the mages began to argue loudly. She saw Pisces standing protectively over the door as he and Typhenous began raising their voices.
“And what, pray tell, do you have to object to in the way I altered the enchantment? You will note I barely altered the matrix—”
“By creating a portal? That’s the element of the trap, don’t you see?”
Typhenous looked irritable as he poked the door with one finger, glaring at Pisces.
“It was clearly meant to open and reveal another room—thereby teleporting the incautious to another place entirely. But such a spell isn’t meant to safeguard the user! If it had closed on that young woman’s hand or leg she might have lost it entirely!”
Pisces turned red and Ceria interjected quickly.
“It was a mistake, but the key now is fixing it. If we work together we can probably—”
“We? Let Typhenous fix it. He’s the highest-level out of all of us.”
Revi interrupted, folding her arms. Lyonette winced as Mrsha turned to look. She knew conflict when she saw it, and this was the kind of battle she was used to back home. Not physical, but social, a battle of willpower and hierarchy.
“Oh, is that so? And I take it you are an expert in enchanting magic?”
Pisces drew himself up as Ceria let out a hiss of exasperation. Typhenous stared back archly.
“Not a master, but I am well-versed in it from years of practice and time spent in dungeons. I was educated in the college of magic in the capital city of Pheron for twelve years. And you are…?”
“Pisces. I, and Ceria here, are graduates of Wistram.”
Revi and Typhenous blinked. Revi looked frankly incredulous—Typhenous muttered what looked like a spell under his breath.
“You two?”
“Correct.”
Pisces stared unflinchingly back while Ceria mumbled something in agreement. Typhenous nodded slightly to Revi, and her demeanor changed.
“Well…we might not be Wistram mages, but I was tutored by an expert. We’ve got the experience here—we’ll alter the enchantment on the door before we draw the girl back.”
Pisces’ eyes flashed.
“I am fully capable of doing any needed configuration myself. Your assistance would be useful—”
“It needn’t be a competition.”
The deep voice came from Moore, making all the other mages pause. He had been quiet, but now he looked disapprovingly around at the other four mages.
“We are all experts in some way, aren’t we? I have never been to Wistram, although I have dreamed about studying there. But since none of us specialize in enchantments, let us pool our knowledge.”
“It’s not a question of pooling, Moore.”
Typhenous looked unhappy as he glared at Pisces.
“As I was saying, the enchantments need reworking. If you look at how much magical energy this door drained from just a few moments of being active—”
“My spells did nothing to inhibit the costs! Ceria, back me up here.”
“Let’s all calm down and—”
Across the room, Ulrien and Halrac sat together with Jelaqua and Seborn. They were used to mages, and as such, gave them room. Jelaqua stared at Ceria and Pisces, looking thoughtful.
“Wistram mages?”
Seborn nodded.
“It seems as though they are. Typhenous was surprised. I wonder why?”
Ulrien spoke quietly.
“Probably because he didn’t believe it. I’ve heard Wistram mages are a cut above most other mages, even at lower levels.”
“Well, we knew Springwalker was good. Her team might be important to watch. More importantly, where the hells did they find that door? I heard them mention Albez, but I heard that ruin was tapped out decades ago!”
“Why not ask?”
Lyonette saw the Gold-rank adventurers get up and begin talking with Yvlon, who looked overwhelmed to be speaking with so many higher-ranking adventurers. She turned to Zel.
“It looks like there’s a lot of competition.”
The Drake nodded.
“Adventurers work together, but they also compete for the same things. These groups seem pretty mellow, actually. I’ve seen things get ugly fast, although it might come to that if the mages don’t cooperate.”
“I’ll do something about that.”
Determinedly, Lyon stood up, letting Mrsha hop off her lap. Erin might be back, but Lyon could still be useful. The Gnoll followed her into the kitchen and in a few moments, came out chewing something in her mouth.
Lyon came out a few moments after that, holding a platter with cut cheese, some sliced bread, and sausage all sliced up. She approached the angry mages, holding the smorgasbord out in case someone cast a spell. They ignored her until she raised her voice tentatively.
“Excuse me. Would anyone like something to eat? Or drink?”
The bickering mages looked up. Like magic—a different kind of magic than was being argued over here—they stopped fighting as all fives mages eagerly grabbed the snacks off of the plate. Moore, who hadn’t really been that confrontational to begin with, smiled gratefully as Lyonette handed him a block of cheese she’d sliced into two parts and half a sausage on a plate of his own.
“Hm. Oh, thank you, my dear.”
Typhenous smiled at Lyonette, and Ceria and Pisces remembered they hadn’t eaten since breakfast as they shoved food into their mouths. Lyonette hurried back into the kitchen, and in a few minutes everyone was sipping from mugs and speaking far more calmly to each other.
“Yes, I see. I suppose we can simply concentrate our mana together to reactivate the doorway until a better solution can be found.”
Typhenous brushed some crumbs off his beard and nodded at Pisces. The young man inclined his head as well.
“How would you like to focus it? Neither Ceria or I have a focusing agent—”
“My staff would work well. Allow me.”
Moore gently raised his staff and touched the door as he put his plate on one table. Typhenous nodded. He reached out and grasped Moore’s other hand. Revi stood by Typhenous’ side; she linked hands with him.
“A good old fashioned link-up, is it? I haven’t done one of these in ages. Do they do these in Wistram?”
“Not much. They have fancy crystals that let mages link up at a distance. I once saw a mage eating in the banquet hall while he helped power a spell two floors up.”
Revi snorted as Pisces took her hand. Ceria offered her skeletal hand to Pisces, he took it, giving her a bemused look. She shrugged.
“Better conductivity.”
“Just so long as you don’t expect the rest of us to do a blood link.”
“Hah!”
The other adventurers, Lyon, Zel, and Mrsha all watched as the mages grew silent. Lyonette had to pick up Mrsha to keep her from wandering over; she had a feeling serious magic was being done.
If it was though, it only took moments and, disappointingly, had no colorful effects or sounds to accompany it. The mages let go and Moore carefully pulled the door open.
“I’m telling you, you’re not going to get it open even if you pour a thousand mana potions on it. Put that down!”
“How do you know? It might work. Let me try one!”
Octavia’s shop appeared in the doorway again, as if nothing had happened. Erin and Octavia were caught in the center of the shop, fighting over a green bottle. They paused and turned to the door.
“Oh hey, the door works.”
“You did it!”
Erin leapt through the door and beamed at the mages. They stepped back, looking slightly weary.
Revi flicked a bit of sweat off her forehead.
“That thing’s a mana sponge. No wonder it can’t run for more than a minute at best.”
“Thanks, guys!”
Erin beamed at the others, and then pointed at the door.
“Will this thing last for a while?”
“Longer than last time, if you don’t exhaust it by moving back and forth again.”
Pisces sat back into a chair and reached for another piece of cheese. Typhenous nodded.
“You have a wonderfully powerful artifact here, Miss Solstice. I would love to talk to you about it—and with you adventurers, if you have the chance. Perhaps over dinner?”
“Dinner! That’s right!”
Erin turned to the window in horror as she realized how late it was getting. She called out to Lyonette as the girl hurried over.
“Lyon, we’ve got to start making food! Tons of it!”
“I’ve got a bunch of it in the pantries, but there’s more in the basement. Should I…?”
“Great! Bring up whatever you need—I’ll start cooking! I’ve got [Advanced Cooking]!”
That made all the adventurers in the room, and Zel, sit up. Mrsha’s ears perked and the young Gnoll crept towards the kitchen to wait.
“Aw, you’re making food? Close the door before I smell it!”
Octavia groused to Erin as the girl began listing food for the appreciative crowd and accepting suggestions for what she should cook. Erin turned and smiled at Octavia.
“Why don’t you join us?”
“Join you?”
“Why not? Come on, lock up your shop and have a meal! You can talk to these guys while you wait—did you know everyone here’s an adventurer? Well, besides Zel and Mrsha and Lyonette—but these guys are Gold-rank adventurers?”
“Gold-rank adventurers?”
Octavia didn’t exactly teleport, but she was through the portal door in a flash. She offered a brown bottle filled with liquid that looked like it had tiny glowing fragments swirling around inside of it to Revi.
“Mana potion?”
“What? No, I don’t need—”
Revi tried to decline, but Octavia pushed the bottle into her hands.
“Free of charge. Complimentary. In fact, let me throw a stamina potion in as well. Have you tried my wares? Octavia’s the name. Please consider using my products if you’re ever in the area. I’d be happy to custom-brew anything you happen to need. In fact, I have a new line of defensive potions and items you might be interested in. Are any of you [Rogues]? I have this wonderful Smoke Sack—that’s what I’m calling it—that has incredible potency for the price. Let me just find you a sample…”
She began her sales pitch and Erin laughed as she walked into the kitchen. The night had gotten off to a bumpy start, but now? Now she felt like everything was beginning to be right.
More than right, in fact. Perfect. Lyonette was in the kitchen, already spreading out food on the countertops. She turned to Erin, looking pleading.
“Can I help? Or at least watch? I’ve got the [Basic Cooking] skill now, actually. I’m still no good, but—”
Erin smiled at the other girl and put a hand on her arm. She grinned, and after a moment Lyonette smiled back. In her corner, Mrsha smiled too, and stared at the food as she waited for the right moment to pounce.
Erin grabbed a knife. She had a feeling she’d need to make a ton of food tonight.
“Let’s get cooking.”
 
——
 
Klbkch walked up towards the inn on the hill outside Liscor, ignoring the cold snow that crunched around his uncovered feet. The Antinium didn’t have much use for clothes, but they were aware of their bodies’ inability to regulate extreme temperatures. Thus, Klbkch kept moving and only stopped in front of the door.
He hesitated. It would be good to see Erin again. But there was so much to talk about! What should he say?
Greetings first. Klbkch knocked and then wondered if he should have brought a gift. Wasn’t that customary after a long time?
Too late now. The Antinium waited, heart pounding a bit faster. He had so much that needed to be said, but perhaps it was Ryoka he should talk to? And yet, Erin was vital in so many ways…
After a moment, Klbkch realized no one had come to answer the door. He listened, and realized there was noise coming from inside. A lot of it.
Cautiously, Klbkch opened the door. A wave of sound, heat, and movement nearly overwhelmed his senses.
The inn was packed! Or at least, it was fuller than he had ever seen it. Klbkch walked into the room and saw Lyonette going from table to table with plates, carrying mugs, and Mrsha skulking between table legs, searching for scraps and occasionally stealing some from plates.
The room was filled with people Klbkch knew, and many people he didn’t. Griffon Hunt, the Halfseekers, and the Horns of Hammerad were occupying one section of the room, talking, arguing, laughing loudly. Across from them, a group of Humans and one Drake were eating, laughing and occasionally getting up to make some kind of speech. Klbkch was sure he’d never seen them in Liscor. Why was there a child with them? He was sitting with the female Drake.
And then—there was Selys, Krshia, a dark-skinned young woman he didn’t know and…Pawn? The Antinium looked up and paused when he saw Klbkch. He was sitting with the Gnoll and Drake—and Ksmvr, of all beings. Klbkch knew he shouldn’t have been surprised to see Ksmvr, but he hadn’t expected the two Antinium to be sitting together.
Ksmvr froze when he saw Klbkch, but Klbkch ignored him. He saw Zel Shivertail, making his way over to the table with the adventurers. The Drake froze when he saw Klbkch, and then kept walking, stiffly.
So many people. But where was Erin? Klbkch looked around and then saw her. She was coming out of the kitchen. He made towards her instantly.
“Erin.”
“Klbkch!”
She greeted him the instant she saw him. Erin beamed and hugged Klbkch—he hugged her back, gingerly.
“How have you been? No, wait—it’s good to see you! Do you want something to eat? Let me find you a place to sit!”
“Actually, Erin. I was hoping to converse with you about—”
“Sure, sure! But later, okay? I’ve got to keep serving—”
“Hey Erin!”
Someone raised his voice. Klbkch saw a man get to his feet unsteadily. He waved in Erin’s direction.
“You have to give—show us again how to do the chant! The one with the [Witches]! We can’t decide how it should be performed.”
“Oh, that one? Just a second!”
Erin called out and smiled at Klbkch, looking distracted.
“That’s from Macbeth. It’s a play. Oh, wait, you don’t know what a play is. I’ll explain it in a bit—just wait and I’ll get Lyonette to bring you some fried bee!”
She ran off before Klbkch could say another word. Forlornly, the Antinium stood in place, staring around the room.
“Hey, Klb. Over here.”
Someone addressed him by name. Klbkch turned, and saw Relc sitting by himself at a table. The Drake grunted as Klbkch sat down. He had a huge bowl of corned beef in front of him, and three tankards. He drank from the fourth as Klbkch stared at him.
