“I’m still sorry. You did a great job. Mister Zel here is right. I shouldn’t judge. And I’m sorry for leaving. I didn’t want to, but…you did a great job, and I’m glad you kept the inn—and Mrsha safe. Thank you. Thank you so much.”
She trailed off. Lyon looked close to tears and Erin felt a bit emotional herself. She spread her arms.
“Hug?”
Lyonette hesitated, then hugged Erin. The two girls laughed a bit, and Zel turned his head, scratching at one scaled cheek. Across the inn, Erin thought she heard Pisces make a comment, but that was followed by a yelp as Ceria kicked him.
Mrsha ruined the moment by leaping from a table and onto the two girls. She made small sounds as Erin and Lyonette yelped and laughed. The Gnoll seemed wound up by Erin’s return, and she couldn’t stop sniffing at Erin, licking her, and running about.
“Okay Mrsha, I’m sorry. I’m sorry I left you too—how have you been?”
The young Gnoll stared up at Erin. She opened her mouth, paused, and then touched Erin’s leg with one paw. Erin bent down, and the Gnoll nuzzled her face. She was no dog, and there was something deep in her eyes that told Erin she understood.
“Sorry.”
Erin cuddled Mrsha, and then stood up. Zel was watching her.
“Thanks for saying that.”
He smiled, showing a few teeth.
“If you kicked me out for saying that, I wouldn’t be surprised. It wasn’t my place, but I had to say something.”
“No, it’s—”
Erin cleared her throat, embarrassed. She had to get the conversation away from this. She looked back and saw Ksmvr helping Yvlon carry the door in. Lyonette and Zel turned to stare as the door came through the doorway.
“Is that…a door?”
Erin laughed. She smiled at Lyonette and Zel.
“I’ve got some crazy stuff to show you all. Come on, Lyon. We can help everyone get the stuff off the wagon—there’s not much—and you can tell me all about what happened while you were away.”
“And the door?”
“It’s so cool!”
Lyonette caught Zel’s eye as Erin eagerly went over to the door and the adventurers. He was staring at the door and giving her a quizzical look. She shrugged, helplessly. That was Erin. But Lyonette had to smile too. She felt that same sense of strangeness around the other girl. Strangeness, yes, but also excitement, adventure, new thoughts and energy. If she had just one word for it, it would be—
Change.
 
——
 
It was by coincidence that the Halfseekers met Griffon Hunt on the way back towards the inn. It wasn’t dinner time yet, but the Halfseekers were done with their efforts surrounding the dungeon today. Griffon Hunt on the other hand had returned early, due to Halrac hearing the news about Erin.
The two groups of adventurers nodded to each other when they met, but they were hardly inclined to strike up a conversation. They were allies for the purposes of taking the dungeon on and associates in the same line of work, but still strangers for the most part.
“I hear there’s a new innkeeper. Or rather, the old one’s come back.”
“So it seems.”
Revi nodded somewhat coldly to Jelaqua. The Selphid smiled and the Stitch-girl turned to Halrac.
“Is she really that important? Why are we returning now? Don’t tell me you like this Erin Solstice.”
Halrac looked irritable.
“No. I just want to see.”
“Fine, so long as we don’t have to pay more.”
Revi threw up her hands and walked back to talk with Typhenous and Ulrien. Jelaqua turned to the two members of her group.
“Hm. This Erin Solstice. Do we know her?”
“She’s the one who had that skeleton, remember? The one who punched that Gnoll warrior?”
Moore smiled a bit, and Jelaqua’s eyes widened in recollection.
“The one with the skeleton, right? Well, if she’ll tolerate us I’m fine with the undead wandering around. I really hope she doesn’t kick us out.”
“Hm. You did make her faint by opening your chest up, Jelaqua.”
“Damn. Was that her? Sorry, Moore, but you might not be able to get as comfy here as you hoped.”
“I’m sure she won’t be so prejudiced. Have faith.”
The adventurers reached the top of the hill, the Halfseekers arguing about what might change, Revi complaining and Ulrien and Typhenous listening. Halrac ignored the discussion and paused in front of the door. He pushed it open, and blinked.
“Hey there! Halrac!”
A young woman turned in the middle of the room, and a trio of struggling adventurers stopped wrestling with the thick wooden door to turn and look at the newcomers. Erin half-ran across the room and beamed at Halrac.
“You’re staying at my inn? Lyonette, you didn’t say Halrac was the one staying here!”
“You said you wanted it to be a surprise!”
Lyonette hurried over, smiling at Halrac and the other adventurers. They paused.
“Miss Solstice? We haven’t formally met. My name is Ulrien. I lead the team of Griffon Hunt.”
“Oh! Pleased to meet you!”
Erin started shaking hands. Revi came forwards, and Typhenous. Halrac grunted.
“My team. We’re staying at your inn.”
“I know, and that’s great. Come on in—sorry, I was in the doorway, wasn’t I? Come on in! There’s no food yet, but…oh! Are you the other Gold-rank team?”
Somewhat apprehensively, the Halfseekers stepped forwards. Erin was busy staring at Moore and Seborn, both of whom were used to the scrutiny, but the real test was Jelaqua. Erin smiled at the woman and then blinked and frowned as she saw the other woman’s deathly pale face.
“Hi, I’m Erin. Haven’t we met?”
“I believe so. My name is Jelaqua Ivirith. I lead the Halfseekers, who you see before you.”
Erin’s eyes narrowed.
“Wait a second…you’re that chest-bursting lady! The Selfad, right?”
Jelaqua nodded, not bothering to hold her breath because she didn’t need to breathe that much unless she was talking. But she was nervous, until Erin stuck her hand out, beaming.
“Good to meet you!”
Bemusedly, Jelaqua blinked at Erin’s proffered hand. She hesitated; touching a dead body’s hand was not fun for any species. But there was no way to say that in a moment, so she gingerly shook Erin’s hand. The girl shivered, but not in disgust.
“Whoa. That’s cold. Oh wait, your body is dead, right? That’s so…well, weird, but I guess Humans are weird too, right? Sorry, am I being rude? Wait, was what I said racist? Sorry!”
She smiled at Jelaqua, and then turned to Seborn and Moore.
“And you’re a half-Giant? And a…Drowned Man? Are there Drowned Women, too? Come on in! Lyonette says she makes a ton of food for you, Mister Moore. I’ll see if I can buy bigger plates. And bigger knives and forks, too! Oh, and do you need a bigger bed? I can probably get one made…”
The Halfseekers blinked as Erin talked them into the inn, showing not a hint of fear, suspicion, or even awkwardness around them. She just seemed curious and excited by the adventurers.
“Oh! And here’s my friends. That’s Ceria, Pisces, over there is Yvlon, and that’s Ksmvr…they’re the Horns of Hammerad, an adventuring team like the rest of you!”
Both Gold-rank teams turned to look at the others. The Horns of Hammerad froze, suddenly thrust into the spotlight as they fussed with the wooden door. Ceria turned red as she realized Erin was putting them on the same rank as Gold-rank adventurers, and Yvlon looked like she wanted to swallow her tongue. Only Pisces and Ksmvr seemed at ease—Pisces staring back at the other adventurers appraisingly, and Ksmvr nodding politely.
“You’re an adventuring team now? And you’ve reformed your old party, is that it?”
Jelaqua went over to Ceria, smiling as she greeted the half-Elf. Ceria nodded somewhat warily.
“That’s right. We’re a Silver-rank team. We uh, escorted Erin back to Liscor.”
“From where?”
Halrac frowned at Erin. It was Pisces who answered.
“Celum.”
“How’d you get all the way there?”
Erin debated telling Halrac, but decided to wait until she had more time.
“It’s a long story. But I’m back, and so…these are my friends. They’re going to be staying here.”
“Where? All the rooms are full.”
Revi pointed that out, glancing idly at the other adventurers. She didn’t say anything else, but the implication was clear. The rooms were full, and she wasn’t sharing with anyone. In terms of pecking order, she and the other Gold-rank adventurers far outranked a new team of Silver-rank adventurers.
Erin frowned, vexed. Already problems were popping up! She knew Lyonette had done well to get the other adventurers to stay here, but where were her friends supposed to sleep?
“I guess you guys can sleep in the common room, maybe. I mean, it’s not very private…”
Pisces looked very unhappy at the idea, and Ceria and Yvlon nodded slowly. Lyonette bit her tongue, then spoke up.
“What about the basement?”
“Basement?”
The young woman nodded, blushing as Erin stared blankly at her.
“You do have one.”
“I have a basement?”
Erin thought about this. She vaguely remembered…hadn’t the Antinium built it? She followed Lyon over to the room and blinked as the girl pulled up the trap door. Erin walked down the steps and shouted in surprise.
“I have a basement!”
She came back upstairs, shaking her head in wonder.
“The things you learn…hey Ceria, do you think you guys could sleep in a basement?”
Ceria glanced at the others and nodded.
“Probably.”
“What? It will be cold down there! And what about privacy? I object!”
Pisces complained as he stomped over to stare at the basement in disgust.
“No problem. We can totally make this work. All I need are some blankets, a mattress, curtains—I bet we could even buy some bed stands in Liscor!”
“Or we could sleep in the Frenzied Hare. Isn’t that a far simpler solution?”
Pisces sniffed as all eyes turned to him. He gestured at the door.
“The Frenzied Hare—or a more reputable inn, perhaps? It would be far more effective than sharing elbow room down there.”
“I’m afraid you won’t find many rooms, even if you do know the owner of this inn.”
Typhenous called out to the others. He gestured towards the city through one of the windows.
“There’s far too many people here. Every building, loft, and apartment in the city is getting more crowded by the minute.”
Erin laughed, making the old mage frown.
“The Frenzied Hare isn’t here! It’s in Celum!”
Everyone stared at her. Revi spoke slowly.
“Are you planning on heading north right away, then? Because if you’re going a hundred miles to sleep at a different inn…”
The other adventurers chuckled, but Erin’s eyes just sparkled. She turned to the Horns of Hammerad.
“We’ve gotta show them. Come on Pisces, is the door ready?”
He sniffed.
“The door hasn’t stopped being ready. It’s merely placement I was concerned with—”
Erin brushed past him and ran over to the door, which had been leaned against one wall. She beckoned Lyonette, Mrsha, and Zel over. The Drake stopped playing ‘catch the claw’ with Mrsha and walked over to stare at the door.
“What is it, Erin?”
The adventurers sitting or standing around the room stared in bemusement at the plain wooden door—all that is, except for Typhenous and Moore. Revi was openly yawning until Typhenous nudged her and pointed. Then she sat up straight in her chair.
The rest of the Gold-rank teams picked up on the cue, and stared harder at the door. Erin stood in front of it like a circus conductor about to unveil the biggest trick of the night.
“Alright, brace yourselves, everyone. A little bit ago, Ceria, Pisces, Yvlon, Ksmvr—they’re the Horns of Hammerad—they went into Albez with this map thing. And they found this. Well, they didn’t find this, but—”
Erin broke off as she realized she was losing her audience. She shook her head.
“Never mind. But they got this magical door. Look what it can do!”
She flung the door open, and spread her arms wide.
“It’s a portal door!”
There was no wall, behind the door. There should have been, but instead the amazed room of people stared straight into a second room, one filled with racks full of glowing potion bottles, workbenches with powdered ingredients and empty glass containers—
And sitting at one table, humming a song under her breath and putting a label on one bottle, a young woman with dark skin. She looked up, frowning at the sound of the door hitting the wall in Erin’s inn.
Octavia froze, potion bottle in hand as she saw the room full of people all staring at her. She stared at the beaming Erin, at the open-mouthed Jelaqua, at Moore, blinking down at her, and then yelped as a white shape bounded towards her.
“Mrsha, no!”
Lyonette grabbed for the Gnoll. She caught Mrsha a second before the young Gnoll could cause havoc in Octavia’s shop. The Stitch-girl slid off her seat.
“What in the name of exploding cauliflower is this, Erin?”
“Octavia! I’m back in my inn!”
The room—both rooms—erupted into sound as everyone began talking.
“Extraordinary! I can’t believe it!”
“A magical door?”
“In Celum?”
Everyone started clustering around the door. Erin stepped through and beamed at the others as Pisces tried to explain.
“Isn’t it so cool? I can go all the way to Celum just like that! And if I step back—”
She walked back through and spread her arms.
“I’m in Liscor!”
She hopped through again. Ceria frowned and opened her mouth.
“Hey Erin, that’s not the best—”
“In Celum! In Liscor!”
Erin jumped back and forth in rapid succession. Pisces turned and snapped.
“Don’t do that! You’ll exhaust the mana supply!”
“What? Oh—”
Erin half-turned to look back as Pisces as she jumped through the door again—
And the portal closed. One second the other room was there, full of noise, people—Erin could even smell them from Octavia’s shop—and then she was staring at a blank wall. Erin paused and then slowly poked the stone behind the door. Hopefully, she closed the door and opened it again.
Nothing happened. Sitting at her counter, Octavia smacked her forehead and groaned.
“You idiot.”
 
——
 
In the minutes after the door’s mana supply ran off, there was a lot of shouting. But adventurers being used to sudden changes, no one panicked too much. Except for Mrsha. Lyonette had to lift the howling Gnoll away from the door, and reassure her all was well.
Zel sat with her at a table as Lyonette coaxed Mrsha into sitting with her. The other adventurers were still standing around the door, although now an effort was going on to bring Erin back.
“Erin’s just gone for a little bit, okay Mrsha? It’s all okay. It was just an accident—no one’s hurt!”
“That was startling, though.”
