And there’s so much to see! Rich nobles sit at long tables, talking with foreign dignitaries of various species. I can see Drakes, the similar yet very different Lizardfolk, strange armored people whose heads seemed to detach like the Headless Horseman…creatures I recognize, like Centaurs and Minotaurs. There’s a Minotaur in a suit, chatting with some huge, furry creature that reminds me a bit of Chewbacca crossed with a dog. A Gnoll, apparently.
Some sit, others stand and talk, like they’re at a cocktail party for the rich and powerful. Wait, that’s what this is, isn’t it? There’s music, entertainment for the kids from mages and more conventional sources—even a guy in a bright outfit, doing pratfalls to amuse a cluster of children. They’re all dressed like royalty.
Especially the royalty. The Blighted King and his Queen sit at one end of the room, at a table with a chair that’s practically a throne in itself. But it isn’t the throne; I’ve seen the throne and that thing is scary. This chair is merely ornate and golden.
The room hums with energy, and projects the kind of richness and power that makes me tremble in my boots. I don’t belong here. Not me, a kid born of a working class family. But I tremble for other reasons when I look at the Blighted King from afar.
“You may conduct your affairs for the feast as you wish. His Majesty only requests that you stay within his presence until you are summoned or given leave to go.”
One of the lesser [Chamberlains] serving underneath Nereshal speaks to our stunned group. We, the children from another world, stare at him, and then hesitantly step into the room. We’ve been here before. We were feasted at the Blighted King’s own table, once. But that was a lifetime ago, when the world was still magical.
When we were still all [Heroes]. I’m not. I gave it up and lost the class when I refused to fight, to answer the people’s calls. Richard still has it. So does Emily and a few others. But they’re not real heroes.
Some of the warriors sitting at the table look like heroes, though. They wear shining armor, and those who are dressed for pleasure rather than war still move with unnatural grace. The Blighted King has [Knights] and champions of countless classes of his own. I see Richard looking nervous. He was allowed to keep his sword—a mark of respect, I guess, but I doubt he’d draw it under any situation.
There are guards at the Blighted King’s table, watchful figures, not all of whom carry swords. Several of them glanced at us when we were announced. Several of them glanced at me.
So did the King. It was just a flick of the eyes before he turned away, but it confirmed what we all knew. He’ll want to speak with us. The thought makes some, like Cynthia, afraid to enter the room. Others, like Richard, are made of sterner stuff.
“Come on, let’s join the feast.”
He says it, but no one moves. The [Chamberlain] coughs gently. But no one wants to walk out into that magnificent display and attract any attention to themselves.
I could. Perhaps. But the urging in my mind might make that a bad idea. Part of me wants to stride out there, shout, laugh, and cartwheel if I can even pull that off, and make a spectacle. To clown in short. To lose control.
Make them laugh, Tom. Let go for a second. You know you want to.
Nope. I’m not making the first move. But someone has to. A woman dressed all in red sweeps by our group, glass in hand. She looks…melancholy. And determined to hide it. She has a presence that makes half the guys and girls in our group go weak at the knees. Mine are fine.
You’d go weak at the knees if she stabbed you. Or you stabbed her.
You’d never see the blood, as bright as her gown is. I bite the inside of my lip. Emily squeaks.
“Who is that?”
The [Chamberlain], looking put upon, gently prods Vincent forwards a bit and speaks softly.
“That is [Lady] Theras. If you would like to enter and speak with her, please understand she is in mourning, hence the red dress.”
“Red? Why, what does that mean?”
Everyone looks at the [Chamberlain]. He pauses awkwardly, clearly not wanting to say, and then realizes he has to. He clears his throat again.
“Miscarriage. [Lady] Theras and her sister, the [Lady] Zekyria, both lost their children unexpectedly three months ago. They have been in mourning ever since.”
“Oh.”
Instantly, most of us shuffled our feet and looked at our dress shoes. Eddy chooses this moment to speak. He’d been doing great after meeting Nereshal.
“So they wear red if they’re in mourning. After three months?”
“This is correct. Sir.”
“Weird.”
“What’s weird about that, Eddy?”
Emily and a few girls turn to stare at Eddy. He grimaces.
“It’s just that I didn’t think they’d be so open about it, you know? And it’s been three months…”
“So? What’s wrong with that? Why can’t she be open about it?”
Chole glares at him. Eddy shrugs helplessly. He seems to realize he’s put his foot in it again.
“I dunno. It’s weird, right?”
He looks around. I try not to meet his eye.
“It’s not her fault.”
He shrinks back a bit from Chole’s glare.
“Well, yeah, but…”
He doesn’t have more than that. Uncomfortable, he looks away. I mentally shake my head. Where were you going with that one, Eddy?
He must not like dead babies. At least they’re quieter than live ones, right?
After another second, Chole turns away from Eddy and walks over to [Lady] Theras. She starts talking to the woman, and the surprised older lady sets down her drink to talk with her. That’s the cue for our group to break up.
We enter the banquet. And it swallows us. In a few minutes, I find myself at a table. We’re sitting with Cirille, since she’s the only one we recognized. She and a couple of Drakes seem only too happy to have company to talk to. And there’s quite a bit of food for me to distract myself by eating.
Jellied fruits, sweet breads, cuts of meat dripping with blood and finely-grilled vegetables of every shape and color…the wrong thing for anyone on a diet. Since I’ve lost at least thirty pounds from not wanting to eat, I don’t care and dig in anyways. Beside me, Cirille is talking to Keith about something called the Walled Cities, and a problem with some species called the Antinium. And apparently there’s a problem with a…Goblin Lord?
I’m only half listening. Food is one of the things that usually grants me a reprieve, but I’m—struggling. With myself. I have a selection of spoons to use, and one of them, one with an edged front, like a spork, has caught my eye.
Go on. Pick up the spoon.
I stare at it. I want to. I can see myself picking up the spoon, and then gouging Keith’s eye out. Or my own. A spoon. What a convenient weapon. But everything’s convenient when you use it right.
Wrong. Use it wrong. It’s just a thought.
Take it.
I stare at my right hand. It doesn’t move. I deliberately raise it, take the spoon, and dip it into my soup. I chose soup to start with. It’s delicious. I barely taste it.
You are insane.
“‘Mnot.”
“What, Tom?”
Keith looks over. He sat himself so that Cirille was between him and me. I shake my head and he looks…nervous. That annoys me.
All of the guys and girls can’t stand to be around me anymore. Not after the village. I know what they saw. Of course I do! But can’t they pretend? Can’t they—at least Richard tries. The rest jump if I so much as sneeze. Cynthia won’t be in the same room with me.
A [Clown]. I chose the class on a lark, because I thought—
I thought this might happen. But I didn’t expect it to happen like this. I thought I might be able to get powers.
You wanted to be an insane clown and didn’t want the insanity? Hah! That is a good joke. Now stab Keith in his treacherous little eye. Go on. You picked up the spoon, didn’t you?
God, maybe I am insane. I keep having the same thoughts, over and over in my head. Isn’t that the first sign of insanity?
That’s not insanity, you idiot.
Yes it is. Einstein said that. I think.
Across the table, Richard is talking with Emily. She’s flirting. I think he might be as well. Or perhaps he’s oblivious. They’re a couple, at least in some sense of the word, but it’s not official. If there is an official. I don’t think they’ve had sex yet. News would spread quickly in our tight-knit circle.
Lonely Tom. Why don’t you try your luck? I’m sure Emily would come to love you. If you held a knife to her throat. Why bother with that? Just kill her. Throw the spoon.
[Unerring Throw]. How hard could I toss it?
Just a thought. They’re just…thoughts. They pass by, and it doesn’t mean I’ll act on them. But does everyone have these murderous ideas? I have to distract myself. I push the bowl back and put the spoon in it, probably committing a major breach of etiquette.
“Hey, so what’s this I’m hearing about a war with the Goblins?”
Cirille turns towards me. Across from her, a Drake with red scales slams his fist onto the table, making my bowl of soup jump.
“It’s a crime, that’s what! Garusa Weatherfur and Thrissiam Blackwing are dead! Two of our finest [Generals] and over twenty thousand good Gnolls and Drakes, gone, and for what? Because those bickering bastards couldn’t field a larger army? We could have sent three times that number! And I heard that vital intelligence wasn’t even passed on to them! The Goblin Lord uses undead, and no one thought to pass off that tidbit to either [General]! Some [Mage] bastard or low-level [Scribe] thought it wasn’t important information when it came from Zel Shivertail himself!”
He grabs a goblet and drains it, ignoring the looks he is getting from further up and down the table. The Drake raises his voice, cutting above the local babble of voices.
“It’s bloody infighting that’s killing us, when we should be cutting the Goblin Lord off at the knees and then banding together against those blasted Humans—not you lot, the ones from the north—or the Antinium! We don’t have time to spend infighting. Hah, I’m beginning to see why Shivertail doesn’t spend his time in politics if all the eggheads back home can’t defeat a damn Goblin!”
His companions try to placate the angry Drake. I’m pleased. This is a good distraction.
“It sounds like they’re not that competent.”
“You’re telling me?”
The Drake turns one bloodshot eye to me. I can sense his tail lashing the ground angrily underneath the table.
“Every year we send an army to pound the Humans, and every year they send one down to the Bloodfields. We tear each other apart, killing thousands like clockwork, then march on back and say what a glorious victory we had! On both sides! Either invade and start tearing down cities or make peace already! Don’t waste our soldiers’ lives when there’s real wars to be fought!”
His speech gets voices of approval from some of the other Drakes at the table. Cirille rolls her eyes and twitches her wings as if she’s heard the same griping many times before. I nod, trying to keep the Drake talking. It slips out before I can help it.
“Yeah, exactly. That’s insane. Insanity’s doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results, right? That’s the definition of it, anyways.”
I freeze. I didn’t mean to ask. It was just a thought in my head! I sense every head, every person from my world, stop talking and turn to look at me. They stare. There’s fear in some eyes.
“Yeah, well you’d know, right Tom?”
Eddy says that. Good old Eddy, breaking the sudden silence. The others laugh, a bit too loudly. Cirille rolls her eyes and flicks her tail.
“Tell that to my superiors. They’re happy enough to send a few thousand soldiers over here to get combat experience, never mind the losses.”
“That’s different. That’s…that’s important. This war has to be won. Can’t expect to make peace with Demons. Not those bastards. Lost a detachment to the Fearless the other day. Crazy bastards ran right onto my [Pikemen].”
The Drake, who’d been so angry, slumps into his chair morosely. Talk turns elsewhere. I relax a bit, only to shoot up when I sense Keith poking me. I turn.
“What?”
“Tom, that’s just a myth. Einstein never said that.”
“Said? Said what?”
“Insanity. You know, doing the same thing over and over? That’s not the actual definition, you know.”
My blood runs cold.
“What? No, it is.”
He shakes his head.
“People assume Einstein said it, but that’s just a myth. Trust me, my professor loved to talk about laws. Insanity isn’t a real medical condition. It’s a legal term. It means…well, it’s a defense people used. If you’re insane you can’t be held responsible for breaking the law. Medically, it doesn’t really exist anymore. It doesn’t make sense.”
That’s not the definition. I was wrong. And he—I—
I was wrong.
Keith nods towards me, helpful, oblivious. I stare at him with a grin frozen on my face until I realize what I’m doing. I turn back, staring at my cooled bowl of soup and not seeing it. Inside my chest, my heart’s suddenly beating all too fast.
How did he know? No—I must have known. It’s a coincidence, that’s all. I must have known and subconsciously—
It’s me in here. Just me. And the voice is just a voice.
Are you crazy? Or am I real? Am I something else? How would I know that, Tom? Who am I?
Who are you?
I sit in my chair, sit as the world greys out around me. It must be me. It has to be me. I went crazy back then and I might be crazy now. But I can’t let it be anyone else. Even if it is. Because if I don’t take responsibility for my actions, I really will go crazy. I’ll use that as an excuse. It’s always been me. If it’s not—
Then who’s in here with me?
“Tom? Tom!”
Someone’s hissing at me, shaking me. I look up. I was sitting for so long that I didn’t notice the room go silent. I didn’t hear, and I didn’t realize everyone around me was standing up. I look around and see Richard shaking my shoulder, face pale.
I look up, and at the head of the room, the Blighted King is on his feet. He is staring towards our table, towards us. And his eyes are locked on me.
Slowly, I rise. By his side the [Chronomancer], the mage Nereshal, beckons. We slowly leave our table and file towards the Blighted King. I stare at him.
I am afraid. But not of him. I break out into a cold sweat as I approach him, one of the most powerful men in the world, the one who summoned us here. Not because of his presence, not because of the armed guards who stand next to him, or his stare that weighs us like ants. I do not fear him.
But there is someone laughing in my head. And I am terribly afraid that person isn’t me.
