“Time to rise sweet child, sunlight waits for no one.”

Groaning in reply, Yan retreated to the comforting darkness beneath her firm pillow and away from the dazzling light of the morning sun. Merciless as always, Eun yanked the silk covers off of Yan’s body and tweaked the back of her thigh, the chilly morning air and painful pinch burning away the last of her grogginess. Sitting up with an aggrieved pout, Yan moaned in wordless complaint and stretched her weary limbs before falling back into her comfortable, feathered mattress. She’d never been one to sleep in, but that was before Yan had her first night’s rest in a proper bed. Sinking into the mattress’s embrace, with soft, satiny covers over top and quin pups in each arm -

Oh, right. There would be no more cuddling of quin pups, they’re with Rain now.

Hateful man. After receiving Rain’s invitation to a banquet in honour of his new concubine, Yan decided it was high time she officially returned Rain’s ‘betrothal gift’. With Zabu, Shana, and their beautiful pups nipping at her heels, Yan walked into Rain’s camp as if she were just another Sentinel and set to searching for his sleeping quarters. After stumbling across his command-tent-turned-private-latrine, she concluded the hut in the centre of camp with the Divine Turtle-sized ditch and rabbit hutch beside it must be his. Saying goodbye to the quins was the hardest thing she’d ever done, but Yan still had her pride. Rain had three wives to keep him company and warm his bed, so what use did he have for an orphan who he once mistook for a boy?

A small part of Yan hoped Zabu’s overprotective fathering would interfere with Rain’s marital duties. Not that she wished harm on his concubine, just a few tiny scratches to scare her and sour the mood...

A spray of cold droplets shocked Yan out of her revenge-fantasies, flicked in her direction by the unrepentant Eun. “Well aren’t you a moody one this morning, all full of groans, glowers, and glares. Where’s my sweet child and her lovely smile? I know she’s hiding somewhere inside this grouchy, slovenly mess of a girl. Let’s see if we can’t find her with a touch of water, hmm?”

“Sorry Eun,” Yan muttered, sliding out of bed and dragging her feet to the vanity table. Dropping into the chair with a yawn, she added, “Couldn’t fall asleep until late last night.”

“Grief over losing those sweet quins and their adorable pups, most like.” Running a cold, wet cloth gently over Yan’s face, Eun huffed and added, “I don’t see why you had to return them. A gift is a gift, not a price for your hand in marriage.”

“It is the way of my people, Eun. I should’ve given them back the moment we arrived, but I wanted a little more time with them.” And she didn’t know what to say to Rain. Sorry, I can’t marry you because Grandpa’s allies don’t like you? “They were a betrothal gift, which I cannot accept in good faith if I don’t intend to marry him.” Pursing her lips in a wry pout, Yan added, “Even if he didn’t mean it as a betrothal gift, being the dense, tent-shitting, slut fu-”

“Language dearie, language. Most unbecoming of a Du family gentlewoman.” Running a comb through Yan’s hair, Eun’s aggressive strokes gave away her surly mood. “Never you mind him then. His loss it is. Be it strength, skill, beauty, or bearing, there’s nothing lacking about my sweet girl, and that’s the Mother’s truth.”

Warmed by her matronly affection, Yan smiled at Eun through the polished mirror. She wasn’t sure where Grandpa found her, but Eun was a Mother-sent blessing in human form, pampering Yan to no end and teaching her the ways of womanly wiles. Hair, clothes, makeup, poise, Eun taught all this and more while refusing to let Yan do a thing for herself. ‘It wouldn’t be proper,’ she’d fuss, scandalized at the thought of Yan moving a chair or dressing herself. ‘You’re a Lady of the prestigious Du family now, not some scullion maid or common labourer.’

There was no arguing with Eun. She’d always get her way and Yan quickly became enamoured with her pampering. Eun’s brusque demeanour, miraculous hands, and lecherous comments made Yan love her like family, a surrogate mother of sorts. Squeezing Eun’s hand, Yan held it to her cheek and sighed. “Thank you Eun. For everything.”

“Merely speaking the truth, sweet child.” Stroking Yan’s cheek softly, Eun lowered her voice to a conspiratorial whisper. “The hard truth is girly, you’re better off without him. I seen it before, so believe me when I say Falling Rain is a man in love with death. Charging into danger twice without a care in the world. You can see it in his eyes and his smile, he lights up in the face of death and relishes the thrill. They call him the Undying, but I wager it’s not for a lack of trying.”

Eun’s warning brought to mind a distant memory, of Yan’s first time fighting beside Rain. They’d been sent to a hidden plateau which contained a treasure trove of herbs and a giant garden snake who took them by surprise. Back then, she’d hated him and made no effort to hide it, yet when the beast lunged towards them, Rain risked his life to shove her out of harm’s way. He could have slipped aside and left Yan to be caught by the serpent’s maw, but he didn’t and it cost him dearly. She remembered the overwhelming panic settling in, her mind screaming and legs trembling as the creature reared up with Rain in its maw. Then came the anger and shame, knowing her inaction might have cost Rain his life, followed by disgraceful impotence throughout the rest of the battle. So useless, she could have done nothing and the outcome still would have been the same. Rain freed himself from the creature’s fanged clutches and charged back into the fray, a furious, vengeful god of battle as he carved the creature apart in a shower of blood and viscera.

And after all that pain and suffering, not only did he share the profits with everyone, he even gifted Yan a Spiritual Weapon crafted from the snake’s tail-blade. An idiot, but a sweet one, so forthright and benevolent, his actions left her speechless. He never brought up saving her life, nor would it be the last time he did so. She still remembered the feeling of his arm wrapped around her waist as they rode away from their attack on the Society camp, blood spilling from her belly after a disastrous exchange. So warm and comfortable, she’d rested her head on his shoulder and nuzzled his cheek, wishing she weren’t so tired so she could tease him more...

“Ah, my poor girl, that boy has his fangs sunk in deep.” Eun tsked and tutted while shaking her head, though she ruined it with a sly smirk. “A first love is hard to forget, especially if you’ve given him any other firsts. You devilish girl you, we’ve known each so long and you never shared this juicy story? Come, come, tell Eun all about it. Was he rough and savage, or sweet and gentle? Did he take you in a meadow beneath the night’s sky, or was it in a tiny tent in the middle of camp, with your comrades-in-arms within earshot?” Fanning herself with both hands, Eun’s eyes went wide with eager anticipation, utterly unbecoming of her usual mature and respectable appearance.

Cheeks burning beneath the older woman’s heated stare, Yan shook her head. “We never... you know. We shared a tent, but it was during wartime when we were always dirty and exhausted.” Not entirely true, but close enough. She couldn’t blame him for not embracing her when he only had one broken arm to work with.

“Tch. If a little dirt, sweat, and blood is enough to scare him off, then you’re truly better off without him. My beautiful girl goes so far as to slip into his tent and still he does nothing? If I were him, I’d curl up and die of shame. Spineless cur. Cowardly eunuch. Feeble, limp-...” Muttering a string of decidedly unladylike curses directed towards Rain, Eun didn’t stop even after Yan was fully dressed and out the door, only falling silent once they reached the dining room and Yan left her behind. As usual, Grandpa was nowhere to be found, hiding somewhere so she would arrive first and not feel guilty for making him wait. She’d tried waking earlier but Grandpa would remain hidden until exactly eight in the morning, pretending he didn’t wake at the brink of dawn so she could sleep in a little longer every day.

Grandpa had a roundabout way of showing it, but he loved Yan dearly.

Greeting him with a hug, Yan walked him to the cozy, round dinner table and sat down beside him, resting against his arm for warmth and support while the servants set the table and left. Glancing around the empty room with a frown, Grandpa asked, “Where did those furry, squeaking pests run off to now?”

Feigning nonchalance, Yan placed food into his bowl and smiled. “I returned them to the People’s camp last night. As I’ve said before, they were a loan and it’s high time I gave them back. Eat up Grandpa. It’s your favourite today, roasted fish and quail eggs.”

“You said the male was a loan, but the female a gift. A gift from the boy, no less.”

Keeping up a cheerful front, Yan delivered her crafted reply. “Yes, but it’d break my heart to separate Shana from her pups. Besides, it’s better this way. Quins are pack animals, so now Shana and Zabu won’t always be on their guard and the pups will have others to play with and learn from. I don’t know the first thing about rearing quins, so it’s best to leave them with the experts.”

With a heavy sigh, Grandpa finally picked up his chopsticks and dug in. They ate their breakfast in comfortable silence and Yan took care of everything from pouring his tea to refilling his rice bowl, this tranquil time the favourite part of Yan’s day. They rarely talked during breakfast, but his quiet smiles and approving nods spoke volumes. Neither one really knew what it was like to be part of a family but they were slowly figuring things out together.

Their hearty breakfast finished, Yan linked arms with Grandpa and followed him out into the training yard, where her second favourite part of the day took place. Comprehension of the Forms came so much easier once she followed Grandpa’s instructions and focused on one Form at a time, but she still practised them in their entirety at least thrice a week, out of respect for her roots. Grandpa didn’t mind, for he practised them alongside her, opening her mind to new avenues and directions for her to take. Grandpa favoured a lighter touch when it came to the Forms, his movements appearing soft and delicate as a feather upon the wind, yet each one hiding immeasurable strength within. His movements were sharp and unyielding, always aiming for the path of least resistance, direct and unambiguous as his personality demanded.

When they both finished, Yan’s forehead bore a sheen of sweat but Grandpa looked alert as always. Their training done, he broke routine and cupped her cheeks, gazing into her eyes with a forlorn smile. “I’m sorry about the quins, dear heart. I know you loved them very much. I’ll speak to Akanai about purchasing them back.”

“No need Grandpa.” Yan’s answer was firm and resolute. “I meant it, they’ll be happier living with a pack. Besides,” she added, flashing a heartfelt smile, “It won’t matter soon enough. The world will know your greatness once more and we’ll no longer have to care about who we associate with.”

“Truer words have never been spoken.” Pulling her into his warm embrace, he whispered, “I’ve been summoned to a private meeting with the Legate before this second day of nonsense begins. An old friend close to him tells me this will be a chance to prove myself, but he will not or can not say how. I was ordered to arrive alone and unseen, but I will tell you all about it when I return.”

“Congratulations Grandpa.”

Releasing her from his embrace, Grandpa hesitated and said, “I’m sorry child. I know it must be difficult ignoring your friends and returning the quins. I’ve failed you child, my burdens should not be yours to bear."

“It’s not your fault Grandpa. They’ll understand when I explain, and if they don’t then they’re not friends worth having.”

“Good child.” Shaking his head with a self-depreciating sigh, he added, “Had I known the runt had grown this strong and earned the Legate’s favour, I would have allied with the People to begin with. Alas, there is no cure for regret.”

“Don’t worry Grandpa. No matter what path you take, the end result will be the same.” Yan’s eyes burned with conviction and Grandpa nodded in agreement. No more needed to be said so she walked him out the front gate and watched him leave, his back straight and head held high. There was no sign of the tender limp or hunched back of yesteryear, his hair and beard dyed black and meticulously groomed. She desperately wanted him to succeed and show everyone they were wrong about him, especially his shameless, freeloading ‘family’ members. Just thinking about how Grandpa’s kin treated him made Yan’s blood boil. His siblings, two older brothers and three younger sisters, had all passed away, leaving a horde of ungrateful children and grandchildren who treated him like a doddering old fool with one foot in the grave.

Acting like they were entitled to everything Grandpa built up in his life, those ingrates felt threatened by Yan’s adoption and turned on him without blinking an eye. When Grandpa stopped giving lessons so he’d have more time to teach Yan, his ungrateful family, spread vicious rumours about his sexual deviance and how, at a hundred and nine years old, he was too frail and feeble-minded to make proper decisions, but Yan knew better. Medical Saint Taduk had breathed new life into Du Min Gyu and the Sanguine Tempest stood ready to reclaim his place as a Peak Expert once again.

Due to their familial bonds, Grandpa did nothing to stop his nieces and nephews from seizing his fortune and properties, only taking action when they attempted to misappropriate his manor in Nan Ping because he needed a place to stay during the Grand Conference. This vacation manor and his main manor in Yantai were all he had left, his finances in such disarray he’d been forced to sell most of his possessions to keep afloat. Yan cared nothing for wealth, but it infuriated her to see Grandpa hurt by betrayal after betrayal. He’d known some of his family would turn on him when he adopted Yan as his granddaughter, but the extent of the treachery went far deeper than he’d expected. Out of dozens of blood relatives, none remained loyal apart from Grandpa’s student Du Kang Bin, the grandson of a second cousin who barely had any relation to Grandpa at all. Even Kang Bin’s father, a wealthy merchant who owed his success to Grandpa’s initial investment into his company, cheated Grandpa out of his shares and claimed sole ownership of the company. Kang Bin tried to make amends, but Grandpa didn’t care about the money. His family’s lack of love and loyalty hurt him far more than the loss of coin ever could.

Thankfully, all of Grandpa’s Disciples flocked to defend him as did several of his students like Ryo Da’in, but Grandpa asked them to leave things be and kept quiet through it all. He saw this as a cleansing of sorts, divesting himself of all the undesirable parasites who’d clung to him for so long. Soon, he would reclaim his former glory – no, he would soar higher than ever before, like the dragon he truly was.

Grandpa wanted to let bygones be bygones, but Yan would never forget those who’d wronged him, especially Cho Jin Kai’s family. Although Yan didn’t like the man, Grandpa saw Kai as a son and Jin-Tok as a grandson. After Kai’s passing, the family asked Grandpa to take Jin-Tok as his Disciple, but Grandpa refused. “Du Min Yan is my Terminal Disciple,” he told them. “I’ve few years left and no time or energy to teach another.” He offered to find Jin-Tok another Mentor but Kai’s family would not hear it and soon publicly severed all ties with Grandpa. Worse, they even lied and claimed Grandpa tried to extort them for coin in exchange for Mentoring Jin-Tok, lamenting at how Grandpa cared nothing for his first Disciple’s family.

So enraged by their slanderous lies, Yan wanted to challenge Jin-Tok to a duel to the death, but Grandpa wouldn’t let her, telling her to leave it be. “Let the people talk,” he said, waving her concerns away. “Strength is all that matters.”

Which if true, made all of Grandpa’s woes Yan’s fault. If she’d been strong enough to defeat Ryo Geom-Chi or Tam Taewoong when she first arrived, no one would have dared questioned Grandpa’s mental health or judgment, but she’d been far from capable. A year ago, she couldn’t even beat Mitsue Hideo and both Geom-Chi and Taewoong ran circles around him. Hell, even now she wasn’t sure if she could beat Hideo, and certainly not as readily as Rain’s handsome subordinate Dastan had. When her time to shine arrived, she faltered and lost to the stony Wu Gam, failing to prove to the Empire that Du Min Gyu was still sound of mind and had picked his Terminal Disciple well.

Stupid Wu Gam and his ridiculous, overpowering strength and handsome, stoic face. Hmph. For ending her dreams of a Hwarang Harem, he deserved what Rain did to him, the big, lumbering oaf. As for Rain, he was probably still asleep in his concubine’s arms, with that stupid, goofy smile pasted across his face. She was probably exhausted from all their passionate lovemaking and dreaming about his beautiful amber eyes and charming laugh.

...

Why were the pretty ones always so stupid?

Even if she were relegated to fourth wife, Yan wasn’t entirely opposed to marrying Rain. He was still her first love and probably still the same, carelessly-arrogant blockhead beloved by the Mother. Problem was, Grandpa didn’t approve of Rain. He never said as much, but Yan saw the face he made every time Rain’s name was brought up. Grandpa didn’t think him worthy of his only granddaughter even after the Legate crowned Rain the number one talent in the Empire, saying she’d soon surpass “that manner-less fool” by leaps and bounds after she formed her Natal Palace.

Grandpa’s dislike of Rain made it difficult to bring up the matter of marriage, so Yan long since resigned herself to comply with whatever arrangements Grandpa had in mind. If her betrothal could help recoup even a fraction of what he’d lost, she’d gladly marry the fattest, ugliest, sweatiest young noble in the world.

So long as she didn’t marry Jin-Tok. That’s where she drew the line.

“Morning to you, Lady Yan.” Striding across the street with parasol in hand, Ryo Da’in sauntered out of the Ryo family manor with a dazzling smile. “Is Teacher Du in? Da’in wishes to offer congratulations for his foresight. Father was truly blind to criticize his judgment and hopes Teacher Du will not take it to heart.”

Yan had no idea what Da’in was talking about, but she assumed it was more political nonsense. Still, she treated Da’in with courtesy, for without the Ryo family’s backing, Yan might not have even earned a place in the Hwarang, her challenges ignored and left unanswered. Unfortunately, that was where their support ended, as relations were strained between them after Grandpa refused to teach Ryo Seoyoon, yet another reason for Yan to feel guilty. “I’m sorry, but Grandpa just left. I don’t know when he’ll be back, but it should be before the festivities begin. You’re welcome to come in and wait. Our balcony doesn’t offer the best view of the harbour, but it’s rather enjoyable sitting up on the roof.”

“Why sit on the roof when our humble balcony has a clear view of the bay? Father tasked Da’in with inviting Teacher Du and Lady Yan to visit as honoured guests, so why don’t we head over first and Teacher Du can join us when he returns.” Taking Yan’s hand, she pouted in a charming and ladylike manner and leaned in to whisper, “You know, Chi-Chi can’t stop talking about your bout with Wu Gam and how you were robbed of victory. I think he’s smitten.” Without waiting for an answer, Da’in dragged Yan away despite her best efforts to fight free. She didn’t intend to refuse, she just wanted to show she could fight free, but no matter how hard she tried, she was unable to free herself from Da’in’s vice-like grip.

After passing through the Ryo manor gates, Yan finally stopped struggling and gave in. Smiling as she pulled Yan closer, Da’in linked their arms and said, “So tell me about the Undying Falling Rain. You knew him, yes? Grew up together?”

Ah. No wonder the Ryo family extended them an invitation today, but not yesterday. They wanted to know more about the new number one talent of the Empire. “Knew him but didn’t grow up with him. We haven’t spoken since I left though.” Unable to resist, Yan casually asked, “I was too injured to attend, but how was the banquet?”

“Oh you haven’t heard?” Placing her hand over her heart, Da’in sighed in admiration. “He was magnificent. The rumours don’t do him justice. After what he did last night, I almost walked right up and demanded to join him on his marital bed. I’ve never met another man like him, so bold and daring, talented and intelligent...”

As Da’in regaled her with the details of last night’s events, Yan’s smile grew wider and wider. Cutting himself open on stage sounded just like the Rain she knew and loved, a daft but lovable idiot lacking in all common sense.

And with his new status as Imperial Consort, perhaps Rain could finally earn Grandpa’s approval…

Chapter Meme
