I must have been right on the cusp of leveling that up, after sewing all those uniforms. Ren yawned and stretched then looked around. Okay, now I'm tired. There wasn't anything to sleep on, except the floor and maybe the bench. Considering that both were still soaked, that wasn't going to happen. Ren pulled out his bed from inventory and it barely fit in the available space. He made himself comfortable on it, and fell fast asleep.

*

“Where the hell is he?” Ghomhan nearly shouted. Dawn had passed nearly 2 hours ago and there was no sign of Ren. The other Recruits shrugged their shoulders. There was no way for them to know where Ren actually was, since they were in the barracks all night.

“I'll be right back.”

Ghomhan stomped his feet the entire time he walked to the brig. “He's never going to see the light of day again!” He came to the brig area and knocked on the door. It opened and he stepped inside, ignored the dwarves, and entered the second door.

“I'll need a 2 man pickup team. I have an errant Recruit.”

“Name and Unit?”

“Recruit Ren, A-113.”

The guard looked at him like he was crazy. “What do you need a pickup team for? He's been here since the crack of dawn.”

“Whaaaatt!” Ghomhan said, surprised.

“He got here just after I came on shift.” The guard said. “Tall fellow. Fluffy hair. Dire wolf cloak.”

Ghomhan nodded slightly.

“He's in cell 2.”

Ghomhan walked down the aisle and looked in cell 2, and sure enough, saw that Ren was there... and was sound asleep. Ghomhan huffed and turned around.

“Keep him here until I say otherwise.” He told the guard as he walked past.

“Does it work any other way?” The guard said and chuckled.

*

“Thern!” Narhilda said and sat up in bed, wide awake. She looked around, and rubbed her shoulder where she could have sworn he'd touched her last night, then sighed. “It... it was just... a dream...” She said, and tears came to her eyes. “I miss you so much...”

*

*CLANG* *CLANG* *CLANG*

Ren woke up in the bed, then sat up to look at the guard.

“Breakfast.” The guard said, holding a metal tray with what looked like porridge in a lumpy pile. If Ren's guess was right, it was watered horse feed.

“No, thank you. I brought my own.” Ren said and pulled out a plate of food.

The guard stared at Ren as he ate, and the smell of good food soon filled the brig.

“Hey! What smells so good?”

“I don't want to eat this gruel!”

“I'll have what he's having!”

The three other prisoners shouted.

“Keep it down, you mongrels!” The guard shouted back, then turned to Ren. “You shouldn't have that in here.” The guard said. “Or the bed.”

“Sorry.” Ren said.

“Come on... gimmie some of that!” One of the prisoners shouted, and the guard disappeared from Ren's doorway. A splat was heard and a shout, then the guard came back with the empty tray. Ren smiled and slid off the bed. He stored it in inventory, and motioned to the tray in the guard's hand. The guard held it out.

“I'm sure the men on duty might like a bit of home cooking.” Ren said and filled the tray with cooked meats and hearty vegetables. The guard stared down at the big pile of food and then stared at Ren.

“I'm sorry... I don't have anything for dessert. I forgot to bring pie.”

The guard shook his head and walked away. He heard the brig's door open and the shouts of 'where did you get that?', 'damn, this is good', and 'I liked him right away'.

Ren chuckled. How much do you want to bet that was the Sucker-punch Guy? Ren thought to Teepo.

“Nothing. You'd win that bet.” Teepo said. “I can see him.”

Ren smiled and pulled out one of the medium-sized steel shields he had in inventory, and took out his Book of Runes. He flipped to the Resist Spell Rune page, fixed the glyph of double runes in his mind and put the book away. Ren was tempted to do the quadruple one, but it used up too much Mana too quickly, and he didn't have that much left in his Mana Pool. The double was only a fraction of the cost, and by absorbing the enchantment again, he could recoup some of the used Mana. Sometimes quantity had a quality all on it's own.

I might as well do some Enchanting level grinding while I'm just sitting here. Ren thought and got to work.

*

Later that afternoon, after all of his urgent paperwork was done, the Commander donned his new uniform and was surprised at the superb stitching and how well it fit. He flexed his arms and twisted around, and the uniform didn't impede his movement in the least. He dropped his arms, the cloth fell back to it's original form, and it wasn't wrinkled at all.

“Damn, that guy's a good tailor.” The Commander said. “I wonder how his training is coming along?”

*

Ghomhan was working hard to get the Recruits to do a simple overhead strike. He'd tried his best to get them to do it right the night before, but after Recruit Ren had left, they seemed to lose all of their energy.

Even that big lummox Groggot isn't trying very hard. Ghomhan thought. “Put your backs into it, Recruits! Those dummies aren't going to kill themselves!”

*

Ren had emptied his Mana Pool, and most of his Mana bar several times, before he finally got a popup.

Stat Change!

Enchanting Level 8 (Intermediate 0%)

Absorb Enchantment Level 3 (Intermediate 0%)

Ren sat back on the bench. It only took 50 enchantments to get the 5% I needed to get to Enchanting Level 7, then another 1000 to get to Level 8. Ren stored the shield and had an idea. He stood up and walked to the door of his cell.

“Guard?” Ren said. He didn't have to shout, as he could see the edge of the table from where he stood, and the guard was sitting behind it. Ren heard the chair move and the guard came over.

“What is it?”

“Is there any chance I could get a medic? With a major healing ability?”

“What for?”

“I'm an Adventurer. I'd just like to get patched up a little.”

The guard nodded and went to the door. He came back a moment later. “They'll be here in about 10 minutes or so.”

“Thanks.” Ren said, then had an idea. Using his comfy chair plans, he scaled it down slightly and cut the wood for it.

“What are you doing in there?” The guard asked.

“Making a chair.” Ren replied and nailed the chair together.

The guard stood there and watched Ren as he took out some cloth, dyed it blue, then sewed up the Upholstery for the chair and attached it properly. It had only taken about 20 minutes to make.

“A female healer coming in.” Teepo said.

Thanks, Teepo.

“Where's the patient?” A woman's voice asked.

“Right here.” The guard said.

A female dwarf stepped up to the door and smiled. “Hello, soldier. I hear you have a boo-boo.”

Ren smiled. “I'm an Adventurer. I always have a boo-boo.”

“You're just my type, then!” She said and then frowned. “You aren't going to try anything, are you?”

Ren grinned. “Nope. I have a girlfriend.”

It took her a moment to get what he meant, then laughed. She waggled her hand at him with an iron ring on it. “Married.”

The soldier opened the cell door and let the healer in. Ren waved to the chair and she sat.

“Ooh, this is a nice chair.” She said and made herself comfortable. “Now, what seems to be the problem?”

“I just need some Major Healing, if that's okay?” Ren asked.

“Major Healing?” She said, then looked Ren over. “I don't see any large wounds.”

Ren held a hand out to her. “Trust me, I can take a lot of Mana.”

“All right, but it seems like a waste to use it.” She said, actvated her ability, and widened her eyes as Ren sat there and absorbed it. “You weren't kidding!” She said, and kept pouring Mana into him. It only took about 10 minutes, and his Mana bar filled up.

“Ah, thank you.” Ren said and gave her a slight bow.

Her eyes widened slightly at his gesture and giving her Honor.

“Ma'am? Are you busy after this?”

“I thought you said you wouldn't try anything?” She said and smiled.

“Medically, I meant.” Ren said and smiled back.

“This far from the front, you're only the second patient we've had today.”

“I have an idea that I'd like to try, and I was wondering if you would help me with it?” Ren asked.

“That would depend on your idea.”

“I've been enchanting, and it uses up a lot of Mana. If you would keep healing me with your Minor Healing, it would keep me from draining my own Mana.”

“You're an Enchanter?!?” She said, surprised.

Ren nodded.

“I suppose I could help a fellow professional.”

Ren smiled and pulled the bench out a little so he could turn around. He took out the steel shield again and his Book of Runes. He looked up the Resist Spell rune, then fixed the quadruple glyph in his mind, and stored the book again.

It should only take 500 enchantments with the quadruple glyph. Ren thought, then glanced over his shoulder at the healer. “Ready?”

She nodded and held her hands near his back.

“Go.” Ren said and enchanted the shield. The healer activated her Minor Healing. Enchanting was still draining Ren's Mana Pool, but only marginally. The constant influx of Mana let him go all out. He'd enchant a glyph, then absorb it, about every 5 seconds. Ren had dismissed the first popup he got after 500 enchantments, then handed the healer a Mana potion. When he got the second popup after another 1000 enchantments, he stopped. It had taken just over 2 hours to achieve what he wanted.

Stat Change!

Enchanting Level 1 (Advanced 0%)

Notice!

You have reached Advanced in Enchanting. You now have the ability to combine 2 seperate glyphs into one.

Whoa! Ren thought. I expected to get a fifth rune to add to a glyph, not a double glyph!

He sat in silence while waiting for his Mana Pool to fill up that last little bit. Without him constantly draining it, it only took another 15 minutes to fill. He stored the shield and turned to the healer.

“Thank you very much for your help!”

She dropped her hands, and looked tired. Ren gave her another Mana potion and she drank it. He stored the empty bottles and smiled.

“That actually worked out better than I thought.” Ren said to her. “I'd like to properly thank you, if I could.”

She looked at him oddly, and he chuckled.

“I meant that I will enchant something for you, if you want.”

She had a surprised look on her face, then smiled. “I'm sorry, I don't have anything on me for you to enchant.”

Ren glanced down at the iron ring on her finger.

She followed his gaze and laughed. “I guess I do.” She slipped it off her finger and carefully handed it over. “That's very precious to me. Please be careful with it.”

Ren nodded. He rubbed his fingers over the iron ring to detect any flaws, and found that it was well crafted. Flat on the inside and rounded on the outside. Ren put a fingertip on the inside of the ring, and enchanted a glyph with 4 Augment runes (each rune gives +1 to a single stat) and thought, Wisdom. The glyph etched itself on the inside of the ring, and Ren handed it back to her.

She took it and put it on her finger, and her eyes widened. “T-t-thank you.” She stammered.

“It was the least I could do.” Ren said. “Thanks again for your help.”

She got up and walked over to the cell door. “I'm leaving now.” She said to the guard. Ren looked out the window and saw it was getting dark out. The guard opened the door and the healer stepped out.

“I'm leaving too.” Ren said and stood up. “Commander's orders. I'll be back at dawn.”

Ren picked up the chair and handed it to the surprised guard. “You can have that.” He said and stepped out of the cell.

“See you in the morning.”
