“It could be a trap. Get the [Mayor]! Get—”
The figure darted out of sight. A terrified, twisted face, full of a horror that chilled the [Sentry] to her core. She reached for a bow. Turned, trying to track…
Gone. Where was…? The [Sentry] swung her lantern, but the figure was gone. She screamed an alarm.
The entire village took to the walls, sent a [Message] spell to the nearest city. All night they watched, waiting for the monster, looking for the man who’d run past the [Sentries], screaming.
They never found him. That was the most terrifying thing still. He had vanished in a moment. They didn’t know why. But they milled about, not sleeping.
Because the zombie vanished into a cloud of invisible dust that settled over the hamlet. Tolveilouka sensed it. Controlling them from afar.
One, two, three, four…different spots. He activated more scrolls, using them up to send more carefully-prepared undead to places across Izril. Nothing to save. Nothing to waste.
Just…vengeance.
 
——
 
Some days it felt like all of Izril was constantly under attack. That was obviously an exaggeration; in truth, it wasn’t so much wars as…little things.
Bloodfeast Raiders were a calamity whenever they struck at random, but lesser [Bandit] groups, monster attacks? If you wanted to protect Izril, then it was a thousand small fires.
Sometimes larger fires.
“Goblins.”
That was all the Named Adventurer said. Crowdcaller Merdon sat covered in dust, face and eyes nearly swollen shut, cut across the chest once; it hadn’t healed despite the healing potion application.
The other adventurers, Gold-rank and Silvers, milled about, looking…shell shocked. Jericha knew the look, if not the phrase.
“They swept in. Hit the city, and were gone before relief could get there. Believe me, my [Lord]…we rode as fast as we could! But they were gone within less than an hour, and while we’re still giving chase, the Healer…”
The Healer of Tenbault, the famous savior and tender to the afflicted, had been kidnapped. Her most powerful protector sat there, looking beaten.
“Dust clouds. An entire army of Goblins somehow snuck up on Tenbault and multiple teams of adventurers. How?”
An angry person demanded. It wasn’t just House Veltras that had come to investigate this disaster. House Terland and El both had a presence in the region, and both had turned out for the Healer.
Because she was that important. Enough so that Lord Tyrion Veltras had himself ridden towards Tenbault. It was something he could do at a speed he and his personal escort could travel at; if Magnolia Reinhart’s carriage could carry her across Izril in a flash, so could Tyrion move on horseback.
However, Lord Tyrion did not join in the loud condemnation. He stood there, regarding Tenbault as Jericha conducted the interview, but he was staring into the horizon.
Like a man ten thousand miles away. The [Lord] from the House of Terland kept eying him, realizing something was off, but he turned back to remonstrating with the flinching city’s mayor. Which was not fair, as Jericha well knew; the Healer and her personal protection ran the city.
“How did a Goblin army sneak up on the city, defeat a Named Adventurer, and…and…?”
The [Lord] waved his hands, trying to encompass the disaster. There was silence before a confident, trying-not-to-be-annoyed voice spoke out of the speaking stone.
“As we’ve said, Lord Rigrald, this was an error of overconfidence. Let’s break it down, shall we? To begin with—it’s our professional understanding that Tenbault was fundamentally overconfident that no one would attack.”
“They had multiple adventurer teams!”
Lord Rigrald snarled into the speaking stone. The House of El’s representative winced, but the female voice was patient.
Overly patient.
“Yes, Lord Rigrald, but may I address the misconception? Adventurer teams are good at holding a single point. They were no doubt perfect for quelling mobs or groups seeking the Healer. Not an army.”
“Yes, exactly! I’d uh, just like to add my thoughts regarding the attack. We can break down some of the components here, and go over defense plans. Before that, may I say thank you for hiring Kismet Securities, a [Strategist]-led consulting service?”
A second voice broke in, also female, a bit overeager. Jericha glanced at Tyrion. He didn’t react.
 
——
 
Marian covered the speaking stone and turned to Umina as Kissilt hovered in the background. The Drake was obviously not suitable for this, especially if they were going to do a scrying orb call.
“Stop thanking them!”
He hissed at Umina. The Lizardgirl nodded, wincing. She went on.
“As Strategist Marian said, we can establish it was actually a smaller force. I’m estimating hundreds, not thousands of Goblins. Enough for them to sneak a force out, ferry some by foot…we have Ogres confirmed with them, is that true?”
An irate voice from this Human [Lord] came over the speaking stone.
“Even hundreds is insane! We just killed a Goblin Lord! How did they get here?”
“Estimates are they came from the High Passes, sir. They clearly used the Wyverns for transport; some probably came on foot once they descended, at night, in secret.”
“But how did they get to Tenbault without anyone noticing—”
Marian was losing patience, so Umina took over.
“They probably were seen, Lord Rigrald. Let me explain. Your average settlement might have spotted individual bands of this army, a hundred riders, at night, from afar. But what of it? They might mistake it for a trade caravan, or [Bandits]. Something to be alarmed over, but there’s no network of information in the region.”
“And no one to coordinate it.”
Marian was nodding. The two [Strategists] were sweating as Kissilt and Cameral wrote down things for them to say. They had to make a good first impression; this was one of their first clients and word-of-mouth would do wonders for their reputation, or sink this new venture.
Umina consulted her notes.
“As to the dust storms…well, it’s clear whoever attacked Tenbault studied their opponents. A few hundred Goblins still outnumbers the adventurers ten-to-one. And let me be clear: they were the only fighting force that could put up a decent battle against Hobs. Tenbault’s militia might have held the walls, but not against that kind of raid. I’d suggest a much different approach to a standing garrison, and we can discuss training and equipment later…do you have any more questions about the attack itself?”
“How did they create so many dust storms? It wasn’t a [Dust Cloud] spell.”
One of the [Mages] complained, and Umina was encouraged by the angry [Lord]’s silence. It meant he was listening. Was Lord Tyrion Veltras really hearing their opinions? She hoped so. And she hoped he was impressed.
“I can handle that.”
Cameral spoke. The Dullahan cleared his throat as his head sat next to the speaking stone.
“The Goblins used Chests of Holding. Not Bags of Holding. They clearly raided caravans and I think we can actually trace their raids to attacks on a Drake city…Hectval. We’ve looked into a possible base and it’s almost certainly in the High Passes.”
“What’s the difference between the two?”
Lord Rigrald was clearly not of the House of El, who knew all about artifact differences. Cameral elaborated.
“Chests of Holding have many times the carrying space of a Bag of Holding, Lord Rigrald. Caravans make use of them and armies. I have no doubt the Five Families make use of them.”
“We do…and why don’t we just have lots of those?”
“Well, they weigh something. Bags of Holding have immense weight reduction. Chests of Holding trade it off for carrying space. I’m guessing the Wyverns could lift them—for a bit. They can carry a cow off. Multiple passes with that is multiple dust storm spells. As for the attack itself, it’s clear they only wanted to hold down Adventurer Merdon and the Gold-ranks. One Silver-rank casualty means they were stalling. And while they did…”
 
——
 
Tyrion Veltras listened to the [Strategists] patiently explain to Rigrald and the listeners what he and Jericha already knew. They were probably worth their coin. They had ways to prevent this happening; by all rights, as they pointed out, the Healer should have had a safe room and inner checkpoints to fall back into, and a host of other defenses.
Once attacked, rebuild higher and stronger. But the attack is still done.
The thought was vague and distant. He couldn’t focus on this. Lord Tyrion walked away.
A [Lord] had duties. Even if his guest and son were…kidnapped, by an attacking force in the middle of the night, and spirited away to a place he only suspected, and had no proof of, he still had duties.
Tyrion Veltras lived by duty. Loyalty to the land and people. So he was here.
“The Healer of Tenbault is a treasure of Izril. We must get her back, Lord Veltras. Pursuit is underway, but if House Veltras were to join in…”
Lord Rigrald beseeched Tyrion. The [Lord] just sat there.
I shouldn’t have ridden out. How did they get to Ryoka inside the mansion and get her out so fast? Sammial?
“Lord Tyrion? Lord Tyrion…”
Jericha interrupted as the [Lord] stirred. She hastily spoke up.
“I believe, ah, Lord Veltras is wondering as to the efficacy of one single [Healer]. We will join the hunt, but it is one woman, isn’t it?”
The others looked at her, disbelieving. Lord Rigrald pointed at the looted inner sanctum of Tenbault.
“The Healer of Tenbault is able to heal any injury!”
“One to three times per day. She heals approximately…seven hundred people per year. That is our estimate. She makes quite a lot of money…that is shared with House Reinhart, Tenbault to a smaller extent, but is largely hers. She is not necessarily that beneficial to Izril, Lord Rigrald.”
Tyrion Veltras glanced over at Jericha’s numbers of people healed and an income—estimated—that staggered belief. As Lord Rigrald spluttered outrage, Tyrion spoke.
“House Veltras could train ten [Healers] and exceed that number four times over, spread across different areas.”
“Yes, Lord Veltras.”
“But the Healer of Tenbault can heal any—”
Tyrion’s memory prodded him. He spoke, looking past Rigrald, past the Named Adventurer.
“She can heal anything, yes. Few can afford her services. As I recall, when my sons were sick, she refused to heal them. Tenbault is famously independent. Apolitical.”
The [Mayor] of Tenbault blanched and some of the Healer’s people turned pale. Tyrion Veltras glanced at Jericha, and she nodded.
“We will consider House Veltras’ involvement in the hunt.”
They moved back. Tyrion stood there a while, until Jericha came over from conferring with the others, now eager to cajole and flatter.
“Frankly, Lord Veltras, unless you join the hunt, they’re on the Goblin’s tail. So many people invested in getting the Healer back means they’re stepping on each other’s toes. We could lead the chase…it’s just that Tenbault is not part of House Veltras’ aegis. They’re hinting they could strike a deal with us, but not committing.”
“Mm.”
Sammial. Tyrion stood there until something Jericha said caught his attention.
“What was that?”
She looked up.
“I said, I don’t think this is typical of House Reinhart’s holdings, Lord Veltras. Magnolia Reinhart’s hand isn’t here.”
“How so?”
Tyrion’s curiosity pushed past the thoughts whirling around in his head. Jericha nodded at the rich home of the Healer.
“Magnolia Reinhart’s lands are famously safe. Her aegis keeps them from being the regular target of attacks, but she still maintains presences with her assets, as we’ve seen.”
“True. The [Assassins] never infiltrated. Only attacked.”
“Yes, Lord Veltras. Because they couldn’t. Her staff are anti-infiltration specialists and good fighters. If Tenbault was a priority for Lady Reinhart, she would have had at least two high-level [Maid]-auxiliaries who would have hidden the Healer or defended her. And some of the precautions mentioned by these [Strategists].”
That did sound like Magnolia Reinhart. Tyrion bestirred himself.
“…Wasn’t the Healer of Tenbault first revealed by her? She contributes some of her income to House Reinhart.”
Jericha shrugged.
“That’s exactly so, Lord Tyrion. We did believe she had [Maids] or staff here…twelve years ago. They’ve clearly left since then.”
“Needed elsewhere?”
“That’s not Magnolia Reinhart’s style. My guess is…she created the Healer of Tenbault, Lord Veltras, and we don’t know how, although I submitted theories. The Healer of Tenbault was the dream of many desperate people. It may be that Magnolia Reinhart didn’t particularly care for how the dream played out.”
It was as poetical as Jericha ever waxed. Interesting. Tyrion had no real animosity towards the Healer, but no real interest. He was…distracted.
 
——
 
The House of Veltras departed Tenbault and shot across Izril. One of the Five Families. Tyrion Veltras was the face of it, but he was not all of House Veltras, just like Magnolia Reinhart was not all of House Reinhart.
They were just the most noticeable, the leaders, the high-levelled. You had to explain that to anyone who wanted to pick up on Izril’s politics. It was so easy to mistake one for all, and children and outsiders were both equally ignorant.
The little children of House Wellfar sat solemnly in the city of Weldorisa, the base and strength of their house. First Landing had many of the Five Families, but this city was a place for them.
A port to the north-east, east of First Landing. Literally built off the coast, incidentally. The classroom bobbed, as the entire building floated. A city that rose and fell with the tide and waves.
It wasn’t as systematic as the actual classrooms and teachers that the Houses of El and Terland employed. Their ‘teacher’ was just one of the [Ladies] of the House of Wellfar. She was giving an impromptu lecture, so they were glad to snack and eat here. Some were especially glad, because they were going through their Mooring Years, a term unique to the Wellfar family.
It was when [Lords] and [Ladies] had to level as [Sailors] until they were at least Level 5. Not that specific class, mind you. They’d be [Deckhands] or [Shipwrights], but the key was they were treated not as members of House Wellfar, but as anyone else.
Respect the ships. That was a custom put in place to ground the children. It didn’t always work depending on where they were assigned, but Wellfar, the seafaring family, had its own customs.
“Just like all the other Five Families. Remember that. Each one of us is no longer the Terandrian house that left long ago. Thousands of years have changed us. There’s sayings of each of the Five Families. Does anyone remember them?”
