The [Mountain Lord] himself represented that strength; he had scaled down a cliff to pick the hard Rockshrooms that they’d served along with a salad.
It was not as raucous as Oswen; noisier, but everyone at least fell silent when he spoke. Still, Kabral was not Oswen and Swey was different from Buscrei.
Lord Tyrion had paid a visit to Swey after Setth, in his forest-home where the [Druids] and [Rangers of the Wood] could blend into any terrain with a tree in it. [Druids] were no [Mages]; they didn’t complain after marching ten hours, and they could splint a broken bone without a healing potion. Although sometimes they just told you to ‘deal with it’ if it was just a fracture.
Swey’s speech came with a cup in hand, but he was only addressing Tyrion.
“You know, Tyrion. Before you came here, I must say. I never really liked you.”
The rest of his family looked up. Swey’s wife kept serving food. Some of his family, though, began to groan.
“Oh dead gods, he’s going to embarrass us again. Father, father, stop!”
One of Swey’s daughters threw a Rockshroom. Undeterred, the [Lord] went on.
“I never really cared for your vendetta with Magnolia Reinhart. Thought it was damned silly, you constantly marshalling the troops. I’m just speaking my mind. Stop throwing things at me! I never cared for it, was my point.”
“This is why I moved out.”
One of his step-sons groaned. Another relative of this branch leapt to his feet.
“I’m going for a walk. Anyone else want to jump off a cliff with me?”
Half a dozen members of Swey’s family followed him. The [Lord] kept on going, ruggedly, much like his people, who didn’t get tired. [Greater Endurance] was more of a staple than [Enhanced Strength]; if you lost your grip or got tired, you fell.
Tyrion just listened, chewing on the Rockshroom. Swey met his gaze.
“…You were always like—like a Golem. ‘The good of the realm.’ ‘The duties of a [Lord].’ I hated that. Remember when we got into a fistfight? Well…I like you more, now. Selfish. It’s not selfish, man, it’s family!”
He struck the table and the members of his family who took more to Swey’s personality nodded and did the same. Jericha watched her cup jump and lose half its liquid. Swey pointed a callused finger at Tyrion.
“If it was just Ryoka—dead gods, man! You have to do things for love. A Tyrion who’s coming asking favors—even big favors—is a Tyrion I like. Not the perfect [Lord]. Anyways, I said my piece. Agreed.”
 
——
 
“Agreed.”
Lord Dereic Veltras lived on the coast. His people were experts at aquatic warfare, as good as Wellfar’s.
It was easier. Not just for the main reason, but because Tyrion followed the same route that the Wind Runner had taken bare weeks before. The [Lords] and [Ladies], the families of House Veltras, had just seen her.
Of course, some objected. Some thought it was too dangerous, too risky, or just didn’t agree with how it was done.
Tyrion Veltras didn’t need his entire family’s support.
He did not need the full weight of the Five Families behind him, either. He had four out of five, though. Lord Deilan El, Ulva Terland, had both met the Wind Runner.
Only Magnolia Reinhart was too far away to contact safely. Ironically, she was most acquainted with the Wind Runner. But this was bigger than just Ryoka Griffin. Tyrion Veltras had met with Etril Wellfar. He had secured Ulva Terland’s tenuous approval and stopped at the largest families across House Veltras’ holdings.
Quickly, without much fuss or loud fanfare. Most of the other Five Families didn’t even know why Tyrion was rushing about. The [Lord] had also done most of the negotiating, talking, and riding, with the exact same, blank stare on his face.
Unfocused. Almost eerily detached. Even now, as he rode down the winding road, Lady Buscrei’s [Hawk Eyes] could see that odd blankness on his face.
“I think I like him less after all again. Not a twitch on his face.”
Lord Swey muttered, peering over the railing. He looked discontented, but before Buscrei could kick him into the water over the side, someone else spoke up for him.
“He’s not blank, Swey. It’s just his way. Tyrion’s never worn his feelings on his sleeve. You? You wave a flag with them. Leave the man be. Or do you think we’re here because he doesn’t care?”
Swey turned. Lord Pellmia of House Quellae watched as Tyrion rode forwards with Jericha and a band of House Veltras’ [Soldiers] following. Swey nodded after a second.
Etril Wellfar watched Lord Tyrion as well. The [Lord] calmly rode his horse off the road, onto the grass, then over the sand. Without so much as a twitch, he steered his mount up the ramp.
Onto the ship. The rest of the [Soldiers] followed.
“Stable the horses below!”
Etril Wellfar bellowed. There were experienced handlers and plenty of room, but still, he was surprised how well-trained the horses were. Barely skittish at being on the rolling deck.
“That’s everyone?”
“Yes.”
Lord Tyrion Veltras dismounted. Lord Etril nodded. He whistled and the [Master Helmswoman] spun the wheel.
“Raise anchor.”
The passengers aboard Etril Wellfar’s ship stirred, but that was all he needed to say. All Lord Tyrion needed to do was nod.
After all—everyone was here. Lady Buscrei, much to her family’s objection. Lord Swey, Lord Pellmia, without his son, much to said son’s anger.
…And their household troops. Not many were on the deck. Most were belowdecks. Or on the other ships. After all, you couldn’t put them all on one ship. That would be stupid.
Although one ship had nearly enough space to fit them all. Etril Wellfar wasn’t at the wheel. Contrary to landfolk’s belief, the [Captain] didn’t have hold of the wheel at all hours; you had someone to do that job.
So, three ships began to move. Two further at sea; one which had been practically hugging the coast, just far enough away to extend the gangplank.
Or [Light Bridge], the glowing ramp that shimmered out of existence, the ornate railings made of sculpted light fading away, able to carry nearly a hundred men shoulder-to-shoulder up and down in a single rank.
Whichever. ‘Gangplank’ fit. It was a ship, and it could create multiple such ramps if need be. For boarding, disembarking…
As the vessel turned, Etril Wellfar motioned to Tyrion Veltras of all the nobles present.
Veltras and Wellfar weren’t the only noble families represented here. Three of House Terland, each for a single Golem, were standing by their old, old charges. Two scions of the House of El, but more importantly, their cargo and warriors were belowdecks.
House Veltras’ sons and daughters and Lord Pellmia Quellae were the remainder of the group. Lord Tyrion walked across the deck to the [Captain]’s cabin at the bridge of the ship.
“Full speed.”
Etril Wellfar gave succinct orders. He didn’t need to be on deck just yet; they were just leaving the coast and heading into deeper waters. If he needed to hold his [Helmswoman]’s hand, or if the [First Mate] couldn’t handle it, they didn’t deserve their jobs.
“I told you I’d talk to you later, Lord Veltras. You moved fast. Did you even sleep? We were heading up the coast all day, picking up different groups.”
“[Swift Mustering].”
The [Lord] did not sit. Nor did Etril Wellfar. This was not a regular [Captain]’s quarters. Regular quarters were a mix between sleeping place and workplace, to organize notes, a home for men and women who lived on ships.
Etril had his own quarters below-decks. Not here. He was still unused to the intricacies of this ship. Still a bit in awe? Oh, certainly. And this [Captain]’s cabin was unique.
Not many cabins had a real-time map of the waters and landscape around it. Tyrion stared at an image of the two ships keeping pace with this one. His eyes swung to carefully-labelled positions around the cabin. Some with radii clearly marked. Various spell-mechanisms, ready to be activated.
Almost all required the [Captain]’s sigil, the crest of House Wellfar, coded to Etril at this moment. Others required keys, to avoid any chance of them activating accidentally.
There was so much magic in this place that it made Tyrion’s hair tingle. Etril Wellfar looked around, then walked forwards. He found a place that looked recently repaired, the wood refurbished, turned to Tyrion, and spread his arms.
“What do you think?”
The [Lord] of House Veltras looked at Etril. He barely felt the ship moving, but saw them leaving the coast at a speed most people on horseback would scarcely be able to believe.
“Lord Etril Wellfar. I thank you for accepting my request. I ask you again, however. You did not gain House Wellfar’s approval. Do you fear they will upbraid you for this?”
“For taking my ships to aid a Lord of House Veltras in finding his son? Lady Ulva Terland, Lord Deilan El. Myself. We know what it is like to lose family, Tyrion Veltras. So does any member of the Five Families. Who could gainsay Tyrion Veltras’ appeal, even without proof? No—it is for others to refuse to give aid. Not me.”
Etril Wellfar bared his teeth, and for a second, was the spitting image of Gresaria Wellfar. The fearless [Harbormistress] of First Landing. Not in facial features, though he had inherited the pale green of her hair, and the same tan from days in the sun. He trended more towards his father.
Just that smile. A kind of daring bordering on recklessness—or perhaps far over that line.
Tyrion Veltras shook his head. He looked around the ship. The rich ship, ancient as the Golems which had marched up the ramp. That was why they had helped him.
Sammial Veltras was gone. Kidnapped, with the Wind Runner of Reizmelt. Tyrion Veltras had absolutely no proof as to where he was. But he knew. Most of Izril had no idea what had happened.
Yet. Some of them began to wonder, when they heard Lord Tyrion had sped to House El, House Wellfar, and House Terland practically in the same day. Without rest or sleep, galloping across Izril.
“Lord Etril. It is one thing to take your ships on personal affairs, be it support in conflict or trade. But this is not your ship. Magnolia Reinhart is the heir to House Reinhart. She had clear authority to order the Velistrane to Zeres, even if her family and peers may object.”
He named the famous capital warship, the greatest ship in the arsenal of House Reinhart. It had once sunk a Dragonship in naval combat. Tyrion glanced at Etril.
“…But this is not your ship. You were granted stewardship of it—”
“[Captain], Tyrion Veltras. They made me [Captain].”
Etril corrected Tyrion, eyes glittering. He gestured to the cabin, and the map on the wall, one of the few things changed to accurately display new trade routes and nations. Etril Wellfar strode over to it.
“You know, my mother never captained this ship. She trades masters and mistresses, although she is her own vessel. My mother sorely wanted to for a year. Just one year. It’s actually not always a glorious job; you patrol a lot, and no one ever bothers her.”
He rested a hand on the wall, as if this ship were a living person. If it were, it was the oldest being in this place, older than every living person on it combined, save for the Golems.
Older than Cognita of Wistram. Older than Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer. It had served forever. It had seen Dragons die.
Etril Wellfar whispered.
“She never captained this ship. Not important enough. Too reckless. They made her [Harbormistress] of First Landing and talked about giving her a year after she retired. Then my mother, Gresaria Wellfar, brought First Landing to their senses. She died—and they gave this ship’s helm to me. Her son. For the shame of it. For pride in her.”
He turned. Lord Tyrion saw Etril’s hand go to the armband he still wore. No—two. The [Lord] kept his gaze steady.
“Are you afraid of the repercussions for taking this vessel into combat?”
This ship. It left the coast, and fulled the sails. Glittering sails, scaled, shining. Normally, they were white, cloth.
The cities on the coast pointed. They had heard, and seen that Etril Wellfar had demanded the sails taken down for mourning. But these sails…they weren’t white mourning sails.
Nor were they even House Wellfar’s crested sails. They were Dragonsails, looted. They only flew when this great ship went to war.
The Velistrane was the Reinhart’s greatest naval vessel. Its reputation was ancient. Its tale of accomplishments was one of the longest in the world, matched only by similarly old vessels owned by the Iron Vanguard, ancient kingdoms, Drowned Fleets, and so on. The Four Winds of Teral was young compared to the Velistrane.
But even the Velistrane couldn’t boast more than a fraction of the tales they told about this ship. It had seen Dragons die. It had broken multiple Dragonships on its prow, and sent the great armored destroyers of the Dullahans to death.
The greatest ship of House Wellfar.
The Pride of the Wellfar sailed down the coast, moving faster. Sails shining with the promise of war.
That was about when all of First Landing began to hear a rumor on the wind. Tyrion Veltras had met with Deilan El? No, he’d also gone to Ulva Terland and someone had said they saw one of the ancient Golems marching.
Was he…?
“Captain. [Messages] for you from the family. I’ve got eighteen.”
“Toss ‘em into the surf.”
“Aye, sir.”
The door closed. Tyrion was left with Etril as the Pride of the Wellfar moved faster still. Magical wind was howling in the enchanted sails. The [Lord of Waves]’ eyes were gleaming.
“Captain to the helm.”
He spoke into a magical stone. Across the deck, the steering wheel glowed, and the Drowned Woman barked back.
“Captain?”
“Status of the enchanted wind?”
“We’re at half power, Captain. Picking up speed, but we’re fairly steady at 40 knots. Should pick up once we get out of the tide and into deeper water.”
Tyrion Veltras’ ears picked up. He tried to calculate nautical speed to land-speed, which made more sense. Etril just smiled.
“That’s as fast as Kelphunter!”
Kelphunter, the vessel sailing to their left…or was that starboard? Port? Tyrion glanced out a port window. They were being blown by the same winds or they’d never keep up. Enchanted too, their hulls.
“Aye, Captain. You want me to unleash the rest?”
There was an eagerness in the [Helmswoman]’s voice. Etril Wellfar had sailed this ship into ports and taken the Circle of Thorns to account, but he’d never fired so much as a warning arrow. Who needed to with this ship? The [Lord] shook his head.
“Belay that. Activate the Will o’ Waves. [Hydromancers], to your stations. All hands, brace. The Pride of the Wellfar is accelerating.”
Below-deck, the water-mages looked up. They began to funnel mana into the vast reservoirs and the water moved.
“Giant crabs and butter garnish!”
