A Chitinous Horror attacked, still gibbering madness. Tolve took the blows on his skin, and they barely tore his half-Elven form as he destroyed her.
She had been sane while his master’s power existed. So many Revenants or undead of sentience.
So little loyalty. But then—the truly loyal ones had gone after the [Sword Legend]. So. Then.
Destruction.
In theory, Tolve could have commanded them, reasserted their loyalty. He was certainly greatest of all, bar none now. He did not. If they did not stay, did not mourn, they were not worthy of existence.
Many of the undead simply tried to leave, now bound only by their hatred of the living. Tolve calmly wiped out Crypt Lords and lesser undead of their ilk like a [Housemaid] squashing bugs.
It took a long time. Longer, to set up something appropriate. Tolve took little time with vengeance; those who were dead were dead.
And she, that Dullahan, that…that…he had no words for her. He had little satisfaction with her death, swift as it had been without her weapon and mortally poisoned. If he’d been sane, he would have probably kept her alive to try and torture her. If she had a corpse, maybe he would have tried to bind her soul to it just to do the same.
“Dust and ash. [Paladins].”
He took a single second to scatter it with a vicious kick. He wouldn’t anoint his master’s grave with that holy dust. It wiped out a Skeleton Lord standing unwisely close to the bier.
Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer fell to his knees when he looked again at that beautiful corpse. That…smile.
“Why do you smile? My old friend. My beloved master. Why did you leave?”
He gathered up the limp half-Elf’s body and held it. For a moment. Then he gathered firewood, tinder, and made such preparations as he could.
Tolveilouka burned the man they had called the Putrid One, the greatest [Necromancer] who had ever lived, the death of a Walled City, Dragonbane, and nightmare to his foes in a small ceremony.
He had thought, perhaps, to lay him to rest as their kind did. However, the entire point was they had refuted that order. Besides…it would wither any forest. There might be some delight in that, Tolveilouka supposed. A forest thus changed by such a powerful body.
No, let him rest. It was all too possible death magic would reanimate the [Necromancer]’s corpse in some way. But it would not be him.
He was gone. Tolveilouka knew it. So, he said a few words at the ceremony.
“Never shall there be a [Necromancer] as great as you. You and I, my faithful master. I, who apprenticed myself to you, and when I fell, you brought me back. Gave me freedom from our people. I can scarcely credit it. Yet you yourself said it: ‘legends die’. Is there any who can tribute you properly? I—I cannot.”
He turned away, as the flames consumed the body. The other mourners, gathered around, swayed where they stood. A Skeleton Lord’s eyes flickered in their sockets. The last Shadow Walker made a shrieking wail that killed everything in a mile’s radius under Level 5.
“Thank you.”
Tolve didn’t know if it was for the moment, or just a natural sound. He turned, waiting for someone else to voice their thoughts.
A Bloated King made a gurgling, bubbling vacuum of hideous internal noises. Tolve turned away. No one had proper words for this. Of course not. How could they?
The undead watched as the half-Elf, as pristine in body as they were not, almost threw himself on the pyre. He caught himself…with an effort, clenched his hands. Bowed his head.
Said goodbye.
 
——
 
He had better words, later, when he had finished the cremation ceremony and scattered the ashes to the winds. There was no power left; it had dissipated.
Good. Tolve still kept to ceremony. Just as they had once done, for other of his master’s ilk, he found a place within the so-called ‘City of the Dead’. What a foolish name.
The attackers had never fully penetrated into the area. One group had made it to the inner sanctum, but this had never been his master’s home.
So, Tolve sat under an obsidian tree, after spreading a blanket beneath the blank branches. He placed a bottle, just so, and decanted a vintage so ancient that it was older than Dragons he had met. The half-Elf was wearing a long, open robe that pooled like blood around him; a splash of color amid white and black. It was open, exposing his bare chest, and he sat languidly, sipping, his pale hair moving in the breeze.
“It was just like this, wasn’t it?”
He could almost turn his head and see his master, sitting in his own garb, just like this. In times of victory and loss. Just like this.
The wind blew in the city, now. All protections and spells were fading, so nature came in, a wind stirring the liquid in the cup. Tolve took a sip, exhaled, and spoke.
“Why did you smile? Oh, friend. We whiled away eternity before they struck you down. As we part, let me sit a while. The sun decays into the bleak sky. But I? I sit here a while, as ashes fall like petals of the trees of death.”
Sometimes it was so. Tolve looked into the abandoned city. Yet there was no one to reply in verse, or poetry of their own.
“Do you remember? They were all like this. Just like this. I am the last, and nevermore shall we gather here. No [Necromancers] of kin to laugh and drink with.”
The liquid pooled in the cup, shining like the dark sky. The undead half-Elf drank.
“No Dragons to match wits with. Was it so? They said the same thing. It cannot be. As they died. ‘Impossible’. It turns back on us. Why did you smile? Did you decide to go? Why now?”
He shook his head, reminiscing. The ruined cathedral—Tolve averted his eyes. If he turned his head, and closed his eyes like this…he could imagine the other, sitting there, listening.
“Do you remember that last pest? The silver lizard? How he barked. ‘You shall not continue your conquest overlong, thou dread fiend!’ He even talked like the [Knights] of old. Yet he would keep coming, that whelp, burning armies here, destroying servants there…and there were others, weren’t there? I wonder, do any still remain?”
Any Dragons? Any Giants? Some might remember his master. Tolve had the thought, perhaps, to seek them out. Reminisce—or find great battle and an end himself. You could never tell, with their kin.
For he was immortal, and this moment would pass. Now, Tolveilouka sat there and wondered.
What shall happen next? The cup gently trembled in his grip. When this passed—what was he now? No longer a servant. No longer a faithful companion to greatness.
Free to choose. He had chosen to stay.
“Until the end of days. Until the last crown falls from the last head of Terandrian [Kings]! Until the jungles of Baleros lie empty and the sands of Chandrar die! Until the Walled Cities fall!”
He threw the cup down as liquid splashed onto the pale grass. No sooner had he raged and said the old oaths of vengeance did Tolve lose the spark. He sat, shaking his head.
“…I’m tired.”
It would be so easy, to end it all. For a second he stood, to do just that. For a moment…Tolve drew a dagger from his side, and regarded the Blade of Entropy. Then he cast it aside.
“No.”
It was a fitting, beautiful moment. Some things remained undone, though. The half-Elf turned, and his eyes glittered, changing color to pale spectres of blue.
“This is a moment to remember. A wondrous second in my grief. Who are you to interrupt?”
An undead servant, a vessel with no real power, halted.
“I offer you a fitting master, great champion.”
It whispered. Tolveilouka took one look at the shambling corpse, the twisted light glowing from its eyes. He sat back down, filled a saucer of liquid, balancing on his fingertips, and drank lightly.
Then he laughed. A bark of outraged laughter.
“Which ‘power’ are you, now, thing? You are the third to try. The other two were petty. One left me to my grief and knew I would serve no other. The other was foolish and had I stood before whomever it was, I would have destroyed them for the effrontery. You now…what could you offer?”
“You will find value in service to me. Meaning. You will—”
Tolve tossed the liquid in the vessel’s face. He sneered.
“I will, will I? Tell me, oh great power. What do I drink? Tell me, and I will consider serving you.”
He held the bottle up. Of all the things to ask…the presence behind the vessel was silent. Tolveilouka contemptuously raised his hands, and flicked the fingers in the air, an ancient sign of disrespect.
“You who would seek to control me, to wield my power in my hour of grief, have no tact. You have no elegance, no refinement in your soul. Begone.”
“I am—”
The vessel disintegrated as Tolveilouka lost patience. The half-Elf lowered his finger, sat down, and went back to reminiscing.
 
——
 
Death would have been preferable to life. Undeath, such as it was, would be harsh. Yet—
“Such fine wines as even death could enjoy. Ah, master!”
Tolveilouka was drunk.
He threw himself onto the spot where he had failed his guardianship, weeping. He nearly seized another weapon for his demise. Until he recalled something, and swept around, the Ichorian Riverus—the robes he wore—swirling around him in sudden wrath.
“The intruders!”
Tolveilouka had forgotten all about them after they had fled. His mourning and burial…the half-Elf paced forwards, snarling.
“They were the cause of all of it!”
No, he knew there had been other factors. A petty little [Death Mage] of that caliber hadn’t the power to break the stasis spell, or that half-formed Woman of Metal. The bug-thing…no. Nor his kin wielding frost magic.
Even so, they deserved a kind of suffering untold. Unless they’d freed his master? No, no.
Tolveilouka thought about what he might do, and his resolve grew. Aimless a second before, he paced around the scene of the terrible crime, finally focusing.
“It was an army. Not as great as those before. Adventurers, and a mortal army from either side. Had Master’s power not waned…they would have never advanced. They did. Did that mean that even before…?”
Now he had a mystery. A terrible one. Tolveilouka’s fear now crystallized into sudden realization.
Even then? Before they attacked? He paced about.
“I sensed it. Did that mean the intruders were actually less guilty? I should still torture them to death. But now I must know. How? Ah, old friend! If I had your skill, I would reach out and talk to you.”
He did not. He had died, been reborn as a great servant of undeath, but he was no [Necromancer]. A sacrifice had been made. Levels for greater strength.
It had been a fair trade then, when his master had not reached the zenith of his power. Later, both had cause to regret it, and Tolveilouka had returned to trying to reach a fraction of the Putrid One’s power. He paced around the room.
“…They took the sword.”
He would have sensed that damned blade. No wonder she didn’t fight back. Tolveilouka frowned. The half-Elf bent. Investigated the room. Then his eyes opened wide.
“They stole things! Those damned thieves! Grave-robbers!”
Tolve raised his hands to furiously smash the workbench, recalled it was his master’s, and stopped himself.
“Adventurers.”
It was a sigh. But now, what had they stolen?
Everything was as it had been, and Tolveilouka was undead, with the memory that did not fade, even now. Eternity had barely scratched his recall, so he identified what was missing at a glance.
“Ah. Interesting.”
Four adventurers. Four spots they had been standing, and thus, four places they had stolen from before they’d fled and managed to activate the Scroll of Greater Teleport. One of them had clearly grabbed the scroll…
“Hm. Two scrolls from here, not counting the teleportation scroll. If you had been able to reach that, Master…”
Tolve shook himself. He squatted down, carelessly moved some bones, and then looked down.
“Ah. Two rings.”
From one of her companions. The dead adventurer’s bones crunched to dust at last, no longer protected by the stasis in the room. Interesting. Tolveilouka prowled left.
The sword. One of them took the sword, that was obvious. What else? He peered about. Then he made an incredulous, furious sound.
“The spellbook! They stole it! They stole…my spellbook!”
The one he could use! The spellbook for someone who had sacrificed it all!
His master had no use for one; his Skills and mind had all the spells he had ever amassed; he was a spellbook incarnate. Tolveilouka’s eyes narrowed.
“For that, I will reclaim what is mine.”
Even so. Even so, Tolveilouka felt a bit smug as he assessed the thefts. Of what they could have stolen, his spellbook and the sword were by far the greatest. Adventurer’s gear and those scrolls…
But they hadn’t entered the actual treasury. There were a few objects of comparable power. As for the Putrid One’s possessions, he had been wearing the most imp—
The greatest servant of the Putrid One froze. His eyes scanned the room.
Wait a second.
Waaaaait a second.
Something was missing. He scanned the possessions he had divested his master’s body of. All the personal artifacts of…
“They stole it. They stole it! You weren’t wearing it and they…”
The half-Elf began to scream. Then, abruptly, he calmed down. He looked over the objects stolen, and then began to laugh.
“Oh, that is funny. I wonder what will happen? You don’t know what you stole. Steal from death! Steal from me? You have no idea what you stole.”
He laughed, and laughed, and laughed until he began to sob. Then Tolveilouka sat there.
“Vengeance. An answer to a mystery. Then you can rest, Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer.”
He nodded. That sounded fair. The half-Elf rose, and looked around. He thought of the army that had attacked. Of the thieves.
“Twofold vengeance. One for the living who despoiled this grave. Another for the four who beheld your face.”
The half-Elf closed his eyes. When he opened them, two voids looked out.
“Death comes to Izril. Before I part ways, once more you shall remember the Putrid One’s name.”
He began to summon the undead to him. He was no master. But…he didn’t need mastery. He knew all the steps, all the ways to dance death.
 
——
 
That night, eighty miles from the Village of the Dead, a rural hamlet woke up as something ran towards it.
A screaming man. Or woman. They couldn’t tell, but it was a scream. A wailing scream of terror so loud that everyone froze in their beds and the [Sentries] looked around wildly.
Someone ran towards the village’s walls, shrieking in terror. Men and women ran out of their beds, grabbing weapons or loved ones, prepared to fight or flee. The [Mayor] grabbed for a [Message] scroll…but what was it?
The sentries, shining lanterns around, saw a flickering shape running their way. They pointed.
“Someone’s out there! Open the gates?”
