“No…but have you ever actually tried to stab anyone? It’s not just anyone who can stab a Mossbear to death. Still, you’re right. There’s plenty of fun to be had. Mainly when you’re not adventuring and you’re flush with gold. But when I think of adventure and amazement—the School of Magic itself is somewhere I dreamed of being. I saw this huge Golem lady. Cognita. Anyone know about her?”
The Earthers clamored to answer Dawil’s questions and explain the politics and factions. However, the Dwarf began asking questions even they couldn’t answer.
“Right, she’s not part of the factions. Think I’ve got them all down…I met a Scriptel, and one of the Ullsinoi. Might have to look them up and drop some names. But Cognita. She’s the creation of that Archmage, Zelkyr, isn’t she?”
“Yes.”
Dawil whistled.
“Then she’s maybe the one to talk to. Now there’s a living legend.”
Trey’s head snapped up. He saw Dawil glancing over his shoulder at the Golems. Someone laughed.
“But the Archmages…”
“I don’t even think Archmage Feor’s the level Zelkyr was. Cognita of Wistram, though…I heard her name when I was just a boy. No one’s got tales about her? What does she do all the time?”
“Run Wistram? She doesn’t actually do much. I hear she defends it.”
Dawil tugged at his beard, incredulous.
“What, nothing? Even I know stories about her. You’re telling me you’ve never heard a single tale of the Truestone Golems?”
The [Mages] in earshot weren’t giving Dawil encouraging looks. But the Dwarf raised his cup of water and thunked it on the table, mildly outraged.
“Not one story.”
“Are there stories?”
Dawil gave Trey a steady gaze, which the young man returned. He saw what Cognita was—or a different side of her, like Trey. The Gold-rank [Axe Champion] settled back.
“Let me put it like this. I know some, and I grew up in Terandria, where they weren’t fans of her. Sort of strange that Wistram has none they talk about.”
“Ah, Adventurer Dawil. Should we glorify Cognita of Wistram? Surely she’s simply part of Wistram’s legacy.”
One of the [Mages], Ostrigael, smiled, but he had an edge to the smile. Dawil, unfazed, just raised his brows.
“Part of Wistram’s legacy? She is Wistram’s fame. When they say ‘Wistram’, they talk about her. No offense, Wizard Ostrigael. But they don’t tell stories about Archmage Feor. They still tell stories about Cognita and the Archmage of Golems.”
 
——
 
In those days, when Wistram backed nations, the [Archmages] fought. With each other, with other nations, for their own petty interests.
Some were old rivalries, like Terandria and Izril. Or Drakes and Lizardfolk. Terandria and Chandrar. Well. Everyone had a reason by now to fight with everyone else.
The story of how Archmage Chandler broke the backs of four armies at the pass was one everyone knew, now. But it was one story, if the most famous one about him.
Cognita of Wistram, and Archmage Zelkyr, though. There was a reason her name was spread as far as Illivere, and children grew up hearing stories about her. The clever Truestone Golems of the Archmage of Golems.
They said that once, during the incursions into Izril, the Archmage of Golems led a counterattack to finally rid Izril of Lizardfolk once and for all. But during the attack, Medusae by the hundreds froze Drakes solid, even turning some to stone.
It didn’t stop the Golems, but the Lizardfolk pushed the Drake army back by the hundreds of thousands, trying to kill the Archmage of Golems as his rival took to the field.
In the chaos, his greatest creation, the half-completed Truestone Golem, Cognita, was separated, trying to defend her master. She was forced to flee.
So she ran.
Cognita remembered that. She did not see her master in the chaos, but she had to flee or be destroyed. Her stone was damaged. Yet she ran, and even the Lizardfolk on horseback, even the ones with wings couldn’t catch her. They shot spells at her back, rained arrows down.
She just kept running, with a Golem’s tireless speed. Yet there were far too many for her to beat. When she eventually found herself alone, she was deep behind enemy lines.
Not knowing what to do, only aware of the plan of war, Cognita emerged from the swamps the Nagas were trying to transform parts of Izril into. The Archmage of Waters, the Archmage of Nagas’ work.
Alone, the Truestone Golem marched through water that could go waist-deep or up to Drakes’ chests. It barely came up to her knees most of the time. She saw the Lizardfolk massing.
So quick in the water. Her master had ordered her to take Heitore-form for the duration of the battle. Cognita advanced on them and saw Gorgons, carrying huge weapons in their hands, slithering out of the water.
“Destroy the Golem.”
One swung an enchanted axe and Cognita lifted an arm. The Gorgon stared as the axe crunched against her arm and the blade chipped. Cognita swung a fist, but the giant serpentine warrior dodged backwards.
Skills. She had none. The Lizardfolks’ slings and spells hit her time and time again, but did no damage. Stalemate. They called for nets, trying to drag her down, and she couldn’t catch or slay enough of them fast enough.
It had been less than a month since she had been created. The Truestone Golem stared down at her hands.
I am more than one stone. Her master had begun to remake her out of Truestone, his discovery of an age. But neither he nor she knew what its true power was. Her outer layers had been replaced, but she was not pure Truestone, not yet, hence the need for the most defensive stone he could imagine. Heitore, which rivaled Adamantium for strength. However, even it could break.
So much water. If there had been time to make Water Golems, and if the Archmage of Nagas had not been able to twist them or destroy them, Zelkyr had moaned, he could have routed the Lizardfolk in their natural terrain.
Water. Thousands of Lizardfolk were sounding the alarm. Cognita heard them shouting, closing in. Nets caught her limbs. They were trying to capture her. She kept looking at the water as she fought forwards.
“I can be more than this.”
The Heitore flickered across her face. Like the Lizardfolks’ color-changing scales. Like a chameleon changing, at lightning-speed.
Cognita’s ‘skin’ turned bright yellow and transparent. Like quartz. It revealed her inner self, her Golem’s Heart. The Gorgons dragging at her hesitated. A Lamia [Wizard] saw which stone she’d shifted to and shouted a warning.
“Zap Topaz! Get out of the water! Get out of th—”
She tried to cast an anti-lightning spell. But Cognita was lightning. The first bolt of electricity did not arc down from clear skies, but from the figure which generated it.
The Truestone Golem strode out of the muck. She advanced over drying ground, her Truestone changing. Learning.
Change to be light as can be. Beyond lightweight. To stone that defies gravity. 
Leap—and change to Heitore. Unbreakable defense.
The Truestone Golem plunged her hands into the stone walls as she climbed. The screaming Lizardfolk, throwing stones down at her, fled as she climbed onto the walls. The Drake army, fighting in the shadow of one of their taken fortresses, saw the figure glowing atop the walls.
Lightning. The Archmage of Waters looked up as Cognita of Wistram hurled a bolt of lightning down at him from the fortress she had claimed by herself. He tried to drown her, blast her with water, but she was an unyielding stone in the wake of tidal waves. She was what the Nagas broke against, and when she clapped her hands, thunder spoke and lightning fell.
That was the day she learned what Truestone meant.
 
——
 
Cognita stood there, listening, so still and quiet that Dawil, telling the story, didn’t see her until she stepped into the light.
He froze. So did the [Mages] and Earthers, who had been listening to the tale they told everywhere in the world but Wistram.
Trey had listened to the tale of how the first Truestone Golem had single-handedly destroyed an army, climbed into a fortress, routed the defenders, and then matched the Archmage of Waters in a ranged battle, spell for spell.
It seemed incredible, to look at plain Cognita, who never did any of that. Until Trey remembered Eldavin’s battlefield.
He could believe it. The [Mages] of Wistram liked to forget, or pretend such stories didn’t exist.
“Er…I beg your pardon, Miss Golem. I didn’t mean to insult anyone, by telling old tales. I was just saying…”
Dawil stared up at Cognita as she approached. The Truestone Golem looked at him, and her head turned.
“Falene Skystrall of the Centrists faction. You have returned to the academy after years of absence.”
“Yes, Cognita?”
The Golem gave the [Battlemage] a cool look.
“I congratulate you on your continued survival. This is your companion, Dawil of the Silver Swords.”
“At your service, Miss Cognita. I hope I didn’t offend?”
The Truestone Golem saw Dawil bow slightly. She looked at him, thoughtfully.
“I remember that day differently. That is all.”
Trey sucked in his breath. The audience looked at Cognita. Someone tittered nervously, but fell silent when the Truestone Golem looked sideways.
“I…may I ask what was wrong, Miss Cognita? I wouldn’t want to get the details wrong if I retold the story, but not many people are alive that were—there.”
Dawil was uncharacteristically flustered. The Golem blinked down at him.
“Your story is mostly substantive, Dawil Ironbreaker. The inaccuracies are of perspective.”
“And you did all that?”
“You sound incredulous, Aaron Vanwell.”
Cognita did not turn her head. She was looking at Dawil, as if interested. The young man had a too-familiar smile, to Trey’s mind. He treated Cognita less like the object some of Wistram’s [Mages] did…but too familiarly for Trey. As if he hadn’t just heard of how she matched an [Archmage] blow for blow, he shrugged.
“I just can’t imagine it, Cognita. You never do anything like that.”
She made a sound. Trey edged his seat back a bit.
“That is typical of my observations of Humans, Aaron Vanwell. I am the same Cognita of then. If anything, I am the greater Golem than the one in the story, for my master improved me since that day. If nothing else changes, do you have reason to doubt I am capable of everything you have heard of?”
Aaron opened his mouth and Cognita finally looked at him.
“Or must you see something for it to be real?”
He didn’t answer her. Cognita looked around. Her gaze caught Trey’s for a second, then she looked around the room.
 
——
 
Incredible. To the Truestone Golem, it was incredible. The Dwarf believed. So did Trey Atwood. But she saw incredulity, dismissiveness. A belief of exaggeration.
Were they incapable of abstract thought? Or had their stupidity managed to shut down their higher functions? Cognita looked around.
“I am Cognita. Cognita of Wistram, as some named me. I am the same Golem who stood by Archmage Zelkyr’s side. That I do not prove my strength does not diminish who I am. It is foolish to assume otherwise. But that is your failing. Perhaps you have forgotten. Then: this is a reminder.”
She lifted her arms. In the gaze of all those present, Cognita changed her arms.
Just her arms. To the nicknamed Zap Topaz. Not just her outer ‘skin’, her entire arms’ structure, because she was all Truestone. She had learned, since that day, to combine stone. Zap Topaz was merely the outer layer.
She saw the Dwarf knock over his chair, grab Trey Atwood, and dive to the floor. Cognita paid them no mind. The air charged in less than a second as her glowing arms, lit by inner blue fire and crystal, rose.
Cognita clapped her hands.
The sound her hands made was not like a regular clap. It was like…two pieces of stone hitting each other. It was still a fair approximation of a clapping sound, but distinctly less loud.
The [Mages] of Wistram jumped at the slight noise. Half of them were hiding under tables. They stared up as Cognita’s glowing arms stopped glowing.
The faint sound was accompanied by…nothing. No discharge of even a spark of lightning. No tremendous bang of thunder. Cognita glanced down at Dawil as the Dwarf rolled off the flattened Trey. She nodded at him.
“They tell stories of me in Illivere, Adventurer Dawil?”
Lying on his back, the Dwarf blinked up at her.
“…I think they’re fans, Miss Cognita. You have ‘em around the world.”
“Interesting. I did not know that. Thank you for telling me.”
She walked out of the banquet hall, swiftly, never looking back, her long stride carrying her away in heartbeats. The entire room was silent. After a while, someone laughed.
That precipitated a storm of chuckles, laughter at Dawil’s expense. He got up, apologizing to Trey, dusting him off, taking the laughter and jesting from the other [Mages] without pointing out how they had looked when Cognita was about to clap her hands.
A reminder. Do you need to see something? The people inside chuckled. They sat back as the banquet room, the far wall made of glass and open to the sea view beyond today, saw a Golem woman jog out onto the water, her legs walking on the water’s surface. She paused, and pointed up.
It was not a bolt of lightning; a bolt lasted only a second. A beam shot straight up and cracked the Bubble of Calm over Wistram in half. It blasted into the sky and created a hole in the clouds overhead.
The sound and flash of light left Trey dumb and deaf for minutes afterwards. He stumbled around as people screamed or ran into each other. When he peeked out from behind the overturned table, he saw Cognita standing in the center of the sea, facing them. The waves were crashing hard against the island.
And it was raining. The Bubble of Calm was…gone. Cognita strode back towards shore.
Remember that.
 
——
 
Cognita of Wistram re-read a letter from a certain [Mage] she had once thought of, vaguely, as a friend. She studied it, and thought about how things had changed since then.
It had once been easy to do everything, knowing that until Zelkyr returned, she would remain right here. Now? Everything was tempting. Everything was different.
She eventually put Pisces’ letter aside, and reached for the transcription she had made of Archmage Chandler’s words. She stared at it.
I have changed. Wistram was still shaken from her display. Cognita walked down the hallways and the [Mages] lined the walls rather than her having to navigate around them. Better.
The Bubble of Calm would come back. But what wouldn’t come back was Cognita’s access to Wistram’s budget. And to be fair…it wasn’t hers. It was simply the money for food, other supplies.
Do I have any money? Cognita wondered. She had felt like commissioning another statue or…
