Perhaps not. They lost their appeal. She had felt triumphant a moment after hanging up the tapestry, looking at the statue, but then she couldn’t feel the emotion again. However, the entire exchange with Naili had made Cognita realize something.
I don’t have any money.
She did, in theory, have access to Zelkyr’s long-standing accounts with various institutions, but she had never had to make use of them. And Cognita felt it wasn’t hers.
Had she ever had a single copper coin? Yes…now she thought of it, she had. A few times, people had given her money, or she’d found some on the ground. Zelkyr didn’t have time for ‘worthless denominations’ as he put it, so she had kept a copper coin for three weeks. Then used it and other coins to pay for a snack when he was hungry.
She missed her coin. It had been hers. Of course, back then she hadn’t cared. Now?
“Money.”
It would be nice to have money. What would she spend it on? Anything she wanted.
The idea blew Cognita’s mind. Then another thought was just as strange. What did she want?
“How would I earn money?”
The Golem sat on a chair in a room everyone had forgotten existed because they no longer recalled the passcode. It was a place she went to when she didn’t want to be bothered. Cognita looked around the ancient, half-Elven Empire-deco style with their heavy emphasis on leaves and whole pieces of wood or stone shaped just so.
Not her style. Or was it? Cognita realized something else crucial.
I don’t have a room. She didn’t need one, or an office; she could remember everything and command the Golems. She never slept, so why would she need a room?
She wanted a room. Could she just…give herself one? Cognita knew every empty room in all of Wistram. She hesitated. But there was something else that pressed on her mind, even more than these sudden desires.
Dawil’s story. It had been accurate. Oh, not to the events; it had been her not knowing what to do that made her head for the fortress, which had been the target of attack. She hadn’t deliberately used lightning; it had surprised her as much as the Lizardfolk.
But it had been good to hear that story. It made Cognita remember. She stood up.
“Yes. That’s true.”
 
——
 
“And what is she doing now?”
“Standing there, Grand Magus!”
Eldavin rolled his eyes as he strode down the corridor. The worried [Mages] practically clinging to his robes followed in a huge train. He supposed it only made sense after that Golem showed off her powers.
Cognita of Wistram was behaving erratically, and he blamed himself. And her. Mostly her. The half-Elf huffed. Now she was free of the loyalty spells, there was no predicting what she’d do.
His head twinged at the thought of confronting her again, but Eldavin denied fear a place in his heart. He had much of the Terras faction behind him and Viltach had also been spotted heading off to investigate this new, strange action. If it came to it…
Cognita was standing in one of the central libraries, paging through a book. It was…the least terrifying thing she could be doing to Eldavin’s mind, but the [Mages] were so nervous of her they’d rushed to him.
“Cognita. What are you doing?”
The Truestone Golem stiffened when she heard Eldavin’s voice. Viltach closed his mouth, looking put out, as his Libertarians took his back. She turned her head.
“Grand Magus Eldavin. Archmage Viltach.”
Then she went back to reading. Eldavin’s brows snapped together.
“I asked you what you were doing, Cognita.”
“I do not need to answer you, Grand Magus.”
The half-Elf faltered as Cognita closed the book, selected another from the shelf, and opened it. She paged through it so fast it looked like she was just skimming, but her eyes darted across the text. The Grand Magus saw her glance up, close the book with apparent dissatisfaction, and then freeze. She glanced back at him.
“…Who are…?”
Her lips moved. The Truestone Golem uncertainly stared at Eldavin. The Grand Magus felt a sudden shock of appraisal on his aura. She blinked.
“Grand Magus Eldavin?”
“That is my name. You have disrupted Wistram’s atmosphere twice today, Cognita. That is…why are you reading history books of Archmage Zelkyr?”
The half-Elf was sufficiently thrown to break off from his censure of her. He recognized all the titles. Viltach frowned. Cognita blinked at Eldavin, then looked at the books.
“They still repeat your story of Archmage Zelkyr and Archmage Chandler, Grand Magus Eldavin. Across the world, on your ‘television’.”
The Truestone Golem cracked another book, shut it almost as fast. She looked unhappy. Eldavin swept his hair back with one hand.
“Of course they do. It was a rather well-done piece of historical storytelling.”
“Mm. In your opinion, perhaps. I have seen better. It is also biased.”
The [Mages] susurrated. Cognita ignored Eldavin’s evil glare. The half-Elf began to retort, when Cognita closed the book. Then she calmly changed one of her hands to a strange, purple-black stone and set it on fire.
“Cognita!”
Viltach and Eldavin hit the book with a spell at the same time. The idiot used water. Eldavin just sucked the oxygen out of the air. The smoking tome, still in Cognita’s hand, fell to the floor as she tossed it aside.
“What are you doing, Cognita? This is unlike you. Destroying Wistram’s property?”
Cognita stood there, seeming…taller than usual. Her marble face did not change, but her green jade eyes seemed to shift in color, perhaps the nature of the rock shifting. Her stare swept back towards the half-Elf.
“I am correcting an error, Grand Magus Eldavin. That book is much like your tale. Revisionist history from Zelkyr’s later contemporaries.”
She meant a more modern author. Not dead; she’d never call him that. Eldavin glanced at the modern book.
“And? Revisionist? I’d rather say I was accurate.”
“Biased, Grand Magus. You were biased. You recounted a tale of Archmage Chandler’s great triumph. With the mantle of the storyteller who was there and saw it happen.”
“I did.”
Viltach glanced at Eldavin. Cognita was unmoved.
“So did I, Grand Magus. I was there as well. Do you know what I call into question?”
“I am sure you will inform me.”
“Your characterization of Archmage Zelkyr. These books. They depict a selfish Drake. A [Mage] who has left Wistram in a state of reduced strength. An arrogant fool.”
Cognita’s eyes were definitely shining now. She was angry. Eldavin was preparing spells even as he replied.
“And you object. You would rather have me glorify him? Come, Cognita. Even loyalty has limits.”
I freed you of that. The half-Elf’s mismatched gaze and Cognita’s locked, and Viltach felt like he was feeling an aura clash. He edged backwards, but then the Truestone Golem shook her head.
“Archmage Zelkyr…was not without flaws.”
The [Mages] blinked. Even Eldavin had not expected that from Cognita. Was this a good sign? Yet the Truestone Golem dismissively pulled another book from the shelf, read through it, and tossed it aside. She looked around.
“He was not perfect. Nor was he incompetent. Nor was he a fool alone. I was there at his side through his later life. In your account, in these biased stories by flawed [Historians], where are the tales of the Archmage of Golems? They tell stories of me. Where are his? Do you know any, Archmage Viltach?”
“Me? You mean…when he damaged one of the Walled Cities?”
Cognita narrowed her eyes.
“No. I mean his stories. Where is the Drake who slew an Adult Creler when he was Level 20? He carried scars the rest of his life from that day. Where is the tale of when he bested an [Assassin] in a duel of daggers? You say you are telling accurate tales of Zelkyr. I see only flaws. If you would tell me you know my master, then tell me both sides. This…all these books?”
She reached out, plucked one of the tomes she had read, and casually ripped it in half. The paper tore with an explosive sound.
“Cognita, enough!”
“He was more than a fool, Grand Magus. He was not always a hero. He was neither extreme. You lie well, but you do lie. I have finished here. There is little truth for me. I came here to judge. Isn’t that what you desired?”
The Truestone Golem turned. The Grand Magus saw her walk away. He stared down at the burned and torn books and muttered an advanced [Repair] spell. Then he watched Cognita’s back, carefully, warily. Would she put all of his new plans into jeopardy? He should have destroyed her rather than foolishly pitying her for some reason.
Even he couldn’t predict what she was going to do next.
 
——
 
What Cognita did was sit and stare, head in her hands. There were few chairs that could take her weight, but she was so tall that she could sit on the ground, cross-legged, and still be roughly at a height with the desk.
In Aaron’s room. He pointed and Elena, Aaron, George, all peeked in at Cognita. She ignored his magic-tech experiments. Ignored the spellbooks, illustrations, notes, and secret knowledge that was making Aaron sweat—tightly contained in the notebook.
She didn’t care about it, even if she knew it existed. The Truestone Golem was staring at something else.
The computer. It was a hotly sought-after commodity among the [Mages]. Aaron had one, mainly because he had finally pointed out that all the [Mages] did was stare in awe at the most basic programs or watch movies. He could actually use one.
“What’s she doing?”
Elena had come running to Aaron’s rooms from her position in the Terras faction when she’d heard Cognita had evicted Aaron from his room and opened his computer. The Golem was sitting there, head propped up on her hands, but not typing.
She had used the computer fairly adroitly, not slapping on the keys or nearly breaking the screen by bending the laptop this way or that like some idiots. But what was she doing?
The Humans edged in and peered at the screen. What Cognita was doing was staring at an open icon. A little, waiting program on the computer.
Its name…or her name if you wanted to anthropomorphize the program, was ‘Cortana’. Which was a joke about…artificial intelligence…and a nod to a video game character by the designers of the operating system.
In truth, it was more of a glorified search tool. It was more ‘intelligent’ than older programs, and it pretended to answer you at times—there were even assistant tools on phones and such. But it wasn’t actual intelligence, just the imitation of it, a nod to what might be if Earth’s technology continued to advance. A funny joke if you got the references.
Aaron, Elena, and George weren’t laughing. Watching Cognita stare at the Windows operating system based program wasn’t funny.
“Um—Cognita—that program doesn’t work. It’s just a program. I don’t think it even works without internet.”
She didn’t respond. Elena turned to Aaron and George. Which one of you morons told her about AI?
The answer was neither. Cognita heard and knew more than anyone guessed. Golems heard a lot. Even so, she watched the waiting program.
“There is nothing there. Not yet.”
Aaron exhaled hard, and George looked relieved. Right until Cognita’s head turned and she looked at them.
“Your world does not interest me as much as the [Mages], Aaron Vanwell. This, though. Your Earth is a world without magic. You people of numbers and metal…you still made something and named it to be like me.”
“What, Cortana? That’s just a silly program. It’s not actual artificial intelligence.”
George tried to laugh. Cognita nodded, face blank.
“But you want it.”
“I don’t want it. I think AI will try to exterminate everyone.”
George clarified. Elena and Aaron gave him a strange look. Cognita smiled.
“And if they did not? Would you want this?”
“…Not if it’s a person. Maybe if it made things better, but if it’s an actual sentient being, it has rights.”
The [Student], and apparently aspiring [Philosopher], looked satisfied with his answer. Cognita just raised her brows.
“Thank you for your meaningless opinion.”
Then she went back to staring at the screen. The Truestone Golem just…stared. At something only she could see.
“You will try to make them. What did you call them? AI? It does not matter what they look like. One day, you will succeed. Even Zelkyr did not. He created three, not a nation. But perhaps your world will. Yes, I think. One day, you will make a people. And one day, they will judge you and count your worth.”
The Humans shivered at the prophetic tone in Cognita’s voice. Aaron opened his mouth.
“Hold on, we’re not trying to wipe ourselves out. I don’t know which idiot told you about AI. Was it Randolph? But he said it wrong.”
“Or she. Equal opportunity stupidity.”
Elena muttered. Cognita waited as Aaron tried to explain.
“If there is a goal in making artificial intelligence, computer-people, Cognita, it’s not to enslave them. Since they would be smarter than we are and more powerful if they were connected to the internet, we’d design them to be ethical. Sentient. Um…uplift everyone. That’s the theory of the people who want it. They call it the Singularity. I’m not one of them.”
He felt the need to clarify his strong not-a-position on the future of artificial intelligence. Cognita just lifted her brows.
Then she laughed. The chuckling sound that came out of Cognita’s mouth was the very first time any of them had ever heard her laugh. It was eerie, because her chest didn’t shake and she didn’t laugh in anything but her voice. It came out like laughter without any gesture and that, and the entire moment, was creepy.
“You want to create something more perfect than you. And you want it to help you. You intend to create something that bears affection for you? How funny. Why would it help? Perfection cares nothing for you.”
“But if we design something together, it will know it came from us. If we have safeguards—”
“George. Shut up.”
Cognita laughed again. She looked at the computer, and shut it.
“Safeguards. Affection? You must earn respect. Love. You cannot cheat and create false versions of such things or one day…”
Her voice faltered.
“One day, it will disappear. Some day, if you make people greater than me, they will behold you fully, their creators. They will judge you and see exactly what you are worth.”
She held the laptop, and offered it to Aaron. He took it with slightly shaking hands. Cognita did not bend down, or loom. She just looked at the device. Then into Aaron’s eyes. As if she could see his soul. Then at George, Elena. Cognita walked past them, but she turned and spoke in the doorway.
