“You can’t just use the budget the Council allotted for this, Cognita! That’s our food and resources! You can’t—”
She was clearly used to being able to tell Cognita off. Or, perhaps, just used to the steward of Wistram being the impassive Golem she always was.
Cognita’s head turned and she looked down at Nailihuaile in a distinctly unfriendly manner. The Star Lamia slowed, and looked up.
“Can’t? I cannot? I am Cognita, and by Archmage Zelkyr’s power—and faith in me—I control all matters related to Wistram. I have deemed it necessary to remind [Mages] of that. By his authority, the statue will remain here. No one will remove it. Is that understood?”
The Archmage looked up at Cognita. She looked at Feor, and the half-Elf’s brows had disappeared into his white hair. He gave Naili a slight shake of the head.
“Er…well…if you think you have to—”
Naili tried to back up. She didn’t, before the Truestone Golem stepped forwards. Cognita bent down to stare at Nailihuaile.
“No one will remove the statue. Is that understood?”
The Lamia hesitated. Dawil had a hand on his axe. Then, after some thought, he had a hand not on his axe or anything that would annoy the Golem practically oozing hostility. Naili nodded slowly.
“…That’s absolutely understood, Cognita. No one touches it.”
“Good.”
Cognita straightened. She gave the golden statue another look as it was placed down. She strode over, and the two [Sailors] leapt away. Cognita adjusted the twelve-foot statue an inch so it was perfectly straight with one hand. Then she nodded.
“That will be all.”
She began to walk away, then stopped. She eyed Ylawes, Falene, and Dawil.
“Adventurers.”
She snorted. Dawil saw her glance at him, and then stomped off. He let out a huge breath in the silence that followed.
So this was Wistram? Falene hadn’t lied. It was certainly…interesting.
 
——
 
Cognita’s new statue was not the only development in Wistram. Everyone was abuzz about it, and Trey Atwood, or Troy Atlas, heard the gossip at the table with his fellow students.
“There’s a new tapestry hanging up in the long hallway! You know, the one that goes to the gardens?”
“I know it. I didn’t see anything yesterday.”
“Well, it’s just up.”
Trey looked at Astritha, one of the first-year students in his group of friends. She wasn’t as familiar to him as the others. It was Tov, the Drowned Man, who shook his head.
“I haven’t seen it. What is it?”
“It’s…a tapestry. Of Archmage Zelkyr. Everyone wants it removed. Some of the [Mages] say it’s an affront. But Cognita put it up so no one dares touch it. It’s, um. A tapestry. Of Archmage Zelkyr.”
Astritha chose her words carefully. Carn, or Calac Crusland, tapped his fingers impatiently on the table.
“What’s controversial about that? The fact that he’s the last [Archmage]?”
“No…well, the older [Mages] don’t like that, I guess. But the tapestry’s, um…”
Tov, Trey, Carn, all looked blank. The Drowned Man, Tov, looked left as the Gazer, Goelv, elaborated.
“It is of Archmage Zelkyr without any clothes. Lying on his side, in what I would assume to be a flattering pose. I do not know Drake anatomy. Mess?”
‘Mess’, or Messill, stopped eating at the table the first years were sharing.
“Goelv. I’m trying not to think about it as I eat. Is it flattering? I guess. Please stop reminding me.”
“The painting has an ornamental fan in the way, but it, uh, leaves little for the imagination.”
Astritha whispered to the others. Emirea, or Lady Emirea du Merrimorn, the little Human girl from Terandria, turned red.
“Alright. I’m never going down that corridor again.”
Carn growled. The others looked at each other. It was funny—until you remembered who was doing this.
Cognita? Something was up, and Trey was one of the few people who could have said why. But because that was a huge secret, he kept his lips shut.
“Did you hear there’s a team of Gold-ranks? The Silver Swords? From Izril! They’re fairly famous, apparently, and one of them’s a half-Elf from the Centrists. A [Battlemage]! Do you think she’ll teach some practical classes or tell stories?”
“Never heard of them. They must be from the north.”
Messill yawned. Trey, on the other hand, was quite interested.
“I’d like to see them.”
“Well, they’re staying around the academy. The [Knight] is handsome, but he’s scowling all the time.”
Astritha sighed, looked around at the all-male group aside from Emirea, who was only 11 herself, and realized she didn’t have an audience. Well…Tov leaned over.
“How handsome are we talking about?”
He looked serious. Astritha laughed like it was a joke, but Carn gave Tov a slightly strange look. So did Messill.
Trey just wondered if Cognita was going to murder them all as a Golem shaped like a Human, whom you could almost mistake for a person at first glance, came to remove dishes from the table.
He really had to get Amerys and get out of here. But Eldavin had him under personal apprenticeship and for now…
Trey gulped down his food as someone called his name.
“Sorry, I’ll catch up. Studying after class with Magus Rievan?”
They all nodded. In truth, it was a lot of Trey mentoring some of the weaker students. He had personal lessons from Eldavin, to the point where the Grand Magus had suggested he leave Rievan’s beginner class; Trey was already miles ahead of everyone else due to his tutoring from Gazi.
Nevertheless, he liked his fellow students and they were about the only ones he did like in the [Mage] group. As for the Earthers…
“Troy! Troy, get over here. Come meet some adventurers with us! And someone new!”
“Hey. I knew a Troy.”
Aaron, Elena, and some of the Earthers not now taking classes were milling around the banquet room at breakfast. They had a new Earther with them. Trey blinked and shook Leon’s hand.
“You knew a Troy?”
“Yeah, but he didn’t come with.”
“You have to tell us about it. Leon here is all the way from Izril, Troy. Liscor. You know, that city on the news?”
“And Pallass and Invrisil. There was a magic door…”
Leon had that wide-eyed look of someone new to Wistram. He nodded at Trey, blinking around. Trey had no real read on him, aside from Leon playing up where he’d come from as they went to greet the Gold-rank team. Apparently, they were guests and the Earthers, being Earthers, were allowed to mix and mingle. Or rather, it was a request from the Centrists and Feor.
“Yeah, we were all at this inn, but we had to leave because…well, a lot of bad stuff happened. We survived Creler attacks, and other monsters—I decided to come here.”
“You survived Creler attacks?”
“Well, I didn’t do much fighting, but yeah. We also fought off other monsters—there were even some Goblins that stayed at the inn all the time.”
Leon nodded modestly, a slight smile on his face. Trey eyed him. He didn’t look like a [Warrior]. And the way he talked about Crelers…Trey had seen Crelers when Flos showed them a nest. He had nightmares.
“I also saw the Wyvern attack on Pallass. You know? The inn actually helped fight it off. Portal door. And there were Raskghar—ever heard of them? They’re like, evil Gnolls.”
“Really? I’ve never seen a Gnoll! They don’t come to Wistram.”
“Well, they attacked the inn. And there were Antinium around all the time.”
“No way.”
The world traveller that was Leon had seen more species than even Trey. He was just elaborating on the Creler attacks as the group made their way to a table where an overwhelmed half-Elf was speaking to a fellow [Mage] in her faction.
 
——
 
Dawil was fascinated, though Falene didn’t share everything. She was talking with a male half-Elf named Ostrigael.
Not Teura, who might have facilitated a lot of Feor’s work. She had jumped ship for another faction, which had rattled Falene to her core. The Terras faction was, apparently, new to her, and Archmage Feor’s warm welcome might have had to do with a certain loss of power.
They were meeting Earthers. A concept Dawil had yet to fully wrap his head around. But which…explained so much.
Ylawes had been forced to go for a walk. He was in no mood even for these earth-shattering observations; they had clearly shaken him, but he was still worried about his sister. He’d already tried to pay off the crimes on her head, but they had run into legal problems with Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
“…Each faction has a few, but we do coordinate, Falene. As for technologies, we have a few. You should see the ah, ‘Battle Room’ where one of them has a most unusual weapon. We have a new illusion-project with Mage Telim…well, the Ullsinoi faction is going to trial it in major cities. I suppose the most fascinating developments are merely cultural, aside of course from all the scientific information.”
“Such as? Oh—are these new Earthers?”
They were queuing up as Falene, quite overwhelmed, tried to keep track of it all. Ostrigael had a knowing smile on his face.
“You will have to see the technology they have, Falene! But they also have an entire world of culture. Entire books on these devices. Audio, movies…and plays! We actually have songs and plays, both by Earthers, we are sure. Have you heard of the Shakespeares?”
“…You mean plays?”
Dawil interrupted. The half-Elf [Mage] hesitated.
“Ah, you have. Well, we have every copy of the plays…and some of the other factions are putting on performances! You should see them!”
“We have seen that, Ostrigael. The Players of Celum have been putting them on for half a year.”
The [Wizard]’s face went refreshingly slack as Falene shook her head distractedly. Then her brows snapped together and she and Dawil exchanged a look.
“…You mean they’re not from our world?”
Dawil stroked his beard. Oh yes. This explained a lot. He wondered what a genuine autograph from the Players of Celum might be worth around here? A cure for a certain young woman?
“I ah…I can see Archmage Feor was correct in inviting you to learn everything, Falene! Let me just talk to him…you can speak with these Earthers. One is from Izril. One second.”
Ostrigael shot out of his seat and the [Wizard] hurried off as Falene rose to speak with the Earthers. Dawil was getting out of his seat when he heard a familiar voice.
“…yeah, the Crelers were attacking a Gold-rank team. I was at the inn as we evacuated—they came through the door, but most of us got out. But an entire team of adventurers was stuck in the Bloodfields. They had to actually level the inn to get rid of the Crelers, but the adventurers actually survived.”
Dawil glanced up. He sidled out as Falene rose.
“Good morning to you. I am Magus Falene of the Silver Swords. And you are…?”
“I’m Aaron, Miss Falene. This is Elena, and George…we’re all excited to meet you. You’re all Gold-ranks?”
“That’s right. From Izril.”
Someone went silent abruptly as the gaggle of nearly two dozen Earthers peered at her, introducing themselves, wanting to know about adventuring. Dawil, five feet tall, wasn’t overlooked; just short. He saw the Earthers staring with interest at him, but he was strolling around the group, peering at a certain someone trying to duck down…
“That’s right. My name’s Dawil. We’re the Silver Swords. Been all over northern Izril. Liscor, that was the latest. I think I see a familiar face here. Don’t you, Falene?”
The half-Elf glanced over curiously. Dawil stroked his beard.
“Hullo, Leon. Fancy meeting you again.”
The young man was pale as he tried to smile at Dawil. Everyone looked at him. Trey saw Leon’s guilty face, but the Dwarf just smiled.
“Looks like we have a lot to talk about. You talking about the Creler attacks? We missed it, but it was a sight. Some friends of ours survived it. Glad to see Leon’s telling the story right.”
So that was it. He ignored the sweating young man; Dawil wasn’t out to ruin his life. Although he wasn’t above blackmail if it came to that. He nodded to himself.
“So that’s where she’s from.”
He’d already guessed the moment he heard about Earthers, but it all but confirmed it for him. If Leon was one…they all were. Ryoka too. Ylawes would flip when he realized how close they’d been to the truth. Falene was already clearly doing mental backflips. As for Dawil?
He’d enjoy a nice long talk with Erin Solstice. Once she woke back up.
 
——
 
The Silver Swords meeting the Earthers was a highlight of the day for Trey, because they were at once so surprised and so familiar.
They knew Leon. And while it was clear to Trey that Leon had exaggerated some parts of his backstory, none of them had come out and said it outright. But the fact was, they had met Earthers.
Earthers who weren’t at Wistram. Trey tucked that away in the back of his mind. The Wandering Inn. Interesting. First Gazi, now Leon?
She would probably like to meet him.
The Gold-ranks were equally fascinating to the Earthers as being the very stuff of stories. The thing a lot of Earthers—those like Aaron who hadn’t landed next to monsters or seen the world—wanted to become.
When they saw Ylawes, Dawil, and Falene standing together, Trey heard so many Lord of the Rings references in the first hour he felt like it was almost racist. Which…it was?
He really wanted to know what they would make of that movie. However, if the Gold-ranks were fascinating to the Earthers, it wasn’t in equal distribution.
The [Knight], Ylawes, was grumpy, and had little patience with the others. He actually went off to practice with his sword rather than talk. Falene had that ‘[Mage]’ quality, and Aaron and some of the others practically dragged her off to show them spells in the Battle Room, the name for the skirmish area with the airsoft gun and so on.
However, Dawil was the popular one. Mainly because…well, he was friendly. A lot taller than you expected, too. But he had plenty of time to tell the others about monsters, and he did it in a way Trey liked.
“It’s not for everyone, lad. Ever had to skin a rabbit?”
He was talking to some of the Earthers, some of whom fancied themselves good candidates for adventure, and even hinted about joining their team. Almost everyone shook their heads, but George nodded. Dawil nodded at him.
“Good practice. I’d say…go find a [Butcher]. I bet even Wistram has one. Can you work a day cutting animals up? All that blood? I tell Bronze-ranks to do it. Because—and it’s not always like this—but even Pointy Ears has been backed into a wall with her dagger, gutting monsters in close-quarters. If you can’t even handle the blood, let alone the danger, it’s not for you.”
“But it’s not all that, is it?”
