“How many d’you want, Adventurer Dawil?”
The half-Elf [Captain] had a crooked grin and he was far more retiring than the snootier members of his race; he lived in the moment, not in isolated villages. Dawil watched the academy in the distance, growing larger, a bubble of calm—not that the sea was rough at this time.
“Oh, how about an interesting one? There was a [Summoner]-[Archmage]. Any of them ever Dwarves?”
“Of course. Master [Runecrafters] is what they used to be, but not just that. I think some still have entire wings you could visit.”
Dawil brightened up.
“Really. Old architecture, like Deríthal-Vel?”
“Of course. Might even be some old rune-forges still working. Come to think of it, if I stop for a night or two, I might visit them myself. They let visitors in depending on their mood, and standing in a Rune of Sanctuary does the body good.”
“I imagine it does, if it’s a high-quality one. Know if they have any meditation rooms? I mean, the ones with runework, not…rooms with pillows.”
The half-Elf Captain, whose name was Jexal, scratched at his beard.
“Might be. That’s a good question. I’d ask around.”
They were talking about a kind of room Dawil knew from the home of Dwarves, Deríthal-Vel. The half-Elf gave Dawil a knowing look.
“You need peace and quiet after the ship voyage? I know not all Dwarves like the water.”
“Bah. I can swim. It’s not for me. I’d rather like to toss the rest of my team in there.”
Dawil glanced over his shoulder. Jexal gave him a knowing look. They were alone—for a given measure of alone, as [Sailors] were all about—talking at the wheel. But Dawil’s normally sociable team was not with him. Both Human and half-Elf had declined to talk with their [Captain].
“Still fighting, are they?”
“Yup. Never seen it this bad. Normally Pointy Ears—er, sorry. That’s what I call Falene to annoy her.”
Rather than take offense, Jexal laughed and Dawil went on, relieved.
“…She and I argue, but it’s not bad, usually. Banter. You’d be more worried if we weren’t. But Ylawes and Falene fighting? That’s bad.”
“Mm. I caught some of it.”
There had been…shouting. At night. Huge arguments that had kept the entire ship up, and wary, because an angry [Battlemage] could toss spells like no one’s business. Dawil shook his head.
“It’s his sister. We could have been in that Village of the Dead raid. She was there and they were the team who went in. The Horns of Hammerad?”
“You don’t say? Now there’s something. I might have to ask for an auto-graph. You know, writing on cardboard? Although if that fellow’s as angry as he was yesterday…maybe not.”
“Mhm. I’ll give you one if you like.”
“Ah…pass.”
Dawil sighed as he stood there. It had been a long journey, made longer by the Silver Swords’ usual method of travel; stopping whenever there was a monster or person in need. They’d still been on Izril when the Village of the Dead raid went down, and though they’d kept moving since the Village of the Dead was a suicide run, they’d halted a few days right on the coast to argue about heading back.
Then Yvlon had turned up in Chandrar of all places, but the worry that she was dead, guilt over not going to the raid, had led to Ylawes putting some of the blame on Falene insisting they had to go back to Wistram.
Words had been said. Words that Dawil had been frankly astonished to learn Ylawes was capable of saying, let alone knew.
Falene hadn’t handled it well either. Now they were headed to Wistram and might be off to Chandrar in a hot second, but Dawil wanted both his teammates to calm down, possibly with the help of some friendly magic.
They were just heading into port when a second ship, also bearing for Wistram, blasted past them. Dawil felt the wind and heard Jexal curse.
“Watch it, you salt-blinded idiot! Are you trying to scuttle both of us?”
He’d seen the ship coming, of course, but it had been propelled by clearly-magical winds. The [Captain] on the other vessel, a Human woman, shouted.
“Very sorry! Courier ship on…priority delivery for…”
She blasted past them so quickly that neither Dwarf nor half-Elf heard all of it. Jexal cursed, but he was mollified as the Courier ship began to flash something at them with colored lanterns.
“What’s this now?”
“Ship-speak. Hold on…ah. Well, that’s right of her.”
The colored lanterns were to let ships ‘talk’ when distance or regular spells were no good. Dawil had also heard you could send magical lights up to do it at extreme range, but he was fascinated to see it in person.
“Awful lot of work to do when you can just [Message] each other.”
“Ah, but Drowned Ships love to listen for those spells and ambush us. Also, you have to have two [Mages] who can sense each other…and in a bad magical storm it’s no good. And some things sense magic like that. You don’t want to cast [Message] in Kraken’s Pass.”
Jexal shuddered. He went on, steering his ship in the wake of the Courier-ship.
“That was an apology and an invitation to have a drink. Good of her. That’s the Four Winds of Teral, by the way.”
“No. The same Courier ship that did that delivery to Baleros? With the cure?”
“Very same. Saw how fast they were going? They can use all four winds. I heard they once outran a Kraken at sea. And those bastards have mile-long tentacles! Multiple hearts, multiple brains in a single appendage. You want to get to Chandrar after Terandria? See if the Four Winds is headed back that way. It’ll be faster than anything else going.”
“We might just do that. Captain Jexal, think if I asked to tag along and pay my drinks…?”
The half-Elf considered it, then grinned and slapped Dawil on the shoulder.
“Why not? I reckon the team that knows the Horns would be interesting company.”
The team that knows the Horns of Hammerad. So that was where they were? Dawil had to shake his head at the fickle nature of adventuring. The Silver Swords were a famous team in northern Izril, but it didn’t extend to the sea in terms of credentials.
As their ship came into port, far more sedately than the Courier ship which had already unhooked an entire section of their ship to unload goods—and the female, Human [Captain] herself was striding up towards Wistram for a priority-delivery—the rest of the Silver Swords finally appeared.
It was…interesting. They were quite polite to Captain Jexal as they shook his hand and thanked him for the voyage, but one look at the scowling [Knight] and half-Elf and you’d assume Ylawes was the most foul-tempered adventurer on the face of the earth.
“We’re having drinks with Captain Jexal and the [Captain] of the Four Winds, Ylawes, Falene. At least, I am. Figure we might be able to get a quick ride to Chandrar if they’re headed back that way.”
“Even riding with them from Baleros to Chandrar would be faster than the regular. They’d probably let you on for a song if they like you.”
“That’s a good idea, Dawil. I’m glad someone has their priorities straight.”
The Dwarf [Axe Champion] winced as Falene stared pointedly past Ylawes.
“We’re here. I shall meet with my faction and friends. And see you both tonight. Dawil.”
Neither one acknowledged the other’s existence. It was like children. Dawil sighed, then saw Falene descend the ramp, staff in hand. She’d dressed up; she had her traditional robes on, but she’d taken the time to add two earrings, a touch of makeup, two ornaments; a wrist bangle and sash, both of which had particular sigils on them.
Revivalists? Was that her faction? Dawil sighed and bade farewell to Jexal, who was much amused.
“Falene! Falene, wait! Where are we…?”
Dawil wanted to know where they were going, but Falene was off the ramp and heading towards the academy so fast he was sure she’d cast [Speed] on herself. He turned to Ylawes.
“I suppose we’d better go after her. How are you feeling, lad?”
“Fine. This had better be worth it.”
Ylawes stomped down the ramp after Dawil. Sighing, the Dwarf led the way at a more sedate pace towards Wistram. The double doors were thrown open, and he saw a few [Mages] about. Strangely…some were in the water, swimming back to shore. Dawil craned his neck upwards.
Wistram. He had never been here, but it did not disappoint. The glowing towers, some with magical effects, hung high above him in every architectural style. It was even larger on the inside, but it looked like a fortress to rival a Walled City…no, his home itself! Any kingdom in Terandria would be hard-pressed to even match this palace in terms of scope.
Beauty? Well, the hodge-podge effect of so many builders took away from that. But look at that tower! Permanently aflame! Another, frozen in ice. And up Wistram stretched, until the top parts vanished from view in the permanent mists.
Impressive, to say the least. Dawil admired the enchanted stone, not showing any dirt or filth despite exposure to the open air. He saw open walkways extending around some towers—this was an academy not afraid of attack.
The Dwarf frowned and pointed up.
“Ylawes! Do you see that? The [Mages] are leaping off the walkways! Do they do that for fun?”
“I see it. Let’s keep moving, Dawil.”
The Dwarf bit his lip. Ylawes was in no mood to watch the [Mages] slowing in midair, trying to arrest their fall. He winced as one belly-flopped so hard it was audible at this distance. Two other [Mages] dove after their comatose friend.
No one welcomed the two Gold-rank adventurers to Wistram. There was no huge turnout of people, no fanfare. They just walked in the double doors to an argument and reunion, happening at once.
“Falene Skystrall. Sister, it delights us that you have returned.”
Archmage Feor, the half-Elf leader of the Centrist faction, was greeting the half-Elf with a small group of his followers. Centrists. Dawil snapped his fingers. That was who she was part of!
Falene was smiling, as the Archmage addressed a Star Lamia, leaning on her staff.
“I do apologize, Mage Falene. We shall of course welcome your team. It’s just—Archmage Naili, it’s not you or Viltach? It must be Verdan, then.”
“Not him. You think he’s bought that? You must be mad! It’s Valeterisa. That airhead. Only she’d do something this stupid.”
“Well, I need one of you to confirm it. Anyone will do. Who’s got a seal? Or I can take verbal confirmation of delivery…”
The [Captain] of the Four Winds was trying to complete her delivery, and was exasperatedly arguing with the two Archmages. The problem was…neither one wanted to accept the delivery. Feor stroked at his beard meaningfully and Naili snorted.
“No one wants that. Valeterisa can organize it—I’d rather send it back.”
“Send it…?”
The [Captain] was astounded. Feor hurried to assure her.
“Captain Bressa, the delivery will of course be paid for by Valeterisa, but the contents…?”
“What do you want me to do, take it back all the way to Baleros? It was a huge rush order!”
“You could toss it into the sea. I’ll pay you to sink it.”
Naili offered. Dawil and Ylawes both stared at the object under such debate.
It was…a statue. An actual statue, transported in a Chest of Holding, which the [Captain] had two [Sailors] haul up. Only that kind of object could have held the twelve-foot tall statue, sculpted and then covered in gold paint. Some [Sculptor] must have indeed had multiple speed Skills to get it done.
Dawil didn’t see what was wrong with it. It was of some [Archmage], that was clear. A noble face, staring up towards the sky with a spellbook in one claw, the other held up as if in greeting.
The Drake had what could only be described as exaggeratedly noble features to Dawil’s eyes. His robes touched the floor around him in impractical length, but it was a statue. Dawil read the inscription.
Archmage Zelkyr of Wistram, the Archmage of Golems. Glorious guiding mind of the Academy of Mages, as presented delivering his wisdom to fellow students of magic.
“There is no way we’re putting that up. Valeterisa doesn’t have the authorization of the Council. I’m astonished she wasted coin on this.”
Naili tapped the statue with her staff, looking annoyed at…everything. Even Feor was disapproving.
“Well, it had full authority of Wistram, and I’m paid to deliver. You can deal with it…just someone acknowledge the receipt? Please?”
“Why don’t we just blast it, Feor? I’ll sign, you melt.”
Naili slithered over, but before she could do either, a figure strode down the hallway. And her tread was a sound of its own.
Thump. Thump. Thump. Dawil expected to see someone in armor with that kind of weight. Instead, he saw a nine-foot tall porcelain figure, her features even more well-sculpted than the statue she was staring at. The Dwarf had heard of Cognita of Wistram. To see her?
Ylawes and Dawil stepped back as the Truestone Golem halted in front of the statue. She stared up and nodded.
“My delivery has arrived. You are Captain Bressa of the Four Winds of Teral.”
It was not a question. The [Captain]’s mouth fell open. Feor and Naili, who had stiffened slightly when they saw Cognita approaching, blinked in astonishment.
“Er—yes, Cognita of Wistram. This is your delivery, then?”
“It is. The statue is…adequate.”
Cognita strode around it, barely inspecting it, before nodding. Naili spluttered.
“Cognita! This is your statue? You ordered…”
She gestured at Zelkyr. Cognita ignored Nailihuaile.
“I will accept the delivery. You may attest to delivering it, Captain Bressa. As for its placement…”
“Of course, er, Golem Cognita. W-where…?”
The two [Sailors] stared up at the Golem with as much awe as trepidation. Cognita pointed.
“There.”
Every head turned. Dawil saw her point to a spot just before two grand staircases on the right and left, leading upwards to Wistram’s many, convoluted floors. Naili spluttered.
“In our entrance hallway? Wait. Where did the statue of Archmage Rezy go?”
“Archmage Rezinoul’s statue?”
Feor looked, but the place where the statue that used to greet all visitors had stood was…empty. Both turned to Cognita.
“It has been replaced. Place Archmage Zelkyr’s statue there.”
The two [Sailors] began to fumble with the chest of holding. Archmage Naili was incandescent.
“Archmage Rezy was there when I was a new student! Everyone loved him!”
“He has been relocated. A more suitable statue to the current [Archmage] of Wistram will replace him. I have commissioned it.”
“With what money?”
“The budget.”
“The—”
Dawil was vastly entertained, but also wary. The angry Lamia advanced, finger wagging. Archmage Feor was more reluctant, and Falene…she was looking at Cognita with clear unease.
