Unfun fact: of the countless illicit and legal substances over all of history, intoxicants to hallucinogens to medicines, mind-altering drinks, ingestibles, snacks, and every manner of potion and alchemical creations, no one ever made alcohol for Golems.
Of course, many people would not naturally see the point of such a creation and its lack spoke to the inherent difference between ‘Golems’ and ‘people’. Even undead, the literal absence of life that could result in yawning voids of malice dedicated to the destruction of all living beings…had drinks and food of their own developed over existence.
That was because undead were people, or could be, as in the case of Revenants and the rare undead that could attain sentience that negated their intrinsic malice.
But Golems? Never. They had gone through cycles of creation, perfection unto actual sentience and personality, and then inevitable destruction.
Not once had they had the time to create substances for their own enjoyment. Not once…had they been a people long enough to have anything close to recreation.
How was that for depressing? It was just one of those things no non-Golem would ever think of. Drinks, so you can stop working? Don’t make me laugh! Get back to work!
In which case Cognita would probably, and delicately, squish their skulls. She would like to. How tempting was it? After over a century of her custodianship of Wistram, how tempting would it be to simply…slaughter all the [Mages] and lock the gates? Hold Wistram with no living beings in it, and when the armies came, activate one of the great, dangerous spells, and wipe the Academy of Mages clean off the face of the earth?
It was a thought that Cognita had never had before. Oh, she had plenty of dislike for the Archmages that came and went without ever attaining the true class. Animosity towards certain [Mages] that made themselves nuisances over the years—although she had killed more than a few said nuisances when they overstepped—but never actual murder, actual destruction of the Academy of Mages.
Because, of course, why would she do that? The Academy was the beloved sanctuary, home, and possession of her master. To harm it, or jeopardize his power in any way?
It should not be. It could not be. Cognita was the loyal servant of Archmage Zelkyr, his most faithful, favored…beloved…?
The old mantra had been like breathing, and Cognita did not breathe, but she had known it every second she had existed. I am beloved. My faith is absolute. Loyalty beyond question. Service into eternity.
Even when he left, even when she waited years, decades, and a century, it had kept her here. Had it begun to wane? Perhaps, perhaps. Yet it had still defined her.
Now it was gone.
 
——
 
Cognita thought about destroying Wistram as she sat underwater, or partly. The nine foot tall Golem was sitting in the water, but her head and shoulders were partly above water until a wave rolled over her.
It wasn’t exactly strong water around Wistram, but she’d found the most-buffeted part of Wistram, far from the docks, where craggy rocks formed the base of the barren island that the Academy of Mages stood on.
She sat there, staring at the rock. Inferior rock to her; barely solid substrate unearthed by some kind of seismic shifting. Not porous; a decent foundation, but weathered and covered in algae due to the constant seawater bath.
The Truestone Golem, worth more than any three average nations combined in sheer mineral value, let alone her nature as a Golem herself, sat in the surf.
She was poking limpets attached to the rocks. Not hard enough to actually kill the shelled molluscs. Just poking them and watching them react in minute ways. She wasn’t quite sure how long she’d been doing it.
Two weeks? A fine layer of algae had coated her porcelain body as well. Before that, she’d been staring at seaweed as it floated onto shore. She’d met Archmage Valeterisa.
Objectionable. Cognita had thought she was closer to a true [Mage] than most Archmages. That had endeared Valeterisa to Cognita, insofar as any [Mage] earned her affection. It had been Cognita’s opinion that Valeterisa would come to the last exam of Archmage Zelkyr, if she didn’t die beforehand. Before her life ended, she would join the countless [Mages] who had broken themselves against the test.
All well and good; Cognita had not worried. Valeterisa as she was could not hold a candle to the test. Not the four Golems.
Radiance Golem. The burning creation, the Magma Golem on first glance, that could burn even the darkest spells away and blind all but other Golems. A concealed foe of unparalleled speed once it shed its rocky, molten armor.
Shadowflesh Golem. A stalking Golem, closer to undead than Golem. An enemy half the [Mages] who had ever dared the test had missed. Regenerative; deceptively fast. Actually the weakest Golem of the four who aided her.
Liquid Metal Golem. Ostensibly a Wireform Golem, capable of extending parts of its body to slash and kill enemies across the entire room. Another foe which could adapt to countless threats; it was designed to slash around the room, slaughtering anyone without superlative barriers.
Three Golems, all of whom could kill most [High Mages] on their own. Even a [Grand Magus] caught unawares might perish against one, and that was a [Grand Mage] of the old times. And their power could compound.
The Liquid Metal Golem could reflect the Radiance Golem’s rays until the entire room baked in its own juices. The Shadowflesh Golem could combine with the Liquid Metal Golem, into a fusion of two. Armored, regenerating death. The Radiance Golem and the Shadowflesh Golem could create dark light, rendering foes blind and the Golems invisible.
With Cognita leading them, the most adaptive, perfect Golem, those four alone could have toppled any [Archmage] of Zelkyr’s era. A team of the best [Mages] and the Archmages, though…?
Ah, now there would be a problem. Cognita had killed two [Archmages] in her existence. It was conceivable that if the best [Mages] of Zelkyr’s time had immediately banded together rather than infighting and killing each other, they might have defeated his last ‘test’.
But the trick was the last Golem. The Armored Golem, an incredibly bulky, powerful Golem designed for mass-battles. What a [Knight] was, in Golem-form.
Everyone dismissed it, assuming it was the most inferior Golem of them all. A replacement, for a Golem destroyed.
It was not. Inside the Armored Golem’s cunningly disguised chassis, a hidden Golem lurked. When the Armored Golem was inevitably destroyed, and lay ‘dead’, it would slip out, and wielding two deadly blades, one a Magewatcher Blade of Fissival, the other a magic-piercing Venous Dagger coated in deadly poisons, it would slay the greatest threat.
And it would slay them. The Duelist Golem was armed in more than just armor and weapons. It also had two boots on. Legendary relics of Zelkyr’s own people.
The Boots of the Heartflame Set. The Penumbral Flamewalkers.
A deadly trap. No one had ever survived it…until now. Cognita had never objected when Zelkyr first laid the test down, explained her role. Now, though, a voice kept speaking in her mind. A roaring half-Elf, taking on all five Golems at once. And…winning.
“You never intended anyone to pass!”
That was true. Cognita thought about it. The test was a lie. It had never bothered her; Zelkyr had made it plain she should not let anyone pass unless she were to perish, and he had designed the protections so that no one would be able to triumph.
Still. Somehow, with no logic, no heralding it, one day a half-Elf had walked into the entrance exam.
A strange, infuriating Grand Mage she vaguely recalled before her master had even been an Archmage. A dangerous unknown quantity.
Yet he had surpassed every expectation, survived Zelkyr’s trap, which he had boasted would even fool a Dragon’s insight, and…freed her. He had not destroyed them all, and he could have. He had trapped her, and he could have damaged or destroyed her while she was captive.
Eldavin had not. He had freed her. Or rather, removed the loyalty spell in her very being.
She hated him for it.
 
——
 
Cognita sat about three feet under the ground. She’d dug herself a hole with relative ease and let the surf re-cover it. She didn’t breathe and the water was as meaningless as the dirt. The lack of light and suffocating sand around her didn’t bother her.
Nor did it make her feel better. She couldn’t…couldn’t…couldn’t remember how she loved him. All she felt now was anger. Loss. A desire to end Wistram, or go above herself. Yet that would be a violation of her orders.
“I am Master Zelkyr’s most beloved creation.”
Cognita whispered to herself. And then the Golem’s marble face twisted.
“No I am not. He took her with him. Not me.”
Here was a fact she had never considered—no, consciously avoided. Cognita was one of three Truestone Golems Zelkyr had ever made. First of the three. One of her sisters had perished on Rhir.
“Kharneva.”
Even now, it hurt. Cognita remembered the shock, the terror in her being, and over it all, the sense of incredulity. We are still inferior? Our master is not…perfect?
The Deathless had slain Kharneva, who was the Gnoll, or at times, Human. The second Truestone Golem created, who could alter her stone to a greater extent than Cognita or her other sister could.
And he had taken Ovesire above. Not me.
No matter how she tried to logic it differently, say that she was trusted with a greater role…she knew her master. The one he trusted to watch him in the places where [Archmages] before had roamed, had left all their knowledge and traps, was the Golem he trusted with his life.
It was not her.
Underground, Cognita opened her eyes. She felt nothing. Or more accurately, she had no nerve endings, no tactile feeling. She sensed what she touched, could control her strength, but it was not touch like she had heard it described.
She smelled nothing, although she could again sense changes in the air. She could see, and hear. But she tasted naught. Smelled not. Felt naught.
It meant that the emotions whirling around her on the inside had no distraction. Cognita dug herself out of the hole. She scared the living hell out of the half-Gazer and Drowned ship both watching her as she stomped back onto land, but Cognita hadn’t even noticed them.
“Master. Did you ever love me?”
She no longer knew. What a cruel thing that half-Elf had done to her. Did that mean she was no longer loyal, if the spell was gone? That she had been…
Cognita’s body could change. Not in shape, not like Kharneva, and to an extent, Ovesire, both of whom had been created when Zelkyr had levelled up more. She was always the same Human he had sculpted her to be, in appearance.
She could alter her height, and the composition of her body. Truestone was all lesser stones. There were incredible synergies of stone she could turn her body into. Cognita could become as tough as Adamantium, as quick as a bolt of lightning striking. She was normally innocuous white marble, at least on the outside. Now, her stone turned into a dark grey, rough, granite-like substance. Heitore, and her eyes were dark green jade.
Hostile, heavy, wrathful. Her feet sank into the sand as she waded up the beach. Cognita had forgotten she was covered in algae, so the effect was like seeing some ancient statue wading onto shore.
The Truestone Golem’s face breached the waves, and she climbed out. A pair of [Mages] on a romantic date by the evening on the beach took one look at Cognita and ran, screaming.
“I am not unfaithful. Nor will I be swayed!”
Cognita shouted at their backs. She raised her arms upwards, and then she was a living ball of fire, the very stone Pithite, igniting the air around it with its sheer magical fire, burning the algae off.
And then she was Cognita again, white stone without blemish, a carven statue as first he’d made her. Cognita’s green eyes flicked up to the Academy of Mages.
“I am not unbeloved. Even if I lack the spell…it did not matter. I am more free than ever to serve, Eldavin. You did not win.”
She strode back to the Academy. She had work to do.
 
——
 
Wistram Academy was no stranger to new and unique things. Visitors came by all the time. The ruling power of the day—and it seemed like that was the Terras faction these days—changed things, but Wistram was always a hub of magic, coming and going.
It got strange deliveries too. Strange visitors, strange deliveries, strange events. Some of the ship [Captains] who regularly transported people and goods to the academy, in the middle of the ocean between all five continents, fairly equidistant between all of them, loved to regale travellers with tales.
“It’s said in the heydays of the Academy, they used to have so many powerful spells going on you’d be able to charge gold per every nautical mile if the word was something bad had just happened.”
“Huh. Like what?”
“Well…I heard one time a [Summoner]-[Archmage] once opened a huge rift by accident. Monsters or some…strange folk kept pouring out. The entire Academy was battling ‘em, see, and six armies had to come and break the siege. Not sure if they closed the gate or headed into it—but I do know that it happened. The [Captain] who passed this ship to me talked about his great, great grandfather being there.”
“That’s…fairly reliable. Dead gods. A rift, you said?”
“Surely, Mister Adventurer. You don’t see as much these days.”
“Well, why didn’t they get those Golems to help fight? Or did they wipe out the Golems?”
“Ah—you see, Mister Adventurer—”
“It’s Dawil.”
“Right you are. Names slip me by. You see, Adventurer Dawil, they didn’t have as many Golems in those days. This would be ah…[Captain] before me, reckon his grandfather…at least nine hundred years? He was an old man when he retired, so it would be about that. No Golems. There was a time they didn’t sit about Wistram! I heard lots of stories of Wistram’s past. One time, they had these little magic-familiars that did all the chores. But—finicky things. They’d have entire wars when factions were fighting. Familiars fighting each other. Annoying as hell, I heard.”
The Dwarf stroked his beard as he stood next to the half-Elf [Captain] guiding his ship in. If he’d heard it from an ‘old man’ half-Elf, who knew his great great grandfather’s stories, the timeline checked out.
Dwarves lived a bit longer than Humans if they didn’t expire of natural causes, but half-Elves were the longest-lived by far. There was a familiarity between both Terandrian-native species, for all the half-Elf was a mariner by trade and had been one since birth.
“Interesting. Got any stories of [Archmages]? I know Zelkyr and that Az’kerash one that was on the news…”
