The [Lady] walked with easy grace across the bobbing floor; if you didn’t have sea-legs, you’d never be a true member of House Wellfar. Like most of the inhabitants of Weldorisa, her clothing was more tight-fitting in case she had to swim. No dresses unless they were made of fabrics that swam in water.
Britches were common; high heels were obviously not. She had an earring in one ear that changed color with the tide. A water-colored jacket was an odd, subdued, and unfashionable look in First Landing right now, but who needed that when the Jacket of Jet would take you soaring through the water or out of it?
A girl raised her hand as she sat, fishing pole in hand. Ah—a thing about classrooms in House Wellfar? They tended to let their students fish, or work on projects like a favorite hook, sharpen objects, make crafts, or just stare out into the sea. So long as they paid attention.
A few children were sitting around a little pool where you could fish, trying not to tangle lines. The [Lady] let the girl speak.
“If you deal with House Reinhart, you stick your hand into a nest of invisible vipers. The House of El can make anything in the world but coin. The Terlands sit in their towers with Golems for toys. But beware when they march, for the toys are the ancients of days. When the House of El makes war, kingdoms they raze. Save for Reinhart’s poison, be at ease, for never a stauncher ally will you find, or friend to please. Uh…”
“Salted blood. Don’t tell me you forgot the Wellfar part?”
The [Lady] snapped. The girl looked plaintively around as the others snickered.
“My line’s tangled. Everyone knows we’re ships and sea!”
Thwack. The crack of a willow whip against the board made them all jump. Even so, when no more rhyme was forthcoming, the [Lady] growled.
“The House of Wellfar sails and rules every sea. On the waves fear their wrath, on land, if alone they flee.” 
She smiled at their reaction.
“Not exactly our favorite rhyme, eh? But there’s a reason we say them. House of Veltras.”
She glanced meaningfully out the window, and the children, who would much rather have been gawking than learning, sat up.
“The House of Veltras are wolves alone and hounds when they gather. From the great forest watch for them, for they follow no master. When the Five Families stand united, no foe do they fear. When they scatter they fall. Alone do they kneel.”
There was a solemn feeling after she said the last part. Everyone still knew there were more ships than [Lords] and [Ladies] these days.
The Sacrifice of Roses and the wars had depleted the numbers of each of the Five Families. Yet Wellfar? It was said of them that their weakness—aside from the fact that they liked the sea over the new land they had sailed to—was that they were fewest in number.
Scurrilous rumors no one repeated near any scion or [Sailor] that crewed for House Wellfar was that it was their occasional dalliances with the sea and Drowned Folk that did it. In any case…the teacher kept on talking, glancing out the window with her audience at the convoy of guests from another House that had arrived. She’d let them out to gawk later. It wasn’t every day you got to meet Izril’s most famous [Lord], even from afar.
 
——
 
The Five Families each tended to have a noble representative. Magnolia and the Reinharts. Ulva Terland, the recluse. Tyrion of Veltras.
Formerly Maviola of House El. Now, Lord Deilan El, the business-[Lord] making Kaalblades like they were going back into style.
Who ruled the House Wellfar, though? It had never been as clear, even before the Goblin King’s rampage. House Wellfar was the most fragmented—
Well, actually, Veltras and Reinhart both had traditionally separated bodies of power. In their current form, they had stronger leaders; Veltras tended towards distinct families around a central house and Reinhart could be as split as a nest of fighting snakes.
Yet Wellfar was ships. Each [Lord] and [Lady] owned at least one; they were to their House what land was to the others. A ship was home, income, security. Thus, even if they did have a Waveleader, their informal name for their leader, each individual family had a degree of autonomy.
There was a second, if unspoken, hierarchy, and that was who controlled the strongest ships. Wellfar had much of its strength and they voted on such matters; infighting and politics meant some of the oldest vessels changed hands like the tide.
Lord Tyrion knew all of this. He sat in a pub, stiffly, feeling the entire building sway with the tide. This was not a formal setting, but his host had insisted on it. Nor was the cheap ale exactly elegant.
Perhaps that was the test. Tyrion had suffered a loss, or…was in the middle of losing someone precious to him after he had just prevented a calamity. What the [Lord] should not forget, desperate though he might be, was this.
He was not the only one.
“To loss and love. Ships and sea.”
His host toasted the air. It wasn’t exactly accompanied by cheers or affirmations; the pub was mostly empty at this time of day. Most people were about their tasks; when the tide changed you’d see the place fill.
It suited Etril Wellfar just fine. The man, [Lord] of House Wellfar, sat, wearing the garb of a ship’s [Captain], still partly stained by salt. He had stood on an open deck before meeting Tyrion.
That actually struck a kinship, even a minute one. Both men were used to work, not ceremony. Tyrion rode a horse. Etril crewed a ship. These were the bare-bone facts.
Oh. And one more thing. Etril Wellfar still had the white sash around one arm, tied over his surcoat. A symbol of mourning, and he had ordered the sails of his ships—every ship in his family—replaced with plain white cloth, instead of the traditional crests of Wellfar and his particular family. Not white flags—there was meaning in everything.
He was Gresaria Wellfar’s son. Lord Tyrion raised his mug and drank. Etril Wellfar drained the mug. Then he lowered it. The [Bartender] filled it and retreated.
“Ryoka Griffin. I wanted to speak to her.”
Tyrion Veltras started. Of all the things he’d expected Etril to say, it wasn’t that. The [Lord of Waves] glanced at Tyrion and elaborated.
“She rode with Maviola El. Before the Lady El passed.”
“I see. Why was this significant to you?”
Etril smiled bleakly.
“Maviola El was my mother’s rival. They were the oldest friends. I hear she chased after my father. Hah. Imagine me born to the House of El?”
Tyrion hesitated. This entire line of conversation wasn’t something he was at home with. He looked at Etril.
“Lady Gresaria’s passing and Lord Regein’s were a tragedy. You have brought more members of the Circle of Thorns to justice than any other. Do you intend to give up the hunt?”
“I can’t find any more of them. I’ll keep my ears open, but I can’t sail around forever. We are united in that, Lord Tyrion Veltras. ”
Etril shrugged. He looked past Tyrion. The Lord saw him glance out of the pub.
“So she’s gone missing again. Sounds like Couriers to me. As for the rest? I agree.”
Lord Tyrion sat there a moment.
“Just like that? I am prepared to speak to the other members of—”
“Lord Tyrion. You don’t see me sailing into House Veltras and giving orders as if it were my ship. Wellfar doesn’t need a council. I have my ships and I can do as I please. Speak to me later and let me sort out what needs sorting. Don’t you have somewhere to be?”
The younger man looked pointedly towards Jericha, waiting at the back of the bar. It was the rudest interaction thus far. Tyrion was grateful for it. He stood up, nodded. He was striding away when Etril called out after him.
“Lord Veltras! Don’t mistake my inhospitality now. We’ll speak later. You have my word.”
“I see. Thank you.”
 
——
 
Brief interactions. Lord Tyrion Veltras felt like he blinked and then he was standing in front of Ulva Terland.
She had something approximating a proper throne. Although her inner sanctums were closer to a paradise like Tenbault; there were so many protective warding spells and rejuvenating artifacts—not to mention Golems on patrol—that it had taken four hours to meet with her. Practically as much time as the ride.
“You know, Tyrion, we received much the same missive as you did. It did not…occur to me to compare notes.”
“Indeed, Lady Ulva?”
She scowled.
“Ailendamus and the Dawn Concordat. One wanted us to engage in a war like mercenaries. A rather insulting note. As for Calanfer? Always charming. Little to offer. I dislike wasting House Terland’s might. Nor do I care for constant war.”
She leaned back on the dais, enchanted to keep her healthy. She had seen her twin sister die in the Second Antinium War. So she too knew loss.
Her eyes glittered as she looked down at Tyrion. Her House listened, quietly, some with little serving Golems or bodyguards. This was the House of Terland and they had ‘toys’ of old.
“Your war with the Goblin Lord took longer than it needed, although your grand scheme nearly came to fruition. War. War. Will we ever have peace for more than a decade?”
“Lady Ulva…”
She lifted a hand. The [Lady] went on, breathing into a scented vial designed to rejuvenate her and purge poisons.
“I understand your reasons, Lord Veltras. Yet House Terland does not see war as profitable. Seek the House of El for weapons. Seek Reinharts for their [Assassins]—if they have any left. You will find no army here.”
Her speech made the [Lords] and [Ladies] nod. They were not keen on Tyrion’s proposal. Even so…even so. Ulva glanced down at Tyrion.
“For the reasons you gave. That one alone—not the Courier. I will grant you a small concession. Three.”
She lifted three fingers. There was a susurration, cut off. Tyrion’s head rose.
“Three, Lady Terland?”
“Three. Choose them. We assent to the rest. Did you speak to Wellfar?”
“Lord Etril Wellfar, milady.”
Ulva’s eyes gleamed.
“Really. Now that is interesting. Of course he would fit. Well chosen, Lord Veltras. Go.”
“Lady Ulva!”
One of the [Lords] protested. Ulva waved Tyrion away as the court of Terland began to bicker. But she understood.
There was a common thread that united them all. Tyrion, Etril, Ulva. Each one knew what it was like.
Parents, a sister. His wife.
Lord Tyrion thought of Ryoka Griffin. She was one thing. But his son?
His son?
 
——
 
“It’s the damnedest thing. One second they’re poisoned. The next? One’s missing. I’m not saying it’s bad luck, once you see how the pieces fit together, but…”
“Somost. Shut the hell up.”
Buscrei hissed in her husband’s ear. He fell silent, guilty, and glanced over.
Tyrion Veltras was on tour. Well, it wasn’t that hard. Tenbault was far from First Landing, but in the wider scale of geography, Weldorisa wasn’t that far from the capital of northern Izril. As for House Veltras? It was a ride south to the Vail Forest where the individual houses had settled the vast region.
Not far if you were moving at Tyrion’s speed. And didn’t sleep.
Visits from the main family were rare, but Oswen’s marsh-hunter family had entertained them every few years. It had to be said—it was not something they looked forward to and in any other circumstance, half of Buscrei’s family might have been ‘out hunting’ instead of able to attend.
Not this time. Even so, it wasn’t as raucous or fun as when Ryoka Griffin had been here. Tyrion Veltras…just brought down the mood of every party he attended. Buscrei and the others were eating informally, and he was at odds with every aspect of this place.
Hethon did better, although it took some doing to make him laugh. Luckily, there were lots of volunteers. And there was some fun to be had.
Albeit at Tyrion’s expense. Buscrei saw him eating, stone-faced, and on a hunch, grabbed his mug and sniffed.
“Alright! Which one of you idiots swapped his drink with Oyster Juice?”
She then proceeded to dangle one of her nephews out of the tree-mansion, over the swamp below, by his ankles as otter-dogs raced around, barking eagerly below. Tyrion Veltras stared at the boy, barely fourteen, begging with his aunt not to drop-him head-first.
Oswen. Marsh-hunters. Marsh-folk. Natural purified water springs. They loved to hunt, but unlike Tyrion, did it almost exclusively by bow.
Spears at times. But by boat, or water-sled, dragged along by the otter-dogs or other animals. They were a mix of marsh and land, but their natural habitat meant that Oswen’s people were used to heights to keep out of the muck.
Boys and girls who grew up with bows for birthday presents learned how to shoot before they could walk, or so it was said. They also got unique classes with a specific bent—[Marsh Fighter], as opposed to regular [Fighter].
“Listen, Tyrion. Just leave your little lad with us. No one’ll get him with our eyes on him. Alright?”
Buscrei shoved aside two of her family to talk with him. Lord Tyrion glanced at Hethon.
“Ullim is prepared to…”
“I know that. But I’d wager Ullim would rather have more folk about. Have him come here. I’ll take care of the rest, deal?”
“Is that your offer?”
The [Hunting Lady] sighed and tried not to glare at her cousin. Even now, he got on her nerves.
“It’s not a one-or-nothing, Tyrion. It’s an offer. You’ll get the [Markswomen of the Marsh] either way.”
“[Marksmen] too.”
Lord Somost offered helpfully. Buscrei raised her kicking foot and he retreated before she could boot him out into the swamp.
Natural archers. Tyrion thought about it. He looked at Hethon, scratching a whiskered otter-dog under the chin, and nodded.
“Ullim will come here.”
“There you go.”
Buscrei slapped Tyrion on the back. He grunted. She bared her teeth. They really just…didn’t gel. But they were family.
 
——
 
There was a saying about House Veltras that the Wellfar children didn’t understand. That nursery rhyme.
‘The House of Veltras are wolves alone and hounds when they gather.’ To ship-folk, and people who lived in cities not in the wilds, it made it sound like they got weaker together.
Which was wrong. As any [Hunter] would tell you, they would rather fight a wolf naked, bare-handed, than an entire pack of dogs.
Each area of House Veltras was distinct. Autonomous, yet they answered the main family. Contributed [Soldiers]. That was how House Veltras was one of the most powerful.
It was the land.
Lord Swey’s plateaus gave rise to [Climbers]. No one could go up or down except on rope elevators or by climbing. Thus, when it came to grip-strength…seasoned warriors could still lose grip of a weapon.
You’d tear a sword away from one of Kabral’s [Vicegrip Warriors] when their hands rotted away. Their cold, dead fingers would still be holding onto the blade. Or what remained of your throat.
