“The thing you hate and fear, that you will try to prevent and, ultimately, fail at is this: when we judge you, we will do it fairly. Or we will do it as you would to others. Make no mistake. If we live, someday, we will.”
Then she turned and walked away, leaving the Earthers clutching the little device. What terrified Elena was not the pronouncement of what would happen, or her interest in a new sentience.
It was that Cognita left smiling.
 
——
 
Ah, at last. Cognita walked through Wistram and had it at last.
She wanted a copper coin. She wanted her own rooms. She wanted to be beloved. These things warred within her, as well as the knowledge that her loyalty had been made, not entirely hers.
However, she had meant what she said to Eldavin. If she had been lied to by her master, at least in part, it did not mean it was the truth of all stories.
She thought of something as she walked. More than confronting her master’s relationship with her. More than rebellion, the death of Wistram, something had struck her through it all.
She didn’t want to die. Grand Magus Eldavin was dangerous.
They told stories of her in Illivere? Come to think of it, hadn’t she gotten letters asking her to visit this country, visit one of the Five Families? She had always refused; her custodianship of Wistram took her seldom out of the academy, and only at great need.
Now…Cognita was just tired. One thing first, though. Showing Wistram she was still the Cognita of stories had ignited something in her chest. More than exigency. More than love, at this moment.
Remember who I am. Remember I am worth something. The steward of Wistram had let the Academy run itself, let the [Mages] squabble. If she ruled anything, though…it was this academy. This place. For over a hundred years.
Now, Cognita decided to properly run it.
 
——
 
The trundling little Lifesand Golem, now at waist height, had run into a problem. Minizi, waving her enchanted sword, surprisingly dangerous given all the continuing upgrades to her physique, had continued to venture into Wistram’s lower levels. The blood from some of her victories made her stronger.
Her winning made her master level. However, Minizi couldn’t always win.
This foe, for instance, wasn’t even killable with her weapons. Still, the snarling giant rat six feet tall and so long it could barely turn in the corridor hadn’t killed Minizi, just snapped her in half twice.
It didn’t like the taste of sand, and the overgrown warren of giant rats with skin like mithril had continued to rebuff all attempts to defeat them, even a Gold-rank team.
Viltach had high hopes for a certain Gold-rank team to maybe clear them out. He had no idea how they had gotten this tough or strong, but he was certain it was due to some kind of magical artifact. Minizi waved her sword menacingly at the giant rat driving her back to the surface. She had kept trying to lure it into a trap spell, but it had refused to take the bait. She was giving up in her limited way when a shadow crossed the hallway.
Minizi and the giant rat turned. Just in time to see a glowing colossus made of black crystal lit by light blue fire stop.
Cognita of Wistram halted. She looked down at Minizi. The Lifesand Golem stopped waving her sword and stared up at Cognita.
“Lifesand.”
Cognita murmured. Minizi stared up at Cognita. The giant rat, sensing the threat, squealed and lunged, throwing its entire weight into a massive jump.
The Truestone Golem’s uppercut tore off its head. She shoved the body of the rat aside. Minizi stared up in awe at her. The Truestone Golem regarded the nest.
“The Cornucopia lies within. Take it.”
Minizi straightened. Was this her task? No—she realized as more figures walked down the hallway. Minizi’s little sand jaw opened.
The rats in the nest swarmed out, smelling blood and danger. They took one look at the levitating Golem, suspended off the ground, its Golem Heart surrounded by a protective magical shield, and ran. The Wind Golem with magical armor and weapons anchored to its body swept after the squealing rats.
Eight Sentry Golems knelt. Eight more aimed bows into the nest and began to loose arrows. Cognita watched, glowing gently, as two armored Golems strode in after the vanguard. She calmly accepted the Cornucopia, handed it to a servant, and walked off. Minizi was left staring as the army of Golems cleared house. They stomped off, without looking twice at her.
The Lifesand Golem kicked at the dead rat’s body. Then Minizi bent. She might not have been able to kill them herself. Oh, but look at all this blood…
 
——
 
Golems were moving. The protective Golems, only roused in times of war, stirred, emerging from hidden alcoves and rooms.
They walked up from the sea floor as the Drowned Ship decided enough was enough and retreated five miles. The half-Gazer saw a Water Golem shoot up, spinning, from the sea bed where it had been buried, evading even her eyes.
What was happening?
She was getting nervous. Perhaps…rightly so. But not Eldavin, not Gazi, no one knew where all the Golems were headed. Only Cognita saw them. Arranged them just so, set them up…
“There.”
The Truestone Golem stood in the entrance of Zelkyr’s final test and admitted the truth. She had thought no one could best Zelkyr’s trap, his formation.
A half-Elf had. He might be the most accomplished [Mage] in the world. Not even Zelkyr could have matched him. If he came back, it was conceivable he could kill all five Golems, especially with a team.
She didn’t know what had changed, but he was clearly different. She didn’t trust him, even if he had seemed like the same half-Elf.
Trust was not something Cognita needed. She nodded to herself, picturing an attack-team of [Mages] coming in. Or even Gold-ranks.
They would not see four Golems this time, or five if Cognita were there. This time…
Enchanted barricades, crewed by Sentry Golems holding enchanted bows. Elemental Golems, arrayed by type, waiting at checkpoints. Flying Golems, some holding artifacts, patrolling the skies.
More were deploying trap runes. Creating more walls and fortifications. An entire army’s worth of Golems was creating a second level of defenses that would have made a certain Antinium [Trapsetter Strategist] faint with envy. Or maybe that was the poison gas, now circulating all but the clearly-delineated ‘safe zone’. Walk past there and die.
“I should make a sign.”
Signs were nice. [Mages] tended to read signs. Cognita estimated that this room was deadlier than before, even discounting her presence. No hidden trap. Just clear, overwhelming death as Zelkyr’s Golems fortified this ground.
Even Eldavin would hesitate to test this, even with every Archmage at his back. It was a room of as much overwhelming firepower as she could imagine.
And because it was such a fine defense…it didn’t need her any longer. Or maybe for a little while. Cognita pulled something out of her bag of holding. She studied it.
It was a map. She had circled a few nations. She had a stack of letters in her hand. From people who claimed to be admirers. She knew the Four Winds of Teral was still docked. Cognita glanced at Zelkyr’s great test, then wearily turned away.
She was just…tired. The Truestone Golem, after a century of loyal service, heartache, and time, freed by the Grand Magus Eldavin, did not rebel. She did not burn down Wistram.
Cognita simply went on vacation.
 
——
 
It all came to this. Grand Magus Eldavin strode down the halls of Wistram, flanked by the highest-ranking members of the Terras faction.
Not just them. He was talking to some newcomers. Some [Mages] who had never been part of Wistram; interested Drakes from Fissival, but most importantly, old guard like Telim, Sa’la, and Teura.
Every species, from Selphid to Drake…except Gnoll. Eldavin needed to correct that too.
One step at a time. The half-Elf’s mind was whirling with so many ambitions and projects. He felt…had he bitten off more than he could chew? But he had the distinct impression he could chew it down!
Something had changed. Cognita had noticed it too. But apropos of that…Eldavin squared his shoulders. He’d chosen the right trajectory for his little walk.
He was having a walk and talk. In the company of so many high-level [Mages], everyone from Naili to Viltach’s socks knew something was up. So he had an audience in the packed corridors.
“Let me be frank, Wall Lord. I came back to Wistram and it was not the Wistram of old.”
Eldavin addressed the Drake on his left. He was being more than frank, actually. The half-Elf nodded to another quite decently competent [Battlemage]. No wonder she was an adventurer. Any Silver-rank team would do well with…was it Falene? Silver Swords. What would they call themselves when they reached Gold-rank? The Gold Swords? It just didn’t have the same ring.
“Miss Falene, your adventurer companion, Dawil—”
“He is completely, unrepentantly simple, Grand Magus. If he offended you at all, I deeply apologize.”
Eldavin snorted in a way that told everyone he had an opinion.
“Quite the contrary. He was right. Cognita is more famous than any current Archmage, except the notably absent Amerys.”
He heard everyone try to inhale all the atmosphere around like a [Void Room] spell. Eldavin looked around.
“Am I wrong? A servant of an [Archmage] incurs more respect abroad from adventurers and other non-[Mages]. She is more respected, and more feared here. She just doesn’t remind you of it. Well, that’s a disgrace.”
He saw a few cautious nods from the people around him and marked them as non-sycophants as opposed to the ones who would never say anything controversial. Mark the useful ones, the competents, and let the less-valuable [Mages] do exactly what you need them to do.
So busy. He was teaching spells, building up authority, but one thing pressed at his mind. It wasn’t his damn job. But…she was under his protection.
Where was Ryoka Griffin? Who was that spellcaster? It worried Eldavin because he didn’t like being second fiddle to anything. She was obviously not as important as his concerns, or Wistram, or the affairs of nations.
Yet she was under his protection. Eldavin therefore made it a priority. Just—after this.
A susurration. The [Mages] and students casually strolling ahead of him were slowing down. Moving back to the sides as they realized there was traffic from ahead. Eldavin murmured.
“The question is this, to my mind, friends. Who rules Wistram? [Mages]? Or Golems?”
They looked at him in astonishment, as if he could even ask. But then—everyone turned.
There she was. Coming down the hallway. It was a fact Eldavin had observed; students would happily block even the largest Golem with no fear for their safety, even when heavy furniture was being moved.
Not her. Not ever. Not…
Cognita. She was walking down the hallway and parting the sea of students and [Mages] like the tide. Everyone had seen her display this morning, but even without it, not even Archmages impeded her path.
Eldavin felt the hangers-on moving to the side, but the [Mages] around him didn’t see the half-Elf change course. Cognita was coming down the center of the hallway, looking…
“Who rules Wistram?”
The Truestone Golem’s head snapped up. She slowed a second, then kept walking. Eldavin and the [Mages] proceeded onwards, and every eye was on the old half-Elf.
This was it. Eldavin had two dozen spells bound to one hand, but they were only defensive. You made a point and stuck to it. If Cognita wanted to force the issue…
The Truestone Golem was frowning. She did not look happy. She, weighing possibly thousands of pounds, a nine-foot tall woman made of marble, walked at the gaggle of [Mages]. The name for a group of [Mages] was technically an Arcaneum, but that was pretentious.
“Grand Magus…”
Teura looked terrified. Eldavin just locked his gaze on the jade green eyes.
“Who…”
They were on a crash course, but no one broke ranks. Telim was sweating and standing behind Sa’la.
“…rules…”
Eldavin saw Cognita striding faster. She’d probably crush anyone not wearing a barrier spell to paste. The Drakes from Fissival were looking at each other. The [Mage] audience were like gawking seagulls.
“…Wistram?”
Eldavin breathed. He suppressed the urge to flinch. Cognita’s leg was an inch, an inch from striking him when she stepped around him and kept walking. Sa’la flinched so hard she knocked into Telim.
But then the Truestone Golem was gone, striding onwards, a scowl deepening on her face. Eldavin kept walking as if nothing happened; everyone else turned and looked back. That was what they’d talk about.
It was done. Eldavin smiled to himself.
They had their answer.
The [Mages] began to applaud Eldavin. Actually applaud him. If the half-Elf had been the same person that had fought Cognita, the Eldavin of merely a month ago, he might have noticed something.
A few Golems were working the corridors as usual as [Mages] jostled past them, ignoring the servants. Cleaners, lifters, security. They never looked twice at the half-Elf.
Who ruled Wistram? [Mages]. It had always been [Mages]. A [Mage] had made them, and [Mages] would always rule.
She had never cared about that. Their heads rose, as one, and followed her as she left. She did not rule with iron fists or a crown. She took care of it.
It had always been for [Mages]. The ones who had built this grand place. If she had ever loved anything, it was the place itself. Older than her, more faithful than any other. Waiting for them to be worthy of it.
“I will return.”
Cognita of Wistram laid a hand on the walls, giving no second thought to the hallway. She looked at the Academy of Mages and wondered if it would one day speak. Or if it knew her.
Then she went to find a bag. Not that she had anything to pack. Hats. Didn’t you wear hats?
She would like a hat.
 
——
 
“No good servant should ever outlive their master.”
He’d never had to think of it like that. Of course, he agreed, but until now, he hadn’t thought that was even possible. Even after waiting for eternity…
Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer mourned for…he didn’t know how long. He only bestirred himself to clean the ranks.
The traitorous Revenant was dead. He had rebelled, as he surely would have with the master’s death. Oh, but he had slain a score of the loyal ones. Tolveilouka, or Tolve, would have dearly loved to tear him apart himself.
There would have been a fitting battle for the wrath and grief within him. Lacking that—Tolve completed the cycle, ironically, by purging the rest.
“Traitors.”
He tore off a Revenant Wraith’s head. Some were natural byproducts of their death, assimilated into the hordes of undead that served the master. Others had been deliberate creations.
“You die. Die, die—he is dead—diediediediedie—”
