Lady Buscrei swore. Mildly, as she saw the water ripple and surge, suddenly pushing the giant ship. She ran down the ship to get a better view, but it was so massive she could barely see.
Lord Swey, at the railings, had been throwing up before the ship activated the water magic enchantment. Everyone felt it pick up speed. Accordingly—Pellmia swore and dove, just in time to avoid flying puke at such speed it slapped a [Storm Sailor] and knocked them overboard.
“Man overb—”
Pellmia began to roar, until he saw a hand materialize and seize the [Sailor] mid-plummet. It tossed the man back on board. A good thing too.
The ship was moving faster.
“…We just hit 62 knots and we’re picking up speed each second, [Captain]!”
“Don’t hit anything. Arm the enchantments. And fly the banners.”
The flags of four Houses began to rise as the Pride of the Wellfar picked up more speed. Now they were heading into deep waters. And the [Messages] were flying after the ship by the dozens. Hundreds.
“I am prepared to take full responsibility for my actions. I cannot do more than support you if House Wellfar takes umbrage.”
Tyrion began. Etril lost his patience and turned.
“Fear, Tyrion Veltras? I gave you my support the moment you asked and I thought it over! My mother would have without thinking. Do you think I am afraid?”
He paced back to the same spot and pointed down. Tyrion Veltras saw the new floorboards. His memory…flickered.
The [Lord of Waves] looked at him, then up at the ceiling where the roof had also been repaired. He smiled. No…he bared his teeth.
“My father died where I stand. My mother charged the Guild of Assassins alone. I stand in the Pride of the Wellfar, the greatest ship of the Five Families. We are going to make war on the nation that dared steal a son of the Five Families. That is why we stand with you. Even Reinhart, if you had asked. The Five Families protect their own. Fear. Fear?”
He began to laugh. Then stopped himself. Etril shook his head bitterly and turned, hands behind his back, as he regarded the glittering projection. He gestured at a framed portrait—two—behind him. At a woman captured mid-laugh, in the height of her life.
“If I fear anything, Tyrion, it is that I will never be half the man my mother was. Now. Shut up and let me captain my ship.”
Tyrion Veltras shut up. Etril Wellfar strode onto the deck. He glanced towards the horizon.
“Straight north. Where’s Ailendamus’ blockade?”
“Last sighting…”
“Don’t bother with coordinates. Steer us towards it, [Helmswoman].”
“Aye, Captain.”
 
——
 
The 4th Most Powerful [Lord] in the world, as named by the popular book by Krsysl Wordsmith, was Lord Imor Seagrass, the [Stormlord Captain] and leader of [Storm Sailor] fleets.
His fleet was one of the most powerful in the world, and famed for revitalizing trade routes normally plagued by [Pirates]. He was, in fact, escorting a huge shipment from Baleros.
One of the things he had in plenty were pacts, trade negotiations. One even with Magnolia Reinhart herself to ensure a steady supply of sugar to her lands. He’d gotten the worst of that deal, but Imor Seagrass was a rich man.
If he had one huge irritant in his life, it was that [Pirate]. One of the most feared [Pirates] living. The new wave of her kind. The continual rival to his power. The Tulm to his Niers, to use a Balerosian expression.
He was in hot pursuit of her, but his powerful fleet of eight, for all their speed and considerable firepower, couldn’t catch the fastest ship in the world.
The Illuminary. Lord Imor growled, demanding more speed from the laboring sails, but Rasea was mocking him, as her shining ship sped onwards.
“Rasea Zecrew! Come back and be brought to justice!”
Imor Seagrass roared. Which was funny because for all he was a ‘[Stormlord Captain]’, and his fleets were crewed by [Storm Sailors] as opposed to [Pirates] or Drowned Folk, he had been known to be just as opportunistic when it came to rival [Merchants] and enemy fleets.
Rasea was swerving her ship left and right, avoiding long-range artillery spells. The damned siege weapons that she’d looted off House of Minos ships that Imor Seagrass had wanted for his own fleets for years had taken down the mast of one of his vessels and inflicted light casualties on another, but it was a running battle over the last two hours as he tried to box her in.
Slowly. They were ships at sea and even the Illuminary wasn’t close to, say, Garuda air-battles. It was a game of boxing her in via terrain, hidden ships, using Skills…and making sure she didn’t outwit him, or get close enough to try for his head.
She’d nearly killed one of his tame Sea Serpents already. Her crew might be small, but they were deadly at hand-to-hand combat. That was how she fought. Charge in, cut down her foes, escape.
Seagrass was more defensive. But the two nemeses were battling across the northern Diwater straits, daring each other, but not able to take advantage of natural reefs or other hazards.
She was going to get away again! Seagrass pounded the helm and kept his eyes on the Illuminary—right up until it suddenly began to turn.
“What’s going on?”
It was heading back. Seagrass wondered if Rasea had taken leave of her senses, but ordered his ships to instantly surround her. This was the end! Unless she was trying for him?
His mind buzzed with thoughts until one of his [Lookouts] shouted.
“Lord Seagrass! Ship approaching from starboard! Something…huge!”
“Ignore it! The Illuminary sinks today! Prepare for boarding!”
Seagrass strode down the decks as [Storm Sailors] cheered and geared up. Four ships prepared to close in, literally trap the Illuminary from all sides, heedless of the damage, and wipe them out. But then the [Lookout] bellowed.
“Lord Seagrass! It’s—it’s coming straight for us! It’s a capital-class ship! No. Citadel-class? K-Kraken’s tentacles! It’s…”
The [Stormlord] spun on his heel. He stared. The ship had been a dot on the horizon when the [Lookout] spotted it, beyond the naked eye’s range. By the time he fumbled for an enchanted spying glass, he almost didn’t need it. One of the [Storm Sailors] murmured, awed.
“Pride of the Wellfar! Look at it go! Those are Dragonsails it’s flying, Captain!”
“I can see that! Who in the abyss pissed off House Wellfar?”
“Maybe they heard about the Illuminary? Zecrew has to have hit them…”
The speed of Imor’s fleet slowed. He stared at the distant ship…no, the ship closing on them. How fast was it going? Then he felt the same thing Rasea had felt.
Ding. Ding.
It was more like the ship’s bell in his mind. That was the sound of Imor’s [Dangersense] going off. He hadn’t heard it ring that loudly for a while.
“Helm. Take us about.”
He breathed. The [Dauntless Helmsman] hesitated.
“Lord Seagrass?”
“Do it. Order the same for all ships! Abandon the chase! The Pride is…”
Coming straight at them. Seagrass hesitated. Of course, his naval operations were above-board, compared to Rasea’s piracy. But they had clashed with Wellfar shipping fleets more than once. There was no reason to go this far, was there? Wellfar never risked a board on their precious ship. There was no way…
“Who was captaining the Pride this time?”
“Uh…uh, someone new. Etril Wellfar.”
“Never heard of him. Who is—”
Then Imor Seagrass recalled. Wasn’t that Gresaria Wellfar’s son? He did a quick calculation based on personality.
“All about! Full speed!”
 
——
 
Tyrion Veltras stood on the deck watching both groups turn tail. He glanced at Etril Wellfar.
“These are not Ailendamus ships.”
“No. So what? They’ve both stolen from House Wellfar and held up our ships.”
Etril Wellfar calmly watched the other vessels. He turned to his [First Mate].
“And when do we let [Pirates] go?”
The [First Mate] glanced at the [Helmswoman]. The man looked at Etril oddly.
“Is that a fucking joke, Captain? Never.”
“Good answer. Arm artillery spells!”
Tyrion Veltras checked himself. He turned to Jericha and the others.
“Belowdecks. Prepare for boarding—”
“No need.”
Etril cut him off. He raised a hand and Tyrion saw the [Ship Mage] raise a glowing key.
“Raise the barriers.”
A glowing wall of magic appeared around the Pride of the Wellfar’s prow, like armor, suspended in midair. Then a second layer; an aerial wall that blocked a spinning ballista bolt and blew the object to smithereens. Then a third magical shield…Tyrion Veltras glanced over the railing.
Swey puked again, just in time to watch the bile vanish as a spell materialized.
 
——
 
“Dead gods! Evade! Ev—”
The first oversized pillar of lightning blew a hole in the sea. The Illuminary shot past Seagrass as his ships turned around and scattered.
“Imor! I didn’t know you pissed off Wellfar!”
Rasea screamed at him as her ship accelerated past Seagrass. For a moment they were so close they could have hit each other with a sufficiently well-aimed rock throw, but at the speed they were moving, there was no chance of boarding.
No desire, either.
“This is your fault, Zecrew! What did you do?”
“Me? Nothing! What did you—”
Rasea spun the wheel of her ship desperately, but the [Frost Geyser] still blasted her ship. Imor laughed—right up until he saw a [Fireball] volley hit one of his ships.
“Tell them to stop! Dead gods, we’ll turn around and board that damned ship and take it over! It’s nine versus one! Ten with the Illuminary!”
“Hey. I like that idea.”
The [Pirate] grinned, making as if to turn her ship. Imor snarled, turning back, weighing the odds of seizing a Citadel-class ship. They could hold thousands of [Sailors], but he had nine ships and the most famous [Pirate] might join him. Of course, the Pride of the Wellfar could hold countless more [Soldiers] and double as a transport. But aside from two ships in the distance, he didn’t see…
The [Stormlord] sighted on the ship with his spyglass. He took one look at the four flags flying. Then focused on the deck.
“[Appraisal] spell.”
“Yessir!”
His [Mage] took one look at the ship, signalled Imor Seagrass. He closed the spyglass.
“Zecrew! Let’s take on the Pride of the Wellfar!”
“Hah! I like your style, Seagrass! But how will you seal the deal? Let’s—”
Rasea slowed a few knots. Seagrass seized the wheel, rammed her ship, and sent her listing, slowing her further. He barked.
“Full speed ahead! Run for it!”
“You bastard!”
The [Pirate] screamed at him. Then she took one look back, and saw all four flags flying. She didn’t need an [Appraisal] spell. She just measured auras, and saw no less than ten [Lords] standing on the deck. With all their armies in the hold…
“Uh. Let’s get out of here, lads!”
As the ships tried to flee, the Pride of the Wellfar advanced. Now all ten ships were throwing their own bombardments back, to slow the Citadel-class ship’s advance. Imor, standing on his ship, looked back.
“What in the name of The Last Tide is that?”
Rasea Zecrew turned her head. Her glowing eye saw something expand from the bow of the ship. She swallowed.
“That’s the Curse of the Wellfar! Get out! Stop firing, Seagrass! Stop—”
The air changed. Rasea stopped feeling the air on her face. She tried to escape the most powerful enchantment the Citadel-class ship had just activated, racing onwards. Her catapults and ballista stopped firing, but the idiotic Seagrass kept his spells flashing towards the other ship for a second too long.
The water was flat. It had turned into a mirror. They were sailing in another world. A contained, tiny one. Rasea was sweating. She saw the [Lightning Bolts] and [Fireballs] flying through the air with showers of enchanted arrows, towards the Pride of the Wellfar’s glowing shields. They’d go down with enough damage—Seagrass might be able to threaten the ship’s hull itself with just his nine ships, let alone all his fleet.
That wasn’t why you ran. You ran because this was the monster that killed Dragonships. The evilest predator sailing. Rasea saw the spells and arrows vanish before they even reached the ship. She spun the wheel.
“[Ship: Phantom’s—]”
She never uttered the Skill. The flicker was enough warning. She saw one of Seagrass’ escort ships run straight into a bombardment.
Lightning bolts, striking the enchanted hull! [Fireballs], blowing pieces out of the deck, sending [Sailors] screaming into the waters. Arrows, detonating across the ship!
It listed, no longer moving. It was the exact same attack that Seagrass had launched. His ships instantly stopped volleying and kept fleeing. They were in the Curse of the Wellfar. Everything you send at us, we’ll send right back at you.
They could manipulate space, so you shot arrows at yourself, or rammed into each other if you didn’t check your travel through this trick-realm. The only chance they had was to board, or outfox the enchantment. Rasea Zecrew glanced over her shoulder.
Tyrion Veltras waited, sword and shield drawn. Lady Buscrei was taking potshots with her bow as Lord Swey…kept throwing up. Rasea waved at them. Then she snarled at her [First Mate].
“Get us out of here.”
They left behind three burning ships and a Sea Serpent. Etril Wellfar only gave up the chase because one of the burning hulls had crashed into the Pride of the Wellfar at over a hundred knots and smashed all but one barrier.
It was a mistake a [Captain] unfamiliar with the sheer speed of the vessel made. Unfortunately, it gave Seagrass and Zecrew the chance to escape; it was too risky to advance. He turned.
“Back on course.”
Lord Tyrion watched the younger man’s smile. He settled back, now it was clear they wouldn’t be fighting. He felt like he was waking up. The closer they got…his head rose and he looked north, to the still far-off continent. But growing closer.
“Sammial.”
He was grateful. He would have taken a lesser ship, evaded the blockade or forced his way through. He had no need to.
So this was Gresaria Wellfar’s son.
 
——
 
The Pride of the Wellfar had taken to deep sea. Its attack on the two famous [Captains] had not gone unnoticed. But it had actually provided a cover, of sorts.
In the first hours, everyone assumed it was Etril Wellfar flexing his muscles. Not long for the captaincy of the ship with that recklessness, but he’d nearly gotten those two old salt-villains.
Of course, some knew exactly what was going on. Everyone else was in the dark and the ship’s naval battle got a feature on television. Wasn’t that all you wanted?
In Ailendamus’ courts, King Itorin II had some cause for alarm when he saw the vessel at sea. He ‘summoned’ Duke Rhisveri, and his uncle opined it wasn’t anything to worry about.
