“I will also need fresh monster flesh ground down to a fine paste.”

Tarano froze, then looked up to Kordok, still holding Viv’s shoulder in a death grip.

“She believes it,” the taciturn man grumbled.

Tarano did not swear but Viv practically saw him bite back a curse. He started to pace around the room. Viv kept her emotion under control. This would work.

“Why do you even need that?”

“Black mana does not create, it transforms. I need a base material to regrow flesh.”

“Would preserved rations work?”

Viv shook her head.

“First, the fresher the better, and second, I use the material in the paste. We are not only regrowing muscle here. We need bones and organs. Honestly, I doubt it would work with old meat.”

“Dammit.”

Tarano resumed his pacing. Another boom came from above. This time, the building didn’t shake.

The constable frowned and turned his head.

“How about human corpses?”

“Look,” Viv said, “we want fresh monster meat because they have mana and this helps both the transformation and the later drawing of pathways. Pick humans and you don’t just forfeit that, you go from rebuilding flesh with predigested food to healing someone with dead humans. This would attract the attention of… you know who.”

Tarano froze.

“Up to you but I wouldn’t tempt it,” Viv added helpfully.

The man glared at her and she felt his presence smash into her own. Her leadership rose to the challenge. It wasn’t enough to push him back, but it was enough not to flinch.

“You seem very interested in doing things well, suddenly,” Tarano remarked in a deceptively calm manner.

“What happens if I fuck up the healing?” Viv asked, certain of the answer.

“You die. Similarly, if for any reason the prince perishes, you die. I left strict orders. Do you understand?”

“I understand; I expected it, and that’s why I’m interested in doing things properly. You leave me mostly alone and I will fix your damn heir.”

“You are still hoping for something else,” Tarano said.

Viv thought she had perhaps been too adversarial the last time. On the other hand, she was feeling rather adversarial right the fuck now.

“Look, what I’m hoping is that the army out there wins and shoves your pretentious mug on a spike to be pecked at by mangy birds so I don’t have to see you and your bastard friend ever again.”

“She means it,” Kordok added helpfully.

Tarano glared at the jailer.

“Thank you for enlightening me. You will lead the prisoner back to her cell and provide proper lodging conditions. That is all.”

Kordok grabbed Viv and pushed her back. Viv’s strength was around that of a very young adult in this bullshit world and any soldier here outclassed her completely, which was a little frustrating. As she walked back, she scolded herself for her reaction. Only her quick thinking had prevented her from blurting out Sangor was going to get him, thus strongly hinting she had access to outside information. Negotiations were fine because they were better than torture, but outbursts were prohibited. The hunger and exhaustion were messing with her head. She was also out of practice watching her mouth. Six months being the queen bitch and she couldn’t stay quiet to save her own damn life. Ah well. At least, she had achieved her purpose.

Viv returned to her cell and waited until Kordok had left to contact Eteia.

“Hey.”

“I’m here,” the answer returned promptly, “have you found anything?”

“There is a secret entrance under the north east tower, angled towards the forest. At the base. Its entrance is obscured by a small tree bearing red leaves. It is obstructed for now but I’d wager it will be cleared soon to let out a small hunting expedition. Or one could come in from the other camp.”

“That is great news, I’ll make sure it reaches the other side.”

It was a bit of a gamble on Viv’s side. The keep only had one main gate facing the valley. Hundreds of men defended the fortress while the main group of loyalist soldiers occupied a large hill south of it across a small depression, forming twin elevated grounds. Tarano had limited options to get the fresh monster meat Viv requested into the keep. Technically, scouts could roam towards the Deadshield Woods to find something then attach it to ropes which would then be dragged over the wall from the other side, but Viv wagered they wouldn’t want to be too visible. She hoped Tarano would think the same.

Shortly after that, Kordok returned with water, a large bowl filled with fresh congee, and crisp bread.

“Compliance brings peace.”

Viv rolled her eyes. The food was one of the best meals Viv had ever tasted which got to show how hungry she’d been. A bath was provided as well as a conservative plain dress. She felt human again.

The rest of the day was spent mostly idly between conversations and trying to read the book that asshole Archmage Tamar had found her, which was a dry, long-winded treaty on how magecraft was superior to witchery in every aspect. It did contain some interesting takes on several spell duels. Interestingly, several of those ended in the witch’s victory but they were described as flukes and unfair fights, proof that witches were without honor. Viv found the pettiness more amusing than anything else now that she had a full belly and the prospect of showing Tamar his own bloody pancreas.

The next day, she was requested to demonstrate the viability of the spell, which led her to an ethical question.

Did she care about her intellectual property?

The regrowth spell was hers and only hers, the first original contribution she had made for spellcraft that could actually be used, unlike yoink which would kill the caster. It was a significant improvement to Nyil which, she thought, didn’t deserve it after all it had done to her. The spell had helped her by attracting crippled veterans to her banner. The freshly healed warriors had returned the favor with a vengeance, tearing into Prince Lancer’s troops with cathartic fury. If the spell spread, she would lose the advantage that came with monopoly.

At the same time, Nyil was morally bankrupt up to and including some of the light gods and it would be hypocritical for her to bitch about it while being part of the problem. Nyil was garbage. She had an opportunity to make it less garbage. Maybe that was fine. Maybe leaving her mark in history as someone who had killed a slaver prince, revitalized a fragment of the deadlands, and invented a way to regrow limbs was… not too bad, actually.

Yeah, Nyil could have the spell. As she had mentioned, it would take a black mana specialist or an archmage to perform it anyway so she would still retain an advantage in the short term, but now more people would use it. Rich people, given the cost at first, but at least that was a start. Maybe someone would refine the process until it eventually became the norm.

Yeah, she was fine with that. She was fine with that choice and that legacy, if it came to it.

Viv made no effort to hamper the session, for once. She requested an empty room which was provided and demonstrated the three steps of her reconstruction spells, making sure to list the requirements. Tamar followed the entire session with a sneer, but the two other powerful mages present asked pertinent questions and seemed genuinely interested. Viv tried to meet them halfway but the old buggers kept talking about Aldus’ paradigm and the Plinex constant and other such abstract nonsense, which made communication difficult. She resorted to explaining meaning and glyph usage, which in turn made the mages blink in confusion. They would be unable to cast any time soon but they were able to mark down every glyph and the construct of the ritual despite not fully understanding it, so there was that. After a few hours of efforts, the two other mages saluted Viv with a hand to their forehead which Viv’s instinct said was a sign of respect from one practitioner to another. It made Tamar even more annoyed.

The first batch of meat arrived the same evening. Viv discarded them on account of being from animals, not monsters, and that they would be more complex to work with. The only worthy specimen was a bird with bright green feathers, all two kilograms of it.

Nevertheless, Viv set up in the prince room to regrow his right shoulder as a proof of concept under the supervision of Tamar and another mage. Tarano was there as well, and Kordok stood by her side. It felt great to flex her mana again even if it was heavily controlled. Better yet, Tarano allowed her to wield her dagger which had been left intact for now, on account of being useless to anyone but a black mana specialist. Her shield was also returned. Other items were left in the room as encouragement, she thought.

The operation went well despite two swords and a plethora of spells hanging over her head, ready to turn her to ash at a moment’s notice. It only took a couple of minutes, and when she was done, there was genuine emotion on Tarano’s face. He grabbed Prince Kune’s face with a fatherly hand and whispered.

“I will save you, then you can save Enoria.”

Viv was so eager to crush his dreams. That would have to wait, however, but probably not too long.

In the corridor, Viv had another good look at the outside. The encampment was fully fortified and the separatist army was building something she never expected to see in a world of sorcery, and yet it was there. At the tip of their formation stood a massive siege tower. It was as tall as some earth buildings and would definitely reach the top of the keep if it were allowed to move there. Made of wood, the surface was covered in strange paintings, animal skulls, and decorated pelts to the extent that it looked more like a horror movie prop than an actual war machine. Spikes adorned its sides. As she watched, an artillery spell launched from the keep’s battlement only to be intercepted by a bird made of fire. A dull explosion reached her ears from across half a kilometer away.

More explosions sounded while she walked across the busy courtyard under the disapproving glare of the local soldiers. Squads of archers crossed it at a brisk pace. Viv could not help but admire their massive bows, all ornamented and well-made. Once more, the walls shook from various impacts. She didn’t protest when Kordok shortened her break.

After that, the jailer brought her back to her cell which now sported covers and even a pillow. She placed her shield against the wall. As she had said, it had a sentimental value with all the crests present. She was barely seated when Naden came to visit with Lotae in tow. The follower of Enttiku knocked before going in while Lotae glared disapprovingly at her creature comforts. Viv pulled a power move by offering the only spare seat to Naden before the rancid bitch could react, which left her standing. Small victories.

“If you don’t mind, could you tell me about the ritual and what would be expected of me?”

"Certainly. I will use a diagnostic spell to identify and map the missing matter, then black mana will turn sludge into the desired shape. The problem is that the soul does not recognize the foreign matter as its own. It takes a healing spell to complete the process, one I cannot cast.”

“Would it work with life mana?”

“Yes, but I suspect the spell might be incredibly complex while divine mana will do most of the work naturally. The divine spell truly completes the fusion, then it takes a while for the mana channels to regrow. The process is extremely uncomfortable.”

“Would it be more uncomfortable for people who have developed them, like mages and spell blades?”

“We would need to conduct a study to know for sure. So far, it has not been a priority.”

The discussion continued for a while. Outside, the bombardment was intensifying so the two priestesses eventually took their leave to attend to the wounded. The shaking walls led Viv to believe that the separatists had their own magical heavyweights and they had come in force.

“You know what would be awful?” Mildery asked later.

“I can think of a couple of things. What did you have in mind?”

“If I died buried in stones instead of burying my warhammer in someone’s chest. In my own castle no less! The humanity.”

“Don’t mention it. I’m knocking on wood.”

“Eh?”

“It’s a saying from where I come from. Err. Means warding off bad luck.”

There was a knock nearby.

“If it doesn’t work, my revenant will bite your ass.”

“Oh it can certainly try.”

They bantered a bit more, but Viv felt a sort of tension in the air, something at the edge of her perception that distracted her.

In the evening, the bombardment redoubled in intensity. Horns rang in the distance.

The door unlocked. Lotae came in. Viv felt all sorts of alarms ring in her head. The cold woman’s smirk only reinforced her idea that something was wrong.

“You are too docile,” the woman said in a light tone. “Far too calm. I know your kind, always reaching up. You will never learn your place and you will never contribute. You only take. If you are giving, it is to better take later. Tarano may be fooled and distracted, but I am not. You are planning something. You will tell me now.”

“I’m planning to break your neck.”

“Hilarious. You are such a great witch, witty and exotic. Bantering with the men and tempting them with your honeyed words. It’s all fun and games to you.”

“I assure you I take life quite seriously.”

