Lotae lifted a hand. Her presence smashed against Viv’s, a red wave of compliance. It was edges and power designed to subdue, but behind there was a lure, one that Viv understood. It was the serenity of a well-ordered life. It was peace and routines and a code that would guide, answer the difficult questions, but beyond that it was also a community. If Viv surrendered herself, she would be dependent yet protected by a tight-knit group. Within those constraints, she would still have freedom, and happiness could still be found.

But not by her. And certainly not by a faith she would not pick herself.

Viv’s intimidation, long dormant, woke up. She had led an army to victory. She had given people a purpose. Her works had pushed back the deadlands and now, trees and crops grew where earth had laid dead for centuries. More importantly, she had impressed a dragon. Only a worthy cause would sway here and this wasn’t it.

Lotae grit her teeth in frustration but the sheer power of Viv’s existence broke her spell and called its lies. Lotae did not wish for Viv’s happiness, only for her obedience. Hers was advice meant to change Viv for other people’s benefit and not for her own. The priestess fought harder but she didn’t have a grip. There were no chinks in the witch’s armor, reinforced as it was by her trust in herself, her defiance of others, and a healthy serving of ego.

Then the door unlocked once again.

Lotae gave up her attempt on the spot, clearly not expecting an interruption. She twisted on herself to face the newcomer, someone Viv had never met before. He wore the garb of a scout, but over enchanted mail that shone silver under the green coat. He was one of the ugliest people Viv had ever met, with an asymmetrical face, a nose like a potato, scarred cheeks, large eyes and a chin you could break rocks on, yet for all of it he was striking. His charisma radiated all the more for his unfortunate features, and the gaze on Viv shone with a keen intellect.

“Scout Kert, here to take the prisoner ma’am.”

Right, if this guy was a scout, Viv was the Queen of England.

“I sincerely doubt it,” Lotae retorted, placing herself squarely between Viv and the man.

Which was a big mistake.

Viv slowed down her perception of time and grabbed Lotae’s head from behind. A red shield enveloped the priestess just as a scream of alarm escaped her lips. Viv felt a resistance, she could not touch the priestess’ skin, but the shield moved with her body and that’s all Viv needed. Using her momentary burst of strength, she pulled her foe backwards and towards her knee. Lotae’s vertebrae snapped with a grisly crack.

Viv wasn’t sure if it would be enough, so she grabbed her shield and smashed it down on the gasping priestess. The woman stopped moving.

When Viv looked up, the fake scout had been joined by a woman wearing armor that seemed to be made of bark and a man in dried leather completely covered in colorful feathers. Other rough men waited behind the door, including one who was quite obviously a mage with a staff disguised as a spear. It could fool people who didn’t have her mana mastery skill, probably.

They were all scarred and angry.

“Oh, I like her already,” the bark woman said.

Viv inspected her. The skill gave back [hunter] for a moment, but then something broke as the woman waved her hand.

[Archwitch of the Thorns: one who follows the path of forest-based magic. Extremely dangerous. Brown and life mana specialist. Expert battle caster. Slayer of men…]

She was in the late fourth step. The man on the right returned [Wing of the Pale Dawn] and the dude in the middle, the one who lied badly, returned [Nigh King].

“I didn’t expect to meet Sangor in the flesh,” Viv said.

“We objected,” the mage said from the door.

“I had a good feeling,” Sangor replied calmly.

He really did have a presence, and his voice was soft and warm. Viv found herself relaxed just from him being around and even more so when he removed the manacles. Viv breathed out. Black tendrils swam from her shoulders and moved around languidly. God, but it felt good to be free. Liberating, as it were.

“The black likes you, sister,” the archwitch remarked. She was smiling broadly.

“Sorry, but we don’t have the time for discussions,” Sangor interrupted. “Do you know where Prince Kune is?”

“Yes.”

“Then lead the way, we have to put an end to this war.”

“Before that,” Viv said, “there is another man here, Lord Mildery. Do you have the key?”

It turned out that they didn’t. Kordok had surrendered Viv’s key as well as his life when Sangor had found him, but Mildery wasn’t his prisoner. This obstacle didn’t stop the group’s mage who simply destroyed the lock. Mildery appeared much younger than Viv expected with an extremely muscular build and a pretty good handlebar mustache on a virile, handsome face. He grinned when he saw Viv.

[Monster Slayer: one who focuses on taking down large creatures with massive weapons.]

“Seems I owe you for more than just a conversation.”

The band of powerful, heavily armored fake scouts moved through the mostly empty corridors. This side of the keep faced the forest and most of the defenders were facing the valley where the separatist army was even now conducting a large-scale assault. The distraction served until they reached the prince’s room which was defended by a pair of guards. They were killed after a short scuffle with the feather dude casting a gray mana silence spell. Viv didn’t have to do anything. It was clear that Sangor had brought people who knew their stuff.

Viv entered the room. Naden was here but she immediately surrendered and no one touched her. Viv rushed to her corner of the room to gear up. Her helmet was there, as well as the dagger and, strangely, her backpack with some of her personal effects. No skinsuit. The food was gone as well as her poison-detecting ring and all of her cash but they had left the bank chit. She finished putting everything on, then turned.

Sangor was cleaning blood from his sword. It was immediately obvious where it came from.

“You… you killed him?” Viv moaned.

“Yes?”

“He was disarmed. I expected you to take him hostage or something?”

“Spoken like a follower of Neriad. I only care for a prompt and definitive end to the war, and I will go to any length to make sure it happens. Even if it means killing a defenseless man.”

Viv watched the expanding pool of blood dripping down the wood frame. The prince’s face had been covered, his bed sheets turned into an improvised shroud. Just like that, the last heir of Enoria had fallen. Barring a miracle, the loyalist side was done for.

And Viv had guided the man who had finished it all. He, the most legitimate heir to the throne, now sheathed his sword.

“Bibiane, I understand that he was your patient, but I need you to focus right now. We have to take down or disable the mages at the top of the tower or there is still a chance to lose this attack. Too many Enorians already lost their lives fighting this pointless war. We need to go, now. Can you lead the way?”

“No, but Edwin Mildery can.”

The procession didn’t stop on its way up. They avoided most soldiers. Those they didn’t were absolutely no match for them. Besides Viv, all the persons present were on the fourth step. The archwitch stopped by Viv’s side, perhaps to distract her. She was a mature woman with ruddy skin tanned by the sun. Mana danced around her in vibrant flares.

“So, which tradition are you from?” she asked with a smile that showed her canines.

Viv realized she had almost no idea about instinctive casters. Solfis had known little about the subject and the little she read was written by mages who seemed to have strong opinions on the subject.

“Hm, nothing special. I mostly use it to kill things.”

The other woman’s smile only widened.

“Oh, that’s a tradition! The Way of the Sun.”

“Huh.”

The conversation did little to distract Viv, especially with the sounds of battle closing in on them. There were no windows on the murderholes, so the screams of the dying and the whistles of arrows came to her in full definition stereo. Sangor led them up and up to the roof. To Viv’s surprise, he just opened the last door and walked in. The rest of them followed.

Tarano stood on top with mages gathered in a half circle around him, including Tamar who looked on the verge of apoplexy when he spotted Viv. The constable looked tired and his armor was damaged on the left side from a near hit. Craters and traces of impact decorated the ground, with parts of the battlement entirely gone. The siege tower Viv had seen was making its merry way up to them at a snail pace, looking mostly intact besides some singed planks. Archers shot out from its interior.

Back on the roof, both sides stood quietly in what appeared to Viv as a veritable storm of mana and soul pressure. She had made sure to be at the extreme right of the formation in case this turned into a slaughter, but even there, the sheer power of the men and women around made her head hurt. Meanwhile, the enemies of a fratricidal war of thirty years eyed each other with frozen faces. Thirty elite casters and knights of the fourth step and above, practically demigods. Tarano was the first to speak.

“Where is Kune?”

“It’s over, Tarano,” Sangor replied. “There is nothing more you can achieve.”

Viv thought it was a shit idea to say that, just as it had been a shit idea to kill the prince instead of using him as a hostage, but Tarano wavered to her surprise. It appeared that the Nigh King had a better grasp of his enemies than she had.

“He was your nephew,” Tarano sobbed.

“And I will bury him myself, but Enoria comes first. Surrender. Spare the lives of your men.”

For one sublime moment, Viv believed Tarano would collapse, that the setting sun of his presence would finally crash down like his dream and dynasty had, but then his eyes swiveled and landed squarely on her.

“You. It is you. I know it.”

Tarano walked in the tense atmosphere and stopped directly in front of Viv. He was beyond fury.

“I do not know how you managed it but I swear on every god that you will pay for this treachery. I do not care how long it will take or where I will find the men but I will come to your idyllic little shithole, and I will destroy everything you ever built, mark my words.”

Viv stood her ground. She opened her mouth and uttered a single word.

“Excalibur.”

The ray of concentrated annihilation smashed through the weakened side of Tarano’s armored torso, rending his heart and most of his chest. He gasped in complete, abject surprise.

Lost Heiress (3/10)

All hell broke loose.

Viv raised the most concentrated shield right in front of her and felt her mana drop precipitously. It broke long enough for her to see Tamar’s furious face. She cast a quick net spell but it broke against a transparent shield. She jumped to the side and blocked something that pushed her back. The roof shook and collapsed under her feet. She slipped, grabbed a ledge. It exploded under her fingers. Viv fell into the abyss below.
