“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” I say immediately.

“You appeared out of nowhere at the same time as the other invaders, have grown inexplicably powerful, and here you are, right in the midst of Seria’s prophecy with two other invaders,” says Wesley. “And you’re telling me you’re not one of them?”

“That’s right,” I say, nodding. “Definitely not one of those nasty invaders, nope. Just a lost princess having some fun.”

“In that case, you wouldn’t mind coming in for some more questioning, right?” he says confidently.

“As long as there’s no cavity search.”

Wesley’s confidence wavers.

“A– a what search?”

“Cavity search. Where you check all the body’s… cavities for contraband. Wouldn’t want the prisoner to sneak a knife in.”

“…No, we will not be doing a cavity search.”

“Ah, good. I went through one of those once, and–” I shudder. “It sucked.”

“Yes, that sounds uncomfortable.”

Wesley awkwardly turns away from me, focusing his attention back on the other two, offering them the option of peaceful surrender.

See that, Abby? That’s how you bluff your way out of completely true accusations. Deny, deny, deny, and then make them so uncomfortable they don’t want to ask further.

“Yes, very effective… And how do you plan to get through this questioning? You know they’re going to have some kind of truth-telling device.”

Oh, I’m not getting questioned. I’m totally running away before then. Either that, or I’m calling Arianne to bail me out. Or maybe Fabio. He should be really motivated to help me out, since me getting caught would be very bad. I guess I could try for both of them. And then I could also run away.

“Wouldn’t running away make you look more suspicious?”

For a bit, yeah, but I can just spin up a story about me fearing for my life or whatever and get rid of most of it. Or I can do nothing, and the suspicion will die down on its own. No biggie. The rumor mill has a pretty short attention span.

“I guess…”

“You old fuck!” I hear Altair shout. “You wanna take me in, huh? I ain’t done anything!”

“If you’ve done nothing, and you don’t plan to do anything, then you have nothing to fear,” says Wesley.

“Nuh uh, that’s what they all say,” said Altair. “I know how the pigs work. Lie to get us in, then slap us with a buncha bullshit. Well, I ain’t goin’. I ain’t done shit. This fuck is the one who killed a bitch.”

He pointed at Mac.

“A ‘bitch’ who Wesley already planned to kill,” said Mac.

“I planned to offer him the same thing I offered to you two,” said Wesley.

“So yeah, he was gonna kill him,” Altair scoffed. “Give it up, you old bastard. You’re here to put us down”

“I’m not–”

“I’d rather die fighting than die in chains,” said Altair. “Fuck the police.”

“Yona, you might want to consider joining the angry bird,” says a voice in my head.

I look up at the twins and raise an eyebrow.

“The church of Seria truly does protect the commonfolk…”

“But they have a tendency to opt for more permanent solutions.”

“They’ll either want you in what amounts to a slave contract.”

“Or they’ll want you dead.”

Shit. Wesley is lying?

“Not lying… Just leaving out details.”

Damn, and I thought he was chill.

“He still could be. He’s a warrior, not a decision-maker. It’s possible he doesn’t know what the plan is. But if the twins say that’s the plan, it probably is. They’d know better than you or I.”

“And if you’re hoping for Arianne to bail you out, she won’t,” continue the twins.

“She doesn’t get involved with divine politics.”

“Letting you into the Adventurer’s Guild is one thing.”

“Bailing you out of trouble with the church of Seria is completely different.”

Shit. Then it’ll have to be Fabio–

“And your ‘cousin’ can’t help you either,” says one of them, as if reading my mind.

“He has very little influence in Elyria, and even less with the church of Seria.”

Shit!

“It seems that your brilliant plan has backfired.”

Nuh uh. It just wasn’t as effective as I thought it’d be. It still got him off my case, didn’t it? Now if we do fight, he won’t be expecting me to join. Or we can–

“Then again, fighting is probably a bad idea.”

“Wesley is way too strong.”

“We wouldn’t even be able to scratch him.”

“Well, maybe the gun can.”

“But we don’t stand a chance in a straight-up fight.”

“And we can’t use the Dungeon either, because they can just camp and wait for us.”

Dammit!

I shoot the twins an angry glare. They’re fucking with me. I should have known. They already have a plan, and they’re just leading me on.

I look back at Altair, whose limbs are coated in fire again as Wesley draws his sword with a sigh. RIP Altair. You will not be missed, crazy asshole.

Before either can make a move, the entire swamp shudders. The birds and frogs go silent, and a wave of wrongness seems to pass over us all. Then there’s another shudder, and birds start flying away en masse from some of the trees in the distance. A third and fourth shudder happen, and all of us stop, using whatever methods we have to fly up and look in the direction that the birds are flying away from. For a few seconds, there is nothing. Then, we see it.

It’s a few kilometers out, but it’s clear as day. An enormous, headless person with arms that are too long and have two elbows instead of one. It stands tall, spreading its arms wide like the Jesus statue in Brazil. Then, it claps, sending a shockwave across the entire swamp, ruffling our hair and clothes. I see a few small flashes of light and fire around it, probably from people trying to bring it down, but they don’t seem to do anything, and it starts walking, heading directly toward the main tree.

“Dang,” Wesley mutters under his breath.

He’s casually floating in the air, using nothing but raw mana to hold himself up. Actually… It looks like it’s pretty mana-efficient. His body is full of mana, and he’s using his willpower to lift it up. Hmmmm… could this possibly be a more efficient method of flying than sitting on a giant mana hand?

“Definitely.”

I guess we’ll never know. The mana hand is simply too stylish. Why would I ever need another mode of transportation? Except maybe wings… I can make fleshy ones now. I should mess with that.

“Yes, you– HOLY SHIT!”

My eyes widen in surprise as Wesley moves faster than a Blink, and Altair suddenly falls back down to the ground, head and body separated.

“Don’t run, or you’ll meet the same fate,” he says, glaring at Mac and I.

“Yes, sir!” says Mac, saluting.

“Uhhhhh…” I say.

Wesley doesn’t stick around to hear whatever I was gonna say after the ‘Uhhhhh’, instead shooting off in the direction of the demon. Which is good.

“Okay, we need to run,” I say, turning to the others. “Now. Unless you guys have a better idea?”

“No, we should definitely run,” says A.

“So you didn’t have a plan?”

“No, we did,” says B.

“It would just be easier to do it in Ocula.”

“So we should run and get there before the paladins do, and then we should be safe.”

“Okay. Then let’s just grab the frogs, and– NO!”

I Blink downward, stretching my arm out to grab the box of frogs, but I’m too late. All I can do is watch helplessly as a pillar of mud rises up from the water, and swallows it up, pulling it deep into the ground. I catch myself just before I hit the water, drawing my sword and Blinking toward the figure sitting on a branch nearby.

“Too slow!” she shouts, cackling as she swings back and flings herself down into the water.

I swing my sword, releasing a Spatial Slice, and at the same time, I open my mouth to spit a charged one at her. Metzli just grins and makes a hand sign with both hands, index fingers and thumbs out in an L shape, palms inward, and hands side by side. I have never seen this gesture before, but it’s very, very obvious that it’s a rude one.

My attacks break against a barrier of mana that appears just in the nick of time, leaving her completely undamaged. She continues grinning at me, and as she does, she slowly morphs. Her colors invert, her pale skin turning such a dark gray it’s almost black, and her black hair turning white. Her eyes stay the same, malevolent red, though, and her canines are just a little too long, and the hair doesn’t get any longer. It’s now cut almost all the way down to the scalp to even it out after I hacked away at it.

“Next time, maybe don’t be such a petty bitch,” her voice says in my mind.

I throw a few more spells at her, but none of them reach her, and another spout of mud comes up from the bottom of the water, and drags her down, just like it did with the box of frogs. I can’t Snatch the box, so I try to Snatch her instead, but just like the first time, it fails, and she rockets away through the ground, the box of frogs traveling right beside her until she’s out of my range.

“NOOOOOOOO!!!” I shout. “YOU BITCH!!!”

“Yona!” says Lauren, arriving beside me. “Who was that? Was that a drow?”

“That was the leader of the cult,” I say. “I caught her before, but she escaped, and now she stole my fucking frogs.”

“We should leave,” says A as the twins descend beside us.

“No!” I say.

“It’s not worth it.”

“It is!”

“Once this is all dealt with, it’ll be easy to come back and find more frogs.”

“It’s about the principle!”

“Yona–”

“Don’t follow me. This is a personal quest.”

“Wait–!” says Lauren.

But I’m already gone, Blinking endlessly in the direction that Metztli fled. Right toward the rampaging demon…

Kai felt the world tremble, and he knew it was starting. And yet, he was still so far out. The only reason he could even feel it was that his Sensitivity was quite high.

I’m not going to make it at this speed, he realized.

He stood up in the boat, taking a few seconds to stretch his legs.

“Kai?” asked Connor.

“I’m going ahead,” he said. “We’re not going to make it in time at this pace.”

“But–”

“I’ll just drink a mana potion when I get there. Follow if you’d like, but I’m not missing this.”

With that, he leapt out of the boat, landing on a bundle of roots, and launching himself forward, straight toward the source of the commotion.

I will not miss out this time.