When she reached the end of the stairs, Alice dropped to the ground and readied her weapon, a mace that absorbed some of the light from the ruin.

Almost immediately, she noticed three things.

First was that her spiritual perception was limited to just a few hundred feet, which wasn’t even enough to fully cover the room they were in. The second was that flying with her Concept was extraordinarily expensive inside the ruin. Not impossible, but too much to keep up for any length of time. Third, there was thankfully natural light.

This room, its walls made from carved stone instead of simulating a natural cavern, had an ore that gave off a soft green light. It wasn’t much, but it was enough to give her Tier 15 eyes enough light to see in.

With their glow, she could see six archways. Two walls had two halls, but without the light stones, it was hard to see where they went or if they converged further down their depths.

That was if the ruin followed normal spatial principles, which Alice knew it might not.

Picking a hallway, Alice took off in a sprint.

None of the other flyers followed her, for which she was grateful, but given that there were six of them, it would have been dumb to double up.

As she entered the hall, her eyes quickly adjusted to the much dimmer light, but she also slowed down.

Her caution paid off when she felt a click under her feet and barely managed to raise her shield in time to catch a stone spike with it.

Pulling a chisel – she didn’t quite remember why she had it – out of her spatially expanded bag, she marked the ground and moved onward, this time tapping each stone floor tile with a stick.

That slowed her down, but she was okay with that given the circumstances.

She was caught up by two of the other scouts, who took turns searching for traps.

One of them, another woman, was far too incautious for Alice’s tastes, but they made it through the corridor without getting hurt.

They sprung half a dozen traps, but there were probably at least one or two that they had missed.

They immediately slunk back into the hall just a second after they entered the next room and saw what it was filled with.

The room was comparably small, maybe two hundred feet to a side, but it was packed with dog-sized spiders with glowing blue abdomens, skittering across all the surfaces of the room like a nightmare carpet.

One spider came and inspected the hallway, but they had already moved back down and quietly communicated through their AI by holding hands as a way to talk without speaking out loud.

‘Who can tank them?’

The other two looked pointedly at Alice and she felt herself wanting to complain, but she held herself back and asked herself how she would deal with this if it was a rift she was delving.

First of all, she’d never enter a rift that she didn’t know the monsters of and their corresponding weaknesses, but she pushed through that thought and forced her mind to really consider.

They had already seen the monsters could enter the tunnel even if they didn’t seem too inclined to do so.

“Let's draw them into the tunnel where we can smash them easier. They are the size of dogs, so even if they stick to the ceiling, we should be able to hit them. With them having so much obvious mana in their bodies, I’m going to operate under the assumption they are mana resistant.”

Near the entrance, Alice raised her shield and carefully tapped her mace against it until she heard skittering.

Movement confirmed, she started backing up.

A lone spider entered the tunnel long enough to look down the hall, but its vision or something with the ruin must have kept it from recognizing her as a threat, and so she was forced to move forward.

Heart pounding, she did so until the monster skittered and its mandibles glowed blue, and an oversized version of its fanged mouth launched itself at her.

Raising her shield, Alice was shoved backward two steps as her boots struggled to find purchase on the stone floor.

An arrow flew over her shoulder and took the spider in the thorax, but that just caused it to screech, which pierced into her ears like nails.

Still, Alice kept her head up and watched out for another attack.

It was a good thing too, because the spider's next attack was aimed lower at her unblocked legs.

Dropping her stance, Alice blocked without doing something as stupid as directly lowering her shield.

The blow didn’t send her sliding back, so she charged the spider.

That was just in time to see three more spiders rushing into the tunnel.

Her mace caught the second spider, which threw itself at her, in the large blue abdomen.

Her mace thankfully did what it did best and ate the mana it contacted like a dry sponge.

The spider screamed even louder than the one that was now looking more like a porcupine, and Alice was almost surprised to find essence rushing into her from the dead monsters.

Not one to look a gift spider in the mouth, she blocked a second lunge and smashed the third spider.

This one was hit in the body and didn’t instantly die, but a redirected second blow took care of that. Her mace was more than half full of energy and she was forced to unleash the gathered energy before more spiders rushed her.

That, as she feared, turned out to be a bad call, as the spiders grabbed the wave of mana and, legs spinning, gathered and then threw back the mana.

Alice was fast enough to dodge by dropping to the floor, but the reckless woman that was fighting alongside her was sent sprawling backwards, and it was only the archer who saved her from an early extraction by shooting one of the spiders out of the air.

Farther forward, Alice was left to her own devices and smashed three more spiders in quick succession, but instead of sending the next burst of mana out in a wave, she slammed her mace into the ground and let the mana loose there after calling out.

It caused a mini earthquake which hurt them more than the spiders, but her shout had warned the others enough to let them keep their balance and the spiders didn’t get the chance to grab her mana.

Ten minutes later the three of them explored the spider's lair and found seven green glowing eggs they were pretty sure weren’t filled with baby spiders ready to eat their faces off.

Mostly because that wasn’t how rift monsters worked, but also because they could sense the positive magical effect of the sacks.

Given her performance and taking the vanguard, the other two didn’t mind letting her keep the extra, giving her three to their two.

One room down and three Natural Treasures.

Alice carefully tucked them into her bag and took the path the others didn’t take.

Her next room wasn’t as dangerous, nor as profitable.

There was simply a massive black pillar in the center of the room she didn’t dare get too close to or damage.

It was probably valuable, but she didn’t want to risk messing with it and instead picked one of the connecting halls and looked for her next encounter.

Ten rooms later she retraced her steps, her left arm dripping blood but her pack stuffed with mushrooms she felt were some kind of poisonous Natural Treasure.

The damn bears guarding them hadn’t been very happy to have her steal their goods and had chased her nearly halfway through the corridor, but she was faster and so had gotten away mostly unscathed.

When she returned to the room they first entered, she found the start of a proper base with a healing station right next to Olivia’s not-so-impromptu command station.

As much as Alice hated to admit it, the other woman was doing a good job and took her debriefing as she was healed.

She also passed on what little of a map they had created from the other two scouts who had already returned and gone back out.

A picture was slowly forming and the dedicated delving teams started to move into further rooms to secure more territory, but ultimately, it was up to the scouts to find not only their other teams, but the enemy too.

Without knowing the distribution of groups, they were groping blindly in the dark until they linked up, but they also weren’t alone down here, and the mercenary companies could be who they encountered first if they were unlucky.

Alice only had to look at her bag to see just how valuable this all could be, though, which galvanized her to keep pressing forward.

It was just a question of if it was going to be enough, because there was still an overarching prize to be seized, and she wanted a piece of it.

Picking a direction she hadn’t gone down before, she started running.

She was going to find the damn boss room first if she had any say about it.
