So when Alice saw the message putting out a recruitment for volunteers that would see her gallivanting off into unknown space for a fool’s errand, she had ignored it.

She had just bought a new delve slot in a low Tier 16 rift, and she intended to delve it, not be dragged off with the promise of riches that had no guarantee of profit or benefit.

No, it didn’t matter that her rift slot had a year and six month waiting period before she could actually enter it, she wanted to be close in case there was an opening and she could get in sooner, and if anyone left, she’d get her chance.

There was no reason to go careening off into the unknown for unknown riches.

Until the second announcement.

That swayed her.

Maybe.

Ascenders Titan, Legion, and Wraith had put out an announcement calling for all Tier 15s to come to a possible new world and fight for the Empire to claim it over the Corporations. Those details didn’t bother or entice her, but the rewards the Ascenders promised were… generous.

Not extravagant, but well above average and enough to pull most fence sitters onto a ship.

A Tier 18 mana stone per person who showed up and participated as a baseline would already cover most of her loan, as well as give her a comfortable nest egg, but that wasn’t it.

There was a scaling reward system based on contribution that could go as high as a rare Tier 20 skill shard for those who did exceptionally well. Based on the attached document, it didn’t even seem that hard to earn enough to reach that metric.

The announcement also said they would be preventing deaths, so it was actually less dangerous than a typical delve, even if it was against other people.

The offer seemed far too good to pass up, but doing so would mean she lost her chance at the rift slot.

That in and of itself wouldn’t be too bad, but with the influx of Tier 15s from nearby worlds responding to the Ascenders’ call to arms, combined with everyone already local flocking to the call, it might take a substantial amount of time to get another slot once everyone returned.

Rift slots weren’t allowed to sit open after all, and someone would buy them while everyone else was gone.

The question came down to if she wanted to be one of the people who went or one of those who stayed.

In the end, despite all of Alice’s stubbornness, the promised rewards were just too tempting to pass up and she decided to take the chance.

She would never admit it, but the fact she might get to see Ascenders in person tipped her over the edge. If she managed to talk to them it would be the best story to tell in the future, hands down. No one she knew could top that, meaning she’d win every drinking grandstanding forever.

The first bit of good news was that the Ascenders had sprung for the good transport ships as, instead of all of the traveling Tier 15s being shoved in empty airless holds, they were provided with actual rooms aboard the carriers, free of charge.

Sure, the rooms were small, but it was at least some modicum of privacy and more than she would have been willing to pay for if she had been traveling on her own mana stone.

Alice wanted to be unimpressed when they arrived at the world in question, but it was hard. It was a typical Tier 15 world, as far as she could tell, but completely untouched. There were probably Tier 20 mana stones worth of materials just ripe for the taking on the planet below. Ignoring those untouched riches, she tried to look cool unlike the gawking crowds around her, but her indifference was tested when Ascender Legion appeared standing before the exit of the ship.

Looking at the Ascender felt like staring at a star, making her eyes want to water and blink.

She carried herself with a confidence that Alice felt jealous of, but didn’t know how to copy without looking like a pale imitation, like a child putting on her mother’s dress.

The comparison was unflattering, and Alice shoved it down and mentally stomped on it a few times.

“Thank you all for coming. You all are the last group to arrive before we begin, so I’ll be transporting you to the staging area myself so we can get started.”

Everyone around her started to murmur, but before they could say much, a wave of golden flame engulfed the group for a brief instant and they found themselves somewhere else.

On the planet was obvious, but whether it was dusk or dawn was hard to tell without a few minutes of movement from the local star, but they were surrounded by a lot of others loitering around the cleared-out valley they had been deposited in.

Ascenders Titan and Wraith floated midair next to a man her AI only registered as ‘Corporations Leader’. He was strong enough that Alice couldn’t feel anything from him, but that only meant he was higher than Tier 20. It was a large range, but it was also irrelevant to her situation.

Seeing their arrival, Ascender Wraith turned and waved which pulled up a few cheers and whoops from some of the gathered Tier 15s, but they at least had good sense to keep things appropriate.

Watching someone commit suicide by Ascender might have been amusing, but Alice’s nerves were way too high strung at the moment to enjoy such a show.

Instead of admiring the trio of Ascenders, Alice took the opportunity to look at their competitors.

Across the valley, Corporations mercenaries were arrayed in neat and orderly groups.

Not quite military formations, but close enough she couldn’t pinpoint the differences beyond different.

They looked competent, which was possibly a good thing as it meant hard fighting, which would mean a higher chance to showcase her abilities. That meant a higher chance at earning a Tier 20 skill shard. On the other hand, it might mean ‘dying’ early and earning nothing beyond a month-long timeout in the worst case scenario that it was a quick wipe.

As a man next to her pointed out to his nervous looking friend, “Look at the number disparity. Even if every one of those mercenaries is an elite, which is outright impossible, their arms would fall off before they managed to cut through everyone on our side, even if we didn’t fight back.”

That was a bit of an exaggeration, but Alice couldn’t help but admit there was a kernel of truth in it.

As she inspected them, a murmur caught her attention and she honed in on the conversation.

She recognized one of the voices.

Olivia Heydon was a bitch of the highest order, but she was an older Tier 15 and had served in the military during the last war. She might have insights others lacked.

Whether or not those insights were true was another matter, but her rotten personality didn't automatically mean the other woman was a liar.

“I was part of the cleanup crew for one of their battles at the end of the war. In fact, it was the final battle of the war.”

Alice's bullshit meter immediately started sounding alarm bells, but she wasn’t actually part of the conversation and so just listened.

“I saw the damage they did to the ship. Yeah that massive ship the reports were on about. That’s the one. I was there and saw it in person as the salvage teams worked to tear it apart. Or more apart than it already was. I’m sure everyone saw the recordings of the battle when Titan got into the ship, but what the news reports didn’t mention was that the ship was made out of Natural Treasures. When Ascender Titan tore through the ship, he wasn’t just tearing through at-Tier metal, but at-Tier Natural Treasures composites.”

One of the men standing next to Olivia snorted and called her out for the lie that was.

“And we are supposed to believe you? I’ve heard grade schoolers tell better stories. I—”

Before an argument could kick off properly, the sun fully rose and the Ascenders and the Corporations leader took to the sky, where they had a commanding view of the valley.

Ascender Titan rubbed his hands together and smiled.

His good looks made the move endearing, and Alice felt herself flush as his gaze swept by her.

“It's good to see everyone, and I’m gratified that you all arrived so promptly given such short notice. The reason we gathered you might seem obvious, but it’s not quite as simple as it might appear on the surface. A Tier 15 world is valuable, yes, but this one is unique.”

Titan smiled as people murmured about his word choice. “I don’t use that word lightly. It might not look like it, but this world might just be one of a kind. Spread your spiritual perceptions downward, please.”

Alice did so along with everyone else. It was difficult to push through the ground, but she managed it. As she did so, she continued to find nothing, but just as she was about to give up she gasped inadvertently.

She wasn’t the only one, but she was one of the first, and that earned a nod from Ascender Wraith.

Alice was no fan girl, but she had made eye contact with an Ascender who had acknowledged her.

That was amazing and possibly worth the trip in and of itself.

Still, that didn’t overwhelm her surprise at finding a massive underground network of rooms a mile deep.

Titan smiled and continued as the stragglers finally arrived. “And that, everyone, is the reason we are here. Your initial assumptions are probably correct, the ruin extends across the entire planet staying about a mile below the surface. The Corpies have a claim on the world and so does the Empire, and ultimately, we have decided to fight it out via the ruin itself. We have a year to gain control and hold the rift ruin boss room for a continuous week, or whichever side does best. Frankly, I want to win so I can explore this planet further. Given my love of aperology, that probably doesn't surprise many of you, but I want to make it clear: I have a personal interest in the world. That means I ask of you all that you give it your best with the knowledge that we are here to ensure that none of you actually die in the fights that happen below. There are only two rules. No infighting. I don’t care about the reason, none will be tolerated. Second, don't try to kill the ruin. I want it intact. Also, any items, Natural Treasures, or general valuables are yours to keep as part of our deal with the Corporations.”

Alice wasn’t easy to sway, but she felt her heart slamming in her chest with each word.

She was itching to get inside and start delving.

Then, in unison the Ascenders gestured and everyone vanished in waves.

Alice felt small pellets of ice hit her face like tiny hail drops, but by the time she registered the feeling, she was standing somewhere else along with a third of the gathered Empire Tier 15s.

They were near a hole freshly carved into the ground that spiraled down into the ruin below.

Whoever had carved it had taken the time to etch patterns into the stone that clearly explained the dangers within in a wordless form.

Olivia floated into the air and started barking orders. “Everyone report in on your specialties and if you are part of a team. Also, note any secondary skills such as crafters. A year might not be the longest time, but being able to repair gear and such will probably prove useful.”

A part of Alice hoped someone else would tell Olivia to sit down and shut up, but no one did so, and instead people started shuffling around.

Giving into the inevitable, Alice sent in an overview of her abilities.

She didn’t like giving even that much to Olivia of all people, but with the Ascenders’ guarantee, she had no worries about a back stab. It was more her dislike of the woman herself rather than anything else.

It took a minute, but then Alice’s AI pinged her that she was being tied into a PlanetNet.

Not a normal one, but instead one made to run this little game.

Her every action was being watched, analyzed, and then converted into contributions points.

A comforting realization since it removed any possible personal bias.

Or most of them.

Olivia called out her name as well as a dozen others.

“You twenty are the strongest solo delvers, and so I’m designating you as scouts. I’ve been in ruins before and they typically block or greatly reduce AI comms, meaning making maps with just our spiritual perception and sending it back to base will be greatly limited, if not impossible. You should try to avoid fighting when possible, but if you need to, pull back to the outposts we’ll start setting up. We don’t know where the others are, and so we’ll need to find them before we can start making dedicated pushes.”

Alice spread her spiritual perception, wanting to see if there were any teams nearby, but after a few hundred feet she found her senses hitting a wall she couldn’t pierce through.

The same went for her AI.

It could connect to the points system, but nothing else was available.

The Ascenders must have done that for a reason, but it was mildly concerning.

It was rare to be so isolated.

Still, Alice had signed up and wouldn’t back down now.

Olivia grabbed her arm as she moved. “Hey, I know I screwed you over by selling to Joan’s team, but let's try to put that behind us for now. I’ll apologize properly after this is over, but I don’t want it to interfere with the Ascenders’ business.”

Alice snorted. “Give your apologies to someone who wants to hear them.” Pausing just before the entrance to the ruin, she added, “That said, this isn’t the time to be bickering.”

Descending into the ground, Alice started running before realizing they were extra wide and tall to facilitate flying, and switched to that method of travel.

It was draining on her willpower to fly at such speeds, but time was of the essence and she needed to move.

Five of the other twenty copied her, but they must have been the only five who could fly, as none of the others did so and instead started using the walls to run off and speed up.

