Chapter 391

Having settled on an initial method of settling the ownership of the planet, Matt did something he didn’t think he’d ever end up actually doing.

Leaning into his Ascender status.

They needed a lot of people to contend with the masses of Corporations mercenaries and the few tens of thousands that had gathered at Duke Plessi’s call weren't nearly enough.

At least not for the type of competition they had settled on.

Mass exploration and exploitation methods weren’t rare, but they were definitely less favored than a straightforward combat method, usually a tournament of some kind, if for no reason other than the people participating in such events were entitled to keep what they extracted from the world. It greatly lowered the initial surplus the winning Great Power got out of the planet and no one wanted that.

Things got interesting when the actual make up of the participants was considered. The Corporations had easy access to a number of mercenary corps who were at least soldier-level combatants with a decent sprinkling of low- to mid-level elites in their ranks. The Empire, unless it was allowed to use its own standing armies, didn't have such ready access to elites who could stack the metaphorical deck in a tournament.

Still, the Empire had its own advantages.

First, the Empire’s population, especially their Tier 15 population, ensured they had a much deeper pool to pull from even if they weren’t all local. Quantity had its own advantages, especially when it came to things like exploring a planet-wide ruin, which was why Matt had been so willing to use that method when Clyde suggested it.

Second was their pull as Ascenders.

The Corporations might be able to bring up mercenary corps, but they, like all of Corporations society, were primarily driven by profit. Which meant unless Clyde wanted to fund the expedition personally, it would be harder to bring in as many people as their fame could. Even if the potential numbers of each side were even, which they most certainly weren’t, with each new mercenary corps that arrived, the pie got smaller, making joining a less attractive proposition, which explained why no extra mercenary corps had shown up in the last few months.

As if thinking about him summoned him, Clyde appeared next to the area the Empire had set up in and Matt directed more attention to the Tier 40 as Liz moved to speak with him.

He quickly lost interest when it became clear he just wanted to try and get them to budge on their originally agreed upon timeline as he saw the numbers flocking to the world compared to the lack of numbers showing up to his own side.

Matt instead returned to his own work.

As the only person who had any understanding of rifts beyond the basic 'go in, kill things’, Matt was excavating pathways into the ruins below.

Clyde had originally wanted to just drill down to a few dozen spots across the planet and call it good enough, but Matt had put a stop to that immediately.

They needed to be careful as to not break the ruin, a task which was made harder by the ever-shifting rooms the ruin consisted of.

It could have been an impossible task, but after questioning the original Corporation exploration team, he learned that the ruin would never shift a room that had people inside of it and a connection to the outside. A fact which had been the main hindering force in their own investigation as they didn’t want to risk getting whisked off deeper into the ever shuffling maze.

With some exploration, Matt found a spot where the ruin was exposed to the outside, thanks to a cave system that touched the ruin, and discovered there was a naturally formed safe room similar to a rift’s entrance. Or at least something close enough to only be an academic difference.

A little testing showed that the rift could and would form new safe areas, but the process was slow, or at least limited, as each new entrance took longer for the ruin to create a safe room and instead just allowed the monsters to pour out like a leaky bucket until the room was finished converting.

The easy solution that the ruin just needed more mana to make the change wasn’t the case, which left them with a theoretical ten entrances for a stable setup.

Not really enough for proper coverage of a ruin so large but more than enough for deciding who got to keep the planet.

Stepping over to the gathered people, Matt reported his findings to everyone.

“Ten locations. I propose we choose where they are distributed in an array that will best serve the planet as a whole in a long term capacity.”

Clyde huffed. “Ascender Titan, don’t think to pull the wool over my eyes. I noticed that the ruin entrance moved to be farther away from each entrance you made during its resets.”

Matt turned and met the Tier 40’s gaze before continuing as if he hadn’t spoken. “A distribution as I have shared, would maximize land usage around each entrance and likely move the ruin’s reward under the deepest ocean. That should, if my preliminary understanding the of the ruin is correct, lead to the largest ratio of rooms from the entrances which will lead to faster reshuffling of the deepest rooms. The rooms farthest away from the boss room and therefore closer to the tunnels might struggle with the respawns of their monsters, but I believe that should be solvable by simply shunting more mana underground. Here are the [AI] models I’m using and everyone is free to play around with other distributions, but I believe this is the best layout.”

Clyde huffed and puffed his annoyance but eventually gave his assent to the distribution of locations after pushing one location a few miles away from a wetlands, which Matt was happy enough to do.

With the ten spots selected, Matt chose not to put them directly where cities should have formed. He wasn’t sure if a city’s worth of people living above the entrances could be dangerous, either to the people or the ruin itself, but it was best to treat it like a particularly dangerous rift and keep it close but not directly inside city limits.

City limits that didn’t exist thanks to the world being unsettled. Still, it wasn’t too difficult to estimate where cities would naturally settle based on historical figures.

That, and Matt knew anywhere the ruin entrances were, the cities would form around them. That was even true for the Corporations and their insistence on living in space as much as possible. Rifts would require ground-side construction if only for the teams delving the ruin, let alone the planet's rifts, and those locations should mostly correspond with the locations Matt chose.

Digging the tunnels down was more fun than it could have been, as it gave Matt a chance to flex his creative side, something he rarely got to do when using his manipulation skills since leaving Luna’s clutches.

Matt started each location by digging a large spiral shaft down the distance between the surface and the ruin, creating a pathway which would hopefully initialize whatever process the ruin had for making safe rooms, then he started getting it ready for what a heavily-utilized ruin would need in its entrances. Mainly a stairway wide enough for five or six people to walk abreast and tall enough that even the largest Tier 15 animal forms could walk up or down comfortably.

He also turned the central shaft the stairs spiraled around into a hollow tube that an elevator could be installed into when the planet was settled.

Together, they would allow both higher Tiers to move quickly via the stairs and groups to move either wounded comrades out of the ruin without jostling them too much, or large loot that wouldn't otherwise fit into a low-level spatial item.

To ensure everything was stable and could handle the weight of teams that might be carrying things in spatially-expanded backpacks that didn’t perfectly isolate the weight of the objects inside, Matt compressed the ground into the tightest form he could while also threading a lattice of Tier 25 steel through everything.

And Aster made fun of him for carrying large amounts of raw materials in a spatial ring just in case they needed them.

He even took the extra few minutes to create murals running down the entire length of the stairwells.

He intentionally kept them fairly generic and without any political aim or slant, just chronicling the repeated rises and falls of the Realm, continuing to raise its peaks as time advanced.

That wasn’t to say he didn’t sneak in a few hidden things for the close observer to discover.

A small scene of himself, Aster, and Liz when they had first met was tucked into the corner of two other murals, as well as slightly higher than average concentration of phoenixes and foxes in general. And one small, extremely grumpy-looking black cat hidden in a corner just in case Luna ever passed by this world and inspected his handy work.

By the time he finished, he found that everything else was pretty much ready for the final batch of Tier 15s to arrive. Of which he saw a gratifying amount of Empire Tier 15s. They might have genuinely cleared out almost the entire sector's Tier 15 population, leaving only those who couldn’t leave their jobs.

Had they made the rewards too valuable?

Well, his [AI] hadn’t yelled at him and neither did Cato, so even if they were slightly too generous, it couldn’t be that bad.

He really wanted to keep looking at the ruin and see if he could glean any more things out of its history, but that would be pushing the rules until the planet’s ownership was settled.

If worse came to worst, he could always just get the Corporations to let him study the planet. It would cost him, but he hoped it wouldn't come to that.

Liz joined him on top of a mountain to enjoy the sunrise. “I like what you did with the tunnels.”

“Thanks. I think they will hold up well.”

“That's not what I meant, doofus.”

“I know.” Matt winked at her, and they sat there, just having a moment with each other.

Once the sun had fully risen, Matt sighed. “Whoever gets the world is going to need to adjust that.”

This time it was Liz’s turn to groan. “Maybe we can just get Clyde to do it now? Or him and Alice? Together the two of them should be able to speed up the rotation safely. Someone will have to do it, so it's not like he can say it's not his job. It might be if he wins after all. Doing it now is… I don’t have a good excuse at hand, but I’d like someone to fix it. It's only off by a few minutes, but it's really messing with me.”

Matt proffered a hand and pulled Liz to her feet and helped her brush the dirt off her clothes, earning himself a wink for his efforts even as they lightly heartily complained about the planet's rotation.

The moment they arrived at the central camp, the two of them were greeted by Clyde. “I wanted to talk about the distribution of the Tier 15s. Are we going to do a back and forth draft, or something more interesting?”

“I assume you ask because you have something in mind?” Matt asked.

Clyde’s smile was filled with hidden meaning, but Matt didn’t mind spicing things up if his idea was actually good.

“One side picks two sets of starting locations while the other side gets to pick which of the two sets they want. Force both sides to think about the other's perspective.”

That was interesting enough Matt was willing to consider it, so, after a quick check with Aster, he and Liz agreed to the suggestion.

After some back and forth, and not quite liking Clyde’s proposed locations, they ended up offering their own selections which put one side slightly more centralized, with all three of their starting stairs together in a cluster, or a set slightly farther apart but with a slightly better shot to the ruin’s final room.

Clyde accepted their layout and chose the three closer together locations, which was what the three of them expected him to do.

With his mercenary corps’ more limited numbers, his people linking up was a good bet to consolidate their strength, while the Empire and their larger number of people would hopefully be able to take advantage of their better starting locations to find the final room first.

Still, with their own agreed upon limited interference, it would ultimately come down to those that chase to participate.

***

Alice Everdon was not easily swayed.

It just wasn’t in her nature.

Her peripheral friends called it determination, but her closest friends called it what it was: stubbornness.

She had been stubborn enough to pursue a career in delving when her parents had warned her not to. She had been stubborn enough to continue despite not vibing with any of the pick-up groups that had been looking for another person when she wanted to get started. When that proved impossible, she worked two part time jobs while actively recruiting for her own team. When she had inevitably lost an arm because she and her ragtag team were woefully unprepared to delve actual rifts, she hadn’t given up, but instead learned to fight with her off hand until they earned enough to get her arm regrown.

When her team had wanted to scale back, she had been stubborn enough to demand they not sell the slot, but let her delve solo, paying them back for their shares in the slot little by little. It had slowed her down, but she had managed, despite all of the troubles.

When she reached Tier 5 and learned about Concepts, after having taken a bottled Concept, she had proclaimed she would create her own before she needed another bottle at Tier 10.

She had done it, too.

The fact that her Concept was about her being stubborn wasn’t exactly flattering, but it was true, and that gave her power over people who settled on Concepts that were just ‘good enough’ but more flattering.

