The sky was black, and though distant stars held in that grand expanse above, their fearful light did not do much all the way down here, on the Surface of Veird. The world was quiet. Even the wind seemed shy, for Darkness stood upon the land.

Melemizargo’s glowing white fangs and shining white eyes were the brightest lights here, warning everyone who held the true power in this place. The dragon’s size did a lot for that announcement, too, at being nearly 40 meters tall, while the back of his throat glinted with a restrained white fire, reminding everyone present that he could burn away everything, should he be given reason to open his maw and let loose that annihilation.

Erick’s Benevolent sunform and accompanying jolts of lightning were a nightlight compared to the brightness of the God of Magic. The only presence Erick outshone was that of Goldie, though her bright white eyes were a tiny mirror for Melemizargo’s. At that thought, Erick wondered why he was thinking of the sizes of lights. He came to the conclusion soon enough: he was terrified.

Only an idiot wouldn’t be terrified in this situation.

Everything was happening, all at once.

And yet, Erick was ready; as ready as he could ever be. His Ophiel were around him and wrapped in defenses, and so was he. He took a calm breath, and turned his sight to the horizons, all around. Where was everyone else? Shouldn’t Rozeta and the wrought and Kirginatharp and the Mind Mages all know that Erick was back? That he had finished the Worldly Path? That it was time to face the Darkness?

They had to know that Melemizargo was threatening to upend the entire way that life worked here on the Surface of Veird, right? Taking [Teleport] away from every single person, or preventing [Teleport] from working up here, would have catastrophic cascading effects.

Some people lived directly below the ground in hiding holes with no connection to the surface, or inside well-defended mountains, and the only way to get to town and back was to use [Teleport]. In a much larger sense, [Teleport] was the backbone of overland-based trade. There were still a lot of shorter-distance, caravan-based trades that happened between farming field and main towns, but everything between all major cities was mass-[Teleport] driven—

Well. There was shipping-cargo-based trade, too. That wasn’t [Teleport], but only because ships could go very fast and haul a lot of cargo a long distance. The basic [Teleport] spell simply didn’t give enough bang for the buck when it came to hundred-thousand-ton shipments that needed to cross the oceans, or through the Underworld.

The Underworld would be mostly fine if Surface trade collapsed, for almost all of their direct shipments were point-to-point caravans between Geodes or outlying Geode-adjacent cities, but many deep cities still traded through the Surface. The Geodes all had Surface-based trade in some way, too. In those cases, a city would usually have a long road connection to the Surface, which then connected them to all the production up here, and to [Teleport].

… Perhaps everyone did know that Melemizargo was making threats.

Erick saw no [Scry] eyes in the sky—

“I blocked casual observation,” Melemizargo said, his voice rumbling like a quake. “If anyone wants to participate in this conversation then they must come forward and actually participate. You’re risking it all appearing in person, so they should too.”

Erick fully resigned himself to the outcomes of the day, and forced himself to relax. It worked, a little. “The gathering is taking longer than I expected, so I’m going to make some furniture.”

Without waiting for confirmation of acceptability, or anything like that, Erick went ahead and began [Stoneshape]ing simple stone chairs out of the ground. They were little more than orange blocks with a bit of a backing, but he made himself one, and then he made five more. The stone chairs formed most of a circle about twenty meters in diameter, while leaving a large section un-chaired to account for Melemizargo on the north side of the space. Smaller, broader Shapings turned the land into solid stone, while leaving multiple extra spaces open for other chairs to be placed, if more people came.

Erick glanced over to Melemizargo’s space, and saw that he had transformed his own rather large area into stone, too. Erick nodded at that, and then he turned back to what he had made—

“Six chairs?” Melemizargo asked.

“There’s space for more, but...” Erick looked at the chairs. “Rozeta. Koyabez. Phagar. Kromolok. Kirginatharp. And me. And you. I’m not expecting and nor do I want the full Relevant Entity pantheon…” He paused. “But maybe a space for Dinnamoth, the Demon King, and Adavido, the Crown of the Host? I’d like to enact a lasting peace there, too— Ah. And… Not Fairy Moon. But one of them from that side—” Erick suddenly stood straight. “Bright Smile. Yes.”

Melemizargo leaned his head in a little, saying, “Wouldn’t work. Kirginatharp would want to kill her on sight. Fairy Moon will speak on their behalf.”

… Probably best to avoid the topic of Bright Smile’s Benevolent Lightning collar, anyway. This was already going to be a tense discussion.

“Would Kirginatharp react the same way to any dragon?”

“Yes.”

“… No other dragons then.”

Melemizargo grinned. “Having Fairy Moon here would make all others rather more compliant with the words of this meeting.”

“I would rather whatever agreements we come to be enforced through understanding and compassion, rather than magical compulsion.” Erick realized that he was speaking through fear, though, so he added, “But I suppose she is an ally now, and I should take advantage of that to at least protect myself.”

“Quite right!” Melemizargo added, “And based on the natures of all invited peoples, the words spoken here would have a deep weight beyond their physicality. In attempting this talk, you are making a type of uncategorized magic that would usually fall apart before it could even get going; an agreement of gods. My advice for what comes next is to go small, and precise. Write down lines you don’t want crossed, while leaving the vast majority of interactions free of fetters— Ah! Speak of the fae and they shall appear.” Melemizargo glanced down at the circle of chairs.

Fairy Moon sat on one of those chairs, her green and pink eyes gently glowing along with her pink and white dress. A crown of rainbow flowers adorned her head. “Of course I would show for the show, you younglings! I was too busy burying bodies last time to be raised to Relevance, but this day is different. Today I turn up to the table.”

The sky shifted.

Rozeta’s voice boomed outward, “This is not a time for Relevance.”

Blue skies retook the roof of the world, pushing back the darkness, transforming utter night into a lesser twilight. The sun was still hidden somewhere up there, but the land was brighter, and that was good.

Melemizargo didn’t care about the sky, or about theatrics that weren’t his own. He stared at one of the chairs Erick had made, watching as a splash of golden divine fire coalesced out of the air.

Rozeta stepped out of that gold fire, looking like a human-shaped wrought woman. Kromolok stepped onto the stone behind her by several paces. Both of them were technically nude, wearing their bodies as their clothes, but that was normal for them. Rozeta wore a white pantsuit, while Kromolok had his body shaped into his official Inquisition robes of office.

Fairy Moon glared at Rozeta. “I want Relevance, if only to prevent your prevarications and the Silences of your Script. I want my race restored.”

Rozeta sat down in her provided chair, to the south of the circle, saying, “I’ll help Erick make a Script that allows for such, but it won’t take hold on Veird. The next world, or preferably the next one after that.”

Fairy Moon’s eyes went wide and she sat up in her chair, almost coming off of her stone seat. It was only now that Erick noticed she had taken the chair in the west.

Erick decided to sit down in his own chair, in the east.

He had a thought. With Melemizargo in the north, this gathering of four (and Kromolok standing behind and to the right of Rozeta, while Goldie stood in front and to the left of Melemizargo, both of them positioned closer to Erick than to Fairy Moon; and wasn’t that a thought!) would likely be everyone, because this gathering included all four corners of the world. Erick’s sunform even shone upon the eastern chair, while Fairy Moon’s gentle glows were a much more subtle reflection of Erick’s own. She even had that ring of Benevolence upon her hand, as though she had taken some of his light, as the moon would the sun. Rozeta, at the south, was the ground and stability, while Melemizargo at the north was the great darkness beyond everything solid, though both of them likely thought themselves the other in certain situations. Melemizargo certainly saw himself as the creator of foundations. Rozeta saw herself as the true inheritor of the title of the God of Magic, as the true Darkness, or as what Darkness should be.

Ah.

Intellectually, Erick had known what he was doing when he called this meeting. But he didn’t truly know until it was here.

This, then, was the ritual changing of a world.

Melemizargo chuckled, low and menacing. “You truly are opening the cage then, daughter of mine.”

“Not for a long while.” Rozeta said, “If we were to gain decades upon decades of good, sensible behavior from you, then perhaps I would feel better about everything you have done to get us here. Erick’s Elemental Benevolence might have solved an overarching Sundering problem, but it has still not solved the problems you have created, and will continue to create.” She looked to Fairy Moon. “As for you! Don’t even pretend to me that Elemental Benevolence and Erick’s new world order will change how you operate, either. Kidnapping and mind control! The worst part is that you are also incapable of seeing how what you did to Erick was wrong.”

Fairy Moon shrugged. “I got gains. You achieved aught. Besides! He allied with Ar’Cosmos! If your kin-killer would have gotten to him first, then Erick would be as eradicated as all the other enemies of your wrought.”

“Erick is not our enemy.” Rozeta said, “We were wary in the beginning as all sensible people would be, but he has proven the merit of his character ten times over. Similarly, you, Fairy Moon, have proven yourself a million times over.”

“Tell me true!” Fairy Moon demanded to know, “If he would have went to the criminal Kirginatharp and dined with demons and acquiesced to angels, would he remain himself? Or would Erick have been eradicated? If I hadn’t harbored him, then would he have died from Relevant recidivisms?”

Rozeta said, “Kirginatharp would have stepped in and prevented such a tragedy. All you truly did was grab Erick, force him to see you as people in need of saving instead of under necessary control, because that is who he is, and now we’re here. You are unworthy of being allies with anyone, for all you know is mind control and manipulation.”

It was here, that Erick decided to step in, saying, “I would like to start there, and suggest the first of agreements to come out of these talks: No more unwanted mind control by anyone—” And because he knew it would only be making a problem to solve later, or be rightfully argued against, Erick added, “—except by those in active pursuit of the best possible worlds, against the worst Mind Magic offenders, or only in extreme circumstances. The average person —or even the head of a state— acting in normal fashions, should never have to worry that they will be mind controlled against their will by anyone, for any reason.”

Fairy Moon almost leapt out of her chair, happily saying, “So you agree! My actions were acceptable!”

“Actions can be acceptable based upon the outcomes, and still be the worst possible actions to take.” Erick said to Fairy Moon, “I am not comfortable enough with you to visit Ar’Cosmos on a normal basis. Not now. Maybe not ever.”

Fairy Moon just nodded, like she had expected that. “The land of no-lies is dangerous to denizens and transients alike, and we’ve even had dragons there for a while, if you witness. Transforming that tenet or the truth of our tenants is likely not to happen here or hence, so your reluctance to residence is recognized. Doesn’t mean Ar’Cosmos is done with you, though.” She asked, “Are you still an ally? Are we to rescue you from the ravages of the wrought when wanted? Or are we to be without any Wizards, once again?”

“You have at least one Wizard locked up under Stasis spellwork.” Erick said, “So don’t pretend that you are actually ‘without any Wizards’.”

Fairy Moon smiled. “Who is she when compared to the sun that is thee? That woman is trash for true. But what about you? Are you an ally?”

And that was the big question, wasn’t it. Rozeta lightly stared, needing to know the answer. Melemizargo wondered, too, though he was mostly just intrigued by everything happening all around him. He didn’t expect this to actually work, and so he was ready to do whatever he needed to do after everyone else was done talking.

Which was probably bad.

Erick spoke, “I wish to be an ally to all who would abide by a few basic rules of interaction. No violence. No attempts to magically control. Honest communication. Honest interactions. Forgiveness of foibles. The eradication of true evils, not merely perceived evils. Approaching each other from places of goodwill, in the hopes that such interactions will both create a better world, and be that better world in the act of trying.

“Here, in this space, I would like to act less as individuals, with individual needs and wants, and more as guides of what comes next. What we want the world to look like. How we want to interact with each other. What sort of interactions are acceptable, and what sort of interactions are not acceptable. For instance—” Erick turned to Kromolok, and said, “As far as I know, Kromolok, the Mind Mages I have worked with have always been professional and scrupulous when it came to their magic. A continuation of that is fine with me.” He turned to Fairy Moon. “What you did was wrong, though, and has needlessly added drama to an otherwise… Well it was always going to be a contentious talk, but I’m still mad at you.”

“I accept your anger, and the aftermath of my actions.” Fairy Moon said, “Ask a wish to weaken your wrath, and I will make it manifest.”

Erick instantly said, “When you go around judging people for their actions, take your judgments to the local justices, first. I don’t want you just killing people out of hand. If justice is not granted in the way that you judge it should be granted, then step back, evaluate if you are wrong or if you are missing all of the facts, if your judgment is too harsh or not harsh enough, ask another competent, trustworthy person to evaluate your judgments, and then go through the whole system again. If justice truly cannot be achieved through the mechanisms of the society in which the offender lives, then, and only then, should you consider execution, or whatever other justice you deem necessary, Fairy Moon—” He turned to everyone, and said, “Which brings me to this next problem—”

Fairy Moon had maintained most of her composure while Erick spoke at her, but she still sputtered with minor rage. Erick’s attempt to move on was too much for her, though. She interrupted, “I critique correctly in all courts for all claims and claimants!”

Erick let her finish, then he said, “Okay. Well. I don’t know your whole story; I admit that. All I have heard are the words of the wrought, about how you were the Letter Killer, who went around Stratagold killing nobles and wrought and leaving behind letters detailing… the crimes of the guilty, I suspect.”

Fairy Moon triumphantly said, “That is correct! The guilty were nobles and hidden ne’er-do-wells who would never have been banished or brained as they should have been, so I did the braining myself! They were secret slayers one and all, and especially that child-killing Kydyr. You cannot tell me that killing that killer was incorrect!”

“This brings me to yet another problem that I wish to solve; as I was saying.” Erick said, “Kydyr killed an orphanage in a war in order to deprive an enemy country of future soldiers. I would call this a war crime. You do have this term, ‘war crime’, here on Veird, but it is not well used, or understood. Know this: I feel that war is unfortunately necessary in some situations, but the prevalence of war is way too high in this world. Literally any time of day or night or twilight, someone can come along from some enemy nation and attack wherever they want, killing whoever they want, and the war never ends. The terrorism never ends. The Angels and Demons are particularly guilty of this phenomenon. They even call it the Quiet War when it's between their various proxies, and the Forever War when it's between themselves.

“Therefore, I would like to propose some rules of war. Maybe Sumtir, the God of Righteous War, would like to get in on this, but that might need to happen later. For now, I would like us all to agree to some basic rules for all sides to follow in all wars, henceforth.” Erick said, “In the stated example of Kydyr and that orphanage, I would like someone like Fairy Moon to be able to bring forth charges against a hypothetical Kydyr, and for the law to step in and do what is right.

“But perhaps even more than that, I would like continual wars to stop.

“I believe that war should be declared between parties before open war happens, and even in the case of open war, all fighting should be kept away from civilians. Any other types of fighting should be declared war crimes, and many war crimes should be punished by—” It pained Erick to say this, but he did, “—If the aggressors purposefully harm civilians, or plan to harm civilians in the course of normal warfare and then harm those civilians, then they should be punished by death.”

Fairy Moon rapidly said, “I agree!”

Rozeta frowned a little, then said, “I see no problems with this.”

“No problems!” Melemizargo laughed. “You’re forgetting something.”

“Forgotten Campaigns are wars to save the world from itself, and they coincide with the rough idea of acceptable versus unacceptable that Erick proposes.” Rozeta said, “We have always tried to limit the scope of those Campaigns to those who actually prove problematic. When possible, we remove memories and magics and problems without touching the person, but some of these magics have been insidious, and thus death was the only answer.” She eyed Melemizargo, saying, “You have made these magics insidious.”

Erick spoke up, “That brings me to another problem. I believe that this Elemental Benevolence is a true solution to the Sundering problem, but I have seen several nearby issues that need to be solved to ensure that Benevolence remains intact—”

“Don’t say anything else,” Rozeta rapidly said, her eyes locked tight to Erick, her voice as serious as a [Luminous Beam]. “Melemizargo will use your words to break Benevolence—”

“I will not!” Melemizargo said, offended. “Besides! I can already see who the problems are! It’s that Red Dot Mage and that Terror Peaks fellow.” He gave a small, disapproving scowl at Rozeta. “Did you not Sight this before you came here? Tsk tsk, daughter of mine. Benevolence is rather easy to work when you work along the lines it likes.”

Rozeta wasn’t offended, though. She was stunned. “You… You already know? And you haven’t tried to support these bad ends? To kill Benevolence in its crib?”

“Normally I would have been offended at such a suggestion, but I haven’t been myself in a long time so your reaction is understandable.” Melemizargo said, “Know this: I quite like Benevolence. Reminds me of Altruism from the Old Cosmology, but with a lot less self-harm and a lot more possibilities for building a strong base of power. Can’t be benevolent without an overabundance of self-power, after all. I fully approve. Therefore, I and my clergy won’t do anything to harm Benevolence, and we will be assisting Erick as he deigns to ask. Goldie, here, already desires to enter into his service, but he has yet to accept.”

Goldie had remained standing tall this whole time. That did not change as almost everyone glanced at her. Erick just glanced all around, though, and specifically not at Goldie. He wasn’t ready to accept that probably-poisoned gift just yet.

Erick barreled ahead, saying, “Since everyone now knows at least two of the three problems approaching Benevolence—” He looked to Fairy Moon. “—and since I don’t want to be a tyrant delivering justice as I see fit, no matter what Benevolence gives me Sight to see—” He cast his gaze around, saying, “—and since I know that the issues presented by Patriarch Xangu Terror Peaks and the Red Dot Mage are existential threats to a lot of lives, I present the problem of them to this small group, to ask what should be done, and to hopefully have someone else carry out the sentence. It is not right for one to carry out all their own justice, after all.”

Fairy Moon didn’t like that last part, but she got over it.

Rozeta said, “Xangu’s machinations have killed millions of people and the Mage’s actions have directly killed tens of thousands of people. I declare summary execution for both. Kromolok could do this, or Sitnakov could do this. Sitnakov wishes to make amends for his previous actions, Erick, so this would be a good first assignment for him.”

Fairy Moon brightened, now that it seemed that execution was really going to happen. She happily declared, “I could make examples of these enemies! Extreme Light eradication for Xangu. Ten thousand thrusts with a rapier for the Red One.”

Melemizargo said, “Goldie could do this, quick and clean. It is what she does.”

Erick was almost surprised at the quick agreements all around, but he wasn’t; not really. He was surrounded by killers, and he was a killer, too. Everyone had their reasons to agree to Erick’s denouncement of Xangu and the Red Dot Mage, and yet… He felt a little hollow. Erick kept himself well together, though, and said, “Fairy Moon brings up a good point, and a reason for why I will not accept her help with these executions at this time. I do not endorse cruel and unusual punishment in the enacting of justice. I would rather they die painlessly, and without complication.”

Fairy Moon simply shrugged, though Kromolok and Rozeta and Melemizargo were all waiting for him to continue.

Erick gestured outside of the meeting area. Two Ophiel fluttered over there, to hover above the sands about ten meters from each other. He said, “Goldie.”

Goldie sucked in a small, heavy breath. She waited.

“I assume, that by your presence here and the offer given by Melemizargo, that the Blessing of Empathy emplaced upon you is not nearly as strong as it had been at the beginning? Or perhaps it never had much of an effect upon you at all?”

As though she had been expecting this, for she probably had since she was one of the best prognosticators in the world, Goldie instantly answered, “Your Blessing of Empathy remains strong, but it will not prevent me from doing what must be done, just as it will not prevent you from doing the same. Xangu deserves what is coming to him, and it would be an honor to be the one to deliver that justice unto him.”

“So be it.” Erick said, “I charge you with bringing the justice of the executioner’s sword to Patriarch Xangu, for his role played in the murder of millions. I also demand you to discover all who played a part in that Chelation War, and that includes you. You estimated 200,000 dead. The final count was over four million. Why did this happen? I am particularly interested in learning how Xangu acquired all of his unexpected Extreme Light materials, and all of his soul spears. I do not care the order in which you enact these commands, but in the end, I expect the threat of Xangu to be completely eliminated, and for your trace upon this situation to be as though you were never there. If you accept, then I will open a portal to him right now.”

Goldie slammed a fist over her chest, saying, “By your command.” In a flickering instant she had moved across the sands to stand near one of the Ophiel.

Erick explained, “The portal will open one kilometer from Xangu, hidden under a bridge in a town called Bluite Falls, in the Underworld, three hundred kilometers north of a Geode called Oloritian. Xangu is recovering from the war and planning his next moves at the house of a distant relative, which is a mansion directly under the light of a large blue crystal hanging from the ceiling. The relative’s family name is Donara, and their house is well defended from all outsiders. I could wipe the place from existence, but I would prefer a surgical strike, killing only the one who needs to be killed. You will need to find your own way back.” He asked, “Do you need more instruction than that?”

Goldie’s bright white eyes seemed to shimmer as she stared. “That is a great deal more than I usually receive. I can take it from there, Wizard Flatt.”

Erick nodded.

With a flicker of power, a ring of silent white lightning sparked out of the air beside Ophiel.

Goldie rushed through.

Erick shut the portal.

He wanted to breathe deep and then sigh out for a while, but he did not, for he was in his sunform and he couldn’t relax, anyway. Instead, he turned to Rozeta and Kromolok. They seemed to be less than thrilled that Erick had used Goldie to enact any sort of justice at all, for they were both fearful of Erick going over to Melemizargo’s side.

Melemizargo, though, seemed absolutely thrilled about everything that just happened.

Erick said, “The next target is the Red Dot Mage, and I would have your assistance, Kromolok, or whoever you would assign to such a task. How would you go about this task?”

Melemizargo and Fairy Moon eyed the white metal incani standing behind and to the side of Rozeta. Rozeta did not turn, but she did nod toward her Inquisitor.

Kromolok stepped forward. “I would ask you a few questions, first.”

Erick was prepared for this. He nodded, and waited.

Kromolok asked, “How have you chosen your targets?”

“Inside my [Gate Space] I see the whole of Benevolence stretch out into the far, far distance. The Benevolence catches upon itself like paths of lightning tangled upon Fate. Some of those tangles are problems. Some are opportunities. In the smaller of cases, it is hard to tell which is which. In the larger cases, it is easy to tell the difference.

“In a hundred years, when Yggdrasil matures and his seal vanishes and new worlds open up, there are so many tangles and all of them are so complicated that describing any of those events as simple ‘problems’ or ‘opportunities’ is near impossible. I can only really see one of those events, and only because I know the participants, but I can’t tell if that event is a problem to be murdered, or a person to be assisted.

“The closer, larger tangles are easier to tell, by far.” Erick said, “Here, in the near future, the Benevolence tangles upon three situations, turning destructive, blackening the sky and revealing the sources of that blackening. First, there is Patriarch Xangu, then we have the Red Dot Mage, and then… there is a minor cacophony of assorted, smaller problems, each adding up to their own catastrophe. Taken as a whole, these problems will cause the death of Benevolence and open the way to the return of the Sundering threat.”

“Murder them all!” Fairy Moon said, her voice deathly serious.

“I agree, and yet...” Melemizargo frowned for the first time, his displeasure heavy in his voice as he said, “I don’t appreciate you conflating ‘black’ with ‘bad’, Erick. That was why I Cursed adamantium to black. Now they can’t disparage that color without disparaging themselves.”

Rozeta glared at her father, saying, “If you didn’t want to be associated with evil acts then perhaps you shouldn’t do so much evil.”

Erick blinked a bit, though, completely caught off guard. And then he said, “It’s a valid complaint, I suppose, but I’m not sure what you want me to do about it. Black is the opposite of light. Uh. If it makes you less wary, even the beneficial things look like blackening in the lightning; a confluence of possibility that could go multiple ways.”

“Oh!” Melemizargo instantly perked up, shifting a bit as he said, “That’s perfect.” He chuckled a little bit, adding, “Oh. I quite like that, actually. Very good, Erick. This is fine. Black as a simple alarm color is wonderful.”

Rozeta narrowed her eyes at Melemizargo, then let that hate go, and said to Erick, “It takes a skilled hand to know that simply marking out all the bad things would lead to a bad end.”

“Well. Yes.” Erick said, “I was not about to create a magic— An Element, in this case, that would be twisted into a license to murder every single person touched by it.”

Melemizargo chuckled again, then said, “Some people will use your Benevolence in this way, but then that’s on them! Ah. This is great.” He looked to Rozeta, and then to Kromolok. “Are you going to clear up this little Red Dot Mage problem? Or shall I secure even more of Erick’s goodwill by sending another Shade at the problem?”

Fairy Moon spoke up, “Let me put this problematic person into prison! That’s your true yearning of justice, is it not, judge Erick?”

Everyone turned toward Fairy Moon.

Erick stared at the pink and green fae for a short moment that felt a lot longer than it actually was. He did want more justice than the edge of the executioner’s ax. That was very much a goal of his. And yet… Did he want Fairy Moon jailing the Red Dot Mage? For the first time in a long time, Erick’s thoughts spiraled. He took longer than a moment to think and to answer.

Fairy Moon took this delay as evidence of her win. She smirked wide and happy, then hopped off her seat and moved toward Ophiel—

“No,” Erick said, his mouth moving faster than his mind.

Fairy Moon stopped in her tracks. “… No?”

Erick’s answer had been instinctual, but he was able to gather a few thoughts after the fact. He asked, “Was your plan to mind control him?”

“I will lay down laws against the lad as I laid them against you.” Fairy Moon shrugged. “If he should harm another, then I will make him harm himself as well. I suspect this mirrored mandate will simply slay the slayer soon enough.”

“That would qualify as cruel and unusual punishment.” Erick said, “I would rather he just die, or be eliminated as a threat without causing excess harm to him, or to others. If you can manage the second one without mind control, then I will listen to your thoughts.”

“‘Excess harm’ is an excessively halfway phrase, Erick,” Fairy Moon said.

“You don’t like the soul mutilations of my [Blessing of Empathy]. I don’t like the way you mind control people.” Erick said, “In a perfect world, neither of those things would happen, and we wouldn’t need to execute criminals either. But this isn’t a perfect world, though that doesn’t mean we should stop trying. I choose to draw the line at mind control… and I probably won’t be doing much of that soul mutilation, either. At least not against people who don’t ask for it.”

“Ah! I have imagined a solution!” Fairy Moon said, “I suggest I give this guy a great choice! Execution. Control of Mind! Control of Soul! Let us see what their selection is for this slaying scenario.”

Let the convicted choose their fate?

… Unfair, or perhaps the most fair?

Erick made a decision, “Okay. Sure. I can abide by that sort of justice. You will take the Red Dot Mage in hand and bring him here for him to make a choice of his own. And then we will carry out that choice.”

Kromolok spoke up, “Mind control to get someone into court? Are you sure you want to go down this route, Erick?”

“In this specific scenario, the Red Dot Mage has proven that they are a mass murderer who is incapable of being dragged to justice any other way. I had thought that Messalina had captured the guy, but apparently she has not.” Erick said, “I will likely need to deal with her later, but, as stated, that will happen later. What is happening here is too important to be delayed overlong in the execution of it all.”

Kromolok gave a tiny nod of acceptance. He did not agree with Erick’s use of mind control to get someone into court, but the needs of the situation demanded harsh choices be made quickly.

“Enough dallying!” Fairy Moon said, “Ar’Cosmos must prove itself as presentable to the public, and thus, I go to grab a great killer and keeper of faces. Now where am I wandering?”

Kromolok said, “If this is really happening like this, then the wrought wish to participate in the enactment of real justice, and to extend a hand toward Fairy Moon and Ar’Cosmos, in the hopes that a treaty between our peoples can be founded on even, new ground. We hope to open dialogues based on mutual constructive words, and the rule of law is a good place to start.”

Erick was dumbfounded, yet again. Fairy Moon had much the same reaction, but writ large; open jaw, narrowed eyes, a huffing voice that wasn’t sure where to start. Erick recovered first, and said, “I thought making a treaty between your peoples would be the most difficult part of these talks.”

“It will be difficult, and Fairy Moon has already broken treaty with us once.” Kromolok stared at the offending fae, saying, “But she’s not the true problem of Ar’Cosmos; that honor belongs to all the dragons trapped in there.” He looked to Erick, “You might have already solved most of the real issue of dragons by telling Kirginatharp that he gets the next world, and that all the other dragons have to wait for him to leave Veird. If he takes this offer, it is one way in which this whole scenario is made easier.

“But in the hundred years that it will take for this to happen, two other things will happen:

“One, is Ar’Cosmos will multiply in size ten thousand times over, creating a separate sort of world for all of the dragons to fight over, while leaving this one alone. We hope to create treaties to ensure this happens, and that it happens in an organized manner.

“And two, the people you reincarnate into non-dragons won’t pose nearly as much of a danger to Veird as a true flight of dragons, and anything these reincarnated people do is outside of the scope of the duties of the wrought.” Kromolok said, “Separating the dragons from Civilization has worked to keep their danger away from everyone else, and so we see no reason to stop this. In fact, we wish to encourage this separation.”

“Erick.” Rozeta spoke up, “Even in the best case scenario, we expect you to use your Sight to see the grand problems before they happen and to inform us of those problems before they happen, and when necessary, to ensure that no dragons shall endanger Veird. Kirginatharp will be working with you to kill such dragons, if you will have that alliance.”

Erick didn’t know how he felt about that, but he was somewhat… glad? Sure. He was glad. Melemizargo looked intrigued, but not overly concerned. Fairy Moon obviously had some deep thoughts behind those heterochromatic eyes of hers, but Erick could only guess at them.

Fairy Moon said, “I want the Script restrictions on Elemental Fae relaxed to full. Do this, and I agree to keep the full dragons to our own world until such time as they won’t start dragon fights in this one.”

Rozeta frowned at Fairy Moon. “That wording is very loose. ‘Until they won’t start dragon fights in this one’. Fights are only half of the problem. Greed and territory demands are another. I also have an issue with your use of ‘full dragons’. The mangled Essence dragons are still a problem.”

Fairy Moon shrugged. “Those are the terms I choose to chance with you charlatans of this created court.” She added, “And besides that! More dragons in my domain means more duties to keep them demure. I cannot contain them all on my own; the only thing that can do that deed is the Curse of that kin-killer— Oh!” She stared at Rozeta. “And I want Kirginatharp’s left eye. Or left testicle. Or... left arm. Or... horn? Yes. Horn. Any option will work. Any body part firmly parted from that person.”

Rozeta probably would have been turning red with anger if she had blood.

Erick spoke up, “You ask for too much, Fairy Moon. Kirginatharp is Rozeta’s son, too, just like Idyrvamikor was.”

Fairy Moon huffed, lifting her chin at Rozeta. “Feh on your kin-killer child! Bad upbringing! Blame the mother, and maybe the grandfather, too!”

Melemizargo chuckled, saying, “Those two always hated each other.”

“Shit in all your eyes,” Rozeta spat at Fairy Moon, and Melemizargo.

Rozeta had been dealing with Fairy Moon and Melemizargo and their involvement in the death of her son, Idyrvamikor, for the last 1400 years. She had been dealing with Kirginatharp’s involvement in that, too. And she was a dragon. Not a single one of these facts wasn’t already well known by Erick, but in that moment, hearing her curse at the causes of some of her pain, it brought it all together.

His heart went out to her, but he remained silent.

Fairy Moon didn’t care about Rozeta’s verbal curse. She turned to Erick, saying, “Guide me to the guilty, my wishful Wizard!”

Erick gestured behind him, to the Ophiel still hanging out over the sands. From Ophiel, Erick cast a lightward image of the target. “The Red Dot Mage is currently this man, a fisherman at a farming lagoon in Archipelago Nergal. I have no idea how long it has been since he has stolen this person’s life, but he was fishing on a boat in that lagoon the last time I looked through Benevolence. I will open the portal a kilometer to the south of his last known location, inside the jungles. You can bring him back through the [Gate], too, and we can bring this problem to a close in the next ten minutes.”

Fairy Moon did a little twirl, her dress transforming halfway through. She stopped and did a little pose. She now wore high-quality brown leathers, with embroidered pink flowers twining down the legs and on her chest armor. “Qualified for questing!”

Erick opened the portal.

Fairy Moon vanished from where she stood. All Erick managed to see was her boot vanish beyond the lightning [Gate], as her voice whispered on the wind, “See you soon.”

Rozeta said to Erick, “I can understand why you chose to ally with Ar’Cosmos, but I feel you will come to regret this in the coming centuries.”

Melemizargo said, “That’s a laugh! You expected him to ally with the wrought? Forgetting all the other nuances of such an alliance, your people keep this world chained down and unchanging. Proper Wizards cannot be contained, and you shouldn’t even try! Look at what such meddling almost cost Fairy Moon.” He looked to Erick, “You should have taken her for more.”

“Maybe another day,” Erick said.

Rozeta seemed to deflate a little, as though she was preparing to speak on the same sad argument that she had had with her father for the millionth time, but then she sat a bit straighter. She had extra words to say this time; something new. “We keep this world secure because it is the only one. When there are new worlds, and when your existential threat is no more, then my people can think about relaxing our standards. Only then, will the wrought be able to truly let societies live and die on their own merits. But I wonder about that. Specifically the part about you not being a threat anymore.” She looked to Erick. “I doubt you would be able to Sight it if he doesn’t wish it so, but is Melemizargo one of the existential threats you see?”

Melemizargo went a little still. And completely unreadable.

Melemizargo looked at Erick from thirty meters away, though the heat of his Sight seemed right up in Erick’s face. Ah. Well. Here now was a danger, wasn’t it? Well fuck that.

Erick looked away from Melemizargo, to Rozeta, and said, “I can’t see anything, one way or the other. I can’t see anything upon you. I can’t see anything upon Kromolok. Fairy Moon was clean, too.” As Erick spoke to his small audience, they started to relax, and ponder. Erick was pondering too. He gave voice to those thoughts, “Which is quite odd, isn’t it? To me, none of you are nodes of change with regard to massive changes in population, either for or against. I’m sure there is some godly business going on, but Kromolok, at least, I would have expected to see a bright ring of lightning around all of him, for there is surely to be at least one more Forgotten Campaign in his future. I cannot see such a Campaign on the horizon, but it must be there, right? Somewhere?”

Melemizargo narrowed his eyes at Kromolok, studying the man. Rozeta even turned a bit to take in the sight of her Inquisitor.

Kromolok’s eyes just went wide. And then he softened, and quietly asked, “Perhaps… There are to be no more Forgotten Campaigns?”

“… Oh.” Erick said, “Well. While possible, and I do hope for as much, I doubt that—”

Fairy Moon strolled through Erick’s portal, her left hand casually holding onto the braids of a severed head. The Red Dot Mage. Erick’s heart sunk. Red blood dripped onto the sands under the fae’s feet, while splatter clung to the embroidery of her leathers.

Erick just stared. Was he angry? Sad? Feeling hopeless? Probably.

Probably all that and more besides.

Fairy Moon waggled the head back and forth once, as she said, “An easier event than I had envisioned for when I offered options, he decided upon death, and thus I enacted execution.” She held forth her right hand, showing off a perfectly spherical, bright red core. There was little blood upon that core. Most of the blood was on Fairy Moon’s hand. “Your Red Dot Mage was a free dragon. One I have broken fast with before in Ar’Cosmos, and have had cause to contain at least once. He appears to have gone back on his agreement to be an agreeable person, so now he knows the fiercest of freedoms; the freedom from this life.” She looked to Rozeta, and said, “I can do this mediation for a multitude of millennia if certain situations are solved to my satisfaction. If you stop the squeezing of the Script on my society of souls, I will produce a partially-permanent deliverance from dragons, one way or another.”

Rozeta stood from her chair. She stared at Fairy Moon for a long moment. “[Renew] will allow Ar’Cosmos to expand to the limits of the Script, but you will ensure your lands do not infringe upon the Core of this world, or any other.”

Her words were merely the opening salvo of many more to come, from both sides.

Fairy Moon flicked the severed head and the red core to the ground. The head flopped into the sands, gathering grit upon all of its wet surfaces. The core merely vanished, leaving a wet spot on the ground. No one seemed to care about the dead guy, or that Erick had ordered Fairy Moon to bring him back here for questioning, and sentencing. Erick’s myriad of emotions had transformed into a hollow anger. How dare Fairy Moon flagrantly disregard his words!

But…

That kind of thinking was unproductive.

Erick let that anger go.

Fairy Moon still had a lot of anger in her, though, as she said, “[Renew] will lease our land to infinity and beyond. Your clause for a non-Core breech is beneath us and I will not agree to this amendment.”

“Is this to be an agreement for all time?” Rozeta asked, “Or an agreement of the moment? It certainly seems like you’re trying for whatever suits your needs, without regard for the wording we hammer out of this gathering.”

Fairy Moon pulled back a bit, relaxing. “An agreement for the moment is monumental enough. I’m still offering millennia, though.”

“Yes. Millennia of easy times for a universe of more problems later,” Rozeta said sarcastically, then she cleared her sight, and stared at Fairy Moon. “Here now is an offer: You and your people both living and never-dead, keep the danger posed by dragon fights, on Veird and in your own lands, to at least the current level it is now, or lower, while accepting competent wrought and otherwise oversight inside Ar’Cosmos and other fae lands. We will be allowed inside your lands, Fairy Moon, and you would treat my people as perfect guests, and leave them free of your influences, or attempts to influence. Obviously, if they do wrong, as codified by standard law here on Veird, and agreed to by you, then you will evict them. You will not do your own justice to my people, as you have done here with Erick’s request. You will honor both the intent of this agreement, and the wording. In the case of a necessary Forgotten Campaign, you will fulfill that necessity yourself, with minimal involvement by us.

“Agree to all this, and I will begin to relax Elemental Fae’s band of intent within two years, after we see the results [Renew] has upon Ar’Cosmos. I will start with an increase from 1, to 10.”

Fairy Moon’s eyes went wide in shock. Whatever ‘bands of intent’ meant, it was important. Erick guessed that ‘bands of intent’ likely had to do with what the Script classified as ‘Elemental Fae’ or ‘Elemental Fire’, or any other Element out there. It probably didn’t have to do with why Elemental Fae self-destructed in the presence of other Elemental Fae, though, because Elemental Fire did not destroy other Elemental Fire, for example. But perhaps the bands of intent releasing on Elemental Fae would mean that there would be ten types of fae that could live near each other without destroying each other.

Melemizargo looked on, eyes a little wide in wonder, mouth a little open. He had not expected this sort of outcome, but he was happy to see it happen. Rozeta noticed her father’s eyes, too, but she judged his casual enjoyment as not a problem right now. Rozeta was very wary that Melemizargo might somehow be stringing things together behind the scenes to cause a grand destabilization of Veird and the Script, but that was an old worry.

Fairy Moon tried bargaining for more. “Ten bands is not enough.”

Rozeta had expected this. She said, “If, in the next fifteen years, this sort of arrangement seems to be working, I will allow Elemental Fae to expand to 100 bands of intent. If, in 100 years, this arrangement has been solidified as calm and beneficial to all, then I will allow Elemental Fae to multiply to 100,000 bands of intent, or maybe more, depending on how much mana your slice of reality actually produces on its own, compared with how much mana your land absorbs to remain functional. After all, my only purpose in controlling this world’s magic is to ensure that a Sundering will never happen again, that magic remains open for all, and that this world continues to produce positive mana.” She warned, “If your people should threaten the integrity of this world, in any way, such as the myriad of ways you have threatened this world before, and as you threatened to do in the beginning, then these bargains are nullified. I will shunt you back down to a single band of intent and consider never opening that floodgate ever again.”

“Accepted!” Fairy Moon smiled brightly, saying, “I look forward to seeing the sincerity of your sayings in your Script.” She bowed to Erick, then rose. “A successful start to a benevolent new balance, my wishful Wizard. See you soon.”

And then she twirled sideways, and vanished. The blood upon her leathers fell away from the space she had been occupying, to land on the stone ground like red water—

“A good bargain. It might actually last a while, too.” Melemizargo asked, “So what’s next?” He smirked. “Shall we solve the Forever War, too?”

Rozeta scowled at the space where Fairy Moon had been for a moment longer, then she rid herself of all expressions and faced her father. “I want to know your plan with that soul slime’s Truth.”

“I think not.” Melemizargo said, “It is not time for that reveal. Let us deal with some more politics instead. Who is next? Perhaps Kirginatharp?”

“No one else is coming.” Rozeta said, “Kirginatharp won’t go near you. The Angels and Demons want nothing to do with Erick, and even less to do with you. Every Relevant entity that wishes to speak to Erick has private matters to discuss with him and they don’t want you involved. This whole thing with Fairy Moon and Erick’s Benevolence and… We’re done, for now.” She looked to Erick. “I know you wanted something more foundational to a new beginning, but this has been more than enough. The dragons will remain behind their [Fairy Gate]s, though they will try to interact with Veird through you, as you have put yourself in a crossroads position. Don’t let them harm this world, Erick. Fairy Moon is going to screw over our agreement in some way, for sure, but it will likely be a small problem. This alliance between you and Ar’Cosmos was completely unexpected, but… It might be for the best.” Rozeta said, “Know this, though: The wrought want the opposite of war. They would like to reaffirm their commitment to building civilization, and that means that Stratagold wishes to retain their alliance with you. All the rest will be following Stratagold’s example, but in their own time. Do you understand?”

All eyes turned to Erick.

Erick asked, “No danger of being Mind Controlled out of power?”

“Not from my people. My people wish to work closely with you to both understand Benevolence and to use it to ensure the integrity of this and all possible worlds to come.” Rozeta said, “As far as I know, the Mind Mages wish to work closely with you, too, so there’s no danger from them, either.”

“… What about Kirginatharp?”

Rozeta tried not to be exasperated for a wholly different reason than all the other ones that had come her way today, and she mostly succeeded. “I would like you and Kirginatharp to sit down and have a discussion about what happens next, and what you plan on creating out of your part of the world. Kirginatharp is not your enemy, Erick. Not now, and not as long as you continue to be who you are.”

“So you’re saying Kirginatharp was a danger to me, at one point in time,” Erick said. “At at least one point in time.”

“Yes.” Rozeta did not mince words as she said, “You were a danger. You are still technically a danger, but with Elemental Benevolence, most of the true danger of the unknown has passed. We know the measure of your soul, and we have decided it is good. Now, comes the test of time; the test to see if you are capable of handling the power you have claimed. I wish to work closely with you to ensure that you pass this test, so please don’t get paranoid on me.”

Melemizargo chuckled, saying, “It’s not paranoia if they truly are out to get you.”

Rozeta glared at Melemizargo, saying, “The only reason anyone is out to get you is because of all the horrible things you have done over the last 1450 years.”

“Tsk tsk, daughter of mine!” Melemizargo smirked, saying, “It’s only been 1437 years since the Sundering. Imprecise language like that is why your little deal with Fairy Moon will turn rotten in a few decades.”

Erick spoke up, “I plan on being around in a few decades, and so I would like to continue to ensure that relations stay stable between all parties here at this meeting, in whatever capacity I am able. I wish to keep stable and to grow along normal lines the relations between Ar’Cosmos and the rest of the world, and the wrought.” He looked to Melemizargo. “My desires for stability also include whatever sort of stance you decide to take, Melemizargo, but I would appreciate if it your stance was one of calm direction toward a better future, and less horrors all around.”

Rozeta pulled back a fraction, glancing between Melemizargo and Erick. She rapidly decided that Erick’s words were likely for the best, so she let them stand. Melemizargo had been somewhat stunned by Erick’s words but he recovered just as fast. The Dark Dragon turned back toward Rozeta. Both of them had wanted certain things from the other, and though they weren’t getting those things right now, both considered that they might get those things in the future.

Melemizargo raised his head high, then looked down, and spoke, “Small disruptions and expansive growth. This is a treasure to be protected. And yet, this is nothing new. Fae lands have always been on the other side of existence, until the Sundering, and the Script. Wizards used to be welcome on all worlds, and they used to create new ones all the time, as Erick has already done, and is planning on doing. We are close to how the Old Cosmology used to work. It is not perfect. It is not what I would truly want, and so, I will be adding my own touches here and there to bring better Realities in line with where reality should be…” With a light stare upon Rozeta, Melemizargo said, “I won’t be too disruptive unless I have to be. It was good seeing you.” He turned to Erick. “Goldie is now yours to command. I’m sure she will return to you when she has a full report. Let me know if you want control of all the rest.”

And then he vanished.

Just like that. Simply… gone.

The twilight air shattered all at once, revealing the sun above and restoring the warm winds of the north. Heat washed across the land.

And Erick panicked a little—

“Okay! So!” Rozeta happily said, “That went about as well as it could have. Great job, Erick. With everything, too. All around, wonderful work. Looks like I need to make some adjustments to Elemental Fae, though, which… Unexpected!” She gave a nervous, half-chuckle, then said, “Truly unexpected. But workable!”

Kromolok sighed, muttering, “That’s going to be a disaster.”

“Ohh!” Rozeta said, “Maybe not. With this agreement, I have literally removed the problem of most dragons from Veird. It’s better than the war I was expecting.”

“You have added nine more fae to this world, each at the power of Fairy Moon.”

“Well yes.” Rozeta said, “But this should be manageable. Fae normally only ever interact with mortals or immortals in the playful sort of sense, and the nine she should choose to resurrect might keep her busy with her own for the foreseeable future, which is good enough. Anyway. That’s a long discussion and we need to make plans for those events.” She turned to Erick. “Would you like to participate in those discussions, or are you ready for a break?”

“… Are we actually done for the day?” Erick asked, looking down at the solid stone he had made out of desert sand. “I expected a lot more people… and talking.”

But not really; not once he had seen that all the possible occupants of his ritual had taken their positions in the four cardinal directions. Still, though, he wanted to solve the Quiet War.

“No one is willing to meet with Melemizargo right now for all of their assorted reasons. You are actually approaching that same category due to your affirmed alliance with Fairy Moon and Ar’Cosmos, and the acceptance of Goldie into your retinue. I would warn you against getting too comfortable with the Fae or with the Dark, but you already know this. Your Wizardly nature has likely scared off all the rest of possible people.” Rozeta strongly added, “Never forget, Erick, that if you didn’t have power, then those two wouldn’t care about appeasing you at all. Don’t slip, or else the fall will be horrific. I will help you stay on top as much as I am able, but I can only do so much. I’m sure other gods will help the same, though, so don’t be afraid to ask for help.”

“I’m… Painfully aware of that, and also that I don’t have nearly enough power.” Erick asked, “Any material advice?”

Rozeta smiled softly, happy that she was being asked and that Fate was seeming to come together in the best possible of ways. “Don’t go back to Spur, but don’t cut your ties, either. Build a house and a city of your own at Candlepoint or somewhere nearby, as I think you have already planned. Accept the wrought contingent that I will be sending to you and make them a part of your workings. Build whatever defenses you require. Keep yourself and your people safe, and continue to prove the merit of your being. And open a Gate Network!

“It will be a rough road for the next few years, but if everything goes well, then in about 70 years I can start working with you to create new Scripts for the new worlds to come. I’m sure there will be a lot of problems between here and then, but I’m also sure you can handle them.” Rozeta said, “If you can’t handle them, then that is what we gods are here for. Don’t hesitate to ask. We all owe you a great deal.”

Erick felt trapped in a whirlwind, but he managed. He said, “Okay. Your advice is heard and understood. I appreciate it.”

Rozeta looked at Erick for a moment, then she said, “I know it is hard, but you shouldn’t let Fairy Moon change how you interact with others. Saying ‘thank you’ is not a curse. See? Watch.” She bowed deep, then rose, saying, “Thank you, Erick Flatt, for everything you have done. I look forward to working with you in the future.”

Erick chuckled nervously, but he couldn’t let go of the tension in his heart just like that. “Ah. Yeah. Thanks.”

“Good!” Rozeta clapped her hands, then she said, “So today has been great and terrific all around, but I’m getting notifications of problems that need fixing. I’ll see you all later.” She turned to Kromolok. “Talk with him.” She turned back to Erick. “If that is okay?”

“Yeah. Sure.” Erick said, “We have lots to talk about.”

Rozeta happily said, “We’ll talk later about a unique Blessing, too.”

The Goddess of the Script stepped backward and vanished, leaving white clouds in her wake that scattered on the northern winds like golden fire in a breeze.

Kromolok instantly started with, “Goldie is going to be a problem.”

“Surprisingly enough, I’m more worried about the wrought than the repentant Shade.”

Kromolok continued, undaunted, “There will be more hard choices like the ones you made with Xangu and the red dragon. Are you sure you wish to proceed with this life? You could always run and hide.” He sent, ‘I know Rozeta granted you that power, too.’

Erick frowned at the guy. ‘Thanks, I suppose, for showing that you can still get into my mind even when I don’t have a physical mind at the moment. Have you removed any memories as well?’

‘Unlike the fae and the dragons you have been interacting with, we don’t use our powers for personal gain, or to make existence easier.’ Kromolok said, ‘The only time we ignore that adamantium rule is in the case of a Forgotten Campaign, and that won’t be happening to you. You’ve got a much worse fate: dealing with all the shit you stirred up.’

Erick paused for a second. ‘… Was… Was that a joke?’

‘It was an attempt at humor, yes.’ Kromolok said, ‘Obviously, we are both too stressed out to appreciate the attempt. By the way, Sitnakov wishes to enter into your service, too. Rozeta chewed him out most thoroughly, showing him the error of all of his particular ways.’

‘… Was that an attempt at another joke?’

‘Sadly… No.’ Kromolok said, ‘Also, officially, you’re not welcome in Stratagold’s outer cities. Unofficially, feel free to connect to Yggdrasil down there at any time you wish. Also, the Mind Mages wish to officially speak with you about ensuring that they are not seen in a bad light, because they never want to go through another persecution by a high-ranking political power ever again. In a different way, the Angels and Demons want to talk, because they want you to stay out of their business, and—’

“Okay. Okay…” Erick felt like he should be getting a headache, and yet he felt perfectly fine, because of course he did. The Script and Stats magic were all very good about ensuring physical wellbeing. And he still didn’t have a physical brain at the moment. “I’m going to… To go to the Yggdrasil at Candlepoint, and sort out a whole bunch of shit, and welcome the wrought and you to a station there in, like, a day—”

“How about in the next four hours? We would like to be nearby yourself, in order to ensure that you won’t be assassinated in the next little while.”

“… I’ll see you in the next four hours, and we can work out all the rest at that time.” Erick asked, “Do you need a [Gate] back to Stratagold?”

“I’d prefer to see the inside of your Gate Space; where you say you can see Benevolence stretch out before you, illuminating all problems.” Kromolok said, “I have been chasing a world without the threat of a Sundering with all of my power, and for all of my life, so I would dearly like to see what you see when you look upon the future of Veird. If you are not willing to trust me right now, then I would at least like a copy of the blue box.”

Erick thought for a moment, then asked, “You must have seen it through my own eyes— Ah. Well. That’s just not the same then, is it.”

“No. It is not.”

“Rozeta hasn’t already shown you the blue box?”

“No.” Kromolok stressed, “This, right here. This event. This is not a problem that threatens to kill all of Veird. Therefore my powers as Inquisitor are limited. And despite what Uchena might have told you, though we aren’t technically a part of the Mind Mages, we are Mind Mage adjacent; we hold to almost all of their tenets, as well as a few more besides.”

Erick handed over the blue box. “I’ll show you the [Gate Space] when it’s not quite so vulnerable.”

Time seemed to slow for Kromolok as he accepted that large blue box. He blinked a few times as he read its wording. He smiled a little. He chuckled, and breathed. It was exactly as he had already seen through Erick’s eyes, but now, he had a copy.

It was everything he could have ever hoped for.

With a soft voice, Kromolok said, “Thank you, Erick. Thank you.” He sighed like all his problems were actually, truly gone, and he had not fully accepted that reality until that moment. Then he chuckled a little, smiling again, as he said, “I’ll take that offer of a [Gate] to Yggdrasil’s cave now.”

Erick nodded a little, still trying to gauge every emotion he had seen pour off of Kromolok, as he said, “It was good seeing you, and not being enemies.” Perhaps a bit too fast, he moved on, opening a lightning portal in the air next to Kromolok. “Do you need another portal to get back in five hours? Or ten? Maybe 24? Take your time?”

“Elemental Benevolence is your Element, Erick. I cannot overstate the importance of that fact.” Kromolok said, “As long as you are alive, I doubt anyone could influence your [Gate Space] unless you wanted them to. But I take your wariness. I’ll also take another [Gate] from Yggdrasil’s cavern to wherever you are in the next four hours, please. I expect to have some people with me, too.”

“... Sure. See you then.” Erick nodded.

Kromolok nodded too, then he stepped through the [Gate].

Erick closed the portal.

And then Erick just sort of stood there for a while, letting his thoughts drift in the haze of the aftermath of the battle, while his lightning sparked here and there upon the solid sand underfoot. Those sparks had been leaving small black marks, but now, they left tiny, tiny red and tan cacti. And Erick felt good.

Though this talk might not have looked the part, it had been a battle to determine the entire fate of Erick’s personal future, the future of Ar’Cosmos and the dragons, the future of Veird, and to ensure that Melemizargo didn’t throw too many wrenches into the whole process. The battle was over. The battle was won.

Erick counted his lucky stars that the people of Veird still had access to [Teleport]. The average person might not ever know what they had almost lost…

But they would certainly know what they had gained! With suddenly renewed vigor, Erick opened a lightning portal into his [Gate Space], stepped through, and closed it off behind him. It was time to work.

It was time to build.
