What he knew however, was that Ivera still protected Eyra. The roof of the Downwater Inn had still needed fixing, and he knew that adventurers would still seek adventure. One way or the other, he would assume that the pieces in the world were in place, to lead to the same or at least similar events as he had experienced before. And so he planned with that in mind.

Veron didn't know if what he wrote down would be enough to convince Warren or anyone else here to leave the village before winter. But without any of them knowing him, at the very least, he knew that Warren had a much better chance of convincing any of the others.

When he was done, he added another goal to his plans. To figure out if the curse would hit Eyra. If the curse did happen again.

For now though, this was what he could do.

Veron returned downstairs and found the hunters loading up the carcass of the blood beast onto a wooden cart. Warren was chatting with Cat, a short haired woman with a few prominent scars on her face. She was a little shorter than Veron but sported at least as much muscle. Dressed in studded leather armor, she gave him a glance and nod.

He walked up to them and greeted her. Her handshake was firm.

“You're the Elemental Path looking for a ride to Perrion?”

“I am, name’s Veron.”

“Cat. I assume you're familiar with traveling in the wild?”

“I am. Both in and outside the dungeon. I assume you have at least one trapper with you? For the night.”

Cat blinked her eyes and nodded ever so slightly. “Yes we do. Jayce over there, and Hverto. You’re looking to get to Perrion?”

“To Anvakar, but Perrion is a good start. I’m willing to pay a fee, but if you can use someone with an Earth Harmony on the road, I’m happy to assist as well.”

“I’m sure we’ll find something for you to help with. No need for a fee either, we’re going there anyways. I'll warn you though, you start anything with any of our crew, and we'll leave you behind.”

“Of course. Good to meet you, Cat. Looking forward to traveling with you.”

“Yeah. We leave an hour after dawn,” she said and gave him a slight nod, then turned back to her crew.

Veron watched them work for a moment and then left, wondering if they had already extracted the essence of the beast.

Easier than expected. But I guess that’s Warren too. The word of someone trusted carries a lot of weight.

Tomorrow, he would start his second journey north. Back to Anvakar, and to the dungeon.
