Idly summoning Water Chi into the palm of my hand again, I reminisce on that day’s events while staring at my palm, as if able to see the past in this shallow pool of water. “A lot of things were made clear that day,” I begin, grasping at the memories that seem to escape me even now. “The properties of water and what drives it mostly, as well as how I utilize my Blessing in more ways than I previously thought. I told you about how my Devouring is contingent on my Blessing, a Talent I probably developed because I came so close to surrendering and transforming into a Demon, back when I was drifting through the rapids of Western Treasure’s lake. The Spectres and our foe wanted me to surrender so they could consume my soul, but in a fit of pique, I decided I would consume them instead, reversing a process that might well have already begun.” I have ‘Baledagh’ to thank for that, my alter-ego unwilling to become prey, because he was a Warrior born, or at least we pretended to be one. Fake it till you make it, as I always say, and Baledagh was well on his way to success.

Repressing a surge of melancholy for the little brother I never had and lost, I stifle a sigh and pretend not to see Mila’s look of growing concern etched across her lovely, freckled face. “Anyways, it was all very enlightening and such, but while it revealed many truths to me which I should have already known, most of what I did that day wasn’t really my work. I supplied the Chi and the Intent, but Blobby did all the heavy lifting, directing the currents to protect the Imperials and separate the enemies to be killed or Cleansed. To make matters worse, while I remember doing it, and knowing what I was doing in the moment, here and now, I cannot recall any specifics as to what exactly I did or how I did it.”

To illustrate my point, I wave my palm about and try to make the water within do something impressive, but as expected, nothing unnatural happens. The Water Chi just sits there in my palm, like real water, wet and cool as expected. Dismissing the Water Chi with a thought, I lean into my warm, soft wife for moral support and add, “Not to say I didn’t gain anything from the experience. Way back when I was still muddling my way along the Martial Path and barely knew up from down, I managed to produce Water Chi by envisioning the cool metal surface of my sword drawing moisture from the warm air around it, but even then I had my doubts about whether that was what was happening. I specifically remember thinking that spitting water was fine for turtles, but as a human being, there was no way I could go around on the battlefield spewing water from my gullet to use against my foes. Drawing moisture from the air was just my way of coping with the nonsensical manner in which Chi becomes Water Chi, but I never actually drew water from the air in the first place.”

“And now you know that Water Chi seeped out of your sword, a concept which was somehow too abstract for you to accept less than two years ago.”

The amusement in Mila’s voice does wonders for my spirits, because even if she’s laughing at me, I’m happy just to see her happy. “Now however, I understand that Water Chi is not actual water, and more than understand it, I accept it. The Water Chi exists inside me, tucked away in my Core and brought out in the same manner as Chi or Aura, so now that I’ve come to terms with this simple fact, I’m able to summon Water Chi as I please.” Grimacing at the lacklustre ability I’ve now mastered, I re-summon the pool of Water Chi and wish for it to do something, anything at all, but again, no dice. “Can’t do anything with it though, which is kinda useless, but here’s hoping.” I still need to figure out Water Bullets, Water Shields, Water Tentacles, or really, anything of real use to me outside of the Azure Sea, which means I still have a long ways to go, but at least now I have a general direction to head towards.

“You know,” Mila says, her tone wry and mocking, “You keep talking as if access to your strongest abilities being limited to the Azure Sea is some great handicap, but you seem to forget that the sea is awfully large.”

“I spent a grand total of about three seconds using my powers in the Azure Sea, and it cost me just about all my Chi and most of the Heavenly Energy I Cleansed from close to a hundred Demons. It also put me in a coma for about a week, and I’m still suffering from the effects now almost two weeks later, so I’d hardly call that an efficient use of my resources.” Turns out I’m a real one-pump chump as it were, a fact I would rather not become widespread. Stealing a kiss to keep Mila from arguing her next point, I add, “Shipping barrels of sea water over didn’t work, as that turned out to just be sea water. I probably have to be the one to go collect it, else Blobby won’t come out of the sea, and while I could stay in SuiHua to practice until I understand how to use Water Chi without Blobby’s assistance, my family is all here and I can’t bear to be apart from them.” Not to mention the minor fact that I am still the head of state and technically the highest ranking civil and military official in the outer provinces, which means I can’t just run off to do my own thing whenever I damn well please.

That being said, it’s not like I’m spending all my time idling about and indulging in lust with my wives. I’ve got fingers in many different projects, not just the coveted hang-gliders Lin-Lin is so eagerly awaiting. Lishan Suzhen’s colleague from the south finally came through and my rubber factory is currently in business making all sorts of useful things, though I insisted my order of rubber balls in various sizes came first. I had a giant rubber ball made for Ping Ping way back when she was huge, but it’s gone unused ever since her ascension since it’s too heavy for her and all the other animals to play with. I cannot wait to see how all my floofs react to their new bouncy, floating toys, especially the bears and wildcats. There’s nothing cuter than watching a big old floof roll around with a ball, and there is nothing anyone can do to convince me otherwise. I’ve also been working with Taokang Geyan to spread awareness of Panacea, borrowing the renowned Healer’s name to publish a primer on the basics of this ‘newfangled’ Healing method for all to read. Though the stocky Westerner was none too pleased about being asked to take credit for work he did not do, he came around to the idea once he realized my life would be in danger if my name were attached to the project.

At which point Geyan couldn’t agree any faster. As a man without a province to call home anymore, his actions in sharing Panacea could be seen as an altruistic act tainted by thoughts of vengeance. More resilient Warriors meant a better chance of retaking the West, so whether he compiled his information after the existence of Panacea became known to the world, or if he’d been hiding this secret all along, it wouldn’t matter because Geyan has nothing to lose. I hate putting someone else in danger to keep myself safe, but as the foremost Healer of the Western Province, I’m hoping the powers that be leave him alone on the basis that if he had any other useful knowledge to share, he would have long since done so without prompting.

To keep him safe, I’ve added Geyan to Gao Changgong’s retinue and tasked the former Major General to keep the Healer alive, while simultaneously having MuYang keep an eye on them both. Trust, but verify, that’s my motto now.

There’s also the matter of raising morale, reinforcing the Districts, and rebuilding the Central Citadel, as well as improving the defences not just at the other two Citadels, but all along the wall itself. The man-made river running all along the Western Border is slated to be widened at all fronts, an idea I came up with after the barrels of sea water turned out to be water, rather than bound Chi Tea. I figured that since the water was flowing in from the Azure Sea, I could then use the river water the same way I use the sea water, but alas, Blobby refused to respond to my summons no matter where I stood in the river or how long I called for him. It raises an interesting question about water, in that if all of the world’s water is connected, what difference is there in stream water from river water, or river water from sea water, assuming it’s all fresh and drinkable? More to the point, when does the water from the Azure Sea turn into water from the man-made river? At the mouth of the river by SuiHua harbour? Or somewhere before or after that? Is there any difference? What about rain falling into the Azure Sea? Does that water become a part of Blobby, only to split away once it evaporates and rises up into the clouds again? Also, why did Blobby merge with the sea, but refuse to merge with my bathwater? And why was Ping Ping so intent on drinking my bathwater? Neither turtle seems to care for my dirty wash water anymore, no matter how much I meditate and channel into it, nor do any of the animals show any reaction to it either, not that they ever did. It would appear that somehow, I’m no longer able to turn physical Water into Chi-Tea, which is odd to say the least, and ruins my plans of mass producing a countermeasure to Demon Ichor and Anathema.

I have so many more questions and concerns worth delving into, but I have top people working on most of those things, so I have nothing to do besides work on my own issues. Falling silent to focus on the Water Chi in my hand, I Visualize the clear liquid swirling in a clockwise motion and exert my Chi to Deflect it in that same direction, but the Water Chi remains still as ever. Undeterred, I keep up my efforts until the water wobbles ever so slightly, but my throbbing headache breaks my concentration and leaves me reeling with regret, as I am not yet recovered from the battle against Huanhuzi’s pirate fleet. I overused my metaphysical circulatory system, that still unnamed and unseen mechanism through which I channel Chi, and now it feels like no matter how full my Core is, I can only squeeze a trickle of Chi out to use as I please. Not an unheard of ailment according to Taduk, but all I can do is wait until I recover, which could be a matter of days or weeks. Thankfully, we’ve thus far kept things under wraps and I’ve been sparring with other Experts and Peak Experts as normal, so no one should be the wiser as to my weakened condition, but here’s hoping Zhen Shi sits still until I’ve worked out all the kinks and am ready to retake the West.

But even if he appears on the battlefield today, I would still take up Peace, Tranquility, and Unity to stand against him, because as Legate of the Outer Provinces, these are my lands and my people, so I will defend them to the last.

Also, fuck Zhen Shi and everything about him. I hate that guy, and spite is totally a valid a motivation.

Chapter Meme
