Bereft of my beloved wife’s embrace to rest in, I shift over and sink into Tai Shan’s soft fur and flabby shoulder with a happy little sigh.

The Spiritual Panda is a big ol’ softie, both in texture and personality, unlike Guai-Guai who grumbles and grunts as I steal him away from Tai Shan to cuddle and nuzzle now that Aurie has fallen asleep in my lap. Across from us, Song’s eyes narrow in adorable jealousy as she brushes Jimjam that much harder to make up for her troubling lack of pandas, but I refuse to share just yet. Besides, Tai Shan is big enough for us to both cuddle with without even having to see one another, so it’s not like I’m monopolizing both of them. The big floof accepts my affection with indifferent aplomb, neither pleased nor displeased by my presence or Aura, an unflappable, zen-like existence whose only priorities in life are eating and sleeping. That being said, he does play favourites as he was rather concerned about the Abbot, and has now taken cute Guai Guai into his care, keeping a wary eye on his tiny cousin out of concern for his grumblings. Seeing how the red panda is in no danger from my embrace, Tai Shan continues snacking away with hypnotic ease, stripping away the bamboo bark to reveal the soft pulp underneath in one, smooth, easy motion before chomping down on his treat, his adorably chubby expression of relaxed contentment an enviable sight to someone as conflicted as I.

If every human in existence could learn to be as calm and composed as Tai Tai, then we’d probably have a 100% success rate at Core Creation. Granted, there’s more to Balance than just staying cool, calm, and collected, plus I haven’t really seen how he handles the stress of say... having all his bamboo stolen away. I kinda want to try it, partly out of curiosity but mostly because I wanna see a panda tantrum, because I see no way how that can’t be hilarious. Sensing my mischievous thoughts through my leaking Aura, sweet Tai Tai watches me with a wary eye while stretching his arm out to protect his pile of uneaten bamboo, as if I wasn’t the one who gave it all to him in the first place. Why is he so guarded against me? He doesn’t mind letting the bears and rabbits have a nibble here and there, and he straight up shares food with Guai-Guai, so why am I treated like a sneak thief? How mean.

“You shouldn’t bully Tai Tai.” Fiercely protective of all the floofs, Song’s pique is adorable to behold, her stony facade cracking as her lips purse in a disapproving pout, one ruined by Sarankho’s darling wide-eyed expression as she aggressively and affectionately nuzzles the half-cat. Somehow able to keep from smiling when faced with the prettiest kitty’s antics, Song rubs the sweet girl’s cheeks and Sends, “He might take his meals elsewhere.”

“True, but he’s just so fun to tease, I can’t help myself sometimes.” Responding in kind so as to keep our noise to a minimum, I snuggle in a little closer to Tai Tai and consider taking a nap, but something in Song’s gaze makes me think twice. Judging by the way she’s holding eye contact, it’s obvious she has something to say, but after a few seconds of awkward silence, I realize she’s stuck in her head and unable to give voice to her thoughts. “Something on your mind?”

“Your discussion with Teacher Du and Yan,” she Sends, still holding intense eye contact that is almost too much to bear. “Was that Impartation of Heavenly Energy?”

“I don’t think so.” Shrugging as I glance at Grandpa Du, seated in his wicker chair with eyes closed in quiet meditation and teacup still in hand, I Send, “I’m pretty sure they just found their way to normal, everyday Insight, but we won’t really know until they snap out of it.” I doubt there were any hi-jinks happening, even though I would love to make progress with figuring out this whole Impartation thing. When it happened with Mila, I didn’t actually discuss the whole shield and light-show business with her, I just idly envisioned it all in my mind, and she somehow “felt” my thoughts, not seeing them exactly, but getting the general gist of it all which resulted in her firin’ her lazors. With Yan and Grandpa Du just now, I only talked about it, without really envisioning anything, because there wasn’t really much to envision besides a cool air pressure bomb. I was just idly discussing opposing forces and the properties of pressure, mostly sharing theoretical musings I’ve come up with in all my spare time spent lying in bed and unable to sleep.

Insomnia is a real bitch to contend with, especially when exhausted and suffering from migraines, because all you want to do is sleep it off, except you can’t. All the sleep-aids in the world haven’t helped, but at least Mama Bun and the turtles are getting plenty of rest before popping over to visit me and Buddy in my Natal Palace. Which honestly is probably doing more harm than good when it comes to matters of insomnia, but seeing them play together is just too adorable to pass up on. Poor Buddy is cooped up most of the time, so I can’t bring myself to deny him the few hours of play he gets every night, even if it does cut into my actual sleep.

“I see.” Given how we’re conversing through Sending, there’s really no need for Song to go the extra mile and Send such an insignificant statement, which tells me she’s purposely trying to keep the conversation alive. Rare coming from her, as she’s someone who is happy to sit in silence with me for hours on end without making a peep, an aspect which I appreciate even more than her kind nature and lovely appearance. Say what you will about my wives and wifey, but they are nowhere near as comfortable with silence as I am. Even Lin-Lin sometimes feels the need to fill the silence with humming, so it’s always nice to spend hours sitting with Song without uttering a peep.

That being said, it’s not like I resent having to speak with her, so I give her a bit of encouragement to prod her along, hoping this minuscule bit of Chi usage doesn’t aggravate my migraine. “Copper for your thoughts?”

“...This business with opposing forces,” she Sends, still wrestling with the words to use. “Is there a way to utilize this with conventional Chi, or is it only limited to those with Elemental Blessings?”

“Huh. Good question.” Taking a moment to ponder the issue, I Send, “I’m not sure. Theoretically, I don’t see any reason as to why it would be limited to only Elemental Chi, though I’m not entirely sure how to go about harnessing opposing forces using regular Chi. Maybe with Deflection? Problem is, Deflection is one of the Chi skills I’m not all that proficient with, not consciously at least, so I can’t really test it out.”

“Strange thing to claim given how well you wield Deflection in spars.”

A statement which is only a hair short of calling me a liar. A refreshingly bold stance from Song and a sure sign she’s growing more comfortable with her lack of Oaths. Those restrictions would have once denied her the ability to even think such a ‘disrespectful’ thought about her ‘master’, but now she does so without blinking, and I’m glad to see her adjusting so well to her newfangled freedom. Cheeks straining from a hidden smile buried in Tai-Tai’s soft fur, I transmit these good vibes down into the earth in hopes of reaching the groundhog colony and enticing them to come up for a gander, but after days of hard effort, there is still neither hide nor hair to be seen. Inwardly grumbling in discontent, I get back on topic and Send, “It’s the same problem I have with Guiding and Reverberation. I’m unable to use these skills on command, but in the moment, they all just sort of happen. I want to Deflect an attack, and bam, it’s usually Deflected, but most of the time, I’m Deflecting without really even meaning to Deflect.” Seeing her lack of understanding, I make a half-hearted attempt to put things into perspective. “You’ve seen me using Zian’s whirling ring of defence right?” A terrible name, but it’s descriptive enough, I suppose. “Well, when using it, I’m not exactly aiming to do anything specific besides keep my weapons moving and in front of me, but when an attack comes, I’m generally well positioned to intercept without needing to think about it. I don’t need to decide if I want to block, parry, or Deflect a particular attack, I just use whichever one I feel is best suited in any particular instance. It’s like... running to catch a ball flying overhead. I don’t know how I know where the ball will approximately land, but I can track it all the same without coming short or overshooting my target. That’s my level of understanding with Deflection, Guiding, and Reverberation, knowing without knowing.”

One of the most frustrating hurdles along the Martial Path, because it’s just so difficult to quantify my dilemma and for others to explain their answers. It’s a little like learning to ride a bike and then putting that experience into words, which is essentially ‘keep pedalling until you stop falling’. A statement which isn’t wrong, but not exactly useful either. Everyone says familiarity will eventually lead to understanding, but it’s been six years since I first learned to Guide, and I feel like I’m still stuck on the same first step. Though I’ve come a long ways since in terms of applicable skill, I still have no real idea how I’m doing it, which is a real bummer because it prevents me from coming up with a Keystone for ease of use. Take Guiding for example. I throw the sword and Peace just comes alive when I want it to, not in the sense of a bird given wings, but like it’s attached to strings I can pull at to alter the arc of its path. I can’t send the sword darting left and right through the air, but I can nudge it in the right direction, and once the sword has fully stopped, I can use a combination of Chi skills to send it darting in another direction, but that’s really about it.

It’s not telekinesis, no matter how much I would like it to be, but stays true to its name. I guide the sword, but I cannot wholly control its flight path, not without utilizing external forces.

Then again, maybe I’m asking for too much. I likened my familiarity with Chi skills to my ability to catch a ball flying overhead and track its end position without the need for complex mathematics, but even the best baseball players in the world can’t really explain how they do it, so why should I expect to be able to explain Guiding, Deflection, or Reverberation? So long as it works, I should be content to use it as is, but my inner scientist hates that. I want to be able to quantify how these Chi skills work in a simple and easily understood manner, but I fear I lack the mental capabilities to do so.

...But why should I have to be the one to do it all? I delegate with inventions, so why can’t I delegate other people to define Chi skills?

“You should try it out for yourself,” I Send, eliciting a confused look from Song, because this latest statement has nothing to do with where our conversation left off. “The whole opposing forces with regular Chi. Give it a shot and experiment on your own to see where it goes. I’ll try too of course, and talk to a few others about it as well, but like I said, Deflection isn’t exactly my strongest skill, so our results might vary.”

Song’s furrowed brow makes me wonder if the saying didn’t translate properly, but then she replies with, “It is still strange that you think Deflection one of your weaker skills, not only because of what you can do with it, but also your Blessing.”

“I uh... fail to see the correlation.”

Tilting her head in further confusion, the sunlight catches her emerald eyes and sets them to sparkling like the gemstones they resemble, forcing me to remind myself that I am twice married and soon to be thrice, so I should stop lusting after other women, even ones as phenomenal as Song. “I heard it said that those Blessed by Water are endowed with an innate understanding of Deflection, much like Warriors Blessed by Earth have an intuitive grasp of Reinforcement.”

“Really?” After thinking about it, I can kinda see what she’s getting at, since Gam and Eccentric Gam are both aces at Reinforcement, while Ping Ping and Pong Pong have both been known to use Deflection with ease. “What about the other Blessings? Are Air and Fire biased towards any particular Chi skill?”

“Supposedly Lightening and Amplification,” Song Sends with a shrug, only to break out into a smile as the quin pups rush over to find someone new to play with now that Rakshasa has his face pressed up against the bamboo stalks. Sarankho is quick to take up the offer, play pouncing at the adorable little squeakers and batting at them with her paw while the darling pups run and roll about to avoid her ‘attacks’. “Though I have also heard that Water Blessed Warriors are also inherently adept at Reverberation, so make of it what you will.”

With that being said, Song breaks off the conversation to play with the quin pups while I watch and do my best to ignore the herd of stampeding rhinos racing around inside the back of my skull. The pain gets so bad I actually blank out for a few minutes, though to be fair, I might’ve just fallen asleep with eyes wide open, because the next thing I know, Lin-Lin’s dainty little arms are hugging me from behind as my sweet wifey settles in against me with a heavy sigh. “Hiya hubby,” she whispers, beaming as if we’ve been separated for years rather than maybe an hour at most, because that’s generally how long one of these Body Tempering baths takes. “What happened to Yan Yan?”

