“Hello wifey.” Leaning into her embrace, I touch my temple to her forehead and bask in her cheery presence, a font of good vibes and positive energy which I hope will never run out. I feel bad for her current predicament however, since the only reason she’s overseeing the ladies’ baths is because Taduk is running himself ragged with everything he’s been doing and I can’t be trusted to keep my mind on task when it comes to working around my naked wives. Which would be bad, because these Body Tempering baths need to be kept at a precise temperature with the correct concentration of Spiritual Plants else bad things could happen. “Yan is off meditating on some new Insights, courtesy of you and your wonderful work with the baths. You’ve been hard at it all afternoon, so how about a quick break?”

“Okay,” she declares, still keeping her voice low so as not to interrupt Grandpa Du, though Taduk doesn’t seem to care at all as he putters about his garden and loudly accuses the rabbits of nibbling on his precious plants while petting them with great affection. “But only until the tub is cleaned and water is heated again.” Melting into my shoulder with a tired little huff, my wifey buries her face against my neck and says, “Do you have anything to eat?”

“Some dried fruit.” Which is technically for the animals, but still tastes good to me, unlike the unsalted dried meat which serves as treats for the carnivores. “I’ve also got some mixed nuts in the carriage I can get.”

“Fruit please.” The satchel of treats is already in my hands and I hold a piece of delicious dried mango to her lips, which disappears almost as quickly as if Mama Bun were here. Of course, the rabbits soon sniff out that there’s fruit to be had and begin hopping about, and Guai-Guai joins them in demanding for their fair share of treats.

Placating my furry overlords with a generous ransom of edible delights, I feed Lin-Lin a second piece and whisper, “You’re doing great, wifey. No need to rush though, we can take as long as it takes.”

“But the faster I finish, the sooner I’m done working and can go play, ya?” Blowing out between her lips, she asks, “Do you know when your glider will be done? What’s taking so long anyways? Can’t we just use a kite? We have those already.”

“A kite is fine for getting you up into the air.” Kissing my impatient, height-loving, thrill-seeking wifey on the cheek, I add, “The problem is landing without breaking all your bones. When was the last time you reeled in a kite without losing control and crashing it into the ground?”

Uttering a grumbled rebuttal that lacks any actual words, Lin-Lin stews in discontent over my ‘excessively’ cautious nature. Sorry for wanting to iron out all the details before sending anyone up in a manned flying contraption, but it feels like landing should be a valid concern to anyone who wants to take to the skies. Not my fearless Lin-Lin however, who thinks she can just jump free from the kite and land safely without a care in the world, as if I’d send her into the air without strapping her in first. Honestly, I might need to keep an eye on her for the next few weeks, just to make sure she doesn’t try something on her own, or worse, with the twins who’ve been pestering me about the same thing. I shouldn’t have voiced my thoughts on gliders out loud during dinner, because I raised too many expectations too soon. At this point, I’m not even sure if my latest letter has even reached Diyako in the north, though as Legate, I do have a number of perks which I often take advantage of, and priority mail is one of my favourites.

Honestly, I think it’s high time I taught Roc’s flock how to deliver messages. They’re big enough to carry a proper sized scroll, and smart enough to learn words and phrases, so it shouldn’t be too hard to teach them to fly to a familiar location. Problem is, they’re not too enthused about flying long distances, seeing how they only leave the Citadel when I bring them out, not to mention how they like to stick together at all costs. Makes them great pets, but not all that useful in the grand scheme of things, so they’re lucky they’re cute and clingy. Especially the younger laughing birds, as they’ve made great friends with the quin pups, a kind and gentle bunch who’ve taken to protecting their feathered friends from the rambunctious bunbuns who don’t know their own strength. Watching them all play is good for the soul, and Lin-Lin joins me in my vigil while idly asking, “Any progress with the groundhogs?”

“Sadly no. They’re not responding to Aura at all, not even after so many days of trying.” Probably because of Rakshasa, though I doubt the bears, wildcats, and quins really help matters much. “It’s okay though, I’ll keep trying and whatever happens, happens.”

“Mm. A groundhog family would be a lot of help with gardening though. No more digging around in the dirt to plant seeds, ya?”

“Good point. We should also get a herd of elephants too, to help water the garden, and monkeys to do the weeding.”

“How about...”

Lost in our own little world, we exchange silly ideas about training fanciful pets to do all our household chores for us, including birds to help hang the laundry and mice to do our tailoring, not that any of it would ever work. This continues until Mila and Kyung emerge from their respective bathing areas and Hua Lie’s Veiled subordinates finish cleaning and refilling a single tub, at which point Lin-Lin bids us farewell as she heads off to help Song with her Body Tempering bath. Kyung makes no effort to chat and instead sets up vigil around Grandpa Du, leaving me and Mila to our own devices as my fiery wife leans against my shoulder and mock scowls at the snoring Aurie laid out across my lap. “Lazy wildcat,” she says, no longer needing to whisper now that Kyung has put up a Sound Barrier around himself and the meditating Grandpa Du. “Forget training Aurie to pull a sled. It’d be a miracle if you could teach your pets how to feed themselves in the wild.”

“Don’t be mad just because he stole your spot,” I tease, rewarded with a fetching flush of Mila’s fair cheeks as she scowls in shame. “You can’t be monopolizing my lap all the time now.”

“Hmph.” Responding to reason with violence as she is wont to do, Mila chomps down on my cheek in an almost seductive manner, having grown far more bold in recent weeks. No longer does she slap my hands and move away when I wrap my arm around her waist, though anything more would be pushing the boundaries of decorum even for me. Any sort of public display of affection is seen as crude and unbecoming, even something as mild as stroking your wife’s cheek (face, not butt, though I suppose the latter would be worse), or walking arm in arm down the street. Lin-Lin’s never cared about such things, nor has Yan, but Mila was always a good and proper girl until I sank my lecherous claws into her, or so my Grandmother turned Mother-in-Law would have everyone believe. There’s some truth to the accusation though, so I can’t really protest too much, but in my defence, we’ve been making up for lost time now that I’m no longer liable to break every time Mila flexes her thighs. We’ve also been trying to recreate the circumstances in which I was able to Impart my Insights upon her, since I’m still working on the theory of love equals power. So far, we’ve come up with bupkis, even with Yan’s enthusiastic assistance in this regard, oftentimes with all three of us working together in joint effort to express our love. It’s not easy work, I’ll say that much, but this is a sacrifice I am wholly willing to make.

Not gonna lie. Life is good.

After enticing Princess to waddle over and rest in her embrace, Mila tickles the weasel-bear’s feet and asks about Yan. Responding with more interest in the details than capricious Lin-Lin, Mila’s questions eventually leads us back to the topic of Blessings and their affiliated Chi skills, and as always, my fiery beloved proves to be a treasure trove of knowledge. “Blessings are rare,” she begins, hedging her bets as always, “So what I am about to tell you is widely accepted, but might not be entirely correct. It’s rare to have two or three Martial Warriors with the same Blessing in a single generation, so we have understandably minimal information regarding the matter.” Having covered her bases, Mila closes her eyes to help her memory, though I notice she also leans in to sniff me a little as well, taking in my scent with a soft sigh. “Let’s see,” she murmurs, looking so cute and defenceless as she sighs in contentment, and it takes all of my self-control not to gobble her up right here. “Where to begin? The Four Primal Blessings are generally associated with two Chi skills each. Water Blessed Warriors are supposedly gifted in matters of Deflection and Resonance, while Air have advantages in Lightening and Guiding. Fire is Honing and Amplification, while Earth is Reinforcement and Stability.” Opening her eyes, she seems surprised to find me staring right at her, and we lose ourselves in each other’s eyes for a moment before she shakes it off and continues. “It’s nothing too substantial, just that it’s been noted that Warriors with those specific Blessings are generally more adept at those Chi skills, nothing more, nothing less.”

Which of course brings me to my favourite question in the whole wide world. “Why?”

A flash of concern shows in my beloved’s eyes, one which speaks of a grave concern that she might have married an idiot. “Well, remember when we talked about how the Primal Elements aren’t really representative of the elements themselves right?”

“Yea, of course. They represent the myriad of unique forces in the universe broken down into four broad but distinct categories.” And like that, the shoe drops and I kind of understand what Mila is getting at. “Oh, so you’re saying those Chi skills personify the specific fundamental forces each Element represents?”

“Or the Blessings themselves make use of those specific Chi skills to drive those forces more than any other.” Shrugging, she adds, “Difficult to say really. Historically, few Martial Warriors ever cared to share the secrets of their strengths in plain Common, so most of this is just guesswork based on records of second or third-hand observations. There appears to be a pattern, but hard work and innate talent can never be ignored as there are plenty of exceptions, such as Air Blessed Warriors who were dominant in Reinforcement or Fire Blessed Warriors who excelled in Resonance. It’s not like you even need a Blessing to excel in any particular Chi skill either. Just look at Bai Qi. He has no Blessing, but is easily the number one contender for foremost Expert of Reinforcement and Amplification in all the outer provinces.”

The man does hit hard, I’ll give him that, managing to overpower the Wood-Blessed Shuai Jiao in a single blow. Going by the above logic, as a Wood Blessed Warrior, a Blessing which is a combination of Earth and Water, the Commander General should be adept in Reinforcement, Stability, Deflection, and Resonance, all of which would have been paramount in defending against Bai Qi’s attack, and yet it’s clear from the results that his skills weren’t up to snuff. “Maybe it’s not an intuitive grasp of the skills like Song believes,” I muse, trying to make sense of the information before me. “It would make more sense if it’s just a matter of practice, with the Blessings making more use of those specific Chi Skills like you said. When I dart through the water, I’m mostly using Deflection to do it, shaping the currents and smoothing their progress around me to minimize resistance. Not sure how Resonance and Water Chi go together though, but maybe my hidden Insights are how I uncovered the secret behind the Mountain Collapsing Stomp.” Though it doesn’t seem like much, this does give me a new thread to unravel in hopes of untangling the mysteries of the Dao, because now I suspect that my ability to manipulate Water Chi is contingent on a Chi Skill that is a blend of Deflection and Resonance.

...Does this mean that when Mila unleashes her Blessing of the Sun, which is an Esoteric Blessing that is comprised of a mix of all four Primal Elements, she is in fact utilizing a combination of all eight fundamental Chi Skills? Damn. There’s talented, and then there’s Mila, and I can only hope to not fall too far behind once she finds her stride.

“Truth be told,” Mila begins, grumbling as she sinks into my one armed embrace to watch Guai Guai and Princess politely ignore one another entirely while snuggling side by side, “I don’t understand how you haven’t already figured most of this out. The tales of what you did out on the Azure Sea are frankly beyond belief, and Father-in-Law says that they hardly do your accomplishments justice. He’s not one to exaggerate either, not even when his precious son is involved, and if anything, I’d say he’s likely understating the facts quite a bit.” Despite her skeptical remarks, Mila’s tone is filled with love and pride as she basks in my accomplishments, so head over heels for me in a way I can scarcely even believe. “You raised the waves to shatter an entire ship and separate two battling armies with little more than a wave of your hand, and here you are asking me for advice regarding your Blessing. Absurd is what it is.”

