“Trade secret.” Humongous Ren said and laughed, and it almost shook the wall the High Elves stood on. “I guess I don't need to show off anymore.” He said and used the Permanent Enlarge or Reduce Anything spell to reduce his size back down to normal. “It looks like everyone's loaded up, so I better go.”

Allynna waved to him, and Ren waved back, then he ran over to Princess.

“You know the drill.” Ren said and scratched her chin, then climbed up onto her saddle. “Let's go.”

Princess trotted up into the air, and the High Elves watched as the normally impossible sight of a tiny mount hauling a gigantic cart with several hundred High Elves, flew away through the sky.

*

Allynna dismissed the Honor gain popup she had received for making Ren leave, because she didn't believe she deserved it. Even though she had asked him to go, he had chosen not to cause any trouble for her. She watched the large cart disappear from sight and smiled.

I will get his story tomorrow. Allynna thought, determined. I must know how he gained that title!

“That was certainly exciting.” One of the advisors said and looked down into the shanty town below. “Most of them have gone with him.” He said. “Even the non-infected ones.”

“Good riddance.” The High Lord said. “Send a squad or two to tear down the shacks.”

The advisor nodded and left the group.

“High Lord.” Allynna said, and he looked at her. “I'm visiting my mother for a few days starting tomorrow.”

“Yes, I know.” The High Lord said. “I've already arranged for a small caravan to leave at first light.”

“Thank you very much, High Lord.” Allynna said and gave him a regal bow.

“Yes, yes.” He said and waved her away. “Go and pack your things.” He said. “The caravan will bring you back to the Spire at home when you are done.”

Allynna nodded and left the group. When she was out of sight, the High Lord turned to one of his advisors.

“Add a squad of archers to the caravan.” The High Lord said. “Just as a precaution.”

“Yes, High Lord.” The advisor nodded and left the group to make the arrangements.

The last thing I want is to give that... being... a reason to come back here. The High Lord thought, then turned and left the spot that one of his advisors had said was going to be a pivotal point in time for him, and possibly for the kingdom as a whole. She was quite right. He thought and walked down the stairs. That could have gone horribly wrong, if I had decided to ignore Allynna. He sighed. Who would have thought that my servant would be the one to put herself at risk for the kingdom in my place?

*

Princess hauled the High Elves across their homeland and to the new High Elven Starter City, and just before they got there, Ren thought about the Vasalor's Chosen title he had and deactivated it's outward effect. He didn't want to deactivate it completely, because he suspected if he did that, he wouldn't be able to turn it back on again.

Ren asked Princess to land inside the city, rather than outside, and she landed in a large area beside one of the apartment buildings. Ren hopped off of her and opened the cart, and started to help people climb out. It was going to take a while, just like loading it did; but, that was okay. He wasn't really in a rush, anyway.
