She had delivered eight hundred and forty-seven children. She could still feel the weight of every one — not metaphorically. The weight. Infants weighed between five and eleven pounds at birth, and she had held each of them in the first minute, and her hands remembered each weight individually because each weight was different in a way that had nothing to do with pounds. A healthy infant at seven pounds felt like arrival. A struggling infant at seven pounds felt like a question. A stillborn at seven pounds felt like seven pounds.

Tova Fenn was fifty-four years old and had been delivering children for thirty-one years and the count was professional, not sentimental. A midwife who did not count was a midwife who did not learn, because the patterns lived in the numbers: how many breech presentations in a season, how many cord complications, how many first-time mothers who needed the second kind of quiet — not the absence of sound but the presence of someone who was not afraid. She counted the way she did everything else in the birthing room: carefully, with both hands, knowing exactly how much pressure.

Eight hundred and forty-seven. Eight hundred and forty-three had breathed. Four had not.

The number was small. Any midwife would say the number was small. Tova would say it too, if asked, because it was true, because the ratio was excellent, because thirty-one years of practice and attentive hands and the specific kind of patience that could not be taught had produced a record that any medical practitioner would respect.

The number was also four. And four was the number she carried, not eight hundred and forty-three, because the ones who breathed did not need carrying.

The fourth was seven months ago. Her daughter's child. She had delivered it herself because that was what she did — she delivered children, and her daughter's child was a child, and the work did not change because the bloodline was closer. She had felt the absence at the crowning, the specific quality of weight that she recognized from the other three: present, complete, not alive. She had held the child for the first minute the way she held every child for the first minute, because the first minute was the child's and the midwife's job was to be the first hands, and the hands did not get to choose which minutes they attended.

The swaddling cloth was in her apron pocket. Clean, folded, never used. Her daughter had washed it in preparation and then had not needed it, and Tova had taken it home because someone had to, and it had been in her apron pocket for seven months because that was where her hands kept the things they were responsible for.

She had not come here to be healed. She had not come here to forget. She had heard about the dungeon from a cloth merchant who passed through her village — heard about the crystals, the emotions held in mineral form, the place that kept what people felt at the end. She had listened the way she listened to a patient describing symptoms: noting the details, building the clinical picture, understanding what the place was before deciding what to do about it.

The place held death. She held death. The correspondence was sufficient.

She had walked for six days. No one had pulled her. No one had amplified a desire or manufactured a want or redirected a habit. She had finished her rounds, transferred her active patients to Elenna — the younger midwife, competent, still counting her first hundred — and walked northeast because the dungeon was northeast and she had decided to go there.

---

The camp was smaller than she had expected and more organized than it had any right to be. The fire was maintained. The man at the table was keeping records in a book that she recognized immediately as a census — she had kept birth records in a similar format for seventeen years, the same column structure, the same marginal annotations, the same territorial precision about the data.

"You're a record-keeper," she said.

Osren looked up. He had the look she associated with young physicians who had been working too long in one posting: competent, tired, not yet old enough to know they were tired.

"I keep the entrance register," he said.

"I can see that." She sat down across from him without being invited, because she had been entering rooms where she was needed but not invited for thirty-one years and the habit was structural. "I'm going in tomorrow."

"Most people go in immediately."

"I'm not most people. And that's not what I asked."

He looked at her for a moment. Then he opened the book. "What do you want to know?"

"How many. How deep. What killed them."

He told her. He was thorough — she gave him that. The telling had the quality of a case presentation: organized, cross-referenced, the specific caveat at each point where observation ended and inference began. Twenty deaths. Four depths confirmed, a fifth suggested. Three creatures: a predator at Depth 3, a sessile source at Depth 4, and the environment itself at Depth 2. The predator had been damaged. The source had not. The environment was the environment — it killed the way weather killed, by exposure and accumulation.

"The one at Depth 4," she said. "The source. What does it do?"

"It radiates. The emanation is accumulative. Two people have reached it. Both died."

"How long?"

Osren checked his notes. "The first — a researcher — his time is uncertain. The second — a courier — approximately thirty-one minutes."

"Thirty-one minutes." She was quiet for a moment. She was not doing arithmetic. She was doing triage — the rapid clinical assessment of a situation's trajectory. "What were their symptoms?"

Osren looked at her the way she had seen physicians look at midwives: with the sudden recognition that the person across from them was asking professional questions.

"The courier's account is secondhand — reported by the dungeon's own records, interpreted through the researcher's notebook. Joints first. Then vision. Then respiration." He paused. "The researcher's notes describe the emanation as a 'generalized presence in the body.' The courier's experience — as far as I can reconstruct it — was similar. Progressive, sequential, systemic."

"Fever pattern," Tova said.

"I'm sorry?"

"That's a fever pattern. Joint pain, visual disturbance, respiratory involvement. It's not a fever — you said it's radiant pressure — but the body responds to it the way it responds to fever. Sequential organ stress. You can predict the progression if you know the baseline." She looked at him. "Did either of them have medical training?"

"No."

"Then they didn't know what was happening to them until it was happening. A researcher writes notes. A courier walks. Neither of them was monitoring their own symptoms."

Osren was very still. She recognized the stillness — it was the stillness of someone who was revising a record in their head.

"I am a midwife," she said. "I have been monitoring symptoms for thirty-one years. I know what a body sounds like when it is failing, and I know what it sounds like before it fails. The difference is the window."

"The window."

"The time between the first sign and the point of no return. In labor, the window is everything. You miss it and the mother bleeds. You catch it and you can turn a breech, or stop a hemorrhage, or give the body the one thing it needs to finish the work on its own." She folded her hands on the table. "Thirty-one minutes. That's a long labor."

---

She spoke with Dalya, who sold rope and confirmed that the floor through the Warrens was dry bone, and that the warm section began at Depth 3 and intensified at Depth 4. She spoke with Osren again in the evening, asking about the specific sequence of the courier's decline — whether the joints were bilateral or unilateral, whether the visual disturbance was peripheral or central, whether the respiratory component was obstructive or restrictive. Osren did not have answers to these questions. He had the data he had, which was a record-keeper's data: what happened, in what order, at what time. Not what it felt like from inside.

She ate. She slept. She put her hand in her apron pocket and held the folded cloth the way she had held it every night for seven months: not squeezing, not clutching, just holding, the way you hold something that does not need you but that you are not ready to put down.

She entered the dungeon at dawn.

---

The Gullet was warm and alive in a way she recognized. Not architecturally — she was not a builder or a mason or a cartographer. Alive the way a body was alive: the ribbing, the warmth, the rhythm of the stone that was not quite a pulse but was close enough that her hands — her professional hands, the hands that had felt eight hundred and forty-seven heartbeats in their first minute — registered it as biological. The dungeon was an organism. She had known this from Osren's descriptions, but knowing was different from feeling, and feeling was her primary diagnostic instrument.

The inscription wall. Twenty names and a gap. She did not read them the way a hunter read trails or a cartographer read geometry. She read them the way she read patient charts: each one a life, each one an outcome, each outcome a data point about the place that had produced it. She noted the depth distribution. She noted the frequency of Depth 3 deaths. She noted that two people had died at Depth 4 and that no one had died at Depth 5 because no one had reached it.

She entered the Warrens.

```stat-screen
DEPTH 2 REACHED: THE MARROW WARRENS

RESOLVE: +1
Tova Fenn: Current Resolve: 13
```

```stat-screen
DESIGNATION: THE VIGIL
GIFT: SUSTAINED HOLD

You may maintain physical contact with a living thing and hold its biological state steady.
While you hold, the held organism does not change — does not heal, does not worsen,
does not progress. You are present for it.
You may hold yourself.

COST: RELEASE
You cannot voluntarily let go.
Contact must be broken by external force or by the failure of your own body.
A midwife who cannot release the patient.

ATTUNEMENT: 0

STATISTICS
Vitality .............. 18
Resolve ............... 12
Attunement ............ 7
Fortune ............... 12

Note: Entry type — Voluntary.
Non-Compelled. No pull detected. No amplification, no redirection, no bait.
The entrant came because the dungeon holds death and the entrant holds death
and the correspondence was sufficient.
The Maw did not bring her here.
The Maw does not understand why she came.
```

She read the screen standing in the first junction of the Warrens and understood the Gift the way she understood any new tool in the birthing room: by what it was for. Sustained Hold was for the moment between — the moment when the patient was not getting better and not getting worse and the only thing the practitioner could do was be there, holding, keeping the body in the space where the body still had options.

She understood the Cost immediately. She had spent thirty-one years letting go — of infants who needed to be placed on their mothers' chests, of hands that needed to be released so the patient could breathe, of the four who needed to be wrapped and carried to the place where the families waited. Letting go was the hardest part of the work and the most necessary, and the Cost was the removal of that necessity.

She filed both. She kept walking.

The Warrens shifted around her. She did not map them — she was not a cartographer. She navigated by feel, the way she navigated difficult labors: by the body's signals, by the warmth and pressure and the subtle changes in the air that told her which direction led deeper and which direction led back. The Warrens were a body. She moved through them the way she had moved through bodies for three decades: with practiced hands and attentive silence.

---

The Still Garden was beautiful and she did not stop.

She saw the creature — the Patient, the predator that Osren had described. She saw the crack in its shell and the marks on its surface and the artifacts scattered around it: a spear against the eastern wall, a plumb line and a chisel near the center, a knife. She saw the luminescent fluid seeping from the crack, slow and faint. She registered all of this the way she registered a patient's vital signs at the door of the birthing room: the quick assessment, the clinical snapshot, the decision about whether this room needed her.

This room did not need her. The creature was not her patient.

```stat-screen
DEPTH 3 REACHED: THE STILL GARDEN

RESOLVE: +1
Tova Fenn: Current Resolve: 14
```

She walked through the Still Garden at the western edge, thirty meters from the creature, along the route that the camp records said was safe. The Patient tracked her. She felt its attention the way she felt a laboring mother's attention during a contraction — the focused, total awareness of something that was in pain and was watching the person near it for a sign of what to do.

She did not give it a sign. She was not here for the Patient. She walked through.

---

```stat-screen
DEPTH 4 REACHED: THE CRUCIBLE

RESOLVE: +1
Tova Fenn: Current Resolve: 15
```

The warmth was the first thing. Not the dungeon's ambient warmth — deeper, more specific, the kind of heat that rose from living tissue rather than from stone. She stood at the entrance to the Crucible and felt the temperature change settle into her body the way a fever settled: gradually, from the periphery inward, the skin first and then the joints and then the organs, each layer receiving the information and passing it deeper.

Twelve degrees warmer. She estimated this from the feeling in her forearms, where the veins ran close to the surface and the skin was thin enough to serve as a thermometer. She had calibrated her forearms against actual thermometers over thirty-one years of practice, and the calibration was reliable to within two degrees. Twelve. Possibly thirteen.

The chamber was vast. She could not see the far wall. The quartz formations descended from the ceiling like stalactites in a cave she had once visited as a girl — but these were not formed by water. These were formed by something alive. She could feel it: the emanation, the continuous radiant pressure that the record-keeper had described. It was already working on her. She could feel it in the joints of her fingers first — a stiffness, a subtle loss of flexibility, the earliest sign of a systemic response.

She noted: *joints first, bilateral, starting in the small joints of the hands. Consistent with the fever-pattern hypothesis. Onset: approximately 90 seconds from entry.*

The two death sites were visible: areas of cooled basalt with a thin crystalline film, one closer to the entrance, one further in. The notebook was between them — open, leather cover warped, pages up. The message tube was at the further site, still in its shoulder position.

The Emanator was at the center of the chamber.

