The wait was boring, but Ranthia was more than used to standing around for hours on end. But, at the very least, she knew she was waiting for something fun (for a rare change).

A while later, there was a beautiful sound: the explosive noise of raging flames. The night was dyed a vibrant, flickering orange.

The winged ogre never materialized. Ranthia was finally given leave to move as she saw fit, but there was no need.

The shimagu’s base camp blazed brightly, a grand conflagration that encompassed the entire semi-fortified area.

The elite unit was forced back by the heat and fury of the inferno. Ranthia joined them, but precious few shimagu even managed to escape the blaze. And most that did sought escape, rather than deliverance.

“I never would have expected the shimagu camp to be that vulnerable to fire. Did they seriously have nothing to mitigate it?” Ranthia commented with a satisfied grin.

“Ah mighta carried ov’ah a eettle barrel o’ me granpappy’s firebrew n’ throwed it in too.” One of the nearby dwarves—the one with a beard full of heat-curled hairs—happily offered an explanation.

“Firebrew?” Ranthia asked.

“Aye, it burns ‘etter an ‘otter tan mos oils.” The man agreed.

“Ah, firebrew.” Ranthia decided that there was a certain wisdom in the name.

“Burns a’most as much goin’ down ta hatch!”

Terrible, terrible wisdom. Not that Ranthia believed for an instant that one ‘little’ barrel of any liquid could have been responsible for the intensity and fury of the flames. If anything, it was a testament to the potential of forty-eight (or so) high-level (for mortals) pissed off classers.

The base and its occupants were naught but ash. The shimagu that had been outside of the base or managed to escape were permitted to flee. Remera was energized and celebrated its one-sided victory. But Ranthia couldn’t help but to find the whole thing a bit anticlimactic—there was no big showy battle, nor any final showdown with the winged ogre, just… one large fire.

Aurora left shortly after the sun set, escorted by [Warriors], scouts, and defense [Mages] from Remera’s own roster. With the shimagu cleared from the vicinity, they had every expectation of getting supplies and fresh troops once again.

With the crisis done, Ranthia finally felt like a weight had been lifted from her shoulders. Remera hadn’t been abandoned; the Legions were just scrambling to replace what they had lost, and Aurora had been busy elsewhere. Avyna was in a bright mood, too, with trade restored—even if she was somewhat preoccupied with her efforts to figure out additional space-efficient goods she could stock that could be kept for extended periods of time. As Avyna put it, she was determined to “never tolerate barren shelves again!”

Avyna’s first solution was to embrace spices. Her shop swiftly became even more delightful to enter, with a rich aroma of spice permeating the entire structure. It was a boon (usually, Ranthia had a few incidents) for their cooking too.

With the dread she had felt largely dispelled and Avyna back to being all smiles, affection, and naked greed, Ranthia’s world finally felt righted. Sure, the winged ogre twin was still alive, which was suboptimal, but she was confident that Black Crow would find him sooner or later.

Yet the nightmares refused to abate. Instead, Ranthia gradually learned to sleep without thrashing about when her nightmares came to her. She refused to let her weakness worry Avyna for no reason. Besides, it wasn’t like the nightmares visited her every night—there were the rare and precious few where she slept a dreamless, deep slumber.

The new personnel assigned to Remera were a mixed bag. For every experienced legionary or officer that they received, they got at least twenty-four recruits that barely were trained in how to use a bow or hold a spear (and seldom excelled at both). Word was that Remus was increasingly aggressively recruiting to replace what had been lost, which meant some of the new personnel had rather bleak stories about how and why they were there. But man or woman, slave or unneeded son, Remera accepted whatever it could get with cautiously open arms.

Even when it caused problems.

“Empty your coin purse.” Ranthia ordered.

She was blocking the exit, while one of the newest legionaries glared at her.

“What’s it to you!?” The kid managed to stretch the ‘you’ out until the word almost became incoherent. It wasn’t a quirk of anywhere in Remus that Ranthia was familiar with—a baleful reminder that she hadn’t really toured Remus for over a decade.

“That’s Sentinel Grace, I saw her when I was little!” Another newcomer whispered.

…It had only been four years since she was given the damned title!

“Why’s a Sentinel guarding some rabbit’s rip-offs?” The kid with a coin pouch full of stolen sweets groused.

“Keep flapping your lip and I’ll bust it before I punish you. You’re talking about my wife.” Ranthia informed the kid with the most saccharine smile she could muster.

Honestly, she had never understood why some people called elves ‘rabbits.’ Yes, they had long ears, but for the love of Xaoc, it was such a hollow comparison. They had nothing else in common!

…Well, other than being delightfully tasty, but in extremely different ways.

The kid sulked his way to the counter and signed over some contribution points. Which earned him an extra eight laps, before he grudgingly handed over a fistful of coins to cover the rest of what he’d stolen. Ranthia left supervising his punishment to one of Remera’s veteran regulars that tended to hang around Avyna’s shop and settled in on a stool next to her lover.

“What were they thinking, sending petty criminals to the front lines?” Ranthia groused.

“You say that like that’s anything new. Sosius threatened a tax collector and got sent out here.” Another legionary chimed in.

People either died, or they leveled until they could butt in on conversations from afar. There was no other outcome, not in Remera.

“Wait, that’s a crime? I thought that was a public service!” Another man—by the books—cried out in exaggerated despair.

“<Remind me to stop speaking Creation in public.>” Ranthia grumbled as the shop became boisterous with legionaries daydreaming about freedom from taxes.

“They are happy, my love. This is something you should enjoy.” Avyna wisely answered in Creation.

Ranthia sighed, but she nodded. The love of her life was right, as always. Accepting the wisdom, Ranthia tried to relax, even as the conversation turned to crimes the loyal soldiers of Remus would like to commit against tax collectors and/or governors. One could have argued that she should have stopped them, but she was too busy holding the hand of the woman she loved—she just couldn’t be bothered by such trivial concerns.

And if anyone important entered, she was prepared to claim she was napping and had no idea what anyone was saying.
