After placing my remaining thirty-seven points into the tree, I reached through the quarantine zone. It didn’t take long before I found a few zombies nearby. Instead of killing them outright, I smashed the host they carried. I wrenched the insects from the mounds of molded flesh. The ball of legs crawled in my hand, but it couldn’t get through my skin.

After getting five of them, I ripped off a plate of my armor and wrapped it around the bugs. Making sure it was airtight, I carried it under my arm. Not wanting to waste any time, I pulsed my ascendant mana until it matched my health regen. My new runes filled to the brim, a surge of might filling my bones and blood.

The rush was even better than before. I forgot I carved them again, making them better. It let me use all the hidden potential behind my enormous ebb and flow of mana. Like breaking a damn, it flowed through my veins. The liquid power didn’t flow out of the new runes either. There was no mist or steam coming out of them.

Instead, the air hummed like electricity was dancing in the air. A second passed before a spark of carmine colored lightning shot out from my armor. Another spike of electricity shot out of my armor, then another still. Focusing the power, not letting it intoxicate me, I honed the energy down into the runes.

The lightning stopped, letting the energy stabilize to its entirety. No more wasted dispersal. I would control it with an iron fist. Setting up my telekinetic augments, and idea struck me. So far, I’d set up several telekinetic pads to create points at the ends of my fists. It helped pierce enemies, but whenever I struck with full force, the pads shattered. I couldn’t maintain them.

I needed a simple and more effective solution. I let the pads disappear before making a pad on my hand. Visualizing another pad on my hand, I created a flat pad over my fist. Instead of redirecting it, I imagined a much smaller pad right past it. Instead of creating these elaborate telekinetic spikes, I would just make the force condense into a smaller point.

It’s kind of like putting on a pair of telekinetic brass knuckles, except all the force would condense into one point. In theory, the constructs should be much stronger than the elaborate points since they were closer to my hand. It would make my fist punch holes into whatever I hit, letting me handle armored foes much better. That, and my armor could get a hold in them and tear their organs out.

Once I did that, it would be over. Plus, I wouldn’t have to spin my damn hands when trying to punch. Doing that shit was hard as hell in the middle of a fight, and I couldn’t do it from certain angles. With that in mind, I set my case of armor onto the ground. I reinforced it with three more layers of my armor. I did not want those insects getting out once I was outside the quarantine zone.

I walked up to the brick wall of a chimney. I stomped my heel and pivoted a hook into the side of the chimney. Instead of letting my arm crash through brick chimney, I let the force go through the telekinetic pad on my hand. As the force of the strike transferred into the chimney, my hand bounced backwards.

It felt like I was launching a telekinetic bullet with my hand. It didn’t end up like a bullet though. It punched a hole through the chimney wall, leaving the wall I hit intact. The other side of the chimney though, it wasn’t so lucky. It exploded outward like a bomb went off inside it. I transferred all the force of my strike into what I hit instead of on the surface of it.

The brick wall my hand rested on had a three-inch-wide breach with a couple cracks around it. Walking up towards another chimney, I shot out another punch using the new technique. This time however, I released writhing, hooked tendrils of metal as my fist landed. The shifting storm of black blades detonated into the chasm I created. When my fist bounced backwards, the metal tentacles caught on the chimney.

The effect was chimney detonating from the inside. One side from the raw, kinetic energy and the other side from the metal tendrils pulling it apart. If that was a person, their insides would be blended. In a single word, devastating.

If that could hold up at full strength, then the telekinetic augments would be complete. Satisfied with the result, I picked up the metal ball of insects. After wrapped it around tied it to my back with a metal cord, I sprinted out of town at full speed. The Phaser ability was put to full use, allowing me to bolt from the town at a blistering pace.

Once I reached the forest, I dashed past trees and broke through briars. The wind whistled in my ears, the sheer speed of my travel amazing me. It felt like riding a motorcycle straight through the dense underbrush. The dark of the forest cast calm onto the scene, like ambient music given a physical form. Whenever I reached the creek, a few nightingales flew off a branch. My speed startled them away.

By the time I reached near the supposed base, my mind was wary for any danger. Unlike before, I wouldn’t be caught by surprise. Catching up towards the blip on my mini-map, I found a village of huts and tents.

It was a miserable sight. There were only four guards, and only two of them had guns. One of the others held a bloody pipe and the other some forest bow and arrow. They looked desperate, dirt on their faces and thousand-yard stares latched on their eyes. They were nothing like I hoped they would be.

There were still about three hundred in the camp. Even the weakest child can become a cold-blooded killer if you give them a gun. Put armor on them, and you could hardly tell the difference between them and adults. This number of people would bolster the current legion’s numbers by maybe a fourth. Maybe it would change their mind about what happened.

As I reached the encampment, I slowed down and quit using my ascendant mana. Instead of walking up at night, I would wait until the morning to act. I figured a bit of light would help them with the whole not panicking thing.

It wasn’t long before the sun peaked over the horizon. I’d burrowed myself into the ground and covered myself in leaves using telekinesis during the meantime. Spying on them only revealed how terrible the living conditions were still. Buckets for holding water, having a hole in the ground to shit in, and looking bony, these guys were living it up.

Convincing them to stop looked like it would be easier than I thought.

With that in mind, I walked up with a steady and slow pace. Not wanting to startle them, I wanted to look like a messenger. My name helped with that, being a Harbinger of Cataclysm. Playing off the title would help as well.

As I neared the camp, the guards panicked. Each of them weren’t even level 100. No one in the camp was, at least from what I saw. Seeing someone with 740 above their head in purple text was no doubt intimidating. That didn’t even include whatever my notification told them.

By the time I reached them, the guards had their guns raised. Once I was within fifty feet, one of the guards shouted,

“Don’t take a step closer or else I’ll open fire.”

I kept my voice steady as I thundered, “You already know that isn’t enough to even touch me. If you fire, I will retaliate in kind.”

Had to keep the evil guy shenanigans going. Once I reached up close, the two guards petrified at the sight of me. One of them was a taller, thin guy and the other was a short woman. Neither of them were ready for something like me.

I couldn’t blame them for being scared. I was trying to take advantage of my imposing figure. Without the telekinetic buffers, my steps shook the ground. I was over a head taller than either of the guards. Pulling back my helmet, I revealed my face to them, scars and all.

The girl whispered, “He’s one of the grays.”

I raised an eyebrow, “What’s a gray?”

They glanced at each other. It took them a bit before one of the guys spoke,

“It’s uhm…It’s what we call people who are gray…It’s a compliment.”

I rolled my eyes, “Alright, that doesn’t tell me anything. From what I know, the gray comes from constitution. You hardly need even forty in the attribute for that gray coloring to set in.”

They turned to each other again, both looking like they were dancing in the middle of a minefield. The girl turned to me, her eyes were in utter terror. I gave her no reason to be scared, yet here she was shitting herself at the sight of me.

My senses clicked at that moment. Something wasn’t right. My eyes narrowed and my helmet slid back on. I listened close, hearing the brushing of leaves from within the tented encampment. All the steps sounded the same. Well, all except for one pair of footsteps. This pair of steps were quiet as falling snow.

I shot my hand out towards my left, grasping at the soft sound. My fingers wrapped around a neck. I turned my head at the thing I held onto. The invisibility field faded, revealing a woman in a black suit of some kind. I turned to her, grinning with my armor forming teeth,

“Well then, what do we have here?”
