Nathalia looked at her hand, and the ring Ren made for her was touching the Sending Stone. I have to remember to tell him! She thought. He'll be so happy! She took her hand off the stone and thought of talking to Ren. The ring glowed and she spoke.

“I'm going to hope you find something! The food can be ready anytime, you know that. See you later.”

Nathalia touched the Sending Stone with her other hand and told her mother what had happened.

“He'll be so happy!” Her mother said.

“That's what I thought, too!”

*

Ren walked all around the perimeter of the cave and only found a few spots with iron ore. He ended his walk at the far side of the cave, opposite the entrance.

“I know I'm missing something.” Ren said. “For this cave to exist, there has to be a reason.” Ren wracked his brain, but couldn't come up with anything. He sat down and felt something jab his thigh.

That's odd. I'm wearing my leather armor. I shouldn't feel something jab me so much. Ren moved his leg away from the spot, but it just looked like a rock. He shifted aside and was poked in the other leg.

“Dammit!” Ren said and stood up. “I don't see anything! Do you, Teepo?”

“No.” Teepo said. “Maybe you should try using a lantern or something.”

“That's a great idea!” Ren said and took out his old lantern. He filled it with oil and lit it. “It might show us something that can only be... HOLY CRAP!”

The lantern normally would only light up about 30 feet, but small bits of reflective surfaces that were embedded in the rocks, spread it out to nearly three times that.

“Teepo! Tell me that's not what I think it is.” Ren said to his friend.

“That's not what you think it is.” Teepo said.

“It's not?!?” Ren asked, surprised.

“Ha ha, it is.” Teepo chittered in laughter. “You told me to tell you it wasn't, though.”

Ren rolled his eyes and knelt on the floor, close to one of the reflective surfaces that had poked his leg when he sat on it. It was the edge of a clear, uncut diamond crystal, about the size of his fist.

“Diamonds!”
