“That gives us very little to go on. You are correct that none of the current twins that we are aware of could have sheltered an area so large, nor could they have affected the weather. With that said, there are more mundane possible explanations, and it is not atypical for certain areas to remain untouched by a large storm. Also, there are numerous Skills and elements that could shelter an area, which is more likely than a Storm [Mage] that could have created such a potent rain. But, yes, we should keep our eyes open to all possibilities, no matter how unlikely, until we can find confirmation of the truth.” Night resumed his familiar word-salad that could have been readily reduced to a single sentence before he fell into silence to let her stew on the words or get annoyed—or whatever he did that for.

Ranthia had no interest in dragging things out further. She was determined to finish with what she needed to say so she could ask her boss to kindly go away so she could rest. That or she was impatient to finally get an overdue kiss or sixty-four in before she succumbed to sleep.

“Summarizing my report; I’ll do a more thorough written one after I sleep. The base commander asked me to join the efforts to scout the damage to the area brought on by the storms and make sure there were no dangers in the vicinity. The scouts and I mucked through the aftermath and found nothing, until we spotted a dry area outside of the radius of our patrol. We decided to investigate.

“The situation felt off to at least one of the scouts and I agreed. Part-way into a careful search, a different scout voiced his disagreement—and was promptly nearly taken out by an arrow. The third scout saved him. The competent one readied her bow and returned fire when she saw movement. It was an ogre, then when he fell, the System confirmed a shimagu kill as well. The impact when the ogre hit the ground alerted the main force. They mustered swiftly, which likely meant they were already on the march or about to resume.

“I ordered the scouts to get the injured scout back to base. I’d hoped to delay the force and withdraw, but it was larger than I expected.

“While I engaged with the first group, additional groups of enemies came from alternate paths and surrounded me before I could escape—I ended up surrounded. It soon became obvious that someone was directing the movements of the shimagu army—their forces continually repositioned in an effort to keep me surrounded while they tried to box me in and restrict my movements.

“I fought back, of course. Eventually, by necessity, I abandoned my efforts to escape through their ranks—I was expending mana and getting nowhere—so I refocused on dealing damage and preserving myself while I waited for an opportunity. Then I heard a voice giving orders and went on the attack until I managed to kill the ogre responsible, but it had no effect on the movement of the army. It’s unclear what went wrong. There were too many possibilities: the shimagu could have moved to another host, I could have slain a lesser officer that merely echoed orders, or there were multiple [Leaders] and they were able to adapt to the loss. …Or it could have been a trap—there was… a higher level of danger near that ogre.

“After that, I was forced to focus on survival while I fought on, at least until you arrived. From there, you know the rest—I don’t think I have anything meaningful to add.” Ranthia concluded her report with another squeeze of Avyna’s hand.

Night nodded and settled into yet another thoughtful pause, instead of doing something sensible like thanking her and leaving. Ranthia was exhausted, but she wasn’t petty enough to demand his departure. Instead, she finally picked up her cup of mostly cooled tea with her free hand and took a sip.

The noisiest slurp she could manage.

Avyna shot her a flat look, but it prompted Night to finally speak. Which meant that it was worth doing.

“Very well, thank you for your report, Sentinel Grace. I suppose I should seek accommodations at this base for the day. As we discussed earlier, it is unlikely that the shimagu forces will be able to reach the base ahead of tomorrow evening, especially after you stalled them. So, for the time being, I would recommend you take the opportunity to rest and recover while you are able.” Night finally decided.

“Oh! You must stay here for the day; it is the least that we could do after you brought my love back to me in one piece!” Avyna insisted.

Night politely protested. Ranthia (less politely) tried her best to subtly signal the woman she loved to not push. Yet her elf refused to be dissuaded. At length, Night accepted their hospitality and, after Avyna took Pallos’ fastest shower, the vampire disappeared into the back of their tent, armed with five blankets, two pillows, and his polite certainty that the bathtub would be preferable to sleeping on any of the other furniture in their home.

Ranthia desperately wanted skin-on-skin contact while she rested—not for amorous reasons, just the heightened warmth and intimacy—but with their home infested by a certain bloodsucking guest with horrendously sharp senses… Avyna wore a lovely blue lightweight gown while Ranthia went with her usual mistweave tunic. They could at least cuddle. Ranthia soon found herself comfortable on her side, with her arms wrapped around her lover and her forehead nuzzled against Avyna’s horn.

She fell asleep swiftly while immersed in the warmth and a sense of safety and serenity.

Ranthia woke up alone in bed. Of course, she woke up to the wonderful scent of herbs and vegetables and meats being cooked, so it wasn’t like she needed to fret about where her beloved was. Somehow, she sincerely doubted that Night crawled out of his tub during the day to cook for them.

But Ranthia wasn’t in a rush to get up. She was comfortable and she was safe. No one on Pallos could give her crap for taking a slow start to her day, not after what she went through. Besides, she suspected that Avyna would chase her out of the cooking area if she tried to help.

They really needed to talk, one-on-one, soon. Avyna had to have seen just how badly damaged her armor was. She hated to make the woman worry, even if Avyna seemed to be far more accepting of it than Hexara ever had.

But she was inviting stress. She was home and they were both safe, at least for the moment—wait, no, bad.

Already frustrated with herself, Ranthia decided to turn her attention to her System interface and filtered out and merged the level gains.

[*ding!* Congratulations! [She who Dances with Chaos] has leveled from 627 to level 630! +100 Strength, +100 Dexterity, +100 Vitality, +100 Speed, +8 Mana, +8 Mana Regeneration, +5 Magic Power, +5 Magic Control from your class, +1 free stat for being human, +2 Mana from your element.]

[*ding!* [Void Affinity], [Rhythmic Grace], [Void Edge], [Flowing Momentum], [Vision of the Void], [Echoes of Devastation], [Divine-Touched Identify], [Sentinel’s War Supremacy], [Submind], [Combat Awareness] have leveled from 627 to level 630!]

[*ding!* [Reflections of Reality] has reached level 393!]

[*ding!* [True Grace] has leveled from 402 to level 421!]

[*ding!* [Higher Power] has leveled from 95 to level 101!]

[*ding!* [Ranthia’s Covenant with Xaoc] has reached level 153!]

[*ding!* [Fast Learner] has reached level 466!]

Ranthia briefly lamented that she had only gotten three levels and was on the cusp of dismissing her gains as mostly just favoring [Higher Power]. …At least until she finally realized just how many levels [True Grace] had received.

She had no desire to do that again, but [True Grace] was stubborn about leveling, yet something about her warm dance—infused with her lust for life—had managed it! Which helped her mood more than a bit. She had barely gotten anything during her time in Remus, but once again her growth was thriving.

Ranthia finally abandoned the warmth of their blankets and soft bed and slipped past the curtains into the more public section of their home of cloth. She and Avyna shared a sweet little morning kiss, before Avyna playfully shoved her out of the food preparation area—just as Ranthia expected.

Ranthia wasn’t forced to wait long before Avyna arrived with two bowls of hearty stew. It looked—and smelled—like it had a bit of everything in it. Sausage, pork, chicken, vegetables of all sorts, herbs, cream, and even cheese. Ranthia peered curiously at the elf—she had her doubts about how well that many flavors could work together—but Avyna just silently beckoned for her to eat and went back to retrieve an entire loaf of thick-crusted bread.

Ranthia shrugged and dipped her crystal spoon into the stew. It was pretty dense with how many solids were packed into it, but it smelled good and Ranthia trusted her lover implicitly.

It was hot—many of the ingredients were eager to trap the heat, especially since it was freshly made. But she had enough vitality that she didn’t need to worry about scalding her mouth. Probably.

But more importantly, it was good. She had no idea how Avyna had managed so many flavors, but it tasted like a cohesive dish. Ranthia’s appetite reared its head and reminded her that she was absolutely famished, so Ranthia set about trying to consume food as swiftly as she could.

Okay, there was one regret. When Avyna finally joined her, the elf emptied out her half of the bread then spooned thick stew into it and ate that. It looked incredible, but Ranthia’d already mauled her own bread entirely too much to do the same. Oh well, it was all ending up in the same place either way and she was too hungry to stop.

She could always try that another time.

Every time Ranthia finished a bowl, Avyna quietly replaced it, until, at long last, Ranthia was ready to gesture her surrender. Her stomach had been empty, but it felt ready to burst after… er, however many bowls of stew and so much bread.

Avyna slipped behind Ranthia and started to rub her shoulders affectionately. Ranthia just smiled and leaned her head back to offer the cook a kiss. Avyna happily accepted and let it linger, but once she pulled away, she grabbed Ranthia’s blindfold—she had kept it on with Night present—and yanked it off.

They stared into one another’s eyes for a long moment—Ranthia was always willing to lose herself in her lover’s faceted eyes.

“Thank you for coming back to me, my love.” Avyna finally whispered.

“I always will, I love you too much to leave you. And I owe you my life.” Ranthia replied, doing her best to keep her voice quiet. It was an intimate moment, for the two of them—she had no intention of sharing it with the eavesdropper in the bathroom!

“Aw, you. So sentimental!” Avyna whispered with a smile.

“Well, yes. But I meant it literally. The extra arcanite and mana stores saved me, and my heart and soul sang brighter than ever when I thought of you.” Ranthia might have rolled her eyes had she heard such drivel from a [Bard]’s performance, but she meant every word.

Avyna beamed a bright, happy smile. But it fell a couple of heartbeats later—Ranthia had basically just confessed that she came close to not making it. But Avyna didn’t start crying, instead her eyes took on a familiar intensity.

She was trying to solve the problem.

“I need some air, but we can do better. I will find a way.” Avyna promised, before she hurried out of their home.

Ranthia called after her—albeit quietly—but her words went unheeded. Ranthia cursed under her breath and busied herself with cleaning up the dishes—all the proof that she needed that Avyna was more distraught than she had appeared.

It didn’t take long, so she wasn’t surprised that she finished before Avyna returned. The massive—seriously, her Ranger Teams used smaller ones—pot of stew was fine for a while and the enchantment didn’t need her to babysit it.

Ranthia retrieved her blindfold from the floor.

“I’m stepping out for a short while; I’ll turn the security enchantments on when I go. You should be safer here than basically anywhere else in Remera.” Ranthia called out quietly.

Either Night was awake and heard everything, or he was asleep—and if he was, she didn’t want to wake him. Either way, she put on her belt—it was a little worse for wear, but it wasn’t so badly damaged that she needed to replace it with one of her spares. Her Sentinel badge went into one of the pouches before she carefully crept over to her supply trunk and raided it for several rods of Reman coins. Then she made her way out of the tent and toggled the security inscriptions—she couldn’t carry an inscription or an enchantment, but she could still use them.

Ranthia couldn’t hear Avyna’s voice from their tent, but she wasn’t planning to look for her—she wanted to do something nice for her. And Remera was a military base, which meant one thing: it had a thriving black market of illicit activities. Gambling dens, underground brewing, and more could be found if someone knew where to look. Usually finding things like that required a network of contacts and the trust of her peers.

Ranthia planned to cheat mercilessly. She was already aware of several facilities that those in power were either blissfully ignorant of or were willing to ignore, so long as they didn’t become problems—soldiers needed ways to blow off steam, after all. They weren’t what she was looking for, but they could be bribed into helping her acquire what she was after.

Avyna still wasn’t back by the time Ranthia returned. She was tempted to seek her out, but Remera was a big base—it was all too easy to imagine Avyna coming home to find Ranthia gone and creating a ridiculous cycle. Instead, she settled on setting up her purchases. Between the palms she had to grease and the exaggerated cost of the goods, Ranthia had expended every last coin that she had brought with her.

But it was worth it, she was entirely willing to trade her wealth for Avyna’s happiness!

Once that was done, Ranthia settled down and grabbed a scroll so she could write that full report that she had promised.

The timing was uncanny. Ranthia finished the report just in time to hear the tent open. Avyna entered, swaddled in Ranthia’s traveller’s cloak—which she would have sworn Avyna hadn’t been wearing when she left. Not that Ranthia minded—Avyna was welcome to use it.

“Hey love. I didn’t mean to upset you, so I picked up some apology sweets—” Ranthia quietly offered while she stood.

Avyna promptly threw herself against Ranthia and Ranthia found herself pulled into a surprisingly fierce kiss. But before she could raise her arms to embrace her, Avyna’s own fingers closed tight around her wrists.

