Night kept them moving at a desperate pace until the two of them had gained quite a bit of distance from the shimagu before he finally slowed. It wasn’t exactly a leisurely pace—even for their level—but it was a pace that Ranthia could maintain, at least. She had fought for longer periods of time against worse odds, but exhaustion had still managed to sink its proverbial fangs into her. But they couldn’t stop before they reached Remera.

“How are you here?” The question slipped out of Ranthia’s mouth.

It was a really stupid question, admittedly. But it was what tumbled out of her exhausted mind and escaped her mouth, so it seemed needlessly cruel to kill it after the fact by rescinding it.

“I assume that you are not intending that to be a profound, were it not readily answered in my case, philosophical question.” Night chuckled to himself. “To answer what you likely meant to ask, we received an emergency bird from your base. The message included the fact that you had yet to return from attempting to delay the shimagu. As soon as I was able, I set out to investigate the situation.

“You did well to hold out for as long as you did, Grace. Thank you.” He turned his head to favor her with a brief fang-filled smile.

The man had just saved her life, but her skin still crawled at the sight. Even when he made jokes or smiled, something about Night just felt off-puttingly… calculated. That was a good word for it. Something about his demeanor felt measured.

That or her paranoia about the man had merged with her exhaustion to provide her with delusions.

Ranthia flicked her eyes up at the moons and considered her dearth of mana. She should have been able to fight for more than a day with what she had. Either she had been sloppy with her mana conservation, or…

“…Xaoc, please tell me it hasn’t been days.” Ranthia subvocalized. If it had, she could scarcely imagine what Avyna had been going through…

“It has not. The scouts that you sent back to the base arrived well before sunset and the birds are well-trained. It is currently, nearly precisely, two thirds of the way through the night that followed the day you encountered the shimagu.” Night answered.

Damned vampire hearing.

Ranthia grumbled nonsense under her breath until she forced her body back to the pace it had maintained before she got distracted. She could endure just a bit more, she was so close to seeing Avyna again.

Honestly, she was frustrated with how exhausted she felt. Her mind and her body yearned to just… stop and collapse. Something deeper within Ranthia was spent, something beyond her muscles. She had fought longer and harder than that before! She had only fought for half a day or so at most!

As frustrating as it was, it wasn’t surprising; she was somewhat familiar with combat. She had learned the truth even back in her Adventurer days: a dangerous, tough fight could still be just as exhausting even when it was comparatively brief. But she had always assumed that she would gain some measure of immunity to the effect as she leveled—especially with her vitality climbing to a tier that she had scarcely ever dreamed was possible.

Just shows how far I have to go. Ranthia wasn’t sure if that was the right lesson to take, but it made sense to her.

Remera was still abuzz when they reached those terrifying, dangerous, massive stones that levitated to serve as the gates. As usual, Ranthia sent an image past them and shifted to it—which had the lovely side benefit of freeing her from the minor wounds and injuries that she had been forced to endure. Night even had the decency to pretend that she hadn’t done anything bizarre while he walked through unbothered. A crowd of [Healers] checked them—even as the base’s brass swarmed them, which kind of negated the entire point of being checked by [Healers]!

Questions were being volleyed at them and the sheer cacophony threatened to overwhelm her exhausted mind. She just wanted to stop trying and retreat into herself.

And then Avyna was there, and suddenly Ranthia’s desire to withdraw from reality fizzled away. The elf’s expression was too complex for Ranthia to make sense of it, but she threw herself into Ranthia’s arms—seemingly without the slightest hint of concern for the risk of injuring herself on Ranthia’s heavily damaged armor. Ranthia clung to her beloved just as tightly and promptly lost all control over her own emotions.

The endlessly flowing tears—in front of Night and the base’s entire upper echelon of command, no less—should have been mortifying, but Ranthia’s world was reduced to her and the trembling woman in her arms.

Things went hazy for a while and Ranthia had no idea how she went from reuniting with Avyna to anywhere else. Yet there she was, seated next to Avyna on a bench at the table in their own home. …With Night seated across from them.

She just wanted to kiss the woman she loved until sleep took her, but life wasn’t going to be that nice. Not that everything was terrible.

She was leaning against Avyna, and they had the fingers of their closest hands interlaced as they held one another’s hands with a constant, reassuring pressure. A reminder that they were both there—that they were together once again. Ranthia had even gotten out of her armor at some point. That was all lovely.

She had far more mixed emotions about the fact that Night was in her home. Avyna had even—at some point—provided each of them with mugs of hot tea, not that any of them had moved to take a sip.

“Thank you for bringing her back to me.” Avyna bowed her head to Night.

As Ranthia regained herself, she noticed something. Night hid it well, but something about the way he held himself gave her the impression that he was uncomfortable. She hadn’t even known the man could be fazed by anything that wasn’t an apocalyptic threat.

Ah, right, he had vocally opposed their relationship. Well, if they made him uncomfortable, he deserved it.

Gods and goddesses, she needed to regain more coherence before she ended up opening her mouth—she owed her life to Night, it wasn’t the time to be petty and rude.

The pale man looked to Ranthia after he nodded to Avyna to acknowledge her gratitude. She knew what he was waiting for, but she needed a little longer. She needed time to recover before she could even begin to try to make sense of the mess of her own thoughts—only then could she hope to give a remotely coherent report.

Avyna seemed to sense as much—because she was amazing like that—and selflessly engaged Night in small talk.

“I had heard tale that your people were amongst humans, but I am relieved to see proof that vampires still walk our world. Pallos would be poorer with any further immortal kinds lost to history.” Her tone was similar to what she used with customers, professional and warm.

“…And what makes you so certain that I am a vampire?” Night asked in return, with a single arched eyebrow.

“Pale skin, never touched by sun. The red base of your eyes. Fangs, though you angle your head and manage your movements to reduce how obvious they are. The subtle aroma of blood—you hide it well, but elven senses are sharp. The difference between you and my love’s kind is as clear as the difference between any race. I am something of an expert on the differences between different peoples.” Avyna seemed to be enjoying herself—even if she was noticeably pausing before she spoke to compose her words.

A wry smile crossed her lips a moment later, before Night could respond.

“Also, my love here once mentioned seeing a vampire performer.” Avyna added while she gently bumped her shoulder against Ranthia’s.

Oops. Fortunately, Night just lightly snorted before he inclined his head in acknowledgment. There was no visible sign that he was bothered by Ranthia slipping up and mentioning a species that tried to hide its existence.

“You mentioned ‘further’ loss. Does that mean there are immortal species that have been wiped out?” Ranthia asked.

She was curious, it had nothing to do with trying to distract Night from her accidentally spreading that vampires existed while she bought more time to recover! She very pointedly didn’t look Night’s way—she would be happier if she remained ignorant of his probable displeasure.

“I am aware of two. The…” Avyna trailed off and frowned. “I have never heard their name spoken aloud, though I have read it numerous times. I believe the word is spoken as ‘spectrosse’. They are remembered in many elven stories as they were the final experimental creation of the gods before their ultimate goal—the elves—were created.

“When White Dove cursed them, they were forced to live within the Forest of Mists. Without the water in the air, their bodies would wither. Their eyes were well suited to living there, so they did not mind. They and the elven progenitors were close allies and worked together to survive the dangerous days following Creation.

“But the spectrosse were wiped out by a dragon: Alda’Era, the Immaculate Destroyer. She desired the Forest of Mists to live within and was disinterested in sharing. Not that it spared her—the tales say that Drathex slew her. Sadly, the last spectrosse had already died by then.” Avyna explained after several long moments.

Tension hung in the air for several long moments, not that Avyna seemed to be affected. But Night had reacted when Avyna mentioned the dragon and named it—not in a physical way, it was more just that something indescribable about his presence suddenly grew more menacing. The danger felt real enough that much of the fog of exhaustion was torn away from Ranthia’s mind while she formed her knife in her hand that wasn’t entwined with Avyna’s.

Yet, after several moments, Night still never moved or visibly reacted and whatever ‘sense’ Ranthia was responding to—something far more instinctual than even [Combat Awareness]—seemed to fade.

Quite possibly because she was glaring at him.

“You should not speak of them. It is said that they can hear it when someone dares to do so and I believe that your people should know as well as any that their attention is best avoided.” Night offered in his lecturing tone. With the threat obviously passed, Ranthia stowed her knife.

Avyna laughed into her free wrist, only to trail off and stare at the man when she realized he wasn’t joking.

“Night, I am sorry, but that is one of the most ridiculous things that I have ever heard! If dragons were forced to hear every time someone spoke the name of their kind, they would go mad from countless mentions every day. There are stories that say their personal name or title may be trapped in some manner, but even that is widely regarded as unlikely. If the greatest elven minds are unable to find a way to do so beyond the range of their hearing, it is utter nonsense.” Avyna bemusedly retorted.

Ranthia was really, really trying not to enjoy watching her gorgeous elf sass her bloodsucking boss. They were all immortal, but Avyna was undoubtedly the most experienced person in the room—Ranthia was inclined to defer to the elf’s judgment. Besides, it was like she herself had said to Tertia before—even if dragons could hear when the word was spoken, it felt more likely that they’d visit a realm that seemingly had forgotten they existed than one that spoke of ancient tales of them.

“Perhaps you would be willing to do me the honor of avoiding the word while I remain here, at the very least. I have reason to believe that the truth is as I explained.” Night’s offer was diplomatic on its surface, at least. Yet somehow, no matter how polite the words and tone were, they still didn’t come off as a question.

Avyna had to be aware of it, but she was magnanimous enough to nod her assent before she took the time to compose her words so she could continue.

“The demons also no longer walk our world. It was before my time, but the Unchanging Council were… forced to remove them. It is my understanding that the demons were cursed with personal obsessions that frequently led to would-be warlords that would attack and invade others.

“After numerous incidents, the Unchanging Council made their judgment. Elves gathered and attacked. Many demons were slain—no resistance was tolerated. Those that survived were driven into the deepest depths of Pallos, before all known tunnels and caves to those sections were brought down.

“It meant the death of all demons. Their combat-capable were all killed; those that remained had no chance to protect themselves. The depths are deadly even to the greatest [Warriors], [Rangers], and [Mages].” Avyna squeezed Ranthia’s hand as she spoke.

There was no pride in her words—Avyna tried to mask what she said as mere statements of fact, but she was tense while she spoke. It felt, at least to Ranthia, like she was angry about what her people had done. But Ranthia wasn’t about to ask, especially not in front of Night. Instead, she just squeezed Avyna’s hand back to silently support her.

“I had not heard about this, thank you for sharing it with me.” Night acknowledged.

Silence fell over the trio of immortals. Avyna was working through her surge of anger—she often needed a bit of time when her emotions bested her. Night seemed to relish awkward, ponderous silences. But Ranthia felt increasingly uncomfortable as she stared at the cooling cups of still-untouched tea.

Well, if she wasn’t going to get to sleep… there was one thing that she needed to raise, something important.

“Night, I think there’s another twin out there, one that I haven’t seen mentioned in our reports. They might have just sheltered the area they were camping in, rather than creating the storms that nearly drowned us, but the area they were in was too dry. An army was practically at Remera’s gates without being seen thanks to those storms.

“Yet I never—to the best I could tell—encountered a twin while I fought. There were four Storm-aspected kills during the fight against the army, but each of them was most likely a [Laborer] or a [Warrior]. I did defeat a [Mage]-tagged ogre that had the Storm element before I encountered the army, but he was only level 466 and was a [Weather Watcher], so I doubt he could have been responsible.” Ranthia reported.

