However, Jake’s response was definitely not what the snake god expected, as he looked a little sad. “That sounds... horrible. Doesn’t it ruin all sense of exploration and learning new things about an entirely untouched world to suddenly gain knowledge like that? At least to me, that would suck.”

“To me, I’m kind of over exploring places like these, and domains I have an interest in are those that my skill is unable to give me knowledge of. And, in my opinion, people tend to be a lot more interesting to explore than mere places, but I guess to each their own,” Villy answered.

“Still doesn’t sound like the kind of skill I would ever want,” Jake muttered telepathically. “Also, now that I have you... Any advice at all for this kind of situation? Finding myself surrounded by A-grades isn’t that comfortable, especially not when they all want me to lead them directly into the solar system, something I seriously doubt even the galaxy could handle.”

“Nah, you got this,” the truly evil snake god waved him off casually. “One warning, though. You can’t teleport them directly to another universe, even if you want to. They are bound to this Minor World until the time they have passed beyond what is referred to as the Boundary for the first time. This will certainly change in the future, but for now, that appears to be the case.”

“Great. Just great,” Jake muttered, his plan of trying to teleport these A-grades to the Order immediately shut down. At least if he’d done that, they would have appeared in an area surrounded by far more powerful creatures to handle them. Someone like Viridia could easily take on every single living being in this world combined, not to mention the gods of the Order.

Of course, that assumed he would even have gotten the chance to try to put down a teleportation circle in the first place. Current circumstances were still quite precarious to say the least, and while Jake could see the A-grades discuss something far above the Nest, he naturally couldn’t hear them, and unfortunately, Sphere and Myriad Tongues did not interact to allow him lip-reading.

“The Venusians will be hesitant to strike, even if not for your existence,” the Archweaver said, likely trying to be comforting in some way. “While we are undoubtedly enemies, there are still balances to be struck. If their elite went around destroying Nests, we would send our strongest to annihilate the Venusian Villages, ultimately ending in both factions suffering catastrophic damage. The Arachnecs would undoubtedly win in the end, but we would have suffered losses we may never recover from, or others might take advantage of any temporary weakness. Besides, it’s believed there is some value in a constant conflict, allowing both sides to hone themselves.”

The words of the Archweaver were definitely biased, as Jake wasn’t as sure as him that the Arachnecs winning was a given, but he didn’t argue. It all sounded similar to how many factions in the multiverse viewed conflict, which at least did give Jake some hope that it wouldn’t end with the Venusians just going: “Fuck it, if we can’t have him, no one can.”

A bit later, as Jake still stood with the Archweaver, some development finally happened as the B-grade looked down at him. “Your presence has been requested.”
