She did not seem confident. Viv understood. This was a theft operation and the two casters were novices. It would be like handling two VIPs in a war zone. They probably shouldn’t be there to begin with. Unfortunately, Sidjin’s presence was necessary. As for Viv, well, it was her project.

Naturally, they did not use the roads. Lim presented a team of three rough folks covered in dark gear more elaborate than their own, then they were off in a half-submerged tunnel.

//Those are dry during winter when the Shal’s flow decreases.

//And flooded after rains.

//Be careful, Your Grace.

//I only control part of the criminal population.

//And control is too strong a term.

//You cannot let your guard down.

They continued in silence. Viv thought the entire rock must have been hollowed out like gruyere because Helock had sewers and they were in a separate system. The passage smelled musty, much milder than the unbearable stench of the sewers. They came across side openings leading deeper into the darkness, outside of the range of the light spell Sidjin had deployed. They eventually left the underground through an opening in a cliff bordering the sea itself. Waves crashed against their light skiff. They found a rocky beach and hid their vessel behind bushes. It was such a common spot that a divot was left from previous operations.

The highlands over the city took another dimension at night. Cattle had fallen silent, and the cloudless sky felt very high above their heads. Stars shone brightly, providing enough light to see decently well. The floating islands and stones dotting the sky existed as little pieces of void blocking starlight like cracks on a fresco. The massive, distant form of the chalice ruled over them. When Viv looked, she could sometimes see whorls of mana disturbing the air.

Without a word, Solfis and the three thugs led the casters up a steep road then alongside the chest-high stone walls separating different pastures. They came across a road and crossed it quickly and silently. In that brief moment, Viv saw the silent patrol moving far in the distance, their many lanterns held at the ends of poles. The thugs had timed the excursion well.

Sterek’s workshop was luckily and relatively secluded. An entire side was completely hidden not just from the road but also from any surrounding estates. Sidjin and Viv examined the windows and walls, going so far as to have Solfis carry them up to the second floor, but there were no obvious gaps in the defenses. It was almost certain the intrusion would be noticed in the morning. The gates were even more heavily defended. At some point, the patrol walked by the workshop’s entrance but detected nothing unusual.

They reconvened under a silence spell to discuss their options. Viv’s suggestion was deemed the most likely to succeed and they left to get tools for the next day’s work.

***

“You must be Viviane the Outlander,” the man said.

The witch stopped in her tracks while the buggy driver froze, averting his eyes. Everyone in Helock knew better than to get involved in an argument between casters. That was clearly one of them. You just had to feel the way the world held its breath,

“And you are?” Viv replied to Sterek.

Sidjin’s would-be replacement was handsome and well-put together. He had the light skin of Baranese though he wore local robes with grace. More importantly, he exuded raw confidence.

Viv hated him almost immediately. It was not just the underhanded tactics. It was why. Viv could see it in the man’s demeanor and the way he looked down from his nose, the small upturn of his lips. She had seen it before. He had a very strong opinion of the world’s hierarchy as well as his and her place in it.

“Magister Sterek, chair of exotic colorless mana application and tenured professor for half a decade. I will cut right to the chase. I know you are still in touch with the traitorous prince and I have an offer for him, from man to man.”

Viv did not reply. Sterek sneered and resumed his speech.

“I am sure he knows he has more than overstayed his presence in the northern territories. I do not have to tell you that his prospects in Helock are bleak, so I am willing to offer twenty gold talents and a ship to Vizim for a convincing explanation of the unity theorem. If he is wise, he will know not to let that chance go to waste. Is that understood?”

Viv waited a short delay before answering just to see the man’s patience run short.

“If and when I see him, I will transmit the message.”

“See that you do. For his sake,” Sterek warned.

The threat of assassins went unsaid. Sterek had the stick hanging over Sidjin’s head like a sword of Damocles. It made sense to add a carrot as well, Viv thought. She left without a word and boarded the buggy. A moment later, she was gone.

Sterek watched the small shape of the buggy recede in the distance, going west towards the river. He walked into the Academy’s outer garden and found a secluded bench under the statue of some long dead scholar. He removed a painting from his robe’s pocket. The dark shape of a man moved on its blurry surface, and a voice came to him.

“Did you place the tracker spell?”

“No, she would have felt it. For all her lack of otherworldly powers, she seems rather adept at using the local magic. She reacted to a bare twitch of my mana.”

“Unfortunate.”

“She will go to the tavern. I am sure of it.”

“We will confirm it.”

“When is the assault planned?”

“Not immediately. The gang there has been taken over by something sinister. Those who made a move thinking them weakened were found without their heads. We will proceed carefully.”

“There must be something at that tavern Sidjin is using. Perhaps a passage. I’m not paying you to do nothing.”

“You have not paid us yet,” the voice warned, “and we have not lasted by being hasty. You will wait.”

The connection ended. Sterek seethed in his seat. His financial backers would visit tomorrow and he had only made marginal progress through trial and error. What had that cretinous prince discovered that he could not? It was so frustrating.

Sterek believed he should not let the matter distract him. A magister had to face problems both of the mundane and arcane nature. It was simply a test of his resolve. The issue would disappear soon, either shipped north or floating down the river in a burlap sack.

***

//The operation cannot be heard from the road.

//Please make sure to move the spell as you progress.

//We will still pause when the patrol approaches.

Viv nodded and made sure to keep her silent spell active around Sidjin’s construct. The close quarters made the experience difficult.

They had to break into a heavily fortified place without being seen, so Viv had resorted to an absolute classic of old-school heists.

They were digging a tunnel.

The Helockian highlands were dry and without much soil. The casters had dug only a meter before finding bedrock. Then, Viv had cast an area-of-effect silence she maintained while Sidjin worked. The man showed his mastery once again by using two mana colors in tandem. Brown clouds with green highlights seeped into the granite, fragilizing it, then the fallen prince’s signature colorless grinder turned it to gravel. Viv could have destroyed it but she decided to save her strength, and their hired goons simply spread the debris on a nearby field where it would not be found too suspicious too fast. It had been strangely exhilarating for the first minute, but now the strain of keeping the silent area up and the rising dust made Viv’s task uncomfortable. Funny how the smallest bullshit could ruin a cool event like breaking and entering.

It took almost an hour to clear a tunnel barely tall enough to crawl through, but the effort was worth it.

“If our calculations are correct, I believe we are… Oh, great.”

Sidjin pushed up. The light of his spell no longer shone on gray rock, but on the concrete-lathered underside of a large white slab. There was a bit of give. Viv placed her hand on her lover’s shoulder but he had already pulled back. They crawled back to the entrance and let the magic-impervious strike golem go first. A low hum told them to follow soon after.

The six members of the expedition gathered on the floor of the lab. The tunnel had allowed them to bypass two sets of securities, Viv could tell. Even the doors from the lab to the nearby corridor were warded to hell.

//No guards.

//However, they have a watcher.

//Of sorts.

The golem pointed a sharp claw at a nearby wall. The lab revolved around the large construct at its center, a colossal circle covered in layers of fine arcane script. Viv felt power from it even as it was deactivated, and the peculiar feeling of malleable space that Sidjin left behind as well, but while the prince’s work was streamlined and beautiful in its simplicity, that one bent under the weight of added parameters and hastily built support constructs. Sidjin made bullet trains to Sterek’s prototype coal locomotive.

The magister's lack of understanding did not stem from a lack of effort, however. Desks and storage shelves lined the wall, covered in densely written calculations. A diagram showing three axes and a curve stood on a blackboard larger than any school’s. Samples and models cluttered the space even more, along with writing implement and measurement tools the function of which Viv could only start to guess. What interested Solfis, however, was a head. A statue head with eyes replaced by two finely engraved crystals and thick silvery cables connected to other measurement tools and what was clearly a core-based power source. The thugs swore under their breath and even Sidjin let out a curse.

“Damn it. A golem. No illusions will fool this one if it is, indeed, recording,” the prince said.

//Do not call it a golem.

//This is not a golem.

//It could barely pass as a component of a golem.

//A very poorly programmed one, at that.

“Whatever you say, big guy,” Viv said in a comforting voice.

//I believe, Your Grace, that I am the local expert on golems.

//Please trust my assessment.

“Can you neutralize the not-golem without breaking it?”

Solfis did not reply, but he did let out a sybillant and vaguely rhythmic warble, and Viv had a strong suspicion she had just been cursed at in binary. Rather than wasting time with those silly flesh bags, the golem strode to its lesser cousin (allegedly) and opened his own chest cavity in a horrific display of eldritch horror, whereupon he grabbed one of the many cable lining his metal heart and forcefully plugged it in one of the observer’s ports. Viv thought it was unlikely the newer creations used the same input output method as Harrakan did and she was right, but the end of Solfis’ tendril changed shape under her very eyes to accommodate the slot of its victim.

//INTERFACING

It appeared she could add ‘hacking’ to the vast list of tasks Solfis could perform. It took less than a second for the tendril to retract and for the eyes of the lesser golem (Viv refused to call it a component) to shine a little. It appeared it had been deactivated for the night, probably to save mana.

//I have underestimated how far humanity would fall without the guiding presence of Irlefen.

Viv was about to snap but… she would never interrupt Solfis when he talked about Irlefen, his maker. It was the only time he showed any emotion besides smug arrogance and smug rage. “We’ll return,” Viv said in Harrakan, and found she meant it.

Solfis turned to her, and if she didn’t know better, she would have said he was startled.

//Yes.

//But first, Helock.

//Sterek uses this storage unit to record experiment results, and the parameters he picked for the spell.

//It mostly serves as a recording device.

//However, I believe I could alter its programming to add a short-range transmitter function.

//I could spy on Sterek.

“An interesting idea, but I have another one. Does this golem record observations?”

//It can project a blurry image of a scene using the illusion array hidden in its eye socket.

Solfis plugged himself again and his voice now came from the lesser golem. It sounded less deep than usual.

//It can also reproduce a wide array of recorded voices.

“I want access to its memory. Find what’s recorded there.”

//You can use those controls here.

//Only the past two weeks are still in storage, I’m afraid.

//There is a fast rewind option.

How very VHS of them. Viv felt nostalgic.

“Ok, I’ll have a look, see if there is something I can use. In the meanwhile, you two draw the gate circle.”

“Not looking forward to that,” Sidjin said.

//I do most of the work, meat bag.

//You are only here to supervise.

“Yes, yes, oh ancient one.”

Viv chuckled and pressed the rewind button. A blurry image appeared on the ground, as if from a distorted projector. It showed the lab by day, three human shapes working on the circle. She pressed on the fastest rewind option. She was mostly interested in rants and bouts of anger. That had potential.

The key broke under her finger with a ghastly crunch. The other stopped.

“Must we?” Viv growled.

Vandal.

“I already apologized! Several times! The damage is repaired!”

But the god ignored her.

***

The assassin guild’s strike team smashed the door of the Five Fishes Tavern just after closure to avoid the civilians. Always messy business, that, civilians. Sometimes they had powerful friends. The leader watched his team break in and seize the innkeeper as he was sweeping the ground. There were no guards on the surface. They would probably be inside.

He would just kill those assholes until he finally got a damn answer. He knew his group should have refused the job. Princes were trouble, even exiled ones. Should have kept killing accountants.

