After Richard and Sandra left, we cleaned the kitchen, and each of us went to our rooms for the night. I got comfortable, but planning my chant out has been difficult. I know it needs to reflect my desires; in the shortest, most precise way I can imagine. The problem is the language, itself. The reason I had such a hard time learning the local language, was due to the extra words they use to convey additional emotion in their words. Saying the same sentence in English is almost 60% shorter.

“That’s it!”

Sandra said, any language could be used!

Why am I limiting myself to the longer language? I wouldn’t want people to recognize what I was chanting anyway. Anyone listening to my spells would know exactly what was going to happen.

Let’s try doing this in English.

“Summoning light, in a 1cm diameter ball, on the tip of my index finger. It will be 100 lumens, and will take 100 mana. Go!”

It’s weird speaking in English again. The mana I expelled during my chant cost me fifteen points, and following Sandra’s advice I channeled my mana to my index finger.

I can feel the mana gathering into a small ball, on the tip of my finger. Suddenly, my room lights up. I almost want to cry; I can finally cast magic spells!

I look like a Spielberg alien right now, he-he.

Continuing to channel the spell, I can feel how much mana I’m burning.

The light only lasts another twenty seconds, before it flickers out of existence. Checking my mana levels, I burned 116 points of mana. Instead of giving a time like Sandra did, I specified how much mana I wanted to spend. Next time I see her, I’ll recommend she try it.

I wonder how English compares to the Celestial language with mana costs?

Riding the high of a successful spell, I try once again to break into level 51 with my two skills. I’ve been practicing every chance I get these last two days, and I’m positive, I’m almost there. Each time I try, my open-eyed meditation becomes a little closer towards real meditation. The wisps of mana are becoming clearer and I can even move my head slightly without breaking my concentration.

Laying comfortably on my bed, I feel like I’m being swallowed by my bed. Trying to enter the mental state I’m used to; the wisps start to appear in my eyes. I can pick out small strands of my mana, the remains of my spell, fusing with the ambient mana around me. I keep trying, but the feeling just won’t come. I need to try harder!

Try Harder!

Wait!

This is just like my spell earlier. I’m trying to force the magic, when I should be taking a step back!

Let’s try something different.

This time I close my eyes and enter my normal Meditation and Sense Mana skills. Sinking into the deepest meditation I can, I slowly open my eyes. All the flows of mana I’m used to sensing overlap with my room. The joy I feel almost pulls me out of my meditative state. Taking a slow breath, I calm myself.

After I sink back into my calm state, I feel everything settle. I did it! I can tell I passed the test!

This new sensation was worth it. I can now see how the ambient mana is interacting with my surroundings. I can see mana flowing both around and through items. The mana in everyday materials slightly changes the color of the passing mana. I can still see the mana flow beyond the walls of my house. Unfortunately it doesn’t allow me to see through objects.

I can feel the mental fatigue building behind my eyes. This should be enough for tonight.

With the training done, I try and get some sleep. I don’t like to empty my mana pool at nights anymore. I need to have mana to practice the next day.

As my eyes close, I can’t help but start thinking about my breakthroughs tonight, and of course the thought of trying to throw a fireball tomorrow.

I really love waking up during spring time. The birds singing, almost makes up for my inability to sleep in, almost.

I can hear father getting ready in the next room as I sink into my morning meditation. Keeping my eyes open, I have no problems reaching the meditative state from last night.

This is the best use of skills I’ve come across so far. Once you reach the next level in a skill, everything feels more natural. Even though I only achieved the next level once, recreating that same effect is almost second nature now.

Now that I don’t need to shut myself off from the world while meditating, I can hear the door open and close as father leaves for work.

“Aaliyah, come out here, please!”

Why is mom calling me so early?

She always gives me a few hours in the morning for practice.

Donning my usual clothes, and brushing my hair, I run my tongue over my teeth. Brushing regularly has been hard. I fastened a toothbrush out of a small strip of wood, and attached a small piece of pelt from a farkas. The tail of a farkas is made of extremely bristly hair, and with some thread I can floss properly. I surprised my parents with the idea of dental hygiene, but dad ended up making one for each of them, after seeing mine.

Wait, I have magic now!

I can’t think of a better use for magic, than good dental hygiene. Let’s think of a good spell really quick.

“I summon water magic to clean my mouth, removing tartar and plaque. Clean around my teeth gently, till 100 mana is spent. Clean!”

After I finish reciting my new spell, I continue to channel my mana to my mouth. This should be great; I won’t have to worry about my teeth anymore.

Oh, no!

Once the mana congeals into water, it starts forcing itself around my mouth. I said gently!

I can feel the water twisting in and out of my teeth, and every breath I take I inhale water.

Collapsing to the ground the magic finally stops.

Taking deep breaths, I cough up slightly yellow saliva. Running my tongue against my teeth again, it feels like I just got out of the most detailed dentist visit ever.

Still coughing a little, I wonder if it’s worth almost drowning myself. I have to be really careful with what I chant from now on.

Straitening my hair again, I leave my room to see what mom wants.

Walking down the short hall, I stop once I see Del standing by our door. Father is standing in front of mother protectively, staring with a straight face at Master Del.

Master Del notices me, and asks the question I’ve been waiting for.

“Can we Talk?”
