The pressure from my psionically charged wake distracted the amalgam, and it paired well with Event Horizon. Just as this triad whittled my own star beast down, we did the same to it. With the trifecta roaring out its death throes, it unleashed a charged hailstorm in my direction. It coursed over me.

And I glided through it. The wind, the rain, and the hail, I ebbed around them. I melted myself and flowed from all sides like glowing magma. I coursed into its eyes, chest, and body. Once I encompassed the primevals, I turned my glowing, liquid form into a matte solid, flash-freezing myself. My state of matter rapidly reconstructed, fragments of the primevals hissed and howled within.

My body imprisoning them, they wrestled once more to escape. It struggled against me, but after a few moments, it threatened to break out of its cage. Before it could, another idea popped into my head. I stayed perfectly still, pressing my wake down further from every direction. The psionic pressure multiplied, as did my temporal acceleration.

The sharp cries of the primevals stretched out into low drones. The primevals slowed to a snail's pace, their attacks barely budging me anymore. Event Horizon burned through them, and the psionic pressure poured into their minds. Several times stronger, those effects broke down the ensnared monsters in a quick fashion.

Their dying wails droned for ages as I remained fixed in position. In the end, their innate tenacity became their greatest burden as they died. Staying in my hastened temporal flow, I inched my gaze around, even the slightest movements burdening me. Our battle left behind a few craters, but overall, the battle's destruction paled when compared to my singularity storms.

Another plus, I hadn't fought the primevals for days either. Time magic paid off, mainly when used with a bit of creativity. So did disconnecting the primevals from the sea of opal shards both above and below. Once cut off from their supply, the primeval's regeneration dwindled.

Either way, the dust cleared, and I gazed at an area large enough for a respectable city. Landing in the middle of it, I took no rest, getting to work. I rallied up the rest of my allies to inspect their conditions, and starting with the converted primevals, I set up telepathic links to them.

The ascendant mana I left behind waned to less than half its initial size, so the star beasts nearly regained control of their bodies. Before they did, I psionically charged my wake and flooded the bodies of each star beast. From within, I infused ascendant mana into their minds. It was like shoving my mind into theirs.

I happened to have a vast mind, so large, in fact, that their egos struggled to maintain themselves. The mana kept building inside each eldritch, and each dollop of energy put them another foot in the grave. Within a few minutes, their minds stretched to their limit. After an hour, those limits broke.

Their minds ruptured.

It was like filling a balloon with too much air. Within their heads, I experienced their psionic deaths because I inhabited their bodies. However, their pain left no mark on me. I died this way a thousand times before. In me, these mindless constructs would find no mercy. After blending their minds, I stared at three ascendant eldritch. Blinking at myself, I stared down at my hands.

What the hell was I doing?

I grabbed my temples, stunned at my cruelty. I hadn't wanted to psionically drown them in the first place. I called it that since it felt like filling someone's head up with an ocean of thoughts. The stream of consciousness kept piling up until the resident psyche 'drowned' in them. Not wanting to become a complete monster, I vowed not to take over more eldritch.

These three would be my limit, and I'd much rather improve my golems anyways. Doing just that, I sat down with my legs crossed. I fiddled with my grimoire before a gravitational flux rippled across Leviathan. The algae rode the wave, the layers of kelp becoming several layers of stormy seas.

The flux reached me, flinging my grimoire into the distance. My entire workstation exploded. The ball of floating molten fabric splat over me. The rainbow bones shivered and trembled, spines erupting out and through me. Even the air itself condensed and thinned, my ears popping.

Adjusting in a split second, I reached out a hand, snapping my grimoire back into my hands. I melted my dimensional fabric again before stuffing it back into my pocket dimension. Standing up and looking around, a behemoth fell down beside me.

Its massive body was a slimy mass of tentacles and teeth. As it stood up, it roared at me with said tentacles and teeth, its maw dripping acid. I sighed while lifting my hand. A matrice of opal spikes plumed into and out of the behemoth.

Before it died, it vomited green blood onto my face and my grimoire. Wiping my face, I frowned. The behemoth gurgled before erupting pus and snot over me. It kept hacking up slime before I pocked my grimoire and blew it up with a singularity. Buckshot of shining bones sliced into my body before I grimaced.

Yeah, maybe building the city first was a good idea.
