Things remained quiet—aside from various traders and land-based Coalition supply convoys—until winter, at which point the shimagu resumed harassing Remera. No army came to challenge them; instead, small forces of shimagu created traps or sprang ambushes on Remera’s scouts or the Legion’s armored (and all-too-predictable) supply convoys—often with minimal results. Their enemies also seemed to avoid striking [Merchant] caravans or anything escorted by one of the (seldom present) frightfully high-level elves.

The shimagu were a persistent nuisance, but their antics damaged Remera’s morale more than its personnel.

The winged ogre twin similarly returned intermittently, just to force Ranthia to shiver atop her tower—not that he seemed to endure the cold any better than she did. If anything, he was consistently the first to depart, often well before sunset. He never struck any targets, nor gave Ranthia an opportunity to seek his head—he just used Remera’s policies against her.

The accursed piece of refuse even managed to keep her stuck on her tower throughout Avyna’s birthday.

“Happy Birthday!” Glorine shouted—far too loudly—as she set down the oversized meat pie.

Glorine and Gailla had moved into a new tent shortly after their wedding. The (by their standards) ‘mountain’ of contribution credits they received them buy an unused officer-tier tent in one of the “safer” areas of Remera (i.e., one that hadn’t caught fire yet). After Avyna was done with what enchantments she could manage, it was the third nicest tent in Remera—which meant that Avyna was finally willing to let their friends host sometimes.

Ranthia just laughed and hugged her friend—once the pie was safe. She had insisted that no one needed to give her any gifts (honestly, she was happy, and she wasn’t one to hoard stuff), but there was a suspiciously lumpy cloth sitting out of place on the table.

Ranthia, as usual, played her assigned role of skittish evasiveness when her friends made an effort to solicit her age from her. She was turning thirty-six, but she still had the body of a twenty-four-year-old—it wasn’t entirely impossible with enough vitality from a young enough age, but every year she took another step further away from mortal viability. Her ability to blend in was diminishing.

How much longer would it take for her friends to notice that she wasn’t changing? Would they be willing to accept her? Did they truly even understand that Avyna was immortal and what it meant?

“You alive in there, birthday girl?” Gailla tried to knock on Ranthia’s skull to punctuate her query, but the embarrassed woman of the day instinctively dodged.

“Sorry! Just got distracted by something.” Ranthia confessed, her face burning.

“Oh, like what?” Gailla asked.

Godsdamnit! Ranthia hurriedly fished about for an idea that could satisfy her friends’ curiosity or… distract them.

“I was just mulling over the fact that Avyna still won’t celebrate her birthdays.” Ranthia answered with a smirk.

Avyna was unamused, but Ranthia and her friends formed a united front and—at last—convinced the beautiful, stubborn elf. Avyna might not have cared about her birthday (and how Glorine and Gailla were so unfazed by Avyna’s true age was something Ranthia couldn’t comprehend), but she magnanimously agreed that they could celebrate their fondness for her if they must.

Ranthia was going to pay for that later, but she was thrilled! Honestly, convincing Avyna to change her mind once she had decided on something was a grand gift in and of itself!

It was a good day, and Ranthia managed to get through it without being summoned to deal with some crisis or another—which made it all the better. Even though she had no idea what she was going to do with the dwarven whetstone her friends bought for her. Her own knives didn’t need sharpening—assuming the stone was even capable of honing adamantium—and their home cutlery was enchanted for sharpness, which sorely limited the bulky gift’s usefulness (yet, tragically, not its size).

“<Care to stop and live?>” Ranthia’s voice rang out in the guttural tones of the shimagu tongue.

A group of twenty shimagu had attacked the Legions’ supply convoys with impressive reliability. At first—like most acts of enemy aggression—they hadn’t accomplished much. The wagons were protected by steel plates, and the dinosaurs were chosen for their resilience first and foremost. The ambushes marred some armor, and the traps broke beneath the wagons’ sheer weight.

But, contrary to Remus’ propaganda, the shimagu learned and adapted. They tried new things, and the threat that they posed steadily increased. Legionaries that escorted the convoy were wounded, wheels were damaged, axles were splintered, and beasts required a specialist [Healer]’s touch. That much was manageable—they were still at war, after all.

And then the shimagu managed to take a wagon from the Legions, and that was too much of an insult for some important idiot to take. The base commander was ordered to deal with the problem and, in what felt like an abuse of the letter of Sentinel Aurora’s decree, outsourced the problem to Ranthia. Which was why she spent the better part of two days crammed inside a Xaoc-forsaken crate inside a wagon while it glacially made its way through a rocky wasteland.

Her words might have been colored with a bit of annoyance, by the time the attack finally struck the convoy.

“<Kill them all!>” Came the entirely expected answer.

Ranthia blurred from the wagon, knives in hand, and ensured that the shimagu learned a final lesson: never become a problem that warranted a Sentinel’s attention.

The year was nearing its end with only scattered and minor skirmishes with the shimagu to show for it. Ranthia preferred to think of them as peaceful days broken up with tedium, but Remera was having a real problem with the untested recruits slacking off.

Thank Xaoc, it still wasn’t her problem.

Instead, she was celebrating the one thousand four hundred and fifty-second anniversary of the light of her life coming into Pallos. Avyna hadn’t wanted a traditional birthday celebration, which left the trio trying alternative ideas—namely one that Glorine had recommended. Ranthia, Glorine, and Gailla gathered at Ranthia’s table to indulge in snacks and sip fragrant spiced teas while they regaled one another with stories about what Avyna had done for them and how much she meant to them.

With Avyna sitting to the side, savoring her own tea while she silently enjoyed the sentimental sap that they provided. As planned, they ignored her presence entirely—which Ranthia was less okay with than everyone else was—but Avyna seemed to truly have fun.

Ranthia was pretty sure she would have blushed until she was reduced to a pile of ashes had she tried to endure a similar treatment, but if Avyna was happy, she was glad to participate.

“<Happy Birthday, my love.>” Avyna passed through the curtains, wearing a plush robe and carrying a tray laden with miniature quiches, along with a tall glass of chilled pear cider.

Ranthia had woken up early, planning to cook breakfast—yet she awoke to a bed bereft of any gorgeous elves and her confused, half-awake noises were obviously sufficient to catch Avyna’s attention. Ranthia sat up, annoyed enough that she only felt a minor smug thrill at how Avyna’s eyes wandered when she emerged from the covers, and grudgingly allowed the woman she loved to serve her breakfast.

“<I was hoping to cook.>” Ranthia feebly protested as she inhaled the scent of her beloved’s wonderful cooking.

“<I am aware. I made certain that I was the first to rise.>” Avyna replied in a wonderfully smug tone, as she picked up one of the treats and carefully started to feed Ranthia.

Ranthia pouted, but she obediently took a bite, enjoying the flavor of the fresh peppers alongside the wonderfully seasoned eggs and creamy cheese. She stole a moment, while she chewed, to savor just how easy it finally was for the two of them to converse. She couldn’t pretend that her pronunciation was always perfect, but she had gotten used to High Elvish. She finally—usually—understood it readily and Avyna’s increased comfort with conversation was apparent.

“<Since your 37th birthday is insignificant, I would like to propose something: I think you should try a celebration like the one you threw for me last year. I enjoyed it quite a bit.>” Avyna recommended, as she tried to feed Ranthia another tiny quiche.

“<I am not sitting through that!>” Ranthia protested, aghast, before she took a bite.

“<Oh? And here I thought you enjoyed the attention of multiple women at once.>” Avyna replied in a too-innocent tone that made it obvious that she intended it in a lurid way.

Ranthia grunted a noncommittal noise while she tried to wrestle with the surge of irritation—she refused to act out though. After so many years, she had faith in her ability to wrestle intrusive, negative emotions aside without Avyna noticing. Eating a few more adorable morsels of food helped to buy her more time—her appetite was definitely waking up.

“<And why would I desire that when I have the undivided attention of the most perfect woman—especially when I already struggle to keep up with her?>” Ranthia shamelessly flirted, arching her back just enough to make her exposed chest more prominent.

Just as she hoped, Avyna’s gaze wandered.

“<I do have one of your presents under this robe, my love. Careful, or I might show you before you finish eating.>” Avyna’s voice was low and teasing.

“<Gemheart, you shouldn’t underestimate my willpower. I can admire and anticipate while I eat.>” Ranthia promised.

Avyna laughed into the side of her wrist over Ranthia’s bold claim, but she shrugged and let the robe fall from her lithe shoulders. Ranthia stared, open-mouthed. And the food was wholly forgotten.

They never got around to inviting their friends over for dinner that day.

Summer was in full swing, and Ranthia was scowling while she knelt in front of her little altar—the chiming of bells had interrupted her, which meant someone was at the entrance to her home. Ranthia offered Xaoc a sincere apology for interrupting her prayers before she stood and made her way through her home to open the flap.

She certainly wasn’t expecting a gnoll. His Creation was abhorrent, but he didn’t know the shimagu’s language or High Elvish. And so, they muddled through an awkward non-conversation until he finally conveyed that his caravan had a package for her—and not for Avyna, she confirmed. It was weird, but she sealed her home and followed the gnoll back to where the wagons were camped outside of Remera.

Avyna was at her shop, and Ranthia made a note that she needed to swing by to tell her beloved about the caravan—Avyna’s trader intel could be spotty when it came to tribal gnolls.

Okay, a package intended for Ranthia—well, Sentinel Grace—that was carried by traders, especially non-Reman ones, was weird. But said package suddenly going missing shortly before she arrived strained credulity past its limits!

Yet the gnolls put on a convincing performance. More and more gnolls got involved in the hunt and the wandering traders seemed to be desperate to apologize.

“Grass-ee, accept sorries and take gift.” A surprisingly high-level—yet young—gnoll insisted. He was, oddly, wearing what looked like eggshells, as if they somehow formed protective armor.

Ranthia had been paranoid about the whole ‘oh, yes, come to our caravan, wealthy Sentinel’ thing being some sort of scam, but the offer of a gift to make up for… whatever had been misplaced seemed to dispel that possibility. Ranthia still tried to decline, but it was blindingly obvious that doing so was upsetting the gnolls.

“Okay, okay. How about this—I’ll buy a couple of books, and you can throw in another book or two that you think I might like?” Ranthia offered. She had already looked at their wares and hadn’t seen anything else interesting enough to buy, but they had a small selection of books.

It took a few moments to get her offer past the language barrier—and yes, she really should have sought Avyna’s help with the situation—but the gnoll agreed readily.

Ranthia selected three books from their title alone—two in High Elvish, one in Creation. The gnoll then—with a surprising degree of solemness—gifted her with another two books. Specifically, the thickest tomes that the caravan had. Ranthia bowed to the egg-armored gnoll with the complex and impossible to remember name (that was her excuse, at least) and he seemed to be in renewed spirits.

She had no idea what would have been inside the enigmatic probably-not-a-hoax package, so she wasn’t bothered by its loss. She couldn’t imagine Night would entrust some secretive Sentinel intel to migratory merchants and she somehow doubted that Tertia could have used them for shipping. It was still weird, but she refused to see it as a loss. Instead, she skimmed her acquisitions once she was back within Remera.

The Tax Codes of the Nation of Devils was the ominous title of one of the bonus books, which Ranthia immediately decided to hide away to give to Avyna as a gag gift someday—it promised to be the dullest read on Pallos. The other gift’s title made her assume it was a spicy romance book involving a man and a woman (meh), but when she skimmed it, the book seemed more devoted to the intricacies of some sort of house politics and… ah! That explained it, the book was written by a dullahan about dullahan society.

