The thing looked… skeletal, like a mass of metal bones that clamped onto—and into, she wasn’t kidding about it being uncomfortable—her body. The thin tunic was a mistake too, since the pointy, poky bits of metal pierced straight through it and into her skin. Every little movement brought dozens of pinches and pokes. The wings themselves were massive and leathery, like a bat’s wings, rather than feathered like a bird’s wings. Everything except the treated, oiled leather seemed to be made of metal.

“No wood this time?” Ranthia asked. Honestly, she knew better, why was she trying to indulge her curiosity with Dimlit?!

“Of course not! Metal and wood, pah! Wood is for art and beauty; metal is functionality and practicality! We need functional, not pretty!” The dwarf scolded.

“…And you say this version is tested?” Ranthia had serious regrets.

“Oh, aye. Countless times!” The dwarf enthused.

“How many is ‘countless’?” Ranthia was almost ready to beg for some level of reassurance.

“I literally said I didn’t count them. …Are you sure you aren’t considered stupid among your beardless peers?” The diminutive inflictor of ‘science’ squinted at her.

Ranthia had no response to that. She was having similar doubts herself.

“Now, ye’ll note that there’s no need to rely on your own terrible flapping prowess this time. Nope, the generation five is idiot-proofed! Even for the likes of ye! Ah’ll just wind it up like a clock and it’ll flap itself! Easy as anything, ye just dangle there. I’ve got faith in your abilities!” Dimlit condescended.

Ranthia had no idea what a clock was, but if it was tested and handled the flapping itself, it seemed… safe?

“Okay, anything else I need to know before we do this?” Ranthia asked.

“Ye do know how to dangle?” He asked seriously.

“…Sure.” Ranthia narrowly managed a response that didn’t involve violence.

“Then no! Now stand at the edge and lemme wind ‘er up!” Dimlit ordered.

Ranthia awkwardly and uncomfortably waddled to the edge. The metal bones over the chest definitely were built with the assumption the chest was flat; they were especially painful as they dug into her softer flesh.

She hated everything, but if it worked…

Dimlit pressed something into the contraption on her back and grunted as she felt the structure wrench to the side—digging ever deeper into her flesh as it did. Odd clicking and grinding noises accompanied the pressure. Until finally…

“Go, jump! Now!” Dimlit called.

Ranthia obeyed immediately. She leapt out into the warm air; her blindfold-covered eyes fixed on the blue sky beyond. She had an image waiting on the ground—another lesson she learned after the last ‘science’.

Then, with a final click that was noticeably louder than the prior ones, the wings began to move. The metal bones dug tight into her flesh—had she possessed less vitality she would have started bleeding from numerous wounds.

…But her descent stopped. Her path evened out…?!

It worked.

By every last god and goddess… the stupid thing actually worked!

“It’s working!” Ranthia called out gleefully.

Flying had never really been a dream of hers—outside of her burning desire to take down the winged ogre—yet it was surprisingly pleasant. She could see so far! The powerful wind felt so good!

Dimlit whooped somewhere behind her. His excitement was understandable; his science truly was amazing! Sure, it was agonizingly uncomfortable, but with some padding or integrated armor that could be managed! Ranthia’s head spun with visions of how Pallos was about to change. Even aside from the obvious combat potential, the science promised to revolutionize travel! Even just getting across a big city like Ariminum would be easier and faster!

I take back every terrible thing I ever thought about this man! Ranthia giggled gleefully.

A heartbeat later, the wind suddenly turned. Caught by the gust, Ranthia’s world lurched as the ‘science’ turned with the wind. …And, instead of flying carefree through the air, she found herself aimed straight at the mesa—moments away from colliding with it.

“How do I steer this thing?!” Ranthia hurriedly shouted. Suddenly, she wasn’t sure how she had ever jumped without thinking to ask—no matter how she wiggled the ‘science’ seemed committed to flying straight.

“Huh, steering? That’s brilliant! That will definitely go into generation six! Excellent scientific work, for a beardless!” Dimlit called out.

…What?!

“I can’t steer?! I’m about to crash!” Ranthia screamed.

“Don’t worry, you’re out of time anyway! The winding only lasts for a short while!”

While the dwarf uttered those horrible words, the wings slowed… finally coming to a stop before he even finished speaking!

Truthfully, Ranthia had no idea what the cause was. It could have been the cessation of the flapping, or it could have been another change in the wind. The only thing Ranthia could say for sure was that she fell from the sky. If anything, the damned wings turned her descent into a powerful dive!

Ranthia swore and cursed the dwarf’s name while she hurriedly activated [Reflections of Reality], directing the Skill to the image she had left at the base of the mesa. Ranthia sagged with relief once her shift concluded, only to find herself desperately lunging clear an instant later, at the behest of [Combat Awareness]. Of freaking course the blighted ‘science’ was coming straight at her image, why wouldn’t everything that thrice-cursed dwarf made try its utmost to kill her?!

The surprisingly heavy ‘science’ smashed into the ground that she vacated with a horrific metal-on-stone sound, as fragments from both barraged her.

It was only after the impact completed that Ranthia realized her image had been wearing her armor—which was still atop the mesa. Which left her in her mistweave undergarments, with a rapidly approaching Dimlit. Her tunic was somewhere under the impact crater of metal and leather!

“If you can save yer own damned skin, you could have saved the generation five!” Dimlit raged.

“That’s not how my Skills work, and your stupid ‘science’ was a death trap!” Ranthia howled back with righteous fury coursing through her veins.

“Ye said it worked! And it did, it worked just as expected!” The dwarf rebutted.

“It couldn’t steer; you fool!” Ranthia spat.

“It weren’t made to!” He declared.

“It only flew for a tiny bit of time! That’s nowhere near long enough!” Ranthia changed tacks.

“It’ll have to be! That’s the limit of what the materials can do!” Dimlit decreed.

“Then it’s worthless!” She denounced.

“Yer worthless!” Was his petulant counter.

“How did it go, my love?” Avyna called, all too cheerfully, when Ranthia entered the shop.

“Don’t ask.” Ranthia grumbled.

Avyna just laughed, knowingly, and blew Ranthia a kiss. A customer was approaching with an overflowing basket of goods, which promised to keep her elf occupied for a while. And that suited Ranthia just fine. She walked over, dropped to the floor, and leaned against Avyna’s legs while she silently vowed to never touch another ‘science’ for the rest of her immortal life.
