She strides past me without a word, taking stance at another metal post. Bringing the shield up, she backhands the post, cutting it in one strike with a shriek of metal on metal. She does this a few more times, slicing the post into thin strips, before bringing her weapon overhead and chopping the post in two. Fucking hell. She can already Hone it? That took me months to learn.

“You already branded it? That's amazing, Yan!” Huushal cheers from the side, trying to win some points, while I stand in shock. She harmonized with it in a single night? Or did she go to bed, and just wake up this morning to start? This is ridiculous, frigging OP deer-girl. Watching her lithe body as she moves through a series of strikes and blocks, they seem familiar to me almost, as if tickling a memory. The Forms are already taking shape in her movements, but I can't quite pick them out. She moves like a boxer in one moment, dancing away like a ballerina the next, one moment crude and abrasive, the next graceful and fluid, her right hand moving as if she held a second weapon, working in tandem with her shield.

Enraptured by the demonstration, I stand still in awe of her prowess, at the speed at which she has adapted to using an unconventional weapon with her off-hand. She finishes her warm-up with a toss of the star, which sinks deep into a target across the yard. Dammit! I regret everything! That could have been my shuriken shield of death! Offering her a weak smile as she glares at me, I slink off dejectedly. She doesn't even seem grateful. She could at least say thank you.

I have no talent, it seems, except for taking punishment. What a shitty thing to be talented at. Well, I can also be a damn good nanny most of the time. Grabbing Tate as he runs by, I ask, “You want to go out for candy? I need something to cheer me up.” His enthusiastic nodding puts a smile on my face. I'm in no mindset to work after that awe-inspiring display. Taking the twins out to play is good for the soul.

In the middle of helping Tali get ready, I hear a familiar voice. “You talk about those children so much, it shouldn't surprise me that you braid their hair.” Turning with a smile, I greet my guest. Fung has finally arrived for the competition. Thank the Mother. I'm starting to feel a little overwhelmed by all of the hostile, powerful, females in my life. I could use another friendly face, a comrade in arms.

“Fung! Took you long enough to get here. I have a friend I want you to meet.” I just know Huu and Fung will get along famously. I might as well just fucking give up on training. I just have no talent.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Tong Da Hai sat grimly at his desk, reading report after report. The news all spoke of great tribulations ahead, but such was life. The Flying Tiger Fortress was fifteen days march from his city, and the initial survivors had reported 30,000 enemy cavalry and ten demons. In the twelve days since, his scouts reported that the host had split, rampaging through the surrounding towns and villages, taking the outposts dotting the plains, raping and pillaging with no one to keep them in check, while infantry reinforcements flooded through the mountain passes, 45,000 at the last count, and ever-increasing. The army units stationed within his city numbered 25,000 soldiers, along with 15,000 city guardsmen, so even if he were to lead every single one of them out onto the plains, the Defiled still had him vastly outnumbered. His orders were to hold and await reinforcements, but it grated on him, hearing of the deaths of the citizens on the Empire.

Refugees flooded his city, soon bursting at the seams, while more continued to arrive each day. He could not shelter them all, and would have to begin sending some away, pushing them towards the coastal cities, or inland towards the societies. It would be a difficult journey for them, and he could not spare the troops to guard them. Too shameful, he lacked the strength to protect the Empire. He leaned back in his chair and clapped for a servant, to bring him some tea. When no servant entered, Hai furrowed his brow in annoyance. Was his manservant asleep? Old Toumo was getting on in years, but Hai had not the heart to replace him. Toumo had been here for decades and had served him faithfully all this time, an old man without family, where would he go without this job? Here, he lived in comfort, and his only responsibilities now were to bring in food and tea. Hai stood and stretched, walking to the door of his office with a smirk. No matter, a simple thing to get his own tea.

The door shattered inwards, covering Hai with splinters as he fell back, yelling, “Guards!” Rushing into his office, pale and unclean, stringy hair and ropy muscles, came two Wraiths, eager for his blood. Tossing chairs and reports, anything he could reach, scrambling backwards away from their black knives. Grasping the arms of one of his attackers, his fingers crushed the bones, warm, meat paste squeezing out from between his fingers. Flinging the would-be assassin into its comrade, Hai roared his defiance. No longer was he the young lieutenant, terrified of the tales, cowering within the jakes, hiding from pale-faced masters of death. He was Tong Da Hai, Magistrate of The Divine Fire. With a deep breath, his skin turned red as his chi circulated through him, raising the temperature of the room by several degrees in an instant. More wraiths filtered in, each one burning away before his palm strikes, withering away before him, as he circled around the room, stringing his attackers along. Fire and fury filled him as he fought for his life, the divine flames circling him as he drew upon them, burning all who came before him.

The struggle was over quickly, Hai panting like a draft horse, the various wounds across his body already beginning to fester, the work of dark magics, imbued within their weapons. Too lax, he had been far too lax lately with his training, seeping himself in his work and luxuries. Burning away the impurities in his wounds, he stepped through the corpses as they crumbled to ashes at his touch, marching out to the antechamber and placing his hand on Old Toumo's corpse, lying upon the floor, killed at his post. Poor old man, Hai decided to place him at rest within the royal mausoleum, as family should be. Striding forward with new resolution, he barked his orders at his guards, raising the alarm within the city and assessing the damages. Hai would wait for his reinforcements and then he would ride at their head and personally crush this Defiled incursion, grinding them beneath his heel like the pests they were.
