“Miranda, please, join us,” Jake said as he waved his hand, summoning another chair beside the two of them. He reckoned it was either that or standing up to greet her, and he didn’t want to risk standing, seeing as he feared he was still a little unstable on his feet. It would be very embarrassing to stumble and fall in front of a bunch of starry-eyed admirers.

“Thank you.” Miranda merely nodded as she sat down beside the two. “If I may, why is Draskil fighting the King?”

“He made a rather inflammatory statement,” the Sword Saint explained with a smile.

“Draskil or the King did?” Miranda asked with a raised eyebrow.

“Both,” Jake chuckled, shaking his head. “Let them have their fun. I reckon Draskil hasn’t been allowed to flex his muscles as much as he would have liked to, and the King certainly needed to get in some exercise.”

“I see,” Miranda nodded as she joined them in watching the fight in silence. At least she appeared to be, as she spoke subtly to Jake telepathically.

“Is everything alright?”

“Why are you asking?” Jake questioned in surprise, not thinking he was letting anything slip.

“Just a feeling. You’re not the only one with intuition, you know?” Miranda shot back.

“True. And yeah, we’re feeling a little under the weather. The trip through the void did a number on us all due to some extenuating circumstances I cannot really talk about,” Jake answered, saying as much as he could.

“Fair enough.” Miranda didn’t pry. “Due to that, I take it you want to sit here and rest a little with the King and Draskil serving as a nice explanation and distraction?”

“Precisely,” Jake smiled to himself behind his mask, happy that Miranda understood. He just hoped that all the onlookers wouldn’t catch on and notice he was acting so lazily due to his less-than-ideal state. The best bet was probably to act like they didn’t exist until he was more confident in not wobbling on his feet.

Miranda really had to hand it to Jake. Once more, he had expertly – albeit accidentally – played the role of an aloof Chosen perfectly. It was a great power play by Jake, not even bothering to turn to all the young masters and mistresses, but only addressing Miranda by asking her to join him and the Sword Saint.

In one move, he had communicated that he didn’t care about the political situation of the planet, but was far more interested in the spar between two powerful figures. Additionally, he had shown them that Miranda was someone he invited into his own world, where politics was beneath him, showing that he trusted her.

She could only begin to imagine the kind of messages they were sending between themselves and the actual political experts they had arrived with. There had to be lots of speculation, but Miranda was pretty darn confident her own stock had risen from this brief moment of sitting alongside the Chosen of a Primordial and two carrying Divine Blessings.
