“I'd say you should get a technical forensics team in here right away.” She said and grinned. “They smashed the case and the solid state hard drive; but... if my guess is right...” She took out her own pen and poked the normal hard drive that stuck up slightly from the pile. “That's going to be the backup.”

“Ha ha!” Detective Ramirez laughed, and stood up. He took out his cell phone and dialed the precinct. “Ramirez here.” He said. “I need a tech team, forensics, and the photographer.” Ramirez gave them the address, and hung up. “Half an hour.”

“How in the... no, don't tell me.”

“This is a high profile case.” Detective Ramirez said and smiled. “The feds are gonna be begging us to share some of this with them.”

*

“...to share some of this with them.” The detective's voice said through the little speaker. Agent Smith looked at his partner, the other Agent Smith.

“What do you think? Should we go in and rain on their parade?”

Agent Smith shook his head. “No, we should let them gather everything first.” He said. “Then we can go in and take it all.”

“You're not worried they'll mess something up?”

“Not really.” He said, and tapped the small monitor screen they had stuck to the dashboard. “We've already got the surveillance taps in place on the security cameras. If the detective and his cute sidekick miss anything, we'll know about it before they do.”

*

Elise climbed into her Hummer H2, and put her purse and tablet between the seats. She put the key in the ignition, but didn't turn it on. She held onto the steering wheel, then slowly put her head back to rest on the seat.

He distracted me with humor again. Elise thought. That sneaky little bugger! She smiled as she looked at the window to Ren's room, and saw the closed blinds. I'll let you delay for a while, my little darling; but, one of these days... She started the vehicle and drove out of the parking lot.

*

“I guess that means she really is your girlfriend.” Denise said as she gathered her things to get ready to leave.

“She's what?!?” Ren said, surprised.

“You missed that, did you?” Denise asked, then turned to Barbara. “You heard her, too.”

Barbara nodded. “She called you her boyfriend, and you didn't say no... or even protest.”

Ren looked at the two women, and they smiled at him. “But... but...”

“Then you had a quick argument and made up.” Denise said. “Yes, she's definitely your girlfriend now.”

“But... I didn't even ask her...”

“I heard you ask her for another date to watch the show.” Denise said. “Right, Barbara?”

“I heard that, too.” Barbara said.

“I...” Ren looked back and forth between the two nurses. “I... have a girlfriend.”

“And an urgent need to get back in the game.” Barbara said. “You've been gone nearly all night.”

“Right! Okay.” He slid out of bed, grabbed a foil packet, and went into the bathroom.

*

“Hey.” Denise said. “He didn't hide it from you.”

“I knew about it already.” Barbara said and looked at her. “Apparently, so do you.”

Denise smiled. “Not much gets by these eagle eyes.” She said. “Or ears. I heard the foil crinkle once when he was trying to sneak it by me.”

Barbara nodded her understanding, and looked like she was about to say something; then the bathroom door opened and she stayed quiet.

*

Ren came back out of the bathroom after taking care of some business, and climbed back into bed.

“Okay, I'm ready.” He said, and Barbara handed him the VR headset, then helped him get settled for a night in the game.

“Denise, don't forget to meet here, just after noon tomorrow.” Ren said as he put on the VR headset. “We can go to the clothing shop after the studio.”

“I'll be here.” Denise said.

“Flow Login Start.”

*

“I'm really glad you filled me in about what happened today, while we were getting coffee and donuts.” Barbara said to Denise; all humor gone from her face and voice, now that she didn't have to pretend so hard in front of Ren.

“I'm really glad we could make him laugh after... after...” Denise closed her mouth, and wiped her eyes before the tears could escape.

“And he remembers it?” Barbara asked.

“Only the things the game made him live through.” Denise said. “He also admitted he remembered the pictures from the court case.”

Barbara took a deep breath. “I didn't want him to remember any of that.”

“You knew?”

Barbara nodded. “Lucy and I were there. We were his first care nurses. One for the day, and one for the night.” She said. “We had to... to testify... about his physical condition.”

Denise walked over to Barbara and gave her a hug.

“I didn't know him very well back then.” Barbara said, and didn't bother trying to stop the tears that came. “But I never cried so much in my whole life, as I did during that trial.”

“Oh, Barbara.” Denise said, and held her as she cried on her shoulder.
