For the briefest of moments, Syllea looked like she was speaking to someone incapable of understanding, but she recovered fast. With a calmer voice, she said, “It’s not Wizardry, at all. Reality Mages are just able to tap in to the fundamentals of reality. Take Force, for example. Force is undifferentiated possibility, condensed down into a solid form. But a good Force Mage, or Force Warrior, or even a few of the Prismatic Classes out, we’re all able to become Reality Mages or Warriors, if they apply themselves toward Reality, instead of toward any specific, singular magic.

“Stone Mages will never get there, because they like Stone too much. Same goes for Fire or Water or any of the other, more esoteric Elements. Sword and shield fighters would never get there, either. It’s only when you have a focus on influencing what actually exists, instead of what you believe exists, that you can awaken to the path of True Magic. The Path of the Reality Mage.” Syllea said, “Like me, with all my Mana Altering. I went down this path in order to understand more about the base components that made up the Old Cosmology, that compose Force. Eventually, I found Fundamental Force; the basic building block upon which magic is based. It’s really nothing to do with wizardry at all, and I am sorry for bringing that up.”

“Well…” Erick wasn’t sure what to say, so he said, “Thank you.”

Syllea smiled, saying, “And your Particle Mage is just like Force Mage, except you’ve focused on the Fundamental Force of this New Cosmology, whatever those might be?” With a cheery voice, she asked, “So what are they? Particles, sure! Light is another one? Or is that wrong?” She decided, “That has to be wrong. But how wrong?”

“No. That’s not...” Erick felt… odd. He wasn’t sure how he felt. Syllea was a beautiful, cheerful woman, and Erick found he truly liked talking magic with her, but something felt off. Maybe he shouldn’t have shown her [Luminous Beam]? But, eh. That was fine. He was just being nervous, after almost being called a Wizard.

The cultures of Veird had a strange relationship with Wizardry, with the exact definition between what was magic and what was Wizardry being outside of Erick’s understanding. Wizardry was a case of ‘You know it when you see it’, and Erick had no idea what it looked like, but he understood why people hated it. According to some, Wizardry killed the Old Cosmology. According to Rozeta, herself, Melemizargo was a Wizard.

Darkness and Wizardry were often interchangeable terms.

He said, “When people experiment enough with Particle Magic, I’m sure you’ll uncover at least two of the Fundamental Forces of this New Cosmology.” Briefly, he felt like life had decided to do a repeat of nearly a year ago, when he spoke to the crowds in Sirocco Zago’s Mage Guild classrooms. He did not repeat the exact words he had said then, but they were similar, “But I don’t feel I should upset established magic that much, just yet. I’m sure with enough experimentation that others will get there, and have much more math and knowledge to go with their words, than I have, right now.”

Syllea said, “Right, right.”

An uncomfortable silence filled the room. Syllea picked up her tea, sipped it, then frowned as she sat it back down, and conjured a [Heat Ward] over the cup. Erick’s own coftea was cold, too.

Syllea changed the subject, “So how much do you have left on [Illusion Infusion]? It’s getting late, and I can leave you with [Shadow Conversion] to try out on your own. I’m sure you have other necessities and I am—” Like a highschool girl that Erick had seen in the halls of his local school, but in a way wholly different from anything he had ever seen from Jane, Syllea blurted out, “I have made a Royal Ass of myself, with my unkind words, and I wish to salvage this situation on another day.”

Erick reflexively said, “Okay. Yes. Let’s do the rest of this some other day— after I’ve had a chance to try out some of your suggestions.” He asked “Awareness of these new elements is key to using them, yes?”

Syllea relaxed, her shoulders losing tension, as her eyes focused from the wall behind Erick, to Erick. She stood, saying, “Yes. Much like how your elements are the same. That is the quick and bloody of it— Waitwaitwaitwait. There’s one, fast thing we can do.” She asked, “How would you like to find out your Element?”

Erick had stood with her, but he almost faltered. “… My Element?”

Syllea put on a happy face,. “It’s fun! You might like it?”

“Okay. Sure.”

“First, you just have to expel whatever is left of [Illusion Infusion]. Dismissing makes the buff end rather uncomfortably, though.” Syllea suggested, “Just cast a really expensive lightward outside?”

Erick went with Syllea’s suggestion. With a mental command to the Ophiel on his shoulder, that ball of feathers blipped out in to the middle of a sandy, dark nowhere. Erick cast. 3000 mana went into the Variable cost of a lightward, producing a rainbow tetrahedron that stretched across the sky, which then began to morph into a fractal. The floating, glowing shape multiplied itself on every triangular face, then did it again, but smaller, on its new surfaces. Erick watched for a few moments as the lightward ended up being ten times more complicated than he expected it to be, as Illusion took his idea and ran with it, creating a triangular air that folded endlessly into itself, and spread out into the land, turning sight upsidedown, or sideways, or backwards, as it was wont.

Back in the sunroom, Erick took note of how he felt, as the buff faded. Like a buzz in his ears that he didn’t know he was hearing until it was gone, [Illusion Infusion] ended. He breathed deep, centering himself. He said, “Not bad.”

Syllea said, “I’m sure you can learn how to make good buffs, too.” She smiled wide again. “But let’s see where you should start!” With a quick reach into the pockets of her leathers, she pulled out a six sided die. She held it out to Erick, saying, “One side for each main element. All you do is hold it for a moment, then roll it as many times as you want. It’s not an exact magical item; more like a toy, that taints itself with your aura, and activates based on that.”

Erick smiled as he picked up the die that was sized for orcol hands. Three centimeters across, each side was emblazoned with an elemental symbol. Erick hefted the die; it was pretty weighty.

“Cup it in both hands,” Syllea said, “Then roll it.”

Erick did as she suggested. The first time the die ended, it landed on ‘Air’. He kept rolling, puzzling how the die was magically weighted. Syllea smiled, as one element turned up a lot more than the others.

Air. Air. Air. Light. Light. Water. Air. Air. Light. Water. Air. Air.

Erick had done enough. He picked up the die, and did not roll it again, saying, “That’s a lot of Air.”

“I knew it!” Syllea said, “It makes so much sense. The Lightning. The Rain. Obviously, you’re Air, Light, and Water.”

“How does this die work?” Erick asked, “What are you?”

“The die comes up pretty much evenly, for me.” To accentuate her point, she took the die from Erick’s hand, and cupped it in her hands, and began rolling. It turned up every element, before rolling duplicates. There were, maybe, one or two more ‘Water’ and ‘Stone’ for every set of rolls, but Erick wasn’t really counting that closely. She said, “It used to mean something, back in the Old Cosmology. Whatever you rolled determined where you should most focus your talents. It still means something, these days, but not nearly as much as it did.” She picked up the die after it had rolled every Element for the fourth time, saying, “These days, a lot of people just use it as a dating guide.” She put the die away, saying, “It works based on tasting your aura and combining that with the essences infused in each face of the die, and a weight in the center that moves away from what you are.”

“Dating?” Erick smiled, asking, “What element should a lightning and rain guy go for?”

Syllea teased, “Something to keep you grounded, for sure.” She glanced to the dark window, saying, “It’s getting late. Would you like to experiment with [Shadow Conversion]?”

“Yes.”

Syllea reached over and tapped Erick on the shoulder. Magic flashed between them, to soak into Erick’s being. The tiny difference in his sense of the world was noticeable, this time, but still not detrimental. She said, “That’s 9000 mana of conversion. Have fun—” She looked to the door to the room. Bayth stood there, ready to go. Syllea nodded to the massively muscular woman, then said to Erick, “Time to go. Contact me when you wish to continue, or after you’ve had some time to experiment with the odder elements. If you want a book on the subject, I recommend ‘Esoteric Elements’. It’s what got me started on this whole Mana Altering jaunt, twenty years ago. It might be written for children, but there’s a lot of knowledge packed into that tiny book!”

Erick said, “Thank you, Syllea. I’ll look for that book. I hope your people’s trip to Ar’Kendrithyst goes well.”

Syllea lost some of her joy. “I hope so, too.” She stepped to Bayth, adding, “We’ll have to take the quick route, Erick. Sorry for being rude.”

Erick said, “It was great to finally talk to you again.”

Syllea smiled. “It was great to talk to you again, too, but my bargain of trade isn’t nearly discharged yet. See you later.”

Syllea and Bayth flickered with clear light, and vanished from the sunroom.

After a long moment of staring at the space they had occupied, Erick removed both Syllea’s and Bayth’s [Prismatic Ward] permissions. He sat back down, and heated up his cold coftea in a quick [Heat Ward], while he nibbled on one of the two remaining lemon cookies. And he thought.

Poi walked in, asking, “Is everything alright?”

“Not really.” Erick asked, “Are Teressa and Justine asleep?”

“Justine is upstairs on the third floor veranda, tending to her plants. Teressa is walking here right now.”

Teressa walked into the room, but paused. “Uh. I can go away if you want?”

“No. That’s not it… I just… I haven’t had to deal with being called a wizard in a long time and it’s making me wonder where all my people are. If they’re safe.” He asked, “Kiri will be here tomorrow?”

“Yes, sir,” Poi said.

“Good.” Erick said, “I don’t know why I faltered at being called a Wizard. That was strange. We even have a deck of Wizard’s Towers cards over there.” He gestured to a bookshelf in the room, then said, “What’s up with that?”

Teressa looked to the shelves, and offered, “It’s… fun to use such an awful thing in a playful light?”

“Wizards are Moon Reachers, sir—” Poi paused, then said, “I mean. Boogeymen?” He asked Teressa, “When was the last time you heard of one?”

“The only one I grew up hearing stories of was the Wizard of the Fractal Citadel.” Teressa said, “She’s some Reacher in some lost Fractured Citadel, in Quintlan. That’s a four hundred year old story, though.”

Poi looked a little disappointed at Teressa, while the large woman scoffed at him, as if to say, ‘What’?

Poi turned to Erick, saying, “The last known Wizard was the Hullbreaker, in the Letri Ocean—”

“Oh yeah,” mumbled Teressa. “That was twenty years ago.”

Poi continued, “The Headmaster took care of Hullbreaker, though. Sent out a good hundred Elites to kill the Wizard Pirate. Hullbreaker took out half of them, but they got him before a month passed, from Hullbreaker’s ascension to power.”

Teressa joked, “A lot of people thought you were a Wizard—

Poi cleared his throat.

Erick looked away, as Teressa soldiered on, “But anyone who knows how can make a Particle spell.” She said, “You’re not a wizard, and I’ll punch anyone who says otherwise, Boss.”

Erick smiled at the window, and kept his smile as he turned back to Teressa. “Thank you.”

“Of course, Boss!”

Erick changed the subject, “Has Jane spoken to Kiri, and then to you, Poi?”

Poi said, “Not about anything in particular, but they are housing together in Windy Manor. Jane is fine, as far as I know. She is running missions for the Headmaster and getting some personalized instruction in return, but that is the extent of my knowledge.”

“She said she was coming right home, but that’s hasn’t happened yet—” A lightbulb went off, and Erick’s eyes went wide. “I should invent texting!” He frowned. “One more thing to add to the pile.” He asked Teressa and Poi, “So that was Syllea Wyrmrest. What did you think of her?”

Teressa reported, “About as kooky as I’ve heard, but still deeply knowledgeable about many esoteric magics. That die she had you roll was something she invented herself, and has been trying to popularize ever since she graduated from Oceanside, 25 years ago. The mana-sensing dice tradition comes from South Nelboor.” She added, “Aside from all that: Orcols have a long history of buffing magic because we can endure the aftereffects easier than most other races. This was why I started down the path of developing my [Warcry], but Syllea has taken orcol buffs to extremes unheard of until she came along. Not to mention the whole ‘archmage’ thing. Most people focus on the ‘archmage’ thing, though. Big explosions and magical solutions to every problem are all anyone really sees.”

“She was fine.” Poi said, “But I still feel that buffs are dangerous.”

“And they are.” Teressa said, “But small edges here and there can mean a lot in any fight.”

Erick decided, “I’m going to have to learn some buff spells. At least something approaching your [Warcry], Teressa. The percentage buff to damage and defense cannot be overlooked, going forward.”

Teressa said, “You’re going to have to learn from someone else besides me. I know I got it wrong.” She brightened, to say, “But when we visit Treehome, I’m sure you can find a proper instructor, or at least a good book on the subject.”

Erick smiled. “I will do that, then.” He asked, “Now… I think I want to put up a [Kaleidoscopic Radiance], but with this [Shadow Conversion], up at Candlepoint. But that’s just an idea. I’m asking your opinions, first.”

Teressa subtly froze. She said, “Uh.” She went silent.

