“I thought the ‘support Light Essence creatures’ was the impressive part?”

Syllea shook her head, saying, “That’s just a rare variation on Rift magics not many people are capable of achieving.” She asked, “Did you put one of these up in your light slime dungeon?”

“No.” Erick said, “I got this while crafting the dungeon, with very complicated lightwards. The Headmaster did not want a [Kaleidoscopic Radiance] on his property.” As he said the words, he remembered that the Headmaster did not say that, exactly. “Ah. No. He said to put one or two up at the bottom, if I felt like it. But I did not.”

“I hear your dungeon is already producing a lot of slimes, anyway.” Syllea said, “I had thought the Headmaster had filled the place with Light Rifts, to speed up the process. But I guess not?” She said, “That’s what you can do with magic like this, when you have an under-performing dungeon. You put up rifts or other essence support magics, and more slimes will pop out.” She said, “How’d you make it permanent, though?”

Erick explained, “I’ve been working on permanent magic for a while. I’ve already got my artifact rings, and I’m working on figuring out the Grand [Prestidigitation] Stove variations, but the goal is permanent magics of any of my spells. Another of my long term goals is figuring out a [Renew] Basic Spell, or whatever tier it has to be, but something low. Something anyone could cast on an ongoing spell, to [Renew] the duration of that spell.”

Syllea looked off into the distance, thoughtful. “That’s a very interesting problem.”

“I was thinking that I would like your assistance on this [Renew] problem, too, if you’d like to have a discussion about permanent lightwards, and such, some other time. Your ability with buffs might be what I’m missing.” He gestured back to his house. “This [Prismatic Ward] is permanent, too.”

Syllea’s eyes had been glinting with an unseen light, as Erick spoke, but at his last words her eyes went wide, as she looked around at the dense air. Syllea said, “I can tell it’s Restful, but… Permanent, too?” She looked at him, asking, “Why do you want to make permanent magics, Erick?”

Erick almost laughed at Syllea’s questioning gaze, but she seemed serious, so Erick spoke candidly, “So I can protect people long after I’m gone, of course.”

Syllea looked away, thoughtful. “Ah.” She said, “We can talk more about permanency, later. With regard to your [Kaleidoscopic Radiance], it reads like a more subdued version of a Rift attuned to supporting Light Essence creatures. The wording on a spell like that usually reads like this.” She popped out a blue box, and handed it to Erick.

Light Rift, instant, medium range, 150 mana

A medium-sized rift of light empowers all Light Essence creatures and magic cast in the area. Lasts 12 hours.

Syllea continued, “My spell uses basic language and says ‘empowers’, but yours uses words like ‘evershifting brilliance’, as well as stating it supports the growth of Light Essence creatures, but no nod to affecting magic in the area. Based upon that, I feel that your spell is likely of a higher refinement than mine. The ‘Radiance’ part of it means that you’ve dipped a short ways toward Fire, for some reason, and that’s rather interesting… The permanency effect is unknown to me —I never try for permanent buffs.” She added, “There’s not much use for your spell outside of dungeons, or raising specialty animals, either.”

Erick asked, “How about for use on shadelings, to bring them back to themselves?”

Syllea frowned, as she looked away, in thought. Erick waited.

Syllea said, “Spells like my [Light Rift] are used to heal and support the growth of those types of creatures.” She added, “It’s possible. I honestly don’t know what it would do to shadelings, though. You’d likely have to try [Kaleidoscopic Radiance] with [Shadow Conversion], in order to achieve the best results.”

Erick said, “I used [Tree of Light] on a grove of those fruit trees I mentioned, and the people seemed to like both the glowing fruits and the glowing trees.”

“They’re eating the fruits of your magic plant?” Syllea said, almost incredulously. “Well. Okay?” She added, “Conversion from Light to Shadow is rather easy. Some people find the action almost instinctual. That’s probably what’s going on with your [Tree of Light] trees and the shadelings. There’s entire groves of those kinds of plants inside Ar’Kendrithyst. I hear Treant, the Shade of the Garden, has enchanted his whole stretch of land with various growing spells.”

Erick asked, “What about going the other way? From Shadow to Light?”

“Difficult, but doable.” Syllea said, “It’s easier if you leave the direct path, and go from Shadow, to Void, to Starlight. The final step to Light is simple.”

Erick smiled. “You rattled that off, rather easy.”

“You get a feel for it, after a while. With regard to transforming Shadow to Light, you can go through Illusion, but I find the purity of not traversing through Illusion to be much better for most solid actions.” Syllea said, “I prefer solid spellwork, but it all depends on your goals, really. Do you want to hit hard, or do you want to be less present on the battlefield?”

“The second, for me.”

Syllea smiled, small. “Me too.” She thumbed back toward Bayth, standing behind them, saying, “She’s all for the former, though.”

Bayth huffed, “And it works!”

Syllea said, “Let’s go back inside. You’re going to want to try out the rest of your [Illusion Infusion] in a larger space, through your [Familiar].”

Erick smiled as he threw a [Cleansing Flame] on the remains of the tree, igniting it to white fire, casting shadows and light across the flat orange land of the Human District.

The rest of Erick’s experiments with [Illusion Infusion] involved sitting in the sunroom with Syllea, and casting spells through Ophiel, at raised stone pillars in the dark dunes of the Crystal Forest. Syllea watched through her viewing screen.

Ophiel held a wing forward, casting Light-aspect [Force Beam]s from the tip, but the spell did not just erupt from his feathers, but also from three different spots in the air around the [Familiar]. Each line of white zipped away from Ophiel, to hold in the air like the [Familiar] had dashed four different ways through the sky; but he hadn’t. Each burning line of light carved tiny furrows in the stone pillar, all of them going wide and then swinging back to target, like they were drunk Rookies, unable to aim properly. A few more tests of the same spell, now knowing what he was looking at, enabled Erick to throw the four beams around with a slight semblance of control. They were still drunk Rookies, but now they were drunk, focused rookies.

Erick was excited to try his next spell, but if he was honest with himself, he was also a little afraid. [Luminous Beam] would come out weird, for sure. But how weird?

Ophiel held still in the dark air, his wings fluttering, his eyes trained forward. A ball of light flashed in front of him, casting brilliance into the night sky, shading wings and eyes into deep shadow and brilliant light, as the spell opened up like a raging river pushed through a pin hole. Luster and glitter instantly surged a kilometer forward; a cone of light and otherwise that crashed against the stone pillar and a good few hundred meters in every direction, obliterating—

Ah. No. That’s not what happened. [Luminous Beam] lasted five seconds, but it was only in the final moments that Erick understood what he was watching.

The original [Luminous Beam] moved at the speed of light. This one did not. That was the first major change Erick noticed. This barely moved slow enough to see countless blasts of light carve forward through the maybe-90 degree light cone. But half of those bolts struck the land, and did nothing. Another half struck the land, and burrowed holes into the dunes. Another half, somehow, were completely invisible, carving holes into the orange sand where no light had been. When the spell ended, the land was swiss cheese, and rapidly caved in on itself.

Syllea stared at her viewing screen, laughing, asking, “What was that!”

“Particle spell.” Erick handed Syllea the box for [Luminous Beam].

Luminous Beam X, instant, super long range, 500 mana

Conjure a coruscating, tightly controlled plume of severing light that deals <massive damage> and lasts for <5 seconds>.

Particle Mage Only.

She read the box, disbelieving. She tossed it away with a laugh and a scowl, before quickly coming back to something that was mostly professional, but still full of disregard. “Light is not a particle.”

Erick smiled wide. “You are correct, but only on a technicality.”

“… Fine. I guess I can accept that one of the Elements is not exactly as I always envisioned it to be.”

Erick laughed. “What! You changed your mind that easy?”

“Well of course.” Syllea said, “The spell says ‘Particle Mage Only’, therefore it must be a Particle Spell. That’s easy enough to understand. The Script doesn’t lie, though it always obfuscates.” She added, perhaps a bit darkly, “On the other path, it could be that you’ve been lying to us about what ‘particles’ are, this whole time.”

“You didn’t think I’d give away all my secrets in one lecture, did you?” Erick asked, “Are you telling me everything you know about Veird’s Elements?”

“… Okay. I see your point. One lecture could never cover everything.” She said, “If everything is made of ‘particles’, then light must be made of particles, too? I can accept that. What about shadow?”

Erick waved his hand. “When I first came here, I heard from someone trustworthy that they didn’t believe shadow existed, in truth, but only in magic.” He said, “Honestly, I have no idea what Shadow is truly supposed to be.”

Syllea frowned a little, then asked, “What other Elements are actually particles?” She offered, “Fire is particles moving fast. Ice is particles moving slow—”

“Cold,” Erick corrected. “Not ‘Ice’. To me, Ice is not an element, but a thing that water becomes when it is cold.”

“… Cold then. Electricity is those electron things?”

“Electrons, yes.” Erick added, “And electricity is much more complicated than just electrons. Literally everything has an electrical charge. Sometimes that electrical charge is ‘zero’. Visible light is actually a cross between electrical charge and magnetic charge; a wave of power moving through the fabric of reality, but also quantized as a particle.”

With a far off look in her eyes, Syllea asked, “When you gaze upon the world, how many elements do you see?”

Now that, was a tricky question. Erick could have given the answer Syllea already knew, that there were something like 150 elements on the Periodic Table, but that’s not what she was actually asking, and Erick wasn’t even sure about that ‘150’ number. It had been a long time since he saw a Periodic Table.

The last table he had seen was actually back when he was at Oceanside, when people had been compiling a ‘list of elements’ and Erick had been privy to that gossip. That endeavor had gotten up to 100, last he knew. Last he heard, Rozeta was gearing up to release [Condense Element], as the base Particle Spell, too, and grandfathering in all those basic spells people had created to interact with specific elements.

But that wasn’t what Syllea was asking. She was asking something much deeper than about the ‘elements’ of Erick’s reality. But just to make sure…

Erick asked, “What are you asking?”

“This [Luminous Beam] is clearly different than the elements you spoke of, and this is the first I’m hearing of electrical and magnetic ‘fields’, or whatever those are. It’s like… Like...” She paused, as her eyes went wide. “It says ‘Particle Mage’, but you’re actually a Force Mage! OH my gods. You’re a Force Mage! But you’re not! OH!” Like a cloudy sky opening up, revealing a sunny, pale blue eternity, Syllea’s eyes glinted bright and clear, as she said, “You’re a Reality Mage!”

“… A what?” Erick said, his throat feeling constricted.

Had she just called him a wizard?

That wasn’t good.

“What’s with that reaction!” Syllea brushed him off, saying, “It’s not a real Class; just an informal designation of those who take their chosen field far enough to be able to affect everything. Force Mage, which is what I actually am, is closer than most to becoming a Reality Mage...” She eyed him.

Erick chuckled nervously, saying, “What?”

“Oh. I get it.” Syllea said, “I did not call you that. You’ve probably been called a Wizard before, haven’t you?”

Erick tensed.

“People are uneducated.” Syllea shook her head, saying, “When you’re raised on stories of Wizards ending the Old Cosmology, or experimenting on souls to drown nations in undead, or Wizards creating monsters and furthering Melemizargo’s insane agenda— Whatever the case: People will call Reality Mages what they know to call them; Wizards. And they’re wrong, obviously. Doesn’t stop the occasional mage from getting murdered by their neighbors.”

Erick gave a weak laugh.

She paused again, and looked at Erick, again. “OH my gods. I’m so sorry! You were probably called that a lot, weren’t you?” She mumbled to herself, “I should have realized that before I opened my mouth.”

Erick had only been called a Wizard by one person, and only in anger over having her job taken from her, but even Krakina apologized for doing so, later, when she became a part of the Farmer’s Council. Krakina had called him that in anger, and that was fine. But besides her, the Headmaster certainly implied he was a Wizard, didn’t he?

… And Silverite had warned him that ‘You don’t invite Wizards into your home’.

… And then there were the big names who had called him a Wizard, and weighed that fact against his life, in a divine trial, in a blackened crater, in some godly part of the world. Sininindi, Phagar, Atunir, Koyabez, Rozeta. All of the gods had labeled him a Wizard.

Erick brushed her off, saying, “Don’t worry about it.” He lied, “I never understood the insult. What’s the big deal about a Wizard?”

Syllea quickly said, “You just don’t understand— I can tell you: Wizards were responsible for the Sundering. The deaths of untold trillions. The slavery of people, the Corruption of Melemizargo. The deaths of gods! The end of a universe, Erick.”

“Let’s just… forget about… that.” Erick put on his least complicated facial expression, and asked, “What’s a Reality Mage?”

