“Prince Aldus will see you now.”

Viv stood and entered the lodge, ignoring the careful gazes of two war mages in the yellow uniforms of the Glastian military. She wondered if she should have changed but decided she didn’t give two shits. Let them see the blood-stained, singed robe and remember who wore it. She found herself in an antechamber with staff and aides, all of them standing at the side, all of them quiet. She moved to a bedroom.

Although the arena kept its lodgings sober for the contestants, Aldus had managed to make the place comfortable with a few rugs and carefully placed trinkets. The prince sat on a large seat, flanked by bodyguards, Viv assumed those war mages were his two prime contestants. They didn’t look very pleased with her presence, but she guessed they had good reasons.

“Hello,” she said in a perfunctory manner. Her voice was broken, low, the words empty.

“Thanks for having me on such short notice. I want to face Sonagi in the arena.”

Aldus didn’t seem surprised. He felt regal in his elaborate uniform and flawless appearance. She gave him no credit. A child could tell what was on her mind right now. To her surprise, it was his first who answered. He was a genius gray mage with a distant demeanor. Viv gave him a good chance to take down Sonagi if he had a few tricks up his sleeve. The others were simply not that good, however. She knew she could take them without much trouble. Aldus had brought soldiers, not duelists.

“You are angry and we understand that. Glastians are all accustomed to grief. I feel for you, yet we know what anger can lead to. You will make mistakes. You will use your resources too quickly.”

He took a step to the side, looking out the window towards the sea in the distance. The prince let him have his moment.

“What we are fighting for is not greed or revenge. It is nothing short of the fate of Glastia and its people. Each candidate holds a strong vision of what the city would be, should be once the tide finally recedes, which will be soon. Medjin has sold—”

“Myr,” the prince warned.

His champion cleared his throat.

“My apologies. Medjin’s view cannot reconcile with what we want, which is a peaceful future for a city that has known unceasing war for far too long. We cannot afford to leave the fate of so many to chance and last minute, rage-filled additions. You are an unknown. You are—”

“I am not an unknown,” Viv said, finally out of patience. “You have seen what I can do. I’m better than your seconds.”

The man still by Aldus’ side bristled. Viv glared at him.

“You know I’m right. I might even be better than you. If you have any doubt about my ability we can step into a private training room and… have a go or two.”

“The result of a fight against a gray mage in an enclosed space is…”

“You’re just making excuses. You doubt my abilities? Let’s see you put your core where your mouth—”

“Enough,” Aldus said.

Viv felt the wave of calm expanding from Aldus like a cold breeze. She recognized a social skill of some sort and considered resisting but there was no malice here, no threat. Just a polite request not to let emotions take over. A part of her suspected it was an act that both Aldus and his champion Myr had done plenty of times and if it was the case, it was working pretty well.

“My friend Myr is right when he says that your emotions might get the better of you.”

In answer, Viv let her soul show its true color as well. Not just leadership but intimidation, though it was colder here. Neutral. Her vengeance spoke of patience and careful preparations, of a serpentine self-control as unyielding as winter in the service of delayed, controlled violence.

“You do not know who I am so I believe I will remind you. Because of an Enorian prince’s greed, my city was violated. My beloved was slain and her body dumped into the deadlands to rise as a revenant. I did not accept that this was the way of the world and that he was a prince and I'm a nobody. I did not rush headlong to a suicidal assassination attempt. I built an army. I resurrected a nation. We took back our city. We waged a savage war against veterans of thirty years of war and sent them home in wooden boxes. So no, I do not let my emotions get the better of me, I harness them, I use them, and when the time comes… I get even. Always.”

The unspoken part was the punishment she’d inflicted on Lancer. That, the others knew. She was sure of it.

“I have a place to handle Sonagi. Not just that but if I lose you are still ahead because he remains one of the competition’s most dangerous contestants. As you are, you may stop Sonagi but your second will lose against Kos the lava mage. Even then it is not a sure thing.”

The two war mages scowled but they did not object, at least not immediately.

“Sir, we don’t need her. She’s just a mad dog!”

The second finally had enough. His words didn’t sway Aldus, however.

“We may receive help from the bone witch. Shaya and I always knew we had much in common. Nevertheless…”

“Kos could easily defeat her. His speciality is area defense and denial. She could not stop the heat.”

Myr took a step forward, robes swishing. She could tell another rant was coming and prepared to withstand the torrent of pointless banter. To her surprise, Aldus put a stop to that.

“There is more that we have not told you. As you know, each candidate is allowed a single spelled item.”

“Most choose a focus, yes.”

“The Virg family granted him their most powerful heirloom as a blessing since they decided to support him. While I cannot say that I approve sponsoring the murderer of a family member, I have to admit that their support will prove… concerning.”

“What’s the heirloom?”

“A multi-cored gauntlet.”

“What? I thought it was extremely hard to even get two cores in the same item!”

“This one has four, albeit small ones. They offer a mix of all primary elemental colors which works perfectly well for Sonagi. Worse, since the cores are small, the enchantment is designed for quick recharge. He will be able to keep casting for far longer than usual.”

“His main weakness has always been relatively weak reserves.”

“And they just eliminated it.”

The mages stood with their heads bent. For all their bluster, they knew Sonagi to be formidable. Now that he had received a way to shore up his only flaw, their prospects had gone from hazardous to doomed. The duelist was just too efficient, too precise.

“I had an idea on how to handle him anyway. This doesn’t change anything.”

“You seem rather confident,” Aldus said. “Are you not having second thoughts?”

Viv leaned forward, her face close to the prince’s. His bodyguards stood closer but they didn’t stop her.

“As I said before, everyone here seems to have forgotten who I really am. I’ll remind them all, starting with Sonagi.”

“Then I accept you within my ranks. Do you not wish for anything in return?”

“I’ll leave Sidjin to discuss the details with you.”

“Is it wise to offer the reward before the negotiations even started?”

Viv was about to walk out but she turned at his comment.

“Is it wise to fuck me over? I’m sure you’ll find out shortly.”

***

Deos, Viv decided, was a happy cat. A sated, cruel predator relaxing after his little display of power and control. The obese man reclined in his chair while an attendant massaged his oiled feet, a small meal of fruits left untouched at the side. He did not invite Viv to sit and she didn’t ask. There were no chairs around.

“And to what do I owe the pleasure?” the man said with a knowing smile.

Viv swallowed her anger. He had set Sidjin against his mentor and lost them the competition for a bit of drama. He had also most likely facilitated Sonagi’s betrayal. She would get to him in time. For now, she needed to make sure all the pieces aligned. There would be time for recovery and licking one’s wound later. Right now, getting even had the priority. Time wasn’t on her side if she wanted to face the change without regret. So she gave him her most affable expression.

“You will be delighted to know that I have joined Aldus’ team.”

“Oh,” the man replied without a hint of surprise. “What a pleasant development.”

He stopped there, waiting for her to take the first step. She obliged.

“Team order can be reshuffled whenever the team itself changes. We will be submitting a new one very soon.”

“Stop! Isea darling, thanks for your time.”

Deos signaled and the massage lady walked out as fast as could be polite. Two guards by the door also left after a lazy handwave.

“It sounds like you were going to ask me something extremely, extremely illegal.”

“Nothing of the sort, we are talking hypotheticals,” Viv replied with a smile.

“Hypotheticals do not count in front of a jury of the city’s elders, young tart. You are asking me to take an enormous risk!” He said.

Deos picked a nearby glass and drank thoughtfully. He was being a little heavy-handed in asking for a bribe, she thought. He probably thought her a bot provincial.

“Not such a big risk. If someone were to doubt you, they would have already done so after Sidjin met his mentor upon the sand. It was a risky move on Medjin’s part, would you not agree? Hurt as she was, she would have lost against virtually anyone else.”

“You are implying much without any sort of proof.”

“Why talk about proof? We are still talking about hypotheticals. You know what I find unbelievable? That Medjin would place her as second.”

The two glare at each other for a while.

“Medjin’s an arrogant prick. We met. He had an extremely poor opinion of me, yet he somehow anticipated that Sidjin would give me the first position? How… clever of him. Why, if I had not experienced it myself, I would never have believed it.”

“The arena can work miracles. Turn cowards into snakehounds and doddering idiots into tactical geniuses.”

“I would hope so. I do so wish to provide the arena with the greatest show it has seen yet in this otherwise tame contest. Adversary against adversary. Revolutionary against traitor. Would that not be amazing? Ah, but I can only wish.”

Deos breathed in. She waited. When he spoke, any attempt at pleasantness was gone.

“Sonagi will wipe that smirk off your face. I’ll pay him thirty gold talents to kill you on the sand. Tear off your tongue so you can’t surrender.”

“That’s cheap. Constable Tarano paid three times that amount just for information. Before I killed him.”

“I’ll enjoy seeing you put down in your place, Miss Viv. You know where the door is. See yourself out.”

***

Viv had seen people mangled by explosives before. On Nyil, people were part magic. Reality bent to accommodate them, their dreams, their vows. Even their deaths. Back home, people were just the meat that formed them and she had seen plenty of that after explosives were used. It had horrified her. Rakan was not one of those victims. He was whole with the gash closed by expert healers. Surgeons would find nothing amiss except for exhaustion and anemia, and yet he was the most wounded individual Viv had seen because the hurt reached a part of the young Hallurian she didn’t know how to fix.

His core was bleeding.

Mages of his level gathered mana without thinking about it. He was doing the same as well as creating his own and it escaped from his chest as quickly as it formed in a loose stream of energy, like air leaking from a space shuttle. A shimmering cloud of colors spread around him in a breathtaking display of metaphysical lights. Under that, his body was empty. A pierced cask. Viv was reminded of the punishments of the Danaides, condemned by Zeus to fill a sieve with water for all of eternity. The difference was that they’d killed their husbands on their wedding nights while Rakan had trusted a friend.

“I’m sorry. I fucked up.”

“You didn’t, we were betrayed. I didn’t see it coming. I’m sorry,” Viv cut immediately.

Rakan’s eyes were hooded and desperate. They didn’t address the elephant in the room. Rakan’s days as a star caster were done. No one could cast without mana. There were workarounds, of course…

“I can’t pull mana anymore!”

“You can do it from a focus. It’s not all over.”

“He crippled me.”

Once again, Viv’s anger surged until she choked on it. Sonagi had hurt the kid. Their junior. He’d done it for show. The… the sheer audacity of this gnawed at her guts. Patience though, patience.

She had something special in mind for him.

“Why? Did he say why?”

Viv sighed. She wasn’t good at these sorts of things. There were probably better things to say.

“He… Look, what he did makes no sense to you and little sense to me. And that’s how it is. It would be nice if mankind was made of rational actors and if we could reach the same conclusion by looking at the same thing but it’s not the case. And then there are the fuckups. Some people are just twisted. They do things that don’t make sense and they sabotage themselves and ruin the lives of the people around them. I got to admit, I didn’t see that one coming at all so I apologize. I’m more experienced and he still blindsided me.”

“It’s not your fault.”

“No. No, it's not. But you’re my responsibility and I failed us so…”

“You were busy as well. Still dying?”

“More than ever, I guess. I know you can’t help it but just try to forget him as a friend. He is to blame for his decisions. Your sister is here, by the way. The healers had to sedate her. She tried to stab them.”

“That’s just like her. I should see her. Tell her… tell her I’ll be alright.”

“You will. We’ll find a way. Even if we don’t, you’re one of us now and forever.”

