Viv changed half of the arena into a disc of nightmarish fangs and tentacles arching back towards her like the maw of some demented sand worm around a perfect circle, just where she stood. Several casts of eldritch walls at once molded the place as she saw fit. The very sand changed, turning dark and pitted like volcanic stone. She set out to draw sigils on the ground with a use of telekinesis. Each one was etched like a jagged wound bleeding only darkness. She cast a glance at several fireballs raining dawn from the other side of the arena.

“Aegis. Durandal.”

Most of the projectiles pinged on her defenses, but there was a powerful one hidden among the dregs that she detonated mid air. It was typical of Sonagi to use decoys and misdirection. A flash of mana near a trench signaled his presence but it was bait and Viv didn’t bite. She carved one symbol after another on the ground with a jeweler’s patience. The air suddenly tasted stale in her mouth. Another attack. She vented mana to disrupt a subtle gray construct designed to make her choke. Her work resumed. Another flash of mana persisted and this one she could not ignore.

“Astra.”

Even as she kept working, a wave of black orbs flew to the concentration. The detonation sent plumes of sand and dust in the air. The edge of a circle formed on the ground. A cast of eldritch wall destabilized it, making the spell fail. Some subterranean attack hit the eldritch walls’ outer layer and failed. The ground was too soaked with black mana to be a conduit for such attacks, as Sonagi should have guessed. Colors faded around her while power sang in her chest. It was cold and spicy, lethal, yet familiar. Intimate. It was so much hers, this poison. The last sigil appeared with a wave of her hand. More attacks landed on her shield then another wall formed at the far end. Sonagi figured she would not come out and play so he had to force her out. He was a little late.

“Deadland domain.”

The walls of the arena faded to a sickly yellow.

***

“What’s going on? What is she doing?” Deos asked his head assistant.

The mage frowned. Deos lent his spyglass and was ignored. It wasn’t needed.

“This is a blasphemous reversal of the Academy’s work. While the original was designed to purge the edge of the deadlands on contamination, this one does the exact opposite.”

“Speak plainly.”

“It’s absorbing all the magic inside of the arena to turn it into black mana. Excuse me, I must see to the containment shields.”

***

A ray of change to make the wall hers. A blast of annihilation to pierce it. Viv pounded Sonagi’s defenses, forcing him to expend large amounts of energy to reverse the contamination or risk being skewered. He adapted by moving his circle to avoid the blasted areas. It was an impressive display of control but not one without cost. She could follow him around as he dug like a mole. Her core was ablaze. Black mana sang tempting whispers in her ears, ravaged and blessed her conduits as it surged to follow her every will. The dance was intoxicating. She intercepted projectiles and blocked others. Disruption became the name of the game and what a wonderful dance it all was. Any of Sonagi’s spells could kill her on impact if they landed so they did not land. Glassed sand, molten sand, puddles of hungering liquids peppered the ground between them but none had reached the circle.

“Harrakan domain.”

A second circle appeared around the first. Something hissed at the edge of her hearing. Her soul warned her that something immaterial was bleeding in or out. She wasn’t sure. It didn’t matter.

Sonagi finally finished his own attack.

A lance of pure red energy thrust through the arena, air blurring from the incandescent heat. Viv formed her shield into a sharpened cone. It met the beam at the edge of the infused sand and was immediately pushed back. The deflected energy scored deep gashes against the walls, the ground, even the barriers above which stopped it in a haze of colors. A world away, people gasped and yelped before the titanic display. Temperature inside the arena immediately increased until sweat peeled on Viv’s brow but it was done. She had redirected the beam.

It had destroyed her spell, however.

“Out of time!” a mocking voice said from behind cover.

Viv disintegrated the steaming glass, reformed her circle and drew the missing glyphs once again.

“Seriously?”

“Deadland domain.”

Black mana roared out faster than before into the dry air, down into the darkening sand. It crawled around the edges of the shield, testing it, gnawing at the stone. It explored the limits of its prison. Viv’s side of the circle was now a monochrome slashed by scars of pure void, reaching, despoiling, and expanding. Always expanding. The pit of her circle drank the very life around it and spat back a promise. Viv stood in the middle of that vortex feeling the world at her fingertips, flinging curses that could pierce a tank’s armor without so much as moving. None of what Sonagi tossed at her left a dent now that smaller spells fizzled before they could ever land. He tried to bait her with openings. He tried to bluff her with mirages of mighty spells. She knew him, his style, his strengths. There was no need for her to engage him in a contest of wit. Not when she could crush him instead.

“Harrakan domain.”

She felt more than saw another beam coming and placed her shield farther. She formed a thick wedge with such ease she was tempted to stop using sigils just to see if the black mana would move by will alone. It was so easy to displace the beam of radiant fury so it carved the arena’s wall instead of her circle. In desperation, Sonagi sent a veritable avalanche of sand on her circle, drawing deeply into his focus. She merely made the eldritch soil climb higher until the tide fell back.

Sonagi charged her. He threw everything he had left in a frontal attack. Stones, shards of ice, sprays of water, invisible blades, fireballs. The torrent met her own werfer and pushed it back, deeper into the darkened land. She spotted a glimmer of hope in Sonagi’s gaze. Foolish. He should have known better. Viv was merely putting most of her attention in her circle.

She saw his despair when the third layer activated.

“Palace domain.”

Black mana exploded. Sonagi’s spells were snuffed out. Power flooded the farthest reaches of the field in a tide of hungering energies, barriers flashing overhead to contain the onslaught. Sonagi had revealed himself and her spells lashed at his defenses. He fell back, stumbling into a ditch. He tried to blend through the sand but it was no longer his. Brown mana did not exist in this place of quiet. The jealous reign of the black had begun. It did not share but it did obey her and her alone.

The only splotch of color was a dome over the kneeling form of the duelist. Just as he looked up to face his end, Viv stopped her attacks. She realized her body was coated in thick armor, ghostly wings jutting high above and behind her. Fear twisted Sonagi’s traits. Then confusion.

“Viviane? Please?”

She did not reply. Had he not been listening? Massive ropes of dark energy danced around her like under an unseen wind. She felt their caress, their promises, yet she resisted the call for instant gratification. A plan had been made. No, a promise. And now she would deliver it.

“Viviane?”

The fourth layer flared to dark life.

“Epicenter.”

Sonagi choked on his words. The dome grew smaller and smaller. There were no sounds coming from the outside as none could pierce the blanket of mana. No wind. No movement. Just the two combatants and the abyssal pressure of the Ascender.

***

Deos stumbled down the stairs, cursing his awkward footing. The damn mage was here with most of his crew in one of those circles. The fools charged him a fortune to maintain those. It was time they earned their keep.

“You! Open the gate and get Sonagi out of here! I said the match is over! That horrid bitch can’t just ignore me like that in my own arena. Do something!”

“We are very busy,” the mage grunted.

Deos was not used to being ignored. Not anymore.

“Don’t forget who puts talents in your grubby hands you little shits!”

“If this barrier falls for any reason, the blast will kill everything from Maranor’s temple to the sea gate. And I do mean everything. You pay me but I serve Helock first and foremost. The gates will stay closed until she drops her spell.”

“I told her to stop!”

“Then tell her again. Now shut the fuck up and finish the fight before she triggers another layer or we’ll all get to meet our gods today. Is this clear enough?”

***

In the void-tinged hell of the arena, Viv watched life ebb away at her leisure. She felt at home here. Safe. And satisfied.

[Arcane duellist.]

[Arcane duellist.]

[Arcane duellist.]

“Please…”

[Arcane duellist.]

[Arcane duellist.]

Sonagi breathed one last time. His delicate trits twisted into a mockery of humanity.

[Revenant.]

Viv willed the body to ash. Only scraps of his robes and a rusted gauntlet remained.

“Now, you are forgiven.”
