The other large water hand came out of the water and spilled a ton of water on top of the short captain, extended a single finger, then poked the main mast of the ship. It snapped like a twig, despite being several feet thick, and toppled over to fall across the back deck and just missed the short captain and the steering wheel.

“HEY!” The short captain yelled and raised a fist. “That was uncalled fo-”

*WHACK*

One of the deckhands hit the captain over the head with a piece of wood, which made him collapse to the deck, unconscious.

“Shut up!” The deckhand said to the captain, then looked at the biggest humanoid creature he'd ever seen, and bowed. “We're sorry he upset you.”

The face of the massive water being smiled, cupped its other hand over the engine room workers, then laid back down in the water.

“REN!” The personal maids yelled together as he disappeared from their shared Aura.

*

“I can't believe the amount of XP we got for that!” Billy said as he hopped into the back of the cart full of wolf carcasses.

“Man, oh man!” Tommy said and climbed into the front seat beside the driver. “Clint, you're a goddamned genius!”

Clint laughed and sat in the driver's seat. “Ah'm shore glad ah maxed mah Fame las' week.”

Hank hopped into the back and held a hand out for Dillon, then pulled him into the cart.

“Do we have to ride with these things?” Dillon asked, and tried to sit where there wasn't any blood. “I'll even spring for a second cart.”

Hank laughed. “And who's going to drive it?”

“Oh, right.” Dillon said. “Never mind.”

Clint laughed again and flicked the reins to get the horse into motion.

“Don't worry, Dillon.” Tommy said. “We'll be back at Clint's ranch in no time.”

“Three days isn't 'no time'.” Dillon said.

“We've got a couple of stops on the way, remember?” Billy said. “I've got a gold coin with Jennifer's name on it!”

“I thought you were saving up for a new bow?” Dillon asked.

“I am.” Billy said. “This is my spending money.”

“Every time you pass by her place?” Tommy said and laughed. “You're never going to get a new bow at that rate.”

“It's worth it.” Billy said. “She does this thing with her tongue... ah, never mind.” He clamped his mouth shut. “Forget I said anything.”

“Don't worry about that. We will.” Hank said and laughed. “We don't wanna hear about your kinks.”

“It's not kinky what she does!” Billy said. “She just... look, she's special, okay? Just leave it at that.”

“You're the one that keeps talking about it, man.” Tommy said and they all laughed.

*

Ren was surrounded by a large bubble of air as he was submerged below the surface of the water. He was pulled down into the water for only a short distance when he saw a familiar shape in the water.

Teepo! Ren thought, and Teepo dissolved into the ring to pass through the portal safely. When he appeared on the other side, he had the sharp pain in the mark on his right hand, and the spider reappeared on it. Ren knew he wasn't only in another part of the ocean, because the evidence was right before him. He could see as if it was daytime, and saw that he stood just outside a gigantic underwater castle. He was also completely surrounded by water elementals in all shapes and sizes.

Summon Teepo! Ren thought.

Teepo appeared at his feet and crawled up to stand on his shoulder, and the massive humanoid water being shed off all of it's components and reduced in size. It took a few minutes for the being inside to be revealed; but when it was, Ren was surprised.

It was male.
