“Hopefully they don’t heal from each other’s flame auras like the Shards of Flame,” Ali pointed out.

“If they do, we should give up,” Malika said soberly, “at least until we’re a lot stronger.”

Round two. Calen shifted uncomfortably in the heat as he gazed at the huge elemental. It was going to be a rough battle. Even though they all had the best resistances they could buy, and they had a partial strategy hammered out, there were still far too many unknowns. Ali had mentioned that there was likely to be at least one more powerful ability they hadn’t seen yet. That worried him – more than he had let on in their planning. Hopefully, at worst, it was an ability they could still escape from. Not to mention their analysis assumed that this dungeon used similar rules to Ali’s. If it did not, or had more advanced abilities, there was likely no way to predict how many surprises it had in store for them. The uncertainty bothered him, gnawing away inside – he knew there was no way to be sure before engaging again, and likely they would need to get quite far in the battle before they learned something new.

That knowledge could come at a lethal price.

No need to obsess about what I can’t know, he told himself. He would consider it a successful battle if they ran away with new information. Nevertheless, worry still lurked within his heart, refusing to let go. This elemental was way more powerful than anything he had ever seen, except for Lyeneru and the Death Knight. But this time he and his friends were on their own.

“We got this,” Mato said, giving him a light punch on the shoulder. “Don’t forget your elixir.” As he said it, he downed one himself and made the empty vial vanish. Morwynne offered a small silver as a deposit for vials returned intact.

Calen summoned one of his own.

Elixir of Fire Resistance – level 41Consume: +20% to resistance against fire damage. Duration: 1 hour.Created by Morwynne Fizzlebang – “A little less burn.”Potion

He examined the potion in his hand. These had been extremely expensive to make, even with most of the ingredients provided by Ali’s new fire affinity garden. And yet, he was certain they wouldn’t be standing here without them.

Everyone seems ready.

“Let’s try to learn something new,” he said, downing his potion.

“Safety first,” Malika answered, drinking her potion too.

Ali’s minions shuffled around, organizing their formation, many of them drinking lower-level versions of the same elixir, and Calen grimaced momentarily at the amount of money that had just been consumed, but it was a necessary cost.

“I’m getting the boss,” Mato said, waiting a moment in case anyone objected before switching to his Bear Form.

The Inferno roared, its words shaking the chamber as they attacked. Ali had explained it spoke in the ancient tongue of Dal’mohra, but it seemed uninterested in actually conversing with creatures it deemed to be so far beneath it. Or it just wasn’t that intelligent in the first place. What do elementals think about anyway?

Calen drew his bow and fired as soon as Mato’s claws struck flame. He hovered at the maximum range, even though that was still well within the blast wave radius. His arrows flew rapidly, enchanted with extra damage. He was using only the one enchantment to conserve his mana, settling in for a long fight. He had been operating on a constrained resource budget for so long now, that he was still getting used to the adjustments for his new advancement. Even though he couldn’t be wasteful, it still felt that he had excess stamina to play with now. Every shot took some stamina, and the cost reduction really paid off in the long run.

His arrows flew rapidly, several chasing each other in the air on the way to the elemental.

“Explosion!” Ali’s voice rang out through the arena.

He braced himself as the shockwave washed over him, smashing against his body and knocking him head over heels, cartwheeling through the air. He groaned from the instant bruise and creaking ribs, but he immediately felt the soft pulse of holy magic healing him as he flew back.

How did she do that? Ali had somehow organized her Acolytes to leave a heal over time on most of their group and she had pulled it off before the explosion had hit. He would have to ask her after the fight.

He flared his wings and controlled his descent aiming for closer to the ground. Knowing that he would be facing many explosions, he chose to leave his wings active, retrieved a mana potion from his ring’s storage enchantment, and downed it.

The first of many.

“Summons!” Ali yelled almost a minute later. Somehow, the second explosion hadn’t come, which meant a change in the boss’s strategy, or Malika was having an effect already.

The two dozen Shards of Inferno appeared in a bright surge of yellow flame, scattered around the giant boss that towered over all of them. Immediately, they surged towards where Ali’s healers stood.

A crunching, grinding sound echoed in the amphitheater as several substantial walls of bone appeared. Rib bones of unidentifiable monsters jutted out in all directions, barring the way to prevent the elementals from spreading out. Still, Ali had left a narrow passage for them to funnel into. It was not quite the shape he would have picked, but it looked like it would work. Large planes of Ali’s golden barrier magic sprung up creating further impediments to slow the creatures down.

Calen flew higher into the air, pulsing mana into his wings for an extra boost of speed – for this, he would need a little more elevation to angle his shots down without worrying about the walls. Within the cluster of elementals, three steel totems began pulsing lightning novas and Ali’s shamans unleashed arm-thick bolts of lightning that tore through the entire pack.

Perfect. Ali’s skillful arrangement of her barriers and walls had bottlenecked the elementals such that all of them were taking heavy lightning damage, and the Shards of Inferno were penned up instead of spreading chaos through their group.

My turn, he thought, summoning four simultaneous arrows of light magic to his bow and enchanting them with his brand-new Explosive Shot. He had just reached level thirty with Radiant Archery and the extra arrow was going to come in very handy. Briefly, he considered using his Righteous Fury, but with its long recharge, he was loath to spend it if he didn’t need to. Probably one of the flame shields will be a better choice.

He loosed the flight of arrows and immediately summoned another four, repeating the process, ignoring the steep mana cost he was paying. He managed to get three flights of arrows in the air before the first ones struck. A roar rose from the ground as his arrows detonated unevenly on impact. The bright group of elementals vanished in the intensity of the quadruple explosions of his light magic. Calen squinted his eyes without missing a shot. The second flight landed before the detonations had even faded, followed by the third and fourth. Around the fifth, Ali’s mages refreshed the bone walls because they were shedding large chunks of shattered bone. Ali’s golden barriers appeared, flickering in spots, blocking holes, and preventing any of the elementals from escaping the kill zone. He unleashed volley after volley, a brilliant arc of arrows from above while he watched the continuous explosion ripping through the monsters below.

He was almost down to ten percent of his mana when his notifications exploded with chiming sounds. He released one more volley to make sure, and when the light faded, all that was left were the pulverized remains of the bone walls and the corpses of the elementals.

“Explosion!”

The shockwave slammed into the side of his body while he was still in midair, tossing him like a leaf in a storm and knocking the air from his lungs. He gasped as he struggled to right himself with his wings. As he descended, he felt the holy magic flowing into his body once again, healing the impact of the blast wave. He retrieved a mana potion and downed it, beginning to shoot once again, using regular arrows for now to conserve mana.

Ugh, I’m going to need to recover before it summons more.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
