While most of the tribe was spending the morning in bed and recovering from a night of drinking, those with other tasks and daily duties had been awake for a while. Those with children had even less free time, now that the tribe was in Treehome for Festival. Kids rushed through neighboring tribes, finding other kids to get into trouble with, and almost always finding ways to get out of doing their own chores.

But not this one, though that was only because his mother had caught him before he could sneak off to play with his new friends.

“Come on, now,” said the mother. “That dough isn’t going to knead itself!”

With his tiny fists just sitting upon the mass of brown dough, the boy sighed wistfully, as he gazed across the road. His new friends were already gone for the day. He muttered, “Stupid bread.” He looked to his mother, and started a new, old argument, “We can buy bread in—” And then something else caught his eye through the spaces in the canopy.

“We’re not buying bread when we can make it ourselves.” The mother said, “And besides. This bread is special bread. We put all that sugar in it, you—”

The kid interrupted, “Mommy? Is that an attack?”

The mother almost reprimanded her kid. But then his words sunk in. She glanced upward. She felt the blood drain from her face, and then she put on a happy mask, for she could not worry her child, though she was very much worried herself. She said, “Now don’t panic on me, but these are the drills we practice for. That is an attack up there. High level mage. It looks like Syllea’s spellwork, but I don’t know.” Her kid’s eyes went wide as she lifted up the little guy, heedless of the flour, accidentally tipping over the table in her haste to get to her child. Dough fell to the gravel floor of the campground. She wrapped him tight in her arms, and whispered, “We’re going to hunker down, and wait it out.” She yelled to the rest of the sleepy, vacationing tribe, “Attack on the—”

A piercing wail echoed through the trees. The mother covered one of her son’s ears, and pressed his head against her chest. He started to cry. She comforted him as best she could.

The entire campsite was awake in under a second. Mages reacted with [Ward]s. Warriors [Blink]ed into positions, either on top of the main caravan, or around the perimeter. Some people reacted slowly, but others made up for the difference. The mother held her son in one arm and grabbed another scared child up under the other arm. With two kids accounted for, she rushed for the main [Ward] next to the main caravan and took a spot with the other non-combatants.

And then the campground on the other side of the street exploded into glimmering light. The kids started to cry. The mother told them that everything would be okay, and that the archmages and Arbors would save them.

Stars glimmered overhead, falling faster, and faster; a sky full of diamonds, upended onto Treehome.

A warning blared out from the water tree in the center of the campground, talking of a cultist attack, while children huddled together, a neighbor roared out trying to find their son, a mage attempted a long-range [Dispel] against the falling stars, and dough sat on gravel, slowly rising.

- - - -

Some clerk announced, “Full Arbor defenses operational in one minute.”

Koropo was already speaking to a dozen people through [Telepathy], but he took the time to speak to Erick, saying, “Do whatever you can.”

Erick said, “Already on it,” as he summoned Ophiels to replace the ones he had lost.

- - - -

An Ophiel, stationed near the center of the sky over Treehome, and by a [Cascade Imaging] map, switched the map over to search for Omaz. He didn’t show; not yet. But he had been out there, for sure. Erick switched his attention to the falling stars.

A high-mana Ophiel lightstepped to the edge of the massive spell, right before most of them reached the smaller trees that loomed over the campsites and itinerant lands between the Arbor Districts. A few had already touched down, and Erick hoped that the people down there were safe, but he knew there had to be some casualties.

He cast a 36,000 mana [Grand Dispel] at the closest sparkling light drop. Dark magics impacted that drop, then spread like a shockwave of shadows and sound, popping thousands, tens of thousands, and then a full third of the [Starlight Fall] that had come to Treehome. The only reason Ophiel’s spell didn’t reach further, was because he wasn’t the only one combating the attack.

Two other casters in other parts of the sky released their own [Chaining Dispel]s, taking out another third of the [Starlight Fall]. Here and there, other mages cast smaller [Dispel]s, some which popped hundreds of falling sparkles, some which only destroyed a few. The spell was gone, and yet...

And yet, still, some of those countless falling stars made it through the countermagics. Trees had exploded. [Ward]s had popped. People had died.

Erick had zero time to spread blame, or to think he hadn’t done enough. He thought he had. But the propagation of his [Grand Dispel] was a lot slower than the fall of the stars. In less than ten seconds, the whole of that spell had fallen from the sky to the land, like a rain cloud releasing almost all of its rain, all at once.

The map in the center of Treehome briefly blinked blue on the other side of the city. Omaz had blipped into the sky. The sky over there turned to stars. And then Omaz left.

Erick was much faster with his [Grand Dispel] this time.

Ophiels moved with lightstepping brilliance, directly into the center of the swarm. A single 36,000 mana [Grand Dispel] pulsed into the sky, directly into the center of the falling stars. Theoretically, Ophiel could have spent half of that. [Grand Dispel] had a double modifier for the purposes of erasing a targeted magic. But Erick wasn’t going to take that chance.

The entire brilliant sky shimmered with stars, and then shadows ate them all from the inside out, spreading like a shockwave, turning explosive power into disjointed mana. Briefly, other shadowy [Dispel]s tried to strike the starfall, but Erick’s spell had already cleared the whole thing from the sky.

Erick was even faster with the third starfall. The spell had barely been in the sky for two seconds before an Ophiel was in the center of it all. This time, Erick could make a mistake, so he had Ophiel throw 18,000 mana at the sparkling sky. It was enough. The whole of the starfall vanished in a shadowy shockwave. That was good! Erick relaxed a fraction. He didn’t have many of these high-mana Ophiel’s left. He couldn’t throw out 36,000 mana [Grand Dispel]s all day long, and he needed to save his own mana for the important parts of the fight.

Ophiel responded to Omaz’s next appearance half a second before Erick even realized Omaz had appeared again.

Erick briefly looked upon Omaz. Omaz briefly looked upon Ophiel. Omaz had already lifted his arms to the sky. Less than a fraction of a second passed as Omaz filled the blue with sparkling stars. Almost instinctively, Erick queue’d up a [Harmonic Blood Ooze] for 3000 of his own mana and launched it at the man, while a separate high-mana Ophiel stepped into the air above and dispersed the stars from the sky. The first Ophiel, who had arrived on scene before Erick could think to send him, cast a [Ward Destruction] at the cultist, flashing power against Omaz’s skin, shattering whatever defensive [Ward] he had running.

As Omaz began to fall, and before another Script Second passed, the blood ooze wrapped around him, preventing his next cast. Erick watched as he bubbled with mana, but the blood ooze bubbled with shadows, canceling whatever Omaz had tried to do.

Time, which had seemed slow, sped up rapidly. Omaz fell through the sky. Other people blipped into the air. Some Special Forces people grabbed the man, locking Omaz down with even more spells while they arrested his fall, and arrested him, too. The blood ooze tried to carve into Omaz’s skin, but Omaz had Constitution, at least. That ooze couldn’t do much more than prevent him from casting.

Someone asked Erick to call off the ooze; they were having trouble attaching the drain collar to him because the ooze would attack whoever got close enough. Erick was pretty sure that the ooze was being a good boy and not attacking anyone, but the jailers seemed to be scared of the bloody spell, so Erick canceled it. Omaz was rapidly wrapped up in several other spells from other people and decked out with a whole suite of drain collars, one for each limb. He wasn’t going anywhere, and if it weren’t for the [Silence] spells cast upon him, Erick was sure that the man would have been yelling plenty of obscenities. He could read the man’s lips, after all. He was glad he didn’t have to listen to that as they took him away. He had more pressing concerns than the murdering Cultist, now that he had been dealt with.

- - - -

Erick sat up, and breathed. He turned to Koropo. The man had a smile on his face and was almost about to speak, but Erick said, “Syllea is Raging right now. She’s windstepping this way. I have an Ophiel on her, and she’s getting much faster with her windstepping, and I’m pretty sure she’s not just windstepping anymore. She’ll be here in ten minutes. What do you want to do?”

The stoic Witch Hunter, the Warchief of Treehome’s Special Forces, paled, briefly, and then he turned hard again. He narrowed his eyes, and said, “We do to her exactly what you did to Omaz.” He turned and stared across the room, his eyes quickly scanning the room, as he announced, “We will get Syllea under control before—”

A clerk interrupted. “[Grand Fireball]s reported near the commune. Twenty seconds ago.”

Koropo instantly ordered a woman standing by some viewing screens, “[Witness].”

The woman looked to the air, her eyes flickering ruby red. The [Viewing Screen]s near her shifted, and played back what had happened, right as the woman came back to herself, and said, “Someone attacked the commune as we were dealing with Omaz.”

“Stuff Omaz in the Hole and retask Team Takedown onto Syllea. Our priority is Syllea, IF she comes close to Treehome. The normal guard should be able to deal with the commune since they were waiting for it to explode anyway.” Koropo turned to Erick. “Where is she?” He immediately added, “Nevermind.” He looked to Poi. “He’s a Mind Mage, yeah? You’re conscripted. You already know who to talk to, so get it done. Coordinate with your Archmage.”

Erick was perfectly fine with that—

Which was likely why Poi said, “Of course.” A bevy of telepathic lines erupted from his head, as he added, “On it.” Poi spoke to Erick’s mind, sending, ‘You’re connected.’

Erick went back to Ophiel.

- - - -

Syllea had changed a great deal in the minute since Erick had left her to focus on Omaz. She was no longer flesh and blood, for one. No longer did she simply windstep across the sky. She was radiant and dark and flaming and frozen, all at the same time. She stepped through the trees of the deep Forest. Canopies, trunks, branches, and a great deal of wildlife, scattered at her undeniable passage, falling to the Forest floor as ash, or frozen shards, or melted slush, or to simply drift away as mist and gloom. Red, yet prismatic lightning gathered in her eyes and flickered across her airborne footfalls. She took a step and moved a hundred meters, causing the sound of thunder to soak into the dense Forest all around. Syllea was not being quiet, at all.

Her Rage didn’t present like Teressa’s Rage. Was Syllea still in there? Somewhere?

Poi’s voice came to him, his words much faster than if he were speaking, ‘Some orcols Rage differently than others. I am being told that Syllea’s Rage is documented. This controlled sort of Rage is normal for her, but her Rage will not end with killing her target. It never has. So try to get through to her, if you can. If you can’t, then Bayth is going to try. She has experience with this.’

Erick heard and understood.

He wrapped an Ophiel in [Pure Reflection Ward], and stepped him forward, into Syllea’s path.

Syllea flickered with prismatic lightning as she bounced off of Ophiel’s sunform, scattering all around, her entire body dispersing then coming back together on the other side of Ophiel like a sandcastle destroyed then instantly repaired. She didn’t even look back as she continued to step through the Forest, destroying everything in her path, except for Ophiel, apparently. Erick tried again.

This time, Ophiel formed a bowl that Syllea ran right into. Before she could disperse around again, Ophiel’s sunform became a sphere, trapping the archmage inside. Erick could barely believe that had worked.

Erick spoke fast, “We’ve captured your brother. Omaz is in custody—”

Syllea reconstituted into herself, inside of Ophiel, but she was still radiant and dark and a roil of elements. She pulsed with some sort of Force-based spell. It rebounded off of Ophiel’s inner reflective surface, crashing back into Syllea. She growled.

“—We have Omaz in custody,” Erick repeated, fruitlessly.

Syllea pulsed with another sort of magic, but Erick had been aiming a [Harmonic Counterspell] at her. 270 mana drained from Erick. A ripple of shadows destroyed whatever Syllea had attempted. She paused. She cocked her head, almost playfully, as she looked upon her prison made of light. She smiled, her lower fangs showing, her face looking ready to devour something. She cast again. Erick automatically counterspelled it again, but this time, it drained him dry. Over 5,500 mana, gone, just like that. He had bottomed out.

