Erick responded with a few casts of [Control Weather] into the skies over Treehome and several consecutive casts of [Call Lightning] over the most on-fire parts of the city. Home wasn’t the only place burning. Wyrmrest was burning, too, though he had his canopy mostly extinguished by the time the rains started.

And then a great keening filled the skies over Treehome. Stars began to fall, once again.

Omaz had gotten free?!

Erick rapidly came back to himself, just in time to look up, and see the skylight fracture. Glass broke, as Wyrmrest, high above and still lightly on fire, broke. A thousand thousand stars attempted to crash into his canopy, and while most of them burst upon stars lurking in the manasphere, there were a million of them. A lot got through. Erick didn’t even have time to [Grand Dispel] any of the attack before it was almost over.

Smaller branches and massive leaves and person-sized starfruit began to fall; knocked loose by the attack from above.

One of the larger branches snapped as Void and Light broke it at its base. That branch had to be a kilometer long, and it had to weigh millions of tons. From this lower distance, it barely moved, but Erick could tell it had likely fallen hundreds of meters already. Erick only barely registered those facts, for Koropo was already yelling,

“We’re fine!” Warchief Koropo roared, “Wyrmrest can arrest that fall. It’ll take more than that to wound him.”

Almost disbelieving that the Arbor actually could do what Koropo said he could, Erick watched, as the star-filled Domain in the manasphere all around them turned into something denser. Stars seemed to rise out of nothing, soaring upward. Light flickered high above.

Erick flickered an Ophiel closer, and watched, as what was likely a [Gravity Ward] sized for the branch itself, took hold of the air around the falling branch. The ponderous weight fell a bit more, but soon slowed, and then reversed course, floating back into the sky. Back into position, to where the fractured stump of the limb’s base stuck out from Wyrmrest’s top like a mangled and half-missing finger. Wood flowed like water. The branch reattached. Falling starfruit turned to energy to soak into the Arbor himself. Star-filled mana pulsed out from Arbor Wyrmrest, stifling fires all around, repairing buildings, and healing many, many orcols who had been hurt by all the fighting. Wyrmrest did not heal everyone, though. Erick watched as a line of Cultists toward the east, or perhaps they were just opportunists, who were balanced against the defenders at a bank, were suddenly overrun by guards that could not be harmed. Heads rolled.

Erick came back to himself, as the rains began to fall. He sent a few Ophiel over to Arbor Home, to have them become radiant funnels to personally control the rain, to drown fires, to do for Arbor Home what she could not currently do herself.

The attack over there, led by Elder Atanaro-Home, who Erick had briefly seen, was done, too. Cultists, either dead or in chains, were locked into [Woodshape]d barrel-like containers with only their heads poking up from the wood. Most of those people were just dead, though.

With a thought, an Ophiel went to the map Erick had left in the center of the city. It was still searching for Omaz, and Erick expected many others to have used this map to track the man, for stars had been falling for a little while now, until they stopped. Erick didn’t worry about those starfalls, for other people were [Chain Dispel]ing those monstrous spells. But now, as he looked upon his map, he saw a problem. Omaz’s blue dot was there, but he was in the center of the commune.

And the commune was still fighting.

A ring of tall stone walls stood fractured around buildings that were just as broken, in a clearing in the Forest that was also broken, and on fire. Few shadeling orcols slunk around in the shadows, throwing high-powered spells at orcol mages flying high in the sky, and just out of range of most magics. But those were the outliers. Erick casually had an Ophiel throw a [Grand Dispel] at some of the fires in the area, extinguishing a good hundred meters of flickering flame, while he himself cast a [Grand Dispel] at a fireball larger than most that had lifted off of the ground and tried to hit the people flying high above. That [Grand Fireball] vanished in a puff of magic.

Most of the fight was not magical, though. Most of the shadelings were upright, full of shadows, and swinging around swords made of darkness. They fought against orcols who had been guarding the commune the last time Erick had seen this place. A battlefield had erupted since then. Lines in the mud had been drawn and guarded against, past the western wall of the commune, with healers in the backlines of both sides, throwing [Chaining Healing Word]s at the front-line fighters who clashed in the middle. Mud churned with blood and worse as warriors crashed against warriors, and death came to many.

With a casual [Harmonic Counterspell], Erick dismissed another house-sized fireball as it shot out of the shadows, before it could arc over the front line and strike at the guards on the other side of the battlefield. Four seconds later, while rain began to fall heavy, Erick dismissed a similar [Grand Fireball] from Treehome’s side.

Someone yelled from the shadeling side, their voice empowered over the roar of battle, “The Fire of the Age joins us! Push back the non-believers!”

That voice boomed with power. A shockwave passed through the rain, pressing it away as it passed over the battlefield. Shadows crawled over every person, making shadeling swords swing faster, and weighing down the feet and arms of the orcols on the other side.

Disgust and displeasure roared through Erick. These people were fighting their own, both sides egged on by their own emotions, sure, but those emotions were being played with by the Cult. Could they not see this? That guy who had called out about ‘non-believers’ was already dragged from his position and stabbed from five different directions by five different shadelings. Erick instantly saw that these ‘Cultists’ were mostly not. Maybe one or two of them were, but certainly not the whole.

Erick cast a thousand mana [Grand Dispel] at the shadeling side, ripping away that empowering magic, as his own voice boomed across the battlefield, “WHAT THE FUCK ARE YOU DOING! STOP FIGHTING!”

No one listened. If anything, the fighting intensified.

Erick punctuated his displeasure by absolutely filling the sky with lightning. Bright white flashes broke the heavens, and continued to break, in a coruscating, thunderous roar, much, much louder than anything going on down below. A flash of inspiration struck halfway through his display of power.

He displayed control, when he vibrated the lightning itself to thunder out, “Stop. Fighting. Now.”

Eardrums broke. Blood trickled out of eyes and ears and noses.

Surprising even himself, some of the people stepped back from the front line. Some shadelings fell to the ground, to the wet shadows, and pulled back. Some orcols retreated. Erick cast a shaped [Domain of Light] directly down through the center of the fighting, zig-zagging the eruption of saturated brilliance through the worst of the fighting, through the places where the shadelings had broken through, and across the places where the forces of Treehome had advanced into the commune.

Shadelings fell out of their shadows, forced to retreat or to take a hit. Guards found their [Strike]s of fire or lightning or ice flicker with nothing more than sparkled light.

Forces on both sides tried to [Dispel] the [Domain of Light], and they failed, completely. It would take another person with a competing Domain to take down that barrier, and no one Erick could see on this battlefield had such a thing.

Erick’s Ophiel floated into that separating gulf of Light, and spoke with his voice, “Here is the ultimatum: The Cultists who have committed crimes for the sake of harming this world or any other, are to be served up to the authorities. Every other shadeling who wishes a better life, who doesn’t want to stay and answer for the crimes of those who demanded you follow them into the maw of battle, you’re invited to Candlepoint.” He announced, “Make your way there on your own, right now, or await for my assistance, but certain criminals will not go unpunished. Omaz Wyrmrest! Answer for your crimes against your own people! You threw down starfalls against your own city, for gods’ sakes!”

Koropo’s voice railed through to Erick, forcing him to come back to his body, “What the fuck, Erick!”

The man almost loomed over him.

Erick got up from his seat, saying, “I’m solving your problem. Help me, or fail to do so, but the duties of your station have been successfully discharged for a long while, don’t you think? We did a lot of good work yesterday, and you could easily find another line of work if you wanted. Perhaps in Candlepoint?”

Koropo stared down at Erick, while Erick stared up at the Warchief and simultaneously put out a dozen different fires near Arbor Home, canceled a dozen other high-mana attacks from both sides of the dividing [Domain of Light] between the shadelings and their prison keepers, and kept a good dozen eyes on Omaz’s blue dot and on his person; Ophiel moved very fast when it was necessary.

Omaz was still in the center of the commune, in what looked to be a non-important building that was only half intact. He wasn’t moving. He was waiting.

But the shadelings in that battle were not waiting. Dozens moved all at the same time, turning to shadows, retreating to the commune and then beyond. The shadeling line broke, like a dam. They rushed away from the fight. Some went to Omaz’s space in the city, their retreat turning into a strategic repositioning. But only a few did that. Most disappeared past a broken curtain wall, into the Forest, sneaking away as they were always able to do, but never did for what was likely a myriad of reasons. Maybe that wall had anti-shadeling runes on it? Anti-[Shadowblend], for sure, and at least.

And then that curtain wall erupted in deep, frosted stone. Stone rose higher, and higher, as freezing fog rolled off of that burgeoning rock. Some had escaped already, but most of the fleeing shadelings raced back, away from the stone, back toward the commune. They were locked into the commune, encircled on all sides, with a barrier of Light and a war on one side, and that stone on the other. Erick flickered an Ophiel toward the icy stone and threw a [Grand Dispel] upon the biting cold of those erupted crags.

The cold briefly vanished, but then the crags shifted. Golems made of stone and ice lifted from the broken land. They did not attack, but they did reposition, taking a stance like a company of soldiers, each ten meters tall, their line of golems ten deep, waiting for their orders.

And then a smaller man made of stone stepped forward, directly into Erick’s view.

He waved, and in a pleasant voice, the rock man said, “Archmage Tenebrae wishes you to reconsider what you are doing, please!”

Okay. So.

ALL OF THIS...

All of this was a bigger problem than he had signed up for. A lot of power was coming out of the woodwork, and Erick needed to deal with it. After he dealt with other, certain things.

Erick, back in the conference room, said, “You or any of your team want a place in Candlepoint, you have it, Koropo, but I suspect Treehome needs you now, too, and I fear that I have overstepped some line in the sand.”

Koropo became the man he was when Erick first met him; hard edged and emotionless. He said, “Eri—”

Peron burst into the conference room, demanding, “Erick Flatt! You are under arrest!”

Instantly, several people stepped out of the stone, the air, the shadows, and even the light. Erick had noticed them before, but paid them no mind. There were more important things going on at that moment. And besides. He wasn’t defenseless, despite whatever thoughts might have been flowing through Peron’s mind, making him do whatever fool thing he was currently trying to do.

As soon as Peron yelled his first syllable, Erick transformed into his sunform, clipping Poi in the effect. Both of them watched as a [Curse of Locality] spilled across the dome of Erick’s light like a pitiful splash of gasoline on water. Another person cast a [Mana Drain Ward] onto Erick, while another cast a [Health Drain Ward]. Both spells turned to nothing more than expended mana when they touched upon Erick’s sunform. Erick expected nothing less, since even Shades had had trouble with his [Lodestar]. Anyone without a Domain would have trouble even touching him, unless he wanted it to happen.

Erick turned his gaze upon Peron, who had turned from angry to stoic, his face becoming a mask of indifference.

Peron said, “I knew it was too good to be true. You are a Cultist.”

Erick narrowed his eyes, and said, “You blind yourself, Chieftain.” He turned half of his attention back to the commune. His voice echoed over there, and inside the conference room, “My goals are nothing less than the eradication of actual dangers to this world, and the next. Your petty vendettas against outdated hatreds are but small problems for my goals. Problems that we can all overcome. I assure you, that there will be justice for the crimes committed in the past, and when that occurs, that will be the End of those issues. No more hate. No more subsequent persecution. We will have Peace. We will have integration. Prepare and act accordingly.” He gave a small, personal message to the rock man standing in front of his golem troops, “I need your blockade to end or I need to talk with Tenebrae.”

The rock man nodded, saying, “We eagerly await your arrival to discuss all of that.”

Erick fully turned his attention back to the conference room.

