When asked, Monk Happy simply shrugged and replied, “What do you make of it, Brother Jorani?” Hardly helpful, but it meant the monk didn’t want to lead him astray and wanted Jorani to come to his own conclusions, but despite mulling it over for many a night, he was still lost as ever. The Mother had not forsaken the Defiled, this much was clear, but why did She favour them with Insight and Inspiration instead of Her most devout believers? Perhaps because the Defiled needed it more, for even though every last man, woman, and child was able to succeed at Core Creation, the average Defiled Warrior was undoubtedly weaker than an average Imperial one. Why might that be? Who could even say, but it was a question Jorani yearned to answer, for no reason other than curiosity.

In truth, he was rather impressed with how civilized the Defiled could be, for Asmani’s tribesmen had come far in so short a time. When Jorani first arrived, they’d seemed like nothing more than primitive savages, but now they were all dressed in simple yet serviceable hemp garb, clothes they designed by themselves to protect them from the harsh sun without restricting their movements or causing them to overheat. Their sturdy huts were much of the same, with ventilated roofs that protected them from the rain yet allowed light and cool air to pass through into the shadowy interiors. Packed dirt trails had already been worn in by the passing of bare feet, with the main avenues made wide enough for six people to walk side by side, though the tribesmen tended to move in single file with as much room as possible between them. Now, some of the tribesmen had even taken to decorating their homes and village with wooden carvings, planted flowers, painted pottery, and more. Asmani’s latest shirt even had a little embroidered bone battleaxe on the lapel, and since Jorani had never seen her with a weapon in hand, he assumed the axe belonged to Vithar, the supposed father to her unborn child whom she clearly still pined for, as evidenced by today’s fixation on the concept of marriage.

And that right there was the strangest discovery of all, learning that the Defiled were capable of love. So simple a thing, to love, yet until recently, Jorani would’ve thought it a completely foreign concept to the Defiled, for they were merely monsters to be killed and nothing more. Now... now he wasn’t so sure anymore.

All in all, the Defiled village was no marvel of architecture or even anything impressive to behold, but given how it was built by tribesmen with next to no knowledge of woodworking, Jorani gave it high marks overall, and not just because he helped build it. There was beauty in simplicity, and he loved how well organized it all was, the huts all evenly spaced and set apart with plenty of room in between. There was no clutter or sprawl like you’d see in an Imperial village, with each household too afraid to be too far from the next, nor were there any meaningless disputes between neighbours and tribesmen about silly things like land size or resource distribution. The village operated with near military efficiency and needed next to no oversight, with the only disturbances coming from those few tribesmen still troubled by Jorani’s leadership.

A job he didn’t want, but couldn’t just give away, since it meant he’d have to lose a fight to a tribesman and pray they didn’t just kill him out of hand. He tried just giving the position back to Asmani since she pretty much ran the tribe anyways, but she almost tore his head off at the mere mention of it, as she thought he was looking down on her skills. “When this child is born,” she began, hand resting on her belly as she glared at him from above, “And I am no longer nauseous and unsteady, I will challenge you again and retake my rightful place as tribal Chieftain.”

Though she made no mention about what would happen to Jorani once she reclaimed her title, he prayed she wouldn’t claim him as a plaything as she so obviously expected would happen to her. Intriguing as it was, that was just death by another name, though if he were to die doing anything, there were far worse options to choose from.

As expected, towards the tail end of their inspection, yet another tribesman came up to challenge Jorani, unarmed and unarmoured as he performed his deadly dance before them. There was nothing delicate or elegant about his movements, but the Warrior emanated power and grace as he flipped through the air and stomped his feet in a daring act of strength and acrobatics. Expressing his displeasure in his guttural language, the challenger voiced his intent for all to hear as his tribesmen gathered for the show, all of whom were encouraging their latest champion. Without understanding a single word, Jorani had long since figured out the gist of the whole spiel, namely that the tribesmen were all unhappy with having him in charge and hoped that this latest challenger would defeat him and throw his body to the worms, and he knew there was no escaping the challenge. If he ran, the entire tribe would turn against him for cowardice, so he really had no choice but to fight.

In hindsight, this was probably the exact reason why Monk Happy made Jorani come here each and every day, because otherwise the tribe might have fixated on any one of the monks, which would lead to a tricky situation if they were ever challenged in combat. The monks took great care to keep their own pride in check, destroying their works of art each and every night, so defeating Defiled Champions every day might well go to their heads, as it had with Jorani in these past few weeks. Granted, most of the tribesmen here were not the greatest of Warriors, seeing how they’d abandoned the war effort in search of a peaceful alternative, but a win was a win, and Jorani had precious few of those to his name, so he took them wherever he could.

Like most of his challengers, this tribesman was young and wild, full of brash confidence and youthful vigour to the point where Jorani was tired from just watching him jump and flip about. In a strange departure from the norm however, this challenger addressed Asmani directly, and his husky question earned him a round of quiet chuckles from the crowd. Her answer, however, had them all in stitches, laughing without actually laughing as the Defiled were wont to do, and Jorani was curious to know what just transpired. Seeing the unasked question, Asmani shrugged and said, “Gorengi asked if you were attending to my needs. I told him even the most talented of men could not do so while sleeping in another hut, much less hiding behind high walls like you do.”

Ah. So that’s why they were all annoyed with Jorani, because he’d stolen away the belle of their ball and wasn’t ‘making good use’ of her. As Gorengi continued to give an impassioned speech, Asmani translated for Jorani’s benefit. “He says that when he wins, he will let you live, so that you might see how a true man treats his woman, and that this same example will be given to our child so that he or she grows strong enough to lead the tribe.”

Touching how Gorengi didn’t seem to care that the child wasn’t his and had already pledged to care for them. What’s more, he only just learned that the Defiled didn’t lie, so he could just lose and give up the mantle of Chieftain, but unfortunately, his conscience wouldn’t allow it, not without asking first. “So, uh,” he began, not sure how to phrase it. “Are ye hopin’ I lose or what?”

“Better if you win,” she replied, without skipping a beat. “Gorengi is unworthy to be the father of my child, and his snores keep even the garos awake.”

Did this mean she thought Jorani was a worthy father? Ugh. What had he gotten himself into? He always wanted a kid or three and knew they wouldn’t be blood of his blood, but this was just too much. Stifling a sigh so as not to be rude, he nodded and faced Gorengi with fists raised, his Spiritual Rope left hanging on his belt where it would stay unless his life was in danger. “C’mon young’un,” he said, flashing the towering youth an insolent smile. “Show this grandpappy here what ye can do.”

Like all his other fellow challengers, Gorengi opened with a straightforward rush, opting for a wide right swing which Jorani slipped under with ease. Somewhat expecting the maneuver, Gorengi stopped short and launched a wild, backhanded strike, hoping to catch his foe off-guard, but he’d have to move faster than that to land a good hit on Jorani here. Already circling around to his opponent’s blind spot, the backhand sailed wide as he pressed forward on the offensive, slamming his boot into the back of Gorengi’s knee. Like kicking an iron post is what it felt like, but Jorani was strong enough to shatter iron with a single strike now, and the tribal Warrior’s knee buckled and bent before the force of his blow. Giving into momentum, Gorengi fell to one knee and pivoted about on the point of impact, no doubt earning him a nasty bruise at the very least, if not torn muscles, snapped tendons, and fractured bones to boot, but the Champion paid no mind to the pain as he came about on Jorani with fists a swinging.

Despite the massive difference in height and weight, Jorani gave as good as he got as he rolled with the punches and returned them in full force, his fists hammering away at the kneeling Champion while parrying what attacks he could. One good hit landed on his shoulder and nearly knocked him off his feet, and a lucky shot to the ribs drove all the air from his lungs, but Jorani pressed the offensive and didn’t let up until he saw the whites of his opponent’s eyes. Lurching in place, Gorengi’s back straightened and arched as Jorani’s uppercut landed square on his chin, reeling back before toppling forward as the darkness rose to greet him. Catching his unconscious foe before he hit the ground, Jorani growled as he hefted the burly tribesman to the ground as gently as he could, resisting the urge to drop him like a sack of rice and give him a few extra stomps for good measure.

Not that the man didn’t deserve it, but Jorani didn’t like picking on the weak. Besides, Gorengi wasn’t all that bad of a sort, and he had a great eye for carving nondescript patterns that were pleasing to behold, an artistic talent even the monks appreciated. What’s more, since coming to the monastery, he didn’t just waste all his time building and answering questions, but also training in the Martial Path, mostly with Monk Bones who was surprisingly nimble for a man with one foot in the grave. The spindly monk ascetic had a mean right hook and could run circles around Jorani while boxing him out, so in comparison, dealing with a few wild Defiled wasn’t all that difficult.

Just sort of difficult. Nothing too too bad, but all the same, Jorani would prefer if the challenges stopped coming.

Before he could even catch his breath however, the world shook with an unearthly rumble, and it felt like an eternity before Jorani realized it was not the ground moving under his feet but his bones reverberating within his own body. Courage fled before primal terror as he recognized the sound of an apex predator, not from familiarity, but sheer instinct alone, for only a king of beasts could emit such a fearsome sound. All around him, the rest of the tribe joined Jorani as they all turned north to face their foe head on, but this was not something they could fight, not even if Jorani were a hundred times stronger. “To the monastery,” he uttered, before unleashing his Aura and repeating himself with more authority. “Everyone to the monastery, now!”

Despite the language barrier, most of the tribe understood his warning, and Asmani made it clear in no uncertain terms. Grabbing two tribesmen and entrusting them with the insensible Gorengi, Jorani unfurled his weapon and held it at the ready as he took up the rear guard, but what he saw made his legs weak and palms sweaty. Chosen of Heaven Cloud-Stepped their way towards him, dozens if not hundreds in close formation, meaning these were either all Peak Experts or close enough to it that Jorani was undoubtedly outmatched. There was no helping it though, because he didn’t see anyone else around to fight the Enemy off, so he waited until the foremost Chosen was about to enter his range before unleashing his opening attack.

Balance found him so readily he barely remembered reaching for it, and Insight followed soon after. This happened quite often since coming to the monastery, and sometimes the Heavens even spoke with the bossman’s voice. It was only Jorani’s overactive imagination of course, as there was no way the bossman was actually guiding him from the Heavens above, but it was nice to hear the man’s voice saying something besides ‘Kukku’. Giving himself over to Insight, Jorani readied to sell his life dearly against these formidable foes, channelling Chi into his Spiritual Rope as it whipped out to meet the foremost Chosen. Sneering in disdain, the armoured Chosen reached out to catch Jorani’s weapon with a gauntleted hand, at which point the bossman said, “Now.”

