“– and so they lived happily ever after again as husband and wife.”

Though narrated in the halting manner of someone unfamiliar with the words, Jorani nonetheless applauded Asmani’s efforts, for the imposing woman had come far in so short a time. Truth be told, he felt more than a little ashamed considering how quickly she’d overtaken him in the realm of literacy, proving that while she might be uneducated, she was far from stupid, sharp as a spear and twice as deadly. Unmoved by his accolades, Asmani sat in stoic silence while studying the scroll before her, a children’s tale about a husband and wife who argued and later reconciled, some silly piece about cherishing the people you love. Having known her for almost two months now, Jorani was getting better at reading her expressions, and he could tell she was just brimming with questions, but wanted to gather her thoughts before unleashing the deluge upon him.

“If she was unhappy with her... husband,” she began, stumbling over the unfamiliar word, “Then why did she not kill him?”

There were still many social barriers to overcome before Asmani and her tribesmen would fit into polite society, but thankfully, the only civilized people around were the monks, who seemed more than capable of looking out for themselves. “See,” Jorani began, trying to think of a way to properly frame it, “There are lots of ways to settle yer differences besides killing, which is really something of a last resort.”

“But you said marriage was a bond between two people,” Asmani countered, “One that is to lasts unto death. Did the wife not break this bond by leaving her husband.”

“Well... yea.”

“Why?”

“What do you mean why?”

Brow furrowing in confusion, Asmani regarded Jorani with a look he’d seen her give the Defiled children when they were being particularly annoying. “She gave her word, to stay with her man until death. Then she left, proving she is not true to her words. Why would she do that? Would she not be shunned by the rest of her people?”

It took a moment to understand what she was asking, though Jorani still wasn’t quite sure why. “Yer asking how could she break her word?”

“Yes.” Nodding, she went on to explain as if Jorani were a particularly dumb child, “A word given as bond must be upheld, else all would know you for false. The Ancestors sometimes speak in falsehoods, but they are dead and lack control over what they share. As for this wife, it would be better if she had killed her husband and stayed true to her words, for in death, their bond would be no more.”

How odd. Asmani didn’t think twice about murder, but lying and oath-breaking? That was simply unacceptable. “Well, puttin’ aside the morality of it all, let’s look at it another way. If she killed her husband, she’d have never been able to settle their issues, like they did at the end of the story. They had their differences, but they made up and lived happily ever after, which wouldn’t have happened if she killed him, yea?”

“Yes, but then why did he not kill her, for breaking her word?”

Whoo boy. This was the sort of thing Monk Happy would be better at, but Jorani’s many pleas went unanswered thus far, so there was no point in complaining yet again. Instead, he did his best to work around Asmani’s preconceived notions and convince her that killing was wrong and lying the lesser of two evils, but the Defiled woman wasn’t having any of it. “A word given is bond,” she insisted, unable to even fathom the concept of lying. “No tribe will ever ride with one who speaks false or has broken their bond.”

That was news to Jorani, but it made a twisted sort of sense. The Defiled were happy to kill one another at the drop of a hat, but they were upright and honest about it at the very least. “People don’t like liars here in the Empire either,” he said, shrugging because he didn’t know what else to say. “We don’t exile them or kill ‘em though, not unless their lying caused some harm, like lyin’ to steal or something.”

“What is this word? Steal?”

Yet another foreign concept to the Defiled, where might made right in every sense of the word. Taking from someone else only happened when you were stronger than the other party, meaning you had every right to help yourself to their things. The strong thrive, the weak survive, that’s how the Defiled lived their lives and Jorani found it difficult to disagree considering things weren’t all that different here in the Empire. People were just less honest about it, making all sorts of excuses to take what didn’t belong to them, just like he had during his years as a bandit. If he didn’t rob those poor farmers and fishers, then someone else would, so why shouldn’t Jorani look after himself first? The Defiled might be a bloodthirsty bunch of savages, but they put the prosperity of the tribe above all else, meaning every tribe member was always working towards the betterment of the group, even when taking things from their kin. A strong Chieftain meant a strong tribe, and a weak Chieftain meant death for them all, so in their eyes, the constant tribal tensions were merely preparation for the harsh trials and tribulations of Heaven.

For this reason, the Defiled were constantly challenging Jorani for his undesired title of Chieftain. Thankfully, the tribesmen fought in good faith and were open and honest with most of their attempts on his life, plus he’d improved by leaps and bounds in recent weeks, else Jorani might well have met his death here outside the monastery walls. More to the point, Asmani never tried to challenge him again, though she did ask several times if he was going to lay with her. Not out of desire it would seem, but rather because she wanted to know where they stood, because if he wasn’t going to fuck her, then she suspected he intended to kill her instead. Jorani did his best to let her down gently and reassure her of her safety, but thankfully, the fearsome and pregnant woman didn’t seem too upset by his rejection, more confused because she thought his lingering glances were indicative of interest.

Because they were. Mother knows how long it’d been since Jorani had lain with a woman, but only a fool would risk death by sleeping with someone liable to crush him between her thighs.

For long hours, Jorani sat with Asmani and answered her questions about the simple children’s fable and other intricacies of civilized life, though it wasn’t so easy considering he couldn’t read the damn thing and had forgotten most of the tale in the telling. There was nothing more shameful than being looked down on by a tribal Defiled for his lacking literacy, especially given her blunt and forthright demeanour. “Reading is simple,” Asmani said, when asked how she picked it up so quickly. “Just memorize the symbols, the thing it represents, and the sound you are supposed to make.” A very literal answer, but after some more questioning, Jorani realized Asmani had a Natal Palace, one she used to good effect learning to read, write, and speak common, but while he also had a Natal Palace himself, he had no idea how to use it.

His Natal Palace was just a small room, the spitting image of his guest quarters inside the monastery, a stark, cozy little suite with a bed, desk, and writing table. Sure, he could change stuff inside it to practice with his Chi, but it always reverted back to the monastery suite in time, so how in the high Heavens was this supposed to help him memorize things? He tried writing things down inside his Natal Palace to see if that would take, but by the time he found Balance and entered the damned thing, he’d already forgotten the character he meant to write down, rendering all his efforts worthless. Monk Happy said it probably had something to do with Jorani’s ‘atypical advancement to Natal Palace Formation’, an unwelcome reminder that he only succeeded at this milestone thanks to Kukku’s inadvertent help and Old Vyakhya’s meddling.

No matter though. Even if he’d taken a shortcut, Jorani was still pleased as punch to have a Natal Palace at all, so he tried not to be envious and kept working hard to find success in literacy and the Martial Path both. Sitting in with Asmani’s lessons and following as she read along helped more than he thought it would, but he was still lagging behind her ridiculously speedy process, slowed only by her unfamiliarity with concepts such as marriage, lying, and other Imperial norms. These children’s tales were Monk Happy’s idea, to help familiarize her with Imperial life while she practised her reading and comprehension, and Jorani was tasked to answer the inevitable questions that followed.

Once her curiosity was sated, Jorani stood up and stretched while once again marvelling at how well-built Asmani’s hut was, especially considering it was her first time ever working with wood. The monks taught her well, and you could barely tell where the wood joints were locked in place, the entire round structure held together without nails or twine. Aside from two supporting pillars, the whole hut was open and undivided, with only a plain wooden table and woven-grass mats for furniture, but it was clear she took pride in her accommodations. The mats were kept clean of dirt and other debris, her bristle broom already showing signs of wear from overuse, which was odd considering her aversion to bathing. Waste of water was a cardinal sin, which Jorani understood well enough considering the frozen wastes had precious little freshwater to drink, what with their lack of coal or firewood to melt ice and snow. How she kept her clothes clean without water was a complete mystery however, but at least she was wearing more than a loincloth now, looking less savage and out of sorts in her loose, hemp shirt, one that she made herself which stretched down to her thighs. On another woman, Jorani would’ve called it a dress, and a scandalously short one at that, but somehow, even on big-bellied Asmani, he couldn’t see it as anything more than a long shirt.

Oddly enough, the tribesmen were adamant at making their own way in the world, having refused the clothes prepared for them by the monks, but they saw nothing wrong with accepting the raw materials needed to make their own clothes, so Jorani wasn’t entirely sure where the distinction lay. He tried asking of course, but Asmani was so horrified by the fact that she might have incurred a debt, she tried to take off her dress and return it to the monks at once. It took a lot of convincing to assure her that she owed the monks nothing, and that the raw hemp was basically worthless plant matter that took almost no effort to grow or harvest. Of course, Jorani wasn’t entirely sure the monks were telling the truth, but even if they were to go against the Right Speech and tell a little white lie, he saw no harm in letting Asmani believe it.

A man only had so much self-control, and there was just something about the pregnant, imposing Warrior woman that intrigued Jorani so. Probably the breasts and distinct absence of a cock, seeing how he wasn’t exactly picky when it came to fleeting female companionship, but it helped that she was covered up most of the time now, as opposed to almost naked all of the time.

As was customary after their morning reading practice, Jorani and Asmani made their rounds about the village, checking in on the tribesmen to see what they were all up to. An industrious bunch, these Defiled were, always keeping busy with one thing or another, whether it be expanding their personal homes, cleaning the public buildings, practising their newfangled crafts, or even honing their Martial might. There were no Demonstrations of the Forms, not from the Defiled, nor was there ever any friendly sparring, as any altercation was bound to end in bloodshed or worse. Instead, the Defiled trained a lot like how the bossman sometimes trained, taking a single move and repeating it until they understood every last facet of the attack. While not exactly unique to the bossman and the Defiled, it was still interesting to see the similarities in their Paths, Insight turned into comprehension through repetition and experience. Warriors of the Empire put more emphasis on the Forms and unlocking the secrets within the movements, but the Defiled made their own Forms and own movements, ones that might not necessarily be the most effective styles around, but worked well enough for their wielders.

Which style was better? Debatable, as there were upsides and downsides to both, but it was still interesting to see how the Defiled progressed in strength.

More important than the direction through which they approached the Martial Path was their single-minded dedication towards it, with some so fervent in their devotion that they forgot to eat or sleep for days at a time. Jorani had heard tales of Martial Warriors finding Insight so deeply that they continued to practice at the expense of all else, but while he’d been led to believe it was a rare and exceptional event, among the Defiled, it was a near daily occurrence. It didn’t just happen to Warriors of renown either, as even the ‘unblooded’ sometimes lost themselves to Insight on almost a weekly occasion. Were it anyone else, Jorani would have said these people were blessed by the Mother above, but these were debased Defiled, who were supposedly as far from the Mother’s grace as one could be without wholly succumbing to the Father’s lies, so Jorani didn’t know what to believe anymore.

