There was no prior explanation or preparation involved, but Jorani just knew exactly what to do, the knowledge appearing in his mind as if it’d always been there, but forgotten until this very moment. Unleashing the energies stored in his Weapon, he Amplified, Resonated, Honed, and Guided for all he was worth, alongside a few other skills he had no name for, but knew exactly what needed to happen. The air snapped as his Rope whipped forward into the Chosen’s palm, glancing off metal while a whirlwind of forces shredded flesh and bone underneath. Honed Chi circled about the end of his rope as he whipped it about again, his weapon at the centre of an invisible storm scything through a half dozen more unsuspecting foes before the others finally caught on.

“Bring it back,” the bossman commanded, and Jorani complied, pulling his weapon out of reach of his foes just as the Chi storm dispersed. A brief burst of power is all it was, one that made use of the force created by cracking his Rope, but therein lay the beauty of the attack. Since it made use of external force, it didn’t require all that much Chi to fuel it, and Jorani could crack his Rope as easily as lifting a hand.

Again his weapon whipped out, and again it claimed the lives of several Chosen, their Runic Armour proving no defence against his Chi-enhanced attack. This was External Chi at its finest, a step Jorani never expected to reach, not so quickly at least, but dire circumstances and fortuitous Insight hastened him along to success, alongside more than a little luck from the Mother Above. “Fighting retreat.” Heeding the bossman’s orders without thinking twice, he backpedalled away from the converging Chosen and was delighted to find himself propelling through the air, not quite Cloud-Stepping as he was still low to the ground, yet bounding along so quickly it couldn’t be simple running. Like running on a taut canvas sheet is what it felt like, moving with a spring in his step as he covered the tribes’ retreat. Out and about his Spiritual Rope went, killing without even touching so long as a foe drew too close, and before he knew it, the monastery gates slipped into view and the bossman ordered him to stand down.

Arms heavy, legs aching, lungs burning, and spirits drained, Jorani huffed and heaved for sweet air that did not seem like it could come fast enough. The walls were no barrier to the Cloud-Stepping Chosen, but the dozens of monks arranged atop the battlements were enough to give the Enemy pause, their surprise offensive stalled before it could ever really begin.

OM MANI PADME HUM

Much like the bestial roar from before, the monks coordinated chanting took on life of its own as their deep, baritone recital filled the air with power and threat. The Brotherhood were a peaceful lot, but that didn’t mean they were willing to just roll over and die when pressed. Barring entry through the gates, Monk Happy stood with spade at the ready, his robes billowing in the gentle wind as he made the Mudra of warding and chanted the Sutras alongside his brothers. Almost every monk was armed in some way, shape or form, but few held what anyone would call a conventional weapon. Many carried wooden fish drums similar to the Abbot’s, while Monk Bones had his broom in hand, the same one he used to sweep the courtyard every morning. Monk Sour-Face, the resident gardener, wielded a rake with Martial authority, while Monk Cook, the portly fellow in charge of the monastery kitchens, didn’t have his knives in hand, but an oversized wok instead, while his kitchen attendants sported all manner of rollers, ladles, spatulas, and other such utensils. At least some monks had the good sense to take up their flails, and Jorani could only hope that their instincts would not betray them in the middle of battle and cause them to inadvertently turn their weapons against themselves.

That would just be the honey on top of the cake, now wouldn’t it, for the Penitent Brotherhood to beat themselves silly in the middle of battle out of sheer habit...

Though still short of breath, Jorani joined in with the monks’ recital of the Sutra and felt his words resonate with power. He didn’t understand what was happening, nor did he know why he felt compelled to join in, but he knew these words had power, even if that power wasn’t evident at first glance. The chanting was safe and soothing to his ear, but evidently it was not the same for the Enemy as the army of Chosen stopped well outside the monastery walls. More than one armoured foe flinched as Monk Happy’s voice boomed across them, the weight of their sins bearing down upon them as the Sutras forced them to confront their greatest regrets.

Before the monks’ chanting could gain the necessary momentum, another bone-rattling roar shook the air and cut through the mystical emanations of the Sutras, and the change was startling to behold. This time, it was the monks turn to falter, and not just a handful at a time. Staggering back as if physically struck, Monk Happy retreated three steps before stopping in place, his body even sliding back across the dirt before his momentum came to a rest. “Rakshasa,” he uttered, his customary smile replaced by an ugly scowl as his words echoed through the near silent courtyard. “So the apostate has returned, here to kill those who you once called brother. At least now, there can be no doubt in our minds, for your View is flawed while ours still holds true.”

“Hmph.” Appearing out of thin air, Vyakhya stood at the forefront of the Chosen with a hulking tiger at his side, one whose shoulders stood well above the hunchbacked monk’s head. Where he once seemed gentle and eccentric, there was an air of malice and madness about the old Healer, and Jorani mourned the loss of the man he thought the monk had once been. What happened to make him so bitter and angry? What drew him to the Father’s lies and turned him against humanity itself? To seek the end of all creation just because he believed life not worth living, how could anyone condone such complete and utter lunacy?

Unaware of Jorani’s thoughts, Vyakhya laid one hand upon the massive tiger’s shoulder and its rumbling growl came to a stop. The monks had long since stopped chanting the Sutras, unable to continue in the face of Rakshasa’s attack, but they made no effort to resume it either, since it’d been shown to be ineffective. Utterly unfazed by the anger and hostility directed towards him, Vyakhya flicked his sleeves and snorted a second time. “Had this monk come to kill you,” he began, speaking with a haughty air he lacked before his departure, “Then he would not have given warning before the Chosen were in place.” Catching Jorani’s eye, Vyakhya sighed and shook his head, his abject disappointment still painful despite his obvious delusion. “Oh Jorani,” he said, his voice heavy with regret, “Again you stand in this monk’s Path? You should understand more than anyone what this monk seeks to achieve.”

“Nihility,” Jorani replied, swallowing his rage and anguish. Betrayal only hurt because it came from those you trusted most, a realization that did little to ease his pain. “Thanks, but no thanks. Me, I’m real fond of existing and all, so I’ll hafta ask ye to kindly fuck off.”

“Such anger, such sin.” The customary ‘Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo’ didn’t follow after, and for some reason, Jorani found that more disturbing than anything else Vyakhya had done, a sign that the old Healer was truly dead and gone, or perhaps had never existed in the first place. “So quick to spill blood, when no violence is truly needed,” Vyakhya continued, gesturing at the Chosen around him. “All this is merely a show of force, to ensure you blind fools understand this monk’s conviction when I tell you I am here for Falling Rain, and Falling Rain alone. Surrender him to me, and the rest of you will remain unharmed and free to carry on as you please. Refuse, and these Chosen will raze this monastery to the ground, alongside every other monastery in existence.”

The worst part was the lack of heat in Vyakhya’s voice, the threat given in almost bored tones as if he resented having to come all this way, accompanied by a stifling Aura of intimidation and conviction. The old Healer was ready to cut all ties with his former Brothers, to inflict violence upon them should his demands not be met, proving that he was no dissenting member of the Brotherhood who splintered off to form his own faction, but a traitor ready to do whatever was necessary to further his personal goals. Though it still came as something of a surprise to Jorani, Monk Bones visibly stumbled beneath the weight of Vyakhya’s statement. “How could you?” he asked, his aged voice trembling with bitter disbelief as he clutched his broom to his chest. “You said you wanted to reconcile with the Brotherhood, to find common ground again and reassess our Right View, but you lied and used what I shared with you in confidence for your own nefarious purposes.”

“Nefarious?” Sneering in disdain, Vyakhya turned his gaze to the monks and asked, “Who among you agree with the Abbot’s recent actions? Not only what he did after he lost himself in his grief, but long before, when he declared an unknown brat still stinking of mother’s milk as a Wisdom of the Brotherhood, first among equals no less? Falling Rain, the Chosen Son of the Mother, or so the Imperial Clan would have you all believe, but he is nothing more than a puppet here to shepherd more souls towards their eternal suffering. The boy is soaked in blood and sin, yet you would accept him and allow his word to shape the Right View? Madness is what it is, and this monk will not stand for it.”

“And that’s why you’re here for Falling Rain?” Rife with sarcasm, Monk Happy seized control of the dialogue once more. “How magnanimous of you, to kill the child who so threatens the Eight-Fold Path. The Right View is the Right View, regardless of who presents it, for it is only the Right View if we all agree with it. Oh ye of little faith, apostate, but this one will not so easily be shaken. Begone from these lands, or suffer ignoble defeat.”

Vyakhya’s Aura redoubled with effort as he pressed them all with unspoken menace. “Not even a Half-Step Divinity, and you dare threaten me?”

“No threat apostate.” Bringing his spade to the ready, Monk Happy looked every bit the Warrior as he stood alone in the monastery gates. “Only facts.”

Rolling his eyes, Vyakhya stepped back and waved his hand, revealing the half-Demon Gen standing in his shadow. The young tyrant’s unblemished face stood in stark contrast to his twisted metallic frame, his body fused with his armour in some unholy ritual that turned flesh and blood into cold, hard steel. Barely able to contain his excitement, Gen stepped forward and puffed up his chest, like the self-important ponce he was, but before he could signal the charge, the Heavens whispered in Jorani’s ears using the bossman’s voice.

“Even the Chosen of Heaven respect strength. Show them their leader’s weakness. Break their spirits before the battle begins, and victory will soon be yours.”

Well. Nothing else to it.

“Traitor Gen of nothing and nowhere,” Jorani shouted, his voice infused with Chi thanks to a burst of Insight and stopping everyone in their tracks. “I, Hangman Jorani, Warrior of Sanshu, challenge you to single combat. Face me if you dare, coward, and reap the sins you have sown.”

Rage burned in Gen’s eyes, and flames burst into existence around him, a stark reminder that this Defiled nobody was an Elementally Blessed Warrior that once defeated the bossman himself in single combat. “The savage runt’s pet rat challenges this Sovereign to single combat?” Laughing without a smile ever touching his eyes, Gen’s lip curled into a sneer as he said, “I accept.”

Catching Monk Happy’s incredulous stare as well as Asmani’s doubtful gaze, Jorani cursed himself for ever opening his mouth and brought his weapon to bear. The Heavens asked too much of him, but he supposed it was only fair, as he’d come farther and gained more than he ever thought possible, all those years ago when he’d been nothing more than a street-rat in Sanshu. Besides, if ever there was a face he wanted to punch, that face would be Gen’s, and not just because of what he did to the city Jorani grew up in.

Some people just had punchable faces, and if Gen claimed to have the second most punchable face, no one would dare claim themselves as first.

Chapter Meme
