

“We are!” The succubi said together.

“Good!” Ren said. “Gather your things if they are outside your tower, and we can leave right away.”

Several succubi flew away to pick up different things they had scattered over the last 4 days, and Ren deactivated and stored his shop tower. He gathered up the 10 skeleton knights and told them they were moving out, then took out the Wand of Transport and cast Phantom Steeds for all of them. The steeds were all skeleton-like, and the skeleton knights mounted them as Ren cast his own Phantom Steed.

“Hi, there.” Ren said and pat it's neck. It huffed at him, and Ren refilled the charges on the wand and stored it again. The succubi had finished gathering their things and were waiting for him, and he deactivated and stored the tower they slept in. He climbed up and onto the saddle of his steed and took out the Staff of Earth, and dropped the walls that protected them.

Nothing was there, just as his Heat Sense Aura had told him, and when nothing appeared, he took out the All-Seeing Mirror and asked what enemies or creatures were in the next cavern. When nothing appeared there either, he nodded.

“Let's go!” Ren said and pointed towards the tunnel across the cavern. They all took flight and crossed the space in only a moment, and flew up the next tunnel. When they arrived there, Ren received a popup.

Congratulations!

You have reached the final area for Shargon Caverns. You have persevered through all of the trials up to this point, and you should be proud. The most important lesson you need to learn is that all actions have their consequences.

You will now reap the consequences of your worst decision.

A hundred black portals opened up all over the cavern, and the trolls he had dropped into the abyss crawled out of them. They were twisted and distorted from their time in the Void, and one of them was definitely the worst off. He stood up to his full 12 feet of height, his body horribly burned and charred, and part of his face had been torn away.

“YOU!” The troll yelled when it saw Ren. “DIE!”

It started to run towards the group and his claws rippled and distorted, then grew to twice their normal size. Ren shot it with a Web, and the large claws cut through the web before it could envelop him.

“IT'S NOT GOING TO BE THAT EASY TO-AAAAAAAGGGGHHHH!!!!” The troll screamed as 20 Acid Arrows pierced his face. He tripped because he could no longer see, and the acid burned him before his regeneration could heal him. He was then engulfed in 20 Fireballs, and his screams were cut off as his Health disappeared; then his body fell to the ground, dead.

Notice!

You have participated in the death of a Troll (Void Altered).

Rewards: 4,650 XP

Ren turned to look at the succubi around him. “Ladies, please clean up this mess for me.”

The succubi were filled with confidence, since the nastiest troll had died so easily. With Ren's nonchalant attitude buoying them up, they spread out and covered the entire cavern with Acid Arrows and Fireballs. Even after surviving the abyss and outnumbering the succubi, the trolls didn't stand a chance against such overwhelming force.

The trolls were quickly defeated and the bodies were looted, and Ren slid off of his Phantom Steed and looked at the pile of loot the succubi had dropped in front of him. Teeth, glands, a dozen carved bone clubs, troll hides, and troll skulls. He was tempted to just light the pile on fire and forget about it; but, just like everything else he had ever encountered, not taking the loot would only hurt him if he needed it later. He stored the loot, and ended up with 36 troll hides, 57 troll skulls, 18 full sets of troll teeth, and 12 carved bone clubs.

“Well, I guess that's it.” Ren said, and then a single black portal opened about 10 feet in front of him. He, the skeleton knights, and the succubi prepared for battle, but nothing came out of it after a few moments, and Ren used the All-Seeing Mirror. “Show me what's on the other side of this portal.”

The All-Seeing Mirror showed pitch blackness, and Ren had an inspiring thought. He knew the runes for all of the elements, and took out his Book of Runes to flip to the Void page. It was just a solid black circle, and Ren assumed it represented a black hole; so, he imagined it's reverse would be a white hole, and it appeared in the book on the next page. With it, he did his multiple rune trick to make glyphs of them up to 10, the maximum a glyph could hold. He thought about enchanting something with it, then realized he had another thing he could use.

Ren took out the Elemental bomb he had made previously, and changed the enchantment on the inside with Anti-void runes. Once that was done, he took out a steel square and enchanted it with an Illumination rune. He used his Wand of Ventriloquism next to cast Magic Mouth on the steel square, then took out a platinum coin and tossed that and the steel square through the portal together and activated the enchantment.

“What are you doing?” One of the succubi asked.

“Offering a bribe and a warning.” Ren said and watched the All-Seeing Mirror to see what was happening on the other side of the portal, and the steel square lit the Abyss up. It was all twisted and mangled, and even Ren's brain couldn't quite make sense of it. There was no up or down, right or left, or anything even resembling some kind of direction. What he could see was thousands and thousands of misshapen eyes look at the steel square as it floated in front of them.

*

A distorted and mangled hand reached out to grab the steel square and the platinum coin, and the Magic Mouth enchantment activated.

“I have no quarrel with you, nor do I want to fight.” Ren's voice said. “I give an offering, you be content and close the portal, then we go our separate ways.”

The hand grabbed the steel square and the coin, crushed them together, then tossed it back through the portal.

*

Ren sighed as he watched the ball of steel come back out of the portal and caught it. He cast Magic Mouth on the Elemental bomb, activated it, and threw it through the portal.

*

“You will regret that...” Ren's voice said from the Elemental bomb, and the first enchantment activated. The Illumination runes burned through the diamonds across the bomb's surface, and thousands of sun-bright beams cut through the creatures. Hundreds were blinded, twice that were severely burned because they had never experienced light directly before, and thousands of shadow demons were killed outright.

“...for the rest of your lives. Both seconds of it.” Two seconds later, the Anti-void bomb exploded.

*

Ren had covered this side of the portal with several Walls of Iron, and he stored the All-Seeing Mirror when the ball of bright white energy from the bomb had covered everything he could see on the other side of the portal. He stood there and waited to see what was going to happen next, and then the ground started to shake.

“Get ready!” Ren said and climbed back onto his Phantom Steed, and his group arrayed themselves around him. It was for naught, as the cavern wall on the other side split open to reveal the outside.

“It... is that... it cant be!” One of the succubi said as she beheld the sight on the other side of the cavern. “It's... I've never seen it, but... I'm sure it's the outside!”

“Approach carefully!” Ren said, and led the group over to the new cave entrance. He thought about using the All-Seeing Mirror to see if it was an illusion or something, and took it back out. He asked the mirror to show him what was beyond the opening, and it showed him the exact same thing that he could see with his own eyes.

“It's real.” Ren said with a huge smile on his face, and the Phantom Steed he rode trotted out through the opening, with the skeleton knights on their steeds, and succubi floated out right behind them.
