He still made a nice little home through blood, sweat, tears and more blood. He has three kids and a husband he loves. The kids also have 'aunt' Lila to help. Things are... alright... ish.

Then, a weirdly unnoticed hive under the building becomes active and samurais aren't showing up. He's alone with his enforcers to protect nearly 8000 people.

Good thing he's a samurai now!

Indirect Fanfiction

Magical Girl Gunslingerby (Mikasane)

“Would you like to make a contract?”

When eldritch horrors known as the Anathema began tearing through reality to invade Earth, aliens calling themselves the Zenith stepped in to protect humanity. Individuals were chosen and gifted with the ability to use magic and advanced technologies to combat the existential threat. Over twenty-one years later, the so-called “Magical Guardians” are still hard at work keeping the peace. With their flashy outfits, superhuman abilities, and reality-defying spells, they are the part-time heroes and full-time idols of modern society.

But none of that really matters to Mai, whose biggest problems are dealing with her family, classmates, and the ever growing dread of her imminent future. As far as Mai is concerned, mundane problems are more than enough to worry about, and the idea of magic and monsters might as well be nothing more than daydreams. At least, they were until she finds herself in the middle of an Anathema invasion…

Halcyon Nightmares (by Aest Belequa)

Alice grew up idolizing Magical Girls. Now, she’s one of them!

When murderous machines attack Alice's graduation, she's asked to don the skirt and blazer. Now, she’ll need to learn how to use her powers and work with a team of other Girls to protect her city from disaster - all while trying to get herself un-grounded!

What’s a cultivator doing here?  by JeffStoryFan

Tian Wu is just a simple outer court disciple. He just is having a slight issue in cultivation. His divine sense distracts him with all the stress of current inter-sect conflict. So he takes a journey into the outside world to a remote temple, in search of peace and quiet.

All is going well, until the conflict causing the stress comes to him. He is but a fly to the two Nascent elders fighting above. A stray shot causes the hidden power of the temple he is in to trigger, and the next thing he knows he is no longer in a world he knows. The new world is fighting plants of all things.
