literally went down the bottom of their stomach.That was what she had hoped, however. These 'Heroes' had a scary ability.The Circus of the Damned was alive with music, partying, and stunts because they had inflicted the skeletons and undead animals with… vibes. The sheer mood they brought seemed to lift even Renny's ghoulish pallor. In the mess, a golden piece of popcorn was taken and added to a mixture of beers.The entire thing flashed golden when it was done, and Delta stared as people hugged each other."I love you!""Nah, bro, I love you!"Others were just grinning."Remember when we met?" one nudged another, who laughed. The skeletons took some of their legs off, and people began to conga line under the merged bone pole.Delta stared until Renny held out a hand; he seemed to be grinning at her.'Isn't this wonderful?' he seemed to ask. Delta tried to be stern about all the alcohol for a moment.She sagged and took his offered hand.Delta laughed as she was pulled into the line of conga goers."So if you like the beat, take a lesson from Cuban Pete! And I'll teach you to chick-chicky-boom, chick-chicky-boom." she sang along as the circus became a party of unchained joy and music.In the corner, Mharia barfed up a mixture of necrotic green energy and golden sparkles as she held an alcopop mix drink in one hand.She stood up and glared at the full bottle."I will defeat you and drain your content like a soul," she swore and took another swig. Three seconds later, she bent over and barfed.---Wyin was wondering what was going on outside as her gates opened. She had just readied her speech about pain and deliverance when she froze. Dozens of topless people were filtering in with a cheer. Some had bees glued to their body while others were covered in honey. Others had drinking horns filled with tree sap and with crunchy yellow leafs in the other."What is this tomfoolery?!" she demanded as someone brought in Wilhelm covered in glittering lights and with the words 'Party Monkey' painted on his chest."Behave yourselves! This is a place of worship!" she demanded."SLAM A SHOT FOR THE GODDESS!" someone cried and everyone drank.Wyin got a tiny boost of power, and she glared at them."Don't you dare taint my divinity with your boorish behavior!" she threatened the party."KEG BARREL STANDS FOR THE TREE GODDESS!" Delta screamed, blushing red as she swung a drink around."IT'S FUN TO WORSHIP AT THE W! Y! I! N!" Luna danced between Rale and Giant, dragging Devina into the mess, who was flustered as Rale grinned at her."I refuse! I am not a goddess of booze drunkards! I am a goddess of life and pain!" Wyin tried to yell over the music.A few seconds later…"STOP HITTING EACH OTHER ON THE ASSES!"Wyin turned to Delta, glaring."Gotta make a move to a town that's right for me! Town to keep me movin'! Keep me groovin' with some energy" Delta shot her finger guns as she was lost in the throng of party people.Wyin was about to blow a gasket.All she wanted was some tortured souls and to curl up with her murder mysteries at bed time! Wyin was afraid what they might do with her rewards if she let them pass…They might tell others she was a goddess of revelry and booze. Her image would be ruined.Alcohol was only fun when she could mock others for their hangovers! Wyin glared, and someone offered her a drinking horn."Why would I want such a disgust-" she froze as she recognized the horns finally.Sir Fran's treasures! She snatched the horn and drained the fluids within.It was masculine and tasted of burned oil. Just like her knight! A pleasant warmth and cloud of pink covered her memories from that point onwards. Wyin would later wake up, covered in honey and with three naked people in her branches.The party had moved on without her.
