Keeping that goalpost in mind, I considered how to progress. I stuck with an attribute heavy approach, something Kessiah made light of at one point. She mentioned endurance and willpower based builds being useless. I aimed to change that idea. I would turn the intangible traits of those attributes into hallmarks of my own unique build.

Endless health with the will to use it...I wanted to become a living endorsement to that idea.

So I settled into maximizing my gains to their utmost extent. I’d abuse the Determinator tree until the stars died out in the distance if I had to. With that in mind, I peered at my status. I gained quite a few skill levels after all the fighting. Mightus and Slyvenia both carried unknown statuses too, and Obliterator doubled my experience gain from them.

That heightened experience bonus doubled another time because of the quarantine zone. It led me to gaining many more levels than I used to get. I smiled at the numbers I found waiting for me. With risks came rewards, after all.

Level 326 | Attribute Menu

Strength [100.1] | Constitution [100.1] | Endurance [567] | Dexterity [54] | Willpower [258] | Intelligence [101.4] | Charisma [29.3] | Luck [54.6] | Perception [34.8]

Daniel Hillside, The Harbinger of Cataclysm | Character Screen

Health - 22,196/22,196 | Health Regen - 4,547/min | Stamina - 12,789/12,789 | Stamina Regeneration - 160/sec | Damage Resistance - 97.5% | Mental Resistance - 97.5% | Physical Power - (+)1,681% | Damage Increase - 5%  | Evolution: 26.8 Million/256.0 Million

Aura - Oppression | Current Damage: (10,000 + 30% of your health)/minute within a 175 ft radius.

The largest difference came from the vast rise in my physical power. Apocalyptic also came with an explosivity I appreciated at all moments. I could just detonate at any time. Just as potent, the constitution perk, Behemoth, exposed its benefits even while sitting there. Situated by crossing my legs on the grassy ground, I sunk into it by a slight amount. Even without trying too, the level one hundred perks demonstrated immense utility.

However, each time I selected one, I cut off my ability to get other ones.

Knowing this, I wondered which leveling perk to take next. The main standouts were dexterity, perception, and luck. Compared to those attributes, strength and constitution’s benefits stood out as obvious. I fought with my fists, so being strong and tough helped me out there. They both even gave me health after getting their leveling perks, further augmenting their necessary roles.

Perception, luck, and dexterity were different. Dexterity increased my reaction times, which would save my life in the future. The added flexibility may even make torn strips of armor more durable. The more I thought about it, the more I liked the idea. For perception and luck, I figured I’d think about them later. As I pushed myself up, a wave of unease passed over me.

Would I just keep pushing this kind of thing off? It was piss poor way of handling something this important. Even worse, if I understood anything about Schema’s system, it was that planning reaped benefits. My goal of piling up endurance resulted in a unique, powerful build that let me survive an encounter with Dakhma, someone thousands of levels over me. If I kept thinking ahead, there was no telling where I’d end up.

But that was the point - I had to keep thinking ahead. I sat back down. Taking a moment, I brainstormed some likely perks and trees that may form based on old tree patterns. The second tier of Obliterator might exist, maybe even a third one. There could even be perks for having 1,000 in an attribute. If perks like that did exist, then maxing out my endurance would be vital. Willpower may follow right after so I could handle the ensuing mana I generated.

So instead of just pouring points out in a haphazard manner, I aimed at reaching those goals. Dexterity first then either perception or luck. After that, I’d pile up endurance until I passed a thousand. That would give me my best chance at growing as fast as possible. Considering the fight with Dakhma, I needed immediate, world ending power. The fight passed in my eyes, and I flinched as Althea’s head flopped in the air.

I recalled Michael and Kelsey, dying in their stasis pods. We couldn’t save them.

I peered up, knowing that I wouldn’t have to deal with outcomes like that if I resolved myself. The situation with Dakhma pointed out how desperate our current situation was. In a moment, everything could devolve into a massacre, one where we existed on the receiving end of the slaughter. This was no different from BloodHollow, however. I faced grim odds then, and I came out on top.

I passed out of that dungeon from a load of tenacity and a little luck. From passing through that trial, I held opportunities flowing from my palms like water from a spring. The Determinator tree wasn’t even obtainable for most. My armor was wholly unique, and Obliterator was another feather in my cap. Genesis of Potential could’ve been the greatest of my advantages, something with unseen and unknown potential.

And by reaching that potential, I could race out into an uncertain horizon without fear. I could rise above where I was born. Following a whim, I stood and paced out of the camp towards the edge of the quarantine zone. Force of Iron soldiers walked beside the shield generators, holding in the petal bugs in the distance. To get a better view, I climbed towards the top of an old factory.

Traversing to its top was easier than I remembered. I hopped onto a train with a casual leap. I sprinted forward, crossing a several car wide gap to reach the factory’s ceiling. Once on it, I shoved my pointed fingertips through thin steel to reach the top of a smoke stack. The old relic of humanity’s golden age stuck out as a beacon of what once was. As I reached the top of it, I gazed out at the shell of Springfield.

An enormous, encroaching field of new life came over the entire expanse. It smothered and drained and sucked up everything in its pass. Colossal roots carved out enormous chunks of the scenery, birds resting on the tops of the huge walls of wood. They all collected into a massive world tree at the center of Springfield. In the core of that place, Yawm rested as a tiny blot of light in the distance.

I grimaced at the cosmic creature. My friends passed from him. My old hometown rested in shambles. Even my old way of life obliterated from Yawm’s mark, Springfield a mere blip in his path. Anger spiked in my chest as I grabbed the sides of the smokestack I sat on, I wrenched the steel, and it squealed in my palms before I ripped shards off. Staring at the bent metal, I flung the old pieces of soft steel into the distance.

As they fell, so did my anxieties. I already survived an apocalypse, and I came out stronger on the other side of it. Peering down at Springfield, I’d do the same thing again. Unlike in BloodHollow, I wouldn’t need luck this time. I’d get revenge for what was done to my home and for what was done to me. I’d walk across a mountain of corpses if that’s what it took to get there.

I aimed to redeem this place’s memory, to learn the secrets of Schema’s runic language, and to maybe even travel the stars one day. I closed my eyes, thinking about how Schema made all of those thoughts into realities. That AI turned this land into a new world, one where monsters roamed and beasts thrived, and I wouldn’t wash away in it.

I was Daniel Hillside, the Harbinger of Cataclysm.

And no matter what they threw at me, I would endure.

Book 2 Begin | Yawm's Rise

1 To Make a Difference

Upon a silent smokestack, I surveyed an altered world. Under a shining sky, the edge of Springfield deformed from the onslaught of Yawm's infectious trees. The petals fell and evolved into insects that drilled into the flesh and skin of anyone exposed to them. Black veins spread across their bodies, the mangled faces like horrid memories of a bygone era.

The Force of Iron fought against them, containing the tide of petal bugs. Shields powered by mages flickered as petals sizzled against them. Soldiers screamed orders as they gunned down errant zombies, and they exhausted their morale and their ammunition. In many ways, we operated under the weight of expectation.

And so, I could wait no longer.

I stood, peering down. I leaped from the side before jamming my clawed fingertips into the steel beside me. Sparks bolted out as I slowed my descent. I thumped onto the top of the factory, dust billowing out from my landing. Growls on the horizon echoed over the impact, and I smiled. I had plenty of fights ahead of me.

I opened my status and put all my tree points into Genesis of Potential. I closed in on the next tier at 750 points. Alas, I had a bit further to push before I could consolidate my gains. I leaped and parkoured my way through a post-apocalyptic cityscape, the empty factories as haunting as the empty homes.

At the medical bay, Althea slept, and Kessiah rested. I had a moment of downtime to relax and recharge. I did as all would, and I focused my efforts on a bit of self-improvement. In my case, that meant runes and forging. It emptied my mind of all distractions, acting as a fruitful cleanse of my worries. After heading into one of the work tents, I took a few slabs of metal and bent them together.

That makeshift anvil in hand, I took other bits of scrap metal to forge. Hours passed like minutes while I bent over the hodgepodge anvil and toiled. It was a side of myself I never uncovered in the old world. I fought against homework, rules, and expectations like a honeybadger in a hive. Here, amidst a world full of struggle and no determined path, I could only forge my own.

And I thrived.

It offered the urgency the old world never had. I had hated studying, yet I relished the research of runes. A passion for intellectual pursuit arose from within, and I never whipped myself into working. I fell into a series of experiments, a trial and error acting as a dance between ideas and reality.

As was the case in all kinds of creation, failure arose far more than triumph. I relished it. I failed no exams. I endured no harsh judgment. I listened to the desire to continue, and it roared in my mind, a lingering echo playing out as the hours passed. My fist was my hammer. The heat of plasma coils was my furnace.

In the tent, people passed, and they murmured under their breath about a brute who shouldn't be here distracting the others. I never allowed them to distract me. In time, the sun came up after a few hours, but that wasn't a reason to stop. Without a need for sleep, I continued. By the time my mind began wandering during my task, I'd made three different swords.

One would brandish fire when unsheathed, but it only flashed ablaze at that moment. The fire died seconds later; the blade was all spark and no blaze. The second sword unleashed a thin, static edge on its surface. It only offered a distraction if the static hit someone before the edge landed or during a clash.

The last blade gushed wind from the edge of the blade. It slowed the strikes by a hair, but it also helped parry and block incoming attacks. After a while, I tried my hand at yet another creation, but this other sword resonated as mana poured in. The runes didn't come together, and the energies spiraled into chaos. Seconds later, I leaned over the blade as it exploded.

Glowing fragments embedded into my skin. I turned to a few worried soldiers. I scratched the back of my head.

"Heh. Sorry about that."

They gawked at me. Obviously, my failure surprised them, and not the glowing shards of metal jutting out of my neck. I ripped the fragments out and continued. After several minutes, I immersed myself in my work once more. A firm grip clasped my shoulder, and I held down an incredibly manly squeal.

I turned, finding Kessiah staring at me with a new scar tracing down her cheek. She grinned, though something about the expression felt forced.

"Yo, I just want to say thanks for the save. I was dead if you didn't tank that for me."

I set what was left of my supposed sword down as my armor peeled back, exposing my face.

"Eh, no problem. I'd actually say you earned some thanks for not letting Dakhma kill us. So, uh, thanks. In fact, keeping us alive might even trump getting punched in the face."

She frowned.

"Or getting stabbed in the gut?"

I shrugged.

"I'll be a pincushion as many times as it takes if that means we make it through this."

Her frown lessened. She searched for something in my eyes before sighing. She pointed somewhere in the distance.

"Mind if we talk for a minute?"

I held up the shattered sword.

"Eh, why not. I need a break anyway."

She reached up, pulling a shard out of my shoulder. Blood dripped down for seconds before the wound sealed. She winced.

"You think?"

We paced out of the camp before I noticed a Sentinel stationed nearby. He towered as tall as the houses beside him, and he offered an incredible safety net against the followers of Yawm should they rear their ugly heads. Torix probably told the overseer about Dakhma's interference.

That Sentinel guarded us in its ominous shadow, and it calmed us. If our camp and Yawm's were countries, then that Sentinel would be a nuclear deterrent. Despite that, Yawm acted as an even bigger nuke than our own. Hell, progressing from here on out seemed impossible. At any moment, a follower could dive down and kill us all. It left a few members of the camp gloomy, me included.

Those swarming worries died down as Kessiah closed in on a car door beside me. Apparently, empty car chats were a thing now, so I walked around the car and sat in the passenger seat. The car's weight and tires bent under the stress of supporting us, but it still held up while letting out a few groans of distress. I leaned back into my seat.

"So, what's up?"

Kessiah tapped a window.

"What are these even for?"

"Windows?"

"No, this metal block."

My eyes widened in recognition.

"Oh, these? They're cars. They helped our old society get around. The wheels would turn and get you places."

"I guess this is pre-space flight technology. Oof. Rough. It reminds me of some cooking utensils glued together."

I scoffed.

"Like rolling pins under a cheesegrater?"

She laughed.

"Yeah. Whoever made this obviously wasn't too concerned with efficiency."

I reached up and flicked a car window. Cracks splintered over the windshield.

"Yeh, it's pretty abysmal compared with a spaceship, but you could say that about damn near everything we have on our planet technology-wise...But, yeah, what did you want to talk about?"

She put her hands on the wheel, turning it,

"Well, I was wondering if you could explain how you survived that hit from Dakhma. You should probably be dead."

I opened my character screen.

"Take a look and find out."

She gasped.

"What? 20,000 health before level 300...Wow. Gotta admit I'm impressed."

I weighed my hands back and forth.

"It's mainly from trees and some other bonuses."

She continued.

"I'm impressed by how unbalanced your build is. Sheesh. Only endurance, huh?"

I deadpanned.

"It held up when it mattered, didn't it?"

She scratched her cheek.

"You could argue that you could've gotten more done with some strength."

I met her eye.

"And you could also argue the sun is blue, but it's not exactly productive, is it?"

She nodded.

"Fair enough."

A few awkward seconds passed before she turned to me in a sudden rush.

"Look, I want to know how you got so strong at such a low level. It's kind of crazy, if I'm being honest."

I leaned back into the car door.

"Wouldn't you like to know?"

She met my eye.

"I'm serious."

My sarcastic tone fell as I leaned back up.

"Oh...Ok. Sorry. Hmm...I got strong from my armor, my trees, and my build. They make me effective, though not exactly physically powerful. I guess I focused on using what I had, and it all came together over time. To be fair, I don't actually feel strong. I feel like a walking and talking punching bag sometimes."

She frowned.

"Your build shouldn't be able to kill anyone or anything. It's so lopsided into endurance that you should just be a health sack at this point. You know, a walking blood bag for some parasitic eldritch to suck dry...But you aren't. Not by a longshot."

I considered what she said.

"Hm. So early on, I gained this tree called the Determinator. It gives me a ton of extra endurance and willpower, and I mean to the multiplier, not raw stats. It also doubles my regeneration too."

Kessiah furrowed her brow.

"If that's the case, then shouldn't you need even less endurance than a normal person?"

The windows of the car fogged from our breath. I raised a hand.

"It's the opposite. Endurance feeds into willpower, so every point of endurance is worth many more stat points than most others stats. A normal person puts a point into a stat then gets a third more from attribute feeding at most. I get one and a half then two thirds a stat point. The chain continues, and I get a fifth a stat point and so on. Anyway, the point is, I'm getting about two and a half stat points per one spent. A normal person would get, like, one and a third at most, usually less."

Kessiah pinched the bridge of her nose.

"But you're investing your points in useless stats. It's why endurance is rarely invested heavily in - it doesn't synergize with either willpower or intelligence at all."

I smiled.

"Blood magic."

Kessiah face palmed.

"No shit? Oh man, that explains a lot. You get the regen from willpower and the mana from intelligence as health. You're a bulk lord now. Hah. That's so dumb."

I tapped the side of my temple while raising my eyebrows.

"So dumb it's smart, right?"

Kessiah rolled her eyes.

"No, it's lucky is what it is."

I raised my palms.

"Ok, maybe, but I'd argue there are no useless stats. Besides that, I'm able to burn my health, mana, and stamina on extra levelling perks because of the Determinator tree. That makes me faster, stronger, and quicker to react without reducing my longevity in a fight. I end up needing less well rounded stats across the board because of the levelling perks for dexterity and perception."

Kessiah leaned back, the leather chairs squeaking.

"And usually those are skipped. That's how your mind is both percieving and keeping up with the battles as they get faster and faster paced."

I nodded.

"It is."

Kessiah sighed.

"So, you're relying on the per level bonuses to carry your combat abilities while burning extra resources to bridge the rest of the gap. It's a novel approach, though I've seen it tried a few times. It usually comes with the downside that the warrior isn't durable while strong or strong while durable. They end up having to pick and choose when to burn their health, mana, and stamina pools."

Kessiah scoffed.

"Burning your resource totals is extremely difficult to balance in the middle of a fight, and I have a lot of respect for immolators. You're different. I don't see that same balance in your approach."

I counted on my fingers.

"First off, that's because I'm inexperienced and still have a lot to learn. Secondly, I have way more health regen than you're average person. I'm talking an unholy amount."

Kessiah leaned forward.

"Show me that status again."

I did so. She whistled.

"Wow. That's...Wow. Even an endurance specialist would normally only have 500 or so. You're rocking nearly ten times that amount. In fact, a person's health total usually outpaces their regeneration by leaps and bounds as time passes. They can take several hits, but they can't recover from them, but your regeneration is the opposite. In fact, it's way better than it has any right to be."

I tapped my shoulder plate.

"That's from the armor. It gives health, damage resistance, and regen. Tons of it."

Kessiah raised a hand.

"That's it. That's what's pulling this sloppy build together. You're abusing that armor and its bonuses for all they're worth alongside a stat tree you shouldn't even have."

I shrugged.

"Oh, absolutely. And I'd argue I should abuse these benefits for all they're worth. After all, it's something I'm stuck with, and from the looks of things, I figured I might as well get my money's worth, right?"

Kessiah smirked.

"Right. Hm, I can see how the situation played out as it did, but it's a bit disheartening seeing how quickly you're amassing power. For instance, I wasn't nearly as strong as you are at your level."

I took a breath.

"You want me to be honest with you?"

She flung her hand.

"Well, duh."

I gestured to her.

"I don't think there's some secret to my efficiency. Personally, I think you haven't been using your strength well. Like, at all."

She leaned back and crossed her arms.

"Really now...What makes you say that?"

I raised a hand, counting on my fingers once more.

"For starters, I'm better at hand-to-hand combat than you."

She smiled, the expression light yet threatening.

"I could kill you ten times over. Easily."

I furrowed my brow.

"Why?"

She took a breath.

"Does it matter?"

I scoffed.

"Of course it does."

"Ok, ok, my levels and skills."

I turned a palm to her.

"That's my point. If your level wasn't higher than mine, you wouldn't be able to beat me as I am now."

Her brow furrowed. I continued.

"Sure, I've had a few years of experience with boxing, and I've really pushed myself since Schema took over. But still, you should still be able to beat me, easily in fact, when it comes to raw skill. But...You can't. That's a problem."

She leaned to me, her eyes narrowed.

"Alright, bigshot, if you're so convinced, why don't we fight right now?"

I raised a fist.

"You're on...Though I don't think that actually addresses anything I've said."

Kessiah deflated.

"Ok, maybe, maybe. But yeah, basically, you're saying I need to get my skills up to par?"

I shrugged, glancing out the window.

"I don't know why exactly. Half of what I know about close combat probably doesn't even work whenever you're slinging power poles at your enemy. I will say this, though - that who-cares-I'm-a-high-level mentality is stopping you from progressing."

Kessiah turned to face outside. She tapped her forearm with a finger for a few seconds, deep in contemplation. After a moment, she uncrossed her arms.

"I'll think it over. Is there anything else you can think of?"

I weighed my hands back and forth.

"From here, I'm throwing out some wild guesses. Firstly, I think the way you fight isn't well-rounded. You don't have any range or ways to stop enemies from moving. Enemies like Dakhma will crush you with the way you are."

I turned a palm to her.

"Not saying my way of fighting is perfect either, but you've had plenty of time to fix these faults. You decided not to, or you decided it wasn't a weakness. Honestly? I don't know exactly what you need to do. The thing is...There's work that needs to be done. A lot of it."

Kessiah furrowed her brow.

"Thanks for reminding me."

I put a hand on her shoulder.

"Anytime, anytime."

She shoved my hand away, a smile on her lips. She raised a brow.

"Alright, not-quite-so-little man. How about I give you some advice, too?"

I put my hands behind my head.

"Oh man, that's going to be hard when you're this perfect."

She rolled her eyes before grabbing the door handle. I tapped her shoulder.

"I'm being entirely sarcastic, and any feedback would be deeply appreciated."

"Where'd that humility come from?"

I remembered the fight before shivering.

"From having my guts say hi to the atmosphere earlier than I'd like."

She turned to me and nodded.

"Yeah. That's a wake-up call for anybody. It was for me, too. To be frank, I hadn't lost a fight in a while. Decades, to be more precise."

She cupped her chin.

"It might have been before Torix and I had a falling out. Crazy times back then."

I leaned forward a little, curious as a kid. She flicked my nose, making me lean back. She grinned all of a sudden.

"Ha ha! You wanna know about that, don't you?"

I frowned.

"I mean, I could be a little curious."

Kessiah relaxed a little.

"Advice first. Here-" She reached out a hand and flicked just shy of my forehead. For a moment, her hand was like a grim reaper's scythe as a plume of wind followed her motion. The car window exploded behind me as my hair flew back. I blinked as my life flashed before my eyes. She leaned forward and whispered.

"You're not invincible, and you never will be. That's why you can't keep fighting like you'll survive every hit because, at some point, you won't."

She leaned back.

"How's that for advice?"

I gasped.

"Enlightening."

She crossed her arms, the cool breeze rushing in from the window.

"But as for me and Torix's history, I suppose you earned a little piece of why. Torix and I met after Alfred left. Torix, he was devastated and was on the hunt. Honestly, I was glad he left his little moon base. You probably already noticed, but Torix is a homebody. He never leaves his lair, and that can make things a little stale from time to time."

I leaned into my seat.

"You make it sound like you enjoy traveling. Do you?"

She peered into the distance.

"Aghh, I love it. It kind of comes with the territory, being a remnant and all. We live on ships that go across the universe. Going from place to place is more in my blood than the changed genes will ever be."

Her eyes glowed, mana abound.

"Though I'm pretty sure some people would argue. Anywho, Dakhma mentioned it, but the remnants were a single species before we began splicing our genes. With a bit of telomerization, we can live forever, too. It's one of the first gene splices we mastered, and it carries no real downside. Well outside of the arbitrarily placed ones from Schema."

She chewed on nothing.

"Ugh. Fuck that robot."

She tapped her chin, glancing at the roof of the car.

"This conversation has got me nostalgic. I actually remember back when I was a kid. I'd run through the tight hallways in my parent's ship, and they'd always scream at me to stop running. I think I did it more for their attention than anything else. They had a habit of being too busy to bother with me much."

I winced, painful memories resurfacing in my own mind.

"I can relate, and yeah, that sucks."

She waved her hand.

"I don't need the sympathy of some newborn, and let's not derail the discussion too much. Anyway, I told Torix that what he really needed to do was change himself. He thought that his mistake with training Alfred was what made the poor guy leave. I said it was because he was forcing himself on the kid. What kind of disciple wants to be an undead necromancer when they're so young?"

I peered into the distance.

"Is it being a necromancer or just having someone decide who and what you'll be?"

"Probably both. When we met, Torix went on rants about how he wanted his son to live up to his potential and all that. I argued that it was Alfred's life and that he could do what he wanted. Torix said, and I quote, 'Ah, myes, you wish for him to become a wandering leech in a similar vein of destitution as yourself. Oh, pish posh, humbuggery. Did I mention I'm a skeleton that enjoys nagging? Allow me to elaborate that point in a dozen different ways.'"

I laughed before she raised her hand.

"I'm telling you. He said that word for word."

"Sure, sure."

She let her hands rest on the car wheel.

"Oh man, somehow you found me out. So yeah, there might've been a slight exaggeration. Regardless, I was hurt by what he said, but looking back, he was right in a lot of ways. Maybe not about his son, but he was right about me. Being a remnant, my genes were made for power. I was born with battle in my blood, and I never had to fight to become strong."

Kessiah stared at me.

"That's why when I look at you and how hard you fight...I can't help but feel weak in comparison. I'm stronger in body but weaker in my mind. So yeah, maybe you have a point."

I nodded, silent as she spoke. It could be hard to listen at times, but I learned a bit from Althea about how useful it could be to hear someone out. After all, sometimes, an open ear was all someone needed. Kessiah glanced away and shook her hands.

"Ah fuck, I'm rambling now. You must be bored. Sorry about this."

I waved my hands.

"Not at all. It's interesting. I didn't know much about you and Torix, so it's nice to hear about your history."

I grinned.

"Even if it is a bit of a tangent."

She hit my shoulder.

"Yeah, yeah, whatever."

She leaned back before stretching her arms out in front of her. She cracked her knuckles.

"Thanks for listening. I feel way better about all this stuff. My mind's clear."

I tapped her shoulder, "Don't worry about it. Anytime you need a car-versation, I'll be ready and waiting."

Kessiah rolled her eyes before opening the car door.

"Puns. They're so lame."

"Eh, everyone's lame sometimes. Me included."

She stepped out of the car, the calm wind outside refreshing us both and carrying our hair in its grasp. I stood outside and admired the open sky, though a group of gray clouds loomed in the distance. Kessiah smiled wide.

"Ah yeah, I forgot to mention it. Are you ready for Torix's new plan for clearing out Springfield?"

I raised an eyebrow.

"What could he even scrape together out of this situation? It's looking pretty bleak."

She clapped her hands together.

"Something you'll learn about Torix is that when he says he has a plan, he means it."

She turned.

"So get ready for a three-hour lecture."

My shoulders drooped.

"Ah, man. Not again."

Book 2| 2 Adaptation

We left the car as it howled from the wind passing through its opened doors. It was an eerie goodbye in a way, and we stepped past growing lawns and dilapidated streets on our way back to camp. By now, Kessiah bubbled with energy once more, and she chatted away as we walked. Our talk cleared her mind and my mind alike, so we both acted more like our usual selves.

At the medbay, we found Althea slumbering on one of the makeshift hospital cots. Her breathing was no longer labored, and color returned to her face. Kessiah walked over and put a hand on Althea's shoulder. Kessiah shook her with a bit more zeal than she probably needed to. Kessiah raised a brow.

"Hey, toots, wake up. You've had plenty of beauty sleep."

Althea frowned as her eyelids gradually opened.

"I don't want to study anymore, Torix. I just want to practice with my rifle."

Kessiah rolled her eyes.

"Everybody's been waiting on you, missy. We got places to go and things to see, so get the hell up."

Althea pursed her lips and furrowed her brow.

"Somebody woke up on the rude side of the bed this morning, didn't they?"

Kessiah put her hands on her hips.

"Depends on who you ask. Me? I think this is pretty much my usual."

Althea pushed herself up before putting her legs on the side of the bed. She wore a jumpsuit torn in several places. I turned away before pointing outside.

"I'll, ugh, go outside real quick."

Althea blushed before Kessiah opened a starry portal. She took out a few extra pairs of clothes.

"I've got plenty, and besides, we can't have you making me look bad walking around in that."

Kessiah laughed as Althea flustered about while I waited outside the tent. They both sauntered out minutes later, and the open sky grew overcast. It bathed the ground in gray, and the empty streets stood as a silent monument to what Springfield used to be. Now, the only sound you could hear was rustling trash or the whistling of wind.

Usually, I wouldn't notice it, but the gloomy weather brought out just how empty everything was now. I fought to keep those emotions from spilling over me until we reached Torix's house. It was more of a lair at this point. Several cords stretched out of the ground from all directions, amassing in a cord tower and an antenna on top of the home. It all looked new, like it was built since the last time I was here.

When we walked inside, there was a generator built into the center of the house connected with the cords outside. These cables draped across the homey hallways and roofs of rooms. Technology was tapered onto the wall, enabling instant communication of information. At the center of it all, Torix scribbled onto a summoned blackboard.

He would carve his finger into the expanse of black with white mana, like drawing on darkness with snow. When we walked in, he turned toward us.

"Excellent. You're all here. Come, come. Sit."

He walked up beside us and summoned an enveloping sorcery. It slightly shifted the air's color. As this subtle wave blanketed us, all sound from outside the barrier was muted. We pulled up nearby chairs, and once we were all within the magical distortion, Torix spread his hands.

"I've devised a method of safely clearing out new areas."

Althea crossed her arms.

"I talked a big game about it, so you better not let me down."

Torix pointed at the charts detailing the streets of Springfield.

"That was entirely your own choice and made outside my awareness. You'll suffer the consequences of your actions. That being said, I can't imagine my plan failing apart as easily as the first had."

He pressed his fingers together, making the blackboard hover over to him. Torix tapped it.

"The new plan carries many differences, most of all being evasion, distraction, and deception. Firstly, I resuscitated several tiny insect creatures. I've made them explore Yawm's camp to gather information. He is centered within the growing world tree at the center of Springfield, as I believed he would be."

I raised an eyebrow.

"Oh, man...A world tree? Like Yggdrasil?"

Kessiah leaned over.

"What's that?"

I scratched the side of my head.

"It's a part of Nordic mythology in our world. That being said, I'm starting to wonder how much of that was actually mythological or people just stretching the truth a little bit."

Kessiah scoffed.

"It can't be what this world tree is like then. These are monsters that tend to suck up a planet's resources, mainly ambient mana. It's how Yawm and his followers got to such a high level outside the system's influence, and it's probably the core of how Yawm sustains his operation. You know, economically speaking."

Althea murmured while frowning.

"He sells the fruit, wood, bark, leaves, all of it. The world tree's good in potions, poisons, and elixirs alike. So, er, yeah. He kind of grinds planets up for sale and keeps the profits for himself. Well, that and-"

Althea shivered.

"To fuel his experiments."

Torix swung his hand.

"That's why he won't leave that world tree before finishing his infestation. That gives us time. His followers are the primary problem for now. If we kill them and eliminate the infestation, we may weaken Yawm before he escapes his prison."

Torix pointed at a miniature map of Springfield with yellow dots all over it.

"These dots represent named ones that Yawm has either brought over or summoned."

He pointed at several red dots, each of them moving slowly.

"These are the followers. They are the primary threats like Dahkma."

We all nodded as Torix continued.

"So far, they've yet to even ascertain my initial tracking mechanisms, let alone my contingencies. It's a weakness derived from their years of experimentation. They lack sharpened senses and clear minds. That is where we will strike, tactically speaking."

Torix gestured to the map.

"This will track their movements. Depending on the day, I will assign areas they are far from, allowing you all to clear out areas and named ones with relative safety. I've arranged regular meetings with the Force of Iron to allow target encirclements to further progress despite the inherent complexity of this operation."

Kessiah winced.

"Yikes. Will the Force of Iron just be fodder so that Daniel can clear the areas out?"

Torix waved his hand.

"What? Oh, but of course. Their corpses will still be quite useful for our endeavors long after their demise, regardless of whether they are alive or not."

Althea and I gawked at the necromancer. Torix rolled his fiery eyes.

"And here I assumed my humor was lacking, but it would seem none of you is aware of the concept. That is to say, it was a joke."

I scoffed.

"A bad one."

Kessiah peered down at me.

"Coming from the pun lord."

I narrowed my eyes, turning to the side. I spoke with a dramatic undertone.

"Someone has to enact Pun...Ishment on our enemies."

Althea burst into laughter while Kessiah and Torix peered at each other. Kessiah murmured.

"Do we have to let him live?"

Torix shook his head.

"Regrettably so, but we can organize the plan so that he dies at the end."

I spread my hands.

"I'm right here, guys."

Torix interlocked his hands behind himself.

"And that's the problem we're troubleshooting."

Kessiah tilted her head at the other cords.

"Come on, guys, let's get back on track."

Torix pointed at the hanging cords.

"Of course, of course. Now, these allow me to contact the Force of Iron. I'll use this to communicate with each of you as well if our statuses fail for whatever reason."

I crossed my arms.

"Aren't communication technologies banned by Schema?"

Torix's eyes flared.

"Correct. This, however, isn't a long-distance communication. Schema shall allow a simple, short-distance radio to be used. However, it's good to be skeptical. Maintain that rigor when hearing the rest of my plan."

Torix pulled out three glass spheres with thin rings of electronics lining their centers. Torix handed one to each of us.

"Do you remember what these are?"

I nodded.

"Obelisks, right? They organize system interfaces and give you a few bonus options."

Torix held one up to observe.

"These will allow each of you to visualize the data and instructions I send to you in real-time. Kessiah will explain their operation. I've also created a private network for only our use. The Force of Iron will be told little of the operation's specifics. Trusting them too deeply is simply a risk I'd rather not take."

I didn't agree with that sentiment, but I didn't want to throw out my gut feeling since it lacked any logic to back it up. Torix grabbed the map of Springfield on the blackboard and pulled it out. A three-dimensional hologram rose from the board. Underneath the map was a layout of tunnels. Torix pointed at them,

"The underlying sewer system underneath Springfield is a relatively unexplored area for Yawm. We will use it for mobilizing the Force of Iron and our party. This will hide our movements during the operation as well. Likely, this won't last forever, but it shall obfuscate most of our movements during the earlier portions of this mission."

I smiled.

"Ah, then you'll use your summons on the surface while we stick to the underground sections. It's like guerilla warfare essentially but with a bit of added misdirection."

Torix tilted his head at the blackboard.

"Hm. I didn't plan to put my summons only on the surface, but it's a good addition to the plan. Just as well, I'll be giving one of my more powerful summons to Kessiah in case something unexpected occurs. That is actually a topic I wish to broach with each of you."

Torix met our eyes.

"I wish to apologize for my lack of caution. I dedicated an entirely lacking amount of forethought to our situation before. My nonchalance nearly killed everyone, and I will not underestimate Yawm or his followers again."

Kessiah's left eye twitched, painful memories flashing over her eyes.

"You and me both."

Althea uncrossed her arms.

"So, I'm not trying to bring anyone down, but can you manage all of this, Torix? It sounds like a solid plan, but it's also a lot for one person to handle. Er, unless I'm misunderstanding something."

Torix smiled, his eyes flaring bright. The expression lingered eerily on his cadaverous, dry body.

"I shall handle this and more. I'll be splitting these areas so that you may take down the named ones during each mission. They will be much like the disciples of Dakhma. The location of this base will also be hidden with a few more cloaking spells and some jamming technology now, for good measure. Even then, regular rotation of the base's location shall occur to prevent them from finding us too easily."

Kessiah grinned.

"I must say, it's good to see the old Torix is back."

Torix adjusted his robe.

"I do have a penchant for rising to an occasion. Now, if all of you are rested as well, I've already drawn up a few routes you can take when you're ready."

I shrugged.

"I'm down if the others are."

Kessiah clanked her fists together.

"I'm ready. I'll teach that evil piece of shit who's boss."

Althea gave a curt nod. Torix snapped his fingers, making the magical distortion disappear. A rush of white noise filled my ears as Torix spoke over the sudden cacophony.

"Then I'll see you when you all come back. Follow the routes of your obelisks. They'll show you the way from here."

Kessiah draped her arms over my and Althea's shoulders. She grinned between us.

"Let's go give this another shot, shall we?"

She patted our backs before walking out the front door. We stared before Kessiah turned to us. Kessiah waved an arm.

"Come on now. We don't have time to waste, so get out here. I can show you guys how to use the obelisks."

We walked outside the house, Althea's steps light and mine heavy. Once we reached outside, Kessiah lifted her obelisk, shooting a bit of mana into it. A holographic extension of the sphere expanded around her. The glass sphere acted as the center of it, and it worked like a 360-degree monitor. After a few seconds, she activated a setting, and the obelisk's hologram sheened to a glowing white.

I'd never seen the energy from outside. It was like a glowing ball of snow that covered the upper portion of Kessiah's torso. The energy extension returned to the sphere, pieces of Kessiah unveiled as it shrank. Kessiah raised the obelisk up.

"So here's what you do. Put your mana into the thing. The obelisk will then use your unique signature of mana from there on out. You can customize them later if you're into that kind of thing. Personally, I've seen way too many people waste their lives on these things, so I wouldn't recommend it."

I lifted the sphere out in front of me. Charging my runes, an orange light poured into the ball before the wall of white wrapped around me. No noise pierced the orb, mirroring the effect of Torix's sorcery. All around me, a lush, green forest hummed with life abound. I stood on a small island in the middle of a creek. Cicadas buzzed in my ears, and the rustling of the stream calmed me.

A map appeared and integrated into Schema's interface. With a thought, the orb shrunk back into my palm. The two-dimensional square took up a little bit of my peripheral vision, but it didn't get in the way. I pursed my lips.

"So you can change Schema's interface? Weird."

Kessiah half-smiled.

"What? Of course, you can. On the open market, you can find all kinds of adjustments for it."

I put my hands on my hips.

"Open market, huh? What's that like?"

Kessiah peered off in the distance.

"It's where Schema holds a system-approved marketplace to exchange goods. It works great for dumping eldritch loot, buying informational pamphlets, and finding rare supplies. To be fair, there's always a huge markup since everything has to be warped multiple times before it reaches some way off-world like this."

I furrowed my brow.

"Would you be better off going to the planet and getting it yourself?"

Kessiah put her hands on her hips.

"Huh. That depends on how good you are at making money. Most warps cost around 30,000 credits or so, depending on the time of year and distance. You can get that discounted by having a lot of people warp at once. It still costs a few pretty pennies. Heh. I like that phrase, by the way. It sounds nice, like jingling coins."

I smiled.

"It's a good one. Does that mean that most supplies have a 60,000 thousand uptick in the price?"

Kessiah made a finger gun in my direction.

"Bullseye. For me, it's always meant I have to desperately need a supply before I actually order one, and then I have to go to a currency exchange center to get whatever I've ordered or chosen to sell. That exchange is a big part of how Schema finances its operations. On more connected and developed planets, the prices are way lower since you can source supplies locally."

I peered up at the sky.

"Huh. Would Earth be better off if it was connected to a bunch of planets, then?"

Kessiah waved her hand back and forth.

"Eh, probably not. Everyone would come down here and take everything that wasn't bolted to the ground. Prices would be cheaper, but you'd also have far fewer opportunities to make some credits, assuming your planet didn't end up conquered by a larger empire."

I shook my head.

"Oof. Galactic empires and all that's more than a ways away, right?"

Kessiah cupped her chin.

"You know, I think it depends. Sometimes, a planet can have its entrance timer sped up or slowed down. Considering Earth is quarantined, you don't have to worry about that until after it's gone. It also stalls the timer for quite a while."

I tapped my sides out of nervousness.

"Any guesstimations for how long that's going to be for Earth?"

Kessiah shrugged.

"A decade. Maybe more."

I gulped.

"Let's hope we can catch up by then."

She smiled.

"You might, but your planet won't. Most early risers on worlds leave their home planets to rot. It's hard to keep an entire planet safe from a hostile galaxy, after all."

A surge of defiance rose in my chest.

"I'll see what I can do about that. This is my home, after all."

She laughed.

"You probably won't be able to do anything, short stuff. Besides, we have more immediate problems than trying to save your planet from indentured servitude."

I turned, and Althea surrounded herself in the white shielding of her obelisk. Kessiah shrugged.

"She's probably adjusting a few settings. You may want to do that yourself before we leave."

"Eh, alright. I'll give it a shot."

I opened my obelisk, and the creek surrounded me again. Soaking in the relaxing background, I fiddled with a few of the options. Changing the backgrounds, the opacity of my stats, and even the colors of my status screen was as simple as thinking. I didn't have to scroll through a menu screen or a trillion settings to get it done, either.

Of course, that didn't affect my baseline status at all, only the interface of my obelisk. The obelisk changed how a status looked to me, not someone else. Still, it was a dynamic display, and it was invaluable considering how much system interface I'd need during Torix's plans. In fact, the obelisks reminded me of phones from before the apocalypse.

I frowned at the thought. People dug their faces into those glass rectangles for hours on end, ignoring everything around them. I could just imagine how addicted and dependent some people may become on an obelisk, especially considering how much better it was at immersion and customization.

For me, I only organized my perks, skill trees, and my maps. In a cursory glance, I absorbed the information with sublime ease, and I would no longer scroll through screens and screens of data anymore. The obelisk visualized it into various charts, showing bar graphs tracking my exp gain per hour or levels per day. It made managing all the minutia far easier.

In the middle of my piddling, I received a message from Torix.

Torix Worm, of Darkhill | Level 1,301 - I uploaded a variety of my personal libraries to your obelisk. Carrying around an entire archive of books is impossible any other way. Therefore, always remember this - should you invest in knowledge, knowledge shall invest in you. In that regard, progressing without the right book at the right time can be quite rigorous. You happen to have many of them now, so bottlenecks shall be few and far between.

This is one of my first gifts to you, disciple. Use it well.

Now, to access the volumes of data, simply think of accessing the data storage, and it shall present itself. I recommend Finding Your Inner Resolve by Artemus Korgah. It details a few of the more advanced tricks behind augmentation and their initial manifestations. Good luck, though if you're diligent, you won't need something so esoteric.

I smiled to myself. Even if Torix hadn't held my hand as his disciple, he had given me what I needed most. However, this...This was a gift of immense magnitude. I perused the collection's names, and they held well over ten thousand unique titles. While not all of them were useful, many held immediate import to my current needs.

I held a fist, my resolve reinvigorated by a plan and purpose. Following Torix's advice, I visualized a library. The imagery of a creek altered into bookshelves, creating rows and rows of them. They passed by me in a blur before I stood in front of an ancient library. Aged by time but maintained by love, the library held three floors, all hosting dozens of bookshelves apiece.

I willed the title of Artemus Korgah's book, and I shot through the library without having to move. Rows upon rows of books flashed through my mind before I appeared in front of a shelf full of old, leather-bound tomes. Right in front of my eyes was the needed text. Reaching out a hand, the book floated out of the bookshelf before landing in my palm.

It had no weight, but when I flipped the pages, the sound was the same as in real life. That lovely smell of old books was here, too, along with the nice, quiet hum of conversations in the background. It was perfect, and I wanted to read it right then and there. Before I fell into the pages, I put the book back before closing my obelisk.

The wind brushed against my skin once more. Or, well, my armor, I guess? In a way, the armor was my skin and bones. Gazing at my hands, it was a weird thing to dwell on. Regardless, Althea and Kessiah waited on me, Kessiah tapping her foot all the while. After jogging over, she slapped my shoulder.

"And we're off."

Within a few minutes, we left the camp. Of course, we ran. Why waste one of the system's gifts? I mean, we had to fight monsters day and night, so we might as well enjoy traveling between locations. We reached a manhole cover before hopping down the ladder and into the sewers. I expected a sickening stench and quite a few disgusting horrors.

Instead, there was a boundless beauty encapsulated in the stone corridors. Flowers sprouted along the walls, each blossom fighting for the few patches of light that sheened through cracks on the surface. Phosphorescent plants lit the hallways in shades of blue and violet light.

The sheer variety of scents amazed me, each of them like a lit candle. The alternating lights and wondrous smells were like walking through a light festival and perfume shop all at once. As we passed by it all, we lingered. We couldn't help it.

The plants would creep towards us, and I expected blood-sucking vines or parasitic pollen. They proved harmless. Even when you let them crawl up your hand, they would, at most, tickle you. A soft grass grew at the center of the sewer, replacing what had once been sewage. The vibrant emerald green acted as a stunning walkway.

We ooh-ed and ahhh-ed for a while before racing through the tunnels. It was an adventure for once instead of this awful, terrifying task we had to accomplish at all costs. It was great for Althea's morale in particular. She grinned at the flowers, her eyes dancing in the low-lit light. It was one of the few times she seemed happy since I'd seen her.

It made me wonder if all she really wanted was to live out her life as peacefully as possible. I could understand that desire. If anything, my reasons for fighting were similar, though I doubted I could ever truly settle. In the end, what I wanted most was a choice in the matter. At the moment, I didn't have the luxury of choice. None of us did, and that weight bore down on our shoulders like harsh, unspoken truths.

All of us except Althea. With a slight smile on her face, she was a shy, gentle person forced into life-and-death battles. Despite that, her soothing demeanor contrasted with who she was when we first met like ice and fire. If I had to guess, this new side of her was who she truly was, while the coarser individual I first met was a forced adaptation.

It was an awful process to rebuild yourself into what others wanted of you. To become someone you're not weighed on the soul. To do so to appease a tyrant was even worse. It reminded me of my father and who I had to become to live under him. Small, silent, and afraid, I lived for years under his jaded gaze.

Yawm and the research facility had done the same to Althea, turning her into a hardened mercenary. Now, she could finally be something else, and for some reason, that brought me resounding joy. She had escaped her past. Maybe, one day, so could I. In a different world and a different time, it might have been heartbreaking to see how she lived that way for so long.

In this brutal world, we had to appreciate life when it changed for the better. And we did. We laughed for a while in the beauty of that underground paradise. When we finally left the sewer and came back to the surface, the dichotomy of the sewer and the surface was made all the more clear.

The streets crumbled under the strange fauna around us as the bile-colored plants smothered the suburbs in a dense jungle. Spores lingered in the air like floating dandelion seeds. They attached to all surfaces, spreading as a yellow mold mold. Whatever these seeds touched corrupted in Yawm's image.

I couldn't see the sky outside of a few cracks of light leaking onto the forest floor. Roots crawled across the ground, mushrooms budding in the darkest, dankest places. Vines crawled up the trees now, blood red and covered in spines. A few insects buzzed, and others tapped along peeling bark. Birds flew above us, each of them odd and deformed.

Having beaks of wood and feathers like leaves, they camouflaged into the surrounding area to perfection. No matter how closely I looked, I couldn't distinguish them. Below them, massive ants crawled along the ground, their red shells sticking out of the surrounding yellow. A black stripe traced along their abdomens, and white talons jutted from the front of their eyeless faces.

They were fierce and imposing. That is until they walked beside a nearby red mushroom smothered in yellow dots. A crab's claw snapped out from under the mushroom cap, catching the ant by surprise. Before the ants could swarm it, the mushroom cap descended against the ground. The ants crawled over the cap, searching for the crab.

They found nothing aside from poisonous spores. Crunching echoed just under the mushroom. In all honesty, the clever way of avoiding the ant's wrath was captivating, and it reminded me of watching a nature documentary. Kessiah snapped me out of my trance.

"What in the hell are you doing?"

"Uh, watching this crab thing."

"We're on a mission. Focus."

I nodded my head.

"Yeah, of course. Sorry."

I walked out in front of the others. As I did, I spread out Oppression. It killed off the spores, giving the others a safe path forward. We followed the obelisk's instructions, taking a less direct route. When messaged to do so, I spread the maximum extent of my aura. The vast forest around me withered over the next few seconds, all the fauna falling to ash.

I almost regretted killing off so much life. That was until I saw several of the red mushrooms growing from the eye sockets of a decapitated head. That snapped me out of my sudden bout of empathy. Back on track, a panther with thorns jutting from its back leaped towards me from behind.

A spear sliced through the panther's chest before I surged my mana into my runes. A rush of power filled me as I bolted forward. The panther flipped midair as I grabbed its skull.

Swinging it up, I growled as it snapped branches. I crushed it into the ground beneath me, the bone popping under my armor. It splattered out, but my aura vaporized the yellow bile. Its body wasn't as dense as stone anymore. It was more like a creme brulee than a soft rock. The panther didn't even pretend to put up a fight.

It turned out to be an unnamed one of Yawm's. My perk unlocks made the sudden spike in strength apparent. I was a killing machine now. I lifted a foot and caved its torso in. A dull pop and sickening splat echoed across the branches before the forest's steady rumble swallowed the sound. A little cluster of mushroom crabs crawled towards me, squealing in pain.

Sores covered their forms, my aura antagonizing the already open wounds. When they reached me, I began stomping and crushing them underfoot. They were so small, yet their claws could clip through steel, apparently. The roots of the forest crawled towards me as well, but they withered before being able to wrap around me.

On the other hand, the sanguine vines slammed behind us while letting out vicious cracks. A quick, thrumming clap against my side left my armor dented. I grabbed the vine before it recoiled and uprooted them from the tree they wrapped around. Without a host, they withered in seconds. I wiped my brow, glad I could take the initial hit.

Right after I considered that prospect, one of the vines wrapped around Althea. She wrenched herself out of the smothering vine, but blood covered her before another smashed straight through her arm. It caved her chest in. My stomach sank at the sudden severity, and Althea screamed in pain before Kessiah crushed the vine in a split second.

Over the next few minutes, Kessiah applied a bit of first aid and fed Althea a health potion. Some system assistance finished healing Althea before Kessiah flicked Althea's forehead.

Kessiah sighed.

"I didn't think I'd need to help you out of that. Keep your guard up, or you're not making it out of here."

Althea nodded, grimacing. She couldn't even reply. Her enhanced regeneration got her back up to her feet soon enough. Killing her was deceptively tricky, after all. Our trek into the haunting forest continued for a while, and Althea and I expunged the unnamed and the swarms of wildlife.

After three hours of forest clearing, we reached a yellow dot on our map. It was at the top of an empty parking deck, one that helped prevent an old factory-turned-office from dealing with congestion. Of course, that plan never worked, and the post-apocalyptic signs of the unsolved traffic jam littered the place.

Cars rested bumper to bumper along the entire concrete spiral, and no streaks of blood congealed onto the walls. There wasn't a reason for people to return here outside of recovering their car. That wasn't an option since every entrance was blockaded by accidents, so all the vehicles sat up here like a used car sales lot.

It made the entire area act as a nostalgic reminder of a bygone era. I walked past a Honda Civic, one of those scented trees dangling from the rear-view mirror. Rearing my elbow back, I smashed the window before leaning in. It was black ice, a popular scent. I grabbed it, peering at the car freshener.

Althea leaned over to me.

"What's that?"

I handed it to her. She smelled it before smiling.

"It smells like moonlight."

I scoffed.

"It's supposed to be citrus and cedar. I actually really liked it before my dad started hanging the stuff up everywhere."

Althea furrowed her brow.

"Why'd that make you dislike the scent?"

I leaned against the broken car window.

"Because he smelled like cigarette smoke, body odor, and sadness."

Althea put the car freshener in one of her pockets.

"Did he honestly think it covered the smell? Because even this car smells like onions and fried food."

I scoffed.

"I don't know if he did or not. My mother loved the stuff, too, and he never quit using it after she died. I think it reminded him of her."

Althea pulled it out of her pocket before handing the car freshener to me.

"Oh, sorry. I didn't mean to take it then."

I pushed her hand away from me.

"No thanks."

She frowned.

"Er, why?"

I smiled.

"Because they remind me of him now. Honestly, I don't know why I even picked this one up."

She gave me a small smile.

"Notalgia?"

I smiled back.

"Eh, maybe, but let's go before Kessiah yells at us."

We continued walking up the concrete parking deck. When we reached the roof of the eight-story building, there was a humanoid entity perched on the ledge. It wore the armor of a knight, but instead of steel, its plates were mold and its embellishments were fungus. A sword draped on its back, and it oversaw the city below.

Something about it oozed a distant melancholy. Much of its interlocking plates were of bone, and the sword glistened as a sharpened and fused spine. Between the joints in the armor, a blue skin creased with each movement. It turned its head as we walked near it. A pair of downtrodden, blue eyes locked onto us.

Beside him, three decapitated heads of its victims stared out into the distance. The knight said in a deep voice.

"Tell me. Has the reaper come?"

I frowned.

"Why would you do this?"

Althea shrugged.

"Who cares why it did this."

Her biotic rifle hissed as she loaded another bolt of bone into it. She frowned.

"It's just a dead man talking."
