“I’m running across campus to that market that always has the interesting window displays to get ingredients. Do you want me to pick something up for you?”

“Instant noodles,” said Lute, batting the paper away from his face with a hand that looked unusually clumsy.

How many chains is he paying off anyway? He had mentioned breaking some things during his rescue of Cyril. How many can a person even use at once? Is there a maximum?

Alden remembered someone asking that question at the Chicago consulate, while they all sat on their chopped-off yoga cushions and practiced with the teacher who’d wanted to look Artonan. She’d said something fluffy about how the only limits were their understanding and strength of heart.

“I’ll get you some. Maybe that lortch delicacy flavor you like.”

“And a good white Stilton,” said Lute. “Rillettes de canard, salt and vinegar potato chips, and a baguette.”

Alden looked down at him. He seemed serious. The System was translating the French as shredded duck preserved in fat.

“I…don’t know if the store will have all of that. But I can look.”

When he was on his way out, he asked Haoyu if he had any requests.

“Pâté de foie gras,” Haoyu said. “A good parmigiano. Barbecue potato chips and a better baguette than Lute’s.”

He met Alden’s eyes, and Alden snorted.

“I hear you!” Lute shouted. “I hear you both making fun of me. It was only a few things!”

“Quail eggs decorated with gold leaf,” said Haoyu. “A bottle of wine smuggled in from the finest wine place in Paris. And thirty microwave noodle cups.”

******

******

Alden decided to treat the shopping trip like a speed challenge. Fifteen minutes to get out with taco stuff, Lute’s stuff, and whatever stuff he saw that looked like something a great roommate would buy to put in the fridge and on the shared shelf.

He rushed through the doors and past a window display that was less impressive than previous ones he’d seen—just the Anesidora flag made out of food boxes. The market was busy, but since it was busy with mostly other high school and college students, a guy sprinting down the aisles with baskets in each hand wasn’t attracting much interest. He wasn’t even in the top three fastest shoppers, and there was someone magically calling groceries towards themselves. Alden jumped to grab the last jar of salsa verde from the back of a top shelf, and just before his hand touched it, it sailed away toward the opposite side of the store.

That shouldn’t be allowed, he thought. What if it had already been in one of my baskets?

He grabbed a red salsa instead and raced for the dairy section at the end of the aisle like it was a finish line in gym. Another shopper joined him before he reached it.

“Alden! It’s you!”

The man had short dark hair and pale skin. Brown eyes narrowed away as he grinned. He’d arrived at a run that put Alden’s to shame, and the liter of carbonated juice in his basket would no doubt drench the person who opened it. Alden watched the man spin to a stop in front of him, juice bottle crashing around as the basket swung from his elbow.

He was wearing a red shirt. The first time Alden had seen him, his outfit had been red, too.

If swim briefs count as an outfit.

“Hey, Liam. How are you? Your snake is—”

“Getting a magical herpetarium!” Liam Long said excitedly. “General Esh-erdi asked another wizard to install one in Tina’s apartment.”

“He’s going to give Tiny Snake ba—a new habitat? That’s great.”

It was. It was. Tiny Snake didn’t want to go hang out with the Primary, and Alden already had one orange pet.

“Candy Corny is going to have a better room than I do.” Liam laughed.

He looked so ordinary. Not at all like a person who built his own horror chambers and tried to face down tsunamis without clothing.

“Do you mind if I shop while we talk? I’ve only got ten more minutes before I have to be out of here.”

Liam didn’t mind. He was thrilled and honored that Alden was willing to “chillex on the ‘pex” with him.

Alden didn’t fully decipher the phrasing until he’d tossed a wedge of parmigiano and some vegan cheese into a basket and started looking around for Stilton.

Chillaxing—or chillexing—wasn’t how he would have described running into an acquaintance in a shop. Especially since the acquaintance was someone he’d recently hidden from in the dark recesses of a flooded building, fearing that his shoes and lifesaving medicines were at risk.

Alden felt guilty for thinking Liam might be a person who could attack him in a panic, but he still wouldn’t trust the guy to behave predictably if he ran into him in an emergency.

Today, though, in this bright grocery store, Liam wasn’t terrible company. He was peppy, and his chatter circled a few topics Alden was interested in.

He talked a lot about Esh-erdi and Lind-otta. How awesome they were, how they’d saved him and his siblings, how Alden knewthem. And how his parents had gotten a message from them after Thanksgiving.

“I think they like General Lind-otta more than their actual friends now. My mother keeps mentioning how she doesn’t see why Anesidora can’t have an ambassador like that.”

“Ambassador to Anesidora is a little below her level. Do you see any shredded duck spread?”

Liam also covered other subjects. His quest to find a new boom room that he could afford to rent and remodel. His worry that Royce and Tina seemed less than enthusiastic about getting back into the family leveling project with him. His happiness that some of his friends from college were more interested in leveling than ever before and they were calling him to see if he had tips.

“I think people should probably get tips from more experienced Avowed,” Alden said. “I’m sure Instructor Waker has given interviews on this. He’s pretty good at advice. Great even. You should look up what he’s said.”

Alden was confident that Big Snake’s advice on leveling would be more helpful than Liam telling people to shove their sisters into iron maidens with some tarantulas.

“We should compare strategies sometime!” Liam was following Alden down an aisle that was eighty percent instant noodles and twenty percent condiments to go on instant noodles. “We’re both B’s. You’re in the program of course, but I’ve got all my DIY experience.”

Yeah, my leveling method is so quick and easy.

Feed Gorgon your blood. Look into his eyes. Get stuck on Thegund and trained in wizardry by an Artonan child. Agree to live with the consequences.

He suddenly realized he’d bought the same salsa brand he’d fed Gorgon that day. He might have to go back for a second jar, so he could add it to his next gift to the imprisoned desk clerk.

Maybe throw in some yovkew trail mix, too. I assume he knows why we can eat that.

He selected the ramen based on the visual impact of the packaging. Some hot pink shrimp with bulging eyes, a fire-breathing egg, one pack that said “Comfort!” in spiky, bloody red text—like the company would come after you if you didn’t agree that their artificial beef flavor was comforting.

“I’ve just started in Talent Dev,” he said. “Give me a couple of years before you ask me for strategies.”

“That’s right!” said Liam, jostling the carbonated juice some more. “B’s will still be here two years from now, ten, twenty! We’ll be training our minds and our might, long after the haters have given up on running us off campus. Northies forever!”

“You have graduated, haven’t you?” Alden asked. He remembered Liam telling him that, but they hadn’t met under the calmest of circumstances. Maybe he’d misunderstood.

“I might come back for a second degree. I could encourage Royce to keep trying for the uni hero program by being a presence here, you know? Keep the protesters from getting into his head.”

“Right.” Alden was thinking about what a good roommate would buy Lexi. It took another aisle for him to notice he didn’t understand what Liam was talking about.

He looked over at the Brute. “What protesters?”******
