Aurelius caught the intrusion and forcefully dispelled Titan’s emotional manipulation. He was about to make a comment about how embarrassing it was to see an Empire Ascender using a Sect Concept technique to try and distract his opponent, but Titan’s second attack arrived before he could open his mouth. He was forced to deflect the fist shaped projectile of mana, but the blow shook both his body and resolve.

He was retreating, but not quite fast enough. Aurelius felt an unstoppable force hit his chest and destroy yet another set of armor.

Aurelius wanted to flee, but knew that was impossible, and so stood his ground.

[Circle of Flame] was meant to create distance, but it didn’t as the spell obliterated what was left of the boss and its lair. Titan closed in, the fire only singeing his blue armored shell. The orange armor that remained in its place lasted two punches before it shattered, but that was enough time for Aurelius to get the rest of his defensive suite fully online.

A [Rapid Thrust], that had been upgraded by him and Ekleipo over tens of thousands of years, finally pierced the blue under-armor. That nearly brought a wave of hope to Aurelius, but the feedback he got from Ekleipo was hard to believe.

Under the impossibly hard armor, where a person's flesh was supposed to be, was more threads of mana; however, that wasn’t the problem. No, disbelief came from the fact that there seemed to be neutronium woven into Titan’s skin and bones. Both, as if one or the other hadn’t been enough.

It was certifiably insane.

Who—

He never got to finish the thought as Titan brought his fist down, intending to shatter Ekleipo. Normally, he’d allow an opponent to do exactly that, but deep down he feared he already knew the result of such a clash. For the first time, he had to face the fear of being on the losing side of the equation.

Aurelius found that he didn’t like it.

Lunging his body forward but withdrawing Ekleipo, Aurelius put Titan in a position where he needed to choose.

The fist aimed at his chest told Aurelius he’d won the bet.

[Twirl] wasn’t normally considered a combat spell, but sudden redirection spells were far more dangerous than they appeared.

With Ekleipo already moving in the right direction, he aimed to cut between Titan’s ribs, avoiding as much reinforced bone as he could. [Hypersonic Edge] was his spell of choice, and his relief was palpable as he felt the outer armor split under his blow.

Titan didn’t even seem to notice the [Fire Mites] that crawled off the sword, but Aurelius didn’t sit around to see how effective they were close up. [Flash Step] got him out of the way of the next fist, but he was forced to throw himself through the ground as an unexpected lance of mana nearly took his head off.

Contrary to his expectations, his spiritual perception caught the culprit. A fist sized sphere of mana that had appeared during their fight nestled in the landscape as if it was just another piece of the scenery. Now that he’d identified their strangeness, he noticed there were hundreds scattered throughout the valley near the boss like mines.

Turning, he prepared to take the hit a whispered past wielder warned him was coming. He got his elbows together to block the fist and had just enough time to recognize the oddity of there being no spell effect when the blow landed.

His elbows shattered only a moment after his spells and physical armor, but the damage didn’t continue. Instead, Titan’s palm retracted and dropped into a low guard stance as his offhand rose and landed a follow-up strike on his flank.

What was left of Aurelius’ physical armor crumbled under the blow, but once more, the hand stopped after shattering his bones instead of carving deeper though his flesh or sending him backwards. The worst part was he had no illusion that he’d stopped the blow. The weight behind each attack gave them momentum that was hard to redirect or absorb.

Something he couldn’t do. He knew that, and evidently so did Titan. If he’d struck any harder, Aurelius could have gone with the blow and tunneled through the mountain.

Now, he had to take the damage and then spend mana to heal.

He was being toyed with.

The moment the thought registered, Titan spoke, even as another flurry of blows were exchanged. “The flaws in your style make it simple to pick you apart after you lose your initial advantage. I—”

Titan ignored Ekleipo, but Aurelius wasn’t able to do the same to his fists, even if he managed to block out his words.

When the next blow landed, Aurelius used the opportunity to bring Ekleipo down to the ground, cutting Titan off. [Flame Barrage] was copied by [Mirror Strike] and the world turned orange and red as the mountain around them evaporated under the heat.

[Fire Body] turned his body into a fire elemental, letting him avoid taking additional damage and create distance with one spell. He couldn’t use an escape talisman in that form, but he also understood how futile that was with both exits locked off.

He needed to —

Titan’s fist was wreathed in a white hot fire that managed to hurt Aurelius though [Fire Body]’s innate resistance to the same element, but he was beyond shock even as he impacted the molten wall where [Flame Barrage]’s true destructive potential had ended. The impact was nothing compared to his roiling emotions as he tried to understand what was going on. Sure, [Fire Body] wasn’t perfect immunity like [Fire Spirit] but Tier 20 skills, especially upgraded ones, shouldn’t be so easy to circumvent.

He could count on a single hand how many fire mages had enough raw destructive power to manage that on him, Aurelius Cora.

As he landed, he felt the Sect emotional manipulation once more start to amplify his fear, but this attempt wasn’t subtle like the first. It was like one of Titan’s fists. Unstoppable.

However, that was part of the problem. At this point his rational mind, the one that knew panic wasn’t helpful, had no way to quell the rest of him and reassert control in the face of the naked truth.

If they couldn’t escape, they were going to die.

What Aurelius couldn’t comprehend was how a Domain less than ten thousand years old had so much weight behind it. A general Concept power deliberately cultivated later in life should have been weak and easily brushed off by someone of his age and experience. In practice, it took all three stages of his Domain, his Concept, Intent, and even the piece of his Aspect he had created to keep himself fighting on through the terror that threatened to overwhelm him.

He suffered through three more rounds of agonizing but not destructive blows before he got a chance to use [Flash Step] and create more distance.

Aurelius tried to escape deeper into the wide middle of the rift, where he could buy some time, but the valley blossomed into a lightshow of spell effects as the mines activated. He was a moment too late to dodge and the tail end of the explosions caught him within their grasp, shredding his legs and left side.

Gasping for breath he knew he didn’t have to spare, he tried to cast another spell to create distance, but a voice accompanied the hand that locked onto his sword wrist like iron manacles. “And here I was hoping I wouldn’t end the fight disappointed either.”

Aurelius activated and then flared all of his non-reserve buffs, desperately trying to wrench his arm free. Instead of Titan’s arm moving, he felt his own shoulder and elbow scream as they were what gave. Knowing anything else only meant death, he pulled harder, willing to tear his arm off if it meant his survival.

Either his arm would tear or Titan’s other fist would land.

Aurelius felt his arm give and tear right before impact. He had already accelerated backwards, trying to create any amount of distance between himself and the attack. He almost succeeded and the distance he created saved his life.

The fist landed with enough power and momentum behind it that even only glancing his head, Aurelius nearly lost consciousness. He’d run into walls with less solidity. Recently in fact. Confusion threatened to overtake his mind, but Ekleipo’s whispered words were soft comforts in his ears, giving him an anchor to clutch onto.

Or were they his own thoughts? He wasn’t sure any more.

Years of battle instincts let him dodge the next two blows as his arm regrew and he used [Tether Pull] to bring his blade back to his hand. It was just in time too, as he–

Titan’s [Phantom Armor] finally activated. There was no grand glow or lengthy lightshow as the armor crept over his body, it was simply not there one moment and entirely present the rest. But unlike what Aurelius had seen before, it didn’t take the form of some basic suit of plate armor or as a thin blue layer that conformed to Titan’s body.

Instead, Titan’s armor looked utterly identical to a true suit of power armor, not some cheap skill construct. Blue and black crystals bulked out his limbs and torso, articulated joints flexing slightly as the Ascender moved. It gleamed through a combination of reflected environmental light, its own internal glow, and the refraction of a tiny black hole embedded within its chest.

A crystal detached from Titan’s shoulder, floating up next to his head, and then activated. A horrifyingly thin bar of death descended to end his life like a simple ray of sunlight. Aurelius was only thankfully his last line of defence blocked some of the blow. That also meant some of it had gotten through.

Aurelius coughed up a mouthful of blood and parts of his still healing lungs as his battered body tried to pull itself together after the latest hit. His mind frantically searched for any way for him to survive, but all he could concentrate on was how his ribs had shredded his lungs and the blood that had gotten caught in his throat felt like cement.

With the last vestiges of his strength he lashed out, trying to create an opening he could use to escape or turn the situation away.

[Viper’s Edge] caused his blade’s edge to glow with a menacing lime green light but Ascender Tian reached out and grasped the blade with his left hand. The blue hand didn’t even suffer surface level damage as he tried to wrench Ekleipo free. The sword refused to move under that grip, flexing but remaining locked in place.

Aurelius had a million questions that all boiled down to one: How?

Ascender Titan spoke words that made no sense. “I’ll have to decline. I’ve spent enough time with my blade that I see no reason to downgrade.”

Accompanying Titan’s words was the feeling of a hand tightening around Aurelius' head, but that made no sense. Ascender Titan’s hands were around Ekleipo’s blade, not him.

Aurelius met Titan’s eyes, wanting just a moment so he could understand. He’d killed so many people that he’d always anticipated he could fall, but now that it was happening he only wanted to understand.

How had everything gone wrong?

Ascender Titan’s fingers shifted and the pain around Aurelius’ head amplified as he heard something that sounded like his skull cracking.

He—
