After his professional analysis, he had to say he was almost impressed. The man's moves were clean, but were so slow and uninspired to his eye. The inexperience of the youth, it seemed. He seemed to be fighting with personal buffs only, but was hardly taking advantage of any of them beyond letting them carry him to lethality. But even then, he was killing the monsters with his Domain more than not.

He watched as Titan alternated between his Concept and Intent, pulling and pushing the monsters as appropriate while landing his own return strikes. Focused as the Ascender was on the monsters and whatever challenge he’d set for himself, he left dozens of openings that would have seen his instant demise if Aurelius had wanted to make his move at that moment.

He refrained. They had all the time in the world now that they were inside the rift, and ideally, he wanted his target to get farther away from the entrance before he made his move.

So instead of cutting things short, Aurelius continued to watch, making sure the Ascender’s patterns matched up to his research. That was why he’d been doing the stupid interviews with Titan over the last few thousand years of agony. Where they had played in the dirt and pretended like the mortals were anything more than another form of upright cattle.

Aurelius already knew what he’d say to Titan when the man lay crumpled beneath him, drained of his everything. His strongest victims tended to linger, and he always enjoyed the times when his kills were private. They allowed him to gloat a little.

Remembering the looks of despair, helplessness, anger, and resentment always managed to brighten his day, no matter how badly it was. He could hardly wait to see that look on Titan's face. He who had been told all their lives that he was impervious to such an end.

Hours turned into days as Aurelius watched Titan slowly work his way through the first portion of the rift. He normally would have waited to strike when his target had expended most of their mana, but he knew how foolish that would be with Ascender Titan.

Thanks to the man’s penchant for working interviews, Aurelius actually had practice hiding from the mana giving Concept. A nearly botched kill at Tier 9 had taught him a lesson about underestimating how much knowledge and advanced warning a supposed ‘support’ capability could give someone. It was something he’d never forgotten, even if he’d only rarely been able to implement the things it taught him. Few people allowed him months of contact with their Domain so he could work to make himself unnoticeable under it.

Aurelius finally saw his opportunity when Titan had cleared the first continent sized landmass the rift had created. Cleaning the first area meant he would need to either clear the sea of lower Tier monsters, or fly to one of the neighboring continents.

Aurelius had spent enough time in arenas and other various single fights to understand how to properly kick off an ambush.

[Flash Step] created a nova of light at his former position as Aurelius stepped forward and crossed the intervening distance between himself and Titan with a single step. Before the Tier 35 could react, Aurelius was already bringing Ekleipo down to shatter his collar bone and possibly, if he was lucky, cleave through the Ascender. That wouldn’t kill him, but it would slow down the following reactions as his body regrew.

Contrary to his expectations, Ekleipo… missed his target.

Or Aurelius initially thought so, as Ascender Titan cast his own movement spell, trying to accelerate. The Tier 35 was nearly successful, but the tip of Ekleipo’s blade made contact, smoothly parting the clothing and skin of his upraised left arm as if neither existed. The wound was already healed by the time Ascender Titan turned back around, but his shirt now had a small stain of crimson, showcasing first blood.

Aurelius, having succeeded in the last moment, raised Ekleipo and looked at the matching smear of blood on its tip. He paused, wanting to let the moment linger for his audience.

He could feel it through Ekleipo. The link was established. With the blood forming the connection, Aurelius finally understood why Ekleipo had chosen the Ascender. Titan’s blood hummed with power despite his appearance of being at rest. On the contrary, vitality and energy at levels even the best combatants could only have when fully boosted gave exposure to the lie that was Ascender Titan’s casual delving.

It was perfect. Everything he’d been hoping for.

Aurelius smiled when he saw the confusion flit across Titan’s face. He knew exactly how to make things worse for a target. “Fancy seeing you here, Ascender Titan. I’m sure you have a lot of questions, but they will become clear shortly. Sadly, you’ll have to fill in the blanks yourself.”

Emotions like fear, anger, loathing, and disgust weren’t as effective at building conduits  as a battle where blood ran like a river, but Aurelius had learned long ago he didn’t need to choose one or the other. He could very much have both. Anything he did to build the connection between himself and his opponent strengthened it. The emotion, the drama, the spectacle… as desired in the arena as they were to Ekleipo’s hunts, and was why he had always excelled at both. The end would only happen, could only happen, when Titan fell under his blade and the ritual concluded. When his power was constrained within Aurelius’ Trophy.

That or Aurelius’ own death, but he knew how unlikely that was. He was special. Unique.

Chosen by Ekleipo.

He struck the moment he saw Ascender Titan open his mouth. No doubt the man wanted to command Aurelius with rules and regulations that no longer applied inside this rift.

Ekleipo flashed out, striking like a snake with a lunge aimed to take out Titan’s eyes. Aurelius didn’t expect the blow to land, and he hoped to take one of them as his Trophy besides, and so when Ascender Titan dodged, he was already tracking the maneuver with his follow up.

Aurelius saw the moment Titan realized he wasn’t going to be able to fully evade. His stance changed and he moved to try and deflect the attack upward with a forearm instead of being run through the heart.

Aurelius rotated Ekleipo to ensure the blade still cut, but a blue glow rose to block it. [Cracked Phantom Armor], if the reports were to be trusted, but Aurelius was hardly about to let the man use his favorite defensive skill.

So much of the war had been publicized, and even scrubbed as the broadcasts were by Empire sycophants, someone at Aurelius’ level could learn a lot about his target from the snippets that made it through.

The black and orange Tier 38 talisman turned the world teal and hazy as it prevented the cast, dissolving Ascender Titan’s most reliable source of defence like a sugar candy being dropped in water. It would block nearly all other neutral-aspected spells too, cutting off Titan’s favorite [Mana Beam].

And so, his sword struck the forearm head-on, cutting a deep gouge into the limb. Or that was what Aurelius expected to happen. Instead, some immense force wrenched his strike away, Titan unleashing a desperate burst of strength, repelling Ekleipo like two magnets brought together.

Aurelius laughed as he cast [Mirror Strike] while pulling upon one of his few useful Trophies taken from a rift monster. It was a simple ability that amplified the power of each successive blow. It was also one of his more common moves to use in public fights, and Titan predictably retreated instead of taking the first blow on his unarmored body.

Trying to outlast the dispel was smart, but it wasn’t smart enough because Ascender Titan simply wasn’t fast enough.

Aurelius’ next move was to use a spell only ever used during a kill. He called it [Repeat]. He’d never learned the actual name, as he’d gained it from his Tier 17 Trophy as an Innate skill, and the original user had never publicly spoken it. Not that the name mattered, the unique skill’s ability was all that mattered. It had been worth nearly losing his life as it allowed to recast his last spell as many times as he liked without interacting with the original's cooldown.

A flurry of [Mirror Strike]s’ illusionary blades appeared and pushed through the repulsion to slam into Titan, sending up a spray of blood as his skin was shredded. Instead of pushing his advantage, Aurelius stepped away as he felt Titan throw out a wall of his repulsive force, right on cue.

The coastline and everything around where he’d been standing exploded as the wave of force obliterated everything in its path. By the time it hit him it had already dissipated into little more than a breeze, but Titan had managed to fully heal within that time.

“Hehehe. You might want to conserve your energy, Ascender Titan. If large attacks like that miss a few more times you might find yo—”

Aurelius was forced to interrupt his [Mirror Strike]-[Repeat] combination as Titan punched out with [Armageddon Arms] active. Instead of waiting around for the train sized pillar of fire and rock to barrel him down, he returned to his own previous location right next to Ascender Titan with [Stutter Step].

Ekleipo’s eagerness was palpable as they tasted blood once more, and the connection grew. However, the blow was so smooth he feared he’d killed the Ascender too quickly, but Ekleipo’s reaction clued him in faster than anything else.

Where they should have drank their fill by biting deep, they’d only been able to sip because of an inner armor. That forced him to reevaluate his approach, but not his plans. He’d fought plenty of people with internal armor and knew its weaknesses. For all its advantages, once an opponent knew about its existence, inner armor wasn’t much better than any armor. In fact, its many downsides often made it worse.

That was doubly true for someone like him. Such tactics might help against normal weapons, but it would serve no purpose against Ekleipo now that he knew.

Aurelius transmitted his intentions to the blade as he shifted into using another Trophy, that of a shriveled hand. It was somewhat lacking compared to what it could have been with a better fight, which would have reverted Titan to a state before he donned the armor, as he’d learned the hard way while acquiring it, but it would be enough to let Ekleipo bypass it.

Aurelius’ next attack was empowered by [Accelerated Motion], [Viper’s Stab], and then [Mirror Strike]. The combined power coming from a peak Tier 36 was enough to penetrate even the best Tier 36 armors, let alone a paltry Tier 35.

Ekleipo sank into flesh, tasting the sweetness of Titan’s blood before it came to a jarring and wholly unexpected halt once again.

Aurelius dashed backward, expecting a retaliatory strike, but there was no follow up to his attack. Not one to let the advantage pass him by, he slashed using Ekleipo to cast [Inferno’s Gale]. He amplified the skill’s armor penetration with a pendant Trophy from Tier 28, hoping it wouldn’t end the fight too quickly, just give him better control over the spectacle.

The rift turned red then orange as almost a tenth of Aurelius’ mana pool vanished into the strike. He stepped away to a nearby spot in the sky, using [Fleet Foot] to give him a temporary boost of speed, wanting to dodge any last ditch efforts of Titan to take him down with them.

Aurelius took the opportunity his new vantage point gave him to gauge his latest attack while also refilling his mana pool from the prefilled mana stones he always brought into real battles.

Titan was facing Aurelius' previous position, away from his current one, but when he saw the blue Tier 35, his heart nearly skipped a beat in terror. For a moment, he feared his talisman had failed to prevent the armor from being recast. It should have lasted for ten real minutes, far more than any true Tier 36 fight would ever take, and it hadn’t even yet been a single second.

Thankfully, further inspection dispelled most of his fear as he noticed the color of the blue was slightly different. Wrong. It wasn’t the proper glow of a spell. Instead, it was more angular, hard and solid with texture akin to woven crystal. Some makeshift armor, apparently. Good. That he had felt compelled to do something so unorthodox meant he did feel threatened.

When the light gray eye coverings turned to where Aurelius stood, he felt a sudden spike of fear shoot down his back, but didn’t let it control him as he met the gaze with Ekleipo in his hand. Mind tricks wouldn’t work on him, not when this mere child barely more than a tenth of his age was already on the backfoot.

Making his choice, Aurelius reserved a portion of his mana pool with [Embody Colossus] enlarging his size by half. It, in turn, doubled his raw physical strength. He then used one of his earliest skills, [Willow in the Wind], to modulate his flexibility by adjusting the mana he spent on the channel spell, balancing his new strength nicely.

[Liquid Armor] was his next cast. The skill pulled from the vial of Trophy-enhanced depleted steel and covered him in a thin sheen, making one of the best anti-magic armors available. He layered it with [Force Armor], bolstering his physical defences alongside one of his suits of fully enchanted battle armor.

Ekleipo blurred as it chopped downward.

Titan realized his mistake too late as Ekleipo fell towards his own upraised Tier 30, mana stone filled, sword. Why the Ascender’s growth sword was still Tier 30 wasn’t important at the moment, but even if it had been at the proper Tier, it wouldn’t have made a difference. Not even growth items could block a direct strike from Ekleipo.

