Chapter 502

Aurelius Cora let the flavors and scents of the venue run over his senses, wanting to savor them as the host asked him a question. He responded with something effusive, barely paying it any mind. He couldn’t help it. It had been so, so long since he got the opportunity to savor one of his kills like this.

The slow play, the cat and mouse before a strike. He’d been waiting for so long, and Ascender Titan smelled better than any of his prey ever had. It wasn’t even close. Like freshly made chocolate and just plucked raspberries. It was intoxicating, like nothing he’d ever encountered before.

Logically, he knew that his stalling for the perfect target, and therefore depriving himself, was what made his newest conquest smell so good. However, knowing and understanding were two different things, thus it was all he could do to stifle the excitement that threatened to bubble up.

It was finally time.

Aurelius had never truly believed in the legends of Ascenders, at least not since he had learned enough to understand. How could he? They were big fishes in a small pond, young upstarts competing with those who knew they couldn’t manage real cultivation and so stayed and died in the war Tiers for fear of advancement. Not only that, they were common, with more than a single so-called invincible per immortal generation, where he was singular. Unique. Made even more so by the sword in his hand, and everyone knew that rarity bespoke power and value.

It was the truest trifecta in the Realm. Risk, rarity, and reward. He had all three in spades.

Aurelius wanted to reach down and gently caress his blade, but he wasn’t so stupid as to give away the game this close to its conclusion. Not that he would even if he was alone and could, Ekleipo hated being touched anywhere but his hilt.

As the sword had once put it when they first found each other, “My blade is there to cut. Do not attempt to muddle its purpose, else I rectify any such attempts myself.”

It had been one of the rare few times the sword, or any of its previous wielders, had taken the initiative to speak to him after their initial disaster of a meeting. Aurelius had needed to reach Tier 15 and truly prove his worth before he’d earned the right to casually converse with the blade, though by that time, they’d settled into their current comfortable silence. Looking back so many tens of thousands of years, he found the whole situation laughable. At the time he’d hated it and felt humiliated, but now he saw the tempering for what it was.

Ekleipo was old. The sword had seen countless wielders over hundreds of millions, if not billions, of years. After passing through so many hands, his standards were high, and no mere mortal could be worthy of its assistance before they’d forged themselves anew with its power.

As with most things, Eklepio proved correct. Anyone who couldn’t overcome such a minor hurdle with the strongest weapon in the Realm wasn’t a worthy wielder. Such worthless people may as well die and set the blade free to find another. So many of Ekleipo’s previous wielders had failed in their purpose to ascend out of the Realm as a Tier 50, but he would not. He would not be another voice pulled into the sword to fuel the next wielder.

No, he was more. He was better.

While it may have taken them some time for their partnership to blossom, he knew they were all the stronger for those early struggles; like a piece of iron tempered through repeated forgings.

Aurelius’ attention was pulled back to the present as he heard Ascender Titan reference one of their more recent interviews, doing common labor like some kind of peasant. Instead of letting his displeasure show, he made a lighthearted joke without consciously registering what he was saying. It was a skill he had long mastered and put to use often.

None of this conversation mattered, and that knowledge gave him ultimate power.

An Ascender would die under his blade today, so what did a small chat matter? The series of events that would result in the young immortal’s death had already been set in motion with no way to change them at this point.

Aurelius had been planning this Tier 36 kill since he’d reached Tier 35 and truly understood how large the gaps between Tiers became as one advanced past the war Tiers. Both in essence and in skill. It presented… opportunities.

He’d spent fifteen thousand years watching and waiting for the proper target. The one that could solidify his Tier 36 Trophy as the one that would take him to the next realm.

His patience had finally been rewarded only six thousand years ago, but that was the advantage of attacking an Ascender. They grew so fast. Like a weed. A bit more difficult to uproot, but with the proper leverage and timing, he was sure they’d come out of the ground like every other plant.

Though, it may have been more honest to admit that this Ascender was just right for him. A perfect fit.

They had to be from the Empire, obviously. He sought omnipotence, but he was certainly not there yet, and the combined wrath of all Great Powers for one who struck down upon an Ascender was something he had no hope of surviving. But that limit mattered so, so much less than he had ever dreamed.

Lila Worldwalker would have been a delightful target, but the opportunity had never arisen for him to slay that particular dragon. Duke Waters had seemed promising for some time, but by the time he had finished dawdling at Tier 31 - far too weak for his purposes - the man had created his Authority, and Aurelius was hardly an idiot who thought he could win that particular matchup even with a Tier advantage.

Ascender Light bore some potential, and for all that he was a poor match for Aurelius’ preferences, he would have made for a sufficient target should others not exist. His companion Shadow would have been a delightful kill, but she was far too slippery and he couldn’t be confident enough that he could keep her from escaping and alerting one of the Royals.

A missing or dead Ascender was one thing, and by the time they pinned it on him he could have already made it to one of his foreign refuges. But an escaped Ascender, certainly not.

Legion would have been a suitable target as well, and he might hunt her later, but while he and Ekleipo had slain phoenixes before, Legion was an unusual sort of phoenix and a multi-body clone user besides. It made for a fuzzy target. Wraith was merely support, and therefore not a particularly valuable target. Perhaps he would collect her in a few Tiers as well.

And Titan was far too perfect. A straightforward swordsman spellblade, with a speciality of overwhelming power, may as well have been the ultimate Trophy to propel him to ultimate power.

For Ekleipo the Final Blade, and he, Aurelius Cora, its chosen wielder for the past hundred thousand years, loved power.

And death meant power.

Not that just any death would do. The core of his and Ekleipo’s connection was that of the Trophy, the marker of a hard-won fight. The mightier and rarer the target, the greater their Trophy. But a Trophy taken from a miserable fight was a miserable prize. The grander, longer, and greater the battle, the more that Trophy could live up to its full potential. And when limited to a single Trophy per Tier with no means of being rid of a poor one, it was vital that every claimed Trophy be worth its place.

It was a lesson he had taken some time to learn, in his early days as an oh-so-arrogant ninth son of an heir to a common count. But now that he was older, he was far wiser. He knew how to play with his food, coaxing out every ounce of effort and encouraging them to give the finest performance of their lives.

In some ways, it was almost a bit of a favor he paid to them, in exchange for their power.

The thought nearly made him smile, and he allowed it after checking the conversation he was a part of. The timing was a little late, but he didn't mind.

He’d suffered more than most people could comprehend to rectify those flaws after he’d learned his lesson. If he said so himself, he was quite pleased with the results. While a lot had been lost, he’d made up for it by honing the skills, abilities, and Trophies he did have to a razor's edge. It had allowed him to dominate in the arena, and it allowed him to drain the supposed best melee fighters the Empire had to offer.

Aurelius had originally intended to wait until their scheduled fight at Tier 36 to accidentally slay the Ascender, but plans had changed. After an interview twenty years ago when Titan had broken through to peak Tier 34, he and Ekleipo had realized giving the man time to prepare for a ‘stunning’ additional Tier-up to match them during the inevitable fight was a mistake.

After a lot of deliberation, Aurelius agreed to move their attack up. His lower Tier meant he would be less able to put on as good a showing as he might have wanted, but… well, in truth Aurelius mostly just felt impatient. A single Tier gap was good enough, and would give him plenty of control over the fight to ensure Titan put on a truly good showing.

So the moment he’d gotten word that Ascender Titan had advanced to Tier 35, he’d launched his plan.

In his early years, Aurelius had been forced to pick out targets all on his own, after he refused Ekleipo’s initial pick, a neighboring baron's daughter. But he knew better than to disregard such advice now. With what had to be a preternatural ability to sense danger, every target Ekleipo picked out for him had pushed him exactly to his limits, but never beyond. Now, 35 Tiers later, his capabilities were beyond conventional comprehension.

Even an Ascender, those who were famous for being invincible in their Tier, would find it difficult to survive a battle at-Tier with him, let alone with a Tier disadvantage. Ultimately, that was the genius of striking early.

It wasn’t until the interview was done that Ekleipo finally deigned to speak. Its voice was deep, but without any of the reverberation that normally accompanied such people. The voice always made him feel like the sword was whispering to him, despite that not even being remotely true.

“Do you feel the connection building? Do you feel his strength? The strength that will soon be yours? Use me to claim it!”

Aurelius didn’t reply, nor did he rush. If he followed all of the blade's advice, he’d have long been caught and arrested. It didn’t seem to fully comprehend the current Great Power political realities. It acted as if everywhere was the Sects, where laws were more like suggestions for the powerful.

He was just old enough to know the old Empire had been better in that regard, but he’d always been adaptable.

His next target, however… Ascender Titan? Aurelius knew Ekleipo was right. The Trophy claimed from the Tier 35 would propel him to magnificent heights, and at that point, anything was possible. Something about that thought seemed off, but Aurelius couldn’t put his finger on it.

“He moves to the rift. We mustn't let it cycle or our opportunity will be wasted! Act now or return to mediocrity and waiting.” After a pause, the blade's voice dripped with scorn. “Or do you so enjoy advancing like a plodding cattle?”

Aurelius wanted to snap back that he’d hated every second of his latest advancement, but he drove any such distracting thoughts out of his mind as he followed Ascender Titan to the Tier 35 rift. He couldn't be sure exactly why the Ascender bothered to delve local rifts after every interview he did, but today, Aurelius didn’t mind. It was an easy opportunity to get the man truly alone, away from anyone who might want to save him.

Thanks to his earlier preparations, the rift in question was a newly advanced one that still needed to be explored. Most of the time local teams would have delved it only hours after its advancement, but Ascender Titan had reserved the first delve the moment he heard about it.

Exactly as Aurelius had intended.

He’d needed to pour out a considerable amount of his accumulated wealth to forcefully Tier up the rift, but it was a small price to pay to create a suitable location.

One of his Trophies was the shadow of an insignificant and spineless rogue who had denied Aurelius a proper fight and therefore Trophy, which was something he had only discovered after claiming it, but it still allowed him to traverse through darkness undetectably. He hid within the Tier 35 guard’s shadow, completely unnoticed by the man while they drew closer to where the rift was secured.

As if someone had paved the way for him, a far door opened and someone peeked their head out of the opening, inadvertently changing the light patterns and giving him a covered path to the distortion.

Seeing the Realm assist him nearly brought a tear to his eye.

After all his planning, entering the rift was seamless.

Once inside, it only took him a moment to find Ascender Titan killing the local monsters with his fists like some kind of puglist.

They were large six-limbed armored ant eater monsters that seemed to have a propensity for crawling underground with an earth moving Talent. It might have been a skill, but he doubted it. Not that Aurelius cared about the differences and particularities. He had no fear of monsters a Tier lower than himself.

“It would be like a lion fearing a rabbit.”

The words almost seemed to echo in his ears from Ekleipo’s depths where the old wielder sometimes offered wisdom and counseling. Each one was an echo from the distant past. He let each lesson he’d learned come back to him as he watched the Ascender work his way deeper into the rift, one monster at a time.

