The mountain chain behind the crater Titan stood in crumbled as the edges of the [Mirror Strike] copied [Flame Slash] overshot his target and obliterated the scenery. The sword in Titan’s hand had melted, leaving only the hilt and about a foot of the blade in its place.

Aurelius expected Ekleipo to have sliced down into Titan’s flesh, but once more, the blade had only cut along the subdermal armor, even as the Tier 30 sword regrew at a visible pace into a hollow, latticelike shape.

“You couldn’t have waited even a little longer? I’m literally next in line.”

Aurelius hardly heard the words as he tried to comprehend how or why Ekleipo hadn’t cut through Titan. He didn’t have time to ponder the conundrum as Titan tried to lock their blade hilts together, ignoring that most of his blade had only just regrown.

Instead of fighting, Aurelius followed the movement for an instant before suddenly reversing directions. He wanted to overpower the Tier 35 and disarm him in a single maneuver, opening him up to a follow up strike. Except, as he tried to change direction, he found he couldn’t slow, let alone halt, their weapons’ descent.

Just because he didn’t feel a weight manipulation spell active didn’t mean Titan wasn’t using one. He wasn’t stupid enough to trust that after how many people he’d tricked with similar tactics. Rather than fight the increased weight, he pulled both of their weapons, wanting to escape the clench by moving with it.

Ekleipo sliced through the ground as easily as it had cut through everything else, and once Aurelius got free, he brought him up and around, aiming for Titan’s armpit. Though still short, this fight had been a spectacle equal to any in the arena, and if this Trophy turned out useless, there was always Legion or Wraith for the next one.

[Ripper’s Condensed Edge] made the sword scream with their shared bloodlust, even as he intended to finish the fight right then and there in a single decisive strike.

He expected Eklepio, the blade that had never failed to cut through his targets, to cleave through the armor's inevitable weak spot, but that wasn’t what happened. Instead, it skittered against the blue weave, seemingly unable to find purchase with anything but a direct thrust.

For the first time, Aurelius felt a ripple of shock.

Titan brought his now empty fist up and down in a large and slow sweeping hammer blow while Ekleipo was out of place after the failed attack, unable to threaten life or limb. Moving to fists wasn’t unexpected, and he was confident in defeating a disarmed Titan.

Aurelius started to side step, but he froze in place for the briefest instant as Titan’s Intent unfurled. He was able to break the hold it had over him almost instantly, but his momentum had been interrupted, which allowed the fist to catch him.

It descended on his shoulder and torso, but he was prepared to take the hit and possibly receive some damage. He’d already cast one of his few Tier 44 skills before entering the rift, [Reflection of Injury].

He —

The blue clad fist blew through both [Liquid Armor] and [Force Armor] as if he hadn’t cast either of them. Both spells were overloaded in an instant, his force armor shattering and his coveted Trophy-enhanced steel evaporated before his eyes, but it wasn’t until the fist entered his body that he understood why.

The hand weighed as much as a typical moon.

There hadn’t been a gravity manipulation spell. He’d b—

Aurelius identified the only material that could be that heavy even as his mana rang like a gong as it transferred the damage back at his attacker. His own body reformed from the damage, but he realized the rebounded energy had no effect on Titan and his crystalline armor.

At that moment, Aurelius acknowledged he had reached for more than he could handle. That Titan had secretly obtained such a major power boost since his war was unfortunate, and something he couldn’t have properly prepared for, spoiling this attempt. However, that was okay. He’d simply move up his lying-low plan for the time being. He'd need to escape the Empire, but his hideaways were across the entire Realm and he could get to any of them easily enough. If the worst came to pass he might have to enter a rift for a few tens of thousands of years, but he’d be fine.

Aurelius didn’t hesitate any longer and activated the Tier 37 wind aura escape talisman he’d taken the habit of keeping on his body at all times. He aimed himself towards the rift entrance, accepting that this attempt had failed. He’d always know a failure was possible, but now wasn’t the time to wallow.

He mentally sighed in relief when he felt the talisman activate and turn his body  ethereal as he merged with the very air itself, becoming just another intangible mote of dust. The new type of talisman's acceleration was a bit insane, and he’d covered the distance in only a moment where he could leave.

He’d ju—

Aurelius slammed into a barrier, shattering his thought process and scattering his follow-up plans as if he’d been holding them in his hands.

It only took him a moment to see what had blocked his path, but it took him far longer to understand where the mile in diameter formation surrounding the rift entrance had come from. The entire thing was made out of what looked like solidified mana stone, which also didn’t compute in his hit-addled brain. It was as if that was the only object needed to create a formation, which was very much not true.

Aurelius pulled out, activated, and pressed a ward breaker to the barrier in a smooth and practiced motion. As the miniature pitchfork touched the barrier, it fizzled briefly as it dumped an entire Tier 35 mana stone’s worth of mana into the formation, trying to overload the more delicate components.

Under normal circumstances, that was more than enough to at least destabilize most barriers. However, the one standing before Aurelius hadn’t even wavered during the discharge.

He turned to Ekleipo even as he refilled his mana pool, emptying a large portion of his reserves. Running wouldn’t do him any good if he ran out of mana mid way. That was always the highest priority in a fight, and something he knew better than most. He could only hope he was fast enough.

Titan stepped out from behind a tree, somehow not making a sound as he approached.

“I have a few questions for you.”

Aurelius stifled the panic that threatened to overtake him and cast [Entangle] alongside another wind escape talisman, aiming for the far exit.

He’d have to dodge the boss that defended it, but that would be easier than getting through that barrier with Titan wanting to ‘ask questions’ like a dog nipping at his heels.

The second talisman activated without a problem and took him nearly a tenth of the way across the rift in a single bound.

As he prepared to activate a second one, a Titan-sized oval appeared. A moment later, he nonchalantly stepped through.

“I—”

Aurelius tried to speak, but Titan’s fist blurred forward, shattering his chest as the blow sent him flying into the nearby ocean. He only came to a stop when he was embedded into the stone floor of the ocean beneath the yards of sand and silt the rift had conjured.

His spiritual perception picked up the fluctuations Titan spoke through. “I wondered when you’d strike, but when you didn’t at Tier 33 and then 34, I thought you never would. I gave you so many chances over the years, and this is the fight I get? I’m disappointed.”

Aurelius cast [Wave of Trepidation], sacrificing another tenth of his mana pool to the spell. The entire ocean swelled as it raced at the descending Tier 35.

Titan spoke even as the waves that should have pulled him into a dream under his influence did nothing more than part around him. “You know, at first I only thought you wanted to be a sycophant or something along those lines. That impression didn’t make it past the third time you pushed to do an interview with me while I worked on the construction efforts, and I actually gave you some thought. Your faked enjoyment was probably something I could have picked up even without my Insight, but I really hadn’t expected some kind of… is it a Talent stealer? Or is it more general than that? It looks more general than that. Or are they not full Talents? The cursed sword angle is at least intriguing, I’ll grant you that. It being intelligent was even interesting, because none of the years you might have gone into Minkalla had The Hills Have Eyes at a deep enough floor for that level of intelligence. So yes, I have some questions.”

Aurelius wanted to ask how he could possibly know about Ekleipo, but his attempt to activate the third aura escape talisman failed. His attention went to his hand and the talisman in it, but he found the appendage severed by a blade of [Telekinesis] and falling to the now dry ocean floor. The water hadn’t had enough time to resettle, which gave him an unobstructed view of its descent.

Except, his hand never hit the ground. Instead the talisman activated an instant too late, whisking it off to places unknown, but what shocked him was that he hadn’t seen or felt the blow. That unexplained oddity sent a shiver through him. Few people could use [Telekinesis] with such finesse that it lived up to its reputation of being spiritually and magically silent.

He dodged the [Concussive Force] Titan’s fist let out, even as he regrew his hand. The whole time he was looking for an opportunity to use one of his many backups, but each one seemed countered by his approaching foe.

Titan’s voice consumed the entirety of his spiritual perception. “I have to admit, I really regret making those thrice cursed enchantments. My big mouth bit me in the ass that time. I thought the slogan ‘once activated they are basically impossible to stop’ was 85% marketing but noooo, it's not. I don’t think you can comprehend how much effort I’ve put into trying to find a way to block those stupid talismans, but alas. Like most people, I’ve found it's better to simply remove the hand trying to use them. It's a lot simpler than chasing talisman for talisman. It's too easy for the caster to use the control I built into them — thanks me— to shift their trajectory by a few degrees midway and end up way out of normal sensory range. Cheaper too.”

A part of Aurelius, the portion that liked to toy with his opponents, wanted to ask who were the ‘most people’ that thought it was easier to slice a hand off someone using a talisman. His reputation as one of best arena fighters may have been a bit more show than truth these days, but he’d never heard of anyone being able to do that by accident, let alone on purpose. The activation period for the talisman was already as short as the crafter could make it. There wasn’t supposed to be a timing gap.

Aurelius knew he needed to break contact if he had any hope to escape, so he killed himself.

The phoenix feather Trophy he’d had since Tier 22 brought him back to life, but doing so let him cast the normally phoenix-only skill mod for [Misplaced Ashes].

His body started to melt from the inside out as an unseen fire raged.

He saw Titan’s head turn as he tried to identify Aurelius’ destination rather than trying to prevent the transfer. For a lot of spells, it was possible to interrupt or foul the process, but [Misplaced Ashes] made it so that his actual resurrection was already happening somewhere far away, and what was left of him was a distraction.

His second and final Tier 44 skill was egregiously inconvenient to use, not least because it required he burn his resurrection without dying first, so he’d need to survive for at least a month without it. It made up for that deficiency via everything else it did. Though, once he got out of here, he would make certain to improve the skill’s accuracy. Or perhaps push on and actually add the effect that brought the user out of a rift.

Aurelius stood up where the now burned out tree he’d replaced had been, ensuring he was alone and verifying the skill had refilled his mana fully. Then he got his bearings, his spiritual sense stretching through the area he’d appeared in until he’d found his direction. He was still much closer to the entrance of the rift but he still didn’t have an answer to the formation.

Following that train of thought, he attached a dozen escape talismans before activating the first. He needed to reach the rift exit before Titan might be able to recreate the wall and truly trap him inside.

Aurelius felt a shiver run up his incorporeal spine. Cycling between earth and air escape talismans, he made it to the end of the rift as fast as he could conceive, a glimmer of hope still in his heart. It was extinguished the moment he arrived.

In horror, he watched the ten story tall boss anteater writhe against the wall of mana encircling the rift’s exit. Most of its body was still underground, but that hadn’t made its end any cleaner. Only its head had peaked out from its lair, but that oh so important appendage had a man sized hole burned through it, and the rest of the body was still trying to process that fact.

Titan walked out of a portal that had been silently opened, brushing his hands.

“Thought you might come here, but my mana stone was on you circling back around.”

Aurelius opened his mouth to speak, but Titan raised a fist and punched. He didn’t recognize the spell beyond it looking a whole lot like [Fist Blast], but that spell, along with all of Titan’s other neutral mana spells, should have still been disabled.

Dodging the blow, he felt a spike of fear lance through him. A fear so deep and persuasive that his bowels threatened to empty themselves. He—

