"Who ruled the Upper Realm before...?"

The Wyvern nods slowly, looking upward, away from where the holographic transmission device can see.

"There have been many rulers. This Upper Realm is separated into many zones, just as vast and different as the Lower Realm is to the green zone you stand in now."

Seraphel pauses as I consider the weight of his words.

"A Grand Citadel sits at the center of every zone, from green, to cyan, to dark blue, and even colors higher than this. They are what connect the zones of the Upper Realm together and give us the ability to send messages both up to members of our race in higher zones, while also contacting the Lower Realm from another plane of existence up here."

My mind wanders, as the surprise that the other warlords showed when I said my generals were from the Lower Realm makes sense.

Even now, as I sift through the tens of thousands of worlds in my consciousness, they all do feel as though they're somewhere else... I can't pinpoint an exact direction as to where or how I'm viewing each of them.

The easiest way to describe the place where I look at them is from 'above,' but in reality, it is from a direction my brain cannot comprehend.

The wyvern continues in my confusion.

"Of course, there are higher zones. This is how the Overseer controls all of the Realms below."

I reply quickly, as this name is thrown out one too many times for me to continue not knowing its significance.

"The Overseer. It's an Immortal, right? A Divine Beast?"

The wyvern's pupils dilate slightly, but it returns to its stoic gaze once it responds.

"Yes, those are names that are thrown about in old legends. It's said that once you make it to the peak of the Upper Realm, the system blesses you with the opportunity to admire your work for eternity. Though, who can really live forever? The rules of reality often change depending on who is in charge. That is, after all, why the demons have taken over the Upper Realm in the first place. This is where Nobility blossoms."

I raise an eyebrow, as in response to my simple question I get another convoluted response like every other being I ask about the Overseer.

As the wyvern continues to speak, I begin to accept that maybe the answer really isn't as simple as I wish it to be.

"You've witnessed the system mutate and bend to the will of the user, correct? Many ranked up buffs on the mana-based systems act in this way, changing and evolving based on the journey of the organism that wields them. A system user's True Core awakening is another great example of the external world's will affecting the system's rules."

My attention is grasped again, as I personally have two very distinct cases of this happening. The first being my unique skill, Absorption. It has shifted and adapted to every environment and body change throughout my journey here, certainly a mutation of the system and its general use.

Secondly, my first ranked-up buff: The Rising Emperor's Domain, a buff that has adapted to my growing push for power. Or maybe, my growing need for power has accelerated as a result of it. Whatever the case may be, it is a buff that constantly changes and leads me down a path.

The same goes for many powerful leaders I've killed back on the human world.

All with strong wills, and the drive to rule. They all had similar mutations in their systems, and buffs that pushed them toward an inevitable end. However, my path was paved over theirs to reach my own goals...

This reminds me that no matter how powerful I may seem, others may have fates with even more grand finish lines lurking in the dark.

The Wyvern's next words echo the sentiment I'm thinking to myself.

"Many races have similar skills, similar buffs, and similar destined strengths. This is why it is common for certain races like goblins or humans to only spawn on 3rd Class and lower graded worlds. While there are outliers, and occasional unique skills, the patterns of fate are not changed easily."

I raise an eyebrow at the wyvern's last line, as in many of its past comments, it has just said that no matter how hard lower races try, they will always fail.

"So you're saying these patterns can be changed?"

"I'm saying they constantly are changing, but not as fast as you might think. In my 240,000 years alive, the Upper Realm was always ruled by the demons... Though, I had ancestors that spoke of a time when Wyverns ruled all of the zones of the Upper Realm. Considering we had control of the green and cyan zones when I was born, I believe it to be true..."

My eyes widen as Seraphel continues.

"It was just 150,000 years ago that we lost the Cyan Zone, and 12,000 years ago that we finally lost control of the Green Zone... and well, as a result, the demons hunted every last wyvern to extinction. I've been kept alive as a prize, but was soon forgotten by a majority of the Upper Realm..."

Memories from the Exile Guardian and Andras Vermillion surface in my mind, of a large-scale event that occurred right before both of them were granted posts in the Ellipsia Citadel. From the wyvern's somber tone, I decide not to pry and let it continue.

"Before the wyverns, it's rumored we fought off an elven race to take the Overseer's position, and before that, a multi-headed hydra race ruled the Upper Realm. Past rulers have their entire race killed off before their first rebirth can occur; and well, considering you're even asking these questions, it's clear there are restrictions and gaps in knowledge from past rulers... Your travel partner, Ember, in his many visits, has never been a talkative one..."

"Many visits?" I reply with a surprised expression.

But the wyvern just nods at my words and changes the subject.

"Now, why do races fight for control of the Upper Realm? Because if a race is in power for long enough, the system recognizes this pattern as reality. The demons have ruled long enough to be granted high base stats, raw strength, and most importantly, the path of Nobility."

The room grows silent as the wyvern lets me take this in, and continues.

"Just like any mutation, it takes into account time, effort, repeatability, and perceived destiny. When a ruling race is in power, the chances of Nobility traits popping up in their strongest warriors significantly increase. Those that lose power and control of higher zones will lose the momentum of destiny on their side. Less and less of their youth throughout the galaxy will be born with this path ingrained in their beings. As millennia pass, their races will degrade from Nobles back to 1st Grade Worlds only, and eventually fall all the way down the Cycle to 5th as new races climb to obtain the peak of power..."

My mind pieces everything together as Seraphel keeps speaking.

"So... this is why I call what you and the goblin have a sprinkle of luck in the face of the overwhelming truth. Even if we climb to the top, with your race's lifespans, you cannot dream to affect the pattern of eternity."

I sharpen my gaze and shake my head.

"But look at me... isn't my Noble Form enough proof that I can...? Your years under the Citadel have made you quite timid and cynical, don't you think?"

I crack a smile and start walking around the open room while peering over the wyvern's wings to get a look at the enormous world-sized city in the sky, then continue speaking. This time, in a partially sarcastic tone.

"So what you're saying is the Demons won. They systematically take over 2nd and 1st Class mana-based worlds in the Lower Realm to ensure no strong races can form any hints of Nobility; and they've secured the central citadels in every zone of the Upper Realm, destroying the wyverns once and for all to begin their reign. All who oppose them die, just like your ancestors, I assume? Then, history repeats itself, and you believe even the strongest from 3rd Class and below worlds like myself have no chance, destiny itself laughs in our face?"

The wyvern is surprised at my blatant remarks but nods.

"Well, yes, exactly that."

I let out a long sigh while looking past the wyvern, deep into the endless green clouds.

"Makes sense. But, given the amount of time we have to prepare, I've been up against far worse odds."

There is silence in the room again, but the wyvern speaks in a solemn tone.

"There is one more thing you must know."

The vibrations around the wyvern grow stronger, and the heat in the room rises. However, the warmth invigorates me; it is not uncomfortable at all.

"There are different ranks of Nobility. The form I witnessed you use against that guardian, the form you have active now, is the lowest rank. A Noble."

I raise an eyebrow while the heat in the room rises more, and I resonate with every single vibration sent my way, as if I'm subconsciously riding the wave Seraphel is sending into me.

"I am a High Noble... the second step of the lowest rank... it is why the vibrations you feel are invigorating rather than foreign and cold. My guess is with enough training, you will be able to reach this stage naturally. However, reaching the Rank of the Demons' Royal Family Heads will be impossible. Those with higher ranks give off vibrations that feel cold, and can suppress the will of any being below them. It will slow your thoughts and ability to access Ether. If the gap is wide enough, the system itself may not summon itself to help you in the presence of higher Nobility. This is why, even with a Divine Beast by your side, I feel our actions are hopeless in the face of true legacy power. Don't think we haven't tried similar things before."

Even more questions surface, especially with the word 'Royal' now being mentioned, as every time the Vermillion Family Head is brought up, this word is too.

But the Wyvern turns its head upward again and back to me.

"I believe I've given you enough information to understand the inner workings of the Upper Realm, and how the Demons are far more dangerous and powerful than you once believed... However, if you truly still wish to challenge them, come to the High Orc's tower. I'd be happy to show you how to properly heighten your Noble Vibrations. Your Ether Senses and base control are almost as refined as mine, so teaching you should be possible."

It stays silent for a few seconds after stopping, and I consider the information I've just taken in.

This Upper Realm really is far more intricate than I initially thought. Even the system itself has become more complicated, as the patterns of history seem to shape its broader functions. This Noble Bloodline is another strange system mutation, and it has something to do with Ether. The more mind bending fact I've just learned is that Qi and Soul Energy in the Lower Realm is linked to Ether as well...

In addition to this fact, there are far more moving parts shifting around in my mind.

Plans of how to siphon more worlds out of this Citadel's citizens while maintaining order is at the top of my list. While doing so, I'd like to generate as much Ether as possible in profit to add to my stores before drinking that elixir Ember gifted me. Lastly, theories of how I'll assimilate my generals to this pressure without risk of them losing their bodies begin to surface in my mind as well.

Though, externally, I just nod and reply to the Wyvern while preparing to close the transmission feed.

"Yes, I believe training with you will be helpful... I'll be over later today."
