The captain veered away from the death storm coming at them but Ikos wasn’t so lucky. Disciplined, the survivors turned and flew after the witch and her pet. She couldn’t let that stain on Helock’s honor go. They tightened ranks but her shield threatened to fail and only her instincts saved her. Around, powerful impacts peppered the griffins’ formidable defenses. It was not magic. What in Neriad’s name was going on? Then… the pet disappeared into a portal, only to reappear in another one right next to it, barreling towards them with no loss of speed. Spells formed in the air.

“Spread out!”

The order was useless. Her team had seen the threat and made to evade. Jar wasn’t so lucky. The dragon picked him up and dropped his body against a nearby floating stone. It broke from the impact.

“Shit!”

Needed an opening. She used her inspect. It was designed to assess flying enemies.

[Ascender, Elemental war caster, fourth step.]

[Juvenile dragon]

The captain felt a chill down her spine just as the title seemingly merged, something that only happened when two riders achieved such a level of coordination that they became greater than the sum of their parts.

[Harrakan Air Supremacy. Flying danger level: 7]

Even before the new title appeared, even before she remembered there was no danger level 8 in the old imperial nomenclature, even before she remembered the manual stating that 7 was a young adult dragon, a thought had wormed itself in the captain’s head, drowning all others.

What the fuck am I doing?

“Pull out! Pull out!”

The riders spread out and the dragon mercifully didn’t give chase. Gray mana surged and a gale carried the hostile pair up and away at great speed.

***

Dean Tallit upended his glass and raised it to the dusk sun and the witch flying away from the comfort of his balcony. Puffs of black mana followed the dreadful pair, spelling ‘get bent’ in the northerner tongue.

“And fair travels to you, Viv.”

Far below the escaping witch, a stunned calm reigned over the street in front of the palace, broken only when a severely damaged wall collapsed to reveal the destruction inside. Smoke belched from the open wounds of the thrashed fortress where artillery spells had detonated them.

Besides him, Ashra poured herself another glass while the rest of the faculty celebrated the show in various degrees of inebriation.

“I will miss our classes,” the short-haired professor said.

“No doubt. Nice new boots by the way. They look expensive.”

“They were. I believe young Ereska has fallen asleep. Would you help me place her on a couch? And after that, perhaps we could find a private nook?”

“I would like that very much.”

***

Mother! Mother! You are so small!

“Just a little. It’s you who has grown so much! Look at you! So majestic!”

Mother! Mother! You have wings!

“Yes!”

I told you you should eat more to grow wings and you said humans don’t work that way.

“Yeees?”

You did grow wings.

So I was right!

As always!

Anyway.

Where is the rest of them?

“Errr.”

Mother?

“Look, it was difficult.”

Mother.

“It’s a work in progress.”

Mother.

Wings are made to fly.

Mother.

What are those?

Seriously!
