The chewing of bones was a little disturbing as Delta watched the monster known as a troll reach through the hole like an English-accented bear trying to find some delicious honey. In this case, the honey being more of the screeching bear skeletons and mindless undead variety that were trying to pierce his grey skin with brittle weapons that did little to deter the determined troll.

 

Pale yellow eyes squinted as the troll pulled at something and came back with what looked like green slime and a clear dripping liquid.

 

“That’s flipping ectoplasm! Those spooky birds, the ghosts, should be swarming us about now!” Jack said in surprise before turning his gaze to the troll.

 

“Hero! I am in awe at the size of this lad, he looks like he eats brick shithouses for a starter meal! I could have used him back in the day!” Jack said as he scampered up the troll’s back to stand on one shoulder.

 

“How goes the number crunching? Crunching being a bit more literal than these spooks are used to.” Jack added. The troll blinked at him as Delta moved closer as well. The large creature smiled a stupid grin of pleasure at her.

 

“Ma! Look! I got soft crunch! I can smear it on the bones for sauce!” he showed off large yellow teeth that could crush diamonds. Delta smiled weakly but after Maestro, Bob, and even a few others… the troll was manageable.

 

Delta put a reminder on her internal diary to cry about her desensitization to monsters and their appearances.

 

“Good! Glad you’re enjoying your life already. You’re… a good troll!” Delta said after a beat. Devina came up and the troll blinked before he shyly turned his gaze back to the flailing skeleton he had just grabbed and stuffed it into his mouth to pretend he was busy.

 

Was his grey skin turning black with a blush?

 

“You are quite strong, sir troll.” Devina praised and the flush travelled all over the troll’s body. Inchy eyed him.

 

“What, you got a bone to pick with Dev and Inchy?” the bird sang. Rale appeared next and on his shoulders were Numb and Billy. Numb looking pleased by the ride, Billy, less so, but the idea of a sniper’s spot was keeping him still.

 

Her monsters were goddamn fusing now.

 

Rale being the walking fortress of muscle as Billy fired arrows from above. Numb would just rain down fists… actually it’s not a bad idea… Delta shook her head as the Troll’s eyes lit up with joy.

 

“Gobbos! Troll and Gobbos go together like meat on bone! Like… caves and bats! Like… LIKE… Troll and Gobbos!” the creature said finally, ignoring the hole filled with leering skulls and ghostly hatred.

 

Goblins… trolls… spooky underground ruin filled with dead things… Delta felt like she was teetering dangerously close to being sued. If a fire demon turned up then she was going to run for the hills and hope no one served her a court day.

 

“Great, we needed a walking mass of destruction that eats everything in its path. After all, we left Bacon upstairs.” Cois cackled. His staff gave off a few sparks of fire and the troll paled as if seeing something horrible.

 

“Fire is bad! Gobbo not play with fire!” the troll accused. Devina, without looking, kicked Cois hard enough to send him rolling into Delta’s core with a thunk.

 

“Watch out for mother!” Devina huffed. This was enough to make the troll beam again.

 

“Pretty Devinah is best Gobbo… not-gobbo!” said the pleased looking troll. Delta was just watching this unfold, watching how this new piece of her family slotted in to the dynamics.

 

“Devina.” the witch doctor corrected.

 

“Defee!”

 

“De….veeenn….nah.” Devina repeated, her face growing pained.

 

“Devenha.” came the confused response.

 

“Dev! And Inchy!” Inchy supplied. The troll tried to pet the bird and nearly pressed Devina’s head into her torso.

 

“Devi… and Inchy!” he said proudly. The Witch Doctor frog threw her hands up in disgust.

 

“Fine, Dev. And what’s your name?” she asked with a snap. Rale opened his mouth but Devina turned her glowing eyes to him.

 

“You utter one name and I will ram that trident up your nose.” she warned. Rale froze then wisely shut his mouth.

 

“Meat-tank!” Jack said quickly. Cois, rubbing his chin, looked like he was going to vote for that name.

 

Delta turned to see the hole in the door both repairing itself and being opened with weapons. The ghosts brushed against her room, and Delta’s Mana repelled their forms easy enough, but it was more effort than Delta wanted to spend every second of her time here.

 

“We are not naming him that!” she said and all eyes turned to her.

 

“In fairness, one does not simply name a sentient being. One merely suggests and sees what sticks. I suggest we try some names when we’re secure and have a lovely vote where we duel each other and I blow you all up with prepared traps and win!” Jack said sagely from the top of the Troll.

 

“Jack?” Delta said calmly. The Kobold tilted his head.

 

“Hero, oh lovely lady of the Dungeon?” came the response.

 

“You are banned from naming anything, short of a complete disaster and a lack of structured command where me and Nu are both offline and every monster that came before you is mute… dead… or missing.” Delta said pleasantly as she rolled her neck.

 

“But what about my pet bombs? They are so fleeting!” Jack gasped and the troll calmly plucked him from his shoulder as he held the Kobold up to his eyes to examine the scaled creature.

 

“You can name them as you start throwing them through that hole. I’m losing Mana from fending these buggers off. Devina, more spirits! Cois and Billy? I’ll try to make some ports for you both to fire from. These two doors are the only thing keeping us safe and everyone, save Jack and the troll, is not at full power. I want to secure a command post to mine gas from and build more pylons!” she ordered, trying to use Nu as an inspiration to rope the chaos back on track.

 

The troll focused and there was a horrid noise that made Delta’s serious pose break as Devina gagged and Inchy fell down like a dead canary bird in a mine shaft as she fled. Jack looked like he was waving an empty flask around to bottle the stench and the goblins hooted madly with laughter as they tried to take positions to wage war.

 

“Found gas!” the troll offered.

 

Delta swallowed back her first words then forced a smile.

 

“Thank you. I’m going to call you Jebediah. It fits more than I’d like to admit.” Delta said. The troll frowned hard.

 

“Jebebe…” he tried.

 

“Jeb… Just go with Jeb.” Delta said quickly and the troll looked pleased as punch.

 

“Jeb! Jeb the trolly! At Ma’s service!” the troll roared in approval and saluted, sending Jack, who he had still been holding, flying through the air. The attack on the door paused for a second and as he stood there Delta finally got a proper look at the troll.

 

Most of his skin looked soft on the inside of his arms and legs but his joints, fingers, and most of his shoulders looked to be covered in a grey, crusty, rock-like shell that acted like natural armour. His head and body had little to no neck between them which likely gave him a heck of an ability to use his thick skull as a battering ram if he could pick up enough speed.

 

Delta turned to the menu showing info on Jebediah.

 

Quote:Troll (Jebediah):

Trolls are nature’s answer to the question of what would happen if a rock decided to grow legs and devour villages. They boast incredible defence and strength befitting their size as well as a moderate regenerative factor. Their blood is highly sought after for potions that involve great healing, their skin (once treated) can be used as armour, and their stomach acid is… potent. They have a fear of fire as they are somewhat flammable.

 

No evolutions unlocked yet.

 

Delta had a giant beatstick and she didn’t even have to tribute any monsters to bring it out. Life was good but it would be better if this undead army could stop knocking on her door for a second.

 

Jebediah was… currently picking his giant potato of a nose with a finger as he seemed to be in deep thought.

 

Jack picked himself up, looking rather cheerful for being tossed by an excited troll, and waltzed over.

 

“Listen to Mad Jack here-” he began and Delta snorted.

 

“Why would anyone not listen to you when you begin with a line like that?” she asked dryly. The Kobold grinned and pointed at the two large doors.

 

“I dunno what you can do with your Dungeony core powers but you said something about blowholes, right?” he asked, expression a little more serious.

 

“I did mention portholes for the goblins to fire from, yes.” she stated. Jack waved that off as unimportant.

 

“All holes are blowholes if you fill them with bombs, trust me on that.” he said with an almost scarily pleased expression.

 

He pointed to the door.

 

“Can you fix her up and give us some windows way up, with a ladder and a platform? If we can clean the mass of bony pricks down to a small crowd, we can send Jebba boy here to do some skull cracking and I can start laying traps to slow the next wave. Not sure how much time it will take you to fill the place with your magic dust and make it all weird but we’ll buy you time.” Jack explained, his claw lightly marking his plan on the stone floor.

 

Delta nodded after a moment, trying not to let Jack’s sudden logic scare her.

 

“No worries, just need to push them back long enough for me to beef the door up. Even if these guys were human once… Sis doesn’t consider them to be so anymore and that means upgrading whenever and whatever I want.” Delta slapped her hands together with a smile.

 

“Atta girl. I’ll go move Jeb so Dev can do her magic show.” he announced.

 

“Jeb! Come see Devi do magic. Come see the fwoggy make happy lights!” Jack crooned. Jeb looked like his day had just been made and Devina looked like Jack had just called her an obese sow.

 

“F…Fwoggy?!” the woman said in such an offended tone that even Delta winced.

 

“FWOGGY!? Devi gonna show Ma and me some Fwoggy magic?” Jeb demanded, his feet stomping away from the door to give Devina a clear shot of the growing hole. Billy slid up next to her and took aim with more of his dangerous arrows.

 

“Gobbos and Fwoggys… aren’t we terrifying?” Billy snorted.

 

“This Floor has been nothing but a smear on my pride and patience!” Devina huffed, unable to glare too hard at the excited trolls face.

 

Delta hid a smile while the woman began to exaggerate her arm movements as she began to call on more spirits.

 

“Hear my call, oh spirits of the green and life! Help me return these poor fools back to your embrace!” she called. Delta shook her head, even more amused.

 

Devina was supposed to be her level-headed monster… and yet she couldn’t resist showing off to Jeb. The balls of nature gathered around her finger, drawn from the lush powers of the second floor.

 

Even weakened, Devina had a whole Jungle to draw on for a source of power. It wasn’t like Dabberghast or Wyin… not druidic in nature. Delta paused then smiled at her own little joke for a moment before she watched Devina’s spirits draw more power than before.

 

Devina, as a witch doctor, drew upon the soul of the spiritual world rather than physical life and growth of the material world. Her spirits were those of growth and green, their power could help ground to become fertile or blight a land. They whispered secrets of potions to her, the art of herbs and medical brews, and they even seemed to guide her at times.

 

Delta didn’t know what they were exactly, they didn’t register as monsters or guests. They came off as extension of Devina’s aura… a part hidden from Delta’s sight. Some secret piece that Devina held close to her heart.

 

Delta respected that and didn’t fret too much. If Devina needed help or had issues with that part of her existence then Delta would help.

 

No doubt, if she was to create some priest or such, their connection to any deity, would be personal and hidden to Delta.

 

The five buzzing nature orbs suddenly screeched forward and bowled through the boney hands. The ghosts got it worse as their forms literally burst apart in slimy explosions of ectoplasm. The odd energy keeping their souls and the skeletons minds anchored to this plane lashed out and yanked the black souls deeper into the fortress as Devina guided the orbs in a dance of death and life.

 

The light coming from the hole in the door erupted and the orbs exploded. The sound of bones raining down on the stone floor soon followed.

 

“Devi crunch bones without touching them… Devi is much better troll than me!” Jeb whispered as softly as a runaway lawnmower to Jack.

 

“Nonsense, you simply have talents better suited for… more manual labor, my good lad.” Jack promised.

 

Billy narrowed his eyes and he loaded a new type of arrow. It looked rather similar to the Blood Mushroom of the second floor. He fired and the arrow slid across a metal fingernail that Billy had clipped on to his real nail. The arrow was slightly nicked and then began to bulge as it soared through the hole with perfect accuracy.

 

Delta got as close as she could and saw the arrow violently explode, spraying black liquid over the gathering bone soldiers. Their bones began to hiss and a few even fell apart as the joints were sprayed.

 

“Still got some kinks to work out before Mum will let me use that one on people.” he said annoyed as if Delta’s aversion to melting people was ruining his fun. Delta disagreed but she hadn’t the time to lecture Billy about morals… again.

 

