She focused on the twin doors, the lack of foes touching them made this so much easier as she pulled up the menu for options.

 

Quote:Twin Doors of the Entrance Hall.

You may enter anytime you like, but you can never leave.

 

Improve the wood to be more durable! 10 DP

Create twin port windows near the top to rain hell down on foes. 15 DP

Install climbable ladders on the wood that lead to the windows. Adds a platform to stand on. 5 DP

Install slivers of iron in the wood to cause damage to ghosts. 15 DP

Close doors after a certain time. 5 DP

Have the doors open automatically when allies approach from outside. Can be overridden by Core. 10 DP

 

It was all pretty good and basic things. The iron chips in the wood especially sounded great right about now.

 

They were all cheap so she purchased the lot. The only thing standing between her Core, her monsters, and the army of the living dead was those damn doors. If Delta saw something stronger than bones and slime come at her, she might for the first time… build traps.

 

The idea was so alien that she had actually forgotten where the option was on her menu.

 

Jack was right, until she could ‘claim’ the space, it might be worth filling the halls with so many traps it would be an issue in itself to invade Delta.

 

How did it work out that she needed traps to keep things in, not out?

 

Delta guessed that was just how she rolled now.

 

The twin doors glowed with orange hues as the dark wood became glossy and lines of metallic iron streaked along the massive panels.

 

A line in both doors sunk in and left behind simplistic ladder rungs that reached a spreading semi-circle platform. Delta flew up to see each platform had a large hole cut out of it. The only way to close the holes were to pull down comically large corks.

 

Delta stared but they were indeed giant versions of the corks from Fera’s new wine bottles.

 

Sis was getting creative. Billy and Cois raced to the top. Billy winning due to simply spending more time climbing and the fact that Cois had to heft a staff and mask up the ladders.

 

“Take those suckers down!” Delta yelled and the goblins didn’t even need that much encouragement before explosive arrows and fireballs were hurled with glee. Cute little balls of destruction, her goblins were.

 

The hole in the door was fully repaired and the few battered axes that got through to attack suddenly found the rotting twin doors to have gained a slightly improved paint job. The ghosts literally smoking and hissing as they tried to pass through to devour her Mana were especially nice to see.

 

The most annoying part of it all was that even if bones or ghost bits landed in her room through the windows… she couldn’t absorb them. The essence, the parts that mattered were being called back by that damn annoying power.

 

“Nu?” she called and she just noticed the box hadn’t been present since she came down here…

 

Odd, it wasn’t like Nu to miss a chance for potential Dungeon superiority matches and a chance of bloodshed.

 

Quote:I’m here but… Sis and I have been busy.

 

Nu’s box shimmered into sight and Delta stared as somehow his blue box looked static and grey in places. As if chunks had been bitten out of him or downright ripped off.

 

Quote:‘Tis but a flesh wound. The force behind these damned things has been trying to slyly infiltrate the System to get at you but Sis is pissed. She’s beginning a full on war with the little slug.

 

This was so alarming that Delta turned to glare at Nu.

 

“Why didn’t you tell me? I could be helping!” she demanded. Upset to see her Menu… her friend… so damaged. What state was Sis in?

 

Quote:You have been helping! Claiming this room and blowing his pets up has been wonderfully distracting.

 

Nu’s utter calmness was getting to Delta and she shook her head.

 

“I can do more!” she protested.

Quote:

No. Not now. We are your Menu. We are the System that exists to support you. What good are we if we let bugs crash the system, Hm? Your battle is here. Trust us to deal with what we do best. The Complicated-behind-the-scenes stuff.

 

Nu turned to look at the fortified door.

 

Quote:Besides, you have your hands fu-

 

He was about to praise Delta, she could feel it! But Jeb peered down and tried to smush Nu’s box like a fly.

 

“Glow bug gone!” he smiled proudly.

 

Nu flickered above the hand.

 

Quote:Core Almighty. System support me…You summoned the troll and it’s already wonky. Why is it… where is the gruff killing machine?!

 

Delta shrugged.

 

“In there somewhere. The killing we got but can you kill that which is already dead and keeps coming back, or do you just sort of inconvenience it?” she mused. She got Nu’s attention with a snap of her fingers.

 

“How is Sys?” she reminded him of the question, opening her menu to see what options she had available to beef up her current core room. Multi-tasking soothed her for some reason.

 

Before Nu could answer, the answer itself became clear as Delta’s menu sparked and flickered so badly she couldn’t see any of the options.

 

She stared for all of three seconds before she snapped her gaze to Nu.

 

“Go to her and make sure she’s alright!” she commanded him. Nu was gone in a second.

 

“Bye bye glow bug.” Jeb said sadly.

 

Delta could fret… she could panic… hell, she could even pace in worry, but she wasn’t going to do any of those things. Nu’s words and Sys’s issues made her know exactly what to do.

 

Sure, she couldn’t box zap and teleport like Nu into the hidden depths of her own Dungeon System but she knew how to help.

 

It was something she was very good at.

 

“COIS! BILLY! Hurry it up, I want those doors ready to be opened!” she ordered and her voice was so sharp her goblins nodded without any hint of joke or backtalk.

 

“Got it, Mum!”

 

“Give me a minute to focus!”

 

She turned to Rale and Devina but they met her gaze with understanding.

 

Rale’s muscles bulged as he actually frowned. Devina looked more mystical as she gathered power.

 

Jack rubbed his chin.

 

“I like this side of you, Hero. Jack’s at your command. Lead him well.” the Kobold grinned. Delta just nodded as she eyed the most important part of this plan.

 

“Jeb… I need you to listen closely to your Ma. Okay?” she called softly. The troll nodded instantly.

 

“When that door opens. I need you to make all the bones and slime filled people go away. Can you do that?” she asked with a warm smile as if she wasn’t about to let loose a troll into the hallways to rampage.

 

No one… messes with Sis. That girl did nothing but her best and something had the gall to bite Nu or tear him up and attack Sis?

 

Did it think Delta was just going to sit here and accept that?

 

Heck to the frick no.

 

“Clear!” came the response.

 

“Go go go!” Cois screamed.

 

Delta swiped one hand and the doors swung open, the sniper nests above now having no means of escape unless her goblins jumped. Jeb roared and the room shook as he eyed the approaching skeletons.

 

“YOU WON’T TOUCH MY MA!” he shouted and took off, lumbering like a force of nature.

 

“Charge!” Delta yelled.

 

Her frogs weaved into battle. Jack lobbing bombs that exploded with thunder and laughter and troll gas.

 

Numb took up the tail end and his fists cracked the leftovers with ease.

 

“Look at me, you creepy son of a birch!” Delta whispered, hands clenched tight.

 

“I’m right here and I’m coming for you!” she said, her core blazing behind her.

 

---

 

Sis gasped as the tendril of… well, nothing... lashed at her.

 

Her chair had been overturned and her white dress was torn along the sleeves and her bare feet were covered in scratches. She shielded herself and dozens of boxes and slots covered her like armour. She repelled the touch of nothing. It devoured some boxes, ruined others. Nothing Sis couldn’t fix if given time.

 

She reached out and a sword of blazing gold appeared in her grasp.

 

“Thank you Yal, now go before it finds you!” she yelled to the golden box that had appeared. She swung and the space of the System erupted in golden fire, pushing the invader back. It wasn’t enough. Yal’s sword was good but it had been a quickly made weapon. Not his usual grand style.

 

A green box appeared and a shield of shining emerald appeared on her arm. The other side was of Sapphire and glimmered.

 

Twin sided shield.

 

“You two go as well!” Sis cut the communications.

 

Sis watched as gold fire and boxes were drained, turning to dust and endless silence.

 

“You are such a pain. Always have been, you dirty cheater,” Sis growled. That comment almost sent the nothing into a fit of rage. Sis winced as she felt the next attack coming up. The Silence had done nothing but make this invader’s mood worse.

 

She was about to hope the Twin Shield would hold when a comet of Blue smashed into the being and Nu’s form reappeared.

 

Without a word, they began to make the thing chase them both. This enraged it further. Just like old times, Sis mused.

 

It all came to a stop when the nothingness and Silence was broken by something in the distance. A single Mushroom poked its head out of the bleak endless nothing.

 

It blazed orange and a second appeared.

 

Then… it stopped. Sis blinked as the attacks ended. Nu laughed with delight.

 

“Yes… it’s so much better watching her mess up other people’s grand plans!” he laughed like a madman and Sis couldn’t blame him.

 

She wanted to laugh as well.

 

The single glowing Mushroom pushed back the nothing and that was the last thing Sis saw before she secured the hole and patched the crack in the System.

 

Her smile slipped, once she noticed how many things she now had to fix. Delta’s orange Mana had slipped into more parts of her System.

 

Not good… but also… kind of good.

 

Room Configuration was kind of important but it was only Delta’d to the point of being weird, not broken.

 

What else could a System ask for?

 

---

 

Ruli wanted to contract herself to Delta just so she could kiss the damn girl.

 

Delta had a bar! A real bar with seats and drinks and a grumpy barmaid! But the best part was that no one could steal Ruli’s favourite seat - yes, she had already chosen the best seat in the house. A large stool at the corner where one was not too close or too far from the musical mushrooms, which were playing some oddly energetic music that Ruli could see herself rushing into battle to.

 

Close enough to order a drink but not be pushed by others ordering drinks. Good view of the room, enough space behind her to feel safe but not paranoid.

 

The only downside was the place was missing the three stooges.

 

Fera—Ruli had to pry that name out with a tip—told her that they were on a mission to clean Delta’s basement.

 

One, Delta having a basement was odd for a Dungeon, and two, she couldn’t see that asshat Cois doing anything without a good reason and tons of bribery. Must be some near disaster on the Third Floor.

 

Maybe Delta made a casino or befriended some Hydra worm. Delta was good with people like that. She sighed as she sipped her mushroom brew.

 

It had a mix of the special stuff of Durence in it, but Fera had put her own spin on it as well so it was spicy and a little tongue numbing.

 

Ruli didn’t like it at first… then she did, so she drank it again… then she felt conflicted.

 

The drink was, quite oddly, disgustingly tasty. Ruli sipped with a grimace and then sighed in contentment. She could see why that slip of a girl got wasted. This place was just the best.

 

It helped that Fera had no proper concept of prices for the outside so everything was dirt cheap. Something Ruli would fix when she was… uh… leaving. Just being a good guest.

 

“What’s a girl got left to enjoy? Fishing, beer, no Quiss or Mum… this is the gooood life.” Ruli down her drink with a gag before burping in pleasure.

 

“So, where’s Delta at?” Ruli asked politely.

 

Fera gave her a long look.

 

“Fighting some Silence bloke on the Third Floor. Waging war on some undead army and I can’t do do nothing‘cause I got to keep an eye out for guests, right?” Fera complained. She blinked as the mug rattled on the bar, the woman gone faster than Fera could detect.

 

She heard Fran’s door being kicked open and then nothing else.

 

She eyed the copper coins and shrugged.

 

At least she paid her tab.

 

Fera smirked as she poured herself a glass of Lord Mushy’s wine.

 

Shame if Mama suddenly got some help in the form of that powerful woman.

 

Be a real shame.

 

---

 

Delta watched through Devina’s eyes as Jeb turned, after finally putting down the remains of a large lion skeleton, and nearly choked in dismay as Jeb lumbered back with one of his arms having been torn off.

 

He looked in pain and a little confused but he beamed as Devina tried to fuss over him.

 

“No worries, Devi! Pain already gone. See!” he boasted and Delta couldn’t look. Jeb went on as Rale swished his trident and beheaded some ghosts, his trident clearly a bit more than just for show that Delta had assumed.

 

She had never seen a ghost be beheaded, vanish, then reappear whole only to get blasted by Devina.

 

“Arm gonna be back inna a day, wotz a few hours?” Jeb shrugged. Delta blinked and sure enough, a little nub of bone was already growing out of the stump. Gross but also kind of cool. She hadn’t forgotten Jeb could regenerate but she didn’t think that it worked for entire limbs!

 

