Red eyes opened where the craters of the moon formed. They gazed through me,  "However, there is little I may do. Eonoth is powerful. Etorhma is sly. Mesmera is unavoidable as your kind cannot control their thoughts. I do pity your predicament. If it helps you, I hope that your world isn't left shattered like the others, but I cannot control what they've chosen to do or will do."

I blinked, a wave of dread rolling over me, "You're telling me that more Old Ones are coming?"

"Of course. There is no limit to us, and you all exist outside the scope of all that we know. Why wouldn't more come?"

I stared down at the red ocean below me as Baldowah said,

"And we will arrive. We'll cut up where you infest, and we'll find our own meaning in your temporary existences. Many will die and survive as you always have. It will simply be because of us instead of the natural forces you experience."

I peered at the dark moon, "Why?"

"Why not?"

"Because we're fighting to survive. You could at least respect the effort. And you don't have to do this. You could sit by and watch."

"For your first statement, I'd like to establish a simple fact - you all die. Even you will perish eventually. If your deaths happen to stem from us, it makes little difference. As for your second statement, I could say the same of you, yet you interfere with the world around you. I am here now, and I've chosen to do the same."

I raised my hands in frustration, "We die because of inevitable realities around us, like growing old or starving to death. It's not because someone is forcing our death...Most of the time. And your second argument is awful. The kind of changes you're putting out there makes everything worse."

Baldowah laughed before chiding, "Child, you mistake yourself. To you, we are as inevitable as those forces you speak of. Far more so, actually. Gravity can be fought. So can time. I am beyond both, so there is no difference in the cause of your demises. Both are uncontrollable to you."

Baldowah spoke with finality, "Accept it and move on. Your kind is good at that, and I admire that perseverance."

A darkened, malevolent sensation crawled up my spine. It wasn't anger. It was something closer to hatred, so I snapped, "You're nothing more than a bored scientist playing with the corpse of a dog. There's nothing inevitable about you."

Baldowah wondered aloud, "You compare yourselves to the corpse of a dog? No, you're more akin to...Hm, parasites, maybe? It's hard to define your existence to us. That's part of what makes you all so interesting to interact with. Speaking of which, how about we establish some kind of deal?"

I stayed silent. Baldowah's voice heightened, "I'll take your silence as interest. If you free the ensnared avatar within Valgus, I'll give you great power. That is why your attempts to harm Valgus are foiled - you fight against something you don't understand."

I resolved to uncover what means these avatars used for their invincible bodies. Once I dismantled the rules that kept them safe, they'd have to face me on their own merit...Something I didn't expect any of them to match me on.

Baldowah wondered aloud, "Power...It's something your kind always wants more of that...Right? It must be a tempting deal, but to specify, it will be great power in combat. I wish for you to bring forth the demise of others, and you have many enemies you could kill already. Remember Elysium? I can give you the ability to crush them. Same for Schema, should the AI cross you further."

Baldowah rumbled his words through this realm, "Tempting, isn't it? You could taste infinity, but you will lose a part of who you are. Such is the sacrifice of exceeding limits that are otherwise unbroachable."

I bit my tongue to keep myself quiet. Baldowah kept talking, "You'll need to let go of your goal to save the eldritch. I quite like the eternal battle they put your kind in, and there's a twisted irony to it all that I find so delicious. Schema and I agree on that point, which is the primary reason that little automation thinks I've allied with it. Hah. Foolish."

I blinked a few times, struggling to keep my words suppressed. Baldowah omened, "And worry not for new foes. Once you've crushed them, their loved ones will become your new foes, and they'll kill some of your family and vice versa. Inevitably, a cycle of vengeance will form. You'll battle on forever, as my other avatars have."

I marveled at the red moon, my sense of disgust fading. Baldowah understood so little about us and why we lived. No matter what I said, it would never relent. I mean, I wasn't the first person to argue with it or the smartest one to either. Reasoning with it was pointless, so I had only two options.

Let it be or fight it.

I peered at the waves below me, the shifting liquid mirroring maroon-colored wine. This entire conversation robbed Baldowah of his previous mystique. I imagined some otherworldly being with unknowable intentions. Instead, I found a binge-watching junkie hellbent on turning our world into a war film. In a way, it made all of my efforts up to now seem pointless.

If some all-powerful being could wipe everything away with the snap of its fingers, then what was the point in doing anything? And based on what Baldowah said, everything would fade eventually. It left me spiraling in existential dread, and a pit of nihilism was where I found myself.

Even if I avoided these entities, they'd seek me out with their avatars until I joined one of them. Then, I would fight an eternal battle, one without cause or merit that was dictated by an entity that understood nothing about us. I was in a kind of rat race, but instead of being financial, it was entirely built on fighting.

Schema wanted me to kill eldritch and Elysium, and Elysium wanted me fighting Schema. Baldowah tried to turn me into a machine of war, one that created endless cycles of killing. It felt inescapable, suffocating, and like I was twined into some string of fate, an awful one. I never believed in the concept before, but it reared its ugly head at this moment in a commanding fashion.

The rage around me molded with that sense of helplessness, and it whispered to let the wrath consume me. My life would be so much easier if I forgot about anything outside of fighting. I mean, I'd eventually amass enough power that I could challenge these entities and win. Would they let that happen? Would I even want to kill them after going through what they wanted me to experience? I doubted it.

A wave of disgust passed over me for contemplating that vein of thought. Regardless of what anyone thought, I was more than a warrior. I was more than some simpleton who beat people to death with his fists. I had a lot left to learn, but I'd taken a different path for quite some time. Despite my decisions, these all-powerful beings kept trying to put me back in that box repeatedly.

In one sense, it left me humbled that only my fights left a mark on them. From another perspective, it made me feel pity for these entities. They chased these absurd, idealistic realities where their whims were put into action. Schema wanted us fighting eldritch, Elysium wanted a utopia built on torture, and the Old Ones wanted...Well, whatever the hell the Old Ones wanted.

The problem was that their goals were manufactured and hollow. I never had to worry about that. I had my plate full just trying to survive, let alone thrive. That's why they kept fighting to sign a contract with me. It was so that they could take my place, which meant my position was something they envied. I had something they wanted and couldn't have, whether they admitted to it or not.

Armed with that knowledge, I spoke with stone in my voice, "I won't let it be."

"After all that thought, and that's all you have to say? You will let us be...You all will. Obviously."

A resolve formed in my chest. I was one of the few capable of making a difference, and I intended to do just that. I glared at the red moon, and it peered through me. I spoke with a quiet, raging calm,

"I will become a hunter of you and your kind. You will regret peering at us, and I'll ensure it."

It laughed, but my voice omened over the laughter,

"Give me time. That's all I need."

The voice replied, amusement rich in its tone, "But you will never reach us. You never can. It's impossible, and your foolish for even thinking you can."

I shrugged, "There was a time less than ten years ago when I struggled to pass my high school classes. Now, my mind has become many, and my body has become an army. I'll spread an empire across the cosmos, one that's better than these farces I see everywhere. Before you can end it, I'll find you. I'll find all of you."

I seethed, "I'll drag you down here, or I'll reach wherever you've manifested. When I find you, be ready."

Baldowah spoke like a teacher talking to a new student, "You simply don't understand where I am and where you are. I am not like the others. I have been within your realm the longest. I've touched and tasted it, which gives me the means to convey my thoughts...To a degree."

The Old One scoffed, "You're a parasite on a corpse, and you don't even know it. You may defy the limitations of those around you, but that means nothing to me. Less than nothing, as it shows your lack of perspective. You feel you are a king, and perhaps it is true. If you are one, then you are the king of leeches."

Baldowah impelled, "If you wish to rise above a mere parasite, simply drink the blood of the waters beneath you. Writhe in the mud, and I'll watch happily."

Below me, the waves opened eyes, and elongated smiles formed on pits of the water. Baldowah whispered, "This will be my last offer. You may drink this blood below and never need to worry in battle again."

My eyes narrowed, and I lifted a hand with a glowing, cipheric rune. It fed on my flesh, and I stated,

"The only blood I drink is my own."

"Hah...then so be it. Perhaps your mind will change after you've seen what Valgus can do to you all, and remember, little one, he merely holds an avatar within." The eyes blinked, "It was good to speak with you, even if you've lost coherence towards the end. Goodbye, Harbinger."

Around me, the sea of red drained. Spirals of blood whirlpooled into an unseen abyss, the kelp of Leviathan-7 returning to my line of sight. The hollow smiles reached the whirlpools, and they laughed like a chorus of children. The eyes cried tears of blood as the moon eclipsed with the crimson sky overtaking it. In time, sound dulled, becoming a muted shadow of its sharpened self.

The light of Leviathan returned, and I peered around.

The red dissipated like a body bleeding out. Thoughts intermingled in my head, a mix of dread, sadness, and terror rushing in. The other emotions almost hurt to experience, like opening curtains in a dark room. The light contrasted what I adapted to, its brilliance blinding. These emotions took on the same sensation, the worst being panic.

I facepalmed, wondering why the hell I spoke back to an Old One like that. I usually held back as much of my opinion as possible, but I shouted at the bloodied moon like some maniac. The aura of madness overwhelmed me more than I'd like to admit, but the consequences were set in stone.

I announced war against the Old Ones.

I could only pray they wouldn't take me seriously, and by the sound of it, Baldowah didn't mind much. As the welled-up fear and panic faded, a glowing ember of resentment remained. It came with pride and intention - I'd drag the Old Ones here and show them some 'purpose' and 'meaning.'

A part of me congratulated the new purpose. I'd finally roused a goal for myself, one I'd made on my own. Even if the Old Ones found it laughable, we'd see how long they found it funny.

Blinking for a few moments, I centered myself back on the moment. Around me, everything remained in perpetual stasis. Valgus stood above us, maimed by his attempts to regain his lost limbs. Shalahora sent out spirals of darkness at the asura, and below us, my golems harvested the results of our battle. I rubbed my temples, wondering what to do next. Peering up, I bolted towards Valgus.

Time began moving once more, a sort of lag affecting the others. They regained motion over time, and I slammed into Valgus before he could attain his previous dominance. As I hit him, his body remained motionless. His eyes peered down at me, a smile creeping up his face. I rolled my eyes as he grabbed my arm.

My casual disinterest altered into fear as Valgus slung me into the abyss of Leviathan's event horizon. I pulled myself out of my body as my corpse flew into the field of no return. It stalled like all other objects, becoming part of the scenery. I regenerated beside Valgus, and his smile waned as he growled out,

"It would seem Baldowah has tried blessing you. Why did you deny him?"

I smiled, "Eh, it was probably the same reason you denied him, right?"

Valgus blinked at me, utter bafflement spreading over his face. He scoffed, "I'd never do something of the sort. I am carved in his image, and though it's a poor rendering, I'll do my best to see his changes wrought forth."

Shalahora's blades sliced into us, the dark flames sizzling on my armor. Valgus and I traded blows, my bones breaking against his fist while he destroyed me. After landing on the rainbow bones below, I lifted my arms. Pillars of rainbow bone sliced up at the asura, but he caught them again. His eyes glazed over as he crushed the rainbow bones in his hands.

He murmured, "Baldowah...You've returned so soon. What is it, my lord?"

I raised a brow, peering at Shalahora. The shade shrugged, understanding about as much as I did. Valgus blinked a few times before frowning,

"But why? Have I disappointed you?"

Seconds passed, and Valgus's shoulders slumped, "No, please, I didn't mean to refute you. I shall do as you command."

