“It sounds like you understand my objective somewhat,” Jake nodded, briefly looking around the cavern. “I would like a personal space, as I have some matters to attend to, and I may need to commune with the Malefic One.”

The Great Sea Serpent’s gaze intensified, the A-grade full of fervor. “Certainly! I’ll prepare the deepest chamber for you, and while it’s certainly way below your standards, the energy there will hopefully prove somewhat beneficial.”

That’s when Jake realized something else. Despite the snake having learned a lot about the multiverse, the existence of enlightened species seemed not to have been included. Had Villy excluded it on purpose? Who the hell knew, but it seemed like the serpent was still under the impression that Jake was a monster.

Fortunately, the more toxic atmosphere did benefit him a little, courtesy of Palate of the Malefic Viper. Far from as much as a monster would benefit, but Jake would still gladly take the offer.

“Then let us do that,” Jake nodded. “I assume you’ll bring me there?”

“If the Chosen allows it,” the Great Sea Serpent confirmed.

Jake gave his agreement, and not long after, he was swallowed by the snake once more and brought even deeper into the sea. The Great Sea Serpent appeared to have several undersea caverns with highly concentrated toxic energy within that was also easy to absorb due to natural formations created by the sea.

Venus truly was a paradise for poison-users, and Jake could see many members from the Order make pilgrimages there in the future.

After being taken to his destination, which was a vast cavern inside a suspended rock down inside the sea, Jake excused the Great Sea Serpent. The massive A-grade seemed reluctant to leave, but ultimately did as told, though he didn’t exactly leave.

Instead, the Great Sea Serpent returned to his full size and stayed in the ocean around Jake’s suspended rock, protecting him as the serpent also started digesting all the gains he’d received from the Malefic Viper.

Jake was also happy to confirm that the peak A-grade didn’t even try to spy on him, but fully respected his privacy, as Jake was finally alone for the first time in what felt like forever.

With a sigh, he sat down and only now truly felt the mental exhaustion from all that Venus had brought so far. His soul was also still injured, and having channeled Villy to hand out a Divine Blessing had also taken a bit out of him, making it very pleasant to finally just sit down and relax.

He just sat there for about an hour, doing nothing. Jake didn’t even really think about anything, but just let his thoughts stray. After he felt better mentally, Jake let out a sigh and reached out to his Patron, figuring a conversation was long overdue.
