The Antinium [Baker] was being very patient. The young Drake was almost convinced.
“So what does it have?”
“That is a secret. You must eat it and see. Please tell me if your family likes it. Oh, and here is the rest of your order.”
Garry added a pie he’d been keeping warm and a small box of his newest project. Erin had shown him how to make dumplings, and he’d finally managed to make them stick together. The Drake repeated his questions, but his stomach growled, and he almost snatched the food.
More than enough for a hungry young man. And enough for a family of three. Garry politely indicated his jar where he held coins.
“That will be three copper coins, please.”
Hisnis fumbled with his pouch, but he had three copper coins. One for each item. He put them in the jar, embarrassed, but Garry smiled, and they knew him enough to recognize an Antinium smile.
“Thank you for your business. Would you like to buy anything else?”
“No. Thanks…wait, we missed the door!”
Hisnis pointed, and everyone spun around to Drassi ducking an angry Snow Golem hurling snowballs at her team. They crowded around, but Hisnis grabbed the food and hesitated.
“I’ll—get this home. I’ll be back. Don’t let her do anything interesting!”
He shouted at the others as if they could stop Drassi. Garry nodded and watched the Drake run for it. He had to bring the food back to his mother and his younger brother. It might be breakfast.
It probably was breakfast. And the other guests of Garry’s stall, reminded of their stomachs, began asking for their orders. He delivered them, and his prices were fairly consistent.
One copper coin. One copper coin bought you a canteen of soup—so long as you brought back the canteen to refill—a loaf of bread filled with jam—that was what Garry’s secret ingredient was, Prelon jam—or half a duck roasted in fat.
The older Drake lady looked dismayed when Garry offered it to her.
“That’s my special today? Duck? Wherever did you buy that?”
“Invrisil, Miss Biscale. They had a sale on ducks. I had to use half for a project, but the other half is quite tasty.”
The other half of the project was a duck fat glaze and cuts for some potatoes au gratin. Mind you, that was just for taste and a bit of variety—Garry had made a huge, huge tub, and his helpers, Pisca and Runel, the Flying Antinium, had peeled two hundred potatoes.
Half a duck wasn’t much. But it was all he could save from the seventeen he’d used. Add in to that some tasteful Shield Spider cuts, pan-fried, a lot, a lot of goat’s butter, all the cooking in the six ovens he had—
Well, it had been a project. Miss Biscale tried to offer Garry a silver coin, but he politely asked for his copper.
“It is a copper for good customers, Miss Biscale. Thank you.”
She gave him such a…strange look. A familiar look. Garry felt like he looked at Erin the same way.
“Thank you very much, Chef Garry. I will bring you some recipes tomorrow. I’ll write them down.”
He beamed.
“That would be most welcome, Miss Biscale. I will see you tomorrow. Have a good day.”
She had no family, but he hoped that would be a lot of food, and she did have friends. That duck might be part of a potluck.
Drassi was exclaiming over the keep as Garry handed a young girl a box of meatballs—big ones for eating while you worked.
“Does your family have that mining job now?”
“Yep. They’re all making the new district. We can pay you more, Father said. There are lots of Silverfangs in the city, and they say we’re a tribe now, Mister Garry.”
“Well, I would prefer to be paid the same because it is easy to count. Why don’t you take one of my experimental candy-sticks? See? It is strawberry flavored, and there is an acid fly inside. Miss Imani and I have been making them.”
“Ew! Okay, I’ll take them. Do I tell you how it tasted?”
“Yes, please. There is no need to pay for them. They are experimental.”
Four red, slightly gelatinous lollipops went with the meatballs for breakfast. That was received…less well by some of Garry’s patrons.
Mind you, they ate it. When he’d first run Garry’s Antinium Edibles, the Worker had been very surprised to see people buying his food even with bugs.
Given his prices, it had made sense. But Garry, as a new stall owner, hadn’t realized why until a month later. Then he’d begun offering his specials and taking the bugs out of them.
It occurred to Garry, as he watched Drassi navigate the [Garden of Sanctuary], that he didn’t visit as much as he should. He had been far too sad when Erin was dead, but he and she hadn’t had a lot of time to cook together.
Why, she might not know how successful Garry was. He believed he sometimes, on a good day, broke even with his shop. Which was far better than the gold it tended to bleed week-to-week.
The Free Queen didn’t care. Neither did Garry. He leveled up, which the Free Queen told him was infinitely better than the gold that the Free Antinium had little use for. Moreover—Garry thought that his food was feeding a lot of people for very little.
And this…this was a good thing. Because Hisnis, without Garry’s food, might have to spend a lot of the money he managed to make—or steal, as when Garry had first met him—on worse food.
It was a strange thing. Garry had never set out to do this, but he knew most of the customers who came for his special deals at one copper each, and he listened to them and sometimes gave them more food.
He could not help them with their large troubles. Which concerned Garry greatly, like how Miss Biscale had been about to be evicted due to the soaring rent prices until the rent had been cut by the Council. Or how Comrei, the Gnoll girl, had been worried about her family’s situation, and Hisnis being arrested by the Watch for theft.
All he could do was give them food. Which he did. And sometimes food made it so you didn’t have to worry about coins. A fresh pie—without bugs—made a [Landlord] forgo the rent for a month. Or make a [Guardswoman] more inclined to let Hisnis off with a warning.
That was Garry’s Antinium Edibles, and it had a very select customer base. It did business with the occasional passerby who was often dared to eat something he made, but those who had his food were often surprised by the lack of bugs and quality on display.
Garry quite enjoyed taking orders. He had begun offering birthday cakes to his regulars, which mystified some people, because the rare confectionary, even in Liscor, was something Garry had no problem making. Nor did he count the cost in sugar, and again, his budget was backed by the Free Queen.
He thought of his stall, in fact, like Erin’s inn. Garry hadn’t realized it at first, but Hisnis was like…Garry had been to Erin. Sometimes you needed somewhere to eat food and not be worried about Mister Soot’s minions or whomever was in charge now.
Garry’s shop was right outside the Free Antinium’s Hive. He didn’t have a problem with crime. Crime had a problem with eighteen Soldiers who would charge out of their Hive. Garry had begun adding seats, and the scrying orb kept his crowd busy.
“Does anyone have a special order for tomorrow? I am going to order from Miss Krshia, and if she is to send a Street Runner to Invrisil, I must know now.”
The new cities had really opened up Garry’s markets. He listened as a Drake boy shyly asked if Garry could make something special for a Level 10 celebration and decided he’d make a variation on Erin’s bisque, perhaps. He ran it past the Drake boy and sighed.
“…Lobster bisque? They are very socially acceptable water-borne insects. No? A cake? A lobster cake? No? Just a sweet cake. Very well.”
He wrote down the order and happily went to order some food. Garry was glad Erin was having so much fun on the scrying orb. What he didn’t realize was that if she had knowledge of his humble stall, she would have been quite, quite proud of him.
But that was the city of Liscor. It was changing, and Garry, more than Erin or Lyonette or even Relc and Klbkch, could see how much it was changing.
 
——
 
The Antinium Worker trundling around the city with a basket and a list of groceries for Krshia’s shop, dubbed the Silverfang Emporium since she was so busy she could seldom run it—and hadn’t been in Liscor for months—was not an unfamiliar sight to Liscor.
Antinium had been in the city for over a decade now, but their role was changing.
Selys’ grandmother, Tekshia Shivertail, often sat with some veterans and old Drakes and sipped spicy tea in the morning. It was a bunch of grousing old scaleheads who complained and argued.
Funny. When they’d first started getting together, they didn’t play chess, but cards. And whenever one of them saw Antinium, they’d spit or argue about the decision to let them in. In those days, Workers moved around in a group and often out of sight, at night.
After that, Senior Guardsman Klbkch had started his routine, and people would stop him just to hear an Antinium—the Slayer—talk. But after he’d captured a [Killer] on the streets and slain several monsters on patrols, and after years, he’d actually been a welcome sight, especially if you wanted a competent [Guardsman].
Later…the patrols had started, and everyone would clear the streets when they came by. Tekshia was just one of the Drakes staring at the Antinium show of force…until she noticed one with Yellow Splatters and saw more colors day by day.
Then Hectval. Then the siege and so much more.
These days, the Antinium marching by the Drakes sipping tea was how they started their day, and if they didn’t march by exactly at half-past six, the group would be off-kilter for the rest of the morning.
“Where’s the gemstone fellow? I told you to bring that one. The one with the gemstone on his forehead.”
One of the Drakes harangued the patrol leader as they passed. He was being crotchety, but the Worker turned and actually spoke.
“I apologize, sir. I am Archer E41, and I was not present yesterday. Gemhead is likely on guard-duty. I will report this failure to Strategist Belgrade upon my return.”
“Oh—I didn’t mean you had to. Just so long as I see him sometime this week.”
Tekshia snorted as the Drake tried to clear things up. Antinium were entirely literal. They were also getting more and more interesting.
First paint. Then some decided accessories were as much their personality as paint, like the one which had no paint—save for a gemstone they wore like a kind of tiara between their antennae.
That was just as much an indication of Liscor changing: the fact that people spoke to Antinium and didn’t seem as mistrustful. However—it was still a huge change in one year.
Erin Solstice or not, there was more at play to how fast Liscor was changing. One reason was the Antinium themselves, but another was a power even Tekshia realized most were beholden to. From her Guild to Liscor’s Council—
It was the power of economics. Specifically?
Antinium economics. The patrol of Antinium often took this route, and, as a result, they were not halfway down the street when a panting stall owner wheeled up, smoke and a meaty scent wafting from the stall.
“I’m late! I’m—oh, Ancestors. Good! Hello! Can I interest your patrol in some hamburgers? Antinium-friendly cornmeal buns! See? Hot and very reasonable! Only one silver and two copper per!”
Tekshia’s snort made the Gnoll hesitate, but the Antinium leading the patrol twitched his antennae and then counted the Antinium present.
“The inn is very busy. How many here have had a hamburger?”
He counted the five hands raised out of the entire patrol and decided that it was a good purchase. The Gnoll stared at the gold coins avariciously as another stall owner hurried down the street—too late.
Antinium economics. The Free Hive had a lot of gold, and until now, The Wandering Inn had been getting most of it. It had taken a bit for the restaurants and other sellers of food to realize what they were missing. Only when Pawn had approached a few and bought huge amounts of food at their prices did they realize the Antinium were a literal goldmine.
You might not like them at first, but if you sold to them…none of the Antinium seemed to care that they were being overcharged. They ate happily—and it was good food they wanted. They would not ever say if it were bad food—but Tekshia noticed they were getting pickier and pickier with whose food they bought. Before, anyone offering food would get a sale, no questions asked. Now? You had better know the Antinium were intolerant to gluten or you’d be passed by.
She wondered if she should tell the patrol leaders not to pay so much. Then again—Tekshia also knew about Garry’s stall, and she considered that a boon for everyone in no small way. With the Humans and new parts of the city under development, Liscor really was feeling…new.
For instance, an older Silverfang Gnoll was pondering his next chess move, a tentative addition to the Drake group. Tekshia wondered if she’d get along with some Humans. She sipped at her tea cup and decided they had to try this ‘boba’ thing that Imani’s kitchen was offering via Timbor’s inn.
It was hard to get Imani’s new treats, but Tekshia had a granddaughter, and Selys was going to get it for her.
 
——
 
What even the canny Guildmistress, Spearmaster Tekshia, didn’t know was that the Antinium’s over-expenditures were being noticed by the one authority who could make it her concern. Yet the Free Queen didn’t care.
The Antinium Queen had a giant…cup. It was more like a vat, and she had tea to start her morning too and a huge amount of potatoes for food. Garry’s ‘boba’ were more like chunks in the giant wooden straw he’d had to commission, but the effect was mostly the same.
“The patrols are doing well.”
That was the Free Queen’s comment to Klbkch as he watched the scrying orb. He glanced up.
“What? Yes…indeed. The Hive is doing exceptionally well. I believe there is nothing more to discuss. I shall take my leave.”
“As far as I am aware, you have no [Guardsman] duties at the moment. We are reviewing the Hive’s performance, Klbkchhezeim. Unless something takes priority?”
The way Klbkch hesitated for just a second. And his response.
“No—not at all, my Queen.”
If Antinium could smirk…she saw him glancing at the scrying orb. The Free Queen, Xevccha, took a long sip of her tea.
“How much do we expend on the Antinium—activities, then, my Queen? Perhaps we can curtail their budget.”
Klbkch fidgeted, so unlike him, but he tried to direct their meeting to business. The Free Queen nodded to him.
“You are in possession of our written ledgers. We accumulate more gold via our construction work.”
