“Let me in.”
A Drake stood like a [Beggar] in front of a [King]’s treasury. In every sense of the word, because the gates were open. A rich paradise of…content lay beyond. A trove, if not in exactly gold, then information, knowledge, and spectacle.
Yet the unjust, uncaring tyrant couldn’t part with a single gold coin in this analogy. Not a copper penny. The Drake pressed his hands up against the blank air, as inviting as the open doorway it was—
As solid as stone. He pleaded again.
“Let me in. Please.”
“No. Go away.”
The voice from the owner of the inn was slightly vexed. She had figured out that if she tossed something out of her [Garden of Sanctuary], it could hurt. The Drake had to duck out of the way. His dusky red scales, flushed darker with embarrassment and anger, were already covered with a bit of muck.
It did not go well with the cream-colored suit, highlighted by yellow. And yes—it was a look. He’d tried it on, and it was not flying with his audience. But being disliked was almost part of Noass’ appeal. And this moment was television gold.
“Let me in! Let me in! The world deserves to see!”
Noass howled as he clawed at the opening to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Erin Solstice’s aggrieved sigh was her only reply, but she stayed well out of sight; even the [Cameraman] couldn’t get a view of her.
“Go away! This is private property!”
“Miss Solstice, you cannot deny the entire world the right to see inside—”
Noass’ refrain was cut off by an [Unerring Throw]…of a mudball to his mouth. He gagged and spat as Erin high-fived a delighted Mrsha.
“Go away! No one gets in here! Drassi’s already in here, anyways.”
“Then let her report on—”
“No.”
Here was the thing. The [Honest Reporter] was having a moment of journalistic struggle. She was part of the audience watching Noass try to talk his way into Erin’s garden. That wasn’t the struggle; Drassi was all too pleased to watch him eat dirt, and she’d let him eat shit if Erin could find some lying around and were willing to throw it.
Yet—she had to admit, Noass had a point. He often did. It was just that he and Sir Relz could find a way to package that point in a quintessentially Drake and often elitist tone. However, the scowling [Innkeeper] throwing mudballs from the side was Drassi’s friend.
More than that—she was Drassi’s former employer, and she’d helped Drassi get this very job. The Drake felt…an odd compulsion to mention that. Should she say it if she ever covered a story with Erin? Or just let Noass do that?
Then again—Erin would never let Noass in her garden. But she wasn’t keen on Drassi reporting on it either. However, Drassi wasn’t an idiot. The Drake coughed and then whispered loudly to Erin as the [Innkeeper] called to Mrsha.
“Mrsha, get a really yucky mudball. No, a snowball! No, a snow-mudball! With worms! Are there worms in…?”
“Erin, maybe you should let me take a look around the [Garden of Sanctuary]?”
The [Innkeeper] looked astonished. She was washing the muck off her hands as she stood in her garden after all the excitement of yesterday. It was early morning, and the excitement was still palpable. However—even Drassi didn’t know where the staff of the inn had disappeared to, and Erin had ejected everyone out of her frozen garden soon after they’d identified it.
The [Strategists], the crowds, and yes, even Wistram News Network were here after word had spread. Yet Erin wasn’t having it.
Mind you, she looked better than she had for the last three weeks. No more wheelchair, and the blotchy skin, coughing, and her weakness had faded. Thanks to magic, she could now walk and dress herself, so she’d actually put on some comfy pants that Drassi and Selys had bought for her.
Erin talked a lot about jeans and the fashion of her world. There weren’t always the same fabrics, but Drassi had found some wonderfully matte, dyed black pants made out of a thin leather layer and cotton composite. The leather she thought might actually be Wyvern, from the raid on Pallass. It was apparently ‘jean’-like, and Erin had put on one of the light Silverfang shirts that had some silver hemming. Just a fairly light green cotton, aside from that with Liscor’s logo of a city over water, but it looked good.
Interview-ready. Drassi herself had clothing to fit a possible [Reporter] job—unlike the tracksuit she’d been gifted to interview and keep up with Joseph and athletic people in, she had on a dress that looked simply austere, a deep rose-red to compliment her sun-yellow scales. However, if she moved or whirled, you could see that the folds were actually yellow—it looked like a flower opening.
If you did it right. Which Drassi had practiced in front of a mirror and Selys for nearly two weeks before debuting it today.
Intention. The reason why Erin had clothing that nice was because Selys had bankrolled a shopping spree. Drassi was far more deliberate. So was Selys, at least, lately. But Erin was in the camp that Mrsha, Bird, and a few others occupied.
Then again—Mrsha was a child. Octavia was closer to Erin, because the [Alchemist] would forget to change her clothes, and neither one would like that comparison. Mrsha might be pleased to run around with no clothing, but she was growing up.
She wore that kilt more often than not when going into the city, and she was now fairly nimble on her two legs. She was…growing up. And whether it was Visma, age, or anything else—Drassi saw the Gnoll girl notice her dress. She was getting an appreciation for clothing, even if she didn’t bother.
Erin—didn’t notice. She scowled and pointed at Noass, who was out of dirtball range.
“Drassi! I’m not even letting Niers’ students into the garden right now. I don’t even trust them—let alone Noass or Chaldion!”
“Hah! You hear that, old man?”
A naked Drake danced through the garden’s door and waved at a scowling old Drake outside. Drassi sighed. There were magic censors since Wistram’s broadcast was on a ten minute delay, but the [Mages] complained about having to censor Saliss since someone had to stare at the image.
That was someone else who didn’t think about clothing. And if Erin had thought in clothes-language, she would have realized Drassi’s intention. That was the point; the Thronebearers and Lyonette surely had.
At any rate, the [Innkeeper] gnawed on one lip as she turned to Drassi.
“The Gardens are…sort of secret, Drassi. I don’t want to show everyone, like, everything, you know?”
And there it was again. Some kind of—instinct? Or just her conscience? The talks she had with Rémi Canada? Journalistic conflict. Drassi hesitated, but she stepped forwards and lowered her voice.
“That’s true, Erin. But if we show everyone a look—just a quick look at the new [Garden of Sanctuary], they’ll be satisfied. It’s mostly buried, anyways. Just give us…forty-five minutes? It won’t even be full coverage. You can let a few Drakes in with shovels or Jewel or someone else. They’ll probably waste time.”
Erin hesitated, and there it was. The [Honest Reporter] watched her expression carefully.
Drassi. Not an idiot. Unlike Noass, she knew how to talk to people. And she had realized something after listening to the inn’s family. Even if Mrsha couldn’t speak, she had a big, big mouth. Drassi wondered how many other people had noticed—
There was more than one [Garden]. Drassi was a resident of Liscor. Unlike Chaldion or Altestiel, she knew what kind of flowering trees surrounded Liscor or were in the garden—and none of them had pink petals.
However, Drassi didn’t need to report on this. She was an [Honest Reporter], and that cut two ways, she was realizing. Erin’s gaze flickered as she thought of the same thing Drassi did.
“The new garden? The other one?”
“Just one look, Erin. It’s not even the biggest piece. You’re famous because of the <Quests>. [Innkeeper] has two gardens in a famous Skill. The Dullahans will have commentary—it’s a one-day piece.”
“I guess. Because yeah, it’s my new garden—and the one I want to explore first. But a quick peek, this once—I guess I can let you in. Forty-five minutes?”
It was actually amazing. When Erin lied, it was usually obvious. Unless she was lying. And she was concealing the other gardens quite well.
Drassi was curious, but she instantly agreed, and she held out a clawed hand. Erin shook on it and, sighing, went over to the doorway.
“Alright, Noass. You win. Come on in.”
The beaming Drake strode towards the door and face-planted into the wall as Drassi watched. Erin cackled as the [Reporter] snorted. The [Innkeeper] pointed to Drassi as the Drake grabbed the magical microphone.
“Drassi Tewing, taking over for an exclusive look into a famous Skill. I believe we have commentary from the Iron Vanguard and Archmage Blackwood waiting. I’ll leave that to you, Sir Relz. Now—let’s just wait for Erin to open her garden and we’ll see what’s happening. Erin, by the way, actually employed me as a [Bartender]. I’m—disclosing that? And she helped me get this very job, so let me just say, I’m very biased in her favor. And a friend. And we’ll be respectfully entering the garden—”
 
——
 
Some days, it really did seem like it was all about Erin Solstice. But then, if you watched the news or just listened to the town crier, you got a very small snapshot of the world.
To listen to the streets of Liscor, the war with Hectval had been the only thing happening in the world for a long time. The north was still buzzing with the fallout from the Circle of Thorns being unveiled, although they’d moved onto the war with Ailendamus and Magnolia’s scandalous proposal.
Narrow views—slices, really—of reality were how you learned about the rest of the world. The trick was…knowing it was a snapshot, a single point on a grid.
And when it was done right, that moment was indeed magical. The reason Erin had a presence on the news was because she could provide that.
That was why every eye was on Drassi. In the scrying orb, the hilarity of Noass’ antics faded away. The [Honest Reporter] checked herself. She accepted a heating spell since it would be cold and she was wearing a dress, but the audience got to see the camera-crew for once.
“No, no makeup—we’re going in. No one kill any Snow Golems if you can…who’s coming in? Adventurer Jewel?”
“On bodyguard duty. And excavation work for Miss Solstice. I’m Captain Jewel of Glitterblade—”
The Human woman was trying to get some camera-time, but Drassi stared at the closed door. Erin had shut it, yet some cold air was leaking around the frozen handle.
Stone. The door had changed. It now looked out of place. It would have fit…somewhere else. A frozen fortress. Perhaps a door set into the side of a keep, and it was larger. Fit for a [General]. Drassi’s words were quieter now, and a Gnoll backed up as she turned to the camera.
“I—to give you all some clarity, I believe we are about to enter the [Garden of Sanctuary]. A legacy Skill inherited from person to person. This is not Erin—the [Innkeeper]’s. She has apparently gained access to an older garden. This was the domain of the leader of the Iron Vanguard over seven thousand years ago. Before the Creler wars, Dolost the Adamantine was said to have this Skill.”
A visible shiver ran down Drassi’s scales. She breathed out.
“They called that age the Wars of Complacency—before the Crelers emerged, Rhir was left mostly barren. There were no Demons. [Archmages] were common, and if my research is right—so were even Dragons, although the times of Dragon-empires were long gone. Think on that. The Iron Vanguard was there. And their leader wore Adamantium armor—he had this Skill. We cannot confirm this is the very same garden, but the stone and design matches that of Invictel, the capital of the Iron Vanguard. We may be walking a place untouched for seven thousand years.”
Her voice trembled, and her eyes were locked on her audience. That was magic. And—whether Erin liked it or not, that was the value of The Wandering Inn.
It was so gripping that no one was speaking. Even people in Liscor were watching the scrying orb—or hurrying to crowd the inn. The Dullahan audiences were just as rapt. Maughin had abandoned his love—the block of Adamantium he was trying to learn to forge—although he’d taken his other love, Jelaqua, to join the crowds in the inn.
However, even though he could have been there—even though he had every right, and more than most—one person watching the scrying orb was not fighting to get a peek.
He had no doubt it was magical. He wanted to see it all.
But Garry the [Baker]-[Chef] had a stall to run. And Garry’s Antinium Edibles was open every day of the week. Count on it.
His audience wasn’t purchasing his goods. They were all staring at the scrying orb. None of them could afford one, Garry guessed. He based this on the fact that they were here for his deals on bread—and they were regulars.
And that half were children. Children were not fiscally wealthy in his observations. Except for Mrsha.
But they were not children like Mrsha. So as he watched and listened, Garry got their orders ready.
“Look at the door. She’s opening it! Look at the snow! It’s at that inn. The one that kills people.”
The children were whispering. Garry interrupted them gently as he pushed a loaf of bread over the counter.
“It does not kill people directly. Here you are, Hisnis. One loaf of bread. I have included a new idea this time.”
One of the Drakes might have been fourteen. He was at that stage where they shot up, or so Garry had been told, but he was shorter, yet to really climb.
He was also not going to purchase anything like Garry’s scrying orb any time soon. Which was why he often came to watch. He had on cheap hide clothing.
Cheap clothes here weren’t cotton—cotton was imported. Corusdeer hide was one of the most common commodities from [Hunters], so if you were strapped for coins, that was what you had. His was old and handed down. And it didn’t fit properly.
The Drake boy stared at Garry’s loaf with great apprehension. He knew what that usually meant.
“Does it have…maggots? Live maggots?”
“No.”
Garry saw the Drake boy poke the loaf as the others stared at it. One Gnoll girl stood on her tiptoes and sniffed it very suspiciously.
“Smells good.”
She informed Hisnis. The Drake hesitated. He wouldn’t have associated with the young Silverfang girl a few months ago, but she was a regular like him. Even so, he didn’t take it.
“Does it have anything alive in it?”
“No. Maybe yeast, but it is fresh and baked. It has no bugs.”
“Does it have bug parts in it?”
“No.”
“…Dirt? Slime? Monster organs or anything they make?”
“No, no, no, and no.”
