Erin walked around the tree as Mrsha clung to her pant leg. Next, they came across a strange figure. She was sitting cross-legged, fingers dancing as a beautiful crown of bone sat atop her head. Her cheeks and eyes had a kind of paint on them, highlighting her features. She was…a [Necromancer]?
“I’ve got to introduce Pisces to her. This is…Khelta.”
“Of Khelt?”
Mrsha’s jaw dropped as she met Fetohep’s forebear. She was so pretty! Nothing like Fetohep, who could have used some of that makeup. For his entire face. Erin stared for a long time at Khelta.
“She really was amazing. There are so many…you should meet Serept. And His-Xe. And…I’ll show you them all.”
One by one, they walked past the rulers of Khelt. And then a coven of [Witches]. Numbtongue’s eyes widened as he saw one shaped like a tree—and another quite fetching [Witch] who was half-Shark.
“Nice teeth.”
“Numbtongue! She’s the most powerful [Witch] ever to walk the sea floor!”
“Yeah. And she has nice teeth. They would like the compliments, I hope.”
Barsoijou grinned at Numbtongue, and Erin wiped at her eyes.
“Yeah. I bet she would. Come on. I don’t see…I don’t see Xarkouth. I hope I never do. He was the bravest—”
Who? The Goblin and Gnoll looked at each other. But Erin took something from this walk. Her back straightened. She looked around and called out.
“This is the statue I wanted to see. The statues, I mean. They’re all the ones I want to see. But not the one I’m thinking of. Show it to me. They deserve a place, or do they predate…you? They deserve a spot. Show me.”
The mists gathered so thickly around her that the [Bard] was afraid he’d be cast out of whatever was happening, despite everything. Mrsha was hugging Erin’s leg, no longer as excited.
“Erin…”
“I can’t see them. Where are they? Light. I need…”
Since she had one free, Erin raised a hand. She conjured a glowing ball of fire. It was blue. Blue like depression and sadness and this garden. It didn’t illuminate very far until a pink glow flickered through it. Numbtongue stared as the fire of depression and glory mixed, twin flames pink and blue.
“I should have brought that lantern. I need better fire. I need…this might do for now. Two flames beat one.”
Erin held the two flames aloft, and they burned fiercer. The mists began to part. But they still—struggled. So Erin hesitated. Then she lifted her burning palm to her lips. She closed her eyes and blew.
The flames burned outwards from her palm, impossibly far. Not like Dragonbreath—more like a billowing cloud of gentle fire, piercing the mists. They blew past a [Witch], a stern woman with spectacles that Mrsha was sure would pull her ear and teach her things. But Califor was half-smiling. With rare approval. The flames licked past her and illuminated a shape in the far distance.
Numbtongue’s breath caught. He didn’t know why. He just saw—for a second—something in the far distance that made his heart stop in his chest. Not figuratively. Literally. He clutched at his chest and let go of Erin’s hand, but he wasn’t ejected. Not yet.
The flames of nostalgia burned around a short statue. No—a lot of short statues. And one tall one. Numbtongue’s crimson eyes widened. He averted his gaze. Erin didn’t notice the way he held his chest. Confused—Mrsha peered into the distance.
Was it…a bunch of Mrsha-sized people? It looked like it. They even had facial hair. But Erin just sighed and smiled.
For the flames revealed a huge grin. A jester’s laugh. They chuckled, waiting for her, knowing she could do it. She’d tricked even the garden. So there they were. She pointed.
“Look, Mrsha. Gnomes.”
Gnomes? Mrsha peeked wide-eyed at a Gnome with flight goggles and an astronaut’s vest. Zineryr waved at her. Erin’s gaze was locked on him.
But that was not who Numbtongue stared at. He had stopped as Erin took Mrsha forwards, explaining who they were and what a Bongcloud attack was. She didn’t even realize he had stopped until he spoke.
“Erin.”
The Goblin was clawing at his throat and chest. Actually clawing—Erin saw him tearing at his shirt. He was trying not to see, but his eyes were locked on the tallest figure. She looked back in alarm.
“Numbtongue? What’s wrong?”
“Who is—who is that?”
His voice cracked. The mists were still obscuring her—that was the only thing keeping him sane. He didn’t want to see. Something was screaming at him—a roar of so many voices, so deep down he feared it. Like the background noise of his soul. Erin turned. Then she saw what he was staring at.
“Sprigaena. The last Elf—”
 
——
 
The people in the inn not allowed into the [Garden] were trying to see the hill, but they couldn’t look into the mists. Those in the statue-area were waiting for Erin, but they couldn’t follow her.
It was a lot of standing around hoping to be let in on the mystery. Which was all very well if you craved it, but some people had their priorities straight.
Ulvama had taken three blankets into the rec room. She also had eight snack dishes, four drinks, and pillows on the couch. She could watch the enchanted scrying mirror at her leisure.
Because the [Shaman] had such a nice setup, a few others had decided to join her. Since they were still eating for free, Rasktooth and Infinitypear were chomping down. Ulvama hadn’t chased them off, just grumbled, but she did keep nudging Gothica for space. The [Goth] just poked back, and the [Shaman] was grumpily happy.
—Right until she heard the howl coming through the [Garden of Sanctuary]. It was like something primal, something deep in Ulvama’s core. She shot up, spilling popcorn everywhere as Rasktooth drew his dagger in a flash and Gothica leapt up with a shriek.
Every Goblin felt it. Numbtongue came hurtling out of the [Garden of Sanctuary], screaming murder. Ulvama raced out of the rec room after him. It sounded like—the [Shaman of the Old Ways] reached for memory and felt a chill.
It almost sounded like the way Velan the Kind had screamed when he became a Goblin King.
She was ready to cast a spell to knock Numbtongue into oblivion. But he did the job for her. He couldn’t harm anyone—including himself—in the [Garden]. He came crashing out into the common room and hit the far wall. Then he fell over backwards.
He—cracked Erin’s wall. Ulvama came skidding to a stop and stared as Erin came panting after him.
“Numbtongue! What happened?”
“What you do? What did you do?”
Ulvama put Erin in a headlock and was screaming at her when Relc got Erin free. Then she checked on the [Bard].
He was lucky he had a hard head—he hadn’t broken a bone. She was worried he’d concussed himself, but he woke up after a few minutes.
“Bad statue. I don’t want to see it.”
That was all he said. Erin looked just as shaken by what had just gone down.
“I swear, I had no idea that would happen. I was just showing him a statue—”
“Which statue, exactly?”
Chaldion called out from his table. One of his [Bodyguards] threw himself forwards as Erin actually tossed a drink at him. Erin panted.
“I’d show you, but you’re not allowed in. Anyone else got a smartass question? Because I’ll ban you. Bring it!”
She stared around, and Venaz lowered his hand. Erin was shaken herself, that was obvious. She gestured at the garden.
“I just wanted to…show people a statue. But I can’t even do that without nearly killing someone! And they won’t stay, and not everyone can see them. I have to let people into the garden just to…”
She sat down as Numbtongue got up and let Ulvama check him over. He didn’t remember what he saw. He didn’t—want to remember.
He wasn’t ready. Ulvama listened to Erin, more furious than ever because the [Innkeeper] kept surprising her. Did she know what she had nearly…?
Numbtongue wouldn’t have become a Goblin King. Ulvama was sure he had no capacity to do that. But Erin had triggered something. Something only Goblin [Shamans] were supposed to know, like the trick she’d taught Palt to wake Numbtongue up from his depression. How much did she know about…Goblins?
Erin bent down, feeling at Numbtongue’s forehead. She helped him up as he rubbed at his skull.
“Numbtongue? Are you alright? I’m so sorry—”
“What did he see?”
Ulvama seized Erin’s shoulder with one claw. The [Innkeeper] looked at her, glanced around the room at all the keen eyes, and hesitated only a second.
“…A clue to one of the world’s biggest mysteries. I think. But I didn’t realize they were part of it. Of course you are. I need—”
She bit her tongue.
“I need to speak to Rags. She can’t get here fast enough. Numbtongue, when she comes back…”
“Yeah. Let her. Not—not me. What was—who was—? Later.”
There was genuine fear in the [Bard]’s eyes. Ulvama looked at Numbtongue, then Erin.
“What was it? Tell me.”
She wanted to know. Wanted more than any jewel or artifact Tremborag’s people had fought over. Erin glanced at Ulvama.
“I could. But…are you part of the inn or a guest or what? Rags’ Goblin?”
Ulvama blinked at the keen look. The [Shaman] realized she was dropping her act and smiled widely.
“Me? Just [Shaman]. Very curious.”
Erin sighed.
“Uh huh. Well, when you want to choose—let me know. Or wait for Rags. Numbtongue, you don’t remember exactly?”
He shook his head. He was pushing away the memories. Erin bit her lip as she helped him into a chair. She turned and looked around.
“So what did he see?”
Menolit looked very curious. Erin threw up her hands in exasperation.
“I wish I could show them. Mrsha, you remember what you saw, unlike Numbtongue, right?”
The Gnoll nodded. She began to write, saw Peki and Merrik staring over her shoulder, and put down her quill and began to fire off middle fingers until Lyonette scolded her. Erin sat down.
“…I want a statue of them to last. I want—hey, who did that statue of Gresaria in First Landing? Could I, like, hire them to do some for me? I’d put them up in the inn. In the actual inn, or in Liscor if they’d let me. Can I donate statues to the city?”
Every head swung towards her, and Lyonette rolled her eyes.
“Hire the most high-level [Sculptor] in Izril? I don’t believe we can afford that, Erin. Do you know how much a sculpture costs? A good one? And you do need an expert.”
“Well, I—I know that! How much does it cost? But I want one. I’ll save up. Heck—if there was ever a favor I’d ask—it would be for a statue.”
Chaldion had no ears to perk up, but at least one other [Strategist] did. However, Erin was thinking. Lyonette pointed out the obvious again, too-patiently. She knew statues; Calanfer had lots.
“A [Sculptor] can’t design something they can’t see, Erin. Gresaria Wellfar is easy enough because there were paintings of her, but an [Artist] has to use their imagination or a reference.”
“I know. Does anyone have a [Sculptor] class in Liscor?”
Someone slithered forwards and cleared his throat.
“There are few experts in Liscor. There is a [Silversmith] among the Silverfangs who does excellent work, but that’s not exactly what you want. I’ve dabbled in sculpting, but only as a hobby. If you want an expert, Invrisil or Esthelm would be your best bets. And that will strain any budget, believe me. But I can certainly redesign your inn with that in mind. Am I late for my meeting?”
Hexel, the [Architect], looked at the stunned Numbtongue, the crowds in the inn, and then at Erin. He raised one brow as Erin turned to him.
“Of course, you remembered we had a meeting now? I’ll take that as a yes if you need a moment. For some food.”
 
——
 
Erin had forgotten all about her appointed visit with Hexel. However, it was almost as well she had gone into the [Garden] today; it had refreshed her memory.
She had a lot of foolscap blueprints, which surprised everyone, including Hexel. He stared around the inner Earther-rooms that Erin had rushed him into. Lyonette and Ishkr carried out a blackboard with some diagrams he eyed, but his attention was mostly on the blueprints. The [Architect] murmured as he delicately ate some roasted pheasant bites.
“I knew you had secret interior rooms. Quite sensible and mostly [Rogue]-proof, although the higher-level ones will just teleport or phase through your walls, you know.”
“They can do that?”
The [Architect] smiled politely. The Lamia was curled up with a workman’s vest—no lower garments. Not that he needed them, scales glittering bright, yellow flecked with browns and reds. His scar that Drakes had given him shifted when he smiled, but he seemed more at ease after being in Liscor for a while.
“Countering [Rogues] is an entire game for certain specialists, Miss Erin. I’m not one of them, but it’s quite difficult to create something totally impenetrable. And of course, if you have a delicate system with a hundred subtle counters, it might not stop a battering ram. Design to the client’s needs. And it seems like you have—an amazingly ambitious inn. What is…who made this?”
His interested look turned to one of confusion. Erin was hardly good at laying out blueprints, nor was she trained, but she had captured most of the ideas, by dint of someone repeating the instructions a few thousand times.
The [Innkeeper] smiled sheepishly as Lyonette hovered behind her with some tea. Ostensibly to facilitate the discussions, but also because she was intensely curious.
“You wouldn’t believe me if I told you, Hexel.”
The Lamia glanced up, and his slitted eyes narrowed on Erin for a moment. He looked down, sorting through a complex layer of blueprints, and spoke.
“…Drevish the Architect?”
Erin’s spray of tea nearly hit the blueprints until Hexel swept them away. Erin gagged as Lyonette nearly dropped her teapot.
“How’d you—?”
“I’ve studied Drevish’s work. There’s not an [Architect] alive who hasn’t. This—fastidiousness. This obscene backward-design and complexity? Even the way he lays out the ideas is quintessentially him. Did you get this from some project he had? Khelt—I’d assume. But this…this is tailored to your inn. How did you do it?”
Hexel was shaken. But he was also intelligent enough to wait for Erin’s response. The [Innkeeper] hesitated. Then she remembered what Olesm had told her earlier. She took a deep breath. Could she trust…?
She looked the Lamia in the eye and thought about how long he’d been here. Also, Elirr liked him, and Mrsha said Hexel was good. She had to trust someone, so Erin leaned forwards.
“Keep it a secret, Hexel?”
He nodded. Erin whispered.
“G-ghosts.”
A one-word explanation. Lyonette rubbed at her forehead. But the Lamia? He looked at her with disbelief, uncertainty, sat back—thought about what everyone had seen—and then exhaled. He took a long sip of tea.
