The words popped out of her mouth, and Lyonette turned.
“She did? We only met her once, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] shook her head.
“She—I met her again. She saved my life. That’s not right. They can’t take that statue down. Will they? That Etril guy blew one up.”
Everyone looked around for someone who might know. That turned out to be Yvlon Byres. She chewed the question over.
“…They might. Wellfar will throw a huge fuss—they might relocate Gresaria’s statue, just because it caused the issue. But the [Sailors] and [Captains] might protest. She was beloved. But it’s about pride, and you know how that is.”
She looked around and realized her audience might not. Erin clenched one hand.
“No! Gresaria deserves more than one statue! She deserves, like, hundreds! If they don’t want it, I’ll take it. Liscor can put it in its plaza or—she deserves a statue.”
“Doesn’t she have one?”
The question dropped into the back of Erin’s mind like a splash of cold water. She looked around, and a figure leaned against the door to the original [Garden of Sanctuary]. He looked…bulkier, not leaner, actually. The armor had something to do with that, but he looked far older. His scales were still light blue, but he had changed from being bookish to being—
Well. A [Strategist]. A [Commander]. A [Strategos].
Olesm Swifttail raised one claw as Erin whirled about.
“Olesm!”
She ran towards him and threw her arms around him. He blinked as she squeezed.
“Erin. You can walk? I heard—I’m back. Sorry it took so long. I can’t leave command so—Erin?”
“Olesm! You look bigger! What happened? I heard there was a war and—it’s so good to see you!”
He gave her a weak smile.
“Yayde re~. A lot’s changed.”
“What? What? Yayde to you too! Do you have a fever?”
He coughed.
“No, that’s how the Yoldenites—”
Relc groaned loudly. He put his claws over his earholes and raised his voice, suddenly distracted from Ryoka.
“No! No, no, no, no, no! Please tell me it’s not them! Not those yodeling idiots with their ponies! They walk around asking what everything is. And they sing at the crack of dawn, and their stupid helmets—”
Erin was laughing in confusion as Olesm grinned. She let go and beamed up at him. And noticed he was different. Olesm would have definitely been blushing and stammering, but this Drake looked—well, tired but smiling.
And reserved. And he’d been in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. As Mrsha raced up to get a low-five and Lyonette came forwards for a drink and a hug, Erin peered past Olesm.
“What do you mean, there’s a statue of…oh.”
Olesm jerked his claw-thumb over his shoulder.
“I came to say hi to Maviola. I was surprised because I didn’t recognize Gresaria for a moment. How do you…? No, why don’t you take a look yourself?”
 
——
 
Even if they were gone beyond being ghosts, Erin remembered them. And she wasn’t the only one. They were in her <Quests>. Something remembered them too, though they were erased. Eaten.
But someone…something had decided they still mattered. Even if their classes and identities were gone. When had they begun reappearing? Erin thought she knew the answer—days before she had been worthy of the Key of Reprieve.
It was as if what was lost was being restored. But there was no record. Yet stubbornly, piece by piece, the statues were reappearing. Because Erin had been there. So the gap was being filled from her. And that…that change in how things were done, had always been done, out of necessity, out of outrage perhaps at a flaw, an unfair lack—
Well, nothing else would come of that. Just statues. And quests. And…
The statues were there. Everyone that Erin had ever met and lost.
Not Olesm’s soldiers. He had walked the hill and seen so few of them, even the Antinium [Crusaders]. But a few were there.
The statue he had come to see should have had fiery hair. It trailed around her shoulders, loose and wild, like flames from a fire. Maviola El’s head was turned, and she looked exasperated, caught in the middle of an argument. A brief spark of exasperation and fondness in her gaze.
The young Maviola El. The one she’d always been. Her body had aged, but this was how she had always burned. The garden had chosen that, not the older woman. And…Erin came to a stop as she saw the plain wooden bench in the grass where the [Lady Firestarter] sat.
Apista was napping on the bench, between two statues. She fanned her wings lightly as Erin laid her eyes on the second statue and gasped. For there was a second young woman. Lyonette paused in confusion, and even Yvlon was dumbfounded.
“Is that…?”
There was barely a soul alive who could even tell if this statue was accurate. That it was here was proof—but only Erin knew for certain who this was.
Gresaria Wellfar looked like she had in the lands of the dead. The younger woman who had lived well, with her husband. Her hair was bright green and brown in Erin’s memory, though the statue only had grey, and Gresaria looked like a [Sailor] as much as a [Lady]. She was mid-laugh, in some kind of argument with the exasperated Maviola.
Two eternal friends and rivals sharing a bench. Erin covered her mouth as her eyes stung.
“Gresaria. And there’s Regein.”
She pointed, and everyone saw a fellow leaning against a tree, hands in his pockets, glancing at the two arguing young women from a respectful distance as he stared into the distance, at peace with the moment. Olesm’s brows rose.
“That’s Regein Wellfar? He’s…young.”
“It’s him. I didn’t realize they were here. Of course they were. There are just…so many.”
Lyonette looked sharply at Erin, and Mrsha stopped bawling long enough to look around. But Erin Solstice’s head turned, and she whispered.
“They’re here. They must all be here.”
Not just the Antinium. Not just the adventurers she had known or Goblins. But if there were so many statues…Erin glanced at Olesm, and he slowly sat down next to Maviola.
“This is the greatest Skill I’ve ever known, Erin. No wonder the world is talking about it. But it’s a painful one to have. I don’t know how any [General] could bear to have it if this is what it did. I’m glad you’re alive. So much has changed since you were dead.”
Slowly, Erin sat down. Olesm rested there in the grass, next to Maviola’s statue.
“What happened, Olesm? I heard you led an army…”
The Drake plucked some grass from the hill top and tossed it into the wind. He shook his head bitterly.
“I led one. And it was a stupid mistake. I got a lot of good people killed because I was a fool. Then Hectval came after us again and again. So I went to war. That was the difference. We’re still at war, Erin. Liscor has a second army, and I intend to take them to Hectval’s gates if we must. Ancestors, I’ll buy trebuchets and bombard the city for a month. If they want peace, they’ll pay for it. Then we’ll see what happens after that. But we’re advancing—slowly. The soldiers are getting a lot of time off. I think they deserve it before we get back to fighting.”
Erin heard him, but she didn’t quite understand. She looked at Olesm.
“But I’m—alive, Olesm. You don’t have to attack their city, right? Didn’t you win?”
He glanced at her.
“We won a few battles, but Manus intervened. They killed a lot of Antinium, Erin. And Drakes and Gnolls and Humans. Manus withdrew, but Hectval’s stupid alliance won’t quit. They’ll just attack or raid us. I will have a magical contract enforcing peace or I’ll ruin Hectval.”
“But I—”
“It’s not about you, it’s about everyone. They killed Maviola.”
Olesm gently touched the statue. Then Erin looked at him and saw a familiar look in his eyes. Not cold decisiveness. Not the impartiality of some kind of monster. Even Chaldion didn’t really look like that.
What made a [Soldier] a [Soldier], or a commander, was the way Olesm talked about it. Not a lack of emotion, not some vague hardness of the soul—you could have all these things. It was just in his eyes. The way he didn’t stammer or trip over his words or re-clarify.
He talked about the war with certainty. It would be done. Erin opened her mouth, and he looked at her.
“Let’s not argue about Hectval here, Erin. I’m glad you’re here. And if you wanted a tribute to Gresaria Wellfar—there’s none more fitting. This will last a lifetime.”
He nodded to the perfect statue of Gresaria, even more perfect in its way than the one in First Landing. Erin glanced up at it as she closed her mouth and had a thought. She shook her head and whispered.
“…No. I mean—yes.”
Olesm raised his brows. Erin pointed at Gresaria’s statue.
“It—it will last a lifetime. Mine. But I don’t know—no, I’m sure. It won’t be here if this [Garden of Sanctuary] passes from my hands to another’s. That [General] has no hill.”
Mrsha looked up from rolling around in the grass with Apista. Olesm nodded slowly.
“…I guess that’s how it is. This is a Skill. Unless you did something, it wouldn’t stick. At least we can come here to see…”
He gestured at the statues. Erin turned her head again. She stared into the mists around the hill, and Wil Kallinad, standing at a respectful distance, peered at what she was looking at.
He saw nothing. Nor did the Drake. The [Strategos] glanced his way, and Wil felt a slight shock.
Strange. Was he, the Titan’s student, intimidated by…?
Someone who had the class. Who’d led armies in battle himself. He nodded at Olesm, and the Drake dipped his head in reply. Olesm looked at what Erin was staring at and saw nothing.
She had to show him. One could not simply walk into this garden and find statues that didn’t belong to you. That was the…limitation of the [Garden of Sanctuary]. It was a weak one, but it suddenly bothered Erin.
She stood up slowly and took Olesm’s claw.
“I’m so glad you’re here, Olesm. I have a lot to say—and there are a bunch of chess-heads. I bet you want to play them.”
He smiled ruefully.
“I don’t think I can keep up Chess Weekly anymore. But I’d love that. Is there something you wanted to show me?”
“Maybe…I dunno. There’s a lot of secret stuff.”
Erin was thinking hard. Olesm watched her and spoke carefully.
“If you want to take it to the grave, go ahead, Erin. But that comes sooner than you think.”
She turned and gave him another look. He ducked his head after a second.
“Sorry, that really was insensitive.”
He had changed. But there was still some old Olesm left. Erin exhaled slowly.
“You’re right. I guess it’s just a balancing act. Here. Take my hand. Mrsha, do you want to see too? I need to find someone. Not just Gresaria. I wonder if I can show you…”
Mrsha raced over and grabbed Erin’s hand. Olesm took her other hand, and everyone drifted after Erin. But she just began walking into the mists. And suddenly—they seemed thicker, obscuring everything. Lyonette called out as she hurried after Mrsha.
“Wait, Erin, I’ll come with—”
She lost sight of them in a swirl of mists and then stumbled through right where they should have been. Lyonette whirled and looked around.
“Where are they?”
No one knew, nor could they find whatever Erin was heading towards. It was just Olesm, Erin, and Mrsha. They really had changed. And that was bittersweet but—
“Ancestors! ANCESTORS! Dragon! Draa—”
Olesm came screaming out of the mists, slashing with his unignited Kaalblade as Mrsha went tumbling backwards, fur poofing out in fright. He whirled, looked around, and Erin threw up her hands as she stomped out after him.
“Olesm!”
—not that much. The Drake sheepishly lowered his Kaalblade as Wil’s eyes bulged out of his head. Erin seized Mrsha’s paw, scolding Olesm.
“It’s a statue. Alright, he does look like he’s gonna bite you. No questions! Follow me. Who’s—oh. Hi.”
Olesm had a hand over his chest and was panting with a near heart-attack. He went for Erin’s hand with Wil, Peki, and half a dozen others, but Numbtongue elbowed him aside. Lyonette gripped Mrsha’s other paw as the Hob grinned at Erin.
“Can I see?”
She nodded and winked at him. Olesm saw Numbtongue offer him a claw, but hesitated a second too long. Bird happily grabbed his hand, and more people tried to form a living chain as Erin looked around, amused. She walked forwards and…
Thought of who she wanted to see.
“Who are we going to see? Erin? Erin? Who are—”
Lyonette felt something happen as they walked into the mists. She walked forwards, and the feeling of holding a little paw changed into—
Bird walked out of the mists with Lyonette in hand. Wil cursed as he realized he was holding onto Lyonette’s other hand. Mrsha, Erin, and Numbtongue were gone. Bird stared at Lyonette’s hand. He clacked his mandibles accusatorially.
“What have you done with Numbtongue?”
 
——
 
Erin walked onto the same hill, just with fewer people. Figures stood in the mists, which cleared away, revealing them as she passed through…
Perhaps even the [Garden of Sanctuary] had never had so many statues to hold. It seemed to be struggling to contain them all. Numbtongue and Mrsha looked around, wide-eyed, as they passed by statues.
The first one made Numbtongue flinch, and he nearly let go of Erin’s hand to draw a sword himself. But, forewarned, he didn’t blink as she pointed up.
“That’s the Silver Dragon-Knight, Yg—Yderigrisel. I think I got it right.”
“Yg-what? Dragons can become [Knights] too? Who can’t?”
Numbtongue’s jaw dropped. Erin laughed and tried to explain. She let go of Mrsha’s hand to gesture, and the Gnoll threw her arms around Erin’s legs.
“Don’t leave me in the mists to die alone, meanie! I’ll starve!”
“Mrsha! It’s safe. It’s just—hard to find the statue I want. Okay, stay close, you two. And be—respectful.”
It was so rare for Erin to say something like that, both Gnoll and Goblin nodded. So she led them forwards.
There were only a few statues Erin wanted to see. There were so many…but she passed by a few on her way to the one she sought.
The first was Zel Shivertail. He was standing next to a slimmer Drake, in the shelter of the tree. Very close. Intimately close, as if they had slunk away from some kind of official party and were having some quiet words. Mrsha saw Sserys of Liscor glancing over Zel’s shoulder as he stood, hidden by the Tidebreaker.
Erin passed by them with a sad smile for Sserys.
“He really messed up my body, right?”
“Um. In one way of saying that, yes.”
Erin gave Numbtongue a blank frown and a pointed look at Mrsha. He shrugged, grinning slightly.
“They would have laughed.”
“Yeah, probably. Because they’re guys. Come on.”
