“I shall take it upon myself to show you all around. And celebrate our survival of this war! First Landing awaits!”
Pellmia rescued the situation as he pointed to the harbor. The gates were open, and as The Pride of the Wellfar came in, even the harbor slowed to see the greatest ship on the seas come into port.
Frankly, Ryoka thought that the people in the city got a better show than she did. Even the ships inbound and outbound stopped as the Pride signaled the docks. Amazingly, there were berths for even her class, and she slowed to maneuver into port.
Etril Wellfar, the [Captain] of the vessel, only emerged as they were heading straight in. He looked around, and his eyes fixed on Ryoka’s. She started—because here was someone else with a claim on her time.
He was Gresaria Wellfar’s son. They hadn’t been able to speak long—he’d wanted to get away from Ailendamus because they were still technically at war until peace was declared. But here was someone else she had a debt to.
Him and the rest of the world. He bowed slightly to the other nobles waving at the crowds gathering on the docks. As Ryoka had been told, there was a high population of the nobility in the city. She wondered if there were even Reinharts, the most reclusive of the Five Families.
She wanted to explore this city, but she was also in the eye of the storm. Etril spoke.
“Lord Tyrion, House Wellfar has taken you to Terandria and back. The war isn’t at an end, and it may be Ailendamus will damn the seas with blood if they refuse to make peace.”
Ryoka had thought they would sign a deal, but Rhisveri hadn’t officially made peace—perhaps because he couldn’t. The other nations saw this as Ailendamus’ moment of weakness, and despite the ghosts, were pushing on the borders. Etril continued briskly.
“—But we’ve succeeded at the task you swore to me. Veltras and Wellfar ever stand together, forest and sea. I hope I can call on you if ever we need to.”
Tyrion reached out and took Etril’s hand.
“By House Veltras, we will. Whenever and whatever the odds. I will not forget this, Lord Etril.”
From another man, the short address might have sounded cheap given all that had passed. From Tyrion…he meant it. Etril almost smiled, but he glanced towards the people on the docks.
“—And it’ll be Krakens at sea once we dock. The things we’ve seen beggar belief. I must report to my House, but I hope I can speak with you before you fly off, Wind Runner?”
“A-absolutely, Lord Wellfar. Should I call on you here or…?”
Ryoka didn’t know where he’d be going, but the [Captain] smiled wryly.
“I don’t doubt I’ll find you. If I need to, I’ll just sail towards the nearest war.”
Her expression was so colorful that Buscrei began guffawing with Swey. But to Ryoka’s surprise, Etril threw his head back and laughed.
“Peace! Don’t glare at me so, Lord Tyrion!”
He had a sense of humor. She really didn’t know him. But he was Gresaria’s son and…Ryoka didn’t know her much at all either. Only that she was one of the people who’d died when she challenged the Assassin’s Guild. But as First Landing came closer…she realized something.
The city remembered Gresaria Wellfar. It had not been long since the Circle of Thorns was unveiled. And if—
If the theme of the day was television, or a changing city, or just the Free Queen’s wish—this moment would be the catalyst for all of it. For as they landed, Ryoka saw the first signs of how much her reputation—or everything that had happened had changed abroad.
Because fighting for position at the front of the crowd were a bunch of [Mages] wearing those damned robes with Wistram’s admittedly splendid insignia. A television crew, and a Human man was speaking excitedly into the camera.
“—going to have to break in, Miss Drassi! The Pride of the Wellfar has landed, and the victorious House Veltras is disembarking with the famous, nay infamous Wind Runner!”
And while Ryoka Griffin had not seen Erin Solstice’s antics, what with travel and the rest—it was an [Innkeeper] hucking snowballs at Noass from her garden who looked up and saw Ryoka.
 
——
 
First Landing was founded in a time before even General Dolost. Not that much farther back, actually, in the grand chronology of this world’s history—which admittedly had gaps.
Humans were ‘new’ to Izril. New enough that they hadn’t spread across all of Izril’s wilds.
Then again, the reason there were more wilds was because the wars of invasion had scorched Drake and Gnoll lands already fractured from their long war that had seen Walled Cities burn. However, the Five Families dealt the final blow to Drake superiority in the north. The first scions of Veltras, El, Wellfar, Reinhart, and Terland destroyed the last northern Walled Cities.
First Landing was the product of the same hands that had razed the greatest cities of Drakes. And the Five Families had been at least as good at building as destroying.
The harbor should have still been, well, a harbor. No matter the achievement, harbors were inherently messy, busy places where [Sailors] and crew would be fuelling the lifeblood of a port city.
…It was just that this harbor had some, um, differences. For instance, First Landing was flanked by two gates bearing the crests of all five families. Wellfar’s sigil was split in half and would only be centered when the two metal gates closed. And when they closed, the tides themselves would change, because the gates were fifty feet tall over the waves.
They had some kind of greenish tinge to pale silver, which was apparently what happened to mithril-alloy over thousands of years. However, the details were barely faded; mithril didn’t age much.
The docks themselves could hold fleets of ships. The Wellfar’s berth was one of five—fittingly. And that was for the largest ships in the sea. Ryoka had to rotate just to see the rest of the harbor, and that was when the irregularities began cropping up.
Firstly? No bilge water or filth on the docks. No barnacles, no understandable wear from constant water. The stone—the docks were stone—looked fresh, rather like sandstone, and tiled with brighter walkways. She put it down to enchantments to block that kind of thing, but then she saw the real cause.
Ryoka Griffin had never been to Wistram Academy in truth. If she had—this would have been a slightly familiar scene. As it was, her skin chilled a second as she saw House Terland’s great gift to the north.
Golems. They were uncannily humanoid, many of them. Some were the giant, bulky laborer-types slowly dragging cargo from their ships, but others looked like, well, servants.
To Ryoka, Magnolia Reinhart’s servants had seemed uncannily familiar to a certain era in Earth’s history. Now she realized Magnolia had based the dress and style of her servants off of Terland’s Golems.
They had been carved into their clothing, and they tirelessly pushed mops or maintained the docks. In fact—all of First Landing was more magical than any city Ryoka had seen save Pallass.
She watched as an experienced crew of [Sailors] stepped back from unloading their cargo ship. They’d piled a lot of crates up high on what looked like a dais of stone, a rectangle with a glowing gem in the center. As Ryoka watched, it levitated slowly, and a regular-sized Golem began to pull it on a short tether.
“Mage lifts. It must be priority cargo like Reinhart’s damned sugar. We don’t have as many—mostly the unloading is manual these days. Or simpler.”
The comment came from Etril Wellfar. He nodded to another ship, and Ryoka saw a giant clay Golem being tethered to a unique harness. It had to pull a wheeled cargo container towards a warehouse. In fact, Ryoka saw a primitive rail system to make sure that the wheeled lift wouldn’t slip into the ocean.
“How far we’ve fallen. But this is House Terland’s efficiency at work. With Wellfar’s help. I hope you will visit our lands where you might see the true potential of Golems unleashed.”
A [Lady] with a fan idly spoke, and Ryoka jumped—one of Terland’s representatives was watching the docks with a slight frown.
As if a semi-automated dock were something to scoff at. But then—she had grown up here. And the floating archer-Golem capable of miles-distant bombardment was calmly waiting to return to House Terland’s custody.
So Ryoka understood. She understood this city was going to be wild.
Already, she could see landmarks across First Landing. What was notable—well, aside from the docks—were a few elements Ryoka quickly chronicled for later questions.
Firstly—the city was not all old buildings. Some was mundane stone and wood, which fit a city constantly expanding. It had that old inner city with sturdy walls and had progressively gotten more sprawling as it had grown.
Ryoka saw the largest and most impressive towers and buildings were mostly in the center, near the docks, but a few outliers appeared later on. Each one tended to belong to one of the Five Families.
House Reinhart’s sigil was the only one that Ryoka knew by heart along with Veltras’, but they weren’t exactly hard to guess.
Reinhart’s was twisting vines and a single flower—but the vines sometimes looked like snakes. More ornate versions of the sigil included falling petals. House Veltras, by contrast, was of a tree that a bow and lance had been placed against, leaning across the trunk. Like Reinhart, sometimes there were variations.
One of the sigils that Ryoka had seen in the keep had a tiny, tree-like figure half-hidden behind the tree and a Unicorn resting on the grass.
At any rate, she picked out House Reinhart’s sigil from one of the towers. It was…er…glowing. A hazy blue-grey light leaking from the crystalline heart of the tower. She pointed it out to Etril and Tyrion.
“Ah—is that a magical tower?”
Both men glanced over, and Tyrion grimaced.
“Tower Tuell. Reinhart. I believe it was first home to an [Archmage]. I don’t believe it is open for general visitation. I could petition House Reinhart to visit. However, not all their structures are…”
He looked at Etril for the right descriptor. The [Lord] raised one brow.
“Safe?”
Lord Pellmia frowned.
“Pleasant. Most of the greatest structures are ruled in some way by one of the Five Families, Ryoka. They were funded or claimed after their owners passed. Tower Tuell was a famous laboratory of magic. Now, I believe it fulfills many of Reinhart’s wants magically.”
“Such as?”
“Spying.”
Everyone in earshot chorused at once. Ryoka actually saw House Terland’s [Lady] smile, before hiding it behind the fan.
It seemed that the Five Families got along much like, well, an extended family. Grudges and prejudices. Ryoka turned back to the city—there was a huge crowd at the docks. And someone with a scrying orb. But they had moments to look while the shouting and swearing [Helmsman] brought them in and anchored.
The second thing Ryoka noticed was that the outer walls looked…odd. She pointed them out and saw that entire sections had been—vaporized. Blown in. An eighty-foot gap was visible from the harbor—but someone had erected a hazy barrier of light magic there. Other sections were covered with blooming vines and flowers.
“Was that from—?”
“The Second Antinium Wars. The Goblin King broke First Landing’s walls in many places. Those are the repairs. We have not commissioned finer.”
Tyrion’s face froze up again, and all the nobility fell silent. And again—Ryoka remembered that the Sacrifice of Roses had taken place here.
Classic Ryoka. However, Pellmia shook himself with a slight laugh.
“—We might as well replace all the walls, then! Those ‘repairs’ are stronger than the original, Ryoka. See the vines and plants? That was from the Crown of Flowers. They bloom with each season, flowers even in the winter. [Alchemists] love them.”
“People with pollen allergies hate them. Like me.”
Lord Swey announced, pinching his nose. Ryoka nodded slowly.
So even First Landing had seen foes to bring it to its knees in the modern era. And as if that thought heralded something else, Lord Tyrion calmly pointed to something close to the harbor. A black patch of street, a blasted building and rubble.
“There is the Assassin’s Guild. What remains of it. No more of them. No more rot within First Landing.”
Etril’s head rose, and his teeth bared. Ryoka looked at him, and then she saw that rubble and her skin crawled. The scars on her back itched.
There it was. No one had built over it. The Five Families had dug up the very firmament, ensuring no hidden passages or secret tunnels remained. Like a rat’s den, they had purged First Landing of the Assassin’s Guild.
But that had come at a great cost. Ryoka hadn’t been here. But she knew the tale. Her eyes slowly travelled from the Assassin’s Guild to an edifice along the harbor’s docks. A bell stood high above the ships, silent despite the wind that tried to move it.
The Bell of First Landing. It waited, never rung except for war or the death of one of the leaders of the Five Families.
It was right there, on these docks while Maviola El, Saliss of Lights, and the Wind Runner were racing for Tyrion Veltras, that someone had rallied the Five Families. Maviola El had flown the banner, but it was her great friend and rival who ignited those flames in First Landing.
Gresaria Wellfar. The [Harbormistress] had charged the Assassin’s Guild and paid for it with her life. That had been the catalyst that had doomed the Assassin’s Guild here and across Izril, as the nobility broke their fear of them.
“…it wasn’t the Five Families who charged over those docks and killed the [Assassins]. I was there, Tyrion Veltras. I watched my mother and father die like tempests at sea.”
Etril Wellfar spoke, and Ryoka turned and saw his strained expression. He stood on the docks of the ship from where Regein Wellfar had launched every magical spell at the Assassin’s Guild. He pointed, and Ryoka’s shivering grew worse.
Gresaria Wellfar stood there, spear in hand, atop her chariot. She called down to the frightened nobility, challenging an army of faceless figures waiting down the street. 
She charged them, alone. They watched as she surged into the [Assassins] and fell, never striking a blow. 
Then—it wasn’t the nobility who came to her defense. Not at first. It was a [Captain] from Cenidau, then the crews of the ships.
[Pirates] and [Sailors] avenging the [Harbormistress] of First Landing. 
Only then did the Five Families move. Then came the reckoning. But what Etril remembered, what the seafolk remembered, was that it had been them. Not for a noble house, but for the [Harbormistress].
Ryoka’s eyes stung as she listened to the retelling of that story. She hadn’t known.
