She had a very…simplistic view of currency. The Free Queen, upon moving to Liscor, had realized that her Hive needed gold for some expenditures. She had obtained it over a decade of Antinium working menial tasks for literally no expense to themselves. Now, she was spending it. She had a fortune in gold and often let Klbkch buy artifacts—but she didn’t really care if it was all gone.
The benefit of people selling to Antinium, or Garry levelling for his work, was all she needed. She wanted gold only so he could buy more food for her. And as long as more money came in than went out, everything was well.
That was about how much the Free Queen thought about finances. She was far more deliberate when she had an accumulation she wanted—and she had broken into Liscor’s market very, very deliberately.
The Free Queen had made her Workers act as laborers and shown Liscor how cheap it was to have Antinium-made goods. She even dabbled in imports these days.
“Klbkchhezeim, I am meeting with the Armored Queen later today. She is sending me two hundred trees of wood. Do you have anything else the Free Hive needs?”
“Two hundred trees of wood? May I ask…why we require that, my Queen?”
Xevccha waved an idle feeler.
“We will sell it to Liscor for building materials. The Armored Queen agreed to locate suitable trees and has even begun an attempt at a forest of her own.”
“Why would she go to this amount of effort in her own Hive, my Queen?”
Klbkch actually looked away from the scrying orb. The Free Queen raised her mandibles.
“Because I offered her two hundred pounds of Garry’s cooking.”
“Ah.”
The Free Antinium Hive was in a wonderful position. It could sell many things it could acquire cheaply that Liscor wanted thanks to its route to the Hivelands and Antinium labor. And it could also give the other Hives what they wanted. Food, resources you could only buy from an [Alchemist], magic, and so on.
Everything was wonderful. Save for one thing. The Free Queen actually turned her head, but somehow—the other Centenium in her Hive had cut her off. Then again, one of her antennae was gone.
“Klbkchhezeim. How is Xrn?”
The Slayer hesitated, and he rested his hands on his swords. He was far more mobile, more at home in his new body, but that just made his old form shine more brightly in his memory. Three left—and one was now wounded.
“—I do not believe the Grand Queen will be satisfied if Xrn returns to her Hive. Despite her repeated requests. Xrn is—focused.”
And that was the most evasive answer Klbkch had ever given her. The Free Queen had no skin to crawl, but she sucked down the last tea, and the loud rasping, bubbling noise filled the room.
“I believe I will have a refill of tea. Continue informing me of her condition, Klbkchhezeim. Whatever she wishes…you may go.”
He was halfway out the room as the Free Queen sighed and let one of the Flying Antinium hurry over with a team of Workers to fill her cup. It was all going well. So well…she wondered if she had spare time.
To work on the project the Grand Queen had abandoned? If she had so much time—a part of her longed to do what the Grand Queen had confessed to and create her own statues. But that—that was a luxury. The Free Queen did have work.
“Keep my drink chilled. I will return in two hours.”
She moved herself over to the work rooms, and the Antinium backed away. The Free Queen stared ahead.
If only they had the knowledge of old. They had levelling even the True Antinium had lacked for in such abundance. If only…she brushed the thought aside. It was better than it had ever been. But oh, the dead did weigh on her. A hundred heroes.
They all deserved statues. Yet no matter how hard he looked…she whispered to Klbkchhezeim.
“They will not be in that garden. They deserve to be. But who will remember them save us?”
 
——
 
It was about memory. It was always about memory. The [Gardens of Sanctuary] were on the nose, but everything that made Liscor better, all the gloriousness of now was built on what was lost or would never return.
Even—no, especially immortals knew that.
Ryoka Griffin tried not to stare. She didn’t have a fetish. But even so—she leaned on the railing, then sprang into the air to show off. Just so the [Sailors] looked up and waved and laughed. She gazed down at a sea of faces as she flew overhead.
Half-Elves. Two ships were sailing the treacherously unknown seas to Izril’s north. Ryoka flew around them only for a few minutes, calling out greetings—but she couldn’t stay.
The Pride of the Wellfar was that fast. It didn’t rely on natural wind or currents—it cut the waves like a shooting star. And besides, they were almost back from Terandria.
It was quite amazing how fast they’d returned, actually. Nevermind Tyrion Veltras being able to ride at speeds unmatched—House Veltras had headed south from Ailendamus’ borders, embarked on the greatest ship of House Wellfar, and sped to Izril.
Yes, they had a Citadel-class ship that could scare the Illuminary if it came to a pursuit at sea. Yes, Tyrion was the famous [Lord] of speed. And yes, they wanted to be home.
But mainly they had gotten back to First Landing so fast because Tyrion had conveniently ignored every diplomatic overture from Calanfer and the other nations trying to host and celebrate him. Or at least pin a damn medal to his back.
Ryoka hadn’t realized how many offers he’d snubbed until Jericha had brought it up—delicately. The [Lord]’s response was simple:
“We have been away from home too long. Sammial is waiting for us in First Landing. Hethon is with Buscrei’s family. We shall return with no delays.”
And that was that. Honestly, from watching Jericha’s face, Ryoka thought even the rowdy and irreverent Veltras’ would have made Tyrion at least greet Calanfer’s [King]. Even Lord Swey and Buscrei, let alone the others, were conscientious of diplomacy.
However—Ryoka also guessed that Tyrion’s loss of levels was a reason his House wanted him away from nosy appraisal Skills. He was warded with the best magic they had, but that couldn’t hide the fact that he’d lost countless levels—even his old class.
That Tyrion had told her was shocking. And another sign of his bad judgment abilities. Ryoka was on deck as First Landing came into sight. There she stood, as Buscrei waved a final time and loosed a magical arrow into the air in the half-Elves’ direction. The faint explosion and glittering colors made Ryoka start.
“Courier Griffin. Do you have need of…?”
Someone appeared like magic and offered her a towel in case the ocean air and spray had gotten her wet. Ryoka glanced at the livery of someone from House Veltras and looked around.
“Oh. I, uh—thank you.”
She scrubbed at her hair and the seawater. She was going to drape the towel around her neck until she realized that she could hand the towel back. The servant bowed and backed away, and Ryoka almost went flying after the half-Elves to beg them to take her with them, slower journey or not.
Here she was again. House Veltras surrounded her, and the servants treated her like a guest or worse—as a member of the nobility. She had almost forgotten what she’d been so worried about.
This time, do it better, Ryoka. Just—a bit better? Please? 
If she went two months without killing someone, she’d call it a win. Ryoka leaned on the railing and tried to exhale. But no sooner had she leaned there than someone strode up.
Tyrion Veltras was not a man who had a casual stroll. He strode like someone who did not want to waste a second getting from point A to point B. He came to a halt at the railing, and Lord Pellmia Quellae covered his face.
Tyrion had no tactical approach. But he was doing his best, and amazingly, Ryoka didn’t jump into the sea to avoid him. She owed him far more than that.
“I almost feared you would land on the half-Elves’ ships and sail to Baleros. Or the new lands of Izril. I would have had to spend another month in pursuit.”
Ryoka almost choked as she began to take a sip of water. She looked at Tyrion.
“I wouldn’t do that! I was just saying hello to them.”
As mentioned—as he was famously depicted in most images or even verbal accounts—Lord Tyrion Veltras was like a statue. Straight-faced, his beard usually trimmed to exacting fineness, and almost always wearing armor, or, as now, the green and whites of House Veltras. ‘Casual’ clothing looked like old military-style attire on him.
Ryoka, by contrast, had the Runner’s loose clothing, bare feet like a lot of House Wellfar on deck, actually, and a belt festooned with pouches and tools of the trade, not least of which was the Faeblade.
They cut an odd duo, especially given their personalities. Well, they were closer in height, which was one similarity. Their ability to insert their own feet into their mouths was another striking commonality. Tyrion Veltras hesitated with Ryoka’s reply. He glanced at her and then stared at the city coming into view, a massive harbor flanked by two gigantic gates emblazoned with five seals of each noble house.
First Landing. Tyrion had seen it—Ryoka had not. She stared at the massive city, the largest in the north, as he responded.
“…That was a joke. My attempt to be humorous.”
“Oh.”
“I can see it has failed. Comedy is not my forte.”
Ryoka heard a snorting sound from the side. You wouldn’t know that to see Buscrei’s red face as she laughed into her arm.
Now, Ryoka was not immune to embarrassing situations. She was positively an infinity-generator of them. However, she was exceptionally grateful when someone else moved in—smoothly—to join the conversation.
“Miss Griffin, it never fails to astonish me to see you fly like that. I’d caution you to beware doing it in First Landing, though.”
Lord Pellmia Quellae, the [Lord of Love and Wine], was the kind of person you liked. He was, in the world of social parlance, a net positive to most situations, be they formal or simply casual. Both Tyrion and Ryoka relaxed around him.
“Why’s that, Lord Pellmia? Anti-air spells? Something else?”
The [Lord] waved that off.
“We’re not at war, and there are a few domesticated Griffins about there. Hawking is a very noble sport—not at all. Simply that if you fly once, every noble from here to Invrisil will demand to see you do it and try your glider. Which is entirely its own problem.”
Ryoka winced at the idea of a panicking member of the nobility doing a nose-dive by accident a hundred feet up.
“Very well advised, Pellmia. I’ll try to—lower expectations.”
“I’m sure we could ride together. It would be pleasant conversation, I trust.”
Lord Tyrion interjected, and Buscrei, Swey, and a few of his cousins oohed in the background. That had to be Pellmia’s influence. Buscrei held up a piece of parchment.
6/10.
Pellmia glared in their direction, but for some reason, that made Ryoka feel vaguely better.
“I—wouldn’t actually mind that. I really want to see my friends—”
“Of course. We can arrange your transport southwards as fast as—”
Tyrion shut up as Pellmia pointed a finger behind his back at him. Ryoka wasn’t done.
“—but I, uh, wouldn’t mind staying in First Landing a few days. If you and Sammial don’t need to get to House Veltras right away. It’s the biggest city in the north. I’d love to just—see what it has.”
Were pigs flying? Buscrei was staring up at the sky in awe, but Pellmia leapt on the suggestion.
“A wonderful idea! Lord Hethon may be travelling north already—and it’s true, how many chances does one have to see First Landing? There are countless wonders there.”
“Really? Like what?”
Ryoka knew more about the Walled Cities’ fame than First Landing’s. It was so remote that, frankly, she felt like Drake customs and attractions were more familiar to her. For instance, public bath houses were a very Drake thing.
Not so in First Landing. But Lord Pellmia instantly began counting off attractions.
“Aside from your usual run of pursuits—you could do hawking or anything of that kind in House Veltras, who arguably have finer animals and better wilds. However, there is famously a racing course for horses. Griffins—domesticated Griffins, Miss Ryoka—are available to ride. For buildings, perhaps the House of Altreidva would be a stop? That is the gallery of some of Izril’s greatest [Artists]—Drakes, Gnolls, and Humans. You know, I wonder if the Players of Celum are there? But you’d know them. Let’s see. Colousa’s Relics is up there. Izril’s best [Enchanter].”
“Really? The best [Enchanter]?”
Ryoka was surprised, but Pellmia instantly nodded. He raised his brows.
“Save for a Walled City or another major city—why would the best and most high-level individuals not be present? I believe First Landing can lay claim to the highest-level [Enchanter], [Sculptor]—never the [Bard] with Barelle so mobile—oh!”
He snapped his fingers.
“The Adventurer’s Haven! We must pay a visit to the highest-level [Innkeeper] on the continent. She’s moving her inn, and if you have not visited already…”
“She’s moving?”
Even Lord Tyrion raised his brows at that. Pellmia nodded seriously.
“I heard from home. It must be a huge scandal.”
“Why? I had no idea an inn could move.”
Ryoka had heard of that inn in the vague way she knew of First Landing and famous Archmages, but Pellmia elaborated.
“It has always been…mm, fairly mobile. It often changes crossroads, but it is a famously attractive inn. Couriers and the nobility flock to it. They must be in uproar—as entertainment goes, The Adventurer’s Haven is one of the best, Miss Griffin. Someone of the owner’s level has so many—fascinating abilities. She was a Named-rank adventurer before she retired, you see. A famous [Mage].”
“Really?”
The only [Innkeepers] of note that Ryoka had met besides Erin were, er, Agnes, Mad Medain, and the [Reader]. She wanted to know what a Level 50 retired Named-rank [Innkeeper] could do.
“If you’re going, we’ll join in! It’s pricey at times, but I love to visit the inn. Something for everyone—although I’m no longer a young woman, so I can’t have all the experiences. Quite a lot of lucky nights can be had there. It’s a feature.”
Buscrei winked at Ryoka. The other nobles from each family knew the inn too and, apparently, all thought well of it and wouldn’t mind another visit.
“It is certainly a spectacle, but I don’t care for the Adventurer’s Haven.”
…And there came in Tyrion, with such blunt honesty that even Pellmia’s new class couldn’t stop it like a mallet to the face. He amended his statement after a second.
“…But I’m sure it would be excellent for Hethon and Sammial to see it, as well as you, Miss Griffin. Before it leaves.”
