“I think…I think I don’t have the words for this. Nor do I feel like we should intrude any further. I will ask Maughin what he would like to say—but this was the [Garden of Sanctuary] the great General Dolost resided in. Now, it is a memorial.”
“It should be seen by my people.”
Maughin whispered. Drassi tried to help him up, and he rose mostly of his own power. She shook her head slightly.
“It was bequeathed to the current owner for a reason. I’m sure—she’ll be respectful, Maughin. But it is hers.”
Erin Solstice’s. Tulm had not missed those books. Maughin shook his head.
“One more moment. Please…”
He looked at the walls of heads. Now that the camera swung around, you could see the way the room was laid out. The heads looking down from each side—the far wall had a banner, tattered by battle. A kind of altar to make the heads at. A workshop.
It would scare a little Gnoll or most species to death. Which was why Drassi had been so unnerved at first. But it was a Dullahan place, and it meant something to them.
This…let no one touch this, at least. Maughin looked back one last time, and they turned. Dolost’s memorial kept burning in the darkness as, quietly, Drassi led the group back out of the keep and gave a little speech with Maughin before leaving the [Garden of Sanctuary].
She closed the door behind her, and the snow was already piling back up. Not that anyone could get into the garden without Erin’s permission. That was their one look into the garden.
When the keep’s door was closed, there was a finite amount of air in the keep. And darkness—oh, lots of darkness. But it beat letting more snow in like the poor library.
A hand slowly closed the window at last. The falling snow reburied the keep, but a footstep echoed overloud in the keep.
From the inside. A figure turned to the closed door. It was well that Drassi and Maughin hadn’t tried to go to the first floor. Or else something would have to be done.
The other hand lifted something, and a light illuminated the dark keep. It glowed pink and blue, the flames twining together in the lantern the [Innkeeper] held. She exhaled, then returned to the door leading to her inn. She inhaled; the fresh air was welcome in the keep.
Slowly, the [Innkeeper] descended to the second floor. She shivered, as she had the first time she had seen Dolost’s memorial. She understood—but it was not how she had done it.
Her door followed her down.
It led out of her room, and no one knew she was using it. It was late, and she had gone for a lie down. Nor did they realize that she could make the door appear wherever she wanted, wherever there was a wall.
She had the Key of Reprieve. She had hoped Drassi would give up, but she’d let them get to the second floor.
Erin wondered if she should have turned the snow off. However, that was how it worked, wasn’t it? She wandered down to the first floor of the keep and sighed. Erin raised her lantern higher, and the twin colors illuminated Dolost’s home. His private place. Tulm was wrong to fear something scandalous from Dolost in an—intimate or untoward sense.
However, everyone had secrets and failures, and the Dullahan had put his on display. Erin walked from room to room, but not for long. She heard a faint chiming sound in her room in the inn and hobbled over to the nearest wall. She collapsed into a chair and scowled faintly at the pile of objects on her desk.
Chessboard, Go board, a speaking stone inscribed with ancient magical encryption runes on loan from Kevin, letters from the Runner’s Guild—and [Messages] transcribed. Oh, and the thing that had made a sound, like it was copying home—
Her [Message] scroll from Niers Astoragon. Had he added that feature? The little quasi-ding sound?
“You damn Fraerling. You’ve doomed the world.”
Erin grumbled, but she moved a piece on the chessboard, slapped a Go stone down, then exchanged a few moves with Niers as her mood—and extremities—warmed up a bit. Only then did she read his [Message]. Erin snorted and rolled her eyes.
If Niers could have seen her face…Erin glanced around suspiciously. Scrying spells. The inn wasn’t warded, even if she was. Another, longer sigh as she picked up a quill and wrote a response to the question. Just like Drassi—Niers was smart. It was just that one of them kept needing to prove it. He had written:
 
N: So how many Relic-class items did Dolost have in his keep? Spare sets of armor? Asking for Foliana and all the Dullahans in my command.
 
The [Innkeeper]’s response was slower, and she noticed a few telltale dots of ink—he was definitely about to write, and so the conversation was slower on her end as she took her time replying.
 
E: That’s not the point, you know. 
N: Of course…until you need to arm your [Knights]. Even if he left armor and weapons fully sized for your friend, Normen, you need potions, amulets, gear. I also wonder how much Architect Hexel asked to redesign your inn? We’ve got gold. Can we trade? As I keep saying, I really would like to help.
E: I believe you. There’s not as much as you think. But again, that’s not the point. 
N: I don’t follow. You press your opponent and solidify your advantage in chess. I don’t know if anyone could lecture you in sound strategy there. But leaving an item in a vault is just Drake-like. Treasures, gold, works for you only when utilized unless you have a [Hoarder] class.
E: Mhm. 
N: So…
E: Who’s worthy of wielding a magic sword that shoots thunderbolts? No one in my inn is ready for Adamantium armor. They won’t level. I don’t want gold for my inn, either. It’s something I have to earn myself. It’s super hard, but I’m going to do it. Because I have to do it.
N: Ah, I see. But you don’t have to refuse help. I’m sorry, it feels strange to talk to someone who isn’t looking for something. My students have the opposite opinion.
E: Probably. They’re your students.
N: Hahaha.
E: We all have our tasks, Niers. I need to do more, I know. This is part of that. I’m answering my debts. You helped so much—do you want a <Quest>? There’s so much to do. Should you be wasting so much time talking to me?
N: Now that you mention it, I’ve only been following along the last few days. Things are picking up here. I’d actually confess I have no time for a <Quest> unless you have one relating to The Dyed Lands…?
E: Nope. Too new. Sorry. That’s good. I’ll let you know if I need a favor, but it’s like that. Let’s catch up tomorrow? Good game.
N: I see, now. Just one more thing. Have you seen Paeth on the news?
E: Yes! They were so cute and cool! If I ever get to Baleros or if I can meet those Fraerlings—I’ll have something to give them. I was working on it today.
N: What is it?
E: A great joke.
 
Then she put aside the message scroll, but kept up the sporadic, quiet clicking of pieces on the chess board. Erin played for a long while before she picked up the second object on her desk. Her heart pounded harder, but when she triggered the activation rune and spoke, it was easier. And she smiled almost instantly, after the heart-wrenching moment of…
“Um. Hey. Is this thing on? It’s me.”
“Erin Solstice. I trust the vultures have not unduly troubled you of late? I have made subtle intimations to keep them away, but the most arrogant of the lot are baying dogs, some too close to remove, such as Grand Strategist Chaldion.”
Fetohep of Khelt spoke so casually, it was as if they were back in his palace and she was just a voice in his ears, a floating ghost. Erin stopped to wipe at her eyes.
“I—it’s just like we’re talking again, Fetohep. How are you?”
His voice was soft. Kind. Tired, she thought.
“Khelt trembles with all that has come to pass, Erin. I have spent half a month restabilizing it. I grieve. I work. It gladdens me to hear tidings of your inn. A certain Gnoll child pesters me from time to time.”
“Mrsha?”
“She is—more precocious than most of the Gnolls who have come to Khelt.”
“You took them in? Of course you did. That’s…I think Khelta would be proud. All of them would. Serept especially.”
“I believe…you are correct. Queen Xierca was the one I thought of. You knew her as much as I. This is something she would have done, I think. Stood upon the borders and welcomed them with open arms. For the deeds and what they have done, nevermind the friction.”
Erin’s eyes stung, but she was nodding even though he couldn’t see it.
“Yes. Absolutely. Fetohep, it’s so hard here. But I’m levelling, and I remember—can I help you? Do you need a quest?”
And again, the ruler hesitated as much as Niers had.
“—Khelt is not ready for such tasks. Khelta has left me with her own designs. We have been weakened by the battles and losses of this world. All have, but I will say no more, even between us. You surely understand. In time—yes. I merely hoped to exchange words with you.”
“Anytime. Do you—do you really talk to Kevin regularly?”
“I…had exacting designs for my bicycles. He is something of a conversationalist. This was when Khelt was largely untroubled.”
“You don’t hafta explain it to me, Fetohep. Kevin’s great.”
“I-indeed. On that topic, I have one thing to ask you, Erin Solstice. And it is pressing. I believe I know your answer given your class has not changed…”
A slight sound that made him stop. Erin clutched at her desk.
“—They all vanished, Fetohep. All of them. There was no one to give the classes.”
He was silent so long that Erin knew he understood as much as she did. Fetohep’s voice was level, without tremble or variation. But it did still change.
“Then that shall be factored into the reckoning due. I will ask you in fullness, then, Erin Solstice. I have appointed my successor, a child who is of Khelt, but has seen the world. Brave and wise in her youth. She knows as well as I that I may choose another. Would you be Khelt’s heir apparent? If so—I will grant you that class.”
Would you be Khelt’s [Queen]? Erin thought of Khelta and her vow when she had just woken up. Her response was softer, but she did hesitate.
“…No. And not because I don’t think it’s an honor, Fetohep. I’m too far. I’m not as good at ruling as this. The [Witches] and the rulers of Khelt knew I was an [Innkeeper]. I’ve gotten nearly to Level 50 this way. I don’t…I don’t have time to do it another way.”
“Fairly stated. Then let us talk of more pleasant things a moment. I have oft-described the Quarass of Germina to you, though she is one of the few individuals you have never met, only heard tales of, I am sure.”
Erin shuddered.
“The Quarass? Ooh. That scary lady. Or guy? She’s got a lot of enemies. Had—what’s she up to? I mean, she’s a possible ally. If you don’t mind checking your food for poison.”
“This one is more responsible. I had the strange privilege of watching her act as an [Innkeeper] for a day to obtain the class.”
The [Innkeeper] laughed so hard she knocked a few chess pieces over. It was okay; she was fairly certain someone else, another Fraerling perhaps, was challenging her, so she was wiping the floor with them with one hand.
“No. Way. That’s so—what was it like?”
“I believe the mortals were slightly nervous of poison. I myself considered the option. How is the Mrsha-child behaving?”
“Um…let me tell you about Ceria’s breakfast challenge. You know Ceria, right?”
“I have met her. Is she—well?”
 
They talked—gossiped, rather—for another thirty minutes. But Fetohep left Erin as soon as she began yawning. Reluctantly, she put his stone down.
He didn’t offer her Khelt’s riches. He got it. But Erin wasn’t done. Now that she had begun, it was easier.
The next missive she pulled out was a bit florid, mostly because it was transcribed. It had to be, but the gist of it was that the sender was extremely apologetic and hadn’t read her request until now. Erin skipped down the page until the ending.
 
…His Majesty, Laken Godart, wishes you to know that your missives will immediately reach his presence at earliest convenience. Once again, he extends his relief for your recovery on behalf of the Unseen Empire. A personal note from the Gold-rank team, Griffon Hunt, also add their congratulations and desire to visit your inn at earliest convenience.
His Majesty dictates verbatim: ‘This missive will only be read by myself and my most trusted advisors, Erin. Lady Rie Valerund is transcribing my words. I hold her in my closest confidence. May I ask why you’re inquiring into Nanette’s whereabouts? It is agitating some of the [Witches] here. They seemed quite curious of you when they saw you on the scrying orb, but they weren’t certain. What is your plan, and can the Unseen Empire help you or Ryoka?’
His Majesty’s confidence in the sanctity of the words exchanged with Miss Erin Solstice and the Mage’s Guild are tempered by his knowledge of such methods. On behalf of the Unseen Empire, please consider any responses…
 
Whomever Lady Rie Valerund was, she had a style of writing that Lyonette would appreciate. Erin just stuck to Laken’s words. Her quill stayed dry a long time before she penned her response.
 
Hey, Emperor Laken, I know you were one of the people who helped save my life. I am in your debt. And in debt to more people than I can count.
I am going to repay all debts. At your earliest convenience, if you would like to tell me when is acceptable—I will come to Riverfarm. I would like to meet and speak to Nanette—that’s all I can say right now, and the rest should be left for her.
It seems like it’s been a long time since I was going to go to the Summer Solstice party. However, if you are willing, I will visit you in earnest with my friends and family. I know you have…friends of mine. Not just Griffon Hunt. 
Let’s meet in person. I would like to greet you and thank you. We’ll reckon with the consequences of our actions in full. But I’d like to meet and leave as friends. Best, let me know,
—Erin Solstice
 
Her hands trembled a bit as she put the letter aside for Alcaz to bring to the Mage’s Guild tomorrow. But so it went. Erin Solstice kept glancing at the wall, where the garden showed her more rooms. More gardens. In a bit, perhaps she’d sit in the flower garden to relax.
But she forced herself to keep writing, pausing to think. However difficult…the next letter she pulled out made her think for a long time. Then she wrote her response.
 
From: [Innkeeper] Erin Solstice, The Wandering Inn, Liscor.
To: Archmage Feor, class unknown, Centrists Faction, Wistram Academy.
 
Dear Archmage Feor. Thank you for your letter and offer. It is exceedingly generous, but I have to decline. I don’t believe I can help you yet. I do have <Quests>, but I would like to tell you this:
