Mind you—it was a lot of trouble. Lord Admiral Deinol. Ryoka didn’t know his exact rank, but she had to assume he outranked Etril and was probably one of the leaders of House Wellfar. As she recalled, they had a kind of shared authority unlike the other Five Families.
“Etril Wellfar, you fool! You’ve destroyed Lord Shellac’s legacy!”
“He only invented the sailor’s telescope! And he got that from Drowned Folk! He was a damned landsman politician, not a hero of House Wellfar! He commissioned his own statue!”
Etril bellowed back. Another [Lady] of House Wellfar sporting a noble dress, delicate brocade—and a huge tattoo that Erin was pretty sure Mrsha shouldn’t be seeing—howled up at him.
“And he’s been standing there for three thousand years, you salt-headed fool! Come down here, and I’ll spank you like I used to, you brat!”
Wellfar…was fairly casual. Which was hilarious, because the other noble families were watching this spat with horror or amusement. Erin saw a [Lady] and [Lord] laughing so hard on the ship they could barely stand upright.
This was definitely good televised content. Drassi was chortling—until Wetiole spoke.
“Oh dear. Can we move the camera crew back? I think this might get ugly.”
He was more prescient, knowing what the Five Families were like. The purpling Lord Admiral Deinol had had enough. He shouted, and Erin thought she saw his aura manifest for a second, like the roar of a crashing wave silencing the humor.
“Enough! Lord Etril Wellfar, you are stripped of command! Remove him from The Pride—he has no right to captain her!”
He pointed at the ship’s crew as Etril folded his arms, grimly satisfied. The [Sailors] on board stirred—and then that barefooted woman came striding along the deck. And it got weirder.
 
——
 
[Lady Navigator] Heis was not someone Ryoka knew. She was just one of the crew, but she was a member of House Wellfar and placed highly enough to navigate and essentially run second-in-command to the entire ship.
If anything, she was arguably more competent than Etril; captaining this ship was supposed to be mostly ornamental since Wellfar did not risk their Citadel-class ship and Etril had already been in trouble for taking it into a warzone.
However, Heis barked down the length of the ship at the [Sailors], [Soldiers], and at the people on dock alike.
“Lord Admiral Deinol! I must respectfully decline your order! Circumstances have arisen that require a full Conclave of Ships! Lord Etril Wellfar is to be [Captain] of this vessel!”
“What? What? I gave you an order!”
The man looked incredulous. As well he should—Ryoka saw even Pellmia raise his brows in surprise. Noble families might squabble, but Wellfar had a hierarchy. But Deinol didn’t wait for an explanation.
“[Sailors]! Remove both the [Navigator] and [Captain]!”
He pointed at Wellfar’s people. They knew the score and who was in charge, at least, locally. The [Sailors] looked at each other—and leaned on the railings. One of them, a wild-looking ship’s officer with a half-shrimp face, called back.
“Ship’s spoken, Lord Admiral. No can do. The first man or woman who tries to remove Captain Etril I’ll throw into the waters myself.”
Deinol’s eyes bugged out. Ryoka looked around wildly, and she heard a murmur from the crew.
“The ship spoke.”
“Will of the Wellfar.”
“Shh—keep it quiet ‘till they convene.”
Then she realized—something had happened on this ship. Ryoka could not know that this ship had been visited by one of the ghosts—but it wasn’t a hard realization to make for a certain [Innkeeper].
It was definitely not the way that either side wanted this to be revealed, though. Etril glanced around, surprised by the defiance, but Lord Deinol was currently freaking out. He whirled.
“Take the entire crew into custody!”
The noble escorts were quite plentiful. Wellfar soldiers looked up at the giant ship and exchanged glances, but Deinol howled.
“Summon the Watch! Anyone who resists will be mutinying before the entire House! Tell them to lay down their arms, Etril!”
“Deinol! Give us a chance to tell you what we saw and heard! Don’t be mad—”
Exasperated, Etril called back, but the first Wellfar [Soldiers] were coming up the ramp. They’d almost reached the deck when an arrow sprouted in front of their [Captain]. The man leapt backwards, hit two more, and went sprawling into the waters of the harbor.
The shouts and screams were followed by a second flight of arrows. The nobles shouted in alarm—and then looked up.
“Who dares—”
Deinol had reached for a sword, but he froze as he saw a man pointing a finger down at the ramp. Lady Buscrei lowered her bow and swore softly, but Lord Tyrion Veltras spoke.
“House Veltras. Draw arms. The moment to remember our debt to Lord Etril is now.”
Lest you forget—House Veltras had sent thousands of their finest soldiers to follow Tyrion Veltras to war. They were all ready to disembark. Instantly, Ryoka saw Jericha draw a sword and lift a wand.
Oh shit. The Five Families looked up as Lord Deinol turned white.
“Lord Tyrion, have you taken leave of your senses?”
Tyrion ignored him. He glanced at Etril Wellfar, who looked as astonished as everyone else.
“Lord Etril Wellfar will not be taken into custody. Anyone attempting to do so will face House Veltras. Withdraw your forces, Deinol.”
Now, the nobility were in full retreat and fighting with the common folk who weren’t giving them an escape route. Deinol hesitated—there was an army of guards at the docks.
But there was a real army on that ship.
“If you raise a blade against us—”
And again, Tyrion cut him off. His cousins were looking uneasily at him, and Pellmia had a grip on his arm.
“—dead god’s sake, Tyrion! Don’t—”
But the [Lord] just called out in a ringing voice.
“House Veltras. Sortie and clear the docks of hostile forces on my signal.”
He lifted his hand, and at that, everyone began running. Because it was Tyrion Veltras. And standing here, watching the train wreck—no, the train going off the rails, hitting the schoolbus and setting a gas station on fire—was Ryoka Griffin.
And she hadn’t done anything! She hadn’t said a word! This was—Ryoka was hyperventilating. How were other people so good at causing trouble?
They could not have a bloodbath. Not in Wellfar. Not between Wellfar and Veltras—not in general! She had to do something.
Ryoka was halfway towards Tyrion before she realized what was happening. Then she lunged and grabbed him as he half-turned. She grabbed his arms and put both in a bear-hug.
“Tyrion—stop! Just pull your forces back, please!”
He stared at her as Pellmia exhaled in relief. The [Lord] took Tyrion’s other side.
“I was just—”
“Stand down! Just tell them to stand down and everyone relax! You won a war—you came back! Etril, do something!”
The [Lord] blinked at Ryoka, then raised one hand.
“Wellfar, stand down! We’ll disembark in peace, Lord Deinol. Let’s settle this at the Conclave of Ships.”
“A-agreed! Peace! Veltras—”
But House Veltras was already standing down. Jericha signaled them as she eyed Ryoka. Tyrion wasn’t resisting much. He just blinked at her as she spoke rapidly.
“Tyrion, Sammial is somewhere in First Landing! You can’t start a war! Just—let Etril sort it out and help him later!”
He nodded fractionally. The nobility turned back, and everyone looked at Ryoka as Etril came striding down the gangplank, looking slightly…amused? He glanced up at Ryoka, and she held onto Tyrion—just in case.
“You may release me, Ryoka.”
“You’re not going to start a battle?”
The [Lord] exhaled slowly as Pellmia eyed him on his other side. He looked from one to the other and raised his brow. Quietly, very quietly, he averted his head and lifted a hand to whisper to them.
“I was not intending to from the start. That was a bluff. I am aware of the fallout.”
Ryoka’s mouth dropped. Pellmia copied her. They stared at Tyrion. Straightlaced Tyrion who—could indeed pull off a feint. It was just that no one expected him to deceive—
In fairness, it had fooled a lot of people on the docks. And in fairness—Ryoka had just watched a Dragon and Wyrm nearly fight to the death, so she was understandably jumpy about confrontations.
Then Ryoka looked down and saw the eyes of the Five Families on her. She saw a shining scrying orb and realized how it looked.
There she was, arms thrown around Lord Tyrion as she stopped him from launching an attack into First Landing itself. The Courier of the hour, who had perhaps been the very reason he went to war. Ryoka let go of Tyrion as if he were made of molten metal, but there it was.
Chaos on the docks. Infighting in the House of Wellfar. A statue burning, another under debate, and they’d barely set foot onto First Landing. A voice sounded in Ryoka’s ears, accusatory.
“This is all your fault. I don’t know how, but it’s all your fault.”
For a moment, she looked around to see if sock-Rhisveri had followed her across the sea. She didn’t put it past the Wyrm to have cursed her with it. But no. It wasn’t a sock puppet.
It was a young boy with pale blonde hair, staring up at Ryoka. His hands were on his hips, and he looked delighted. A familiar man with tattoos was grinning as an orangutan, which had swung them both onto the ship, happily patted the deck.
Seve-Alrelious, the Hundredfriends Courier, and Sammial Veltras looked at Ryoka Griffin as Tyrion whirled. Then Sammial launched himself forwards and hugged Ryoka’s leg.
“You survived! And you’re causing trouble! I missed you!”
He beamed as Tyrion froze up. Ryoka blinked and then bent down and hugged Sammial fiercely.
“You’re okay! Sammial! Did the voyage go well? And—”
She turned to the Hundredfriends Courier, and he lifted a hand.
“From sea to land, Couriers all. Greetings, Wind Runner.”
“Ook.”
The orangutan, Erek, waved as Ryoka, flustered, tried to bow, hug Sammial, and speak at the same time.
“You’re—the Hundredfriends Courier! Thank you. Is the Waterbear, I mean, Courier Worroar of Cerun…?”
“She’s alive and on her next assignment. I agreed to wait here—Lord Sammial Veltras refused to leave once he heard you were all inbound. I believe Worroar had to leave. For her own sake.”
Seve’s eyes twinkled with good humor, and Ryoka finally prised Sammial loose.
“Sammial—Tyrion. Lord Tyrion…”
The two looked at each other, son and father. Tyrion was still frozen up, but as Sammial turned to him, he cleared his throat, knelt down, and looked Sammial in the eyes.
“Sammial. You look healthy.”
“Hi, Father.”
Sammial’s beaming smile turned wary. Ryoka looked at Tyrion and then at Sammial. Tyrion searched for words—you could see it on his face.
“I trust Ailendamus treated you with all due respect while you were a hostage? I am sure you conducted yourself as a member of House Veltras.”
The young [Lord]’s face screwed up, and Ryoka kicked Tyrion. She didn’t mean to, but she just—kicked him in the side. He blinked at her, and everyone stared at Ryoka.
“What I think you mean is—hug him? You fought a war for Sammial.”
She stared Tyrion in the face, more amazed by this than anything else. He blinked at her, and the [Lord] looked at Sammial. Awkwardly. Then he nodded.
“…Of course I did. Why would I not?”
Sammial blinked at his father and then rushed forwards. He hugged Tyrion, and the [Lord] actually hugged him back and picked him up. Awkwardly, but Tyrion was carrying Sammial.
It wasn’t just Buscrei who sighed, or Jericha. Ryoka saw Tyrion holding Sammial, checking him, and in that moment…
Well, it was all well. She turned to Seve, embarrassed.
“I’m sorry. I’m so grateful—”
“Couriers help each other. Seve-Alrelious. I know it’s a mouthful. And you are Ryoka Griffin, the Wind Runner of Reizmelt. I wanted to meet you.”
Ryoka took his hand and felt a strong grip, callused, and smiled. She looked at Seve and then felt someone take her other hand.
“Erek! Sorry, that’s my companion.”
Erek held Ryoka’s hand and tugged her down the gangplank. Seve scolded him, but Ryoka’s smile was actually genuine. Sammial called out.
“Ryoka! Ryoka, I want to fly! I’ve been telling everyone here you can make them fly, and all the other kids want to do it! And you should see all of Seve’s friends! The Waterbear was boring. Courier Worroar didn’t want to fight an orca whale we saw, and she said I talked too much. Lord Etril, can I melt a statue with the ship?”
That was how they entered First Landing and high society. House Veltras, Ryoka Griffin, and scandal. But the key was—she wasn’t running away. Ryoka Griffin walked down the docks, hand in hand with a monkey and Sammial. Somehow, she looked better than before.
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn was in uproar. Hilarity, disbelief, resignation…Mrsha was demanding to know what Erek was. She had never seen a monkey before! She was confused why Ryoka was friends with the evil Lord Tyrion and who that annoying boy was!
Lyonette just scowled at Ryoka. Meanwhile, some of the other people who knew Ryoka were talking.
“House Veltras? Ryoka? That is the least—I mean, of all the Houses, she would choose them. But Lord Veltras? They looked—familiar, don’t you think?”
Yvlon was whispering with Ceria. The half-Elf was laughing.
“I think this is great. Let’s consider doing some work for House Veltras! Pisces, do you remember First Landing? Did you visit? I was too poor to do anything but walk the streets…”
“Me? First Landing? Hardly, Ceria. I too was mostly impoverished. I…imagine it’s something of a sight. Ryoka is looking well.”
The Horns were talking at their table. A Drake slid into their conversation.
“Ryoka? She’s looking good. What’s this about that [Lord]? She saved his kids, right? I guess that’s why they’re hanging around each other.”
Relc Grasstongue glanced at Ryoka’s image a bit too long. Then he sighed. Yvlon hesitated, but Ceria patted his arm.
“Better not listen to any rumors, Relc. But you know Ryoka.”
The Drake sighed.
“I do. She has a soft spot for weird fellows. Huge flaw. But I’m glad she’s alive.”
Even Ceria decided not to add to the rumor mill around Ryoka. For the moment. However, the consensus seemed to be that. It was good Ryoka was alive.
However, the news had hit at least one person in the inn harder than anyone could have guessed. And that person was—Erin Solstice.
She was peering at Wetiole covering the news, trying to interview Ryoka but being kept back by the [Soldiers]. And surprisingly, Erin’s attention was not all on Ryoka.
“Hey, what did they say about that statue? They’re gonna take it down? They can’t do that. That—that was Gresaria. She’s a hero. She—she saved my life.”
