“—Please tell me he can’t haunt the living. Or he’ll drive half the [Architects] to their deaths.”
Erin laughed then bit back a sob.
“No. He’s not coming back. No one is.”
“Oh. I see.”
Hexel stared at Erin and then shook himself. He opened his mouth, shook himself again, and then grabbed the foolscap.
“I’ll scream about that later. Let me just focus on—he wants four floors. Inner courtyard. He’s designing around your [Garden of Sanctuary]. Dead gods, reinforced magic stone? Fire magicore for heating in the wall insulation. Is that—is that a ballista on top?”
Lyonette’s head snapped around to glare at Erin.
“A what?”
Erin was nodding, a huge smile on her face. She watched Hexel sort through the foolscap.
“Mhm. Oh yes, this is by the late Drevish. None of his earlier-stage experimentation. He’s refined all his old processes and done more experimentation. Which he always does, to be fair. It generally works. If I do it right—and he’s laid it out as if I’m an idiot—I love how there are actually ingredient lists for the versions of mortar he wants.”
“He was really insistent about that. He said people often cut corners or get it wrong.”
Hexel snorted.
“To be fair, they do. But I wouldn’t make that mistake. How complex. He’s even included a lot of magical inlays to enhance your inn, assuming you’re going to need them. Okay. If I did this, your inn would have walls most castles would envy. It would have a guest-occupancy of one hundred and twenty, which assumes you’re not piling people into rooms. I’ve seen bigger inns, but this one would be a complex mostly self-contained for defensive reasons. It would have an entire alchemy suite, indoor bathing, a proper cellar complex—warded from Antinium sapping—”
He flipped through the notes.
“…And specific designs incorporating your Skills. Including hidden areas only you can enter via your garden door. It’s wonderfully overdesigned.”
“Can you build it?”
Erin and Lyonette exchanged a glance. Hexel took a moment to sip from his tea cup.
“Oh, absolutely. I can even add a few places for a statue. Although he has one in the inner courtyard, and I think the note says to have him there.”
“He did that? That—that—okay! You can build it?”
Hexel smiled. The Lamia flicked his tail at the blueprints.
“Absolutely. I would do it for the levels alone! We can source a lot of the materials on the market, and despite Drevish’s objections, Demas Metal and the Dwarves coming to the north will really help with the prices.”
“We’ve got Dwarves on Izril?”
Erin hadn’t heard of that. But Lyonette was watching Hexel’s placid face. She coughed.
“Um. Architect Hexel, I notice you haven’t brought up any fees. We have a consulting fee, though you didn’t mention that. Do you want to discuss installments or…?”
Hexel laughed lightly and shook his head.
“For Miss Solstice, I will gladly waive the consultation fee. If I level up from reading these notes, I will pay you. But I don’t believe an installment plan is necessary. You cannot afford this. Frankly, until I see even a—no, half of the budget, I won’t even consider beginning work. There would be no point.”
Erin gulped. She looked at the plans and thought of Drevish. Great guy. Grumpy, but great…and used to designing things for Fetohep, the King of Destruction, and monarchs.
“H-how much do you think this would cost?”
Hexel stared up at the ceiling. His lips moved for a while.
“Let’s assume I have Antinium labor. And that costs on some of the rare materials go down. Oh, and I can prevail on Master Pelt and Master Hedault and other mages in the area.”
“Uh huh.”
“I will also assume I’m trying to get this done quickly, not in four years.”
“Yep.”
“Well then, advance me roughly three hundred thousand gold pieces, and we’ll see how fast it runs out.”
It was Lyonette’s turn to begin choking, but Hexel just indicated the designs.
“I’m not being facetious before either of you two object. Drevish wants magicore insulation. As in, magicore? That substance that [Mages] love? He wants enough to fill the lining in entire rooms. Entire pipes of the damn stuff. Oh, and he wants a plumbing system in copper throughout the inn. He seems to think you can have dedicated toilets in each room.”
“Oh no.”
Erin had told him about modern hotels, and she saw that Drevish, up to the challenge, had designed a lot of guest rooms with an inbuilt toilet and shower or bath. Hexel tapped the blueprints.
“Let’s say I take that out. Make everything out of wood and stone. I don’t know if some of the building would collapse, even with reinforcement Skills. Drevish was a picky bastard. He used to make plans such that if you cut corners, you’d watch the entire building implode under the weight of inferior materials. You do know he’s calling for mithril-alloy in some of his metals?”
Erin covered her face. Lyonette’s smile was waxy. Hexel glanced at both of them and shuffled the foolscap together.
“So. Once you advance me the gold, I’ll begin work. We’ll have to find a foundation if you don’t want me redesigning the inn over your heads, but then again, I could easily just have the Antinium raise the hills next to this inn. By the time this inn is done, no one will be able to dig it out or use [Earthquake] to ruin it. Just let me know when you’re ready.”
Erin’s head rose.
“What, in ten years? Twenty? Fifty? I can’t get that money, Hexel!”
The Lamia gave Erin a polite smile.
“I am not going to disparage your claims, Miss Erin. But I do have eyes. Chaldion of Pallass, Earl Altestiel, and Niers Astoragon are all sitting in or around your inn. I also hear that delightfully precocious Mrsha is penpals with Fetohep of Khelt. Whenever you have my budget, let me know and I will make time for you. Now, did you want to talk about statues?”
 
——
 
A statue cost anywhere from a few hundred gold pieces to tens of thousands. On average. That precluded exceptionally expensive ones made with Skills or with the artisan or materials jacking up the price.
The reason was that a few hundred gold coins paid for a good [Woodworker] to sculpt a statue for a few weeks to a few months. Depending on how cheap you wanted it, the majority of the price could be just finding enough wood of the right material.
But a whole damn statue quarried out of the right marble or granite? Thousands. Start at thousands and move up—just for the effort of finding a block of stone in that condition and transporting it. Even with chests of holding, few devices could hold something of that size.
Obviously, you could get someone else to finance it. And depending on the size, the price scaled down a lot. But if you wanted larger-than-life, the kind that could adorn a plaza—tens of thousands.
That was the simple economics that Orreh, the [Silversmith] of the Silverfang Tribe, knew off the back of his paw, and he wasn’t even a [Sculptor]. He said as much to Krshia Silverfang as he followed her out of the gates.
Somewhat nervously. Everything was strange to Orreh. He had not been at the Meeting of Tribes. He’d worked hard, sent some of his best pieces out to fetch good coin or be gifts for the other tribes, begged for news of their great gift…
And then heard Shaman Cetrule was dead. Heard that Plain’s Eye were ruined, Drakes were marching on the tribes, Doombringers were Doombearers…
It was hard for him to take in. Liscor—just heading to Liscor was enough to make his head swim, but the Drakes were friendly here.
The Wandering Inn scared him. Krshia Silverfang had come calling, though, and [Architect] Hexel himself was paying social calls?
Orreh had been finding work not smithing silver but doing clay models for the Lamia, who liked them because they could demonstrate his work so his teams understood. His Skills let him model in three dimensions, but [Builders] liked a permanent frame of reference if the [Architect] wasn’t personally overseeing them.
“Why me, Honored Krshia?”
The Gnoll [Councilwoman] looked tired, but she spoke respectfully enough to Orreh, who had some standing of his own.
“Because, Honored Orreh, you are an expert in sculpting silver. You have done wonderful little sculptures.”
“Foxes, yes. Even adventurers—custom work. Vanity projects. A [Sculptor] does the same before making their piece in large. But I’m no [Sculptor]. I don’t enjoy stone or clay.”
He protested, but Krshia just grinned.
“Perhaps that’s enough. Erin is a bit—”
—Depressed. The first sight of the [Innkeeper] that Orreh got was a young woman lying on the floor. It could have been a murder scene with a bit of ketchup. As it was, a white Gnoll cub was poking her repeatedly in the side, and Orreh had to restrain himself from shouting ‘Doombringer’.
“Eh. Eh. Ow. Urgh. Oooh. Stop poking me, Mrsha.”
Erin was contemplating the realities of money as Krshia ushered Orreh in. The [Silversmith] wanted to make a good impression, but the first thing he blurted was completely accidental.
“Tribes of old! Is that silverflesh? Men—women of metal?”
He saw Yvlon Byres and did a double-take. She blushed and almost tried to hide her arms, but Krshia stopped the blushing woman.
“Apologies. This is Orreh, Yvlon. A [Silversmith]. Orreh, you know her arms?”
“Silverflesh? It’s just a rumor. Metal like skin that moves and has feeling…Silverfangs used to replace their missing teeth or cap them with silver. I heard Iraz Steelfur had a Skill similar to that, but I’ve only met a few Steelfur Gnolls. True Men of Metal had bodies of metal that could change shape.”
Ceria smiled and gestured to the embarrassed [Armsmistress] as the Gnoll tried to apologize.
“That’s Yvlon alright. What, was there something special about silverflesh?”
“It’s—useful in combat. I don’t take offense, Smith Orreh. I’m used to it.”
She waved his apology off, and Orreh hesitated.
“Only that it was immune to most diseases and could…regenerate? Oh, and there was some great weakness it had to extreme heat and cold—but that could be said of regular skin. Flesh like metal. I don’t remember. Does yours change from silver to iron or…?”
“No, not at all.”
“Ah, then I’m mixing memories. I could ask those I talked with, but my master only brought it up as legend. One arm gold, the other brass, a [Smith] who forged his body piece by piece. Stories like that.”
Yvlon raised her brows.
“If I, um—start losing more body parts or getting golden arms, I’ll ask you. Thank you, Master Smith.”
Flustered, Orreh turned to Krshia and back to Erin. The [Innkeeper] had sat up and was talking to Krshia.
“I’m just depressed. I know I can’t even afford a statue—Lyonette says ‘we can’t use all our money on a statue right now, Erin’. And even a small one would be super expensive.”
“We already have statues in the garden, Erin!”
“Yeah, but I can’t take them—you see?”
Erin gestured as Lyonette called out of the kitchen. Krshia pulled up a chair, produced a comb, and began running it through Mrsha’s hair as the Gnoll leapt into her lap. Orreh sat, trying not to stare at anyone too long.
“I am well aware, Erin. But I thought to offer you a [Shopkeeper]’s answer, yes? If the size is the issue—Orreh is a [Silversmith]. He does figurines. He could at the very least do a small version, hand-sized, and you could have that to show, yes? And if you make a larger statue, these could be the basis for those.”
Erin’s eyes lit up.
“Figurines? Like chess pieces?”
“Or tabletop games.”
Someone muttered from the side. It was, in fact, Troy, putting in a rare appearance from Pallass, his new home. Mostly because a certain Chaldion had wanted to see if he could enter the garden and report back.
Joseph punched his shoulder.
“Nerd.”
Troy punched back, and the squabble passed completely over Orreh’s head. He had a sample for Erin to see, and she gasped as he showed her a beautiful little Shockwoolie sheep. It was done in such wonderful detail you could see minute curves on the wool.
“I do the fine work with an actual needle. And an enchanted glass to see better. They are made of silver-alloy, but they are quite affordable compared to even a small statue. Architect Hexel has my time, but for a friend of Honored Krshia, I can do a few statues.”
“Would you? I—I’d want a few. Gresaria Wellfar, Maviola, even Khelta and…”
Everyone was listening in, and Erin clamped her mouth shut, but Orreh shifted uncomfortably.
“I, er—could do my best, Miss Solstice. But I am no [Artist]. If you give me a picture, I will try, but I often work based on my mind as well as what I see. It is hard to take a single picture and create a person.”
Especially because a picture had few references of how large their head was and so on, and the artists took their own liberties. However, Krshia’s eyes danced as she turned to Erin.
“I don’t think that’s a problem, yes? Erin can give you a wonderful reference, Honored Orreh.”
Erin’s eyes lit up with delight. She laughed, clapped her hands, and took Orreh’s paw.
“That’s right! Come with me!”
 
——
 
Orreh stared at a life-sized statue of Gresaria Wellfar. From every angle. He touched the stone and pulled his paw away—it felt irreverent. You needed reverence here. This—this wasn’t a statue. This felt like a person encased in stone.
A memory.
“Can you use that?”
“Hm?”
He looked up and remembered to breathe.
“I—yes. I could copy this. This is far, far easier than any picture. I could copy this far more easily than coming up with—it is just copying, yes? What—what is this place? Why do you need a figurine if you have…?”
He gestured around the garden, which was a far more fitting tribute than he could even dream of. Krshia answered softly as she looked around. There was no Cetrule. There was no…
“Because even Skills fade. And she cannot show this to everyone.”
Erin nodded solemnly. She walked over and showed Orreh another famous Drake, and his knees went weak.
“I’d like a lot of them. Sserys, Gresaria…even Kishkeria.”
Krshia and Orreh’s heads snapped around so fast Krshia clapped a paw to her tendons and howled in pain. But she was howling louder at Erin.
“There is a statue of Kishkeria, the Archmage of the Eternal Grasslands, here? Show me! Did you think that was not important, you—you—”
Of all Erin’s friends, Krshia was one of the few who’d grab Erin’s ear and pinch it. Not hard since they were in the garden, but the yelping [Innkeeper] showed them more statues. She leaned into Orreh as he stared in awe at Kishkeria and Seru’nial.
