Everything you want lies above. You may not be ready. Zelkyr was a petty guy from everything I’ve heard. However, you will never get there by staying in Wistram.
[Archmage] Kishkeria roamed Chandrar from her home in Izril. [Archmagus] Tolleve-beis, the Archmage of Dragonfire, another legend of old Chandrar, roamed the world as an adventurer. They did not become [Archmages] in Wistram. 
I would invite you to leave Wistram Academy. Maybe go to the new lands? Maybe elsewhere. They said of [Archmages], once, that a true [Archmage] had gone to a hundred different nations and cast a different spell in each one. 
Come to my inn and I’ll give you a free meal and we can talk about magic. Not that I’m an expert, but as it is now, even with Archmage Eldavin, there’s more to learn outside Wistram’s walls.
Sincerely, 
—Erin Solstice.
 
She was getting a bit grumpy. Erin debated trying to write the letter again, but she decided against it. She had to roll her wheelchair over to the garden’s door.
“Excuse me? Can I get a snack from—? Silveran…why are you still working here? Okay, pass me something munchy.”
She came back with a bowl of lovely crackers and some dips including the silkap dish. Silveran himself offered Erin a lovely Prelon juice. She sipped at it suspiciously, then sighed, smiled, and put the letter aside.
What next…? She picked up another letter, read it, and began to write.
 
To King Itreimedes of Avel, I apologize, but I’m not giving out <Quests> upon request. If I can say so, though, the royal line of Avel never became the finest archers in the world by sitting in their palace. 
Princess De-ra, the greatest archer of Avel, even more than King Avel himself, famously went from nation to nation challenging every archer in the world. Which really annoyed them, but she became the world’s most renowned archer without even becoming the [Queen] of Avel.
Have you considered going on a trip? Did you know that there are a lot of dungeons and secret places left to explore? The Crossroads of Izril let people travel across the continent far faster than normal. Terandria has no fewer secrets I’d guess, but I don’t know many of them.
We have delicious food in Izril. But even if Your Majesty—sorry, I forget titles and such—doesn’t want to go exploring on his own, maybe consider sending your subjects or expertise abroad. Even Gnolls love your bows. Could I ask about buying something from Avel, maybe? The Bow of Avel is famous. By the way, have you been upgrading it?
Shooting respect your way…
 
Nah. Probably leave the last part out. Erin wavered, but Avel’s people had a sense of humor. She sat there, smiling, and thought of the statues. Tears dripped onto the desk now and then, but she kept writing.
Ghosts. Glorious ghosts. She knew their names and wrote them down and sent their legacies scorching across the world like fiery comets. So long as someone remembered them.
In statue, in word, in deed—
That was something.
