“I think I have a lot of statues if you want the work, Orreh. But there’s one I want more than all of them, and I’m willing to pay you for priority work. And I’d like it to be big. Like—big enough to be placed on a table, maybe. You’ll need to use your imagination, but I’ll pay top coin and help you do it.”
He looked at her with a frown. So did Krshia. Because Erin’s eyes had a kind of gleam, a kind of half-twinkle they recognized.
She had an idea. Which had been building on her since seeing Gresaria’s statue. It was, perhaps, the same thing all owners of every [Garden of Sanctuary] came to. The garden was finite.
But…Orreh followed Erin through the mists. It was not as long or as hard as before, but when he saw the single, short statue waiting for him, his heart pounded so hard he feared he was having an episode like older Gnolls were. He pointed with a shaking paw.
“Is that…a Gnome? It cannot be a Dwarf. Is it…”
“Yep. This is Zineryr. I want you to make a perfect replica of him. A bigger figurine than that little lamb. Silver doesn’t cost that much, right?”
That was a hilarious question, but Orreh was willing to cut her some slack. To carve the likeness of this Gnome…he shook his head absently.
“I can do it. But where…where is the part you wanted me to do myself? This is no harder than any other statue. Less than some, in fact.”
He turned, and Erin Solstice’s eyes twinkled. They sparkled. They danced and laughed almost as hard as the Gnomes. Even dead. Even in memory, she looked at Zineryr and spoke. It wasn’t a prank. A prank was harmless.
This was a trick, a jest, and a move on a chessboard as crazy as the Bongcloud attack. But it was also effective. So Erin Solstice showed him a crude sketch that really, really sucked. But Orreh got the picture as she described it.
“Okay. I want Zineryr standing here on a pedestal. Like this, you see? But he has one hand raised. And—you don’t need to draw many details, just make it up—have a Human man right here. He’s holding him by one hand, and the guy’s all beat up. He has a beard. And then he’ll be standing on top of this stupid guy in robes. There are six of them. You can have one, like, running away in fear.”
“…He’s beaten all six? What does this Human look like?”
Orreh pointed at the one being choked out by a four-foot Gnome, already a difficult scene to envision. It’d have to be a high pedestal. Erin beamed.
“It doesn’t matter. Make him, uh—bald. With a beard! He has to have a beard. Don’t worry, I’ll give you descriptions for each one. Only a few details matter. You’re gonna have a really hard time with one of the women and this—shadow thing, but we’ll make it work.”
She was invested in this project, and even Krshia noticed how fast Erin was gesturing.
“We’re gonna have to have an insignia too. So it has to be big. A plaque. ‘Zineryr’s victory over hair loss, bad dancing, um…’ I’ll figure out the rest. Or maybe names. Tammyroon, Emmerwho, and so on.”
“Erin, why so much effort?”
Krshia was bewildered. She recognized a vendetta when she saw one, but Erin Solstice just smiled. And there was a flinty look in her eyes that few had ever seen before. Few people, even monsters, were her enemy.
But this?
“I want it done, Krshia. And I’ll pay to put it up all over the place if I ever get lots of money.”
“But why?”
The [Innkeeper]’s eyes glittered.
“Because it matters. Because even if the memory isn’t one I can show Orreh exactly—that’s how I’m going to remember Zineryr. Holding down six idiots with one hand tied behind his back.”
Orreh gulped and nodded, and after receiving an appropriate downpayment, he began to work out some prototypes for The Wandering Inn’s first actual piece of art aside from Mrsha’s drawings.
When it was done, Erin promised it would be shown in the common room, for all to see. And if they asked, she’d gladly tell them a story about the tale of the last Gnome.
 
——
 
That was how you remembered them. In any city, however they changed, there were still memorials like that.
Often, only for the rich or influential. The people like the [Baker] named Garry would not get a statue that lasted whereas a rich noble who stole designs from Drowned Folk might have a statue that lasted three thousand years until someone blew it up.
However—the unfairness of who got a statue was not the point. It missed the mark that everyone should have one.
If they mattered to you, and you would die, perhaps the true way to remember them was to make sure they’d last forever in words or stone. The [Garden of Sanctuary] was a gift, but it was also painful and heavy.
It would only last as long as you, and then another garden would come to the person who needed it. Who was worthy.
One last city was having an unusual day. And that was Invictel. The largest capital of the frozen north, the Iron Vanguard’s stronghold.
Dullahans living in this city sometimes claimed that the smoke from the foundries could keep the city warm alone. However, the founders of this city hadn’t wanted to risk it.
In Baleros’ north, the snap-freezes could make trees explode with the cold. And blizzards could rain down so much snow that they’d bury a building in dozens of feet of it over weeks.
It was a harsh place. However, that was why Invictel was built the way it was—that was to say, enclosed.
Unlike the Drowned Cities, it had no bubble-shield which would have protected it against snow. Nor did Invictel fear armies climbing its walls, so it was no Walled City. Dullahans were distinctly against copying Drake culture.
Invictel was like a giant shell of metal and stone, from which the only openings jettisoned steam or smoke or were windows into the white landscape. Only during the brief summers would the city open much.
Bleak iron and grey stone from the soot against the landscape. Invictel looked like a misshapen piece of metal in the distance. A city as armored as the folk inside.
However, inside Invictel, the Dullahan city was as bright and extraordinary as any city—just like Dullahans could be so reserved to strangers and outsiders.
Right now, Invictel, never booming with wild and raucous sounds, was quiet. Quiet…with that kind of held breath. Many Dullahan cities probably were like this at this time, but this city was especially silent.
For they were still watching a lone Drake slowly opening the door to a keep in a [Garden of Sanctuary].
The [Honest Reporter] had forgotten her promise to Erin. It was long past forty-five minutes. But to be fair to Drassi—she had almost forgotten she was reporting at all.
“I think…I think the door is open enough for us to enter. Jewel? Jewel, do you want to…?”
The Drake looked around and saw a Gold-rank adventurer stumbling towards safety. Jewel’s hands were red with cold, and she was shivering nonstop—they must have been digging for two hours. The snow had turned to ice. Jokingly, Jewel had called for Keldrass.
…After twenty minutes of blowing fire, the Flamewardens had to retire, and the melted ice water froze almost as fast. The only reason the team had gotten the door to the keep excavated, some rooftop exit, was because of Maughin. The Dullahan had volunteered to help crack and shovel the ice, and he had worked tirelessly for two hours. Drassi herself was so cold her voice quavered.
“This might be dangerous—but I think we’re close to Erin’s limit. I—I think we have to take a look. Master Maughin?”
The Dullahan had frozen the moment he cracked the keep’s door open. He stood there, his personally-forged armor complementing his huge frame, but every Dullahan could see his expression change to naked apprehension. He turned to Drassi.
“I—dare not. I cede the first steps to you, [Reporter] Drassi. Please.”
The Drake was so cold she didn’t notice the way he spoke, just motioned the cameraperson after her. If she did…
Dullahans had such a complex culture of meaning and gestures. Even Kenjiro had trouble keeping up, but they didn’t expect as much from him. If you read into Maughin’s words, you’d see how embarrassing it was for him to countermand her offer. It was rude, especially since he had asked to be part of this. It was rude to General Dolost, perhaps, to let a Drake walk his keep first.
And yet—the entire garden was a kind of scandal. No—not quite a scandal. This was a complicated feeling.
It was like looking at a Dullahan without their armor on. Intimate. Embarrassing because of that. This was his personal Skill. A place so sacrosanct no one had seen it, possibly not even his closest companions.
But every Dullahan wanted to see what a legend of their people had created. They also feared it. Tulm the Mithril, the Seer of Steel—
The very existence of a [Garden of Sanctuary] for a [General] of their people implied…secrets. It implied there was something that was shameful that he couldn’t share with his people. At the very least, it implied he couldn’t trust the Iron Vanguard of that era with it.
So attention? Drassi might not have known it, but an entire species was watching her slowly trail through the keep. No wonder Maughin feared what he might find here.
“It’s…warmer inside. I don’t know how to describe this if you’re watching, but the air is just—warmer. I can’t even feel the cold from outside. I guess this is controlled magically somehow.”
Drassi’s shivering stopped. Her footsteps trailed through stone corridors. Not poor, lumpy stone, but there were no rugs. This really was like a hermitage; even for Dullahans, it was austere.
Everyone in Invictel watched as Drassi walked forwards. What had Dolost wanted to hide?
You see—it wasn’t going to be a flower garden. It wasn’t going to be his passion for woodworking. If you had something like that, you would show your lover, a friend—the most significant act for a Dullahan was to show the inner beauty or passion they had. The value was in the trust of that.
This was something never meant to be seen. Or if it was—it was something Dolost would never reveal to anyone but the closest people in his life. Drassi trailed past rooms, shining a wand into them.
“…I think we’re passing by a library. You see?”
She stopped, and the camera caught Maughin as his breath inhaled sharply. He raised his head and gazed into a ruined library. Books, frosted over, and snow. Drassi exclaimed.
“Oh no. The window—”
It was open or the snow had burst through. Despite the temperature inside the keep—no, because of it, the snow had frozen and melted, ruining most of the books. The ones that looked intact were covered by a sheet of ice.
“Books from before the Creler Wars.”
Maughin whispered. Tulm the Mithril and half the [Librarians] in the world began sending [Messages] demanding someone—carefully—inspect the library.
But the [Innkeeper] might never let them in again. To this garden. Of which there was only one other. Drassi knew the truth, but even this garden…
There was a simple staircase, so wide that Maughin could navigate it with ease. Dolost must have been closer to a War Walker himself or this place was meant to let them in. Down, Drassi went, and the camera, following her, heard a voice.
“The keep’s not that complex. I think it’s three floors. Four if there’s a base—oh. Oh…oh my Ancestors. Um—I don’t know what—M-Maughin?”
She came up the stairs, and countless hearts skipped as everyone craned their necks to see. Drassi whispered to Maughin, and the [Smith]’s face was apprehensive—then confused. Then he put his head on his shoulders.
“Let me see. I think I…excuse me.”
He navigated around her. Drassi stood back against one wall, and the camera captured the slow movement of Maughin’s metal form.
Tromp. Tromp. Tromp…
Footsteps in the dark hallway. The faint, pale blue glow across cold stone. Melting ice. Maughin’s voice echoed from below as he reached the second floor, the one where Dolost’s secrets lay.
Everyone heard an intake of breath—then a cry. What emotion was in his voice? It was sharp—then there was a thump. Metal on stone.
“Maughin? Come on—”
Drassi hurried down, and the cameraperson hesitated. Was there danger down there? In a dead garden?
Down the steps. Twenty-eight, in the winding staircase. Then they saw a hall faintly illuminated—each window set into the keep packed with snow.
Despite that—Drassi’s wand was not the only thing illuminating the room. It had fallen next to Maughin. He was on his knees. The Dullahan’s head lay on the ground.
But the candles still burned. Everburning candles, spaced around the room, their faint light giving the room a quiet ambiance. Illuminating each and every…head perfectly.
For a heart-stopping moment, those watching thought they were real heads. Then, as the candlelight flickered and Drassi exclaimed, they realized what they were seeing.
“Carved heads. What does it…Maughin, are you alright?”
He tried to speak. Then they saw it. And more than one watcher collapsed or made an unseemly display of emotion. Tulm the Mithril blinked, relaxing as he took his hand off the spell to cut off Wistram’s scrying spell to the city.
The Seer of Steel was shaking. He was having a far more emotional reaction to…Drassi pointed at something sitting at the far end of the room.
It was just a pillow, where you could sit with clay, stone, or wood in hand. There were simple tools for each. And upon that pillow you’d sit and with a table—carve.
Carve the details of a face into being. Not the rest of the bodies. Because they were Dullahans. Your armor was something you showed off, but you couldn’t change a head. So the heads, thousands of them lining the walls, were the people Dolost had known.
Soldiers. Officers, perhaps family or civilians. There were no names. He might not have known all the names. But the Dullahan knew one thing:
He knew the statues he saw in the falling snow. So he carved them. Each and every head, and placed them here.
They stared down at Drassi and Maughin and the audience, smiling, frowning, weeping—silent in judgment. So this was what the great [General] of the Iron Vanguard had done.
“…Beautiful.”
Tulm the Mithril wondered if Maughin said it. That was what the [Strategist] thought. The perfect example of a hero. Tulm had been…afraid. Very afraid of what they might find. A [General]’s confession. Some sin to make the Iron Vanguard tremble.
Maughin was overcome with emotion as he knelt there. He understood, like Drassi’s audience, what this meant. The effort of a Dullahan who had so little time to himself.
Drassi broke the silence after a long time. Her voice echoed slightly in the vast chamber.
