She had…known the [Harbormistress] was one of the people who’d died, but never met anyone who had known her. Etril was her son. Now Ryoka understood why he wanted to meet her. She searched for something to say as he looked at her. His ruffled clothing was like an older ship’s captain, practical and ornate. But he seemed more like a [Sailor] than [Lord], sometimes.
“I…Lady Gresaria…”
“Harbormistress. She was a Duchess, for whatever it was worth. The Duchess of Salt, they called her. But she liked being called Harbormistress.”
Ryoka hesitated. She looked at Etril, and eyes like the salt-grey skies waited.
She died because of my arrogance. I’m sorry.
No. Those were entirely the wrong words. She died because of me? Ryoka had said something like it before and been reminded of her arrogance. What else?
I wish I could avenge her? I won’t forget this?
No, and no. At last, the Wind Runner gulped. She looked Lord Etril in the eyes and nodded.
“…I wish I could have met her. She sounds like she was a hell of a woman.”
Tyrion blinked, but Etril’s eyes widened slightly, and he threw his head back. He laughed once, almost in relief.
“She was! A hellion worse than her children. She always told us we were too calm and mild. She tore up Izril with Maviola El. A hell of a woman. I like that.”
Ryoka exhaled, and Etril shook his head, chuckling. She had gotten it right this time. And Etril…he turned and pointed, and Ryoka’s breath caught again as the gangplanks were being lowered.
“Don’t worry. You can still see her. Look there. It went up two months ago. I’ve sailed so constantly after the Circle of Thorns I barely saw it myself. But there she is. Our famous [Sculptor], Haeis of Marble, did it.”
And there she was. Ryoka Griffin saw, next to the Bell of First Landing, a smaller statue.
Still life-sized. That was how big the bell was. Someone—a true master—had taken a block of marble and carved…
Gresaria Wellfar. She stood there, spear in hand, pointing outwards, head thrown back, white hair tinged the faintest green blowing in the wind. Even her skin seemed weathered by the sea, but her eyes were flashing as she stood atop that chariot.
It was so lifelike that, but for the right color, Ryoka expected the woman to move at any second. In fact…Ryoka’s heart raced as Lady Buscrei spoke softly.
“Has she changed postures since last I saw her?”
“She has. That’s Haeis for you. His works change posture—like how some paintings change. Do you know, he put it up in secret?”
“House Wellfar didn’t commission it?”
Even Tyrion was interested. Etril’s eyes lingered on his mother as he sailed home.
“No. We didn’t pay him a thing, and I would have—he put it up in the middle of the night. I think it caused a stir. It—damn. Are they still arguing over the statue limit?”
His smile became a frown as they pulled into harbor. Ryoka saw a commotion at the docks. And—she noticed something else—there was another crowd around the statue of Gresaria Wellfar. They had ropes, tools to winch something heavy, a number of horses, and two Golems.
But the [Laborers] took one look at the oncoming Pride of the Wellfar and Lord Etril and backed up fast. He strode towards the gangplank as Ryoka heard the shouting begin. Cheering from the people at the docks, calls to Lord Tyrion, the news crew—she stared around and felt hundreds, thousands of eyes on her.
She hoped this wouldn’t be a scene. But then Ryoka realized her first mistake. Even without the Ryoka special—everyone else here was quite adept at causing a mess themselves.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice had no understanding of First Landing’s cultural heritage or even most of the people with Ryoka. But she didn’t need to know that right now.
“She’s alive! She’s alive, and she hasn’t lost any fingers. Mrsha, see? See?”
Drassi wasn’t being broadcast at the moment. She was still digging towards the keep in the frozen garden, but the fickle news had switched over to The Pride of the Wellfar coming into port for a bit.
They hadn’t really figured out that they could delay broadcasting the news for later yet. So this live event was showing the gigantic ship as it came in, and there was a familiar head of raven-black hair. Of course, she was so far away it could have been a number of people, especially since you couldn’t see the bare feet.
The real clue was the way she kept shifting awkwardly and the wind that was furiously blowing around her despite the more placid breeze elsewhere. Mrsha stared at Ryoka and smiled. Well, well, well. You made it again.
Everyone else in the inn was less happy to see Ryoka, or her company. Noass was waiting to get back to Pallass, but he spat.
“Tyrion Veltras. The hound of the Five Families himself.”
Erin stared at the spit on her floorboards. She pointed at Noass accusingly.
“Clean that up.”
Then she went back to watching. Ryoka was keeping bad company, but what else was new? Well, apparently a lot of things.
Whoever this reporter on the ground was, he was fairly energetic and a good speaker. Candidate for an actual [Reporter] class and employment by the Five Families.
“—this is the triumphant return of The Pride of the Wellfar, Sir Relz. One of two Citadel-class ships out at sea. As you well know, House Veltras fought against Ailendamus alongside the Dawn Concordat, and Tyrion Veltras himself is returning, covered in glory—and far younger! I would be, of course, remiss to not mention that House El, House Wellfar, and House Terland also contributed to the war effort. House Reinhart is typically absent, but the others will no doubt be claiming some of the glory, and I expect the celebrations will shake First Landing!”
Sir Relz was on the splitscreen broadcast. As Drassi had said, he really could be clever, but right now he had the bemused expression of a foreigner trying to show mild interest in something he really didn’t care about. The Drake adjusted his monocle.
“I, ah, see, Mister Wetiole. I assume there’s a custom of celebrations? You do seem to give the Five Families a lot of credit.”
The Human man didn’t seem deterred by Relz’s attitude, which endeared himself to his viewers, Erin included. He beamed as he gestured towards the gangplank being lowered.
“One has to, in First Landing, Sir Relz! The Five Families or nobility in general take offense, and their fighting is to the north as the Walled Cities squabbling is to the south!”
Relz huffed.
“I don’t think that’s an entirely appropriate analogy. Can you get an interview with this Wind Runner or Lord Tyrion?”
“We will try! Although Lord Tyrion is infamously aloof—oh, but there’s Lord Etril Wellfar, the [Captain]-appointed head of The Pride of the Wellfar. A very prestigious position after the passing of the late, irreplaceable Gresaria Wellfar, who died challenging the Assassin’s Guild. In this very spot—I think there might be some trouble. It looks like they were trying to remove her statue again, and Etril Wellfar is not going to take that well. Oh dear.”
The camera swung back to the statue, and Erin’s head jerked up.
“Gresaria…?”
The name reminded her of someone. Her eyes locked on…that old woman who’d come after Maviola! But Erin remembered someone else. Someone she had met in the lands of the dead, who had helped save her.
Gresaria Wellfar. And then she saw the crews about to do something to the statue, and Erin felt a pulse of anger in her chest. That was nothing to the look on Etril’s face as he stormed down the ramps.
The cheering and the crowd of nobles prepared for some kind of ceremony stopped as his voice began to sound off in the background. The wincing Wetiole gave commentary.
“It’s, uh—a First Landing problem, Sir Relz. You see, the greatest [Sculptor] in Izril, Haeis of Marble, pulled a Sellme the other day. I think that’s a Drake analogy you can understand? It’s a wonderful tribute to the [Harbormistress] and a work of art—she moves and changes posture, you know. But it’s interfered with First Landing’s statue-limitations law, and it is a problem.”
“I don’t know if ‘greatest [Sculptor] in Izril’ is an appropriate claim to make. Have we compared his levels with Drake—or Gnoll artisans? But do go on about this statue argument? I wonder if we could check in with Drassi again? I don’t think we need to delve into civic details, Wetiole. You are live.”
Sir Relz inspected his claws. At this, the energetic man’s smile faltered.
“I think it’s a bit relevant, Sir Relz. I, uh, could I talk to Drassi? I feel like there’s a bit of hostility here, and she is my inspiration.”
The monocled Drake’s brows drew together in outrage.
“Drassi’s busy. And I think we can all appreciate some unbiased coverage from another species who understands that, from an outsider’s perspective, the minutiae of another nation’s customs are not—”
Erin was about to chase after Noass and shout at him. She was just turning when Sir Relz’s viewpoint disappeared and Drassi appeared in his place. She was pointing at the ramparts of a keep buried in snow; the garden was so filled that the top of the keep was being excavated by Jewel and some others.
“—I think I see a door. See if—what the heck?”
She jumped, looked around, and then listened to something in a speaking stone in her earpiece.
“That idiot did—ahem. Hello! Who am I speaking to? What’s going on? Oh, Ryoka Griffin! Personal acquaintance of mine. Distant friend. Friend is, uh, putting it generously, but I’ve met her. And is this First Landing?”
“Reporter Drassi! Wetiole here—”
The man beamed and introduced himself as Drassi found herself acting as news-anchor from the garden. She nodded rapidly as he did a recap.
“I see—so what is the statue-limitation law? I’m interested. Petty people are tons of fun.”
The people in the background of Wetiole’s feed laughed. He smiled and went on.
“Well, this is as petty as it gets—in a sense, Reporter Drassi. Basically, there is an old law on the books in First Landing that none of the Five Families are allowed to have more statues of each other than any other. This unauthorized statue of Gresaria Wellfar has put House Wellfar ahead, and the other Five Families want it gone—or to all have another statue of themselves. And between you and me, no one wants more of the nobility enshrined!”
“Ancestors, that is petty! So they’re trying to remove it? And Lord Etril…uh oh. Bad taste?”
“And bad timing!”
Lord Etril was having a heated argument with House Wellfar’s leadership, an affronted [Lord Admiral], as the other members of the Five Families watched. A [Lady] of the Reinharts was watching with a delighted smile as House El looked resigned and House Terland horrified at this breach of decorum.
“—not going to take down her statue.”
“The law of statues, Lord Etril—this is not the moment. Lord Veltras is waiting to disembark.”
“Then move your work teams back, or I’ll toss them into the surf myself!”
Etril barked. Erin saw the camera moving slowly towards him. In the background, she saw a telltale pair of bare feet.
“Ryoka! Ryoka—oh, wait. That’s not Ryoka. There are more people with bare feet? Oh no. It’s spreading!”
Erin pointed at the second-in-command of the ship, another of House Wellfar’s folk, a [Lady Navigator]. House Wellfar apparently had its nobility serve as actual members of their ships, hence their…down to earth or down-to-sea natures.
However, there were clearly differences, like the [Lord Admiral] who really did not want this argument right now.
“Her statue will be removed to a private space. Perhaps to Wellfar lands. It will not be destroyed. Nothing can be done right now, Lord Etril. You know the laws on statue-limitations. We already have three statues in radius of the harbor. Lord Shellac, for instance.”
He pointed at another statue standing proudly on a huge park looking down over the docks. It was one of those plazas you could walk around. Etril’s eyes narrowed as he stared up at it.
“Indeed we do. One moment.”
He turned and stormed back up the gangplank. The nobles muttered, looking offended, and Erin felt like Etril’s political stock was probably dropping. However, that wasn’t what drew her attention.
“Hey, did he look weird to you just now?”
She turned to the others watching with her. Mrsha scribbled furiously, but Lyonette beat her to the punch. She gave the image a wary look and then turned to Erin.
“I fear he’s going to do something stupid, Erin. He did indeed look off to me. Rather like you do whenever you lose your temper.”
Erin squeaked.
“Me? What does—”
Then everyone saw Lord Etril Wellfar appear on the railings of The Pride of the Wellfar. He called down—calmly—to the nobles on the docks.
“Lord Admiral Deinol, I hear and understand the issue of statue limitations. Allow me to rectify the issue.”
“Rectify the…”
The mustachioed man caught on a second too late. He began waving his hands as Lord Etril turned and pointed.
“Don’t you dare! Krakens damn you, Etril! Don’t you—”
“Fire!”
And then Erin went blind for a second. The person holding the camera actually had the wherewithal to aim it at the distant statue on the plaza.
Erin didn’t know what it was made of or which [Sculptor] of antiquity had created it—but whatever it was, it wasn’t proof against a bolt of lightning as large as the statue blowing it to pieces.
The Pride of the Wellfar was a magical ship. It had magical artillery that had forced Ailendamus to flee it on land as well as sea. The first bolt blew half of poor Lord Shellac’s head off and sent an arm spinning into the sea. Two more lanced the statue with pinpoint accuracy, and then a pair of legs and a ruined pedestal were all that was left. Right until the molten fire landed on it and clung, burning, to the base.
When the ringing finally stopped, Etril Wellfar turned back to the stunned crowd.
“There. Problem solved.”
Ryoka’s mouth was open as wide as everyone else’s in the background. Erin gazed at Lord Etril, and Mrsha applauded her new favorite [Lord] ever. The [Innkeeper] heard Lyonette exhale loudly.
“Well, that has put the cat in the royal coop. Of course Ryoka associates with people like him.”
Then the shouting really started.
 
——
 
Ryoka had seen Etril snap. She was familiar with snapping. He had the opposite of chill. However, he was not blind with fury, either.
He had a list of targets he could have erased with the Pride’s firepower. Any statue, really. But he had chosen a Wellfar statue, because he wasn’t stupid.
Exploding another House’s statue seemed like a really good way to start a feud. This? This only got him in trouble with his own House.
