Training Overview

General Experience Earned

Mana Use: 10000

Skill Experience Earned

Refrigerate: 1800 [Rank Up]

Winter: 2304 [Rank Up]

Immolate: 1260 [Rank Up]

Aura Synergy: 3225 [Rank Up]

Aura IFF: 16699 [Rank Up]

After helping Ameliah finish hanging strips of aoaka meat on racks near the fire to dry, Rain had found himself with nothing to do. He brought up his notifications from the day before. He’d made good progress on IFF, but as it was a tier 2 skill, the quantity of experience it needed was not insignificant.

I want to finish it. I want to finish ALL of the things. What do I have remaining?

Skills

Aura Synergy (8/10) Exp: 2686/5800

Increase all aura output by 0.8% for each rank in any aura

Effective boost: 50.4%

Aura IFF (9/10) Exp: 6569/14800

User may exempt entities from direct aura effects at will

Selected entities receive 10.0% aura output

Force Ward (3/10) Exp: 150/1600

Increase physical resistance by 13.536% for all entities

Range: 4.51 meters

Cost: 1 mp/dmg mitigated

Refrigerate (7/10) Exp: 1668/2200

77-88 cold (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes slow

Range: 10.5 meters

Cost: 35 mp/s

Immolate (6/10) Exp: 726/1600

66-76 heat (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes ignition

Range: 9.02 meters

Cost: 30 mp/s

Winter (9/10) Exp: 1766/3700

Boost M.Regen by 135% for all entities

Range: 13.5 meters

Cost: 9 mp/hr

Velocity (8/10) Exp: 998/5800

120.32% boost to speed for all entities

Range: 12 meters

Cost: 8 mp/s

Free Skill Points: 2

Ok. I’m out of paper, so this should be interesting. The experience progression for tier 0 skills is [100, 200, 400, 700, 1100, 1600, 2200, 2900, 3700], that much I can remember.

Overmana is great. I’m getting faster, though it’s less that I’m getting better at math, and more that I’m remembering the result of all the multiplications that I’ve worked out before. Anyway. Refrigerate needs 2,200 + 2,900 + 3,700 - 1,668, so…7,132.

Immolate, 1,600 + 2,200 + 2,900 + 3,700 - 726…so 9,674.

Humm. How much mana do I get a day now? Statistics. Yes, and change the unit please, System. Thank you.

Statistics

Total

Base

Modifier

Health

200

200

0

100%

H.Regen

100/day

100/day

0/day

100%

Stamina

200

200

0

100%

S.Regen

100/day

100/day

0/day

100%

Mana

5100

5100

0

100%

M.Regen

112533/day

18150/day

-3888/day

641.4%

Movement Speed

10

Perception

10

Resistances

Heat

Cold

Light

Dark

1

0%

1

0%

1

0%

1

0%

Force

Arcane

Mental

Chemical

1

0%

1

0%

1

0%

1

0%

112k in a day with Winter. I can only count on half of that, as I spent most of the morning sleeping, so call it 60k unless I want to put in some serious tank time. That…might not be a bad idea.

Speaking of tank time, leaving Winter on overnight with Aura Focus was a great idea. Winter needs 3,700 - 1,766…1,934 more experience. From the mana use shown in my status, it will get almost 4,000 experience…no, wait, divide by 2. Experience for auras is half of the mana used. Gotta remember that. It will get…1,944 exp just from my regular background usage over 24 hours. I lost a lot of time to Essence Well yesterday.

Anyway, I don’t think I need to worry about Winter if I end up doing what I think I’m going to do.

7,132 experience for Refrigerate is 14,264 mana. Three full mana pools.

9,638 experience for Immolate is 19,276 mana. Four full mana pools.

This is great! I feel like Stephen Hawking, doing all this math in my head! Ah, who am I kidding, that guy was a genius. I’m just remembering stuff, not working on a theory of everything.

Ahem. Velocity is tier 1, so it has a different progression. [200, 400, 800, 1400, 2200, 3200, 4400, 5800, 7400]. It needs 5,800 + 7,400 - 998…so 12,102. Two full mana pools, plus maybe a half. No, wait, that’s exp, not mana. Double it. Five pools.

IFF…I still haven’t figured out the exp formula. It needs…8,231 exp. At this point, fuck it. As long as I do at least half as much Essence Well spamming today as I did yesterday, I should be fine. I think I did around 6 or 7 pools’ worth yesterday, so call it 4 for today to be safe. No, better make it 5. I really can’t afford not having IFF at 100%.

That’s 17 mana pools in total so far, meaning 5,100*17…86,700 mana. Doable, totally doable, just not without Aura Focus. Oh well. If I’m doing this, I might as well go hard.

To-do:

3 pools of Immolate (don’t burn self to death),

4 pools of Refrigerate (don’t freeze self to death),

5 pools of Velocity (don’t launch friends into orbit),

5 pools of Essence Well (don’t melt brains).

If I’m not insane by the end of that, I can have Carten bash his head against a wall to train Force Ward. That’s really important too; it saved my life after all. I should probably start with that, but I want to experiment with it to figure out how it works first. Bah, there aren’t enough hours in the day.

Hopefully, Aura Synergy will take care of itself. I have no idea how that one is calculated either. Well, if you can’t do the math, just throw mana at the problem until it goes away.

Now to go do it.

Over the rest of the day, Rain ran into a series of minor problems. The first was that Immolate would quickly raise the air temperature to uncomfortable, even dangerous, levels. He noticed that it was worse when he gave the skill time to warm the air, and not as bad if he used it at higher power for a shorter time. The higher power he used, the faster the heat radiated outward from the center, sort of like he was increasing the local air pressure. That said, he was far too afraid to try an Immolation Nova. Even at reasonable power levels, channeling Immolate for any length of time heated the air to unbearable temperatures quickly. Refrigerate had the same issue in that it made the air unbearably frigid. Sitting next to a blazing fire helped, at least until the fire went out. He’d actually managed that, a feat he was fairly proud of.

Fortunately, the solution was simple. He just needed to switch to the opposing aura whenever the air got too hot or too cold. It made keeping track of how much mana he spent on each skill a bit tricky, but he managed it. He had the time to work out the correct ratio while his mana was regenerating. With Winter at rank 9 and all his boosts, it only took him 25 minutes to regenerate to full now. According to Val, this was ‘absolutely disgusting’.

Nobody had any interest in standing near him while he was alternating between refrigerating and immolating the countryside, but Jamus and Val had been taking advantage of his bouts of fully-boosted Winter. It was much gentler on the soul than Essence Well was, apparently. Nevertheless, Ameliah had needed to forcibly drag Val away to prevent him from injuring himself further. Rain was mildly disappointed that he’d only heard about the incident after the fact, having been insensate at the time it occurred.

He managed to finish off Immolate and Refrigerate before lunch, which turned out to be aoaka steaks grilled on a tin griddle that Tallheart had made for Jamus. The flavor was amazing. Rain didn’t know if aoaka was really that much more flavorful than beef, or if it was just the consequence of his tastebuds having forgotten what actual food tasted like after eating so many ration bars.

After lunch, he started working on Velocity. It turned out to be easy to deal with. Unlike Immolate and Refrigerate, Velocity only affected entities, meaning people, monsters, and animals. IFF couldn’t reduce the effect of his offensive auras on the environment, but for Velocity, it was perfect. With everything but Aura Focus, Velocity’s boost was up to a ridiculous 481%. However, IFF could reduce that by 90%, dropping the speed boost down to a manageable 48.1%.

He even found a way to vary the reduction from IFF freely, similar to how Channel Mastery worked. He wasn’t sure if it was a natural interaction between the two skills, something IFF allowed inherently, or the result of his high Clarity. Nevertheless, it worked, and that was enough. It was pretty difficult to keep track of individual percentages for each entity in range, though, at least until he managed to convince the system to help. After some significant effort, he’d added per-target rate adjustment to his IFF control panel, along with the whitelist option he’d been after initially. It only took a few minutes of concentration and a partially digested aoaka steak.

Once he’d recovered from that, he found that he could just sit in the middle of the camp and rake in experience for both Velocity and IFF. He wasn’t sure about the implications for IFF’s experience gain in this case, as it didn’t affect mana usage at all. He decided he couldn’t rely on it, so as soon as he finished his 5 rounds of Velocity, he moved straight on to Essence Well.

That was easy, too. He didn’t care that much about the mana transfer, so he just blacklisted everyone but himself and let it rip at full blast. Essence Nova had a transfer rate of around 180 mp/s, but the pathetic 7% efficiency meant that the cost rose to a staggering 2,500 mp/s.

Fun fact: when a person used mana at such a high rate, their eyes would burn with energy. The higher the usage, the stronger the effect. Though his eyes were open, Rain didn’t witness the glow, as he was using Aura Focus at the time. According to Jamus, he’d momentarily looked like some sort of vengeful thunder god, Arcane mana crackling chaotically from his eye sockets. Fortunately, there didn’t seem to be any consequences as far as soulstrain was concerned. His Clarity protected him, just as Jamus had said it would.

This got him to around supper time, which was more aoaka stew, though with different spices than the first batch. It was, of course, delicious. By this point in his training montage, he was starting to feel like his companions were getting pretty annoyed with his continuing lack of mana usage soulstrain. Val and Jamus had both burned themselves out. Though Winter wouldn’t cause soulstrain from overmana, soulstrain from mana overuse was apparently a separate category. A category that Rain appeared to be immune to.

Carten had been distracted earlier when Tallheart offered to repair his twisted chestplate, but now he was back with the others. He, too, was looking a little grumpy. Rain could understand. The Defender—if that was what his class actually was—didn’t have any skills that could benefit from the massive mana generator that Rain had become. That had led to boredom, which had led to bothering Ameliah, which had led to Ameliah leaving to go hunting again.

Rain hoped his plan for training Force Ward would distract him, but before he could implement it, a sudden absence of noise caught his attention. Tallheart had been working at his forge all day, not even stopping once for lunch or dinner. The distinct lack of hammering made the camp feel eerily quiet. He looked up to see that the antlered man was walking over to him.

“Rain,” he rumbled, coming to a stop facing him. “I would speak with you.”

“Sure, Tallheart, what about?”

Instead of responding, Tallheart gestured over his shoulder with a tilt of his head, then turned, walking back toward his anvil. Rain followed. As he approached, he noticed that the tiny anvil plate had been upgraded. In its place was a monstrous slab of iron that would have been at home in any dwarven smith’s forge.

How much iron was there in that mine, even? That thing has got to weigh a literal ton.

Tallheart’s workspace had been transformed. The piles of ore were mostly gone, replaced with broken chunks of glassy, solidified lava. The crucible had been upgraded as well. It was larger and had three drains now. There was a pile of cooling rock below one of the spouts, coiled like a snake where it had been extruded. It seemed Tallheart had created his filter for stone. In addition to the anvil, there was a small stack of metal bars sitting nearby.

“Wow, I guess I wasn’t paying much attention to what you were up to, Tallheart. How the hell did you purify so much iron so quickly?”

Tallheart smiled. “One filter for iron, one for other metals, and one for everything else. This way, I do not need to keep emptying the crucible.”

“Wait, I thought you had to make a filter for stone out of stone. These all just look like iron. Also, they look different. What’s with the handles?”

Rain moved closer to the crucible, inspecting one of the drains. He could see the circular filter placed in the pipe leading from the bottom of the crucible, but there was also a large metal shaft extending from the top of the filter, like a handle. It made Rain think of one of those throttle levers on the bridge of an old steamship.

“In theory, yes, a filter for stone should be made from stone. However, I do not need to purify the stone. This filter excludes all metals and allows everything else through. Do not touch it.”

Rain pulled his hand back from the lever. “Oh, is it hot?”

Tallheart shook his head. “Yes, but that is not why. Your arm is not metal. It would be…unpleasant for you. The filter is one-way.”

Wow, okay, no touching the filter if I want to keep my fingers. Got it.

Tallheart laid his hand on the lever and pushed, rotating the inscribed circle of iron. There were no runes on it that Rain could see, only a line to indicate position. Tallheart scraped his armored finger around the inside of the drain, removing the last few sluggish drops of lava. He then lifted the coiled snake of mostly hardened stone and tossed it away. The glassy rock shattered into fragments as it landed.

He closed the other drains as well, but it appeared that he’d already collected whatever had come out of them. “Come,” he said, leading Rain over to his anvil.

On the surface of the anvil were two ingots of metal, both perfectly rectangular and about the size of…well…ingots. Tallheart pointed to one of them. “This is pure iron,” he explained. He then pointed to the other, which was a subtly different shade of gray. “And this is high-carbon steel. I explained steel to you, yes?”

“Yeah, you did. I know all about steel anyway. Where’d you get the carbon?”

Tallheart ignored his question completely, lifting the two bars of metal. He offered them to Rain. “Choose.”

“Choose? For what?” Rain said.

“Your armor.”

“Awesome,” Rain said to himself in a whisper. Tallheart is the best!

“Tallheart, thank you. I’d love a suit of armor.”

“Good. Choose.”

Rain paused to consider. “Well, steel is obviously stronger, but the fact that you are offering me a choice means that there is something that I don’t know about. What would be the advantage of iron?”

