“It is pure. I could have the full armor ready for you in a few hours. The steel will take me longer. Days.”

“Tallheart, either of those options is insanely fast. How are you going to—”

“Choose,” Tallheart rumbled. Rain reached out and took the ingot of steel, momentarily surprised by the weight. It wasn’t often that he got to handle a solid chunk of metal like this. He was used to things like rebar, which, while heavy, wasn’t nearly as compact as this bar. The aspect ratio had thrown him off.

“Well, steel, I think,” he said. “I mean, I suppose I could just take the iron set and you could make me a steel one later, but I don’t want to make you do all that work twice. Bending metal around like that can’t be easy…”

“It is not,” Tallheart said. He set the bar of iron aside, then took the steel back from Rain. “Steel, then. I would prefer to condense it to adamant, but this is a poor mine. It would take several thousand times this much iron to form even a single ingot.”

“Woah, wait, hold up,” Rain said, raising a hand. “Adamant is just compacted steel?”

“In essence,” Tallheart said. His tone said it was nowhere near that simple.

Rain shook his head, deciding to postpone any further questions about metallurgy. Tallheart looked tired, though if it was from the long day at the forge or his questioning, Rain couldn’t tell. “So, my armor. Is it going to be like yours?”

“No. Iron and steel are poor for holding enchantments. The effects that it will support are limited.”

“Oh, wow. You’re going to enchant it too? Tallheart, thank you so much! I wasn’t even thinking of enchantments yet. I only meant would it look like yours, or more like Carten’s. Yours is so…flexible.”

“It is nothing,” Tallheart said. “Without you, I would have no metal to shape. And yes, I will fashion it like my own. Properly articulated armor requires great precision to make, but it is worth the effort. When I am done, you will barely realize it is there. You will be far more agile than Carten, though it will lack the strength of Force Steel.”

“What’s Force Steel?” Shit, that was a metallurgy question. Sorry, Tallheart, it just slipped out.

“Steel alloyed with molten Force Crysts. It is incredibly durable.”

“Oh.” Rain paused. “Is there Dark Steel? We have plenty of Dark Crysts.”

“Yes. I had planned to ask you if you would give them to me. It will broaden your choices for enchantment, but the metal itself will not be any stronger.”

Rain hurriedly pulled open his pouch and dumped it out onto the anvil. He started picking out the Dark Crysts from the Tel and piling them up. He had about ten in total. “Is that enough? Carten has a few more. I could probably get him to trade.”

“It is enough,” Tallheart said. “What enchantment would you like?”

“Well, resistances, obviously. It is armor after all. Lightness would be nice. I’m not really used to wearing heavy armor. Some sort of damage reflection? Stats? Yes, all of the stats. Strength in particular. I really—”

Rain stopped his shopping list abruptly as Tallheart sighed, resting his face in the palm of his hand. “What you ask is not possible. I have explained this.”

“Wait, which one isn’t possible? And when did you explain?”

“You asked me if I could make you a ring to boost your stats. It cannot be done with iron or steel. Adamant, yes, but gold would be better, and less expensive. Arcane Steel would work, but it would be a waste.” Tallheart leaned forward. “The metal matters.”

“Oh, yeah, I remember you said something like that. I wouldn’t really call it explaining, though…”

“Do you want armor, or not?” Tallheart said, staring at him.

“Sorry, I’m just a little bit excited.” Rain said. “What are my options?”

“For steel, durability and hardness enhancement is popular. Force Steel would be better, but Dark Steel will still support the enchantment. Dark resistance will work well. I will be able to prevent the metal from acquiring a weakness to Light, but no more than that. I cannot add other resistances, though the armor should still protect you from the other elements, provided that the metal takes the blow. Do you have Mana Manipulation?”

“No. Should I?”

“Enchantments are not free. They require power. If you intend to use enchanted equipment, you will need to fuel it with mana. I…could build the armor with a reservoir, as those rings were made. I will not do such a thing. The armor would fail over time.”

“Oh. Well, I have a skill point. I can take it…”

“You have a choice. I can enchant the Dark Steel to draw energy from the Dark element instead. The enchantments would slowly recharge at night, or in the presence of weak Dark mana. That is a significant enchantment, however. The armor could only have Durability, Hardness, Dark Resistance, and Dark Assimilation. That would be all that the metal could hold. If I instead add Capacitance, I could add something else. Perhaps Dark Regeneration.”

“Regeneration? Like, health regen?”

“No. Regeneration of the armor, not the user.”

“Oh, so self-repair?”

Tallheart nodded. “It would be slow, but with enough mana, you could mend cracks in the armor and restore its shape. It cannot replace missing metal; however, you could restore it with additional Dark Steel.”

“How does…never mind. I’m planning on getting soooooo much enchanted shit eventually. I don’t mind taking Mana Manipulation. Self-repair sounds great, Tallheart. Please make me that. Durability, Hardness, Capacitance, Dark Resistance, and Dark Regeneration. Unless…would you recommend something else? Some other enchantment?”

“Humm.” Tallheart considered, then shook his antlered head. “With Dark Steel, this is about as good as you can do. It is good enough that it even has a name: Dark Revenant’s Armor.”

“Well, that’s metal,” Rain said, laughing. “It’s not going to be covered in spikes or anything, is it?”

“No. I do not abide such foolishness.”

“Good. I’d prefer not to impale myself if I bend over. Can you make it look like yours?”

Tallheart smiled. “Yes. It will be similar, though the metal will be darker. There is one last thing.”

“What?”

“Tel. I will need several hundred to inlay the enchantment.”

“Oh, sure. Here, I’ll just leave all this with you,” Rain said, gesturing to the pile of Tel. “Don’t go crazy. I’ve only got around 600 or so, and I need 500 to get back into the city. We’ll get more tomorrow, but…”

“Three hundred should be sufficient,” Tallheart said. He started to separate the Tel into two piles, but Rain stopped him.

“Just hang on to all of it. I trust you,” Rain said.

“Very well,” Tallheart said. He took the bag as Rain offered it to him, then swept up the Tel and fastened the bag to one of the belts he wore over his armor. “I will begin later tonight. The Dark Steel will need to crystallize in the darkness. I will rest now.”

Tallheart turned and started to walk away.

“Wait,” Rain said. Tallheart paused. “Thanks for this Tallheart. You have no idea how grateful I am.”

Tallheart gave a low chuckle. “You do not need to tell me you are grateful. I can tell. Humans are overly expressive.”

Rain felt like he was walking on air as he returned from Tallheart’s forge. By his count, he’d maxed out four skills, perhaps five, and now he was getting badass armor made by a legendary blacksmith.

Well, Tallheart’s not exactly legendary. He’s more of a secret blacksmith.

“What was that about?” Carten asked as Rain rejoined the others around the fire. Ameliah was visible in the distance, her brief hunting trip clearly successful as she was towing some sort of gigantic snake creature toward them.

Rain grinned. “Tallheart wanted to know what kind of armor I wanted. What’s that thing Ameliah’s got?”

“Oh ho!” Carten said, not even looking where Rain was pointing. “Armor, huh?” He grinned. “Pay up, Jamus.”

“Damn it,” Jamus swore, reaching for his pouch.

Rain laughed. “Don’t ever change, guys. You weren’t in on this, Val?”

Val shrugged. “My money was on you getting him to make you a sword. You seem like the type.”

“What about me makes you think I’d use a sword?” Rain asked, curious. He had no intention of picking up a weapon again, not with how strong his attack auras were getting. With IFF, there was no need. He might keep training with the staff just for the exercise, but swords… Swords were just for killing people. They weren’t even designed for monsters; a spear or something would be better for that.

“Why not?” Val said. “Swords are awesome. And you can use one, too. I wish I could, but it would mess with my magic. All of the best duelists use swords.”

“You…are a strange person, Val,” Rain said. “You say you love dueling, but you shoot beams of instant death. That doesn’t strike me as very sporting.”

Val laughed. “You’re damn right it’s not. I like dueling, sure, but I’m an adventurer first and foremost. It doesn’t have to be fancy, it just needs to be effective. You’ve met Lavarro, so you know that true power isn’t flashy. Nobody would come to watch her in a duel. She’d just snap her opponent’s neck like that!” Val snapped his fingers.

Rain shuddered. “Thank you for that wonderful image. Hi, Ameliah.” He turned to face her as she dragged the massive brown snake up to the fire. “Where did you find that? Please tell me there aren’t more. Also, I thought snakes didn’t like the cold.” Carten finally looked over at her, then swore as he saw what she was pulling, scrambling back a few steps.

“They don’t. This is a crawler vine, and it’s actually a plant, not a snake. Tallheart should like it, though I wouldn’t recommend any of us try it. They are toxic to humans, but cervidians think of them as a delicacy.”

“Wait, that’s a plant? But it has scales…” Rain bent down to inspect the snake thing. The scales were actually tiny hard thorns, covering the surface. The eyes were made of the same material, only black. The entire thing was as thick as his leg and easily ten meters long. “Oh, that’s so freaky. It looks just like a real snake from a distance. Well, apart from the fact that it’s way too damn big. It’s a vine, you said? Is the name just for show, or does it really…”

“Yes, it moves,” Jamus said, inspecting the snake. “They aren’t monsters, but they are ranked as a level 5 threat. Luckily, this one appears to be thoroughly dead.”

“Well, I’m not sleepin’ tonight. I fuckin’ hate snakes,” Carten said.

“Mmm,” Jamus said. “It must have been nearby, too. She wasn’t gone long. I hear that they can burrow through the ground and burst out underneath you with no warning.”

“Shut the fuck up, Jamus. I don’t wanna know things like that,” Carten said.

“It’s true,” Val said. “You’ll be fine, though. It’s only dangerous if you are weak.”

“That’s not the point,” Carten growled. “I’m not afraid of em. I just hate em. Something about the way they move. It ain’t right.”

Despite himself, Rain smiled. Ameliah had taken out her knife, the same wickedly sharp one that she’d lent him so long ago. She started cutting up the snake, the blade having no trouble slicing through the thorny scales of the vine.

That knife must be enchanted. Anyway, as alarming as giant tunneling plant snakes are, I still have more to do today. “Hey, Carten, I’ve got something that might take your mind off it.”

“Oh?” Carten asked. “Done training at last? Time for something fun?”

“Yes and no,” Rain said. “It’s still training, but I think you’ll like it. I want to spend a little time figuring out Force Ward.”

“Humm,” Carten considered. “Sure, I can punch you in the face a few times.”

Rain laughed. “Believe it or not, I was actually going to suggest that. Just…take your gauntlets off first, okay?”

Ameliah sheathed her knife and set the remaining portion of the crawler vine aside. “I’ll finish this later. I need to make sure you don’t kill yourselves.”

“Thanks, Ameliah. I promise we’ll be careful.” Rain stood and walked a little ways away from the fire. He activated Force Ward with Amplify Aura and Channel Mastery, then checked the effect.

Force Ward (3/10) Exp: 150/1600

Increase physical resistance by 54.144% for all entities

Range: 4.51 meters

Cost: 6 mp/dmg mitigated

Just over 50% at 6 mp/damage. Ok.

“Tell me when you’re ready,” Carten said, cracking his knuckles.

Rain nodded. This is going to hurt. “Ok, I want you to punch me in the shoulder or something first. I don’t really trust the skill yet. Please don’t break me. I only have 200 health, remember, chainmail or not.”

“Shit, really?” Carten said. “I’m not hitting you, then. It would be like kickin’ a puppy.” For some reason, Ameliah laughed at this.

Rain looked at her. “What?”

“Nothing,” she said, fighting to control a smile. “I’ll do it. I can control my strength. I can also heal injuries if anything happens.”

“I’m surprised you’re letting me do this at all, honestly,” Rain said. He was starting to think this was a bad idea. I trust her, but she’s REALLY strong…

Ameliah smiled. “Knowing how your skills work is important. It could save your life, and you’ve recovered enough so I could heal you again if anything goes wrong. Also, I never said I was punching you. It’s an aura, right? Come on, Carten.”

“Ha!” Val laughed. “This is going to be good. Kick his ass, Ameliah.”

She seems to be in a good mood all of a sudden.

“Fine,” Carten said, then started removing his chestplate. “I don’t want you breaking my armor,” he paused to glare at Ameliah. “Again.” Ameliah ignored him.

Wait, when did she break his armor?

“What are we testing about Force Ward, exactly?” Jamus asked. “How strong of a punch Rain can block?”

“Yup,” Rain said. “The skill is on right now, so everyone should take half damage from Force.”

Jamus summoned his interface and consulted it. “Yes, indeed. I see it. Interesting. I expected there to be some visual effect.”

“Now,” Rain said. “Ameliah, can you control how much damage you do? Can you hit him for, say, 10?”

“That wouldn’t even get through my natural resistance,” Carten said.

Rain tilted his head. “Oh, hang on. How does that work? Which one would apply first, Force Ward, or Carten’s resistance?”

“Generally, effects are applied in the order that is the most advantageous,” Jamus said.

“Wait, what?” Rain said. “Advantageous for whom?”

“It’s complicated,” Jamus said. “How do your aura buffs work?”

