Rain thought about it. “Oh, I think I see what you mean. Extend Aura applies first, then gets multiplied by other stuff. Even Aura Synergy works, which I would have thought would apply only to the base range.”

“We doin’ this or not?” Carten pounded his bare chest. He’d removed his gambeson as well as his breastplate, revealing a physique that was less ‘Mr. Universe’ and more ‘World’s Strongest Man’.

I should do some pushups or something. “Yeah, fine. Ameliah, punch him.”

Carten planted his feet and faced Ameliah, grinning. Rain checked his mana, memorizing the current total. “Ready?” Ameliah asked.

Carten nodded. Ameliah hit him right in the sternum with a quick jab. As her fist made contact, Rain felt an immediate drain on his mana. When she struck, there was a pinging sound like a crack racing through ice on a frozen lake. There was also a distortion in the air as if a rock had been thrown into a standing pool of water. Ripples radiated out from the point of impact perpendicular to the strike, then faded away.

Carten grunted, but his grin didn’t fade. Rain checked his mana. He’d lost over a thousand from that single strike.

“Well?” Ameliah asked him. “Was that hard enough to test your skill?”

“Yeah, that took about 1000 mana. At 6 mana per damage mitigated that means it blocked around…150 damage. It only blocks 50% right now, so that punch did around 300 damage. That…would have killed me.”

Carten laughed. “Ha, Little Mouse, you need to tell Tallheart to hurry up with that armor!”

“Was that all you needed, Rain?” Ameliah asked. “I can hit him again.”

“Well, I’d like to train the skill, so yeah. Either you can hit him like that four more times, or once, four times as hard.”

“I’ve got another idea,” Val said. “I’ll hit him.”

“It only works on Force, Val,” Rain said.

“I know. I’m going to punch him. Then you punch him, then Jamus does.”

“Hah!” Carten said. “You noodle-arm mages don’t have a hope of hurtin’ me!”

Val ignored him. “We make it a game. Highest mana draw off Rain’s shield wins.”

Carten laughed. “Sounds like fun! I’m in, until I get bored.”

Rain paused. “Do you want to put a shirt on or something, Carten? Aren’t you cold?”

Carten shook his head. “Cold resistance. I’m fine. Who’s first?”

Without warning, Val wound up and sucker-punched Carten right in the face. There was a tiny ripple as his fist struck Carten’s jaw, and if there was a sound, it was too quiet to hear.

“Well, who’s first?” Carten asked, as if nothing had happened.

“56 mana,” Rain said.

“And no damage,” Carten said, grinning. “Looks like yer aura applies before my resistance, otherwise you’d a got nothin’”

“How do you know?” Val said. “Maybe I got through your resistance first, then Rain’s shield took the rest.”

“You didn’t. Not with a wimpy hit like that. Next! Little Mouse, you’re up.”

Rain stepped up. He’d never actually punched anyone as hard as he could. He had some idea of what he was doing, but he didn’t have any martial arts training. He knew enough to keep his thumb outside of his fist, but that was about it. His wild swing hit Carten’s shoulder without so much as a ripple. Carten laughed.

“What the depths was that? Pathetic!”

“Hey, come on. I was a construction worker, not a boxer. Before that, I was studying computer science. What do you expect?”

“Studying…what?” Val said. “Never mind. What was your score?”

Rain checked, then winced. “Maybe five or six? I might have regenerated a point by now.”

“Ha!” Carten laughed.

“My turn,” said Jamus. He planted his feet and drove his fist into Carten’s chest, pivoting his shoulders as he struck. It didn’t look that much stronger than Val’s hit, but the mana showed differently.

“106,” Rain said. “Wow, Jamus, what did you do?”

“Wait, HE beat me?” Val exclaimed, gesturing to the orange-robed mage.

“He knows how to punch,” Ameliah said. “That was decent form, Jamus.”

Jamus doffed his hat and took a bow. “Thank you, thank you.”

Val scoffed. “I’m going again. I’ll be serious this time.” He planted his feet and took on a stance similar to the one Jamus had used. His fist connected with Carten’s stomach, the entire weight of his body behind it.

“112,” Rain said. Val stepped back, grinning at Jamus. Carten yawned theatrically.

“Come on, Rain,” Ameliah said. “Try again. Plant your feet. Make a fist, good, like that. Now, when you punch, follow through and use the strength of your whole body. Don’t try to punch him, try to punch through him.”

Rain followed her instructions as best as he could, earning a much-improved score. He stepped back to make way for Jamus to try again. “I got 27 that time.” He shook out his hand. Carten wasn’t exactly a soft target.

“Better, Little Mouse,” Carten said. He grinned. “I still haven’t felt a thing from any of you yet, though. Ameliah doesn’t count. We might be here a while.”
