To many, the last day of the auction was a big even. That was when the best items would be showcased, which was why many people didn’t bother showing up the first six days.

Even in a small village like Hu Village, despite the fact that their population was small and manpower meager, there was a Myriad Market. Where there was demand, there was a Myriad Market.

The only reason Hu Village had been chosen over other villages in that small province was because of their advantageous geographical location, where there wasn’t any particular danger from the mountains or forests in a good range.

There was also the fact that they were in the middle of the province. If there wasn’t any village there already, then the Myriad Market would have built one in the area themselves. That was just how good the area was.

Not that it mattered now.

The manager of the Hu Village branch of the Myriad Market, Fu Qiang, thought about that as he walked on stage. He thought about many more things as well, such as how, in all his years of managing that poor branch, he’d never had such a good deal before him.

There were old and precious treasures before, but none as rare and powerful as those pills, not to mention that Phoenix feather. Only the Heavens knew why he’d been allowed to keep the Meridian Awakening Pills, and he was thankful for it.

Perhaps they thought that the feather was more precious, and the fact that he was the one to turn it in sowede some goodwill between him and the higher ups. All of that, he could not be sure of.

One thing he knew was that he was going to be a very rich man very soon.

The guests that came in today were not only from the Bai Village, but also from Golden Arch City, and the other rich cities in the surroundings.

One particular person that stood out was an old man with long black hair. Despite his age, he’d always managed to keep his looks youthful. Even so, he was the clan leader of a powerful lan situated inside a rather remote valley.

It was none other than the Song Clan, a family of powerful and talented martial artists that specialised in many techniques, most notably being fist and foot techniques. Rumors say that their bodies could become hard like steel, or flexible like rubber.

Besides that, their special Qi circulation techniques allowed them to store up a lot of energy and unleash it all at once. Those were only the things made public by the clan, as information scarcely got out.

The Song Clan Patriarch was living proof of that, as how could a hundred and fifty year old man look so young? Either he reached immortality a long time ago and was playing house, or his techniques had a special effect.

The answer to that question was obvious.

As for why he was attending, well, it was also obvious. The man had a lot of descendants, many of which had untapped potential. Wether it was feeding those pills to a new born, teen, or someone who had already cultivated for a few years, the results would be incredible either way.

Fu Qiang also picked out some other important figures, such as one of the rulers of Golden Arch City, the old man that did divinations, though he somehow forgot the name of such an important person, and one particular girl from the Shang clan.

The very daughter of the Crimson Butterfly.

He didn’t know why she was standing in the crowed, but he wasn’t going to question her.

Aside from those, there were many old Core Formation cultivators and some middle aged Foundation Establishment folk. All of them would more or less buy those for their children, grand children or fifth rank cousins.

Amongst those important figures, the children that the alchemist, Fa Xiaolan, was taking care of, were also watching from within the ground. He didn’t know the whole story, but it’d seemed like whatever debt she owed them had been paid.

With all of those figures noted, Fu Qiang announced the start of the last day of the biggest yearly auction in decades, and he did so with as much excitement as he could show.

They didn’t start off with the pills, of course. No, those were meant to be a main course right after a nice appetiser.

The first items they decided to show off was a small piece of armor found in a realm a couple of years ago. Nobody had wanted to claim it due to its strange energy, and the fact that any of the previous owners that had it died.

Of course, he disclosed all of that to the public, since the Myriad Market’s reputation was more important than a measly tunic.

As expected, nobody bid for it, and Fu Qiang wasn’t expecting anyone to, truthfully.

Just as he was about to take it off, though, a strange man with an unremarkable aura raised his hand and bit 100 Spirit Stones for it.

Since nobody else cared for it, the man bought it, and Fu Qiang could only consider it a profit.

When the man received the tunic, he smiled to himself before touching it, something that made Fu Qiang frown. However, what happened next, only he with his powerful cultivation could detect.

The strange aura from the tunic disappeared almost as if it had never existed, and the man’s power actually slipped through. Fu Qiang was shocked to feel the presence of a late stage Core Formation cultivator from the man, especially since he, as a Golden Core cultivator, could not even detect it.

When taking a closer look at him with his Divine Sense, he felt an eerie death aura from him, and more than that, he felt the man stare back at him.

Suddenly, their eyes met, and a cold shiver ran down Fu Qiang’s spine. In that brief moment, he saw his life flash before his eyes, and felt the very true threat of death close upon him.

He looked away and blocked off the man’s technique, softly apologising for intruding. Never in his life had he ever considered that a junior could make him feel like that, and he realised then that the younger generation was truly dangerous.

***

I clashed with yet another cultivator as the Moon Bloom began lifting its  head. For some reason, most of the powerful cultivators that remained decided that I was the greatest threat. Thankfully, and for some fucking reason, they didn’t attack all at once.

Instead, we kept doing the same old duelling attacks, where the loser would just leave. That was the single most unexpected thing in this entire scenario, and I was completely flabbergasted.

It made sense, yes, it did. Why would anyone bother dying for a common flower? But this wasn’t something I was expecting.

At the very least those humans were strong, so they did give me a challenge, but if I used Heaven’s Protection, the fight would end too easily. Compared to Spirit Beasts, whenever a human hit, they didn’t do that much damage. It was rather convenient, but also boring.

As a result, I started taking the strikes with my own body, without relying on defensive techniques.

Some of the cultivators didn’t even leave a dent on me, while some other managed to scratch me. But their average strength was pretty low.

For a while, I believed the only challenge would be the man that actually killed people if provoked, but an actual challanged showed up after I took care of a dozen of so of the others.

A man wearing a dark blue robe with a sword by his hip and short hair stepped up, or down, rather, as he flew off his sword.

After landing, he cupped his fists in a bow. “I know not who you are or what sort of Spirit Beast you are, but you’ve clearly proved yourself. I am not one to look down on others because of race, so please allow me the honor of a duel.”

I let out a screech, since I didn’t really feel like using words. Besides, screeching was faster.

“We will follow the same rules. Each of us will exchange a move and the weaker one leves.”

I screeched again, confirming.

“Very well then. Allow me to start.” He placed a hand on the hilt of his sword and took a deep breath. A moment later, he unsheated it, and infused it with Qi. I allowed him to do all those movements, and finally, he raised his sword above his head.

When he swung it down, a large wave of Qi spread from the top of his blade all the way into the sky, though it seemed that only the closest portion had killing power.

The Blade Qi flew toward me, and I allowed it to hit me. The moment the blow struck, an immense wave of pain spread throughout my body, as if I’d been crushed by a rock. It was extremely painful and annoying, but also exhilarating.

Unfortunately for the man, it was just a flesh wound, and nothing mortal. If I knew that the blow would take my life I would have simply dodged it.

After the dust settled, it was my time to strike. Unsure of what exactly to use, I opted for the easiest Blade Wing strike used in tandem with the good ol’ Side Step.

I noticed the man’s expression pale for a brief moment before he did a series of hand signs and cast a protection barrier to block my strike.

That was one other difference I noticed between me and the cultivators. They had to actually circulate the Qi, while the skill did it for me upon activation. It was a rather eerie feeling, as I’d been in their situation before.

When the Blade Wing collided with the barrier, it shattered, and the man flw back.

He was an almost middle stage Foundation Establishment cultivator, and he lost to a single one of my strikes.

Just like all the others. It had gotten a little bit annoying. Weren’t those fuckers the lackeys of the Nascent Soul piece of horse crap? How could Foundation Establishment cultivators be so weak?

It just didn’t make sense.

The man got up and bowed, despite everything. “I, Lu Chen, thank you for your guidance.” He said, and took off on his sword just as I rolled my eyes.

Now that I was looking around, there was only one person left, and it was the sword shaped eyebrow guy, who simply watched from the sidelines.

“Well, things are getting really interesting now, hm?” He muttered to himself and got down on the top of the mountain, which was a pretty strange sentence.

Considering the fact that he was my last opponent, and that the Moon Bloom was about to, well, bloom, then this fight should not take too long. At least, I hoped.

I still didn’t fucking understand why this sort of fight was a thing. Seriously, what the hell was this system?

How did they even come up with it?

***

Meng Mao was watching from high in the sky, and saw all of the interactions from the moment the Phoenix snuck on top of the mountain.

He had to say that he wasn’t expecting any of that to happen. He’d never had to fight to get a Moon Bloom, as it was quite a useless plant except some niche use-cases.

But if that was how all of them were harvested, then he sure was glad he never had to grab one.

Because what the fuck was going on?
