She realized that was one of those things an archer had—an armguard. It went with the recurve bow on their back and quiver at their side. As they straightened, hefting the deer onto their back, Erin realized a few more things.
They had features like a hyena, not a dog. There was something…more poofy about their ears, and their face was more angular than most dogs’. A humanoid element that made them look even more expressive than a dog’s face.
Second? This—this person was six-foot-seven. They towered over Erin, and they had the muscles to match if they were carrying half a deer. 
Come to that—Erin stared at the deer, because she knew deer from her home state of Michigan. This was a big one, possibly a buck? But the antlers were…glowing. They were an oaken brown at coronet, but turned cherry red at the tips, and the entire antler had a faint bright glow to it.
The hyena-person noticed Erin at last as they stood with a groan. They did a visible double-take, then glanced guiltily at the blood on the street.
“Apologies, Miss. Was I in your way?”
It was hard to imagine that—the street was a good two-dozen paces on each side, and there wasn’t anyone else in this particular spot. There was no sidewalk, but the paving stones were mostly flat…except in one spot where some shift had made one jut up treacherously.
Erin backed up instantly, waving her hands.
“Oh, no! I’m, um—sorry I didn’t help? Sorry you fell?”
The person gave her a blank look—then bared all their teeth. Erin froze up, and the figure looked confused. They closed their mouth and curved their lips up.
“Er…apologies, Miss Human. We don’t see many of your kind around here, yes? A [Trader], a traveller? No need to apologize. [Broader Shoulders] means only I can carry a deer back! Half of one, at any rate. If only I had a bag of holding large enough for an entire deer, eh? I wouldn’t make a Human help me lift one of these!”
They laughed and patted an odd bag next to their belt. Erin’s smile grew more desperate.
“Yes? No?”
The person stared at Erin with a quizzical look. A bit of blood dripped onto their shoulder, distracting them, and they cursed again.
“Tribes and tribulations. Excuse me, Miss. Watch the blood. If that [Guardsman] asks…pretend you never saw me. I’ve got to get this to the [Butchers] before the Acid Flies are all over.”
“The…”
This was so fascinating, but the figure was already striding off, and Erin, dumbfounded, had to catch her breath a second. And by that point, she realized that this was a city of more than just ant people and Drakes.
Erin walked down the first street, and then she began seeing crowds. In fact…that furry fellow was one of thousands. Hundreds she could see in any given moment, which made her assume this city was home to at least tens of thousands. 
Drakes, Relc called his people. Not lizards—Drakes. They had scales of every color, almost always one color with perhaps some speckling of other scales at most, like freckles. But most had only one dominant scale color. 
Green or blue were the majority, but Erin saw a Drake with orange scales talking to another who was laughing and…gossiping? That was what it looked like as she held a claw in front of her mouth, whispering loudly to a group seated at a table. She had bright yellow scales and…a kind of tavern girl’s outfit on.
A medieval dress. But, done in a modern style if that made sense. With cleaner and far higher-quality fabric than Erin would have expected of the actual medieval ages. Like someone in a renaissance fair, actually. But…
The more Erin looked at the various types of clothing, she realized it wasn’t a one-to-one comparison with her world. The dyes were less vibrant and the lack of machine-printing meant that there were no logos, but a lot of fine embroidery. She saw a sigil of a city in the form of a badge on a passing Drake’s uniform and could tell it was an emblem because of the delicate gold thread surrounding the city with a sword and axe hovering over it. 
On another hyena woman’s shirt was a silver fang embroidered in thread. And the lack of dyes also resulted in a more natural feel to the attire around her. Instead of neon-green, the brightest colors were a fine red shirt on one of the furred men, or plain white cotton on a very light dress under a thin, pale-blue outer layer.
The people here wore clothing bright and colorful enough that, at a glance, you might not realize how different it was. Erin’s t-shirt and jeans were still odd, but not uniquely so. If anything, it was being a Human that made her stand out.
Because these people were people, even if they weren’t Human. They were walking to work, talking, avoiding the fellow with the half a deer carcass on their shoulder—Drakes and the furry people.
No Humans. And no ant-people that Erin could see on this crowded street. The Drakes seemed to be the majority, but there was a strong minority of the…what?
Erin had no idea what to call them, but they were a tall lot, weren’t they? The Drakes varied in height roughly around Human standards, but the furry folk seemed to be taller on average. Bigger, too. There were male and female ones—Erin could tell despite the fur. And the female ones tended to have breastbands at the minimum.
A lot of the furry folk wore light clothing. Literally just a kilt or a kind of exceptionally loose pair of pants. A…toga? An actual toga, yes! It must have been hot, despite the cool weather, for anyone with that much fur.
By contrast, the Drakes also had togas and fairly loose clothing, but some were dressed head-to-toe. Like the Drake with bright yellow scales whispering to some people at—an outdoor café?
She had a platter of drinks and some bowls on the tray, but she’d stopped to whisper to a gaggle of other Drakes.
“—broke up again. Hawk can’t keep a girlfriend for more than a month, Courier and gold or not. It’s his obsession with vegetables.”
“You sure it’s not him being…him, Drassi?”
“Oh, hush. He’s fine. He’s more Drake than you are. I’m just saying—”
The barmaid, or whomever she was, jumped guiltily as an angry Drake with black scales—aside from some grey-white ones around his head—came out, his voice raised. He had a smock, and he looked managerial. In fact, Erin realized she was witnessing a common sight from her world.
“Drassi! This is the eleventh time this week! I’ve told you again and again, stop gossiping. I don’t care what your class is—enough. You’re friendly, but you’re also fired.”
“What? But I can work harder! Come on, Mister Drells…”
The Drake protested as her friends coughed and tried not to be there. Erin’s eyes boggled at the sight of someone losing gainful employment before her eyes—and if that didn’t make this a city like home, she didn’t know what did.
The city. Now that she was done staring at the people, Erin realized this city was…well, stone. Streets? Stone. Walls? Stone. Not concrete or asphalt, but cobblestones stuck together with some version of cement. Not incorporating any faux-stone cladding. Actual, legitimately hewn stone that sometimes bore chisel marks.
It reminded her of one of those European cities, the older ones. A lot of the buildings were wooden, and most had at least two stories. There was even a sidewalk, but no cars, obviously. Nor were there any traffic lights or modern electronics in sight.
Erin saw wood shutters thrown open, a few people on outdoor balconies watering pots of flowers, and someone hanging clothes up to dry—but thankfully no privy pots being thrown into the streets.
In fact, she realized that the street not only had a sidewalk, but very familiar openings into…a sewer? The street looked fairly clean, and Erin was so busy staring that she didn’t hear the angry person shouting at her until she looked up and saw a wagon rolling towards her.
“Get out of the way, you idiot!”
Erin ran for the side with a squeak of alarm. The driver on the wagon, another Drake, slowed the pair of ponies that stared at Erin almost accusatorially as the Drake—female?—managed to stop her vehicle.
“Are you blind? Stay on the sidewalk! I nearly ran you over!”
“I’m sorry!”
Erin called back as people turned to stare at her. The fired [Barmaid] perked up the instant she saw Erin.
“A Human? We haven’t seen one of them in…I wonder if another trade caravan’s getting here?”
The [Driver] paid no attention. She pointed at the huge wagon, and Erin realized those were the vehicles of choice. From footcarts to gigantic wagons larger than cars, loaded with goods.
“Sorry? Sorry? When this wheel runs over your foot, no healing potion in the world is going to get it back. Do you think I want that on my conscience?”
“S-sorry. I just didn’t see—”
The Drake glowered, but she flapped the reins, moving onwards.
“I don’t have time for this. I’ve got a delivery to run. Sidewalk! Use it!”
Erin was running afoul of everyone. Subdued, Erin scurried to the side of the street—and got into trouble again. Because she wanted to stop and stare, and this was a crowded city. Hundreds of people were all about, and they didn’t much like someone who stood still. Or Humans in general, it seemed.
Erin had come to a halt in front of a large building with writing on top. A lovely, wide sign…that she couldn’t read.
The language was different here. Exactly like the other words on the sign. It said, um…well, she had no idea, but there were two words and what looked like an apostrophe. But the real clue was what looked like a crystal ball and a magic wand with glowy bits. Some kind of symbol. Magic? Then Erin got in trouble again with the locals.
“Excuse me, Miss. Are you waiting in line for…?”
“One side, Human! Stop blocking the way!”
She jumped out of the way, and some impatient citizens strode into the building, which was getting good traffic in and out. Erin looked around. Every head turned to stare at her, and she heard that refrain again.
“Humans.”
“Excuse me—um—what’s this building? I can’t read…”
Erin looked from person to person, and one stopped to talk to her. That friendly yellow-scaled Drake had been drooping along, head hung low after being fired. But this novelty made her smile come back with an eager vengeance.
“What, the Mage’s Guild? You can’t read, Miss Human? Right, you don’t read Drake script. Are you looking for the Mage’s Guild? Runner’s Guild? Adventurer’s Guild? An inn to stay in? Stables? The Watch, maybe? I’m Drassi.”
The words broke over Erin like a rushing wave. The young woman lifted her hands.
“No! I mean, I’m just looking around. Nice to meet…I’m just looking for a—a store!”
The Drake gave her a bright smile. With too many teeth. She bared all her needle-sharp teeth, and Erin gulped.
“What kind of store?”
“Uh—I—just looking, thanks!”
Erin fled, feeling embarrassed and awkward. The Drake scratched at her neck spines as Erin hurried off. 
If she kept moving, she could be part of the crowd. After a while, Erin was less flustered. She walked down the street and became, well, part of the city’s traffic. That allowed her to observe.
This city is huge! At least, she thought so. There were so many people she wondered how many lived here. Tens of thousands? Hundreds, probably. And all packed into the walls, not spread out.
Hence, there were no real suburbs, just residential streets with four stories of buildings next to or above shops. Erin saw the fellow who’d killed that odd deer again, depositing his kill with the [Butcher]. He was having a hard time.
“You just gave me a damned Corusdeer. Half of one.”
“Yes. And?”
The man had his arms folded as the Drake harangued him.
“Where’s the other half? You didn’t skin it first? You’ve ruined the hide—and there’s dirt on this part! Did you drag it back?”
The other figure growled.
“I dropped it once, okay? It’s not bad, no! And as for cutting it in half—I thought I saw a Shield Spider nest near me. They would have been over the kill—and me—in minutes. The hide’s fine. You can make boots out of what’s here. How much for it all?”
“Typical. You go for the top half because the antlers are worth money to the [Alchemists]. Nevermind the intestines being good for sausage or all the organs like the liver and—stop growling at me. I know, Shield Spiders. Damn it. Alright…let me check the quality of the meat. Give me a few minutes. And get a bucket of water and wash yourself off. You’re going to attract Acid Flies.”
A butcher’s. Or was it a [Butcher]? Erin saw more of that oddly cursive writing on storefronts, helpful sign posts…she guessed that this city would be easy to navigate. If she could read. 
Oddly, everyone spoke the same. The furry fellow had a bit of a rolling ‘r’ to his voice and a growling tone, just like the Drakes elongated their ‘s’ and ‘l’ sounds, but they were speaking perfect English.
As for the butcher’s shop, what made Erin stare was the glass window. It had glass! It was the first glass she’d seen, and it astonished her because she hadn’t expected to see any in what she took to be a medieval world before they had access to the stuff in bulk. Wait, didn’t churches back then have glass? The point was she didn’t expect to see it in widespread use.
But glass was visible in a few buildings, and the more she looked, the more she noticed it. It wasn’t ubiquitous, but it was a window here, a pair of spectacles there—and one huge building with tons of people entering and exiting had a wand and a crystal ball icon over the front.
And then she wandered into an open plaza, and her mouth dropped. There were benches, even a park with trees and a playground over there! In this city! In fact, rising at one end of this plaza was a distinctly governmental building. It had large pillars, an open frontage that had less traffic, but a very familiar-looking sigil. The same one on Relc’s badge.
“That must be city hall or something. And the place with the wand—was that a magic shop…do they teach magic there? Do they sell wands? Wow. Wow. And I just need to find…a regular people shop.”
She was still overwhelmed, but Erin could catch her breath in the plaza with no one growling at her to keep moving. She took one breath, then another, then tried not to hyperventilate.
“Okay. Okay. I was lost before. I can do this.”
She had, in fact, been lost in a big city before. The key was noting where the foot-traffic was going. Erin guessed that led to places people shopped or did…things at. She kept monologuing; a lot of people were standing around or watching the children play. Again, Erin saw no little ant-people like Klbkch.
