Across the field, she watched as some fifteen-thousand garo riders slowed and faltered in place, turning this way and that in search of the source of her voice, but theirs was a futile effort. Small chance for them to see through Concealment set up by a Divinity, and even if they could, it was already too late, for the Enemy forces were already within bow range. The first arrow shot out from her bow and thousands followed after, and as impressive as the sight was, Akanai wondered what it must look like from the other side. To those Defiled riders out there, these arrows were appearing out of thin air, already arcing down to rain death upon their ranks, and what a glorious death it was.

Technically, having an Ancestral Beast Conceal an army of three-thousand Sentinels and five-thousand Imperial cavalry was a violation of the Treaty, but the Enemy had already shown their disdain for the rules of war, and Akanai was not above threatening escalation. Guan Suo was the sire of Akanai’s precious daughter, and she would be remiss not to avenge his death. While she herself was still lacking, there were several old fogies from the mountains who might prove a match for Zhu Chanzui, so she had no qualms against using them in this manner.

Volley after volley fell down upon the Enemy forces, but with no target in sight, there was nothing for them to do besides mill about and die. Once almost half of the garo riders were dead and the Enemy showed signs of breaking, Akanai signalled for her ally to drop Concealment, to which he responded with a snort and a lengthy complaint. Putting his grumblings out of mind, she watched as her revealed forces came under scrutiny by the Enemy. Seeing their numbers were still fairly even, the foolish Enemy commander believed his forces still capable of winning a fight, and so he ordered the charge, just as she expected. Were this the brilliant commander who oversaw the forces at Castle JiangHu, he would have split his forces to retreat and fight another day, but this cavalry commander was a more typical Defiled leader, too blinded by bloodlust to know when he was beat. The Sentinel longbows sang again and again, and by the time the first garo riders reached her ranks, there were less than a thousand still left standing, and Akanai’s warriors made short, bloody work of the survivors.

While Kankin and the other quins had a quick snack on garos and Defiled alike, Akanai parsed through Sendings and painted a mental picture of the same scene happening all along Castle JiangHu’s expected path of retreat, with Imperial Divinities finally lending a hand to the war effort. In three instances however, the Enemy commander salvaged the bulk of his forces in the same manner she detailed above, scattering them to the winds only to regroup further west. It was always frightening and exciting when faced with a competent foe, for the thrill of the hunt was most satisfying when faced with mortal peril. There was much to be gained in this hunt, and much to be lost as well, but Akanai discarded her fears and gathered her forces to chase down one such regrouping Defiled contingent.

This was the battle-plan Nian Zu, Shuai Jiao, and little Rain had laid out, and thus far, things were going as expected, but it was far too early to declare victory just yet. As her Sentinels came upon their quarry, she found the Enemy lined up in wait and immediately called for the halt. Stopping just out of bow range, she Scryed upon the garo forces in an effort to quell her troubled misgivings, but despite seeing nothing out of the sort, she still had her reservations. Were she facing Imperial soldiers, she would’ve given the order to loose arrows without thinking twice, but she was up against Defiled. Even if they styled themselves the Chosen of Heaven, they were still blood-crazed Defiled, so to see them lying in wait with such strict discipline set off all sorts of alarm bells in Akanai’s head.

“Withdraw,” she ordered, and a barrage of Sendings arrived to question her decision even as she passed along her reservations to other forces in the field. It didn’t matter that she had nothing but instinct to go on, because not only was she the commander of this contingent, she was also the second highest ranking Officer in the field. Du Min Gyu was the only person who outranked her, and he’d long since turned over command to her, which meant she had no one to answer to, not even little Rain. There was something afoot here, and she would be a fool not to trust her instincts, an action which was almost immediately proven correct.

For as soon as her forces turned to ride away, a horde of Demons revealed themselves and came barrelling towards her lines with a chorus of bloodcurdling howls.

To their credit, the Imperial soldiers under her command didn’t panic and continued their withdrawal while the various Demon Slayers rode out to hold the Enemy back, but Akanai had other ideas. “All forces, full retreat. Demon Slayers, form the rear guard.” She only had eight-thousand cavalry under her direct command, and less than a dozen official Demon Slayers. Add in the unofficial Demon slayers like Tenjin and Tursinai, as well as the promising Warriors like Alsantset, Huushal, and Mila, and that number jumped closer to fifty, but even then, these were poor odds with dozens of varied Demons bearing down on them.

As the Father’s foul minions closed in on her forces, a single spear shot out from the rearguard and embedded itself in the foremost Demon. Her chest brimming with pride, Akanai spared a quick glance towards her beautiful daughter and committed her feral grin to memory. Yet another first for young Mila, because that Demon died beneath her spear thanks to some unseen working of Chi, and the weapon was already returning to her hand. In this showy manner, Mila earned her first confirmed Demon kill at twenty years of age. The girl was progressing almost as quickly as Rain now, her strength growing by leaps and bounds ever since her fortuitous encounter in Taduk’s bamboo grove, a miraculous place of natural Balance. If only that eccentric fool could be convinced to study his bamboo grove alongside his Spiritual Plant garden, for if he could build dozens more of such gardens for Warriors to meditate within, the People might be able to churn out Experts and Peak Experts at an unprecedented rate.

Then there was no more time to spare for idle thought as the Demons were upon them, and Akanai set her ax-lance to bloody work. Long sweeps of her polearm kept her foes off her back, her movements no longer adhering to the Forms, but adapting them into something new, unique, and utterly suited for her physique. She was no Oriole, Mantis, Wolf, or any other such creature, but a demi-human Warrior unlike any other, and as such, her movements could not wholly be replicated by anyone else. Others could model their actions after her of course, and superficially, they might look the same, but these movements were best suited for her and her alone. Even if the differences were minute, no one else had the exact same physique as she, and thus, what was most efficient for her would not be the most efficient action for another. That was all there was to it, the goal always the same, with Martial Warriors seeking the Path which suited themselves best, and now, Akanai believed she was close to discovering hers.

It was all thanks to her recent epiphany, one she stumbled upon not even an hour past, of the beauty and benefits of mortality. All her life, she had pursued the Martial Path, but in doing so, she had disregarded a core facet of her very being. Like it or not, she was a demi-human, or a half-beast as the rest of the world considered her. As much as she tried to ignore it, the world was right, because half-beast was a better term for the sort of human she was, one with a longer lifespan and different perspective from shorter-lived humans. She was neither wholly human nor beast, and while most saw her kind as a dead end Path, one unable to ever achieve Divinity, Akanai believed this was merely a matter of odds. There were far more humans than half-beasts, and even the most prolific Ancestral Beasts couldn’t have more than one or two thousand children alive at any given time, compared to the millions of humans born each year.

So it was not that half-beasts were unable to achieve Divinity, just that none had done so yet.

Why? Well, this was only a recent theory based on her own experiences, but Akanai believed it was due to the duality of her nature. She was a human yes, but one who possessed the latent instincts of her Ancestral Beast heritage. A caribou, Old Sumila had called her, and Akanai had hated the name so much that she filed down her antlers until they were hidden by her hair. This mindset was what was holding her back, her burning desire to be more human than beast, but the Mother had seen fit to bestow Akanai with gifts from both, and thus far, she had all but scorned half of her very self.

What gains these new changes might bring had yet to be uncovered, but at least she now recognized where her instincts hailed from. Her Domain billowing out as she traded blows with her Demonic foe, Akanai gave into the thrill of the chase, leading her foes about on the grassy plains of Central and keeping ahead of them all the while. This was in her blood, the deadly game between predator and prey, and while the stag and caribou were often run down and killed, the wolves were wise to be wary of their hooves and horns. A quick turn on her pursuing foes saw almost a dozen Demons killed and twice that number wounded, where little Mila earned her second kill of the day, while Alsantset, Tursinai, and Tenjin all scored their first, and again, Akanai’s chest surged with pride. This was what the People had become, what the Sentinels had become, all thanks to Old Sumila who cared enough to raise a house full of orphans and give them the love they all so desperately needed.

That would be Akanai’s legacy, one created in honour of the woman who raised her, and even if she were to die here today, it would be enough.

Not that she expected to of course, since this single clash was meant to give the Enemy pause. Their mission complete, her forces retreated without hesitation, opening the distance between their two forces. What’s more, she just received word of a second and third contingent of Sentinels and Imperial lancers coming to support her, but the Enemy commander was already pulling his forces back. Much blood would be shed today as she matched wits with her formidable foe, but with allies like Hongji, Naaran, Ghurda, Sarnai, and Du Min Gyu to support her, Akanai was confident of carrying her forces to victory.

After that? Well, there were still two other Defiled armies out in the field with an entire Western Province to draw fresh Enemy troops from, so her work was not yet finished, but for now, she was content to take things one step at a time.

For such was life, trials and tribulations without end, and Akanai would not have it any other way.

Chapter Meme

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3

Chapter Meme 4
