The withdrawal from Castle JiangHu had only just begun and already the situation looked dire, but Akanai was never one to back down from a challenge.

Parsing through Sent reports as she sat on the grassy plains of Central, she kept track of the Castle’s situation while simultaneously striving to remain calm and relaxed. Though she might be forced to move sooner if the situation deteriorated further, her part in today’s battle was not set to begin for another hour or two yet. The Enemy Commander surprised her with how readily he committed his Demons and Peak Experts to battle, but unless he was willing to sacrifice his strongest elites, there was no way they could hold the entire Castle’s forces in place long enough for the other Defiled to catch up. She had confidence the Warriors of the Empire would hold fast before the Enemy’s onslaught and wholly expected matters to proceed as planned, which meant all she could do for now was sit and wait.

All in all, this gambit had the potential to end disastrously for the Empire for little to no gain, but as they saw when the Enemy almost took Castle JiangHu, the alternative was even worse. Still, Akanai disliked Nian Zu’s plan when she first heard it and nothing had changed since, but she hadn’t known the reason for her disapproval until she arrived in the Castle and took part in the battle firsthand. The complicated bait and switch they’d planned would work fine against the Defiled, and perhaps even against the Chosen if they were led by anyone else, but in a mere handful of mental exchanges, Akanai had concluded that the Enemy Commander was too astute to run headlong into disaster. Their foe was as ruthless to his own forces as he was to his foes, a bold, decisive commander who capitalized on every weakness he scented and was either quick to adapt to changing circumstances, or so far-seeing he anticipated every possible move in advance. Akanai meant to deal the Enemy a grievous blow by stealing a march and arriving early at the Castle, but despite hiding all traces of her impending arrival and catching the Enemy off guard, her gambit accomplished next to nothing as her canny foe withdrew his elite forces without hesitation. He even covered his tracks and left no openings for Akanai to exploit on his way out, forcing the Imperials to resort to bloody, room-to-room fighting in order to retake the outer walls, and thereby eking out every advantage he could from his failed offensive.

This cunning foe was a worthy opponent, and Akanai feared herself outmatched in strategy. Luckily, the boy always planned for the worst, but while she saw no opening for the Enemy to exploit in little Rain’s careful arrangements, even the best laid plans could go awry. To make matters worse, the boy was now unconscious again, more prone to passing out than a fainting goat. This time was apparently due to overexerting himself by Scrying on the battlefield, though she was at a loss to explain how he could even manage such a feat with his Core shattered to pieces.

It pained her to admit it, but Akanai was no longer qualified to guide the boy along his tangled Path. He would simply have to find his own way by himself. Not the worst fate, as she’d done the same, but he was so wishy-washy and indecisive, she feared he would never pick a path to follow, correct or otherwise.

Still, no good would come from dwelling on problems she couldn’t fix, so to this end, she sought Balance and stroked the slumbering Kankin while praying her old friend had the strength to survive these coming trials and tribulations. The grizzled quin’s fur was more white than brown these days, and his collection of scars alarming to behold, a warrior born who should have long since retired for greener pastures. Alas, every time she tried to leave him to frolic with the other older quins, Kankin would soon escape and find his way back to her side, eager for a long ride through the countryside or a vigorous run through the obstacle course. Such was life, as some people and quins were not meant to sit idle. In this, Akanai and Kankin were a pair matched by the Mother Herself, so she could not bear to leave her loyal partner to idle in inactivity. That being said, Kankin had sired quins who’d long since retired or passed away, and Akanai knew not what drove the senior quin on, but she gave thanks to the Heavens above for whatever it was that kept him hale, healthy, and always at her side.

Despite the People’s longstanding history of cooperation with the roosequin packs of the mountains, they still had no definitive process to ensure a quin developed into a Spiritual Beast, nor were they aware of any way to guide a quin further along their Path. Kankin was one of the strongest, smartest, and hardiest of quins Akanai ever had the pleasure of working with, and even all the quin trainers were surprised Kankin had yet to form a Spiritual Heart at his advanced and somewhat unnatural age, but she held firm to the forlorn hope that he might one day succeed and be blessed with the longevity of a true Spiritual Beast. To help him along, she spent the last few months Healing him with Panacea every day despite his lack of injuries, and feeding him stalks of Spiritual Plants obtained from Taduk’s garden now that the eccentric Healer had so many he was finally willing to part with them. Despite this, Kankin still had yet to develop a Spiritual Heart, though thankfully he also showed no signs of deterioration either, aside from sleeping more often and being even more of a grouch than usual. Compounding her disappointment was the fact that the quin trainers suspected the boy’s fat, indolent quin Mafu might be Developing a Spiritual Heart, though they had no proof of success as yet, and only suspected as much due to the quin’s burgeoning appetite and only marginal increase in size.

Were it the boy’s other quin Zabu, then perhaps Akanai could understand, but Mafu’s gentle and playful temperament saw him earmarked as a wagon quin shortly after adolescence. The only reason he saw time as a battle-mount was due to the dearth of trained battle-quins, and the fact that Akanai had been feeling resentful after seeing sweet Mila moping because the boy gifted Zabu and Shana to little Yan. What’s more, the boy swore he wasn’t feeding the quin any Spiritual Plants, so how was Mafu progressing so quickly along his Path during his second decade of life, while Kankin still languished in normalcy after almost three centuries of conflict and strife?

Sensing Akanai’s inner agitation, Kankin roused from his slumber and rested his heavy head in her lap. Studying her expression with aged, clouded eyes, he yawned and grumbled before nosing her midsection in supplication for a treat. Rather than Spiritual Plant cuttings, which he ate but didn’t seem to care for, Akanai pulled out a fistful of dried apple slices and held them out for him, which he carefully crunched into one by one. There was a time when he would have devoured the whole bag of treats in one gulp, but she found solace in his thorough and methodical eating mannerisms, enjoying how he chewed each treat slowly and savoured every last bite. After ten or so treats, she noticed he kept glancing at her expression while he ate, and realized he hadn’t asked for treats because he was hungry, but rather because he enjoyed the extra attention. Even after two centuries together, Kankin still found ways to surprise Akanai with his intelligence, and she rewarded him with a warm smile and a scratch behind the ears, to which he responded with a pleased gurgle and contented sigh.

Such a silly, simple beast. Kankin wanted nothing more than to be by her side, so how could she ever bear to ride out to battle without him?

Due to the Divine Turtle’s recent ascension and the boy’s influence on her mindset, Akanai had been paying more attention to her old partner’s situation, and she found matters perplexing to the extreme. All animals, young and old, large and small, clever or stupid, were capable of using Chi, but unlike Martial Warriors and commoners, there was nothing to differentiate a Chi-capable animal from their mundane counterparts. Only Spiritual Beasts differed in that they were capable of using Chi in more... obvious ways. As such, it was widely believed that Spiritual Beasts were ancient creatures who’d found Balance and formed Spiritual Hearts, but it was almost impossible to gauge a wild animal’s lifespan out in the wild. According to the histories and every quin trainer she knew, a tamed roosequin generally lived anywhere from twenty to two hundred years of age, while wild ones could live even longer, and no one was the wiser as to why the range varied so wildly. Some quins simply aged before their time and died, whether it be from a stroke, organ failure, heart blockage, respiratory arrest, or some other natural cause, one which could happen at any time, the same as with any human. Like Martial Warriors, more powerful quins usually aged slower and lived longer compared to their common counterparts, but then there were the rare beasts like Kankin who grew old, slow, and short-sighted, but still kept trundling along after two-hundred plus years of life, and no one could explain why. In fact, the oldest quin in recorded history lived for more than five-hundred years without forming a Spiritual Heart, a number which paled in comparison to the long lifespans of verified Spiritual Beasts.

According to the histories, a Spiritual Beast’s age tended to slow to an almost imperceptible crawl at the point of Spiritual Heart Development, allowing them to live for millennia afterwards, but the Spiritual Heart alone was not enough to explain their long lives. Take Mama Bun, for example, whose age was unknown, but they assumed she must be thousands of years old since she was on the cusp of forming her Spiritual Heart. However, considering the Abbot saw three creatures form a Spiritual Heart in his lifetime, there was a chance Mama Bun was much younger and simply came across good fortune instead. Who could say if every Spiritual Beast was thousands of years old, as most believed was true, or if they were simply the paragons of their species who managed to do in twenty years what others would need two thousand years to accomplish?

Then there was also the fact that Spiritual Beasts were long-lived, but not ageless, as they too could grow old and grey with time. While there were few records of such creatures dying of sickness or infirmity, this was because any friendly Spiritual Beast was seen as a guardian and ally, one which was tended to with the greatest of care, tasking Healers to monitor their health and keep them alive for the foreseeable future. For a short time, those ancient creatures of the village even enjoyed the attentions of the Medical Saint himself, though these days Taduk’s attention had waned as he shifted his focus from Spiritual Beasts to Spiritual Plants. As for Kankin, Akanai had personally attended to his health throughout the years, but it was difficult to say if her efforts were responsible for his longevity since others would do the same for their quins as well. It would be best if she could find evidence of a Peak Expert’s mount passing away despite enjoying the same dedicated care, but she had yet to find an individual willing to admit that their lapse in judgment and inattention to their mount’s health was responsible for the death of their quin, assuming it was even possible.

So why was it that Spiritual Beast’s lives could be prolonged through Healing, but not human ones? The same question could be asked regarding demi-humans, and had been many times before. It was a mystery for the ages, one Akanai rarely paid any mind to, but now she was curious as to the answer. The commonly accepted answer was that a Spiritual Heart somehow allowed Spiritual Beasts to live indefinitely, so now, for the first time in her long life, she put her mind towards solving the mystery of how an animal would go about forming a Spiritual Heart and perhaps even uncover how one might become a Divine Beast. A most frustrating dilemma, one she had no idea where to start. It was all the boy’s fault for planting the seeds of curiosity in her thoughts, and now she could not let it go.

There had to be more to it than daily Healing sessions keeping Kankin alive, else there would be far more long-lived roosequins without Spiritual Hearts. The bond between rider and mount was a close one, and she could not imagine many of her comrades would have done nothing while their loyal, furry partners grew old and infirm. This brought Akanai back to the idea of Spiritual Hearts and their part in the longevity of beasts, leading her to believe Kankin must be close to forming his own Spiritual Heart, perhaps even a mere half-step away. Alas, there was no help forthcoming from the Spiritual Beasts of the People, not even from the fearsome Kharuul, who was supposedly Kankin’s great grand-sire, or so she’d been told. Akanai still remembered the burning disappointment she’d felt leaving the quin stables with young Kankin in tow, annoyed the hulking quin Patriarch refused to accept her upon his back. At least her pride was spared as the lazy quin went on to refuse everyone until eighty or ninety years ago, when he finally deigned to lower his head and take young Naaran around the mountainside, binding their fates together on that fateful spring day. Why Kharuul picked a six-year-old child as his rider was still a mystery, but there were many theories abound including how Naaran was distantly related to one of the quin’s past riders, or how the child’s scent might have reminded the ancient beast of some distant memory.

