In truth, Akanai believed she pieced the true story together. The Spiritual Quin was bored lazing around at home, followed the quins out for the festival celebration, stole Naaran’s candied fruits, and figured the noisy child would stop wailing if he took him on a ride. Whether it was Fate or mere happenstance which drew them together, it mattered little, for this led to a life-long partnership between Kharuul and Naaran. While he was an intelligent and formidable beast, Kharuul was still a roosequin with a penchant for sweets and a fondness for humans, so it was ridiculous to think his actions could help Akanai understand his Path. Still, the Spiritual Roosequin seemed happier for it, also out here on the fields of Central and eager to do battle with the Enemy, though Naaran himself would be happier staying behind to guard the boy. Oh how wonderful it would be if Kankin could become such a guardian beast, perhaps one who could then be paired with Mila and Rain’s first child, because regardless of the outcome here in Central, the next generation of the People would need all the strength they could muster to survive the coming trials and tribulations.

Today, the People were seen as heroes and saviours largely thanks to the pup and the boy’s efforts, but Akanai knew from experience that nobles and commoners alike were quick to forget favours and violate justice. The People could single-handedly win the war against the Enemy and banish the Father Himself into the void for all eternity, but all their contributions would be for naught in a matter of decades. How long after the war would it take for an impoverished noble to remember that the people had Spiritual Beasts and natural wealth aplenty hidden in the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains? It wouldn’t take much justification to convince like-minded fellows to attack either, for it was well known that treasuring a jade becomes a crime when lacking strength and security.

And that wasn’t even the worst of it. If one walks by the riverside, eventually one’s shoes will get wet. Just as she had to worry about threats from outside the People, so too did she have to guard against threats growing from within. Younger tribesmen were easily tempted by the allure of noble privilege and abundance, and it would not be the first time almost an entire generation of the People had to be exiled, nor would it be the last...

Having grown apprehensive in the twilight of her life, Akanai feared for the future now that death lurked on the horizon. Not death in battle, but death from old age, and therein lay the crux of the issue, as well as her recent fixation on the Animal Path. It wasn’t all the boy’s fault, though his wild claims that daily use of Panacea should theoretically allow a Martial Warrior to live forever weren’t helping. He wasn’t certain and it would take years to verify, but much as she would like to blame him for her woes, Akanai’s own mortality drove her to pursue this line of thought regarding the longevity. By solving one mystery, the long lifespans of mundane animals, she hoped to find some way to extend her own life and continue guarding the People for centuries to come. Five hundred years was the average, and no one knew why demi-humans were blessed or cursed with such long lives, and now, Akanai sought to extend it even further, but only because she feared for what was to come.

Alas, she found herself unable to move forward, which didn’t come as any surprise, for she was wholly unsuited for this sort of deliberation. When treading the Martial Path, she simply let her feet bring her wherever they might go, and somehow, they eventually brought her to the Peak. Others called it talent, but Akanai disagreed, for she knew what true talent looked like and was undeserving of the designation. For her, treading the Martial Path was far from easy, full of hurdles and setbacks aplenty, but something in her blood drove her to keep going. Pursuing the Martial Path was as natural as breathing, and she couldn’t imagine a life lived as anything or anyone else, so she pushed herself as hard as any of her peers, if not harder to reach where she was today. So many of her friends and rivals had been lost along the way, and still others had given up and were content with what they had accomplished, but for Akanai, there was only her husband, the Martial Path, the People, and nothing else.

Until some twenty years ago, when Guan Suo’s uppity messenger dropped baby Mila in her lap and told her to take good care of the babe.

The memory brought a smile to Akanai’s face, at how her younger self had come apart at the seams over such a tiny thing. Parenthood had terrified her in a way no Demon or Defiled ever could, and she’d almost dropped the babe in sheer panic, but then she looked into little Mila’s beautiful eyes and fell head over heels in love with that freckled scowl. She was a contentious toddler who grew into a precocious brat, but Akanai cherished every trial and tribulation she encountered along the Path of Parenthood. Unlike the Martial Path, she was in over her head when it came to tending to little Mila, and it stung her pride to have her mistakes pointed out by the pup and other younglings she’d taught to hold their spears. Even then, every day brought new joy in a way Akanai never expected, with every smile, pout, laugh, and scowl a treasure she locked away in her Natal Palace to remember for all eternity. It felt like just yesterday when the girl was learning how to walk, and now she was a woman grown and married, a phenomenal Talent who stood head and shoulders above her peers. Already, there were whispers of a second Smiling Slaughterer making their way around camp, for Mila’s fierce presence in battle was similar to the old tales of Guan Suo’s cheery savagery, and Akanai could not be any prouder of her bouncing baby girl.

It was bittersweet knowing how much she’d missed out on by waiting so long before starting a family. She could have better honoured Old Sumila’s legacy by giving the wayward orphans of the People more than just a roof over their heads and food in their bellies, for children needed love and affection to truly blossom. While she might have had less time to devote to the Martial Path, she would also have so many more cherished memories to dwell upon and so much more to be proud of. Even though she had recently adopted the pup, it was too little too late. Their relationship had not changed much, and there were so many others among the People she would have liked to adopt as children. Argat and Jochi for example, two foundlings in dire need of discipline and affection, or little Tursinai whose parents were lost so tragically shortly after her birth. Khagati and Kharnate were dead now, but both had been orphaned while young, and even Ghurda and Yaruq had been denied the love of a family until they set out to start one of their own. The former was on her third family now, having lost the first two to the rigors of time, while Yaruq was alone once more following the death of her lover Khagati, and Akanai did not know how they still had the strength to go on.

That was the upside of having started a family so late, for if luck was with her, Akanai would go into the arms of the Mother a good decade or two before little Rain reached the end of his natural lifespan. This would be a blessing, because then, little Mila would still have her loving husband to help her through the loss. The thought of helping her daughter through losing Rain terrified Akanai to no end, or worse, helping her beloved husband grieve the loss of their daughter, because there was nothing she could do to help ease their suffering. Oh how she yearned for simpler times when all she had to do was hold her baby close and pat her back to console her, and just like that, all of sweet Mila’s tears would disappear.

Yes, Akanai saw it now. Longevity would be more curse than blessing, for a life without love was a tribulation in and of itself. Perhaps that was why Kankin refused to die, because he knew she could not bear to lose him, and in truth, he would be right. In the same vein, it was possible he didn’t care enough to form a Spiritual Heart because he did not wish to live in a future without her, but there was a good chance she was attributing human emotions and intentions to her bestial companion, yet another bad habit she picked up from the boy. Kankin was king among roosequins, but still just a wild beast, happy to laze in the sun or ride into battle so long as it was by Akanai’s side. There was beauty in such simplicity, but it was not for her, and this more than anything helped her see the errors of her ways. Life was meaningful because of its inevitable end, for without the shadow of death lurking over her shoulder, then she would be no different from Kharuul who spent whole centuries doing nothing of importance until boredom drove him to seek out adventure. How lonely must poor Guan Suo have been, having lived so long he even forgot what his parents and first love looked like?

This was likely why humans tended to advance along the Martial Path so much faster than demi-humans of the same age, the fear of death forever pushing them to take risks and make the most of their time. There was no need to be greedy, as five hundred years was more than enough for Akanai, and she would make the most of her last few decades by continuing to pursue her life-long dream of reaching the pinnacle of Martial might. If she were to succeed and discover longevity and Divinity came hand in hand, then she would treat it as yet another trial and tribulation to endure, but until such a time, there was no sense worrying about what had yet to pass.

Especially not in these turbulent times, so it would be best if she put aside all these musings of the Animal Path or the demi-human Path, as well as her idle dreams of forming a Spiritual Heart to become a true eternal guardian of the People. There were no human Divinities amongst the People, and the favour of Ancestral Beasts was... unreliable, even at the best of times. Their perspectives were simply too far removed from that of short-lived mortals, and even Akanai was still treated like a child after several centuries of life. Most were no different from lazy Kharuul, keeping idle for several centuries before taking an interest in the world once more. None of them cared for change, no matter how minor it might be, and only a confluence of chance and calamity brought so many Ancestral Beasts down from the mountains to answer the Empire’s call. Were it any other time, the Imperial Clan would have been considered lucky if a single Ancestral Beast deigned to uphold the treaty and join Akanai’s Sentinels on the battlefield, but now, there were no less than four openly moving about in Central and a handful more lurking quietly in the shadows.

This, more than anything, was probably why Shen ZhenWu’s attentions first fell upon little Rain, but Akanai couldn’t bear to break the news to the boy, especially seeing how his actions and decisions showed he deserved his new position as Legate.

The pup was proud as could be, as well he should be, for the little foundling he brought home was now the highest ranking military and civil official in the outer provinces. The realization stung at first, but then Akanai remembered she was the boy’s grandmother, Grand-Mentor, and Mother-in-Law, meaning she would forever and always rank above him inside the family. So what if she technically had to kneel and salute him in public? The boy knew better than to demand it, and even publicly insisted she be allowed to remain standing as a mark of his respect. A good, filial boy Rain was, and Akanai was proud of everything he’d accomplished, but still, there was the incessant urge to keep ahead of him lest she lose his respect and admiration. Already, the pup was coming close to matching her in spars, and while she might be able to hold out against her son for another decade or two, Rain’s progress was nothing short of astounding. Twenty years young and already Scrying on the battlefield? Not to mention all the inexplicable miracles he already had under his belt, such as Panacea, Honed Aura, Oration, and War Bonds, most of which she still didn’t entirely understand. The boy had been marked for greatness, and she meant to see him accomplish everything the Heavens intended of him.

And first on the agenda was dealing the Defiled army a crippling blow before they arrived to threaten her precious son-in-law.

Just as she anticipated, the defenders of Castle JiangHu had weathered the attacks from the Enemy Demons and Peak Experts and were now in full retreat. This was no steady march back towards the Central Citadel, but a full-blown race to stay ahead of the eager Chosen nipping at their heels, and thus far, Hongji had done an admirable job keeping his soldiers alive. However, now these Defiled outriders were closing in and it was time for Akanai to play her part. As the ground rumbled beneath her, she rose to her feet with Kankin beside her, the ferocious quin already quivering with excitement. Taking a moment to embrace her aged partner, she smoothed his whiskers and massaged his cheeks while silently promising to keep him safe. Only then did she mount him and secure her axe-lance before raising her longbow overhead. “Come, my Sentinels,” she commanded, not caring if her allies heard her using the Language of the People. “The Enemy rides to do battle with our allies, but it is we who shall find glory today.”

