Sammie didn't go back to the ship that night. He had apparently gotten a very good score, or so Anna told him.

The morning was sweet and comfy. It had been a while since he'd woken up with a warm body espousing his form.

Well, a warm body that wasn't an Azure Guard who'd rolled in his sleep and grabbed onto him while out on deployment.

It was still really early, his eyes having popped at first light as he'd been trained to do, and she was still asleep, so he allowed himself to enjoy the quiet, with Anna's quiet breathing intermingling with the morning bird calls.

It was half a bell before she stirred, eyes creaking half-open, a few seconds of confusion passing over her features before she remembered who she'd brought back home last night.

She craned her neck up to look at him, resting her head on his chest. “Good morning, Mr. I have stamina magic.”

He smirked. “You have to admit that was a nice surprise, right?”

She smiled, a light blush taking residence on her cheeks. “Yeah, it was... hmm, but I think I liked your resistance magic even more.” She said, burrowing her face into him.

He looked to the side, his smile straining a bit. He wondered if she rode horses with the same “enthusiasm” she'd shown last night.

Hopefully not, that might be animal cruelty if she did.

Her shifting against him brought his eyes back to her. The long bunny ears tickled his chest somewhat, but they were really fluffy. He brought up a hand and began stroking one of them, letting his fingers play in the fluff and along its inner ridge.

She squirmed and let out a sighing moan. “It's not fair. You don't have any long, extra-sensitive ears I can tease you with...” She tried to complain, only to let out a satisfied breath.

“I've got other bits you can tease me with.”

“But they're all the boring usual ones.”

He quirked a brow. “I'm boring? You didn't seem bored.”

She let her nails run down his chest. “No, that was pretty fun. How long are you going to be in town?”

His smile couldn't grow wide enough. “Long enough that we can have a few more dates, at least.”

She giggled. “Oh, for sure, but I was asking to know how long I had to go meet your employers.”

He blinked. “I thought we said you wouldn't?”

Anna turned her head so she could look him in the eyes again. “You told me not to, but I was planning to. It's why I flirted with you in the first place.”

“...What? I thought I was flirting with you.”

She smirked. “We were flirting with each other for the same reason.”

He cocked his head. “Because we were interested in each other?”

She stared, waiting for him to grin, to betray the joke. When he didn't, her smile faded away. “Wait, you're serious?”

“Yeah? When our eyes met, I just kind of had to talk to you, or I would have regretted it.”

“...You're serious-serious.” She said, more to convince herself than anything.

He nodded. Anna rolled off him and sat on the edge of the bed, hiding her face with her hands and going silent.

Sammie waited a few seconds, but the silence got to him. “How many points did I lose?”

She shook once, making a sound suspiciously like an aborted guffaw. Letting her hands fall, she twisted to look at him with a warm smile on her face. “No points lost, Sammie. Don't worry.”

She stretched, pulling her arms and hands up above her head. He couldn't stop himself from following the curves of her arching back as she did.

With a bounce, she got off the bed and to her feet, rolling her hips and purging the rest of the night out of her lithe, supple body. “Alright, I'm going to shower. I think I have enough time before work that we can go have a quick breakfast if you're presentable by the time I'm out, if you'd like that.” She said, giving him a wink and leaving the room.

He kept looking at the space she'd just occupied, even when he heard the shower turn on.

That was a weird feeling he was having, right now.

Sammie returned to the ship just as the rest of the group was finishing their own breakfast. He ignored Sybil, who was trying to drill a hole in the side of his head, greeted Niala, and gave a nod to David, who returned it with a knowing look.

Both men then consigned this secret exchange to the abyss, never to be acknowledged.

Sammie let them know that Anna had agreed to come and meet with them, which they took as very good news, and thanked him for his help.

The rest of the day was spent meeting with and speaking to most of the town, one by one, gathering information about rumours concerning the Landretti family and company.

They compared notes a few times throughout, but their findings followed along the same lines; unfounded rumours about both the death of Hugo a few years ago and the decline of the Landretti family, and then more about the Landretti company's “special projects”.

Nothing earth-shattering, though some of the company rumours were common enough that there might be some truth to them. The one about them looking into expanding their operations to produce more distillers seemed especially plausible, given the size of their sales backlog.

Apparently, if their interlocutors were to be believed, this was also the cause of some friction within the company, with some of the investors preferring to keep the limited production, while others wanted to increase the sales volume.

Ironically, both sides were probably advocating their preferred strategy for the same reason: to make more money, either through selling each unit for more due to the limited supply, or simply by selling more units.

Whatever the case, it wasn't the kind of information that would allow them to crack the case, not by itself.

What they really needed was a reason for anyone to want Hugo dead. Without it, his suicide was just that: a broken man who had succumbed to shame and despair.

Dinner time rolled over, and they decided to invite Anna over for her to experience Niala's cooking.

Sammie remarked that it was an underhanded tactic. David countered that denying people from tasting his wife's cooking when they had the opportunity was a moral crime.

Sammie couldn't find a counterargument.

Anna was a little surprised to find Sammie and the Golem waiting for her at her housing block as she returned from work. She had already agreed to meet with the Allwardens later today, after all.

She still couldn't help herself from smiling at the silly man. Really, who just up and asks you on a date just because you shared a look? The whole situation was a lot less complicated when she thought he was only trying to get access to the company's files.

Well, it served her purpose either way. This was just a little bit more interesting, wasn't it?

She greeted him, asking if anything was wrong that he needed to show up this early. He replied that everything was fine, but he had a bonus opportunity for her: a meal aboard his employer's ship.

Maybe she should have been a little suspicious about that, but the way he said it... And she had informed herself about the Allwardens, and nothing she'd learned was cause for concern.

She shrugged and accepted, asking for a few minutes to get out of her work clothes, and then being escorted to the airport.

They chatted along the way, with the golem following them, just a silent, solid presence. Somehow, even though it dwarfed her and moved with the kind of ponderousness that guaranteed he could crush her head like a ripe grapefruit, she didn't feel in danger.

Maybe it was because of Sammie? But that was ridiculous; she barely knew him. He'd been a one-night adventure from the start, just a detour to fun-town on her way to her true destination.

Well, ok, she was hoping she'd get to make a few more detours, but still, the point stood.

No, there was something special about the golem that put her at ease. She just didn't know what.

They arrived at the ship, and contrary to her expectations, it wasn't remarkable. It looked solid, and sensible, and clean, but apart from a few family crests in strategic places, it was devoid of the kind of garishness that noble ships were known for.

Even the name, in flat white letters, was tame: “Golden Innocence.”

It made her think of orphans.

The crewmen guarding the entrance saluted Sammie and Jordo, giving her a nod of recognition, and she was brought up the ramp and to the back of the ship, toward what she thought was called the grand cabin.

There she was greeted by the Allwardens and the bunnykin girl who froze for a second when she saw Anna's own bunny ears, before turning her head at Sammie and giving him a look that promised something.

Oh... was she being a rival or something? Well, if she was, it wasn't her fault, so she'd just ignore that.

She bowed. “Sir and Madam Allwarden, it is a pleasure to meet you again.”

The catkin's ears wiggled as she crossed her hands a few times. “None of that, please. Just Niala and David. This is Sybil, the golem is Jordo, and you know Sammie.” She said with a smile.

Anna mirrored her expression. So far, the rumours about them were holding. She lifted her head to look at Niala. “All the better then, I'm not very used to dealing with nobles. I'm just an archivist, after all.”

The catkin clapped her hands. “Right! Well, get comfortable, take a seat, the food is ready, we were just waiting for you to arrive!” she said before trotting out a side door.

Sammie pulled a chair for her, keeping her from having to guess where to sit exactly. Another point for thoughtful Sammie, who she thanked with a smile as he sat down next to her.

Only for the other bunnykin woman to plonk down on her other side, throwing her some side-eye. Before Anna could try and say anything, Niala walked back in, carrying a large tray with bowls on it.

The smell hit her nostrils, and the hostile bunny didn't matter anymore.

Anna had dined in most restaurants in the valley, many of which had a reputation that extended past the valley. She knew what good food was.

This was different. It smelled different.

Her first spoonful confirmed it. The ingredients were good, well-cooked and prepared. The broth was the right mix of oily and savoury. Everything, by itself, was good, but not better than the best restaurants in town.

And yet, she couldn't stop dipping her spoon and filling her mouth. This soup wasn't a mix of ingredients; it was a singular soup, with every part of it linked together with spices. Each mouthful was a perfect journey, paved with pleasant surprises and not a single obstacle between her palate and the flavour.

She came out of her trance once her spoon raked the bottom of her bowl. She froze and looked around, finding knowing glances sent her way. She managed to keep her blush to a minimum.

Dabbing her mouth with the napkin, she looked at Lady Allwarden. “This soup was really good, Niala. Is it one of your specialties?”

She couldn't help but spot David's smirk at her question before the catkin put on a blush of her own and looked downward. “Ah, no, no, this is actually an experimentation with the local ingredients. I'm happy with how it turned out, but it's not quite there yet. The spices are a bit unbalanced...”

Anna blinked. Unbalanced? She narrowed her eyes as she turned her eyes toward Sammie, who simply smiled back, unable to entirely hide his smugness.

Oh, he knew. This is a bribe.

A very tasty bribe.

She didn't know if she should give him a bunch of points or take them all away.