The Necromantic infusion reconstructed Valor's original face. Corrosion bled out from his outline, distorting the air around him and shaping something akin to a Necromantic cloak covering his form. And He Who Halts Eternity was near-whole once more. Perhaps he wasn't made of flesh, but the almost life-like, only slightly unreal illusion of the man he used to be before he was banished into separate pieces of bone stood before Adam. A gaunt, dark face greeted the Gate Lord, along with eyes glistened with untold power and unmatched focus. He breathed in deeply, his broad chest expanding, and then he let out a slow, cold exhalation.

"Too long," Valor said, his voice clear and crisper than before, reverberating with a near-physical weight. "Too long have I been scattered." He looked down at his right hand, stared at the Necromancy coursing through him, and turned his open palm into a fist. "Udraal." The Legend’s voice was heavy with regret and anger, and he appeared to briefly lose himself in his thoughts. "What have I let you do? And what have you done to me?"

"Valor," Adam breathed. "Are you… alright?"

The former Necrotech Legend paused, and then he released a scornful laugh. "No, I am far from… alright. But I understand your question, Adam." He turned his head upward and smiled at Adam—a true, genuine smile, but also one that belonged to a killer, one that sent a shiver dancing down Adam's spine. "I am still myself, just more. Just restored. Not fully quite yet, but it will suffice for now. It is a pleasure to continue knowing you, Gate Lord Arrow. I remember so much now. And yet, there are still pieces missing. Pieces that..." He trailed off as he noticed the Educator. "Maia. You… I remember you as well… I remember you came to me first after your shattering…” Valor tilted his head, muscles of pure Necromantic energy rolling under his skin. “Wait… I was the one that freed you, was I not?”

The Educator didn’t say anything. Instead, she pressed her lips together tightly and turned her gaze downward, as if unwilling to face the fact of Valor’s existence.

“Is my son here with us?" Valor asked.

"One never knows with him," Maia replied cryptically.

But Valor simply swept the room once with his eyes, scanning his surroundings once before shaking his head. "No, he is not. I will have words with him soon. But for now, I have a friend I need to save. Culturist, Educator, with me. We have a Hatchling to hunt and an Elder God to spite.”

And immediately, a change took hold in Valor. No longer was his focus scattered at times. No longer was he slow. No longer did he self-recriminate from weakness or despair. He seized authority. He strode with purpose. He walked toward the exit wound where orcs were spilling in, his Necromantic cloak fluttering. They regarded him with awestruck eyes and delighted expressions, like a horde of giant children greeting a celebrity.

Maia narrowed her eyes at Valor. "You presume to command me?"

Valor paused and tilted his head slightly, just enough to show the right side of his face to the Forgotten Ascendant. "I would politely request that you fight along my side. As I am now, I will still need every bit of help I can get. Would the word please soothe your aching ego?"

The Educator's face looked like she couldn't decide if she was accepting of that answer or if she wanted to cling to outrage.

"Please," Valor said, without any hint of mockery.

And that pushed the Educator over the edge. "So be it," she muttered, falling in behind him.

The Culturist laughed.

Maia shot him a sneer. "Keep your mouth silent, orc. This is an act of cooperation, not submission."

"There is no shame in either. He is Valor Thann. He is restored."

"Not entirely," Valor corrected. As Adam moved to follow, Valor held up a hand. "You stay here, along with the others. You make sure that Blackedge gets across. That the survivors here are delivered to safety. You may return to the fray only when that is done."

"What?" Adam hissed. "But—"

"You are torn between two choices: your people and your battle sister. If you face her in such a state, you will be cut down, and I refuse to lose you. If it is to ever happen, it will not be here. Not to these creatures. Not now. You have come too far, Adam Arrow." Valor spun on his heels, and Adam felt the full weight of the resurrected Legend's authority. "Hear me now. I speak to you no longer as friend, but Master to Disciple. You will do as I said, for your sake and mine."

Valor cleared the space between them in an instant, and he squeezed Adam's shoulder reassuringly. It was then that the Gate Lord realized truly how tall Valor was. He towered over him. He was even a good bit taller than Shiv. And that was bloody saying something.

"Be with your father and mother right now. They need you. Your people need you. Help them make sure they're safe, and put down the burden inside your heart. When you are unchained, find me. Only then find me."

And though Adam was torn, though he wanted to leave Blackedge to his allies and go after the Hatchling himself, a greater part of him knew he had to stay. That he had to protect those who remained until they were absolutely safe. And so he did as Valor asked. He stared at his father, who looked weaker than Adam could ever remember. He stared at his mother, whose eyes were torn between hope and despair, who also seemed like she wanted to throw herself out of the window to go after Uva, but was powerless to do so.

"And now you see the insult duty inflicts upon us," Valor whispered. "You see what it forces us to choose, what it forces us to suffer. But you do not need to suffer. Not now. Now I am here, and the master should bear more of the burden than his disciple."

Adam bit his lip and felt torn. Valor gave his shoulder a final squeeze and turned away. As soon as he did, Adam tried calling out to him—but by then, Valor was already missing. As were the Culturist and the Educator.

The place where they stood was empty.

Like they never existed at all.

Moreover, Adam detected no trace of their departure, no sound, no flicker of movement… Nothing. Even the Starhawk seemed slightly taken aback.

“What the fuck?” Rose breathed. “Did they just teleport?”

Roland stared at where the three had stood and swallowed. “No,” he rasped. “I think they're still here. And I think it's simply that if Valor Thann doesn’t want to be found, he won't be. Not by me. Not by the Stranger. Maybe not even by the System itself.”
