I breathed the thought in before breathing it out. I resolved myself to save this place, and I would have it done. In this case, I would take the harder of two paths. I'd simply carry the dimensions and soak in their venom. It was inevitable either way.

After all, I'd relied on my armor's cleansing ability up until now. I could only pray that the trend continued as I took on this burden. Either that or I could try to unload the portal into the void of space, but I had an itching suspicion that Baldowah and the other Old Ones wouldn't let that happen.

As Tera finished discussing the changes with a gush of excitement, he left me standing a few blocks from the center of the city. I hovered myself atop a building, enjoying the view of the skeptiles' new capital. Minutes passed before Chrona landed beside me.

She wrinkled her horned brow.

"You seem troubled. With good reason, knowing you."

I shook my head.

"Naw. I'm just crying over some spilled milk."

Chrona rolled her eyes.

"You are one to cry over spilled mercury, not something like milk. Now, please, speak of what ails you."

I waved a hand.

"I really don't want you to have more to worry about."

A silence passed over us. Chrona snapped.

"I see the portals you carry. I sense the corruption one of them causes. Perhaps that is your concern?"

I smiled, the expression mopier than it should've been.

"Well, there goes my laying low strategy."

She gazed at the sky.

"How many ruptures are there on Earth like that one?"

"Enough that this planet is going to make Giess look tame soon, I'd imagine."

She turned to me.

"And what's your plan? To carry all of them?"

My shoulders slumped.

"It sounds even dumber than I thought once you said it aloud."

She covered her mouth with her tail.

"You...Gah."

I spread my hands.

"What other answer do I have?"

She snapped a building apart with her tail.

"One where all does not rest upon your shoulders alone."

I stood up.

"Who else can carry this?"

Chrona leaned back.

"I don't know. Perhaps one of your followers can find another use for the mana? A way of containing and neutralizing its toxicity?" Her eyes softened. "Anything else but you carrying the burden alone. Not again."

I shook my head.

"This is ridiculous. Everyone is so damn critical all the time. Look, I can't be perfect. Sometimes, when I have to fix something, it gets messy, alright?"

Chrona's eyes widened.

"That's precisely what I'm saying. You're the one demanding everything from only you. We want you to give a piece of your burden to us. Anything to lessen it, for we see how it pulls you down. Especially now."

I pressed my hands together, my voice a psionic whisper.

"Did you see what happened to Krog?"

Chrona's eyes dimmed.

"I did."

I walked to the edge of the roof. I fumbled a bit, having to hold myself upright using gravitation.

"I remember when Torix's original body was destroyed on Giess. I remember my hometown getting slaughtered. I remember the lottery when I had the rulers help me out. Do you know what happened to them?"

Chrona peered away. I pointed at the city's mosaic roads.

"They were eaten alive while their minds were destroyed. I was the only one to pull through, aside from Shalahora and a handful of other people. I should've just shoved them all into my dimensional storage from the beginning. In fact, the moment I saw them, that's what I should've done."

Chrona's gaze sharpened.

"Would you put us within that prison to protect us as well?"

"What? No. No, of course not-"

Chrona glared at me.

"Yet you treat us like glass sculptures awaiting destruction."

I blinked, my throat burning.

"That's...That's what everything feels like. Like it's all glass, and I'm trying to stop it all from shattering."

A quiet lingered. As the wind whistled, Chrona murmured.

"It must be hard to watch us."

"It is. Everything feels so fragile now."

Chrona placed her tail on my shoulder, my dimensional plate covering it.

"That's because it is."

I took a breath, and I chose to listen. She peered into the distance.

"You are a part of our strength, but we must test ourselves in danger as you have. In the same way that you thrive on the edge of death, we too, are most alive when we pursue that which scares us. That is why we thrive not when we survive, but when we have goals that give us a reason to live."

I sat down.

"It's just so hard to watch."

Chrona glared as the city's barrier destroyed a roaming eldritch.

"I know of the feeling. I watched over Emagrotha's armies long ago. In those times, I watched many of my friends die in the name of a better life."

I frowned.

"To keep the espens enslaved?"

She winced.

"We were wrong. Very wrong, ignorant, and savage. However, our intent was to accomplish a just deed in our world. We wanted what was best, even if we didn't know what that really meant. In that regard, I don't think any of my comrades regretted dying for what they believed in."

Chrona gazed at the canyon's edge.

"You've given us something else to believe in. An icon and a world without all the pain we've all grown so accustomed to. You cannot expect us to watch you drag this planet and guild into that future alone. We all wish to be a part of that journey, and to that end, I believe we deserve the opportunity to join you."

Chrona's eloquence shone through. I nodded.

"You guys just try to stay safe, alright? It's hard watching you all jump at death."

She smiled.

"That's rich coming from you, of all people."

I flexed an arm, the armor rippling.

"Eh, I'm tough."

She manipulated time around us.

"We are as well. More so than you might imagine."

I took a deep breath before standing up.

"Thanks for the talk. I'm feeling a lot better."

She grinned, the expression reaching her eyes.

"Good. We worry about you at times."

I put my hands on my hips.

"You know, I forget you're centuries older than me."

"I, as well. It's inevitable for me to understand things you do not, and I'm glad you choose to listen when I see the need to bridge those gaps."

I smiled back.

"Me too. Anyways, I have a canyon to cleanse."

"And I, a city to protect. Goodbye, Harbinger."

Dragging myself up, I hauled two literal dimensions with a determined effort. It took a lot of energy, but I managed to make it back to the canyon's depths within two hours. At the surface of the lake, I hovered. Using Event Horizon, I consumed the stored mana near the surface and in the clouds above, cleansing the land of Baldowah's corruption. At the same time, I contained the funnel as its source.

The dimensional tear leaked billions of mana every minute, an amount I handled but couldn't ignore. Instead of putting it in my runes, I had a mind use it for the magic I channeled. This prevented any passive personality changes from occurring over time from my runes. At least, I thought it would.

That safeguard put me at greater ease, and I'd address the warps with Torix and the others soon. For now, I cleaned up the colossal lake over the next few weeks. By the time I finished, the view had expanded to hundreds of miles, though the fog still lingered about in disparate patches. In particular, it lingered at the peak of the cavern's walls, but that left the dungeon exposed in all its glory.

It rivaled any place, destination, or notecard I'd ever seen, and the sheer expanse stole my breath away. The lake was akin to the Caspian Sea, a massive expanse of water that continued for ages. Once I cleared the area, the organisms burned through their residual ascendant mana, revealing their true shapes.

The plants pacified, no longer as bloodthirsty though still dangerous. Poison leaked from some of the vines instead of blood, and the corpse-swallowing monsters near the lake's bottom were actually rainbow koi, their forms brilliant in the crystal-clear water. They snapped at brilliant flying fish that let out flashes of light above the water.

These shimmers disoriented any incoming insects or catfish below, stopping them from getting eaten as often. Past the lake and coast, many rivers poured into the vast lake. Life lapped at these plentiful waters, the entire expanse blooming with fresh growth.

The levels of the monsters also lowered into the low thousands, sitting around twelve hundred. It was the perfect training ground for the skeptiles. Not wanting to interrupt them or the space, I let them decide how to handle the many fused dungeons. They could clear or keep them. Knowing the skeptiles, they'd open an eldritch ranch and zoo.

That wouldn't be a problem. My perk from the lottery allowed my guild to incorporate opened dungeons onto my planets without the planet devolving into a fringe world. Adding curated spaces like this could add a lot to the world instead of taking away from its natural beauty. Seeing it all left me hopeful.

After a few goodbyes, I gave the skeptiles a few thousand rings as a parting gift, along with nine other cities they could establish without any payment. Considering the sheer size of the ravine, they might all settle here, leaving their desolate home world for a veritable dungeon.

With the situation squared away, I got back to Mt. Verner. While I walked through Helios's portal, my mood soured. Helios rolled his eyes.

"What's gotten under your skin now?"

I peered at our mountain.

"I'm thinking about what I found at the dungeon's center. It was a fresh avatar of an Old One."

Helios peered at his nails.

"You killed it, didn't you?"

"Yeah, but there are others here. With this one, I got lucky enough to handle it early on. I don't know if I'll be able to contain them before they become a problem in other places."

Helios sighed.

"Perhaps they were the only ones here."

I gazed at the moon.

"Somehow, I doubt that."

Heading back over to my golem creation facility, I fell back into my crafting and training with Shalahora. I got faster and better at crafting as I found the minimum standard Schema required for the gear to be considered complete. At the same time, I fell into the training and crafting as a way to escape.

I was all too aware that my training had become an outlet for my anxiety. It was a way to manage the pressure of being the leader of a guild and having so many people rely on me. I could put other pressing responsibilities to the side as well, like uncovering Hod's reviving personality or uncovering my father's current place in the world.

At the same time, the more I put into my own strength, the more I felt prepared for these unnamed but encroaching threats. It didn't hurt that seeing Marsha die put a fire under me. I forged under that heat, and I put myself into a systematic, coordinated set of hours to handle the needs of the guild. As I operated at the utmost efficiency, I accelerated my speed of production eightfold.

I could pump out nearly a million amulets a day despite Shalahora's training. The break also gave time for a few of my guild's missions to develop like the expansion effort. I could have a series of cities marked that could be flow by and knocked out, one by one. Otherwise, I'd spend all my time traveling back and forth from the needed construction project to Mt. Verner and back again.

Those requests piled up, and by the time Schema's quest completion closed in, I managed a push and pull with Shalahora in our training. It wasn't anything close to winning, but it meant he had to reposition and apply tactics. That came about from my mindless aggression. And I mean literally mindless. I could continue a psionic surge through a saturated effort.

To make it happen, I formulated my thoughts for one purpose before aiming myself at the guy in a suicidal charge. Even if the mind died, the thoughts lingered after. It was kind of like trying to drown a samurai sword master by throwing puppets at him as he cut the strings. In my case, my killed minds were the stringless puppets.

They clashed against the psionic titan, leaving only the slightest of marks on him. It was a grand victory in my eyes, though it only left Shalahora peeved. In many cases, this kind of grueling progress might leave someone demotivated. However, it left spurred to further action, and considering where we started, I took the wins where I could.

So, after a month and a half of following the schedule, I cranked out my last medallion. Lugging it and a pile of gear over to Springfield's exchange center, I met two Sentinels hauling the gear. They wore some of my merchandise on themselves. After giving them a curt nod, I helped haul everything onto their shipping vessel.

After they left, the sound of a notification binged in my ears.

Arming Schema's Warriors(Lvl 20,000+ | Quest Rank S | Party Size: Any | Guild Affiliation: The Harbinger's Legion | Quest Status: Completed!

Calculating Rewards...

I rubbed my hands together. It was time to reap what I sowed.
