The sun set to one side of the horizon while the moons teased their presence upon the other, and a rainbow of reds, yellow, and blues stretched across the heavens between, covering the world in color. All around, grasses swayed under northern winds. Though this was Veird’s equivalent of Spring, it was still cold at night, in this part of the world. Erick’s breath fogged in the chill air, producing streamers of visible warmth that whipped away in the breeze.

In the distance, and all around, tiny dots of light danced among the grasses. They weren’t fireflies; they were much larger, each about the size of his thumb. Erick had heard them called lightbugs, and they were harmless. They flitted among the tall green grasses, glittering in whites and greens and yellows, bringing light to the deepening night. They had a few slim uses. About one in a hundred thousand had Light Essence in their glowing bodies, which was about the most expensive thing about them. Hunting for those specific lightbugs was like hunting for dropped gold coins on a beach, though; no one did it unless they were a rather odd person or had some method to shorten the search. Either way, only the foolish or needy would go hunting for such a specific payout, since hunting the monsters which were out here at the same time would provide a much more steady paycheck.

But the lightbugs were pretty to look at. Erick had chosen this spot because of those lightbugs, for they gave rise to the idea that even in the dark, there was light, and even when the world seemed empty, that was just an illusion.

Ah.

Yes.

There’s the mindset.

Erick relaxed into the moment. With one hand, he channeled his mana through [Lightshape]. With the other, he channeled [Shadowshape]. He found the harmony almost instantly, like someone else had taken the vocals and the instrumentals of a song and pulled them apart, and here Erick was, putting them back together.

He cast.

The world in front of him took on an unreality. Small natural damage done to the grasses all around him, like bent blades and chewed stems, vanished. The breeze turned more hospitable, warming up by degrees. Lightbugs appeared, but they were fake, too; all the real ones had stopped glowing around Erick, for they would not glow in the direct presence of others. That was one of the ways that a grass traveler could tell if there were monsters waiting in the deepening twilight, just out of sight.

A blue box appeared, but Erick ignored it for a moment, as he tested the control he had imposed upon the scene. He made the false lightbugs glow brighter. He made the night deepen. He made the air turn frozen, and chilly, sending the dancing illusions of lightbugs to the ground like scattered, glowing ice cubes, their glows rapidly giving out. And then when even the distant lightbugs noticed this and shut off their lights, Erick went the other way with his illusions. He warmed the world, bringing high summer to the night, making the world muggy and false, and bright with buzzing lights. He hid himself, Poi, Jane, and Teressa, in the illusion.

It didn’t take long for the lightbugs to notice the happening scene in front of them. The real bugs all began to relight. They moved into the area and seemed to love the false warmth.

The night danced with illusions of brightness.

The spell soon ran its course; Erick had asked too much of the Shaping magic. The cold night returned. The fake lightbugs vanished. The real lightbugs saw Erick, standing in the middle of their glow party, and they stopped glowing. They dropped into the shadowy grasses and hid, once again.

Erick checked his spell.

Mysticalshape, instant, medium range, 100 mana

A large illusion of the world is yours to command. Unreal control. Lasts 5 minutes.

It was a good outcome. The ‘unreal control’ is what made the spell Mystical, while [Illusionshape] would have retained the normal ‘fine control’ of its parent spells.

Erick played around with [Mysticalshape] for a little while, targeting the images he could see in the mana whenever he activated Meditation. Fake eyes and fake monsters in the mana became real, for a certain definition of real.

Tigers made of arms. Floating, swimming fish in the grasses made of scales and webbing. Lizards made of claws. Mouths made of tongues.

And then Erick shifted those unreal sights into something nicer. Tigers made of orange and gold, with gold that turned black in the shadows, and white in the light. Fish made of emeralds with diaphanous fins made of starlight. Lizards made of obsidian, that hid in the darkness like it was their homes, with bright red eyes like cherry red iron. The mouths and the eyes simply went away; Erick didn’t need those in his life.

As he got a feel for the magic, night deepened. Stars came out. Twilight was here, while the sun set far beyond the western horizon. In the half-light of almost-night, Erick went onto the next part of this magic.

He held out a hand and listened to the Growing tale of [Treeshape]. He mixed a tale of decades of easy life, under the sun and growing tall, with the sounds of [Stoneshape] producing a life that stretched out into time frames measured in eons.

A transformation. A mutation. A permanency of solidness that still managed to reach for the sky and make itself known.

He told this tale to a seed he had gathered from a tall, strong tree, back in Alaralti.

And then he set the seed into the ground, and cast.

Stone raised from the land like a sapling trunk, then grew tall, and strong. Erick directed the growth with a bit more trouble than he usually had with [Treeshape], but only because the stone tree did not want to grow as fast as a normal tree, and Erick was pushing against that limit. A blue box appeared but Erick was concentrating. He pushed the message to the side. With focus and goals, the stone tree grew. The spell ended. The tree stood mighty, thick of trunk and reaching of branch, with bright orange, red, and brown bark, and with black leaves that drank in the world, making the world just a bit more solid. The tree was ten meters tall and did not wave in the wind. Even the leaves were like chips of unmoving stone. It would take a hurricane to move this tree.

Erick looked at the spell.

Living Petrified Treeshape, instant, medium range, 250 mana

Direct the accelerated growth of a tree into a living petrified tree. Control lasts for 5 minutes. The living tree will continue rapid growth for up to one week after this spell ends, and then slow down. Recasting this spell upon a living petrified tree will temporarily invigorate new growth.

Erick nodded, then turned to his creation. With a swipe of his lightform, he grabbed a seed pod in the upper reaches of the living petrified tree. It was the shape of a walnut, but a bit bigger, almost the size of his palm. The outside was vibrantly orange but Erick’s mana sense told him the inside was crystalline white.

The scrolls from Devouring Nightmare had said using a seed from his first working wasn’t strictly necessary for the second working, but upon seeing the size, the heft, and the interior of the seed, some inner part of Erick knew that he had to use this nascent tree to grow the next.

He stepped away from the original tree. This next one would be much, much larger.

With the stonetree seed held in his palms, he channeled [Mysticalshape] into the seed from his left hand, while [Living Petrified Treeshape] channeled into the seed from the right. The seed began to glow. The interior crystal shone through the petrified surface; a white light under oranges and reds.

Ophiels danced around Erick, their eyes focused in reverence as they sang a syncing song to the night, to the seed.

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye held in the sky above Erick like a fourth moon, gazing down upon the working with a focus to rival Melemizargo.

That Old Dragon was probably watching this, wasn’t he? Eh. Whatever.

—The seed shifted. The exterior turned black as the interior became as bright as the sun. Mana flowed from Erick into the seed; he had cast the spells in the middle of the working, somehow, only realizing that he had cast after the fact. The seed soaked in his power and greedily drank thousands of mana from his soul.

He felt a tether take hold.

He let the seed go.

The seed did not drop. It floated away, like a leaf upon a slow river. Ten meters, then thirty, then fifty; traveling like a coconut upon unseen waters to where it needed to be. Suddenly, the grasslands turned to liquid, swirling away like so much sand and mud, and the seed buried itself according to its own desires. Erick felt himself connect to the magic, and the magic asked what he wanted.

Erick spoke, “A kilometer tall, or more, and strong enough to withstand whatever the world brings to bear against you.”

The seed seemed to laugh, as though Erick’s request was too easy.

The tether snapped.

From one flashing second to the next, as though Erick had seen a bright light and his eyes were adjusting, the tree appeared. Fully grown. White as Erick’s magic, and almost as bright. Fifty meters wide at the thickest part of the trunk. A kilometer and a half tall. Its branches blocked out the sky with a million billion white leaves, upon branches that were just as brilliant. It was a version of Reality that was close to reality, but not exactly.

And then the magic faded. The white light faded.

The tree remained.

In the twilight purple sky, the tree was a lot less white, a lot less unreal. Purple shadows played in the boughs while dark wind played among the leaves. The tree had become real, and yet remained a bit inscrutable. It did not sway in the breeze, except in the smallest of ways. The Arbors of Treehome at least swayed a bit. This one was solid as, well, rock.

From an odd direction, Erick felt a demand.

Yggdrasil demanded; a wordless expression of need.

It was an overwhelming emotion, one that Erick almost gave into right away, but he did not. Erick looked at Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye and said, “You’re going to have to wait. The scrolls from Devouring Nightmare were very clear about what the good version of this spell looked like, and since the blue box hasn’t appeared yet, we don’t know if it turned out well. Even if it did turn out well, though, you only have one body right now, and I don’t want you experimenting on yourself when you only have one self to experiment on.”

Yggdrasil… still demanded, but it was less forceful. After a moment, Yggdrasil’s eye bounced along in reluctant understanding.

“Thank you for understanding.” Erick nodded at the [Scry] eye, and then turned to the open air, openly wondering, “Now where is that— Ah. There it is.”

The blue box had finally appeared.

Eternal Stonetree, instant, super long range, 5000 mana

Grow an eternal stonetree based upon your desires, or grant the properties of an eternal stonetree to a living tree, with variable outcomes either way. Targeting a sapient tree will grant control of this spell to the tree. Targeting a magical tree will produce wildly unknown effects.

Eternal stonetrees are extraordinarily resistant to any outside force.

Erick smiled. He showed Yggdrasil the spell, saying, “It turned out well. Soon as I get to Spur and grow you a new body to replace the one you lost, we can experiment. Okay?”

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye tumbled through the air in reluctant understanding.

Erick added, “You know, if you grew up enough for me to plant one of you on this side of the world, maybe I could grant you the spell here. Would you like that?”

Yggdrasil’s eye went rigid in contemplation. Then he began to vibrate a bit like an excited child, rapidly transitioning into elated nodding.

Erick smiled. “Good. You work on growing, then. Besides that, it might be nice to have one of you on this side of the world. Less distance to cover with [Scry].”

Yggdrasil’s eye danced through the air, understanding a bit, but too excited to comprehend. He went to join Ophiel, who was already flying around the big white tree. Erick simply watched for a little while.

Poi, Teressa, and Jane watched from a bit further away.

Soon enough, the [Familiar]s all came back to Erick, and Erick moved on to the final part of the evening’s magic. He focused, he imagined, and he cast, transforming that which was partially illusion, partially real, into adopting a different form that was no less impressive.

The massive white tree transformed into a craggy white boulder a few hundred meters across, set halfway into the ground. It had only two architectural accompaniments; a staircase that led up to a plateau at the top, and a house upon that plateau. The house was a familiar three stories tall, with two mage towers on either side and balconies here and there.

Erick smiled as he gazed upon his craft. He had recreated his house at Spur, here, in this open land north of Holorulo.

Eternal Stonetreeshape, instant, super long range, 5500 mana

Warp an eternal stonetree into your desired shape or warp the illusions around a living eternal stonetree into your desired shape. Unreal control. Spell lasts 5 minutes.

“Ah ha!” Erick turned to his people and handed out the spellwork. “That’s the good version, too!”

Poi, Teressa, and Jane, had silently watched the whole time. Now, they read the blue boxes they had been given.

Jane read and discarded the boxes, then asked, “Why’d you make it like the house in Spur?”

“A summer home! Or something. I’m not sure yet. Maybe I’ll make a whole lot of these homes all across the world? It could work.” He started walking toward his own, private clan mountain, saying, “Come on! Let’s go see what it looks like on the inside!”

While Ophiels twittered and flew ahead of Erick, everyone else began to follow.

