Erick stepped upon the white stonetree, onto some stairs he had shaped into the working that went all the way to the house at the top. Now that he was here… The stairs were a bit uneven, and a bit too shallow, like someone had hewn stairs out of a real rock mountain without any care about how stairs should be. OSHA would not approve.

Erick mumbled, “Eh. Good enough for a first try.”

Jane asked, “You didn’t use [Metalshape], did you? Why not?”

Erick hummed, thinking.

Jane let him think.

It didn’t take long to get halfway up the white staircase. While he was thinking, Erick saw room for improvement everywhere. Water would collect and putrefy in that divot over there, while those steps right there were a tripping hazard, and this whole place was rather unprotected. He could have easily made his clan mountain harder to assail if he had been thinking about defense when he cast. He could have made sheer walls on the sides, instead of slopes that allowed easy scaling. He could have made extra houses here and there, too. Guest houses. Garden spaces. Places that, with a bit of carving, or better Shaping, could be made into a nice set of waterfalls and small ponds and—

Ah. Erick realized Jane was setting up for a joke.

Erick asked, “Why would [Metalshape] have been good?”

Jane smiled. She stepped to her father’s side, and said, “You could have called the spell [Adaman-tree-um].”

Erick burst a laugh that filled the silent night sky. Jane smiled brightly.

Erick said, “Puns aside, the scrolls didn’t go into alternate versions, but I can imagine a ton of reasons that they didn’t use metal. When I researched for Yggdrasil, I found out about metal trees that grow in the deep parts of Nergal, as a way to protect themselves against the various toxic monsters and life that also grows all around down there. They’re probably not natural, though, so that evolution idea is rather thin. They’re rare trees, because they’re very easy to [Metalshape], because of their second property, of being living, magical metal. You can chop off a branch and immediately use it to make some magic item, or what have you. This is likely the main reason that metal trees are not part of the clan mountains; they’re not secure from a simple tier 2 spell that is purchasable from the Script.”

They had reached the house, and it looked exactly the same as Erick’s house back in Spur. He smiled as he looked up at it. And then he walked in, with the others following. With a flick of his intent, lightwards spread throughout the entire space, illuminating the house almost exactly as the house in Spur was illuminated.

This house was a mess.

There were many places where the Shaping had failed in the details. There were holes in many walls, and the staircase was half melty. Erick frowned, as he walked deeper into the house.

Erick continued, “Another problem of including metals into this magic is that such a spell might only produce small trees. The steel trees of Nergal are all stunted things that only grow large when you give them lots of metal. They’re not able to just take the rock in the ground, the water in the land, and nutrients in the air and make themselves as big as they can be. This spell can do that. Plus, eternal stonetree is electrically insulated. Lightning is not a problem for clan mountains.” Erick looked around the kitchen as he said, “There’s probably more reasons not to include [Metalshape] in the working but I can’t think of many.”

Jane asked, “But to include illusion would circumvent many of those issues, wouldn’t it?”

“Possibly. I’m not too experienced with illusions yet, but illusion seems to be able to make Reality into reality, but only if reality is already rather close to Reality. You probably have more experience with illusions than me. You made all of the Shaping spells, didn’t you?”

“I did, along with a few subsequent spells,” Jane said, casting a spell at the ground and achieving nothing. “Didn’t make anything that I’d be unwilling to break and try again, though.”

Erick walked into the main room, then up the central staircase. Everyone else stayed nearby as he explored. He said, “Anyway. I won’t be making a metal version of this spell; I’m almost 100% certain that the existence of [Metalshape] would invalidate the whole working.” He stomped his foot upon the floor and it sounded like stomping on a boulder. “Heh. This stuff is a lot more solid than I thought it would be.”

Jane cast another spell at the ground, then said, “Yup. None of my Shaping spells work on it. Not even [Illusionshape].”

Erick teased, “It’s only ten days to remake the clone spell you have at tier 3. Try to remake [Illusionshape] into [Mysticalshape].”

“I might.”

“If you had a truly good illusion spell, you could use it for practically everything.” Erick said, “But I wouldn’t recommend it.”

“Yeah. When I read about it, it sounded like a good way to get myself killed.”

“Yup.” Erick said, “But the utility of illusion is not to be diminished.”

“Maybe.” Jane said, “Anyway. Let’s go home. I got monsters to kill in the morning.”

“Sure sure.” Erick looked around again, and paused.

He had felt a bit homesick the second he saw this remake of his house at Spur, but now it hit him pretty hard. Jane and Poi noticed.

Teressa did not. She asked, “Are you really going to leave this house here?”

“Sure. Why not?” Erick said, “It’s in the middle of nowhere.”

Poi said, “Operational security. Best not to have outside forces know what your house looks like because they can scout it out before an assault.”

Teressa nodded. “Yes. That.”

“… Oh.” Erick looked around. He frowned. “Well. I’m leaving it here. It’ll have a natural illusion layered over it, so it should be fine from most casual views.” He tapped a hole in the wall between the main staircase room and the sunroom. “After fixing these small problems, of course. Can’t have intruders come into a messy house!”

Teressa laughed.

The second Shaping went much better. Holes in walls were patched over. Staircases became normal, instead of looking like they had been copied from a funhouse. The sides of the mountain turned sheer and Erick erased the staircase leading up, turning the whole place into a miniature Holorulo clan mountain. Places for dirt for gardens and water for lakes were carved out on top, along with places for waterfalls and some small internal plumbings.

… A third Shaping, because he could, created two small guest houses in the local, pagoda-based style.

Another Shaping vastly improved on the plumbing, allowing for a system that cycled on the interior of the tiny mountain, and places in which Erick could place sand, and gravel, and various other filters, to allow the place to naturally clean itself, as well as funnel into the waterfalls and lake system he installed. There was no water yet. There were no fish in that nonexistent water. But there could be! Theoretically, all it would take to keep the place stocked with water and fish and keep everything alive, would be some [Gravity Ward]s to draw liquid to the top of the falls, and some plant life to clean it all.

Another Shaping had the living eternal stonetree adjust its illusion of itself.

From far away, it looked like a mirage, with the parts closest to the grasses looking like grass and the parts above looking like sky. Once you got within a kilometer of it, though, that illusion was easily seen through.

Erick rapidly decided that he needed to get some more experience with this spell before he went and repaired Red Ledger’s clan mountain, but the night was here, in full, and he would have to gain that experience later. He bid his secondary house farewell, and lightstepped himself and his people back to their temporary residence in Holorulo.

- - - -

Erick’s eyes shot open. He was laying in bed, on his side, the sheets pulled up around himself. He had been dreaming, and then something happened in that dream. It had awoken him. The dream was already fading because Erick didn’t know why he woke up. He had woken up because… Something...

A quick check revealed that the world was not on fire.

No… He had woken up because of something… else...

“Oh!” Erick sat up, and laughed a little. “That’s how you Remake a Shaping spell! It’s aura control for Mana Shaping and Altering at the same time!” The formula used in the clan mountain scrolls that turned [Eternal Stonetree] into [Eternal Stonetreeshape] was the same formula that could be extrapolated to every other type of Elemental Magic out there! “Ha!” And then Erick thought a bit more, and mumbled to Ophiel, who was eyeing him, “I’d have to figure out aura control then I need to Remake Mana Altering and Mana Shaping. Not even sure how to go about Remaking something that is not a spell, but there has to be a way.”

Ophiel twittered unsure guitar twangs; he didn’t know either.

Erick nodded, saying, “Another question to ask at Rozeta’s Orrery, for sure.”

Ophiel agreed, singing tiny violin sounds into the darkness.

Erick smiled as he laid back down.

Eventually, sleep returned.

The next morning, Erick scheduled a meeting with Tsung Red Ledger.

It was time to apply his magic to practical applications.

He was already excited.

- - - -

The Alluvial District of Eralis was much diminished from how it looked before Terror Peaks attacked. The white bridge leading from the city to the noble district had been repaired, along with the winding roads that went around all the clan mountains. But the clan mountains were a different story. Some were fully repaired. Most were half repaired, and in the process of spot fixes here and there, using stone instead of eternal stonetree. That was why there were runes against [Stoneshape] inside Star Song; normal stone was used for repairs in most cases. A few clan mountains were broken beyond repair, reduced to little more than rubble and broken walls, their inhabitants gone from this world forever.

Everywhere Erick looked, people were rebuilding. Everywhere he looked, there was still a lot of work to be done. Apparently there weren’t a whole lot of people who could cast the spells Erick had learned last night, and they were all booked up.

There were clan mountains that had half fallen down in landslides, with rooms and hallways exposed to the world. In some places, the mountains had been cratered on the side, where something inside had exploded outward. Fixing this land was harder than fixing the rest of Eralis, for when the dirty bombs exploded everywhere, they tainted the land. [Cleanse] helped to get rid of the fallout from those dirty bombs, but [Mend] didn’t work here.

As he walked down the white road, toward his meeting, Erick saw where and how a few of the mountains had failed in ways that went beyond the simple trauma of war. Mostly, he noticed many perfectly smooth, cliff-like areas, that he supposed were some sort of fracture that went through the whole of the mountain. A stress break, along a fault line? Very likely. Some mountains had been exploded outward with massive, breaking spells, leaving jagged edges where the eternal stonetree had snapped away from its interior, leaving behind edges that looked a lot more like broken branches than like stone.

Now that he knew what he was looking at, the true nature of the clan mountains was practically on display. Surely, others would come to the same conclusion Erick had originally arrived at, that these were stonetrees of some kind, but how many would guess that there were Illusion Magics here, as well? Not many, for sure.

Eventually, Erick came to Red Ledger, and nowhere was the true nature of the clan mountains more evident than here, in the southern part of the Alluvial District. One of the [Gate] bombs had been planted just beyond here, weakening the area for a decisive strike against Red Ledger. It was here, upon the corpse of this clan, where most of the early fighting had taken place, by all the rest of the Alluvial District, against Terror Peaks, who had [Gate]d in here and established a beachhead.

The mountain had been cracked open like someone had taken their hands to a birthday cake, and pulled half of it away. All that was left of the original structure was a thirty meter tall arc of eternal stonetree that had been an outside wall, and which was now just a lonely spire, like a leaning gravestone.

Erick stood beside that arc of stone. Tsung stood on his other side. A man from Void Song, a Building Overseer by the name of Huu, stood on the other side of Tsung.

Poi and Teressa stood behind Erick, to the side, while a few other survivors of Red Ledger stood near a table that had been pulled from the wreckage. Those other survivors had placed a scale model of the reconstruction plan upon that table, along with architectural maps that detailed every floor and every pipe and every vent.

When Erick showed up, Tsung was already here with his people, and he had rapidly told Erick a few things about what was going to happen, showing him the model and acting rather informal the whole time. It was nice.

But then the BO showed up, and Tsung briefly turned contrite, before realizing that he was a patriarch now, and his words turned stronger. Huu was a bureaucrat, and he needed to be sure that Tsung had filled out all the proper paperwork, and gotten his models and architectural maps approved by Void Song.

