Erick got the distinct impression that Tsung had spoken at length with Huu about the model and about the plans, long before today, and that Huu didn’t like something about what he saw. But Huu never said what his objections were, directly. Tsung had answers for all of Huu’s problems, and soon enough Tsung was speaking rather shortly at the man. Eventually, Huu accepted that everything was good to go.

Eventually, it came time to cast some spells.

Huu hadn’t spoken to Erick beyond a cursory greeting before this point. He did not make a great impression.

Huu said, “It is no trouble if you fail, for we have casters on standby. Please erect your Domain and ensure that this land is not spied upon by outsiders. Patriarch Tsung. Everyone else. You may leave the area. You are not authorized to see what happens here.”

Tsung did not argue. He simply gave Erick a pained nod, said, “Thank you, Archmage Flatt,” and walked away, down to a space in the white road that had been cleared of clan mountain rubble. His people followed him.

Huu spoke again after Tsung removed himself, “Your people too, Archmage Flatt.”

Erick said, “There’s no need for that.” And then he threw out a [Domain of Light], easily stretching his spell to the white roads that surrounded Red Ledger’s land. As the world inside the Domain turned saturated, Erick twisted his working, and the world outside vanished from sight. Every single nosy [Scry] eye in the area popped, except for Yggdrasil’s. Erick felt out his Domain, finding a few more esoteric sensory spells. He couldn’t tell exactly what they were for, or what they did, but he crushed them anyway. It took less than ten seconds before he said, “There we go. We’re secured now, Mister Huu.”

Huu glanced to Poi and Teressa, but said nothing. He turned back to the rubble. “Clean up comes first. Save whatever stone you can, but be sure to excavate every object that is not stone. Dump the trash over there.” He pointed to a mostly clear space on the white road, acting like he knew best.

Erick had included that part of the white road in his Domain, though, specifically because he knew he would have to clean out the remains of the clan mountain. Erick could tell a lot about Huu from what he had seen, and heard.

Huu liked things done perfectly, and that he brokered no disrespect from anyone. He valued his job, and from how Huu glared at the broken bits of the clan mountain around them, and how he had spoken to Tsung, it was apparent that Huu thought that his predecessor had done a shitty job. If the crafting had been better a hundred years ago, when the mountain was first erected, maybe this wouldn’t have happened.

Unfortunately, Huu was completely unaware of how to not be a jerk about it.

Erick did not feel the need to respond in kind, so he said, “Of course.”

[Eternal Stonetreeshape] soaked into the grey and black rubble, spreading like an echo, chiming off of every bit of broken clan mountain. The magic soaked in, and the debris began to melt, to liquefy. There was a lot of rubble, and it had been gathered and piled back into the original space where the mountain had been, but most of the original mountain had been erased by [Cleanse], in the process of cleaning up the land from the dirty bombs. In effect, the rubble that was present was not the rubble of a full clan mountain. It was less than a quarter.

But it was still a lot of material.

Erick pressed the spell into a dome, first, turning a large pile of boulders and otherwise into a pile half the size it had been that bubbled upward in the center. In that center, it was maybe 35 meters tall. On the edge, the bubble met the white road, exactly.

Erick flexed his cast again.

Here and there, like surprises appearing, furniture surfaced. A broken chair tumbled upward, out of grey eternal stonetree, then rolled down the half-liquid slope of the mountain. A dresser shook grey goo from its top and began to slide down the slope. More objects came, faster and faster.

Furniture and carpets and fabrics and bodies—

A few bodies. Several.

Erick breathed deep.

Tsung and his people had cleaned up the land well before Erick came here, but they did not get everyone. If the broken bodies were of people from Terror Peaks, or from Red Ledger, Erick did not know. He maintained the spellwork, causing everything that was not eternal stonetree to float up onto the grey surface. And then, all at once, he understood the spell a bit better. With a flex of control, and a designation of the illusionary eternal stonetree as supremely dense (which it was not, at all), making everything else comparatively light (which was the opposite of the Truth), every last treasure and horror breached out of grey sands, everywhere across the kilometer-wide base of the clan mountain.

The magic faded.

The grey bubble turned solid.

Huu mostly contained his surprise as he said, “It takes a proficient hand to achieve that. You’ll still need to do that again to get all the debris, and then maybe a third time. Allow me to help with the cleanup.” He cast a spell.

A many-armed blue-noodle thing popped out onto the ground in front of Huu, looking like a jumble of ramen with gloves on the ends of its appendages. It barely came up to his waist. Huu silently gestured forward and the creature instantly rushed forward onto the grey bubble. The ramen summon grabbed the nearest object, which was a broken painting, and tumbled down the side, holding the broken painting above itself until it reached the edge of the area, where it dumped the painting onto the ground. And then the noodle boy went back into the mess.

Huu cast another summon, his voice oddly stiff as he said, “I am sorry you have to see this death again, Archmage Flatt. Nasty business, that.”

Erick glanced at the man.

Huu’s eyes were wide, and unnaturally focused on the job ahead of him. Ah. He was unsettled. The bodies had triggered something within him.

“Don’t worry about the bodies, Huu. Ophiel can get them.” Erick directed his Ophiel to where they needed to be, saying, “This war was quite awful. I hope to never see its like again, but I suspect I will before the year is up. Maybe sooner.”

Ahh… Maybe he shouldn’t have been that honest. Perhaps Erick had been unsettled, too.

While Erick was moving the bodies to a space to the side, Huu stared at them for a moment too long. He was at his breaking point, and then he broke. Huu turned and vomited onto the ground, apologizing even when he was in the middle of his second vomit.

Erick’s opinion of the man improved.

No more words were exchanged. Erick laid the bodies upon conjured white cloth, and then he helped to move out the actual trash from the site. Huu continued to summon more noodle boys and together, both finished the job of moving items to the side. There were a lot of items. Mostly furniture, but a lot of personal effects, too. Books. Papers. Letters. Clothes.

When the piles of trash had been collected, Huu went to the center of the pile and cast a large [Mending Aura]. Half of the objects returned to their original forms. The other half did not. They had likely been damaged by the Extreme Light dirty bombs. Still, he did not [Cleanse] the trash away. He merely separated the piles between broken and non-broken. Red Ledger could further separate the piles from there.

Erick went over the site with his Ophiel and his mana sense, then used another Shaping to bring up a few more items, but nothing of note. With everything cleaned out of the site, Erick helped move the bodies and the items outside of his Domain, to where some people from Void Song and Red Ledger were already waiting. Red Ledger was there for both the items and the people, to see what was salvageable and who needed to be mourned. Void Song was there to see if any of the bodies were Terror Peaks soldiers.

Erick left them to it, not wanting to be involved in all that, and went back inside his Domain to continue. It was time to begin the real work. He handed off a seed he had plucked from a tree outside, to an Ophiel, who planted it on top of the grey hill.

And then Erick cast.

In seconds, a kilometer tall white tree appeared, its branches stretching off half a kilometer in every direction, while its roots dug deep into the grey ground. Erick’s creation shimmered in the saturated white light of Erick’s Domain, its leaves glittering in sunlight like chips of mirrors. It was beautiful.

Huu’s eyes went wide, and then he resigned himself. “Ah. Of course. The white version. I suppose that’s appropriate enough.”

“Is there a problem?”

“No. No problem.” Huu said, “Gaining a white mountain is a sign of… Well. Magnificent prestige. I did not expect this. Perhaps I should have.” He discarded his wonder and returned to work, saying, “We will likely require two trees, and since your trees look slightly larger than normal, we will likely go over the target by 20%. Addendum B-25 through B-27 of the plans will be replacing Base Plan 25 through 27, resulting in a restructuring of the top, producing two pagodas instead of one, with the first being of larger size than the second. Do you wish to go over the plans?”

“I read them, and I can see them. I don’t need to read them again.”

Huu looked slightly unsure, but he professionally said, “Proceed with Shaping, parts 1 through 9; foundation first, and then Shaping the raw material upward as you can. Shove excess material to the center, and leave that area mostly unShaped; it will be supporting the weight of the second tree. They might be a lot lighter than they look, but they are still weighty things. You may conjure the second tree in that central location when the first floors are completed to my satisfaction.”

Erick gazed up at the tree, and smiled; this was fun.

A single cast of [Eternal Stonetreeshape] melted the tree, turning it into raw material that crashed down onto the grey hill, settling into a white cap that was three times as large as the grey hill. It glittered like a snow capped hill. It reminded Erick of taking Jane sledding in the deep winter.

He smiled again. This was actually really fun.

And then he went to work, casting [Eternal Stonetreeshape] again and again as necessary, using Ophiels for his eyes and the senses of his Domain to feel out where, exactly, everything needed to go. While the architectural maps provided precise measurements, it was the meter-wide scale model that helped Erick the most. That model was actually made out of paper and wood, constructed with care and precision. It had to be the work of some highly experienced Paper Mage somewhere, or something.

Erick formed the basement and the solid foundation, keeping the original grey rock inside the walls, and not visible. That was kinda tough. For the most part, eternal stonetrees, when in the middle of a Shape, acted like concrete, and when two colored concretes got mixed, it was impossible to unmix them. Not only that, sometimes that concrete had a grain to it, which introduced all sorts of odd problems when the material was stretched thin, like it was when it was stretched into walls. It kinda reminded Erick of bread dough being pulled too thin, and thus breaking.

Eventually, Erick roughed out the bottom floors, and then ‘washed’ them with white eternal stonewood. If Red Ledger went carving down there, they’d find the grey, but that was on them.

Huu watched the working with a bevy of [Scry] eyes and their accompanying [Viewing Screen]s.

(Erick still didn’t have whatever spell it was that made those screens. It was on his list, though.)

Erick continued to work; this entire event reminding him of when he used to work in construction, back when Jane was a baby.

Huu seemed to warm up rather fast after Erick showed off his obvious skill, and especially after Erick finished the fourth floor, and the beginnings of the water systems slipped into place.

When Erick got to the tenth floor they were a third of the way done. Huu insisted on a break, to inspect the interior from the inside, with his own eyes. Erick accompanied him.

As they walked down the newly-made hallways, Huu complimented Erick on the plumbing, and on the levelness of every wall, floor, and ceiling. There were even a few small flourishes here and there that Erick had included, like the sweep of some nice banisters, and the vault of a central gathering place. Those flourishes were part of the optional plans, but they seemed easy enough, so Erick did them.

Huu definitely noticed Erick’s competency.

“We only have one other person who can approach this level of craftsmanship, and one person capable of casting the White Tree. Thankfully, they are not the same person.” Huu said, “The sculptor is booked, for the next ten months; the downside of Scion of Willpower. The White Tree woman is not booked, but she works in Holorulo almost exclusively, and for exclusive prices. Her ability with the White Tree would be less prestigious if anyone else had been able to make the spell in the last thirty years, but no one has, so people pay, or they don’t get the White Mountains.”

“Seems like someone else should have been able to make it in thirty years.” Erick wondered what everyone else had done wrong, if only the one woman and himself were able to make the good version of [Eternal Stonetree]. He asked, “Are you privy to the spellwork that makes these trees?”

“I know the overview, but I don’t wish to know more. I care not for secrets and I cannot offer you any.” Huu said, “I’m merely an administrator, ensuring that the plans and the end result are well crafted.”

Erick nodded, and then his eyes drifted to the side, to where a grey streak marred the wall. He frowned at it.

