Market Street was usually full of people, but there was a lull in the crowds. And at the edge of the street, she could see into a distant alleyway. Someone was crouching in the shadows of a building.
A girl dressed in ragged clothes stared hungrily at the shops. Her face was thin, and she might have been beautiful if she was clean. She had bright red hair, dirty from being unwashed. She was staring right at Erin’s stand, where the smell of cooked meat was permeating the air.
For an instant, her eyes met Erin. There was animosity in her bright blue eyes, but when she realized Erin was looking at her, the girl’s eyes widened in panic.
“Erin. What are you looking at?”
“I just saw—”
When she looked again, the filthy girl was gone. Erin paused, and wondered if she was going crazy. But maybe the girl was some kind of orphan, like Hawk? Whoever she was, she looked cold. And hungry.
“Never mind. I uh, thought I saw a customer.”
“We’re running out. Might be a good time to call it a day. I know my tail is sore.”
Selys stretched and took a few steps as Erin wondered if the girl was going to come back. She probably didn’t have any money, but if Erin saw her, she’d give her a burger for free. She spoke to Selys, still watching the alleyway.
“When do we quit?”
“When you get tired. Or when we stop getting customers.”
Erin glanced at her table.
“We’re out of ketchup.”
“I’m not making any more.”
“That’s fair.”
Selys came to warm herself at the brazier. Erin eyed her and tried to speak nonchalantly.
“So. Bunnies.”
“Rabbits. Erin, it’s rude to say—”
“I know. I won’t say it around him. But he’s so quick! And he’s…ripped.”
“He does have a good body.”
“And he’s nice. I can’t believe it never works out with other Drakes!”
“We try, now and then. But you know, it just doesn’t work out. Every time it ends badly with him. Take me for instance. We were together for only two weeks before we broke up.”
“Wait. What?”
 
—-
 
Two hours later, Erin walked back to her inn. She wasn’t alone.
“So you sold how many burgers?”
Erin had to think. Her arms were so tired that Ceria had offered to carry Erin’s mostly empty shopping bag back. But Erin had refused. Ceria might be well enough to leave the guardhouse, but she was still thinner than was healthy.
“I think…a thousand? It feels like that. Probably closer to six hundred. Maybe eight?”
“For a city with just over a hundred thousand souls, that’s a really good profit.”
“Yeah. But uh, a lot of people came back for seconds or thirds. Relc ate eight in total.”
“I can just imagine. But I’m truly glad it was a success. Even in the barracks I heard people talking about your food. Olesm tried to get one for us, but the line was too long.”
“That’s too bad! I’ll invite him over tomorrow and I’ll make you guys as many hamburgers as you want.”
Ceria waved her good hand at Erin.
“You don’t have to do that. Really, I feel bad imposing as it is. I can’t pay you right now.”
“Are you kidding? I don’t have to worry about money ever if I keep making this much every day!”
Erin indicated the jar she’d filled to the brim and her bulging coin pouch. She’d had a red letter day today, she could tell, even without counting the exact amount of her profits.
Erin had sent Selys off with enough silver coins to make the Drake walk awkwardly down the street. It was just as well the Watch had a strong presence in Liscor, Selys had said, or she’d have been really worried.
They came to the inn quite quickly. Erin was all too glad, because it meant she could put away her stuff in the kitchen. She still slept there, out of force of habit more than anything else.
“Take any room you want upstairs. I’d like to chat or—or something, but I’m so tired.”
“You go to sleep. Thank you again for letting me stay here.”
Erin waved a hand at Ceria and yawned hugely.
“You wan’ food? I got food if you didn’t have dinner.”
“I’m fine, really. Thanks Erin.”
Erin went to bed smiling. Her inn felt a lot less lonely with someone else in it. She wondered what Toren would think when the skeleton got back. Hopefully he wouldn’t bother Ceria too much.
The coins she’d earned were safely stored under a floorboard in the kitchen. Erin had seen that on T.V. once, so she’d asked Pawn to install one. Which meant that if anyone ever robbed her, she’d have to start looking at Workers funny.
But Erin was tired, and even thoughts of her missing skeleton and thoughts of Antinium sneaking into houses and robbing people blind couldn’t keep her awake. She drifted off peacefully and slept well.
Until she heard Ceria screaming.
 
—-
 
The sound woke Erin up from a pleasant dream about playing chess in Burger King. She heard Ceria’s voice cut through the night, high pitched and shrill.
Erin reacted with a speed born out of panic. She always kept a frying pan out on a counter, and it was that she seized as she charged out of the kitchen. She had no idea what was attacking Ceria, but she didn’t hesitate as she dashed up the stairs.
She’d put Ceria on the furthest room from the staircase—because the half-Elf had insisted she didn’t want to take any space. Erin ran into the room and saw Ceria sitting half-naked in bed, clutching at her hand and screaming. Nothing was attacking her, but her eyes were wide with panic and fear.
“Ceria! What’s wrong?”
The half-Elf’s head turned towards Erin. She didn’t seem to quite see Erin, but she clearly realized someone was in her doorway. Ceria shrieked and turned towards Erin, eyes wide with horror.
Her skeletal hand rose and the fingers moved. Ceria pointed at Erin and the girl ducked. A spike of ice caught some of Erin’s hair and ripped it out as it struck the far wall and embedded itself in the new wood.
Erin crawled to the door, heart pounding out of her chest. She scrambled outside and tried to make herself as small of a target as possible.
“Ceria! It’s okay! It’s just me!”
Erin shouted as she curled up into a ball on the far side of the wall. She wasn’t sure if the [Ice Spike] could penetrate the thick walls, but prayed Ceria wouldn’t fire again.
Mercifully, she didn’t. Erin heard Ceria draw in a shaking breath, and then her voice.
“Erin! Oh ancestors, what have I—Erin!”
“I’m okay!”
Erin crawled past the doorway and waved her hands to reassure Ceria. Her friend’s face was deathly white.
“I’m so sorry. I didn’t mean—I thought you were—”
Ceria choked as she reached out for Erin. The girl immediately stood up and went to her. Ceria was shaking so hard the bed was moving.
“It’s okay! Really! It was just a spell! Are you okay? What happened?”
“A—dream. Just a dream.”
Ceria shook her head, and kept on shaking.
“I nearly—ancestors. I nearly killed you.”
“But you didn’t! And your hand! Ceria, did you see—?”
But Ceria wasn’t listening. She started to struggle in her sheets, trying to get up.
“I’ll go. I can’t stay. I’m a threat to you and—”
“No!”
Erin caught Ceria by the wrists. The blackened skin on her right hand was deathly cold and clammy to the touch, but Erin ignored it. She looked into Ceria’s eyes, trying to breathe calmly. Her heart was still racing.
“Ceria. No. It was an accident. Stay. Please. I don’t blame you.”
“I’m so sorry.”
Tears rolled down her cheeks as Ceria looked at Erin.
“I’m so sorry. So sorry.”
Erin hesitated, and then hugged Ceria. The half-Elf shuddered at the contact, but didn’t push Erin away. She just trembled in Erin’s arms. She kept repeating the words.
“I’m so, so sorry.”
Erin didn’t think she was just talking about nearly hitting Erin with the spell. She held her as the night deepened and Ceria wept.
 
—-
 
It was a long time before Ceria could collect herself enough to stop shaking. She and Erin sat on her bed as the half-Elf stared at her hands, one good, one dead.
“I thought I was back in the coffin. Only this time, Skinner found me and opened the lid.”
Erin shuddered. Just the thought of his dead body made of skin made her stomach clench.
“I don’t blame you for attacking. If it were me I’d throw everything I had. And I’d probably have hit you, with my [Unerring Aim] skill and all that. Actually, it’s a good thing you were the one who got scared, huh?”
Ceria laughed shakily, but it was a laugh, and that’s what Erin wanted. She stared at her dead hand and shook her head.
“I thought I was still back down there with the others. I thought they needed my help. They’re dead. I keep forgetting.”
Erin’s heart caught in her chest. She closed her eyes for a second.
“I—”
She let the word trail off. There was nothing she could really say. Ceria was silent too, but then she raised her arm and stared at her limp skeletal hand, protruding from the blackened flesh. It had been days, but the skin wasn’t rotting and the bone still looked…normal.
“My hand—”
“It moved.”
Erin was sure of it. It had been just an instant, but you didn’t tend to forget a near-death experience.
“You moved your hand. Was it with magic?”
“No—at least, I didn’t try to intentionally. But I must have used some, I guess. My arm…I didn’t think the bones could still move.”
The yellow bones didn’t so much as twitch. Erin looked at Ceria’s hand uncertainly.
“Is it…because you know magic? Or maybe Pisces did something to it…?”
“Pisces can’t take control of a living body part. Or even one attached to a living one.”
Ceria shook her head.
“Then is it because you’re a mage?”
“No. It must be because I’m half-Elf.”
“Half-Elves are immortal?”
“Hardly.”
Erin felt Ceria chuckle.
“No, we’re just as mortal as any other species, although we live longer. But our bodies are closer to magic in nature. We can do…things that other species can’t. This must be one of them. It also explains why my hand is in one piece even though the flesh is gone.”
That was odd, now that Erin thought about it. She looked hesitantly at Ceria’s hand and chanced a question.
“How—did you lose it? Was it fighting Skinner?”
“Not quite.”
Ceria’s mouth twisted in self-derision.
“I was too frightened to fight him. I couldn’t even raise my wand. No, Yvlon and some adventurers were trying to get out and there were a bunch of undead in the way. I used a spell and the backlash froze my hand off.”
“A spell can do that?”
“Some can. It was bad magic, the spell I used.”
“But you saved them. That’s not bad magic. Or—was it like necromancy? Pisces does that, and he’s not bad. Just annoying.”
Ceria laughed again. Erin’s attempts to reassure her seemed to be cheering her ever so slightly.
“No—I mean, it was badly done. I was trying to cast [Glacial Spear]. It’s an advanced form of [Ice Spike], but I failed.”
“Oh?”
Erin didn’t get it.
“But you cast the spell.”
“Incorrectly. The way I did it, I just poured magic into an oversized [Ice Spike] spell. I used all my remaining mana up in one go, which was a stupid idea.”
“Why’s that? Isn’t it good to do that? I mean, if you could use a really big spell, why not do that all the time?”
Ceria chuckled now, and Erin was glad her stupid questions were making the half-Elf feel better. They sat together in the bed as Ceria’s breathing finally calmed down.
“If mages could use up all their magic in a single spell we’d be even more dangerous than we are. Imagine an army of mages that could devastate an army in a moment. No; spells are a lot more complex than that.”
“How so?”
Erin had resigned herself to never being a mage, but she was intensely curious about magic all the same. Ceria explained. It seemed to be easier for her to lecture than think about anything else.
“There’s a limit to how much mana we can infuse into a spell. Think of a spell as a…container. The good ones can hold a lot of magic and require a lot to activate. But a bad spell can’t handle that much magic. You can overcharge any spell in theory if you have enough magic, but too much and…”
She gestured to her hand.
“But that’s the odd thing. You said I moved it. And I cast magic with it. I shouldn’t be able to cast [Ice Spike] without injuring myself. Not without a wand. But this—”
She tried to flex her skeletal hand, Erin saw. But though Ceria’s face twisted with pain, the bony fingers didn’t so much as move.
“There’s something here. If I can still use magic with two hands and not just one, maybe…”
Erin didn’t like that train of thought. It sounded too active, and not nearly like the restful, peaceful thoughts she wanted Ceria to have. But then someone shouted outside and Erin felt Ceria tense up again.
“Erin! Ceria!”
It was a familiar voice, and it came from just outside. Erin heard furious pounding at the door, and then she heard someone throw it open. She’d forgotten to lock the door! Again!
Whoever was downstairs pounded into the kitchen first, and then came up the stairs two at a time. Erin heard someone running down the hallway, and then Olesm appeared in the doorway.
“Miss Erin! Ceria! You won’t believe what I—oh.”
Olesm paused awkwardly in the doorway. Erin was still in her pajama clothes and semi-decent, but Ceria preferred to sleep only in her underwear. She pulled the sheets up around her chest and Olesm turned away, blushing.
“Blight and rot Olesm, you’ve seen me naked before. And bleeding. Stop blushing and tell us what’s wrong? Is it more undead?”
Olesm turned and shook his head.
“No. Maybe? It’s something we found in the city! You see, after the Watch cleared out the ruins, Zevara was really worried more undead might appear, so she got the Council to find where we keep our histories. Well, we had to dig back to the oldest archives in some dusty house, but we found something about the ruins!”
“What?”
Olesm’s eyes were wide with excitement. He gestured, trying to make sense while words spilled over each other.
“They found a map. It shows the ruins, as well as the locations of other buildings underground. Apparently, the ruins we found was a tomb, and Skinner was assigned to guard it.”
Ceria’s fists—both of them—clenched in the sheets.
“So he wasn’t just a monster that found his way in there. What else?”
Olesm paused.
“It says he was one of the protectors of the tombs. But that was only a building for commoners—but it’s the rest that’s really serious. You—you might want to sit down.”
Ceria snapped at Olesm.
“We are sitting! Spit it out!”
Olesm took a deep breath, and when he spoke his voice only trembled slightly.
