Relc’s unmistakable voice rang through the crowd, and not a second later she saw him and a few other guardsmen at the back of the line. The guardsmen—and one female Gnoll—stared in bemusement as Relc yelled at Erin.
“I want five—no, six!”
She waved at him, which Relc apparently took as encouragement. He began pushing his way through the line, shouting.
“Watch business. Move aside!”
He encountered a lot more resistance than Selys did, but eventually Relc was panting and staring greedily at burgers as Erin loaded them onto a plate. He reached into his belt pouch and began to count out coins.
“You can get me my burgers and pay me five silver coins since I know you’ve earned enough already.”
“Thanks Relc—”
Erin got no further before Relc snatched a burger from the plate and tried to fit the entire thing in his mouth. He pretty much succeeded, although Selys looked away with disgust as he chewed with his mouth open.
“Delish!”
Erin eventually managed to shoo Relc away with more burgers for the other guardsmen. She heard Selys apologizing to the next customer – mainly in the sense of grumbling about rude guardsmen – and looked at her raw patty stack.
“Uh oh. I’m running out of ground beef again. Krshia!”
The Gnoll appeared with more ingredients, fresh from some butcher’s shop. She and Erin had a good system going on. Erin paid her, and Krshia gave her everything she needed. Maybe a less-trusting partnership would have had Krshia raising prices, but in this case she was still making quite a lot acting as a supplier for Erin’s burger needs.
Erin mixed a new batch of ground beef into patties, watched by hungry customers and curious shopkeepers. Krshia eyed Erin’s preparation with some consternation, but by that point Erin had already made the patties and it was too late for the Gnoll to interject.
Egg, spices, thick patty that made some of the Gnolls in line start to drool. Erin blessed her [Basic Cooking] skill because it made the process nearly automatic. She didn’t have to concentrate as hard, and she knew roughly when the burgers were ready. It was great. She raised her voice as she smiled at her line of customers.
“Alright. Who’s next?”
Her question nearly caused a brawl.
 
—-
 
Five hours later, Erin wondered what would happen if she fainted into the brazier. Would she wake up before Selys pulled her out or burn to death?
She was dog-tired, which wasn’t an insult to Gnolls. Erin kept telling Krshia that. It was just that she’d been standing in the same place making food all day long. Even with help, Erin was nearly ready to fall over.
She’d enlisted Selys as a full-time assistant, just to take down orders and help prepare ingredients. Selys didn’t have any cooking skills, but she was competent enough. And she was better at keeping order than Erin was.
And without Selys, Erin would have been buried by the amount of orders she’d received. The morning rush had turned into the midday rush which had gradually transitioned into the evening rush. But there were quieter points, mainly when customers staggered away from Erin’s stall clutching their groaning stomachs.
As it turned out, Erin had made one mistake with her setup. Her bowl of condiments had been well-received although her customers just dipped their burgers in the mayonnaise and ketchup, but she didn’t have nearly enough.
She’d run out of ketchup long ago, and the mayonnaise was only a mix of burger bits at the bottom of the bowl. And though Erin knew how to make more of each, she wasn’t keen on preparing any more, even if she’d had access to the ingredients. As it turned out, ketchup was hard and annoying to make.
It was just the sort of thing she’d have gotten Toren to do. If he was still at the inn.
The thought made Erin depressed, but the next customer who appeared at her stall immediately blew any thoughts of her skeleton out of her head.
“Oh. Selys. You’re working here?”
“Hawk. It’s rare to see you in the market. You normally shop elsewhere, right?”
“I do, but I heard there was something good to eat today. What’s this?”
Erin leaned against the edge of the brazier and yelped. She kept forgetting that the metal was hot. She needed a stool, or something to rest her aching feet. She heard Selys talking with her customer, but Erin had heard enough explanations to tune out most of the words.
“It’s called a ‘hamburger’. But it doesn’t have any ham in it. It’s meat with bread and lettuce, onions, and cheese. If you add cheese it’s called a ‘cheeseburger’.”
“How is it?”
“Try it for yourself. It’s only a silver coin.”
That was…extraordinarily expensive, given the cost of the ingredients. But Selys kept on raising the price of the burgers without issue. She heard the customer fishing in his belt pouch and then the clink of a coin.
“Thanks. Now, do you want your burger cooked fully or raw?”
“Cooked, thanks.”
“Erin—”
“I got it.”
Erin had already added a patty to her pan. She mechanically flipped the burger, listening to this Hawk and Selys talk. She finished the burger, tossed it on the pre-assembled bun, and put it on the serving plate. She held it out and then froze as for the first time she actually looked at her customer.
A tall…rabbit…man…stood in front of the stall, smiling at Erin. He was a rabbit. But he was shaped like a man. He stood on two legs—slightly curved forwards like a Minotaur’s with huge feet. They looked like paws, and Erin noticed he wasn’t wearing shoes so much as coverings made from leather.
His fur was light brown, with dark spots. He had one over his eye, which was pointed like a rabbit’s. And he had a pink nose! Erin nearly squealed or screamed or something when she saw that.
Hawk had two long, floppy ears that stuck out over his head, and he was clothed in loose clothing. He had pants and a shirt which did not disguise the fact that this rabbit was ripped. That threw Erin, as did the muscles on his arms.
“You’re Erin? Nice to meet you. I’m Hawk.”
Hawk the rabbit man smiled in a friendly way at Erin, although his eyes were on the burger on the plate. Erin gaped at him.
Selys coughed.
“Hawk is a Beastkin, Erin. I’m not surprised you haven’t met him before. He’s always running around the city.”
Erin heard her, but she was still caught on his name. She repeated the word incredulously.
“Hawk?”
The furry rabbit in front of Erin scratched at one cheek with a furry hand. He completely misinterpreted Erin’s reaction to his name.
“My parents were from Liscor, but they had no idea what kind of names my species used. So they chose Hawk. I would have preferred Hakss, but what can you do?”
“Oh. And uh, what do you do?”
Erin could think of nothing else, only that she wanted to continue talking to Hawk as long as possible. She could hear…a voice in her head. No, a song.
 
Winnie the Pooh, Winnie the Pooh…
 
If she saw a stuffed yellow bear she was going to lose her mind. But Hawk was real in a different way. He wasn’t like Rabbit, more like the rabbit-version of Usain Bolt. Yeah, that was probably closer.
Hawk rolled his shoulders and shrugged. He smiled again, exposing a row of teeth which…Erin had always wanted a bunny.
“I’m a Courier.”
Erin paused. She tried to remember what that was. Some kind of Runner? It sounded important.
“That’s cool. Do you see a lot of different places?”
Hawk looked slightly crestfallen that Erin wasn’t more impressed.
“No, we run long-distance deliveries from city to city.”
“Oh, like City Runners?”
Selys bit back a laugh. Hawk looked amused and shook his head.
“We’re a bit more important than City Runners. Couriers are rare. There are less than a hundred of us on the continent, I think. We take big jobs or none at all.”
“Whoa. So you’re like, special runners? How far do you run?”
“On any given delivery I’ll go around a thousand miles. Sometimes two, if it’s a round trip. It’s a dangerous job, but rewarding. Of course, I can protect myself. I’m considered—”
Hawk suddenly froze and his body was suddenly tensed, low. Erin had heard the loud crack of wood on wood too, but it was Hawk’s reaction that surprised her. He hadn’t moved so much as instantly changed positions.
He was staring down the street at the source of the noise. A Gnoll was tossing slats of wood onto a cart. The sound was loud, but Erin had heard much of the same all day. But Hawk’s ears twitched violently every time the wood slapped together and he winced.
“I wish they wouldn’t do that.”
Okay. He was jumpy as a rabbit and fast as lighting. Erin stared at Hawk, forgetting completely about everything else. And he had a tail! A tail!
He started grumbling about inconsiderate Gnolls and Drakes while Selys edged over to Erin. The Drake elbowed her in the side.
“Don’t touch his tail. Remember Culyss?”
“But it looks so fluffy and poofy and—”
Erin couldn’t tear her eyes way from the fuzzy tail that protruded from Hawk’s pants. Selys rolled her eyes and twitched her own tail.
“Maybe you want to explain why you live in Liscor, Hawk? Erin hasn’t seen many Beastkin here.”
He nodded. It seemed like he was used to the question.
“Well, I live here. I was born and raised in Liscor ever since I was a kid, and it’s where I’m comfortable. My original parents left me here, and a Drake couple took me in. Liscor’s my home and where I love to live. Most of the time.”
He eyed the Gnoll who’d made the noise severely. Selys rolled her eyes.
“I still don’t know how you manage to sleep at night. There’s noise all the time—how do you sleep?”
“Soundproofing spells. It’s costly, but I make more than enough to pay for the magic.”
“There you have it, Erin. Our resident Courier is afraid of loud noises. Try not to shout around him.”
Hawk glared at Selys, but with no real intensity in it. He seemed to be a good-natured rabbit. Erin was still staring at his tail.
“I’m not just a Courier! I’m trying to become a [Chef] as well!”
“Right. And you’re doing research today?”
“Maybe I would if I ever got to eat this delicious thing.”
Hawk stared longingly at the burger on the plate, but he was too polite to take it. Selys nudged the human at her side.
“The burger, Erin?”
“Oh, right! Sorry!”
Erin remembered why Hawk was here and held the burger out to him. It was still warm thankfully, and Hawk eyed the rising steam appreciatively.
“Mm. This is good. I’m glad I came.”
Erin watched Hawk bite into his burger and chew,  her jaw slack. Selys stepped on her foot again, and that shut Erin up long enough for Hawk to say goodbye.
“It was nice meeting you, Miss Erin. If you ever need a long-distance delivery, ask for me at the Runner’s Guild, okay? I’ll give you a discount, especially if you have more of these burgers!”
He stepped away, and then sprang down the street. There was no other word for it. His powerful legs blurred and he covered more distance with every step than Erin would with five of hers. And he was fast. In an instant he’d rounded the corner and was out of sight.
“No wonder I never see him.”
Erin breathed the words as she stared at the place Hawk had been. She turned and looked at Selys.
“You never told me there was a talking rabbit in Liscor!”
Selys looked perplexed. She looked at the empty street and shrugged.
“What, Hawk? He’s part of the city, and he’s always in and out. Why is he special?”
“He’s a rabbit…a—a bunny!”
Erin couldn’t even find to words to explain why that was special. Talking Drakes? Okay? Gnolls? Totally normal. But bunny-men?
“If you’re interested in him, forget it. He likes Drakes, not Gnolls or Humans.”
Again, that statement threw Erin off a cliff metaphorically speaking. She hadn’t even considered—no! And what was that?
“He likes Drakes? But he’s a bunny!”
“Don’t call him that to his face. He gets touchy, and he’s not a Courier for nothing. When the undead attacked he killed one of those Crypt Lords and quite a few undead by himself! He carried over a hundred people out of harm’s way as well.”
“What?”
“Yeah, he’s strong. Don’t let Relc hear you, but he’s probably one of the few people who could bother Relc. And if it came to a chase, I’d put money on Hawk.”
“And he likes Drakes.”
“I said that. Too bad Drakes don’t like him back.”
Erin couldn’t cope. She shook her head.
“He’s a cool guy. Fluffy. Nice. Why don’t any female Drakes like him?”
Selys looked awkward.
“No reason—well, I mean, it’s not like he’s a bad guy. You couldn’t ask for a nicer Beastkin. But he doesn’t eat meat. Or rather, he doesn’t eat much meat.”
“I saw that. He ate meat! But what’s the problem with not eating meat? That’s not a problem, right?”
“It sort of is. We—Drakes—can eat vegetables. We just don’t…like to like he does. And all he keeps offering us are dishes with carrots in them.”
“Carrots.”
It was too good to be true. But Selys just looked disgusted.
“It’s all he likes to make. Couldn’t he try something else when he’s courting? But no, it’s all carrots. Carrot pies, carrot soup, carrot salads, raw carrots, noodles and carrots, carrots baked into bread…”
“Shrimp gumbo, pan-fried shrimp, deep-fried shrimp, shrimp sandwich, shrimp burger…”
“What are you talking about?”
“Just a joke. Sorry.”
“Anyways, we think it’s bland and not too good. If he could make the food sweeter or more savory…”
“What about carrot cake?  That’s sweet.”
“What’s that?”
Erin sighed as she realized this was yet another thing she had yet to introduce to this world. Cake—well, she was pretty sure she needed baking powder for that. Maybe Ryoka could help. That would be amazing, because Erin missed cake almost more than she missed ice cream.
Sweet things were harder to come by in this world, especially anything made with sugar. Sugar itself was wickedly expensive—not that Erin remembered how much sugar cost when she went shopping at Meijers or at Costco.
She missed Costco. There was something nice about a store where you could buy a fifty pound bag of sugar and no one looked at you as if you were weird. Then again, it was nice going to Costco when your parents paid for membership and not you.
“I just can’t believe it. A bunny.”
“Rabbit. The correct term is the Long Ear Tribe of the Beastkin, but that’s too much work to say.”
“Right, right. But he’s so fluffy.”
“You keep saying that, but why does that matter.”
“It just does. Now, are you going to tell me more about him or am…I…”
Erin trailed off.
