Ren stepped close to her and gave her a hug. “I give you my word that I won't do that on a whim.” He said and rubbed her back with his hands. “If he gives me a good reason, like hurting you... I'll try not to kill him as I kick him so hard that he soars across the Gnome lands.”

Dilseffa laughed at the image that put into her mind. Ren grinned at her and let her go, then turned to Tiyaphi.

“Like Yuwen, I have no problem accepting extravagant gifts from you.” Tiyaphi said with a matching grin.

“Then this is yours.” Ren said and took out a similar cabinet. She opened it up and looked inside, and saw that the clothes were the same, but also different.

“My King, this... you didn't give us the same clothes?”

“The patterns are similar, since I didn't want to deviate too much from the standard.” Ren said. “However, I don't want you to think you're the same or that I think you're the same, so I made everything slightly different.”

“But... this... must have taken...”

“About a day.” Ren said, and he felt their surprise. “It's something Vasalor and I came up with to help me create time when I don't have any to spare.”

“Like now.” Teepo said. “You haven't got too much time left before you have to go.”

“Oh, right.” Ren said and looked at Tatya. He could feel her struggling against the full weight of his Aura, and he felt bad about subjecting her to it. “Now I know how much you can handle safely.” He said to her and eased its effects. She took in a deep breath and he felt her relief.

“You're right. I can't handle more than that.” Tatya said, and from her emotions, he knew she thought that she had lost some of his respect.

Ren took her hand and she caught her breath as he poured admiration into her. “You didn't complain and endured it, so you haven't lost my respect.” He said and felt her surprise at guessing her thoughts. “We should climb aboard and get to the camping site.”

“Of course.” Tatya said and stepped back, bowed slightly, then quickly walked over to her carriage near the end of the caravan and climbed inside. Everyone else took that as the cue to get into their own carriages, and climbed inside as well.
