“Ah hope ya won't hafta.” Clint said, and Ren smiled.

“Fingers crossed.” Ren said and gave them each a container and sprinkler. “Just turn the little crank to charge the coil spring and hit the button when it's time. You can keep cranking occasionally if it's necessary; but if my guess is right, there's only going to be 30 seconds or so to cover as many of them as possible.”

“How are we going to light it?” Dillon asked.

“I've got it covered.” Ren said and smiled evilly.

“Ah don' know if'n ah like tha' smile er not.” Clint said and chuckled. “Le's git to it!”

The 6 men went to their designated spots and started to dig, and Elerlyth took her mount back to the crypt to stand guard. It didn't take long for the guys to dig the holes big enough to sit the sprinklers and oil containers into the ground, and Ren went around and made sure the holes were safe and wouldn't collapse. They placed the sprinklers and containers into the holes and cranked them up; then got ready to push the buttons.

“Princess, hit this button when the others do.” Ren said to his mount. “I've got to install the last component.”

Yes, My Lord. Princess thought, and Ren started to run.

“Hey!” Clint yelled, and Ren slowed down. “Where ya goin'?”

“To install the match to light everything.” Ren said.

“How will we know when to hit the button, man?” Tommy asked.

Ren chuckled. “Even if you don't hear me hollering to you, you'll definitely hear the rumbling of the horde.”

Clint nodded, and Ren ran all the way over to the crypt. Once there, Elerlyth watched as Ren made something she'd never seen before.

“What is...”

“It's a surprise.” Ren said and stored it, then made 2 wands with Wall of Earth and gave one to her, then told Elerlyth what he wanted her to make with it.

“Ren, I can't make intricate things like that.” Elerlyth said.

“Ha.” Ren said. “You make me laugh.”

“Ren.”

“Just make a circuit board.” Ren said. “Easy peasy.”

Elerlyth looked at him with surprise, then she ran through his directions again. “Well, damn.”

Ren laughed and kissed her. “Let's go.” He said and opened the crypt's door, and Elerlyth jumped down into the tunnel while Teepo flew in ahead to scout. Ren followed them and ran into the 50 foot long cavern the tunnel was attached to. He took out the Staff of Earth and used it to pull the walls of the cavern down and made a small tunnel from the 300 foot long cavern for the entire length of the 50 foot one, then made a right angle to join it to the crypt's tunnel.

“You're making a bottleneck.” Elerlyth said.

“Yeah, so make sure your circuit board eventually sends them all here.” Ren said. “Add in dead ends where you want, though.”

Elerlyth chuckled. “Contain and corral. Got it.”

Ren nodded and they activated Sneak together, then crept into the large cavern. They didn't see any sunlight, and Ren pointed to the spots with the sprinklers. Elerlyth nodded and they both started to create their wall patterns to lead the ghouls under them. They only made 8 foot tall walls, so the sprinklers could cover everything, and they used up most of the spells in the wands.

It only took them 5 minutes to finish, and they still had 15 minutes before the spell walls wore off. Ren took out his surprise for the ghouls, tossed it up into the air towards the ceiling, and used his Amulet of the Spider's once-a-day Web spell to secure it to the ceiling of the cavern. At this point, they were both standing on the top of their respective mazes. Teepo had sat on the ceiling to keep watch down both side tunnels, just in case.

“Okay, let's make some noise.” Ren said. “Hey, ghoulies! You ugly rat-suckers!” He yelled. “There's a nice tasty meal waiting for you! Hey! HEY!”

Elerlyth laughed at his poor curse substitute, then added a bunch of actual curse words for him when she yelled.

“Elerlyth! I didn't know you had such a dirty mouth!” Ren exclaimed, and it made her laugh.

When they heard a rumbling sound, Ren looked up at one of the sprinklers.

“NOW! HIT THE BUTTONS NOW!” Ren yelled, and he and Elerlyth ran across the top of their mazes to the end by the tunnel entrance, jumped down and ran to the right-angled corner of the tunnel he had made.

“I assume there's a reason you made this new tunnel straight as an arrow.” Elerlyth asked, and Ren smiled as he tapped the large ruby on his chest.

“Here they come, and they're soaked in oil!” Teepo said and flew over to land on Ren's shoulder. “Some of them have figured out to run over the walls.”

“There's so many of them, I figured that would happen.” Ren said as the first ghoul ran down the tunnel.

“Ren.” Elerlyth said and took out her sword. “Fire.”

“Not yet.” Ren said. “I don't want to waste the shot.”

Elerlyth glanced at him briefly, stepped forward, and jammed the sword into the throat of the ghoul. He'd been alone, and they could see a pile of ghouls trying to climb over each other to get into the tunnel. They sorted themselves out when a larger ghoul smashed the head of the ghoul in front. They saw one of it's arms was just a stub to the elbow, then it shrieked at them.

“It's the leader!” Elerlyth said and knelt as the ghouls flowed around the large one and charged down the tunnel. Ren waited for a second to make sure enough of them would be hit, then activated the Illumination runes in the large ruby mounted on his chest. It was at exactly the right height, since the ghouls ran in a crouch, and it hit them right in the face.

The first ghoul's head exploded and it's body lit on fire. The next pile of ghouls had half of their faces singed off and lit on fire, then the beam hit the large ghoul in the chest. It shrieked again as the beam burned into it's chest and the tunnel became a flaming furnace as the other ghouls' bodies burned both brightly and hotly.

The large ghoul didn't fall, mainly because there were so many ghouls behind him; but, then he caught on fire and the ones behind him kicked him away so they wouldn't burn, too.

“No loyalty, huh?” Ren said and concentrated on the present he'd left them.

The present was something he'd modified from the plans he'd gained when he saved Railyse and the Crown Princess from the elemental bomb. He had to change it so that when it exploded, it would send out Fire as well as shrapnel. He had to increase the yield as well, to make sure it caused as much damage as possible in an up and out direction, and added an enchanted trigger. Since it was held upside down on the ceiling, it was in the perfect position with so many ghouls underneath, and Ren activated it.

It exploded in a giant half-fireball from the ceiling downward, consumed the webbing that held it in place instantly, and sent thousands of flaming shrapnel pieces throughout the entire cavern. The ghouls shrieked as they were hit with the metal shards, then lit on fire when the oil covering them ignited.

*

The guys were maintaining their sprinklers when they heard the explosion, then the ground below them moved up and down slightly.

“My sprinkler's getting hot!” Billy said a few minutes later, and saw the oil inside his container as it started to bubble. His sprinkler was the one right in the middle of the cavern and over the main mass of burning ghouls.

“Forget it, man!” Tommy said. “Run!”

Everyone ran away from their oil containers and sprinklers. Princess and the Phantom Steeds ran away a hundred feet and turned around, then watched as the container in the middle sparked and a lick of flame shot out of the hole it was in.

“Ev'ryone down!” Clint yelled when they were far enough away, and the guys all jumped down to the ground just before Billy's oil container exploded. It sent a splashing wave of burning oil out in a wide spray, and a 20 foot wide circle around the hole burned.

“Holy shit!” Billy exclaimed. “I was almost a crispy critter!”

“I think mine's next!” Hank said, and sure enough, his exploded with the same result.

“They're all going, man!” Tommy said, and then the other boiling oil containers exploded one after the other and sent out burning oil in a spray, then the ground started to shake. “Oh, shit! It's collapsing!”

*

Ren and Elerlyth had kept the stray ghouls at bay when they managed to scramble into the tunnel. The ghouls were still on fire; but, that didn't seem to bother some of them. Elerlyth saw two more large ghouls and dealt with them while they waited for the ghouls to burn, and then they felt the whole cavern shake.

“Teepo?” Ren asked.

Teepo flew down the tunnel and through the flames. “The cavern ceiling! It's coming down, Ren!”

“RUN!” Ren said, and Teepo flew back to him as Ren and Elerlyth ran down the tunnel. Ren cast a Wall of Earth several times to seal off the crypt tunnel behind them, then followed Elerlyth out of the crypt and into the sunshine.
