"Why did you come here? Actually, you never told me why you killed Ilyzathar, as I had us leave Tiberius's office before you could tell me."

"As I said before, it's a long story," Zephyrine said, sighing. Stella was only able to hear her because Zephyrine was infusing the wind howling past her ears with her voice. "But to shorten it as much as possible, I believe Ilyzathar escaped from a higher layer of creation all the way down here. Despite her cultivation being many realms above what you can hope to achieve down here, she was practically suffocating from the lack of Qi. Her body was dying on her."

"Why did she come down so far?"

"No choice. The hunters were likely relentless, and dragons, while powerful, are highly sought after as their flesh, blood, bone, and more can be used in many high-grade pills."

Stella nodded. She couldn't even imagine the amazing pills she could create if she could gut Astralis.

"Hold on, did you speak with Ilyzathar when you met?"

"Barely. After hearing rumors about a slumbering dragon, I went with the intention of begging the great ice dragon for help in saving our mother. However, what I found after months of traveling was a terribly sick dragon on the brink of death after having just given birth to a child." Zephyrine licked her lips. "It was by consuming that dragon's flesh over the course of a year that helped me step into the Monarch Realm."

"You ate her alive while her kid watched?!" Jasmine yelled out in surprise.

"If not me, then another monster would. Perhaps even her own child," Zephyrine said calmly. "Hey, don't frown like that, child. I almost died many times over while searching desperately for Ilyzathar, only to find a living corpse once I arrived. A few more years, and she probably would have passed naturally."

"But still..." Jasmine muttered, looking sad.

"Monsters kill and devour one another. That's how we get strong," Zephyrine said, a hint of firmness in her tone. "Any other monster in my position would have taken the opportunity too."

"It's a brutal world out there, Jasmine. You know this," Stella sighed, looking down at Zephyrine's white fur that blended seamlessly with the frozen landscape blurring beneath them. "Wait, Zephyrine, what happened to Ilyzathar's child?"

"I don't know," Zephyrine admitted. "While I was tempted to eat the child too, I ultimately decided to let it live. While a little risky, I doubt the child will remember me. It was a newborn at the time, hardly the size of my head."

Stella nodded slowly. The conversation died down, and they continued onward. The landscape continued to be nothing but endless white in all directions, with the volcanoes long behind them.

"We are approaching the Frozen Star Sect now," Zephyrine said, waking Stella out of her half-daze. Sure enough, in the distance and dominating the horizon, she could see a truly massive volcano of ice that dwarfed the previous ones she had seen by hundreds of times. The sun reflected off its jagged surface, making the volcano shine with a blue radiance. Stella was in awe. It practically reached up into space and could likely cradle a moon.

"Tiberius wasn't lying," Stella mumbled, pocketing the dragon bone. "I really can't miss it."

"Despite it looking close, I suspect it will take a few more hours to reach the bottom. How are you two holding up—wait," Zephyrine paused and seemed panicked as she glanced at the ground.

"What is it?"

"I don't know," Zephyrine replied. "I felt danger."

"Danger?" Stella said, her hair involuntarily standing on the back of her neck. A deep chill washed over her, laced with intense killing intent. Something was preying on them, something strong.

Zephyrine slowed a little and pulled in the storm surrounding them. She scrutinized the blinding white landscape, but there was nothing to see—just ice-covered mountains.

"Maybe we should turn back," Stella suggested, as Ash's warnings played in her mind. Whatever was releasing this killing intent had to be in the Monarch Realm. Was it the leader of the Frozen Star Sect? Surely not, she had messaged Janus ahead of time to let them know she was coming.

So just who could it be?

Her thoughts came to an abrupt halt as the ground below them erupted like a volcano. Stella didn't even have time to process what was happening, even with the help of her bloodline, as they became surrounded by a storm of hail made of ice shards the size of buildings.

"This is bad," Zephyrine said, radiating her soul pressure to take control of their immediate surroundings. "You two should get out of here."

"Zephyrine!" a godly beast roared, its voice laced with the weight of an inner world, shaking Stella's soul to its core. She felt Jasmine faint onto her back. "How dare you show yourself before me again!"

With a pulse of spiritual pressure, Zephyrine wiped out the surrounding storm, revealing the foe that had been lying in wait, floating before them. It was a truly massive dragon, whose body seemed to be carved from translucent ice with a mane that flowed like a snowstorm given shape. His eyes were deep and ancient, the color of glaciers, and carried a keen intellect and rage.

"Ao Lingxuan," Zephyrine said calmly. "I didn't expect you to still be alive."
