Ren laughed as he opened her back door. Teepo chittered in laughter and Princess brayed softly as they left the Night Hag cursing fate, the gods, and Ren. The trio quickly made their way across the cavern and to the wall, and Ren took out his pet tarantula.

“My Queen, I am in the Underworld. May I pay you a visit?” Ren asked, and the tarantula tapped his cheek. “Thank you.”

Ren took out the Indestructible Staff Of Earth and pointed it to the wall, and it opened up a 10 foot wide square hole all the way to the next cavern instantly. He climbed onto Princess' saddle and she brayed her happiness as she ran as fast as she could.

“There's cave worms on the other side of the tunnel, Princess.”

“Yes, My King!” Princess said happily and ran all around the cavern when they reached it, trampled and rammed every cave worm and nest that she detected through Ren's massive Aura. She was very efficient in her acts and then Ren pointed to the wall. She ran for it and he held out the staff to create another tunnel. He dismissed the old one and they ran through another couple of miles of tunnel to reach the next cavern, and Princess repeated the process of killing all the cave worms and smashing their nests.

Even with doing all of that, they arrived at the center of the Dark Elven Kingdom fairly quickly. Princess had to slow down and came to a stop when they approached the main area where the Queen of the Dark Elves presided over her domain. Ren hopped off of the saddle and scratched her chin, then they entered the main area. No one stopped him or even looked his way as they walked through the various caverns and guard posts. They arrived at the throne room and he knocked on the door. The door opened and Ren saw that there was a gathering of sorts.

“Welcome, Royal Consort.” Lylyth, Queen of the Dark Elves said, almost as a proclamation. The Dark Elves gathered around her took a step back and they all knelt on one knee. Ren dismissed the Influence and XP conversion popups, since he had gained neither, and stepped into the throne room.

“Thank you, My Queen.” Ren said and gave her a regal bow. “I'm not sure I deserved such a formal reception just because I stopped in.”

Lylyth chuckled, and amusement came from all of the Dark Elves. “This is the first time you've been back after giving us the High Elven Kingdom.” She said. “It's been... so wonderful.”

Ren smiled as he felt her joy and happiness.

“...and quite a relief, I have to assume.” Ren said, and several of the Dark Elves chuckled.

“To say the least, Dear One.” Lylyth said. “Can I ask what the purpose of this visit is?”

“After I lost all the connections with everyone, I was very angry.” Ren said. “I maxed myself out completely, then asked Vasalor for his help.”

Lylyth and everyone in the throne room gasped at the truth in his words. “Wh-what did you do?”

“I fixed everything, My Queen.” Ren said, and no one breathed. “I've been visiting everyone that I have a connection with to ensure that they are okay and haven't suffered.”

Lylyth touched the spider emblem over her heart, the one that matched the one on the back of his hand. “I did feel the utter loss of something important.”

“As did I.” Ren said. “Excruciatingly so.”

“...and... and now?”

“If I may approach you?” Ren asked, and she nodded. He walked across the throne room and everyone stayed on their knees as they watched him. He came to the throne and started to reach for her hand, and Lylyth felt immense pressure from him and caught her breath.

“S-stop.” Lylyth said when his hand was barely an inch away from her skin. “Wh-what is this feeling?”

Ren smiled and moved his hand away, because she reacted just like Elerlyth had. “I was going to share the feelings I had while fixing everything.” He said. “I guess it's a little too much.”

“H-how long...”

“Only a couple of eons.” Ren said, and he felt shock from everyone, especially Lylyth.

“I... I can't.” Lylyth said. “That's too much.”

Ren nodded. “Perhaps I could borrow Tiatha for a...”

“YES!” Tiatha yelled into the silent throne room, and that broke the tension Ren had inadvertently caused by his revelation. Lylyth waved assent and Tiatha jumped forward to grab his hand. “My room.”

“Princess, I'll be right back.” Ren said and cast the Portal spell, then he and Tiatha stepped through it.
