“My feet are what’s the matter! Lyonette, Erin told me I need to work tomorrow from morning till night!”
“That’s right. Is something wrong with that?”
“Yes! That’s my day off! Only Erin told me how much business we had and she really needs me to work! I love to earn money, Lyonette, I really do. But I need time to spend the money I get!”
Drassi’s tail lashed, and she spoke faster and faster as she grew more upset. Lyonette tried to soothe her.
“I understand. I know Ishkr’s been busy too. Look, I’ll talk it over with Erin and see if I can get you your day off sometime this week.”
“Would you? I know we have so much business. But it’s too much for three people! Erin should really hire some [Barmaids].”
“I’ll talk to her about it. Don’t worry.”
“Thanks, Lyonette. You’re a lifesaver.”
Relieved, the Drake went back to waiting tables. Lyonette looked for Erin, but now she was talking with Wesle. That was the thing about Erin. She was good at people. But when it came to organization—well, she still slept on the floor of her kitchen next to her cooking ingredients. She could leave things hanging. She was good at focusing on one thing. But multiple things—
“Lyonette. Some of our visitors want to leave to Liscor.”
Ishkr called across the inn to Lyonette. He was carrying lunch and was clearly swamped. Lyonette nodded and hurried over to the door. A group of impatient Drakes was waiting there.
“To Liscor?”
They nodded. Lyon found the corresponding mana stone—a bright green one—and placed it on the door. She swung it open, and immediately the Drakes poured out and more poured in.
“Finally! We’ve been waiting here for ten minutes! Why did it take so long?”
One of the Drakes demanded angrily as she shook water off her scales. Lyon tried to apologize as she winced and wondered if they could put the door somewhere else. They had to clean the floor six times a day with everyone tromping in and out. She seated the Drakes, turned around, and saw Erin striding towards her.
“Lyonette! Drassi says we have a problem with schedules?”
Surprised, Lyonette glanced towards Drassi. The Drake winced and flicked her tail—a Drake way of apologizing. She must have mentioned the issue to Erin and the [Innkeeper] had abandoned the arguing [Actors] to immediately talk to Lyonette. The [Princess] nodded.
“We don’t have enough staff, Erin. I know we talked about hiring more. I think we need to, otherwise Drassi and Ishkr will be overworked.”
Erin chewed her lip.
“I know, I know. It was on my list, but after Maran and Safry, I didn’t want to. You know?”
Lyonette nodded sympathetically. She paused.
“But we do need more.”
“I get it. Um…”
Erin looked around distractedly, as if new helpers would appear out of nowhere.
“I could ask Krshia for more helpers? And Selys? Or get some people from Celum…only, I think I’m being boycotted by the [Innkeepers] there. I can ask around. But doing it today is sort of hard because we’re doing so many plays and I have to be here.”
The young woman looked around the inn.
“I know Drassi and Ishkr are tired, but I’ll pay them double if I have to, Lyonette. So…can we handle it for the next few days? I really, really need to have enough people serving the tables for our plays. I just don’t have time to find good people to hire—but you still take your break tomorrow with Mrsha! Kids first! But—”
“How about I find us some help?”
Erin stopped fretting and looked at Lyonette.
“You think you can?”
Lyon nodded. Why not? It wasn’t as if there was a lack of [Barmaids] and [Waiters] to hire. She gave Erin a confident grin.
“Leave it to me! You focus on the plays, and I’ll figure something out.”
“You’re sure?”
“I am. And while I have you, can we do something about the door?”
“What?”
Erin looked blank until Lyonette explained about having to switch the door between Celum and Liscor constantly. And that was without factoring Pallass into the equation. She groaned.
“I didn’t realize it would be such a problem! Pallass barely gets used, but Liscor and Celum—look, I’ll try talking to Pisces, but he says I can’t make it move like Howl’s Moving Castle.”
“What?”
“I can’t make it automatic! Or rather, he can’t. It’s too hard and has something to do with enchantment bindings and limited spell matrix capacity and so on. It would be so much easier if we didn’t have to use Liscor’s door, but what can you do? It’s not like I can get people to swim here, right? Right?”
Erin grinned sheepishly. Lyonette wondered if she’d actually be able to do just that. Knowing Erin…
“Maybe there’s another way.”
“Maybe? If you think of it, let me know.”
Erin sighed. Lyonette heard someone call her name and Erin groaned.
“Gotta go. Tell me if the lack of employment thing gets worse, okay?”
“Okay!”
The two separated. Lyonette made a beeline for Drassi. Ironically, there was no bee in sight; Apista was up in Lyonette’s room with Mrsha, preferring to stay out of the way of so many people.
“Sorry about that, Lyonette. I just mentioned that I talked to you, and Erin was like ‘I’m going to sort this out right now!’ I didn’t mean to put you on the spot.”
“It’s fine, Drassi. Erin’s asked me to sort this out. Tell me, do you know anyone who might be free to work here?”
The Drake paused as she wiped sweat from her forehead.
“Me? Yeah, I’ve got tons of friends! So does Ishkr! Hey, Ishkr!”
The Gnoll paused as he headed towards the kitchen. He strode over and quickly convened with the two [Barmaids] as the diners waited for service. He nodded the instant Lyonette asked about other potential workers.
“I have a handful of friends. And acquaintances, yes? I could ask them.”
“They’re trustworthy? Hardworking?”
Both Drassi and Ishkr gave Lyonette insulted looks. Lyonette returned it.
“I have to ask.”
Drassi twitched her tail.
“Some of my friends slack off a bit. Okay, half of them. But I can ask the good half.”
“And I would not betray Miss Erin’s trust. I could ask a handful of the Gnolls I know to work hard.”
“Do you think they’d leave their jobs to work here?”
“Depends on how much you offer them. A lot of them work part-time. You know, during the spring rains? They could be persuaded to quit—especially if they get to watch plays.”
Drassi gave Lyonette a toothy smile. Lyonette smiled back and did some quick math.
“Tell them that Erin will pay them one silver and two copper per hour for the next three days. After that, if they want to stay on they’ll be paid a regular wage. Less.”
“Whoa! That’s a lot of money!”
Drassi and Ishkr looked shocked. That was nearly as much as Erin had offered Maran and Safry, and that had been an exorbitant amount for their levels and Skills. But the inn could definitely afford it. Lyonette nodded.
“I want them working tomorrow. They can come in with you and learn how to work in the inn. Of course, Erin will pay you and Ishkr the same amount. And for all the times you’ve had to work overtime!”
“Really? That’s great!”
Both Drake and Gnoll were delighted. Lyonette smiled at them. She was promising a lot, but both workers had been pulling long hours for the inn. She should have brought this up with Erin a week ago! But that was also the thing with Erin. She reacted to problems rather than think ahead most of the time. Lyonette got back to work with Drassi and Ishkr; the patrons were getting unhappy with dry throats. Like a flash, it was already evening and Lyonette was tending to a fussy Mrsha.
“I know you want to run, but you can’t go running about under the tables. You can sit and watch the plays or run about upstairs, okay?”
Mrsha buried her head in her pillow and made a whining noise. Lyonette sighed, but she didn’t have time to argue. She hurried downstairs just in time to see Erin greeting a familiar face.
“Hey Ilvriss, what’s up?”
Wall Lord Ilvriss, arguably the most important Drake in Liscor, glared at Erin but silently took a seat at a table. Lyonette winced as she rushed past Erin. She waved at Drassi, who poured her a mug of Firebreath Whiskey and shoved it into Lyonette’s hands.
“You do it? Please? He scares my tail off!”
Lyonette nodded. She took the mug to Wall Lord Ilvriss and smiled.
“Your drink, Wall Lord.”
“Ah. Thank you.”
Ilvriss seemed surprised by the prompt service. He looked around at his table.
“I assume more plays will be put on tonight?”
“Absolutely, Wall Lord. We have another performance of The Triumph of Liscor, and the Players of Celum will be putting on other plays throughout the night. I can ask for a list if you would like to hear it?”
“Hmm. Yes, do that. But first, orders. I will have your finest steak—well done, spiced as hot as your kitchen allows.”
He nodded at his table, and the Drakes who’d come with him chimed in with their orders. Lyonette fixed all of the details in place in her mind and bowed again before hurrying off. Ilvriss looked slightly pleased when she brought him his food within five minutes of ordering—the steak was done, and Ishkr had only had to heat it up, fry it until it was further done, and dump as many spices as he could onto the meat. Of course, the other orders were also premade and ready, but Lyonette deliberately chose to hold off sending them to the table until Ilvriss’ plate was done.
It was just etiquette, plain and simple. You didn’t serve anyone but the Wall Lord first. And you most certainly did not call him by his name in front of his followers. Lyonette wished Erin knew that. But in a way, that was something Erin couldn’t do. She couldn’t be humble.
Or maybe she could be. But she was bad at doing things she hated. She didn’t treat Wall Lord Ilvriss with the respect he required because she didn’t believe in the superiority of the noble titles. That was all very well and good and Lyonette understood the sentiment—here she was, a [Princess] waiting tables—but it was also a fault. Ilvriss had mellowed out considerably, but there was a difference between pushing him to be more tolerant and insulting him to his face.
What she could do wasn’t what Erin could do. Lyonette served tables as the Players of Celum finally began their play. The Triumph of Liscor was just as overdone as the first time she’d seen it, but the speeches had been refined and more parts had been added. It was as far from the truth as could be, and when the play had finished, the applause was thunderous. The [Actors] rotated, and another group came on to play Othello. All the while, Lyonette was hurrying over to the magic door to let people in and out to Celum and Liscor. She had to change the door every five minutes—or less.
“This is ridiculous! There has to be a better way!”
Exasperated, Drassi slapped a yellow mana stone onto the door and yanked it open. Octavia’s voice could be heard in her shop.
“Come on, buy a pack of matches while you’re waiting! Or how about a stamina potion for the night? You’ll be wide awake until dawn—unless you take one of my drowsiness tonics! A two-for-one offer! Why not throw in a healing potion while you’re at it? You can never be too careful!”
“If we could just leave the door open to Celum, we wouldn’t have to keep opening it to Liscor. Maybe just once every thirty minutes so people know when we open it.”
Lyonette frowned at the door. Drassi nodded.
“But how would we tell them? A sign? Sundial? It’s raining, so that’s not going to work. Ancestors, it would be so much easier if Erin just bought a bridge! I have a friend who could sell her one.”
“A bridge?”
Bemused, Lyonette glanced at Drassi. The Drake nodded.
“Why not? It’s not far from Liscor to the inn! It would cost a good bit of gold, yeah, but it would be so much easier.”
“To buy a bridge.”
“Of course! Wait—I forget, you don’t know about bridges! Hasn’t anyone told you?”
Drassi slapped her forehead. She tried to explain as she pointed Lyonette to a window.
“It’s not like we have that many, but if there’s a nearby place we need to get to—I think we connected one from the city to the dungeon. It’s not hard! You just pay a few Drakes or Gnolls to build a bridge over the water! If you’ve got the gold, you can hire one and have it done tomorrow.”
“And it’s safe?”
“Well, it’s not that safe if a monster attacks. But most of them don’t go above the water, and if it’s near the city, the most you normally get is hit by a Quillfish. And you have Bird on the rooftop, right? He and the City Watch can shoot anything that attacks.”
“That could work!”
Lyonette imagined a bridge connecting Liscor and The Wandering Inn. It wouldn’t eliminate the need for the door, but it would cut down on the traffic. She found Erin in the kitchen and explained the bridge idea. Erin nearly dropped the hot pan in surprise.
“Wait. Are you serious? Relc told me he had a bridge to sell me and I told him he was crazy! That’s actually a thing?”
“That’s right! Drassi says she knows someone who can get to work tomorrow. Do you think you’d be willing to pay for it?”
Erin thought about that for a moment. Then she reached for her money jar.
“How much?”
Five minutes later, Drassi hunted through the crowd of watching Drakes. She’d spotted the very Drake she wanted to talk to and pulled him out of his seat as the next play started. Lyonette heard her whispering to him.
“Hey Meniss! Are you still selling bridges? Because I have a big one for you! But you have to give me a discount. And no building it with bad ropes or wood, got it?”
Soon enough, Drassi came back with the news that a team of Drakes and Gnolls would work on a bridge tomorrow, and both Lyonette and Erin exchanged a celebratory high-five. They got back to work. Lyonette got into the rhythm of serving, watching familiar and unfamiliar faces come and go until someone special walked through the door to Liscor.
“Pawn?”
The Worker looked up in surprise.
“Lyonette. Greetings.”
“I haven’t seen you in over a week! Where have you been?”
A genuine smile sprang to Lyonette’s lips as she ushered the wet Worker into the room. Pawn nodded, looking tired.
“I have been exceedingly busy. After the attack, there was much work to be done. Not only in flood-proofing the Hive…I have expanded my unit to include many more Workers and Soldiers, and organizing them is a troublesome task. That is why I came here, actually.”
“Really? Tell me about it. Let me get you a seat. I know it’s noisy—we just finished a play. Another one will start soon. Can I get you anything to eat? To drink?”
Pawn wavered as Lyonette ushered him to a seat at the back of the room.
“That is very kind, Lyonette. But I was hoping to speak to Erin. I need her advice.”
“Oh.”
