Robins were one thing. But a crow? She saw the large bird strike Apista with a claw and felt the flash of pain through her bond. Apista tried to sting the crow, but the bird was too quick. It flew backwards, squawking, as Apista beat her wings furiously. The other birds besieged her from all angles.
“Apista! Come here!”
Lyonette waved her arms, shouting loudly, trying to drive off the birds. It didn’t work. Mrsha threw something—her precious ball—but the birds easily avoided the missile and kept attacking Apista. The Ashfire Bee was beating its wings, buzzing loudly, refusing to flee.
Apista was buzzing louder than Lyonette had ever heard her. Her wings fanned faster as the birds flew around her, darting at her sides and wings. Lyonette was about to shout at the bee to fly to her so she could shield her from the angry birds when Apista’s buzzing reached a peak. Her wings beat so fast they nearly turned invisible and then the bee burst into flames!
“Apista!”
Lyonette’s shriek of horror was echoed by the birds around it. One of them had been diving at Apista the moment before the flames began. One of the red robins peeled away, its feathers smoking. It fled, twittering in alarm, and the other birds hesitated. They took one look at the flaming bee, circling, wary of striking. Then Apista moved. She flew straight at the crow, and the startled bird cawed and nearly lost its wings to the fiery attack. It flew with Apista in hot pursuit. Below, Lyonette and Mrsha watched, gaping in astonishment.
The fire didn’t hurt Apista! Lyonette could sense the bee wasn’t hurt, only extremely angry. Apista flew at the other birds, chasing them off. Within moments, she was the only thing in the air, and the distressed birdcalls were a distant memory. Now Apista flew downwards, like a flaming ember.
“Come here.”
Lyonette called up at her. The bee flew towards her, and the fire engulfing her body winked out as she approachedLyonette. The young woman hesitated, but she held out her hands. She winced as Apista landed, but the bee was only warm to the touch. Gently, Lyonette held her to her chest.
“You silly little bee! Don’t pick fights with birds!”
Apista wiggled her antennae, trying to climb up Lyonette’s hands. She perched on Lyonette’s shoulder, fanning her wings gently. Lyonette sensed exhaustion from the Ashfire Bee, as if it had used up all its energy setting itself aflame.
“Was that magic? Or could you always do that?”
Predictably, Apista didn’t respond. Lyonette looked around. Mrsha appeared with her ball in her mouth. She approached Apista, sniffing anxiously, and the bee crawled onto her face. Mrsha carefully lifted her onto her head. Lyonette regarded her two charges and exhaled slowly.
“That was too much excitement. Here.”
She dug around in her pack and pulled something out. A small jar of honey. Instantly, Apista flew over to it. Lyonette uncorked the bottle and let Apista crawl onto it. The bee immediately began devouring the honey, and Lyonette saw Mrsha approach the bag. The Gnoll rooted around in the bag and found lunch. She pulled out a toasted sandwich and looked triumphantly at Lyonette.
“Alright, we can have an early lunch.”
Lyonette smiled. She sat with Apista and Mrsha and found her own sandwich. The Gnoll slowly ate her lunch as Lyonette chewed on her food.
“I don’t know why I’m surprised. Ashfire Bees are known to be immune to fire. And they’re dangerous. Why shouldn’t they be able to set themselves on fire?”
Mrsha nodded. Lyonette looked at Apista.
‘I’ve heard they survived forest fires. Only now I wonder if they start them. Is it something only a few bees can do? I still don’t know if Apista’s a queen bee. All I do know is that she eats too much and she picks fights with birds. And moths.”
Apista wiggled her antennae. Lyonette yawned. That fright and playing with Mrsha had exhausted her!
“I’m sleepy. And it’s quite warm. Mrsha, are you…?”
She looked over and saw Mrsha was lying on the blanket, already snoozing. Lyonette laughed. The sun was warm. And while it was cool, compared to the rainy weather, this was just too pleasant. Slowly, Lyonette lay back on the blanket.
“We really shouldn’t sleep here. Especially if more birds will attack.”
That was very true. But the blanket made a counterargument. If Lyonette just lay back and closed her eyes, she could think about the dangers in more comfort. Slowly, Lyonette did. She closed her eyes and felt welcome sleep tugging at her mind. She was still tired. She was always so busy at Erin’s inn. But here…
Mrsha was curled up next to her. Her small back rose and fell rapidly as she slept. Lyonette looked at her. There lay Mrsha. Her fur was beautifully white. She could be a handful. Cranky, prone to disobedience, pranks. She’d gone through so much. Too much. And yet, there was no one else in this world that Lyonette cared more for. She’d been a [Princess]. She’d lost her possessions, become an outcast. She’d become an unwilling [Barmaid]. But it had been the need to care for Mrsha that made her truly change. And now she was Mrsha’s guardian. Her protector. Because Mrsha was her…
Her what? Her subject? Her ward? Her…child? Nothing quite fit. Lyonette reached out and felt Mrsha’s warm back beneath her palm. What she was to Mrsha and Mrsha was to her defied proper words. But it mattered. Oh, it mattered.
“I don’t have a kingdom anymore. I don’t have subjects. But I do have you.”
Lyonette whispered and felt the hint of tears spring to her eyes. She brushed them away and put her head back. The warm blanket drew her in, and the sun warmed her. Lyonette closed her eyes as Apista buzzed quietly around her head. She felt so sleepy and closed her eyes for a moment.
 
[Carer Level 8!]
 
[Beast Tamer Level 5!]
[Skill – Apista: Basic Training obtained!]
 
“Huh?”
Lyonette sat up. The sun was still shining. The blanket was still soft. But the familiar presence at her side was gone. She looked around wildly and saw Mrsha.
“Mrsha!”
The Gnoll jumped guiltily. She immediately tried to hide what she was holding behind her back. Lyonette got up, her head bleary, and saw Mrsha had gathered a pile of moldy pinecones.
“That’s not…how long have I been asleep?”
Mrsha looked innocently at her. Lyonette looked around and saw Apista was resting in a bed of flowers. She stared at the sun and jumped.
“It’s already evening! We’ve been out here for hours!”
Mrsha nodded in agreement. Lyonette looked around.
“That’s long. Too long, maybe. We should get back to the inn. I told Erin I’d come back at some point.”
She looked at Mrsha. The Gnoll was pouting.
“Mrsha, do you want to go back? Have you had enough fun?”
The small Gnoll cub considered this. She nodded reluctantly. Lyonette felt incredibly guilty about falling asleep when Mrsha could have wandered off. She tried to make up for it by packing swiftly. She stuffed her blanket and Apista into the rucksack and made tracks back towards Celum.
“The next time I fall asleep, wake me up! I should be the adult here!”
Lyonette moaned. She saw Mrsha nod happily and felt something rustle in her bag. An outraged Apista tried to climb out.
“Oh no.”
Lyonette blocked her with a hand. Apista tried to crawl past her.
“No, Apista. You have to stay. Otherwise someone will swat you in Celum. Stay in the bag.”
Belatedly, Lyonette remembered she’d just obtained a Skill to train Apista. She pointed at the Ashfire Bee and spoke in a firm tone, just like she’d heard the [Houndmaster] in the kennels speaking.
“Stay.”
Apista fanned her wings defiantly. Lyonette pointed.
“Stop that. Stay! Stay.”
Apista buzzed out of her bag and defiantly flew rings around Lyonette’s head. Lyonette groaned. Mrsha laughed silently as Lyonette chased after her Ashfire Bee. The smile on the Gnoll’s face lasted even when they returned to the city, with a suspiciously buzzing bag firmly shut at Lyonette’s side.
This was her small accomplishment. Lyonette took pride in that. She and Mrsha took a moment’s reprieve just long enough to buy Mrsha a little spinning top at a local shop and then they returned through Octavia’s shop to The Wandering Inn. Just in time for chaos.
 
——
 
“Lyonette! Thank goodness you’re back! It’s a disaster over here!”
The first person to greet Lyonette was Drassi. Lyonette blinked as the Drake waved a claw about frantically.
“It’s chaos over here! No one knows what to do! All of the Gnolls Ishkr brought are milling about, and Erin’s busy with the building team with the bridge! They’re arguing, and I can’t get my friends to pay attention!”
She pointed, and Lyonette saw that Erin was at the center of a crowd of people vying for her attention. Some looked like laborers, while others were clearly [Barmaids] dressed for their job. Some were [Actors], and one was a stuffy-looking Drake waving a clipboard and shouting about Pallass.
“Hold on! Hold on! I’m trying to—stop trying to get my attention! First people first!”
Erin was trying to shout over the voices of everyone, sounding harried. There were too many people though, and she kept getting distracted with each new problem that emerged. Lyonette heard angry shouting and saw that some of the customers were demanding food or drink. Others were just shouting for Erin to keep it down. Ishkr was trying to let people in from Celum and Liscor, Drassi was trying to wait tables and explain how everything worked to the female Drakes following her…it was a mess.
And for some reason, Lyonette felt good about that. Was that a good feeling to have? Probably not. But the sight of Erin turning to her in relief and shouting her name—it did feel nice. Because it meant that Lyonette was important. It meant that she was needed. And perhaps most importantly, it meant that Erin wasn’t perfect.
She was an [Innkeeper], someone who could connect to other people’s hearts, turn even the most taciturn of loners into a friend. She read people like books and created miracles and that made her a [Magical Innkeeper]. But if she had a weakness, just one, it was that she was no leader. Just a friend. And that was fine. Lyonette savored this precious knowledge for all of five second and then took a breath.
“Attention, everyone!”
Heads turned. Lyonette pointed.
“Miss Erin Solstice is extremely busy! Please form a line—I don’t care what order—and wait for your turn. No arguments. I said, form a line. Now!”
She didn’t scream. She didn’t wave her hands or stomp her foot. That was how a fool acted. Lyonette just gave orders and behaved as if they would be carried out. She promptly ignored the people who objected and headed straight for Erin. Half the people around the [Innkeeper] ducked as Apista buzzed over their heads. That helped too, of course.
“What’s the problem? Drassi first.”
“All my friends are here, all the ones who wanted to work, but they don’t know what to do! I’ve been trying to teach them, but—”
“Same here!”
Ishkr walked over. Lyonette nodded. That was simple. She pointed towards the kitchen.
“Drassi, show your friends where we keep the food and have them start passing around the popcorn in bowls to each table. Ishkr, can you show these Gnolls where our drinks are? Have them start filling mugs. We can help each other out once we’re sorted.”
“Got it!”
Relieved, the Drake and Gnoll hurried off, calling to their friends. At once, half the shouting patrons stopped, realizing they’d finally get what they wanted. In the newfound silence, Lyonette turned to Erin.
“What else is wrong?”
“I’ve been telling these guys that I’m not hiring a team of adventurers just to watch them build my bridge! I didn’t know that was a cost!”
Erin looked exasperated as she argued with a [Foreman]—or perhaps a [Fore Drake]—who was supposed to be building the bridge. He growled.
“And how are we supposed to work without protection? Those waters aren’t safe to work in, and we’ll be in the water some of the time! Just get the Gold-rank team that’s living here to watch us!”
“They’re busy! And I’m not hiring a Silver-rank team for two days straight! That would cost me too much gold! I told you, I have Hobgoblins—”
“We don’t trust Goblins to watch us!”
All the Drakes and Gnolls instantly burst out into angry protests. Erin folded her arms.
“They’re as good as any team of adventurers!”
That was another fault of hers. Erin was stubborn. She was relaxed about a lot of things, but issues like this—Lyonette listened to them argue for five minutes before offering her compromise.
“What about Hobgoblins and a Silver-rank team of adventurers?”
“What?”
The Drake looked confused. Lyonette pointed to the Horns of Hammerad, who were waiting in line for an unrelated reason that required Erin’s attention.
“If the Hobgoblins stand outside with you and the Horns of Hammerad remain in the inn, will that do? At the first sign of trouble, they’ll come out. And we have an Antinium watching from above.”
“You do?”
“Oh yeah. We do!”
Erin grinned as Lyonette went to go grab Bird, who had been sitting in his watchtower and singing his rain song. The Drakes and Gnolls were somewhat reassured by the Antinium. Ironic, but apparently an Antinium was better than a Goblin, especially to Liscor’s residents. Lyonette turned to Bird.
“Bird, if you see anything attacking the workers, tell us at once. Understand?”
“Yes, Miss Lyonette.”
“Is that fair?”
The [Builders] conferred, but eventually nodded and trooped outside. Lyonette beckoned the next person in line forwards, and Erin sighed in relief.
“Lyonette, you’re a lifesaver.”
“I’m just doing my job.”
“I know, but it’s a good job! I don’t know what I would have done without you. Never go on vacation again, okay? Kidding! But not really.”
She smiled at Lyonette. The [Barmaid] smiled back. She turned back to work, pleased. This was her job. She was a helper at Erin’s inn. This was what she could do. She was no [Princess]. She had no servants or subjects. Just an inn and a friend. She helped Erin sort out the rest of her problems, let the new workers take over for Drassi and Ishkr, and picked out the two best Drakes and Gnolls out of the bunch. With Erin’s instant agreement, she decided to hire them as long-term help.
