Lyonette’s excitement went out like a candle. She paused.
“Sure. I’ll get her. She’s, um, busy, but I’m sure she has time for you.”
She backed away and found Erin in a second. True enough, Erin was more than willing to stop socializing with Selys and pestering her about how her new armor worked. She made a beeline for Pawn.
“Pawn! I haven’t seen you in forever! What’s been happening?”
Again, Lyon watched Pawn raise his mandibles in a smile and turn to Erin. She knew Erin was important to him, but it hurt a bit. She and Pawn had truly gotten to know each other before. She listened unobtrusively as Pawn explained his dilemma.
“…so many of them, you see? And with the rainfall, we cannot patrol. I wish to give them some form of entertainment, but books only go so far. What can we give my people without exposure to the above world? Your inn is often occupied, and the Antinium cannot indefinitely fund meals at your inn. I was hoping you had suggestions.”
Lyonette opened her mouth and then bit her tongue. Erin patted Pawn on the shoulder, smiling at him.
“Pawn, I’ve got you. Just give me a day or two and I’ll think of all kinds of things your Soldiers and Workers can do! I know tons of games. Not just board games—we could introduce your people to fun activities!”
“Like what?”
“Like…tag! Or musical chairs! Wait, no. That’s a terrible idea. But I’m sure there are fun things to do indoors for everyone. Painting? Well, you already do that. Um. Yoga? No wait, your body parts don’t bend. Tomorrow I’ll have a list. Tonight you relax and have fun! I’ll make you a food basket to take back too, okay?”
“You are most kind, Erin.”
“Nah, nah. But hey look, they’re putting on the next play! I think we’re doing Pygmalion now. I want to do Romeo and Juliet—I mean, Juliet and Romeo soon. That’s gonna be a huge hit. Hey, tell me about what happened in the Hive when the moths attacked! I was so worried when I heard there was fighting! Where were you?”
“Well, I was summoned to the front as soon as the alarm was raised…”
Lyonette saw Pawn gesturing awkwardly as Erin sat with him. She turned her head and saw Drassi and Ishkr struggling to keep up with all the hungry visitors silently waving mugs or empty plates. Guiltily, Lyonette lingered for a minute longer and then hurried off. She had a job to do. And so she did it.
But suddenly, unaccountably, Lyonette felt worse. Okay, fine. Pawn needed Erin’s help. That made sense. Erin had brilliant ideas. And she had helped turn Pawn into an individual. Lyonette understood how important that made her in his eyes.
It was just—she was a bit jealous, that was all. She watched as Erin bent her head towards Pawn, ushering him towards her chess table where they could sit and talk. Lyonette went to get Pawn a warm drink and some hot food. Not so she could hover around the table. She was just curious.
And a bit jealous. That was all.
 
——
 
Nighttime. Just before midnight, the last guests left. Not so much because they were done drinking or too tired to stay up, but because Lyonette had firmly established that there had to be a closing time with Erin. Drassi and Ishkr were practically asleep on their feet when they’d left, and Lyonette was sore and exhausted. Nevertheless, she stayed up as Erin yawned her way into the kitchen.
The adventurers were back. The Goblins were upstairs. Everything was quiet. Lyonette snuck into her room where Apista and Mrsha were sleeping and rummaged around under her bed. She pulled out a sheathed sword that Mrsha was forbidden from touching. Then she crept downstairs.
It was still raining. Lyonette stared out at the rain-slicked grass and shook her head. So she cleared some tables and chairs in the common room instead and took a stance. She held her sword upright, trying to recall how she should grip the hilt.
Here and…here. And her footwork? Her feet moved automatically to the right places, courtesy of her [Basic Footwork] Skill. Good. Lyonette took a few slow breaths, trying to breathe right. She imagined someone standing right in front of her and slowly lifted her sword.
“Strike fast and true. Strike without hesitation, yes?”
The words burned Lyonette’s lips. The memory made her heart hurt. But she forced the feelings back and tried to remember. She awkwardly tried to cut like Brunkr had shown her once before. Her sword whooshed through the air pleasantly, but Lyonette felt like her stance was wrong.
“Like this? No. Like this.”
She tried to stab forwards, to parry. It was an unfamiliar sensation, but the sword was light in her hands. Not at all heavy compared to a tray full of food. And it was balanced well. Lyonette used to think of swords as heavy things, but a well-made sword was easy to use. Still, Brunkr had told her that a good [Warrior] trained not just for speed and strength, but so they could remember how to act, how to strike just so in a moment’s notice.
Strike. She’d learned how to perform a few basic strikes from him, how to parry an oncoming blow. That was all. Lyonette performed the moves again and again until her already tired arms protested. She practiced until she was sweaty and then lowered her sword.
Meaningless. Sometimes it felt like that. Lyonette clumsily sheathed the sword, feeling as though she was unworthy of it. But she deliberately carried it back upstairs, deliberately hid it under the bed and told herself she would do the same tomorrow. Because it mattered. Because Brunkr had taught her how to do that. Because…
She fell asleep without finishing that thought. Her bed was warm, even though Mrsha hogged the blankets, and Lyonette was very, very tired. She closed her eyes and knew tomorrow would be here too soon.
She didn’t level as a [Warrior] that night, but it was enough. Lyonette was already Level 3, and she hadn’t ever actually fought anything. She wanted to learn, though. She wanted to level. All classes, all levels were worth having. It was better than nothing.
And it was better than being useless.
 
——
 
“Ugh. I am so tired. Does it feel like everything’s harder today? Because it feels like that to me! I hate spring. All the rain and mud and water—does anyone else feel like they could use a nice, hot, dry summer? Anyone? Ishkr, what about you?”
The next day, Drassi’s chatter was something Lyonette had to endure for the first few hours around breakfast. She knew the Drake didn’t mean anything by it, but she was tired. So were Drassi and Ishkr. They were pulling full-day shifts in the inn, and Lyonette would have been right there with them any other day. But she had another commitment, so as she finished serving and eating breakfast, she found Mrsha.
The young Gnoll was sitting in her chair, eating her food with less than her normal vigor. She was antsy, and her ears were flatter than usual. She looked up as Lyonette approached. The [Princess] smiled and knelt as Mrsha shifted restlessly.
“Come on, Mrsha. We’re going to Celum.”
Instantly, Mrsha’s ears perked up, and her tail began to wag. She followed Lyonette to the door, and Lyon bade farewell to Erin.
“You sure you don’t need me to return earlier?”
“We’re good! And Drassi and Ishkr’s friends are arriving soon, so we’re getting reinforcements! I’ve got more plays happening, and we’re building a bridge! Go have fun! You too, Mrsha!”
Erin laughed. That was one of her good qualities. She had meant it when she told Lyonette that Mrsha came first. Lyonette grabbed a basket she’d made in the morning for this very moment, and she pushed the door open to Celum.
“Hey Lyonette! Hey furry little match-seller! Something you need?”
Octavia beamed at the two of them. Lyonette smiled politely.
“We’re just headed into the city. We’ll be back soon.”
“Sure, sure. Hey, do you think Erin would mind keeping her door closed longer tonight? I sell more stuff if people have to wait in my shop before I get to her! I’m thinking of selling food, actually. You know, for the wait. If she could wait for thirty minutes each time…”
Octavia’s voice trailed off as Lyonette walked outside. She had to shake her head at the [Alchemist]’s avarice.
“Don’t you listen to her. Octavia is a good person. Who does mean things.”
Mrsha nodded as she happily walked along Celum’s streets. It was dry here. The sun was shining, there were few clouds in the sky, and Lyonette felt a cool wind on her clothes. She blinked around the bright Human city.
“Wow.”
Celum was a hundred miles north of Liscor. From the city, Lyonette could see the High Passes and darker skies, but the weather that affected Liscor did not reach all the way to Celum. She walked down the street, urging Mrsha to stay close, as Humans walked past her and wagons rolled down the street. Mrsha sniffed the air, her tail wagging, and Lyonette smiled.
“This is much better than the inn, isn’t it?”
Mrsha smiled happily. Soon, Lyonette was at Celum’s gates, and a [Guardswoman] standing there checking people coming in stopped her.
“Is that Gnoll child with you, Miss?”
“Yes. She’s my…ward.”
“I see.”
The Human woman looked curiously at Mrsha, who waved a paw. The [Guardswoman] might never have seen a Gnoll before, or one with white fur. She eyed Lyonette, who was adjusting the bag at her side and telling it to ‘stop moving, we’re nearly there’. She made no comment, however.
“May I ask where you’re going? It’s not wise to venture too far outside the city. Especially with children.”
Lyonette nodded.
“We won’t go far. Just outside the walls. I hear there are open fields near the city?”
The [Guardswoman] pointed a finger.
“If you’re looking for a walk within sight of the walls, try that way, Miss. Just don’t stray too far.”
“Thank you.”
Lyonette smiled and got a smile in return. She stepped out of the gates, and Mrsha gazed up. The sunlight warmed her skin, and the cool air invigorated her. Both young woman and Gnoll looked around. There was no rain. There was no water. There was hard, firm earth, blooming grass, and flowers. Lyonette felt Apista trying to crawl out of her rucksack. She saw Mrsha squirming, practically vibrating.
“Mrsha, if you stay within eyeshot, you can run. Okay?”
The Gnoll looked at her. Lyonette gave her a nod. Mrsha’s eyes went round and wide and then she shot across the open ground, prompting a surprised laugh from the [Guardswoman]. Lyonette laughed too in delight. Mrsha was quick, but out here in the open with nothing to get in her way, she was like lightning! She might have outrun a hare, and she was grinning in delight as she ran on all fours.
“Wait for me!”
Lyonette ran after her. As she did, the hand that had been holding shifted, and the rucksack at her side fell open. Something crawled out and then took wing. Apista flew into the air, finally free of Lyonette’s prison, happily flying through the air as Mrsha bounded along. Lyonette ran after both, laughing.
The sun! It shone down on all three as they ran towards a small field of flowers right where the [Guardswoman] had said. It was indeed within a good distance of the walls, and here Lyonette told Mrsha she had to stay. The Gnoll took this restriction with nothing but good humor—she was delighted to run about at last and was busy sniffing everything in sight, peering at flowers, chasing after a cricket, and smiling.
The smile was everything. Lyonette had fretted to see Mrsha so depressed. Sometimes she wondered if she were the right person to care for her. But who else was there? Erin? Ryoka? Krshia? Selys? Each one couldn’t look after Mrsha as much as Lyonette could. None of them had been there when Mrsha needed someone. Lyonette had. She was a poor mother, though. A poor substitute for the real thing. But she did try. Lyonette sat in the grass and began unpacking her bag.
“Blanket, food—shoo, Mrsha! You just ate! Here. Catch this!”
Lyonette pulled something out of her bag. Mrsha jumped up joyously, and one of her paws grazed the ball that Lyonette threw. Her ball. Happily, Mrsha chased after it and threw the ball high, high into the air. She ran for it, and Apista buzzed after her. Like the Gnoll, the Ashfire Bee was happy to be outdoors. Lyonette could sense it through the bond they shared. Apista went from flower to flower, delicately avoiding crushing the bright blooms as she inspected each one for nectar. She and Mrsha ran about as Lyonette finished setting up her small picnic. Then Lyonette got up.
“Mrsha?”
The Gnoll bounded over. Lyonette reached down.
“Do you want to play a game?”
Mrsha thought about that and then spat out the ball in her mouth. She wiped it on the grass and then tossed it at Lyonette. The young woman smiled, caught the ball, and threw it back. Mrsha leapt from all fours to catch the ball with her two paws. She tumbled onto the ground, stood up clumsily, and threw the ball back. Lyonette laughed, chased the ball, and threw it.
The Gnoll needed more people to play with. Other Gnolls maybe. More games. Next time, Lyonette would see if Krshia could come. Or Ishkr. Or Erin. And there would be a next time. That Lyonette was certain of. Because what Erin had said was right. Mrsha came first. More than the inn, more than her job, Lyonette had a duty to the small, voiceless Gnoll who rolled about in the grass, happy to be out of the rain.
Trouble with Goblins, Pawn’s dilemmas, her inferiority to Erin—it all melted away as Lyonette laughed and twirled Mrsha around. The sun shone, and for a while, Lyonette danced with Mrsha in the small field of flowers. And Lyonette smiled and laughed—
Until she heard the shrieking.
It came from above, a scream of rage. Not a Human voice, or a person’s. A bright red bird no bigger than Lyonette’s hand hurtled out of the sky, shrieking in fury. It was joined by another bird of equal size, its mate perhaps. And it was chasing something.
Apista. Lyonette cried out in horror as she saw the duo of birds diving at Apista, pecking the Ashfire Bee as Apista fanned her wings and jabbed threateningly with her stinger. But for all her size, the two birds were faster and more mobile in the air. They tried to rake her with their claws, pecking, as Apista buzzed in fury.
“Apista!”
Mrsha stopped playing and looked up in alarm. The two red robins dove around Apista, outraged. Had Apista flown by their nest? Or were they just attacking the Ashfire Bee for fear she might bring more of her kind? Lyonette heard the outraged voices of the birds grow louder and then multiply. To her horror she saw robins, starlings, and then a crow fly out of the air. They dove at Apista, acting in unison. And now Lyonette grew truly afraid.
