“Our groups could pay the cost. As could Griffon Hunt. The question is—would we receive an artifact in exchange?”
“That’s hardly a fair exchange, especially if one’s worth more.”
Yvlon frowned as she pointed that out. By her side, Ksmvr and Pisces nodded, being more engrossed in listening than anything else. Ylawes frowned at his sister.
“We could repay the cost. But we want to be clear about what we might get in exchange. What do the…Goblins think of this?”
All eyes turned to the Redfang Warriors. They exchanged looks. Lyonette went around the tables, waiting for a response. After a long while, in which four of the Goblins began kicking the fifth, Numbtongue finally replied.
“Don’t need artifact appraisal.”
“What?”
All the adventurers were incredulous. Numbtongue shrugged and refused to say anything else. Revi leaned over her table, chewing her bacon furiously.
“See here, I don’t care if you lot die in a dungeon, but I’m not having you walk around with artifacts that might do anything! The curse might not affect only you—I once saw a cursed artifact melt everything in a fifty-foot radius!”
“It’s their choice, Revi. If they don’t want to—”
“Oh come on! They’re Goblins! We’re adventurers! We saved them! Don’t we get a say?”
“We saved them at Miss Erin’s request. In point of fact, the artifacts were already recovered.”
“Shut it, Typhenous!”
The argument went on as Lyonette went into the kitchen for cow’s milk instead. She could have served a weak ale for the morning, but milk was generally received well. The adventurers were arguing amongst themselves and the Goblins complicating matters with their silence when she returned. Lyonette listened to the argument, feeling…lost.
She just felt a little left out, that was all. Seeing the adventurers anxiously trying to confer with each other and Erin while the Goblins listened reminded Lyonette that all of this was Erin’s doing. She’d set everything in motion so a group of five Hobgoblins, Hobgoblins, could enter a dungeon and come back with treasure.
True, Lyonette had been the one to get the Halfseekers to enter her inn. And Griffon Hunt. But it had been Erin’s inn, and the [Innkeeper] was the one who’d charmed them, made them allies and friends rather than guests. That was her talent, the thing that separated her from Lyonette. She’d made this world, where adventurers would negotiate with Goblins rather than just attack them, and where Gold-rank adventurers were regulars at her inn. In fact, it was a testament to the way Lyonette had gotten used to it all that she barely blinked an eye when the Halfseekers announced they couldn’t keep debating the issue any longer.
“We’ve got to test the Heartflame Breastplate that Selys is leasing us. We’ll head to the dungeon if we can, Halrac. But we’re going to see exactly what the armor can do!”
Jelaqua grinned, looking like a child stuck in a dead Drake’s body. She rubbed her claws together.
“It’s going to be amazing.”
The other Gold-rank adventurers looked enviously at Jelaqua. If the Goblins’ artifacts were the news of the day, the revelation of Selys lending the Halfseekers the Heartflame Breastplate was the talk of the year. Last night, Jelaqua had been so happy she’d bought drinks for the entire inn—thrice! Typhenous leaned forwards, his eyes shining, as Jelaqua grinned wildly.
“Can we watch?”
“Sorry. Selys says part of the armor’s secrets can’t be shared. You can watch Moore chuck spells at the armor if you want, though. Or join in yourself.”
“We might have to. Halrac, Revi, I know the dungeon awaits, but ­this—”
The older [Mage] looked at his companions. Halrac nodded after a moment’s thought.
“Fine.”
“We’d like to watch as well. Obviously finding a way into the dungeon matters. I don’t trust entering and exiting via the rift, so the dungeon entrance must be cleared. But for today…I’d love to see what an artifact like that could do.”
Ylawes looked at his team, and they nodded in agreement. Dawil sat up as he finished stuffing another sausage into his mouth.
“Always worth seeing what a good artifact does! And it beats arguing about artifacts that we didn’t get anyways. Let the Goblins have their artifacts if they want.”
“Unless we can appraise them ourselves. That’s one last option. Anyone fancy looking at the enchantments and seeing what they might do? Falene, could you look at the enchantments?”
Ylawes paused and looked at his companion. Falene raised her head and gave him a severe glance.
“I am a [Battlemage], not an [Enchanter].”
“I know. I just thought—”
The [Knight] broke off as the half-Elf woman raised one delicate hand.
“However, as the sole [Mage] present who has been fully trained by Wistram, I will inspect the artifacts and make a preliminary assessment. Free of charge. If we are all in agreement?”
She glanced at the Goblins and then away. The other adventurers nodded, more interested in the armor now, but it was Pisces who sat up. The [Necromancer] sniffed loudly, drawing attention to him.
“Miss Skystrall, it seems you are implying that your understanding of enchantments is superior to anyone else in this room.”
Falene smiled archly at him.
“Oh? I didn’t think I was implying so much as stating a fact. You disagree?”
Pisces flushed.
“Immensely, as a matter of fact. I believe my understanding of enchantments would provide just as much illumination.”
“Then both of you check out the artifacts. Typhenous too, if he wants. Look, if we’re not hiring an [Enchanter], stare as much as you want. Just don’t touch it.”
Exasperated, Jelaqua got up. She looked around.
“This has been fun. But I’m getting new armor, and as for this Goblin thing—look, Erin. You want to let them go into the dungeon, fine. They’re adventurers now. I don’t know why. And they have magical artifacts. Unappraised magical artifacts. That’s fine too, I guess. Just make sure they understand what the risks are.”
She looked at the Redfang Goblins, nodded to Seborn and Moore, and then the Halfseekers went to the door. Jelaqua opened it, stared through, and closed it.
“Hey, how do you open this thing to Liscor?”
“I’ve got it.”
Erin hurried over to the door, and Lyonette saw the other adventurers rise. They followed the Halfseekers, all but the Horns of Hammerad.
“You’re not going to watch?”
“We’d love to. But I think we’ll get a chance later. And we have something Ksmvr’s insisted on doing.”
Ceria looked at Erin as Ksmvr rose. The Antinium was shaking, but he nodded to his team as the Gold-rank adventurers walked through the doorway into the rainy streets of Liscor. Ksmvr turned to Yvlon and Ceria. Yvlon looked worried.
“Ksmvr, are you sure this is what you want?”
“I insist. If I die, know it was in the service of my team.”
“Die?”
Erin looked confused. Lyonette stared at Ksmvr, a stack of dirty plates in her hand. She wondered what Ksmvr was talking about. She found out as she was washing dishes in the kitchen. It was hard to ignore the screaming.
 
——
 
“Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa—”
Lyonette nearly dropped the plate she was washing the first time she heard Ksmvr screaming. It was coming from outside. She ran out of the kitchen and saw Mrsha peering out a window. Lyonette ran to the door and stared outside. The wet, rainy landscape and churning waters surrounded the inn. She heard the screaming cut off suddenly and looked around.
Where had it come from? She stared down to the water’s edge where three shapes were standing as the rain pelted them. She saw them heave, and then she heard Ksmvr screaming again.
“Aaaaaaaa—put me back, put me back!”
He was flailing with his three good arms at the water’s edge. Lyonette saw Yvlon and Pisces look at each other, and then the two adventurers slowly lowered Ksmvr’s head into the water. Instantly, the Antinium began flailing. After a few seconds they pulled him out.
“Aaaargh! Aaaah! Water! Water everywhere!”
He screamed as water ran out of his mandibles. Lyonette saw Ceria shouting at him as she held his legs.
“Dead gods, Ksmvr! Just stop!”
“No! Put me back! I must conquer my fear!”
The other three Horns of Hammerad exchanged glances. Pisces shrugged, and Yvlon nodded. They slowly lowered Ksmvr’s head towards the water. He began screaming before they even submerged him. His wild thrashing nearly made the three let go—they hauled him out.
“Put me back!”
“You’re struggling too hard! Ksmvr, this isn’t working! You panic if your head goes into the water, Ring of Water Breathing or not! We can’t hold you steady.”
“I see. Then drop me in!”
“What? You can’t swim!”
The Antinium jerked as water sprayed off his carapace.
“I must learn to enter the water. I disgraced myself by not joining the other adventurers in fighting underwater. I abandoned my duties!”
“You gave the ring to Erin. She used it!”
“I should have used it myself! I must learn to tolerate the water! Put me in!”
“Okay, but if you start screaming and thrashing, we’ll stop.”
“I will not scream. I may excrete all my bodily waste, however. Is that acceptable?”
“No.”
The Antinium was arguing with his companions as he continued his water tolerance training. Lyonette watched, trying not to laugh. She did feel some admiration for Ksmvr, she really did. But the sight of the Antinium screaming and panicking just looking at the water was funny. She understood why he was afraid, though. That put something of a dampener on her humor, and Lyonette decided to get out of the rain—until she saw the white shape sneaking down towards the Horns of Hammerad. Mrsha stealthily snuck up behind Ksmvr as he was arguing with Yvlon and put her paws into the water. She splashed the Antinium from behind, and Ksmvr screamed.
“The water is attacking!”
He tore himself loose and ran up the hill as Mrsha chased him, spraying him with water she was holding in her mouth. Lyonette laughed and then shouted.
“Mrsha, stop that! Stop tormenting Ksmvr!”
Mrsha ignored Lyonette as Ksmvr slipped and rolled down the hill, screaming for the others to catch him. She was trying to push him closer to the water as Ksmvr flailed. Lyonette decided this had turned from a prank into cruelty. She snapped.
“Mrsha!”
The Gnoll cub whined and looked up at Lyonette. The young woman felt bad, but she pointed, and Mrsha reluctantly abandoned the screaming Ksmvr. She padded up the hill, tail and ears lowered.
“You know you can’t go outside without asking! What did I say this morning?”
Mrsha made a grumbling sound in her throat. Lyonette understood, she really did, but she had to be firm.
“Inside, young Miss. You need a bath now. Let Ksmvr be.”
Ignoring Mrsha’s protests, Lyonette forced her back inside. She could still hear Ksmvr arguing with Yvlon.
“I will conquer my fear! What if you froze my arms and legs so I could not move? Then put my head underwater?”
Lyonette shook her head. Mrsha was still complaining, and now she was sulking. By the time Lyonette made her take a bath, the Gnoll cub was throwing a tantrum and howling. Something had to be done. And as the morning became midday and the rain poured on, Lyonette knew it was time.
 
——
 
“A break?”
Erin paused in talking with the [Actor] in front of her long enough to frown at Lyonette. The [Barmaid] nodded and held her breath. Behind Erin, she could see a score of [Actors] and helpers setting up the stage for today’s plays. The Players of Celum were putting on multiple performances today, and the inn was already bustling, despite the plays not being scheduled for another two hours. However, that hadn’t stopped curious Gnolls, Drakes, and Humans from entering the inn from both Celum and Liscor.
Word about the new play, The Triumph of Liscor as it was tentatively being called, was already spreading to Liscor and Celum. That, combined with the popularity of the plays in general, meant that Erin’s giant theatre actually felt somewhat full already. Erin had been rushing about, coordinating details with the Players of Celum in between cooking, but Lyonette had managed to get her attention at last.
“I think Mrsha’s really unhappy at being cooped up. Normally I’d ask Krshia to take care of her or ask Selys to take her to the playground, but Selys is very busy and so is Krshia. I’m the only one who can supervise Mrsha, so I’d like a small vacation. Nothing too much! Just around…let’s say lunchtime for three hours?”
Lyonette held her breath. Erin blinked at her.
“Mrsha’s cooped up? I totally get that! This rain is getting me down sometimes. And if she needs to run and play—don’t worry about it! Take the whole morning and afternoon off if you need to! Mrsha comes first. I can handle things—Drassi and Ishkr are both slated to be in tomorrow as well, so we’ll be fine.”
“You’re sure? I know you’re so busy—”
“Mrsha comes first. We’ll manage! Besides, the Players just need food and drinks and someone to shout at people to be quiet. I can handle that if I have help!”
Erin smiled. Lyonette smiled too, grateful. She saw the [Actor] standing behind Erin cough and flushed.
“Oh, I’m sorry. I didn’t mean to interrupt.”
“It’s fine. What were you saying, Kilkran?”
Erin flashed a smile at the [Actor], and he straightened.
“I was going to ask about your interpretation of Othello, Miss Erin. You see, it’s become something of an argument among my peers, and I was hoping you might take my side. Tonight’s play will feature one rendition of the play, and I was hoping you could have a word with the actor playing the part before we began. You see, I regard him as…”
Lyonette saw Erin sigh slightly, but the [Innkeeper] listened as the [Actor] went on, and Lyonette went back to serving drinks to the people rushing about. That was Erin Solstice. She stood in her inn, but the inn revolved around her. Yes, there were other people in it, but the one who bound everyone together was Erin. And that was great! Wonderful. It wasn’t as if Lyonette were bitter about that fact.
It was just that she wanted to matter too. Erin was like Jasi or Wesle, one of the stars of the acting troupe. She dominated the stage. And Lyonette didn’t mind that. She’d watched Erin from the proverbial backstage. She knew Erin now, possibly better than anyone else. The thing about Erin was that she had her good sides and her bad sides. She was good at connecting with people. She was bad at—
“Lyonette!”
A harassed-looking Drake approached the [Barmaid]. Lyonette smiled at Drassi. The Drake [Barmaid] and [Gossip] didn’t return the smile.
“Drassi, what’s the matter?”
