Another of Erin’s faults—no, another thing about Erin that defined her was her unwillingness to commit to huge changes so easily. She saw hiring someone as a huge transition, whereas Lyonette saw it as a simpler thing. You could fire them if you had to. For Erin, that was a tremendously stressful activity. But Lyonette felt like she could easily do that. She couldn’t cook, Erin could. Erin could manage the [Actors], and Lyonette could assemble the [Barmaids]. They had their strengths, their weaknesses. But they were a team. Lyonette didn’t know why she’d ever thought it had been just Erin.
That night, she practiced with her sword and went to bed, tired but happy. Lyonette closed her eyes and heard the voice again.
 
[Barmaid Level 15!]
[Skill – Balanced Posture obtained!]
 
[Warrior Level 4!]
 
[Class Conditions: Princess failed]
[Class – Princess lost.]
[Skill – Detect Poison lost.]
[Skill – Royal Tax lost.]
 
“Oh.”
In the silence of the night, Lyonette sat up for a second. She looked around. She listened. But the voice said nothing more. Slowly, she lay back.
“What happened?”
No one responded. By her side, Mrsha’s chest rose and fell. Apista slept near the window. Lyonette stared up at the ceiling.
It had just been an ordinary day. Just an ordinary day with ups and downs and—she’d leveled four times. That was a lot. Was it because she reached Level 15 in [Barmaid]? Was it because she hadn’t been a [Princess] for so long? Because she’d given up?
No one answered. Lyonette stared up at the wooden ceiling over her head.
“It didn’t matter anyways. I never needed that Skill. I never leveled up. I never…”
She trailed off. Outside, the rain fell. It pattered on the roof overhead. Lyonette listened to it blankly. She didn’t feel bad. She didn’t feel sad. If anything, she just felt surprised.
“I lost my class. I didn’t know that could happen.”
She reached inside, searching for pain. For horror. For sadness. But she didn’t find it. She lost her [Princess] class. She was no longer a [Princess]. In name, she might be, but in a real way, no, in the realest way she was no longer royalty. It didn’t hurt. Perhaps because she’d lost it long ago.
“Hm.”
Lyonette stared up at the ceiling. She couldn’t sleep. But neither could she find it in her to mourn. And eventually she fell asleep.
 
——
 
The next day, Erin found Lyonette had gotten up before her. The [Barmaid] was cheerfully cleaning up the plates from last night’s play. She smiled as Erin blinked at her.
“Good morning, Erin!”
She kept her voice low as Erin waved blearily at her. A slumbering little ball of fur was lying on a table.
“Mrsha followed me downstairs. I couldn’t sleep.”
“Really? I could use like five more hours.”
Lyonette laughed a bit as she piled up plates.
“Well, I took a nap yesterday when I went out with Mrsha. And I leveled up last night, so I stayed up.”
“What, you did? That’s great news! What did you level in?”
Erin brightened up. Lyonette smiled.
“I reached Level 15 in [Barmaid]. And uh, Level 4 in [Warrior]. And I got a Skill. [Balanced Posture]. I know that’s not much but considering that I haven’t been working for more than half a year at most, I thought—”
“No, that’s amazing! What’s your Skill do?”
The [Barmaid] shrugged, smiling, clearly pleased at Erin’s reaction.
“I think it gives me a better posture. I already had [Basic Footwork], but now I feel like I can’t trip.”
“Really?”
“Go on, push me.”
Lyonette invited Erin to push her. Tentatively, Erin did. Lyonette just shifted backwards. She let Erin push her, try to shove her onto one leg, and then let Erin give her a shove. Each time, Lyonette had to take a step backwards or adjust her posture, but she was never in any danger of falling. Erin eventually managed to get her to windmill her arms—only by grabbing one leg and yanking it up. Even then, Lyonette felt incredibly steady.
“That’s so great! I mean, okay, it’s probably best for waiting tables, but I bet you won’t drop a bunch of plates.”
“That’s probably the best use I’ll get out of it.”
The young woman laughed as she agreed. By this time, Mrsha had woken up. Not to be dissuaded, she had tried to upend Lyonette in her own way by tripping up the girl. It hadn’t worked. Now, Mrsha raised her arms. Lyonette dutifully bent and picked her up.
“That’s really cool, Lyonette. Hey, we should celebrate! Nothing fancy—I bet you you’ll get more levels soon, but how’s a little party for Mrsha sound? We can go picnicking out in Celum! I can close up the inn for a while—maybe invite the others? We could all use some sunshine.”
“That sounds great, Erin.”
Lyonette smiled. She picked up the stack of dirty plates, and Erin tried to stop her.
“Aw, come on. You don’t have to do that so early.”
“Someone’s got to. Besides, we need to clean the tables. Don’t worry, Erin, I feel refreshed.”
“You sure? I feel like all this work is killing me. I’m so glad we got more help! Good work on getting Drassi and Ishkr to call their friends.”
“It wasn’t hard. And we can try out the new workers and give the others a break. I’m just glad business is picking up. Look, Erin, don’t worry about it. I’m really glad I leveled. Really. I’ve finally got a class with enough levels that I can be useful.”
Erin sighed, but she let Lyonette take the dishes into the kitchen.
“You were always useful! Now you’re just good at what you do.”
Lyonette laughed. She paused as Mrsha curled back up on her table.
“Come on, Mrsha. You can’t sleep on tables. You know that. If you want to sleep, go back upstairs. I’ll be here when you wake up. I have a job to do.”
Mrsha made a sound of protest. Lyonette nudged her. Erin smiled as the young woman bent over the Gnoll, trying to pick her up.
“Yes, my job. Come on, Mrsha. You get to eat and sleep, but some of us have to work. Some of us have a class. And my class means I have to clean tables. Come on, Mrsha. I have a job. Mrsha?”
The Gnoll reluctantly uncurled. She looked up and blinked at Lyonette. Slowly, she let herself be picked up by the young woman. Lyonette smiled and saw Mrsha crane her neck up. She felt a rough tongue lick at her cheek.
“Mrsha! Stop that!”
She tried to stop the Gnoll, but Mrsha licked her other cheek. Lyonette tried to get her to quit, but the Gnoll kept doing it. She turned, laughing.
“Erin! Look at what Mrsha’s doing.”
“Mrsha? What are you up to n—”
Erin poked her head out of the kitchen with a grin. Her wide smile stopped dead on her face. She stared at Lyonette, and the smile turned into a look of confusion.
“Lyonette?”
“What?”
“Is everything okay?”
“Aside from Mrsha licking me? I think so. She must be hungry!”
Lyonette laughed. She expected Erin to grin and make a joke or announce what was for breakfast, but Erin just stood there. She stared at Lyonette.
“Are you sure you’re okay?”
“What? Erin—”
Lyonette frowned. She tried to put down Mrsha, but the Gnoll held on tight. She licked Lyonette’s cheek again. This time, the girl tried to brush her away.
“Mrsha, honey, stop that. You’ll get my face wet.”
She scrubbed distractedly at her cheeks with her sleeve. Saliva was everywhere! She looked up, wondering if it were bad enough for Erin to stare. But the look on the [Innkeeper]’s face wasn’t that. Lyonette paused.
“Erin, what’s wrong?”
“You’re crying.”
Erin pointed at Lyonette. The [Barmaid] half-turned and then grinned.
“What? No I’m not.”
She looked at Erin, smiling broadly. Erin just stared. Lyonette felt Mrsha shift in her arms and looked down. The Gnoll looked up at her. Slowly, Mrsha raised her paw. She touched Lyonette’s cheek and then showed Lyonette her paw.
It was wet. Lyonette stared at the wet paw. She stared at Mrsha, and then slowly put the Gnoll down. She reached up and touched her cheeks. They were wet.
“That’s just saliva. Here—”
She wiped her cheeks dry with the hem of her shirt. She smiled at Erin. And then she touched her eyes. She felt the tears trickling down and froze.
“Huh?”
Slowly, Lyonette felt at her face. Her cheeks were wet again. Her eyes were…crying. Weeping tears that rolled down her cheeks. Lyonette looked at Erin, bewildered. The young woman stared at her. Lyonette looked down at Mrsha. The Gnoll looked up, confused. Frightened.
“It—I don’t know what’s going on. It must be something with my body. Or a mistake. Or—”
Lyonette looked around, smiling, realizing her vision was blurry. Erin moved towards her.
“Lyon? Did anything else happen last night?”
“No! Nothing important.”
Lyonette lied. She knew she was lying. Erin drew closer to her. She put a hand on Lyonette’s shoulder.
“Are you sure?”
“Yeah. Nothing happened. Nothing important.”
The young [Barmaid] whispered the words and felt her throat close. She wasn’t sad. She wasn’t sad. But the tears kept falling. Mrsha grabbed Lyonette’s legs and looked up. She was crying. She had no idea why Lyonette was crying, but the Gnoll cub wept.
“Oh Mrsha. Don’t cry! It’s not bad. It’s just—”
Lyonette reached for her. She picked Mrsha up and looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] looked into her eyes. Lyonette saw a blurry face in her vision.
“Lyonette? What happened?”
“Nothing! Nothing!”
She said the words angrily. Lyonette raised her voice. She felt the world blurring. She was unsteady. So she sat, holding Mrsha. She felt Erin’s hand on her shoulder.
“It was nothing. Nothing. Really. It was nothing. It was—”
A hiccup. Lyonette tried to suppress it, but it grew worse. She felt the hiccup come again and then turn into shaking. Mrsha clung to her, and Lyonette felt her tears stain her shirt. She began sobbing as Erin held her.
“Nothing. Nothing.”
And then Lyonette wept. She shook and cried as the rain kept falling. It was a bright, sunny day somewhere else. But here the rain fell, and Lyonette du Marquin sobbed as the other guests of the inn came down the stairs, searching for the noise. The tears kept falling, again and again. On and on.
It was the beginning of another day.
