Maldrin's hand flew out to catch an outcropping, keeping him from falling down the mountainside. Letting out a single breath, he pulled himself back to a stable position.

With his feet planted again, he allowed himself a look down toward the ground, at least a hundred meters down, toward the closest stone spire that supported the ceiling. Toward the door at its base that led back to his people.

His bottomless hunger clawed at his thoughts once more.

He gritted his teeth, pushed it back as best he could, and resumed his climb.

He'd had the hunger for a few weeks now. Manageable at first, but soon became a constant ache that woke him up at night. Eating more had sated him for a while, but over the past few days, no amount of gorging satisfied him.

He knew that meant his time had come. At thirty-eight cycles, he had been lucky. He had been able to see his children grow up to come of age. He had even been blessed to witness the birth of a granddaughter, only a few months ago.

Even as his hands and feet manoeuvred the broken mountainside ever higher, he smiled at the memory of holding the baby. Grandparents were rare among the people.

But his time had come, just like his parents before him, and like his children would one day. The teachings were strict: Once food no longer filled the void, you were not of the people anymore and were to be banished to the surface, never to return.

He would either die or become one of the fiends that haunted the nights. He knew which fate was worse.

He looked up, toward the small plateau that jutted out from the mountain face, far forward enough that you could jump from its edge and fall all the way down to the ground. The people called it the Step Forward. The grass below grew thick and verdant in rust-coloured soil.

Thousands of decaying skulls dotted the lush patch of grass. The people called that spot the Bed of Smiles. The place where the lost, like him, took their last sleep.

Not everyone did, of course. Some were certain that the hunger would pass, eventually, so they went to find somewhere to hide from the fiends.

Maybe they were right, and you could survive the hunger. Nobody really knew, but if the hunger didn't change you, then eventually the fiends would find you.

He reached for the plateau's edge and hefted himself up. Standing up, he began walking toward the edge.

If his choices were to become a fiend who would hunt his family, or eke out a few more days of survival before being devoured by one of them, well...

He was dead anyway. Better not take the chance.

The edge reached him much faster than he thought it would. He stood there, in the dimming light, eyes closed, the wind's caress the only thing he felt for a while.

That damned hunger crept its way back into his mind. He refused it. It would not be the last thing he thought of. He pushed it away with memories of his first dance and kiss with his wife, of their kids, of the times they spent as a family, enjoying the life they had, extracting every single ounce of joy from it, before they had to leave.

His wife had left last year.

He missed her.

Wait for me, Herena. I'll be there soon.

He took a Step Forward, into nothingness.

His body tilted.

He fell.

The wind reached up to greet him.

...

A flap of wings.

Arms grabbed him.

Arms grabbed him?!

His eyelids snapped open as he looked down, seeing a pair of arms wrapped around his chest, just below his armpits. He craned his neck to look over his shoulder. He froze when he spotted a violet wing made of energy.

A gentle voice spoke into his ear. “Hang on, I'm going to land us safely.”

Land safely? No! He had to end it! He didn't want to become a monster! He-

His fall turned into a gentle slope, borne aloft by a pair of magical wings. They banked, turning toward the left, toward... A man, looking their way.

Maldrin wanted to scream, to tell him to get back inside – it was getting dark, the fiends would come out soon. He managed to stare.

The voice behind him spoke again. “We're landing. It's kind of hard while holding someone, so I'm going to drop you at a gentle run, ok?”

His mouth was dry. What was he supposed to do? He nodded once.

Their trajectory flattened until his feet touched the ground. He began running along as they slowed down further. The arms let go of him. He managed to stay up for a few more strides before falling forward.

He rolled a few times, coming to a rest on his back. His eyes opened on the face of a stern-looking, blue-eyed man with short black hair, looking down at him.

Maldrin sat up like a stepped-on rake, turning around to face the man and a catkin woman who had violet wings...

Made of mana.

He grimaced and pushed the hunger back, gripping it like a wild animal bucking to be free. He looked up at the pair, eyes rippling. “You have to get away! The hunger is too strong! I won't be able to resist!” He desperately called out.

But neither of them seemed to understand what was going on. He grimaced and got to his feet. He had to make them leave, he had to-

The catkin smiled and walked up to him, holding her hands out, her eyes full of compassion. “Don't worry, it'll be alright. Take my hand, please. I'll take care of the hunger.”

He frowned. Take care of the hunger? As if that was possible.

But... she seemed to be certain... And she had denied him his final sleep. He guessed, at this point, whatever happened was on them.

Not allowing himself to hope, he put his hand on top of hers.

And his hunger was devoured.

Niala consumed the man's mana, fast as she could, turning his pathways into rapids which dragged along the clogging impurities that had threatened to overwhelm him.

Niala had spent a lot of time with Marshalla since Angeline's wedding, working on her magivore ability. They had discovered a few things.

Firstly, consuming someone's mana also dragged the fel impurities into her system, which confirmed that this was something present in everyone.

As well, the more Niala used her ability, the more attuned her mana sense became, to the point that she was now able to pick up these impurities as soon as they reached her pathways, which allowed her to consume them right away.

Lastly, while she was still getting some benefit from consuming the fel energy this way, it was barely worth mentioning. Even after going through several dozen volunteers, she had yet to get the same boost that a single one of the ascended fel's bubbles had given her.

Apparently, that corruption in that fel had been very condensed.

There was still an unknown mystery, however: most of the volunteers' corruption had been diluted within their mana, showing little risk of the corruption clumping together.

Some, however, had much more agglutinated corruption. Still tiny, compared to what she'd hosted for a while, but the difference was undeniable. Marshalla was still working on that particular puzzle.

This native man's mana that she was draining right now, by comparison, was thoroughly infested with the stuff. Large clumps of sickly, spongy mana, coming apart like thick pudding.

Disgusting.

She burned it all off.

As she did, she could see the effect in his eyes; doubt at first, obviously, then surprise, and shock, and now, finally, relief. A deep one that dredged up tears.

Once she was done, having taken out as much as she could, she let go of his hand, and the man fell to his knees, holding his shaking hands before him and staring at them.

When he lifted his gaze up to her, it was with the reverence of a supplicant whose prayers had been answered.

Niala took a step forward and bent forward, grasping his forearm. She graced him with a smile. “It's ok, please get up. You'll be alright.”

It took him a few attempts before his legs complied.

They introduced themselves to him, and he gave them his name. Still unsure if he hadn't actually completed his fall and this was the afterlife, he was brought back to the base of the closest stone pillar, and through the door leading down, away from the deadly surface.

The first lost to have found its way back home.

His legs gave out when they reached the first living quarter.

Their bringing back Maldrin caused a little bit of panic, but Jordo still seemed to hold sway with these people, and the situation was soon defused, if still tense.

The man's reunion with his children and grandchildren was very touching, with a lot of crying and hugging involved. Niala shared in the crying.

David didn't, though he admitted he felt pretty good about saving the man.

It was only the beginning, however. They spent the next week down here, Niala meeting with everyone who had begun feeling 'The Hunger' as these people called mana corruption. She left every one of them cleansed, or at least as best she could.

It still meant that they had at least a decade before mana corruption became a problem again, and by then, hopefully, all of these people would have a mana tool available on a regular basis to keep their pathways clean.

Right now, they had to announce that their time spent hiding in these tunnels had come to an end. The town of Daylight, on the surface, was waiting for them.

A dozen habitation blocks were ready, with four times that number in various stages of construction. Those blocks could house a hundred families each, and had integrated schools to both teach the Amberfallian language and to provide vocational training to the older natives, so that they could find employment.

That was for the future, of course. Right now, the important thing was to get them up there.

As expected, that process took a while. Their current lives were pitiable, yes, but only from an outsider's point of view. To them, this was just life. They had little interest in getting uprooted and sent gods-knew-where.

The solution was simple, if time-consuming: introduce them to 'modern' life. Picture books, recordings, and tales of the people living “on the surface” were freely shared. Little by little, the idea that something better existed out there wormed its way into their collective mind.

Eventually, they had their first volunteers. They were brought out, under Azure Guard escort, passing by the fortress-like mines being built over the mana crystal deposits, and up the repaired elevator shaft.

The group warily stepped out of the elevator, out into the ceiling-less outside. A few retreated from the open sky, unwilling to go further.

Those would need a bit of time to adapt.

The others... their eyes threatened to pop out of their orbit as they gaped at the vastness surrounding them, and soon, as they reached Daylight, at the buildings and infrastructure.

They had to be told a few times, after they asked how the 'fiends' were kept out at night, that there were no fiends at night up here.

Once they accepted that, the buildings suddenly became a lot more interesting to them.

The parents struggled to keep their young kids at their side, even while they themselves had to rein in their desire to go explore.

The first group was settled and given rooms, then shown the communal facilities where they could cook and eat food, wash themselves and their clothes, and where to go for help. They were assured that Azure Guards would be stationed at the entrances to their block, and they were then given a few days to get acclimated.

Some of the first wave were brought back inside to help sell the idea that yes, there really was a whole new world just waiting for them up there.

Soon, a second wave of volunteers made the trip. Then a third, and then the floodgates opened.

Before long, Daylight, which so far had a population numbering a few hundred, blew up to over ten thousand, three times the size of Riverwall.

Rupert, Niala's 'uncle' and seneschal, was put in place as temporary mayor. Apart from managing the town for the time being, he was also tasked with finding a candidate from the descendants who could take up the role eventually.

Amberfallian language lessons began, the people slowly adapted to their new lives, and smiles became more commonplace.

And when mana-draining equipment was distributed, for the first time in generations, as far back as their recorded history went, the descendants of the Luminous Reign could look forward to living past thirty-five.

The only concerning development was how they began referring to David and Niala as the “Luminare Profale”, the Prophets of the Light, and bowing to them.

When Angeline learned of this, she laughed and told Niala she should get over it and get canonized as a saint already.

David had agreed.

Niala had pouted.