Song wanted to take her sweet time enjoying her dessert, but she almost immediately regretted the decision as a boisterous fake laugh cut through the crowd’s chatter. “Ha, Ha, Ha,” Mitsue Juichi enunciated, as if anyone ever naturally laughed in such an even, cadenced manner, made worse by his fake, falsetto voice. “This banquet has delivered fine food, fine wine, and fine company, but I fear it somewhat lacking in entertainment.” Turning to the Legate with a clasped fist salute, the Central Colonel General said, “I see so many young heroes in this fine banquet hall, and like all youths, I’m sure they’re all bored to tears from sitting around. Why not have them compare notes with their outer-province peers? Perhaps we’ll find another diamond in the rough.”

Stifling a sigh, Song stuffed the remainder of her honey-cake into her mouth, and set to work on the tofu pudding. It was best eaten while still hot, because the pastries were still good even after they cooled.

The Legate unenthusiastically agreed with Mitsue Juichi’s suggestion, and Song stood with bowl in hand while the servants moved their tables away to make room for a sparring area. Why couldn’t the Colonel General wait ten more minutes before opening his mouth? Teacher Du had warned them this would eventually happen, and they decided Song should answer the challenge first, because quite frankly, she was the least reputable youngster amongst Rain’s allies, save for perhaps Jin ZhiLan who was no match for these noble elites.

First up was another painted Central fop, who introduced himself as Yari Tetsudo and was almost dressed exactly like as Kyung was, right down to the white jade tablet on his belt. The family name was familiar, and Song placed it as one Mama told her to be on guard against, because the last time she visited Central, she slaughtered the former Yari Patriarch while fleeing for the Northern Province. Tetsudo was probably a grandson or grandnephew or something, wielding a wicked looking spear which he carried confidently over both shoulders. After bowing for the Legate, Tetsudo smirked at Rain and said, “I hear you taught Ishin Ken-Shibu a dear lesson, Imperial Consort. Why don’t you come down and teach this one a lesson as well?”

“Tch.” Sucking his teeth loudly, Rain made no effort to hide his irritation. “I knew it,” he said, shaking his head while swallowing another bite of mango pudding. “I shouldn’t have given that painted dancer a free lesson. Now everyone wants to learn from Falling Rain, and I’ve no time to enjoy my pastries.” Waving a hand in dismissal as his allies in the audience laughed, Rain continued, “Forget it. How do you people not understand this yet? I’m crippled. Stop bothering me and pick someone else to play-fight.”

Neither friend nor foe knew what to make of Rain’s blunt statement, and Song found herself smiling in amusement. Everyone expected him to dance around the topic and hide his shameful weakness for the sake of face, but Rain wielded his shattered Core proudly like a bloodied banner, as proof of what he’d been through. It made no sense to those who valued face so highly and left them wondering if he was truly crippled or merely playing a part, but it made perfect sense to anyone who’d ever known prolonged suffering. Weakness was temporary, for he was strong of will, and this shame and pain was far from enough to break him.

Leaving Tetsudo up there to stew a little longer, Song sacrificed her entire egg tart to Princess before hanging the shoulder bag on Mila’s arm. She’d tried this a handful of times with Medical Saint Taduk beside her, and Princess was the least perturbed when left with Sister Mila, as opposed to anyone else. Patting the weasel-bear’s head one last time, Song sighed and left her pastries behind to go meet with this insignificant challenger. Upon arriving in front of the stage, she bowed towards the Legate, idly wished she had her Runic armour and a decent pair of trousers, and said, “I, Li Song, daughter of Akanai and Husolt and Khishig of the Bekhai, am here to accept this challenge.”

“A half-cat?” Tetsudo sneered, his expression a mixture of anger and disbelief. “You, a slave, would match yourself against me?”

“Watch your tongue, Yari Tetsudo.” Laced with threat and warning, Rain narrowed his eyes and smiled. “The last person who insulted one of Divine Blacksmith Husolt’s daughters ended up as a messy stain on the ground shortly after. Besides, if you want to talk about status, then she clearly stands above you. Neither of you hold military rank, but she is the daughter of a Lieutenant General, and you are the son of a Brigadier.”

“Hmph.” Obviously still displeased but unable to argue without disregarding face, Tetsudo glanced at the Legate for a final verdict, but he was feigning disinterest in the proceedings as he had all night, and was currently staring off into the rafters while absently sipping his tea. Left with no other choice, Tetsudo snarled and readied his spear, obviously intending to make short work of Song. “Come then, half-cat. We’ve wasted enough time on this farce.”

Song agreed, so she took her stance and waited for Tetsudo to make the first move. It didn’t take long before he launched a direct attack, a powerful, two-handed lunging thrust which took full advantage of his ranged advantage. A textbook opening strike, with enough strength to end the battle immediately without committing himself wholly to the attack and leaving him vulnerable to a counter.

Unfortunately, it didn’t matter. From watching Kyung fight, Song learned that if her opponent did not leave himself vulnerable, then she would just have to make him vulnerable.

Like so many times before, she opened the battle with a quick-draw attack, her sabre scything out of the sheath in Tiger Swipes the Rushes. Matching aggression with more aggression, countering strength with more strength, Song put everything she had into this opening exchange, as she’d seen Kyung do multiple times on the battlefield not five days past. For two years, she’d wondered about where her Martial Path was supposed to lead, and her doubts and apprehensions had blinded her to the truth.

The bamboo grove granted her no compulsive Insights, because she had yet to make use of the Insights she already possessed.

Tiger Swipes the Rushes, a simple Movement, yet infinitely complex. To optimize the simple slash, there were three muscle groups to selectively Reinforce, five different timings at which she could Amplify her motions, nine different push-pull interactions to carry out, and seventeen pivot points upon which to accelerate. There might be more to the Movement, but this was the sum total of everything she knew and understood about it, so she put everything she had into this opening move, while leaving herself wholly open to a counter.

Sabre met spear in a crash of steel, and sabre won.

Feet lifted off the ground from the forceful impact, Tetsudo’s torso spun a full circle once, twice, and a third time before finally toppling to the ground. To his credit, he kept a firm enough hold on his spear so it slid across the ground, rather than shooting out of his hand like Song expected. She even angled her attack to send the Spiritual Weapon up at the roof so as not to injure anyone in the crowd, but her opponent was more tenacious than expected, a good reminder not to underestimate anyone taking part in tonight’s proceedings. Unable to push himself up with two broken arms, Tetsudo flopped onto his back and stared at Song in palpable horror, unable to comprehend how she put so much strength into a single, seemingly casual, one-handed swing of her sabre.

The answer? Mastery of the Forms. Ryo Da’in touted on about the benefits and held her father up as a shining example of their effectiveness, but Teacher Du had long since known the same. He taught Kyung how to tap into the hidden strengths of the Tiger Form, and those same secrets had been passed on to Song, but not in any discernible way, for there was more to it than simply following the motions or the placement of one’s feet. It was about the rhythm of movement and breathing, the flow between push and pull, the measure of speed and distance, the combination of tension and slack. There were a thousand details to note, but most could only be learned through experience and repetition, and for years now, Song had ignored the fruits of her lessons.

But not anymore. Teacher Du had already given Song all the tools she needed to excel, which was exactly what Mama, Tursinai, and so many others tried to tell her. All Song needed to do was take the time to familiarize herself with what she already possessed and learn how to use her tools in her own unique way.

...Well, that and follow through with her strikes. That was one major reason why she kept failing to create a new combination attack, because like Rain said, she kept trying to condense the four movements into one, when she should have instead created a new attack from the four movements. She still had a long way to go before succeeding in that endeavour, but today, in front of the highest echelons of nobility, she demonstrated that Li Song of the Bekhai, was a warrior worthy of the Khishigs.

Pride, joy, glee, and desire bubbled up from within, and Song wished Mama and Papa were here to see her. They weren’t though, so instead, she would give them a story worth hearing, one they could listen to time and time again. Reversing her grip on her sabre, she offered Tetsudo a salute before offering the same to the stunned, silent crowd. “Is there anyone else who would like to compare notes?”

Thankfully, pride was plentiful amongst young elites, and Song spotted several eager opponents, but it took some time for them to sort out their pecking order and send out their weakest. Paying no attention to their names, she crossed blades with her opponents one after the other, each time using a different Movement from before. She’d spent the last few days practising these Movements, but practise was not the same as sparring, and sparring not the same as a life and death battle. Since she couldn’t go out and challenge someone to a fight to the death, she couldn’t afford to waste this opportunity to hone her skills as she defeated her opponents one by one in a single move each. Killing Lunge, Reverse the Flow, Fanged Clutch, and Twitching Tail, she didn’t just emulate Kyung’s actions on that stormy night, but she made those Movements her own, and her opponents were far too weak to block even a single attack.

Until one did, stopping Sharpening Claws with Greet the Moon, and Song’s heart soared with joy at having met a worthy foe.

There was no scramble to block his counter because Song knew there would be none. That was the beauty of Teacher Du’s style, because so long as you forced your opponent to block, then there was no room to counter, as you were both still reeling from the exchange. Therefore the trick lay in recovering before your opponent did, and Song was well prepared with her next move, for it had long since been ingrained in her reflexes through rote repetition. Stepping back to make room, she feigned a retreat and struck even as her opponent’s mind was registering the opportunity, and that brief, almost imperceptible moment of hesitation was what made this Pounce Upon the Lamb so effective.

Pounce upon a tiger and you would be met with fang and claw, but a scared lamb? Ha.

Again, her foe surprised her by weathering the attack, and Song finally took a moment to acknowledge this worthy opponent. Ishin Ken-Kichi, twenty-seven years old, his handsome face twisted in a mixture of anger and surprise. Good, good. Baring her teeth in a feral grin, she fell into the rhythm of battle and unleashed a devastating combination of attacks, using the right Movements at the right moments and picking new ones as circumstances dictated. It was exactly what Rain said she did, only now she recognized it, and as she pushed Ken-Kichi back, the heady rush of accomplishment threatened to overwhelm her senses, but she bore down on her exultation and focused on the matter at hand.

Ken-Kichi fought with two swords, one long and slender, the other short and stout. It was this second sword which proved the problem, light and agile enough to reposition while offering a significant advantage in defensive leverage, allowing him to block her attacks while expending the bare minimum amount of strength. That was his plan, to stretch this battle out and outlast her, so by all rights Song should pull back to moderate her pace. She’d fought six... no, seven matches already, while Ken-Kichi was fresh and had time to study her, but Song was too excited to slow down, even to rest. Single sabre against dual swords, she battered away at his defences in search of weakness and opportunity as he tried and failed to dance away from her offensive. Spotting her chance, she drew her sabre back for a thrust and -

Froze and faltered as a dizzying wave of fear and panic shook Song to her core.

Aura, a small, calm part of her mind explained. This was Aura, disappearing as quickly as it arrived, but a split second of hesitation was all Ken-Kichi needed to strike. His longsword arced towards her neck and his lips parted in a smile, eyes burning with smug superiority as he put a ‘mere slave’ in her place. He meant to kill her here, timed it perfectly with his short, directed burst of Aura, a trick he no doubt used many times before.

But never against Li Song, Khishig of the Bekhai, else he would know a split second was far from enough.

