Having been repeatedly warned about what to expect, Song arrived at the banquet expecting to sit through a storm of implied threats and indirect insults, which would undoubtedly culminate with one or more bloody duels to the death as Rain escalated matters beyond everyone’s control with his vicious and indiscreet remarks.

Or at least that’s what Teacher Du, Major Binesi, Luo-Luo, and Merchant Shi-Woo had been trying to avoid with their constant and in-depth advice, but after an hour of sitting on the edge of her seat in a mixture of nervous apprehension and eager anticipation, Song realized Central nobility had strange notions regarding what they considered insulting. Take the matter with the Herald, for example, which had so many faces in the seated crowd hiding smiles or feigning shock, all because the man ‘forgot’ to introduce Rain’s guests by name and title. It felt odd to consider this an insult, as Song had taken it in stride and almost marched into the banquet hall before noticing Rain and Luo-Luo had stopped, but this was as direct a snub as one could give when inviting someone to a gathering.

Small wonder why Central nobles had this custom of arranging for their most important guests to arrive last, because those who arrived first had to sit around for hours while the Herald announced each and every person who came in after them...

The Bekhai delegation was subjected to several more indignities, but it all seemed so silly and inconsequential. For example, as a guest of honour, Rain and Luo-Luo should have been seated on stage, but instead they were given a table beside the stage, supposedly so Ping Ping could rest behind them. Again, Song saw nothing wrong with this until Rain had his Death Corps guards move his table into the conspicuously empty space beside him on the edge of the stage, placing him with the other guests of honour while still sitting close to Ping Ping, who was happily munching on cabbage and smoked fish in her corner. The original seating arrangement was another insult then, perhaps meant to imply Rain was beneath the other guests in every way, but considering how he shared the stage with five Colonel Generals and the Legate, it hardly needed to be said.

Honestly, Song was surprised Rain even bothered moving his table, since he wasn’t someone who took pride or pleasure from sitting in front of a crowd, so it had probably been done at Luo-Luo’s bidding. The Imperial Servant was a gentle and genial woman, but like the nobles of Central, she had a strange sense of propriety. In Song’s eyes, moving their table seemed more embarrassing than not sitting on stage, but judging from the chorus of gasps which accompanied Rain’s ‘brazen’ repositioning, his actions were somewhat effective, but why, she could not say.

Judging by Luo-Luo’s sour stares directed their way, Song surmised that the Bekhai's seats were less than ideal, but again, she saw nothing wrong with the arrangements. Perhaps the fourth row was too far back for Luo-Luo’s liking, or perhaps she found it insulting to have them at the end of the row, rather than closer to the middle aisle, but Song actually preferred things this way. She sat at the very end of her row, with Sister Mila on her right and no one on her left, save for the poor servants standing at full attention against the wall about five meters away. This gave Song plenty of room to draw her sabre if need be, but it also meant she didn’t have to sit beside someone she didn’t know, like poor Kyung sitting with Teacher Du at the other end of their party.

There was only one minor issue Song had, which was that they were seated at individual one-person tables. This made it almost impossible to hide Princess from sight, but Song was hoping it wouldn’t be an issue since the Herald clearly saw the weasel-bear inside her bag and said nothing. At least Princess wasn’t constantly growling and snarling anymore, content to burrow into the shoulder-bag Rain purchased for this very reason. She took to the luggage the moment Song put it on, climbing in and curling up with what sounded like a relieved sigh as the flap closed over her head. Princess seemed mighty pleased with her new means of conveyance and even slept inside it last night, which was good because otherwise Song would’ve been forced to bring the weasel-bear around in an under-arm carry, for she refused to be held in any other way.

Clever of Rain to notice Princess didn’t like having her back exposed, but he’d always been observant when it came to dealing with animals. Granted, Yan and Mila often teased him about the time he almost died trying to charm a giant snake, but that was a long time ago, and he’d come a long way since, or so Song assumed.

Unfortunately, the shoulder bag was far from a perfect solution, but it was the best they had. Song had to hang it on her right side to keep it from getting in the way of drawing her saber, and with only one shoulder strap, the bag swung around far too much in an actual fight, which was made worse by how deceptively heavy Princess actually was. Miss Eun, who’d recently taken up sewing outfits for all of Rain’s pets, including the frilly, colourful dress Princess was currently wearing, had seen Song struggling during practice and offered to put together a more practical bag to carry the weasel-bear in, but until it was finished, this shoulder-bag would have to suffice. To make matters worse, Princess insisted on poking her cute weasel face out of the bag to keep an eye on her surroundings, which while adorable, was impossible to hide with just Song’s hand. Thus far no one had mentioned Princess, and Song was hoping it would remain this way, despite what was written on Rain’s invitation.

Why wouldn’t they let him bring his pets anyways? They were mostly well behaved and there was plenty of room next to Ping Ping. It was as nonsensical as letting Rain show up in full battle dress, but Song had been forced to leave her Runic armour behind simply by virtue of being a woman. Miss Eun had strange ideas of propriety and decorum, but she was the expert, so Song heeded the advice despite sorely wishing she had her armour’s comforting weight settled atop her shoulders.

Since Sister Mila was still immersed in Insight, Song idled the time away by applauding as each guest was announced, as well as quietly playing with Princess. Playing might be too strong a word, but the weasel-bear sat still and didn’t snap while Song stroked her head and whiskers, nor did she flinch at the near-constant, thunderous applause. Almost half an hour passed by before Colonel General Nian Zu finally arrived, with Junior Brother Fung and the rest of Rain’s friends taking their seats in the second row, but on the other side of the aisle from Song and the rest of the Bekhai. Song worried for him sitting so far away, so hopefully, Mama had provided Junior Brother with proper escorts, as the silly man only brought his manservant into the party with him.

The half-weasel Fu Zhu Li wasn’t even sitting at a table, and instead stood with the other servants with back against the wall, easily discernible from his black and blue robes amidst the red and yellow liveried servants...

Then, all that was left was to wait for the Legate, who arrived in full Imperial regalia whilst standing atop a palanquin borne by two dozen Death Corps guards. The gathered guest stood, cheered, and applauded with falsified vigour and enthusiasm, while Song inwardly rolled her eyes at the silly games. Those poor Death Corps soldiers, forced to lift the Legate’s palanquin high above their heads so that at no point would the Imperial Scion ever be standing below anyone else in the banquet hall, including the elevated guests of honour. Stepping off his palanquin and directly onto the stage, the Legate took a few minutes to smile and allowed the honoured guests to greet him one by one, while his Death Corps guards circled around and placed the palanquin on top of the stage in a central position. The black-armoured guards then proceeded to move the Legate’s table back and away from the other honoured guests and onto the palanquin, using it as an impromptu dais to elevate his position even more.

Which more than anything showed that while Central Nobles enjoyed playing games of politics, Imperial Scions lived and breathed them.

On a lesser note, this made Song feel a little better about Rain’s Death Corps guards moving his table, since no one would dare complain now that the Legate had done the same. Intentional or coincidental, Song could not say, and she likely wasn’t the only one pondering this particular matter. Unperturbed by the whispers of the crowd, the Legate and Rain’s greeting went by without incident, at which point the Imperial Scion sauntered back over to his palanquin and stepped up to give a long and inspiring speech. Thank you for coming, formidable heroes of the Empire, defending borders and standing strong, a quick reference to the Empire’s storied history, and so on and so forth, the speech touched on many of the same notes as the Legate’s speech in Nan Ping, only tailored for a more elite audience. Oddly enough, Song found it strange how she remembered his first speech as being so utterly inspiring, while this one felt rather lacking in comparison. How, she couldn’t say, because he was certainly well-spoken and charismatic enough, but this time, there was something different, something missing, something which made it more insipid than inspiring. A quick scan around showed that almost everyone else was entranced by the banal rhetoric, save for maybe Mila, Yan, and Alsantset who were too preoccupied to notice, and Rain and Dastan who were exchanging inquiring glances on stage.

Perhaps this was the mystical, Aura-like ability Rain brought up every so often when trying to understand Luo-Luo’s musical abilities, but why wasn’t Song affected this time around?

Making a note to ask Rain about it later, Song patted Princess’s head and tried to soothe the weasel-bear’s nerves, as she’d reverted to snarling and growling once more. A shame, but at least it wasn’t loud, though Song could feel the weasel-bear’s torso vibrating through the thick leather bag, and her fur bristled so much it felt like petting a pincushion. Truth be told, it didn’t take much to set Princess off, but she seemed especially angry at this particular moment, matched only by her rage whenever Rain tried to pet her. Thankfully, Princess was a forgiving soul who rarely followed up on her threats, and she settled down as the Legate’s speech concluded and the audience responded with thunderous applause.

Maybe the weasel-bear just liked loud, tumultuous noises, and her growling was something to fill the silence...

The moment the Legate’s speech concluded, the room burst into a flurry of motion as dozens of ensconced doors swung open to reveal lines of servants pushing small handcarts. The servants standing along the walls joined their cart-laden comrades to deliver the first course of tonight’s banquet, a fragrant dish of juicy jumbo prawns and lobster noodles topped with steamed bamboo shoots, braised tofu, and succulent, savoury mushrooms. It seemed rather wasteful to have three servants deliver a single plate, one to push the cart, one to set the table, and one to place the meal, but seeing how quick and efficient they were, Song could hardly complain.

A shame Rain’s table was so far away, because he hated mushrooms and Song was always happy to take them off his hands, but now Luo-Luo was the sole beneficiary of his picky eating habits...

According to Teacher Du, the first course was the signal to start what he called the caterwauling phase of the night. While Song nibbled on her delicious prawns, she watched a steady stream of guests make their way up to stand in front of the stage, where they stopped to bow, grovel, and bootlick the Legate and all the guests of honour in turn before retreating to their seats at the back of the banquet hall. It was considered gauche and impolite to use Chi in the course of these dialogues, whether it be through Sending or Speaking, but that didn’t stop these lesser-ranked guests from shouting to be heard. Not just by the guests of honour, but also by the rest of the audience, who of course came in after them and wouldn’t have heard the Herald’s introduction.

All in all, the caterwauling phase was an apt name, for they were like feral cats screeching into the night in hopes of attracting someone’s attention.

