Steeling her nerves, she committed herself to the thrust and told him as much with her gaze, willing to trade blow for blow and life for life. Their eyes locked and her grim determination crashed headlong into his pompous, self-absorbed ego, and she knew he would not make this trade. The longsword changed course to intercept her sabre, and both lives were spared, but Song was not yet finished. Without thinking, she retracted her sabre, and again she drew back for a thrust, taunting him, baiting him to use the same move again. Recognition flashed in his eyes, and his sneer returned in full force, this time filled with shame and anger from his brief brush with death. She taught him to fear her, and he hated her for it, so now he must kill her, lest his shame consume him whole.

Panic threatened to submerge her beneath its troubled waves as Ken-Kichi unleashed his Aura once more, but this time Song met it with righteous fury and unmitigated wrath. This was a battle of equals, and he dishonoured it with his tricks and deceit, but she would not stand for it. Courage met Panic and quashed it flat as Song’s Aura Condensed into being, and her sabre shot out towards Ken-Kichi’s throat.

There it was, the same panic she just felt, only this time, she saw it etched into his startled expression. His sword hurtled towards her neck, but unlike last time, her sabre would reach him first. Time slowed to a crawl he moved through a multitude of emotions while trying to process what they both knew. Shock, denial, anger, grief, regret, and finally, acceptance, for there would be no exchange, not this time, because he’d been bested by a better warrior.

And though she yearned to drive the blade home, Song stopped her thrust short, her sabre’s rounded point kissing the skin of his neck without drawing a single drop of blood. For long seconds she stood there with her blade to his throat, telling him she could have easily ended his life had she wanted to. Then she stepped back out of his range, sheathed her weapon, and waited for him to do the same, before finally offering him a polite salute.

She had bested him today, and that was insult enough.

But someone else didn’t agree. “Ladies and gentlemen,” Rain said, his voice carrying clearly over the shocked silence of the crowd, “I present to you my Senior Aunt Li Song, Expert of the Empire and Khishig of the Bekhai.”

The polite applause drowned out anything else he might have said, but considering how venomous his words could be, this was probably for the best. Song had gone to so much effort sparing the despicable Ken-Kichi’s life to keep this conflict from growing out of hand, she’d hate to waste it all and kill him because of something Rain said.

Then again, the night was young and there were plenty of matches still ahead...

Chapter Meme
