Since Sister Mila only needed minimal supervision whilst eating, Song kept a close eye on the caterwauling callers. Most were individuals of middling status, from Lieutenant Colonels to Lieutenant Marshals, and they all behaved like they existed on the bottom rungs of society, which only proved that this banquet hall was packed to the brim with Imperial aristocrats. Most guests received little more than a nod or a smile from the guests of honour, busy as they were eating the first course, but Rain had placed his meal aside and was doing a passable job interacting with them. They didn’t seem to know how to react to such a warm greeting, and most seemed wary of his intentions. Eventually, after hearing no less than eight guests profess shock and loudly proclaim how they had nothing to do with Falling Rain or the Bekhai, Song finally caught on to the game. By appearing friendly with these guests, Rain was making their backers in the audience wonder if their lackeys were as loyal as they thought, though Song was almost certain he hadn’t thought that far ahead. Seeing the discarded shells of the prawns and lobster so neatly stacked atop his plate, she surmised Rain didn’t like the noodles, but also didn’t want to be seen picking at his food in idle boredom. The conversation was probably his way of being polite, as well as an excuse to look busy and ignore his food.

Would it be impolite to walk over and take his plate away? There were still plenty of mushrooms and tofu left to be eaten, not to mention the delicious, stir-fried noodles themselves...

The caterwauling continued throughout the second course, a succulent selection of roasted suckling pig, fragrant-oil infused chicken, and grilled garlic beef spare-ribs which Song devoured with delight. She shared some with Princess too, but the weasel-bear didn’t care much for anything cooked, salted, smoked, or spoiled, which was why Song jokingly picked the name for her in the first place. Princess wanted only the finest cuts of raw, freshly slaughtered meat, and would turn her nose up at anything else, unless there was honey involved. Then she would grunt with inelegant enthusiasm and paw away at Song’s hands in demand that she share the delicious treat.

That was how she knew Princess had a sweet and kind soul, always so gentle with her sharp talons and powerful jaws...

As the third course arrived, a savoury bird’s-nest soup, the lower-ranked guests finished their rounds and it was time for the mid-ranked guests to approach the stage. This would go on for the bulk of the courses, as these mid-ranked guests were less important than the guests of honour, but many wielded comparable power to Marshals and Colonel Generals. This meant they could hardly be expected to queue up just to greet the guests of honour, so they came one at a time, in an order determined by the Legate’s Seneschal, who played his part perfectly while running back and forth all night. Had Rain not identified him as Solitary Sword Zhang Jun Bao, Song would have never imagined that the Legate’s scholarly and docile seneschal had once defeated Teacher Du in their youth.

How many others were like Zhang Jun Bao, former top talents of the outer provinces now working as Imperial attendants? Was this what the Legate had planned for Rain? If so, then perhaps the Legate should thank Rain for turning down his offer, because no amount of training could ever make Falling Rain as humble and obedient as the Seneschal, or teach him how to still his expressions around company...

With how slow things were proceeding, only five guests had gone up before it came time to serve the fourth course, a whole steamed fish with ginger and spring onions. Sadly, there was a time when Rain hated fish too, but he’d grown a taste for it in their time in Central, as it was the most readily available fresh meat Central had to offer. While wistfully wishing she had more fish, Song noted that every one of those five esteemed guests had ignored Rain’s presence, skipping over him entirely while greeting everyone else. Rain didn’t seem to mind and was eating with genuine gusto, but Luo-Luo was clearly miffed and pointedly ignoring all guests that ignored them while somehow also glaring daggers at the same time.

Thus far, all the rude guests had all been from Central, and Song wasn’t familiar with any of them, so it was hardly surprising that they would all snub Rain. What worried her more was how they’d all been called up first by the Legate. Was this an insult directed at Rain, to show how the Legate expected everyone to treat him, or was it a veiled insult towards the Central Nobility, placing them first and therefore of least importance? Either way, it was a good thing Sister Mila was so distracted chomping on her fishbones and ruminating on Insight, because otherwise she would be fuming at this blatant show of disrespect. Without Mama here to keep her calm, Song worried Sister Mila would lose her temper and snap at one of Rain’s enemies, which wasn’t the worst thing in the world, but it seemed like Rain was handling things in his own peculiar manner.

Three more guests were called up, including the Ishin family Patriarch, Ishin Shigen, who brought his family with him, including his son Ken-Shibu, who had an altercation with Rain at the opera house two days past. Also there was Ken-Shibu’s younger half-brother, the twenty-seven year old Ken-Kichi, who followed in his half-brother’s footsteps by also being overshadowed by a Ryo family scion, the only son and middle child Geom-Chi. Still, the Ishin brothers were both formidable warriors, and their father was a Peak Expert of high renown, though the wife up there with them seemed a harmless sort, being mother to neither son and possibly younger than both.

Like all the other mid-ranked guests thus far, the Ishin family ignored Rain, or at least they tried to until he picked up a piece of chicken with his chopsticks. Instead of eating it, he held it up before him while conversing with Luo-Luo. Poor manners on his part, but a closer inspection showed that he was holding a drumstick and was subtly shaking it back and forth in a slow, swaying motion, reminiscent of when he told Ken-Shibu to ‘shake his tail-feathers’.

Which of course enraged Ken-Shibu so much that his father had to forcibly turn him away in an effort to keep him from glaring at Rain. Hard to pretend to overlook someone when one member of the group couldn’t look away, but Rain was pretending not to notice as he continued his conversation with Luo-Luo. As the crowd quieted down to watch the show, they learned their lively discussion was an in-depth explanation on how to identify each of his pet rabbits through their distinct facial markings, which soon had the whole audience trembling with anger or laughter.

Rain might not understand politics, but he had a gift for inciting rage in his enemies, whether it be accidental or by design.

In the end, the Ishins ignored Rain and plodded away with a political victory, but not a moral one as Rain bit into the drumstick with child-like glee the moment Ken-Shibu moved passed him, eliciting a chorus of muted titters from the audience. Following this outburst, the Seneschal brought up the next guests, a warrior family from the South whose names had far too many characters for Song to keep straight, especially since they were largely nonsensical names from a bygone culture. Unlike the Central guests, these Southerners were equally cordial and polite with every guest of honour, though perhaps a little warmer with Brigadier Chen Hongji than everyone else as they praised him for his efforts in defending the Empire. When they greeted Rain with polite nonchalance, he responded kindly, though made no effort to extend the conversation, which Song suspected had something to do with Luo-Luo’s whispered warning mere seconds before the southerners greeted them.

Were it up to him, Rain probably would have questioned the Southerners on Broken Blade Pichai’s whereabouts, as he’d been complaining for months now how the Living Legend refused to respond to his requests. For once, Song was in agreement, for it seemed rude to offer no answer at all, not even a brusque refusal.

The next few guests were also Southerners, and again they were inflexibly polite, neither friendly nor antagonistic in any way except with Chen Hongji. Luo-Luo had theorized the South was either trying to stay neutral in what they saw as an Imperial conflict, or they’d already taken a side and didn’t want it to be known, but Song was of a different mind. It was telling how there were no Southern representatives on stage and only two Southern parties seated in the first eight rows, so perhaps this united neutrality was a silent protest at having been overlooked for their part in Sinuji, and their efforts on the front lines in general.

Then again, their absence from the stage and front rows might be due to their aloof behaviour, so who could really say?

Regardless of the reason, it was clear the Southerners were the most united force in all the outer provinces. They all followed their Marshal’s orders, and Song was curious to know how someone who could barely be considered a Martial Warrior like Marshal Quyen Huong could command such steadfast obedience from the entirety of the Southern Province. Marshal Yuzhen approached her job like a glorified quartermaster, but Marshal Huong behaved more like a king and oddly enough, everyone else fell in line, including the Southern Colonel General who was in no way, shape, or form related to the Marshal himself.

Huong’s prized nephew, Dienne, supposedly even had a water feud with the Colonel General’s son, which was some Southern custom Song didn’t entirely understand, but she heard they’d come close to killing one another multiple times...

Regardless of her curiosity, Song was happy to ignore the proceedings as she polished off the fifth course of steamed scallops in spicy vermicelli noodles. Rain didn’t even try to pretend he might eat them, and Song was left staring in forlorn hope as the servants took his untouched plate away. There were some whispers of Rain’s poor appetite sounding out in the background, no doubt encouraged by the Ishin family and their supporters, but he was just a picky eater and would no doubt ask for seconds once they served something more suitable for his palate.

Which as it turned out, was not the sixth course, abalone with stir-fried vegetables which again went untouched by Rain, but the seventh course, roasted quail stuffed with fragrant fried rice. Not only did Rain eat his and Luo-Luo’s portion, the servants also brought him four more, prompting Brigadier Hongji to laugh out loud and make a quiet, friendly joke which ended with Rain sheepishly handing over two of his quails. A preventative measure to ensure no poison was involved? Or was the Brigadier as friendly as he appeared? Hard to say, as Song was a poor judge of character, but Rain seemed to like Hongji well enough. What’s more, the Brigadier had spent the entire night professing modesty and making sure everyone knew Falling Rain had been a major contributor to the planning process of the many ideas Hongji introduced, including the destructive blaze which claimed the lives of a half-million Defiled.

By now, the atmosphere had lightened up because all of Rain’s enemies had already come and gone, including the ever-antagonistic Situ Patriarch, Rang Min. Now it was time for Rain’s allies to make their presence known, and they did so in resounding fashion. Eccentric Gam and Wu Gam, High Elder Jin ZhiYa and Warrant Officer Jin ZhiLan, Healers Taiyi ZhuShen, Taokang Geyan, and Lishan Suzhen, all of them greeted Rain with booming enthusiasm and unprecedented familiarity, making them seem more like close friends than mutually beneficial allies. Marshal Yuzhen and Marshal Yo also made it known they were close with Rain, as did all of the high status guests attached to Rain’s friends, like Major General Han BoHai and former Lieutenant General Jia Yang. When it was Song’s turn to go up with Sister-in-Law Sarnai, she brought Mila out to greet everyone and even did a passable job of it too, though she did scowl at Lieutenant Colonel Mitsue Watanabe for leering a little too much. He did so at every single woman with Song save for sweet Tali, and her hand itched to draw her saber and teach this Central lecher some manners.

Upon returning to her seat, she discovered it was the moment she’d been waiting for all night, the eighth and final course of tonight’s banquet: dessert. The sweet scent of pastries set Princess to grunting, and for a moment, Song worried the weasel-bear would pop up out of her handbag, but thankfully she contented herself with dancing in impatience, or doing tippy taps as Rain so eloquently described it. Eyes widening as the servant placed down the tray of desserts, Song took in the magnificent sights and delectable scents even as her mouth watered in voracious delight. There was a warm, flaky egg tart, a rose-coloured peach-lotus bun, a bowl of piping hot tofu pudding in ginger syrup, a phoenix-shaped blob of mango pudding, an elaborately decorated honey-cake, and to wash it all down, a cup of chilled chrysanthemum sweet tea.

Despite all the assurances from Luo-Luo and Teacher Du, Song had been so worried that the banquet would be interrupted before they made it this far, but now that no longer was an issue. No matter what might happen next, it was all worthwhile just for this course alone, not to mention the seven delicious courses which preceded it. Splitting her honey-cake in half to share with Princess, Song bit in with a contented sigh and leaned over to share her happiness with Sister Mila, who absently tilted towards her so their heads were touching, all the while devouring her own desserts with unprecedented speed.

