could at least look fashionable," Lim said, sounding a little numb at his experience."Lim?" Yattina began slowly, sipping some of her coffee that made her stomach ache, but her mind became alert."Hm?" Lim looked at her, ready for a lesson or a quiz."I never thanked you for coming to my aid in the Dungeon; you didn't have to do that," she said softly. It felt weird, to be actively reaching out to another human being and trying to convey her feelings to them.Weird and a little scary."You're my captain! You know a lot of things, and you make me feel smart even though I get a lot of things wrong. I should be thanking you! No one else gave me the time of day," Lim beamed back, and Yattina blinked, trying to make a normal human response to such naked affection from someone."I appreciate the fact that two humans copulated together and created you. Hurray for reproduction!" she said, raising one hand into the air."Can we not mention my parents 'conjugating'?" he asked with a pained look, and Yattina snorted."Not what I said, but if it's conjugating, I can show you how that's done!" she offered, deciding some education wouldn't go amiss! Lim looked red in the face and backed up."I've never… conjugated or stuff!" he said in a panic."Nonsense, I'll conjugate with you," she said factually and pulled out some books to show the purpose of conjugating verbs. When she looked up, the space Lim had been occupying was empty, and her door was closing silently."You can't escape it! Everyone conjugates! It's natural!" she called after the fleeing boy.Honestly, Yattina was getting better at this casual talk everyday. Soon, she'd be able to approach strangers in quick succession without making animal noises and fleeing for the shade.On her table, the shining pieces of broken G-Metal shimmered.---Delta paused as a party stood outside Fran's boss room door. They had managed to put Fera to sleep with a gas and snuck past."Everyone, pre-plan buffs. I want full blessings, speed enhancement, fortitude potions down the hatch," the leader called as everyone began to empower themselves.Delta put a hand to her mouth.They should have really waited until they were in the room before using all this stuff…Boss room passive activated: ScalingTheir buffs would wear off. Fran's increase would not.Ah well, it was all a learning experience!---
