“I... by the gods, Jhulune...” Ren closed his eyes and took a deep breath. He opened them when he felt her pleasure that she was affecting him so much. “I... really need to go.”

Both Jhulune and Jen chuckled at his admission.

“We'll get one of the crews over to carry this monstrosity into the building.” Jen said.

“No, no. I'll do that.” Ren said and stored the saw apparatus and the long table, ran into the building to drop it off beside the other one, then came back out a few seconds later.

“How did...” Jen shook her head. “Go on, get going.”

Ren collapsed his Instant Tower and stored it, stored the fresh planks and left the bark, then hopped on Princess. “Bye!” He said and braced himself, then Princess disappeared.

“What the... where did he go?” Jhulune asked, surprised.

Jen shook her head and shrugged. I think he's having a hard time with his new ability. She thought. I just hope he can get a handle on it before the party.

Ren told Princess to stop at his business and she went around to the back. He climbed down and told her he would be right back, then went inside. When he came through the door at the back of the shop, Anabelle stood there. She had been waiting for him.

“You're back.” Anabelle said.

“I am.”

“You came to see me first.”

“I did.”

“I'll tell Katie to watch the counter.”

“I don't have ti-” Ren stopped talking when Anabelle covered his mouth, and he felt her desperate need to be with him.

“I'm telling Katie to watch the counter.”

Ren nodded, and Anabelle left him to do what she said. Oh, boy. He thought. Okay, Ren. Calm down. You do not have to have sex with her. All she really wants is to be bossed around a little.

Anabelle came back over to him, and he opened his mouth to tell her that he had to leave. Once again she covered his mouth with her hand, then walked around him to rest her arm across his shoulders and kept his mouth covered. She opened the back door with her free hand, and led Ren up the stairs to the apartment. Ren couldn't help himself and absorbed some of her need of him, and Anabelle closed the apartment door.

“What are you doing?” Anabelle asked. “I can... feel something... are... are you...” She looked at him with wide eyes. “You have Elerlyth's ability!”

Ren nodded, and Anabelle was filled with sympathy for him.

“I'm so sorry.” Anabelle said and knelt. She kissed him, and he could feel her trying to suppress her desperate need so she could take care of him.

“Stop.” Ren said when he broke the kiss, and Anabelle looked at him. He felt her surprise, and he cupped the sides of her face with his hands. “Don't stop needing me, Anabelle.”

Anabelle's heart went pitter-patter and her feelings for him welled up. “Ren...”

“I knew it in my head, but... feeling it in you is...” Ren sighed and kissed her. Anabelle let her need out, and Ren absorbed some of it. He picked her up and carried her to the bed, and he could feel her anticipation. He put her down, and she stored her clothing while he took off his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak and stored his own clothing. He could feel her admiration, and her desperate need blossomed into full-on desire as he climbed onto the bed with her and they embraced.

Ren fed her need to be with him, and she fed his need to feed on her emotions. It took nearly half an hour for Anabelle to feel satisfied, and Ren kept going until she was much more than just satisfied. He left her in the bed half an hour later, and he could feel that she was floating on the sensations he had made her feel. Her need was always there and it needed to be fed, just like his Emotion Siphon ability.

“Th-thank you.” Anabelle said, when Ren stood up.

“Anabelle, you don't have to thank me for-”

“Not for that.” Anabelle said and tried to sit up; but, she was too relaxed to move properly and laid back down. “You came to me first.” She said, and he felt how overjoyed she was about it. “I was first.”

Ren stroked the side of her face, then traced a line down the side of her neck. He splayed his fingers out wide and gently ran them across her chest, her abdomen, and stopped at her belly button. He flipped his hand over and reversed the movement to end right back at her face.

There wasn't any real point to the movement, since neither of them had felt anything sexual while it was happening; but, the both of them felt better about themselves that he could touch her like that and it didn't have to devolve into sex if they didn't want it to.

“I'll see you later.” Ren said and equipped his Travelling Clothes, then put on the Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak. Anabelle watched him as he fastened it into place, and Ren felt how much she liked him. He leaned down and gave her a quick kiss, then left the apartment.
