Tala shook her head smiling. “That’s what I realized, what really made the path forward theoretically possible. We don’t want to make them Mages. We have specialized sets of inscriptions provided by Mistress Holly—bless that woman and her love of interesting puzzles. They’ll have to be custom fit, but otherwise, they should be good to go. We aren’t training them in the fundamentals of power; we are teaching them intricacies of one spell-set. If anything, they will be like the Talons.”

Lyn’s head rocked back, eyes widening in understanding. “Oh! You’re giving them a specific skillset. It’s more limiting than the Mage path, but a vast improvement over becoming a vestige.”

“Exactly. With specific training, and by removing most of the ancillary things, we should be able to push them to binding in less than a year.”

Lyn frowned. “That… that’s going to have a high attrition rate.”

“Yes and no. I suspect that the simplified powerset, and unified way of thinking that will be pushed, should reduce—if not eliminate—the danger of founting. Records indicate that gated humanity tried something similar near the beginning to great success in some regards. Unfortunately, very few people excelled under the incredibly regimented system, and it hampered creativity and the pursuit of individual, foundational beliefs.”

“They decided freedom was worth the cost.” Lyn intuited.

“Indeed. I’m… uncertain about how the final plan will look, but even so, we are effectively dealing with a condemned population. We are going to do our best to increase the odds, but any saved will be an improvement.”

“I suppose that’s true… I still don’t like it.”

“I don’t either, but the alternative is going slower, and letting many, many more be turned into vestiges elsewhere while we stand on the moral high ground, here.”

Lyn grimaced, slowly shaking her head. “Tala… that’s a slippery slope. We can’t control what others do. We can control what we do.”

Tala grimaced in turn, summoning her own glass of wine. “I know, but… I’m trying to balance so many concerns, Lyn.” She looked pleadingly at her friend. “Help me?”

Lyn’s smile returned. “Absolutely. Come on. I’ll help you organize your notes, and Brandon and the others can begin digging through tomorrow. You said you have experts coming?”

“We do, yeah. They should start arriving in the next few days, the first ones should be here tomorrow.”

“Alright then. Let’s get your side of things ironed out, then we can pass it to ‘great minds’ and all that.”

Tala’s smile returned as well. “Thank you, Lyn.”

Lyn waved her off. “Yeah, yeah. Come on. Let’s get to work. We both have husbands we want to be with. Hop to, Mistress War Eskau!”

Tala chuckled. “Yes, ma’am.”
