Shiv narrowed his eyes and realized where Veronica was going with this. “So if you could do it all again, you'd think the right thing to do would be to establish control. You think that it would have gone better if you actually took him in as a son, if you actually raised him. Even if he died, even if it hurt you more, you could have controlled him. You could have shaped his life.”

“To some extent, but as it goes beyond that, I could have made him see his folly beforehand.” She paused, and something dangerous glowed in her gaze. “But that was him, and this is you. I can't do that with you. I can see it. I felt it from the first moment we met. Even before you became a Legend. One cannot leash a bomb.”

Shiv hummed. “Is that how you see me now? A bomb? A nightmare that keeps going off over and over again?”

“No, that is what you are,” Veronica replied. “That is not who you are. You have no choice but to be a bomb. The System has burned you too severely in its desperation to kill you. You should be dead so many times over, yet you come back again and again. The System escalates and concentrates all that strife upon you, and you level faster and faster, for the legend flooding into you is more than most will accrue across lifetimes. You are a bomb, an existential one, a civilizational one. I see now that keeping you away from my Republic was the best thing I could have done. The bargain we struck saved both of us—your father needed to be close, but you, there is no distance enough where I grow comfortable with you.”

Shiv digested her words with growing discomfort. He'd expected some kind of chastisement or punishment for what he did to the Republic. He didn't expect to be thanked, and he didn't expect her to be so calm, so rational. With all his other enemies aside from the Challenger, there was a tipping point, a place where he could strike them and create deep psychological harm.

He'd thought that place to be the Republic for Veronica. It should have been. But the way she faced her discomfort left her barren of fissures, with no cracks for him to tap into, with no weakness for him to leverage.

Once more, the idea that she was more of a marble statue than a person returned. Yet it was her insides that were harder than the outsides. There was nothing he could find true purchase in. Nothing obvious he could strike at.

And yet. He'd managed to bother her before when he said that she wasn't even a person. He recalled that. He could use that. He just needed the conversation to keep going. He just needed to understand her better. Everyone had a point where they fractured. Everyone could be undone by the right set of words.

“Oh, I quite agree,” Veronica said, speaking directly to Shiv's thoughts. “Everyone does have a breaking point. Even I. Especially I. The longer you live, the more you survive, the more notches you develop in your history and your mind. The thing is, you can also reinforce those notches. You can transform your psychology. You can evolve yourself in more ways than one. The heart doesn't need to be brittle or weak. The heart can be anything it perceives itself to be.”

She took a few steps closer to him, and Shiv rose. He went from kneeling to standing, and he loomed half a head taller than her now. But despite the separation in size, there was something impossibly strong about her, something that made his instincts hesitate. His battle-honed intuition recognized her as a pure predator of a kind, and there was no hint of prey at all in her heart or flesh.

“I understand what you did to Longinus. I despise the fact you did it, mainly because it created such inconveniences for me. The Council demands reprisals. The other Ascendants want you to be struck down—hunted and butchered like the mongrel Tarrasque in human flesh you are.”

“But you don't?” Shiv asked.

“Of course not. Why would I ever want to indulge in such foolishness? I learn, unlike them. It is my only true gift, I suspect. Not speech, not my strength of will, not my stubbornness, not my intellect. No. I learn from I accept, and I accept you for what you are. You are a bomb, you are a fire, you are the very incarnation of strife itself. We can come for you, but if we don't keep you dead, if we don't expend our resources to the extreme to sever you from this world, then all we have done is fuel your flame and give you more growth. In that, you are a unique kind of bomb, a bomb that continuously goes off, harder and harder the more people try to stop it. Of course, I must bring you out later and put on a performance of rage and fury before the Council and offer something to the Republic. But I have no intentions of being foolish or wasteful.”

She let out a near sigh. “I know why you did it. I considered performing such an action myself many times. Longinus was… troublesome in his later years. Even compared to the others. Alas, my plan was to render him an entirely catatonic and godly vegetable that Kathereine could pilot, rather than carving into his soul and murdering that original aspect of his humanity before letting an eldritch god hatch out of his corpse and contaminate the Great One. That part, we need to discuss a proper resolution to after the main course of this conversation is settled.”

Shiv leaned back, and a light jingle went through his chains. “So, what’s the main course? Some kind of declaration of a truce? You want to re-negotiate our bargain from before?”

“That is something you will do in desperation, not I. For now, I want you to know that I understand you, to some extent. Enough to know what you're trying to do. Enough to be able to tell you that it won't work.”

She traced a spell in the air, and a series of clicks sounded. The chains binding Shiv to the wall unlatched themselves, and he felt his body go slack. He caught himself before he fell, and shook his head. “Well, if you were going to do that this entire time, I have no idea why you would—”

“Shatter,” Veronica commanded.

A shapeless power was carried through her voice. It was a power that could maul souls, that could obliterate flesh of Legend and shatter nations. Infused within Veronica’s word was a will beyond matter and magic.

As it crashed against Shiv, it went off, filling the anchor with fire and ruin. The space dissolved in a sea of indescribable heat and light. Every Shapeless Tide circulating through that body of Shiv evaporated in an instant, but the physical harm she sought to inflict was rendered impotent as his Scarforged Shell calcified into shape.

Not so long ago, she'd annihilated him down to the component molecules through words she wrote in the Sync-Letter.

Now, as the fire and ruin receded, Shiv remained—sporting a silver shell of indestructibility.

“Ah, the Scarforged Unbroken. Or some greater variant of such.” Veronica hummed with curious appreciation. Somehow, she remained entirely unblemished from the devastation she inflicted. “I see Jessica wasn’t boasting about your evolution at all.”

But despite the physical invulnerability offered by his Legendary-Unique Toughness, there was another cost Shiv had to pay. Another cost he couldn’t pay with his Shapeless Tides stripped away. A low grunt of strain whistled out of Shiv as he tried to remain upright.

Veronica noticed his struggle immediately. “What’s this? Are you actually hurt after all?”

“No,” Shiv slurred, needing to use his tides to move his lips at all. It wasn't particularly subtle. “Just feeling a tad heavier than normal is all.”

“Ah, yes, the Onus. Yours is weight, is it?” Veronica mused.

Shiv wanted to nod, but couldn’t. He had his Harbinger do it for him instead. And that suggested to reply with a question of his own. “What’s yours?” Veronica didn’t answer. Shiv kept pushing. “Come on. I know you have some kind of invincibility like me. That silver glow is connected to Narrativium. So what did you get? Actually, how'd you get it? You don’t strike me as the type to let yourself get hurt.”

“Your reading is wrong, Shiv: I am the type to never do my bleeding in public, for I see weakness culled in advance.”

He caught her meaning. “You let someone bring you to the brink over and over again, huh? That’s a pretty me-thing to do.”

“I commanded them to teach my flesh the most valuable lesson of all. But unlike you, I didn’t suffer my wounds out of indifference and inhumanity. I simply regarded the culling of physical weakness as a necessity. But enough of this. The fact you possess such Toughness is good. That means you have a chance to face what’s coming for you and perhaps even save that Gate of yours from destruction while also serving the needs of the Republic and providing a measure of recompense for what you have taken from us.”

“Alright, Councilwoman, cut the shit.” Shiv sighed. “Just tell me what you want from me and stop prevaricating around.”

“Just prevaricating,” she corrected. “No need for around.”

“Huh? Really?”

“Yes.”

“Yeah, alright. Stop prevaricating and just tell me.”

A beat passed as she studied him, and only when his impatience was provoked did she speak once more. “The Court of the Shattered Moon seeks to eliminate you and flank my Republic using the Undying Tarrasque.”

“Felling perfect,” Shiv grumbled. “I think a few of the Frost Giants are already in the Gate. Do they got a way to smuggle that big bastard in somehow?”

She shook her head. “From what my agents indicate, Sullain’s Tarrasque is nowhere near docile enough to be deployed in such a manner. It’s the reason why the Court cannot just unleash it on the Republic without care—it’s less a dog on a leash and more of an explosion that can be nudged very situationally. Like you. They currently have it trapped inside a dimensional prison. Albeit barely.”

“So, they don’t want it to be anywhere near them when they cut it loose, because it’ll just decide to attack everything, including them. And if they can’t… can’t…” Shiv’s mind began to turn as he thought about how he would bring a Tarrasque into Gate Piety if it couldn’t just be dropped in casually. “The path of least resistance would be… from inside the Gate… The Slipgate. Merrielmel. That’s what they’re going for.”

“That is… a possible choice,” Veronica replied. “But not actually the true path of least resistance.”

“Then, what is it?” Shiv asked.

“To strike an alliance with other forces that are already antagonistic toward you—allowing the Tarrasque to be transported across dimensions and nearby gateways. Reports indicate you destabilized vampiric territory a valley beyond. We’ve also received multiple enthusiastic offers toward a temporary military alliance from one Lord Scorn, in which the Republic and the Abyss both lay siege to Gate Piety from both sides. But as I waited, it seems the God of the Vultegs allowed his wrath to get the better of him, and he decided to strike an accord with the Shattered Moon instead.”

Shiv sucked in a breath. “Great. These assholes are going to try and sabotage my Gate from the inside so they can herd that Tarrasque through the Abyssal gateway, aren’t they?”

“That seems to be their desire,” Veronica replied. “With all the Legends and factions you are trying to amass, you might just be able to endure the siege… But why let there be a siege at all is the question I ask. Why not break the beast out the moment the Jotun try to transfer it between dimensions and collapse the invasion in on itself?”

For the first time since their conversation began, Veronica bestowed a smile on Shiv—but not the doting smile of a grandmother. It was the vicious glee of a houndmaster about to send an expendable beast into a rigged dog fight. “And what better way to resolve the problem of one bomb than with another?”

A bitter laugh escaped Shiv. “Okay. I get it now. They have their uncontrollable Tarrasque, and you have me.”

“Oh, no, you’re both uncontrollable,” Veronica corrected. “The Jotun are determined to commit that mistake with the Tarrasque. I will not commit to the same flaw as you. I want your strife to be pointed as far away from my Republic as long as it can be. But in that time, if a few enemy civilizations are conveniently burned down in the process, then what else can I consider you aside from a useful apocalypse?”
