Power is not enough. I mean this for all forms of it. Power, when it comes to your individual assets, is the most raw expression of who you are, but it itself is very limited.

Think of all the skills you can develop in a natural human lifetime. A hundred years is not a short while. You can be a Master in many skills, perhaps even a Hero in multiple, if you are truly gifted. In the rarest of cases, if you're a talent above talents, you might even become a legend within that century.

Think of it this way, girl: You are a Legend in terms of Rhetoric. Your words move cities, shake mountains, topple civilizations from within. But we are not in the business of devastation; we are in the business of building, and a civilization is more than words. Though you can compel other people to heed your commands and drive them to perform acts they wouldn't otherwise, think about what you cannot do. Think about the economy that must run. Think about the buildings and walls that must be built to keep the people housed and fed and secure while keeping the beasts and nightmares beyond out.

Think of all the things you don't possess: Biomancy, Psychomancy, all the skills you currently lack. Think of every blind spot you have and understand someone in the world is a Legend of that blind spot. Suddenly that image of you casually bending an entire civilization collapses because there are other people like you, and then there are far, far more unlike you. They all have a purpose to play, but more than that, they all have their own interests at hand.

This is the true face of the world. Power is not everything, not nearly enough. Power is simply one facet of a grand calculation. Might does not make right. Might makes law, and laws are defied when they press against an individual's own desires. This is what foments rebellion. This is not about decency or tyranny; this is simply about pragmatism.

How well are you able to manage the wants and desires of others? How well can you resolve problems without having them spiral out of control? It is the softest of strength; it is the most insidious of applications that allows you to secure your hold over an empire.

And there is a term for this in the most ancient of texts: realpolitik. Politics beyond your personal emotions, beyond your philosophies, beyond anything high-minded. To face what the world actually is, to meet people where they're at and where you're at. To understand that what guides the small folk isn't so much the high-minded desires of the nobility who wish to build a statue or to evolve toward the next threshold, living thousands and thousands of years, planning in advance for that abyss of time. No, they simply want to be fed, they want to be secure, and they want to be protected from plagues, from beasts, from monsters, and above all from their fellows, because monsters are the simplest, rough form of danger.

Politics eats people. Politics spends lives, and in this world we live in, politics is about the trade of currencies. All currencies—with trust being the most fickle and naive, yet also the most valuable.

After all, if we cannot rely on each other in the darkest of times, in the coldest of winters, when we're besieged by proper enemies, then what foundation can a common front hold? A house divided is not a house at all, but merely an inevitable close-quarters engagement.

—Councilman Anthony De Diego to Councilwoman Veronica Chandler

412

Uncontrollable

“Is this because I beat you to Legendary-Tier Psychomancy?” Shiv asked, staring up at Uva's grand web of storms and mind-mana. He could feel her glare burning against his cheek. “No, I'm not being funny right now. This is really, really powerful. I wish I could have a skill like this. I'm just asking if spite had any reason to do with it.”

“Not that much,” Uva replied, casting more threads of lightning out from her mind and weaving them tighter around the skies over Gate Piety. Heavy needles of translucence tore through matter and poured down upon the land. She was beginning to construct extensions to the city, temporary housing forged from her Psychomancy alone—if it could even be called Psychomancy anymore. As far as Shiv knew, Psychomancy was the lore of the mind, something that manipulated consciousness and memory.

It shouldn’t be able to cross over into material reality.

But she's more than a Psychomancer, just like I'm more than a brawler. The Outside left a deep influence inside of her—I guess the rules aren't so deeply embedded anymore.

The scenes from her Delve played on, repeating over and over again, and Shiv studied her battle with his Delve clone in vivid detail. The other version of him was mindless, stripped of the great many skills he'd use regularly, but it also fought as he did in more ways than one. Raw aggression, never stopping, always trying to do something. But now he was beginning to recognize a flaw in the way he acted.

Against Uva's Dreaming Storm, direct force would never be enough. Her power was capable of drawing more mana from captured minds, but beyond this, she could construct entire phantom cities from the matter of her memories. She could shape impossible landscapes and constantly rebuild everything that was destroyed. Her mana wasn't dense, but it was confusing, and she understood that memories were not bound by the same laws as matter. She could connect things in ways that physical reality couldn't match. Memories could be interlaced. Things could be hidden inside each other.

A flash of insight cut through Shiv. He envisioned himself facing Uva on a battlefield, smashing through her web, but then being trapped within as she rebuilt what he broke, as she caged him in a dense maze that kept getting more complicated, that adapted to him constantly.

“It took Legend Hymn's help for me to learn how best to counter you and Adam,” Uva said. Her words weren't spoken in comfort, but in pure honesty. “I suspect you learned a share of lessons in your Delve as well.”

“Yeah, a few, but nothing like you. This changes a lot of things for you, not just for combat but…” Shiv chuckled. “I see why the System keeps throwing monster skills at me, though: if it gave me something this complex, I might be stuck in my Delve for months, if not years. I'm really impressed you managed to get out this fast.”

“Flattery,” she muttered, lightly slapping him over the back of the head with a bolt of psionic lightning. It detonated against him and drove Ikki to yelp in fright. A small bolt was enough to extinguish an Adept’s mind. To him, it felt more like a nudge.

He turned and gave her a wink. “Just a bit. But no, seriously, we can do a lot of stuff with this. Temporary architecture, active defenses. You can connect your mind to all the willing people here, and you can use them to build Piety even more.” A breath slipped out of him. “And that's just off the top of my head.”

And despite all the emotional maturity Shiv had amassed, he couldn't quite shake that feeling of envy. Her Legendary skill was not only a thing of raw devastation but also creation, offering utility beyond destruction. And the skill suited her. It represented her. Uva was more than just a mindless mage casting raw explosions of uncontrolled mana. Though Adam was probably more tactically minded, she was the most calculated one of their group. And with her Psychomancy, she constantly worked to tilt the field to their advantage.

Shiv enjoyed feeling like a force of nature, like he was unstoppable, unkillable, inevitable, but there was life beyond battle, and aside from cooking. Frankly, her new skill had Shiv asking another, more uncomfortable question: What can I offer the Gate beyond martial might and a steady flow of food?

I can be more. Just like her. I should be more.

“Is that envy I read behind your eyes, Deathless?” Uva asked with a hint of amusement. “Is it your turn to desire my increase in power now?”

“If you can pout at me, I can pout at you,” Shiv grumbled. “Even if you look prettier when you pout and I look like a constipated bear trying to push out a kidney stone at the same time.”

“Oh, I wouldn't describe you like that, dear brute. You are not nearly so hideous. I would liken you closer to a large and sad puppy.”

A horrific series of gags escaped Ikki as she made a show of grabbing her own throat with both hands. “How about you guys exchange fluids somewhere else? And since Uva isn't ejaculating out of her eyes anymore, can we take this place down? The Geomancers probably needed to reinforce the surface district. I mean, you're done shooting Outsider juices out of your eyes, right, Sister Uva?”

Both Uva and Shiv glared at her now.

“What a horrible way to describe an eldritch skill,” Hymn commented off to the side. “I approve.”

A vein of psionic lightning crashed down beside the Headmaster as Uva constructed a man-sized middle finger modeled after Shiv’s hand—one that she promptly slammed into Hymn without further comment. Even as the middle finger pressed him into the wall, he never changed expression or offered an apology.

“Quite so, Ikki.” Uva let out a displeased growl. “And expect this refractory period to be permanent.”

Ikki frowned. “If it's a permanent refractory period, doesn't that just make it some kind of eye dysfunction—”

“Ikki, please stop talking,” Shiv said, mustering his considerable willpower to never imagine Uva’s eldritch gaze as that kind of emulsion.

Ikki responded by miming zipping her lips, but the impish sneer remained on her face.

The group departed from Uva's containment silo and reentered the Gate proper. With no more walls impeding his sight, Shiv took in the full majesty of Uva's skill as her Dreaming Storm swept through all of Gate Piety. Her lightning was already tethered to the ground, like coiled chains turning into lattices of glistening webwork—connected to willing generators in the forms of Sisters and Mothers of the Arachnae Order. The substance of their minds flowed back into Uva, and the magic fueling her storm was multiplied with every thought she harvested.

Stacks of serried spires were being built up by the falling sediments of translucent rain to recognize the architecture as places he'd seen before; towers nested inside the expanse of Weave. All of them were placed side-by-side, equidistant from each other, with replicated bridges connecting them to one another, and their insides were vast enough to contain hundreds, if not thousands, of Pathbearers on a temporary basis.

Even so, he could see the limitations of her power. This Legendary skill was an evolution beyond mere psionics, but Uva's memory and architectural skills were insufficient for her to truly sculpt novel buildings with her mind alone.

“And you can create people too?” Shiv asked.

“Not quite; I can strain myself and create psionic puppets, but they're less active than my spiderlings and Terrorspawn.” Demonstrably, a manifestation of Harkness appeared beside Shiv. His Last Morsel took her head off at the neck before she could even open her mouth. As soon as she was beheaded, a spray of blood filled the air, but then changed into component motes of mind mana as Harkness dissolved and then reloaded into reality with another onrush of falling rain.

Uva and Harkness chuckled, indifferent to the beheading that had just occurred. “It seems that all the egos contained within my Black Gnosis can be made manifest. This power, this Dreaming Storm, and everything that falls under my rain, serves as a projection of the world inside my mind, and it builds over the world that is.”

“Literally mind over matter,” Shiv mused. “Godsdamned monstrous.”

Uva smirked again—and Harkness uncannily mirrored her expression. “I would agree with that; however, my power isn't without limits. I cannot rip pieces out of reality and hold them in my mind without paying a significant debt. Someone like you, for instance, is a miserable creature to contain within my mind. The higher your Tier, the more powerful your Psychomancy and Magical Resistance, the more it's like I'm forcing a raw hunk of iron into my brain matter.”

“But if you have enough secondary minds and people supporting you, you might be able to manage it?” Shiv asked.

“Theoretically. Practically, enemy Legends are to be killed immediately.” Uva tilted her head at Shiv and sighed. “If, System unwilling, or perhaps willing, we are ever forced to actually fight each other, I would strike you down, Shiv. I would strike you down with everything I have. Take this as flattery, my dear brute, but you're too much of a threat to be taken alive.”

He just snorted. “You know what, sweetheart? The feeling's absolutely mutual. Shit, now I'm glad I Delved before you did. Fighting this version of you inside that hallway would have been absolute hell.”

And it wasn't just the empty space Uva was building up using her Dreaming Storm. The Surface district was being reinforced. All the damage dealt to the buildings there was replaced by a layer of mind-mana serving as temporary repairs until an actual Geomancer could apply a permanent fix. The housing for the refugees, former slaves, and residents had also been expanded. The platform holding the surface district aloft was also being extended, and since the substance used to create the extension was made from mind mana, structural support was unnecessary. Uva was simply holding all that up herself.

