With every three bolts that fell, one remained rooted to the surface district, to the refugee quarter where the survivors of Blackedge remained. A sprout of mind mana flowed up from those anchors, surging back into the heavens and fueling the storm with even more strength. A cycle of construction, empowerment, and expansion took hold. Uva's Dreaming Storm was a communal power, a thing that could bestow the weakest with the choice to be part of something greater, to give themselves to someone stronger so that their mind could be used to protect their own lives and the lives of those they cared for.

And that was what Shiv envied the most about her skill. It made other people matter. It made everyone matter. In a world that was ruled by the individual and shaped toward the winds of tyranny, she offered a measure of democracy and freedom that was ever rare and strangely functional.

“But still subservient to her skills,” the Harbinger reminded. “The System did not bend to her desires; it simply allowed her legend to take shape. The representation of the weak and helpless are not offerings of mercy from above, but simply a byproduct of Uva’s continued actualization. They do not matter…”

…But she does, Shiv finished.

“In her storm, the will of the many is represented, so long as it falls under the will of a favored one.”

A certain voice of nihilism let out a crackle of amusement. “Representation is, because she believes it to matter. Power can do a lot more than simply corrupt. Power reveals. Power builds. Power allows. Through virtue, perhaps a measure of imperfect utopia can be sought.”

As they approached Starhawk's perch, Shiv saw colossal walls of the densest translucence surging up from the ground. They expanded, row after row, layer after layer, as the place where Adam languished was bestowed with greater protection than ever before.

“Shiv,” Uva suddenly said, her blinks coming faster. Shiv realized she was processing multiple instances of thought at once. “I might need you to direct one of your bodies to the surface gateway. I have to finish processing the guests, and we need to reopen the path to the Republic so the representatives can continue arriving.”

“Right. Shit. Actually, I need to wake the body I left with the Prismatic Guard. I'm due an actual meeting with Veronica and the rest of the Auroral assholes.”

A slight frown tore through Uva’s features. The heavens above rumbled with displeasure as lightning fell in cascading chains. “I don't think that's wise. To greet the Auroral Council alone after what we did to Longinus—”

“If I don't do anything, then Veronica is probably gonna force my hand,” Shiv cut in. “It's not going to take much for her to ruin this whole coalition thing for us if she orders the Prismatic Guard to form a blockade. I'm sure the other factions will try to fight them, but that's not what we need right now. I don't need them desperate. I need them stalled and delayed. We have too many problems, and I want some of my problems to be each other's problems. Besides, worst comes to worst, they kill that body.”

“I disagree. If worst comes to worst, they take you alive, and they actually manage to breach the mind of one of your bodies. Then we have a greater problem at hand.”

Shiv shrugged. “I'd be more worried about that if I didn't have the ability to dive Backstage anytime I want, and also you're here. If they managed to sneak into my thoughts, I expect you to kick their ass while they're inside my mind.”

Uva hummed. “Outsourcing the actual work to the Umbral again. How very vampiric of you.”

“Really? You’re hitting me with the race thing?” Shiv almost stuttered. Almost.

“It’s good for your levels.”

Racism 6 > 7

“Don’t encourage her, you fuck!” Shiv spat at the System. “I’m not trying to be racist! That was all her! All of it! Why isn’t she gaining any levels? That doesn't even make any sense!”

“Jocular prejudice is insufficient for an Adept-Tier Racist to level,” Uva answered casually.

“Adept-Tier—wow.” Shiv blinked. “You’re only Adept-Tier? What the hells does it take to reach Master?”

“Multiple pogroms,” Uva answered all too quickly.

“Well, guess I’m never becoming a Master Racist,” Shiv muttered. It wasn’t even a matter of hatred; he just didn’t have the patience to organize something like that.

She opened the path leading to the center Gate Piety with a casual wave. Web-made walls thundering with lightning and manned by clambering spiderlings and agitated Terrorspawn parted in an instant, creating a valley-like entrance toward the Starhawk’s personal phylactery.

As they approached the castle, all banter vanished between them. A mutual worry took hold: a worry for Adam and what it would take to mend him.

“Do you think you can fix him with your skill?” Shiv asked.

“I'm uncertain. This isn't the exact skill I was supposed to obtain. As Within, So Without was my previous goal, but The Dreaming Storm occupies many of its capabilities. That being said, again, Shiv, I am no mind-mender. But here is what I expect to follow optimistically: I project my magic into Adam's mind. I create a representation of his mental landscape and try to rebuild his ego, or at least repair the worst of his damage so that he could finish the Delve and we can have a proper specialist continue his treatment.”

“And cynically?”

A beat of silence followed. The rain stopped. The lightning froze mid-flash, unnaturally, and they trembled like vibrating strings twitching with anxiety. “Cynically, there might be nothing I can do. He might be so broken, so fundamentally devastated by all his experiences, that little remains of our battle-brother.”

The rational part of Shiv knew that to be a possible truth, even more than likely after everything Adam had suffered. But he refused to capitulate to rationality, not right now. Adam wasn't the kind to bend just because he suffered; he fought on more than anyone else. He fought through the pain.

And so Shiv forced a grin on his face. “Yeah, those are the odds. My money's still on Adam. The hurt never put him down before. He's gonna get better. He's gonna keep fighting. We'll make him better. We will.”

As he spoke, faint cracks developed along his flesh, causing trails of blood to seep out. He ignored the tearing he inflicted upon himself by ripping his mind in one direction and his heart in another. Though Uva noticed as well, she didn't comment. She understood, and more importantly, she was suffering the very same discord within. “In a dark way, I'm grateful I get to do this.”

“Do what?” Shiv asked.

“Serve a need. Discover my purpose. Be here with Adam and with you in the fray.” Despite all that was happening, Uva held her head high, and there was a lightness to her that wasn't there before. “I never really let myself imagine before. I never tried to think of myself as standing beyond my station. Everything I gained was simply the factor of fortune and of circumstance. I told myself that it was just a favor, that anyone else who decided to embark alongside you would have developed the same.”

“Yeah, Uva, that’s absolute bullshit. The favor's there. I'm like you in that. You might have caught fire from me, but my bet is almost anyone else would be long dead by now. It was always you, me, and Adam. Been that way since we came out of Passage alive.”

She breathed in deeply. “I know. I’ve known. It just took the Delve for me to stop denying it.”

Shiv nodded in understanding. “Looks like we all lie to ourselves in our own little ways.”

“Sometimes it’s needed,” Uva replied. “Sometimes, one lie lesser than the last is how we get closer to the truth.”

“Yeah, I—” Shiv cringed as he found himself face-to-face with Veronica via one of his physical bodies. “Hey, Uva, if I seem distracted or suddenly have a seizure, that’s because Veronica might be about to talk me to death.”

The forking streams of psychomancy descending from the Dreaming Storm curved with worry. “The Councilwoman? She’s with your other body?”

“Oh, fuck,” Jessica mumbled from behind. “This isn’t gonna be good. Shiv, now’s the time for you to talk your ass off if you can, because if you don’t—”

“I know,” Shiv replied. “But you know what? I’ve been looking forward to this, because there’s a question in the back of my mind.”

A series of exasperated curses left Jessica before she pulled herself together. “And what’s that?”

“Do you think I can psychologically harm Veronica enough to leave an Inland Embassy inside her?”

“Oh, you stupid—Shiv, no!” Jessica practically begged.

“This is not a wise path to pursue,” Rusty concurred.

“Unwise,” Hymn noted casually. “Do it. I’ll find it funny, and the Brokers will find it informative.”

The sound of a blade cutting through air was accompanied by a clench of pressure. Shiv didn’t even need to turn to know what had just happened: Jessica swung on Hymn, and he teleported.

Shiv clicked his tongue. “Well, Jess, we got two votes against one, so looks like I’m giving this a go.”

“Do I not constitute a vote?” Rusty asked.

Shiv could have answered that, but down that path probably lay a discussion about personhood for Awakened weapons, and Shiv was wise enough not to get suckered into more Racism levels. “Oh, no, I forgot about you! Real sorry, Rusty. I’ll make it up to you next time.”

“...I will remember this when Jessica next uses me to practice her ‘amateur colonoscopy.’”

“Hey, listen, Rusty, I’m going to read the felling books! Get off my back.”

***

Back on Integrated Earth—or so he assumed—the body that Shiv had surrendered to the Prismatic Guard blinked and grunted with annoyance as he found himself chained in an orichalcum cell. “Felling really? This shit again? You know I can just break out of this, right?”

But Veronica didn't participate in his banter. Instead, she was like a shadow in the room. The red-gold of orichalcum contrasted with the black static billowing out from her form. The only patch of white was her face, drawn out further by drapes of midnight black hair, and her expression was something more befitting of a marble statue than a woman of flesh and blood.

A band of iron-thick tension built between paternal grandmother and inhuman grandson. She watched Shiv, and he let the quiet take him, as he did the very same in return.

Her empathetic core was shrouded beneath dense clouds, their layering complex and more than just emotional tumult; she was actively masking what she was feeling. Trying to gauge her mind was even worse. The translucence rippling free from her ego came as storm-wrought seas, crashing waves rippling out from her as the immensity of her intellect and memory swept through the room like a nebula, barely able to be contained within her mortal form. Worst of all, Shiv caught two glints of incandescent pinpricks at the center of her eyes. The Songbringer was here, staring at him, waiting and watching through her Avatar.

This wasn't just the Councilwoman alone—this was an entire godsdamned family reunion, one that might end with an attempted pruning of its tree.

“Mind your words. Approach her not with disdain, not with flippancy. She is not someone to be toyed with. She cannot be distracted or easily enraged like all the others. Remember that she is your superior in social violence—and greater than you as a whole. So we must face her along the narrow skills where we can contend—”

“I know what your Harbinger is likely saying,” Veronica noted, cutting his skill off. “It wants you to make this a psychological endeavor, for you to pick at and dig into me. Your idea is to traumatize me to some extent, then, to burden me with emotional anguish. Just enough for you to plant that Inland Embassy in my mind and eventually erode my will, finally talking me into succumbing to your childish charms.”

Shiv smiled slightly. “You think I got charms?”

“You absolutely do. I don't see any point in denying it. Your continued existence and evolutions have pushed you beyond being a physical instrument—and maybe the social aspect of yours is simply genetic, ingrained in our nature in some manner of ancestral memory we don't fully understand, one that is not compelled by Udraal. But maybe that's just my inherent arrogance talking. Maybe that's simply what I want to be true so that I can assume an aspect of supremacy over him. And claim ownership over some part of you.”

“Well, that's pretty possessive of you, Granny.”

“I am Councilwoman of the Yellowstone Republic. Possessiveness at times is less a flaw and more a necessity, for everything you don't claim will be taken by another and then used against you.” She sucked in a breath through her nostrils, and her expression lightened. But the tension in the room endured. “I see my mistake with your father. I severed him from my care. I let him be. I hoped he could live a life of peace—or at least experience a measure of tranquility before the System inevitably took him from this world.”

That made Shiv frown. “Inevitably?”

“He wasn't like you, Shiv. I watched him his entire life. I studied him. He had gifts, but his heart wanted something that the rest of him couldn't provide. He pushed himself to be a Vanguard, thinking that would give him what he wanted, that would fill the lack inside of him. It didn't. In the end, he died as someone else's pawn. It stunned me, and I realized I was wrong: even that distance didn't spare my pride its wound.”

