“We’ll never forget, but we do need to leave. And you have to know that just because these terrible things have happened to you…more than your fair share of them…it’s not always going to be that way. You’re going to go to your new school on Artona I, and you’ll weave friendships there and learn so much magic. And I’ll…”

Keep growing, he decided eventually. Outgrowing old dreams and bad ones, growing into everything new.

That was what he hoped was happening for him with all the changes that had come after Thegund. I was making an active effort to leave this place behind, he thought. With Stuart’s help. And Yenu-pezth’s.

Disorientation.

Realization.

Wait. I’m dreaming this, aren’t I?

As soon as he asked himself the question, he knew that he was.

Is it going well?

He wasn’t certain if he was the one wondering that all by himself or if this was one of the check-ins Healer Yenu had mentioned she might do.

“I think it is,” he said, staring around him. The world had been so immersive and clear, but now he felt separate from it. “I’m happy with how this one went. What happens next?”

I just answered that, didn’t I?

As it turned out, what happened next from his perspective was waking up.

******

******

Alden opened his eyes and saw the branches against the ceiling overhead, though the light in the room was much dimmer than it had been when they’d begun.

He was definitely well-rested. He remembered pieces of the dreams. At least three of the ones they’d discussed had been completed. They were full of gaps, as dreams remembered upon waking tended to be, but what he did recall was vivid.

Three was good. If it had gone badly, he might not remember any of it.

Three means it went well, right?

He turned his head, looking for Yenu-pezth, and spotted Stuart instead. He was in the corner, sleeping on a mat of his own.

That’s really nice. It’s better to wake up in a House of Healing with someone you know around instead of all alone.

He checked the time on his interface. It was morning on Artona I, not super early. Outside, the sun would already be up.

He missed his chance to stealth feed the bokabv, unless he went and came back.

Anyone spending the last day of their weekend at the Rapport School would be up and about.

And it was Tuesday afternoon for Alden.

He was too comfortable right now to worry about it. He lay there for another half hour, trying to grasp all the dream fragments he could, until Stuart woke.

“Hello,” said Alden.

“You’re awake!” Stuart said, sitting up. “How do you feel?”

“Not very different,” Alden answered. He sat up himself. “But a little more solid. In some way that’s difficult to define. I’ll have to contemplate it some more.”

“I will be silent.”

“I didn’t mean right now. I meant over the coming days.”

“Healer Yenu said it went well,” Stuart told him. “It hasn’t been very long since she left. I’m supposed to tell you to enjoy relaxing experiences until your appointment with her later today.”

“Healer-ordered relaxation?” Alden stretched his arms. “I don’t mind that. Are you going to be busy with your own work this morning?”

“I’ll go check on the bokabv’s environment. Then I should do some preparatory work for my classes tomorrow. But I can help you find relaxing—”

“We’ll go check on the field you planted around the bokabv,” Alden said. “And we’ll give Quinyeth honey. And we’ll tell every single person who tries to talk to you about anything that isn’t fun that they’re damaging my delicate mind. All of that sounds very relaxing to me.”

******
