He felt his new ability immediately, not as a channel in his mind like Firebolt or Smoke Lash, but as muscle he’d somehow never noticed, as Rend was. He felt an intuitive sense for what the skill could do, as well as an intuitive knowledge it wouldn’t work without a target. He dared not attack the walls for fear of breaching the accords, and this floor hosted no monster against which he could train.

Filing practice with his newest skill as a task for the next floor—a hub, thankfully—Edmund diverted his attention to the Aspects that had leveled up from his newest confluence. The list was long.

The Fissure reached level two with no changes to its description, though at level three War had changed its boons from ‘severely limited’ to merely ‘limited.’ It would be a powerful Aspect indeed as it continued to grow.

Neither Sorcery nor The Rift saw any change in their descriptions as they leveled, nor did The Island. Similarly, The Island’s components, Perseverance and Solitude, hit level seven with no change.

Edmund’s highest level Aspect, however, did see a change.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 10 - See beyond reality. Touch the unreal. Shape your world.

Edmund liked that. He liked it a lot. Ever since he’d first accepted Madness back on the first floor, he’d felt as a seedling tossed upon its gale, benefiting from its whims, but subject to them nonetheless.

This was the first change to Madness’s description that left Edmund feeling some sense of control. He’d earned it.

Blinking away his constellation, Edmund turned his attention first to the open exit before him, then back to the cave from whence he’d come. He thought back to the battles he’d fought to make it this far, those against the monsters and, more recently, those against himself. He reflected on the progress he’d made, the people he’d met, the people he’d lost. He thought about Dean, dead at his own friend’s hand. He thought about said friend, who too had lost his life to Liam’s manipulations.

It had to stop. Edmund had to stop it. Of the great many lessons he’d learned along the way, on all floors but this floor in particular, only one truth had really survived the journey from the person he’d been to the person he had become.

Liam had to die.

Even with thoughts of vengeance and death clinging to his mind, the corners of Edmund’s mouth turned up ever so slightly into something not quite, but perhaps akin to, a smile. Just as the floor around him had seemed to change after his ordeal, so too did the path ahead.

The air tasted fresher, the shadows calmer, the darkness between levels somehow less of a looming threat than an invitation. Edmund looked to the doorway between him and the next hub floor and felt for the first time that maybe not everything, maybe not even most things, but something, somewhere, for someone, was going to be okay.

That was enough for him.

Bearing the weight of the challenges behind him, the anticipation of the dangers ahead, and the stable, resolute certainty of knowing what had to be done, Edmund held his head up high, and stepped into the darkness.

Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 15

Tier 1 Aspect: War - Gray+ Resonance

Level 3 - Provides a limited increase to all damage dealt. Provides a limited decrease to all damage taken.

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 6 - Provides access to the Firebolt spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 7 - Gain increased constitution while fighting alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 7 - Gain health regeneration.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 10 - See beyond reality. Touch the unreal. Shape your world.

Tier 2 Aspect: Fervor - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Empowers the effects of Madness and War for each consecutive second spent in battle.

Tier 2 Aspect: Sorcery - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Smoke Lash spell.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession. Gain mana for each consecutive month spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone. Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island - Gray Resonance

Level 4 - Grants resistance to over-time effects while in groups of two or fewer.

Tier 3 Aspect: Focus - Silver Resonance

Level 1 - Doubles spell damage when attacking a single target.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Ponder the nature of reality.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift - Gold Resonance

Level 3 - Provides access to the Rend active ability.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Fissure - Silver Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Magma Fissure spell.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Breach - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Break Through active ability.

Delver’s Mark of the Challenger

Empowers nearby dungeon monsters. Significantly increases the value of loot chests you open. Slightly increases the resonance of Aspects you unlock.

The Crimson Hand

Grants minor resistance to piercing damage. Bestows ownership of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Apprentice

The third step on the Path of the Azure Fox. Increases agility. Grants a single windstep. Increases positional awareness.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Rootmother

Non-intelligent Strethian lifeforms will treat you as an ally. Gain the ability to draw water and nutrients from fertile soil.

Trailblazer bonus: draw water and nutrients from all soil.

Cloudkith Sigil

Cloud-based lifeforms will treat you as an ally. Gain enhanced perception through vision-reducing effects.
