The man coughed. He coughed again. He didn’t cough a third time. He didn’t take a sharp intake of breath. He didn’t speak. He didn’t move.

Edmund didn’t move either. He stared down at the fallen delver, a look of shock petrified upon his face. He gripped the hilt of his sword with white knuckles. He took a breath, the smoke in the air scraping painfully across his inflamed throat. He watched, transfixed, as the delver sank into the floor, leaving a pair of metal bracers and a pouch of coins behind as the Depths consumed his corpse.

Silence reigned.

Edmund stared transfixed at the now empty spot on the floor, mind grappling with but failing to comprehend the horror before him. The woman remained still, either paralyzed by fear or convinced her best hope of survival was to evade his notice. That realization sent a second knife through Edmund’s heart.

“Go,” he eventually managed. “Take their gear and go. The next floor is a hub; consider that a sign that your delve is over.” He paused for a moment, finally managing to tear his gaze away from what remained of the male delver to look his surviving companion in the eye. “Don’t come back. You’ll only find death down here.”

She nodded, her lips tight, her jaw tensed, and a tear dripping down her cheek. Neither she nor Edmund spoke again as she went about collecting the gear from the floor, leaving the coins behind as she grabbed what she could.

Moments later she ran off into the darkness, and Edmund was alone again, more alone than he needed to be, yet less alone than he would’ve liked.

“Well, that was fun,” Liam taunted, the joy in his voice serrated against Edmund’s ears.

“Leave me!” Edmund bellowed, the smoke darkening around him.

“I’ll never leave you, Edmund,” Liam said, tilting his head as if to emphasize the cruel smile upon his face. “I’ll disappear for a bit if that’s what you want, but I’ll still be here. Watching. I imagine I’ll be the one standing over you when it’s your turn to choke out and slowly die, and just like here and now, it’ll be all your fault.”

With that he vanished, leaving only Edmund, the smoke in the air, and the pouch of coins on the ground. Edmund picked them up, the familiar weight of silver somehow heavier than he remembered. He put them in his satchel. The cloudkith enchantment failed to reduce their weight.

Edmund coughed. The smoke grew thicker. Shadows danced upon the walls.

He kept walking.

Every step echoed horrifically against the stone, bouncing back and forth across the cramped cave until it returned to his ear warped and distant. The smoke grew thicker still, clouding his vision and irritating his eyes until they could take no more than sparse flicks open before shutting again. More and more he relied upon sound and the perception of his cloudkith sigil, the former distorted by the echoes of his own noise and the latter limited by his eyes’ unwillingness to remain open.

“It’s not real,” he muttered to himself, throat pained by the words. He repeated them anyway. “It’s not real. It’s not real. It’s not real.”

But it was, real enough to kill a man, anyway. Real enough to kill Edmund if it wished.

Something moved to his left, and Edmund forced his eyes open and lunged through the haze. His sword bit into soft flesh. A scream rang out, hauntingly agonized and accompanied by a chorus of dissonant tones as it bounced across the tunnel. Edmund blinked again and looked down at his sword.

It had no blood upon it.

He looked up, using his cloudkith sense to peer through the smoke.

There was nothing there.

He pressed forward, forcing his way through a cloud of smoke that hung about him like a morass. It resisted his every motion, clinging to him as he waded through it. “It’s not real,” he forced the words through a throat that did not want them. “It’s not real. It’s not real.”

Agony erupted in his right forearm as something pierced his damaged vambrace, drawing blood in a deep gash just below his elbow. Edmund spun to face his attacker, lunging with his sword at an unseen foe. He recognized the familiar resistance of flesh and muscle before the blade, felt the force of his lunge reduce but not halt as he pierced his foe.

Again he forced his eyes open, this time to find his blade struck through the heart of the adventurer he’d killed. The man smiled down at him as blood dripped down his chest.

Edmund’s eyes snapped shut before their watering could take his vision. He blinked the dryness away, refreshing his vision until he managed to open his eyes and keep them open.

The man was gone. No corpse sat upon the ground. No blood stained Edmund’s sword. The wound on his forearm remained.

He pressed on.

It had to be some monster, he reasoned. Some hidden foe that conjured the smoke, summoned the shadows in which it lurked. He’d yet to find the true danger of this floor. Whatever it was, it was out there, and it’d set its sights on Edmund.

Pain burst from his left arm, somehow within the bend of his elbow at the gap between his vambrace and rerebrace. Edmund swept his shield at its source, but struck only smoke. As he spun, another strike sliced across the back of his neck. Warm blood dripped down his back.

Edmund swung his sword again, but the blade clanged against a low-hanging stalactite. In his recoil something pierced the back of his hand, impaling his palm.

He dropped his sword with a shout, clutching his hand to his chest as he struck back with his shield. Again he found only shadow. “I know you’re out there!” he shouted through the pain in his throat. “Show yourself!”

The smoke laughed, sharp and mocking and in a voice Edmund knew all too well.

Liam’s voice.

A blade cut across his right calf, slicing clean through his blackbone leggings to sever the tendons beneath. Edmund fell to one knee as his leg gave out beneath him. He pulled his injured hand away from his chest, fighting past the hole through his palm to launch a Firebolt through the air behind him.

The spell washed harmlessly against the wall. Smoke arose from its flames to join the miasma in the air.

Something blunt crashed into his upper back, breaking chunks off his crystal cuirass with a terrible crack and knocking Edmund forward. He caught himself on his hands, but his wounded right palm and injured left elbow gave out.

His face hit the ground with a clang, his misshapen helmet absorbing the worst of the impact.

The attacks continued. They struck his back, his arms, his legs. Edmund curled up in an effort to protect himself, to minimize the target he made while he desperately wracked his mind for a plan beyond hoping Perseverance would heal his more debilitating wounds in time for him to fight back.

“It’s not real. It’s not real. It’s not real.” He growled the words to himself, a mantra against not only the blow that rained down upon him, but the pain they wrought.

“Well, look at you,” Liam’s voice spoke down to him. “So far gone already. Even now the madness devours your fear.” He let out a short, sharp laugh. “I told you I’d be here, standing over you while you died. I’m surprised it’s happening so soon.”

Edmund wanted to scream. He wanted to rage, to lash out at the dungeon’s avatar, at the one entity truly responsible for all his suffering.

But he couldn’t. His body had betrayed him, his bones broken, his muscles pierced, his tendons severed. Blood seeped down his chest, his arms, his face. Pain rampaged through every inch of his body, but Edmund knew pain. Pain could be dealt with.

It was the rage that couldn’t. The rage and the despair and the creeping helplessness that crawled up his spine. He lay there curled into a ball as he took every beating the smoke would give him, a torrent of wild emotions running rampant.

But not fear.

He felt guilty and sad and more angry than he’d ever felt before, but fear itself failed to wrap its frigid fingers around his heart. Liam’s words echoed in his mind.

“Even now the madness devours your fear.”

Fear.

The delvers had been afraid. Even before the smoke had reached that man’s throat, the terror in their eyes had been apparent. They’d killed one of their own over it, had been about to kill each other, even. No party that susceptible to discord could ever have made it this deep into the Eternal Depths.

That was the danger. That was the weapon this particular floor wielded to lethal effect.

No monster lurked in the shifting shadows. None was needed. The shadows were monster enough.

Yet still they struck. Still the smoke rained havoc upon him. Still his throat burned and his eyes water and his body bled where it had cut him.

“Even now the madness devours your fear.”

Whatever magic or toxin had so spooked those other delvers had failed to affect Edmund in the same way. Sure, it had turned him against those that might’ve been his peers, but that had been an act upon them as much as him. The unreal smoke that had arisen from the smokeless torches had been the same that choked out that poor man.

The scholar on the tenth floor had told him that powerful Madness could impose its own version of reality upon the rest of the world. Edmund had stepped further. He’d pulled that delver from one reality to another, only for the man to find Edmund’s reality too harsh to bear.

Where Edmund’s throat burned with every breath, the sane man had suffocated.

The blows seemed to lighten as the thought struck Edmund’s mind, the smoke itself recoiling as the torrent of emotions slowly gave way to a new dominant force.

Confidence neither crept nor slipped nor fought its way in. It simply was, a flame that burned weak and dull at first yet unflinching in the maelstrom that so tried to extinguish it.

Liam had been wrong. For all his vast knowledge, for all his unparalleled perception and ineffable schemes, Liam, avatar of the Eternal Depths, greatest and most powerful dungeon in Linaria, keeper of the lost Book of Dranicath, host to the Eighth Infernal Legion, slayer of Indleroth the Dread, had been wrong.

“Even now the madness devours your fear.”

There was no such thing, Edmund realized in a way that only he ever could. There was no madness, no fundamental truth, no external entity that somehow worked through and against him.

There was only Edmund’s madness.

The smoke was of him, his emotions, his trauma, his Aspect. He might’ve been the maddest man in all of Linaria, Rushk, and the adjunct realms, but that madness belonged to him and only him.

And it would obey.

The blows ceased.

Edmund felt his muscles relax unbidden, his body loosening its fetal position from a tight curl of desperation to a loose one of comfort. Adrenaline faded away and the pain of his injuries took its place, emanating from every spot of his body at once. Even now his Madness protected him, eating away at his agony and his fear, until it too could handle no more.

Darkness rushed in, not the twirling shadows in which monsters lurked, nor the veil that obscured the level beyond, but a comforting darkness, one of solace and safety and shelter from the storm.

The last things Edmund remembered before consciousness slipped away were a chime echoing through the cave around him, and the soothing coolness of fresh air filling his lungs.

Edmund awoke in a different room entirely.

The floor was the same, and the walls were the same, and the layout of them all was the same, but no more did wisps of smoke waft from the torches on the wall. No more did shadows dance across the stone. No more did his throat burn or his eyes sting with dryness.

He stood up, stretching his tense muscles as he looked over the sites of his wounds.

The scars remained.

They were white and fresh upon his flesh, and they were many. They crawled about his figure, both a text detailing his every failure and a testament to his survival. Edmund picked up his sword and his shield where they’d fallen, noting that almost every single piece of his gear had accumulated damage from his battle with the smoke.

His sword was chipped, his shield splintered. His leggings had been cut in several places, and the crystal of his cuirass had been shattered, a web of cracks running down its entire shape. It would all survive. All the cuirass needed was a bit of blood and it would repair itself.

Two pieces of gear stood out.

The piece of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh that adorned his middle finger remained unharmed, his Madness’s greatest efforts unable to even mark the thing. His shadowhide vambraces, in contrast, hadn’t survived.

His right vambrace had fallen to the floor, cut to so many pieces it’d never stay around his arm again. Its twin fared little better, hanging on to Edmund’s forearm by little more than a thread. Edmund tugged it free and discarded it.

A doorway stood open just up ahead, the darkness between levels beckoning to him. A platinum chest sat beside it, whispering its promise of wealth beyond that he’d seen thus far. Edmund went to it first.

Inside he found a second pouch of coins of similar make to the one he’d taken from the dead delver. It was stained with blood. He wondered if it had fallen from another adventurer on this floor, reclaimed by the dungeon to be given as loot later on. Perhaps it had belonged to Dean.

Next to the silver sat a pair of bracers to replace those he’d lost. They glimmered verdant green to match the strange metal on his shield.

Mithril Bracers of the Resolute

Provides protection against all damage types. Provides resistance to external mind-altering effects.

Edmund didn’t hesitate to slip the bracers over his bare forearms, happy to finally have a name for the green metal. The bracers didn’t offer quite as much protection as his shield, but they didn’t occupy one of his hands like the shield did, so even without their secondary effect he considered them more valuable.

The word ‘external’ stuck with him, as if the smoke letters felt the need to specify they’d help with whatever magic the dungeon had inflicted, but his Madness was his burden to bear and his alone. He hoped it wouldn’t be a problem again.

Leaving the chest behind, Edmund opened up his constellation and made his selection immediately, crafting his very first tier five Aspect from the only combination available to him that could do such a thing: The Fissure, and War.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Breach - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Break Through active ability.

