Edmund emerged into a cramped and gloomy chamber, a cave by any definition of the word. Rough, natural-seeming stone made up the walls and ceiling, from which pointed stalactites hung in chaotic formation. The floor, as per usual, was unnaturally flat, still rough and formed of stone, yet missing pillars and stalagmites and other obstructions one might’ve found in a normal cave.

This was a hallway, and Edmund knew it.

The space itself stretched no wider than the entrance behind him, leaving Edmund barely enough room to stretch his arms out to each side. Any party traveling through here would’ve had to move single file if they’d wanted any sense of maneuverability. Edmund, at least, didn’t have to worry about that. As it was he hooked his spiderleg spear around his neck and drew his Scorpion’s Sting, the shortsword better suited for fighting in tight corridors.

A darkness hung about the place, shadows dancing upon the walls as orange light flickered upon the many stalactites. Worse still, acrid smoke wafted from the torches, drifting up into the ceiling only to find it had nowhere to go before falling down to hang in the air, a thick haze that darkened the room yet further. Edmund coughed twice the moment he breathed it in.

“I see you like what I’ve done with the place.” Liam appeared ahead of Edmund, casually leaning back against the wall as he often did, his arms crossed in front of his chest.

“It’s a cave,” Edmund said once he’d acclimated to the smoke and recovered from his fit of coughing.

Liam shrugged. “They can’t all be great battlefields or sprawling landscapes. I’m a dungeon after all. Gotta fulfill my quota of dark and gloomy caves.”

Edmund opened his mouth to speak, but Liam cut him off.

“Sometimes it’s good to remind people,” Liam said, the ever-present grin on his face turning from mischievous to predatory, “where exactly they are.”

Edmund blinked. “In a cave?”

“In a dark hole in the ground. Alone.”

“Is that what you are, then? A hole in the ground?”

Liam winked. “The worst kind. A dangerous one. A hungry one.”

Edmund let out a breath. “Are you just here to be dramatic or did you have something to say to me?”

“Two things,” Liam said, a scowl growing upon his face. “One, I am always here to be dramatic. It’s more fun. Two, isn’t your company reason enough?”

Edmund grunted.

“You’re right, it’s absolutely not. Really, I don’t know what that princess sees in you.”

“Oh, I get it,” Edmund grumbled. “You’re just here to annoy me.”

“As much fun as it is to make you miserable, you seem to handle that well enough yourself. I’m just here to watch you work.” Liam paused, pulling one hand away from his chest to gesture Edmund to get a move on. “So get to work.”

Edmund glared at him.

“C’mon. Just… pretend I’m not here. Difficult, I know, given how much you value my witticisms, but I’m sure in the face of certain death you can take yourself seriously.”

Edmund ignored him, starting on his immediate left and slowly knocking the pommel of his sword against the wall for signs of traps or hidden compartments. If Liam wanted to talk, Edmund was going to make damn sure it wasn’t distracting him from anything.

The dungeon’s avatar stayed thankfully silent as Edmund searched the space. The smoke in the air parched his throat and dried his eyes, inflaming the latter and bringing them to water. He blinked and rubbed the blurriness away, keeping his vision as clear as he could.

Still, the haze in the air gave him some pause. He didn’t know exactly what it was he was breathing, if it truly was smoke or some other toxin hidden behind it. Liam, of course, was unperturbed by the acrid air, but Edmund had to realize the possibility that keeping him there was Liam’s entire purpose. He coughed once, despite himself. It was just as likely Liam was trying to distract him from some prize in the entryway as trick him into wasting time searching said entryway.

Edmund wondered if the smoke was toxic. If it was, surely The Island would’ve protected him, or at least safeguarded him from its effects. If its purpose was to obscure vision, his cloudkith sigil would help him overcome it. He took a moment to focus on the image of the cloudkith conjurer in his mind’s eye, pulling upon its ability to see through the fog.

The room seemed to clarify in front of him, its features plain as day to Edmund’s perception. It wasn’t quite the same as seeing through the smoke—the smoke was still there—but an image of what lay beyond the haze seemed to impose itself upon what his eyes actually saw. Curiously enough, Liam remained invisible to this sixth sense. Edmund wondered if that classified the avatar as a vision-reducing effect. He supposed in a way it did.

As if to remind Edmund of his presence, Liam let out a loud and drawn-out yawn, not so subtly urging the delver to get a move on. Out of sheer unwillingness to oblige, Edmund took another look around the room before setting his sights on the path ahead.

He moved slowly down the narrow tunnel, sweeping meticulously for traps and secrets with every step. None revealed themselves.

Liam, curiously enough, didn’t follow his usual habit of vanishing during the boring bits and reappearing when he had something funny to say, instead walking silently at Edmund’s back as he progressed.

It unnerved Edmund. It all unnerved Edmund. The claustrophobia of the space bore down upon him after the comparatively open past few floors, reminding him, as Liam had put it, that he truly was in a hole in the ground. Liam’s behavior, different from what he’d grown accustomed to, set alarm bells off in Edmund’s mind. The smoke wafting off the torches, sitting in the air, in his throat, in his eyes, frightened him further still. Something was off about this floor, and until Edmund knew what, he’d have to be even more careful than usual.

He wondered if that was possible.

With every step he took the noise of his blackbone boots against the stone echoed down the passage, reverberating through the smoky air until it seemed to come from everywhere at once. Every shift in the shadows upon the wall sent Edmund’s heart racing. The further he walked the denser the smoke grew, and the more certain Edmund became that all was not as it seemed.

Liam remained silent, ever present at Edmund’s back, ever watching with that gleefully judging gaze of his. His purpose remained unknown.

Edmund turned left at the first junction, scanning each direction to the maximum range of his cloudkith sense before failing to find any identifying differences between the three paths before him. He turned left again at the next junction. Then left again, until he was certain his path should’ve intersected with where he’d begun. It didn’t. He found no familiarity in the cave, in the stone, in the darkness. Only in the smoke.

“Soon enough, you’re going to have to pick a direction other than left.”

In what he considered his best show of judgment thus far, Edmund ignored Liam’s prattling. Three possibilities presented themselves. Either he was moving in a spiral, each distance between left turns slightly longer than the last, or the tunnels themselves were moving, or—most disconcertingly—something within his own mind had convinced him of such.

Listening to Liam seemed like a good way to exacerbate that last.

He’d made eight total left turns when the sound first reached his ear, a soft whispering, muffled beyond the point of intelligibility, that seemed to come from everywhere at once. Edmund froze. Something was here.

He stilled his breathing, shutting his eyes to focus exclusively on the noise. He envisioned the ways it bounced off the walls, muffled through the density of the smoke, to reach his sigil-enhanced ears. He caught the subtleties of its inflections, the gentle rises and falls that came as he changed the angle of his head.

Edmund’s eyes shot open.

A shadow shifted on the wall up ahead.

Edmund struck.

His Firebolt washed harmlessly against bare stone, its light banishing the shadow of the torchlit stalactite for a brief moment before the gloom and the smoke swallowed it up once more. The whispering ceased.

“Jumping at shadows, are we?” Liam teased. “I knew you were paranoid, but you didn’t have to be so literal about it.”

Edmund grit his teeth and kept walking, ready for attack at any moment. None came.

Despite Liam’s comment, he felt his paranoia growing. Thus far he’d found no traps, no monsters, no threats at all. If he hadn’t known any better, Edmund might’ve thought the dungeon had stopped trying to kill him.

It hadn’t. He just had to work out its method.

He went straight at the next junction, forgoing his habit of left turns for fear of walking in circles. He had no way of knowing if he had been. Liam’s thin smirk certainly didn’t embolden him in his decision.

Edmund paused at the center of a long stretch of tunnel, putting his back to the wall as he stopped to rub his irritated eyes. He swallowed back spit over his hoarse throat, pining for the water skin he’d never carried thanks to his rootmother’s sigil. He could keep hydrated, but he couldn’t wet his tongue.

A shout rang out.

Edmund pulled his hand away from his eyes, wiping their moisture away with the tattered remains of his shadowhide vambrace. A bone chillingly wet gasp for air echoed down the passage.

Edmund ran.

He kept his sword out and his shield raised as he chased the source of the noise. His boots slammed against the ground. His breath shouted out his approach for all to hear. Still he ran. He knew it could’ve been a trap. Thrax, he expected as much. But Edmund also knew he couldn’t pretend to still be human if he didn’t even try to help a delver in need. Whatever monster awaited him, he would fight.

“You killed him!” a woman’s voice sounded from ahead.

“I had no choice!” a man replied. "He was plotting to—someone’s coming!”

The echoes ceased with that, but Edmund had what he needed, he might’ve misplaced their whispers before, but he could track a shout well enough to guess their location. He slowed himself to a walk just before turning the corner that would expose him to them. “Who are you, and what are your numbers?” he called around the bend in the tunnel.

“Stay back!” the second voice answered, his voice quaking. “I killed Dean and I’ll kill you too!”

“Dean was innocent!” the woman yelled. “You just wanted his loot for yourself.”

“Our run’s just started. He’s barely dropped any loot since we picked up at the last hub.”

“That makes it all the more despicable of you,” the woman spat, her voice similarly seeming to shake. “I should kill you for what you’ve done.”

“Like Dean was planning to kill me?”

“That’s enough!” Edmund snapped. “I’m going to come out now, and we’re going to talk like humans, not animals.”

The voices didn’t reply.

Edmund swallowed past his sore throat, raised his shield, and stepped around the corner. He found a man and a woman standing over a necklace and a pair of boots that he could only assume were what remained of Dean.

The man wore chainmail and boiled leather, and clutched a sword which he kept leveled at the woman. She, in contrast, wore dull green robes and held up her bare right palm, clearly threatening some kind of spell. At Edmund’s approach, the man swiveled to point his blade at Edmund. The woman kept her hand pointed at her companion.

“Don’t come any closer!” the man shouted. “I’ll kill you!”

Edmund stopped, alarm bells ringing in his head. Something was wrong. Something was very wrong. These people were far too distrusting to have ever been a functional party. Were it not for the wet blood that dripped from the man’s blade, he might’ve thought the whole setup a trap, two pieces of loot dropped on the floor to fake a party member killed and claimed by the dungeon.

But the blood was real.

“Let’s all calm down,” Edmund said, his shield up and his sword ready to strike. “No-one else needs to die.”

From somewhere behind Edmund, Liam rubbed his hands together and spoke. “Ooh, we’re getting to the good part.”

“That’s enough from you!” Edmund shouted over his shoulder.

The man faltered. “Wh-who are you talking to?”

“Nobody.” Edmund whirled back around to face the strangers. “Now put down your sword and we can talk this through.”

The woman’s eyes widened, but she kept her spell hand pointed at her former party member. “He’s mad.”

“I’m not mad.” Edmund fought to keep his voice as calm as he could.

“You’re a bit mad,” Liam countered.

“I told you to shut up!” Edmund glared backward at Liam.

Even with his head turned he heard the man coming. He heard the thump of his feet upon the ground, the swish of his sword sweeping through the air, the sudden intake of breath in preparation for attack. Between his sharp hearing and positional awareness from the azure fox, he practically saw the delver strike.

Edmund whirled his head back around and bashed with his shield at the same moment, catching the man off guard and knocking him back. He landed on his ass.

“That was a mistake.”

“Y-you were going to kill us.” The man scrambled back. “I had to do something.”

“You had to put down your sword,” Edmund said. “Like I told you to.” He stepped forward once, watching the man flinch as he did. Something was wrong about these two, something beyond their paranoia. He paused for a moment and stared into the man’s frightened eyes until it struck him.

They weren’t red. Neither of the two delvers rubbed at watering eyes. Their voices might’ve quaked with fear, but neither scratched with the same hoarseness as Edmund’s. He furrowed his brow. “Why isn’t the smoke affecting you?”

“The smoke?” the woman asked. “What smo—”

She cut off as the man burst into a fit of coughing.

Edmund’s eyes widened.

The man doubled over, coughing louder and louder with every breath. His inhales came ragged; his exhales came not at all, his air stolen by each continuing cough. “I—I can’t—” He tried and failed to get the words out. Only coughs escaped his lips.

The woman paled and shouted at Edmund. “What are you doing to him?”

“I’m not doing anything,” he breathed, his voice soft and even and quick. “It’s the smoke.”

“What smoke?”

“From the torches,” Edmund muttered. “There’s nowhere for it all to go so it just hangs in the air. I don’t know why it hasn’t affected him yet.”

“The dungeon’s torches don’t give off smoke.” The woman stilled. “You are mad.”

Edmund froze.

Liam’s gaze bore a hole in his back.

The woman looked up at him, fear in her eyes.

