She wasn’t sure if that was actually going to work! Yattina moved closer to see that the thing had no head anymore and looked like a demented spider. She was going to have words with whoever unleashed these things when she got back to the surface.

There came an odd sound like air hissing, and the undefended body of the unit bent, then exploded outwards as its core was grasped in a clawed hand extended by a steel cord. Yattina saw it pull back in, face frowning in confusion.

Why was the claw red?

She looked down to see that where her stomach should be, there was now a sort of hole where the claw had also tried to yank on her too.

She stumbled back and could barely watch as an unseen He-Ro unit stepped out of the shadows of the far end of the bridge. Right… she had been singular when commanding. She had told the destroyed unit to shut down.

She hadn’t said she wanted all units to shut down. How stupid of her. A rookie mistake.

She was bleeding out, and all Yattina could think about was how pretty the sky was.

What a lovely place to die.

---

Deep inside Yattina’s body, a secondary battle of sorts was occurring. Orange motes banged on bones to demand an increase of red blood cells to account for the loss occurring. The bone marrow didn’t respond, as it was bone marrow.

This annoyed the mana greatly.

There were only two things this mana collective despised.

Gazebos and lazy bone marrow.

It had a moment to think to itself. A body was just a dungeon that… moved, right? A body really was just a dungeon that took food in and produced stuff that other people wanted.

So, if it just ‘pretended’ this human body was a Dungeon…

It stuffed some mana into the bones and demanded red blood cells.

It got… reddish orange brownish ones. That wasn’t quite right, but as the mana went to work, the ALPHA system kicked in and began to assign the excess mana to abilities to prevent mana poisoning.

Lungs? It could do better. Now she could hold her breath much longer! The mana looked at her muscles and just nudged them to be far more compact. A mix of oxygen and mana would skip that pesky mortal limit.

Oh, while it was here, it could turn her liver into a proto-steel!

It reached her brain and found there was zero drive to reproduce or seek fleshy pleasures. The mana saw no defect and moved on. And at last! The Delta Seed replacement! One of the few things in this body that was a work of art!

It just hooked the body up with maybe twice the average connectors than most people might have for their seeds.

It wasn’t cheating. It was min-maxing.

Now, it would work on the anti-gazebo weaponry…

---

Devina reached down, using her magic to heal the deep wound in the human. She was reacting to it much better than Devina thought she would.

She winced as Giant was flung back by the new form, the transformed He-ro unit that had devoured its kin. It had only gained some of its spider-like features, but it retained its head.

“Adapted. Tainted captain weakness. Removed. Command unit in place.” it said with a harsh metallic tone.

“W-w-w-w-weakness removed. Core stability at 35%… error, cannot adapt.” it rambled as it moved forward.

It pointed its hand at Devina as it formed something like a sonic blaster.

“Goal remains. Reach core. Damage core. Return. Strength Unit will return to side soon. We will become one.” it said, and Devina raised up a spirit barrier to protect her, Giant, and Gramps.

The elder frog grimaced as the shield was torn apart a moment later.

“Damage? Why?” Devina demanded, rage in her voice at the idea.

“That is the mission,” it rumbled.

“That explains nothing! What logic do you have for doing this?” Devina asked, hoping to confuse it.

“I exist to serve. I serve. I have a purpose. I am a tool of the god- error. Tool of Fairplay. I am their weapon.” it said as it charged its cannon once more.

Devina covered the human with her body, hoping to at least save her.

“NOT TODAY!” came the sounds of a furious river and power. Devina looked up to see Rale with his fist out, diverting the sound waves with his… muscles?

What a glorious sight. Devina wouldn’t mind nearly dying so much if this happened…

“New threat. You are but one. I will win,” the robot declared as it stomped closer. Rale rubbed his nose with his fingers before he twirled his trident.

“You see one, but I see Bob,” he countered.

“…Error. Element ‘Bob’ not recognized,” it said then a moment later the entire bridge erupted upwards as Bob, the giant worm, swallowed the robot whole.

“Devina, get the guppy somewhere safe. Me and Bob can’t hold back here,” he said as he turned back to the others.

Devina began to shake her head.

“It’s powerful, I fear that-” she began, but he grinned, and her heart skipped a beat.

“Don’t fear, for I will always be here,” he said, and the sun shone down on him, making him almost glow.

“I’ll be back once the human is safe. Do not dare perish on me, or I’ll be beyond upset,” she warned and helped Giant to his feet and let Gramps take the human.

“Hurry back… I can slow it down, but you have the power to truly defeat it, I can feel it,” he said, and Devina moved as she saw Luna setting traps to slow the robot down if it got past Rale.

---

Unseen by the frogs, a form stepped out of the shadows to watch the battle with a tilted head.

Renny made motions of taking off invisible gloves and rolled his neck.

Surely the lord of the rivers wouldn’t mind the Ringmaster taking a shot? There was something delicious inside that robot that Renny simply had to sample.

A sort of in between life and death energy that made his toes curl.

It would be his little ‘midnight snack.’
