Okay, so axe-form Unity isn’t the prettiest or most elegant weapon in the world, looking more like a shallow-bladed club, but it functions beautifully. The balance is a little high, which shortens my range since I have to choke up on the grip, but if Dienne knew about Unity’s inner workings or saw it transform, his mind would explode at the complexity. I should shoot him for insulting this beautiful work of art, somewhere non-fatal but incredibly painful...

After imagining myself shooting him in the junk a few times, I finally calm myself enough to step back and let the Healers do their work. Taking no satisfaction from my victory, I bow to the Legate and return to my retinue, with anger still burning hot in my chest, though slowly being displaced by my mounting shame. I shouldn’t have broken his leg like that, not without giving him a chance to yield. It was a dick move and I’m better than that, or at least I should be. I’m falling into a pattern of shitty behaviour, letting my darker nature take over whenever I lose my temper. While rage might make me stronger, if this keeps up, it’s only a matter of time before the Spectres are back, and this time I won’t have Baledagh to take the blame or Blobby to keep me clean anymore.

To make matters worse, the applause for my victory is scattered and weak, with none present too impressed by my frenzied assault. While strength is everything, these spars are about more than winning and for the first time, I understand why. It’s about showing your skill, your superiority, and why you deserve the title of Number one talent in the Empire. Even though I won, it was more luck than skill considering the risks I took charging in like that. The way they see it, if we fought again, it’d still be even odds on who wins, nothing like the overbearing victories claimed by Yan, Dastan, or Wu Gam.

Ugh. I wanna curl up and hide away with something cute and cuddly...

After so much rough treatment, the platform looks like its ready to fall apart, but the Legate came prepared. Calling for an intermission before the next match, we stand around and watch as servants run in and replace the crumbling areas with new sections of undamaged rafts. Working with well-practised efficiency, it’ll only be a few minutes before they’re finished with their repairs, leaving the platform in tip-top shape for Wu Gam and Yan’s bout, both participants already waiting on opposite sides of the ‘arena’.

Forcing myself to focus on something other than Yan’s delectable booty, I study the deadpan Wu Gam instead. Truly a fearsome competitor, this young demi-human will be a tough nut to crack, easily fending off Yong-Jin’s fearsome assault with little to no effort before bringing him down with a poke of his staff. Most people think a staff is a weapon for peasants, but a proper war-staff is a whole different beast. The lack of a bladed head allows for better balance and it doesn’t really matter if a staff doesn’t pierce your flesh if it crushes bones and organs instead. As for Wu Gam himself, his expression leaves no clues to his inner thoughts, but his twitching silver-furred fox ears give him away. He’s obviously troubled by something, and judging by the way he keeps looking away from his opponent’s face, I’d wager it’s because someone has a crush on Yan. Can’t blame him either, Yan is... your friend. No more objectifying her. Stop it. Bad libido.

On the other side, Yan’s lost her flirty smile and fluttering lashes, taking this match more seriously than her last. Unsheathing her sword, she flourishes it about before taking her stance, shield forward and sword at her side. Rather than a standard double-edged jian so popular with Central’s nobles, Yan’s second Spiritual Weapon is a little more exotic, a wide... sword(?) bearing a distinctive wavy-edged blade and a concave tip, sort of like a butterfly’s wings. It looks more like a solid, flat fan than a proper sword, and as she moves it about, I notice it’s not only wider at the tip than the base, but also almost paper thin. A lightweight, doubled-edged weapon meant for cutting? Even if Honing does most of the work, a heavier blade adds a great deal more power to a swing, so it’s not exactly an optimal weapon. I can’t exactly see why such an exotic design is necessary, but I bet Mila could explain.

Once the stage repairs are complete, both combatants step forward and the Crier begins his countdown. Yan’s six-pointed shield and weird, wavy sword won’t win in a head on clash with Wu Gam’s heavy stone staff, but my worries are all for naught. As if having read my mind, Yan’s strategy is straight out of my playbook, taking her distance the moment the match begins. Standing in place with his staff resting against the platform, Wu Gam gazes at Yan with a forlorn expression. “You should yield,” he says, his voice higher pitched and more melodic than expected. “You cannot win.”

Eyebrow twitching, Yan purses her lips and narrows her eyes, annoyed by his patronizing tone. Flashing an insincere smile, Yan replies, “I’ll speak slowly so you understand, you hard-headed halfwit. You’re strong, but nowhere near strong enough to make me yield without trying. Victory or defeat can only be determined after a match is fought, so less talking and more fighting brick for brains.”

Oh good, so they’re not friends. Hooray! I still have a chance.

...Aw, now I feel bad for Yan. Did she not make any friends the whole time she was here?

Chapter Meme
