Debby moved past it, shaking her head. “It’s fine. I’m not sure who I am going to be, but Jane is gonna continue doing that, and I’m gonna be… I haven’t considered the future too much.” She shrugged, threw some more chicken into the hot oil, and said, “On the plus side, I get to experiment with that whole ‘immortality through abandoning your past with [Polymorph]’ idea. Now that will involve a changing Truth… Maybe.”

Erick smiled softly. “House Benevolence will always be here for you as long as I’m around. We have programs for all that stuff, too, though not directly; it’s through Stratagold.”

“Yeah I’ve spoken with Sitnakov about all that before and…”

The conversation meandered, from magic to the future to everything else. Eventually, dinner was ready, but Debby placed the hot food under [Ward]s for no one else was ready, and soon Erick sat with Debby at the kitchen table and spoke of magic, and Erick’s burgeoning Wizardry-Classification system.

Eventually, the girls came back from investigating the Mirror and the Well with Solomon, and Poi came down from his work rooms above. Dinner was great, and there was a lot of it, for Erick [Duplicate]d the best bits of chicken to make enough for everyone, as he usually did. It was a lot easier to make a normal portion of food and then copy it for 10 people, than it was to cook for 10 people every night.

[Duplicate] seemed like it might be mag 9 magic, now that Erick was thinking about it.

“Nope,” Poi said, “Only mag 8.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. “Holy shit? That big?”

Poi nodded.

A whole new conversation started about magnitude.

- - - -

“So we’re going to start searching for the Sundering causes today,” Erick said, to the gathered gods. “It’s mostly going to be a crap shoot if we can actually reach wherever we’re aiming, but if we can manage to crack open a path through the Dark into the desired lands, then we’re going ahead with the search. We haven’t proven that we can actually do that yet, but that’s coming up, too.

“Anyway.

“We have 3 targets lined up. All of them are massively major artifacts.

“The first is the Lifeblood Heart. From my understanding from my daughters and the Well, it’s an Elemental Stone, Air, and Water artifact, along with a smattering of smaller life-aligned powers, created however long ago in the Old Cosmology, and guarded by the Order of the Sacred Pulse. It’s like a Benevolence fountain, always creating life, but a whole lot more. It was the infinite mana artifact of a powerful Creation Wizard.

“The second is the Prismatic Key. This one might be the best option for further exploration of the Dark. It’s a key that takes you wherever you want to go, and makes the land on both sides of the resultant [Gate] habitable to life on both sides.

“The third option is the Censer of Destruction, which is a Destruction Wizard artifact that can destroy whatever is burned inside of it.” Erick said, “Unless you all have different suggestions, or specific suggestions, then we’re going for those. When we get them, we’ll hand them over to Rozeta and the Script. Except for the Key. That’ll let us search for other items easier.”

Erick finished, and waited.

This particular meeting of the gods took place on the grounds outside of the slime dungeon, just there in the clearing, upon the grass. It wasn’t a formal thing; it was pure business. All Erick had done was call up to the sky, and they had answered.

Rozeta, Phagar, Koyabez, and Atunir had calmly listened while Erick spoke.

And then Rozeta looked to the others. “The Heart.”

“I withhold my opinion,” Phagar said. “But the Key would be useful for you.”

“I’m partial to the Censer,” Koyabez said. “I know of it, and it is a very minor Destruction Wizard artifact, told of in stories of people looking to destroy the indestructible.”

Atunir said, “The Censer would be the safe choice. It wouldn’t actually help with Primal Lightning, though. For that, I suggest we consider the Lightning Shield.” She looked to Erick. “It was one of the many artifacts that helped us escape the Primal Lightning back then, but it was destroyed in Ar’Kendrithyst 800 years ago in a ritual of the Dark. Sininindi has the pieces of that—”

Sininindi, Goddess of Storm and Sea, stepped down into the clearing.

Atunir continued, “And if you can’t find the Lightning Shield in the past and bring it to this present, then perhaps you can Paradox that artifact back into existence through Sininindi’s assistance.”

Sininindi said, “I was having Quilatalap make that item, actually, along with a bunch of others.”

Everyone looked to Sininindi.

Sininindi said, “He knows the artifact because it was in his custody for a short while, before the Shades destroyed it. So yes, I have charged Quilatalap with remaking that treasure and others as a part of his dungeon work. Perhaps in a few months Erick can journey into there, as he had done to your dungeon, Atunir, and rescue the true Lightning Shield from that ritual.” She spoke to the group, “As for current searches in the Dark, I recommend a search for the Foregone Octagon, or the Book of Class, or the Enchanter’s Guile.” She looked to Erick, adding, “The Enchanter’s Guile is probably the best option for you to grab from the Dark. It will assist you with making artifacts of your own.”

Atunir nodded. “A fair choice.”

Phagar nodded, slightly less sure, along with Koyabez.

Erick said, “That is a good target, too.”

Rozeta frowned a little, saying, “I would prefer the Heart. Doubling Veird’s mana production would solve so many smaller problems and completely negate the need for dungeons, allowing us self sufficiency right now.”

In a slightly-exasperated voice, Atunir said, “Even if they managed to find it, the mana pressure alone would force them away. That’s the singular problem that the Order of the Sacred Pulse had with it; they could never truly defend it, or anchor it to a location, because it kept flying away from them… and everyone else.” She explained to Erick, “The thing doubles the mana production of all life near it, and so it has a way of always flying out of hand.”

From the looks of everyone, Atunir was right on the money with her assessment.

Rozeta still said, “I still want it. We can stick it in orbit, and if it simply pushes itself away from Veird, then that’s fine, too.”

“… Hmm.” Erick said, “Well maybe we need a containment system for the Heart before we retrieve the Heart. I’m not sure how many chances we get at stealing a specific item from the Dark, but I’m assuming one time, and one time only.”

“The Heart can’t be contained,” Phagar said, “That was one thing that was always true of that item. Leave it be for now.”

Erick said, “Then the Key or the Censer.” He looked to Atunir and Sininindi, adding, “Or the Lightning Shield?”

Sininindi said, “Give me a few months and there’s no need to risk the Dark for that item.”

Erick instantly said, “If you make it, then it might be the cause of the Prophesied Storm.”

“Doubtful,” Sininindi said, leaving it at that.

Phagar said, “I suggest the Key.”

“You’re not refraining?” Rozeta asked.

Phagar said, “I will refrain, but add that the Key is the best choice.”

Koyabez said, “Going after the Key would be going after a Paradox; there’s no telling what you would walk into. I suggest the Censer again, because the Censer allowed for the creation of a bastion of complete safety, where nothing evil was allowed to exist. If you do manage to find that place in the Dark, and it’s real, then there will be absolutely nothing dangerous at all about the location, and the artifact you pull from it will be endlessly useful, especially if you manage to pull some infinite Banned mana item from the Dark—” He added toward Rozeta, “—like the Heart, with its infinite mana generation along a hundred different axes.”

“We can deal with a little banned magic, but you do raise a good point.” Rozeta said, “I still suggest the Heart, because the benefits outweigh the costs. But really it’s up to Erick.” She looked to him. “The Script will accept whatever you give it, and all of the stated items will be useful.”

Unsaid consensus passed around the gathering.

Erick nodded, then said, “One final question on the nature of Wizards and Gods. Would it be correct to say that gods set the over-reality to which we all live within, while Wizards set their personal reality, and pull possibility from side realities into the over-reality, for use in the over-reality?”

There were a few queer looks among the gathered gods.

Phagar said, “Sounds reasonable to me.”

Atunir nodded. Koyabez nodded a bit deeper. Sininindi agreed, but with a slight tilt of her head; she did not fully agree.

Rozeta said, “It’s a bit simplistic, but yes. That’s largely correct. I would add that the clearer the ideas and methodology that a Wizard has regarding side-realities, the easier it is to pull from those side-realities.” She added, “But to rephrase in classically-accepted wordage: The more you know of how magic works, the easier it is for you to impose your Reality upon reality.”

Erick found himself chuckling once. “I believe I have said almost that exact same phrase before.”

Atunir said, “It’s a Paradox Wizard’s understanding of reality, for sure, but it is not incorrect.”

Sininindi said, “That was my general disagreement with the statement.”

“It’s not incorrect, though,” Koyabez said, “It is functional, and all Wizards approach that final Truth differently. I am glad to see that you are getting closer to True Wizardry, Erick. I have ten thousand things I would ask of you and ten thousand reciprocations I could offer once you achieve that sort of power.”

Phagar spoke up, “I have ten thousand requests as well, but they’re all about maintaining the current timeline since it seems to be working out the best for everyone.”

“I wouldn’t want to go time traveling yet, anyway,” Erick said.

Everyone in the clearing relaxed a little at that, except for Phagar, who was as perfectly poised as he always was, since he knew all of Time forward and backwards and sideways. For all the rest of the gods, Wizards were sources of chaos that were hard to read.

Rozeta said, “If you do ever get to time traveling more than an hour at a time, I would ask you to keep that shit away from Veird. We’ve had enough messes regarding that for one Cosmology.”

Erick nodded.

And the meeting was over.

As fast as the gods had come at Erick’s call, they departed, like golden wind and fire and lightning, dispersing back into the manasphere.

Erick turned toward the left, where a group of adventurers had hunkered down under as much invisibility and otherwise as they could muster, but which Erick still saw through. It was a man and two women, all in armor, all ready for battle, though that was just a stress response. They had heard the voices and tried to creep up for the last few minutes, before they stalled out at the edge of the clearing. They had seen who was talking. Now, they stayed where they were, practically frozen on the spot, the man and the woman having pissed themselves, while the other woman had not.

“Not sure who you are, but it’s dangerous around these parts these days,” Erick said, as Ophiel descended to stand next to the adventurers. The three of them locked eyes with Ophiel, and the three of them went absolutely frozen in terror. “… You three okay?”

No response.

Erick scooped them up in a [Gate] and dropped them off at Aniduun, breaking all of their invisibility spellwork in the process. Once they realized where they were —which took a moment— they freaked the fuck out for a good five minutes before they got themselves under control again. Erick moved on. The three adventurers were not Erick’s problem.

- - - -

Inside of a massive tunnel in the Underworld, located deep below the northern pole, or at least where the ‘northern pole’ would be on Veird, Jane and the sisters stood about a hundred meters away from the target destination. It was hard to see from this angle and in the absolute dark of this deep land, but there was a dungeon entrance beyond that ridge over there. It was a very new dungeon.

Jane wasn’t sure this was going to work, but they were here, courtesy of Ophiel and her father. Ophiel hung around in the air above, providing some light in the dark and a connection to base.

They didn’t have much time, so Jane got on with it as fast as she could.

“We’re going after the Censer, as you all know,” Jane said to her gathered sisters, except for Debby, who stayed at the dungeon. “We’re probably not going to find it, but we should be able to actually reach the targeted location from here. When we get there, we’ll destroy the core as fast as possible. Within the exposed Dark, we will find a path to the Censer…” Jane paused. “What?”

Ophiel had swung close. He spoke with her father’s voice, “The Mirrors are showing that the target has moved. Want to try this area anyway? Make an honest go of exploring the Dark, for real?”

Jane muttered, “That was faster than it should have been.”

The group paused in thought.

Emily was the first to speak. “This is more of a chance to pull anything real from the Dark at all, so yeah. Let’s dig in and see what we can find, and if we can actually bring any of it back.”

Abigail said, “I’d like an anti-anti-memetic monster form.”

Candice frowned at her, saying, “You weren’t even able to wear that shackle for an hour before you ripped it off.”

“You didn’t do any better,” Abigail said.

Beth said, “It’s fucking weird that none of us could wear that bracelet for very long.”

All of her sisters had tried wearing the Bracelet of Memory, the anti-anti-memetic slave shackle that disallowed the wearer from forgetting anything at all, and all of them had done poorly with it. Jane included. Jane didn’t remember her time wearing the artifact very much, once she took it off, but when she observed her sisters with it, she certainly remembered all of the others being very eager to remove the Bracelet.

“We’re probably constantly infected with anti-memetic magics; yes,” Jane said, going over the same talk that they’ve had for the past week, when they were doing everything except for actually progressing on the main quest. “But that doesn’t matter right now.”

