Wizardry took hold of the air, and condensed down into an item.

And it didn’t explode.

Erick was already thrilled. He might have succeeded in making an item that would protect the item itself from all possible Knowledge or Anti-Knowledge forces. It was probably too soon to count those chickens, but Erick was still half-counting them.

Erick telekinetically plucked the ‘rod’ out of the mana/Script void, hovering it to his hands carefully. He did not touch it yet; he simply inspected his work. The item was 35 centimeters of wrist-thick gold and runed up and down the entire length. Erick had placed four spherical, internally-expansive mana gems into the rod, but you couldn’t tell that from looking at it. It looked, quite simply, like a rolled-up scroll. Which it was.

While Solomon and the girls delved dungeons, increasing their base mana production through trials of the Dark, Erick worked with magic, mana crystals, and with Wizardry. For the last 12 days, Erick had been at this project. Prototypes had been made and discarded, proofs-of-concepts turning to dust or tumorous-crystal, mana crystals cracking and then being remade in spherical crystal forms because those worked better. Erick was pretty much exclusively working with mana spheres these days, even though he was having trouble sticking advanced spellwork into those, since spheres only had so much space inside of them, even if they were pushed inward forcibly. The Glittering Depths had done a lot to make their mana spheres work, and Erick was nowhere near replicating that level of power. But Erick had learned a lot, anyway!

It had taken a lot of work to get here, and maybe, this time, this project would work.

The four gems inside the scroll included some very specific magics.

[Cascade Imaging], but tuned for all particles, and without any map functionality. Just pure identification.

The second gem was [Identify] and [Force Wave] along with some Aura work, to produce a short-range [Scan]-like effect. The actual [Scan] spell in the Script was kinda shit, and Erick never used it anyway. Simple Book Magic was enough to make this part of the artifact work fine.

The third gem was a very special [Mend], in order to keep it all together. [Mend] worked off of the manasphere imprint of an item, which meant that if the manasphere imprint was disrupted, then [Mend] was severely disrupted, too. Thus, most of the text of the golden scroll was to make the imprint of the item a self-reinforcing [Mend] magic. To do that, Erick had worked with an understanding of the Time Magic qualities of [Mend], stretching the qualifying time of this [Mend] to a more perfect state of the item, here, at the very beginning of its creation.

If this didn’t work how he wanted it to work, Erick would need to make some ‘Selector’ magic that would self-reference to a specific, perfect point in the item’s history, to allow for a [Mend] that always functioned well. But that was a level of complexity that was beyond the scope of this current project.

A lot of functionality was beyond the scope of this iteration of this ‘Scroll of Self-Knowledge’.

The fourth gem was [Renew], because Erick wanted all the mana in the item to work well together, until it degraded.

Because, let’s get real, it was probably not going to work how Erick wanted it to work.

Erick had inscribed an entire treatise into the scroll, declaring what the item was for, and how it wasn’t to be influenced by any exterior forces, how it wasn’t to allow itself to be used by any exterior forces for anything. None of that would affect the wielder. It was to be purely a self-contained item, cut off from the influence of everything; a slice of reality unto itself. A potential blueprint for how a successful crystallization of a True Wizard might appear.

Erick hadn’t touched the scroll yet.

The scroll hovered in front of him, held by his aura and nothing else, a sense of weight to the item, like a lodestone in the manasphere. It was barely charged, but it would be charged soon enough.

Ophiel squeaked.

And Erick touched the scroll.

White lightning flickered from his fingertips to the runes upon the scroll, Benevolence flickering across the entire surface and flashing out from the endcaps—

In a shattering moment, reality reorganized itself. Gold exploded away from the scroll, torn rolls of metal splashing, molten across the ground. For a moment, Erick thought he had failed again.

But the scroll hovered where Erick had placed it. It looked nothing like it had a moment ago.

Brilliant white and shimmering with colors inside every inscription, the scroll hovered, transformed. It was no longer metal at all, but instead white crystal. The whole thing was pure Benevolence, with a bit of Book and Time and other such powers inside of it.

Erick smiled. And then he touched the scroll…

The scroll did not move. Erick poked it again, and the scroll hovered there, unmoving, adamantine in its position.

“… uhh?”

Perhaps some magical wires had been crossed, because the scroll should still be able to move… And yet. To be moved, was to be affected, and the item was strictly made so that nothing would affect it.

Okay. So.

A misfire of Wizardry, if Erick ever saw one.

He poked the scroll. The scroll remained.

He pressed down on the scroll. The scroll remained.

He punched the scroll, and his hand hurt from the punch. Erick had not hurt himself punching anything in a long while. Erick moved on to aura control, to spellwork, and finally to Spatial Magic. Working Spatial Magic inside the Dark Itself was rather damned difficult, and truly working Spatial Magic inside the slime dungeon would require some runic tools and warp-pads like they had between the Geodes. But Erick could manage smaller Spatial Magics himself. Moving something a meter inside a dungeon? Should be doable.

The scroll remained.

Erick tried hitting it with some [Benevolent Lightning], angry-style, to try and leave some scorch marks, or something. And yet, nothing.

Erick put his hands on his hips, and said, “Well I’m glad I fucked up this step here, and not with my actual self.”

He moved on to the next iteration of the project; one that could follow some verbal instructions…

“Though ‘verbal instructions’ is too unclear.” Erick mused, “Perhaps a secondary artifact that allows position-control over the scroll?” Erick looked around. Then he looked back at the floating scroll. The scroll was taking up experimental space on his platform. “… I’m gonna have to make a new platform.”

Erick created another platform away from the scroll, so that his first ‘success’ didn’t fuck up his second attempt.

A day later, when Erick was inscribing another scroll, the first scroll suddenly fell out of the air and crashed to the ground. The Benevolence crystal shattered into so much spent mana then rapidly melted back into the manasphere.

Erick looked at the dissolution of that mana crystal for a long moment, then he went back to his designs, muttering, “I must have screwed up the mana recycling, too, because that should have lasted a lot longer than a day...” softer, “or maybe there was an outside influence that I hadn’t accounted for, and we are chasing an anti-meme… theoretically...”

He paused as he looked at his latest scroll.

“Nope.”

And then he ripped it up, melted it down to slag, and then purified it again through a variety of Condensing spells and particle voids and applied heat.

He went back to the drawing board, all the way back to the basics of magic itself; the question of mana.

- - - -

Erick worked on the kitchen table, books and writings spread out, as he combed over old ideas and wrote down new ideas, based on his new theories of the multiverse and magic.

Debby was making dinner tonight. It was just her, Poi upstairs reading, and Erick in the kitchen. The other girls and Solomon were outside in the dungeon, poking around with the Dark Mirror, making plans for an assault upon the first of the rescue targets in the Dark. They had already consulted the Well in the center of Ascendant City, and after a week of downtime and a lot more personal mana growth, they were ready to get back to it. Mostly.

That first dungeon core breaking had messed them all up rather well, but time heals most wounds.

For the last week, Erick had enjoyed more time with Jane than he had ever enjoyed before, here on Veird, or even back on Earth, though most of that time spent with ‘Jane’ had been spent with a Jane of a different color. One or two of the girls had opted to spend the night in this dungeon house every night, while the others stayed at the hotel. Erick wasn’t privy to the organization of all of that, for there very much was an organization behind the scenes, with the girls deciding among themselves who stayed each night, but he was happy anyway to talk with Jane over dinner, or Debby over lunch, or Abigail, or Beth, or Candice whenever they wanted to show up. Emily was particularly strong minded about Erick’s political choices, and she was all for talking about House Benevolence all the time, to which Erick was thrilled to see ‘Jane’ interested in all of that. She had never been interested in that before.

Parts of this whole arrangement were weird.

All of the girls seemed to have their own ‘thing’ they were interested in. Or perhaps they were finally allowing themselves to enjoy a ‘thing’, and distance themselves from who they had been before. Erick was still discovering what all those nuances were, but Emily was definitely interested in governance in a way that Jane had never allowed herself to enjoy… or maybe she just never wanted to talk to her father about all that. Emily had no such problems… or maybe she had decided to ‘get over’ those problems.

Hard to say.

Erick and Solomon had spoken to each other at length about Wizardry, and about the girls, with Erick getting the normal treatment from most of them, with added parts to each relationship that Jane had never allowed herself to share before. Solomon, however, was getting the ‘fellow delver’ treatment. A simple coworker. Erick could honestly say that he was jealous about that. To get to know Jane as a person, instead of as a daughter, sounded wonderful. At that admission, Solomon just smiled and said that yeah, he would be jealous, too…

Where was Erick again?

Oh yes. With the multiversal theory.

As Erick scratched words onto paper, he thought about how each of the girls could be a reflection from a different multiverse—

“I’m not going out there again,” Debby said, tense as anyone could be, and also trying not to show it.

Ah.

And then there was Debby.

Erick had wondered what was up with her, for she had been tense all day long, so he had decided to work on the kitchen table while she made dinner. He was giving her space to talk, and she was taking that space. She stopped working, and was looking at Erick, waiting for him to reprimand her.

Erick would do no such thing.

“Okay. That’s fine, Debby. Want to stay here and watch from the Mirror with Solomon and I?”

No reprimand?

Erick watched as Debby realized that she wasn’t in trouble at all, even though she felt like she should be. And then she realized that of course she wasn’t in trouble. Her father would support her however she wished to live her life.

Debby smiled a little as she checked on the frying pot, flicking a bit of batter into the hot oil to check if it was hot enough. The batter sizzled; the oil was hot enough. Debby moved on to the wet-battered chicken, to begin to pluck it out and toss it into the pot, as she said, “Yeah. I’m going to stay here. Thanks, dad.”

“Of course!” Erick said, “You know…” Debby was the Jane who had briefly experienced ‘life as Erick’ during the core breaking last week, and now that she was going to stay here, Erick suddenly felt like maybe, just maybe, she might be opening to talking about other topics; ones that Jane never wanted to discuss. He asked, “You want to talk about magic?”

“Yes!” Debby said, with perhaps too much enthusiasm for her. She shrugged, adding, “Uh. Yes.”

Erick tried not to smile too much, elation filling him from toes to his top. “I’m working on Minor Wizardry right now, trying to think of what ‘Minor’ really means in this context, and what I’m arriving at is that all magic is technically ‘minor’ Wizardry. It is said that all of the First Magics came from Wizards, after all. Want to talk about that?” He said, “Or we could work on something you want. What sorts of magics are you up to these days?”

As chicken fried, Debby cast a little bubble of Force that prevented oil from popping in the air. She was gearing up for something big, and it took her a moment to get there, but Erick could already tell she was past the hard part. She casually blurted out, “I’m probably going to go into Lightning Magic. The Truth I had as Jane still works but I can already see it fading some. I think that core breaking was a deeper break than I thought.”

“… That’s possible? I didn’t know it was possible for a Truth to change like that—” Erick corrected himself, “Except in extreme circumstances, which I suppose this counts.”

Debby nodded. “We don’t have many records of repros destroying cores, or experiencing what we experienced, so… Apparently it can change a Truth. I seem to be the only one, though. The others are fine.” She shrugged. “It’s probably just as well, right? We’re searching for some sort of Lightning Magic anyway. Maybe having a Lightning Truth will help with that. And Lightning is kinda fun. Though I never used to think like that before I had that… experience as you.”

“You can be anything you want to be, Debby, and I’ll help you get wherever you want to go.”

Debby smirked a little, looking away. “… Or maybe my Jane-Truth still works just fine.” She added, “But I still want to differentiate myself. So I’m gonna go with Lightning Magic. Got any tips? How about from the ground up, based around your new multiverse-theories?”

Erick smiled as he sat back in his chair, saying, “Excellent!” Erick thought for a moment, then began, “So, thinking about Lightning Magic from a multiversal plane-egress sort of way…

“The Old Cosmology was made of different planes that all existed alongside each other in a cohabitation configuration, in what some might have called the Material Plane. But there was no Elemental Material, or anything like that, as far as we know. If anything, it was all just elements expressing themselves in the Realm of the Dark, so perhaps ‘the Dark’ was the Material Plane, like this dungeon space we’re in right now, but probably different.

