For all that they all originated from Jane, Jane was already seeing a lot of variation among them. Chief among that variation was that they all wanted to goof around just a bit too much for her tastes, thus the need for a group-talk before any big missions. But they were still copies of her. All it took was a slight look and a call to action and the group organized again.

Jane continued, “We’ve done small forays into the Dark before, but we’ve always pulled back from actually going into the places we’ve seen. Even if we aren’t going after the Censer this time, it will still be good to actually try the Dark, for real.” She looked to Ophiel. “Dad. Can you tell what is in the Dark around this dungeon now?”

“Yeah, but it’s been changing a lot. One moment,” Ophiel said, followed fast by, “The dungeon itself is a tunnel system, but the Dark beyond is… A place of metal? No. Of glass. Yes. Solomon and Debby are saying Glass, and I agree... Maybe Elemental Crystal, actually; so Light and Stone. Maybe some Metal, too. Hard to say— No. Wait. It’s moving on again. Some sort of water or slime— Oh! Oozes and slimes? Looks like ooze— Back to being crystal—”

The second Jane had heard ‘ooze’ Jane instantly rushed forward, speaking over her father’s voice, saying, “We move fast! We want that.” Even if the Deeper Dark changed before they got there, finding oozes and slimes was a very good thing to go for. Oozes and slimes were great Familiar Forms. As she ran Jane fell apart into an ooze made of black goo; a curse ooze, the advanced form of the curse slime. It was the only monster that was truly capable of surviving in the Dark for any proper length of time, and it was their first line of defense against the absolute destruction of the Dark. With a bit of [Greater Shadowalk] manipulation, Jane raced off toward the dungeon, calling out, “Tell us if it changes!”

All of her sisters were already following, all of them having had the same idea, at almost the same moment, all of them turning into curse oozes...

- - - -

… Erick stood upon the white ridge of the slime dungeon, watching his five girls, like blobs of super-animated black goo, race into the dungeon. They rapidly left Ophiel’s sight and appeared upon the Mirror in front of Erick, inside the dungeon. Erick kept his senses split between Ophiel, hovering above the dungeon, and with himself, watching his girls rip down into the dungeon, which was a whole bunch of random tunnels made of stone. All of the girls followed the flow of mana directly toward the core.

Erick was only controlling one Mirror. Solomon and Debby controlled the other two. Together, the three of them watched the dungeon space, and also the Dark surrounding that dungeon.

From three different angles, Erick watched as his girls assaulted the core room, where they absolutely demolished a rock golem, before attacking the core and shattering it into pieces—

- - - -

—Erick stood within fire and light. The ground was flame so thick it was solid. That flame stretched out to the horizon, where geysers of fire looped up into the absolute black sky, before coming back down like liquid annihilation—

- - - -

— his daughters were doing something that Erick didn’t fully understand. Standing atop the ridge of the Slime Dungeon, Erick watched them work amid the crushing depths of the destroyed dungeon. The Black fell inward, a hole between moving continents closing fast, crushing them utterly, and yet not at all. The girls became one with the Black, with the Dark, their ooze forms allowing them to be separate, to survive. They spun magic into the Dark—

And the Janes flopped into the Deeper Dark, accomplishing something else that Erick didn’t fully understand. Erick assumed that Jane was learning stuff outside of his purview, probably from Fallopolis or Lapis or some other Shade. Whatever the case, the Janes crossed a discrepancy in the world, and ended up in the Deeper Dark, or the Dark, Erick wasn’t sure. They were inside a land that was not simple Dark at all.

Trying to comprehend what he was seeing, and how he had seen it, was taking Erick some time.

There had been a Blackness in the crush of continents, and then the crush was gone, and now the girls were inside a larger space of the Dark beyond, and yet, that larger space of the Dark beyond did not really exist at all until the girls had invaded that space.

Before the girls had arrived on scene, and according to the Mirrors, the larger Dark beyond the tunnels was a bunch of nonsensical dream imagery. That’s why Erick had had such a hard time describing what he was seeing in the Mirrors. And then the girls had arrived, forcing their way forward, and then opening up the space on the other side. They made that space quite real… Or at least it was real where the girls had shown up?

Hmm.

Far as the Mirrors could see, the girls had landed on a land of black rock and crystal spikes, where black slimes with glowing-white cores held upon those ridges, like the capping stars on many different Christmas trees made of black crystal. Ponds of black slimes, all without shining cores, held here and there below those crowning slimes, all of them trying and failing to climb the slick crystal. But sometimes, here and there upon the black crystal landscape, multiple slimes had managed to reach the topmost ridge, and stay there, like multiple kings of the mountain. Here and there, groups of three or four star-core slimes decorated the night with their tiny lights.

Everything else was black.

Erick was still focused on how the black-ooze girls had managed to create this space out of the death of the tunnel dungeon, but the girls focused on the task at hand. They grabbed some slimes like they were children ripping at the innards of a broken pinata.

The five girls managed to grab about twenty slimes, some with bright cores, most without, and then they rapidly began to retreat, doing something else that Erick didn’t quite understand.

From the outside, it looked as though the girls had crashed into a black space in the air, or some sort of shadow, and that there was no way back at all. The continents had crushed together, after all. There was no tunnel dungeon to fight through to get back to this reality. It was like they had been thrown into Fairy; without knowing the ways in and out, or having an actual entrance or exit, one could easily get trapped there for all eternity.

But the girls somehow found the hole in the Dark that they had created, and then they widened that hole, before slipping back, through the black, dragging slimes with them—

They vanished from the Dark Mirrors—

—Through Ophiel, Erick watched them emerge into normal reality.

Except the girls all popped into the stone which made up the Underworld, about twenty meters below where the tunnel actually existed. For a moment, Erick panicked again, because it was like they had suffered a ‘[Teleport] accident’. But they all instantly transformed into Stone and stonestepped with their slimy cargo into the open air of the tunnel space.

And then the girls were out. They had survived. They had stolen prizes. They were whole and not dead at all.

Erick chuckled in utter relief. No one had died.

He whispered, “They made it.”

Solomon breathed out, shaking with relief.

Debby gave a tiny, nervous chuckle. “See! Nothing to it! I knew they had it in them.”

Erick almost panicked again, because Debby was 100% lying. Solomon noticed, too.

They let it go.

Inside of the massive Underworld tunnel, Abigail turned from ooze back into person and did some magic around the new slimes to check on them. Each of them was the size of a black basketball, while only four of them had shining white cores. And then, they were less than that. Erick wasn’t sure when it had started, but it had probably started the very second the girls had pulled the slimes into this reality. Slowly, surely, all of the slimes started to fade. The girls all noticed this, and a few of them tried to turn back into black oozes, to corral and bolster the slimes through Dark Magic, if such a thing truly existed, but the slimes were all turning into shadow, to fade away into the darkness of the room, like so much cotton candy disintegrating inside water.

The star-cored ones lasted moments longer, but they too disintegrated.

For a moment, every participant in the experiment all just looked at the spot where the last star-cored slime had lingered the longest.

“So that didn’t work,” Erick announced.

“Bah.” “Dammit.” “Didn’t work.” “How could it work?” “I’m not sure.”

Soon, the girls were back in the dungeon for a debrief, though they had already talked extensively among themselves in the ten minutes it had taken them to get back. Their consensus, as far as Erick could tell, was disappointment.

“So the slimes not surviving was kinda expected, because they weren’t fully instantiated. But I, like most of you, assumed this would just work.” Erick said. “I assumed that anything you plucked from the Dark would survive, but these specific realities apparently don’t mix like that. So we’ll likely have to do an instantiation sort of thing. For living things, we’re probably going to have to do something similar to what happens in the Glittering Depths, to allow dungeon NPCs to gradually become real people. Maybe I need to get that Name Finder back from the House, if we decide to go after people. Maybe we need some shadeling fugue assistance experts, too. Maybe someone from Ascendant Town can help? If we go after people, anyway.

“For inanimate things, you’re all going to have to learn a bit of Wizardry, to instantiate those things yourselves, like how I made this All-Seeing Eye around my neck, or Wheatly, which Solomon now wields.”

The golden bracelet around Solomon’s wrist briefly glittered in recognition of his name, but then Wheatly realized that Erick wasn’t talking to him, so he stayed wrapped around Solomon’s wrist. All in all, Erick liked the name ‘Wheatly’, but the girls kinda frowned at that name.

Solomon patted Wheatly, then shook his head a little at the girls.

Emily gave a defensive roll of her eyes. “That name is ridiculous.”

“It’s a fine name,” Solomon defended.

Erick continued, “But first thing: How did you tunnel into the Dark? I saw what you did, and I could understand most of it, but if you could put it into words that would be good. Are you girls using Dark Magic?”

Solomon nodded, also wanting that answer.

The girls looked at each other, questioningly.

Debby said, “We have no Dark Magic.”

As though a breaking point in a conspiracy had been reached, Candice casually announced, “Melemizargo was explicit about us not having Dark Magic unless we became Paladins, and we’re not doing that.”

Erick nodded, inwardly very happy for that announcement.

Jane answered, “We just did it? We don’t need Dark Magic. Just a curse ooze form.”

“It was a sort of squiggle and a pop,” Abigail said.

“Not a whole lot of mana cost, either,” Beth said.

Candice said, “We made ourselves one with the Dark.”

All of that was less than conclusive.

And then Debby said, “They focused their body and Prismatic Mana in a Dark way, or as much as possible, and when inside the Dark, this created reality out of Reality long enough to allow them to slip into the Dark’s over-reality. This had the effect of creating a path between the destroyed tunnel-dungeon space, and the slime crystal land, while also creating the slime crystal land just beyond. We’re not Paladins of Melemizargo, but when you get good enough with Prismatic Magic, you can fake some of the restricted magics easily enough.” In a quick and informative sort of way, she added, “Anyway: The Dark has an over-reality that is more dreamlike than Fairy, which he allows us to make dungeons out of now and then. These dungeons seem to be insulated from the greater over-reality until we break a core and force the disruption of connection, forcing the reintegration of the temporary over-reality granted by the core, into the greater over-reality kept together by Melemizargo.”

Everyone stared at Debby a little.

Solomon indicated Debby with an open hand, while saying to everyone else, “Now that makes sense. Why can’t you explain it that way?”

Erick silently agreed.

Jane complained, “I’m not a mage!”

Emily complained, “I didn’t get anything from my memories as a boy.”

Debby chuckled. “You weren’t the right boy.”

Erick interrupted further talk, saying, “I am glad today worked out, and I’m incredibly glad that we don’t have to do this experimental sort of push-into-the-Dark again, because, now that I know how it works, I’m going to find a way to make these tunnels without risking anyone’s lives, and without destroying cores.”

Jane frowned. “Cores are just advanced slimes that aren’t real until a repro or another sapient life gives them that sapience. They’re not real people, dad.”

“We can —and will have to— destroy more cores,” Emily said. “It’s the only way to access the real Dark. And it’s not like we’re sacrificing people.”

“Ah ha! There.” Erick said, “That’s the problem I have with this. It’s just like when you killed the Soul Slime and sacrificed it to Melemizargo. That’s what allowed him to take that sacrifice and make these dungeon cores in the first place, and though you’ve apparently gotten over that, I have not. I don’t approve of sacrificing anything to anyone. And so we’ll find another way. Besides! This way obviously isn’t working—”

“Dad,” Jane said, “This method will work, and won’t require you to work any Wizardry. It’s okay that we didn’t manage to catch it this time; it was a calculated risk.” Jane’s exasperation appeared as she said, “This ‘hunting’ method is the safer way than the ‘bridge building’ method.”

“Well you can just be exasperated, Jane.” Erick added, “And Abigail, Beth, Candice, Debby— Well actually you seem on board with the idea— And Emily. All of you can be exasperated, too. Now that I know how this whole thing works, I’m going to solve this problem with magic!”

Eyes rolled.

Jane asked, “How, though? You didn’t have any good ideas before. What changed?”

“The core-killing tactic relies on you hunting very-mobile fractions of missing reality, and as we have already seen, they move too fast to actually catch. So I want to go back to the original idea; to make tunnels in this dungeon, into the Dark, to find our targets. I’m going to turn one of these [Scry]ing Mirrors into a Doorway.” Erick smiled, saying, “Maybe I can even make a ‘Prismatic Key’—”

Debby instantly said, “I would like to help.”

“Of course, Debby!” Erick said.