

“I thought you said you couldn’t do that?” Jane asked. “You couldn’t make tunnels that long?”

“That was before I finally understood how you girls became one with the Dark.” Erick added, “And we won’t be making long tunnels. We’ll be switching from a hunting strategy, to a fishing strategy. I’m going to make a lure.”

Solomon said, “How about a new Rule for the dungeon, too.”

“Yes!” Erick said, “Great idea. We can split up the methodology of such a Wizardry between several smaller parts, making the whole thing easier and more robust.”

Debby got into it, saying, “A lure system doesn’t have to be a ‘lure’ system. It could be a ‘checking-the-nearby-Dark’ and a ‘locking system’ to keep the chosen reality nearby.”

“That can be a Rule, too,” Solomon said, “Another Rule will solidify the floor-system of the dungeon, and allow for the instantiation of a ‘second floor’ in the dungeon, that leads to the location of the item we’re searching for. I’m almost 100% positive that locking a piece of the Dark to this dungeon’s outside will cause problems of Dark intrusion into this place, which will just kill us all. So, we’ll have to put up Rules for that, too. But...” He looked to Erick.

Erick picked up what Solomon was putting down, “So that’s where the Wizardry comes in; that’s where I make a Prismatic Doorway. The Prismatic Key we’re searching for links two places in the universe together, creating a temporary [Gate] between them and solidifying the land on both sides to habitability. But the Doorway I make will be bridging almost no space at all, maybe just a meter or two, with the primary power of it contained to the instantiation of reality.” He looked to the girls. “Much like how you girls made that black crystal land real through your presence.”

Erick had expected push-back on his whole proposal, for what he was doing was taking over a lot of Jane’s current purpose here at this Sundering search. Predictably, Jane, and all the others, did get a certain hardness to their sights as Erick laid out the ‘new plan’, threatening to go above and beyond what they were capable of at this moment. The whole scenario mirrored how he was ‘good at magic’ back when they first landed on Veird, and how Jane had struggled with all of that, eventually causing a rift between them that was still healing, to this day.

But Jane had grown since then.

Jane strongly said, “The reason we don’t want this dungeon directly involved with the hunt is because if there is a catastrophic event during the search, it will spill out elsewhere, from here. What is your plan for that inevitability? For getting caught up in an apocalypse?”

Beth added, “Today was a simple journey into a crystal slime land. But it won’t always be that.”

Candice said, “When we go searching for Primal Lightning, we’ll find Primal Lightning.”

Erick easily said, “Which is why we’ll search for a bunch of useful artifacts before we go after the lightning. Sininindi has even offered to help us get the Lightning Shield, which was one of her things that was instrumental in fending off the Primal Lightning that struck Veird. But, yes.” Erick said, “When we do go after the Sundering itself, we’ll have to delve into remote locations and all of Veird will have to prepare for side effects. But for artifact collecting, we start here.”

Jane and the girls relaxed a fraction. Jane gave a small nod. “It is dangerous to delve into the unfettered Dark, so sure, dad. I approve.”

Erick felt himself grinning—

Jane moved on, “So did anyone experience a break when we broke the core?”

The girls gave a few shaken heads and verbal ‘no’s.

Erick said, “I was on a plane of fire with geysers of flame everywhere. Nothing besides that. Only lasted a fraction of a second.”

There was a small pause of thought at that admission, but it did not last long.

Solomon said, “Nothing this time.”

Debby said, “Nothing for me, either.”

Jane smiled and announced, “Then I think we’re cleared. No need to worry about Dark Dreams.”

Erick was really glad that no one pushed back too hard on his declaration to streamline this whole searching-the-Dark process. He was a little bit pissed, though, that no one was saying they were glad to not chase the Dark and to kill cores in the process.

So Erick decided to say, “It was kinda scary watching you all delve into the Dark like that. I wasn’t sure you were going to make it.”

Jane brushed him off, saying, “We knew what we were doing.”

The other girls looked a whole lot less sure.

Erick pointed out, “Well it looks like you’re the only one who was sure, Jane. Abigail, Beth, Candice, Emily. You all had a different experience. Was it because of the smaller amount of personal mana generation you all share? While Jane is at half a million, or something like that? That generation surely insulated you from the affects of the Dark degradation. But you all were falling apart there in the Dark, weren’t you.”

Jane looked to the girls… And she paused. “Oh my gods. He’s right, isn’t he.”

Abigail firmly said, “It appears that there is a qualitative difference between having 500,000 mana generation versus 100,000. I felt like I was about to collapse at any moment, there in the deeper Dark. The slimes, once taken out of the Dark, did collapse. Transferring between realms was not as simple as you made it look, Jane.”

Debby spoke up, “I’d like us all to go to the house for a proper debrief because I saw some weird shit happening in there that I don’t think anyone else caught. Did you all see how the slimes with star-eyes were all looking at one part of the sky overhead? They were looking at something specific. I didn’t see it, but it was there.”

A moment passed.

Erick said, “Let’s go to the house and everyone can talk about everything, from start to finish.”

- - - -

Over the next hour, each of the girls gave a full breakdown of what they saw and how they moved. Technically, Erick should have done the debriefing separately, to keep the testimonies from interfering with each other, but he wasn’t about that right now, and neither were the girls. Once those testimonies came out, there was actual talk.

That talk didn’t get very far.

But it did make Debby slightly angry.

Erick sighed, as he said, “No one else saw what you saw, Debby.”

“I know,” Debby said, through a carefully controlled frown. “And you know what? That’s fine.” She made herself relax. “Maybe it was a delayed response to the core breaking— I know what I saw… But I admit… It might have been nothing.”

Erick suggested, “Maybe it’s time for one of us to wear the Bracelet of Memory full time?”

Poi said, “It wouldn’t help. If there is some sort of grand anti-memetic threat happening then that person would try to get us to understand something outside of our understanding. When that proved impossible, the person would simply take off the Bracelet and return to the ‘normal’ that we’re experiencing right now, because the weight of responsibility of knowledge would simply be too much for them. This neatly explains why the Bracelet is so reprehensible to everyone who wears it, beyond just the fact that the wearer never forgets anything once they put it on.” He looked to everyone, and said, “Someone will have to be that person, though. Eventually. Not right now.”

A moment passed.

Erick said, “It’s very annoying that even the gods don’t seem immune to the anti-meme.”

“Maybe there is no anti-meme, and we’re gaslighting ourselves.” Solomon said, “The only reason we think there is an anti-meme is because no one knows what caused the Sundering, not even the gods. But sometimes information has simply been lost, never to be retrieved again.”

Everyone gave him a look.

Solomon raised his hands defensively, saying, “I’m just saying.”

Jane spoke up, “We should try the Bracelet experiments again. We all only wore it for an hour. Perhaps we can learn things through the length of time we experience while wearing it.” She explained, “Perhaps we can have a pair of timers, and the wearer can talk about what they see to an observer, and when the wearer is talking about the anti-meme, they can stop the timer. The experiment stops when the observer’s timer wears out.

“If there is an anti-meme, then the wearer’s timer will still have time in it, since they will have stopped the timer when the observer stopped reacting to them. The experiment could be a simple statement of ‘go’, passed back and forth between the two participants.” Jane said, “Like a pair of us can just pass a verbal command to ‘go’ between us, and when it stops, they stop their timer.”

Another moment passed.

Poi said, “It’s a good idea. If it works then we can maybe pass clues about the anti-meme to normal parties, though I have concerns that the theoretical anti-meme is too strong to allow such an experiment to produce actionable results. Perhaps it is a Time-based anti-meme, considering even Wizard-level Time Magic stopped working properly back when the Sundering struck the Old Cosmology.”

Jane nodded; yeah, her idea of an experiment had holes in it, for sure.

Poi nodded, too, as he continued, “But an experiment of that nature is something we should delay, anyway. We’re not ready to confront what might be behind the Sundering right now. We won’t be for quite some time.”

Erick said, “A fair assessment.” He smiled, announcing, “So let’s leave all that until we’re ready for it later, and get to work on changing this dungeon into a fishing boat.”

Solomon began, “So for the new Rules, I was thinking...”
