“Or perhaps ‘The Mana Ocean’ was the ‘Material Plane’. Everyone was always talking about the Mana Ocean in the Old Cosmology. Whenever the Mana Ocean and the Dark came up, they were usually separate, but there is some discrepancy with that, because I’ve heard Shades talk about the Edge of Everything, where people had to go into the Dark and expand the universe—

“Anyway! That stuff is not this stuff. That stuff is all confusing words and meanings that I’d need to talk to a god to find out about, and it doesn’t really matter for the purposes of mana and magic.

“Anyway: One of those planes —that we know was a dimension— was the Plane of Lightning.

“It was a realm like all the rest, like inside Benevolence, or Fairy, or else wise. Things lived in there. Things used Lightning as the substance of their bodies and minds and souls. Etcetera.

“To express Lightning in the Material Realm was to bring the concept of Lightning to the forefront, through the alteration of one’s personal mana, and pour that Lightning into specific forms which Lightning easily followed.

“Now, there are multiple ways to classify ‘Lightning Magic’, and we’ll go over a few of them. Those classifications are mostly still applicable here, in this New Cosmology, but I imagine that outside of the Script, inside a universe where a Lightning Realm truly existed, Lightning Magics were much more powerful. Or at least the most powerful spells were more powerful because they had a higher ceiling of power.

“All of this is tied into what Poi would call ‘magnitude’ of a spell, which we’ll get to.

“Anyway.

“Base level Lightning Magic is to take some mana and turn that possibility into the possibility of Lightning, through the application of personal intent onto one’s mana. Depending on the purity of transformation of Reality into reality, this level of spellwork can be between mag 1 and mag… I don’t know. 4? 4 sounds good.

“Higher level Lightning Magic would be to change the way lightning functions in this reality, through the expression of one’s personal Reality in such a way as to temporarily override the local reality. I imagine this is where a Truth of Lightning emerges, which results in a whole bunch of effects, from an easier time handling Lightning Magic, to the ability to innately use Lightning, to having a Lightning Form, or stuff like that. A Truth of Lightning would be, in effect, making your soul resonate more strongly with the Lightning Dimension than other Dimensions.

“Extremely high levels of Lightning Magic would be stuff like Domainwork, which is the exclusion of the powers of other people in favor of your own. There would also be traveling to the plane of Lightning, or bringing the plane of Lightning here, to Veird, through a Rift, or whatever.

“The top tier of Lightning Magic available here, on Veird, would be instantiating a [Lightning Storm], and letting nothing else exist at that time. It’d be like the aftermath of that Red Dot attack at Spur all those years ago; that [Fireball] turned all the sand around the city molten, even though the Red Dot didn’t produce nearly enough heat to be able to do that, but it was an Elemental Fire-based Domain/Reality attack, and so it did stuff it shouldn’t have been able to do, like melt sand into black glass.” Erick asked, “Got it, so far?”

Debby had taken out some chicken from the fryer and was in the middle of replacing it, as she said, “Yeah. That’s nothing too different from what I already know so all of that makes sense.” Debby asked, “But how does that relate to the multiverse theory of this New Cosmology? With Particle Magic? Are you just plucking random events from around you that are possible and using them when you cast a [Particle Lightning] spell?”

Erick grinned. “Rozeta often said that Particle Mage is just Force Mage that she fucked around with a bit to make it work with Particle Magic, and I think that is more telling about what Particle Magic is than I ever realized. She also said that Particle Magic is just advanced [Telekinesis], and with that bit of information, the hows and whys of Particle Magic makes perfect sense.

“See, Force Magic is about setting boundaries of Elemental Force, which is really just telling the world what is happening in a location, through Elemental Force. [Force Wall], [Force Platform]. Etcetera. For those spells, you’re just telling the world that there is a solid Force here or there, or wherever you cast the magic. In those cases, Force means the ‘force to stay here’.

“When you apply this ideology to spells that move, like [Force Bolt], you might think that this theory breaks down. But Force is not actually about solidity, though that is what it is best known for.

“Elemental Force is actually about specific movements of Force, of which other things can be locked inside that Force, or not. This is where you get [Telekinesis] and otherwise. Non-elemental-specific Magic is usually Force-related, but not always. All magic uses some Element within that magic, even [Teleport], which is actually more Time than Force, because Elemental Space doesn’t actually exist, and… And that might be getting too deep in the weeds.”

“You are getting a bit weedy, dad,” Debby said, nodding.

“Right!” Erick said, “Anyway. [Particle Lightning]. The basic Particle version of the classic [Lightning] involves electrical charges made possible through an application of Force upon different items. This is where you get the [Small Spark] spell, which is very small. Or the extremely potent [Battery], which is lightning in a bottle, basically.

“All of that is done through a specialized Force Magic [Telekinesis] that is less a standard application of Force, and much more an instantiation of very nearby and easy to reach multiversal possibility.

“Like how [Call Lightning] made rain as a byproduct, which was because it was a spell that pulled actual rain and power from the sky in order to cause lightning. The rain remained because it was a byproduct of some very expansive multiversal shenanigans, pulling rain out of other locations.

“Like if you have a broken plate. If you cast [Mend] upon one half of a broken plate, the other half of the plate, if it is close at all, will vanish from the world, and the plate will appear whole again.

“Like how [Teleport] is technically Establishment magic given to the masses, but also Force and Time Magic, Particle Magic is literally Establishment magic of what could be; the emplacement of one’s personal idea of Reality onto this current reality.

“Particle Magic is practically the ‘base form of magic’ of this New Cosmology’.

“Particle Magic is also just a very specialized application of Force Magic.” Erick continued, “So to pull back a bit, and to look at how Lightning Magic goes from basic mana altering for Lightning, to Lightning Domains, to the plane of Lightning…

“I have done a lot of Particle Magic, from the basic stuff like [Small Spark], up to [Control Weather] and [Physical Domain]. But looking at this new layout of classification, it appears I have never done any magnitude 9, ‘Instantiation of the Physical’. I’m not even sure what such a thing should look like. Perhaps what I have done with [Call Lightning] already counts as ‘instantiation’, or maybe I’m way off.

“Anyway.

“All of this neatly explains why singing to the mana produces results, and why some people can ‘hear’ mana. It’s because they can vibrate the world to instantiate results from a specific dimension, and they can also hear those different vibrations. Mana itself is still sapient, of course, so it helps with this communication. All magic is about communication with realms.”

Erick stopped. He waited.

And Debby thought for a while, as she put some more battered chicken into the fryer. Eventually, she asked, “What would a… Physical Realm even look like? I mean… That’s just the one we’re in, right? You can’t really pull from what we’re already in.”

“Ah! See… That’s a good point.” Erick said, “Except we do have a multiverse of physicality. We use that multiverse for Establishment purposes all the time, like for [Teleport]… even if no one does [Teleport] anymore.”

Debby thought for a moment. “Have you ever tried Establishing lightning? Not going through any sort of sideways-[Telekinesis]-sort-of Particle Magic? Just straight-up lightning manifesting?”

Erick smiled, saying, “I’m never going to do that. That’s too close to the Sundering for me.”

Debby rolled her eyes, exactly as Erick expected Jane to do when he spoke of being the cause of the Sundering. “You didn’t cause the Sundering, dad. There’s absolutely no way. And besides! Wouldn’t ‘Establishing’ lightning just be like… You point at a target and a cloud that was never there in the sky suddenly bolts the target? That’s the most your ‘Small Wizardry’ could do.”

Erick shrugged. “Still not gonna chance it.” He added, “I have considered a Particle Magic [Teleport], but I’m honestly not sure how to make that happen except through pure Wizardry, because the ‘macro level wavelength collapse’ idea I originally had about [Teleport] was functional, but also incorrect. I know that I only got as far in the Worldly Path as I did in the beginning because I was able to brute force the magic with Ophiel—” Ophiel squeaked that he was a good helper, and Erick repeated that yes, he was, then Erick continued, “—and I brute forced it, and the Script allowed it, because that’s how the Script works when you get close enough; if you get 90% there it gets you the other 10%. It wasn’t until at the end of the Path, that I was learning about other planes, that I truly understood what I was doing, and was able to complete the Path.” He added, “So as for a true ‘macro level Wavelength-collapse [Teleport]’? No idea. Not chancing it right now, anyway.”

“Just turn some bricks of stone into bricks of gold, then,” Debby said, “That seems like high-level Particle Magic to me—” And then she looked around, waving her hand in the air, saying, “All of this is actually us inside the Dark, anyway. So if you can only do real Particle Magic outside of the physical realm, then here we are. Try it here.”

… Erick suddenly paused.

For something occurred to him.

“You’re suggesting that you can only do real Elemental Magic outside of that Elemental Realm?”

“Well sure… But now that you talk like that, I am less sure.” Debby said, “It makes sense though, right. You can’t really do Fire Magic if there isn’t something to contrast with that Fire; something to burn.”

Erick decided to voice his concern, “If you can only do real Elemental Magic outside of that Elemental Realm, as in ‘you can only overwrite reality with a Reality that is not reality’, then can you only do real Particle Magic outside of the ‘Particle realm’? Could the Sundering have only come from outside of the Old Cosmology… Hmm.” He paused. He frowned a little. “But I can do the best Benevolence Magic inside of Benevolence. That’s where the Benevolent Sky is.” He said, “I’m not sure your theory tracks, Debby, but I’ll keep an eye on it.”

Debby thought for a moment, then said, “I suppose the Lightning Storms on a plane of Lightning are probably a lot bigger than the ones on the community plane.”

“Sounds right to me— OH!” Erick said, “But if it is possible for magic to go from the realm it is on, to other realms, and retain the strength of the original realm, now that… Now that could have caused the Sundering. An attack from the New Cosmology directed at the Old Cosmology, using New Cosmology Wizardry.”

Debby smiled. “Add it to the list!”

Erick reached over and added another bullet point to the ever-growing list of ‘Sundering Suspects’. Below ‘Vengeful God’ and ‘Memetic Knowledge Threat’ and ‘Xoat Waking’ and all the rest, Erick added, ‘A Particle Magic attack from the New Cosmology, using Particle Magic Establishment magic’.

Erick said, “I’m not sure which one I’m more uncomfortable with; the Xoat stuff, or this latest one, which is just a refinement of ‘Erick did it, somehow’.”

“I’m sure we’ll add in some non-you points as soon as we start getting into the Dark again… Or at least the other girls will.” Debby said, “I’m not breaking a core ever again.”

Erick smiled. He wasn’t comfortable with core breaking, either, mostly due to what it did to his daughters and to Solomon. Erick changed the subject, though, because Debby was uncomfortable, “I would like to be vindicated as not having caused the Sundering.”

Debby asked, “Is anyone in power actually saying that?”

“A thousand hate letters per day are a power all their own.”

Debby looked stricken for a moment, reminding Erick of all the times when Jane had witnessed him being in danger from gangsters back home, or here on Veird, or when she realized that he had been doing something dangerous, and she had not known until now. Like in all those times he talked to her about every Shadow’s Feast, or about any of the other major events in his life.

Debby asked, “Are any of those threats credible?”

“I don’t get many actual threats, but Burhendurur investigates those covertly when they do come up. For a little while in the beginning, a few different organizations discovered that the House personally investigates every threat, so they were using those threats to jump ahead in meetings with me. Most of the time I dismissed those line-jumpers and canceled their meeting for wasting everyone’s time. Sometimes I helped them, though, which is why we got line-jumpers.” Erick said, “Very few of the threats I get are anywhere near credible; they are just the ramblings of undereducated and scared people. Enforcement and the Office of Mail does a good job sorting stuff on their own these days.”

“I hope you’re getting thankful letters, too.”

Erick smiled. “Oh yeah. All the time, from all over the world. I tried personally answering all of those letters once upon a time, but that was way too much, so the Office of Mail does most of that these days. They do pick out 10 letters per day for me to read personally. I think my favorites are from the Sovereign Cities.” He asked, “But what about you! You’re the big shot in the Dungeoneering Guild— Ah. Wrong question.” Erick realized he had fucked up a little.

