Ascender Legion’s phoenix self seemed distracted as she replied through spiritual perception fluctuations. “Have the Seekers check deliberately for nearby strange realms. A direction is better than no direction but if you need to just get us as far away from the Tier 30 world as possible as fast as reasonable.”

Captain Stenson initially wanted to say that they couldn’t afford that, given they had just made a divination before he told them about the breachpoint, but he checked himself.

Bringing up the Unsparing’s auxiliary mana reserves, he felt his attention go to Ascender Titan for what felt like the millionth time.

One of his great grandson’s inspirations growing up, he had expected a lot of things, but he found Ascender Titan strange.

He was an affable enough person, willing to chat and even take pictures with the crew before they had fully left communication of settled space once the first person asked. The large blond man seemed perfectly content to put his head down and grind away at a task. That in and of itself wasn’t abnormal at all. Most ambitious young immortals, let alone Ascenders, did so. They hadn’t yet reached the point in their own abilities where they couldn’t make much progress.

No, what was eerie was how Ascender Titan kept his Concept going at all times. On the entire crew.

Magnus, having worked with him before, had even quietly shared that the Ascender’s mana-giving Concept was affecting all his animals.

Every day.

For decades.

Even the most blasé of the crew had already gone through the stages of disbelief until they arrived at weary acceptance. Yes, Ascender Titan really did keep his Concept going at all times as a force of habit like the rumors said he did.

The only times they had felt themselves excluded from the additional mana was when the Ascender was out of spiritual range or he was actively fighting.

He had also realized that this ability and willingness to keep his Concept running at all times explained why the Ascender had such a notably powerful Domain.

Captain Stenson had seen Domain specialists, not the best in the Realm Duke Waters himself, but he had seen several of the others. Few could manage the strain of keeping such a powerful Domain ability active, even if they also had a last floor Mind Over Matter making Concept powers near, or entirely, free.

Part of the Ascender group had been firmly identified in Minkalla but their Tier upon finishing had never been officially stated. Official movies either left it a mystery or chose between Tier 11 and 12, depending on the tone the producers wanted.

Most, Captain Stenson included, had thought the four had most likely completed it at Tier 12. But now he wasn’t so sure.

Using a free Domain ability caused spiritual and mental strain given a long enough time. Even the best specialist needed— or at least wanted— a break after decades of expenditure.

He could count the times Ascender Titan had dropped the ability in over a decade on one hand.

The Unsparing, despite only being stopped for a few years and doing two divinations only hours before, was still above seventy percent mana reserves. Donations were frequent as the untasked crew fed their excess mana to the ship, having gotten used to having more regeneration than they were used to. It would probably take some adjusting back after this expedition ended and they lost the boon.

It was, at least on their small scale, an incredibly helpful display of generosity that let the ship run at an output they normally reserved for fights.

Signaling to the Seekers that they could once more cast their techniques, he waited and watched the Ascenders, looking for signs they would lash out, thankful they hadn’t done so yet.

Finally able to settle back down himself once the Ascenders were back to their normal banter, his mind went back to the ship.

Blessedly, they hadn’t needed to engage in the last fight. All involved ships had been hired hands, so both sides had happily agreed to keep their distance before a victory had been decided.

Captain Stenson had explored with Lila before but this was a legendary exploration already and he had to wonder how his guild leader was faring.

The guild leader had, using the Ascenders, informed the guild to get her best ship ready and meet her in the first layer of chaotic space, aiming for the deepest parts of the breach. Knowing her, her attitude, and her Tier, she would be pushing for the biggest prizes and he wished her luck.

When the Seekers’ reports came back, the Ascenders chose a direction and they started moving.

Captain Stenson used the travel opportunity to continue listening to the space chatter going on around them.

The breach was very active, and thanks to guild leader Lila being willing to steal anything she could during a war, the Unsparing had access to elite-grade military communication gear.

Given her absence in the war Tiers recently, they were a generation behind and there were a few notable signals they couldn’t decipher, but most ships bothered to do little more than basic security that they easily broke through. Not that they could legally have actual top-of-the-line military encryption-breaking equipment. The Great Powers preferred to keep such cutting-edge tech out of civilian hands, and definitely not on ships prone to spending long times isolated in chaotic space where they might fall into enemy hands.

The Unsparing was no exception, but being an Ascender’s personal ship, ensured no one bothered looking too closely.

Most information passed along were about advanced groups who had secured a world and were trying to guide the rest of the organization to them. Such information, even if poorly encrypted in terms of communications security, rarely had any actionable information. It usually only had a name and string of confirmation code that would only have meaning to the group that created it.

One interesting piece of information the crew did manage to find out was that two ‘rival’ exploration groups from the Clans had settled down nearby each other and were ‘fighting’. While occupied, they were trying to lure in other interested groups who tried to take advantage of the aftermath of the two groups' rivalry and bait out attacks.

Informing the Ascenders, who were back silently working on their own projects, he asked if they wanted to clean up the groups. Having such a valid excuse, Lila would have, but Ascender Legion waved him down, not caring enough to detour from their path.

As Captain Stenson was giving his attention to his work, Ascender Titan opened his eyes from where he was silently working on something and said, “Send me the files you couldn’t crack. I’ll try to break them, but no promises.”

Captain Stenson almost wanted to object at the idea of trying to personally crack any encryption that the ship couldn’t, but having long learned to accept the impossible when it came to Ascenders, he passed over the files.

When the files were decrypted only days later, it was all he could do not to spiral as he considered how many millions of mana that must have taken.

It was something few of them liked to consider, but once seen in person, it was impossible to not wonder how much mana Ascender Titan’s Concept was giving himself, if it was giving them so much.

Everyone could see Ascender Titan threw around a lot of mana, but what was truly impressive was how well synergized it was.

Ascender Titan had created a brilliant but powerful loop.

Captain Stenson knew some considered Titan’s Tier 25 Talent to recondense his mana back into physical form subpar. But, when combined with the Ascender’s Concept that increased his own mana generation, it allowed him to store mana between fights, letting him throw millions of mana into a spell without blinking an eye.

Or in this case possibly billions into cracking an encrypted message.

It was baffling to watch.

It did however confirm their direction as a Republic exploration team had found a Tier 29 strange realm and were trying to lead their compatriots to them before they got raided or pushed off the world.

The message could have been a lie or an outright trap, but even having been defeated days ago, the Ascenders seemed unbothered by the possibility, and so the Unsparing adjusted course.

He would have been fine returning to settled space now, and knew some of the rest of the crew felt the same, but that was impossible. They had had a taste of incredible luck and now they wanted more.

It was the crux of all exploration teams. Pushing just up to the line before the loss was devastating.

He knew he was a cautious man by nature, but that was how he had stayed alive as a solo captain venturing into chaotic space for so long.

Even with the smaller than usual cut, given that guild leader Worldwalker had sold the Unsparing outright, Captain Stenson and most of the rest of them were set to make a fortune from what they already transported back to settled space via Ascender Shadow.

How everyone would use or spend their portion would be different, but the rewards themselves were already back home, safe and secure, which was a strange new feeling none of them really knew how to comprehend.

Knowing they were all effective appraisers, even if they didn’t have a certification, Captain Stenson had privately asked the harvesting teams what they thought of the Natural Treasures which hadn’t been identifiable by them.

Unanimously they had reported the treasures were only more rare than normal instead of ruined due to the gradient of elemental influences. That was ignoring the value of the most impressive Natural Treasures that had come from the bosses. Those Natural Treasures pulsed with energy so abundant, value was sure to follow.

After the final tally, nearly twenty percent of the Natural Treasures were fully unknown or only had suspected effects because of the blended energies or similarities to another treasure known by the crew.

Thanks to the sheer scale of rewards they had pulled out, so long as some of the odd Natural Treasures were slightly more valuable than the average for their Tier, the crew's portion of that single strange realm would be incredible.

Some of the crew were already talking about buying their own ships. Some were probably even thinking of outright retiring, even if none of them were foolish enough to risk saying such cursed words out loud.

Captain Stenson was personally eyeing a few Natural Treasures some of his descendants might find useful, but with nothing fully identified that was impactful to himself, he started looking for those around him. He was actually a rarity; most of the crew had seen small improvements thanks to the wide elemental net the Ascenders had cast, letting them absorb some of the cheaper identified Natural Treasures immediately.

Personally, he intended to use most of his share to build out the foundations of his family.

More a family clan than a noble family, his ancestors who reached immortality early had pooled their efforts together and tried to help the most driven members of the family through the barrier.

Not long ago, that had been an expensive and thankless endeavor, as otherwise promising family members failed to make a Concept and died at peak Tier 14 one after another.

As someone from a more successful than average second generation, he had benefited and now tried to pay it back as much as possible when he could. So, with that in mind, he planned to take a significant portion of his share as the raw items, using the family to eat the tax implications instead of selling part of his portion as he normally would.

That was if the rest of the more mundane items in his share weren't enough to cover the costs, as Ascender Shadow had allowed them to mostly empty their holds, and if they could fill even partially fill up again, they could truly be set for a long, long time.

Ultimately he didn’t know when, or if, any such rare dual elemental items would be pulled out of chaotic space again. It was better for the family to have the objects which would only become more rare as they were used, instead of taking the money directly, even if that might be more useful in the short term.

Thankfully the Ascenders had agreed to abide by guild charter for the distribution, which prevented any fights.

Anyone who had been in the exploration game long enough to join their guild had long accepted their own mortality.

When they arrived at their target world, Captain Stenson was grateful to hear the Ascenders barter with the occupying Republic guild instead of going in and threatening to eat everyone who didn’t get out of their way.

They were only a Tier 35 guild, but that undoubtedly meant the entire guild would be arriving, given the message that had led them here. He didn’t want to flee from a Tier 35 guild but it thankfully didn’t come down to it, which was the opposite if Lila had been in charge.

As much as he loved his guild leader, she had been more than willing to throw herself at ships from organizations with greater local strength than herself, forcing them to flee more than once. Not everyone survived those trips.

That was another reason why he had taken the offer of his own ship, and why he was suddenly questioning why he had fought for the right, giving up command of his normal ship and crew, to fly with the new Ascenders.

Looking at their formerly full cargo holds, he had his answer.

Greed.

It was also fun to watch the experts in action. He had forgotten about that simple pleasure after being away from the guild leader for so long.

Through repeated exposure, Captain Stenson felt he was beginning to learn what made Ascenders different.

Because there was something different about these Ascenders.

