If his normal ship with his usual crew found this world, they might have fought, relying on Lila’s reputation combined with their strength, to earn a use of the strange realm. If he flew with Lila, they would have kicked the other ship off the world and dared their allies to confront them. When they were confronted with more than they could handle, they would have run away, but it felt normal for an Ascender to be so arrogant.

Not that he had anything bad to say about the guild leader’s morals. She was generous and funded most of the guild out of her own pockets through her various media revenue streams, but it was weird to see another way of handling things.

A more… normal one.

These newest Ascenders were different.

Ascenders Light and Shadow seemed more similar to the guild leader and it was never more apparent than when they were negotiating with the Republic ship.

Ascender Shadow tried to egg on a fight, and he didn’t think she was playing. If she was alone or in charge, she’d do all of the things she was saying, acting exactly as Lila did, domineering and forceful.

Ascender Legion, though, seemed to favor a more political approach, which Captain Stenson sometimes felt was the only personality trait amongst the group that lined up with their backgrounds.

The daughter of two Royals was no slouch.

Her negotiation style was however… direct.

She laid out what she felt were reasonable demands, and if the counter offer wasn’t what she felt was in good faith, she was more than willing to pull out her spear and settle the dispute that way.

Thankfully, the Republic team weren’t idiots and didn’t challenge them when the Ascenders offered twenty percent of the loot they pulled out of the strange realm, minus the top few items.

It was closer to the split usually upheld between parties of equal size, but the other side agreed regardless.

Ascender Legion even negotiated [AI] recordings of the strange realm from those who entered already in the Republic team, in exchange for the seven of them sharing what they learned when they entered.

He wasn’t sure how Ascender Legion managed to convince the other captain to share that much information without defeating their combat troops, but she managed it without even overtly threatening them.

According to the Republic team, the strange realm would start when anyone at all touched it, but if multiple people touched it at the same time, they would be grouped together.

Once inside, everyone had to terraform a world from lifeless ball to habitable planet with only the skills and items brought in. Then time would accelerate for the planet and seemingly random things would happen. So long as the world was habitable, it would continue to grow, with conditions happening between time jumps becoming longer or harsher.

The first Republic member to attempt had failed, being a test member of the guard, but the second team had consisted of the harvesting crew, once they were sure the strange realm was safe, where they had learned everything else.

The reward the team had gotten wasn’t amazing, but neither was it bad. The Republic team, if they were being truthful, indicated each member of the party had their spiritual perception strengthened. It seemed like a fixed amount, given the crew all reported similar empowerment, and they suspected that the more iterations the group did, the better the reward would be, but he knew it might manifest in many different ways.

Strange realms sometimes gave entirely different rewards based on how far one made it. It wasn’t often, but it happened enough that people looked into and gave extra scrutiny to any strange realms that seemed like they might do the same.

Seeing there was no size limit, the Ascenders divided the crew in half, trying to balance skills and abilities as much as possible, before they hit the strange realm.

Most of the crew were shocked that the Ascenders were willing to help them so directly, instead of taking only the most helpful harvesting team members whilst going in ‘alone’ to secure the best possible rewards.

Once the teams were divided, Ascenders Titan and Shadow played several rounds of dice games to decide who would enter second, and got to act on any lessons the other team learned the hard way.

Ascender Titan lost and, Captain Stenson being in his team, entered first.

He was treated to a round of what he could only describe as a hard working vacation.

The Ascenders, even Ascender Shadow according to his lieutenant who led that group, followed the orders of the harvesters to the letter, only interjecting when they thought they might have a better way to do something.

With their abilities, both groups made it through over twenty iterations, the other team having Ascender Wraith who must have had a penchant for manipulating weather systems with her ice, air, and winter spells. According to those in her group, she had solved the issue in the twenty third iteration that managed to stump their group, even with their planetary-scale enchantments keeping things on track. When the harvesters from his half of the crew asked for pointers, they could hardly follow half of what she said, not that Captain Stenson could understand it at all.

The rewards turned out to be excellent.

Even beyond the increase in spiritual perception they got for every level, for completing the tenth layer they all got the ability to take a single viable plant seed. The few seeds that they recognized were all incredibly rare herbs that were correspondingly difficult to propagate, and the unknown factor increased the excitement about the others even more.

Reward seeds like theirs were often easier to germinate for a few generations, and so even the cheap ones sold for a premium.

For completing the twentieth iteration, they earned the ability to forcefully germinate a single plant to full maturity. Through their testing, they quickly learned that while the ability was permanent, it came with a fairly long cooldown.

After truthfully reporting what they learned, they left and started looking for their next strange realm, all while watching dozens of groups stream past them to their previous Tier 30 world like locusts.

Best of all, they already had a lead on another strange realm, having traded for it with the Republic team before they left.

***

Lila growled at Wun who trembled before her, looking at the thing that looked like a bird except, according to their Seeker who needed birds to make their Talent function, wasn’t a bird.

Leaning in as everyone else watched, Lila growled as she stamped on Wun as a new rift formed thanks to a last resort, taking a page out of Matt’s book.

Hearing gasps for air that might have been a call for help, Lila paused her smashing long enough to growl. “This will continue, my dear Wun, until a rift forms that has birds. If you hadn’t entered the ruin we told you not to, you wouldn’t have gotten the curse that killed every stupid bird on this planet while we are lost!"

Her words echoed off the mountain walls but no one looked at Wun with pity. They hadn’t even reached their breach proper yet but Wun had managed to stall them three times.

The first time they got stuck, their engine’s polarity had reversed and, to fix it, they had to limp to the closest world on half power while the maintenance people rebuilt the drive, but they had found a hidden pacified ruin someone had been using as a smuggling stash.

From slightly before the Shattering, the materials seemed to be of passing value. Then Wun stepped on a trap door whose hinge had rusted through, allowing him to fall through and get impaled.

Inside, they found nine Tier 26 skill orbs hidden by someone else.

They had forgiven Wun for that.

The second time, his very presence caused a malfunction, their shipboard AI needed to be wiped because it kept adding ever-increasing vectors to the navigation, causing them to drift off course. They found nothing on the world they rested on, despite many attempts to find something useful.

This was the third time, and they were fairly confident this was another repeat of the second instead of the first. After a freak storm that reached energy densities rarely seen outside the deepest parts of the third layer, that managed to mix all of the worlds around them, they had tried to find a world where one of their Seekers, one of the best Tier 45 Seekers the Empire had to offer, found that all of his birds had come down with a disease that paralyzed them. And with the birds unable to fly, he couldn’t divine anything.

That should have been fine, birds were common and his Talent worked on any feathered flying creature, except the only world in range of their scanners’ birds weren’t actual birds, just bird lookalikes, despite being feathered little shits.

She ate several to check, and they even tasted like birds.

After checking every single rift on the planet and the world's three moons, they found that none of them had flying creatures that counted for their Seeker’s Talent.

And the other Seeker, the one who did shorter-term divinations, kept saying the answer lay in Wun.

They were losing their lead, everyone was growing irritated at this point and the culprit wasn’t taking things seriously, which was why Lila had resorted to percussive maintenance.

While she was beating him, the rift in front of them poured out a flock of what looked like bats. No feathers, leathery wings, echolocation and sound abilities, they seemed like bats.

Angry rift bats, but they were Tier 9 and harmless.

They were also apparently birds where all of the other things weren’t, as indicated by the happy shouts of her Seeker.

Wun, seeing that his penance was no longer needed, slipped out of her claw and fully healed himself.

“See. Look, these bats are special.”

Lila inspected the bats but didn’t see anything unique beyond the obvious. They didn’t even taste particularly good.

Seeing the other Ascenders didn’t have strong opinions on the bats, she found one of her people. “Rutherford, grab a breeding pair of bats. Actually go in the rift to get a new set.”

Standing up she looked at her harvesting team half a continent away.

Letting her draconic voice to rumble and echo across the planet she called out, "Once we have a heading, we are gone! Move people, move! I want to regain our lead. Mana teams, I want you packed up in six minutes. It takes seven for Falo to run his ritual. First one done gets a higher-priority loot slot in the next world. Let’s go, people! Move!”
