“Well, I like it too. So, how and when do we start with the dungeon? I probably need some basic gear like ropes and torches? Or does anybody have an enchanted lantern?”

None of them had one.

“How expensive is one of those?” he asked.

“A few gold at least,” Isaac said. “The essence alone would be expensive. But we can always hope to find one in the Crypts.”

“Sure. So torches it is. How do we get down?”

“The regular iron ropes should be fine. They’re free to use,” Ailis said. “Though we should probably secure ourselves with an additional rope.”

“No lifts then. How about navigation? I’ve only started studying the maps.”

“I’m pretty familiar with the layout of the Crypts,” Isaac said. “And in the worst case, I should be able to guide us back with my Path.”

“Good. I think we should still all study the layout. Maybe we meet up tomorrow in the map room and find a target area or hall that we want to reach. How does that sound?”

They all nodded.

“Other supplies? Bandages, medicine, potions? I don’t suppose any one of you is secretly super rich?”

Isaac shook his head. Elke did the same.

“I’m not rich either, I’m afraid. But I can get us bandages and some basic medical supplies. No potions though, they’re far too expensive,” Ailis said.

“Food and water? For tomorrow, maybe everyone manages their own?”

“I know a few good places, I can get some dried meat, nuts, and bread for all of us,” Isaac said. “It’s not great food but it’s cheap and will keep us sated. Less than a silver for the group. And I can get torches, ropes, and flint and steel, if nobody has those things.”

“I don’t need the basics,” Ailis said.

“Good, thanks Isaac,” Veron said. “I’d like to learn about where you’re sourcing all that at some point.”

“I don’t have a lot of iron,” Elke said.

“Me neither,” Veron said. “None of you have a vessel?”

“It wouldn’t matter. We don’t have anyone to extract,” Ailis said.

Veron nodded. He considered their situation for a moment and then formulated a plan.

“Right. So we extract all the essence we can get ourselves, and see what kind of loot we can find. I suggest we try tomorrow, see how things go, how we feel about the team and each other, and then if things go well, we have a few more trial runs, get more familiar with fighting and exploring together? I’m sure that by the end of the week, we’ll have some idea about how much iron we can reasonably expect to make. At least for now. Does that sound good?”

“Yeah,” Ailis said.

“Yes,” Isaac said.

“Yeah, that’s good,” Elke added.

“The team I previously worked with suggested one day in the dungeon, then a rest day. Is that an approach that you all could work with? I don’t know what other obligations you have.”

“It’s workable. But depending on potential injuries, the rest period would have to be longer,” Ailis said.

“Of course.”

“It sounds good to me,” Isaac said. Elke confirmed as well.

“Alright. That’s the plan for tomorrow then. We can meet up after breakfast. Should we have a spar or something to familiarize ourselves with our magic and abilities before we go into the Crypts?”

“I don’t think we should spar,” Ailis said. “I’m not great with my hammer, but I use a hammer. I don’t plan on fighting people with it.”

“You’ll have to if we reach the third,” Isaac said.

“Yeah, but by then I’ll have more practice.”

Isaac smiled. “Yeah.”

“Elke, do you prefer your spear or bow?” Veron asked.

“Both are fine. The bow is better with this team,” Elke said.

“Neither will be very effective against skeletons,” Isaac said.

Elke nodded.

“I could make you a mace or hammer?” Veron asked.

“And maybe I can make you some modified arrows,” Isaac said. “Probably not today but we’ll see.”

“Would you like a mace?” Veron asked.

Elke seemed to consider. “You can make things with rock?”

“I can. What do you need?”
