To make their trips worthwhile, they would be given a mild tax exemption for goods they bought and sold for the first century, so long as they didn’t undercut the local markets. They would also be given five million aura potions at a three percent markup per year, which would help round out their profits for the first century.

The deal would also let him order a lot of the goods his guild needed through them, which would actually save them slightly thanks to the Dobrescu’s only acting as a go-between with their trade network of partners.

That went both ways, however, and Matt was expected to prioritize others in the network for selling and buying goods where reasonable. That clause took almost a full ten minutes to hash out, because Matt refused to be held hostage with such a deal, and they went over each line with a fine-tooth comb, adding exceptions where he wanted.

In the end, it wasn’t too onerous, but it was a commitment he’d need to remember, especially if he or his guild produced a product they wanted to sell. And given Silvia’s second question, he assumed this was her reason for asking it.

Depending on what it was, Matt wasn’t against showing some mild favoritism to her network, but he also made it clear it was unlikely they’d ever actually sell anything. But she insisted it was a risk she was willing to take.

The deal was more expensive than his previous ones, but Silvia assured him the goods would be protected both ways, and that if anyone struck out at her company like they had his previous suppliers, they would find the Dobrescus much harder nuts to crack.

It wasn’t a declaration of undying and unyielding friendship, but it was what they needed here and now, and would act as a good stop-gap as Matt worked on his other project.

Bespoke rifts had been on a bit of the back burner for a while now, but once he Tiered up and increased his mana generation, he was going to start prioritizing them.

To do that he needed to get the rest of the way through Tier 26, which meant it was time he started delving seriously once more.

If his enemies thought he was going to sit around while this lawsuit was ongoing, they had another thing coming.

It was time to return to his roots.

Delving like it was his job.
