Matt hadn’t heard that story from Lila, so he didn’t know anything more than the snippet he had been taught in school so many years ago, but he believed it. Or, he believed most of it. She had most certainly not lost interest in exploration itself, as was evidenced by her trying to get him and all of the younger Ascenders to go on a venture into deep chaotic space. That said, she seemed to have a lot of time for a guild leader of one of the largest exploration guilds, as seen by her taking naps on stars.

Though, as Matt thought about it, he realized that incident might have been the catalyst for her interest in taking them out in a sort of rekindling of her passion with her younger peers.

As interesting as the history lesson was, Matt wanted to cut to the chase. “And this has to do with me how exactly? Are they testing my limits? See where I’ll snap at them? See if I’ll roll over and give up?”

Rhea nodded sagely. “Correct, except you surprised everyone. Or at least myself and the other old fogeys who are watching, drinks in hand.”

She raised a hand, and a cognac appeared in her hand with a swirl.

“I feel my actions were justified.”

Silvia snorted a laugh and Rhea leaned back in her chair giving her daughter the floor. “Justified or not, do you know how much trouble you should be in?”

Matt just blinked at her, not sure how to answer.

“If I had gone to over ten other fiefs and attacked anything larger than a fly on their planets, I would be standing before the collective Royals who would be asking some very pointed questions at why I hadn’t followed proper procedures. If that wasn’t enough, and I had gone to another duchy and publicly destroyed a private rift, I would have started a interducal war. Beyond that, I would have been strung up by my heels for going around the Royals in such a deliberate way. Attacking thieves is at least morally justifiable, but attacking a fellow duchess like that would have kicked off a war between the two of us. At least if it was me who had done so. You on the other hand… Let's just say everyone I know is not only surprised that you had the balls to do so, but that there hasn’t been a whisper of complaint from anyone. Even if the Royals ignored the issue, or if Mara and Leon were covering for you, the nobles themselves would have used this as a method to kick up a fuss and earn a little political favor in return. But not a whisper from anyone involved. Even if there was a coverup, it wouldn’t be this silent. That's strange and no one can quite figure out the discrepancy.”

Matt frowned and didn’t bother to hide the expression. He had known he was stepping on their toes: officially, inter-ducal problems should go through their respective Royals who were to mediate the issue, but he hadn’t even considered going through the official procedures. He had known the Royals wouldn’t do more than yell at him for his actions given his status, let alone his mana, but he hadn't quite realized how quiet it had been, which was strange.

“So why did they go through the effort of baiting me into kicking up a fuss if they didn’t have anyone ready to complain?”

Matt was more wondering out loud, but Rhea nodded. “And that is the question. If I had wanted to bait you into a trap, I would have ensured that all parties would kick up a hissy fit, but the fact they didn’t speaks volumes of its own, does it not?”

Matt agreed. “My attackers aren’t willing to show themselves so easily and were possibly hoping the individuals themselves would kick up the fuss. I guess it makes sense. I was restrained.”

Rhea laughed so hard she clutched her stomach before wiping away a tear. “Oh, thank you. I needed that laugh. I can assure you, Ascender Titan that no one, and I mean no one, expected you to go and rip Falker’s lead scientist out of the rift. That isn’t just ballsy, it's inspired lunacy. Beyond a war, the upset that should have started for doing such in another duke's fief would have no one consider doing such a thing. Using the mortal exceptions was a good play to speed up proceedings, kudos to you for thinking of that, but they were ready for some maneuver, which is why they sent the man into the rift where he would be out of contact. I guarantee you that whatever your enemy's plans are, you just threw a massive wrench into them.”

Having gotten so much candor from the older Dobrescu, Matt decided to be candid himself. “So let me ask you, as I asked Silvia, how would you react to these provocations?”

Rhea shrugged as she stood to leave. “I think it's clear we think very differently, but I would start squeezing the moment I found a pain point until they begged me to stop. But that's just me. If I were you, I’d squeeze until I got tired of squeezing, but I feel that you’ll go farther than that, won’t you?”

Turning back around at the door, she added, “Let me add this before I go. In these battles there are rules, even if mostly unspoken. Dukes attack dukes, corporations attack corporations, guild attack guilds, people attack people. Try not to be the first one to overstep one of those lines. That means they probably won’t attack your holdings directly, at least not until things escalate much further. I know because that is how my ancestors earned this duchy. That said, you can and should bring in your friends and family, within reason, but know that opens them up to retaliation. Though, it’s most people’s first move in these sorts of games. Depending on who your enemy is and their inclinations, they might never attack them or they might target them early. You not knowing your enemy also means others might target your friends, wanting to escalate things further from the sides. That is why I would recommend bringing them close to you now instead of waiting. From everything I’ve seen and heard about you, you seem to truly care for them, and I think it would be best for everyone involved that you were prepared for that now instead of when it's too late.”

Matt frowned but nodded and thanked her as she exited the room.

He didn’t like what she had to say, but she was entirely right, and he immediately sent a message to Liz that they should gather everyone close to them to their duchy. They would be interfering with their friends' lives in a way they really didn’t like to do, but if anyone, his enemies or some unknown bystander wanting to stir the pot, hurt his friends, he would go on a rampage.

He would also have to make sure that he got that information to his enemies.

“I would appreciate it if you spread the word through your contacts that I will play this game. But if they touch my friends, I will pull in every favor I have to not just burn them down, but salt the earth.”

Rhea waved her acknowledgement even as she sauntered down the hall.

Silvia smiled as his attention returned to her. “In this instance, I must agree with my mother. Best to be ready for escalation while not seeking it yourself. Still, you seem to be handling yourself well.”

“As much as I appreciate the kind words, none of that really helps me with my current issue. My guild lost several important shipping contacts, I apparently can’t trust my duchy’s largest export shippers, and I have a mole in my guild who is able and willing to pass on sensitive information.”

When Matt moved to stand, Silvia raised an eyebrow. “Isn’t that why you came to us? I half assumed your previous comments were a front to get in the door and a better starting position. ”

“Not particularly. When we talked last, you said your company wasn’t looking to expand into my region of the Empire. I assume that hasn’t changed. I just wanted to pick your brain about the attacks.”

Silvia refilled his wine glass where it sat on the table. “Things change constantly. You were an unknown variable a century ago. While you are still a conundrum, I have learned several important things.”

“So you are willing to make a deal?” Matt sat back down as he asked.

“Let me answer your question with a question. Two questions, actually. How far are you willing to go to defend your guild, a guild that makes you no money and is from all reports a money pit?”

When she stopped after one question, Matt gestured for her to continue, but she waved him on, not speaking.

Sighing, he met her eyes. “Do you know why I care? Why I throw money at charitable endeavors that have little benefit to me? Why I don’t try and make any kind of a profit with the inventions my guild makes? Why I made the aura rift creation methods free instead of selling them? First and foremost, I could have been the people they help. I was them. I was given opportunities thanks to a lot of people. Not all of them were selfless, but they were still there and gave me the ability to take advantage of further opportunities. Part of it is wanting to pay that back. But another part is, I just want to make things better. I have power, and want to use it for good. I also just enjoy aperology and sharing my creations, like any artist. People don’t seem to believe me, but it's really that simple. So to answer your first question, I will fight this fight until I have nothing left to give, and it's not so easy to wear me down.”

They sat there for a long few moments before she said, “A good enough answer. My second question isn’t meant to offend, so don’t interpret it that way. But are you willing to throw the established industries a bone if something big enough comes across? You clearly care about the lower Tiers, but if you were to discover something similar to the aura rifts, but with an already established interest... Are you willing to work with those established in the industries?”

Matt frowned and let her see it. “My initial answer is no, but frankly, it depends. I’m not stupid enough to say it can’t happen, but it's unlikely. I think my opening of patents has been generous, as it allows more competition and design variation, letting businesses that would never be able to afford such patents a leg up. But at the same time, I also realize I live in the real world and have agreed to oversight by the Empire itself. So yes, I can take a step back if needed, but I wouldn't do so for a business deal, if that is what you are implying.”

He figured that would disqualify him from working with her, but that was fine. He hadn’t lied when he said he had only come for information and to see what she thought about his attackers.

However, Silvia surprised him by smiling. “I can work with that. I don’t ask because I want you to keep things secret or anything so droll, but rather that I don’t want to work with someone who can’t see the real world for what it is. And frankly, some of your actions could be construed as such.”

Matt wanted to take offence, but thinking about the Ascenders he knew, that wasn’t a far-off description.

“That said, I frankly offer a lot in this agreement where you don’t and can’t. Aura potions are nice, but they aren’t worth rerouting even a single ship over to your region of the Empire. I need at least five percent over the standard shipping agreement for all goods moved, and a ten percent discount on all goods bought in your duchy. Secondly, I’d want ten million aura potions, types to be specified later, to be buyable at cost.”

Matt scoffed even as he leaned back into his chair for a long debate.

“I’d rather publish the shipping records myself so bandits can steal them all rather than be fleeced like that. My duchy may be new and out of your company's typical range, but you aren't our only option. I know people in the space industry.”

“Oh please, the Mallick clan? They could stuff their holds with every aura potion they can fit and not make a dent in what your duchy makes, which my ships could move. In fact, they are welcome to take what they can. One of the agreements in signing on with my family is that we don’t have exclusivity clauses. We have minimums to ensure that our time and mana is respected to make the trip worth it, but we don’t care about the leftovers.”

“I could start my own company.”

“You could, and I’d wish you the best of luck in that. The expenses are enormous and don’t really pay off if you ever have a hold empty. There is a reason we always buy something when we sell something. A new company bleeds money for a long time. Five percent discount on goods bought in your duchy. My price is fair, as it would allow you access to our many partners which would solve your guild’s supply problem.”

Matt waved that away as if he truly wasn’t concerned. “I already have a solution for that.”

“Oh really?” Silvia leaned forward and batted her eyes, calling his bluff. “I’m listening. Impress me, Ascender Titan. As far as I know, most of the contacts that were cut, while not particularly rare, aren’t easily replaceable either. At least not in a duchy so young as yours.”

“Self sufficiency is a laudable goal after all. One everyone should strive for.”

Silvia snorted. “Specialization is how one becomes a master for a craft and makes the best items. Nine million aura potions sold at cost.”

“You only say that because that lets you move said items around. Five million aura potions sold at a five percent markup, since you like the number five so much.”

Their bargaining went on for another hour before they settled on a deal.

The Dobrescu trading company would add Matt and Liz’s duchy to their trading routes and were contracted to move a majority of their aura potions from the duchy to their business partners at the various regional capitals.

