Which of course, brought him back to his list of demands. “Continuing where we left off... the rabbits. Would it be at all possible to leave them here while we travel?” Seeing the boy’s wounded reaction, Nian Zu sighed. “Of course not. Then do not allow yourself to be seen coddling them. No rolling around in the grass or chasing them around the table, not while you’re away from here. Hug the Guardian Turtle and groom your mount if you must, but carry yourself with some decorum so others won’t have to work so hard to admire you.” Withdrawing a package of document he’d prepared before hand, he explained, “There are many more issues to deal with, but I’ll leave this list for you to peruse with your Consort, who may or may not have items to add.” Clearing his throat, he added, “Also included is a proposal I intend to bring up with the Legate and other Colonel Generals. I’d like you to look it over and make the necessary arrangements to support me.”

“Er, dunno what I can do to help, but sure.” It was strange to see someone so intelligent move his lips while he read, but Rain did just that, at a pace much slower than Nian Zu expected considering the boy had so much obscure knowledge crammed into his head. Still, slowly but surely, Rain’s confusion turned into understanding and even excitement as he broke out into a charming grin, which along with his amber eyes made Nian Zu understand why so many people were willing to lay their lives down for this most bothersome of men. “Finally,” Rain said, sitting back with a silly smile. “Someone with a lick of common sense. I’ll have to ask Luo-Luo about the numbers, but since Yuzhen is already onboard, then I’m confident we can do what you’re proposing.” Turning to speak with his Death Corps guard, he shouted, “Could one of you please ask MuYang to come see me? Tell him I need to look over the books and see what funds we have available. Also, ask him to bring the latest reports from the bell-foundry, because I think the Colonel General would like to see them.” Turning back around, the boy took in Nian Zu’s befuddled look and said, “What? You thought I’d go running off myself? It’s fine, consider me suitably chastened. I’ll stay here where it’s safe, though I do intend to go out to see Ping Ping later on.”

Actually, Nian Zu was surprised the boy thought he could send for a servant and expect the Colonel General to sit here and wait, especially since he hadn’t been offered so much as a cup of tea. Truly arrogance to the extreme, but at least now he knew Falling Rain wasn’t the only member of the Bekhai stricken with this glaring flaw.

A discovery which didn’t make things any better, and actually quite a bit worse.

Chapter Meme
