“Fool.” Slamming his hand down on the wooden dining room table, his fury did little more than earn him the ire of the Medical Saint’s darling daughter, who moved just in time to keep her teacup from spilling over. Rain didn’t even flinch, which only served to fuel Nian Zu’s anger. “You know your failings, but instead of improving yourself, you leave it to others to pick up the slack. Is that your idea of a leader?”

“...I never asked to be one.”

His sulky expression and petulant tone reminded Nian Zu that despite his brilliant mind and mature temperament, Rain was still a young man yet, and the young were never one to yield to fate. It was almost refreshing to see him behave like this, a reminder that he was a creature of flesh and blood with doubts and insecurities, rather than the living envoy of the Mother Herself the tall tales and outlandish rumors made him out to be. “Yet here you are,” Nian Zu retorted, but only after taking a deep breath to calm down. “In position to lead. You hold the lives of thousands of soldiers in your hands, men and women who pledged themselves to your service. Ask for it or not, you are a leader, boy, and it’s high time you learned to shoulder your responsibilities before you get everyone you love killed.”

Belatedly remembering the presence of children, Nian Zu offered an apologetic glance to Charok, but the darling white-haired twins were engrossed with their little game and had completely tuned out the conversation. He had no idea children were so easy to entertain, though he didn’t understand what was so fascinating about a box filled with water and raw shrimp.

As for Rain, he rolled his eyes without actually moving them, an admirable feat of non-verbal communication if there ever was one. “And those responsibilities include following Major Binesi’s commands?”

“No. He is here to ensure you are not killed by your own stupidity.” Gesturing at the Death Corps guards standing outside the dining room, Nian Zu explained, “With how often you leave your guards behind before stumbling into danger, it will do you good to have someone nearby who you can’t order to leave and will tell you when you’re being an idiot.” Not to mention quash any stupid ideas the boy might have, like going out for a pleasure trip the day after making enemies of the Five Supreme Families. What in the world was Baatar thinking, letting Rain traipse about as he pleased?

Truth be told, Nian Zu found himself questioning his choice of second-in-command more and more these days. Not two days ago, Rain had sat at this very table and told them about his meeting with the Legate, during which he stated in no uncertain terms that the Bekhai would rebel if he were killed out of hand. Nian Zu had been shocked to hear Rain state it so plainly, and horrified when no one spoke up to correct him. Baatar, Sarnai, Akanai, and several other of the Bekhai were even nodding along, all in perfect agreement with his claims. Granted, these were Rain’s most die-hard supporters, but when Nian Zu came back and questioned Binesi about it, the mountain-born warrior had not been surprised. “Such is the way of the Bekhai,” he replied, as if that simple statement explained everything. “They are all citizens of the Empire, but they do not always see themselves as such.” Shrugging, he added, “Though it could also be argued that oftentimes, the Empire does not treat them, or most other fringe groups, as true citizens.”

That was foolishness of course, but Nian Zu could see why someone from Binesi’s background might see things that way. Unlike safe and calm Central, the Northern Province consisted of large swathes of dangerous, untamed lands dotted by pockets of civilization, the twelve walled and fortified cities of the North. While even the smallest northern city was a massive, sprawling misnomer containing millions of civilians, it was still impossible to fit the entirety of the Northern Population within the safety of their walls. Citizens living outside the cities were largely left to fend for themselves against the ravenous beasts and harsh elements, yet were still expected to pay taxes for patrols which rarely came by, taxes which helped fund the defence of the Empire as a whole. What most of those citizens didn’t understand was the staggering numbers involved in keeping the Northern Wall in good repair, or feeding, housing, and paying thousands of soldiers to man the defences, but as the Hero of the Wall, Nian Zu knew those numbers like the back of his hand. He had no sympathy for poor farmers who begrudged giving up a fifth of their harvests to help feed the warriors who fought, bled, and died to protect them, and he had even less sympathy for greedy merchants who committed fraud to avoid paying their fair share, but each citizen must do their part, from humble farmer to lofty Colonel General, all in the interest of keeping the Empire safe.

No one man stood above the safety of the Empire. None. This was what he believed, so it was surprising to learn that Baatar, the valiant and heroic warrior who almost gave his life many times over to keep the Province safe, did not share Nian Zu’s values. Perhaps it had something to do with being a father, a concept he’d never personally experienced for himself, but in his mind, a single Falling Rain was not enough reason to rebel against the Empire and endanger the lives of tens of millions of citizens. Unfortunately, Binesi was right. Baatar did not fight for the Empire, nor did any of the Bekhai, a most disheartening discovery, so Nian Zu realized he would have to step in and keep the idiot boy alive, because the Empire needed unity now more than ever.

“Enough,” Nian Zu snapped, losing what little patience he still had when he saw Rain still had the mind to argue his orders. “Your decisions go beyond your own meagre fate, for if you get yourself killed, then Baatar, my trusted second-in-command, will rebel and die for nothing, alongside tens of thousands of loyal Imperial soldiers, Bekhai and otherwise. Since you cannot be trusted to make wise decisions, you will report your every movement to Binesi, who may or may not choose to follow along to keep your troublesome ass alive. Understood, private?”

“Yes, Colonel General.” Still scowling, Rain didn’t even hesitate before continuing, “However, there are certain aspects of my life in which I cannot share, so there may be times when I’ll need to leave Major Binesi behind.”

“So long as you bring along a sufficient guard detail,” Binesi muttered, obviously unhappy with his new job, “Then you may do as you please, foundling.”

This was going swimmingly, but Nian Zu had no other alternatives, because the Bekhai had proven themselves unwilling to restrain the boy themselves. “He may not do as he pleases,” Nian Zu snapped, giving the dour Binesi a measured glare before returning his attention to Rain. “For one, until we set out two days from now, you are not to go beyond the Citadel walls, no matter how well guarded you might be. Second, from this day forward, you will travel in a closed carriage instead of on an open rickshaw or quin back as you so prefer. Third, when Imperial Servant Zheng Luo returns, you will ask her to teach you proper manners, and the lessons will continue during our journey south.” Besides, considering at least one Imperial Family wanted the Servant for their own scion, perhaps the girl’s presence might prove sufficient deterrence against Imperial Assassin’s blades.

Seeing Rain ready to argue the last point, Nian Zu narrowed his eyes and snarled, “Don’t test me boy. I’ve had enough of your foolish arrogance and indiscretions. You claimed you didn’t know how the Supreme Families would act, but it was your own courtesan who warned us about it, so ignorance is no excuse. You will obey my orders and heed her advice, so that when we arrive at the banquet, you can play the humble soldier and speak only when spoken to, or when acting in service to the Legate’s orders. Then, the very second it is acceptable to do so, we will leave and return to the Northern Citadel until I can convince your father to ship you back home to the mountains where you will no longer be my problem. Understood?”

“...My arrogance? You think my arrogance is the reason all these assholes are trying to kill me?”

Of all the things for the boy to take issue with, Nian Zu had not expected this. “You believe otherwise? You stand firm where courtesy dictates to aside, and then take issue when someone moves to push you out of the way. This is how your journey began, did it not, with you inciting hatred between the Society and the Bekhai?”

“That wasn’t my fault,” Rain whined, while Lady Mei Lin scowled in agreement. “They invited me to a contest, then tried to kill us when we proved ourselves stronger than their contestants.”

“Indeed they did.” Fixing the boy with a measure stare, Nian Zu said, “But I doubt they would’ve been so adamant to kill you if you hadn’t humiliated your opponents so thoroughly. You defeated them readily, then held them hostage to extort coin from them, an ordeal your peers will not soon forget.”

Honestly, Nian Zu had laughed like a donkey when he first heard the tale, and wished he’d been there to see it first hand. Rang Min’s spoiled brat Gulong deserved all that and more, but even then, it was a brash and arrogant move.

“...I didn’t force them to buy anything.”

“This is a pattern with you, boy.” Fed up with Rain’s holier-than-thou attitude, Nian Zu tried to make him see reason. “You stumble into a situation like a bull in a porcelain shop, then wonder why everyone is so upset over their broken goods. The Butchers in Sanshu, the Canston Trading Group in Nan Ping, Situ Ji Yeon in Sinuji, and Mother knows how much more.” Not to mention the Imperial Servant Zheng Luo, who was the source of much of Rain’s current woes. A noble effort to keep her ‘safe’, but was any one woman worth all this trouble? Sometimes, the pragmatic choice was not pleasant, but like foul medicine, it was best to simply grimace and bear it. However, since the Bekhai refused to do things the easy and unpleasant way, Nian Zu would have to teach this young bull to tread lightly. “You make the same mistake over and over again until now, where you mean to intentionally do it again by rushing headlong into danger and dealing with it as it comes. If you die to an Imperial blade, your family will rebel. Let that thought sink in for a moment, then look me in the eye and tell me it isn’t sheer arrogance to go tempting fate.”

Suitably cowed, Rain finished his lunch in stubborn silence, still unwilling to accept Nian Zu’s statement yet unable to refute it. Smiling at the sullen young warrior, he shook his head and sighed. “You remind me of myself in my younger years. Too proud to take the easy way out or ever ask for help.”

“Excuse me?” Looking up from his meal, Rain raised an eyebrow and said, “I would love for an easy way out, and I ask for help all the time. Dad, Grandma, the Legate, the monks, and so much more. In Sinuji, I tried to meet every Officer there to ask that we work together, and I all but begged the Healers to find what was wrong with me. I don’t have any issues asking for help.”

“From people you consider above you.” Smiling at the boy’s crippling lack of self awareness, Nian Zu asked, “When was the last time you went to someone beneath you for help? I watched you on the walls, boy, saw you hobble your weak, crippled self into battle and try to drag your soldier back, when you could have instead turned to Watanabe’s man for help. Did you think Lieutenant Masahige would refuse? Perhaps, but you should have at least tried. All soldiers are beholden to their orders, but not all care to play politics in the midst of war. Slave, thief, merchant, or noble, we all fight side by side against the Enemy. You take it upon yourself to fight and defend your soldiers, but have you ever thought that they made the same choice?” Seeing his words having some effect on Rain, Nian Zu pressed on. “You are a born leader, boy, and you lead by example. Thus, men and women have pledged themselves to you, and they will die for you, whether you command them to or not. This is your role in life, whether you want it or not, so I suggest you make the most of it and learn to command. What’s more, your family cares for you, and they also are ready to die for you. Knowing all this, is it really so much to ask that you suffer this inconvenience and work harder to keep yourself alive?”

“It’s hard to argue when you put it like that.” Setting his chopsticks and empty bowl aside, Rain reached down and picked up the giant rabbit pawing at his legs and cuddled it close for comfort. Seeing him so vulnerable like this made it easy to forget what Falling Rain was capable of, but Nian Zu could not afford to let the boy slip. The Empire could not afford it. Rain was already under too much pressure, and since Baatar seemed unwilling to rein him in, then Nian Zu would have to do so in his place.

