As soon as he finished carving the final slash, imbuing the final bit of meaning into his runes, the runic web dimmed to half strength and the number of lit runic paths doubled, from three, to six. The entire tetrahedron of platinum bars and nodes was lit with a cloying lightward.

“Perfect.” Erick held up the lit runic web, eyeing it for any defects at all. He found none. “Looks good.”

Yggdrasil asked, “What did you do?”

Erick smiled, and then happily explained as he picked up another runic web, and went through the whole process again, explaining it to Yggdrasil as he did.

His next runic web was different.

‘Lightward’ went to a single node, but on the other three nodes Erick tried three different ideas for [Renew]. One node gained ‘[Renew]’, written in English; putting that word into the metal felt weird, and he probably did it wrong, but this was all an experiment and there was nothing to do for the weirdness of it all but try. The second node gained ‘mold mana to spell’, which was about the direct translation of what [Renew] meant, but it was not at all as elegant a rune series as some spells. [Force Bolt] was literally two singular runes, ‘force’ and ‘bolt’, and both of those runes were deeply ingrained into the Script as their own individual glyphs. Carving that second node felt all sorts of wrong, though, so it was probably a failure, too.

The third runic attempt was one of Erick’s own creation, combining and overlapping the simple rune for ‘[Rejuvenation]’, which was the most basic Healing Magic rune, and the rune for ‘mana’. It ended up as a circle with a wave in the center, which also felt all sorts of wrong, but it certainly looked nice and thematic.

None of them worked.

Erick imbued a lightward into that rune, and then he held his hand against each [Renew] attempt, trying to will [Renew] into the metal exactly how he knew it should go, but each time he ended up with a handful of white rain, and the runic web remained unimbued. The lightward didn’t get stronger, at all. The English ‘[Renew]’ failed utterly, but the other two weren’t any better.

He frowned.

“Ah. Well.” Erick guessed, “I’m fluent in Ancient Script, but I certainly don’t use it all the time. Maybe the word I want is already in there, somewhere, and I just haven’t heard it? Maybe I simply haven’t come across the concept yet.” He looked up at Yggdrasil. “Want to call up Poi again? I need to ask him to find me something.”

“Okay.”

Erick nodded, and dove back into Yggdrasil’s consciousness. The world became an ephemeral ocean and flames once again, but with two ghostly pathways leading out from this land of unchanging day. Erick went with Yggdrasil down the correct path—

He hit a block.

Erick had no idea what he was looking at, so he pulled back. Once again sitting on Yggdrasil’s branches, Erick steadied himself, and tried to get through to Poi again. This time he paid special attention to the pathway—

He hit a grate; not a true block. It was hard to understand the grate for what it was, for the land was as solid as the sky and nothing stayed in one place for long at all. Even Yggdrasil’s pathway shifted left and right, appearing and vanishing out of this surrealist landscape like a road in the desert that only appeared when the wind blew away the dunes. And yet, even that imagery wasn’t true, for Yggdrasil had no trouble at all navigating this land, like some great whale of a thousand tails, hovering above and behind Erick, free to swim or fly or crawl as he desired.

Erick only had the one path ahead of him, and the dunes blocked his travel.

With the mental approximation of a frown, and the ethereal idea of grabbing hold of a shovel, Erick stuck his hands into the sand to clear them away—

He came back to himself to see his hands broken, with bone poking out of flesh and blood highlighting and hiding his new wounds. Pain had yet to manifest, but it came on quick enough. Calmly, Erick used his sunform to move his hands back into something approximating their original shape, and he cast [Greater Treat Wounds]. Wounds began to close—

A blue box appeared.

Scripted message:

Please do not try to breach Core Protections again. This is your only warning.

Another blue box appeared.

I left your telepathic connection open like I said I would. You got a message out.

Inform me when you wish to leave and I will show you the way to Yggdrasil’s new lair. Do not test Core Protections again.

~Rozeta

Erick frowned. “Fair, I suppose.” He [Cleanse]d his blood away as he thought. There were ways around this new limitation, some of them very obvious, so he took one, telling Yggdrasil, “If anyone asks, Yggdrasil, could you tell them I’m okay, and that I’ll be back when I can?”

Yggdrasil said, “I tell people this.”

“Thank you.” Erick asked, “Are you having any trouble with people since yesterday, when we went out together?”

“No trouble. Not anymore.”

“Good.” Erick turned back to his work, and wondered, “So. If I can’t continue making a runic web with [Renew], and [Gate] is blocked, then… What am I here for— Oh.” He looked at his skin, and at his [Personal Ward]. With the stability of the manasphere all around and the lack of threats, he might be able to drop his defenses and actually work on his aura control. Even if he couldn’t get much further with his [Gate] goals, getting aura control out of this trip would be a fantastic outcome, too. A glance outward showed that there were no people here, either— “Actually. Let’s Scan for people again.”

A [Cascade Imaging] went out, searching for ‘people’, its radio waves easily bouncing across the thousands upon thousands of kilometers of the ‘bowl’ of this inner world. Ten minutes later the results appeared on the map. Only one ‘person’ was found, and that person was located exactly where Erick expected them to appear; a single blue dot appeared in the center of the Imaging, representing Erick himself.

With that cleared out of the way, Erick remembered another way to check for people; The Quest Board. If there were Quests it meant that there was someone submitting Quests in the Inner Core—

There were Quests. None of them were new. All of them looked ancient. Only three of them, though. Erick’s eyes went a bit wide as he read, for he was already on two of these three quests, and he hadn’t even known.

Special Quest!

Find a way back to the Old Cosmology, without endangering current civilization.

Poster: Rozeta, Dragon Goddess of the Script. All Relevant Entities of the Script.

Reward: Worlds upon worlds.

Note: One of the Ultimate Quests. You cannot accept this Quest or show it to others. You are automatically on this Quest even without knowing, in the hopes that one day it will be fulfilled.

Special Quest!

Cure Melemizargo of his insanity, without endangering current civilization.

Poster: Rozeta, Dragon Goddess of the Script. All Relevant Entities of the Script.

Reward: To be determined.

Note: One of the Ultimate Quests. You cannot accept this Quest or show it to others. You are automatically on this Quest even without knowing, in the hopes that one day it will be fulfilled.

Special Quest!

Expand civilization to the worlds of this New Cosmology, without endangering current civilization.

Poster: Rozeta, Dragon Goddess of the Script. All Relevant Entities of the Script.

Reward: Worlds upon worlds.

Note: One of the Ultimate Quests. You cannot accept this Quest or show it to others. You are automatically on this Quest even without knowing, in the hopes that one day it will be fulfilled.

“Huh,” Erick said.

The wind blew across the land.

Hopefully, Erick hadn’t already violated that ‘without endangering current civilization’ part. No way to truly tell, though. The first Quest was right out; no way to do that, and Erick didn’t want to, anyway. The second was… Erick was getting there? Maybe? Whatever. Erick was actually working on the third quest, though.

He thought for a bit. Mostly, his thoughts were half baked, but they included ideas about Fate, alongside questions of whether Fate could be imbued into Quests. The Script supposedly locked most Fate Magic away from people, but the Worldly Path was a giant ritual of Fate that doused the Walker of the Path in deepest Fate. It made sense, then, that Rozeta and others might be able to take some Fate and bind it to other ‘Ultimate Quest’s, and then place everyone on those quests in the hope that Fate might one day solve these Quests for them…

Ah.

Hmm.

Erick activated his Minor Entity status and voiced his question to the local goddess, “Rozeta? Did this Quest drag Jane and I to this world?”

A blue box appeared.

Can’t talk now. Answer is no. Longer answer is still no, but also maybe. Philosophical.

Talk more later.

Erick blinked a bit, dispensing with unneeded emotions.

He’d get a better answer from her later, maybe.

For a while though, he just thought.

- - - -

Eventually, Erick decided to get on with the aura control lessons. He searched for people again, and finding none, he continued. Yggdrasil was set to watch over him, but he told the big guy not to interfere unless necessary. Ophiel got the same message. And then Erick stripped down to his pants. White light flickered across his body as his [Personal Ward] turned off. His rings came off, and he also decided to shave his face and cut his hair back into the proper shapes, as he did sometimes. He turned off all of his spells and briefly felt vulnerable, but he checked on his [Cascade Imaging] again, flickering the Scan through all iterations of different types of people, and through all the standard protective spells that someone might be wearing like a [Personal Ward]. Erick was still the only person that showed in the Imaging. His spellwork was still the only spellwork active nearby.

He breathed a bit, relaxing.

First came some light stretching, which was practically unneeded since Dexterity had him covered, but it still felt good to touch his toes, and then kiss his own knees. A twist of his arms had him curled backward, forming a bridge with his body. He hadn’t done that since before college. It brought another smile to his face.

And then he sat down, and started going through his aura control exercises.

Breathe in.

Breathe out.

Bring hands in.

Push hands out.

Repeat.

Repeat.

- - - -

Erick surfaces from a trance, to float above an ocean of nothing that slowly recedes in all directions. His eyes cannot open, for his eyelids are impossible weights, but his mana sense is active, and dilated. He sees the shifting world around him. He watches that world resolve into something approaching reality, but it is likely more Reality than real.

He is on his back again, on a cloud of stone, and yet ‘stone’ does not cover the barest bit of the being at his back, made of love and connection. The stone is comfortable, and slightly green around the edges. It yields as Erick relaxes, and Erick floats above the stone. Feathered eyes float with him. They watch and protect.

And Erick sees Reality and reality, and the Truth of it all.

He sees the Truth of himself.

It is exactly what he expects.

- - - -

Erick surfaced, slowly, and methodically.

His heart rate increased. His eyes began to move under his control. Ideas flooded, incomprehensible. That’s where he found himself stuck for a bit, for his Truth was cloudy once again. He still knew it, but it was like knowing what happened in a dream.

Laying back upon the unyielding branches of his largest [Familiar], deep in the Core of Veird, Erick opened his eyes and saw the world in a new light.

Several new lights.

For he had a new ‘eye’ opened.

He raised a hand into his line of sight. Under the brightness of the Core, he could barely tell that his skin was flushed with brightness, like he was some sort of wrought fluorescing under blacklight. But it was. Like the bark of Yggdrasil beneath him, Erick glowed with luminosity that gently extended into the air around him, filtering into the world on wispy white glows.

It was not the power of [Greater Lightwalk]. Erick understood that much instantly. For one, he wasn’t running that spell. For another, the light in the air around him was practically a mist that ebbed and flowed around him like a fog, and it felt so very much different than anything he had ever felt before.

[Greater Lightwalk] was a pressure, a control, a flipped switch that allowed Erick to operate differently from his physical self. With his lightform, he could move through the sky with barely a thought. But he couldn’t feel the world through that lightform; not like he could when he was a physical person.

Elemental Bodies had no nerve endings, or brain, or hormones telling the user to feel certain ways about certain sights, or events. One could still feel fear, or hope, or joy, but those feelings were purely intellectual events; they were like ingrained pathways in the person wielding an Elemental Body that were triggered by ingrained responses to stimuli.

But this glow… This was different. It was a lot less controllable, for one.

This was probably because Erick’s [Greater Lightwalk] was, in truth, an ‘aura’ enabled through elemental essence unlocking the ability and the Script handling how that ability worked. The Script made [Greater Lightwalk] inherently strong, and Erick had grown used to understanding how to wield that strength well.

This aura that clung to him now was barely mobile. Erick had no idea how to move it. It was his aura, for sure. Of that there was no doubt. But it was odd. It was weak. Unlocked auras had no Script assistance, so this much was normal. So far, most things about this were normal.

What wasn’t normal was that Erick’s aura was rather bright. Erick held up his arm, and the fog of his light moved with him. He pushed his arm forward and the fog trailed with his movement—

Erick sent a concentrated command through his new aura, attempting to move it like he would his lightform. Power rippled through the foggy light and it solidified around his body. But that was all it did. Less wisping, more solidity. Erick relaxed, and the gathered light began to fog away, like so much tattered cloth.

Oddities compounded as Erick concentrated on his new aura and felt the mana inside it all.

Like a flubbing child, Erick began to play with the building blocks of magic, pushing and pulling and twisting, but with considerably less control than he normally had. Using aura was like starting all over again, learning how to control his power with hands that were numb, and barely regaining feeling with the passage of time.

