In a flashing instant, Erick recognized where he had seen this style of building before. This was what Oceanside’s towers looked like, except larger, and more imposing. This place was thicker, for sure, but it was a bit shorter. The color of the stone was white, which was another difference. Oceanside was cream colored.

And… As Erick gazed upon the building, he realized that any resemblance to Oceanside’s student-filled, flying-people organization was purely superficial. Oceanside had traffic lanes in the air; this place had one major, open entrance at the front, and another entrance at the orrery at top. This place was meant for scholars, and seriousness. Not students. People who had already made it to the top of their fields. A place of organization.

A place for Wizards.

The frame around the main entrance was made of even more stone Wizards; a whole organized hierarchy of them, each made of stone and each holding one hand up toward the apex of the door, casting spells at a white metal orb that had been laid into the keystone. Their other hands each held a differently-shaped slab of stone that Erick assumed was a plane of existence that each Wizard had created, and contributed to the cause.

That’s what Wizards did, after all. They made worlds.

The mirrors to Erick’s own [Gate] plans were only one of the very uncomfortable things about this place.

Anyway. Some of the Wizards’ planes were larger than others, and all were of different shapes, but all were decorated like miniaturized worlds, with mountains and waterfalls and gems stuck into metal holders that held those gems above their planes. Those gems represented sunlights or starlights, for sure.

The door to the tower was solid silver, and it was already open.

Erick went in.

The first floor held a large central space, open in the middle of the tower, with a ceiling that stretched up through a few floors. It was a food court, almost, for this place was surrounded by little eateries and larger cafeterias. There were dozens of places to sit and talk with people, either at small gathering spots with comfortable couches, or at dining tables, or at standing tables.

Erick’s eyes and mana sense touched upon many small things here and there, but his eyes were drawn past the small shops and food places, to the center of the space. There stood something that might have been a Wizard. The sight of it worried Erick, but he would be inspecting that stone sculpture soon enough.

Signs were posted in discreet locations everywhere, letting visitors know where things and places were located. Those signs were lies, though, for with his mana sense, Erick saw the real signs underneath the fake ones. The false signs were just one part of how this Wizard’s Tower was different from most other places.

Mostly, there were all these little traps laid all over the place. There had been no traps by the entrance, probably to lure incomers with a false sense of security, but everywhere else…

There were traps.

The traps seemed to be harmless enough, and mostly involved physical trips which unleashed bright liquids onto visitors, from capsules dropped from on high, to hydraulic squirts from small holes in the walls. They were easy enough to avoid, anyway, and so, Erick avoided them.

Step around that tile there. Don’t touch that chair. That couch is rigged to explode, so stay away from that. Whatever you do, don’t sit on that couch…

Erick adroitly avoided the various small traps as he drew closer to the central Wizard’s statue, to read what was on the white metal plate sitting before the massive stone creation. The most obvious and disturbing thing about the sculpture was that this statue was in an obvious place of honor, but it wasn’t finished. The other statues were perfectly carved in the shapes of specific people, but this one had a face that was half there, with stone that was only partially chipped away. The hands were uncarved gestures up and down. The robe had some flow to it, but it was blocky. A [Familiar] of some shape and make stood on the shoulder, but the creature was more a curl of indistinct stone, than anything truly understandable.

Maybe it was a slime [Familiar]? Possibly.

According to the white metal epitaph sitting in front of the statue, the ‘Unformed Wizard’ as he was called, was ‘a reminder of all those who failed to make it to the ranks of the Wizards.’

But according to the real message hidden inside the statue’s chest, more than ten meters from Erick’s position on the ground, the statue had a real dedication; ‘Xoat, the first Wizard, from which came the entire universe. We follow in his footsteps, ever onward into the Welcoming Dark.’ The last words had been scratched out by a furious, internal hand, but the words themselves remained legible enough.

And what’s more, ‘Xoat’s’ stone foundation extended behind him, creating ample space for another, larger sculpture, but there was nothing there. A broken pedestal stood next to that extra space; whatever had been written there was also no longer present, either. Erick had a few guesses about what historically accompanied Xoat, but he’d probably only need one guess to get it right. The implications of all this were rather clear.

Erick turned his attention back to the blocky sculpture. He leaned back. He stared. He wondered at the First Wizard who may or may not have been his own previous reincarnation, if Rozeta’s evasive answers, the Shade’s adoration, and Melemizargo’s apparent lucidity were to be believed.

… And he found it all very inconclusive.

He did rediscover that he didn’t want to think about any of that, though. Erick turned left, and went on his way, leaving behind the impressionist sculpture of Xoat and the blank space where the Darkness would have gone.

Up a staircase, around the central opening to another staircase, past offices and business rooms, Erick went.

He passed by planning spaces with stone mockups of a world yet to come, and map rooms filled with universe-showing atlases and maps. Another room detailed several galactic locations, including the Radiant Depths, the Verdant Expanse, and the Abyssal Spiral. A child’s daycare center had toys that were worlds, and children’s books about Wizards being the good guys; Erick briefly stopped in there just to see if he was reading all that correctly, and he was.

Erick followed the real signs toward the First Wizard’s Library. The fake signs, laid atop the real ones, told him he was headed toward the ‘Senile Wizard’s Lounge’, which was probably a joke of some sort. Wizards were jokesters as much as they made worlds, apparently.

He avoided lots of small traps along the way. He almost went into the map room, too, but the whole thing was a trap. Ophiel...

Well.

Ophiel had triggered a trap early on, and he seemed to be having fun with all that.

Ophiel had bumped into a trap on the wall, possibly on purpose to see what it did. Cloying pink goo had burst from the wall, covering that Ophiel, and now that Ophiel was very easy to tell apart from all the rest because he was bright, bright pink. [Cleanse] didn’t seem to get rid of the dye, either, as the dye seemed to settle into Ophiel’s feathers. Ophiel had tried to [Cleanse] away the color over and over, again, trying to erase the markings of his own misadventure.

[Cleanse] seemed to work on the spilled droplets of pink that got everywhere, so that was great. But [Cleanse] was useless on Ophiel’s conjured self. Erick wasn’t quite sure how that worked —some sort of mana-tainting alchemical potion? That didn’t read as magical to Erick’s many senses? Sure? Why not— and he didn’t really feel like exploring that oddity right now.

Ophiel was fine. He seemed a bit happy to be bright pink, too.

And so, well before Erick made it to his target library, every single Ophiel except for the one on his shoulder was a different color, each of them flapping and chirping and playing around like bright, garishly neon parrots, each of them scoping out which color of goo they wanted to be splashed with next. So far, pink, green, and blue seemed to be his favorite colors. The various red, orange, yellow, and black traps were left behind, mostly untouched.

It brought a bit of a smile to Erick’s face to see Ophiel having fun, but he wasn’t here to play around.

He found his target.

The ‘Senile Wizard’s Lounge’ was a normal enough library/tea shop/couch room. Erick carefully cracked open the door, avoided the accompanying splash of red dye, and then fully opened the room. He moved in, stepped around a few goo-trap-tripping tiles, and saw his actual targets; the books on the shelves. Wizard humor was everywhere, though.

The first shelf out of the five shelves inside the grand, yet cozy space, was labeled ‘So you think you might be a Wizard’. The one next to that was labeled, ‘You’re probably not, but these are some warning signs.’ The third shelf read, ‘Developing bodies; mana shards and you’. The fourth, ‘Practicing safe discipline’. The fifth, ‘No, you’re not Xoat, but you could be something greater'.

The normal names on the shelves were all about caring for old folks, from ‘Advanced body issues’ to ‘Age-related dementia’ and ‘Restorative alchemy’.

About every third book was actually a goo-trap, too, so that was fun. The couches looked comfortable and inviting, but they all had cushions that would burst with color if touched. Only the uncomfortable chair by the window, with its back angled to press into the back of a sitter, was clean of traps. There was a joke there, too, for sure.

Erick went to the first shelf and reached—

“Erick,” Rozeta said, from across the room. “I see you’re exploring.”

Erick turned. “Hello, Rozeta.”

Rozeta glanced to the various bodies of Ophiel as the little guy turned to light and surrounded Erick, going on alert. Turning to light didn’t seem to disrupt the alchemical paint, though, which followed Ophiel into his sunform, transforming each one into a splash of multiple colors.

Rozeta said, “I see someone is setting off every trap they can.”

“He’s cleaning up every mess he makes, too.”

“I see that.” Rozeta looked to Erick. “Let’s talk.”

Erick thumbed at the bookshelves. “I feel like you’re interrupting me because you see an opportunity to stop me from getting answers about Wizardry.”

“I’m here for the exact opposite reason, actually.” Rozeta said, “You can still read the books after I’m finished, but far too many Wizards have killed themselves with words they have learned from books. So I will tell you what you need to know, then you may ask what you want to know, and we can move on from there as you or I see fit.”

“Oh.” Erick paused. He said, “Okay. That works, too.”
