But with the creation of [Renew], all doubts would be dispelled, even if people didn’t have the proof she did. Erick was a Wizard, even without the standardized signs, even without Rozeta’s certainty. He had really fucked himself over by actually succeeding with [Renew] but he didn’t know that yet. He would learn, though, and soon.

Rozeta grumbled again, vibrating the world as she tossed and turned and continued to watch scenes of Erick play with his aura, and talk about magic to Yggdrasil, and explore more of that replica city. He even managed to find the Prince’s Bordello, and it was kinda cute how his face turned red upon seeing all the toys sitting around, waiting to be used. He walked away from that playpen, thoroughly embarrassed, while Rozeta had a good chuckle.

And then she sighed again.

Rozeta knew what she had to do to ensure that Erick wasn’t murdered by the entire world after being found out as a Wizard, but she didn’t want to, because that would be impinging on her father’s domain, and she didn’t want to deal with her father. Not now. Probably not ever.

A day passed.

Rozeta answered a million prayers. She fixed a thousand small problems, and some a bit larger. [Cleanse]s went out to some of the more toxic parts of Veird to ensure that those problems didn’t grow too out-of-hand. Particle Magic was to blame for those problems, because of course it was. Toxic byproducts and all that.

She reprimanded some people who prayed to her, asking for forgiveness for using magic so wrong that they accidentally killed someone they loved. Those people got Quests to learn magic properly, but some accepted the removal of the offensive magic from their souls. Lots of Particle Magic gone wrong there, too.

No large problems, though; nothing that required her to give a Quest to some of her paladins beyond the normal Ultimate Quests they already had. Back when Erick had first introduced Particle Magic she had handed out yet another Ultimate Quest dictating that people find and categorize and organize a proper School of Magic around Particle Magic. Kirginatharp was nearly there, so he’d probably get it first. +50 points to him, then, as was usual.

Erick hadn’t done much with Particle Magic besides give it to the world, which was probably for the best, but all that new magic certainly mucked with the trusted timeline, not to mention it created a bunch of new problems for Rozeta to fix.

Ahh…

She was mucking about, diverting herself to smaller, solvable issues, instead of solving the problem sitting before her.

Once again glancing down at Erick, who was once again playing with his aura, Rozeta turned away from the Wizard…

She gathered up a line of time, making it hers and separating it from the rest. And then she gazed at the Darkness in the corner of her sight.

“Dad.” Rozeta said, “I need to talk to you about Erick’s Worldly Path.”

Her father’s presence moved into her temporary world, Darkness transforming into something lesser, into her father Melemizargo. Rozeta had been prepared for a great many starts to this conversation, but she had not been prepared for the grin upon the old black dragon’s insufferable face, or the happy tone of his stupid voice, “Yes, my daughter?”

“I changed my mind. I don’t like your face and this was a mistake.” Rozeta said, “You can leave.”

Melemizargo’s face dropped. “What! You can’t call me up and—”

“I can, and I did.” Rozeta said, “I briefly forgot how much damage you’ve done. Maybe we can talk after another year of good behavior.”

Melemizargo did not leave. Instead, he tried, “… We can talk business?”

Rozeta shoved down her emotional responses, divorcing herself a bit more from her body. They could, and probably should, talk business. Rozeta became a bit more the Goddess of the Script. She looked upon her father, upon the Darkness, upon Magic Itself, and—

She almost spoke as his necessary jailer and caretaker.

But Rozeta pulled back from that always-disastrous edge, and tried to speak as an equal, “I cannot have you or one of your minions be the Wizard who crystallizes Erick’s [Gate].”

Melemizargo’s countenance deepened as he fully became his divine self. Darkness unfurled, and for a long moment he stared at Rozeta with eyes so bright that if she wasn’t herself a god, and if her father was not so diminished from his former self, that she would have flinched from his gaze.

She did not flinch.

The Darkness said, “I have guided Wizards to [Gate] for ten thousand years.”

And so began the debates. Moments became years. Months became minutes. Words were like warriors cast out from two gods like warring generals, fighting fights on all fronts. Time passed, and it also did not. Any being less than a full god would only have understood the barest bits, and they went something like this:

“Correction: 1450 years ago, you guided Wizards to [Gate] for ten thousand years. Ever since the Sundering you have guided Wizards to their deaths. You wanted them to break the world and bring us back to the Old Cosmology, but the Old Cosmology no longer exists, so we had to stop them before you killed us all.”

Melemizargo glared.

But he did not refute Rozeta’s words.

She would take the win.

Rozeta continued, “Even if the guidance of this one doesn’t end in ruin—”

“I have regained much of my mind, daughter, but your notion is heard and understood.” Melemizargo said, “Tell me your true thoughts: What do you desire from this conversation? How would you raise this Wizard to greatness?”

Rozeta said, “To start: Pull your Shades from his Path. Songli was a disaster.”

Melemizargo narrowed his eyes. “Songli is—”

“A current disaster, still unfolding. Supply chains cut. Important people dead. Lesser bureaucrats and managers raised to power unearned, for there was no one else to occupy those positions—”

“Runework has passed into the hands of Songli, under the auspices of a girl who can use it well, and ensure that it gets used well in the future.” Melemizargo said, “That girl also has Undertow which is an inspired piece of work that I took joy in seeing. I did not expect that, and neither did you. And now we have [Renew]! Songli is poised to do everything it could never do before; to sweep across Nelboor and establish a true empire worthy of a world. Do not tell me that four and a half million souls was not a good bargain. You have done much worse, for much smaller gains.”

“The problem, father, is that I cannot trust your endgame. You have appeared to regain yourself several times before, but each time you backslide into the deep depths. I swore off being duped by you a millennia ago.” Rozeta said, “I don’t know if you’re you, or if you’re simply a shadow of yourself, goaded into temporary perfection.”

Melemizargo backed off, chastised. “This time is different.”

“I do not know that. No one does. Not even you.” Rozeta said, “And Erick is literally a twitch of Fate away from—”

A warning bell chimed and Rozeta felt her scales shiver. She devoted the tiniest part of herself over to see if she should be worried about the chime…

All of Rozeta focused for a moment on Erick, then she promptly ignored the warning and turned back to her father. She would get to the nascent Wizard later.

She said, “He’s going to need guidance on Wizardry and I am going to give it to him.”

Melemizargo scoffed, “Not once have you managed to protect a Wizard from your own son! How could I possibly leave this important event in your hands?”

“As I leave Kirginatharp to his own ends, you must leave me to mine. Besides, you put on a brave face, father, but I know the man who raised me is not all there behind that mask.” Rozeta tried not to speak her demand with as much force as she desired, but some of that force came out anyway, “Relinquish control of Erick’s Worldly Path to me. You are unfit to guide this particular Wizard, in this particular situation, to these particular goals.”

Melemizargo flinched. Rozeta almost took back her words, but she could not. They had needed to be said, and Melemizargo had needed to hear them. He was not healed, and he would not be healed for a long time, if ever. But Rozeta’s truths did not deter him.

The Darkness stood resolute. “No. Never.” Melemizargo said, “I’ve done this many times before. I may not be at my best, but I can still get this done, daughter.”

Rozeta stared at her father. He was as stubborn as always. Even in his full insanity, he had always been this way. But at least he had entertained her ideas for a moment. Maybe he was back, a bit? Hard to know until twenty years had passed without incident. And even then…

Rozeta said, “You may take your leave, father.”

Melemizargo faltered, but he was as proud as she was, especially when speaking in his godly role. He inclined his head, and then he faded backward, into the Dark.

Rozeta looked away from where her father had been, returning to all the recent messages and warnings blaring at her in their own tiny, near-silent ways. She frowned—

She glanced back at the Darkness in the corners of her perception, and the Darkness was still gone.

With a great sigh that moved the clouds and sent a wind rushing through the world, Rozeta undid her imperfect moment in time —Melemizargo had disturbed it, and he didn’t even notice— and she checked on her messages.

And. Yup.

Of course Erick had decided to start exploring the Grand Wizard’s Tower right when she was talking to her father. Fate Magic was locked beyond an Infinity of anti-magic protocols, but that hardly ever mattered when it came to mana’s most insidious of magics, or Wizards. The next few hours would determine if this particular twist of Fate was good for the world, or bad; Rozeta had no way of truly knowing.

If there was one thing truly different between her and her father, it was this. Rozeta did not enjoy the truly unknown; not anymore, not since the Sundering. Small unknowns were interesting, yes. How everything all fit together was the most interesting thing in the universe. But…

Melemizargo fully loved change.

It was a large difference.

- - - -

The Wizard’s Tower, for it had to be that with all capital letters, was a grand thing that Erick had bypassed when he first saw it, for it would have surely taken him hours upon hours to go through the whole place. Maybe even a full week. But now, as he stood atop the white bridge leading to the Wizard Island, he was prepared for that week.

He was done with everything else he could possibly do here in the Outer Core; aside from spending a lifetime exploring the place, which was simply not feasible. All of his personal goals, from [Gate], to figuring out a [Renew] runic web, would have to happen outside of this place. Mastering his newfound aura would take time, too, because beyond Remaking many of the spells he bought, he would need to visit the Orrery in Nergal to learn how to Remake things like Strong, which multiplied his base Health by 3. Erick wasn’t even sure where to begin to Remake that skill.

There was also the matter of creating some Class Abilities for Particle Mage. Erick only had one idea for a Class Ability in mind right now. He wanted to be able to ‘see’ items like how a Smith could Metal Sense items, to understand the physical makeup of them down to the atomic structure. He wasn’t sure how far he could go or how useful he could make such a Class Ability, but he would need some guidance in how to do that, anyway. Thus, the Orrery.

And Erick was hesitating again.

He recognized this personal failing, and yet...

Anyone would hesitate at seeing this sort of gateway before them. The entrance to the Wizard’s Tower island reminded Erick of the archway sitting before the Armory in Ar’Kendrithyst; it was too grand, by half.

Erick stood in the center of a white stone bridge that arched across the strait between the kingdom’s castle and this Wizards’ island. Where the bridge touched back down and the white road led onward, ten meter tall white stone wizards flanked the passageway. One man, one woman, both were dressed in fine robes that looked like they could flutter in the breeze at any moment. But unenchanted stone couldn’t flutter. They were solid stone, through and through. The male wizard on the left held a massive, open grimoire in his right hand, with a dozen bookmarks cascading from the well-read pages, while his left arm held aloft a staff of power that arced halfway over the road, and touched the matching staff of the female wizard. The woman was mostly a mirror for the man, but she did not hold a book in her other hand; instead, she held a stone orb the size of her own head.

To the left and the right beyond those initial wizards were dozens more. Statues upon statues, spreading out along the coast like a wall made of stone people. Each statue was unique, and many races of the Old Cosmology were present. Orcs, elves, dwarves, elementassi, alvani, more than a few humans, and more than a few dragonkin; Erick recognized many of them based on drawings and paintings he had seen before, but he only picked the few alvani out of the crowd because of the large bladed weapons hovering at their backs.

Each statue had some individualized magical item in one lowered hand, from orbs to books to [Familiar]s, while in their raised hands they held a staff or a wand. From those staves or wands poured stone spellwork that twisted in the air behind them, forming a wall of lacy latticework and an art piece at the same time. That stonecraft flowed together, the left and right parts of the sculptural ‘wall’ meeting in the middle, where the first two wizards joined their staves, forming the archway that crossed the road that Erick had to walk under to get to the Wizard’s Island.

And so, he walked.

With mana sense wide open, taking it all in, Erick stepped through the archway and into the front yard of the Wizard’s Tower. This area was filled with rose gardens and fruit trees, and smelled wonderful. It took Erick a good ten minutes to walk through the park, and the walk helped to settle his nerves before he came to the actual tower that took up most of the island.

The building was sort of like what Erick expected a ‘Tower of Babel’ to look like in the beginning stages of its construction. Immense. Ringed with windows and at least thirty stories tall and wide, almost like a few Colosseums of Rome stacked atop each other, but back when it was a fully formed building, back before time made mockery of that ancient structure. Time seemed to have little meaning in this place, though.

There were few side buildings—

Ah.

Wait. This Wizard’s Tower was familiar, wasn’t it?

