The differences between lightform and aura continued to manifest as Erick realized he also couldn’t adjust his sight to different locations in his aura, or even to simply view the full world all around him. He had grown used to seeing the world from every possible angle, but at least the light didn’t block his own sight. With a bit of testing and understanding, Erick gauged that his new aura was simultaneously there, and yet not; like he was seeing it with a third eye; not with his normal two. He wasn’t ‘seeing’ his aura with his mana sense, either. This was some sort of new sense that he had unlocked, that was specifically a part of himself and his aura. It still felt ‘sleepy’, too.

And thinking of mana sense, Erick’s mana sense had lapsed, so he turned that back on and viewed himself—

His skin glittered, his eyes radiated light fully and completely, like a Shade’s.

“Ah. Damn.” Erick frowned. He shut off his aura, closing his ‘third eye’. The light went away, pulling out from his eyes to reveal his white irises and his black pupils. “At least it turns off.”

Well!

This was his aura, and it probably did all the normal things auras normally did. Erick didn’t particularly understand why there was so much light in his aura, but it made sense. His ‘Truth’, if you wanted to call it that, was that everything could be made better, and that all one had to do was try, and that he was here to help those better things happen. Nothing groundbreaking.

But with an aura made of light… There were some uncomfortable allusions in his aura toward his Shade-given title of ‘Fire of the Age’. The idea of all that was uncomfortable for Erick, though, because if Erick was the ‘Fire of the Age’, then that meant that Veird had been fucked up for so long that any true, actual advancement of technology and ideas was enough to warrant him a place of philosophical power.

And wasn’t that just sad.

Ahhh.

Anyway! His aura was full of light, and this was fine. Now, to practice.

- - - -

Sweat dripped down Erick’s chin, falling onto the glowing white bark of Yggdrasil below to join all the rest of the drops of sweat. A cool wind blew across the world but it didn’t touch Erick. It did, however, disturb his aura control, feathering the edges of his oozy, clinging aura, ripping it out of his control for the thousandth time. The length of aura he was trying to extend from his hand to a meter away suddenly became too hard to control, and then the wind caught the length of aura just right, breaking off a meter long section, causing it to dissipate into the air like so much scattered lightward.

Sudden exhaustion claimed Erick, his heart stalling out ever so briefly as cold shot up through his spine and across his shoulders. His aura settled back to ‘base-state’ as Erick couldn’t hold it open any longer. Oozy light flowed back to his skin, away from the stretched-out hand as his arm fell down to his side. He almost collapsed to the ground, but he was stronger than that.

With a deep breath, Erick closed off his aura, closing his third eye, and relaxed, taking count of all the ways he had succeeded in the last hour, and all the ways he had failed. Holding his aura open didn’t require mana, but it did require the activation of a sense that seemed to weaken his mana recovery. When he did flow mana into his aura —which was almost like channeling, but only in that both events expelled mana into the manasphere— Erick could move that mana around, creating spells. Theoretically, anyway. He hadn’t managed yet to manually cast any spell, but he was close. With some more practice and more ability to control his aura, he could begin Remaking a lot of magic.

His first task, once he could manually cast spells, was to Remake all of the Shaping spells and regain the 7 points he had spent to purchase all of the basic Shaping spells, and [Metalshape]. There were some worries regarding how his aura seemed naturally Light-aspected, and how he might have trouble shifting the mana into the proper Elements in order to Remake six of the seven Shaping spells he had bought, but he also needed to Remake the Skill, Mana Altering, which would also give him another point. In the process of manually learning how to Alter to different Elements, Erick expected to be able to solve his non-[Lightshape] (potential) issues.

Mana Shaping and Aurify should come along in due time, as well.

But for now, Erick still needed to learn precision. After a few hours at it, his aura was starting to feel less like a nerve-dead limb, and more like an old, stiff injury that never quite healed right…

So? Progress?

Yes. Progress.

There was an oddity, though, besides the Light-aspect.

Awakening one’s aura was the first step, and that awakening usually birthed an aura that barely reached beyond one’s skin; that barely moved when stressed to move. Erick’s aura was probably the size of himself, added to himself; so twice his body size. It was rather large even by normal aura standards. His aura teacher, Singer Kaffi, had an aura that naturally lay upon her skin with a depth of two centimeters. Teressa’s aura was only a centimeter deep, but she was an orcol so she naturally had a lot more space to work with— Though Erick had already found out that thinning your aura felt horrible, so maybe Teressa wasn’t that much better off than anyone else. Poi’s aura was rather large but it was always locked to his tendrils of thought, since that’s how he telepathically communicated with everyone. Erick hadn’t actually known that Poi had great aura control until they went to Songli, but that man kept his capabilities very hush hush, so Erick had never wanted to pry, to understand how Poi had gotten such a great aura. Lots of practice and natural Mind Mage aptitude, no doubt, honed to a great degree ever since he was young.

Erick’s aura was at least a decimeter deep, which was probably a match for Poi.

Which was odd.

Kaffi had once suggested that something like this might happen, but even she would likely be surprised at this outcome. Perhaps Erick had unlocked his aura a while ago, but because his aura was trapped inside his [Personal Ward] all the time, he had been incapable of recognizing, using, or understanding his aura.

… But then again, Kaffi had also said that such an ‘unknown boost effect’ would be small, and that he would still have to grow his aura to a respectable level before he would be able to use it for spellcraft.

And yet, his aura was already a match for that of a Mind Mage, who had been using his aura for all his adult life?

Ah. Whatever. A mystery for tomorrow, or next year, or something.

Erick continued to practice.

- - - -

Sleep. Talk to Yggdrasil. Explore a bit.

Don’t go into the Wizard’s Tower, yet.

Aura control.

Sleep.

- - - -

Erick had moved on from stretching exercises, to a size-building workout.

He steadied himself. He closed his normal eyes while fully opening his aura and his mana sense. With a concentrated flow of mana into his aura, Erick’s white, misty light rippled.

And then, the edge of his aura grew like a gently expanding ooze. It doubled in size, but then slowed as a now-familiar pressure built inside his head. Gentle, at first, then demanding. His aura grew a bit more, expanding outward, rippling hard as even the gentlest of winds began to rip at the edges, but Erick focused just as hard, and those edges solidified. His heart thumped as he focused. Blood trickled out of his nose, flowing into the sweat upon his face, then becoming yet another drop of red on his pants. Erick leaned forward a fraction, trying to control his aura with his body but already knowing that it didn’t work like that; curling up into a ball never made pain go away, and it never helped do what needed to be done.

A second drop of blood landed amongst all the others already fallen to Yggdrasil’s glowing white bark—

It was too much.

Erick relaxed his mana and let his aura go, breathing hard as his light popped like a balloon and sparkles of broken white magic flowed into the air all around him. He had put a lot of his mana into that expansion attempt, so that mana had partially manifested as magic.

… This was enough. He was done, for now. He had stopped to eat and do his business and take breaks, but he had spent the entire day doing this. Maybe more than 12 hours, actually. He had no idea what time it was. Without the 24 hour duration of his [Personal Ward] to go on, time was yet another lost constant down here in the Core, like gravity. Ah! Whatever.

Erick had accomplished a fuck ton down here in the Core. [Renew], and aura control. Even if his aura control wasn’t perfect, he had unlocked the ability and he was close to being able to use it, and that’s what mattered. He could leave right now and he would have accomplished more than enough for his time spent down here.

[Gate] wasn’t possible, after all.

Erick breathed deep and laid back on Yggdrasil’s branch, staring up at the sky, feeling exhausted. Blood and sweat marred his entire body, and he needed a good [Cleanse], but he could do that later. For now, he rested.

Ophiel watched from a nearby perch, twittering at him.

Yggdrasil spoke for the first time in ten hours, or more, “It felt nice.”

Erick tried to decipher what Yggdrasil had meant, since he hadn’t mentioned anything feeling nice in all the other hours Erick spent working on his aura, atop his branch. The puzzle was too deep, though, so Erick simply asked, “What did it feel like?”

“Like… Helping grow.” Yggdrasil asked, “Why did you stop?”

Erick’s aura helped to grow? That was kinda… A really nice thing to hear, actually. It held with Erick’s Truth, too, so it made sense.

“It was painful to hold it in that long.”

“I know of pain.” Yggdrasil said, “Not great.”

Erick nodded in agreement. “Pain is not great.”

Ophiel jumped off his perch and landed beside Erick, chirping. Erick patted the little guy with one hand while he patted Yggdrasil’s branch with the other. Ophiel cooed while Yggdrasil’s light-filled bark turned just a bit brighter.

And Erick thought. Mostly about Yggdrasil’s comment of ‘helping grow’. Maybe he’d have a rather easy time remaking [Grow], as soon as he got that far along the Remaking path. How much could he actually regain from Remaking all the stuff he spent points on, anyway? He checked his Status and he started counting.

… Something like 29 points from Remaking spells, 6 points from Remaking Mana-based skills like Mana Altering and Meditation, 7 points from Remaking skills like [Strike] and [Defend], and 3 from Remaking Health-based skills like Strong. Once he did all that, not only would he regain all those points, he wouldn’t be restricted by the Script Second when casting those smaller magics.

The Script was created with the intent of limiting how much magic a person could do, though, so Erick would probably still be limited. Probably a good idea not to test those limits too much, either.

He’d certainly try to do [Call Lightning] and [Luminous Beam] through aura control, though. Those were still basic spells.

[Gate] was supposed to be a basic spell, too.

- - - -

In a land of clouds, but not that at all, Rozeta sat atop several not-clouds, watching. Far down below, Erick plucked copies of food from replicas of imperial courts that no longer existed. He mosied through libraries long gone. He copied replicas of treasures that were themselves replicas, and poor ones at that. Nothing down there was magical at all.

And then he went and made [Renew].

Rozeta sighed, her voice a murmur amongst the clouds that vibrated her small part of the universe with an unknown feeling. She had no idea how she felt about him actually managing to make [Renew]. Theoretically, he shouldn’t have been able to do that, but he was a Wizard, so that was that.

“I guess that’s the official changing of the age.” Rozeta sarcastically said, “Mark it on the calendars! Mid Summer, 1437; yet another day that changed history. Yet another working of Erick Flatt with unknown implications for everything.” She frowned, and the world frowned with her. A grumble flowed from her again, and this time it was deeper, edging away from ambivalence, toward an expression of unpleasantness. She turned away from Erick as he unlocked his aura. Maybe she should have a deeper talk with him before the warriors from Stratagold showed… But they were still pretty slow in getting to him. She had time. She had time to figure out [Renew], too. “One year till everyone has that spell… And then what?”

Rozeta glanced toward the future.

Most importantly, and most obviously, the future still existed. This was good. The far future still existed, too, but that was less reliable. She never trusted anything past a certain timeframe, and according to current events, the theoretically ‘trustable timeframe’ was rather small. Years, perhaps. Maybe only a single year. It was simplicity itself to see a hundred years hence, but that wasn’t reliable, so it didn’t matter. It used to be reliable, though.

Before Erick and Jane came along the trusted timeframe was measured in centuries. Sure, no one was thinking about expanding into other worlds, and Melemizargo was fully insane, and the last new magic made was over a thousand years ago...

The trusted timeframe had been measured in centuries. And that sort of pissed Rozeta off. Sure, she liked Erick, but still...

Now, the stable future was measured in years, and a powerful Wizard had thrown everything into chaos.

And he wasn’t done with his chaos, either. Where would he go next? To Oceanside? Would Kirginatharp recognize him as a Wizard this time? He should just stay away from Erick, like all the other smart people on Veird. Or maybe the demon and angel representatives would try something, instead. So far, both of those sides had recognized that a powerful Wizard was not to be trifled with—

Rozeta checked on something.

While she did her checking she solved a thousand small problems before they became big ones. She solved a thousand more problems on her way back, returning to the largest current problem to stability on Veird.

A problem she wasn’t sure how to handle.

—Neither the angels nor the demons knew Erick was a Wizard. Both sides had thoughts going in that direction— A lot of people had thoughts going in that direction. But like Erick had told people time and time again, he had no ‘leaking mana’ and no core…

Rozeta already knew him to be a Wizard, but she was the only one who had absolute proof. Everyone else just had guesses. Even Melemizargo only had guesses. A lot of people had a lot of good guesses and Rozeta had let them think what they wanted to think, but only she already had undeniable proof.

