Krog roared, "My comrades died here today. Their sacrifices will mean nothing if we leave now."

My voice echoed over the burning fires and swirling ice,

"Make no mistake, we are not giving in. I will hunt this monster down and kill it. We all will. When we return, it will be overwhelming and in force." I scowled, "But that's hard to do if we die here."

Krog heaved for breath, his eyes full of anger. He let out a howl of frustration before saying,

"Then we shall do as you say, commander." He narrowed his eyes, "But next time there will be no surrender. I will fight till my death."

I smiled, "Of course. So will I."

They flew towards the Overseer's portal, warping away. I turned to Althea and the others. Only two Breakers were left and both the Speakers died. Althea raised a palm,

"You don't have to convince me. If anyone knows how insane Old Ones can be, it's me."

I sighed with relief, "Thank you."

She walked the portal. The two Breakers stared at one another then back at Lehesion and me. The giant beast was halfway reformed already, his ribs and spine the size of bridges. The Breakers jumped into the portal, leaving the battlefield.

I pulled my arms and legs from the beast, turning to Helios and the Sentinel. Helios snapped his fingers, forming a portal besides me. I stepped through it. As I walked near him, the Ruler of Worlds stared at me for a second. He murmured,

"You are immortal."

I pointed at Lehesion, "He is as well. We have to run. We'll regroup and fight him with more assistance."

Helios tried moving, but his knees wobbled. Before he fell, I grabbed his arm over my shoulder and helped him walk. Using gravity, I carried him over to the portal. I did the same with the collapsed Sentinel.

Despite his debilitation, Helios grumbled between heavy breaths,

"Carried by a backwater savage...with no class...My pride will carry scars...from this day."

I turned to him, "I can carry you in my arms if you want. Just saying."

He narrowed his eyes, "I'll kill you...if you dare mention this or that again."

I rolled my eyes as Helios struggled not to vomit from mana deprivation. As I passed over the battlefield, I spotted the smashed corpse of the Sentinel beside the crater in the mountain.

I picked up the body of the Sentinel and his spear with a gravity well. As I passed through the portal, the Overseer put his hand on the Sentinel's body,

"He...he will be missed."

Hearing those words stung. Even if I was casual while talking with Helios, our loss was starting to sink in. We failed, and we didn't stand a chance. Lehesion was stronger than I ever imagined. No, then we ever imagined.

We would need a real plan to fight it out with him next time. We couldn't rush in blind, or we would all be ground to a pulp like we were this time.

As Helios and I stepped through the portal, the Overseer followed. The scenery shifted, and we were in the middle of a field overlooking Yildraza in the distance. Insects chirped, birds sung, and the air was sweet in my nose.

Despite the peace of it all, the sounds of war left a lingering silence in my ears. I'd done everything I could. In the end, it didn't matter. Rivaria was decimated, and we lost good people here.

As I dwelled on the outcome, the Overseer closed the warp behind himself. All the others sat or laid around in a circle atop the hill. Everyone gasped for air besides for the Overseer and me. I set Helios down, letting the ice mage rest. As I did, Helios slammed his hand into the dirt and squeezed a clump of grass in his fist.

"I bring shame to the Novas name."

The others glanced down, each of them counting their mistakes in the battle. I didn't know what to say, my words catching in my throat. We lost well over a dozen of our members. Six of my guild's gialgathens were dead. Three Breakers and both of the Speakers were dead as well. The most significant loss came in the missing Sentinel.

I laid his body down beside a patch of flowers. The Overseer and I stepped up to him. The Overseer, in a rare moment, exposed some emotion. He lunged onto a kneed and placed his hand onto the Sentinel. The Overseer whispered,

"You may rest for all time, brother. You fought the tide, and so it fought you back. Though washed away to sea, you will always be remembered."

He laid his head onto his chest,

"In Eternum, Vive."

I stared at the Sentinel's crushed armor and spear. He reminded me of the first Sentinel I met back in Blood Hollow. Everyone I spoke with told me they were machines. They weren't, not even in the slightest. They felt pain, prejudice, and pride like anyone else.

In the end, I didn't understand what they went through to become Sentinels. What little I did know was that it required sacrifice, diligence, and courage. They were Schema's frontline soldiers, so they fought against the eldritch. Either that or they guarded doors.

On second thought, I really didn't know much about them.

The Overseer stood as I pondered. He placed a hand onto my shoulder,

"You...you can make use of his body, can't you?"

I turned to him, leaning back, "Are you serious? He's your ally, and he just died. Don't you guys have a funeral or something?"

The Overseer shook his head, "When they die, their records are cleansed and their failures erased. The only legacies they leave are the people they save and the armor and spear they wore."

The Overseer gripped his hand into a fist, "He will either be eaten by you or the animals here."

The Overseer gripped my shoulder tighter and stared at me, "His death can mean something, even if only a little."

The Overseer took his hand off my shoulder and stared away, "Though I understand if you aren't willing."

I glanced down at the Sentinel. It had violet colored skin just like a Kessiah or Tohtella. I turned to the Overseer,

"Is he...a remnant?"

The Overseer sighed while taking a step back, "Yes. Most believe they are machines, but this is a misnomer. Their true identity is hidden by Schema. Considering the mental conditioning Schema put them through, perhaps that is better."

The Overseer waved a hand, "A portion of the remnants didn't rebel against Schema. They were rewarded the highest of honors, given the right to be Schema's soldiers. After being sterilized, they were forged into warriors. They carry a great responsibility and great power in equal measure."

The Overseer peered into the distance, "But they are limited in number. Every Sentinel that dies is one less that Schema has in his arsenal. Each of their deaths is a blow to Schema and his forces. There is one great light that shines from this Sentinel's passing, however."

I raised an eyebrow, "What is that?"

The Overseer's voice rang like metal,

"It guarantees that Lehesion will die for this."

I nodded, "He will...I'm wondering why Schema sterilized the Sentinels though?"

The Overseer shrugged, "Perhaps it was fear. The remnants were once complex enough with their knowledge to create Schema. If they created something of such unequaled potential, who is to say they couldn't have crafted another A.I that is his equal, or perhaps his better? We cannot know, and Schema did not want an answer to that question."

I frowned, "So he purged their population and limited it because he was scared? That's cowardly."

"It was calculating." The Overseer sighed, "That is what we must be if we are defeat what we face throughout the galaxy." The Overseer pointed at the Sentinel,

"You must be calculating as well, unless you wish to become like him."

I shook my head back and forth, getting rid of my apprehension. As the others licked there wounds behind me, I kneeled down and placed my palm onto the Sentinel. My armor drilled into the corpse and soaked it up as Helios chugged mana potions and summoned the medical force to assist us.

By the time a nurse reached me, the corpse was gone. The Overseer picked up the armor and spear of the warrior, leaving nothing behind. A blue-skinned nurse with most of her face covered in a facemask walked up to me a few minutes later,

"Do you need help?"

I stared at my hands,

"No...I think I'll be fine."

She narrowed her eyes, "You don't have to play tough. It's ok if you're hurt."

I stood up while rolling my shoulders, "I'll be fine. Er, thank you."

She paced off as a message appeared on my screen. It had been a long time coming, but I prayed it was worth the wait.

Evolution gained. The Living Multiverse unlocked. Evolve Y/N?
