Helios attempted forming portals to catch them as he did before. They were too large and too many, so Helios stepped through a portal to evade the calamity. The Sentinals swung their spears, using slices in spacetime to absorb any incoming shockwaves. Likewise, the Overseer mimicked their tactics, his body impervious to the resulting carnage around us.

The others were not so lucky.

Three gialgathens disintegrated in a direct impact from one of the novas. Two more were left broken and bent beneath us, taken out of the fight entirely. One of the two Speakers fell after a shard of debris cleaved his skull in half. Two Breakers were left with missing limbs.

One attack left our forces in shambles.

Lehesion laughed before staring down at us, "In my wake, there is only ruin."

The hole in his chest sealed up as the wires bundled around the wound. Mana siphoned into it these cords, regenerating him utterly. We were going to all die here if this continued. We needed to come up with a plan and fast. I turned to Helios,

"Create a portal for me."

Helios lifted a hand, creating a gateway into Lehesion's sphere of control. I jumped through the portal, coming face to face with the Leviathan. The aura strangled me, leaving me unable to breathe. It was an oppressive amount of mana to be sure.

At the same time, I sustained through its influence. I was used to my own torrents of mana, giving me plenty of experience dealing with it. To move, I created a counterflow of mana, letting my own aura grow outward. Without the golden energy restricting me, I turned to the monster.

I glared up at the beast, his eye the size of my body and his talons larger than my chest. Molding Event Horizon over him, I fired myself towards him like a tank round.

Lehesion rolled his eyes, "And the ant tries to bite m-"

I collided with him, dropkicking him with all my might. I created gravitational flows to enhance my mass and speed. I shifted telekinetic points to reduce the surface area of my blow, turning it into a tiny bullet of impact. I bounced backward, my body aching at the forces rippling through me, but my bones didn't break.

Lehesion stumbled backward, his large frame taking up my entire field of view. As landslides occurred beneath him, he gasped at his broken ribs,

"The little ant has a sting, doesn't he? Let's see if he has a backbone as well."

Lehesion whipped his tail through the air, crystalized mana forming a spiky club at the tip. As it slammed into me, I used a tremendous gravity well to anchor me in place. Using it to ground me, I whipped my right arm with everything I had. The mana exploded over my body with a kinetic conversion. The tail itself was massive and colossal.

Somehow, I held.

I parried his strike as his eyes widened,

"You are no longer an ant. You are a beetle now."

Lehesion's eyes narrowed, "And like all beetles that bother me, you will be stomped under my heel."

His golden aura coalesced over his tail, his protection ceasing for a split second. The energy created waves in our dimension as Lehesion roared out,

"Begone."

The tail made contact, and all went blank. My eyes opened within a crater on the mountain. My body was mess, cracked and broken. I molded strands of my armor, forming splints that jarred my bones in place. As the cracks mended, I pulled myself up, rock melting beside me. As I stumbled up, vibrant energy filled my body, the same as after crashing into the earth or being attacked by Yawm. This was my chance.

I leaped up, a thousand feet of molten rock surrounding me. As I flew upwards, I stared down, finding new scenery.

Rivaria was gone.

It was as if a meteorite slammed into the ground where I landed. I turned back to the battle, finding Lehesion whipping his tail about. His golden aura covered him once more, several holes in his body healing. He sheered through two gialgathens before swinging his tail at Helios.

The two Sentinels guarded him, using their spears dimensional tears to zone any contact. Lehesion ignored them once, attempting to outmuscle the Sentinel's defenses. Lehesion's tail fell into the void before the Sentinel on Helios's right closed the gateway.

Lopping off the limb, Lehesion growled in disgust,

"You have parlor tricks, do you? So do I."

Lehesion's tail regenerated, wires forming a framework that mana condensed into flesh over. Lehesion generated a portal within his golden domain, the same as the Overseer's kind. His tail whipped from behind Helios, but Helios turned in time. He created a counter portal that appeared beside Lehesion's head. The beast's tail smashed his own face with his own tail.

It lopped off his jaw, steel cables keeping his maw hanging from his head. Malevolent strands expanded from his body, pulling it back in place with violent jerk. As it did, the giant to lost himself for a moment. His surrounding aura shivered. All the forces at our disposal unloaded, pelting him with an armada's worth of magic, explosives, and fiery breaths.

It did not touch him.

Lehesion's jaw reformed, his Hybridized body owning a tremendous vitality. The golden beast grimaced and showed his teeth,

"And so, you little ones believe you're clever then?"

I reached beside Helios, standing beside the icy lord. He turned to me, his one exposed eye opening wide as he gasped

"How are you still alive?"

I patted his back, "I'm tough. Real tough." I pointed up at the sky, "When I come down, warp me into Lehesion's aura."

Helios's eyes narrowed, "Is this suicide?" Helios sighed, "Our uncle will be very disappointed, but I understand." Helios put a hand on my shoulder, "Your sacrifice will be valiant-"

I slapped his hand, "What? Hell no. I'm kicking that monster's ass and coming out fine afterward. Are you ready?"

Helios raised his eyebrow, "Oh...Well then, ahem, I am."

I shot up into the sky as Lehesion let out a wave of his atomic breath at Helios. The Sentinels blocked most of the nuclear stream with there spatial slices. The surrounding heat was cooled by the ice magic of Helios. As I rose into the distance, Chrona came into the fray. Her temporal dilation didn't effect Lehesion, the old monster grinning,

"Petty techniques will not affect me. I am above time and above death."

The shiny frog dragon sure had a bunch of one-liners. I wondered if he just sat in front of a mirror and thought them all up. At the same time, I shot myself way up into the stratosphere, reaching into the edges of space. After minutes of rising high, I weighed myself down.

A living meteor, I shot down towards the golden spot under me. Heat built in my skin and bones, a violet radiance washing over me. As I neared the fight, Helios generated dozens of portals at once. He allowed the entire group to assault Lehesion directly, the Sentinels defending him as he did so. The dragon out regenerated their attacks, using his tail whips to suppress any that came close.

Lehesion began casting his starfall magic once more, another volley more than enough to wipe us out. One of the Sentinels leaped into the air, launching himself over Lehesion. With a long swipe of his spear, he created a massive rip in spacetime. Lehesion's golden aura dissipated into the void before the golden beast glared at the Sentinel,

"And that is your last deed here on this plane."

With a thunderous smash, Lehesion smashed his tail onto one of the defenders. The kinetic impact shattered the light blue armor and crushed him into the ground behind the beast. Blood splattered all around its body as the Sentinel twitched like a headless snake over fire. Lehesion lifted his tail and unleashed a finishing strike at his body, crumbling it under the impact.

Bones, plate mail, and circuitry splattered in every direction. The Sentinel's spear flopped towards the mountainside as shrapnel launched in every direction. A chip of blue armor embedded itself in Helio's shoulder, making his right arm useless. Lehesion roared,

"You will all perish here, reduced to powder and ash and nothing."

Helios heaved for breath, exhaustion setting in. Even with infinite mana at his disposal, he still needed mental energy to cast it. Lehesion glared at the Novas, rearing his tail back for another swing. Before it landed, the remaining Sentinel stepped forward. His armor charged as the tail whipped towards him. In a display of pure skill, the Sentinel parried the strike.

It came at a cost.

The Sentinel's arms shattered as his armor crumpled. The spear cracked yet held. The ice pillar beneath Helios and the Sentinel fractured as the other ice columns off in the distance took damage as well. The Sentinel fell to his knees before collapsing. As the others rained down hellfire onto Lehesion, the behemoth raised his tail,

"This is your end, little kitten."

Helios raised his left hand, gasping for breath. A portal formed above Lehesion as I reached him in a blaze of glory. Lehesion looked up as I collided between his wings and against his spine.

All went white as the mountains trembled. The skies ran from the impact, forced by the wind. The others were whipped apart by the decimation, the calamity utter and complete. As the collision settled, my eyes opened once more, finding myself surrounded by meat chunks and misty blood vapor.

Lehesion was a pile of glowing mush and red mist. He was chunk soup as I stood from a red hot crater formed atop Rivaria. The mountain looked like a volcano, a pool of magma surrounding us. More concerning than the cataclysm I wrought was the golden forcefield surrounding me and the corpse.

Lehesion was still alive.

Untold amounts of mana siphoned into his liquid body, wires forming the framework of his bones. He regenerated at a rapid pace, his tenacity exceeding my own. I turned to the others, finding them stunned, injured, and dead tired. It wouldn't take three minutes before Lehesion was back to full strength either.

I turned to the mush pile, creating a singularity at its center as I thundered,

"Kill it."

The mush fell into the gravitational implosion before erupting with the magma. After the shockwave rippled through the remaining golden aura, I drove my hands into the bloody pulp, drilling my armor through Lehesion's body.

Pure yet dark mana flooded my system. It was quenching, my armor grinning over my face. At the same time, there was something eerily familiar about this energy. It was corrupted by some hideous influence, a darkness that couldn't be expunged.

Even then, Lehesion's clout amazed me. The legends of Lehesion's mana being connected with the world were true. He owned a direct pipeline to the planet's mana, and even I couldn't match a mana source like that.

Yet.

That got me thinking, however. At best, we killed Lehesion over the next few hours, but we would slaughter Giess at the same time. At worst, we'd still kill almost the entire planet before dying here like dogs. In fact, we'd probably already slaughtered the entirety of a continent.

As I stood there and soaked that reality in, everyone around me unleashed havoc. My allies created portals into the golden aura, and Althea appeared to fire her arcane bolts on Lehesion's liquified body. Her bolts pierced the aura, slicing through the soupy body. Arcane lightning rippled from her attacks, disintegrating masses of flesh.

At the same time, Helios gave the Overseer full reign, launching one pulse of destruction after the other. The gialgathens attacked with all they had as well. Their fiery breaths caused stone to bubble and the air to squeal. The remaining Breakers shot out energy pulses loaded with Arcane energy.

Even now, with no discernable features of Lehesion remaining, I found no signs of the creature dying. Lehesion's body was still pulsing with vitality, life oozing from it as if it could never die.

My eyes widened. That was just it.

Lehesion couldn't die.

I gasped as I recognized the energy inside of Lehesion. It was the essence of an old one, just like Etorhma's tears in Althea or the time I spoke with Eonoth. An Old One was keeping this golden monster alive. This was why even an Overseer couldn't pass the golden aura. It defied logic because it was being maintained by a being that defied logic.

With my arms and legs lodged in the beast, I bit down on my tongue as frustration mounted. As ridiculous as it sounds, defeating a planet seemed doable. Defeating an Old One? That was a daydream at best and a nightmare at worst. Without waiting any longer, I turned and shouted to the others,

"We cannot win. Lehesion cannot die."

Helios raised a hand, blood dripping down from what remained of his mask. He boomed,

"He is nothing but mush. This is the only chance we have. To retreat now will void all the sacrifices your forces have made. Do you kill your own for nothing?"

I shook my head, "No. I think an Old One is keeping Lehesion alive. Even now, Lehesion isn't any closer to dying. I can feel it. We can't win this."

Helios roared, "You called me here to fight a war I could not win? Do you use your favors so carelessly, or are you simply an idiot?"

I bit my tongue, swallowing a few choice curses to respond with. I sighed before saying, "Whether I am or not is an argument for another day. For now, we have to escape before he's back to full strength."

The Overseer grabbed the sides of his head with his hands, "An Old One...in my sector...Why would one interact so directly here? What does it have to gain from keeping this arrogant fool alive?"

I shouted, "It doesn't matter why. We need a warp to Yildraza. We'll regroup somewhere near there, wherever you think is fitting."

The Overseer took deep breaths, "We die here for nothing.

A portal appeared beside him. Krog growled at me as he flew above,

"I did not take you for a coward, Dark One."

Several gialgathens howled with approval. I turned to Krog, absorbing as much of the mana as I could,

"His mana is endless. Ours is not. We must live to fight another day."

