As I stared, I analyzed him. He did not stop me from viewing his description. After seeing it, I understood why. He had no reason to hide anything to us.

Lehesion, the Shattered God(lvl 32,092 | Species: Gialgathen | Status: Exiled | Bounty: S) - Lehesion is the mythical creature that is said to control all the life of Giess. He was worshipped as the most potent gialgathen to ever exist, his reign absolute. Once viewed in person, these reports and legends are obviously verified. He far exceeds expectations in most regards.

His mana is endless. His size grants him tremendous vitality, needing no food, sleep, nor air to breath. He is immune to many kinds of damage, and his skin is laced with a crystalized mana that disperses most types of damage. Even more so, his mana shield is one of the strongest ever generated, rivaling spatial fortresses in power.

These characteristics are incredible in their own right, but his offensive potential is unknown. Few have seen his attacks in person, and even fewer have lived after to tell the tale. All that is spoken of is hymned in legends that tell tall tales of his deeds.

The sky darkening before blinding lights bathe the battlefield in destruction, enemies metamorphosing into hideous creatures, even enemy's minds turning to slush, Lehesion has done all this and more. The full extent of his abilities are hard to grasp but know this. You are not ready for such a foe. A team of Overseers aligned with a high-grade guild would be required to compete against this monstrosity.

My stomach sank as Helios raised a hand, his gauntlets coalescing the blue tinted air near him. In a wave of devastation, he unleashed a wave of pure energy. The tide shifted into azure ice, spines of the magic racing towards Lehesion. The golden beast rolled his eyes,

"This again? Do you have no other tricks, or are you actually this limited?"

The ice crashed into a golden sphere of energy around Lehesion. The beast raised a wing, flaming swords forming under the shadow it cast. The swords shot out in every direction as Helios roared out while casting more magic.

From all around, portals to the void appeared. They swallowed the swords that would've landed on allies. Helios closed his hand, the warps condensing into finite points. Helios threw his fist at Lehesion, unleashing blue lightning from the portals into Lehesion's shield.

It absorbed the clash with ease, an explosive boom radiating outwards. Helios howled in frustration, "I killed all that is near us. What well do you still draw this mana from?"

Lehesion scoffed, "There is no 'well' that I draw from, insect. I am without borders nor restrictions. Mortals like you must know your limits, or your limits will let themselves be known by your failures."

The Overseer raised a palm, the lights on his suit glowing. An invisible wave of force clashed against Lehesion's forcefield, the golden aura sinking in before smoothing itself out with a ripple. Lehesion turned to us as the Overseer stated,

"The creature can resist antimatter waves...I don't understand."

Lehesion let out a laugh, "You are no unstoppable force, but I am an immovable object. Crush under my heel."

He lifted a paw and slammed it down. A wave of gravity smashed above us as if we were holding up another planet. Before it overwhelmed everyone, I lifted my hands, creating a gravity well opposite to Lehesion's pull. I held firm, keeping the force from destroying us. Lehesion's eyes widened as he laughed.

"So the little ones defy me? We shall see if your defiance holds under strain."

He strengthened the crushing aura, but I resisted it without a struggle. As the resistance mounted, I dipped into my mana regen. More and more, Lehesion tested my limits. On and on, I exceeded his expectations and prevented us from falling.

At the same time, I lifted out a hand and attempted condensing a singularity inside his chest. The magic failed, so I summoned the same force within the golden aura. The gravitational implosion tore apart a portion of Lehesion's crystalized mana armor. As chips of pure mana rained down, Lehesion's expression shifted into a snarl,

"You've angered me, worm."

His armor regenerated as he ceased his gravitational magic. The Overseer lifted his hand to fire at Lehesion once more. I smacked his hand down before clapping my hands. The metallic ring silenced the field as I boomed,

"We don't have to fight here."

Lehesion raised an eyebrow as a grin grew over his face, "Oh, the wisest of you all decided to bow and ask for forgiveness. How fitting for a Harbinger." Lehesion let out a long laugh.

"Perhaps I am the cataclysm you omen?"

I didn't understand how he knew me but considering his level, it shouldn't be that much of a surprise. I shook my head,

"Bowing might be taking it a bit too far, buddy. All I'm saying is we don't have to kill each other. Why are you attacking Rivaria of all places anyway? I thought you founded the city or something like that."

Lehesion turned to the ruins of rivaria, the frozen bodies of gialgathens acting as statues. Some would never melt, and like ghosts, they'd haunt the city until they were destroyed. Lehesion tilted his head,

"I...I do not know..."

I spread out my hands, "And Sheom as well. She was my friend and your mentor, correct? Why would you kill her as well?"

Lehesion shivered as he listened, and his eyes grew sad. I continued,

"Well then, this seems pretty simple. How about you quit attacking the city, and we talk, eh?"

Lehesion stood still as a statue, not breathing or reacting. Some kind of mental war took place before he twitched his head. He silenced his conscious, snorting out of his nostrils. He crushed some sort of dissonance within himself as he glared at me,

"You...you are the one that won my honoring, didn't you?"

I crossed my arms, "You mean the tournament? Yeah."

Lehesion glanced down at his claws as if blood covered them, yet none was there.

"These...heathens have fallen so low. I am here to cleanse them and you from this world." He gained confidence as he spoke, "From my world."

I waved my arms, "Yeah, see, why do we need to be cleansed though? We could leave if you like. Boom, planet cleansed."

Lehesion blinked, entirely at a loss for words. He shook his head before roaring out, "You will not dissuade me with mere words. I am no poet. I am a warrior. Giess belongs to we gialgathens, yet you espens attempt to usurp us. You attempt to..."

Helios put his arm back in socket and shouted,

"He's gone mad. The imbecile cannot reason at even a basic level. It's rather disappointing considering his otherworldy reputation."

Lehesion turned to him, glaring in disdain, "And so one without reason will be the one feeding your corpse to worms, little cub."

Helios let out a low growl, "Only one person can call me a cub, and he doesn't rule one world."

Helios raised a hand, portals forming around him,

"He rules many."

The Overseer raised his arm, "The tech core verified it. He's being controlled telepathically. We've attempted disrupting the mana flows, but some form of an enclosed neural network is being used. Lehesion is too unstable, and must be eliminated."

I let out a sigh, "I don't understand how they can control him. Lehesion's mind must be powerful."

The Overseer charged mana into his palm, "It does not matter how. It only matters that this is our reality, and it must be dealt with."

I frowned, "Then so be it." I turned to Althea, "I'll try to distract him. Save your strength for after we destroy his defenses."

She gave me a nod before stepping away from our plane and into another like a ghost. I turned to the Breakers in armor, "I don't know if any of you are close combat specialists. If so, stay away from me as I'm fighting."

One of the breakers reached out a hand, "Is there a reason for that?"

I waved around me, "I have an aura that does quite a bit of damage. I don't want to injure you guys."

The Breaker nodded, "Understood. Let's head out."

Lehesion readied another volley of fire swords. Before he released his attack, I reached out a hand and unleashed another stored singularity within his forcefield. Another glowing rain of mana droplets fell, and the behemoth stumbled backward.

Cracks ebbed down the mountainside at his thunderous footsteps while the fire swords scattered into the skies above. The swords hummed, resonating with one another. They detonated, creating a cascading chain reaction of red fire. There detonations engulfing all my sight in brilliant plumes of destruction.

I shook off my awe before dashing forward, my armor glowing yellow with heat as I neared Lehesion. The Breakers followed behind several preparing attacks of there own. Lehesion grinned down at us, his teeth menacing. He swiped a paw and cast a wind incantation. Green sprites ran into us with feathered wings and trails of light behind them.

I held firm with a gravitational anchor, but the others were swept away with the wind. Lehesion rolled his eyes while stomping a massive paw. He grounded the Breakers with a gravity well of his own. They crushed into the icy mountain below, pinned down but still alive.

It didn't matter. I molded Event Horizon over Lehesion as he tilted his head,

"You can affect me from within my domain...Interesting. You mustn't use some trick with the cipher for all your strength as the cub does. It is your own might."

The Overseer created ripples in this golden aura the entire time. Despite the unreal output of energy, the golden energy rippled yet never yielded. Helios waved one arm at the same time, generating a pillar of ice rivaling the size of a small mountain. It rammed into the side of Lehesion's forcefield before shattering in a dazzling rain of purple shards. Helios did the same motion with his other hand, and another mountain-sized pillar appeared. It snapped without effect on the aura.

Before the ice fell, Helios clapped his hands together, the thousands of shards flying towards Lehesion. With another flap of the golden beast's wings, a torrent of wind blew back the incoming ice storm. Helios swung an arm overhead, turning the shards of ice into soft snow. The world ruler generated a dark blizzard around the shattered god.

A dark aura surrounded Lehesion as sparks of golden lightning rippled across the terrain. Like a stormy ocean of liquid gold, Lehesion's protective field billowed without end. Lehesion stared down and let out a long laugh,

"You are nothing."

The Overseer launched waves of antimatter at him, the assaults fizzling into nothing against Lehesion's shield. My singularity's crossed the border, but the mana armor soaked the damage with ease. Every time I landed one near him or even within him, his crystallized armor dispersed the impact, leaving no trace of the attack.

At the same time, Krog and a dozen of our gialgathens flew over Lehesion, breathing elemental fires. They created brilliant swirls of shaded rainbow flame. Acid, poison, ice, death, and decay, all elements intertwined in a violent yet beautiful display of their might.

The Sentinels sent out dimensional rips with their spears during the carnage, creating splits in spacetime. These catastrophic shockwaves pounded against the forcefield, letting out enormous booms that echoed into the countryside.

Even then, it was not enough.

Lehesion drew from endless reserves of mana, his techniques unbeatable. He soaked all of our attacks, glancing down at us as if we were insects. As the realization of our limitations came to the surface, Lehesion began to laugh. It was a haunting laugh, the kind that crushed your spirit and sent chills down your spine.

It crushed our army's morale. Lehesion stood at the epicenter of attacks that could quake planets, yet he did not so much as let out a whimper. He simply glared down at our futility with a disdain fitting for his position. As several breakers lost their reserves of mana, our assault lessened. The gialgathens lost their fire breath and relied on physical attacks. Any contact with the forcefield sent out devastating recoil, ripping them back as if struck by lightning.

After minutes of our blitz, Lehesion stared down at his claws, ignoring us entirely,

"Is this the extent of your abilities?"

Helios grimaced before turning to the Overseer. As the Overseer charged another attack, Helios put up a hand. A portal appeared in front of the Overseer's hand and beside Lehesion's side. The Overseer's hand reached through, letting him place his hand on the mana armor. With contact made, the Overseer's invisible wave punched a hole through Lehesion's chest.

There was no blood nor guts from the impalement. It was clean as if Lehesion always had a missing portion of his torso. Lehesion tilted his head in surprise,

"An actual wound...hm, I'm surprised."

He frowned,

"But now you incite my anger. Feel the wrath of a god."

The giant raised his wings, clouds shifting with each of his movements. The skies darkened as golden energy traveled towards the sun overhead. The aura coated it in its entirety before turning dark as a moonless night. Above us, an eclipse formed over the sun as Lehesions puffed out his chest. The golden beast roared,

"Let the stars bathe this world in their light."

As he finished his words, lights formed over the eclipse as if a piece of the starry sky was blocking the sun. It was surreal as the stars expanded. Seconds later, huge balls of light fell from the sky. Trailing like comets, they slammed into the earth in all directions for as far as the eye could see. The entire landscape erupted into chaos.

One light collided with rivaria below, wiping it from the map with a tectonic explosion. The shockwave sent me tumbling through the air, the sheer destructive might overwhelming us.

