“Mages are always welcome. We are designing a ritual to handle the fliers. They will be most useful.”

It was the ambassador’s sincere belief that it would take a ritual most potent for those idiots to prove themselves useful.

“There is a matter I’d like to address first,” the ambassador finished with a smile.

Aaaaaand there it was. Jaratalassi sighed, a gray-haired woman gently tapping his shoulders. The ambassador refrained from glaring. Yes, you old fuck, we will engage in politics because this is what happens when you gather the representatives of several factions and ask them to cooperate. Politics.

“Do tell?” the empress said.

She had this patient look parents take when they expect horseshit from their children. It irked the ambassador.

“You claim that a horde of unprecedented strength is approaching this city. I have, of course, no reason to doubt the reports.”

But the way he phrased it still attacked her credibility.

“Yet you also claim that it is no lich or necromancer who commands such numbers. That is, also, unprecedented. In more than three centuries of existence, the deadlands never tested us with the danger you mentioned, yet only a few years after you start plumbing its depths, we suddenly experience such a strong reaction. One would wonder what could have possibly happened to cause such an event to occur.”

The ambassador let the sentence hang in the air. It was an accusation, of course, yet the innocent phrasing would prevent any direct attack. Some of the more naive representatives frowned. It hadn’t occurred to them to wonder why.

“I fail to see how it is relevant to the operation,” the empress replied.

Aha! He had been expecting this.

“It is relevant because the terms of the Paramese Alliance address the consequences of recklessness. It is one thing to withstand the assaults of the Halurians, or the beastlings, but another thing entirely to poke the undead nest until the entire alliance must stand to make up for one’s mistakes.”

The ambassador braced to resist a wave of intimidation that never came.

“Clause of Stand for Humanity.”

He blinked. What was… oh.

“You claim that you are fighting for mankind.”

“I am. An invasion of Haluria, for example, might be considered reckless expansion under the alliance’s code since it does not represent an antithesis to mankind.”

The jab at Baran’s eastward expansion was direct, and also, a threat, since the empress could argue against helping Baran in the next war.

“The undead are. It is not a sin to fight against the enemies of all life. Any and all counter-attacks fall under the Stand for Mankind clause because this is exactly what we are doing: bringing the fight to an existential threat. Have undead hordes not been a constant presence in the past? Yet under Harrak’s aegis, the limits of the deadlands have been pushed back, and the need for a protective ring of forts eliminated, which has freed troops for all major members of the alliance, is that not true?”

Only the dregs, the ambassador knew, yet there was no denying that the yearly expenses wasted on the maintenance of sentries was well used elsewhere. He granted the point with a nod.

If it were a more public forum, he could have made several bad faith arguments to move the masses to his side. It would be pointless to do so here, however. Diplomats could not be so easily swayed.

Unfortunately, the empress had managed to deflect the blow both legally and logically, by providing a plausible explanation: cities were being freed of undead presence, therefore the undead counter-attacked. It was sufficient to explain the situation, but the ambassador still had one last thrust to offer.

“Indeed, the undead react to an attack deep within their territory…”

She nodded, and the mood relaxed.

“But the undead do not think as we do. In fact, they do not think at all,” he continued. “One might wonder what specifically happened to trigger such a strong reaction. Perhaps you have found something that would attract them? Some artifact of power, perhaps?” he asked innocently.

“Not as such, no,” the empress replied, but this time, her voice was not as sincere as before. It tasted like part of the truth, not the intense belief she had shared when saying no Enorian life would be sacrificed for no reason.

The ambassador was convinced.

The Harrakans had found something in the desert.

Something powerful. Perhaps powerful enough to explain the horde. Oh, he couldn’t prove it, but he could plant the seed of doubt in the mind of the attendants. And he had.

Harrak was hiding something. Now, they knew, and they would resent being called to help yet unable to share the benefits of Harrak’s success. Naturally, this was true of any Paramese Alliance endeavor, but this time, they hadn’t expected it. And it would make a world of difference. The wound was inflicted.

His duty was done. The king would be pleased. There were a few whispers until old Jaratalassi brought back order to the room.

“Now that we are done here, I propose that we move outside for the briefing,” the empress ‘suggested’.

Guided by the guards, the delegation moved out. They walked through the city at a sedate pace, the ambassador ignored by most since he had presented himself to be clearly hostile. Obviously, he was not the only adversarial nation on the continent. It was just that the Pure League and Helock had made excuses as to why they couldn’t participate. Eventually, the group went through the northern gate, and the ambassador had to stop to take in the sight.

It was as if someone had cleft the world in two. Behind him, the walls of New Harrak’s capital showed some ivy, perhaps a flower pot or two were visible in the towers, and the sky was blue with the cottonous white of distant clouds. In front of him, an unceasing cover of gray  lay blanked over all he could see. Beyond the divide the world was gray, black, and most definitely dead. It was more than just a question of color. It was a question of movement, of diversity. Of life.

So this was the Deadlands. The reports didn’t do it justice.

At the feet of the fortress-city, a vast network of fences, walls, pits, and barricades extended for half a league in a concentric circle that ended at the path that led up to the gates. He studied it for a moment, noting the intricate network and the current lack of soldiers manning it. He didn’t know enough about strategy to hazard a guess, but as far as he could tell, the interlocked mage circles and open paths were designed to channel the undead into chokepoints. It would take a strategist to judge if those were real measures or the manic dream of a delusional child. Sighing, he continued to a wide open space on the edge of a house of customs. A large table awaited there, though there were no tents, and he immediately understood why. There was no need. No wind would ever blow, nor would rain fall; all was still, it was a land ruled by death. Next to the table stood a steel and silverite titan that had to be at least three times his height. He inspected it by habit. It turned out to be a poor idea.

[HKX-013, designation: Solfis. You are currently being tolerated.]

The impassive mask turned towards him. Yellow lights grabbed his soul like a vice.

He was being tolerated. It was a privilege. This was important information.

The vice released him, and the ambassador stumbled forward. No one else seemed to have noticed.

Without a word, the ambassador approached the table. A map of the valley below was stretched from end to end. A woman in unmarked uniform was steadily placing pieces where, he presumed, troops would deploy. The strategist thanked her once she was done.

The empress began immediately afterward. Her tone was as dry as the land below.

“We have three objectives I will now explain. First, you need to know that the horde is directed by a relay that flies over the deadlands’ cover of cloud. The first major objective is to dispose of the relay to slow down the horde. Your assistance is not required in this endeavor, as I will be taking care of it myself.”

“So you will not be present during the battle?” the ambassador smoothly asked.

Tension filled the air. The empress waited one second before replying, a way to express displeasure.

“I will be flying ahead of the horde to destroy the relay long before they reach us, or at least, that is my hope.”

“If there is no relay, would the horde not scatter?”

“My Minister of Justice and servant of Enttiku believes the horde now possesses a… an impetus, for lack of a better word. It will continue its journey until either it breaks against us here, or the mountains far to the south. We also believe that emergency relays could be built to replace the loss of the main one.”

“Built? By whom?”

Instead of replying, the empress looked up. She allowed herself the briefest smile before replying.

“We are not certain yet, however we do know that the relay was built due to the nature of the entity carrying it. The relay is a dragon golem.”

Stunned silence descended upon the assembly. Even the ambassador couldn’t believe his ears. Protests erupted almost immediately.

“A dragon golem?”

“Surely, you are jesting.”

“Is this true?”

“Perhaps you are mistaken…”

The empress didn’t react when something flew down, stopping on the ground with a blast of air. The map fluttered but it was well affixed. The same could not be said for the crowd. A few people yelped, a few others cried in fear. It took the ambassador all the discipline his mind could muster not to betray his terror. Before them now stood a dragon.

Not a whelp, like the initial reports said. A dragon. The creature stood on its hind legs, flapped its wings once, and then settled like a lady at a banquet. Thoughts barged into the ambassador’s mind like nosy neighbors.

I do not make mistakes.

It was a dragon golem.

The audacity!

Someone will PAY for this.

“As I said,” the empress continued, “you do not have to be concerned with it. We will handle it on our end. What matters now is to prepare for the horde. Our troops are ready to be deployed. General Jaratalassi and Strategist Sahin will be best suited to arranging our forces in the most effective configuration. Yes?”

It was Prince Gil who spoke this time. He had even raised a hand like a good pupil.

“With all due respect, we have a perfectly mighty fortress. Why fight in front of it, rather than in it?”

“A good question,” the empress replied. “Sahin, would you take this one for me?”

Sahin’s voice was melodious and soft, with a cold detachment that felt almost insulting to the ambassador.

“First, sieges are not for winning, they are for surviving. Since the undead have no logistics or morale, a siege is not the best way of thinning the horde. Second, the enemy brings a large number of fliers and crawlers that would render the advantage of walls moot. Third, the largest portion of our army is designed to operate on the field. It is there that we can inflict the most damage. However,” he conceded, “the plan allows for a retreat to the city after we have used our resources to the best of our abilities. There is also the issue of necrarchs. An open field is best to see them coming.”

A wave of consternation spread through the crowd. What in Enttiku’s name was a necrarch, the ambassador wondered? It sounded dangerous.

“We are facing necrarchs?” the Zazas envoy asked, aghast.

“We are. They will be intercepted by our elites.”

“What manner of elites can stop a necrarch?” Gil asked. “My father said that even a knight order would lose most of its members taking those abominations down.”

“Necrarchs formed in the old capital lack the cunning intellect of their natural cousins.”

“Yeah, father was talking about those, not the natural ones.”

“Each golem can handle one at a time. So can I, and Arthur and my blademaster can do the same. My paramour can do so with proper support. We have options,” the empress assured. “They are also the most difficult undead to control. With the relay destroyed, they might disperse on their own despite the momentum.”

The group didn’t seem convinced.

//I HAVE BEEN KILLING NECRARCHS SINCE BEFORE ANY OF YOU WERE ALIVE.

The voice was loud and utterly devoid of humanity. It was not, however, devoid of condescension.

//YOU SHOW MUCH FEAR FOR ENTITIES THAT WILL NOT GO DOWN ON THAT PLAIN TO FIGHT.

“A necrarch is an extremely dangerous threat,” the ambassador objected just to try and undermine that cold intelligence.

It was having too much effect on his fellow envoys. Unfortunately, the creature’s attention made him sweat. It wasn’t even a skill. It was merely the animal part of his brain waking up to whisper about self-preservation.

//IF YOU WERE PROFICIENT AT ASSESSING THREATS, YOU WOULD BE SILENT NOW.

//WE WILL HANDLE THE NECRARCHS.

//NOT JUST BECAUSE WE CAN.

The creature leaned forward. It was amazing how much it could lean and yet still tower over the ambassador,

//BUT BECAUSE IT IS FUN.

//AND I HAVE BEEN… BARRED FROM ENTERTAINMENT, LATELY.

“Your Majesty, will all of your subjects threaten me thus?” the ambassador continued past the point of reason.

He knew it but he refused to give up.

“Threats are not violations of the hospitality you are owed. Jaratalassi and Sahin will get into more detail on the battle later. First, I wanted to inform you that the third objective is to cut the problem at the source by identifying the dragon golem’s maker. We are still gathering information.”

“How are you getting that kind of information?”

“From Enttiku, mostly.”

