She spoke as if she had the ear of the gods themselves. Preposterous. The ambassador made to speak. The empress was getting too much draw. No one would care if she kept secrets if she could call upon gods, dragons, and golems.

You will cease.

The dragon was looking at him.

You may think you are safe because I cannot attack you.

The assembly was silent. The thoughts, he realized, were broadcast to everyone’s minds.

Indeed, I am the heir to the throne.

It placed a hand on its chest. the empress looked up again. The ambassador had a very bad feeling about this.

Therefore I must behave or risk my reputation, or worse! My bottom line.

My brother is not part of the empire, though.

A second, larger white shape landed.

Why am I not part of the empire?

Because you are STUPID. But you can attack this man. And we would not be responsible.

The larger dragon turned his head towards him.

Can I eat him? With sauce?

The ambassador decided that he had gone above and beyond duty, and felt like it might be a good time to call it a day. That was before the third and largest dragon landed.

It had all been for nothing. The witch discussing with the three dragons and the war golems offered the kind of image that would remain seared in the imagination of his fellow envoys. Who would care about possible secrets buried under the ash? Who would even remember the rumors? ‘I have a dragon’ was the sort of argument that beat all others. Now, the witch had three. ‘I have a bone golem of Harrakan origin’ used to be a cause for concern. Now, there was an entire squad of ancient imperial silverite golems on the loose. Baran wasn’t playing on the same field anymore. It was time for the king to decide if he accepted his fate, and let history follow its course, or if they should attempt something drastic. The ambassador believed it might be too little too late anyway. His gaze met the golem’s, and he realized the ancient intelligence buried under that silverite mask wasn’t considering an eventual Baranese attack.

It was hoping for it.
