“Mighty and all in their black and blue armor, aye. It’s just that some of those statues, well. And the poetries on those stellae. A bit scandalous if you ask me, haha. Could give a man ideas. And quite a few lasses as well, they like reading those, they do.”

“What sort of subversive opinions?” the man replied with a frown. “Rebellion? A penchant for democracy?”

“No me’lord, a penchant for… manflesh.”

The ambassador frowned, shocked to his core. Really?

Cannibalism?

“They’re gay, your lordship.”

“Ah. Well, it happens. Many knightly orders have forbidden romances…”

He had made a few noble houses bend the knee with salacious secrets, back in the day.

“They’re aggressively gay, your lordship. They sing very daring songs before battle, speak poetry from towers with sound enchantments that make them very loud. It is said the enemy is perturbed.”

“What sort of dastardly tactics do those Harrakans use!”

“Well there is also the fire wasps.”

The man shook his head. He had been too preoccupied by those heavies and the machines to really pay attention to the rest. All reports said the Harrakan knight order was in its infancy, and no match for the might of Baran. Perhaps he should still learn more.

As the convoy progressed, the ambassador saw more signs of the architectural chaos that seemed to define this part of the world. Building styles from every corner of Param coexisted in peace. There were even some of the brutal stone edifices that had marked the Old Empire right before its fall. He noted quite a few large carved stones inscribed with — as far as he could tell — children’s tales. The coachman’s comment was even more puzzling.

“It was made by one of the golems to teach people how to read. She, beg your pardon, it looks like a woman, she is always making books and writing stuff everywhere.”

“And where are those golems?”

“They’re all at the front, me’lord. With the army.”

Ah, yes, the cause of this whole meeting. The witch had stirred the hornet’s nest, no doubt about it.

The ambassador found nothing of note while climbing towards the city of Sinur’s Gate, beyond the fact it would be an absolute nightmare to besiege. The gates themselves were fortified and manned by city guards with truncheons, not exactly a glorious sight. Inside, a pleasant view awaited him: the old spires of this reclaimed city. Sinur’s Gate was built vertically to conserve space. The many towers must have been the houses of aristocrats back in the day, but now they were populated by commoners who hung their laundry from their august bridges. There was something vulgar and uncomfortable to having the lower classes glance down from above, but such should be expected from the witch. If she had any regard for proper hierarchy, this land would still belong to Enoria. The numerous manors had been reclaimed as workshops though, and the smoke that emerged from its many chimneys spoke of dense activity.

“Is this the industrial heart of Harrak?” he asked his coachman.

The man replied in a lower voice. This city was much more quiet, the mood subdued and focused. The ambassador could even hear the pleasant gurgles of nearby fountains, so quiet the place was.

“No sir, that would be far north near the Min Goles mines. This place is for finer work. The tools and weapons, well, they’re made by and near the owl folks. Industrious buggers, you know? They got them big factories with lines of people doing things and a lot of metal comes from one end while full armor sets and boxes of stuff come out of the other. All in one place. Ingenious, that.”

Something about the man’s casual tone ticked the ambassador. Armor sets and tools were not made in the same place, that didn’t make sense. You had artisan guilds and people making the rounds around family workshops to collect what was made. It was common sense. Was this some sort of Outlander balderdash?

“We’re here sir.”

There was barely a tiny place to stop the carriage before the palace’s gates. It was, much like the city, narrow and tall with a beautiful dome and the broadest, highest tower around. Men and women in heavy armor stood by the entrance. Those were not city guards, this time. He inspected one of them.

[Harrakan heavy (Hightree Company): third step, one who follows the path of Harrakan heavy infantry. Close quarter specialist. Versatile warrior. Undead bane. Human slayer…

The description went on, though he ignored the more individual achievements. Versatile warrior was for those who performed just as well in formation as out of it. Now, he noticed that the guards also wore an assortment of weapons on their backs or hanging from sheaths by their side. How very peculiar, he thought! Elite soldiers ought to keep a pleasing uniformity, else what was the point. Ah, but those must be the veterans the reports mentioned. The witch had gathered a massive number of maimed footmen — and even knights — by regrowing their limbs. Traitors, the lot of them. To abandon one’s nation for the promise of healing. How easily some people forfeited their previous allegiances.

He frowned. Would it not be easier to return home afterward, rather than stay in this forsaken land? What made them stick around, he wondered. Surely, the witch couldn’t pay well. Just another puzzling aspect of the issue. Shaking his head, the ambassador walked into a cramped lobby crowded with messengers and harried civil servants. He was let through without a fuss, led deeper in by a stern-looking young woman.

“You did not request to see my pass,” he remarked. “Do you trust the words of every visitor who enters here? I find the lack of truth finders concerning. How can my security be guaranteed?”

“You were identified long before you came in, Your Grace,” she replied without looking at him. “By a hadal. If you had been an impostor, you would not have been allowed through the door.”

This time she turned, and her smile was not kind.

“Of course, Her Majesty sometimes lets them in so we can have a little show, but Solfis is busy today.”

“I see.”

They walked through a tiny inner courtyard well decorated with flowers, then past that under the dome, which held the throne room. The throne itself was a dark steel construct that spoke of the skill of its makers, yet still remained austere. It currently stood empty. The benches and dais before the platform were filled with various representatives, but the so-called empress herself stood among a group of notables, talking in a low voice. The ambassador recognized the dark-skinned, gray-haired squat woman in full plate as the Order Master of the golden sisters of Enttiku. Next to her was General Jaratalassi, whom the ambassador had never seen cast a spell, and a thin, effeminate man in a dark officer uniform. An old man, also in full plate, attended. The ambassador quickly identified them.

[Strategist, third step, one who follows the path of army leadership...]

His titles were nothing impressive. The ambassador didn’t dismiss him, however. The witch didn’t keep useless people in positions of power. As for the old man, he was clearly a commoner from ruddy skin and defensive posture. Perhaps some sort of bodyguard? The rabble could be quite devoted when they knew their place.

[The Tip of the Spear: commander of the First Battalion, First Company of the Harrakan army. Fourth step. Leader of men…]

The ambassador had to admit, that one was plenty impressive. It was dedicated people like him that formed the glue of a proper fighting force. The fact the witch had picked him over any fresh face nobleman spoke highly of her. It was such a pity then that they would stand on opposite sides of the checkerboard.

The ambassador flinched when a presence made itself known by his side. How long had that man been there?

“It has been a while, Lord Ambassador,” a deep voice said, dripping with venom.

“Rollo.”

“It is still Ser Rollo to you,” the disgraced knight growled. “In memory of the good old times, I have warned Her Majesty about your tendencies.”

“Her Majesty? How quickly you sold your allegiance,” the ambassador retorted.

“Allegiance is earned. And so is respect. I would keep that in mind, if I were you. The palace has a bit of a draft, and the fall can be quite… unpleasant.”

“Is that a threat?” the ambassador spat.

“Yes. But don’t worry. I won’t be the one carrying it out.”

“And you must be the Ambassador of Baran,” a female voice said in Baranese. “Ser Jethri?”

The witch was here. Immediately, the ambassador bowed as protocol dictated, though it also gave him a moment to grow accustomed to her presence. Just like all sovereigns, she followed a path that marked her soul with the weight of power, but hers tasted more bloodsoaked to his acute perception. She had carved a path to rulership, not inherited traditions. It made her feel more raw.

He looked up. Two circles of shiny emerald on an abyssal background. Her smile was polite and pleasant. Strange blades emerged from behind her shoulders, and as he looked more carefully, he could see strange patterns shimmering on them. She was tall. As tall as the strongest knights.

“Your Imperial Majesty. I bring my liege’s greetings and promise of aid in these dark times.”

“He has my gratitude, of course. With your arrival, all expected representatives are now present so I will begin this council. If you will excuse me…”

“Of course.”

She turned. He caught the sight of silverite runes engraved in her black and silver war robes. These were newly made, and quite potent that he could tell. The Baranese painted the Harrakans as muddy yokels playing dress up but looking at this handywork, he wasn’t so sure.

His eyes met those of the Tip of The Spear. They were not friendly. The Ambassador smiled anyway.

Arrogant bumpkin.

In the meantime, the witch had reached her throne. She waved and her voice suddenly covered the hubbub of conversations. She had chosen imperial as the language, which was fair since most scholars and educated gentlemen such as himself spoke it. It was the privilege of hosting, he supposed.

“Ladies and gentlemen. Dear guests. Thank you for coming to this council dedicated to the war against the undead. We will unfortunately have to go outside for the briefing itself since the council room is simply too small to accommodate all of the combatants.”

The ambassador resisted the urge to huff. Some palace this was.

“General Jaratalassi and myself would like you to tell us who you are and who you brought, so we know what we will be working with. We will proceed by order of arrival. Any objections?”

She sounded very much like she didn’t want any objections. The tinge of intimidation in the air made complaining about such trivial details extremely undesirable.

“No? Good. Prince Gil of Enoria, if you would begin?”

The ambassador was surprised to hear that the king had sent his heir to the frontline. Perhaps he was hoping for him to get some blood on his sword.

“My father sends his best wishes!” a youth with a rather unfortunate attempt at a mustache said.

He sounded peppy. The ambassador found peppy people annoying.

“Unfortunately, we could not do much on such short notice. My father still sends two regiments of Dead Eyes and their trainees, as well as three carts of arrows. It is all we had on hand.”

“It is appreciated,” the witch replied without guile.

“Several witches of the Path of the Sun also wished to join to, and I quote, ‘see a fellow practitioner at work’.”

Chuckles came from a group of savages covered in feathers and trinkets. The witch smiled, though the ambassador did not. Was this a war council or a traveling show?

“I promise you that your wish will be fulfilled.”

“Ah, and my father asked you to treat the lives of his people as if they were your own.”

The mood grew more serious. The witch gave Gil a nod.

“General Jaratalassi will be in charge of this operation, as usual. No drop of Enorian blood shall be shed in vain.”

Leadership spread through the room. The ambassador tasted the truth of her word, and the rest of the envoys exchanged confident glances.

“Thank you, Prince Gil. Now for Zazas?”

“We bring two hundred slingers! We understand that javelins do not do much against revenants.”

“Indeed not. Their help will be precious.”

More minor factions spoke up, including a few mercenary bands and the Golden Order. To the ambassador’s surprise, the empress suddenly spoke in a guttural tongue he did not understand. Her words were slow and hesitant, but the reply was clear. It was given by a scarred Kark standing in the corner in a set of armor that looked distinctly Harrakan, yet ensconced his muscular form perfectly. It felt incredibly jarring to be speaking after the subhuman, but the ambassador comforted himself with the knowledge being last to speak was almost as good as being the first.

“Ambassador Jethri, if you would?”

“Thank you, Your Imperial Majesty. Just as my esteemed fellow said, it is extremely difficult to gather a significant force on such short notice. As such, we regret to inform you that we cannot send any of our knight orders.”

Well, the White Orchard was always ready to go. Unfortunately, the messenger tasked with contacting them was either mysteriously and unexpectedly delayed or on his way to be.

“I was expecting it,” the empress said without anger.

“We still bring you… the blade master Selyen!”

Fucker was expensive and always asked for more practice so he’d get it, but without the Sword of Baran. The artifact was too valuable to be lost.

“And three conclaves of mages.”

The bottom of the barrel, mostly sent as a warning and for discipline. If they were killed, it would be no big loss.

