Two ogres tried to pincer her from either side, as a long-necked, yet reasonably sized, dinosaur that she didn’t recognize snapped at her again. Ranthia ducked under the bite and ended beast and parasite both with a single cut while she slipped away from the oncoming club. A spear came at her to try to drive her back into the attack, but Ranthia knocked it aside and set about trying to carve herself a bit more breathing room.

Her images had gotten destroyed again.

The only blessing was that there didn’t seem to be a twin present—or, if there was one, it was holding back while the army tried to wear her down. But the army continued to shift around her; no matter how she tried to carve a way clear, the enemy masses shifted faster than she could cut through them.

The enemy was being conducted. They were organized. This wasn’t like when she leapt into the midst of the enemy and wreaked havoc in the past—she was facing a primal sort of order. Worse, they weren’t mere fodder, there was at least a measure of actual skill. Not to mention Skills.

She had never expected the difference to be so significant between the shimagu she had faced before and the true armies of her adversaries. Another conjured rock had to be deflected with her bracer—even as a metal spike shattered two of the images she had just formed. An ogre covered in layers of regenerating bone armor returned to the fore once again—his armor and bone weapon restored—and resumed trying to bisect her with his improbably sharp bone sword.

She was trapped, and it was taking everything she had just to continue what was effectively a stalemate. The instant she ran out of mana or screwed up, things would get bad for her.

Which wasn’t unfamiliar, but it was still unwelcome.

With no better options—she had bled too much mana already trying to shift out of the problem—Ranthia chose to immerse herself in her deadly dance. Her dexterity proved its value as her Skills—and skills—harmonized into a chaotic blend of unpredictability. When the shimagu attempted to close ranks and pin her down or restrict her too far, [Scattered Reflections] and [Reflections of Reality] let her become a different group of the enemy’s problem. [Rhythmic Grace] and [Combat Awareness] were up to the task of letting her weave between the bulk of the Skills and attacks that came at her from (all too literally) every direction, while [Flowing Momentum] guided her knives to where they would do the most good. [Void Edge] and [Echoes of Devastation] had to be used sparingly though—Ranthia couldn’t let herself tear through her mana too quickly. Her armor’s arcanite was full, but it wasn’t inexhaustible.

Neither was she, even if time seemingly lost all meaning as she danced.

She might have been an adherent of Xaoc’s, but she became an instrument of Black Crow. Ranthia had been freed from the muddy terrain, but a new, more abhorrent sludge was born as blood flowed freely around her. Not every blow was fatal—an injured shimagu that withdrew was just as good as a dead one in her situation. [True Grace] and [Sentinel’s War Supremacy] boosted everything she had—and the latter Skill was plainly pulling its weight. She was far deadlier than she had been in the Unbreakable Image.

Even against the higher caliber of opponent that she faced, her evasion and defenses were almost perfect. But almost still wasn’t good enough. All too often, her own blood joined and commingled with the blood of her foes—at least until she abandoned the body and let it break.

Every mistake was costly, and the shimagu probably believed it was inevitable that some mistake would cost her everything. Their forces continued to shift around her and counter any momentum she built up, forcing Ranthia to react to her true—unseen—dance partner: the [Leader] that directed them.

If she was predictable, she would die quickly. Fortunately for her, she was a disciple of Chaos Himself. Consistency was anathema to her dance. Her concept of perfection had no trace of order, she was carnage elevated to an art form as she danced through the press of flesh and weaponry.

She hadn’t taken the time to silence System notifications—she hadn’t even thought of doing it before it was too late. Instead, she tuned them out entirely. It didn’t matter if she killed a shimagu puppet, nor did it matter if the parasite within the deceased host lived on; at most they were another Skill she had to evade or counter. It didn’t matter if a Skill or class level increased or if a new Skill was offered.

Ranthia’s dance was guided by instinct more than thought, as she focused on the eternal moment that she found herself trapped within. There was no grand plan, instead she embraced her ideals and entrusted herself to them. Had there been less fear in her heart, she might have found the experience meditative.

She was buying time for the scouts to get away. Avyna was waiting for her. And she had yet to do enough in the service of Xaoc—there was still chaos that she needed to bring to Pallos.

And so, she would live. It had to be as simple as that.

Her dance of death continued unabated. Time was meaningless, but she kept her senses alert for one thing in particular as she fought—her true opponent. The order that guided her opponents had to be within their forces somewhere, she couldn’t believe that the shimagu could be so coordinated if led from afar. If nothing else, the delay would have allowed her to escape their grasp.

Another shift to nullify another debilitating wound taken to her neck, or perhaps her leg—something essential, at least—finally brought her the proverbial scent of her target. She had no time to parse out the crude tongue of the shimagu, but she recognized the tone of orders being called out.

Her quarry was cunning—they tried to move away from her, even as she doggedly pursued them through an endless tide of viscera. It was the work of mere moments—or perhaps the efforts of a lifetime—but at some point Ranthia broke through a defensive wall of shields and Skills with the aid of entirely too much use of [Void Edge] and [Echoes of Devastation]. Spears came at her, but Ranthia kept moving. One knife sheared off a spearhead, another delivered a messy cleave across an ogre’s stomach—it was the best wound she could inflict in the situation, but it was far from ideal.

Even as his intestines spilled, she was forced back. The shimagu rallied faster than she had expected and ringed her in. She could hear the [Leader] slipping away as the army stifled her movements. Injuries came swiftly as Ranthia lost the room she needed to maneuver—hostile Skills took a toll of flesh and blood and metal from her, even as she countered the obvious weapons.

It was desperate, but she was forced to throw an image into the sky and shifted to it as rapidly as she could to escape the deathtrap that nearly consumed her. Her flesh was renewed—her armor was not—but she was vulnerable. As if to punctuate the thought, an arrow punched through the side of her face, shredding her cheek as it went past. Her blades intercepted the next volley while she used the precious moment to find a new place for an image on the ground. There—where two ogres stood nearly back-to-back.

The image she placed between them wasn’t the only one she formed. In rapid succession she had five others—handed off to [Submind] to aggressively attack. They wouldn’t last long, but they gave her just enough cover for her shift to conclude. She was, once again, intact and momentarily safe, which meant that she was able to rejoin the battle on her own terms.

Ranthia sprang forward and carved through the blindsided shimagu and, at long last, caught sight of the [Leader] she had sought. He was tagged as a [Laborer], but she knew his voice. [Sustained Chaos] delivered a fully empowered knife through his heart and lung.

She even got lucky enough to retrieve it with [Adamant Commander] before the enemies around her retaliated.

It wasn’t ideal—the [Leader] was almost certainly the shimagu, not the ogre it infested. She could only hope that inflicting a deadly wound on the ogre would debilitate the parasite too.

The nigh-endless tide of the enemy forced Ranthia away from her quarry before the ogre expired, but that was fine. Her dance resumed and she bided her time to let the pall of order pass from her opponents before she juked, ready to make her escape at long last.

But, once again, the enemy forces adapted and shifted.

She had struck down the ogre that was responsible for the orders—unless there was such a thing as a shimagu [Healer], there was no chance that he survived. Had she been tricked? Pursuing him had led her into a trap, but keeping a primed defense near the [Leader] also made sense. There was a chance that the shimagu could have jumped to another body—how readily the shimagu could change hosts was an ongoing mystery. There was also a chance that there were multiple [Leaders] or a Sound classer decoy. Or, perhaps, she had simply slain someone that repeated orders for his section of the army.

In most ways, it didn’t matter—the questions were even less important than any number of concerns she had already tossed aside. Yet some piece of her—a quite outraged piece—couldn’t help but to obsess. It had been her goal, her lifeline.

It had been for nothing.

The saner aspects of her psyche focused on Avyna. Ranthia was a survivor by nature, but Avyna represented the most tangible reason for her to endure—even after hope was lost. She had barely even begun to share her life with the woman that she had found love and happiness with, and she refused to leave Avyna so soon.

And so, she danced. She had lost track of time, but she knew she had fought longer—with objectively worse stats. Her opponents might overwhelm her with time, but fortunately the sheer bulk of the ogres and dinosaurs limited how many opponents could come at her at once. Ranged attacks tore into allies more often than they found purchase on her elusive form. She was a point of grace and lethality amid the hostile army, and so long as she kept moving, she wouldn’t be trapped by the corpses that she created.

Ranthia’s blades continued to take a toll on her enemies. Flesh, bone, wood, stone, or metal were irrelevant—the Void allowed nothing to exist within it and erased them equally. The rhythm of chaos never left her as she fought on. Her dance was as wild as it was brutal. She was slaughter made manifest on the greatest scale she could manage at her tier.

But no matter how lesser her opponents were, no matter how their clumsy might paled before her grace, she was ultimately an individual in the midst of an army.

She was several class ups away from that being a fight she could win.

But it didn’t matter. Her heart clung to her love and zeal to survive, and she fueled her dance with that all-encompassing need. It didn’t matter if her victory was impossible; she would survive. Even if she had to test her Void against Black Crow, she refused to yield. She denied the inevitability with every last bit of her willpower.

Her thoughts never stilled, but she felt detached from her body. It was a strange reverie, one that was different than the combat fugue she was used to. It was… warmer.

But no matter how comfortable the state was, it shattered from a wholly unexpected change.

A second force swept through the shimagu army and culled them with impunity. She felt the approach and heard the signs among the shouts of her sea of adversaries, but almost the very moment the presence entered the range of her awareness, it slipped through.

Sentinel Night put his back to hers.

“Sentinel Grace, keep close behind me.” His voice was low, but it still cut through the din of the battlefield to reach her ears.

Ranthia nodded, unable to find her own voice. It was sufficient; even with his back to her, Night seemed to acknowledge her gesture. Once again, he blurred into action and tore into the shimagu like a nightmare made manifest. His Dark-kissed blades carved through the forces with an alacrity and ferocity that Ranthia still couldn’t match.

The enemy tides shifted to hold them.

But Night was different from Grace—he had no need to adjust his flow to try to counter their own. He pierced through it. For all Ranthia’s self-satisfaction at the brutality she inflicted, Night effortlessly proved her to be little more than a pale imitation of what he truly embodied: death itself.

Night punched a hole through the shimagu, but the shimagu’s [Leader]—or [Leaders]—raced to try to close it. Ranthia was forced to cut through as she raced to keep up with him. Her mana dipped low, so Ranthia pulled from the arcanite woven throughout her armor.

It had nothing to offer her—she had exhausted it without realizing. Cold dread filled her as she sought the arcanite from her pouches—fused blocks of arcanite that Avyna had created for her. Most were like her armor—emptied. Her final pouch, the one that bore the arcanite that her fathers had left her, yielded only a small splash of mana—barely a quarter of her pool—before it, too, had nothing left to offer.

She hadn’t even noticed that she had come so close to running out of mana—she thought she had been minimizing what she used! A cold, dark pit formed in her stomach as she realized how close she had come—had Night been any slower…

With the shimagu, she would have been lucky if death was what had awaited her.

But she wasn’t safe yet. She was barely above half mana, and she was trying to follow a man that she could barely keep up with in ideal circumstances. They were tearing through the shimagu forces, but Ranthia was forced to spend precious mana as she desperately struggled to follow the faster Sentinel.

With the terror that hammered through her, the rhythm that usually felt second nature required almost all of her concentration to barely maintain it. She was struggling, but she raced. She raced after the obnoxiously fast vampire—her last lifeline—even as she raced her own dwindling pool of mana. If she didn’t use the Void, she lost precious moments and momentum to collisions.

A stone tore through part of her arm, but she could still move it. She could endure that, along with the other scrapes, scratches, cuts, and bruises that she collected. Shifting for anything more than an injury that made it impossible to follow Night was untenable. Each shift took entirely too much of her rapidly vanishing mana.

And she wasn’t convinced that Night would—or even could—get them both out if she proved unable to keep up with him.

Six digits of mana became five.

Night was pulling ahead, and a Skill-infused spear that seared through her leg forced her to shift again. It was the last shift that she had the mana for.

