“He doesn’t know what he is, yet,” Liam replied. “He’s young, only four Aspects to his name. Maybe five by now. I called this meeting because I made a wager with him, a wager he managed to win.”

Silence hung in the air.

Tell us.

Liam grinned at the effigy. “Gladly. I wagered he wouldn’t be able to find a secret on a particular floor within the Eternal Depths. He did.”

“So this secret wasn’t as well hidden as you’d thought,” the demon growled. “Perhaps you’re losing your touch.”

“The secret wasn’t well hidden because there was no secret,” Liam said. “He made it himself.”

The sense of dread pulsed. The hands trembled. The seraphim stilled. The demon recoiled. Only the effigy and the woman seemed not to react.

What would you have us do?

“For now?” Liam sat back in his chair. “Enjoy the show. He’s fun; the mad ones always are. Going after him in the Eternal Depths would cause far more problems than he’s worth at the moment, and I don’t foresee him leaving any time soon.”

The woman raised an eyebrow. “And why is that?”

Liam grinned and crossed his legs and took a sip of brandy. “Because he’s sworn to destroy it.”

The woman paused. The hands stilled. The demon laughed, “So he is a threat.”

Liam shrugged. “Who’s to say? One way or another I thought you should know, either to prepare your forces in case he sets his sights on you next or to start your own internal conflicts and bidding wars over his potential pact. Or…” He glanced over at the sense of dread. “To enjoy the show.”

“We should destroy him now,” the seraphim declared, “before he becomes a greater threat.”

“Where’s the fun in that?” Liam asked. He shook his head. “No, for now he’s under my protection. Anything untoward happens to him and there’ll be consequences for everyone involved. If he dies—and given his choice of obsession there’s a good chance of that—it’ll happen fairly, because of his mistakes, not ours.”

“You would have us do nothing?” the angel barked.

“I didn’t say that.” Liam waved him off. “Go gather your forces or sing your hymns or whatever it is you do when a new paragon appears. I’m sure your brethren would like to hear the news.”

“Bah!” the seraphim grunted, and a chorus of celestial trumpets sounded out as a pillar of light descended from above to embrace his many eyes. In a flash, he was gone.

The demon rolled his eyes and waved his hand with a flourish, summoning a fell inferno at the base of the nearest tree. Without a word he stormed through it, taking his leave.

The sense of dread faded away, the hands retreated through their hole which closed up after them, and when Liam next looked to his left the wooden effigy was gone.

The woman finished her brandy, patted down her emerald cloak, pulled its hood over her head, and smiled at Liam. “Thank you for the warning. I haven’t seen them this riled up since the Flame of Omu-Yin went out.”

Liam raised an eyebrow. “That was two days ago.”

She grinned. “You know how it goes. Everything happens at once.” Simply opening her hand and allowing her empty glass to fall out of existence rather than setting it down, she snapped her fingers and rent reality in twain. “I’ll see you around.” With that she stepped through the tear towards the ivory city on the other side, closing the way behind her.

Alone in the Elsewhere once more, Liam poured himself another glass of brandy and stared off into the brown expanse before him. He could afford a few more moments of quiet isolation before his return. He took a sip, rested his elbow upon the arm of his chair, and spoke the words to himself.

“This should be fun.”

Edmund ran.

At the moment no shadow chased him, but with no way of knowing how or when the path ahead might be closed off, he kept haste for fear of missing some future window. Madness beckoned him ever onward.

Having reached the open exit and thus technically cleared the floor, his next Aspect was available to him, but claiming it would require shutting his eyes long enough to envision his constellation, a risky endeavor while running down a hallway.

He waited until he was on a straightaway, a section of hall with no twists or turns or junctions from which a shadow might appear for some distance, before electing to take that risk. Whatever he was running into, an extra Aspect might make the difference.

He didn’t have to think long. Combining Aspects was almost always more powerful than selecting a new base Aspect, and only his Solitude had available combinations. Considering how much he’d depended on it thus far, Madness was the obvious choice. Almost at once a new star blazed to life in his constellation, shining as gold as Obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone. Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Edmund blinked, his eyes shooting open just in time to dash down a side passage his Madness screamed he follow. He’d never heard of an Aspect that only empowered another. By combining it at all his Madness had gone up a level already, though its description still refused to change. He couldn’t begin to wonder what The Recluse would do exactly, nor whether weakening Madness when he was with others would prove a boon or a curse. He hoped the former. At least this way, merchants, gathers, and other delvers he encountered wouldn’t be as put off by his insanity.

If nothing else, the ethereal arrows that pointed the way felt more solid, more real. Edmund knew they weren’t, not to anyone else. To him, they were real enough to guide the way.

He caught a glimpse of something small and blue darting past an intersection ahead of him, but a shadow passed right after it, blocking off any hope of giving direct chase. His Madness led him in the opposite direction, the way the thing had come. He got a second look some twenty minutes later, noting the distinct sound of four paws patting against the earth as it ran past. Still Edmund ran, gaining more and more of an intuitive sense of the floor’s layout and the movements of the shadows with every passing minute.

Whatever pattern the smokey arrows dictated, he followed. They’d take him to his goal soon enough.

It took nearly forty minutes before he finally got a good look at the thing.

Somewhere along his run he’d fallen into a rhythm, his breath and heartbeat and footsteps falling into pace with each other as he grew more and more comfortable with the rules of the level. That all fell away when he saw the fox.

It looked no different from any of the other foxes he’d once chased away from the henhouse in another life, but for the azure color of its fur and the pure white tuft at its chest. Fear and mischief mingled in its eyes as it ran right towards him, a shadow beast close on its tail. Edmund crossed the intersection between him and the fox and stopped short. With the darkness chasing it, the critter had no choice but to approach.

In a single motion, Edmund jerked his hand out to grab the thing by the scruff of its neck and took off, dragging it along with him as Madness directed his path. It yelped but didn’t struggle, allowing him to pull it from the shadow’s path.

The shadow had other ideas.

The now-familiar chill in the air and sense of claws scraping against stone seemed to heighten as Edmund ran away with the fox. In the same moment, the ethereal arrow in the intersection ahead switched directions, his Madness seeming to change its mind.

The shadows might’ve followed a prescribed path before, but now he’d grabbed the fox, Edmund had their attention.

He ran.

The fox pulled its front legs from the ground, allowing its rear paws to trail through the dirt as Edmund carried it. He gulped down air, took sharp swinging turns, and slammed his feet against the ground as he sprinted. With almost every intersection a shadow joined the chase, falling in behind him as the air grew ever colder and the chorus of claws ever louder and more cacophonous.

He felt precious relief when the exit came into view, only to face crushing dread when a shadow turned the corner opposite him, racing for him and the exit between them.

Edmund ran faster. He put his every hope, his every fear, his every ounce of resolve and drive and utter need into this run. Instinctively he knew, or at least guessed, that he could give up the fox, that he’d need only toss the blue vixen to the darkness and the shadows would let him be.

He turned his eyes to the loot chest on the floor, still unopened and brimming with promise. He knew he’d fall to the shadows if he dared stop to open it. He grit his teeth. He bit back a curse. He muttered a prayer of hope that the sacrifice would be worth it, and with a swing of his arm, he threw the fox into the darkness.

Not the scrabbling shadows that chased, but the darkness between floors.

With one last look at the loot chest he’d have no time to open, Edmund swallowed back the knot in his throat, gripped tightly the loot he already had, turned to face the exit, and dove into the darkness.
