Over the next hour, the parishioners at the Healing Fountain —as Erick was calling it— all got healed, and they all moved on, following a young woman in white robes to some other space. They vanished as they passed out of view, walking into far-away black clouds, back into the Dark Dream, without care that they were walking back into oblivion. Heavily armored clergymen, covered in robes, remained beside the Healing Fountain, as the healer who had spooned out the Fountain’s water flipped over a heavy metal grate, securing the Fountain’s basin. The top of the Fountain was still fully exposed; the liquid Healing spurted up into the air, casting rainbows, still able to be touched, and imbibed, before it fell past the slotted grate, into the basin. But the basin was protected now.

“You think he’s protecting the Fountain from theft?” Erick asked, “Or from people overdosing?”

“Overdosing; has to be,” Solomon said, “Looks like we’ve only got a kilometer of space secured on that side, so there might be walls and such out there… But I doubt it—” He fell silent, because the people on the other side were talking.

The healer spoke of that being all for the day, and that he was headed back to the temple. The guards nodded, then one of them took out a great big lock and locked the Healing Fountain’s basin. It looked like a magical lock to Erick. And then the three people walked on, down the granite-tiled path, beyond the carved pillars filled with unknown words. Soon, they were past the safe space. They vanished into the Dreaming Dark. And then the space was empty of people.

Solomon spoke, “Looks like that’s it.” He sat back in his chair. “I wonder why this was a memory in the Dark. All the other memories were big shits. Battles and deaths and births of all kinds.”

“Maybe this is simply a place that helped a lot of people.” Erick said, “Looks like free healing to all that comes… or maybe there’s some other price they pay, elsewhere. But the place certainly isn’t guarded at all. Or at least not in the traditional sense.”

They fell to silence for a short while.

And then Solomon said, “This whole thing sort of reminds me of that time we went Dreaming and ended up with Rozeta, and she was typing away at that computer.”

Erick recalled that time. “We were so exhausted from ending the Chelation War that we just collapsed, and ended up in that liminal space that touched upon Rozeta’s.”

Solomon nodded. “That was probably Soul and Mind Magic, now that I think about it; a half-step into the realm of the Divine. Like all of this, actually.”

“This was from a different angle, though, and a lot more permanent.”

Solomon nodded. After a moment, he said, “We should get Poi out here, to ask the Crossing what this thing is.”

“That’s a very good idea.”

- - - -

Poi stood before the [Renew] Gate, saying, “That’s a Healing Fountain, or at least that was one name for it. It was a common artifact recorded in the archives of the Mind Mages… But since it is here, in the Dark Dream, it has to be one of the oldest ones. Or one that saw a lot of specific people get healed, and then those people went on to do something special.” Poi said, “Other than that, I have no basis to understand whatever this is. We might even be wrong. Something about this space doesn’t seem like where you’d find a Healing Fountain; those things were constantly crowded.”

Debby, who had returned with all the girls, suggested, “We should go steal the pillars? Have the writing analyzed?”

She was digging for answers and had none. A ‘Healing Fountain’ had no real use on Veird, after all. This first search was likely a bust. No one was actually saying that yet, but everyone was thinking it.

So Erick said it, “This is a bust. And that’s fine. Let’s go after the Censer, then.”

“Wait a moment,” Jane said, stepping forward. “Let’s at least explore this land on the other side. I’m going in.” Without further discussion, Jane started walking up the stairs, to the Gate—

Erick forced himself not to say anything.

—The others went with her; Beth, Abigail, Candice, Emily. Solomon held back, while Debby looked like she wanted to go, but decided against it. The girls stepped through the large [Renew] symbol, Jane leading the way.

Jane stepped into the sunshine on the other side of the gate, her skin temporarily flaking away, Erick’s heart rate spiking, until Jane flickered with power and solidified. She remained whole. Her voice was clear as she said, “Still a Dark sort of space, but it’s easy walking once you attune to the difference.”

The girls followed, all of them exhibiting a lot more stability, thanks to Jane’s warning.

The five of them spread out.

Abigail approached a pillar, looking up and down the whole length as she said, “I can’t tell any writing. Can you pick up my thoughts and viewpoint, Poi?”

Poi said, “Barely. Not really, though.” He said, “You all should explain what you’re actually seeing on that side, anyway. It’s not the same as what we’re seeing.”

Ophiel asked, “I go inside?”

Erick softly said, “No, Ophiel. Not doing that.”

Ophiel whistled in unsure guitar sounds.

Beth prowled around, keeping her eyes open and active. She began speaking as though she was in a documentary, “The sky is blue and distant, as anyone would see from any sort of plane. We cannot see the other floor of the dungeon on this side; all we see is the hole in the world that leads over there. The space beyond the Gate looks like more of this land, with pillars and tiles and grasses. I could perhaps walk through what appears to be the ‘wall’ of the dungeon, to walk beside the Gate and effectively overlap any of you on that side, but that seems ill-advised.”

“It’s like we’re in a land of pillars, and the Gate is in the middle,” Jane said, “But we could walk around it if we wanted.”

Abigail started walking that way, saying, “I’m going to try it. Be prepared to Time me.”

Erick’s chest tightened as Abigail approached the left side of the Gate, preparing himself to cast [Return]. Abigail easily walked through the wall of mist, vanishing from sight—

“Girls!” Erick demanded, “What just happened—”

“She appears fine,” Jane said. “She’s walking around.”

Two seconds later Abigail appeared on the right side of the Gate, walking back into view. Erick’s heart still clenched.

Solomon spat, “That was fucking dangerous, Abigail.”

Abigail said, “I appear unharmed, but the decay I experienced due to Darkness seemed to speed up on the other side.”

Emily snorted. “Lucky you didn’t just evaporate.”

“That wasn’t going to happen,” Abigail said, defending herself.

Jane said, “So it appears that we can explore past this stabilized area, but the Darkness is a whole lot stronger past what the dungeon would call the ‘Experimental Floor’.”

Candice, who had been silently inspecting the fountain, spoke up, “This isn’t a spring from some underground source. There’s some sort of brightness down inside the well. Looks like a fragment of some sort of stone. Or ice. Actually. Yeah. That’s Ice. Elemental Ice? Looks like a block of dry ice, actually.”

The other girls turned and walked her way to see what was up.

Candice said, “Maybe a solid form of Elemental Healing?”

Poi suddenly yelled, “Don’t touch that water. Get away from it.”

They weren’t about to, but the warning stopped them short. They all took a step back from the fountain.

Erick and Solomon looked to Poi.

Poi was engaged with a bunch of tendrils coming off of his head, though. He jerked a little bit, as he frowned at the distance, his voice small as he said, “One moment. I’m trying to… Hmm.” He said to Erick and Solomon, “I think we have run into a Forgotten Mana. I think that is Elemental—”

The air filled with a buzz.

Erick waved his hand, and said, “I hate that Silencing. One second.” Erick tried to bring up his Minor Entity of the Script overrides— But a different angry buzz filled the air. It was distinctly different from the one that filled the air when Poi spoke of Silenced magics. Erick looked up, saying, “Come on now. I know I’m in the Dark and this area isn’t exactly secure… Okay. Never mind. I see the problem without having to be told.” He looked to Solomon. “Another Rule?”

Solomon said, “We’ll have to. We probably should have already. This is fine, though.”

Jane spoke from the other side of reality, “Change it up later. Poi. Should we take this thing?” Jane looked down into the waters below the metal grate. “It looks easy enough to steal.”

“No.” Poi said, “Elemental - - - - - - doesn’t do anything for us… Well. Actually. It might be really useful— Eh! Come on back for now. We have to institute some new Rules. The timer still reads all 9s so that space isn’t going anywhere.”

The girls walked back through the [Renew] Gate, each of them reappearing in this reality without any trouble at all.

Jane said, “So the new Rule is to allow Banned magics?”

Solomon spoke, “I should think not. A better Rule would be the allowance of talking of Banned and Forgotten magics.”

Erick couldn’t help himself from musing, “You know… Silences in the Script make a whole lot more sense now, when you consider that they simply disallow certain dimensions from existing or entering into discussion, as though those possibilities have been separated… rather far… Huh. You all aren’t hearing what I’m saying right now, are you?”

Almost the entire group had gone a bit far-eyed as Erick spoke, his words damaging them on some small, yet fundamental level. Solomon seemed the least affected.

Had Erick accidentally run into a Silenced topic?

Well how about that.

Poi was unaffected at all, for some reason. He said, “Rule 10 will have to be extensive, especially if we plan on keeping the Script in here.”

As everyone came back to themselves—

Erick said, “I suspect you might be right, Poi.”

“I really hate those Silences,” Solomon said, and then he pinched half of his nose shut and expelled a glob of blood from the other nostril, directly onto the ground. “Unpleasant.”

Beth said, “How is Elemental - - - - - -” She winced, along with everyone else. “… How is it bad, though?”

Jane said, “Table it, for now.” She looked to Poi. “Rule change?”

Poi nodded. “Do we want to keep the Script? If we don’t keep the Script, I can make a rather simple Rule to allow for the discussion and sequestering of Banned magics, so we might be able to grab that shard of stuff and bring it here. Otherwise, if we keep the Script, I’m not sure how to make a Rule that will allow us to talk about all this stuff, or to retrieve Silenced magic items from the Dark.”

Erick asked, “Kick the Script to Ar’Cosmos levels? Would that be enough?”

Poi said, “Something a bit more aggressive than that might work.”

“Fine by me.” Erick said to everyone, “Everyone okay with manual casting from now on?”

A few small nods and otherwise passed around the group.

Poi nodded. “That works. That’s what we’ll do.”

Half an hour and a million dungeon mana later, Poi changed Rule 1.

- -

1: Script Interface, minimal settings

1: Absolute Minimum Script Interference. Banned and Forgotten Magics allowed.

~ Notification: You have drawn the Sight of the Dark with this rule. (Developer’s note: There’s a lot of dangerous stuff in there, Erick! Don’t get yourself killed too thoroughly. The dungeon can only [True Resurrection] you if there is something to [True Resurrection].)

- -

“I hope to never use those [True Resurrection]s,” Erick said to the air. And then he turned back to his family. “So what’s the Banned magic?”

“Elemental Purity,” Poi said, “Those people weren’t getting healed. They were being made ‘Pure’.”

“Ahhhh,” Erick looked to his daughters. “That would explain the distaste I saw on your faces.”

“Purity could be useful, though,” Candice said. “We’re trying to do some anti-anti-memetic stuff, right?”

“A valid idea,” Solomon said, “We should consult the gods.” He looked to Erick. “Which means you.”

Erick nodded.

- - - -

“Ew, no,” Rozeta said, standing in the clearing outside of the dungeon. “There are better ways to protect against ‘impurity’ threats.”

Erick had called the gods for another small meeting and explained the situation. Not all the gods had shown up, but a few had.

Koyabez said, “Move on past the horror of that Element; it never ends well.”

“What is Purity, anyway?” Erick asked, the Script vaguely Silencing ‘Purity’, but not too badly. He already knew about it, and all the people listening to him were gods, anyway. “It looks like Elemental Healing.” He added, “Also! What’s with the Silencing of how Silences work?”

Rozeta frowned at Erick. And then she just sighed. “Well that’s great.”

Phagar turned back to the topic, “Elemental Purity is a confluence of Healing, Destruction, and Ice. Those who are too impure to begin with, or those who touch Purity without the proper protocols, are themselves destroyed. It’s a good thing no one touched it.”

Erick’s eyes went wide—

And then Aloethag, the Goddess of Beauty and Brutality, and of the Orcols, descended from the cloudy sky to stand upon the grasses before Erick. She was dressed in white and red and unadulterated magnanimity. “I want this Artifact of Purity. In return, and as a start, I will speak on Quilatalap’s behalf regarding his attempt at reconciliation with the Pantheon, and with the world. Other agreements will be at your discretion, Wizard Flatt. How about a Boon of Blood, for start? Five times as much benefit regarding your Blood Mana Class Ability; burn 1 Health gain 5 mana.”

Rozeta went stoic and unreadable; she was staying out of this conversation to preserve neutrality.

Koyabez frowned. “Why can’t you just be happy with having orcols. Why do you want the elves back, Aloethag.”

Aloethag said, “I want both.” Perhaps a little more harshly, she said, “And a Purity Fountain will allow me to cleanse orcols of their Rage completely. A lot of them would wish for this, and I would give it to them.”

Rozeta clearly stated, “No Banned Elements will be allowed to return to Veird.”

Aloethag narrowed her eyes at the Goddess of the Script, then she pivoted. She said to Erick. “Find me elves. Find me people who want me as their goddess. And I will grant you everything I can.”

She obviously didn’t require an answer right then and there, because she spilled into the atmosphere like a splash of golden blood that rapidly vanished into the ether.

