“… Well okay then,” Erick said to the air. “I guess that’s it.”

Phagar vanished next, saying, “Farewell.”

“Till next time,” Koyabez said, vanishing as well.

Rozeta remained. She relaxed a fraction, then said to Erick, “I’m amazed that he’s actually letting you plunder the Dark.”

“I’m amazed that it’s working.” Erick asked, “Want to come in? See this place for yourself? Tell me if it is actually working?”

Rozeta was unsure for a moment, her thoughts elsewhere. Then she decided, “No thank you. That is a step too far for me right now.”

“Okay. Then I have a question for you about the nature of mana production.”

Rozeta nodded.

“What is the nature of a person’s personal connection to the multiverse versus how much mana they produce?” Erick clarified, “Like, everyone makes some amount of mana per day, with mages making more and people who are just living their lives making on average 10 mana per day. But where is that mana actually coming from? The number of personal choices available to them? The closeness they have to their own personal multiverse?”

“That’s a mystery of the Dark,” Rozeta said, “But you might be able to get an answer out of my father, when no one else ever could. Personally, I believe that maybe 50% to 80% of the amount of mana a person makes is directly proportional to how much they’re willing to change the world with their power. The other part of that equation is allowances of the Dark, through the awakening of Darkness in everyone who touches upon magic. My numbers are likely off, but they are based upon evidence gathered over a long-ish time.”

Erick thought for a moment, trying to slot that into his current, and growing, idea of the multiverse being how magic actually worked. “Thank you.” Erick spoke, “So when I made [Renew], and then Benevolence… Before all that, every single person’s mana was different. Every single person was a producer for a different universe of themselves. This was why the mana of different mages couldn’t mix properly, without extensive ritual work and cooperative casting, but with [Renew], one mage can express their power in a way that directly communicates and bolsters the power that another has set down.” He asked, “Is that how that works?”

Rozeta chuckled a little. “It’s very like a Wizard to not understand what they have done until many years later. But yes. That is precisely correct. Your Benevolence and empathy has made communication between ‘individual universes’ possible. Though that is a very weird way to state that accomplishment.”

Erick slowly nodded, as the words of the Other Erick, when he witnessed his first core breaking, came back to him. He decided to ask, “So I saw this core breaking last month. I saw my Other Self. He told me: ‘It’s all about communication. That’s the reason for everything happening in your life. And yet, you are nothing. We’re all just motes of our reality, shoved outward in hopes of understanding the Great Other.’ It was all rather cryptic.” Erick asked, “What do you think about that?”

“I can’t give you any sort of satisfying answer, but what I can say is that I am surer and surer that this whole mess of a Sundering search is the correct Path for you.” Rozeta said, “And I do mean ‘Path’; I see that now. With every step you take, and revelation you make, you’re getting closer and closer to True Wizardry. When Yggdrasil and Ophiel separate from you, you will likely be able to become a True Wizard without trouble.”

Erick hummed a little, and then nodded. “Thanks, Rozeta.”

Rozeta smiled softly. “I still want that Lifeblood Heart, Erick. Veird could use the mana. But the others were right when they said that you likely couldn’t approach it at all. Try anyway, please.”

“Of course.” Erick said, “We’re going to go after the Censer of Destruction again, next. Do you want that brought up here, or do I need to deliver it somewhere— Oh! Does Destruction mana literally just close off the dimension of other manas, when paired with that mana? Like that’s how Destruction-plus-Fire ends Fire Magics, and even mundane fire?”

Rozeta raised an eyebrow. “Sure. I’ll be able to take the Censer here on the Surface. And yes. That’s how magic works… Though I wouldn’t phrase it like that. But I see you’re on your own explanation of the universe, and you’re probably correct— And I see you have a lot of other questions, but I gotta go, Erick. We’ll talk later.”

Erick smiled, saying, “Yes. Talk later!”

- - - -

Back inside the dungeon, Erick announced, “Elemental Purity is Banned; we’re not touching that stuff. It’s Elemental Destruction-aligned and has some sort of connection to Aloethag and elves, so that’s a ‘no’. Funnily enough, we are going after another Destruction source; the Censer.”

There were no objections.

Standing before the [Renew] Gate, Erick willed the [Renew] Gate to power, and the webbing of lightning that radiated from the gate seemed to ‘let go’ of the Experimental Space. Lightning retreated, pulling back to the rune of [Renew].

And the timer above the gate rapidly began to count down, the all 9s rapidly changing to two simple digits; 18, then 17, 16…

The land beyond began to fray. Shadows moved in. Pillars and the words upon them turned indistinct in the light of a sun from another universe. As the timer approached 0, the world beyond flickered and birdsong died, passing into dreams.

The timer faded.

The path through the Gate was the final thing to vanish, becoming a tunnel, and then closing off, as though the Gate were an eye belonging to a fainting person. And then there were dreams. The Darkness beyond returned to a cacophony of near-silent memories, fading in and out from the depths, vibrant colors and deep shadows passing in and out of black clouds, briefly revealing themselves as real, and then revealing themselves as not.

Debby asked, “So how does this luring work?”

Erick smiled. “Like this:” And then he intoned, “Find and secure the Censer of Destruction.”

The [Renew] Gate flickered with power. A brilliant white light flickered out of the hole in the ground that led to the house, and the core, followed rapidly by a roll of power that spread outward from that point, flashing across the white stone ground, glittering upon every slime. That brightness radiated into the depths of Darkness surrounding the slime dungeon. And then, on the northern wall, between dreams and reality, light flashed down from every single side, coalescing upon the gate.

The gate hummed to life.

The cacophony of memories beyond began to slow down. Births flowed into deaths and then into destruction. The annihilation of nations and worlds came next, followed by smaller, more concentrated ends; the annihilation of individuals, and then artifacts. The breaking of that which needed to break came next as smoke flowed in from all corners of the Darkness.

And then the smoke flowed out of an invisible space, situated down an expansive hallway that would prove the equal of any world’s greatest cathedrals.

A great white metal bowl, spectacularly clean and yet spilling smoke everywhere, stood in the center of a crossing hallway, in the center of a white cathedral floor. It was several meters across and filled with holes, each of those holes spilling forth smoke. It was a simple thing, and yet not. It held no fire, and yet it burned. It burned, and yet it was clean. In that cleanliness, in that spilling smoke, it cleaned the world.

Priests and paladins stood nearby, overseeing the burning.

A rag-tag group of adventurers also stood nearby, some of them openly weeping in joy and in other heavy emotions, as the tallest of them softly said to himself, “It’s over. It’s finally over.”

His voice was mostly lost in the smoke.

Back in the dungeon, Solomon raised an eyebrow at Erick, asking, “Is that how it works? I wasn’t even sure.”

Erick chuckled. “Seems like it does work exactly like that!”

“I thought I was going to have to help on my end. If that was even possible.”

“Ah? Well. Maybe next time? We can try that experiment, too.”

Jane said, “For now, we wait until the crowd clears.”

Debby asked, “What do you think they were burning?”

Erick guessed, “An artifact of great evil, that could be destroyed no other way. Or maybe the Censer was simply the easiest way to destroy the artifact? Probably the second option. Some artifacts and magics are very hard to destroy.”

And then Poi asked, “Will we be able to fit that thing through this gate?”

“… Ah. Hmm.”

Erick looked at the size of the gate. It was maybe 4 meters wide on the inside.

The Censer of Destruction was at least 6 meters wide. Maybe 7? Hard to tell from this distance.

Abigail said, “Looks like a no, to me.”

Solomon said, “On it!”

And then he did something with the dungeon that Erick didn’t fully understand.

The [Renew] Gate expanded twice as wide. It was now 10 meters in diameter.

Erick looked to Solomon. “Is that how it works?”

Solomon grinned. “Seems like it does work exactly like that.”

As if realizing something that he already knew, Erick said, “All magic is connected. All magic is the same. For mana is simply possibility made manifest. You just fucked with possibility?”

Solomon smiled wider. “Yup. I think what I did was make it so that the larger version of the Gate exists.”

Erick looked to Solomon. “It was that easy?”

Solomon chuckled. “If we were in a less daughter-filled environment, I would make a joke about me going second and widening the hole.”

Erick blinked, stunned that Solomon would speak—

Jane burst out laughing, at Solomon’s joke or at Erick’s delayed reaction, hard to say, while Abigail and Candice both gave a muttered ‘gross’, and Emily and Debby both simply chuckled.

Erick rolled his eyes—

Poi added, “The dungeon did the heavy lifting.”

Solomon grumbled, “Bah! Poi.”

More laughter, as Poi smirked.
