The Humans had spotted the Goblin warriors and charged towards them. Pyrite roared and raised his axe. The first Human had a spear. It was leveled at Pyrite’s chest. The Hob charged forwards and then dodged right at the last moment. Into the path of the horse! The startled animal reared, but Pyrite didn’t give it a chance to strike him with its hooves. He swung and felt an impact. The rider and horse fell, and Pyrite kicked. The Human took the blow in the chest and fell, gurgling. More riders came at him. Pyrite swung his axe, roaring.
“Pikes! Wall!”
The Goblins around him remembered their training and set their pikes. The horses ran into the pikes or tried to turn, and the riders crashed into the Goblin formation. Hobs and Goblins armed with axes and swords ran between the pikes and fell on the immobilized riders. Pyrite roared and advanced, his axe cutting down Humans and horses alike.
“Break away! Retreat!”
A panicked voice signaled a second retreat. Pyrite shouted for the Goblins to not pursue. This wasn’t important! They had to find others!
“Light!”
He roared again, louder. The Goblins snatched up branches. Pyrite saw another group of Humans loosing arrows and ordered another charge. This time, the Humans ran before he could close the distance.
“They’re reforming! Get away!”
“General Wiskeria’s ordered the retreat! Move to the rally point!”
“Take down that Hob!”
Someone shouted from the left. Pyrite spun and saw an armored Human bearing down on him with a group of mounted Humans. He swung, and the Human cursed, pulling his mount away to avoid Pyrite’s strike. He rode past Pyrite, hacking down a Goblin, and Pyrite cut down a Human trying to strike him.
“Captain Beniar! We have—”
A man screamed as Goblins swarmed his saddle. Beniar, the armored Human, turned, but before he could charge again, a snarl made his horse rear. A Carn Wolf leapt out of the darkness, riderless, and Pyrite saw more Redfang warriors stream out of the night. Half were coughing, and their mounts were in similar pain, but they bore down on the riders.
“Pull out! Back to Wiskeria!”
Beniar shouted the order, and his horses wheeled. They raced through the forest as the Redfang warriors gave chase. Pyrite saw a shower of arrows flying, and two riders fell with their wolves. He shouted.
“Stop! Ambush!”
The Redfang warriors pulled away as more arrows began cutting them down. The Human [Riders] rode on, shouting, and Pyrite saw the largest group of [Archers] yet. They were shooting down the Goblins that were trying to pursue. Pyrite took a deep breath and bellowed.
“Stop!”
Every Goblin in earshot turned. They broke off their pursuit and dashed towards him. The Redfang warriors rode over, and Pyrite shouted up at one of the leaders.
“Humans with bows! Do not go!”
“Redscar says attack!”
“No! Find Goblins! Find Chieftain! Find Noears and others!”
The Redfang warrior hesitated, and then nodded. He took his riders back, circling the camp, as Pyrite saw the Humans continuing to retreat. He looked around at the Goblins under his command.
“Hobs! Find Chieftain! Find others!”
The Hobs around him nodded and broke up, forming groups out of the smaller Goblins. It wasn’t Rags’ tactics, but traditional Goblin ones. It was all Pyrite could think of; the Humans were running, and he had no idea how many Goblins were alive. They needed Rags! Where was she?
Figures emerged from the darkness as Pyrite’s blood cooled a bit and he began to feel the pain from the cuts in his arms and three arrows. He saw lightning crackling, and Noears emerged from the darkness. The Goblin was uninjured, but he was followed by Poisonbite, whose eyes were swollen nearly shut. She was wheezing, barely able to breathe.
“Pyrite! Where Chieftain?”
Noears looked around, his hands giving off the smell of burnt air. Pyrite yanked an arrow from his chest with a growl and poured a bit of healing potion on the wound. He shoved the rest at Poisonbite, who fumbled for it.
“Don’t know. Search. Need lights!”
“Can light!”
Noears immediately threw a ball of light into the air, illuminating the dark forest. Pyrite nearly hit him—if he could have done that, why didn’t he do it earlier? But the [Mage] clearly hadn’t been thinking of that. And the light attracted more attention.
“Pyrite!”
Redscar rode out of the darkness, his enchanted frost blade covered in blood. He was unharmed, and his Carn Wolf had bloody fangs. He was positively alight with fury. He pointed at Pyrite.
“Where are Humans?”
“Running. That way.”
Pyrite pointed. Redscar snarled.
“Hunt them down! Redfangs!”
He made to ride, but Pyrite caught the wolf and yanked it back.
“No. Find Chieftain!”
The Carn Wolf snarled and tried to bite Pyrite. The Hob punched it. Redscar howled in fury and spat at Pyrite.
“Humans!”
“Find Chieftain!”
Pyrite bellowed at him. Redscar hesitated. Then he turned and raised his war horn and blew two long blasts and two short blasts. After a moment, a howl answered him and he turned.
“Smell her! Follow!”
Pyrite ran after him. He ran past Goblin bodies, over one that groaned, past a downed horse, through a burned campfire—so many bodies. He ran through a clearing patch of smoke, eyes burning despite having kept them closed through most of them, and saw Rags.
 
——
 
She was lying on the ground, her head at an angle. Goblins stood around her as Quietstab knelt by her side. He had an empty potion bottle by one side. The ground was covered in blood. Pyrite’s ears rang. He ran forwards, nearly throwing Quietstab aside. He reached for Rags.
“Potion?”
“One. Need more!”
The bottle Quietstab had taken was from Rags’ belt. Pyrite reached for his bottle and realized it was empty. So was Quietstab’s. He turned and roared.
“Potion! Now!”
Redscar leapt from his wolf’s back and grabbed a bottle. He tossed it to Pyrite, and the Hob tore the stopper out. He reached for Rags and carefully lifted her. She was cold.
“Where hurt?”
“Chest. Healed, but—”
Rags wasn’t responding. Pyrite forced her mouth open and poured the healing potion down her throat. Anxiously, he felt her chest, put his hand over her mouth. Was she…?
He felt the slightest of heartbeats, the faintest of breaths and a cough. She was alive! Barely. Pyrite sat back.
“Alive?”
Redscar looked worried. All of the Goblins were clustering around, their eyes wide. Pyrite hesitated. Rags was still unconscious. She was breathing. That was what mattered. He stood up and forced the Goblins back.
“Give room! Quietstab, guard!”
The Hob nodded. Pyrite looked around. Redscar glanced at Rags and then turned his head.
“Humans attacked.”
“Ambush. Poison and darkness and arrows.”
Pyrite agreed. Redscar snarled. He slashed with his sword, spraying half-frozen droplets of blood.
“We hunt! Redfangs go. Hobs too!”
“No. Chieftain is wounded.”
“Humans are running!”
“Second ambush!”
Pyrite shook his head. He’d seen it. The Humans were pulling back, but they’d been baiting the Goblins into following so they could tear them apart with bows. Redscar snarled.
“Not enough Humans. We go.”
“No.”
Pyrite grabbed Redscar’s arm. The other Goblin was smaller, far smaller than Pyrite. Redscar froze and looked up at Pyrite.
“Let go.”
Redscar’s sword raised and his eyes narrowed dangerously, but Pyrite refused to let go. His grip tightened. Redscar’s arm groaned, and the Goblin stared into Pyrite’s eyes. Pyrite rumbled.
“Your duty is to tribe. Obey.”
“Chieftain cannot give orders.”
“Chieftain is Chieftain! And I am second! Obey!”
Pyrite felt Redscar’s bones under his hand. The Goblin growled, and Pyrite growled right back. The two stood together, and then Redscar abruptly nodded. Instantly, Pyrite let go, and Redscar snatched his hand away. He sheathed his sword angrily.
“What now?”
There was fury burning in his eyes, but he was obeying. For now. Pyrite looked down at Rags. She seemed so small, so weak lying there. She had to be alright. She would wake up. He looked around at the wounded Goblins, the destroyed camp and felt a weight on his shoulders.
“Now? Find wounded. Count living. And make ready. Humans will come back. Lots of them.”
The Goblins looked at him. Redscar growled. They all knew it was true. This was only the start. The Humans had found them. And they would be back.
 
——
 
“G-general Wiskeria says they’re pulling back. For tonight. The Goblins aren’t pursuing any longer. She says there are too many to attack. Unless you think otherwise. Do you want…want me to send her another [Message], Emperor?”
“No, Nesor. Tell her to pull back and treat her wounded. The plan is a success. Tell her congratulations and to prepare for another message within the hour. Understand?”
I sense Nesor’s pale face nod towards me. The [Mage] closes his eyes, and his lips begin to move, forming the words he’s sending via [Message] spell. He’s a poor caster, so it takes him laborious minutes to send my words to Wiskeria’s [Mage]. And even longer to hear her reply.
“She says that she understands and is holding. Emperor Laken?”
He looks at me, sweat rolling down his head. I can sense his fatigue, smell his body odor. He’s kept me in constant touch with Wiskeria this last hour, and the effort has taxed him. I nod and rise.
“That’s enough. Good work, Nesor. Take a break; I’ll handle things from here.”
“Thank you, Your Majesty.”
He breathes a sigh of relief and slumps in his chair. I look around the dark house. This is Wiskeria’s home, unfurnished in large part. It’s quiet. Dark. I don’t need illumination, so I haven’t bothered to light a candle despite the late hour. It must be close to pitch-black for Nesor, but I navigate my way to the door with ease.
“Get some rest. Here.”
“Here? But isn’t this—”
“I may need to speak to Wiskeria again. Sleep here, Nesor. Eat if you need to—but be ready for the morning. I need to speak to the others.”
I pause, thinking. Nesor’s worn out.
“Verdammt! I need to send those [Message] spells. Nesor, send a brief [Message] to Wiskeria and see if Lady Bevia’s [Mage] can do it. If not—”
“I can do it, Your Majesty. I think…if I have a mana potion.”
Nesor fumbles weakly at his belt. I nod.
“Good. In that case, I’ll rely on you.”
I pause at the door.
“Excellent work, Nesor. Lady Rie will be proud, I’m sure of it.”
I sense a smile light up Nesor’s face.
“T-thank you, Your Majesty.”
He slumps back in his chair and drinks half his mana potion. After I leave. I watch him with my [Emperor] senses for a few minutes as I stride through the village, but he seems fine. I had wondered if he’d be up to the challenge, but he came through. And it worked! My heart is beating too fast, and I feel blood thundering through my veins, though I haven’t done anything. All I could do was watch.
But I felt like I was there. I saw Beniar and my Darksky Riders sweeping through the Goblin camp. I saw Wiskeria’s brew do its work, blinding and suffocating the Goblins while her [Archers] shot Goblins from afar. Damn that Hob and those mounted Goblins. If they hadn’t attacked, we might have—
No, focus. This is enough. I have to make the next part count. I stride towards a familiar person in Riverfarm, wrenching my attention away from the Goblins. I can still sense them on my lands, regrouping, salvaging their ruined camp. They’re still there, many of them. Thousands. But less now. A good number less.
“Prost?”
The man turns, and I sense he’s holding a torch.
“Emperor Laken? Is everything…?”
“Fine. The plan’s worked, Mister Prost. Have you called the others?”
“Yes, Your Majesty. They’re all there. Some are complaining, but only to each other.”
“They’ll shut up as soon as I tell them. Come.”
I nod, and Prost pushes open the double doors to my meeting hall. The audience chamber is cramped with all the [Lords] and [Ladies] present, but they turn as one and give me room to stride towards my throne. I sense Durene in the crowd and Lady Rie. Both hurry towards me.
“Laken, what’s going on?”
“Your Majesty? Mister Prost summoned us all here—disturbing several nobles from their beds! May I ask what—”
“Silence, Lady Rie.”
I turn my head, and she falls still. I reach out and grab Durene’s hand.
“I’ll explain everything in a moment, Durene. Just wait. Gamel?”
The young man stands by my throne, standing at attention.
“Yes, sire?”
“Announce me.”
“At once.”
I hear Gamel take a deep breath and then shout, surprising the nobles of Izril.
“[Lords] and [Ladies] of Izril! His Majesty, ruler of the Unseen Empire, Protector of Riverfarm and Durene’s Cottage! Emperor Laken Godart!”
I take my seat on the throne and hear a susurration throughout the room. The nobles wince, their ears ringing, and stare at me as I sit on my throne. I sense some of them hesitate. I know what they’re thinking. Why are they here? Are they supposed to kneel? Why have I called them? I put their fears and speculations to rest as I raise my voice.
It’s soft after Gamel’s shouting, but I make sure it carries throughout the room. Calm. Loud voice but not too loud. Controlled. I turn my closed eyes from face to face, noting their reactions. They can’t meet my eyes, closed or not.
“Ladies and gentlemen, I bid you welcome. I am sorry for waking you at this late hour, but I have news of grave importance. As you may know, I have sworn to defend the roads and lands around Riverfarm. Yesterday, it came to my attention that another force had entered my domain.”
I hear a murmur and sense the nobles grow apprehensive in front of me. I raise my voice, continuing.
“It is my regret that I must inform you all now that an army of Goblins has entered my domain. A portion of the Goblin Lord’s army is currently camped approximately forty-two miles north of here. They number about eight thousand strong.”
“What?”
I hear gasps, and then a cry of horror from the nobles. A [Lady] swoons, and her husband catches her. Shocked voices, a loud exclamation, and then Sir Tourant’s voice.
“Emperor Laken! Your Majesty! Are you certain of this?”
I turn my head towards him.
“Without a shadow of a doubt, Lord Tourant. The Goblin Lord has sent nearly eight thousand Goblins by my count. Two days ago, they entered the furthest reaches of my protected lands, laying waste to a local army from the city of Filk in a pitched battle. They came further south after that, marching directly towards my domain. Towards Riverfarm.”
I hear a groan from my audience, and then a sharp voice.
“I take it that you are not informing us merely so that we might evacuate in time, Emperor Laken? Or else you would have informed us yesterday.”
