Poisonbite felt her heart leap. They were going to attack! She grinned fiercely and ran as Rags’ words instantly created chaos in the camp. Organized chaos. Units of Goblins raced into formation as the Redfang Warriors took off into the trees, silent, racing to encircle the road. Rags whistled, and her personal Carn Wolf bounded over, abandoning its meal. Rags climbed up, and Pyrite appeared with his enchanted battleaxe. Poisonbite raced back, her best [Warriors] and five of her Hobs in tow. Rags pointed, and the Goblins streamed after her as Goblins with the long wooden pikes and Hobs streamed towards her. Rags raised her voice as she rode through them all.
“No attack! Not until I say.”
No attack? Poisonbite stared at Rags’ back then pumped her arms and legs, racing after the small Goblin. What did she intend to do? Lady Bethal was here! It was a chance for vengeance! But—
‘We can be better.’ That was what Rags had said. What did she mean? Did she have a plan? Poisonbite ran, confused, following her Chieftain. What was Rags going to do? Just as importantly, what were the Humans going to do? If they attacked—Poisonbite’s grip tightened on her daggers.
There were only four this time. Let them attack. She could always use new armor.
 
——
 
“Something’s happening.”
“Sire? Should I—”
“Wait. On my command, Nesor. Not a moment before. Wait—wait—”
 
——
 
“Movement in the trees!”
Lady Bethal Walchaís was dozing slightly, riding through the forest and waiting until Sir Thomast decided they should make camp, when the voice of one of her Rose Knights split the silence. Her head jerked up, and she saw the [Knight] ahead of her, Sir Nil Moxae, unsheathe his blade. His companion, Dame Truvia Cartiil, turned, raising her spear as her mount started. Bethal looked around.
“Movement? From what?”
“I will ride ahead. Dame Truvia, with me?”
“Let’s ride!”
The two [Knights] galloped forwards, abandoning their mistress for a moment. Lady Bethal wasn’t afraid though—the man riding next to her was all the protection she needed. Usually. Thomast’s rapier was already drawn, and she could see he was preparing to leap from his saddle if need be. He fought better on foot.
“Do you think it’s an ambush? Were we followed?”
“Impossible to say.”
Her husband turned his mount warily, keeping his eyes on the trees. Bethal couldn’t see anything in the growing darkness; the enchanted lanterns she and her company carried could only reach so far into the trees. She heard a howl suddenly and jumped; her mare flicked its ears skittishly, but it was too well-trained to rear or bolt.
“Wolves?”
“Perhaps.”
Sir Thomast looked left and right. He frowned and turned.
“Keep your aura up.”
“Of course.”
Lady Bethal had activated her Skill the moment Sir Nil had spoken. The air around her felt barbed, and while her mare was safe, anyone touching her against her will would cut themselves on something as sharp as steel. Still, Lady Bethal drew closer to Thomast, looking around uneasily.
“Goblins!”
A cry came from ahead of the two, startling Bethal. She saw both of her Rose Knights riding back, furiously spurring their mounts faster. Dame Truvia pointed into the trees as another howl echoed—this time from their rear.
“Goblins, milady! A score of them in the woods, all riding Carn Wolves!”
“Carn Wolves? But those are—”
“The same Goblins we faced a week ago! They must have driven south! We had no word of them—”
“There are more approaching on foot! We’re surrounded. Sir Thomast, your orders?”
Both [Knights] looked to Thomast rather than Bethal. The [Chevalier] looked around.
“They’re already to our rear?”
“A score of them, sir. The ones on foot are coming from ahead and to the right.”
“We ride back. Bethal, follow me!”
Sir Thomast turned his mount, and Bethal did likewise. She kicked her mare in the flanks, and the horse shot forwards. Sir Nil and Dame Truvia raced ahead, but they got no further than a hundred yards when they cried out.
“Pull back!”
Lady Bethal jerked her reins, and her horse screamed and nearly reared. Sir Thomast stopped his mount, and Sir Nil shouted.
“There are two dozen mounted Goblins ahead of us! More circling!”
“We’re surrounded.”
Lady Bethal looked around. The trees were full of movement now. Sir Thomast glanced at her. Sir Nil turned, his sword and shield raised.
“We can cut through. If Sir Thomast can ward Lady Bethal—”
“Lady Walchaís’ mount isn’t armored. She’ll be dehorsed before we cut through!”
Sir Nil bit back an oath, looking back at Bethal. It was true; neither she nor Sir Thomast were riding a warhorse, and neither mount had any barding. He looked around desperately.
“Lady Bethal, let us draw them off. We’ll ride left and attack them from the side. Perhaps then—”
Lady Bethal cut him off calmly.
“Don’t be foolish, Sir Nil. They’ve already marked all of us. Goblins won’t abandon one target for another. We break through together or not at all.”
She looked around. Sir Thomast was studying the moving forest around them. She turned to him.
“We were so busy trying to throw off anyone that might pursue us that we forgot to worry about them. The Goblins, I mean. It’s such a silly error, isn’t it, Thomast?”
He didn’t immediately reply. Lady Bethal turned around in her saddle. Her horse was nervous now; it could sense the approaching Goblins. Bethal tried to sound jovial, though her heart was racing. Goblins­—
“I wonder, was that why Emperor Laken was so concerned about which way we were going? Did he know, I wonder? We shouldn’t have lied to him. But I thought—”
“Bethal.”
Thomast’s voice made her grow quiet. He looked around, and she realized the howling had stopped. Lady Truvia shifted.
“Sir Thomast, if we’re to break out—”
“We were already encircled. We defend my wife. Prepare to dismount and fight among the trees if need be.”
“Yes sir.”
“The Goblins will pursue us unless we make it clear it isn’t worth the effort. I will aim for their Chieftain; you shield her from all attacks.”
“Thomast—”
He turned, his rapier shining in the darkness. Thomast’s eyes were filled with worry. He reached out and gripped her arm. It was so unlike him that Bethal nearly gasped. A sign of the true danger. He looked at her.
“Stay with me.”
“Always.”
There was no time for anything more. Bethal saw the first Goblin riding a Carn Wolf bound out of the trees. Sir Nil turned to face him, uttering a challenge. More mounted Goblins appeared out of the darkness, more and more. From the front, from behind—all sides. Goblins carrying terribly long pikes, more aiming crossbows directly at the four Humans. Hobs, dozens upon dozens of Hobs, striding along.
And then Bethal saw her. A small Goblin, barely larger than a child, riding a large wolf and carrying a black crossbow. She aimed it directly at Bethal’s heart as Sir Thomast and the two [Knights] surrounded Bethal on all sides. Bethal felt her breath catch. Was this how she died at last? Goblins killed her family. Her father, her mother, her sisters—had they finally caught up to her?
She was afraid—
 
——
 
“Now!”
“Sire?”
“Cast the spell, Nesor! Tell her to do it now.”
 
——
 
Rags was afraid. She felt her heart pounding. Her sweaty grip on the black crossbow was bad; she adjusted her grip so the recoil wouldn’t send the crossbow spinning from her hands. She aimed at the woman in front of her and felt it in the air.
Danger. It screamed at her. The man with the rapier was staring at her. The two [Knights] flanked their lady. The Goblins holding crossbows aimed at the four. Hobs stood in the darkness as Carn Wolves growled. There were over two hundred Goblins surrounding the four, but Rags still felt alone.
It was her. Lady Bethal. The one who’d led her army of knights against her tribe. Rags could still remember the battle. Her finger tightened on the trigger.
Kill her. The rush of blood in her veins made every moment feel like years. She could feel Redscar on her left, his sword drawn. Pyrite stood on her right, the battleaxe burning.
“So. Sir Kerrig and Welca perished. I hoped they managed to escape. Alas, I underestimated your kind.”
Lady Bethal spoke first. Her lips were pale and she shook, but her finger alone was steady as it pointed at the sword Redscar held. She shifted her finger, and Pyrite grunted. Lady Bethal turned her head, keeping her chin high.
“It was truly a shame. I thought the Goblin Lord was the true threat. I thought a tribe could be left alone, no matter how cunning their Chieftain. Ah, but this is fitting.”
She looked at Rags, right at her. Rags felt a shock, and her finger twitched. The man standing next to her raised his rapier. He could strike her from this far, cut the air. The Goblins around Rags tensed. If they fired, the [Lady] died. The [Knights] would not. Neither would the [Chevalier]. Rags exhaled slowly. She raised a hand, and the Goblins relaxed a fraction.
Lady Bethal had gone still. Now she looked at Rags.
“Well? What are you waiting for? An invitation? You have it!”
Her voice trembled a bit as she snapped. She was afraid. She was afraid of them. Rags saw it in her. The young Goblin fought as her head told her to fire. Vengeance. But her memory showed her the Humans she’d butchered yesterday. And her heart showed her a face.
Erin stared at Rags, her face pale, her hands gripping the reins of her petrified mare. There was nothing similar about Bethal and Erin. Not in face or body. But that look. That look in her eyes. Rags felt her finger squeeze the trigger. Then relax. Slowly, painfully, she lowered the crossbow.
“No fight.”
She said it once, and then louder.
“No fight!”
The Goblins around her started. They looked at her and then at each other, but slowly the crossbows lowered and pointed at the ground. The Humans stared. Lady Bethal stared as Rags urged her wolf forwards a pace. Rags met the [Lady]’s eyes.
“You killed Goblins.”
Bethal blinked at her. This wasn’t what she’d expected. Rags repeated herself again, urgently.
“You killed Goblins. You. But we—not kill you. You are…prisoner. Like other two.”
“What?”
A scoffing, angry sound came from the male [Knight], but Bethal held up a hand. She stared at Rags.
“Other two? Do you mean Sir Kerrig and Lady Welca? Are they alive?”
“Yes. They prisoner. You. Prisoner.”
Rags didn’t know why she was saying it. But the image of shooting Lady Bethal through the chest, the thought of pulling the trigger—was hard. She hadn’t attacked this time. She’d been riding. She’d killed Goblins, but Rags had killed Humans. Somehow, it made a difference. Rags pointed.
“Drop weapons.”
“Never.”
The [Knights] behind Lady Bethal bristled. Rags scowled.
“Drop. Or shoot.”
“We will cut down every Goblin here should Lady Walchaís fall!”
One of the [Knights] promised darkly, raising her spear. The Goblins tensed. Lady Bethal frowned.
“Lower your spear, Truvia.”
“Lady Bethal! Surrendering would be a death sentence—”
“I know. Let us go, little Goblin Chieftain. We will not surrender. Let us go.”
Bethal urged her mount forwards a step. The man beside her reached out, and she held up a hand.
“Thomast.”
He subsided. Rags stared as Bethal approached. Her gaze bored into Rags’ head. There was a pressure about her. A prickling sensation, as if the air around her were the spines of an animal. But more—she felt vast.
“If my people are alive, I will ransom them. And I will ransom myself and my company.”
“Ransom?”
The word was known but unknown to Rags. Bethal nodded.
“Pay. It need not come to death, Goblin Chieftain. I will give you a fair price for our safe passage and my people’s return, my honor on it. Will you accept that?”
She pushed, and Rags felt the urge to agree. But she bit her tongue, gritted her teeth.
“No. Surrender.”
She raised the crossbow and aimed at Bethal. The [Lady] didn’t flinch, though the two [Knights] and her husband tensed. She stared at Rags curiously.
“So small. So fierce! Are you really a Chieftain?”
The question made the Goblins around Rags shudder with anger. What an insult! Bethal looked around, bemused.
“Are you truly the same kind of Goblins as the ones I know?”
The question went unanswered. Now everyone was staring at Lady Bethal. She looked back at Rags.
“I saw the Goblin King. I met one of his Lords. You are different. Prisoners? Do Goblins do such things? Velan the Kind knew no such mercy.”
Velan the Kind. Rags shuddered. She had to take her finger away from the trigger again or risk pulling it. She looked at Bethal. The woman’s face wasn’t hostile. She searched Rags’ gaze.
“Peace, little Goblin. Why do you want us as prisoners?”
“Punish. Hostage!”
Rags growled. Bethal nodded.
“Safety. I understand. But know that my people will not rest until I am returned. I killed your people. I will pay the cost of their lives. In magic and gold.”
“Not enough!”
Her voice was too high-pitched. The Goblins shifted. Bethal didn’t blink.
“It is all I can offer. Please, Chieftain of Goblins. If my [Knights] are truly alive, show me. Offer me goodwill and I will return it.”
“They live.”
“Show me. Let me see them. And I will offer you peace. A boon. Protection from other Humans. Safe passage. Whatever you wish.”
Her words were soft, tempting. Desperate. Rags saw that in her as well. Bethal spoke quietly as Rags fought.
“There is nothing to be gained from killing me. The cost would be too high. But if there is a chance—are they truly alive?”
The crossbow was heavy. Rags lowered it slightly.
“Yes.”
“Are they close? Unharmed?”
“Man is. Female ran. She—”
Rags heard a horn blare in the silence. She jerked. The Goblins around her raised their weapons. The mare danced, and Lady Bethal turned as the [Knights] and her husband moved forwards. She looked north, back the way Rags and the Goblins had come.
“What was that?”
Rags didn’t know. She heard the horn blow again frantically. Three short blasts. A distress call! She looked at Bethal, suddenly afraid.
“What you do?”
“Nothing.”
The woman looked taken aback. Rags lifted the crossbow and saw the man’s grip on the rapier shift. Pyrite lifted his axe. Bethal held up a hand.
“I swear it! On my house and name!”
Rags held her gaze. She turned. Redscar was looking back. The horn blew again, and another one blew desperately. Redscar snarled.
“Chieftain. Trouble.”
They had to go. Rags hesitated. She looked back at Lady Bethal. The woman was watching her. Rags pointed.
“Redfangs! Move!”
The wolf riders dashed into the forest, howling. The Goblins on foot shifted. Rags leaned out of her saddle and snapped an order.
