I nod towards the woman standing in the back.
“Correct, Lady Bevia. I have not been idle upon learning of this threat. I immediately consulted with my [General], Lady Wiskeria, and formed a plan to combat the Goblin Lord’s army.”
“Why were we not informed of this?”
I turn, seeking out Lord Melbore in the crowd.
“To prevent a panic, Lord Melbore. If I were to raise the alarm too early, the Goblins would have been alerted that their presence had been discovered. And thus my army would have failed to ambush the Goblins. As it did not an hour ago.”
That gets them. The nobles are in an uproar. Again, Lady Bevia’s voice cracks through the chaos like a whip.
“Emperor Laken, please do not spare us the details. What has happened?”
I incline my head a fraction as the voices calm, waiting for my response.
“In a word, Lady Bevia? Success. I sent a mobile force of [Riders] and [Archers] to attack the Goblins in their camp. Around six hundred soldiers all told, many levied from nearby cities and towns. They proceeded to strike the Goblins in the heart of the night, killing at least a thousand of their warriors before retreating.”
Again, uproar. Again, I wait for the voices to subside. Lord Tourant is the one to question me this time.
“A force of six hundred slew a thousand Goblins? How? How many casualties were there?”
“Less than a hundred.”
“A hundred? How? Were they all asleep?”
A smile.
“Hardly, Lord Tourant. My force triumphed by virtue of superior tactics. My [General] and [Captain], Lady Wiskeria and Sir Beniar, were able to divide the Goblins under the plan I devised with them.”
This time I don’t elaborate, and the intrigued murmur goes on for a second. I can see Lady Rie glancing at me. Perhaps she noticed some of my preparations.
The plan was a simple one. Use poisonous gas to cripple the Goblins and [Darksky Riders] to strike at night. With more [Archers] to lend them support, they could easily take down the Goblin army.
The key was really in Wiskeria’s brew. She knew how to make a poisonous smoke—a byproduct of another concoction, really—which would suffocate and burn the eyes and make breathing almost impossible. It would cripple any Goblin who inhaled the smoke. All she needed were enough ingredients and hands to brew the mixtures and fan the smoke into the camp. Hellebore leaves, charcoal, a white, parasitic root that grows around old trees…she had me looking for ingredients for hours, but I found enough for the plan to work.
After that, it was just a matter of coordinating. With Nesor and one of Lady Bevia’s [Mages], I could tell Wiskeria exactly where the Goblins were and when to strike. Lady Bethal’s presence only helped the situation by drawing off a good portion of the Goblins. The rest went like clockwork.
Mostly. The Goblins fought back, but I don’t focus on that. The nobles of Izril are clamoring to know what I’ll do next.
“Ladies and gentlemen, please. I am aware that the Goblin Lord’s army is still a great danger. They have been wounded, but their host is still far vaster than my army can defeat. Alone, that is. I intend to levy every city in the region and cooperate with every Human settlement. As it is, the Goblins are still far north of Riverfarm, and I assure you, they will be stopped.”
Dismayed, the nobles begin arguing among themselves.
“A thousand dead? But that would leave seven thousand remaining! Can any city stop that?”
“If we can head down the eastern road—we might outdistance them—”
“You want to travel with Goblins about? Madness!”
“Please!”
I raise a hand.
“I have no intention of keeping you here, but I fear that Riverfarm may be the only safe place. If you wish to take your chances, I will attempt to escort you, but my army will soon march to reinforce General Wiskeria.”
“How do you intend to combat such a large force, Emperor Laken?”
“With cooperation, Lady Bevia. The Human cities nearest to the Goblin Lord’s army have standing garrisons of their own; I intend to coordinate with them to push back the Goblins.”
With my levied army I would be outnumbered. But as Lady Rie pointed out, there are a number of cities who don’t like me to the north. Cities that can either bar up their gates and hide from the Goblin Lord or join me and fight. Either way, the Goblin Lord’s forces will be chipped away.
Ruthless. I lean forwards on my throne.
“As we speak, [Messages] are being sent to every city in the region to communicate what I have told you, ladies and gentlemen. We have defeated the Goblins once before, and we shall do so again. And now, I am afraid I must coordinate with the other settlements who no doubt have questions of their own.”
I rise from my throne and hear a babble of voices as the distressed nobles press forwards. I raise my hand, and they pause.
“Lady Rie will handle any questions you might have. I would welcome any assistance you might be able to bring to bear on this matter, but I must consult with my [General]. I bid you all good night.”
Before they can object, I stride through them towards the door. I sense Lady Rie being mobbed behind me, and Gamel and Prost screen my exit. In a moment, I’m outside and in the chill night air, alone. For a second. Then I hear the doors open, hear a babble of shocked voices, and a voice.
“Laken?”
“Durene.”
I embrace her, feeling her rough skin. Durene hugs me, but I can tell she’s shocked.
“Was all that true, Laken? You didn’t tell me!”
“I’m sorry Durene. I wanted to, truly. But I couldn’t let anyone know what was happening or they might run off. And you’re a terrible actor. Not even Mister Prost knew—until tonight. Only Wiskeria, Beniar, and the soldiers knew.”
“I understand that. But the Goblins! Are there really thousands of them?”
I pause and cast my mind north. They’re already marching. Wiskeria told me the effects of the gas would last for days. Hopefully she can press the advantage. I nod grimly.
“There are. But we did a lot of damage, Durene. Wiskeria and Beniar will harry them, and I’m sending the army north tomorrow at dawn.”
“I’m going with them, of course. Right?”
I hesitate. I want to say no. Because I’m not going. Wiskeria and Beniar both insisted, and I had to agree. It makes no sense, not if I can use a [Mage] to tell them exactly what they need to know. I’m a liability in battle for all I can influence the Goblins. But Durene—I squeeze her hands.
“You don’t have to.”
“I do! If there are Goblins and everyone’s fighting, I have to fight. I’m a [Paladin], Laken.”
“I know. I know.”
I take a few deep breaths. I knew that Durene would say that. Which is why I sent Wiskeria and Beniar first. Now the Goblin Lord’s army is wounded. And by the time Durene gets there…
“The main army will march towards the Goblins and meet up with Wiskeria. She’ll wear them down as much as she can until then. I’ll have every city send as many soldiers as I can. Hundreds—I can levy at least a hundred warriors from the smallest towns alone. You’ll outnumber the Goblins—barely, I think. Wiskeria will make sure only to pick battles we can win easily. So don’t get hurt, okay?”
“I won’t!”
Durene sounds fierce as she hugs me. I hug her back, hearing the commotion in the meeting hall get louder. I hear a muffled laugh from her.
“They’re angry. Did you have to tell them like this?”
“Oh yes. Because now they’re stuck here. And all the cities have to deal with the Goblins. Not just us. We’re not going to be alone in this fight, Durene. We’ll win, I promise.”
I hug her tightly, taking warmth from her body heat. I whisper to her as I feel Wiskeria and Beniar setting up camp, sense Humans tending to the wounded, the nobles surrounding Rie in the meeting hall, shouting—
And the Goblins to the north. Marching, moving fast, many still coughing, blinded by the fog. They leave behind their dead, not bothering to bury them. Dead Goblins. I count them. Small ones, big ones, it makes no difference. They’ll all die. I won’t let them touch Riverfarm.
Not again. Not ever again. I’ll slaughter them all with traps and poison, whatever I have to use. I’ll crush them.
I swear it.
