If a coward dies a thousand times before his death, and I, the Undying Savage, am a coward, that’s definitely irony, right?

Some day, I’ll sit down and figure out how irony works, but regardless of whether I’m using the term correctly, it’s most certainly some sort of peculiar. In my defence, death is far from my greatest fear, because I know there is life after death. All but completely certain in fact, seeing as I’ve experienced it firsthand, so while I’m not yet ready to give up just yet, I know even if I died today, I would have lived a good life. Though I’ve been in this world for less than a decade and have experienced more than my fair share of hardships, I’ve also been blessed with more than most can even dream of in matters of love, wealth, health, and floofs.

So what do I fear most? Living a life without hope, which means I understand the Abbot’s plight more than he knows. How would I fare if I lost everyone I loved and cared for? Terribly, that’s for sure, so I can’t really blame the Abbot for wallowing in misery. His Mentor and Senior Brother are dead, his best friend a traitor, and the faction he presides over doesn’t see eye to eye with the direction he wants to take. At some point, he just sat down and wondered if it was even worth all the hardship any more, and now, he can’t find the strength to pick himself back up again.

So I guess the question is, how am I supposed to Heal a broken heart? What medicine is there to mend a wounded spirit? The Abbot claimed he’s dying because he believes he has nothing left to live for, but how is that even possible? Death by depression, now there’s something I never thought I’d have to worry about, because if this is a real ailment, then I’m most certainly at risk. I know better than most how it’s not just a matter of will, how some days you just wake up and can’t find a reason to get up, and I get the feeling that Will with a capital W is really important when Healing injuries of the soul. Suicide is a whole different kettle of fish though, as I feel fairly confident I would never kill myself, mostly because I enjoy breathing far too much, but if I can literally die of sadness, then I need to make some big changes in my mentality before I catch a fatal case of the blues.

Unable to come up with a plan of attack, I sit and study the big panda sprawled out across the Abbot’s chest, seeking comfort from his favourite person while simultaneously trying to protect him. The big chonker is a loyal beast, as is Kukku, both sticking close to the Abbot’s side during all the chaos and mayhem without ever breaking Concealment. Even Rakshasa seems concerned by the Abbot’s lack of response, doing that thing all cats do where he pretends not to want any attention while patiently waiting for the Abbot to come give him a pat on the head. It’s nice to know the tiger is at least somewhat socialized, as opposed to a feral, murderous creature, and if the Abbot does pass away, I promise I’ll take good care of all his cute floofs. I’ll feed them and brush them and love them so very much, and make sure they’re all happy and healthy with safe, enriching lives.

...How about we stop thinking about how much fun you’ll have with the Abbot’s pets if he dies, and start coming up with a solution instead?

Suppressing a sigh, I stroke the panda’s head and hold Lin-Lin close while fighting the urge to close my eyes and sleep. Refining my Spiritual Heart and the subsequent fight really took a toll on me, but rest will have to wait, because right now, I need to help the Abbot. Lin-Lin says I should just do what I did to fix me, but what did I actually do? I trusted my gut and found Balance, not by divesting myself of emotions or seeking calm and inner peace, but by asserting my authority over the Heavens. No longer would I bow to the whims of fate, but instead, I decided to make my own way in the world. Rather than appease Heavenly Energy and hope it would work as intended, I did what I did in order to harness Heavenly Energy in a way that makes use of its natural properties. The Dao of Humanity, as it were, using our brains and opposable thumbs to harness the power of Heaven and use it in ways that aren’t entirely natural.

Honestly, the more that I think about it, the more I believe Balance is not a Path suited for humankind. We are largely creatures of emotion, prone to indulging our pride, lust, and vanity as much as any other so-called positive emotion, so it isn’t easy to achieve perfect control over our emotions. Even if we could, is that really how we should progress? I would argue that our emotional flaws are what define us as humans as much as anything else, because while it is tragic when one succumbs to their baser instincts, our ability to rise above them is what separates humans from other living creatures in the world. I would never expect Aurie to take up a life of celibacy, or Roc to turn a new leaf and stop stealing all things shiny, but humans are uniquely suited to embracing new moralistic principles and strive to improve ourselves in a virtuous manner.

And in this, I believe I have found humanity’s Path to True Divinity, not through regulating, rejecting, or correcting our mortal failings and emotions, but by embracing them instead. I don’t mean we should all give in to base instinct like the Defiled have, but nor should we seek to elevate ourselves to a point where those instincts no longer have any hold over us. A good man is good not because he is devoid of all evil, but because he does good in spite of it, and this more than anything is what convinces me I am on the right track. While Balance is not the same as morality, at the highest levels, perfect Balance would either have us do away with all emotion, or experience them in a manner that is less than personal, which I believe would in turn make us less than human.

Life is suffering indeed. Without these moralistic trials and tribulations, we would be no different from any other animal, slaves to our instincts and beholden to our whims. So what am I getting at here? Well, I guess I’m saying that while Balance works, I think there’s a better way to utilize Heavenly Energy, one that is not bound to our emotional state. We only need Balance to draw in Heavenly Energy because doing so requires an expenditure of emotion to use as bait, but since we ourselves are creatures of emotions, and we store said emotions in our soul, we should be able to skip a few steps and expend our souls to directly harness the Energy of the Heavens. Right?

While I might be getting a little sidetracked, all this brings us back to the Abbot, who might well prove my point. Though he is considered a lofty so-called Divinity, he is literally killing himself with sadness. While he is vastly more powerful than the average person and an iron-willed ascetic who follows the Noble Eight-Fold Path, he is still susceptible to his emotions in a very human way. All things said and done, this means the Abbot’s issue stems from the soul, and while he waved aside my suggestion to do things he enjoyed to mend his soul, he also noted I was on the right track. If the Abbot can’t find the will to live from within, then why can’t I pass on some good vibes to him, and in doing so, harness Heavenly Energy to fix what ails him?

Yes, I’m on the right track here. I can feel it in my gut.

Removing my hand from the panda’s head, I harden my resolve and ignore the bandit bear’s plaintive gaze, because I can’t just keep petting him forever. In fact, I do my best to shoo him away, because I don’t know what’ll happen if I try to Heal the Abbot with someone else in the way, so it’s best to limit the variables around me. Unwilling to move no matter how I beg, plead, or push, Lin-Lin comes to my rescue and lures the panda away with a steamed bun she had hidden away in her pouch, only to throw herself into his furry embrace while he chomps down on the snack. Ping Ping scurries over to join my wifey on the panda’s belly with a chorus of happy squeaks, a sight which warms my heart and gives me a much needed boost of energy, my soul and spirit reinvigorated by their unmitigated delight. This is just the sort of positive energy the Abbot sorely needs, and I lock it in mind and close my eyes before turning back to his emaciated frame.

Taking his wizened hand in mine, I steady my breathing and focus inwards on my emotions, gathering all the cheer and happiness I can spare. Once upon a time, I had a colour wheel to differentiate all the various emotions, one I set up after my unfortunate first encounter with Sir Inks-a-lot. I’ve yet to find time to remake any of my Keystones, much less one I’ve so little use for like the colour wheel, but thankfully I didn’t need them as Insight was enough to carry me through my battle against Goujian. For now though, without a Keystone to guide me, all I can do is pick out the emotions from my memories with the Abbot, recollecting all the fond moments we shared while debating theology, morality, and so much more for the simple sake of arguing. I enjoy butting heads with him, because his mindset is so different from mine, which allows for an interesting dialogue between us without getting angry or heated. I think he enjoyed arguing with me for similar reasons to why Taduk keeps his status a secret. Everyone respects or fears the Abbot too much to actually argue with him, and I would bet my considerable fortune that no one calls him by name anymore.

Which is a shame. I get why the Brotherhood keep their names secret, so that they aren’t tempted to take pride in their actions or accomplishments and do good things for the wrong reasons. That being said, there’s a certain magic to names, because when you hear someone you love say your name, it is a uniquely beautiful experience which cannot be understated. It’s not just names either, because I get the same feeling when Mom and Dad call me ‘son’, when Taduk calls me ‘Rain my boy’, and when Alsantset calls me ‘little brother’. There’s also ‘lad’ from Husolt, ‘Hubby’ from Lin-Lin, ‘Idiot’ from Mila, and ‘Beloved’ from Yan, and so much more.

Even ‘Lord Husband’ has a pleasant ring to it now, especially with how Luo-Luo sometimes looks at me when she says it...

To this end, I open myself to the Energy of the Heavens and Will my emotions over to the Abbot through Aura and Domain, making sure to call out to him by name. “Abbot Akupara,” I whisper, adding a Sending to go along with it, the envisioned sound wave sinking into him without resistance alongside my Intent. “You who were named for ‘potential without limit’, your time is not yet over. Be Healed.”

Saying it just felt right, as now my words, actions, and thoughts are all working towards the same goal, my unified Will made manifest. The Energy of the Heavens surges around me, but once my Core is filled, I seal it off from the world and leave the Heavenly Energy nowhere to go but where I direct it, or rather where my emotions draw it through Aura, right into Akupara’s ailing body vis a vis my fond memories of our time together.

Only for the so called powers of Creation and Destruction to find no purchase and escape from my bonds without doing a damned thing.

...

Well fuck me. What am I supposed to do when the medicine refuses to work?

“A good effort, Rain my boy.” Patting my head with warm affection, Taduk glances over the Abbot’s body with a discerning eye before puffing one cheek, which is what he does when he wants to be critical but isn’t sure how to frame it. After a short pause, he finally finds the words and says, “But... well, you’ve overlooked a simple, basic premise, that of the inviolability of Chi.”

Right. As Grandpa Du put it, Chi is bound to the individual and inviolable until it returns to Heavenly Energy. “...But I’m not using Chi.” Giving my logic an internal once-over, I explain, “I was utilizing the Energy of the Heavens.”

“If you were, then it would have worked.” Shrugging in that half-hearted manner which conveys his disagreement without intent to argue, Taduk takes a seat beside me and wraps his arm around my shoulder. “Why don’t you tell us what you tried, and perhaps we can shed some light on the subject.”

Monk Bones and the other guardian monks have also made their way over to the Abbot’s side, each of them giving Rakshasa a wide berth. Only now do I realize they still haven’t noticed Pong Pong’s presence, and think I’ve somehow tamed the ferocious beast by uttering some nonsense syllables, which is kinda funny when you think about it. Happy to let the misconception remain, I gesture for Rakshasa to come closer, but the diffident tiger ignores me until Pong Pong rears his head and directs his mount over. Reluctant to obey but too afraid to rebel, Rakshasa grumbles as he begrudgingly pads over to lie down by Lin-Lin’s feet, just out of my reach but close enough for my sweet wifey to pat. It seems he likes her more than me, and I can’t really blame him. Taking a moment for myself, I sink into Taduk’s embrace and heave a small sigh of relief, just glad to have him here with me. He risked his life to save mine, revealed his greatest secret to the Enemy just to support me, and his life might never be the same from here on out. Even as a Medical Saint, people often walked on eggshells around him, so I can’t imagine he can continue living his carefree life if word were to get out about him. In fact, seeing how Hua Lie, Guan Suo, GangShu, and every other Divinity I’ve met tends to spend all their time in Concealment, I bet half the reason Taduk kept his secret was so he could walk around without anyone trying to kill him.

A freedom he gave up to save me.

