Though I’m not wrong, I can tell neither Taduk nor Monk Bones likes the way I framed it, but I can’t really see it any other way. I need to convince the Abbot’s body that my Chi is not foreign but rather a natural part of him. How do I do that? Honestly, it’d be easier just to convince the Abbot himself to give me access, assuming he can do so willingly. It’s not like I can tell my immune system to back off and stop fighting the flu, so maybe I’m looking at this all wrong and should stick to what Taduk and Monk Bones are suggesting, rather than try to do things my own, unique and special way.

The problem is, even though I know ‘what’ I’m supposed to do, I’m still lost on the ‘how’, which is generally where these lessons on Chi and Heavenly Energy fall apart. Maybe I’ll have an Insight and find a working solution that way, but I hate having to rely on Divine Intervention to do things. That’s my biggest problem, my inability to depend on Insight despite my undeniable affinity for it. I can do so much cool stuff when I turn my brain off and trust my gut, like Cloud-Step and shoot Chi bullets, but it is in my nature to question everything and pursue answers I am not smart enough to come up with, leaving me in a weird spot strength wise. All of this goes back to a fundamental lack of knowledge regarding Chi, Heavenly Energy, and the means through which we use it, but now is not the time to devote myself to pioneering a brand-new science devoted to the study of Heavenly Energy.

What would I even call it? Practical Theology? Metaphysical Applications? Daoeology?

“No need to fret, Junior Brother.” Offering me a warm, consoling smile, Monk Bones’ eyes glow with thanks and gratitude. “No one expects you to find success where so many other more learned and experienced individuals have already failed.” Shaking his head with a sigh, Monk Bones presses his palms together in prayer and bows towards the comatose Abbot. “The Abbot’s fate lies with the Heavens now, for his injuries are beyond even the Brotherhood’s understanding. This is an infection of the soul itself, a festering, malignant wound that whittles away at his will to live, and in doing so drains his life’s essence until there is nothing left. Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.”

“Come, Rain my boy,” Taduk says, springing to his feet with remarkable ease, so light it’s as if he floated up and extended his feet below him. “Let’s head back to the monastery. You need food and rest, while others might require our assistance.”

Right. In all the chaos and exhaustion, I almost forgot the monastery came under attack too, which means Taduk’s skills might be sorely needed. As I push myself to my weary feet with far less grace than Taduk or Lin-Lin, I take one last look at the Abbot and my heart pangs with grief and sorrow. “Do we have to leave him here, to recover on his own?” I ask. “Like, is there something special about the cave that might help his recovery? If not, why don’t we bring him back?” So he can be among his brothers when he passes, though I don’t know how much comfort that could possibly bring. Everyone dies alone, but he doesn’t have to be alone in the time leading up to it.

“...Perhaps you are right.” Sensing my sorrow through my inadvertent Aura, Monk Bones’ shoulders slump in place as he comes to terms with the Abbot’s seemingly inevitable death. “We brought him here so that he could deal with his malady without distraction, but perhaps he would be more comfortable back in the monastery.”

Something tickles the back of my brain, but I can’t quite place what it is, like I’ve forgotten a word that was just on the tip of my tongue, only this is an entire train of thought. That being said, I feel like moving the Abbot back to the monastery is the right move, though I’m not entirely sure why. It just feels right, but I keep quiet as Monk Bones fends off the guardian monks and attends to the Abbot’s needs himself, carefully lifting the decrepit man onto the stretcher and arranging his limbs for comfort and safety before finally allowing the others to help out. It’s easy to see Monk Bones isn’t quite comfortable with the guardian monks treating him like a Divinity, and I cannot for the life of me figure out why until Taduk explains Monk Bones only recently ascended, during the Defiled attack no less. Once again, I owe this explanation to my Aura slipping out and giving away my thoughts, an issue I’ll have to work on eventually, after I sort out more pressing matters at hand.

Honestly, the thought of having all my thoughts and emotions laid bare and giving away more than even my readable expression is actually kinda terrifying. What if people find out I’m a coward? Or that I hate being social? I mean, it’s one thing to know I dislike the company of people, but another altogether to feel my Aura of loathing from having to answer a simple greeting. Seriously though, I hate it when people are just walking by and feel the need to say hi. How am I supposed to respond? Just say hi back and keep walking? What if they had something else to say? Worse, what if they don’t, and I stop anyways, forcing them to stay and socialize?

Despite all my newfangled strength and status, these are the issues that keep me up at night. Well, this stuff and the nightmares, but whatever.

With the Abbot and all the animals in tow, we head back to the monastery at a moderate Cloud-Stepping pace, Kukku and Tai Shan hitching a ride on Monk Bones’ shoulders while Rakshasa moves under his own capacity. Wary of possible traps or ambushes from the Enemy, I keep a caution eye on our surroundings, but it seems like Zhen Shi is not quite ready to break the Treaty once and for all. Both sides are willing to push the envelope as far as it’ll go, but neither one wants to be the first to cross the line, because the results will be disastrous to behold. Powerful as I am, it’s clear I still have a long ways to go before matching up against a Divinity, though I have no idea how to Shatter the Void and proceed from here.

A step I will most certainly have to take soon, judging by how quickly matters are escalating, but one I am loathe to even try. No clue why, it just feels... wrong.

The chanting monks are heard long before the monastery comes into view, but even their sombre tones were not enough to prepare me for what I find once we arrive. The lush landscapes outside have been trampled flat by the passing of Chosen, alongside the ruins of the recently built village meant to house the reformed Defiled. The monastery gates hang loosely upon their hinges, battered and broken with nothing to hold them in place, and as I step through them into the monastery proper, I’m greeted with more despair and misery. Dozens of monks stand idle over their fallen friends and foes, some with heads bowed in prayer and others with eyes locked on the dead, no doubt coming to grips with what they had to do in order to survive. It couldn’t have been easy for these monks to go against their beliefs and fight the Chosen in open combat, and they wouldn’t have had to if not for me. All their grief and anguish is on my shoulders, my hands stained with the blood of monk and Chosen alike, the former all lessened by their experience in battle and the latter laid to rest without chance of redemption.

Knowing what I know now about the Spectres and their insidious goals, how can I hate the Defiled for succumbing to their wiles? They’re sick and they need help, help I fear I am not strong enough to provide.

The monks grieve over the bodies each in their own way with many a Spectre formed only for me to Devour them, but even without their insidious presence, the monks’ mourning casts a pall over the once peaceful monastery, one that almost hurts me to perceive. There is power in emotion, this much I already knew, but only now, after having Refined my body into a Spiritual Heart, do I realize just how palpable that power can be. The air itself feels heavy and murky, adhering to my form like condensation in a fine mist and profaning the walls in this place of peaceful study, as if the world itself is mourning alongside the monks of the Brotherhood.

Of course. That’s why I wanted the Abbot here. So he could sense what was happening in the outside world for himself. Though he’s still unconscious, I’m certain he’s aware of his surroundings, as his once serene expression is now twisted in discomfort. Perhaps the collective mourning will be just the kick in the robes he needs to get his ass into gear and fix what ails him, though now that I think about it, it’s possible all this negative energy might well be too much for his weakened self to handle. Then again, the difference between poison and medicine is oftentimes merely a matter of dosage, so here’s hoping the Abbot grieves just enough, and not too much to send him over the edge or kill him.

Either way, Lin-Lin was right. The Abbot is dying anyways, so it’s not like I can make things worse.

...

Wait a second. Things can always get worse. Like if the Abbot surrenders to despair and turns Defiled. That would be pretty fucking bad now, wouldn’t it?

On that cheerful note, I leave the Abbot and his three Spiritual Floofs in Monk Happy’s care and let Lin-Lin drag me away to find Li-Li and my mundane, but adorable and loving pets, so I can finally lay my throbbing head down to rest. It’s been a long, arduous day for us all, and my work is far from done, because whether I like it or not, it’s long past time I took up the mantle of Legate once more and got back to maintaining the dumpster fire that is the outer provinces.

They say hard work is it’s own reward, but that’s just bullshit. Hard work is for suckers, and apparently, I’m the biggest sucker of all for letting myself get saddled with this thankless job. Hell, far as I can tell, Shuai Jiao might not even step down from his lofty position and could even contest me for full control, which I would love to let happen, but can’t. I mean, the man is a Colonel General, and you don’t rise that high in the ranks just sitting around collecting bottlecaps, but I’m the Legate which means the buck stops at me. I don’t mind giving him more leeway to command, but the way Song told it before I embarked on my mission to find the Abbot, it sounded like Shuai Jiao is leaving the Districts high and dry in this time of troubles, which is just asking for more Spectres, Defiled, and Demons in the long run, to say nothing of the considerable civilian causalities the Enemy will inflict. Whether he agrees with me or not, I intend to protect the people I lured to the Western Wall with promises of land ownership and prosperity, promises I intend to keep, but regardless of what happens, those are problems for future Rain to deal with, while present Rain catches a few z’s.

Fuck you future me. I don’t like you anyways.

Chapter Meme
