“Enough with the mushy Aura now,” he says, pressing his cheek against my temple with a chuckle. “You’ll make your teacher cry if you keep this up.”

“Sorry teacher.” Cheeks colouring with embarrassment, I rescind my Aura and explain, “I actually didn’t mean to do that. Condense an Aura, I mean. It just slipped out. Don’t know why.”

Giggling as she plays with Rakshasa’s flicking ears, Lin-Lin’s beautiful smile is a sight to behold. “I thought so, hubby. You’ve been leaking Aura since getting your head on straight. It’s scary when you’re angry, but really nice the rest of the time, ya?”

I noticed, but I have no idea why it’s happening, though I suppose it has something to do with my Spiritual Heart. Putting yet another question aside for later, I pull my wifey closer and lean heavily on my teacher, basking in the warmth of their love and affection as I explain what I know of the Abbot’s plight and how I just tried to Heal him. No one interrupts until I’m finished, at which point I shrug and say, “So yea. No idea why it didn’t work.”

“As your teacher said, your error lies in your failure to account for the inviolability of Chi.” Monk Bones offers his two cents without asking, but there is no heat or criticism in the frail monk’s voice, only calm facts and nothing more. “Not entirely your fault, as your lacking foundation is a result of your meteoric rise, moving so quickly you skipped over many fundamental steps others must tread one at a time.” A criticism and compliment all wrapped in one, Monk Bones is a straightforward man who tells it like it is, which I should’ve expected from a man who more than once suggested Jorani chop off his penis just to ‘experience what it is like’. Clarifying, is how the old monk described it, but I’ll have to take his word for it, because there is no way I will ever allow anyone to take cold steel to my warm nuts.

There’s no castration on Monk Bone’s mind as he continues without pause. “While the Abbot claims Chi and Heavenly Energy are one and the same, and is technically correct, this is only applicable to someone who has achieved a certain level of mastery over the Dao. Put simply, there are countless ways to wrap a dumpling, but an amateur should start with the simplest method before moving on to more advanced pursuits. Thus, for the sake of the majority, we must behave as if there is a marked difference between Chi and Heavenly Energy, for one must crawl before they walk, and walk before they run.”

“Makes sense.” I always thought the same way, because despite the Abbot’s aversion to extraneous labels, categorization and delineation would make the Dao much easier to understand. I mean, even the Martial Path can be broken down into various subsections, as a swordsman doesn’t learn the same things as a spearman or axeman, the same way a field officer needs to know more than your average front-line grunt.

“So, do you understand why your attempt ended in failure?”

A standard Brotherhood tactic, asking questions they already know the answer to just to make me think harder. I hate it. “Um... maybe? Chi is simply Heavenly Energy bound by emotion, so even though I didn’t directly bind Heavenly Energy, I was still using emotion to direct it. Thus, the Abbot rejected my emotions and in doing so, left the unbound Heavenly Energy nowhere to go and nothing to do.”

“Close, but not entirely correct.” Rubbing his bald head out of habit, Monk Bones explains, “You said Chi is simply Heavenly Energy bound by emotion, but while this is true, there is more to the matter than just emotion. How are you transmitting said emotion?”

“...Through Aura, but not... not exactly Aura. It’s similar, but different.” Like how antennas pick up signals from radio waves, but convert them into different outputs on tv and radios, though I’m lacking a more mundane explanation.

“And what is Aura?”

“Aura is taking your innermost emotions and combining it with Chi to project a field of pressure onto your enemies and block the opposing pressure for your allies.” Ah. “Chi. It’s a variation of Chi.”

“Indeed.” Pointing at the Abbot, Monk Bones anticipates my next question and explains, “While Heavenly Energy is turned into Chi upon entering the Core, this movement in not a requirement for the process to occur. You simply skipped a step to directly turn Heavenly Energy into Chi outside of your Core, which points to the possibility that the mere act of coveting emotion is enough to alter the Energy of the Heavens. Then the Abbot’s internal Domain rejected your Chi, and thus rejected your variation of Aura and the Heavenly Energy it guided. Basic Aura, the one you use to project courage, love, fear, anger, or any other pure emotion, only affects other individuals because rather than target the body, which is protected by one’s innate and internal Domain, it targets the mind instead, through an ability almost all living creatures possess: empathy. However, just as Rakshasa has developed a defence against such attacks, so too has the Abbot, for he hypothesized that in order to achieve true Divinity, one must first refine the body, mind, and soul, as opposed to merely the first.”

Mental Chi attacks, refining souls, and more. Great. That’s just what I need, more complicated subjects to wrap my brain around. Putting this tidbit aside for later, I turn to Taduk and ask, “Then how is it even possible to Heal using Chi?”

Scratching his cheek in apprehension, Taduk huffs a small sigh before answering. “I didn’t expect to have to teach you this so soon, so I’ve yet to put together a lesson plan. Remember what I told you before? How to Heal another person using Heavenly energy requires the pinnacle of mastery?”

“Yes teacher, I remember the lecture well.” Full of ham-fisted acting and forced segues, but enlightening nonetheless.

The scene plays out in my mind, as clear as if it’d only taken place yesterday. There I stood in front of my enthusiastic teacher, while young Lin-Lin hid her giggling behind her father’s robes. “Heavenly energy is all around us,” Taduk preached, gesturing wildly about. “It is invisible, intangible, inexhaustible. It comes in many natural forms, bursting up from Heavenly veins in the earth, or spewed from ever-burning Heavenly fires. It can be spread by Heavenly winds, or congealed into Heavenly waters. It enters our world, and fills it, a constant source of power from the Heavens!” After a brief tangent, he continued, “By drawing in Heavenly Energy and making it your own, you change it. You brand it with your own essence, and it becomes Internal Energy, or Chi. Once it is yours, you can use it in ways immeasurable. You can manipulate your Chi to attack and defend, strengthen your weapons, perform incredible feats of agility and strength. With practice you will learn to heal your own injuries, not only cuts and bruises, but even lost limbs and organs. You could even emulate the most majestic of all creatures, and run in the sky like a Cloud Chaser Hare.”

Aside from adding that using Elemental Chi was even harder than Healing another individual, there’s not much else of value there, but it was my first real introduction to Chi and Heavenly Energy, one I will cherish until I am old and grey. “You never mentioned why Healing someone else requires pinnacle mastery though.”

“Because you were not yet ready to hear it,” Taduk replies, chuckling under his breath. “If I’d said any more, you would’ve fixated on it to no end and arrived at some wildly inaccurate conclusion. I suppose you are ready now though, so listen carefully. In order to Heal someone else using Chi, there are two options. The first is the most common, in that you convince your subject’s body into accepting your Chi by identifying the problem for them and providing a solution. This works most of the time, as a drowning man will grasp at anything in order to survive, but the trick lies in convincing them quickly enough to save them.”

“How do you convince them though?”

“Through Emotion and Intent.” Shrugging, Taduk explains, “Show them you hold no ill-will and only mean to help, and even the stupidest animal will accept your ministrations.”

This sounds simple, but how many people can claim they are entirely free of ill-intent when working with strangers? “Oh! So that’s why some people from my retinue could Heal their mounts, but couldn’t Heal anyone else,” I exclaim. “Because the cattle trust them!” Frowning as the thought occurs to me, I ask, “Why didn’t they trust me then? I couldn’t Heal them at all.”

“A difference of Intent, most likely.” Having heard the story before, Taduk explains, “You attempted to take control of your subject’s body in order to better perceive their injuries before Healing it for them, but even if your intentions were good, not many living creatures would willing surrender so much control over to another person. As for the members of your retinue, they were able to convey their intentions more clearly and refrain from desiring absolute control, a sentiment the cattle likely recognized and accepted. Put more clearly, you tried to Heal their injuries for them, while your retinue guided the cattle to Heal their injuries on their own, with help from Chi supplied by the Healer, which is really the way to do it.”

“But what about that time you Healed me after that whole incident with the snake?” Struggling to recollect the memories of the traumatic experience, I talk through them as they come to mind. “You remember right? During our trip to the Society Headquarters? What you did then wasn’t guiding my Healing, but taking full control to direct it. In fact, I distinctly remember you wresting control away and watching as you Healed my injuries like knitting a tapestry while controlling a thousand needles at the same time.”

“You remember that?” Looking both proud and sheepish at the same time, Taduk taps my nose in gentle reproach. “You never mentioned it, not directly. I thought you were just asking how I Healed you in a more generic sense. If I’d known otherwise, I would have told you to forget all about it. No wonder you set your sights so high, Rain my boy. Tell me, what do the people of the Empire call your teacher?”

“The Medical Saint.”

“Exactly. And how, pray tell, do you think I earned the title?”

“...By being really, really, ridiculously good at Healing.”

“Indeed.” Grinning from ear to ear, he asks, “So why would you assume my method of Healing is easy to replicate?”

“Because I’m dumb and overconfident?”

“Bah. None of your self-deprecation now. You made a mistake, like we all do from time to time, so no need to be so hard on yourself.” Hugging me all the harder, Taduk explains, “What you witnessed then was the other, less common option when it comes to Healing others, which as you might guess is to seize control of your subject’s body in order to bypass their innate defences. It involves removing all personal emotion from your Chi and adjusting it to match your patient’s Chi, which is easier said than done. You were on the right track, but rather than exert your Will to seize control, you essentially were asking the cattle to surrender control over to you, a request that would be denied by most even with a sturdy foundation of trust already in place.”

All this sounds vaguely familiar in some way, as if I’ve heard it before, but regarding a different subject, and it takes me a few seconds to figure out where. “Holy sh – ” I begin, but then I remember Taduk’s aversion to swearing and utter, “Poop nuggets,” instead, much to Lin-Lin’s amusement. “I was trying to take control the same way the Spectres try to dominate their host, by demanding they surrender.”

“Essentially the same thing, but with fundamental differences,” Monk Bones interjects, before adding, “Ones that are too broad and wide-ranging to delve into here. Suffice it to say the Spectres efforts are largely devoted to convincing their hosts to surrender control with ill-intent, whereas Healing in the same manner can be used for nefarious purposes, but is difficult to accomplish without the running afoul of the body’s natural defences. Hence why most hosts are unwilling to surrender total control until standing at death’s door.”

Taking a moment to digest all of this, I finally wrap my head around it thanks to something I learned in a past life. “So when my attempts to Heal are rejected, it’s because the patient’s body is rejecting what it sees as a foreign substance. Rather than determining if the foreign substance is harmful or beneficial, it simply rejects everything because that offers the best defence, the same way the immune system combats illnesses. A metaphysical immune system, as it were, one that works in tandem with the physical one. So I need to... package my Chi in a way so that the body perceives it as harmless or even beneficial.” Widening my eyes as I recall something about organ transplants and immunosuppressant drugs, I add, “Or weaken the body’s natural defences enough to exert some degree of control.”

“...The first is correct, the second also correct, but exceedingly dangerous.” Frowning as he rubs his head, Monk Bones sighs and explains, “To put it in terms you would understand, weakening the ‘immune system’ would allow you to exert control, but it would also allow others to do the same.”

Meaning Spectres and Zhen Shi. Damn it. Still something worth considering though, but I keep that to myself and move on. “Got it. So we stick to the first option, Healing through lies and deceit.”

