“We performed the Devotion and Wedding rituals, remember? I didn't do that with anyone else, or even thought about doing it with anyone else.” He sighed again. “Don't you remember what I told you a long time ago, Nathalia? I am never going to look for another wife. You are it. It doesn't matter to me if we can't complete the ceremony officially, or that I can't build you a suitable place to live in time, or even the fact that we can't be together. I love you, and no one can ever replace you in my heart.”

Nathalia didn't say anything, but Ren could hear her crying.

“Don't cry, My Love.” He said. “Save your tears for when we actually have to part. You can let them join mine then, and we can mourn the loss of our future together.”

“Oh, Ren!” Nathalia exclaimed. “I should have gone with you!”

“It's a little late to come here now.” Ren smiled. “It'll be morning by the time you got here and I'll already be back in Aurora.”

“I... I was mad at you for being in bed with Ereka.”

“I know.” Ren said. “I was mad at myself for not checking to see if someone else was in the bed before I fell asleep. I could give you an excuse that I was exhausted, but it doesn't matter.” He said. “All that matters is, I only grabbed her butt.” He laughed. “Once I touched it, I knew it wasn't you.”

“Why can't I stay mad at you?” Nathalia asked.

“I'm just that awesome.”

Nathalia snorted a laugh.

“To tell you the truth, I think it's because you're the most wonderful woman I've ever met.” Ren said. “You've put up with all of the stuff I've done, and all of the stuff the both of us have gone through together because of the stuff I've done.”

“Ren...”

“No, it's all right.” Ren said. “I've come to see Fritz' point of view. He's right. None of what's happened would have happened if I had never come to the Dwarven Kingdom.”

“Yes, but the flip side of that argument is also true.” Nathalia said. “None of what's happened would have happened if you'd never come here.” She said. “I'd still be a cook on a ship for several more years, Lady Neram would have lost the Keep, the Council would have abolished the Royal Family and taken over completely, everyone would be working for House Lodur, and so many other things.”

“Nathalia...”

“No, Ren.” She said. “I'm not even going to mention all of the people you've helped.”

Ren didn't respond, and she laughed.

“By the gods, you even made Narhilda the Queen!”

“Yeah, and look where that got me.”

“Yes. Look where you are. Look where we both are!” Nathalia said. “We're both away from her, and I'm the Head of House Neram.”

Ren didn't say anything, and she continued.

“She's in the best position to do the most good for the Kingdom now, and neither of us has to deal with the politics all of that involves!”

“That's true.” Ren said. “It was getting stuffy in those royal apartments.”

“Exactly.” Nathalia said. “We're all better off where we are now.”

“I... I guess so.” Ren said. “I better let you go. You need to sleep.”

“So do you.” Nathalia said. “If you get finished early enough, you can be back here before nightfall.”

“I'll try my best.” Ren said. “If the cement is set, I'll put the roof on as fast as I can. If it's not, I'll have to wait a few hours.”

“I'll hope that it's set, then.” She said. “I need to see you again.”

“Oh, you will.” Ren said. “And as many times as you want.”

Nathalia laughed. “Goodnight, My Love.”

“Goodnight, My Love.” Ren said, and the Sending Ring stopped glowing. He glanced over at Teepo, who had taken up a position near the doorway. See you in the morning, Teepo.

“Goodnight, Ren.”

Ren drifted off to sleep, as thoughts of the woman he loved floated through his head.

*

Nathalia curled up in her bed and did the same thing. She drifted off to sleep with thoughts about Ren.

*

Ereka laid on her side in Ren's old bed, with her head filled with thoughts about Ren.

*

Rosie laid on her back, and her head was filled with thoughts about Ren. Grandmother was right. I should have kissed him when I had the chance. She berated herself, and drifted off to sleep.

*

Patty, who looked like Lucy's older sister (if she had one), laid on her straw bed and wondered what the new Lord of their County was doing right now. She was having a hard time getting to sleep, because every time she closed her eyes, she saw the huge building he was making. She had gone to see it herself after the village meeting, and knew the boy was right.

It is a house of some kind. She thought. But... there's so much room inside! What is he going to do with it all?

*

Rosie's grandmother was completely relaxed, while she slept on the brand new bed Ren had bought for her. I know he didn't buy it personally, but he did pay for it. She chuckled to herself. He's such a nice boy. I hope Rosie can catch him before he gets away. She drifted off to sleep with the happy thought of her granddaughter finally getting a man as good as her grandfather.

*

Sally rolled over in her bed and sighed. Ren said he would be back to see me in a few days, and it's been a lot longer than that. She thought. I wonder if he's forgotten about me? She chuckled. Look at me, fretting over a man young enough to be my grandson! She pulled the blanket up to her neck. Soon I'll start wearing clothes that reveal my ankles! She laughed and drifted off to sleep, imagining Ren's reaction to seeing her bare ankles.

*

Donna, the cook at the mansion, waited patiently in her bed. I wonder if tomorrow will be the day my military man will return? She thought. This deployment is going a little longer than I thought it would. She sighed. Maybe he wasn't as tempted by my charms as I thought he was? Donna drifted off to sleep, worried that Ren would wait for the whole month before coming to see her.

*

Narhilda lay in bed at the royal apartments, and was disappointed that Barnar didn't want to cuddle with her, especially right after having sex. She sighed mentally, because he wasn't anywhere near as good in bed as Ren was. Some of it was the same motions; but, it seemed more like a task when Barnar did it. She sighed. Ren made it fun to please him, because he enjoyed it so much, and was enthusiastic about the whole thing. She looked at Barnar. Barnar will make a better example for the people, though. Narhilda imagined it was Ren beside her as she reached between her legs and pleased herself, then drifted off to sleep.

*

Jhulune, the young worker from the lumberyard in Aurora, was not happy right now. She had just turned 18, and Brian had finally convinced her to take her top off to let him see what he had longed to see. When she did, he'd grabbed her and pawed at her breasts as if they were kids toys. She asked him to stop right away, and when he wouldn't, she hauled off and punched him in the mouth. She hurt her hand doing it, but at least she had knocked out one of his teeth.

“Go ahead and explain how that happened to the local healer, you jerk!” Jhulune said, and put her top back on, as Brian held his mouth in shock. “I know I'm sure as hell going to tell everyone how it happened!”

“Jhulune, wait!” Brian pleaded, but she ignored him and left his small bedroom. She huffed and walked past the living room, and held her hand as it started to throb. Brian's mother asked her what was wrong, and she told them what had happened. Jhulune left the house before they brought him out to apologize to her.

“What an ass!” Jhulune shouted into the night, and sighed as her hand gave a particularly strong throb of pain. She looked at it closely, and tried to discover what was wrong. She opened her fist, and only the thumb and 3 of her fingers worked right.

“Dammit, my finger's broken!” Jhulune turned towards Brian's house. “You broke my finger, you ass!” She shouted, then turned back down the street. “I hope the healer is still awake.” She said, and kept walking.

After a few minutes, she arrived at the temporary healing station that had been set up after the fire. She told the clerk what had happened, and no one said anything as she was sent to the front of the short line. While the healer dealt with her finger, Jhulune couldn't help but think about that nice man, and how he had treated her with both respect and honesty.

I bet Ren wouldn't have treated me that way! She thought, then nearly screamed as the healer pulled her finger straight so he could heal it. “Oooow!”

“I'm sorry.” The healer said. “I needed to pull it straight, or...”

Jhulune nodded, and he healed her finger in less than a minute using his Minor Healing ability.

“Thanks.” She said, and he nodded to her.

Jhulune left the temporary healing station and went back to her brand new house. She laughed at that, because it was actually the same old house, just with all new parts. Her mother had pleaded with the work crew to change the layout; but they said that they were paid to restore it to the way it was, not to build whatever she wanted.

They told her they could come back if she hired them to remodel, but it would have to be after the rest of the city was repaired. Her mother had relented in badgering them, and the house was built faster than they thought was possible. The lot was cleared quickly, the pre-built walls were put in place and nailed together, and the roof was put on. It had only taken half an hour.

Jhulune went inside, and told her parents what had happened. Her father picked up his axe and went to the door.

“Dad, no!” Jhulune said. “I took care of it already!”

“No one touches my little girl like that, and gets away with it!”

“I even knocked one of his teeth out!” Jhulune said and held her father's arm to stop him from leaving.

“I'll get the rest.” He said, and tried to pull his arm free. “Along with his head.”

Jhulune held onto her father's arm tightly, and he stopped struggling; mainly because he didn't want to hurt her. He sighed as he saw her pleading face.

“All right.” He said and put the axe down. “But if I see his face anywhere near you again, he won't have a face anymore.”

“Daaaad!”

“What?”

“You... you can't just...”

He sighed. “Fine. What do you want me to do?”

“I want you to trust your daughter.”

He smiled and took her into a hug. “I do trust you.” He said and squeezed her tightly. “It's everyone else I don't trust.”

“Oh, dad.” Jhulune said, and held onto her father as tears came to her eyes. She hugged him tightly, and cried.

*

Ren woke up the next morning, rested and refreshed. “Boy, that was a good sleep!”

“It's your first one alone in a while.” Teepo chittered in laughter.

“Hey, you're right!” Ren said. “I guess I needed a break from everything.”

Teepo chittered in laughter again. “Hurry up and get back to work, you slacker.”

Ren laughed and went downstairs to feed Princess breakfast, then Teepo dissolved into the ring as Ren went back upstairs and went through the portal.
