“I'd like a basic spell book, please.” Ren said.

Rosie looked at him and tilted her head. “But... you're not a magic user.” She said. “Only magic users can take out spell books.”

“I can't cast spells, but...” Ren leaned in close, then whispered. “...I have a wand.”

Her eyes widened, and she leaned back. “This... this is unusual.” Rosie said. “I haven't heard of anyone having a wand before.”

“I know three spells already. Fireball, Minor Healing, and Major Healing.” Ren said. “I'm a little lacking in basic spells.”

“Why don't you want higher level spells?”

“Actually, I would like any spells I can get my hands on; but, the wand is only Level 1.” Ren said. “It can't hold the higher level spells.”

“Well... I really shouldn't...”

“Then don't.” Ren said, and Rosie looked at him in surprise. “You've already done more for me than I could ever have expected.” He smiled. “I can't let you risk your job again, just so I can get a spell book.”

Rosie smiled. “Oh, don't worry about that.” She said. “You're a Patron of Knowledge. I can't refuse your request to buy research materials.”

“Research materials?”

“Of course.” Rosie said. “How else are you going to write a book that compares magic use to enchanting?”

Ren grinned. “You're right. Buying research materials is much better than just borrowing them.”

She stood up and came around the desk. “Go ahead and have a seat again. I'll be back in a few minutes.”

Ren nodded and went back to his seat and picked up the scroll. He broke the wax seal, that he now realized looked just like the signet ring, and he unrolled it. His mouth dropped open as he read what it contained.

Deed Of Defense (Garrison)

This deed grants the holder ownership of the Garrison and the personal army it houses. The owner of this deed is tasked with the defense of the Kingdom from all attackers, both foreign and domestic.

Notice!

You have assumed overall command of the Garrison, and all responsibilities in which that entails.

Cost per year - Maintenance: 100 Platinum; Food: 300 Platinum; Wages: 1200 Platinum; Civilian workers/Experiments: 200 Platinum; Miscellaneous Expenses: 50 Platinum

Holy crap! Ren thought as he told Teepo what the popup said. I am so screwed!

Teepo chittered in laughter. “You're lucky it's not per month.”

Ren snorted a laugh. Now I know why Lord Lodur was so against getting everyone off of the work to pay model. He thought. He couldn't afford it if people worked somewhere else! He shook his head. He had his own building materials, his own farms, and didn't have to pay any of the civilians or soldiers because they all work for his House to pay off debts.

“It's quite the little empire he had built.” Teepo said. “I wonder what House Lodur is going to do, now that you've taken over their whole purpose for existing.”

I... I don't know. Ren thought. I don't know what I should do with it, either.

“Take Elerlyth's advice.” Teepo said. “Don't think about it.”

Ren took several deep breaths, and stored the deed. You're right. I'm not even in the Dwarven Kingdom right now. I'll worry about it when I get back there.

“That's right.” Teepo said. “You've got enough to do right here...” He said. “...with the books Rosie has for you.”

Ren turned from the desk he sat at, and looked at her. Rosie smiled and put three thin books on his desk. Ren looked at them, then at her, then back at the books. They were Spells Volume One: Basic, Spells Volume Two: Intermediate, and Spells Volume Three: Advanced.

“Rosie.” He said. “I... I don't know what to say.”

“You can try 'thank you'.” She said, and grinned. Ren stood up and gave her a hug instead. A moment later, he let her out of the hug and smiled.

“Thank you.” He said, then took out 3 gold coins and gave them to her.

“Before you start ranting about having them, the books are rank C and lower.” Rosie said. “So, I'm not breaking the rules. You're actually allowed to read them.”

Ren stored the books and the sack.

“Is there anything else I can help you with?” Rosie said, and beamed a smile at him.

“I'm sure there is something that I'm forgetting; but for the life of me, I can't remember.”

“Don't try to remember, it'll just get further away.” Rosie laughed. “Think of something else, and whatever it was will come back to you.”

“You're talking from experience.” Ren said, and she nodded.

“It's just a little mind trick I picked up over the years, while working here.”

“How long have you worked here?”

“About 3 years.” Rosie said, and Ren raised a single eyebrow at her. She giggled and covered her mouth, because it came out a little louder than she had expected. “I'm a little older than I look.”

“I'm tempted to ask how much older; but, it's not polite to ask a woman her age.”

“I'll tell you...” Rosie leaned in close to whisper. “...someday.” She gave him a peck on the cheek, and went back to her desk.

“I'm pretty sure that counts as flirting.” Teepo chittered in laughter.

Yeah, she was definitely flirting. Ren smiled. We've been doing that back and forth for almost as long as I've know her, though. He started to walk towards the front door, when he got a popup.

Stat Change!

Aura (House Neram) Level 6 (Advanced 0%)

That's it! Ren thought, and walked fast over to Rosie's desk. She was working on some paperwork and he waited for a moment, then spoke. “Rosie?”

She looked up, and smiled at him. “You thought of it.”

Ren nodded. “You can feel my Aura, can't you?”

Rosie nodded. “It's gotten quite large.” She said. “ I felt it right after you came through the door.”

“Do you know of any way to suppress it or block it?”

Rosie thought about it for a few minutes, then shook her head. “I don't know if anything like that is possible.” She said, and looked at him with a question on her face. “Why do you want to stop it?”

“My Aura isn't really the problem.” Ren said, and leaned in close. “It's my Prince Charming title that changes my Aura.”

“Then you need to get rid of that title, not suppress your Aura.” Rosie said, and Ren stared at her.

“How... how would I do that?” He asked.

“Just do the opposite of what you did to get it.” Rosie said. “I don't know if that will work, but it's worth a try.”

Ren shook his head. “No way.” He said. “I won't treat a woman so badly, only for a chance that I might lose the title.”

“Then do it to me.” Rosie offered, and Ren shook his head again.

“No.”

“Ren, let me help you.” She said. “I won't take anything that you might do to me personally.”

“Rosie.” Ren said, and took her hand. “I'd rather have every woman I meet chase me for the rest of my life, before I'd even think about trying to treat you badly.”

“Oh, you.” Rosie said, and blushed. “I've never been paid such a nice compliment before.”

Ren let her hand go. “If I need anything else, I'll be back.”

“Then I'll hope I'm here when you do come back.” She said, and turned to wave at her grandmother. “I'm off shift right now, so you should wait until sometime tomorrow if you do think of anything.”

“Hello, sweetie.” Rosie's grandmother said as she waddled over. “Have you proposed to my granddaughter yet?”

“Grandmother!” Rosie exclaimed, then laughed. “Don't mind her, Ren. She's been in a good mood since the house was fixed.”

“I'm glad.” Ren said. “Can I walk you lovely ladies home?”

“That's okay.” Rosie's grandmother said. “You're an Adventurer. I'm sure you have something better to do during the night.”

Ren's eyes widened as he remembered that he needed to log out for lunch. “I actually do!” He gave the old woman a kiss on the cheek, then did the same for Rosie. “Rain-check on the walk!” Ren said as he walked backwards towards the door. “Bye!” He turned around and ran out the front door.

*

The old lady laughed at Ren's retreating figure and turned to her granddaughter.

“So, when are you going to tell him you love him?” She asked Rosie.

“Wh-what?”

“Oh, come on, dear.” Her grandmother said. “Anyone with half a brain can see that you're smitten with the poor boy.”

Rosie smiled and took her grandmother's arm in hers, then led her towards the door. “He's involved with someone else.” She said. “I can't admit anything to him until he's single again.”

“I think you're going to miss a good opportunity if you don't tell him.” The old lady said. “How often has he come in here the last little while?”

Rosie sighed as they walked down the stairs to the street. “Not as often as I'd like.”

“You see?” Her grandmother said. “Grab a hold of him and don't let go.” She said, and smiled. “Or someone else is going to beat you to it.”

*

Ren ran up the street and back to his business, then went inside. He made sure the door was locked, and went upstairs. He didn't see Anabelle on the couch when he went into the apartment, and he sighed as she called to him from the bedroom.

“I'm in here.” Anabelle said seductively. Ren went to the bedroom doorway and looked at her. She was sprawled on her back across the bed, with her head toward him, and she wore nothing but socks and a maid apron.

“I told you that you weren't allowed to stay in here.” Ren said sternly, and she smiled.

“You were just saying that because that other woman was here.” Anabelle said and rolled over onto her belly. She stuck up her backside, and purred like a cat. Ren sighed and shut the door to the bedroom, went back to the living room, and opened the cabinet to the portal. Teepo dissolved into the ring and Ren nailed the cabinet shut from the inside as he heard the bedroom door open. He stepped through the portal before Anabelle got it into her head to try and follow him. Once on the other side, Ren summoned Teepo again and went downstairs to give some more food to Princess. He went back upstairs and climbed into bed.

See you in about an hour or so, Teepo.

“I'll be waiting anxiously.” Teepo chittered in laughter as he repeated Anabelle's words. Ren chuckled and shook his head.

“Logout.”

********

Ren had a quick lunch that Bonnie had prepared. He used to complain about all of the hard work she did to make his meals; but now, he just accepted her efforts for what they were. Caring for him in her own way. Ren thanked Bonnie for the food, and she left with the empty tray as he checked his emails. He got a congratulatory one from the head of Sid Tec about the show airing that night, and one from Elise. He read it and smiled. Bonnie came back into the room, and Ren asked where they were watching the show tonight.

“Well, we could watch it here in your room...” Bonnie said. “...but, I'm pretty sure there's going to be a few other people that will want to see it.” She smiled. “We'd all have to stand, though.”

“The therapy room, then.” Ren said, then typed up a response for Elise and sent it. “There's plenty of room if the night nurses want to see it, too.”

“That's a good idea.” Bonnie said. “I'll have the extra chairs set up in front of the television.”

“Thanks, Bonnie.” Ren said and closed his email program. He slid out of bed and went to the bathroom to check on things, and to take care of some business, then went back to bed.

“All set?” Bonnie asked, and helped Ren put on his VR headset. “See you in a few hours.”

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Ren woke up on the bed and sighed. Dammit, I forgot to tell Nathalia about my trip to the Convent.

“You're back a little earlier than usual.” Teepo said.

I took care of business quickly. Ren thought, then turned his thoughts to Nathalia. The Sending Ring glowed, and he whispered to her.

“Nathalia? Are you awake?”

“Mm? What?”

“Hi, Nathalia. It's Ren.”

“Ren!” Nathalia exclaimed. “I thought you said you'd be in Aurora until tomorrow?”

“I was out at my County to do some work on the building, but I can't stay there overnight. I can't make the Main House a Safe Zone until I finish it.”

“So you went all the way back to Aurora just so you could log out.”

“Right.” Ren said. “But I did it on this side.” He explained what was going on with Anabelle, and Nathalia was quiet for a few minutes afterwards.

“Nathalia? Are you still there?” Ren asked.

“Yes, I'm here.” She said, but she didn't sound like she was in a good mood. “I suppose you want to sleep with her.”

“Of course not!” Ren said. “Even if I didn't think she was under some kind of compulsion or order by whoever holds her contract, I wouldn't sleep with her.”

“Why not?” Nathalia asked. “She sounds like she was really willing, even before this latest thing.”

Ren sighed. “I'm sorry, Nathalia.”

“What? Why?”

“I'm sorry that you have to question me about yet another woman that I've met.”

Nathalia didn't say anything, and Ren sighed again.

“I know I can't actually prove to you that I don't want to sleep with every woman I meet, but can I at least offer you a consoling story?”

Nathalia sighed herself. “Go ahead.”

Ren told her about what had happened at the Convent, and how he handled the situation.

“I can't believe you turned her down.” Nathalia said. “I've heard stories about her.” She was quiet for a minute, then continued. “There's a reason everyone calls her 'Mistress'.”

“There is?” Ren asked, then thought about it. “Oh. That makes sense.”

Nathalia chuckled.

“Why didn't you warn me about her before I left?”

“What was there to warn about?” Nathalia said. “You were going to go anyways.”

“Well, yeah.” Ren said. “I might have had an easier time getting to the negotiating part with her, if you'd told me what she was like beforehand, though.”

“So it's my fault you were almost seduced.”

“No, it's not your fault!” Ren said, and rubbed his forehead. “And I wasn't 'almost' anything. I didn't think about doing it with her. Not once.”

“What did you think about, then?” Nathalia asked.

“Do you even have to ask?” Ren asked her. “I was thinking of you the whole time.” He sighed. “I think about you nearly all of the time; especially now that I know I'm going to lose you in 4 months, for no other reason than that Fritz has to keep his publicly pronounced word to rescind my invitation to the Dwarven Kingdom.”

“The way things have been going lately, I thought... I thought you were looking for a replacement for me.”

“Why in the world would you think I could ever find anyone to replace you?” Ren asked. “You're my wife.”

“But...”

