Most remember Maviola El, Saliss of Lights, Ryoka Griffin, as the names. But the clever ones?
“Who is Erin Solstice?”
The question appeared on the streets of Liscor. Humans from Invrisil sidled up to groups of Drakes or Gnolls. Hello, fellow citizen! What an event. I am much shock! Are you? We are all friends here. What say you know about Erin Solstice?
…About that level of subterfuge, from some of them. The Liscorians would give the Humans odd looks. They were clearly outsiders, but they were only too happy to talk.
“The Crazy Human of Liscor? Been here for ages. You want to know about her?”
And of course, they did. So the others would chuckle, motion a friend over, and relay what was almost becoming a sport of its own, or tradition in Liscor. Telling stories of the [Innkeeper]. Erin Solstice.
“Now, look. She might look normal on the outside. But she’s strong as a [Minotaur]. Once beat a [Knight] barehanded. I saw it myself.”
“She’s actually an adventurer. Went into Liscor’s dungeon. You didn’t hear about that? She’s a retired adventurer—carries jars of acid around.”
“The best chess player in all of Liscor. She beat our [Strategist] on her first day here. Undefeatable. I tried playing her myself—she beat me while making a pie! Without even looking at the board!”
“She’s actually not entirely Human. Part-Drake. Oldblood. She can spit blood. It’s like, her special attack. That, and throwing frying pans. Why? Don’t ask me. She’s crazy.”
“Employs Goblins and Antinium. Not that there’s anything wrong with either! I know this Painted Worker—has a bee on his chest and yellow striped antennae. I wave at him all the time. There’s some good ones! Anyways, they’re her security.”
“Don’t kill Goblins. Don’t even joke about that. She’s mad. Rip your legs off and beat you to death with them. She’s so crazy, she destroyed her own inn. Twice! Burned it down just to build it up again.”
The [Informants] and such were writing down notes frantically. The happy citizens went on.
“She makes all kinds of new food. Well—brings ‘em over. She’s Terandrian, I think. A [Princess]—or related to the throne. I’ve heard it, now and then.”
“She’s been married. At least once. Young, for her age, but then, I was married at sixteen myself. To a Gnoll. That’s the little white Gnoll running about.”
And inevitably, at some point, one of the others would interrupt.
“Hold on, that’s not true! That kid’s the last Gnoll of a tribe. The Human only rescued her. Fought the Goblin Lord one-on-one.”
“No, you’re both wrong. I was there. She rescued the kid from bees. Poor mite was carried off by Ashfire Bees—there’s a colony nearby. So the [Innkeeper] took some magic flowers, put the hive to sleep…”
Everyone stared at the last speaker. He threw up his claws.
“What, you believe everything but that? It’s true! She has magic flowers—”
No one listened to the more obviously fake tales. But there was documented proof! She’d fought Skinner, she had an army of Antinium at her beck and call—
“And she’s a sexual fiend.”
One of the Gnolls whispered to the others in confidence. He looked around.
“Insatiable. I heard she’s had sex with Senior Guardsmen, the strategist of Liscor…”
The other listeners turned to him. One of the other Drakes nudged his friend. He indicated the Gnoll, who was sighing over Erin Solstice’s sexual conquests.
“Why do you hang out with him? And what’s he on about? Sexual fiend? He is so creepy.”
“I know. I thought he was fun, but—yeesh. Ancestors.”
They edged out of that particular gossip circle. Some people always ruined a good thing. But so it went. The Wandering Inn’s name was repeated on distant continents. And as for the [Innkeeper]? People wondered about her. Some people added her to their internal lists, or tried to factor her into plans.
They didn’t know her completely. Not yet. But they knew her name.
 
—-
 
And in time, Erin Solstice woke up. She stretched out in her bed and looked up at the sun shining through the window.
It was rare that she got up after the sun rose. For a moment, Erin Solstice stared at the ceiling.
Had everything that happened last night…actually happened? Yes, it had. The good and the bad.
Living and the dead. Erin Solstice thought about all of it.
Ryoka flying, Maviola—Saliss. Some were still out there, their fates unclear. But Ryoka was alive. She would live.
The [Innkeeper] lay there, thinking of getting up. She…was tired. She had called every favor she could think of. And today, it was over. It was cleanup and aftermath.
She went back to sleep. The [Innkeeper] dozed, woke up, stared at the ceiling again, felt the sore muscles in her arms and legs from yesterday. She put a pillow over her head to block the sun. Curled up in her bed sheets.
“Erin? Erin? You know what? I bet she’s asleep.”
Montressa’s voice at the door. Erin heard it, then dozed off. This was nice. This was…
The chatter of a beaver. A door, and the fresh air of a place. The [Garden of Sanctuary]. Erin’s head sleepily rose—
Pow. Mrsha’s flying head butt hit Erin in the back. She screamed.
“Mrsha!”
The white Gnoll had no time for sleeping [Innkeepers]. She leapt onto the bed. That was okay. It was when a Fortress Beaver tried to climb onto the bed that Erin jumped out of it. The giant beaver weighed more than she did! By a lot, actually!
“Alright! That’s it! Everyone, get out!”
Mrsha and the beavers fled. Erin threw a shoe after them.
“Stop coming into my room when I’m sleeping! Mrsha! You were warned!”
She dressed herself, rubbing at her lower back and groaning. Mrsha had learned you could get anyone out of bed if you did that. It was certainly true, but it was a bad lesson.
“Ow. Ow. Ow.”
Erin hobbled past her chess board. She paused. She has three in her room these days. One for studying, one for fun, and the magical one. You needed at least three in your room, obviously. The magical chessboard and the go board, arranged side-by-side for moments like this, had a message on it via both arranged pieces.
 
Want to talk?
 
Erin stared at the board. Well, it was more like ‘wnt 2 tlk?’, since there were a finite amount of pieces. She groaned, rubbed at her back, then her stomach.
 
Srry. Bsy. Ltr.
 
She scrawled, and then hobbled downstairs, not seeing the frantic counter message. Erin appreciated her mysterious opponent.
But here was more immediate. And now she was awake, Erin’s stomach was growling.
“Food! I’m so hungry!”
She hopped down the stairs and shouted it, spreading her arms wide. Erin stopped.
Her inn, her full inn, with countless guests at the tables, all turned to stare at Erin. Dead silent. They gave the [Innkeeper] the stare, the one that asked who she was. That waited for her to explode, spit blood, or conjure armies.
Expectant, bewildered, amused or awed, or more emotions. There were…hundreds of people in her inn? At least a hundred! Humans, Drakes, Gnolls…Erin realized her arms were still spread.
She lowered them. She looked around at the sea of faces. Erin glanced over her shoulder. She backed up the stairs, slowly.
“Erin?”
Lyonette unfroze as the inn murmured. A good portion of the regulars were laughing their tails off. The rest were asking—was that her? She signaled to Silveran and found Erin upstairs, peeking down.
“Why is the inn so full, Lyonette?”
“Because we have a lot of customers?”
Erin gave Lyonette a long look. The [Princess] rolled her eyes.
“Because you brought an army to Invrisil?”
“Yeah, but I didn’t think they’d all come back to have breakfast!”
“Brunch. You’ve been asleep for a long time. I was going to let you sleep in; or are the walls not soundproof?”
“Nah. I was attacked by Mrsha. And the beavers.”
“That little…I’ll have a word with her. Do you need a potion?”
The [Innkeeper] rubbed at her back. Yes.
“…No. Are uh, all those people…”
“Most just want to know about the inn. But it is fairly busy. Tell you what—oh, thank you, Silveran!”
The Worker had come up the stairs with a tray of breakfast. Erin brightened up.
“I could eat it in my room!”
“No. That’s how we get more bugs. Um. No offense Silveran. Bug-bugs. We’re not repeating Bird’s room. Take it to the private dining room, please?”
The Worker nodded. Erin shuddered. Bird had cultivated an infestation of buzzing insects in his dead bird collection one time. Preserved they might be, but that still didn’t stop the creepy-crawlies.
“Silveran! I’ll eat in the Garden instead! There, please?”
Lyonette nodded. The Worker turned and instead of going downstairs, walked at a wall. The door appeared, and Erin followed.
 
—-
 
It was a sign that Imani was swamped by the guests that she was taking out the premade foods. Breakfast for Erin was a bacon-and-egg hash, one she’d made oh, a month ago. It was still fresh as when she’d made it, and hot!
“Mm. Thanks, Silveran. What’s that? Milk? Thank you!”
Erin sat on the hilltop, next to the Sage’s Grass, which had a faint aroma, and ate breakfast in the sun. She realized she was not alone.
The flood of people in the main inn had chased the shy or reclusive into the Garden. Those with access, that was. A trio of Goblins looked up from the arid section. Erin stared down at them, mouth full of hash.
“Issat—ahem. Numbtongue! Badarrow! Snapjaw!”
She waved at them, coughing. The three Goblins looked up. What were they doing? They were all lying down and…
Sunbathing? Erin saw them sit up. Save for towels or undergarments, they had been lazily basking in the sun! With a bowl of roasted peanuts.
“I didn’t know you guys sunbathed!”
Erin saw Numbtongue’s head rise, and then fall. The [Bard] was snoozing. And because Erin wasn’t the new, amazing thing, he let Badarrow get up. The [Sniper] ascended the hill as Erin turned towards him.
“Badarrow.”
“Erin.”
They looked at each other for a long while. In the rush of, well, everything, his arrival had been slightly overshadowed. Not entirely, but it was still something to see him standing there. He looked at her like a long-lost friend. Uncertain of what to say.
Erin knew what to say.
“Want something to eat? Take a seat, take a seat! Did you have breakfast?”
Badarrow sat cross-legged. He smiled as Erin indicated her plate.
“Had food. Good…”
He tried to think of the word.
“Thick soup.”
“Porridge?”
He shook his head.
“Tasty thick soup. Dark skin cook make. Say from home.”
“Oh. Imani’s porridges. Yeah, they’re more savory. Like, made out of pureed beans.”
“What that? Bug?”
The [Sniper] was alarmed by the word ‘pureed’ for a second. Erin laughed.
“No, it’s fine! Its regular beans. Not bugs. She just blends it all up really smooth. That’s probably what you ate.”
“Oh. Yes. Good. Pureed soup. Ate lots. Too many Humans so—”
He waved at the Garden. Erin laughed. She took a bite of her breakfast—she was starving. 
“That’s great. I didn’t know you sunbathed, though!”
“At Goblinhome. High Passes cold. So—Goblins lie in sun when sun out.”
“What? No way! You do it like that?”
“No. Furs. Wrap up like…”
He gestured. Erin had forgotten that Badarrow was the least-talkative, but he had no choice with her. And his diction was much improved! Snapjaw?
“Watch out for Razorbeaks or Wyverns, but warm. Also, wrap up next to big fire. With Carn Wolf at night. Lots of Goblins.”
“You all snuggle together?”
The [Innkeeper] was delighted. Badarrow hesitated. She was probably right, but he disliked how she said it for some reason he couldn’t explain.
“Sit together for warm.”
He corrected her. Erin laughed.
“Call it what you like. But that’s so great! So…I’m glad you’re okay.”
She’d locked them in here during the battle. But they’d gotten out and fought near the end. Badarrow gazed at Erin.
“Lots of fighting. Lots of Humans. [Assassins]. Entire city fighting.”
Because of you. He looked at Erin. And the day’s events became realer in her mind. She ran a hand through her hair.
“Has anyone found Maviola? Saliss?”
He shrugged. The Hobgoblin didn’t know who they were, not having met them for long enough.
“I’ll ask. I’m just glad…you three are okay. It was something.”
“Yes.”
“Heck of a Tuesday, huh? Wait till next week.”
The [Archer] blinked at Erin. Then he narrowed his eyes. Erin kept her face straight. The Hob hesitated, then reached out and shoved her slightly.
“Lie.”
“You got me!”
Erin giggled with laughter. Badarrow relaxed. The [Innkeeper] sat with him, offering the Hob some of her bacon, asking how he’d slept, in peace while her inn buzzed.
A shape in the large pond made Erin turn. She saw a huge Fortress Beaver and some kits surface, their large dam and some fish the residents of that area of her garden. And then—a rather wet, giant, white fish beached itself.
Mrsha the Fish had been swimming around in the pond, hiding in the dam from the wrath of adults. Now she galloped up the hill, charging at Erin.
“Oh no you don’t! No, Mrsha—”
She was going to tackle Erin and then shake herself dry! The [Innkeeper] was serious this time! She did not need this! But Mrsha was filled with too much energy—and perhaps, worry. She was the ruiner of clothes! The bringer of baths! The—
Badarrow grabbed Mrsha as she leapt. The Gnoll found herself under one arm. She struggled, but the Hob carried her down the hill. Then he tossed her into the pond.
Mrsha the Cannonball hit the pond with a splash. Erin laughed until she nearly choked on some potato. That was why you needed a Goblin around!
And that was how Erin Solstice greeted the next day. She finished her breakfast as Mrsha tried to tackle Badarrow and the [Archer] tossed her in the pond three more times. Eventually, Mrsha the Waterlogged gave up and went over to Snapjaw and Numbtongue to dry off. Erin finished breakfast.
The Wandering Inn came alive.
 
—-
 
Olesm Swifttail found Erin Solstice as she emerged from the Garden of Sanctuary. People flooded towards her—and then back as three Hobgoblins emerged behind Erin. And one wet Gnoll, ready to shake herself like a dog on her unsuspecting victims.
Olesm though—was used to the inn. He pushed past wretched Humanity, wailing as Mrsha the Waterlogged unloaded her vengeance to shouts of dismay.
“Erin! Erin, we found Maviola! She’s alive!”
“Mrsha! You’re in so much—what? She is? That’s great! What about Saliss?”
“A [Fisherman] saw him float past! He’s alive too!”
“That’s amazing news!”
Erin threw her arms up. She hugged Olesm tight. And Fierre was safe and Salamani had gone after Ryoka! That was…she let go of Olesm, beaming.
