He was reading off a list of appellations provided by the Diplomat’s Handbook, Edition #2411. This seemed to please the Ruler of Khelt.
“I wish a dozen of these vehicles.”
“Y-yes. Absolutely, your Majesty. But Solar Cycles—our shop is just manufacturing these highly-artisan, custom-forged works. We can’t mass-produce them. We—have orders for a lot of [Lords] and [Ladies]—other kingdoms, even—”
“Khelt shall obtain them first.”
It was not a question. Kevin winced.
“The issue is—”
“Whatever the highest order is—I will double it. Do not take more of my time with the minutiae of lesser bidders. Simply inform the Mage’s Guild of Khelt of the price and it shall be paid. I am content to wait for the peak of craftsmanship. Time matters less to me.”
Kevin was writing like a madman, underlining Fetohep’s words and desperately wishing he had an auto-transcription Skill. Selys needed to hire a [Receptionist] or [Secretary] now. If he had a minute to run—but he was speaking frantically.
“Absolutely, your Majesty. We have a small selection—I will send it via the Mage’s Guild.”
“Good. Now you will answer my queries. You are the inventor of these…bicycles?”
The delicate question made Kevin hesitate. This was where it got tricky. He’d done this before and slowly replied.
“It’s…a collaboration, your Majesty. The idea isn’t mine. I’m just a [Mechanic] that puts together the pieces which are made by Masters—”
“Then where does the notion of this device hail from? Some…new…creation?”
“I’m afraid I can’t reveal confidential details, your Majesty. It’s…new, yes.”
“I…see. The secrets shall remain thusly, then. Send your selection to my Mage’s Guild.”
The pregnant pauses could have formed a baby shower. Kevin was sweating. But he’d deflected well enough.
“At once, your Majesty. And we will deliver the first bicycle to you right away—”
And notify everyone else they’re being bumped down the list. Kevin was no entrepreneur, but he’d heard of bidding wars over less back home. You could dream. He relaxed—a moment too soon.
The voice of the undead ruler spoke through the speaking stone.
“This is well. I await your work with interest. And should your work please me, Khelt’s borders will lie open to you and your kin. Remember that, Kevin of Earth. I shall not forget your name.”
Kevin’s fingers slipped. He gasped and involuntarily, spoke.
“How did—”
He snapped his mouth shut. But too late. The chuckle was all he heard—then the bone speaking charm disintegrated. Kevin stared at the bone dust on his table.
They knew. And there were some smart people out there. The kind who had insight. Who listened. Who looked for the root of things.
Kevin’s papers scattered as he vaulted his desk and ran.
 
—-
 
It was too late to put the Djinni back in the bottle. Too late to take back awareness.
Too late to take back friendships, too.
Delanay d’Artien waved at the group being cheered into Invrisil. The Silver Swords were still a bit grimy, but they entered the city to wild cheers. Ylawes looked right at his childhood friend and Delanay blinked as he saw Ylawes’ intent gaze.
 
—-
 
It was unmistakable. Look at them. Even if they hid their levels via anti-appraisal gear. Look at them.
Erin Solstice. Lyonette. Standing amid [Actors], an Earl, Antinium unlike any other—
It was only a matter of time. And with that understanding, everything shifted. Sometimes you had to be bold.
Erin Solstice was talking urgently with Kevin. The young man was wide-eyed. She pointed towards the Garden.
The Gnoll sighed as he stood, adjusting his clothing. Damn well past time. He strode forwards.
“Miss Solstice? My name is Ferris—”
He got that out before someone shoved him. The Gnoll stumbled. Erin’s head turned. Ferris turned.
“Excuse me—”
Someone dragged him off his feet. The [Infiltrator] went for his sidearm. But he paused as he felt the prick on his fur.
“Ferry! My old buddy! Let’s go for a drink!”
A grinning Gnoll had grabbed him. The same one who pushed him. Ferris growled, on sudden alert.
“I’m sorry, I think you’re—”
He heard a whisper, in his mind. A kind of sub-vocalization Skill that you used if you had certain classes.
“You’re out of your jurisdiction, Manus. Play along. Pallass’ Eyes.”
The Gnoll grinned at him. Ferris twisted, debating his options. And he saw someone stroll past him, using a cane for support.
“Well, well. It seems there are some interesting players in the inn today. Would you mind if I joined your company?”
Altestiel had sensed the intruder and his escort before seeing him. The [Knight Marshal] was already on his feet.
Erin’s head turned.
“Chaldion?”
Kiish straightened. The [Knights] of Desonis and the others in the Earl’s escort looked up. The [Soldiers] of Pallass that Chaldion had managed to bring into Erin’s inn despite her ban eyed the Humans.
The [Knight Marshal of the Rains] and the [Grand Strategist of Victory] locked gazes. It was like distant storms, humidity and wind in the air meeting the clarion call of horns, the sound of metal on metal.
Everyone flinched back as the two looked at each other.
“Grand Strategist. What an unexpected surprise.”
“The Earl of Desonis, the Knight Marshal of Rains. It has been a while since I met a Terandrian of such note.”
Chaldion’s good eye glittered. Olesm slid back from his table. He couldn’t help it. Nor had his legs moved. He stared down. His chair was being pushed with a slow screeching sound without anything touching it.
“Ancestors.”
He breathed. The others were of the same opinion. Desonis’ company squared up as the Drakes behind Chaldion halted. Everyone was far clear of the clash. They watched with trepidation, awe, speculation, or just sheer enjoyment of the moment.
The two hadn’t blinked. And for all Chaldion only had one eye to Altestiel’s two—was he stronger? Two invisible forces clashed—the players outside looked up, as if sensing a change in the weather. The intensity in the air was like nothing they’d felt except those few times—
“Dun dun. Dun dun dun. Ba dum.”
A voice from the side. Altestiel’s gaze flickered. Chaldion looked sideways. Erin Solstice.
She did a quiet drumroll on the table.
“Dun dun dun!”
Both auras collapsed in an instant. Tension had a half-life of seconds in front of that kind of…Erin looked at the two.
“Stop stare-fighting in my inn. Want to play chess?”
She looked at the two. Chaldion’s lips moved. The Earl laughed. Erin Solstice looked at the two as the inn relaxed. Then she had a thought. She went upstairs and came down.
“I have a special board I’d like you two to play on. You two are pretty good at chess. So do your best. I will too.”
Dun dun dun. They stared at the chessboard and the smart ones remembered another kind of legend. A mysterious opponent.
You couldn’t take it back. Nor did Erin Solstice try. She sat down and moved a pawn forwards.
 
—-
 
“The Wandering Inn.”
Ignorant of the chess tournament occurring in the inn itself, Geneva Scala stared at the tiny spot on the map where Liscor was. She’d had to look it up.
Paige, Daly, everyone was clustered around.
“Joseph’s there?”
“Yep. And a bike. And…Ryoka Griffin?”
“Could be.”
Daly traced a finger across the map. It wasn’t even a world map; and the distances were already vast. He looked at Geneva.
“It’s a long way away. If we even wanted to get over there. Let alone move the entire company…”
“Do we need to?”
“Strength in numbers.”
He countered. The others murmured. It was so far. A continent away. But there was…certainty.
“One person could make the journey. But it’d take a long time.”
Paige muttered. Siri looked around. Luan rubbed at his neck.
“It’s really far, yeah?”
Ken and Aiko nodded. The [Rower] glanced at them and looked at Geneva.
“To get there in any reasonable time…we’d need a Courier or something like that.”
There was significance in his words. The other stirred. After a moment, Kirana sighed.
“…Seve is on a delivery.”
“For now.”
That was all Geneva said. It was far indeed. And who might go to who? Did they need to? Rather—
She wanted to meet them. Joseph, the owner of The Wandering Inn, perhaps. Ryoka Griffin.
 
—-
 
Names to remember. Certainly, other people wanted to meet Ryoka Griffin. Humble and grand.
Like the Gnoll who stood on Pallass’ walls. He had worked all night. Feverish. But now—the [Soldiers] who liked to mock him were staring. Eying something different than the feathered wings. It looked like wings still. But the fabric, the copy—
He leapt. And the Flying Gnoll of Pallass, Felkhr, jerked as something happened. His usual falling turned into—the Pallassian [Soldiers] on the walls stared. Someone fainted.
“I’m flying! I’m f—”
Felkhr shouted as the wind let him glide down the walls. Then he made a rookie’s mistake in the annals of flight.
Encouraged by his performance thus far, he tried to flap the wing-gliders he’d fashioned. Instantly, he lost the air resistance and went into a nosedive.
Everyone winced. Potions of Featherfalling normally saved Felkhr. Not this time; he’d gone down faster due to the aerodynamics of the wings.
“I—I was flying—”
They ported him off the ground in a stretcher. The Gnoll lay there, moaning. Both his arms were broken.
It wasn’t the first time, but this time hurt more. He was onto something! He was close! The Gnoll almost wept with frustration. His head lolled back.
Had he fallen unconscious—not a good thing as the [Healer] kept slapping him awake so they could set the arms and tend to the bleeding first—he might have been rewarded.
But perhaps that was just as well. Someone caught him in the knot of onlookers. The Flying Gnoll moaned as he was carried towards one of the large elevators.
“I was so close—”
“You’ll do better next time. And I think I can improve your designs. You don’t flap the wings, see. Not unless you had a lot more coverage. You could probably enchant them, but you’re doing it wrong. You’re way too heavy, to begin with.”
Someone spoke to him. The Gnoll, through a haze of pain, looked up.
“Wh—who’re you?”
The voice was so confident. The young man stepped into the Flying Gnoll’s line of view.
“I’m Troy. And I like flying.”
 
—-
 
The chess tournament was Olesm vs Bird. Erin vs the magical chessboard.
The Earl vs Chaldion. For round one. Lesser players queued up, but the line of other Pallassian [Strategists] and Kiish and Belgrade were putting down weaker players before they ran into the top seeds.
And here was the competitive spirit. The Earl half-turned in his seat as he placed a knight, threatening two pieces at once. Chaldion looked annoyed as Altestiel smiled at Erin.
“You are aware, Miss Solstice, that your chess ability is so supreme that it is actually of considerable material value? One can level after playing you, and I would imagine that the effect reduces quite considerably after the first few games—but any [Strategist] or [General] would benefit from playing you. So long as they continued to struggle. I wonder if anyone ever mentioned that to you outright? I feel it is only natural to do so.”
Olesm guiltily knocked over a piece. Chaldion regarded the Earl steadily as Erin blinked and looked up. The [Grand Strategist] interrupted Erin’s reply.
“That was obvious, I assumed, Earl Altestiel. If I lost my first game against Miss Solstice, I might have benefitted more. Unfortunately, I won.”
The [Knight Marshal]’s smile faded. The two stared at each other and went back to the game. Erin finished her game with her opponent first. She was instantly deluged in offers for a game while the Earl and Chaldion played a slow—intense grudge-match.
“Kiish. Play this board. I’ll wait for the next opponent.”
Erin thrust the [Strategist] into the seat across from the magical chessboard, which was resetting its side. The [Strategist] instantly froze up.
“Me? Play—”
Chaldion and the Earl turned to look at her. It could be someone else. But Kiish’s fingers trembled as she moved the pieces.
“Erin! Play me, play me—”
“Miss Solstice.”
“Is that chessboard…?”
Erin backed up as she realized the crowd she’d dispersed had come back threefold. She looked around. Saw two Hobs walking out of the inn, and came to an instant decision.
“Okay, bathroom break!”
That stopped the mob in their tracks. There were acceptable things to follow someone around for—that wasn’t one of them. Erin edged out of the inn. She hurried after the two Goblins and flung her arms around their shoulders.
“Gotcha!”
Badarrow and Snapjaw started. They looked over their shoulders.
“Erin? Not playing game?”
Snapjaw pointed at the inn. Erin rolled her eyes.
“I’ll come back after twenty minutes.”
She’d ditched them! Just like that! She winked at the Goblins.
“It’s not like the tournament revolves around me.”
How she liked to lie. The [Innkeeper] walked past the outhouses with the Goblins.
“So, tell me about Goblinhome.”
The two looked at each other. They had just been looking up at the High Passes, where Goblinhome was buried. Talking about the future.
“Don’t say much. Secret place. Secret things. Humans should not find.”
Snapjaw said it half to Badarrow, half to Erin. He glared at her, hurt on Erin’s behalf. But the [Innkeeper] just nodded.
“Don’t tell me where it is. But I’ll give you a mana stone if it reaches…or again. We can figure it out. Just—how can I help?”
The two looked at her. Snapjaw hesitated. Badarrow nudged her. See? See? She hadn’t believed him. She ignored his smirk deliberately.
“Goblinhome needs things. Nails. Potions. Rabbiteater got. But…was going to buy from there.”
She waved a claw at Liscor. Erin looked alarmed.
“That’s…dangerous. Numbtongue tries it sometimes, but—”
Both Hobgoblins grinned. They produced helmets and put them on. Erin started laughing.
“Hah! But wait—if you need stuff, Krshia can help. And Lyonette! What do you need? I bet you they can get discounts.”
Snapjaw removed her helmet with some relief. It was tight on her head! She consulted the internal list Rags had given her and went to the very first thing in light of recent events and in general.
“Potions?”
Badarrow’s eyes brightened. So did Erin’s. They’d had the same thought.
“Why didn’t you say so? If that’s what you want—here. Let’s walk around the side and…”
She ushered the two Hobs around the side of The Wandering Inn. Then, Erin pointed and asked for a boost.
They climbed through Stitchwork’s window. Octavia nearly tossed the vial she was working on at them.
“Erin! Don’t do that!”
She clutched at her heart. Erin paused.
