A day had passed since the run that defined Izril, for a moment. No—just a night. And what a sleepless night, for so many.
The electric shock of adrenaline in the veins, the excitement. The grief and fury and satisfaction of victory—all of that mixed together in the body, both chemical, emotional, until sleep was an impossibility.
Rewatch the clips being broadcast on Wistram News Network. Talk with the others who’d seen it. Speculate. Worry.
The day after an event as momentous as the ‘Wind Runner’s Delivery’—or perhaps, ‘Maviola El’s Final Ride’—or ‘Saliss of Lights Saves Those Stupid Humans From Themselves’ as the other species were naming the event, was far too much to process.
Especially if you weren’t used to such moments in your life. A certain [Innkeeper] and her clientele, for instance, could actually get some sleep after the events of the run. Even if they worried for Ryoka Griffin. Even if friends had died—they had lived through such days.
The unprepared did not sleep. And indeed, he was so exhausted that after riding for two hours and returning the plough horse he’d borrowed, Farmer Lupp practically collapsed into his bed.
He could have slept for sixteen hours, despite going to sleep as the sun was rising. As it turned out, he got exactly three hours.
Someone knocked on his door, loudly. The [Farmer] ignored it until the banging became too loud to ignore. He stumbled upright.
“Corn crows take it, who’s making a racket at…?”
Well, it was a proper time to get up. The [Farmer] blearily looked around, and realized he didn’t need to put on clothes; he’d had them on.
He walked towards the door. Scowling at first. Then smiling.
She did it. The Wind Runner, Ryoka Griffin. Someone he knew. Come to that—all of Reizmelt had celebrated. Lupp would have stuck around, but the huge gathering didn’t suit him. And he’d been happy enough to see the Lischelle-Drakle family receive news that their daughter was well.
Maybe he’d head into the city, see if people were still talking about it. Bring some corn, roast it and share it about.
The [Farmer] was smiling as he opened the door. Right up until he saw the four people standing on his doorstep.
“Farmer Lupp.”
It was not a question. The [Farmer] looked at the four people. They wore ordinary traveller’s clothing. Innocuous, inconspicuous, bearing common self-defense weapons. A dagger, a sword, a bow on one’s back and a small quiver. They could have been [Hunters] and perhaps if he saw them on the road, riding the four horses tied to his gate, Lupp would have ignored them completely.
…What made them different today was that they had put on hoods, tied strips of cloth over their faces, covering all but their eyes. A simple disguise you could put on and take off in a minute.
[Assassins]. The [Farmer] tried to back up. One of the four swung up a crossbow and aimed it at his chest.
“I—I—I don’t have much gold. It’s under my bed—”
He started, even as he knew that wasn’t why they were here. The [Assassin] looked at him.
“Farmer Lupp. Local [Farmer], grower of corn—”
“Good corn.”
One of them had plucked some freshly grown corn. Lupp, for a moment, was terribly offended. He defended his corn against crows and thieves—the scarecrow standing in the field was proof of that. As if that was the worst sin they would commit on his land this morning.
“T-that’s me. If you’re here to rob me—”
He had gold from Lady Bethal, who bought his corn these days. The [Assassin] shook his head.
“You know why we’re here.”
“I don’t—please—”
“Farmer Lupp. An acquaintance of the Wind Runner of Reizmelt, Ryoka Griffin. A…friend.”
The [Assassin] hesitated. He looked at the others, almost embarrassed.
“One of the few acquaintances she has. She’s paid you visits for more than just deliveries.”
“Just to deliver things from my daughter. I don’t know her at all.”
The [Farmer] had a bow. And he had shovels, pitchforks—none of which came to hand. He was no killer, either. The [Assassin] looked at him, almost pityingly.
“Blame yourself, [Farmer]. There’s not many on our list. And you’re by far the easiest.”
The others. Fierre, an Information Broker, used to watching her back. Mad Madain? A former Gold-rank Adventurer? A [Fistfighter] in Invrisil? Forget the damned inn.
“Who will miss a [Farmer]? Step out and we’ll make it quick.”
Lupp had the door in his hands. He pushed—but one of the [Assassins] was holding it open.
“I don’t know her.”
A lie. The [Assassin] produced a red, glowing stone. He offered it to Lupp. He did not look…happy to do this. Just resigned. Tired.
The Guild of Assassins was burning. But neither Lupp nor Ryoka had considered that even if the Faces were massacred, the Guild broken—they could still find one or two agents to take vengeance.
“You don’t have to do this.”
He tried one last time. The [Assassin] in front looked at him.
“You’re friends with Ryoka Griffin. She destroyed our home. Will it be slow or quick, farmer?”
The old man’s heart beat too quickly. He was shaking. Like other people in this situation, he was searching for a way out. But few attempts on his life had been made like this. A [Mugger], a [Thief]—a confrontation at a tavern.
This—was different. The [Farmer] looked at the [Assassins]. If he shoved the door closed and went to run—
They’d put a bolt in his back before he even took a step. The [Corn Farmer] looked at them. Then…he let go of the door.
“I know Ryoka Griffin.”
They stirred. The [Farmer] opened and closed his hands.
“I know that young woman. She’s a friend. Not one I knew long. But I think I knew her well enough. She was so sad. Too sad for a girl her age. Younger’n my daughter, even.”
He was shaking harder. His eyes blurred a bit. Lupp had to say it, though.
“I saw her on that orb. Running for her life. Defying your Guild. She never looked—”
He swallowed. Then smiled through the tears.
“She never looked happier. She flew. I was never prouder of anyone. If you’re here to kill me for being her friend—d-do it. I’ll never regret knowing the Wind Runner.”
Lupp’s voice stumbled a bit. He wished he’d said his last words as bravely as he thought them, with confidence and daring.
…It was enough. The [Assassins] listened, politely. Then, the one in front nodded.
“Said well enough. Do it.”
The one with the crossbow raised it. Lupp closed his eyes.
Snap. A bowstring cracking.
Thud.
 
—-
 
Lupp cracked one eye open. He saw the [Assassin] collapse. An arrow was sticking out of his head.
The scarecrow had shot him in the face.
The scarecrow had—?
The [Assassins] whirled. A second arrow knocked the leader down. He screamed as he tried to drag it out of his thigh. Lupp stared. He fell back, as the other two crashed around the side of the house, for cover.
Lupp was stunned. He didn’t know what was happening. He certainly wasn’t about to fight or take cover more effectively. He just had one thought.
I’ve leveled up. I’ve gained [Awaken Scarecrows]. No—[Automated Scarecrows]. I didn’t hear it. I must have leveled—
He realized, a moment later, that this wasn’t true. The big hint was the shouting voice.
“Take them!”
It wasn’t the [Assassins]. Lupp heard them die. Screams—two more thunks as arrows hit them. He dared to peek out his door. He saw his scarecrow lower the bow. Then—brush at its face.
The wicker creation he used to scare crows away as, even dressed up as himself, became a figure standing in the field. The illusion spell melted off the [Archer] as she looked around.
More figures spread out in his field of corn. Each one had a bow. They’d killed the [Assassins].
“Secure the farm! Make sure there’s no backup. What word from the other teams?”
“Reizmelt secure. Second farm secure. Assassin team headed to the farm intercepted and dead.”
“Good.”
The figure walked up the hill towards Lupp. Reflexively, he almost closed the door in her face.
“Farmer Lupp? It’s safe.”
“Who—who are—”
The figure nodded at him. She—it was a she—was wearing a strange armor that seemed to take on the characteristics of whatever was around her. Right now it looked like the dirt of his farm’s path; if she laid down, she’d be all but invisible.
“I am a [Stealth Archer] in the employ of the House of El, Farmer Lupp. You are under the protection of the Five Families.”
“The House of…”
The woman nodded, her eyes on the distance.
“The aegis of the Veltras Family is on you. Until the Guild is destroyed, we will be protecting your farm.”
The other figures in his field, searching the bodies of the [Assassins], wore the colors of House Veltras. [Soldiers]. Expert [Marksmen]. Lupp stared.
“But—how—”
“Lord Veltras requested aid from the Five Families. Friends and family of the Wind Runner of Reizmelt are to be guarded. Obviously.”
The [Stealth Archer] smiled, eying the dead [Assassins]. She turned to Farmer Lupp.
“Apologies about the delay. Veltras’ agents were still getting into position. I would have taken all four if I had to, but…”
She shrugged. She must have come first; the other [Archers] looked exhausted, having ridden through the night to get here. Lupp was at a loss for words. He looked at the [Stealth Archer]. At the dead [Assassins]. Relief made him weak.
As before, so, now. All the [Farmer] could think to do was point towards his open door.
“Thank you. Thank you. Would you like—some corn?”
 
—–
Even their most tertiary agents were dying. The Guild of Assassins lay in ruins. The headquarters in First Landing was obliterated and two more of their bases were burning.
There was no leadership. Conflicting [Messages], ordering them to regroup, or strike at their enemies—the agents of the Circle of Thorns were similarly panicked.
The truth was—their great gambit had failed. In every conceivable way. And now that the threat upon his sons was ended, both Tyrion Veltras and the Five Families—and even lesser houses of Izril were turning their might upon the Guild without fear.
The worst had happened to them. So—now came wrath and ruination.
 
—-
 
House of El. Lord Deilan had, with Zedalien’s advice, stones brought out. [Appraisal], [Truth]—to find agents in his lands. Any that were located were not engaged directly, like Veltras’ forces who were running down every [Assassin] they could find.
“Seeker arrows. Target is fleeing.”
One of the El Family’s [Archers] stood on the roof of their manor. He drew a crafted arrow, one of the El Family’s creations, and loosed it. It flew up and kept flying, defying physics, arcing with more range and accuracy than even most Skills could allow. The [Eagle-eye Marksman] saw the fleeing figure crumple.
 
—-
 
The Wellfar Family at sea sunk another burning ship. The Guild had ships, some of whom had been trying to flee. In vain; Wellfar’s navy was their strength, and even their flagship was out. In a show of force, it had bombarded the cutter-sized ship with firepower meant for another warship.
It was raining, as water fell around one of the [Captains]. He grimaced and wiped at his cap. Then turned his attention towards the coast, sighting other ships. Not one rat would flee Izril.
For Gresaria and Regein Wellfar. The Harbormistress of First Landing’s reputation had been such that even [Captains] who had disliked her work keeping the docks clear of contraband were refusing to carry [Assassins].
It was personal to them, such that the [Lords] and [Ladies] were leading their own ships, on the hunt for [Assassins] in the waters. Out for blood.
 
—-
 
The Terland Family was more prosaic. They did not take to arms themselves; well, some of the younger hotheads did. But Ulva Terland simply gave one order, and remained secluded, safeguarded until the threat passed.
For the Terland family, that was enough.
The Guild’s stronghold in the northeast was fortified against magical attack as well as mundane. It was less-obvious than the one in First Landing. But overconfidence had lost its chief protection—secrecy. And like the Guild in First Landing, it might have staved off an army with its fortifications.
But not a bombardment from a relic of the House of Wellfar. And similarly—
“They’re coming!”
A cry. The [Assassins] watched the doors, which were being battered by some unknown force. The Guild was trembling with the impacts. They coated their weapons with poisons, trained Wands of [Fireball] on the door.
An [Assassin] peeked out an arrow slit. But the fog-spells made it impossible to see what was assailing them. House Terland, of course. But what kind of army? They’d loosed arrows and bolts and spells, but heard no cry of—
A fist punched through the arrow slit. Through enchanted stone. The [Assassin] screamed—a second before the fist tried to draw her through the small opening.
Her body resisted. But the Golem’s strength was inexorable. It pulled—and most of the [Assassin] followed.
The other [Assassins] saw a glowing rune as the Golem proceeded to punch through the wall again. Then the double doors burst open.
“They’re just Golems! Destroy them and—”
The words left the [Assassin] leading the defense. The wind sucked out of the room. They gasped—looking up.
A glowing Golem’s Heart. Whirling pieces of armor surrounding it. But the body of one of Terland’s greatest relic-protectors was just…
Poetically, perhaps. Given the Wind Runner’s involvement. The [Assassins] did not admire the Wind Golem. They fell, choking for air or grabbing emergency artifacts like Jars of Air as the lesser Golems charged into their guild. The few Humans hung back until the job was done.
 
—-
 
The Reinhart Family, mostly confined to their estates in decadence, placed bets on how many [Assassins] were dying. They had lost nothing, given nothing. They took part in small ways.
Their matriarch, and not well-beloved, was gone. Most watched the slaughter with urbane amusement.
 
—-
 
House Veltras’ army had long been considered the largest and most powerful, at least under Tyrion Veltras. A standing force that was mighty—yet, as the [Assassins] had proven, flawed in some crucial areas.
Counterintelligence was the game of Reinharts. That would change. But at least in open conflict, they were greatly feared. And all the pent-up wrath of nearly a month was unleashed in the bloodiest purge of their lands and the surrounding region.
[Assassins] fought [Soldiers] in one-sided melees. The Skills that allowed them to kill foes in armor, from afar, in secret, were of less use in a pitched battle. And the best of them, who had killed [Knights] and high-level foes, the Faces, were dead.
Or being hunted down.
