“Sorry, I didn’t think we’d scare you!”
Octavia had a thing about surprise-visitors of late. She waved it off.
“It’s okay. Just—don’t do that. Why didn’t you use the [Garden]?”
“I think Mrsha’s using it to play teleport-tag with some kids. I don’t want them to smash into a wall.”
The games Mrsha played with her friends were really fun. Teleport tag meant you could run through walls and it was almost as fun as monster hide-and-seek. That was where Palt cast [Cloud of Darkness] and the monster found people—you could move around in the dark.
“Why are you here, Erin? It’s a huge crowd out there, by the way. And no one’s buying. They keep asking if Saliss is here. Or where the restroom is. Or Solar Cycles.”
Glumly, Octavia went back to her brew. It was fair. She wasn’t the highest-level yet and her first Invisibility Potion attempt had failed.
But here was Erin Solstice. And Snapjaw and Badarrow. Erin pointed at the two.
“They want mana potions.”
Octavia’s ears perked up. She turned around.
“Really?”
Then she eyed her potential customers.
“Um…although, Erin, I have some I can give out. But the cost is—”
“They can pay, Octavia.”
The [Alchemist] brightened up instantly.
“Excellent! Not that I would have been stingy! It’s just—money for goods. How many mana potions do you need? I have a deal with Wailant, that cutpurse farming b—but I have lots of Sage’s Grass, even if I do have to pay more than I should for it. You won’t get cheaper potions around!”
Snapjaw nudged Badarrow. Whoa. And she thought all his coincidence-stories had been just talk! Octavia pointed at rows of potions, sold generally to the [Mages] in the inn.
“How many are you looking for, um, Snapjaw? Badarrow? Great to see you again, by the way. I said that, right?”
Badarrow nodded. Snapjaw consulted her internal orders. She pointed at the shelf.
“…All of it?”
Octavia turned around slowly. She removed an ear and Snapjaw nearly leapt into Badarrow’s arms.
“What was that? Let me just resew—”
“As many as have. And healing potions. As many as can buy?”
Badarrow informed her. Octavia looked at Erin—the [Innkeeper] was just as amazed.
“Er—and what’s your budget?”
The two Hobgoblins conferred. That made Octavia worry—right up until Snapjaw pulled something out of her bag of holding.
“Gold?”
She put a handful on the counter. Then another. Then—a lump of gold. Erin and Octavia stared at it.
“How did—”
Badarrow smirked. Numbtongue wasn’t the only gifted Goblin miner. Pyrite’s legacy. Snapjaw shrugged.
“Found some in Goblinhome when digging. Kept running into it. Very pretty. Too heavy, though. Used for adventurer bait. Is good as gold coins? Have more. Also—this?”
She produced something else that made both of them stir.
A wyvern’s fang. Octavia blinked at it.
“That’s…”
“Good for arrowheads. Weapons. Got more. Good meat?”
“D-do you have a Wyvern’s head?”
“…Bones? Good soup stock. Calescent make good Wyvern-brain jelly.”
Badarrow shook his head rapidly behind Snapjaw, making a gagging motion. Octavia was blinking.
Goblins. Who had artifacts, gold from adventurers. Who didn’t prize money. And who had access to a lot of monster parts. Heck, even Goblin toenails if you believed Xif—
“Will give more. For potions. All potions. Many as can make.”
Badarrow informed Octavia. She looked around. Her shelf of mana potions? All she could make?
She looked at Erin. Then she thought about the offer from Pallass. Octavia shook her head.
“This is why I stick around.”
 
—–
 
Erin Solstice returned to the chess tournament after a few more minutes. So much was happening. But she should have been watchful.
All this attention—not all of it was positive. You had to watch for the future. Someone waited for their moment to get to her.
And someone found Joseph as he went for some hydration, panting. The games of football and baseball were underway. He was ascending the hill, and reflecting that they needed a barrel of water and some oranges or something.
“Ishkr, could we get—”
Someone grabbed him and pulled him behind the inn. Joseph jerked.
“Hey, what the—”
“Joseph of The Wandering Inn.”
Someone whispered into his ear. Joseph twisted. He saw a figure, covered in…shadows? They came from a hat he wore on his head. Someone in disguise.
“Who are you? Hey! H—“
The figure stopped him again. Joseph realized the sounds from the game and inn had stopped. They were in a bubble of silence. The figure advanced.
“I have an offer for you from my employers.”
“Whatever you want—”
“Hear me out.”
Joseph held still. The figure looked around. And then advanced.
“You stand to make a lot of gold. If you agree. Listen to me, carefully. Do you think you could train a football team to beat both Liscor and Pallass’ teams within the month?”
The young man from Spain stared at the shadowy—suddenly much-less-frightening figure. The Invrisil representative produced an exclusivity contract for their new team—they wanted to be the best team in all of Izril! And they were both Humans here—if Joseph would become exclusive manager, they’d pay—Joseph’s eyes bulged at the sum.
He…was going to need to talk with Erin about that.
 
—-
 
Calruz of Hammerad did not go out to celebrate. Nor—did he leave his cell. That being difficult. But he did stare at the scrying orb someone had left behind by accident.
Placed just outside his cell, actually. Since the cell would have cut off the signal. He could ask for it turned off since you could watch it all day. Rhata and Haldagaz were sitting on his head, watching the replay. The Minotaur kept watching.
“Well done, Ryoka.”
He waited. Doing one-armed pushups. Then lifting weights. It was odd to think he was in far better shape now than even before entering prison. But what else was he supposed to do?
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice actually had to go to the bathroom after four more games.
“Stop following me!”
She opened the door to the outhouse twice to throw things at the crowd, who hadn’t believed her after her first bit of duplicity. Erin eventually stopped throwing rolls of toilet paper as the crowd dispersed, mostly thanks to the cloud of smoke covering them.
“Thank you, Palt.”
Someone was waiting for her after she left. Erin stopped adjusting her belt and blinked.
“Oh. You.”
She had been prepared to throw something at the next person to bother her. But this person merited some respect.
“I wonder if I might borrow you for a moment before you return to that engaging tournament? I’m taking part myself—but we have urgent business.”
“We do? Urgent? What about?”
Erin followed the long, sinuous tail and walked apace with Hexel the [Architect] as they left the inn. Instantly—a crowd spotted her.
“She’s trying to get away! Get—”
They walked into the [Garden] and everyone who wasn’t wise splatted into the seemingly-open doorway.
The Lamia was here. Of course he was. With a Gnoll who had been cheering him on as he rose through the tournament’s ranks. But the [Architect] had business with Erin. As they slowly walked around the Garden, he admired the Fortress Beaver’s dam.
“You are aware I love buildings, don’t you, Miss Solstice? There’s something indescribable about edifices. Permanent—until someone knocks them down.”
“Or blows ‘em up.”
The [Architect] nodded.
“In your case, your inn has been destroyed, what, twice now?”
“Mhm. Wait. Maybe three times? You lose track. You know, Lyonette wanted to hire you, but she said you declined.”
“I was rather busy with my principal job. I still am; I must design an entire city, and that is no small task. One I enjoy—but I have realized your inn should become just as high a priority.”
Erin waved a hand awkwardly.
“Aw. You don’t have to. It’s decent as it is—unless you think there’s something wrong?”
“No, it’s quite Terandrian in design, but wonderfully made. The Antinium did a fine job. I certainly don’t intend to redesign everything…but I would like to offer my services for certain improvements that you desperately need. This day, in fact.”
“Like what?”
Erin couldn’t think what was alarming the Lamia so. Hexel looked at her, and sighed.
“Your magical door. With this incident with the Guild of Assassins, the door must be guarded at all times. It is no longer appropriate to just leave it…unsecured.”
“We have the hallway of traps.”
Hexel rolled his eyes.
“Yes. But—Miss Solstice. Allow me to put it like this. You are aware one can simply…pick up the magic door and move it wherever they please? If I wanted, I could grab the door and drag it out of the inn.”
“…No one’s done that more than once. Besides, we need to move it sometimes. For tactical advantage and stuff.”
Erin shuffled her feet, coughed. Hexel gave her a long look.
“So you left it unsecured. Moreover—even with the hallway of traps, the [Assassins] simply walked into your inn because you did not detect them.”
“If you’re going to tell me I’m being stupid, I’ll admit to that, but it’s hurtful, Hexel.”
The Lamia laughed at this.
“I would not be that indiscreet. And rather like your [Farmer] friend’s solution to your door’s mana problem—I have an [Architect]’s solution to these needs. If you will look at this?”
He murmured a Skill and produced a piece of paper. It unfolded—into multiple dimensions. Erin saw a three-dimensional projection, a blueprint in color and detail, appear.
She had not seen his presentation to the Council of Liscor and was agog. The Lamia gestured at the floating design.
“Allow me to show you my proposed fix. This is the simplest of methods to secure your door. You see?”
Erin saw. And it was so much easier to see than a blueprint, or even a picture. She saw the door, suspended above a small staircase. Fixed in place by…
“Bars of wood? No, wait—”
Yes! They were like wooden door bars, except they secured the door by all four corners! And they had…locks! They turned as Hexel manipulated the design. The door came clear and two Gnolls that looked like Ishkr carried it off.
“A simple lock and wooden bars means ordinary wood with your [Reinforced Structure] Skill can lock the door into place when it is in this entry spot. And it would still be stronger—far stronger—than normal brickwork or stone. The cost, with Antinium labor, is almost negligible. You could make this almost instantaneously.”
“That’s so smart! Hexel, you’re a genius!”
“You only noticed now?”
The Lamia grinned. Then he rolled up the scroll, making the projection vanish.
“That’s the simplest measure of course; one could still break the wood itself. This is a more ambitious design. I made it for fun.”
The second ‘Portal Entry Room’ as he’d titled it appeared and Erin’s eyes bulged. The first design had spoken to the practical [Architect], who could create something cost-effective and workable. This was the mad dream of a builder with an unlimited budget.
The second room was a lot larger than the first. A dedicated area for people to enter and exit by. However—it was trapped to all hell and back.
The magic door hung suspended over a walkway with a hundred foot drop into a pit. The inn actually extended all that way down, having been built extensively downwards. Meanwhile, a single suspended bridge allowed access to the inn which could not only be collapsed at will, but was also supported by an advanced version of Belgrade’s kill box.
For final effect, the entire room was underneath a body of water…Erin read the floating words ‘lake? Connected to Liscor reservoir?’ scrawled there. If necessary, and via trapdoors, you could flood the entire room and seal it underwater in an emergency.
“…That would be the second-most daring design. As I said, not practical. Very fun to draw up.”
Hexel rolled up the scroll and Erin’s mouth closed.
“That is insane. You made that for fun?”
“You didn’t like it?”
“I did, but—why are you helping? Not that I mind, Hexel, but—you have a job.”
The [Architect] smiled with his pointed teeth.
“I do. It’s self-interest as much as my occupation. I wouldn’t like to have the door stolen, or have [Assassins] bothering me in my sleep. I’ve nearly died once on Izril; that’s enough. If you’d like, I can work on a simple security system and have it done…today?”
“Wh—the door entryway?”
“No. That’s quite another thing. You would have to dedicate a room—and even with my Skills and Antinium labor, it would take longer. I mean, a security system just in the interim. It is remarkably easy. Give me one hour and the use of your Workers?”
Erin ran to get Belgrade.
 
—-
 
She played two more long games against the Earl and Chaldion and beat both in the next hour. At the same time her mysterious chess opponent did the same.
Undefeated. They were playing at the top of their games. Erin was angling for a rematch when Hexel told her the ‘security device’ was done.
She found him overseeing an archway just over the door. It was ‘locked’ into the wall with a variant of the door-latch system he’d showed her. A very simple one, but he’d attached a metal lock to the bar.
“What is this?”
The archway looked close to one of those Japanese arches in temples to Erin’s eyes. The wood was…different.
“I had the Antinium and my assistants cut this to design. It’s just an amplifying design, Miss Solstice. Now—install it there, and there, please.”
The Antinium were already lowering the beams of the arch into the hallway. They’d cut holes perfectly fitting the pieces. Hexel was admiring of their technique.
“Antinium have a wonderful design system. Positively reminiscent of Dullahans, actually. Their concept of building individual pieces that can be assembled on-location is so much more efficient than static designs. And…aha!”
He gestured to the arch, a tiny bit smaller than the hallway itself. People would pass through…and it had something in the center. A socket. Erin stared at it blankly.
“It looks nice. But what’s it for?”
Hexel produced a glowing gem. He showed it to Erin.
“This is mine. The archway goes here. Truth stone embeds here.”
He reached up as the stone glowed blue. Erin’s eyes widened as Hexel extended his body and placed the stone in the socket.
“Truth spells can replace it later, but your average truth stone won’t run out of charge for three days…now, we test it. You there. Halt!”
Liska, who’d let in another group from Invrisil, looked up. And the mob of mostly-Humans stopped in their tracks. Hexel gestured at the stone, concealed from them.
It was about twelve people. The Lamia addressed them as they looked uncertainly at him and Erin.
