There were three. One was fifteen, a daughter, an [Alchemist] in training. Like her mother, she had a gift. A boy, fourteen, held back by the younger daughter, who was eleven. The daughter had inherited something…odd. A preternatural strength that meant that even at her age, she was stronger than her siblings.
It came from her mother. They had not seen her for the last month; she was a travelling [Trader]-[Alchemist], who had a lot of clients.
They, and her husband, had been shocked beyond belief when she returned, missing an arm, in the late hours of the night. She had told them to pack everything in their comfortable manor. To run with her.
They had asked too many questions. Or perhaps—
An army had followed them. The [Commander] wore the insignia of House Veltras. A reassuring sight; they had lived on the edges of House Veltras’ territory all their lives.
But the [Soldiers] were training their weapons upon the manor. And the [Commander] was shouting.
“Mire of the Assassins’ Guild. Leave your manor now or we will demolish it to ash.”
“Mire? Mother, who’s that?”
The oldest daughter stared up their mother, Chena Vall. Chena said nothing.
“Chena—what’s going on? They have to be joking. This—”
Her husband was a local [Vintner], respected for his quality. He’d met Chena while working on an alchemical stock of his wine…
Decades lay between them. Her children had grown up here without fear of hunger or sickness. Everything she had wanted. Mire looked at her husband and the truth, the real truth of who she was, finally gave way.
Maybe he had suspicions. Tiny clues he pushed aside. Perhaps he had wondered about their youngest daughter’s gifts, somehow transmitted by potions she’d drunk while carrying her.
It broke him in two. The [Vintner] exited the manor, holding his hands up.
“There has to be some kind of mistake. My wife—her name is Chena. Chena Vall. I’m Loren Vall. [Commander]—”
“Mire the [Alchemist] is a one-armed [Assassin] from the Guild. Hold your ground, sir. You will be taken in for questioning in your involvement in the Guild’s attempt on the lives of Lord Sammial and Hethon Veltras and the threats made to the Five Families of Izril.”
His eyes bulged.
“Lords…but we sent our wishes for their health! We’ve been staunch supporters of the Veltras family all our lives. Chena! Chena, come out and tell them—”
He wanted to go back towards the manor. The children looked up at their mother. She was crouched—a glowing potion in her grip.
“Mother? What’s that potion?”
Her daughter locked eyes on the glowing liquid, of a far greater potency than the humble [Trader]-[Alchemist] should have been able to brew. Her mother said nothing.
“Stay down. The windows are warded.”
“Chena! Come out here! This is all a mistake, Commander—”
“Stay where you are! Do not go inside!”
The man didn’t listen. He went for the door after a moment’s hesitation.
“Loose!”
A snap of bowstrings. A scream from inside. Mire said nothing.
“Father!”
The youngest daughter let go of her brother. He ran for the door.
“Stop—”
The bows which had slain Loren trained on the boy. He halted. And Mire spoke at last.
“Enough! Don’t kill him!”
“Exit with your arms raised.”
The [Assassin] did. Her arm, actually. The [Commander] stared at her.
“That’s her. [Assassin]! Drop your gear on the ground! [Mages]—”
They were checking her, appraising her to make sure she had no secret weapons. Bitterly, Mire tossed her potion, her belt, her bag of holding, secret blades on the ground.
Her son, her daughters, stared at her. The illusion ended. The [Assassin] laughed.
“You’ve taken it all from me. I surrender. Just—just let them live and I’ll tell you everything.”
“Secure her.”
The [Commander] didn’t take his burning eyes off Mire. [Soldiers]—Veltras’ best—dragged her down, securing her in cuffs that blocked both Skills and magic. Relics in their own right. Mire bared her teeth as they shackled her legs; hard to do with one arm.
“Mother!”
“Keep them back. Mire the Alchemist. You have made an attempt on the lives of multiple members of the Five Families. What say you, if anything?”
They forced her face into the dirt. Mire spat up at them.
“I’m an [Assassin]. I had my orders. You’re a [Soldier]. Listen, I know all the Faces, and the Guild’s locations—”
“I’m sure you do. My duty, however, is clear. For your crimes, the House of Veltras judges you guilty. By admission. By witness. By magic. That is enough. The sentence is death. Execute her.”
“Wh—no! I have information!”
Mire had not been expecting that. She’d been prepared to bargain it all away. There was a cry from the manor.
“Keep the children back. No—lock them inside. Away from the windows.”
The [Commander] glanced over Mire’s shoulder. Mire struggled then, trying to throw the arms off. Break the grips—fight barehanded.
“Sword.”
The [Commander] dismounted. Mire cursed, screaming. There were voices from behind her. Arguing, begging, pleading. One of the [Soldiers] cried out as the youngest daughter shoved him aside. The children raced past the guards. It couldn’t be true. Even now—
Mire looked up as the sword swung down. Her head rolled. The [Commander] wiped the blade and handed it to the [Soldier].
“Target neutralized. To the next. You—you. Ensure the children are managed until Lord Veltras decides their fate.”
Such was House Veltras’ justice.
 
—-
 
The hatred of it—it was almost funny. Look how efficiently vicious they were when you roused them to it.
House Veltras, and its prideful [Lord]. If only they were this ruthless to begin with, it would have never come to that.
You couldn’t have threatened Magnolia Reinhart the same way you did Lord Tyrion. But now he’d found his wrath.
“We were close. I had my hand on his throat. I could have killed them. I was more powerful than the leader of one of the Five Families.”
She mumbled. Not sure if the words were actually coming out of her lips. She felt odd. Naked.
Her mask was gone. That was worse than the lack of her gear. Her mask.
The [Toxins Expert] had wondered why she wasn’t dead when she first woke up. But the answer was obvious.
To her disappointment, it was not Lord Tyrion Veltras who descended the steps into this small place. But it made a lot of sense. The [Assassin] mumbled.
“Am I in the Veltras Manor?”
“I would not suffer your presence. Nor would Ullim. Your companions are dead. Your Guild is burning, [Assassin]. The cure has been delivered. All your plans have come to naught.”
Jericha descended the steps and looked at the [Toxins Expert]. The [Assassin] paused. It had been she who’d defeated the [Assassin] in the moments when Lord Tyrion had gone to secure the cure. If it had been the [Lord]—well, the [Toxins Expert] thought she wouldn’t have been in one piece.
…Comparatively. She spat some blood, hoping that the woman would come closer. Even her blood was poisonous. But the second to Lord Tyrion was careful. She’d removed all the [Assassin]’s weapons, even the hidden ones.
“The Guild’s being destroyed? The other Faces?”
“Dead or being hunted.”
“…The Circle?”
“It will be rooted out and purged. Every traitorous member. My [Lord] has sworn it.”
“Huh. Okay.”
Jericha hesitated. She eyed the restrained [Assassin].
“You have nothing else to say?”
“I never liked the Guild. Or my fellows. I had a few friends. I came close, though. Your [Lord] begged me on his knees for my help.”
Jericha clenched one hand. She took a step forwards—then relaxed. She stepped back, sighed.
“House Veltras is extinguishing your fellow [Assassins] one by one, [Assassin]. But your existence proves we were unprepared. There are more, aren’t there?”
“Oh yes.”
The [Mage] found a seat. She sat there, and the [Toxins Expert] looked up at her.
“You will tell me everything. Your Guild—your secrets. Where you all sprung from.”
“And if I do…you’ll kill me swiftly?”
A hoarse laugh. Jericha’s stony face twitched. She looked at the [Assassin] and almost smiled.
“No. That is what you will tell me. Either way, you’ll live. We have personal business to settle.”
“Ah.”
The [Assassin] began to giggle, and laugh. She wondered if Jericha even knew how she’d been trained. If she should surpass that—she’d be very impressed.
Oh well. She kept laughing, until the [Silence] spell cut off the sound. And still laughed then.
She’d been so close! For a no one like her—hadn’t that been something?
Alas. Here came the consequences.
 
—-
 
“Our best [Assassins] are dead. Some of our agents have been compromised. Rooted out. They—they’ve killed one of the Petals of Death!”
The Circle of Thorns met thusly. Not in person; but their representatives filled the room built for them. Some from far away. Puppet proxies, magical reflections, their origin and sending disguised.
One of them was shouting. Raving, in a panic. In fear of his very life. Some of the others were likewise. Two were silent. The rest?
“We are all in danger! What will we do? The Five Families—that damned Veltras has sworn to find all of us! We have to hide. We—we must—”
They had tried to take it all, and in the process, lost everything they had. The Circle could still fight back, though. They had agents, members of the Guild who weren’t active fighters. They just had to…
The inner sanctum of the Circle of Thorns was suddenly filled with a strange sound. The Petals of Death, and the speaker, jerked. Suddenly—
There was applause. Half of the Petals of Death stood on their feet, applauding, a standing ovation. One of them spoke.
“Well done! Splendid! This has been the greatest display of ineptitude from the Circle! More than in a thousand years! More blood spilled, more members lost! A disaster like none ever seen! The guild is broken, the Circle is hunted!”
The Petal of Death laughed. The others were laughing, applauding, even cheering.
The other Petals stirred.
“Wh—what? Are you mad? There’s no time to applaud!”
“On the contrary. It’s exactly what we wanted!”
It was a standing ovation. Half the Petals applauded, the other half sat in bewildered silence.
“For so long, your Guild has been a powerful force. Reinhart used it to kill our agents. It may have preyed on Izril—but it was a spider that caught too many flies. And the Circle has been both a check on the Five Families and an opponent of all who would take Izril. No more. Well done.”
Another Petal leaned forwards. The Petals of Death who hadn’t applauded stirred. They were, of course, minor [Lords] and [Ladies]. Those who had connections with the Circle. Who desired a change in how things were.
But…what had that Petal said? ‘Your Guild’? Suddenly—the Petals were silent.
“You. We inducted you into our order. You’re…[Lady] Melisaw.”
One of the Petals murmured. It was anathema to reveal one of their members to each other. But—the figure appeared, shedding the disguise on her scrying mirror.
It was Lady Melisaw. A slightly pudgy [Lady]. Born of a small House in Izril, who had faithfully worked her way up the ranks. It was her—
And then it wasn’t. A blur surrounded the real woman. It might not even have been Human. The Petals recoiled.
“Well done. But we don’t meet face-to-face, do we? And all my lovely agents swore that I was who I said I was.”
“You—who are you?”
The other Petals, who’d applauded, changed. They laughed. The Circle of Thorns, the true Circle, looked at their imposters.
“Izril’s famous Guild lies in ruins. Nobles are dead, fighting each other, and more will die as the Circle is destroyed. The best part is—I couldn’t have even planned this. I was prepared to do something, but you all hung yourselves without me needing to do more than nod along.”
Another fake Petal chuckled. The others laughed.
“You were once called Izril’s unseen dagger. A weapon that fought in secrecy. Look at you now. Rot and decay have crept into your ranks. If all of us could infiltrate—you deluded fools. Well, we have you to thank. We’ll see you all soon enough. Count on it, fools.”
The blurred woman. She sneered as the Petals of Izril looked at each other in horror. Other species! Other nations.
Other continents. The Circle of Thorns was filled with more mocking laughter. Then the traitorous half vanished. The remaining Petals realized—they were compromised. The Circle had been infected from the start. They panicked, shouting at each other, screaming, the smart ones disconnecting from their conference right away.
Only two remained, in silence. Perhaps—shock? Or something else. The last two Petals sat there a moment, regarding each other. Then they too, vanished.
 
—-
 
So. Deception on all sides. Vengeance and death. The day after the cure was delivered and two young [Lord]’s lives were saved contained almost as much death as the day before.
From some. Blood and panic and wrath.
Not all. The [Lord] of House Veltras, for instance, surprisingly, had forsworn the same fury that led his people to cleanse his lands. He knelt at his son’s bedside, listening to calm breathing in slumber. It was a sweet sound.
It could consume you, that bitter need to draw blood. To exact more pain than you’d taken. Some things mattered more, though. Tyrion Veltras just listened to his sons sleeping. If not for them—he would have heard nothing else.
Presently, he rose. Ullim remained. And countless guards. Tyrion was exhausted. But he stopped at one more room, to look in, for a moment.
The savior of House Veltras lay unconscious. The [Healer] still ministered to her. Worried. But she still breathed. Tyrion Veltras nodded to her again, then went to rest for the first time since this ordeal began.
 
—-
 
Away from Izril’s north, boiling with anger. Away from bloodshed. The news was focused on all these things of course, the discourse of the world obsessing over the new Courier, the implications, a weakened Izril…
But this time, this time, they hadn’t missed it. It had been a tagline on other events around Liscor, the Wyvern attack on Pallass. Hints of it had appeared before.
Now—it was impossible to ignore. It was a name, which was suddenly on everyone’s tongues. Multiple names.
The Wandering Inn. Liscor. And, following that, an almost inevitable question.
“Who is Erin Solstice?”
Why was that name important? Yet—if you traced why the [Lord] of House Everight had fought at Invrisil—why Grimalkin of Pallass had been seen fighting—the Black Tide…it came down to a name.
Erin Solstice. You had to be smart to uncover that name. Most curious viewers would only get as far as ‘The Wandering Inn’, and only if they broke down the events at Invrisil in a meaningful way.
