“I am already Bird. I am so much Bird that I cannot be more Bird, Erin. Therefore, the boon has no effect. That is obvious. You must use more logic.”
“Sorry. I’ll do better next time.”
“Good.”
He took his tray and walked back upstairs. After a moment, Erin decided to try [Boon of Pisces]. She hoped it would cause sniffing. Because that would be hilarious.
Someone stopped her as she looked around for a target of her suddenly boon-shy audience. Montressa’s crimson cheeks had suddenly alerted her guests that there was danger in the boon—at least as strongly as Erin could apply it.
“Psst. Erin. Would you mind putting the boon on me and leaving it on? I’ll pay. Anything except being naked to my feathers I’d take. And some of your soups? Do they go bad?”
Erin twisted. And there was…
“Bevussa?”
The Garuda was smiling. But she and her team were all geared up, unlike the other casual guests. Erin blinked.
“Oh, right! You want to use it to go into the dungeon? What, am I going to rent my Skill out?”
She saw Lyonette’s eyes light up. Erin scowled at her. But Bevussa demurred.
“Not the dungeon. Someone saw the Wings of Pallass in action. Or they just realized they can hire one of the few flying teams on the continent. We have a job to the north. Search and recover some heirloom from ruins high up along the High Passes. Can we use your door?”
Erin’s jaw dropped. So did several Pallassians. A job for a Drake adventuring team?
“Wow! I mean—sure. I don’t know about my boon, Bevussa…”
“That’s fine. But what about your magical foods? That’s a cheaper Barkskin equivalent, right? Even if they do taste like Shield Spider entrails.”
Erin put her hands on her hips.
“I’ll have you know they’re improved! And a bit stronger? Maybe. Um…you could take them for like, a few days before they get nasty. A lot more if they’re refrigerated or in a bag of holding. Anyways, the Scale Soup is now the Scaleguard Sandwich! It’s…a giant stuffed artichoke leaf. But it tastes better!”
Bevussa brightened up.
“I’ll take eight, then. Double dose.”
“Aw, Captain—”
“Shut up, Issa. Artichokes won’t kill you.”
Erin bustled into her kitchen, happy as could be. Her forays into magical food had paid off! Indeed, even the giant artichoke leaf sandwich was a thousand times more appealing than…blue sludge. Someone actually ordered it just to see what it tasted like.
“A job to the north? Think we might get any takers?”
Keldrass and his team, relaxing after their combat as well. Bevussa could only shrug; her team could fly to their destination and back, meaning they didn’t have nearly the same travel time and they could deploy faster.
“But the Flamewardens are the mostly highly-armored, elite group in the region.”
Bevussa snorted at that. Jelaqua raised a fist and punched Keldrass in the shoulder.
“Only because you outbid us for the Heartflame Breastplate, scalehead.”
The Oldblood Drake smirked. Right up until Selys slapped her forehead.
“Oh, Ancestors. I forgot. This isn’t a great time to bring it up, but—Keldrass? Once your lease of the Heartflame Armor is up, it’s actually going to General Edellein. Or Pallass in general. They want to lease it for a month and…they’re paying a lot more. Sorry.”
“What? But I’ve been wearing it for—”
Keldrass choked on his drink as Jelaqua chortled. The Drake tried to argue, but he wasn’t really able to outbid Pallass. He looked like he was going to cry.
 
—-
 
Everything was changing. Not just in the inn. Levels had been earned by many after the battle in Invrisil. Almost everyone who had fought had leveled, come to that. But among the notable levels were…
Pawn. The [Priest] was walking the Painted Antinium’s barracks in his Hive. He should have been at the inn. And he would be.
But he was mourning the dead. There were always dead. Precious few in this battle. Only six Soldiers and eight Workers had fallen and the Black Tide had marched on Invrisil.
He was responsible for that. And Xrn. Yet still.
The Centenium was waiting for him after he turned from the fresh markings on the wall.
“A strange Antinium, even for an Individual. We did not mourn our dead—save for the greatest among us. You though—you treat each Antinium as if they were Centenium or Queens.”
“Should I not?”
Xrn tilted her head as she considered the [Priest]’s question.
“I am not Klbkch. If you wish to, I can only admire such beliefs. But I will not share them. If I cared, I could not sacrifice.”
“That is at least better than Klbkch.”
Pawn replied slowly. He had seen Xrn wiping out her enemies, flying overhead, like a figure out of Ryoka and Erin’s tales.
A peak of might. Compared to her…but Pawn was growing stronger. And Xrn knew it too.
“You are beginning to learn more tenets of your class. A different power. And it comes from…Heaven? Belief, rather than a thing?”
She asked him about that constantly. Pawn nodded.
“As ever.”
“Good. Keep it that way. And show me—your new Skill.”
Pawn hesitated. Xrn was pushy. Klbkch was authoritative, though. He put two of his four hands together, and murmured.
“[Prayer: A Leaf in the Storm].”
He felt it working. A tiny thing, here. But if Antinium prayed together as they marched—Xrn studied Pawn. She raised her staff.
“[Ice Spike].”
She loosed it at his shoulder. The spike of ice shot towards Pawn. He flinched; but at the last moment something pushed the spike slightly to the side. It missed him.
“That was dangerous, Xrn.”
She ignored him.
“A Skill that allows the Antinium to march through missiles and even spells. Magnificent. You have the Skills that we needed in the first and second wars.”
“But they are not Skills I desire to use for war.”
The Centenium paused and turned back to Pawn. She was going to investigate Yellow Splatters. She looked mystified at the pushback in Pawn’s words. Then she smiled.
“Of course you do not desire it. How amusing. How amusing…”
She walked off, chuckling. Pawn watched her back. And he thought—the Antinium should have a farm on the surface, as they had been offered. Just a farm. Xrn, he realized, thought of some great conflict. Yet Pawn was realizing more and more that someone had to save the Antinium. Find them a safe place, not a temporary reprieve. Erin had begun it. And she had helped make him.
He would have to do it himself.
 
—-
 
Another level of note was the first in the entire existence of the young…woman…who sat in her room. She had declined to join the hustle and bustle below.
She could hear the chatter. Laughter, Erin’s voice. And then the game outside. She could hear more clearly. Her eyes felt sharper, and they had been already capable of perfect night-vision.
The sunlight streamed through one window. Fierre could have left the shutters closed. But she was watching the ray of light from the shadows.
Slowly—she extended a hand. Moving it through the ray of light. Instantly, her skin turned dark, as if it had tanned for hours. She regarded the peeling skin after a second pass, the red sunburn.
But it faded. She would heal. She had to know how weak she was.
Because she was strong.
Fierre’s stomach did not growl, as it had almost continuously after Ryoka had given her the potion. She sat, languid, able to think. And she realized she’d been operating on a lower level of energy and thought. Because she had been starving.
Only now, she knew what she was missing.
A Level 7 [Assassin]. A Vampire. She bared her teeth. That kind of…windfall…wouldn’t come so easily again. Amid the distraction, with all those—
But now she knew. Fierre smacked her lips together. Felt it again. She made a sound.
“Hrkgh. Hkk. Hk—”
It was…rather like watching a cat throw up a hairball. With about as much grace and appeal. Fierre slowly regurgitated something black into her hand. She regarded it.
“…Ew.”
She went for the charcoal pills she’d had made up. But secretly, as she wiped at the bile in her mouth, she was very pleased. And—confident. She felt so confident now. Invrisil? She was done with Reizmelt, honestly. Invrisil would be her home.
The Vampire stretched. Someone—something was on her side. Ryoka, perhaps. And she was on Ryoka’s. She lay back. Her class was attuned to her—[Assassin] wasn’t her first choice, but it was a good one for an information broker like her. And clearly—it was giving her the Skills she needed.
Her very first one had been [Body: Reject Toxins]. Fierre began to chuckle to herself. She rolled over on the floor, languid, powerful, a True Vampire of Izril—
And rolled into the ray of light.
“Aah! Ow, ow, ow!”
 
—-
 
The last great leveler among the many was not someone Erin knew. Nor was she at The Wandering Inn.
The two [Witches] spotted her on their way back towards Riverfarm. Laken Godart waited for them. The [Emperor] was suddenly very busy, having established more of his credentials by their involvement.
And more—because he was suddenly a firm believer that the party could happen.
“Lady Maviola El. Quite a striking person, eh, Rie?”
“Absolutely, your Majesty.”
The nervous [Lady] watched as the flame-haired woman rode off. Neither one mentioned the fact that she wasn’t going to return that horse. Laken nodded.
“We’ll need to upgrade everything as she said. Well, we already have suitable housing. Gifts—there’s Ryoka’s work to be done. But let’s devote every resource towards the party. I will leave it in your capable hands to directly manage it, Rie.”
“Your confidence in me is—is very gratifying, Emperor Godart.”
“Mhm.”
That was all he said. The [Lady]’s loyalty might never have been higher. As for Laken Godart himself—he drummed his fingers on his leg.
“That statue of Ivolethe, Rie? Have two more made. Tell Jelov if he can’t get one done within three days, I’ll ask for the others to do it. And do we have [Poets]?”
“A smattering, amateur, one with the class as their main, Emperor.”
“Have them come to me later today. I think some suitable odes would be in order. Now…”
He leaned back and tracked the progress of the two [Witches]. Then he heard them.
“Stop! Would you stop—”
Alevica was screaming as they screeched into Riverfarm. And it was a scream, a howl of wind.
They’d replaced her broom. After all, it was just a broom. Alevica had spares. But—the problem the Witch Runner had was that she wasn’t flying.
Mavika’s leg was still broken, and set. So she’d decided to use Alevica’s broom. They were flying through the air like an arrow, weaving through trees on the ground—Mavika the Crow seemed to be enjoying herself.
“You’re insane! How do you know how to fly?”
“Did you think you were the only [Witch] who ever tried?”
Mavika’s voice was almost amused. She was sitting side-saddle on the broom, her splinted leg and good one dangling as her flock trailed behind. She remained like that even as the broom slowly rotated her upside down—to avoid a branch.
That was more than Alevica could do. The [Witch] was holding onto the broom’s bottom and flying along behind.
They passed over a large crowd toasting the preening Centaur and slowed at last. Mavika lowered the broom as Alevica ran to throw up. And there she was.
Charlay the Dustrider was being celebrated. Modesty was…not in her nature.
“There I was, eleven [Assassins] on my tail! But I kicked up a dust cloud and circled back around—they never saw me coming!”
The proud Centaur was itching to demonstrate her new Skills. Her enthusiastic crowd…backed up. They were all set for listening to the local heroine’s tales, but they were getting tired of the clouds of dust she could generate with her hooves.
 
—-
 
Those who were not laughing or smiling came for lunch. They had a bit of trouble entering, though.
“Hold on. Who’re you lot. Shady buggers.”
“Who are you, sir?”
Wilovan, Ratici, and the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings stared at the group of adventurers letting people enter the inn.
“Captain Todi of Todi’s Elites. Making sure no bastards come into this inn—just a bit of pro bono work, actually. And you’re a group of ne’er-do-wells if I ever saw ‘em. Here, Miss Solstice, should we kick ‘em back—”
“Wilovan, Ratici!”
Erin shoved Todi out of the way. She grabbed the two Gentlemen Callers and hugged them tight.
“How are you? Come in. All of you!”
The Brothers stirred. They had hoped—not even expected—an open door. But what they got was a free lunch, drinks—
Friendship. Captain Todi was promptly ignored as Erin sat with the Brothers. She had abandoned a game of chess for it, having given her last boon and realized that it was running out of power.
You couldn’t keep slapping it on people. So, she’d given her [Boon of Numbtongue] to Drassi. The [Reporter] was off-duty since the news was just doing coverage of the aftermath and she’d done practically all-day coverage yesterday. She was currently jamming out with Numbtongue on one of his spare guitars.
“Thank you.”
That was all Erin said at first. The Brothers were reduced in number. Perhaps some hadn’t come, but…
“Are you burying Teor today? Or have you already…?”
“We’ll see our fellows off later, Miss Solstice. Don’t you worry. A proper, respectful little thing. Nothing grand, but nothing small.”
She nodded. Then looked at Ratici.
“If it’s alright…I’d like to come.”
“That’s not necessary, Erin—”
“I’d like to. He died because I asked him to. It’s the least I could do. I’m going to Redit’s funeral. And Lord Toldos…he’s being…prepared.”
The Brothers looked at Erin. She held their gazes. They tipped their hats to her. And then they ate.
Food, drink. Baseball, the news, or a game of chess. Uncomplicated things. A bit of excitement. But it was healing, resting after those days of days. After a while, Erin Solstice had a thought.
“After you two are done, Ratici, Wilovan—and the rest of you. You should see something. In my [Garden of Sanctuary].”
They looked up at her. Erin’s eyes glittered. But they would be there.
They would always be there.
 
—-
 
Lord Alman Sanito didn’t know why he was here. He felt ashamed. And certainly out of place.
He had not ridden with old Lord Toldos to his death. And…he had not been asked to.
House Sanito had fought for Invrisil. Their banner had earned them commendations from other nobility. But he had not.
“You have a wife and kids.”
That was all the [Innkeeper] had said. Now—Alman looked around the inn. His son, young, a [Lord], looked at his father uncertainly.
“Go to your mother.”
Lord Sanito informed the boy. He wasn’t sure if this inn was for his sons. It was so—informal. No one had greeted him. He had to wait for others to be served first! Albeit not long.
