Erin Solstice herself had greeted him like, well, one of her guests. It wasn’t even to upbraid him; she’d completely forgotten he was here amid the other guests.
Including an Earl. Lord Sanito had swallowed his complaints for that alone. Even so—
He forgot his complaints. He forgot the small bit of anger at the death of old Lord Toldos, dying and not being mourned by all of Izril amid the drama of yesterday. The retainers, who had come here, lost, of House Everight—
She brought them to their knees. Not with any word. With sight. With a single place.
The hill was grassy. A small bench. Sometimes a tree. And always, if you came here, a statue. So lifelike that but for color they could have turned and greeted you.
Lord Toldos sat on the bench, in a moment that had never happened. But might have. He looked half-relaxed, turned to talk with the young man beside him as Redit looked ahead, perhaps watching something.
Teor had his tricorne in his hands. An earnest look on his face as he spoke to the old [Lord]. The Brother’s hats were in their hands.
“What…is this?”
“Memory. Statues. I don’t know. But if you ever want to come here—my door will always be open.”
Erin looked at the three and rubbed at her eyes. There were more. Antinium, gathered together, inspecting what might have been an actual anthill in the grass over there. Two more Brothers she had seen, walking along.
Here they were. And here they remained. Lord Sanito looked at Erin Solstice.
“May I—show my family this place?”
“Of course. Wilovan? Ratici?”
The two Gentlemen Callers were looking at Teor. Crimshaw looked about him.
“…More than a fellow could ask for. This—”
He didn’t finish his sentence. He didn’t need to. The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings looked around. Good fellows. Bad men. They lived well, they were able to sleep most nights.
But they would die forgotten, but for the other short-lived people who remembered them.
Except here was immortality. A bit of forever. Erin Solstice stood on the hill for a while. And she wondered if the first person to gain this Skill, the Harpy [Empress]—had made this place.
Surely, she had. She had been like Erin, in that. The [Innkeeper] saw one last statue, as she turned to go. Then she did start crying.
Tritel stood on the hill, his gloves dangling from one hand. He looked content. But he was waiting. And the longer the better. But someday—his friend would be here too.
 
—-
 
Look upon her. She had led more Goblins to death than Garen Redfang, his old Chieftain. She had asked Humans, Drakes, Gnolls, and more to die for her.
They would not have done it if she didn’t care. Badarrow was still shaking from his encounter with the hill.
He stood in the Garden, far below. Amid mortality. That hilltop could tear your heart to pieces if you stayed. It was terrifying. Wondrous. But terrifying.
In the inn, Numbtongue was listening to Drassi trying to copy a riff. He was grinning—but ducked out as a crowd of admirers drew around, wanting to try the guitar.
Like the other Goblins, he wasn’t at home with so many…other species. Even now, he still felt like Badarrow. A sense that but for Erin, they might have been enemies.
Were there daggers behind the Earl’s smile? Badarrow stayed in the Garden as Numbtongue trudged over.
“Erin went up to the hill?”
“Mm.”
The [Sniper] grunted. He didn’t need to talk with Numbtongue. The [Bard] was chatty—perhaps because he had not recently been in the company of other Goblins.
“Chieftain will want to see hill.”
“Yes.”
Numbtongue stirred. He looked at his old friend. His brother-in-arms. But time had changed them.
Snapjaw. Numbtongue’s posture had been by turns, amazed, happy for Badarrow. And faintly, envious. Badarrow understood, of course, and it was just the shadow.
“Erin not changed.”
That was all Badarrow said. Numbtongue looked up at her, lost on that hill in the mists.
“No. She’s changed a lot. Fire and…lot changed. Garden. See?”
Badarrow nodded. But for once, the Goblin communication network had lost his true meaning.
“Yes. But not changed. Here.”
He tapped his breast. Numbtongue looked at him.
“No. True.”
They looked back up.
“Will you come with to Goblinhome?”
The [Bard] stirred. He looked at Badarrow.
“Maybe. For bit. But this…will you stay?”
“No.”
Badarrow knew it to be true. Numbtongue’s face fell. Badarrow looked at him.
“Erin does not need…me. Lots of Antinium. Scary blue-death one. Adventurers. She does not need…us.”
He meant himself and Snapjaw. It hurt, a bit. For the days when there were just five Redfangs—Badarrow would have traded so much. If only you could make the past the same as today and take the best of both.
“Yes. Does not need…”
“She needs you.”
Badarrow looked at Numbtongue. The [Bard] blinked. But that too was true. Not Badarrow, but Numbtongue. The [Sniper] looked at his friend.
“Shorthilt. Pyrite.”
He reached out and touched Numbtongue’s chest. The [Soulbard] closed his eyes.
“Yes.”
“Good.”
That was all Badarrow said. Numbtongue blinked. Badarrow had been shocked, even frightened, uncertain about the ghosts that Numbtongue had taken. But now—the [Sniper]’s eyes held something else as he looked towards the hill.
“Good?”
“Yes. Good. You stay here, protect here. Visit Goblinhome. Talk to Chieftain. But here. Maybe if you have Shorthilt. And Pyrite, then…”
Numbtongue’s eyes widened, and he nodded slowly. The two stood there. And looked up towards the hill as the [Innkeeper] descended.
Perhaps.
 
—-
 
Tragedy and grief took place in the garden. Elsewhere—Joseph kicked a football into the air and people ran after it, shouting. People laughed.
Mrsha sniffed the air. She padded over the floor. And eventually, the patch of air grunted.
“Gnolls. I could have sworn I was odorless.”
That was true. But as Grimalkin reappeared, Mrsha smirked and pointed at his foot. The [Sinew Magus] regarded his foot.
He’d stepped in some spilled blue fruit juice on the way over. He folded his arms as Mrsha smirked up at him.
“I am not spying. I was simply observing without wishing to cause an altercation. There is a difference.”
Mrsha smirked. Then she went to fetch Grimalkin some of Imani’s healthy appetizers. The Mrsha-fee was 18% of whatever she got. Grimalkin murmured as he eyed the odd bowl of orbs.
“What is this. Some kind of…ball of compacted nuts? Hm. What is it called? A…protein ball? What is that?”
He eyed the mix of nuts held together and baked for a slightly crispy bite. Imani had worked them up when she noticed the gym’s popularity. Grimalkin popped one into his mouth.
“Is this…actually nutritious? Where’s the person who made it? I need a word.”
Mrsha nibbled at hers happily. Indeed, Imani had changed the inn for the better. Joseph was playing football, Rose helping out…
And here came the Players of Celum. They swept through the door with a second wave of guests.
“Here’s the heroine of the Battle for Invrisil! No, the Three-City War! I’m working on the title!”
Andel the [Writer], Wesle, Jasi, Emme, Kilkran—the entire crowd made Mrsha’s head snap around. And there was Galina!
Each to their own. Wesle elbowed Andel before the [Writer] could go on.
“We’re not here to cause a scene, Andel. We are here to say hello to Erin. And to take part in that game of baseball! At least, I am.”
“The Players of Celum?”
Eltistiman checked a running Human before they could lunge at the Players, begging for autographs. More chaos in the inn—and Erin wasn’t out of the garden yet! But this time the Players were taking some of the drama off the [Innkeeper].
Earl Altestiel looked up with a blank stare of shock from his game with Bird. Not only because he was losing somehow, but because he hadn’t put together the Erin-Players connection yet.
“I am winning. Yay.”
Bird confided in Olesm, who was playing Kiish. The [Strategist] looked at Bird in dismay.
“You’re not doing that bird-game, are you?”
“I am not always silly, Olesm. I am playing to win. And I am a [Tactician].”
“You—oh.”
Bird had leveled up in that class at first. Olesm stared at Bird’s game—he was pressing the Earl! True, neither were using Skills. But how?
“Are you just that talented?”
Bird made the closest sound he could to someone blowing a raspberry. Silveran and the other Antinium turned to stare at him.
“Foolish Olesm. Talent does not define a chess player. That is what Erin says. And I play her every day. She bets bird dishes on each game. So I must beat her.”
Erin Solstice knew her opponents. At least, how to motivate Bird. Wesle spotted the games of chess and headed over with the air of a [Humble Actor] who intended to use [Method Acting] to win a few games by copying Erin’s skills.
He was about to get his rear end handed back to him. Meanwhile, Jasi spotted Drassi and asked to play on the guitar. And wasn’t that a repeat of the same moment everyone had seen on the news?
 
—-
 
Laughter resumed. By the time Erin Solstice reemerged with the silent crowd, they were swept up in the mood and they could smile.
Times for silence, times for action. Times for merriment.
And time to work. Most of the Earthers had a spot. And even if it wasn’t permanent, they were gainfully employed, like Rose. Heck, even Leon was helping manage the games outside. Troy was somewhere else, though. Galina was acting.
And Kevin was working.
The Wandering Inn was still under construction, although less than eight Workers were working on Bird’s tower or small renovations these days. That might soon change, especially since Selys was looking at spots for the new shop.
She wanted more in Liscor, but Kevin didn’t want to walk. And neither did Hedault or Pelt.
For the moment, it was a sign hung on one of the private rooms. Kevin had turned it into, well, an office.
He was creating a filing system. Kevin, who had worked part-time in a bike shop, now wished he’d memorized the system they’d used to file orders. And it was ironic—he’d hated his duties and only worked because he needed money.
This time?
“Is this the shop?”
A man pushed open the door. Kevin glanced up, in the act of dipping his quill into a pot of ink.
“Hello. This is Solar Cycles. I’m Kevin. How can I help you?”
The richly-adorned man hesitated. It was a small room, but Kevin had put the bike shop’s new name on the door. He was rather proud of it. Catchy and puntastic.
“You’re the one who made that vehicle?”
“I’m Kevin. [Mechanic], and one of the co-owners of Solar Cycles. I didn’t make the bike alone; I’m just managing the shop. How can I help you Mister…?”
The man drew himself up. He was wearing silk, and, Kevin noted, some ostentatious rings.
“I am the representative of Lord Helmaunt Terland. [Merchant] Enitere. Lord Helmaunt will purchase six of your cycles—at an appropriate price.”
Kevin blinked at the man. He sighed.
“I’m sorry, sir. But we’re not accepting new orders right away.”
The [Merchant]’s eyes bulged.
“Did you not hear me? My [Lord]—”
“Can you authenticate his identity?”
Kevin interrupted Enitere. The haughty fellow hesitated.
“Au-authenticate?”
“Prove his identity? We’ll take Mage’s Guild certifications—they have to come and tell me in person, though. Merchant’s Guild works too.”
“How dare you imply that I—”
“Also, does he beat a [Marquis]? This Lord Helmaunt? Or Lord Deilan El?”
Kevin happily interrupted the man. The [Merchant] lost his words again.
“A—a [Marquis]?”
The first few orders had been scary. And they’d come in like rain, even yesterday. But today, Kevin had a system down. He helpfully showed the man the list he was working on.
“You’ll have to be put on the reserve list, mister. Once you authenticate. I have dozens of orders, and Master Pelt and Master Hedault are at work at once, but we do have to go by priority. Some people have paid for it—and we can’t rightly offend the leader of the House of El, can we?”
“Er. No. Lord Deilan ah—that is to say—”
“Also, our prices are high. But here—I’m having these worked up. But here’s a prototype. Prices subject to change.”
Kevin helpfully offered the man a small catalogue with all the prototype bikes. Tricycles, the standard bike, a highly-tuned version like the one Ryoka had ridden—he hoped the one she had was still working, he wanted it back!—and more. The [Merchant] took it.
“Er, thank you.”
“Tell your [Lord] we’ll accept his order and get right back to him! Solar Cycles!”
Kevin called after the man. He went back to work. Every few minutes someone would interrupt. An [Engineer] from Pallass, a [Trader] seeking to get on the ground floor of this business way too late—
All his experience running the counter on Earth made Kevin…ideally placed for this job. In fact, he had talked to a number of people not even in this room.
“Mechanic Kevin? Another speaking stone for you!”
A Gnoll City Runner knocked on his office, breathless. She was half-exasperated, half in awe. A speaking stone! Way above the [Messages] that you normally got. Yet—Kevin had defaulted to the service industry standard. He didn’t even think as he thumbed it—after tossing the City Runner a seal and a tip—and raised it to his lips.
He’d done phones too, after all.
“Yello. This is Solar Cycles. I’m Kevin. We’re not accepting new orders at the moment, but if you’d like to leave an order, I can get back to you. Inquire at your Mage’s Guild for prices and options. Hello?”
It could have been anyone Kevin was talking to. A member of the Four Great Companies—royalty from some distant nation.
The smart ones made appointments. But Kevin just spoke casually. He was taking a page out of the Erin-book, or rather, the Kevin-manual. Just roll with it, like begging in Invrisil.
He heard silence from the other end for a moment. And wondered if he’d failed to activate the stone. It looked expensive. A custom-linked speaking stone—a lodestone enchanted that you could link with another across the world. Not like even the other ones the Mage’s Guild had given him. Odd. Was it not a stone at all? It looked like…
…bone…
Then the voice spoke.
“I am Fetohep of Khelt.”
Kevin’s fingers jerked back. He stared at the speaking stone.
“Um. Hi? Can I help you—”
He was scrambling for an encyclopedia of names. Khelt, Khelt…that name sounded familiar. The hollow voice spoke in his ear.
“I desire these bicycles for my kingdom. Money is no object.”
Kevin found Fetohep’s name in the encyclopedia. He instantly made a notation at the top of his list.
“Er—of course, your Majesty. Your Undying Majesty, Ruler of the Sands, Guardian of the Kingdom of Khelt in death and life—”
