“I was so worried! They have to get back here but—they’re alive. Thank you for telling me, Olesm! [Boon of the Guest]!”
She pointed at him. The blue Drake, who had been demurring, blinked.
“It was nothing, Erin. I was so w—what?”
Erin waggled her finger.
“[Boon of the Guest]? Aw, come on.”
She poked Olesm a few times in the chest.
“…Feel any different?”
He rubbed at his front.
“…No. Is that your new Skill, Erin?”
“It should be, but it’s not working! Aw. Don’t tell me I have to do it Lyonette-style and kiss people?”
“Wh-wh—”
“Mrsha! Come here!”
Erin ran after Mrsha. The little Gnoll wiggled hard—and harder when she realized Erin was going to kiss her head. Erin planted a dramatic mwah on Mrsha’s head.
“How do you feel, Mrsha?”
Mrsha squirmed out of Erin’s hands. How did she feel? She made a furry fist, punched the nearest leg.
Earl Altestiel stared down at Mrsha. Mrsha stared up at him and rubbed her paw as she stared at his cloth armor leggings. His escort looked outraged.
“How dare you—”
The [Knight Marshal] rolled his eyes and stopped Kiish from menacing Mrsha.
“Kiish, enough. Miss Erin Solstice. Good morning to you. And—if I am not being too forwards, I believe your boon Skill requires a missing condition that you are not giving it. I couldn’t help but overhear.”
“Earl Altestiel! I mean—er—good morning, s-sire?”
Erin tried her best. The Earl waved it away.
“I should be delighted, Miss Erin, if you would allow me to address you informally, and insist you do the same.”
Olesm’s jaw dropped. Erin just pretended to wipe away some sweat.
“Phew! Well, I’m happy enough to do that, Altestiel! How are you? Did you come from Invrisil this morning?”
“As soon as the doors opened. One cannot help but feel that this is the place to be—especially in light of yesterday. Good morning to you as well, Strategist Olesm…Goblins Numbtongue and…Badarrow, is it?”
The Earl was good. He’d read the inn, learned the lessons that normally took a pan to the head. He barely stumbled as he turned to the Hobgoblins.
Only one remained. The other two had taken one look at the crowd and decided to go back to the Garden. Numbtongue scratched at his stomach.
“Hi.”
“So what’s this about my boon Skill needing something else?”
Erin waved an urgent hand. Then recalled that you didn’t tell strangers your Skill. And perhaps she shouldn’t have been shouting it all the time. But they never came with instruction manuals! The Earl smiled into one hand.
“A [Boon] Skill is a rarer form of Skill, Miss Erin. Blessings and boons are the purview of very high-level individuals—and usually rulers.”
“Oh. Well…I got mine. Which doesn’t mean anything.”
Erin hesitated. Level 45 [Magical Innkeeper]. She felt like it was hovering over her head, but Saliss’ ring should be protecting her.
“Indeed. I’m unfamiliar with [Boon of the Guest], however. Kiish? Ventel?”
He gestured and the two [Strategists] stepped forwards. Kiish was consulting a book.
“…It is not immediately within our records, Earl. But then—this is the battlefield edition.”
“Is that…a book of Skills?”
Olesm had seen the like at Manus. He edged over slowly and Kiish gave him a long look. The Drake stopped—she edged back and then jumped in alarm. Numbtongue and Mrsha were peering over her shoulder.
“And their effects. I’m not surprised. We could inquire of Desonis’ libraries…but there is usually a simpler way. Miss Erin—that is to say, Erin. Would you concentrate on your Skill? Surely you feel something is missing.”
That was true. The [Innkeeper] had felt similar promptings before, like how [Basic Cooking] helped her cook dishes. Now—she felt the urge to…
“Hm. I think I can use it. [Boon of the Guest]. But I’m trying to give a boon. What is the boon? Is it me?”
…No, it’s not. Erin’s eyes opened. Her instincts had said to use it on Olesm, Mrsha. That was correct. So what was missing?
“What is a guest’s boon, anyways? I’m familiar with other [Boons], Earl Altestiel.”
“Indeed, Strategist Olesm. Boon of the Whetstone, Blessing of Armor, as the King of Destruction indicated—normally they’re quite straightforward. A boon is singular, by the way, Erin. Whereas a blessing is usually more widespread.”
“Ah. Well, maybe…”
Erin had a thought. The other two were speculating. Erin looked around.
Guests. Her guests were there. Some familiar, many new. She didn’t see Wilovan or Ratici. Oh. No.
Poor Teor. Erin had heard he’d…she closed her eyes. And Lord Toldos! She had asked him first, after Lord Sanito. And he had agreed without an objection.
Redit…Maviola’s friend, Gresaria Wellfar…they had been here moments. And slipped away. Erin remembered them, though.
Old guests and new. Once—she looked around as a familiar, scarred Drake laughed. Menolit. He was a regular face.
But once there had been another Drake. Even bigger, laughing, causing trouble…
“It’s possible that it needs to be a guest. In which case, we should ask Palt. Hey, P—”
Olesm was waving a claw at the Centaur when Erin’s hand descended on his shoulder. He looked back in time for him to see her eyes flash.
For a moment, her hazel irises lit up.
“[Boon of the Guest: Relc]!”
Olesm staggered. Altestiel’s head snapped around. Mrsha whirled. Numbtongue looked around as Olesm blinked.
“What the—I feel—”
He felt at his chest. And then at his arms. Erin blinked at Olesm. Was his voice…deeper? And the [Strategist], who had been decently fit, suddenly looked muscular.
“Yeah. Yeah! I feel amazing!”
Olesm flexed his arms. Erin stared at him.
“Olesm? Are you stronger?”
“Let me see! Where’s—aha!”
Olesm looked around. Then he found a table and lifted it up.
“Hey, our food—”
One of the protesting diners stopped as the heavy, wooden table lifted off the ground. Olesm grunted, and the wood rose…
“No way.”
Erin breathed. Olesm’s grip slipped as Mrsha hopped on the table. It fell with a crash.
“I’m stronger! Did you see that?”
“The boon is your guests? The variety—”
Kiish stared at Erin. The Earl, meanwhile, was laughing. Olesm seemed to have inherited more than just Relc’s famous strength though, or maybe it was the sudden rush of power.
“I feel tougher. Is this how Relc feels all the time? I need—”
“To the weights room! We have to quantify this!”
Palt galloped over, followed by Montressa and Bezale. Olesm looked up.
“Yeah! Let’s go!”
They practically left Erin in the dust. And half the inn—Erin was actually unable to follow the blue-scaled Drake as a flood of people went after him.
“Whoa! We need bigger hallways! Hey—I’m the one with the Skill! Hey—”
She stumbled. Someone caught her.
“You do realize what this means, don’t you?”
She blinked. The Earl had remained. Even his company was pushing to see, and discovering the weights room along with a lot of guests. Altestiel was looking at Erin.
“It means the boon can be a lot of guests? I dunno.”
The [Innkeeper] met his eyes innocently. Altestiel smiled.
“You had the same thought I did. Any guest means any guest, surely? Such as…”
Xrn the Small Queen? Ilvriss? Relc? Klbkch?
…Zel?
Erin had thought the exact same thing. She took a slow breath. Altestiel was a bit worrying. In that…he wasn’t fooled. He’d seen too much of what she could do, too soon.
“I…who were you thinking of?”
“To name a few names? Xrn. Myself. Magnolia Reinhart.”
That last one surprised Erin. She thought for a moment and then smiled.
“Not Magnolia.”
“Not Magnolia Reinhart? Is it her level?”
The Earl was surprised. Erin shook her head.
“She’s never been a guest. She came through the door once, but she wasn’t exactly a guest. You…I don’t think you’re quite right either. But Zel—I think I could do a bit of Zel.”
She frowned, puzzling it out. It was because…the Earl was probably around Zel’s level. Maybe even lower? Erin didn’t know that, but they were close enough.
“It’s because…Zel was a guest for a long time. You’ve only been here twice.”
“Ah. A Skill worthy of the [Innkeeper] indeed. One cannot simply steal a guest’s full might.”
Erin laughed lightly. But she was edging away from Altestiel ever-so-slowly. He was giving her a very disconcerting look.
One full of admiration.
“I guess…not. It’s not like Olesm’s that strong, anyways.”
“Dead gods, did you see how much that was?”
The roar came from the weights room. Erin scowled. She looked at Altestiel. The Earl was chuckling. Then he looked at Erin, seriously.
“Miss Erin Solstice. I have no intention of purloining the secrets of your class—or Skills. If my understanding made you uncomfortable, I sincerely apologize. It is simply—”
He gestured towards her. Towards the inn. The [Knight Marshal of the Rains] bowed slightly, towards the shorter, younger [Innkeeper]. Erin tensed—Lyonette peeked out of the kitchen with a worried frown.
“…I am a taken admirer of you already, Miss Erin Solstice. Would you do the honor of hosting my small group? I would be delighted to play another game of chess, if you have the time.”
Erin Solstice blinked. Kiish, hurrying back to check on the Earl, smacked into a wall.
 
—-
 
They kept staring at her. Too many people, a vast crowd. Even though it was her inn—Erin did not like being the object of attention. The center of it, if need be, but not a thing.
She had to do something with them. And unlike the restaurant, it was her inn. So, Erin Solstice leaned over and shouted.
“Joseph!”
The young man jumped.
“I wasn’t doing anyth—what, Erin?”
“Everyone’s cooped up inside! Let’s get a game of baseball started! And some football?”
People’s heads lifted at the familiar names. Some with the interest of casual players. Others—
“Did she say ‘baseball’? The game on the news? You can just play it around here?”
What a funny thing to say. And yet—Erin’s inn was one of the few places in this world that had a working collection of gear, players, and the knowledge of how the game should go to casually pick it up.
Joseph looked around as people focused on him as well. Joseph, the [Kicker]. Joseph—another name that had circulated, albeit in a different context.
“You’re asking me to start baseball?”
“Just get it set up! Ask Rose to help! Please?”
He nodded after a second. And like a gathering wave, the crowd split. Some remained in the inn, but the rest followed Joseph, because they wanted to see the game, because they wanted to be outside, and because they might appear on Wistram News Network.
Soon, Erin heard the crack of a baseball meeting a bat. It was a simple sound. Crisp, loud—it made some of the others stir.
It was a good sound, was the point. Oh, it might not be a regulation bat by Earth’s standards—the bat was in fact, an enchanted piece of wood someone had brought from Liscor that Rose immediately disqualified on the grounds that it was enchanted to bounce the ball twice as far as normal—but it had a cadence to it.
Not like the thud of a club hitting a skull. Not the snapping of crossbow strings. Or even the breaking of bones. It was the sound of a sport.
The sound you heard on a peaceful day. And you needed that.
“Give the bat to a kid if they play with adults! But you can’t just bring an enchanted bat to a casual game! If Gold-rank adventurers start playing, bring it out.”
Rose the referee snapped at the unhappy Drake. Erin laughed. Liscor had a proper football field too, and a baseball diamond! People trooped down the hill. Some remained to watch Erin experiment with her new Skill.
“Let’s see. [Boon of the Relc]!”
“Yeah! Y—why am I saying that?”
Jelaqua paused in flexing her arms. Everyone started laughing. The last three people Erin had applied it to had all made similar sounds as they experienced the rush of the Skill activating.
Some notes on the boon. Firstly, it was definitely different from Lyonette’s boon. Erin could reapply the boon a lot faster, but it was still one person it could be active on only. Which limited its strength a lot compared to a blessing.
Moreover, she had the sense that it wasn’t permanent like Lyonette’s boon was. Erin’s was more varied, more temporary.
And it changed your personality a bit. Jelaqua immediately headed to the weights room. But to her disappointment, it did nothing for her personal best.
“What? But my body’s fresh! I—oh, rot. I’m stronger. Not my body! How is that fair?”
The Selphid complained. Another funny lesson.
“That’s boon Skills for you. Not like enchantments. My turn! Do me next, Erin! Can you do someone other than Relc?”
Montressa waved an excited hand. That was just what Erin had been thinking of. Also—she was seeing how impressed the others were.
A [Boon of the Guest] Skill was…good. But it shouldn’t have been this effective, or easy to reapply. Unless—you were a Level 45 [Innkeeper]. That might have made the difference.
“Okay. What boon…what boon? What about—”
And here Erin made her first mistake.
“[Boon of Saliss]!”
She tapped Montressa forehead. The [Mage] blinked.
“Whoa. My eyes feel—and my—”
The [Aegiscaster] stumbled back, and then caught herself nimbly. She was not the most agile on her feet, being just above Palt and behind Bezale for nimbleness. But that seemed to be a lesser effect.
The greater one being Montressa’s throwing abilities. That was fascinating to everyone.
“Shouldn’t she be good at alchemy?”
“Maybe. But Saliss is a battle-[Alchemist]. Maybe it’s—dead gods, Montressa!”
She skimmed a coaster over Palt’s head. It curved—and Mrsha and Visma ran after it, jumping and missing it. Ekirra was already outside, queuing for a game of football.
“This feels great. I feel agile, I could throw anything—maybe I’m smarter! Or better at alchemy. Let me see! Where’s Octavia! Whew!”
Montressa was grinning, on a giddy high of her own. It seemed to be a common phenomenon. Then she paused.
“Does it feel…stuffy to anyone in here?”
Menolit’s head turned with a sudden insight. So did Erin’s.
“Uh oh. Let me just—”
“Montressa. Not a good idea—”
“I feel really confined—”
Palt, Bezale, and Ulinde tackled Montressa before the worst could happen. And before it did, Erin reapplied the boon on another assumption.
“[Boon of Bird]!”
She pointed at Bird. The [Bird Hunter] stopped, halfway towards collecting his breakfast. Everyone turned to stare at him.
What would happen? What would—Bird slowly picked up a hard-boiled egg. He chewed at it as Erin’s finger wavered.
“Um. Bird?”
“Hello. I am Bird. I feel no different.”
“What, not at all?”
The [Innkeeper] felt crestfallen. Bird looked at her, almost sternly.
