The ancient dagger once more proved its worth by providing Zac with a vague sense of direction without demanding a price of blood. Zac started making his way through the battlefield, trying various methods of striking at the enemies as he did. While the battlefield was surreal and formations kept shifting, the number of combatants appeared to be fixed. No new spectral soldiers appeared to replace those struck down by the beasts.

If he could perform some cost-effective sabotage in each river, it might weaken the enemies’ control over the island. Unfortunately, not even [Fatehew] with its spirit-targeting sharpness managed to leave a mark on the soldiers.

His actions only drew more attention, and a painful experiment confirmed a truly unjust reality. The attacks of the soldiers actually left spiritual wounds, and the same proved true for the beasts. On their own, they didn’t pose much danger for Zac’s tempered soul, but they’d become a problem if allowed to accumulate.

Despite his reluctance, Zac activated [Void Mountain] and slammed his Dao-annihilating rune into a visored helmet. It buckled inward with a sickening crunch, and the soldier crumbled like a puppet without strings. A streak of foreign spirituality rushed into Zac’s body before he could react, triggering a vehement rejection from the ancient Killing Intent.

Zac almost regretted the successful experiment as he looked around. The army of evasive soldiers suddenly looked like a sea of experience points now that he’d found a method of taking them out. The stream of spirituality of an early Hegemon was nearly as effective as bathing in the blood of a drake. He’d only need two or three rivers to completely refine the ancient intent and set a rock-solid foundation for his [Thousand Axes Avatar].

Unfortunately, he neither had the time nor spare Void Energy to deal with the whole army. Killing one also caused a tremendous reaction from the nearby soldiers. Before, they had almost targeted him as an afterthought. Now that Zac had proven his lethality, dozens of murderous perceptions locked onto him.

“Transcendental spirits. The heart crosses the veil,” Idiche intoned with a hollow voice.

Idiche had succumbed to the hostile environment and fallen unconscious during her tests, yet she kept mumbling in her sleep. Seeing as her sleepwalking guidance had proven accurate thus far, Zac activated [Warbringer Dharma] and brought out his idol. His eyes lit up as the battlefield grew a smidge less jarring and surreal.

Unfortunately, the effects weren’t nearly as good as using Void Energy. It was like his weapon managed to transmit 5% of its original force. It still passed through the enemies, but doing so left spiritual wounds. Zac didn’t mind. Keeping his idol out only required him to divert a sliver of his concentration, and he could just keep hitting until the enemy went down.

“One begets the two, delimited yet one,” Idiche murmured as Zac finally took down one of his attackers, relying solely on the stabilizing effect of his idol.

A walnut-sized seed appeared next to the floating hatchet before Zac could ask what she meant, and the illusory realm stabilized further. Zac’s heart leapt upon thinking he’d made a sudden breakthrough, finally forming his second idol. He knew it wasn’t a matter that could be forced, but failing to form any idols since the first—especially during his lifetime of heart-tempering on the Peregrine Ocean—had been a blow.

Zac’s expression fell upon realizing he wasn’t that lucky. While the seed felt similar to the hatchet, it gave off a slight hint of falsehood. His expression scrunched up further upon sensing the weak connection didn’t just link him and the seed but also extended to Idiche. Then realization struck him.

Idiche had essentially cast an illusion on him, tricking his mind into conjuring an Idol so believable that it had a tangible effect on its surroundings. It was an extraordinary case of mind over matter, whose measurable effect denied any repudiation. His chains had already turned corporeal enough to somewhat function as a defense that slowed down incoming attacks, and the next opponent fell after only three swings.

As his body was swallowed by the winds of war, the seed grew slightly larger. Death was its nourishment, and feeling the idol’s hunger prompted a question that refused to go away. If fed enough, could the seed grow into something real?

Perhaps a bout of enlightenment wasn’t the only way to nurture a Warbringer Idol.
