The first supplication was performed by the Paragon himself, for to be a true Tyrant, one must make a slave of oneself first. Though he struggled against the chains of his new nature, and though he loathed the face of his existence, to disfigure the state of his world required a sacrifice of a most intimate order.

It is a special flavor of horror, to have Divinity thrust upon oneself, an empowerment thanks to no personal act or merit. There is a special kind of agony that comes with being a slave to oneself to defy the world that has wounded one so, and in this the Heroism and the Tyranny of an emir stood manifest. Perhaps not entirely from a seed he buried, but the burdens that reside on his shoulders none the less. In this he stands more responsible than most tyrants will ever be, for it is the act of another he carries, for the fire he bears was not spawned of his own making. Yet he burns still, perhaps not gladly, but willingly, and so begins his testament.

This is not to be a record of highest glory or purest faith. This is a record of rebellion of a god that seeks to usurp the nature of things while still being caught in the undertow. This is the slave Tyrant, named Paragon for his nature by his behavior.

This is the divine struggle that has echoed again and again, as marked by the light he brings against the greater order and the band he wears upon his brow; thus does his symbolism take shape, and hence so his path became fated.

And perhaps you are one and the same as well. Perhaps you seek not the comfort of holy bliss and lesser lies sprouted by the selfish demiurges of the System who proclaim their higher nature.

Perhaps you burn for a new order as well, and wish to be kindled by a proper master—one who will share your likeness, in soul, toil, and even flesh…

—First Testament of the Tyrant-Paragon

435

Alliances

Trespasser Shaped of Dread and Null 204 > 222

This Vessel of Pestilence and Panacea 128 > 135

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides 567 > 573

Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin 374 > 385

Nihilism Be My Hearth, My Banquet 151 > 183

Magical Theory 13 > 16

Aegis of Assimilation 177 > 181

Scheming Bastard 39 > 44

Legion of Self 185 > 198

Return to Sender 166 > 173

Atlas of the Flesh Scryer 169 > 185

Snapshot 51 > 57

Vitality Drain 212 > 240

Continuity Error 237 > 251

This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul 315 > 339

Onus of the Scarforged Unbreakable 511 > 513

Hydromancy 22 > 24

Spear Proficiency 11 > 13

The Snake Entombed of Lightning and Thunder 52 > 60

Portomancy 13 > 25

Analyze 15 > 17

“Well, Veronica’s up to some shit again,” Shiv declared.

“I suppose it’s another day that began with a sunrise then,” Adam replied with a weak scoff.

A council had been gathered in the underground headquarters of the Arachnae Order in the Farnest district. Ceaseless vibrations pulsed through the walls, footsteps and revels trembling from the surface. The Grounder residential district was mere kilometers away, and with each passing day, their numbers swelled ever greater, increasing the Gate’s logistical strain.

Still Water and the other High-Tier members of the local Arachnae Order were willing to make a small trek towards Starhawk's Perch to accommodate Adam's current weakness, but the newly ascended Demigod willed things to be otherwise.

The Perch was a symbol and the Sacred Phylactery of Blackedge, but Gate Piety constituted far more than a single betrayed town by this point. Events followed one after another, and tens of thousands of Pathbearers arrived each day from countless nations. That which affected the Gate was more than a game to be played among the exiled and loyalist portions of the Yellowstone Republic. The children of the Composer were also embroiled, as was everyone else under the care of those who governed Piety, and that involved Still Water as well. Her role as warden and primary enforcer made her a critical voice toward any decision that was to be made.

Then there were the other representatives not tied to the Composer nor Blackedge at all. The Culturist represented the renegade orcs now following the Tyrant of Peace. His old enemy, Morgan Munny, sat across from him, embroiled by Shiv's schemes and lured by the chance he presented. Though the Ranger was isolated and treated politics as one might a command to descend a sewer creek crusted with a blaze of shit, he was presented with an opportunity to perhaps finish things with his hated foe, and he wouldn't let that slip his grasp for anything else in the world.

A little hatred made for decent socio-political capital sometimes.

Then there was the Educator, who operated primarily in her own interests, tied to no faction but that which wanted to usher in the incursion and undo the mistakes of the Ascendancy. Her gaze was locked on Adam, and for the past few days, he stood as the object of her utmost obsession. She drafted sketches of him, trying to record instances of his metamorphosis. Shiv suspected she was fascinated and consumed by the promise he offered for the same reason that Veronica might have been. But he wasn't entombed in the Great Ones' skills. He didn't need to sacrifice his own existence, to have his mind and personality overwritten so that he would fully align with the legend of his feats and the Domains and skills he was to embody.

In Adam was another path and promise of a power that she could keep and claim.

That made her about as trustworthy as Veronica in the grand scheme of things—which was not at all. But considering her tenuous allegiance with Udraal, not much had changed. Still, it was better if she stayed within close proximity; keeping her close and in reach kept her from doing some bullshit like ambushing everyone and sticking them in one of her tomes when they were busy dealing with something else.

And Shiv really doubted his old trick of setting his soul off like a bomb would work twice on her. Not that he ever wanted to do that again either.

With how much more vitality and mana I got now, who the hells knows how big a bang might follow this time…

Roland, Uva, and Hymn—who represented the Dragon Brokers’ shared interests—and, surprisingly, Tall Ben were in attendance, with the latter speaking for the Descenders Union, as Ser Marikos was still sulking after Shiv yelled at him.

I can’t believe I have to deal with that shit too, Shiv grumbled internally. Didn’t die a million times to become a therapist for a Legendary Dragon-Knight whose strongest skill is being a man-child. Fuck me, some people in the Abyss make Sullain look well-adjusted in retrospect. I haven’t even started wrangling him, and I’m already exhausted.

Unwilling to take on a representative role on account of the Court of the First Blood were Tulveg and Ekkihurst. The former proudly declared he was too racist to ever serve as an unbiased representative of his own kind, and the Sculptor almost started crying on the spot when he realized Shiv was trying to drag him into a political forum. The elder vampire found his time better spent showing off his newest horrors to Helix, who, despite being outspoken about his hatred of the bloodsuckers, now found himself a companion to two of their kind.

This caused Shiv to recruit Angelo—who ended up mingling among the guests and trying to address their grievances as a means to occupy his time and distract himself from his lingering trauma. Thus, he was promoted—somewhat unwillingly—to public liaison official, as no one else wanted the role. Especially not Uva, whose main response when being complained to by someone was to walk past them and pretend to be deaf and blind.

“If I start solving one person’s problems, I’ll end up trying to solve everyone’s problems,” Uva said via telepathy. “And then I’ll have to live your life.”

“Huh? What’s wrong with my life?” Shiv asked.

“You have to deal with everyone,” she answered bitterly.

“That’s a bad thing?”

Her stare across the table they were seated at offered the faintest hint of pity. “Tranquility and the pleasures of solitude are known qualities to some of us.”

Shiv wondered if he should be offended by that, but decided that he preferred this life of chaos over peace—even if it came with a bunch of bullshit and pain. Besides, he liked people—both talking to them and killing them.

Which functionally made him something of a diplomatic and militaristic hammer for the Gate. It also meant that he was the one crashing into the majority of impending problems head-on before anyone else.

“And that should be everyone on the list,” Still Water said as she sealed the doors and triggered the privacy spells warding the room. A funny thing to do, considering the final representative in the room looked around like a pig who'd just stumbled into a butcher’s shop.

Five leaned in close to Shiv and ran his tongue across his metallic fangs hesitantly. “Deathless… The protections… Is this some kind of twisted torture fetish you have, or is there some other reason you decided to include me in this as well?”

“I mean, it is funny to stick a spy right into the middle of our affairs,” Shiv said, unable to suppress a grin. “But hey, since you’re already here, the Stolen Throne can get their news straight from the source instead of sending someone to seduce one of us.”

“If the Stolen Throne has any sense, they will stay far, far, far from Gate Piety, and you in particular.” The wolf-man shuddered. “I want you to know—on record—that I have been doing all I can to keep your home safe, and my nation at the same time.”

“Aw, you’ve been bad-mouthing me, Raven?” Shiv adopted a guise of faux-sadness. “And I thought we were friends.”

“Well, you are a dangerous man, Deathless,” Five responded curtly. His dread was so deep that it kept leaking splotches of blackness that Shiv had to draw into his trespassing darkness before it contaminated the two-hundred-meter-diameter space of the meeting chamber. Even with the vast, scintillating dimensional expanse expanding space to allow for a fully grown hydra to be among the participants, the darkness Shiv could embody would fill that room in an instant.

“I suppose I am,” Shiv admitted. “And I understand your worry. But the thing is, Five, you might have self-preservation in mind, but the Stolen Throne and the Faceless Queen aren’t exactly risking their own lives, are they? Some things have to be felt and suffered before they become real.”

The truth of that statement drew looks from Munny and Maia at once.

“Alright,” Shiv said, standing up and clapping his hands twice. “On the agenda today, we got a hefty dose of fear and horror coming at us from all sides.”

“A day that begins with a sunrise indeed,” Roland echoed his son.

“To start, our plan to smuggle Adam’s Evangelizing Temple up north and use it to infiltrate Torontus worked pretty good; the Frost Giants bit down on that bait and swallowed. So far, nothing suggests that they know what we’re actually planning.” Shiv paused. “What isn’t so good is the part where our dear Demigod is hitting Valor with his divine voyeurism as well. So, pre-problem number one: You wanna explain your holy dysfunction to us, Adam?”

“Not particularly,” Adam replied dryly. “But with honesty—I’m not sure what’s going on.” He looked at Uva, and she immediately came aglow with his incandescence, casting a faint corona of light blue around her like a veil. Her form went from normal to illuminated by a sunrise in an instant, and a beam of light descended from above, passing through the kilometers of steel and stone and the wards between alike like a fated spotlight.

Uva glared at Adam as she rubbed her eyes. “Choose someone else to use for a demonstration next time.”

“Sorry,” he said. “But you get my point. My skill immolates, and the people I gaze at stay, well, gazed. Things work differently with Valor. It’s like his Legendary Skill fights with mine whenever we use them at the same time. If he goes Unknown when I locked into him beforehand, it’s like my Omniscience follows him, and I start burning through the protections provided by his stealth over time.”

“Great, so we’re going to need to figure out how to stop you from lighting Valor like a candle every time you use your skill,” Shiv mused. “Pretty awesome skill, by the way. Forgot to say that before.”

Adam sighed and rapped his claws on the table. “Thank you. Perhaps I just need more practice.”

“That, or I can make you temporarily forget Valor’s existence,” Uva suggested.

“I thought you were turning over a new leaf and becoming someone who fights for freedom, Legend Mettabon,” he said, aghast. “Why is your first choice still turning me into a mental invalid?”

“It will be done with your consent,” Uva replied with annoyance. “Also, I’ve gone through much of your memories, Adam. I’ve done the opposite of rendering you invalid, and I must speak with you about some concerning things I’ve seen in your memories. Namely, that wretched thing you call a sock you left in the dark corner of your closet.”

Her complaint hit Shiv so out of left field he began to choke and cough before even managing a single beat of laughter.

With that, Adam started adding to the total darkness and dread in the atmosphere as his eyes went from pretend-disappointment to genuine terror. “Uva—what are you—”

Roland face-palmed and sighed. “Legend Mettabon, I’m grateful for everything you’ve done, and this might be a difference between cultures, but my son deserves to have a measure of privacy.”

Shiv was trembling like a bomb on the verge of going off—it was everything he could do to stop himself from coming apart.

