Uva suddenly realized all eyes were on her, and she furrowed her brows. “I’m talking about the sock you tried to knit for yourself, Legend Adam. I care little about how you indulge your lust—I’m offended by your half-hearted attempt at art and how you simply tossed aside your unfinished piece of work. It’s improper and unbefitting of your professionalism.”

The room went quiet for a half-beat, and Shiv covered his face to hide the tears that were starting to build in the corners of his eyes. “I love you, Uva.”

“I’m not sure what that has to do with anything,” she replied, a frown still on her face.

Adam and Roland proved their genetic relation by reacting the exact same way. They turned away from Uva with their gazes pointed down and their eyes haunted with regret.

“Let us move on,” the Arrows declared as one.

“Well, moving on brings us to Veronica,” Shiv said. “Because she’s going to be visiting personally in a few hours, and she’s coming for Adam’s god juices.”

Roland glared at him for his choice of words, and Shiv quickly got the message to tone it down; there was no playfulness on Roland's face.

“Considering how Anthony and Daughter reacted, she didn’t consult anyone about this decision—probably did it against Kathereine’s will too. So she’s either making shit up as she goes along, or she’s got a very specific idea in mind when it comes to Adam.” He paused and studied the Educator from the corner of his eye. She remained deep in thought, but failed to hide how much this development troubled her.

Yeah, you got competition now, Maia.

Adam just scoffed and leaned back into his orc-sized chair. “If she thinks she can undo what I saw and suffered, or that I’ll just go along with the Republic after everything that happened, her self-deception Skill must be Legendary as well.”

“I wouldn’t be so certain,” Maia interjected. “She doesn’t need to bend you to her will, and I suspect she isn’t even truly interested in stealing you back for the Republic. She just wants to study you and understand your metaphysics if she can. Because if she can purify the Republic’s pantheon—”

“Impossible,” the Starhawk interjected, his presence intruding through Roland—though fainter than ever before. Shiv suspected that wasn’t because of the distance between him and the Perch. The wounds the Challenger had inflicted on the Starhawk damaged more than his guise and flesh. “The Ascendants are already rooted in legend.”

“As was I,” Maia shot back. “And I escaped before the rot could truly bite into my bone. Impossible? No, I reject those words, Matthew. Unwilling is more like it. You were all too unwilling to surrender that precious power, even though it wasn’t truly our power, and so you must continue paying an ever-rising cost. Even now, it might not be too late for you. You could just walk away from all this, and if you ask me nicely, I might just help you.”

The Starhawk materialized in part, like a shadow imprinted on a wall, and he faced the Educator down. “The people of the Republic are not so quick to abandon some among our number.”

“And some among our number recognize the people to be lost and damned along with us if the only safeguard for their existence are senile gods fated for greater power and dementia with every bit of worship they accrue,” she answered with a near snarl.

“Hey, hey, guys,” Shiv said, intervening before old wounds flared into new conflicts. “I get it, but this isn’t a time for grudges. Veronica. Have to deal with her.”

“No,” Maia countered. “She is your blood, and clearly has plans for you. The solution is simple. Let her come in close, and manage her. I don’t see a major threat posed by her arrival. Perhaps there might be major threats to her, but her safety then becomes our responsibility. Frankly, her presence can be a benefit regardless. I see a future where she proclaims Adam to be a new Ascendant and propagandizes the expansion of the pantheon to give Gate Piety special territorial privileges.” She then scowled at the Starhawk. “Privileges that will ensure this place’s continued survival, unlike your mad quest down into the corpse of an old god we should have never defiled.”

“Focus,” Shiv snapped. “I've heard this shit a dozen times now. No more swings at each other. Alright, next topic. Still Water?”

“Our newest gateway connecting back to Weave is almost online thanks to all the excess mana flowing through the Gate,” Still Water said. “The Exalted Mother has a diplomatic detachment and a divine anchor of her own that she wishes to send over. She also wants to personally congratulate you, Legend Arrow, on your evolution and ascent, and would like to speak with you in private when your convenience allows.”

“Tell Her Lady Arachnae that I look forward to making her acquaintance once more,” Adam replied, “and that I thank her for all the aid she has already provided, and of course meet with her posthaste.”

“Next,” Shiv called.

“The Gate is developing at a rapid pace,” Uva said, projecting images of Gate Piety throughout the space beneath the ceiling with her Dreaming Storm. Much of its infrastructure looked as it did before, but Shiv could see the nascent bones of impending projects crusting the outer edges of the residential districts—and even the Peacehold. “I believe I have uncovered what the Seed of Sprouting Edifices skill does; it seems to automatically allow for urban expansion, as if buildings are living entities in conjunction with how much occupancy it has. As such, there are portions of the city that are automatically turning into sky-rises even without my or the Construction Corp’s direct intervention.”

“Gate’s giving Can Hu a hand,” Shiv mused. “Nice second choice, Adam.”

“I’m a genius,” Adam mumbled. “Especially when I’m not thinking.”

“Alright. Legend Tall—uh, Ben? Tall Ben?”

“Just Tall Ben is fine,” the Hydra-Knight whose size could give Marikos a run for his money answered with an upbeat voice, tipping his twelve frog helms. “And can I say I’m mighty pleased to be here with everyone. Real honored an’ all that you decided to bring me in. Swear not to break the trust you’ve given. But now that I said all that… seems to me like you lot are playing a real dangerous game. Trying to make a city of cities here. I see the angle and the game. Go politically metropolitan. Tie up as many interests and High-Tiers as you can to make this place a bad target. But gathering all that many Pathbearers in one place got a price all its own, and if you don’t manage that well…”

Tall Ben looked at Munny and the Culturist with two of his spare heads. “Not throwing stones at glass houses none; even we got our own shames. Legend Valdemar’s a real knight, and I won’t speak ill of him; the debt he’s got against Legend Thann’s deep and ugly still, and we’re only gonna get more of that.”

“No avoiding it,” Shiv said, accepting the criticism. “And you’re right, we are playing a dangerous game. Half the reason you're in here is so that you can see we’re aware of it, and know that you have a choice: Gate Piety is going to be dangerous. It’s going to be a bomb, as Five here described in one of his letters.”

The wolf-man in question froze in the middle of reaching for a bottle of water.

“A bit of advice, Five,” Shiv said, casually strolling by to pat his back. “Stealth isn’t your thing when Valor is around.”

“I’ll try to remember that, O Deathless,” Five drawled, avoiding eye contact as he poured himself a glass.

“Now. As I was saying, this place is a bomb, but it’s a bomb that works for or against us. The Gate’s growing fast. Everyone who spends enough time here or around me will level faster and faster. And with the way the world is, we’re going to need that growth. We’re heading for an incursion in about a year, and there’s no easy way to settle that.” Shiv gave it a beat. “Aside from putting me down for good, but for everyone else’s sake, I’m going to advise against that.”

Tall Ben either believed him or was too good-natured to take offense at his hubristic statement.

“You’ll be getting more than just conflict here at Gate Piety, though. More than just levels too. We plan on becoming a bridge between the surface and the Abyss, but also a junction between different nations—an intermediary for when things get rough and grudges develop, like you said.” Shiv smirked at Adam. “I guess what I’m trying to express is that our first export is going to be a measure of diplomacy and peace, and we’re going to demonstrate that by containing violence and war.”

Adam rolled his eyes, but he couldn’t help smiling himself.

“Noble goals,” Tall Ben’s twelve heads droned in a chorus. “And to get that, you plan on leveraging Pathbearers and empires against each other, don’t you?”

“Of their own volition,” Shiv countered. “We’re going to do things honestly and truthfully, because nothing holds well or long on the foundations of a lie. And the thing is, we already have a standing military.”

“You got a cancer of monsters stinking up your blood and rotting your fucking bones is what you got,” Hero-Ranger Munny snapped. For most of the meeting, he brewed with bitter hatred while the Culturist held to his serenity near Adam. The way everyone went about things like there weren’t any grayskins in the room was getting to him, but his response was a mistaken one.

“I’m not talking about the orcs,” Shiv said. “They’re for defense, and mostly support. I’m talking about me.” He faced Munny down and continued impressing his point. “Yeah. We got an invasion to survive. We got problems to deal with. And we’re going to start handling that. By ourselves. We’ll start by breaking out the Tarrasque and making sure no one can get to it again.”

“And you’re going to do that by just heading north and dragging that thing out of whatever hole they stuck it in, are you?” Munny grunted.

“Yes,” Shiv answered casually. “It’s already happening.”

Munny looked him up and down, and he clearly struggled not to sneer. “You’re a lot. A big bullet. Something wrong with you, son. You stink of death and war while talking big about peace. I can see why the Challenger made his deal with you; reckon you can do plenty of harm to a town or a couple of cities. But alone against an empire? Alone against armies?”

“I’ll what?” Shiv chuckled. “Die? Is that what you’re getting at? The worst thing that happens to me is that I’ll grow stronger and keep coming and coming and coming.” Shiv rubbed his nose and decided to put a few things into perspective for the Ranger. “It’s not that I’ll win on my own. And that metaphor you used before is wrong. The orcs aren’t a cancer for this place, I’m a cancer for anyone else who decides to make a problem of themselves. Sure, I’m not the best warrior on Integrated Earth. Not even close. But I am Legendary. And I keep coming back over and over and over. And I have options. Plenty of them, in fact. If you’re running a civilization, I’ll crack it from the inside. Sure, I might kill a few people, but like Tall Ben just said, grudges and all. That goes everywhere. Some people just need a little push to start burning down the village that never wanted them.”

That earned a slight cringe from Roland.

Shiv continued. “Things get simpler with monstrous empires. They wanna kill me, and I wanna kill them back. But I’ll always be there. Day after day. Night after night. And I’ll go for everything they can’t lose. They want to hunt? I’ll kill their hunting parties and make them starve. They have young? Great. Time to see how some new eggs taste. They have a home? Well, then, I got a pestilence to share.” He ran his tongue across his teeth and regarded Munny with amusement. “You’re going to learn something soon: the Tarrasque is the lesser unkillable monster. I’m just better behaved is all. That, and I like people. Including you. Which is why I want you to be a problem with me for the ones that deserve it.”

“Like the Challenger and the other bastards,” Munny concluded. “The ones that are going to invade your gate.”

Shiv grinned. “Now you're getting it.”

Munny went silent for a few seconds before shaking his head with a gruff snort. “Before all this bullshit, I thought you were just being a northerner.”

“And now?” Shiv prompted.

“Now I see you got your lips stuck tight around the barrel of your third leg—but instead of sucking, you might just be the type that wants to find out if they can actually inflate themselves even more by actually blowing.”

The image gave Shiv pause, and he actually started considering the mechanics of such an action. “Well, I guess if I took a long breath and used my tides to—”

“Shiv,” Uva said. She left it at that.

But the fact he was willing to imagine it finally broke through Munny’s exterior and earned another noise from him, though the old Ranger still tried to hide his laugh under a cough.

Comedy 34 > 35

“Well, you might be wrong in the head,” Munny said. “But to hells with it. Sometimes that’s the only way to be. Listen: you want guns, Rangers, Siege Crawlers? You want Lone Star to back you? Well, I’m going to need something from you to make that happen—just for a start.”

“Yeah? What’s that?” Shiv asked.

“That one there dead for one,” Munny said, cocking his head at the Culturist. “Him and the Red Rider’s Hand might just be enough to shake the dumb bastards back home and make them realize that they can be bled; that they can be killed.”

