Erick asked, “We’ll talk here?”

They were still in the First Wizard’s Library, which was almost fully trapped with paintbombs. The couches were rigged to pop and the few comfortable chairs had holes in the ceiling above, ready to open up and spill paint over whoever was bold enough to sit down.

Rozeta said, “No.”

Erick blinked. Suddenly, Rozeta, Ophiel, and Erick were in a different place, but thankfully it wasn’t a clouded land. They had only moved a floor up and over a ways, to a lounge with a sign hanging out front naming this place as ‘Koyabez’s Rest’. Pastries and drinks rested in baskets behind counters, waiting to be served to customers who would sit at nice little tables, while they sat around on nice large couches and drank various drinks from large cups.

It was a nice little room, without any traps at all.

Rozeta went behind the counter and grabbed herself a small basket to fill with an assortment of muffins. She came back around, moving to a table as she said, “Feel free to pick something. You don’t have to actually [Duplicate] what you grab since I’ll restore this place after you leave, but it’s a nice sentiment anyway.” She sat down and crossed her legs as she bit into a muffin.

… Erick had been a little bit worried about everything, but Rozeta was Rozeta; she treated fairly and with an eye toward growth. Erick didn’t have any true worries about her.

He had worries about himself.

Ah.

Yeah.

He was just hesitant about this Wizard thing.

Erick asked, “Which one of these drinks are like coffee? I feel I need some coffee.”

“The green pot on the third heater.” Rozeta gestured to a counter with heated containers full of liquid, and then she gestured again to some small jars on that same counter. “It used to be served with some sweet jelly stirrers, but sugar is a close enough approximation and that’s in the small— Yeah. You got it.”

Erick grabbed himself a large mug of green ‘tea’ and a small jar of sugar. Ophiel grabbed him a few sugar cookies from the baskets behind the counter, then flew over to the table and set them down.

Erick sat down across from Rozeta, asking, “How much of this stuff is exactly how it used to be?”

Rozeta nodded, then began, “That depends on your philosophy; your adherence to actuality, or your adherence to emotionalism.” She held up a muffin flat on her hand. It had a bite out of it. “In actuality, zero percent of what you see is how it used to be. This muffin is in zero ways exactly as it would have been back at the Conclave’s Wizards’ Tower.” She held the muffin and tilted it, looking at the bite she had taken from it, saying, “But emotionally… The taste and the feeling of consumption and the wholeness a person gets from the muffin is about 95% how it used to be.” She touched the bitten part, saying, “A part of it will always be missing. That’s translation for you.” She set down the muffin on her small plate and gestured at the jar of sugar Erick had brought over. “And some things don’t translate at all. We tried to get slime-sugar to take off; but it didn’t keep like it did back in the Old Cosmology. Bacteria and such— More than that, though, was that slime-sugar usually ended up spawning colonies of slimes in people’s houses, and half the time [Cleanse] targeted it, erasing it from existence.” She shrugged. “Cactus sugar can be dried out into solid white grains, though, and those keep indefinitely. It’s just one of the many, many ways that the Grand Translation forced us to change everything.”

Erick had sipped his tea and decided it needed more sugar. He had added some, and now it tasted passable; sort of like sweet grass water, or something like that. He sipped his sweet tea, thinking about slimes in the liquid, then asked, “What about physically? The shape of everything, I mean.”

“Shapewise we managed 99% or 100%, depending on who you ask,” Rozeta said. “If you ask a real curmudgeon who actually knows what they’re talking about? They’d say we managed to hit 25%, but there will always be dissenters.”

Erick refilled his tea and took another sip. He felt a nervous energy begin to settle into his chest, and then settle out into a normal wakefulness. Ophiels sat down around the room, watching with intent, but not saying a word. Erick had almost moved onto the next, most important subject, but he had noticed that he was apparently nervous enough to leak over into Ophiel. With a concentrated inward pull, Erick managed to calm himself down a bit more. Ophiel chirped a bit, discarding his hard edges and returning to his playful self; he was still on high alert, though, but at least it wasn’t directed at Rozeta.

Rozeta had a bite of her muffin. She noticed Ophiel, for sure, but she hadn’t let his edges bother her.

Erick had another sip of tea.

Then he dove right in, “Why are you sure I am a Wizard?”

Rozeta paused. Then she set down her muffin, and said, “I imagined we would begin the other way, but this is a good start, too, for reasons that will rapidly become apparent once explained.

“You exude Chaos, Erick, and just now you altered how I saw this conversation going. That Chaos is a big clue to you being a Wizard, but some people have a fair amount of natural Chaos without being Wizards. This is a degree of deniability you have benefited from for a while, mostly since you didn’t truly know about this aspect of yourself, so you never even thought to deny this small truth. For anyone looking closely, all they saw was you being you, and missing certain proper ways an actual Wizard would deny being a Wizard.

“You’ve never even directly wielded this Chaos to your benefit. It was just a thing that happened.

“Your Chaos energy is merely a clue, though.

“Another clue is that the mana loves you. But the mana loves everyone who tries to listen to it and is actually capable of understanding it, so this isn’t that special either. Some Wizards can’t hear the mana. Some barely passable magelings can hear the mana perfectly. In the end, this is just another clue.

“And so, we come to the largest of clues, which is not actually proof of Wizardry: your creation of Particle Magic. But then again, the Script is designed to be filled with all possible iterations of magic, to categorize and constrain as well as uplift everyone in ways you probably don’t even realize it does. One of the major ways it does this is that it allows people to make new magic, and then it gives that magic to everyone, as long as that magic is sufficiently different from what already exists and it’s not too powerful.” Rozeta said, “Though, in the end, this is just another clue toward your Wizardry.

“You’ve had it almost right all along.

“A Wizard is known by three things. The first two are the creation of a lot of extra mana that is perfectly aligned with themselves, and the possession of a core which does a lot of things with that mana. That’s complicated, though. The third thing a Wizard possesses is a Truth that lets them override all other influences.” Rozeta said, “This Truth enables a Wizard to overwrite their Reality onto reality.

“Before the Script, in the Old Cosmology, all Archmages would have had two of the three, with Truths and cores being rather universal.

“But they wouldn’t have the third thing. They wouldn’t create extra mana.” Rozeta looked at Erick, with eyes as white as the rest of her wrought-human body, saying, “You know that the Script is a manaminer. You know the basic functionality of a manaminer. The primary function, from which all others derive.”

She stopped talking.

Erick realized that Rozeta was letting him acclimate.

It wasn’t going very well.

His tongue felt heavy and his throat didn’t feel like vibrating to make noise, to counter her argument that he made extra mana, for how could he do that? He could barely breathe. Sweat poured out of him. Rozeta was perfectly calm and relaxed, nonjudgmental and patient. She picked up her muffin and took a bite.

Eventually, Erick sipped his tea again, and his mouth seemed to start working.

Erick said, “The Script… The manaminer takes the mana generation of every single living thing and has individual mana production manifest inside the Core, under control of the Script, instead of pouring out of the true origin point… Out of the living things that make that mana.”

“90% correct. A more true thing to say is that mana is generated by every living thing and also by everything that causes living things to do something, or to be a different way. A great artwork can often cause a great outpouring of new mana into Veird, both because it elicits a creative response in many different viewers, but also, because it elicits a response, the artwork itself also becomes a mana producer in its own right. Singular items of cultural significance are much more able to achieve this level of mana creation than mass produced items… Eh. It’s complicated, and we can leave that for another day.” Rozeta said, “I’m only telling you this to distract you from your obvious discomfort.”

Erick gave a nervous chuckle. “Yeah! There’s a fair bit of nervousness here!”

Rozeta casually ripped Erick’s life to shreds, saying, “I see how much mana certain people produce because I have access to that information. When you fell to Veird you produced 500 times as much mana as a normal person does in a single day. Now, that multiplier is up to 100,000. Sometimes twice or three times that, like when you were ending Terror Peaks.

“You’re a Wizard and you always have been.”

Ophiel twittered in the background.

Everything and nothing happened all at once.

And then Erick came back to himself.

“Ahhh…” Erick sat back in his chair, staring at the ceiling, letting his mind drift. He whispered, “Shit.”

Graciously, Rozeta said nothing for a while.

But she had places to be, so Rozeta started answering some of Erick’s questions, since he couldn’t ask them at the moment. “Mana production is unaffected by Stats or spells or fame or infamy, but it is affected by how well a person knows magic, how much magic they do, and the mana itself. You’ve both learned and done a lot. You might not have been much of an archmage when people first started calling you that, but you’re certainly an archmage now. As of right now, you’ve actually become the single largest contributor of new mana to the Script. You contribute as much as a city of people, and all by yourself.

“I’m sure you’ve heard of how Wizards used to make magic, and then they gain students and they give those students their mana, thus giving them their magic? You’ve already been giving your mana to everyone on Veird.” Rozeta said, “It’s been great for the spread of Particle Magic. The Script evens a lot of things out for a lot of people, but you made a huge splash when you released Particle Magic to the world, and a lot of people started accepting your mana into them over all others, allowing them to make more of the same mana; the same magic. And thus the cycle grows.

“[Renew] is going to be even bigger.” She added, “And with that particular spell, more than all the others, people in the know will recognize you for the Wizard you are.”

Erick’s eyes were involuntarily locked on the ceiling, as he asked, “There’s not some fame-backlash thing, making me only appear to gain mana production because people are treating me as an idea instead of as a person? Or… Or…” His voice trailed off. He wasn’t sure where he was going with his words.

“Your question is like trying to cut a loaf of bread with a tub of water.” Rozeta said, “You think your question has merit, but there’s a fundamental misunderstanding. Short explanation: No; your fame does not make you a Wizard. If you would have become a hermit instead of what you did... If you had released your Particle Magic anonymously, and if you still kept up with your magical learning and experimentation —by some sheer stroke of pure luck since you would not have encountered the same resources as you did— you would still be at the same level of mana production as you are now.

“You make extra mana. You are a Wizard. There is no other explanation.” Rozeta added, “Believe me; I looked.”

Erick was starting to come down from his nervousness. Rozeta’s calming voice helped. He turned his head back toward the white goddess. He asked, “You said earlier— Why is [Renew] a problem? More than the other circumstantial evidence?”

Rozeta said, “Everyone makes mana, but everyone’s mana is different. This is why Wizards could create schools under them, because they were able to gift their mana and thus their magic to their students, in a self perpetuating cycle that would eventually ‘lock’ into place, and the school would expand since everyone was making the same sort of mana and magic. The mana produced by the people of Veird is no different.” Rozeta said, “But the mana of people isn’t mana that is good for the spellwork supplied by the Script… I’m going to skip over several years of learning here, and say that, broadly, this is how it goes: mana is created in the Core, then it’s ‘scrubbed’ of individual meaning, and then it’s given back to people to use for the spellwork installed by the Script.

“But it’s still their mana which is given back to them first, which still has some of their own minor truths. It’s near impossible to fully scrub mana of meaning, but the Script does manage to scrub out most individuality from the mana.

“Anyway.

“Because it’s not a perfect system, people cannot directly boost the magics of others without being very in-tune with the targeted magic, because it's the ‘cutting a loaf of bread with a tub of water’ problem, again. There are only a few things that can get past this problem.

“Strings of runes can translate ideas, though there is a lot of loss through that translation, as any immortal who lived through the Grand Translation could attest.

“Gods can bridge gaps between people rather easily because people wish for us to be able to do that, so we can.

“And Wizards can do the same thing without a god’s help.

“And that’s what you did. But you did it for everyone.” Rozeta said, “You made a spell that directly contradicts all known ways magic should work, and you made it so that it works well with the Script. Which I appreciate, by the way.” She added, “What happened when you made that magic was this: your mana inside the Core flashed into strange, Wizardly shapes, and now we’ve got a brand new rune to work with.” She held up her hand, spilling golden fire into the air to form a solid image. “This is the rune for [Renew], by the way.”

