“I’m offering nothing but carrots, Erick. The only ‘stick’ is that you won’t gain any of these carrots, and I will rescind the knowledge that I have already granted you here today; I will take back one carrot.” Rozeta said, “If you choose to say no, then I will put you right back where you were when you walked into the First Wizard’s Library, and you’ll be free to go along as if this conversation never happened.

“I must do this to ensure that either you pull me directly onto your Worldly Path in a good way, or else I remain a detour on your Path; gone and mostly unremarked.

“For Fate can ensnare even gods, Erick.” Rozeta asked, “Why do you think the demons and the angels haven’t interfered with you yet? It’s certainly not because they’re afraid of you, specifically. They’re afraid of the Fate surrounding you, when combined with how much devotion you’ve already paid to Koyabez. If they met you in any other setting than a peace talk, then either one of them would surely suffer massive losses trying to go up against Melemizargo’s Fate Magic.”

The conversation was moving down another detour that Erick wanted to explore a lot more than solving the current problem of becoming a Wizard…

But Erick stayed on track, saying, “I need an hour to think about it all.”

Rozeta nodded then stood up, saying, “Of course. Take your time, but please make a decision that is good for the world, and for all the worlds yet to come. The longer you take to decide to accept my help, the less help I can give you, before other people show up and break the sanctity of this communion.”

The Goddess of the Script vanished between moments, leaving Erick to his thoughts.

Erick got up, stood there for a solid minute, thinking about nothing in particular.

Then he cleaned up the room, and then he went for a walk. His feet took him where he felt like going. Ophiel didn’t try to trip any traps this time. The little guy just floated along, wary, watching Erick in almost the exact same way that Yggdrasil watched; almost sadly.

- - - -

Erick found himself at the entrance to a stairwell at the second-to-highest floor of the Wizards’ Tower. Without hesitation, he followed the stairs upward. Inside the closed stairwell, Erick circled a central space that was inaccessible by normal means. With his mana sense, he saw gears and pipes and timing mechanisms made out of more white metal, but while there was no degradation on the system, it did not move, at all.

There had been no traps around here which is why Erick chose to go this way; it was almost like a path had been laid out for him, or probably for anyone that came here. Or maybe the mechanism was one large trap, though there were no blades or goo packets or anything like that stuffed inside these walls. Just more and more gears and axles and belts and chains.

He passed a landing that led out into the roof of the Grand Wizard’s Tower, where small gardens grew and small seating areas allowed people to sit in the sun, or under shade, to discuss whatever topics they wished. A snack stand nestled against the tower, where dozens of cakes and pies and cookies and drinks waited to be served by people who didn’t exist, to customers with similar existence deficiencies. There were a few traps out there on the roof, but none were serious; just more goo packets attached to physical tripwires and pressure plates.

Erick continued up the stairwell, toward his target: the orrery.

- - - -

It was both more impressive than Erick thought it would be, and less.

The room containing the orrery was massive and made of white metal. The domed roof was clear crystal, providing adequate lighting for the entire space. Maps of the Old Cosmology and ten thousand smaller plaques held to the interior walls of the space, fully encircling the orrery like ten thousand scales of a fish, or, more likely, a dragon. All of the scales had words on them, but some were large enough to have maps. There was an organization there, between plaques and maps, but Erick would get to that later.

The central structure of the room dominated his attention.

The orrery itself was a thing of a million moving parts, forever stilled by the lack of magic. A plaque on a pedestal between the stairwell and the orrery explained this much, breaking the immersion of this land like the people would show up at any moment. This larger plaque outright told all visitors to this space that when the Old Cosmology died, it took everything with it, including the magic that would have made this representation of this section of the Old Cosmology come alive at the touch of visiting or working Wizards.

Erick imagined a working orrery would have been grand.

A million jumbled circles and spheres of colored metal and tiny lights, like dust cast in bright sunlight, held suspended itself over the central thirty meters of the orrery like an octopus of a thousand bodies with uncountable arms. Near invisible wires connected the pieces together, and those wires were the first obviously lethal trap of this place. They reminded him of [Hermetic Shredder]. There was no doubt in his mind that to touch this sculpture would likely cost him the offending finger.

There was very little rhyme or reason to it all at first glance, but as Erick studied the massive structure, and as he read the plaque before it all, he saw the individual motes of dust were each individual planes; whole worlds. A few of the larger bits of dust here and there were Node Worlds, but even those worlds were little more than the heads of brightly colored pins.

That was Erick’s first impression. As he looked, he saw individual galaxies of hundreds of connected planes, held aloft and to their neighbors on near-invisible strings. As he studied, he realized that the jumbled cosmology was only as it might have been at one small, frozen point in time, like ever-moving neurons in an oceanic brain. This whole thing was supposed to move, and yet, it could not. Not anymore. Everything in the connected axles and gears, both downstairs and up here, was all for show.

If that galaxy cluster moved as it should, then it would hit that galaxy cluster, which would cause that whole arm of the thing to break off and then who knew how chaos would unfold. Certainly not Erick.

This was a showpiece. Perhaps a final map of the Old Cosmology; one final image captured right before Primal Lightning shot through the whole thing, breaking it all.

… And, according to another plaque, this map was not representative of the entire Old Cosmology, either. This was just the part that the survivors were able to recreate from memory, and from maps left over after the Sundering.

For a long moment, Erick just stared, viewing it all, taking it all in, feeling the ethereal weight of a trillion, trillion, trillion lost lives.

Of a killed universe.

It was enough to drive anyone insane. No wonder there were mass suicides even after the Grand Translation. No wonder Melemizargo was the way he was. No wonder…

Erick took it all in.

Minutes passed in silence. And then Erick breathed deep. He blinked a bit, wiping away tears. Then he turned to the maps around the room, to understand it all from a more logical perspective.

As he studied those maps, he saw that they were not like the maps below, down there in the remade tower of a long dead Wizard conclave. These maps up here in the orrery were written by specific people, detailing where their specific worlds were back in the Old Cosmology, and a small part of their story of how they got to Veird during the Sundering.

Erick picked one at random.

The one he picked, like all the rest, had coordinates which matched with the orrery.

—

The world of Rorilo was created by Wizard Polikia 75,000 years before the Sundering. It had been a Node World located about 12,500 world-hops away from Veird, though, on a good year, they were only 8,000wh away. Calling it a ‘good year’, when the Sundering came right in the middle of it seems deeply wrong. But it was a good year. I and my friends survived because we stole a yacht from the schoolyard, were stupid enough to try and sail the Eddies at this time of year, and lucky enough to get pushed the right direction at the last moment. The nine of us were the sole survivors of our ancient, wonderful, prosperous and peaceful world of Roliro. Everyone else died. 25 billion souls, lost to the Sundering.

—

The next plaque was much the same, but of a different world in a different part of the Old Cosmology.

12 billion dead on that one.

2 billion dead on the next one.

3 million here. 1.2 trillion there.

A thousand here. Back to 219 billion there.

Uncountable lost when the Radiant Depths died, erasing the Celestial Heavens as Primal Lightning ripped through. Estimations of ‘trillions upon trillions lost’.

Uncountable lost when the Abyssal Rift broke, erasing the Demonic Worlds and killing… Some large number with way too many numerals for Erick to desire to read, or to try and comprehend.

.

.

.

Erick went back to the orrery. He now saw several spaces that one could walk into the center of the orrery, avoiding all of the suspended cosmology and the cutting wires, to reach the middle, where one small, silver world lay. He took a step onto the orrery, and walked toward that central space, passing by now-dead worlds like some specter of death, feeling a heaviness in his chest with every passing step. This path was laid for people to walk, and so Erick walked it, to the center. To see. To feel.

To look down upon that central world, which was, of course, Veird.

It didn’t look like a central world until Erick stood here, in the middle. Most of the dust-like worlds existed in circular flows with other worlds that were only tangentially connected to Veird. Sharp turns and strange fractures abounded. But in every system there was at least one break from that flow, and oftentimes several. Eventually, Erick understood how the whole orrery gradually pointed toward this central location, to Veird.

Erick stared down at a silver jewel of a planet. It was so very, very tiny.

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye moved from his shoulder to stare at the representation of Veird alongside him. Ophiel was already silently holding in the air all around, more eyes than wings at the moment, too, staring at everything, trying to comprehend it all. The Ophiel still on Erick’s shoulder was tiny and shaking with some unknown-to-him emotion.

Erick patted Ophiel, and the little guy warmed up a bit, cooing gently, giving sound to the otherwise dead silent room. He spoke to Yggdrasil, and to Ophiel, “How much of this do you understand, Yggdrasil? Ophiel? How much do you understand about what happened here, or in that room with Rozeta?”

Ophiel was a nearly blank slate; he chirped at his name, but he did not respond beyond that.

A bit sad, Yggdrasil spoke to Erick’s mind, ‘I don’t understand.’

“That’s okay.” Erick hoped his words would get through, but he wasn’t delusional, as he said, “You can’t tell anyone I’m a Wizard. Do you understand that?”

‘Why?’

“This room is why. Because people believe that Wizards were responsible for killing their entire Old Cosmology.” Erick gestured at the dust-mote worlds all around him, his sight lingering on the countless few that were slightly larger than the rest. “Every single speck of stuff here used to be an entire world, and the Old Wizards might have killed everything you see here and much, much more, but no one really knows.”

‘… Oh.’ Yggdrasil’s eye swept across the field of mote-sized gravestones, each representing millions or billions of lives, though Erick suspected it would be a while yet before Yggdrasil actually understood that. ‘I want to visit them.’

Erick smiled softly as he looked away, gazing across the expanse. “They’re gone; no one can visit any of these worlds anymore. But maybe we can visit new worlds later. Like the ones out in the night sky that you can see sometimes, if you look close, and if they’re in the right position overhead. Would you like that?”

‘Yes. I want that.’

“There are a lot of things we have to do before we get to that point, Yggdrasil.”

‘What need?’

“The primary thing, right now, is that you can’t tell anyone I’m a Wizard. It’s a secret. An important one that you need to keep. I need you to understand this, Yggdrasil. Not even Poi can know I’m a Wizard.” Though Poi would know, but Erick kept the idea simple for Yggdrasil. Erick said, “No one can know I’m a Wizard.”

‘Because they killed the Old Cosmology?’

Erick smiled. “Yes.”

‘I understand.’ Yggdrasil asked, ‘Are you going to kill the New Cosmology?’

“No. I’m hoping to expand into the New Cosmology, to make more worlds habitable for people, and you can help me with that.”

‘Okay.’ Yggdrasil asked, ‘What kind of Wizard?’

“What kind of Wizard am I going to be? I’m going to choose Paradox, of course.”

‘Creation sound good.’

“I’m sure I’ll be able to do a bit of that, too. But not as much.”

‘Your aura feels Creation.’

Erick smiled. He made a little joke, “I suppose it’s rather Paradoxical to go a different way, eh?”

‘...Oh! I understand!’ Yggdrasil gave a small, tinkling laugh that echoed in Erick’s mind like children playing at a park.

Erick chuckled along with the laughter, feeling Yggdrasil’s mirth through their connection. This spilled over into Ophiel, who chimed in with his own trilling calls. Ophiel didn’t really understand humor, but he was mimicking rather well these days and that was a step in the right direction.

It felt wrong to laugh in this room full of gravestones, but sometimes humor was all a person had, and Erick had been laughing at danger and death his entire life.
