“Your Mana becomes the mana you produce, which hinges on the Wizardly Discipline you manifest. Pick Destruction or Paradox, and you’ll remain at 100,000 to 200,000 mana per day. Pick Creation and you could end up with endless mana. In such a case you might become too valuable to ever kill, so you would likely be hunted down and contained.

“You can only use your mana; you no longer have access to the mana of others, which is what the Script does for most people.

“Stat increases no longer work, so your rings are now useless. This is how it is for most monsters, anyway.

“Your Stats will drop precipitously until you can learn to fortify yourself in the ways that the Script now does.

“Abilities like Mana Altering no longer function for you; you have to do that on your own.

“Aurify, which allows two auras at once, is now removed. You get one aura, your base aura, which you can barely handle.

“[Greater Lightwalk] is both removed and also fully taints your aura, so you might not ever learn Mana Altering for anything other than light.

“[Lodestar] still works, and you might be able to use that in your aura work, but [Domain of Light] costs 5000 mana and you can only use 500, so you’re restricted to [Lodestar] aura, only.

“Intelligence, Clarity, all of the abilities that reduce mana costs are defunct. You now pay full costs for all spellwork until you can learn how to properly cast all of your spells.

“And you have to manually cast every single spell. Some spells with larger mana costs will take longer to cast, upwards of minutes, and must be done in ritual for the 500 mana cap still applies.”

Erick felt physically ill. He almost puked up his tea, but instead he sipped carefully while he listened.

Rozeta continued, “Ophiel would still be connected to you but there will be some growing pains there. You will find it extremely difficult to resummon him for multiple reasons, with mana cost being only one of those reasons. Every single Ophiel that dies is likely to stay dead for a long time, until you can make time to perform the rituals necessary to recast him.

“Yggdrasil will be similarly difficult to conjure. More so, probably, since you will need to build up a few million mana reserve for your ritual, or else you will die trying to cast him.

“On the plus side, you no longer have a Maximum Mana cap, though you still have a 500 mana per second cap on your throughput.”

For about two minutes the wall behind Rozeta was supremely interesting. Erick stared at that wall while Rozeta plucked a pink muffin from her basket and ate it. Then she stood up and went to make herself some milk tea.

As she stirred her tea, she asked, “Want a stronger drink, Erick? There’s a rum-equivalent here.” She pointed with her spoon to a crystal bottle of bright orange liquor, sitting with similar bottles of other colors. “It tastes a bit more like cinnamon than most stuff you have in your memories.”

Erick snapped out of it, eager to talk about something less important. “Yes. Also: Is that the cinnamon rum that Apogee was trying to make? Did his Worldly Path take him down here?”

Rozeta smiled a bit, then she started making him a drink, saying, “While I will talk openly about the Script down here, and about pretty much everything you want to discuss, I won’t talk to you about other people’s magic, or travels.” She handed him a crystal glass of orange liquor as she sat back down in her chair with her own new drink.

“Thank you.” Erick accepted the glass, but he did not take a sip. He held it in his hands as he asked, “What about… Instead of Wizardry, you make a Script for Yggdrasil that I can use, too? Something separate from your Script, that will allow me to maintain my power without the need to weaken myself, first?”

Rozeta said, “The Script denies all other mana miners; it has to in order to work like it needs to work. I will not break security in this way.”

Sudden exasperation flooded through Erick. “I get that you’re being helpful. I understand that you’re laying all these secrets of the Script out there… But I need something more. I can’t go back out there like this. I’m going to accidentally trigger some Wizardly thing and lose access when I can least afford it; I know I will.”

“I will help you in all the ways I can, but my father controls your Worldly Path, and I already asked him to give it to me. He won’t.”

“… Ah.”

Rozeta continued, “You are an uncommonly powerful Wizard, Erick. You can change your own Worldly Path if you want, and if you know how. To that end, let us discuss the options to this problem of you losing power when you finally become a Wizard.”

Erick was all ears.

Rozeta continued, “As stated, I cannot give Yggdrasil a manaminer of their own.

“But if you were a Paradox Wizard, you could simultaneously link to the Script, and be separate from the Script. You could have a core, and not have a core. You could exude mana, but also not.”

Erick’s eyes went wide, yet again. “But you just said you would remove me?”

“I did, and I will.” Rozeta said, “But I can also help you learn how to connect to a Script that doesn’t exist. The first step after becoming a Wizard will be to do what you already did with the Rune of Renew; create a ‘sandbox subsystem’ inside the Script. No one but me will be able to see it, and if I don’t like it, I can delete it myself. In this way, I will help you become a Wizard with no downsides unless you start breaking things, and then I’ll remove you from the Script and probably send paladins your way.” Rozeta said, “But I don’t want to do that, Erick.”

Erick stared a bit. “Okay? This seems… Odd. And difficult.”

“It will be extremely difficult, but I will be helping you along the way to ensure that I can pull the plug if needed.”

“What possible failure states am I looking at, here?”

“You might not be able to go all the way with it, and be stuck without Script assistance; this is the most reasonable failure. You might fuck up and die in the center of the process; this is the least possible outcome. You might interface incorrectly, opening up vulnerabilities all around; this is where I will have to kill you to prevent further corruption to the Script. Also a low possibility there, but not zero.”

Erick breathed out, whispering, “Ahhh.”

Rozeta said, “Even if you succeed, you will lock yourself into Paradox Wizardry. This means, once Yggdrasil is capable of creating Seeds, that it will take many years to create those Seeds. Some people will not like this, and they will look to sunder souls in order to speed up the process. I would occasionally send you Quests to stop such sundering, and I will expect you to respond with Light and Ash to prevent such events.”

Decision time.

Erick set down his untouched drink, saying, “I’m okay with Paradox. How do we proceed? Will it be possible for me to do this before the wrought squad show?”

“They’re four days away. It will be close, but you should be able to manage full Wizardry in that time, though I have barely begun to cover all the warnings.” Rozeta said, “Mainly, we have this: Monsters and cannibal humans and all sorts of creatures with cores become extremely angry with everyone who uses the Script because of two factors: they are forced to form their cores from ambient mana, and they recognize the Script tries to control them. This is how it’s always been for monsters on worlds with manaminers, like Veird, because they can’t use their own mana to manifest a pure core.

“In order for you not to suffer this fate, you cannot form a core from ambient mana, at all. It will drive you insane.”

Erick startled. “So that’s…? That’s why monsters are so crazy?”

“One of the smallest reasons, but it’s enough of a foundation to build all the other reasons upon. Worlds shouldn’t have this many monsters on them, and the Shades made some nasty monsters, and that malevolence compounds...” Rozeta said, “We’re getting distracted again.”

“Right,” Erick said, but he knew he’d be wondering about monsters for a long time from now.

Rozeta said, “With that warning out of the way, this is how it is going to go:

“In order to begin to form your core, you must explore your soul and find the link to the Core. Then you must shut that link. Most people begin to exude excess mana at this point. You will veritably explode with the stuff. From there, you use your aura to condense your mana into your body. There are many ways to do this, from pressurizing your own mana till it phase-changes into something solid, and then continues to grow with your directed input of mana. You could instead build your core up with perfect piece after perfect piece, like a crystal growing from a seed.

“At this point, since you already had Script access at a sentient level of power, you will be cut from the Script, and you will be forced into wielding your own power for your own gains. You will have formed a small monster core.

“You will not have access to the full Wizardry power of a Wizard Core. You will be like a shadeling in a fugue, and like a shadeling, it is still possible for you to rejoin the Script, for the Script will continue to try to reconnect to you. When the Script does reconnect, your excess mana will once again manifest inside the Script and you will regain most of yourself, but you will now be on the limited Script of the monsters.

“You must break your connection to the Script again to begin to create a Wizard Core, but this time it will be much, much harder for you to break that connection. You will have to enact Wizardry in order to regain control over your own mana.

“Melemizargo does this Wizardry to his shadelings to create Shades, manifesting a Truth inside the shadeling in the process. Each one of those Shades has a convalescence of several days to weeks to regain themselves. From there, it's more work to come into their full Shade power.” Rozeta said, “That central Truth is what makes them pseudo-Wizards. But they’re not true Wizards because none of them got there themselves, and none of them can take that final step to become a real Wizard.

“You should be able to take this final step, but it’s going to be difficult.

“You have to transform your entire self into a mana crystal, abandoning your body, but also retaining your current shape.” Rozeta said, “All Wizards must achieve this act of Paradox Wizardry in order to unlock their full power, because only when one is fully in tune with their own mana can they enact true Wizardry. As a side note, technically anyone can achieve this level of transformation if they’re slow enough and careful enough, but only Wizards produce enough mana on their own to sustain this transformation. All others must use mana from other sources thus tainting their Truth and risking insanity or worse, or they can only use their power once every century, or they have to be part of a very large collective with everyone producing the exact same mana. That last one is a lot tougher than you would think, and usually requires a Full Wizard of its own to get started.

“You have options, though. You can do this transformation slowly, changing each bone into crystal and each organ and then muscles and skin and what have you. Or you can do it all at once. I suggest the second path for expedience since I will be here to help you, but the first path is safer.

“Either way, the end result has several side effects, most of which you already see present in the Shades. Ageless immortality. Immunity to mind magics if you choose to close off your mind. The ability to assume a greater form, if you make your mana crystal form into such which many Shades do. Assorted other benefits.

“All this while, you will have lost the benefits of the Script and it will attempt to shut you down all the time, unless you go deep into Paradox. If you want access to Wizardry and the Script, then you must figure out how to Paradoxically go both ways.” Rozeta said, “And as I said before, I will help with this.”

Erick resisted the sudden urge to make a joke about already going both ways, but his sanity was already fraying, and he was in a time crunch. He appreciated the attempt at levity, though, which was probably exactly why Rozeta said her small joke.

“So.” Erick asked, “How does Paradox work?”

They spoke for a while.

- - - -

The muffin basket was devoid of muffins. Two bottles of liquor were almost completely empty, and a third was tried but decided against. The tea pot had been refilled and emptied several times, with a small pile of tea bags sitting in the trash nearby. More snacks had been had, with the refuse of all that scattered around their small area. Rozeta had come and gone several times, taking care of small problems here and there, and mostly whenever Erick got too emotional to continue. He was thankful for that.

By now, Erick had gotten over most of his panic.

But here, at the end of their discussion, Rozeta ratcheted it up one last time.

Rozeta said, “You can choose to forgo this opportunity to become a Wizard in the next three days, with the longer you wait meaning the less we can get through, but if you choose to not accept my help, then you’ll forget quite a lot of our conversation. I will erase everything you have learned about Wizards, because I cannot have you doing this out there where my father can get to you. I need that failsafe, Erick. I won’t let you go without it.”

Erick’s small bit of good humor vanished like water in the desert sun. “Ah.”

Rozeta said, “You’re free to choose your own path in life. I won’t force anything upon you. In some ways, it might be better for you to forget what I told you. It might be better for you to come into your true power later, when you’re more settled. It’s entirely possible that my father won’t try to influence your power to his own ends. If you choose to go this route, then the test of morality will be upon him, instead of you.

“In which case, and going by my father’s track record, such a choice will likely end in your death.

“That’s a choice you have to make; I will not make it for you. For what it’s worth, if you choose to become a Wizard now, I will work with you to spin the truth about Renew into something less damaging for you, but people will know you for what you are with that creation.”

Erick leaned back. “Ah. So many carrots and sticks. Highly motivating.”

