"Really?" Thomas started reading. "And they don't guard it?" He looked at the map and saw that the dungeon was way, way out in the middle of nowhere. Apparently, the monsters were flying swords that challenged divers to duels.

He was no swordsman, but he did have a new weapon that could interrupt the mana that let the swords fly.

"Jo will kill us if she doesn't see this dungeon." He looked at Zach. "You got enough teleportation to grab her and then do a quick field test for my new toy?"

Zach grinned. “Dude, I was hoping you’d ask. Let me just get a visual of the place. The guide says it's near Trout peak, right? He took out his phone and, after a quick Google search, started swiping through satellite images of Upper Wyoming.

"You're really going to teleport from a map app?" Thomas asked uneasily.

"Yeah, s'long as I can get a decent picture." Zach turned the phone to show an image of a scrubby brown plain with a line of trees out in the distance. It could have been one of a thousand different places.

"What happens if the image isn't good enough or you just get it wrong?" Thomas asked.

Zach paused, and to Thomas's increasing alarm, it looked like he was thinking about it for the first time. "It... probably wouldn't be pretty," he decided at last.

Then he went back to Googling more images of their teleport spot.

I'm trusting Google with my life, Thomas thought. Well, not really Google, but Zach. That reminded him of something he'd wondered off and on. "But how did you find me? The last two times, I mean? You didn't have a satellite picture of the Ross-Astor House, and I didn't even tell you where I was earlier today."

"Oh, that's easy. I can find you anywhere. Everybody has kind of a fingerprint with their mana," he replied, not looking up. "Even if you add more or burn some away, the mana is you, and you are your mana. I know my Gift makes me kind of an expression of that, but still. So when I teleport you, I get a lock on your mana, and from then on, I just know, you know?"

Thomas did not know, but Zach had flawlessly found him twice, so he was just going to trust that he knew his business. Besides, it was nice to know that if ever did find himself in the same situation as Twitch, he had a friend who could yoink him back out to safety again.

So he turned his attention to other matters and texted a quick description of the dungeon to Jo, finishing with, "You in?"

His phone buzzed less than a minute later.

Jo: I swear to all that is holy, if you two already went without me...

He grinned and replied: Just waiting on you to get done with the Mom stuff.

Jo: We're both shopped out, and now I'm ready to stab something.

Thomas smiled down at the phone. "Jo's coming."

"Awesome! And... All right, I think I got enough of a picture." Zach grabbed Kevin, put him on his own shoulder, and said, "Ready to go? I'll drop you off, then go get Jo."

Thomas quickly grabbed his backpack, Zach put a hand on his shoulder, and the next thing he knew, he was standing by the side of a two-lane highway in the middle of nowhere.
