The in-between greeted her in all its incomprehensible beauty. Her senses merged and let her taste the vastness of it through a strange synesthesia. The section she was in held a strange flavor, abandoned yet still smelling of wine and fine arts. And luck. She tested the… the space around her, though that didn’t feel quite right. Where she could aim her thoughts. Before much could happen though, a powerful tug dragged her back down.

But not back to Nyil.

Her soul screamed. This was not a very well-used conduit and the jagged edges scared her but whatever will guided her, carried her expertly through the various reefs that formed a path back to… she could see it now. A planet, blue and familiar but more orange than she remembered. She was pulled down, impossibly fast. She—

She was in an office, facing herself.

Viv took in her surroundings with a sense of sight that didn’t use eyes. Something was allowing her to see, to experience. The room she hovered in was spacious, all edges of glass and black metal. Few decorations adorned the otherwise austere place, and the austere woman sat in a leather chair as if it were a throne. She wore an asymmetrical gray suit complimented with a golden pin. Her face was Viv’s if Viv was older with access to the best skin routine earth had ever designed. A strand of gray hair snaked down from each temple, granting the woman an air of experience. Twin emerald eyes watched Viv with a bittersweet attention.

A distant part of Viv’s mind screamed at her through the void. It screamed with grief and outrage. More details emerged, reinforcing what she already knew deep inside. There was a picture in the background of the same Viv with three adult children and a handsome husband, all with rare green eyes. Plates on the wall spoke of degrees, rewards. A logo decorated the desk with the word Euronics and below, Safran and Rheinmetall. The screen between them was flexible and transparent. Rows of data danced in its depths in a script she was no longer used to reading. It took her a moment to recognize the background far below because the landscape had changed so much. Trees of tropical essence lined every piece of space not covered by solar panels. New skyscrapers had popped up but there was no mistaking the esplanade below, or the shape of Paris in the distance. Fumaroles of heated air covered every exposed piece of metal like a shield outside. Inside, the air was cold and clean. It smelled vaguely of industrial soap.

“No,” Viv finally managed. “No no no no no no it’s only been two years. No. Impossible!”

“Time does not carry us at the same speed everywhere,” the older Viv rasped between tight lips.

“Emeric…”

“In the flesh. Well, in your flesh.”

The hidden god took a sip of something amber. Now Viv finally noticed the crystal decanter on a table, half empty. Emeric let the glass rest against his… her thigh, for now, the contrast between the carefully controlled environment and languid posture jarring.

“What…”

“I am sorry. That is what I want to say first. I am so sorry.”

“For stealing my life?!”

“Yes. I was… callous. Needlessly brutish. I hurt you when you did not deserve it. I have been following your progress, of course. I know you did well for yourself but it does not absolve me of my sin. The truth is that I could have used a dying body and replaced it. I could have waited for a good vessel as they died, but I didn’t. The throne of the gods corrupted me. It took being you to remember that… that people mattered.”

“I wanted to warn my family,” Viv’s soul wailed. “To tell them I was alive.”

“They thought you were. They still do. Only your father realized… you’d been replaced. He confronted me. I told him the truth. He said he’d shoot me if I were not in his daughter’s body.”

“I don’t care I don’t care I don’t care give me back my family!”

“I can’t!” Emeric roared, then softer. “I can’t. It’s already too late. I don’t have the means to swap you back. Even if I did, it would cancel all the pain we went through to trap Maranor. I can’t do it. I’m sorry.”

“Why why why why why why.”

“Quiet.”

Viv’s soul was forcefully stabilized by the hand of the god. Anguish tasted different for a soul. Less raw and much, much deeper, and she had no tears to cry.

“I owe you an explanation I suppose, but after that I will seal the memory of this exchange to others. You will not be able to mention it. Whether you want it or not. Simply put… I fled here to stop my wife from dooming us all. She wants my crown and for that she needs to challenge me. To challenge me, she needs to demonstrate I am unfit.”

“Unfit unfit unfit.”

Emeric took another sip of alcohol.

“Unfortunately, being a decent person has never been a requirement for leadership. Quite the contrary, in fact. Maranor has found her cause and ally and promised to unseal him if he cooperated. It, I guess. I am talking about the leader of the first pantheon. Katon the harvester. The first of us all. Currently in the middle of a botched reincarnation.”

Viv wished she could flee and cry, return to the physical world where yelling and throwing stuff was a distinct possibility. It didn’t happen. Emeric wasn’t done with her.

“Gomogog the jovial feaster. He empowered his followers who engaged in ritualistic cannibalism. Octas the grafter. She advocated becoming monsters ourselves as the only way to power. She affixed monster parts on people. Enttiku guardian of repose. We turned them to our cause for they only cared about the peace of souls. Khaton of the many diseases. He made his believers stronger according to the pain and terror they inflicted. And Gorok the Butcher. Those were the ones we worshiped for a time. Maranor slew Gorok and Khaton but Gorok returned.”

Viv felt curiosity despite herself. Being merely a soul gave her entirely too many avenues of reflection.

“How?”

“As the god of the only fitting entity: he’s an aberrant.”

A chill plunged Viv’s soul in a cold pond.

“That is bad.”

“It is, but his power wanes. I needed some more time, so I fled here. I stole your life. Your friends. I stole your family. I have built a life here and realized what I had done. Godlike power, it does something to you. There are so many deaths, so many prayers left unfulfilled. After a while, your heart hardens like a stone. It took me quite a while to remember what it meant to be mortal. I’m sorry, Viv. And I… am sorry for your loss. “

A new wave of horror flashed through Viv while Emeric took another sip with an emotion she never expected in such a detestable man: guilt.

“Your father died this morning. Heart attack. You’ve been gone for thirty-three years. He is… was… an old man. I… I told him to slow down. That he wasn’t that young anymore. He wouldn’t listen.”

“Fuck you fuck you fuck your fuck you”

“Quiet. I will say it again: I am sorry. There is a debt between us. So… I can’t bring back your life but I can make up for it. Pay the debt. Do you know why there are no temples to me and yet I am king?”

Viv didn’t. She’d never wondered.

“I am Luck. People call my name in the recess of their hearts and sometimes I help them. There are many people who need help at any given time, but I will not come to those who demand, who worship, or beg or whine or scream. I only come to those who act as they ask. But I will come for you. Talk to me in your heart and I will atone for the sin that binds us. Remember me. I will give you a sample of what can be done. Remember me in your hour of need. Do not let your grudge cause your death. Goodbye, Viviane the Exile. Maybe we will meet again, one day.”

“I’ll fucking kil —”

Viv was projected back to the in-between, then back to her room screaming and panting. Light invaded her vision, hurting her eyes. She flipped to her side to empty her stomach. Tendrils of black mana lashed, cutting her bed table in two. Another pinged against a shield.

“Calm down! By Sardanal, Viv!”

A hand grabbed her. She recognized the familiar perfume of Ereska, her roommate.

“MERDE!”

“I do not know this tongue but I can gather you are angry.”

“Gah! That cock-sucking, rotten, poxed-ridden—”

“You are quite angry.”

“AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAH.”

Viv breathed, trying to reassert herself. Her body felt weird. Out of place.

Soul Mastery has vastly improved due to repeated contacts with divinities.

Soul Mastery: Intermediate 1

You may now travel to the in-between voluntarily.

She felt disconnected. Stats didn’t help. It was like the throne room back in Harak. Her soul, gone too far and slapped back like a metaphysical rubber band. Straight at her.

“That fucker,” she sobbed. Then, softly, “Papa…”

“We… have the same word in the northern tongue. I am sorry.”

“I just wanted to say goodbye. I just wanted to tell them I was alright.”

But they didn’t need it. Didn’t need her. She’d been replaced.

“What happened, Viv?”

“I was told. I was told my father died. I just… I just wanted to see him again.”

Viv let herself be consumed by grief, here in her room where it was safe. Ereska stayed.

“I knew I could die so I made letters. But that’s not the same. I am NOT dead. I am not dead at all. I just wanted to see him, to tell him I was sorry for what I said. Not all I said but some. Tell him I was a hypocrite, that I knew the tools he used were more… neutral than evil. I used them as well. I wanted to tell him that he was right, that I was more like him than I admitted. Even though he was an asshole. Fuck. I just wanted to talk. Now that I was my own person. Not like this.”

Ereska hugged her.

“Not like this. Why?”

“I’m sorry. It’s not fair to you, and nothing will replace him…. but I’m still glad you’re here. Forgive me. If you were not here… Varska would have died alone.”

“She did die alone! That idiot wanted her heroic death so much!”

“But she died for someone. Sorry, I’m bad at this. I wish I had a skill.”

There was a skill for grief counseling here. For fuck sake.

“What I wish to express is that your sacrifice has changed a lot for many people. People who deserved a second chance. Like your, and I cannot believe I am saying this, daughter.”

“True,” Viv sniffed.

“You were dealt a loaded die but you made what you could of it. I’m happy you were here for Varska, at the end. So, please do not be angry. Instead, please tell me about your father.”

Viv sat back down. She knew what Ereska was doing and wanted to slap her. Yet, the girl meant well. Screaming would help nobody. She had to be the adult for now. Maybe scream later. Alone.

“He was a politician, a businessman, an amoral twat and… a great dad.”

“Oh he would have loved it here.”

Viv sniffed. With her magic and her dad’s political acumen, with the two of them they would be halfway through Enoria by now. And the Enorians would be thanking them for it.

“Wait… what is that thing?” Ereska suddenly asked.

On Viv’s bed, a black, squarish box waited. Viv blinked because she was pretty sure there was plastic in that thing. The design felt like a boy version of those revolutionary smartphones that had just… but no. With earth thirty years in the future, smartphones were probably obsolete by then. Maybe people watched tv series on the toilet with eye implants. Maybe toilets were obsolete. Viv grabbed for the box, which lit up at her touch.

The back was made of shiny plates with a small inscription reading ‘solar panels’ in French. A click on the side revealed a pair of earplugs linked back to the box with thick cables that looked like they could resist an axe chop. The shiny text on the edge read: Survivalist Vault 3, and listed a storage capacity of 124 terabytes of data. It seemed like… quite a lot to Viv.

She opened and found text in blockish script. She was thirty years in the past and still found the look retro. Inside, there was a menu with videos, music, and photos. She opened the first one and found a tanned version of herself posing in the Charles de Gaulle airport lobby with her smiling brother. She smashed the thing down on her bed. It bounced merrily.

“What is that? It looks like the most advanced piece of magitech I have ever seen!”

“It’s a… a depository of knowledge. From my world.”

“Whoever sent it to you—”

“Must remain secret. Absolutely secret.”

“Of course. Naturally,”

There were notes on the main menu. The first told her the box was locked to her face, which felt weird to her but seemed to be working. The second was that it was enchanted to escape scrutiny from hostiles. Divine shenanigans probably. She tried to inspect it. The skill just drifted off it.

She opened it again and picked a random song. Saint Saens’ ‘Dance Macabre’ rang through the ravaged room. She had to admit, the sound system was nice.

For a consolation prize.

Viv grabbed the box, though she refused to open the pictures, refused to read the notes on what had happened to her friends while a mad god meat-puppeted her true body for his enjoyment. She wanted to throw that shit off the window but she didn’t. She couldn’t. She didn’t have the strength. It was all she had left, a pity gift from a regretful man so she could get the drags of the life she would never live, the one he’d stolen from her.

“That music! It’s… it’s so beautiful!”

It appeared Ereska was crying.

“Take it,” she said.

“What?”

“Take it. I don’t need it right now. Go. I want to be alone.”

“If you are sure…”

Ereska left clutching her prize in her hands while violins sang according to the whims of a talented director. Fucking music. He’d sent her music and a photo album. Jesus.

