The labyrinth’s constantly shifting alignment would quickly undo any manmade alterations, and Tevrin’s tunnel barely lasted long enough to squeeze through the gap. Having to leave behind two of his Realmtreading Wedges was painful, even if Tevrin knew it was a worthy trade. Nothing mattered except making good time, and his shortcut had saved him nearly ten minutes.

Any Spatial Cultivator could see through the trial’s true nature. There were dozens of viable paths hidden in the complex spatial knot. Those at the edges were safer, with less spatial instability and slower transformations. However, the spatial compression was actually far greater at the borders. One would have to cross ten times the distance compared to going straight through the sphere.

Tevrin was taking a calculated risk, choosing a path brushing against the center. Even the peak geniuses would suffer before the terrifying maelstrom in the labyrinth’s core. Skirting it was enough to pose great danger, but Tevrin had made ample preparations for the day. It didn’t matter if it was overkill against someone like Everit Draom. At worst, it was a learning experience and an opportunity to showcase his skills.

Every crossroad was a riddle connected to the Dao of Space, requiring experience and intuition to solve. The [Six Direction Compass] crafted by the Realmtreading Society’s Ancestor was the perfect assistant. It greatly lessened Tevrin’s mental burden while increasing his speed. It even gave him the freedom to explore the marvelous Dao on display.

The further he went, the deeper Tevrin’s awe for the Mercurial Court grew. What a marvelous trial. Not only was the concept instilled into the spatial layers exquisite, hinting at a heritage far surpassing the society’s. The trial was actually a gift for the fated. The whole labyrinth was a blueprint, one only visible from the inside. The deeper Tevrin pushed, the clearer the picture became.

Alas, Tevrin soon had no energy to spare on the hidden pattern. The labyrinth soon grew excruciatingly complex and filled with nefarious traps. Every turn could lead you down a thousand different routes. Of them, nine hundred held false spaces, and ninety-nine led the wrong way. Only one route was true, and being a second too slow would turn the true path into another dead end.

The compass soon couldn’t deduce the route on its own. Tevrin used every ability in his repertoire and everything he’d learned during his centuries traversing the World Tree's myriad realms. There was no price too steep to take another step forward. Deep lacerations covered his body, but they couldn’t extinguish the fire burning in his heart.

Seizing destiny never came easy. Tevrin’s roared with defiance as he stabbed forward with his hand. A lance of condensed space crashed against a spatial barrier with enough power to dispatch a whole mountain peak to the Void. It wasn’t nearly enough to force a path. The collision only managed to create a series of ripples. They provided the critical clues Tevrin needed to continue.

The crude approach was quick and effective, but it drained significantly more energy than his other means. Tevrin was forced to rely on similar methods with increasing frequency. The slightest delay meant certain doom. The labyrinth became a hazy blur as his soul was wrung dry, and Tevrin increasingly leaned on instinct to lead him down the promised path.

Tevrin’s unyielding determination was finally awarded. The exit ahead. His crossing had felt like an eternity, but he knew he’d made great time. He’d made few mistakes, none of them major. He’d even overcome his limitations by tapping into his potential and desire to seize Destiny, surpassing what should be his best performance.

Preparation and force of will had coalesced into a time just shy of fifty minutes. Tevrin understood there were always higher mountains, but he couldn’t imagine more than a few dozen Sealbearers beating that record. Another hour might not be enough for Everit Draom to reach the end.

The final stretch proved blessedly calm, giving Tevrin the opportunity to pull himself together. Someone was already waiting outside to greet him, and he’d emerge victorious before countless witnesses. His feat would become a fable told in inns and tea houses, and he couldn’t do something to tarnish his or the society’s name.

Tevrin rallied the last of his reserves and forcibly teleported past the finishing point. He emerged in a burst of valor. The crowd wouldn’t know the maneuver left his vision spinning and his stomach ready to refund yesterday’s feast. They’d only remember his heroic expression as he seized Destiny. It worked. Tevrin could feel the countless gazes, and the square was steeped in rapt silence.

Stabilizing his breath, Tevrin jumped into his prepared statement. “This day—"

“Took you long enough.”
