“Exactly! The holes are containment sites that help with preventing the spread of corruption, and act as loss prevention tools.”

Arguably, at least.

“I see,” said Bean. “This good?”

“Yes! Very good. Very important,” confirmed Kairon. “But… In order for us to claim this as such, each site needs to be at least five meters deep. To that end, outside the tower you’ll find several large sticks I had Shiny prepare. The hole needs to measure at least as deep as they are. Understood?”

“Yes master!” chimed Bean.

“Another thing—the number of holes needs to map a certain percentage of the area they are in to qualify as something we will refer to as regulatory operator status. I’ll help communicate this with check-ins as you work.”

“Regulatory,” repeated Bean. “Got it!”

“Oh! And one more thing. Bean, while you’re out there, I want you personally to do some… surveying. Think of it as… environmental measurement.”

The little imp cocked his head. “How?”

“Ah, nothing so extravagant. We just need measurements. I want you to estimate the number of steps between the thickest parts of the treeline and each dig site. Take some bark, and mark the numbers like I showed you.” Bean was about to pipe up, when another thought struck. “Also, I want you to identify at what depth the corruption becomes evident in each hole. And, as you make your trek, take note of the water color. Stick your claw into the channels, the ones I showed you before. Check the color. Like we used for farming, alright? Water quality sampling is very important.”

As his master spoke, Bean’s eyes got wider and wider. When he finished, the little farm manager puffed his chest. “Leave to me! But… Master. I do this. Curious… Why? Lots changes… New…” He thought for a moment, before finding the right word. “New processes!”

Around him, even the other imps looked curious. They rubbed their claws, watching their master closely.

“Well, we have one war in front of us, as you all know. With these new processes, as you say, we aren’t just getting ready for it. But another war soon after.”

For just a moment, his demonic eyes flicked to the blinking vault.

“One I’m much more excited for,” he added.

In the back of the room, the wrath soldiers had stood quietly this whole time. The leader of brown one stepped forward, banging claw to chest. “We do our part! Brown fist ready!”

“Good. I’m counting on it.”

***

The dark sands and hellscape dirt flew behind as Boney sprinted. Tonight the moonlight was nearly nonexistent. So dark that only the speckled stars gave some measure of light. More than a league out as he was, the city was no more than a glowing purple and orange bead to his rear.

Howling in glee, Boney dove under the next tree, scaled the one after, and flung himself to the next. He’d been practicing traversing the terrain as Vorathrex instructed. Not just by the ground, but whatever was offered.

The pit had been an invaluable asset early on, its ground always shifting and terrain changing, but nothing could compare to moving through the hellscape in the pitch of night.

Only, Boney wasn’t seeing with his eyes. He was… feeling. The warrior wasn’t sure how it worked, but each night he did this exercise, he got better and better.

Inside his mind, he felt what should and should not be. He instinctively knew that if he just threw his body from this branch to the next, there was open air. And, paces in front, a new dying, corrupted tree to grapple on to.

Embracing that feeling, the branch that moments ago was nothing more than an indescribable blur in the darkness thrummed into existence. An outline of vibrant orange laced in front of him, giving him a clear place to grab onto with his claws.

“Rahhhh!” he shrieked, barreling through dead leaves and brush that still clung to the corrupted sapling, his claws finding a fur covered sack. Inside, his dinner waited.

Grinning savagely, he sat and tore in.

Unbeknownst to the little warrior, the lines of gold and crimson energy intertwined from him to the domain got a little bigger. And a little more flushed into his body. The feelings that allowed the warrior to see and move as he did got a little stronger. His muscles grew a little larger. And, somewhere deep in his mind, the drive for violence and destruction grew a smidge more… wrathful.
