Tala, on the other hand, turned the glass entirely to fine powder with her passage. At the same time, her authority and density was so energetic, and her connections to reality and void so profound, that the sand was melted once more. Since no new impurities had been added, the result was clear once more. In fact, the very act of churning exposed previously ensconced imperfections that the active void-magics quickly disposed of before they could be reincorporated.

That—combined with her now constantly active technique of enforcing existence as it had been before her arrival, upon existence after her passage—left a neat stack of glass sheets, cleaner and clearer than before her movement through.

All of that took place on a meta-physical level, of course, and only those with a view into reality or existence could have a hope of seeing it.

To Tala’s view of reality nodes and threads, she’d effectively taken the two nodes of the physical locations she was passing between, and obliterated the threads binding them before recreating those threads stronger and without any tangle or impediment.

It had actually been a mentally draining process, even if it had been handled mostly unconsciously… and by Alat.

-That… Please only do that when needed. I can get us through to the hold, but I don’t want to do this hundreds of times…-

I’ll keep that in mind. Thank you.

Alat just gave a grunt of acknowledgement.

On a magical level—a sense most arcanes had—there had been a clear uptick of power usage from the quickway spells, and a pulse of power had been in evidence as those spellforms acted to maintain integrity and remove issues.

To mundane sight? If an onlooker had been very perceptive, they could have seen that the distance between the two quickway nodes now seemed a bit shorter, and the air looked a bit cleaner, the walls of the tunnel a bit more polished and reflective.

Most didn’t have the quality of vision or focus to have noticed, however.

The final squad of House Guards following behind the Sappherrous family experienced no issue, and aside from the occasional curious glance, none of the random citizenry around them seemed to think overmuch on what had occurred.

The adjunct was a bit more perceptive however. He walked up to Tala and bowed. “Eskau, should we take a different path to the hold?”

Tala shook her head. “No, this should be fine. Though, with improving relations with the gated to the north, it might be worth putting up signs recommending that none above Fused be allowed in the quickways.”

The adjunct gave a slow nod. “I will ensure that advice is passed on to the City Lord.”

“Thank you.”

“Then, if there is nothing else?”

Tala shook her head.

“Then, let us be on our way. I believe that dinner is prepared in honor of your arrival.”

“By all means, lead on.”
