The forest was quiet and Veron couldn't see a single moving thing among the white trees. He trusted his armor and Reka’s magic, then ran towards Reymond with his shield raised, making himself as small as possible. He could hear Silvie’s steps behind him.

An arrow swooshed towards him and then stopped in the air as if an invisible force had caught it. He reached Reymond, hearing the man murmur to himself. An arrow was stuck in his shoulder.

We need Hayden.

Two more arrows were stopped as he grabbed onto the man. Only to have Silvie grab Reymond and drag him away. “Keep us covered!”

An arrow glanced off his shield before another one was stopped in the air.

Hayden stepped out from behind the wagon and shouted into the forest, slamming his hammer onto his shield. The next two arrows came for him, one he dodged with a quick side step and the other one he blocked with his shield, shouting again.

Silvie and Veron moved past him and saw Reka giving them a nod before she continued carving runes into the downed wagon, blood running down the side of her face.

“Hayden! Check Reymond! Left shoulder.” Silvie called out and went towards Reka.

The armored man came back and knelt down next to the merchant. He checked the arrow and cursed quietly to himself. “Reka.”

“I know,” she said with a focused voice. “Heal him. We make our stand here. They will need a short moment to circle us. And they will focus on killing the horses first.”

Veron looked to the left and saw more arrows hitting the remaining horse trying to pull the carriage.

“Unseen Fate, I call upon you, mend what was torn, heal what was wounded,” Hayden spoke, slowly pulling out the arrow as his right hand started glowing faintly white. He threw the projectile aside. “The poison has already taken root.”

Reka threw him a pack. “There is some white bristle left. Medicine pouch.”

Veron looked ahead and past Silvie where a tall and broad person came out from behind the trees, rushing towards them with a crude hammer wielded in their long arms.

He was scared, heart pounding in his chest. This wasn’t a monster, was it? It was tall, two meters at least, and it looked like it weighed a lot too. White skin like the bark of the birch trees, bloody furs and bits of animal skin covering their waist and shoulders. Two sets of mandibles or jaws opened to reveal sharp teeth as it growled in their direction with white eyes taking them in. And then it ran forward.

He saw Silvie prepare her wand, golden runes glowing. Veron gulped, then focused, slowing his breathing as he moved to join her side. He raised his shield and spear in a defensive stance as he focused on the being. He had no idea how strong this person was, but they couldn't be stronger than Ivera.
