The orc’s eyes became pinpricks of yellow. He pierced Shiv with a stare. "Bastard."

The Deathless laughed. He learned something about Band—the orc was pretty happy to bite, but not so receptive to being bitten in return.

Yet, before they were about to begin, a voice called out in interruption. A familiar voice.

"Right, hold up, hold up!" Siggi cried. She let out a loud grunt as she and several other Pathbearers lugged a large crate of some kind that ground across the floor. The sounds of wood splintering filled the air.

Shiv blinked. "Siggi, what the hell are you doing here?"

"What do you mean, what the hell am I doing here? I got some of our rice over from the camp! This guy said he was going to make us some booze!”

That's when Shiv noticed how large his audience was. Previously, it was only Adam, Uva, some Umbrals, a few Weaveresses, and a couple of mercenaries. Now, there were well over fifty people nearby, observing this culinary adventure.

"Where the hell did all of you come from?" Shiv muttered.

As soon as he said that statement, all four of the orcs tilted their heads.

“A bit too overfocused, aren’t we, Chef?” Whisper said. There was a hidden threat lurking in the orc’s words.

Shit. I need to keep my guard up. They’re gauging me for weakness even now. They probably have a guess about my Awareness being lacking. Not great.

Shiv shook his head. There was nothing for it now. He still needed to finish this meal. Just then, Tequila waved his wand, and the top part of the crate blew off. Siggi flinched back as the orc rushed over.

“Wonderful!” Tequila called out. Then, with a wave, the water he'd squeezed out from the mango seeds came splashing down. “Now. To ferment this thing quickly…”

“Siggy,” Shiv said. “When did he ask you to bring this over?”

“Earlier,” Siggy said. “While you were staring at the dimensionals roasting the cauliflower and stuff.”

Shiv blinked. “Really?”

“Yeah,” Siggy said.

"You were busy watching Band's troupe perform." Tequila grinned as he began casting spells into the water. "It was a good performance, so I don't blame you for being distracted.”

"No, it wasn't," Adam snarled off by the side. "And you were whispering. You threw a pebble at her to get her notice.”

Tequila ignored the Gate Lord. “My sauces are done. Permission to begin mixing my rice wine, oh, Deathless one?"

Shiv slowly gave the Orc a nod, too stunned to do anything else. Man, I really zeroed in on Band. I need to level my Awareness more. Speaking of Band…

Shiv stared at Band and cracked his neck. "Alright, Band, you ready? You know what to do?"

"Yes," Band said. "You?"

Shiv chuckled humorously. "All right, smartass, let's do this."
