Alat, do you realize what this means?

-I think I do.-

Her thoughts took on a bit of a sassy tone. Existence has three Pillars that are all interdependent at every level.

-...Wow, we really are jerks sometimes.-

Tala chuckled. It was a strange thing. As she thought about it, none of this was actually new information to her, but it was something that she had only known cognitively and understood on a macro level.

Just as Master Saliocas had stated, she’d seen the three pillars as in conflict, as pushing back on one another rather than in being in volitional balance… for lack of a better descriptor.

Now, she realized that her misunderstanding had gone deeper than that. She’d seen the three as separate pieces rather than integrated parts of every piece.

-It’s like length, width, and height. Anything that exists in three-dimensions has all three, and when volume is fixed, altering one alters the others, but they aren’t in conflict. Thinking of it in that way would be silly.-

Though, I think the pillars are a bit more than simple physical dimensions.

-Oh, undoubtedly, but I think the analogy still works.-

Absolutely.

Tala—in her own mind—held many parts of herself as being more Magic, or Void, or even Reality in nature—the dasgannach that she’d merged with being a prime example of the latter—but each part actually held all three. Each part of her required all three.

Her Reforging needed to be a true meshing of those. They needed to come into a stable balance.

That didn’t mean equal parts of each, that didn’t mean that she had to give up anything. It just meant that she needed to ensure that she wasn’t creating instability within herself.

She recalled seeing some artfully done rock stacks in the gardens that Rane took her through recently. Her memory supplied the name: Cairns.

They were things that looked completely off kilter—like they would fall over at the slightest vibration or breeze—but instead, they were often surprisingly robust and enduring, at least when done correctly.

She would be such a cairn.

The thought brought a smile to her face, and she found that she couldn’t wait to tell Rane.

In that moment, she heard the sound of a clearing throat.

Tala didn’t look around, as she instantly knew that it had been Master Jevin. She smiled. “Yes, Master Jevin?”

“As… stimulating as conversation with an ancient arcane can be, I do have other things that I should be attending to, and they require more than my partial attention.”

Tala frowned. What is he…? She blinked a few times. “Right. Eskau Meallain.” She cleared her own throat, trying to hide her embarrassment. “I suppose that two days is long enough for you two to chat this time around?”

He chuckled. “Quite. She does have a lot of interesting things to say, but as I said, I do need to have my full attention available for a few things.”

Tala stood, downing the remainder of her coffee and paying before striding from the shop. “Of course, of course. I’ll be right there.”
