Tiyaphi purred loudly and turned her head, stuck out her tongue, and did one long lick across his lips, from one side of his mouth to the other. She felt his surprise and purred even louder, then she moved down and started to lick his chest.

Everyone felt Tiyaphi get excited about doing something that she never thought she would ever get to do. As a medical professional, she knew all about relationship rituals and the normal behaviour between a Mistress and her Inamorato; but, as someone who couldn't change into a third stage because her power went to healing instead, she had no hope of ever meeting anyone that would accept her in this way.

As Tiyaphi moved down to his abdomen, she didn't try to restrain herself and started to shift. Ren didn't feel any difference in her tongue and relaxed. By the time she reached his underwear, her tail was fully grown and waved happily.

“May I pet you?” Ren asked, and the tail stopped moving.

“Excuse me?” Tiyaphi stopped licking and looked at his face.

“I want to touch your silky fur, and maybe your tail.”

“M-m-my tail.” Tiyaphi whispered and closed her eyes. “He wants to touch my tail.”

“It's okay if I can't.” Ren said. “I just...”

Tiyaphi didn't say anything as she moved up to look into his eyes, then she gave him a kiss on the lips and turned all the way around and straddled his chest and sat down. It put her tail right next to his face, and he saw where it was attached. He reached up and gently stroked the fur above the spot, and the tail puffed out a little and Tiyaphi shivered as a thrill went through her.

Ren used his fingers to carefully trace the end of her spine and followed it into the bones of her tail. “That is so cool.” He said and stroked her tail. He felt tugging on his underwear, and he knew that Tiyaphi was doing the 'happy cat' move on the cloth, the same as she did on his chest before he stored his pyjamas. “Of course you can.” He said and stored his underwear.

A loud gasp and a short shrill shriek were heard as he felt Yuwen and Dilseffa react to him, then a purr that matched Tiyaphi's started, as did a kind of low grinding noise. Ren leaned his head to the side to look at the two women who sat on the couch. Yuwen was rubbing her chest through her lacy bra and purred. Ren looked at Dilseffa and saw her mouth working and her jaw sliding back and forth, grinding her teeth.

“Tiyaphi...”

“They are both... very happy... right now.” Tiyaphi said through her purr. “As am I.”

Ren smiled and used both of his hands to wiggle his fingers at the base of her spine.

“AH!” Tiyaphi gasped and finished. Ren felt a slight dampness on his chest where she sat, then he felt her embarrassment start to grow.

“Thank you for indulging my request.” Ren said, and pat her back, which startled her. “You can keep grooming now.”

“I-I-Inamorato...”

“Unless you want to stop with the job half-finished?” Ren asked.

“NO!” Tiyaphi yelled and hopped a little. “No, I... I just...”

“You can store your underwear to clean it, or I can do it for you.” Ren said.

“Wh-what?”

“Well, if you're going to groom me down there, it's only fair that I groom you back, right?”

“I... I think... I think I love you!” Tiyaphi blurted, and Ren laughed.

“So, do you agree?” Ren asked.

“With all my heart.” Tiyaphi said and stored her underwear, then changed her position so she could lick him.

“What a sight.” Ren commented at her perched right above his face, then pulled her down so he could reach it and kissed her.

“RrrroooWWNNN!” Tiyaphi howled as Ren pleased her and scratched the base of her tail at the same time. She writhed and squirmed for several minutes and wasn't able to do anything else, then she finished and tried to dig her nails into his legs. She didn't have claws, so he wasn't hurt in the least.

Ren eased the scratching on her tail to give her a break, and only licked her a little while she twitched and recovered. Tiyaphi caught her breath and panted, her brain and emotions reeling from what had just happened, then she got a manic look in her eye as she remembered that she was supposed to be grooming him.

“Oh, Rrrrennn!” Tiyaphi moaned and purred as she started to lick his member very enthusiastically. Ren wasn't going to be out-classed in that area, so he started licking her again just as enthusiastically. This went on for about half an hour, until Tiyaphi collapsed in both exhaustion and pleasure.
