“That’s a member of House Shoel. And that—is Dame Eclizza, one of their Great Knights of Ailendamus. The Pale Serpent. I heard she was dead.”
“She looks pretty alive to me! What level is she?”
High enough to make the half-Elf stop firing lightning. Tserre put up her wand and teleported back to her scorched cottage porch. Perhaps because she had sensed a worthier foe had appeared—or because the King of Myths was ordering her to stand down.
The two armies backed up fast. Vernoue half-expected a third round, but the Great Knight just whirled and walked back to her forces. The half-Elf scowled and put her fingers in her ears as Prildor shouted at her.
Right there and then, Vernoue decided that Magus Tserre was her teacher, if she could convince the woman. She had, however, forgotten the warning future-Vernoue had given to her. Which was implicitly…‘don’t do it.’
 
——
 
Well, that was enough excitement for the day. Nuvityn was mildly wroth with Tserre, but he couldn’t blame her, especially after she’d pointed out how many high-level spells they’d tossed at her.
“Leave it be, Tserre. You’ve put Ailendamus’ guard up—and whomever you meant to send a message to.”
“Whatever do you mean, Your Majesty?”
She gave him an innocent look as Prildor threw up his hands. Nuvityn returned her gaze steadily.
“My people might not be as high-level as you, nor are we a country that specializes in…spycraft. But the Kingdom of Myths has its means. Your cottage will be guarded by Torek’dale’s hillfolk, and I will send a missive to the Blighted Kingdom warning them that any action against you will result in the cessation of all support from Erribathe.”
Her eyes flickered, and she gave him a deep bow.
“We will see if that is enough, Your Majesty. I…apologize for any inconvenience.”
“Save it for Calanfer.”
He muttered. That was a jest, in part. They were headed towards Calanfer so he could speak to the rulers about…Lyonette du Marquin, whom he believed was residing in The Wandering Inn. He owed Calanfer some wroth, though it would be complex.
Iradoren had attacked Princess Seraphel, but she had been defending Ser Solstice. A mess without a clear high ground. His son was dead. He would be a [King] and father…but he would try to avoid endangering a [Princess] or those children.
With all that said, he wanted to leave Ailendamus’ lands as fast as possible, so he set a march towards the border. Restoring order in the ranks and fielding several worried questions from his kingdom and issuing a few proclamations took him enough time that he only remembered the carriage when Andromeda rode forth.
“Your Majesty. Two [Princesses] of Calanfer beg an audience.”
“What? We haven’t even crossed the border yet!”
He twisted around, astonished to learn who was in that carriage. When he heard it was the 2nd and the 5th Princesses of Calanfer, Nuvityn had an immediate reaction.
“Dead gods. Five children.”
He didn’t know how…wait, weren’t there nine? What a choice. But it left him with an issue…he sighed.
“If they’ve come to gawk at the Kingdom of Myth’s army, allow them. But I am—occupied.”
Talking to Prildor. He just didn’t want to deal with a young [Princess]’ questions. A child he would humor, but he was not minded to talk to the two women, who looked like actual adults.
To his relief, they merely curtseyed to him, then drove into his camp. He eyed the two of them idly.
Nuvityn would be the first to admit he wasn’t the most regal of [Kings]. Too much Manoerhog, not enough the [King of Wyld Folks]. He was scarce over Level 40, although to be fair, he had lived through quiet eras.
But he was still competent in aura, statecraft, warfare, and an expert in pig-wrestling. So he read the two [Princesses] out of the corner of his eye.
“Low-level, the young one. Mage. What capability, Andromeda?”
The [Strategist] could cast magic, and she shook her head.
“Nothing worth mentioning, Your Majesty. The elder is the black sheep of the family.”
Nuvityn fished out his report, and read it as Prildor muttered.
“I didn’t think I’d have to dodge lightning. My heart’s racing. I need to lie down. May I stop in Gaiil-Drome for a month, Your Majesty?”
“I can allow a day while we board ships. Hmm. This report’s not specific. Was she exiled for cheating on her spouse?”
Prildor’s head snapped around with an expression of horror and ill-concealed interest. Andromeda wavered and peered at Menisi du Marquin.
“I—don’t—actually, there are rumors to that effect, Your Majesty?”
“Her aura is…slick. Odd. I don’t like it.”
Nuvityn wiped a hand on his breeches. He had the feeling she was watching him, and it reminded him of a sharp-eyed doe in the forests, salivating at him as though he were the last stag in existence. It was very off-putting. It didn’t seem quite healthy.
“Affairs. Dead gods. We had one in our village last…time. It must have gone on six decades before it was found out. So uncomfortable. So scandalous.”
Prildor waved at his red face, and Nuvityn opened his mouth. So did Andromeda, and by mutual agreement, they decided to leave it be. Instead, the King of Myths glanced over and murmured.
“She’s eying you, Prildor.”
“Dead gods. Strategist Andromeda, pretend we’re a couple.”
Prildor seized her arm, and she yelped.
“Lord Prildor!”
Oh, interesting. Her interest in Prildor aside, both [Princesses] were heading towards the walking cottage, which towered over everyone else. Tserre was in no mood to chat, but the two, riding horses, were calling up to the half-Elf.
He supposed it was because of Tserre’s display of magic, though he felt like that might have intimidated even a fascinated [Princess]. Despite himself, King Nuvityn motioned.
“Let’s see what they want. Come on, Prildor. The worst that will happen is you refuse the woman. You’re a champion of Erribathe, and not even a foreign [Princess] can gainsay you. If she tries, it will be an incident, and Calanfer is adroit at such things.”
The half-Elf wailed.
“But what if I’m seduced? I’m highly suggestible! It’s happened countless times! Gorgons, Selphids, very lovely Centauresses—”
The King of Myths half-turned on his saddle. He rode into a line of soldiers, who all tripped over themselves. He motioned at Prildor.
“…Fair point, why don’t you stay behind.”
“No, there’s nothing for it.”
The half-Elf trotted over with Nuvityn, who made a ‘get him back’ motion to Andromeda; she really looked reluctant now. However, then his attention was drawn to—
“Magus Tserre! Magus Tserre, please, allow me to introduce myself! I am 5th Princess Vernoue, and I would be honored to learn magic from you! Please! I—I know where your grandniece is! Ceria Springwalker!”
Tserre had been steadily ignoring Vernoue, who was entreating her, but her ears were twitching every time Vernoue shouted the name. Nuvityn was instantly fascinated.
How did she know Tserre’s relationship to Ceria Springwalker? That was a secret as far as he knew. He spoke.
“Your Highness of Calanfer.”
“King of Myths!”
She turned and nearly bowed herself out of the saddle. Princess Menisi caught her.
“Your Majesty of Myths, forgive our trespass. My sister and I were enthralled by your army, and we have come to beg a boon of your [Mage]. I am Princess Menisi, and this is Princess Vernoue.”
Straightforward, but still intriguing.
“Of Magus Tserre? I had no idea her reputation was so well known in this day and age. Princess Menisi, we are about a great journey, and with due respect, I cannot spend my time socializing or distracting Magus Tserre from her many duties. Though I do hope to speak to your royal parents in Calanfer. Briefly.”
He thought it was decently said; Tserre nodded at Nuvityn, and he really didn’t have time to waste, even marching. However, Menisi just tilted her head a second, as if trying to read him. She gazed far too long at him—and Prildor—and the half-Elf fanned at his face. But when she spoke next, she shocked him.
“Would it help if I said it is a matter of prophecy, Your Majesty? The work of the great [Soothsayer], Rastandius, has led my sister to beg an audience with Magus Tserre.”
If anything was calculated to make Nuvityn perk up, it was that. Rastandius. Don’t I know that name? He glanced at one of his people, and it was Miihey who spoke.
“I heard that name. The highest-level [Soothsayer] or some such. One with actual power.”
“Prophecy?”
“Or fate. Either way, it speaks, and we follow. Might we have an audience with Magus Tserre? My sister would dearly love to learn from her.”
Menisi smiled at the King of Myths. He raised his brows, about to ask all manner of questions, when he heard a snort.
“I’m not taking apprentices. Let that be the end of it. Nor do I need help finding where Ceria is; she’s on the scrying orb.”
Oh. Vernoue wilted, and Nuvityn nodded at Tserre.
“Taking a [Princess] as an apprentice would be too complicated anyways. Your Highnesses, I would like to hear the story of how you came by any threads of fate in this day and age.”
He smiled ruefully.
“Erribathe does love such things. However, as Magus Tserre says, it appears a fruitless task.”
Vernoue burst out.
“But Your Majesty, please! Magus Tserre is one of barely twelve [Mages] in the world who might teach me magic, proper magic! I am not a great spellcaster, but it has been my dream to learn magic from a true expert all my life, and Magus Tserre—”
She gave the half-Elf a starry-eyed look of worship, which made Tserre harrumph. But the half-Elf’s ears were twitching.
“I’m not sure how I got on any…list, but the accuracy of it aside, I’m not interested. Find someone who is. That half-Elf from Wistram is teaching everyone decent magic. Go there.”
Vernoue’s face fell. She began to ask again, but Tserre’s cottage lifted higher. It was Menisi who cocked her head again and then murmured.
“Vernoue, it was a long-shot. If she already knows where her grandniece is—she’s not even top five. Isn’t she almost at the bottom?”
Aha. There was that Calanferian diplomacy Nuvityn had heard so much about. He saw Vernoue begin to object, then glance at her sister and reply over-loudly.
“Well, I suppose…but she was closest!”
Glance up—and Tserre’s eyes had narrowed as she pretended to read a book. Now, Nuvityn was smiling, and even Prildor grinned. The [King] did enjoy this kind of thing and saw Menisi use a Skill.
[Needling Comment].
“What about the other ones on the list? Hmm. Oh. Silvenia Ettertree. How about her?”
Such an innocent look—half the people around Nuvityn stiffened, and he felt his heart skip a beat. Vernoue hesitated.
“S-Silvenia Ettertree? She’s—”
The cottage slammed back to eye-level so fast Nuvityn jumped, and Tserre glared at them.
“Are you both ignorant or doing this on purpose? That’s the Death of Magic. If she even deigned to teach you two, you’d be marked for death by the Blighted Kingdom if she didn’t murder you by having you eat Creler Eggs for training!”
Vernoue flinched.
“I—I only meant it’s on the list—”
“How about…Izikere?”
Menisi asked, glancing at Tserre. This time, it took the half-Elf a second before her face went flat.
“The Goblin Lord of the island? Whomever made that list is a fool.”
“Well, you’re on it, Magus. Leireit is the second best option. A [Sorcerer] from First Landing. If my poor sister cannot secure your aid, we have no choice but to go to other teachers. The best would be Izikere, then Leireit, then a Lizardman in Baleros. I’m not even sure who, some random one, I think.”
The 2nd Princess of Calanfer wore a teasing, huge smile as Tserre’s eyes narrowed. She lifted her spectacles—then visibly calmed.
“Well done, Princess of Calanfer. You’ve piqued my emotions. By all means, ask the Death of Magic for lessons. I am too busy. Besides. Your sister has no magical foundations worth pursuing. I might as well teach Prildor.”
“Hey!”
The [Stockpiler] shouted, and the cottage began to rise. But here, an extraordinary thing happened. Princess Vernoue caught the lip of it and tried to haul herself up!
“Magus, please! I’ve seen the future, and—I—h-help!”
No arm strength. She dangled there, unable to pull herself up, as her fingers began to slip. Nuvityn watched, then coughed.
“Magus Tserre.”
A spell pulled Vernoue off the cottage, then floated her down to the ground. Not half a minute had passed before Vernoue was riding up to the cottage.
“Magus! I can offer you wealth! Help to find Ceria Springwalker! In fact—my sister works at an inn where Ceria stays! She’s friends with her!”
Nuvityn twitched at that, and his good mood faded. This time, Tserre’s cottage lowered, and she gave Vernoue and Nuvityn a long stare.
“We are bound for Eternal Calanfer, are we not, Your Majesty?”
“Imminently, Tserre.”
“Then—it seems I must give this real credence. Your name, girl?”
“Princess Vernoue du Marquin, Magus.”
Vernoue curtsied, breathless. Tserre eyed her up and down.
“Marquin. The blood of warriors. Your sister knows my…Ceria? Explain.”
“Well, I, ah, they work at the same inn where Adventurer Springwalker got her start as a Silver-rank adventurer. I don’t know all the details, but my sister informed me they knew each other well! In fact, they fought for an [Innkeeper], Erin Solstice, who was…ah…”
Menisi had been making ‘x’ motions with her hands, but Vernoue was so frantic she had forgotten. Then she remembered, and every head turned to King Nuvityn, even Tserre’s. He didn’t know what was on his face, but he spoke calmly, he thought.
“This matter I intend to put before the Eternal Throne, but I do not bear Ceria Springwalker the same enmity as…anyone else. Continue, Princess.”
But he would remember the connection to the 6th Princess as well. Vernoue gulped.
“I—I drank a potion that showed me the future, and I was given knowledge of how to learn great magic, Magus. You are one of the few who could teach me. I beg you to consider it!”
Tserre just gazed at Vernoue, up and down, and then exhaled.
“I have no time for an apprentice. You have no foundation, not one I consider, no unique talent—royalty is merely royalty. However, I can see you will not let the matter drop. In honor of your…passion and ‘Eternal’ Calanfer’s great deeds, I shall give you a fitting test.”
Then she smiled and drew a wand from her holster as Vernoue beamed in delight.
“Anything! However I may prove myself, I will!”
“Splendid. All you have to do is defeat my little spell.”
Tserre ignored Nuvityn’s warning look. She flicked her wand at Vernoue, then tapped the girl on the forehead.
“[Cage of Impervious Force]. [Mystic Arcane Lock]. [Spell Warp].”
