“Unless they stormed your capital so fast no one could react.”
The Great General Dionamella had come close, and Reclis hesitated—he clearly didn’t want to admit that, but Ielane jumped in.
“Is it not worthwhile for Erribathe to consider a small agreement? It costs the Kingdom of Myths nothing to pursue a plan for peace.”
Then he saw it. Nuvityn nodded slowly. Reclis smiled, and it was not because he admired Reclis that Nuvityn agreed. He didn’t really like the man. Reclis thought in terms of policy, shifting agreements, and…mortality, and Nuvityn hailed from a land that believed in timeless stories. They were fundamentally different men, and Reclis was so focused on his visions of leadership it felt like he sometimes missed the color of the leaves.
However, Nuvityn’s fears that he was being played into some grand game of Calanfer were abated slightly because the mastermind of Calanfer…wasn’t calling the shots. Oh, she moved in ways Reclis didn’t, but he had seen Ielane staring at Reclis as he spoke.
Just smiling. Fondly, in a way Nuvityn didn’t think was fake. It was a simple glance of admiration and pride that made Nuvityn feel that was the dynamic. Vision and executor. High-minded plans and straightforward execution.
Queen Ielane believed in Reclis’ plans. And that shaped this nation. Nuvityn sighed, and they were quick to offer him a straightforwards deal without frills he agreed to. They were, at least, good at making things simple for him, which was a privilege of his power, he knew.
“I should take a day to visit your father and mother, King Reclis. That they still live is fortunate. I hold them in great esteem.”
Reclis beamed and assured Nuvityn they would be delighted to welcome the King of Myths himself. It was only Ielane whose eyes flickered, and he thought she caught that he held them in higher esteem than the present rulers.
But that was all. King Nuvityn turned at the door.
“Ah, your daughter, Vernoue. I regret Magus Tserre’s test. She is rather stubborn, and I cannot force her to do anything.”
He waited, and Reclis glanced at Ielane before lifting a hand.
“Vernoue learning greater magic would be welcome, but it is an inconvenience to Erribathe that I am well aware would not serve, especially upon your quest, Nuvityn. Besides…to what end would it be done? She’s to be wed to Ser Venoriat, or is that to someone else, Ielane?”
Nuvityn saw Queen Ielane shrug her shoulders fractionally.
“Nothing is set, Reclis. That is purely an idle thought, King Nuvityn. Vernoue is young. We shall help her make something of herself, for the Eternal Throne.”
“May it stand forever.”
Reclis murmured, and Nuvityn blinked at them. He’d expected them to ask him to help their daughter in some way. It, clearly, didn’t occur to them. He would have put it from his mind—but the 5th Princess in her cage became more obvious as he was about to ride out of the palace the next day. Mostly because they’d put her in the royal garden.
 
——
 
She was dry-eyed by morning on the second-to-last day, sitting calmly and eating some healthy porridge while just…pushing against the lock when a furor reached her rooms.
Vernoue peered up and put a smile on her face for Lorentha, Mexte, or her family, save for her parents who hadn’t visited her, busy as they were, and then the door opened.
“Your Highness, guests—excuse me! Excuse me, you cannot—”
Someone forced the Thronebearers out of the way, and Vernoue blinked. She saw a clamor of armored bodies. Arguing—and then one of them broke through.
There was a flash of purple, and then she saw the knight step forwards, and she felt a cool breeze blow across the courtyard. And, Vernoue swore, leaves. In the spring?
Falling maple leaves, bringing with them the scent of the settling earth and a cool chill to the air. Then she saw the other [Knights] turn, and their armor gleamed with the same colors of orange, vibrant purple—the colors of their season.
She recognized one of the figures shoving at the Thronebearers. Ser Ilm! But her eyes were on the oldest [Knight] present, who pushed back the arguing Thronebearers with a magical hand larger than they were and turned to bow to her.
He seemed to leave a trail in the air, like glowing fireflies followed him, radiant motes of mana, he was so full of magic. His smile creased the laugh lines and crow’s feet at the corners of his eyes and illuminated his greying features. He called to her as her breath caught.
“With great apologies, we had no time to waste, Your Highness du Marquin. Are we unwelcome? I had hoped our invitation to you went both ways. After all, a friend of the Order of Seasons is surely always a friend.”
Ser Venoriat, the Fall’s Sentinel, was fully armed and armored, and she stood as nearly three dozen Knights of Autumn crowded the doorway.
“Ser Venoriat! But how—?”
“Your sister sent word the moment she heard of the challenge of this Magus Tserre. I regret it took us so long to ride here—we had to collect all the tomes we had. How long have we? She said a day.”
Who…Aielef appeared, fan in hand, seeming quite pleased with herself. Vernoue spluttered.
“This is—of course you are welcome, Ser Venoriat! But this is my test. Isn’t this cheating?”
The Fall’s Sentinel was amused.
“That magus said nothing about assistance. We may need a better location to fit so many [Knights]. And a spell circle. With your permission?”
Her heart leapt. Vernoue began laughing as the [Knights] lifted her up and carried her down to the gardens. That was how the King of Myths observed her working with three dozen cross-legged [Knights]. The Fall’s Sentinel got up to introduce himself to the King of Myths, for their organizations were old, but he excused himself to continue puzzling over the spell.
 
——
 
Two hours later, the Knights of Autumn were dismayed, and Vernoue grew worried again. They had brought dozens of books on magical locks, and showed her diagrams of lesser locking spells. Each one looked less complicated than the one on her cage by an order of magnitude. One had found a diagram of a Tier 5 locking spell…it was a fold-out illustration rendered to-scale. It was nearly a quarter the size of the one she was facing.
“This spell is fiendishly complex, Fall’s Sentinel! I’ve never seen spellwork this intricate.”
One of the Fall Knights exclaimed, but Venoriat never raised his head from the section of the lock he was working on. He grimaced as it abruptly shifted to a new pattern, and raised his head.
“Send to Archmage Eldavin. I communicated it to him—he is all too willing to take a look at this.”
Then Vernoue was gasping as a familiar half-Elf appeared on a scrying orb.
“Fall’s Sentinel! I’m a bit busy right now, but anything for, er, friends of—dead gods, is that a Haiivn Lockspell? No wonder you can’t crack it! It keeps shifting! Give me five minutes and I’ll have a counterspell.”
Then she was beaming, just beaming, and she knew she’d succeed. Even if it took help, it was the power of friendship, the wisdom of [Knights] and Archmages…
 
——
 
Archmage Eldavin requested three more scrying spells for better angles after half an hour, then insisted on getting a [Mage] from Wistram who could link their senses for more intensive study. He stopped multi-tasking and sent an image of himself to the Eternal Throne—like Lyonette had done—who went pacing around the cage as Ser Venoriat pored over books. Then the Archmage of Memory began asking about specialist Skills and talking about teleporting someone from Wistram Academy if they had the right ones.
By nightfall, Vernoue’s heart was in her shoes. By midnight, the Archmage of Memories said—
“Well. This Magus Tserre certainly predates Zelkyr’s test. Spells like these are always as hard as the owner wants to make them, and if you can’t blast them or be clever about it, it’s understandably damn hard. How long do you have? A week? I’ll put it on top of my list and we’ll make it happen by then.”
 
——
 
She didn’t cry. She just worked—trying the techniques that the [Knights] were teaching her. Cheating wouldn’t work; no one could magic Vernoue from outside the cage. Shrinking her, making her phase through the bars—even a Potion of Diminutive Size did nothing but give her the runs.
King Reclis came by on the final day and had a word with Vernoue.
“It’s a fine attempt, Vernoue. We’ll find you a spellcaster, but you have to consider the dangers of a teacher like this, even if you succeeded. I’m proud of you—that’s real Marquin grit. Why don’t we have a meal together once you’re out and you can bathe? Unless you’d like to stick it out the last day?”
He was so…Vernoue was sniffing as she sat there. King Reclis’ face was troubled.
“Father, I want to learn magic.”
“And learn it you shall, Vernoue! There’s a place for a [Magical Princess] in any realm. I just…”
Reclis got up and paced, then peered at her.
“Sometimes, you go up against legends, and the Kingdom of Myth is all legends. We’re flesh-and-blood, and I’d hate for you to think of this as a failure. King Nuvityn himself believes this is a test with no solution. Don’t beat yourself up about the impossible, my girl.”
She knew he was right. This was petty. Tserre was a bitch; future Vernoue was right. But it still hurt.
Then came Queen Ielane, and that was even more surreal.
 
——
 
Her mother sat, smoking on a puffer in the royal gardens; the exhausted Knights of Autumn had drained their mana and offered to make one last push after researching, but Vernoue had told them to rest.
She hadn’t even let them bring her back to her rooms. A night out in the cold—despite heating spells—had left Vernoue sore and empty. She was a mess, but Ielane didn’t seem to care for once.
“You’ll have to thank Ser Venoriat later. The Order of Seasons put a lot of effort into this moment.”
Vernoue’s head hung as she sat there, pushing against the lock. That was all she could do—just sort of throw her mana at the spell. Eldavin could manipulate it, even enter the spell and begin altering it or unmaking it on the fly, but the spell kept repairing and adjusting to him. She had just learned [Push Mana].
She was Level 27. As the day dawned, Ielane blew out some smoke and continued.
“It’s not wasted effort. Framing it as a victory of spirit is the way to do it. If you were so minded, this would be the time to turn to him for reassurance and comfort after your grand effort.”
“Mother!”
Vernoue screamed at her. Ielane just raised one brow.
“It’s an option, Vernoue. I’m not forcing you into this. I am rather impressed by your levelling. This entire event is a success, publicly, personally—you’re overwrought and depressed. Don’t look at it like defeat.”
Triumph can be made of defeat. Ielane’s sayings. Vernoue wiped at her grubby face.
“I—I thought I’d succeed, Mother. Not even Archmage Eldavin can help me. I wanted to make something of myself. What if I can’t after this? I’m losing my resolve.”
Four hundred lives, a potion, all the help—and she was just a coward, a weak [Princess]. Ielane’s eyes never wavered.
“If you fail and fall to pieces, I will find a place for you, Vernoue. Or make something of you.”
“Is that supposed to be comforting?”
The [Princess] sobbed at her mother, now crying full out. She tore the tiara from her head, and Ielane paused again. She gazed directly at Vernoue. Then, it seemed like her cold face, which could be so charming, so beautiful, tried to soften.
But how? Ielane had red hair, which was fake and dyed, and she was not the greatest beauty—she often said her Skills had given her daughters and sons far more, but she had found a way to work on all these things. Only in private did she seem to uncoil from the act slightly, which merely revealed the intensity with which she worked.
“Vernoue. I have always expected great things of you and my other daughters. If I seem…disapproving at times, it is merely because I feel you can do more. We all must be pushed to succeed. Lyonette has expressed how hard I push. Agenote as well, among others of late.”
“You push hard, Mother. Too hard.”
Vernoue whispered. To that, Ielane just tamped out her puffer and seemed genuinely annoyed.
“I never locked you in your rooms to keep you on a diet.”
That…yes? Ielane raised her brows as Vernoue stared at her.
“So you see, I’ve grown softer with age, with Ellet especially. Calanfer was not in an ideal place when Reclis took the throne, Vernoue. All were used hard. Seraphel…perhaps Seraphel the most. We are not safe. Ailendamus waits for the second round, and if Marquin’s kingdom is to endure, we must try. The shape that effort takes…has changed in my mind. Which is why I have approved of all of this. Even Menisi.”
Approved of this. Vernoue felt her chest flutter, then squeezed her arms.
“Why did you send Menisi off? Why marry her to…?”
“Because she could have started a war alongside Reclis’ parents. They would have taken her side. She was involving a dangerous man—Rastandius, who can topple nations. I wish it had not come to that either, but she was my best pupil. I regret she broke herself against the bar I set.”
Broke herself against the bar. Ielane glanced at Vernoue, then stood.
“I can see this conversation isn’t necessary now. Vensha, something to wipe Vernoue’s face. Leave the rest of her attire. Ragged—and a scent, very subtle. Fail like a falling star, Vernoue. That is your triumph.”
 
——
 
Neither parent made her feel better. But moments after Ielane had left, almost as if she were waiting for the moment to appear, Lyonette stepped out of the royal garden bushes.
“Vernoue. I’m sorry you’re going through so much.”
“Lyonette?”
Vernoue thought she saw a flicker to her left, of light, but it was a trick of her sleep-addled mind. Lyonette stepped forwards, and Mrsha poked her head out. The Gnoll girl seemed very guilty.
Princess Vernoue, I fear I’ve caused more sadness. It’s a symptom of The Wandering Inn. I’m very sorry about the advice I gave you.
She wanted to stroke Mrsha’s head, but her hand distorted Mrsha’s projection when she tried to touch her through the bars. The prison Vernoue was in could even disrupt Skills, it seemed.
“Don’t be, Mrsha. And Lyonette—I’m trying. Don’t you see? I’m…trying. I just wish I were stronger, like you.”
“Vernoue…you’re trying so much harder than I ever did! I was just a spoiled [Thief]! I blew up someone’s shop and nearly died in the cold before Erin rescued me!”
Lyonette came over, and they spoke through the bars. Vernoue licked parched lips.
“Erin. You keep mentioning her. She saved your life?”
