Then, with the wisdom granted to him by right of his crown and the Eternal Throne of Calanfer, blessed be its light, and the glory of the Kingdom of Diplomacy—Reclis du Marquin did sense with his imperial foresight that something was amiss.
He picked up on these things from time to time. Normally, he concerned himself with the important matters he was good at. Talking to other monarchs, directing Calanferian policy abroad, implementing policies and law, and so on.
Reclis would be the first to admit he wasn’t a minutiae kind of man. For instance, he wasn’t sure that was how you spelled minutiae. It looked wrong…
Ielane was the one who could tell you when the ball was or who was favored and who wasn’t in court or abroad. She could pick up on infighting between a couple and know what to actually do about it.
It made Reclis vaguely embarrassed, but she was an excellent help navigating moments when he put his foot in the pie, cake, or whatever they were eating. She always had.
He picked up on the tension, you see, because Vernoue had gone off to Nomaudrel, and Ielane wasn’t happy about it. She and Menisi, you see—terrible affair, the entirety of it. He’d tried to adjudicate, but between that damn [Soothsayer] and a plot of treason, it still hurt his heart.
Vernoue meeting Menisi was surprising, shocking that Ielane had allowed it, and he could tell she was stressed; half a dozen puffer sticks she chain-smoked when he found her after a late-night session of looking into the disastrous New Lands expedition said she was upset.
“I think we have to send a second expedition, dear. Dear? We’ve got some of the original fleet, but without Seraphel, we might even have to send another member of the royal family. That’s what I’m thinking. Dear?”
“Lothen.”
That was her one-word reply after several minutes of silence and smoking. Reclis coughed and activated an air-clearing charm that really helped when she was upset.
“Lothen? He’s not that—canny.”
Which was rude to say of his second-eldest son, but it was true. He was like a blunt hammer in social parlance, which Reclis was sad to say he’d gotten from his father…and the royal family, really. Ielane stared past Reclis. Her brow was furrowed. She looked—intense.
Which he did admire about her. They were a team, the best of them. Big picture, small picture. Hammer and chain. Other analogy here. He could still remember when she’d swept up to him in a ball, a [Baroness]’ daughter of Morein, and engaged him in policy debate. So enthralling, the exact kind of topic on his mind.
Her plan, in hindsight. And he’d been rather thrilled, though of course, she’d been so minor nobility that it would have been insane to marry her! Which he’d pointed out, and she’d countered with the acknowledgement that it was true she had little to give Calanfer politically. But she was the boon to the Eternal Throne itself.
History had proven her right, and here they were. Ielane spoke after a moment; he was used to her silence when she was thinking. She never forgot, just took her time replying when they were alone.
“Lothen’s chafing to impress you. He’s not the sort of man that King Itreimedes likes, though Avel can tolerate him. He’s a better warrior than a statesman. Let him head an expedition. If we can recover Seraphel, the two of them will work better together.”
“I hope so. My daughter is in Baleros with a Great Company at her neck. Ser Thilowen has a task in front of him. I only hope Ser Solstice matches his reputation.”
That hurt Reclis’ stomach. However, Ielane just pursed her lips.
“She wanted an adventure, and she has her tiara. At worst, she’s a prisoner. Better to run into a Great Company than monsters from the Dyed Lands. I’ll arrange for Lothen to return tomorrow. Remember: Agenote is attending for a visit, along with Gaiil-Drome’s representatives. You wanted half-Elven guidance for the King of Myths. You’ll have an hour to catch up with him.”
“Wonderful, Ielane. I, ah—and how is Vernoue?”
That was his attempt at subtlety. Ielane just glanced at him.
“So far, it seems she and Menisi haven’t killed each other. We’ll see what she learns in Nomaudrel. Rebelliousness again or…something else.”
That was rather vague of her. Reclis normally heard Ielane’s plans outright, and she always had one. He cleared his throat.
“If you’d like to talk about—”
“Lyonette’s not speaking to me. If you can talk to her, it might be best.”
Lyonette? Reclis blinked.
“Er, via Ushar?”
“No, her [World’s Eye Theatre].”
“Her what?”
Now, Reclis was fascinated, and Ielane wavered as he sat up, greatly intrigued by what sounded like a powerful Skill. She hesitated.
“A Skill she has at the inn. It allows her to talk to people abroad. She’s—”
“Dead gods, what a fascinating Skill! The same one that [Innkeeper] used with the Bloodfeast Raiders incident, isn’t it? You can use it without her? Is it in our records? And she’s talking to you? And not me? I suppose she thought I was busy, but I would love to talk to her! Do I have time in my schedule? Anyone in the world? I could use one of those myself; scrying orbs are so impartial. You know, our report said she talked to King Fetohep of Khelt, which is rather amazing because he’s never had time for any Terandrian ruler. If she had any thoughts on what a 600-year old Revenant thinks of current Terandria…”
And his mind was off again, racing with delight. Ielane murmured that she’d try to arrange it and find a time in his schedule. Reclis was delighted. It occurred to him he really didn’t know how Ielane was feeling about Vernoue, but all the [Queen] said was—
“Rebellion against mothers or the evil [Queen] is part of growing up. For some [Princesses]. Shardele won’t do it, and Aielef failed, but Vernoue surprised me. I’m…gambling a bit, I suppose. The stakes have changed.”
“Ah, well, I’ll leave you to it. You do work hard, my dear. And you are quite beautiful tonight—”
“Can we postpone until tomorrow, Reclis?”
“I can wait.”
They arranged a lot of things by common consent, like when one or the other was antsy for alone time or physical contact. Reclis was about to bring up Menisi, very carefully, when he glanced over. The 8th cigar was turning to ash in the trash, and he coughed and spoke.
“Ielane. Your nose is bleeding.”
She wiped at it, seeming unsurprised as she concentrated, and he swore her aura was on guard—she rose.
“So it is. It’s been happening a bit of late, but it’s merely temporary. Vensha?”
She rose and left the royal beds. He slept, because she’d tell him if something was wrong.
 
——
 
The next day, Reclis had some time off with his son, Agenote. Eldest of Calanfer, first born, not heir to the throne. Reclis liked Agenote, though he felt poorly around the lad sometimes.
Agenote was forty years old. Forty something. Reclis always felt he’d let Agenote down—well, him and Lothen and Kanmis—he loved his sons and daughters all, of course, but Agenote…
Alright, here was the thing. The three [Princes] of Calanfer weren’t the same as the [Princesses]. Ielane did seem to have expectations of her daughters to be more like her. And she seemed to expect her sons to be, well, like Reclis.
Well, part of the problem was when Agenote and Lothen had been born. Of the three, Agenote was certainly the happiest, Reclis thought. He came bounding up the steps with annoying vitality for a forty-year old, and he was thin, if not fit, and energetic enough.
Half-Elven diet. He bowed as Reclis nodded to Agenote’s wife, a Human Lady of Groves, Virmilla. She wasn’t a half-Elf—such marriages between the two races were often discouraged not because of sheer speciesism but because the age disparity made it damned hard on both. She bowed, and he smiled at her.
“Agenote, I was thinking we should have a walk or a game of chess. Virmilla, it is a delight to speak with you and the delegation you brought! How are the New Lands? Wait, Ielane would be remiss if she didn’t see you.”
His thoughts scattered in a dozen directions, but Virmilla was family, and she talked with him about the New Lands and the state of Gaiil-Drome after the war. He would have gone on inquiring about public opinion until Agenote interrupted.
“Father, I’m sure we can save the state talk for the banquet and afterwards. Half the delegation wishes to have a word.”
“Ah, yes, drinks together. Well then…shall we find a place to sit? Or walk? You’re looking well.”
The 1st [Prince] of Calanfer had a relaxed laugh, and he put his hands in his pockets as they walked the royal gardens, in peace. He spoke so casually.
“I’ve taken up woodworking. Some of the old villages will trade if you have something halfway decent. I worked on a statuette for two years, and I managed to get one of the children to trade me for something they’ve made.”
“…Rather disappointing for the work of a [Prince].”
“They can only see the quality, Father. It’s an honor to have anyone from an old village respect anything you do.”
“Ah, perfect. You’re impressing the Court of Years. And how is the royal family? Queen Ishlleni’s feelings on the state of the war? The New Lands?”
Here, Reclis’ enthusiasm clashed with an odd expression on Agenote’s face. Which was resignation and ruefulness.
“I don’t visit her in court that often, Father. She’s well enough, I think. You’d know more of her.”
“Well, she’s a half-Elf, and without a husband, I don’t get to speak to her in the same easy parlance as, say, Nadel. Despite our proximities! And she’s older, Agenote. Hundreds of years to my decades. I think she’s content to let me run about so long as the Dawn Concordat holds—if you could ingratiate yourself with the [Prince] or [Princess]—”
“They’re both three hundred years old, Father. It’s hard to share their perspective. I know you’re passionate, but let’s not talk politics, please. How’s Seraphel?”
—And that was it. Agenote just didn’t see eye-to-eye with his father. They were very respectful of each other, but—and Reclis sighed—the 1st [Prince] was less of an asset than even Lothen, because, well…he was happy. Married to a lovely [Lady of the Groves] in what he was assured was a healthy marriage, childless, but that was because Gaiil-Drome really did take the long damn view about having children, and…happy.
Disinterested in pushing for Calanfer. He visited often enough, and Ellet came running up, begging for treats from Gaiil-Drome. Agenote laughed and brought her fresh fruits, which she ran to share with her friends. When Reclis and Agenote sat together, they could talk.
It was Agenote who directed the conversation to family when Reclis wanted to discuss the state of the world. He listened to Agenote talk about Seraphel with great concern.
“If I thought it’d help, I’d ask Her Majesty to send some [Forest Knights] to Baleros, but I don’t know the state of things. I’m sure Mother has a plan.”
“She always does. We’re sending Lothen to the New Lands, I think. Vernoue’s visiting Menisi right now, and Lyonette’s apparently having a tiff with Ielane, but I don’t know more.”
Agenote sat forwards, and he became sharp and intent like Reclis could be, which surprised the [King].
“Vernoue’s visiting Menisi? Did Mother approve it?”
“Of course. I imagine so.”
Agenote sat back, and his eyes flickered around the palace as if trying to take things in.
“Things are different. I don’t visit enough, only six times last year…Lorentha wrote about Vernoue travelling, but that’s good. I hope. Ellet’s far better than I could hope.”
“Oh, you still keep in touch with our [Librarian]? Not making her send you books when you have Gaiil-Drome’s libraries to prevail on?”
Reclis teased his son, and Agenote gave him a patient gaze that Reclis felt was oddly disappointed. Feeling ruffled, the King of Calanfer tried to pick apart the oddities.
“Well…what’s changed so much in your eyes, Agenote? The Menisi feud aside?”
For answer, Agenote just took a drink of some plum juice he’d brought, and Reclis grimaced as he did the same. More Umbral Throne diplomacy after this meal.
“Well, you tell me, Father. It’s hard to broach the subject, but I’ve always wondered…why you let Mother push my sisters so hard. She’s only taken it easier on Ellet—I thought it was because Lyonette ran away. And I didn’t even see the worst of it; I was married to Virmilla, thanks to Grannymother and Grandkingfather, but I saw bits of it. Lothen, Kanmis—I always got the impression we were failures, but I never saw my sisters as being that much better. Is Mother a good [Queen]?”
What a strange question. Reclis almost laughed at the nicknames for the former King Mardeis and Queen Lanshee du Marquin. He missed them.
…Well, they were both alive. But they never visited. Most of the immediate royal family didn’t. Of course, it had been messy when the throne changed hands. He felt guilty about it sometimes, even now. But he gave Agenote’s question some real attention as he signalled for some snacks. Damn. Head Chef Mexte was here with those vegetables. Reclis sighed.
“Ielane’s strict, Agenote, but a good [Queen]? We have to consider the state of Calanfer when I was, well, Vernoue’s age. Do you know what the kingdom was like?”
“If we must, Father.”
Agenote wore a weary expression, but his memory was good. He closed his eyes.
“If I can distill it—let’s see. The Necromancer was plaguing Terandria terribly. We were in recovery after our colonies in Chandrar and, previously, Izril were destroyed due to the ascendancy of Archmage Zelkyr. Actually, hadn’t we fought off a few wars from Drakes headed to our shores?”
“Our colonies in Chandrar were still active. The King of Destruction wiped those out. A good sign of the times was the abundance of mithril. Never common in peaceful eras; it was worth nearly double what it is today, though the recent veins in Bitorm obviously throw off that calculation. Actually, House Lanight suffered a major loss in the New Lands, but it’s only invigorated their feelings towards—”
Reclis corrected his son, and Agenote patiently dragged them back on track.
“Right, at the time, Ailendamus was a third smaller than it was, wasn’t it?”
“Mm, close. It was full swing in that expansionist era until the lull during the King of Destruction’s ascendancy. So, where was Calanfer in all this?”
“Thriving decently.”
Reclis shook his head energetically.
