A talented man; some monarchs didn’t even have control of their auras, let alone the ability to suppress it. Also, he’d just beaten the entire group, and they were forking over coins, grumbling.
“And you let him get through your defenses?”
Strategist Andromeda was horrified by this lapse, but Miihey protested.
“He fed our warbears with honey. They can smell enemies. Should we have not let him through? A [King] is a [King]. And he made it through Kehndroth as well!”
Andromeda turned red as Allorev walked through the nomads and nodded to Nuvityn; despite himself, the King of Myth’s lips quirked.
“I wish you hadn’t told me of his presence, Andromeda. It seems the King of Hosts was minded to recreate an old story. That of a man who could charm his way through a dozen factions to reach the one he wished to speak to.”
He thought that was what Allorev was doing, and the King of Hosts bowed slightly.
“If I was noticed, I suppose that means I failed. King of Myths, cousin, I apologize for failing to live up to stories. But then—old stories come again, it seems.”
He rose with a glint in his eye, and Nuvityn liked him. Which was, of course, probably enhanced by Allorev’s Skills and his own research into Nuvityn, but it was well done. Nuvityn invited him to an audience, and indeed, regretted they hadn’t let Allorev reach the center of his own accord.
Thereafter, they’d had a meeting where the King of Hosts had all but begged Nuvityn to skirt his borders—lest he entangle himself in Noelictus’ woes. That was just politics—though it was interesting, for all it was damned annoying.
“Anything the Army of Myths might aid in?”
King Allorev had hesitated mightily and smiled at Nuvityn. He was a charming man. He had leaned over the fine Noelictan cuisine, all black and white, and murmured.
“The worst of the storm has passed, King Nuvityn. If it had come to the worst, your nation is the first I would have prevailed on. I do not fear your discretion, you understand, but that of your people.”
That was a fair problem. Whatever it was must have been dire enough, and Nuvityn had rubbed at his beard, exasperated, but inclined to accede to this gracious man who was clearly in true need. Even so, it was another obstacle…
At Nuvityn’s half-scowl, Allorev hesitated. He glanced at his trimmed fingernails, then spoke softly.
“This is perhaps a poor venue to discuss the matter, cousin. But for you, I would offer you a view of the issue…if you are so inclined. A trust I hope you would keep private unless you felt the good of all of Terandria necessitated it otherwise.”
Intriguing. He was willing to show Nuvityn this issue? The King of Myths hesitated and began to worry he’d be entangled in Noelictus’ issues…or simply inclined to help. Entanglement, like the half-Elves said.
“If you ask it of me, as a fellow ruler, I cannot gainsay that request, King Allorev. Would it be more prudent to request an explanation once the matter is settled?”
Allorev’s eyes brightened.
“In confidence? Of course.”
Ah, now that would work. Though it did mean that he’d have to go around Noelictus. Nuvityn nodded, glancing at a map he’d brought out.
“Then I shall respect your request. Ah, but to avoid conflict with Ailendamus…would it be impossible to pass even along the borders? Through Ovela, perchance?”
That would give him a clear shot through Noelictus down into Pheislant, and here Allorev had drummed his fingers on the table.
“I would grant it in a heartbeat, Your Majesty, but Ovela, it is in a stalemate with Ailendamus. And the Earl is…a special case. I will request it of him, but the Crown would not force his will in most matters.”
The King of Myth’s brows had almost vanished into his hairline. What kind of [Earl] scares the ruling [King] so?
“Is he a man I might—assist the Kingdom of Shades in removing in some way? Long has Erribathe respected the nation that feeds so much of Terandria.”
Allorev blinked, as if he thought Nuvityn’s memory so poor. He half-smiled.
“Your memory is gratifying, King of Myths. I fear that our reputation is not so inspiring across the rest of Terandria.”
Nuvityn frowned harder, and he removed his crown to place before him. A gesture between [Kings].
“I mean what I say. Erribathe has long lain quiet, but had Ailendamus invaded Noelictus in truth, I had spoken to Iradoren about sending forces to your defense. One of the original nations of the Hundred Heroes should not fall. Why should that reputation change so often?”
Such a gratified look from the King of Hosts, who murmured.
“The Necromancer, King Nuvityn?”
“Oh. Of course.”
He’d never penetrated into Erribathe beyond the mistlands. It seemed that Nuvityn had underestimated the trauma the rest of the continent had towards Az’kerash. When he remarked on that, Allorev had given him what was becoming a familiar gaze, that of someone eying a fish truly out of water.
Nuvityn disliked that. He disliked the feeling of being a fossil behind the times and tried to shake loose the feeling of dust clinging to him. At least the dust came with being so intimidating that no nation wanted to cross his. He’d thought Allorev coming with nearly twenty thousand soldiers was a sign of hostilities until he saw how poor the quality of his [Soldiers]’ armor was.
Iradoren had often said how Erribathe’s power could have thrust back the King of Destruction had they truly made an attempt…
Iradoren.
Nuvityn tried to distract himself, but few men, even fellow [Kings], treated him like an equal or with anything but utter wariness or fear.
Except for the Earl of Ovela. Nuvityn made the request to pass through Ovela and got a one-note response.
No.
 
——
 
Half of his court were furious as the messenger delivered the response, and Nuvityn just sat there. He was half-tempted to march into Ovela just to spite the messenger, who was a Hunter of Noelictus, an old man with white hair and black skin.
Hunters. Brave and dangerous—Nuvityn turned to Tserre, who had stopped knitting something and rocking in a chair on her walking house. Prildor had put aside his own carving.
“Should we test this Earl’s rudeness, my advisors? What cause might he have for denying our entry?”
“Whatever ails the Kingdom of Shades, Your Majesty? Or perhaps simple wariness of an army.”
“If I gave him assurances we merely require passage…?”
The King of Myths was frustrated, and Andromeda called out, angry and young.
“Your Majesty! Where we walk, nations follow! We should teach a lesson to the nations who have forgotten what the Kingdom of Myths is!”
She was Iradoren’s former lover and admirer. At least one of the two—Nuvityn met her eyes.
“As a bully or braggart, [Strategist]? Is that the wisdom of Kehndroth?”
She hesitated, then, and Prildor murmured.
“I’d rather not fight ghosts. My arrows don’t do much against them.”
He was one of the two great experts that Nuvityn had summoned—beyond even the [Soldiers], who were all above Level 30. Even above Nuvityn himself; when the Court of Myths heard that, they fell silent.
“There are no ghosts in Noelictus—only rumors of them, Lord Prildor. This Earl isn’t the same as the Twins of Ovela, but just as hot-headed. There is respect and rudeness. Surely this teeters on the latter, even if we do not wish conflict?”
For once, Voreca was in agreement with Andromeda; the two disliked being taken lightly. It was Miihey, the people of Forem’s leader, a [Barbarian], who coughed. The half-Elf was younger than Tserre and Prildor and bare-chested, but for all his wildness, he had eyes only for his elders.
“Your wisdom, Magus Tserre?”
She glanced up from inspecting the [Hunter] who stood there, unmoving, as he cast around the camp of Erribathe.
“I’d say this Earl of Ovela is twice as hotheaded as you think. As for why we’re turned away—hm. It would be something to have the Kingdom of Myths respect Noelictus’ sovereignty. That the Earl of Ovela spoke and Erribathe listened would benefit their reputations greatly.”
“So we trade our reputation for this Earl’s? All the more reason to refuse!”
One of the other advisors slammed a fist down. There was a chorus of agreement, but at this point, the itching on Nuvityn’s back grew too much to bear. He shifted and finally realized the old [Hunter] standing before him was too calm in his presence.
So old. His eyes were yellow like a beast of Erribathe, and if that shine on his hilts wasn’t Mithril…slowly, the King of Myths felt that creeping sensation he had learned not to ignore. He rose, slightly, and nodded to the [Hunter].
“Bold is the Earl of Ovela. Rude, perhaps, to the Kingdom of Myths. What says he to deny our passage?”
The [Hunter] responded in a low growl, sounding amused as he rested his hands on his blades. None of the court liked that, and they reached for their weapons.
“He says that the Kingdom of Myths is too much trouble to deal with on a border with Ailendamus, Your Majesty. Two nosy half-Elves—one death-marked—and a host of triumphant warriors that love to poke around is a pain to deal with. Besides, Erribathe owes this particular Earl a favor.”
“Watch your tongue, [Hunter]! Ovela and the Kingdom of Shades have done no service to Erribathe in the last hundred years worth calling upon! Let alone of this caliber!”
Andromeda leapt to her feet and shouted as a chorus of jeers rose. But Nuvityn just raised a hand. He beckoned the man forwards.
“Approach, brave [Hunter]. If a debt is owed, I regret that I do not recall it.”
The Hunter strolled forwards until several soldiers of Osverthia lowered their blades to bar him. He seemed amused, too, as he ignored their blades.
“You could look it up. I’m sure it’s on the books if it hasn’t been claimed already. If it has—call it a favor in advance.”
“Hunter, let go your blades and disarm. You stand in the presence of myths who fear no armed messengers, but we do not tolerate threats to His Majesty. Not now.”
Voreca called out. Now, Nuvityn’s lips were twitching. He saw the Hunter’s were doing the same. They were enjoying this. Old men—doing old men things. Waiting to see how long it took for the young to catch on.
“If I were to fear for my life, I am already within death’s reach, Voreca. Nor would I doubt the word of the Earl of Ovela. I am minded to offer him every courtesy and ask what debts were incurred.”
She hesitated.
“Very good, Your Majesty. Should I send for…him…”
Then she trailed off, and Andromeda took over.
“Shall we summon him to the camp or arrange a meeting?”
Nuvityn replied mildly.
“I think I could do it myself, [Strategist]. What is the Earl of Ovela’s name, pray, brave Hunter?”
“Piortesenzth. Do you have any half-Elven wine?”
With that, the Hunter strode over to a table with drinks, and Nuvityn walked over to join him. Then, and only then, did the Court of Myths realize that the old Hunter who had come representing the Earl of Ovela and the man himself were one and the same.
He didn’t feel like a dangerous man. But he looked it. Which made sense; a Hunter of Noelictus could surely suppress their true nature. Tserre hopped off her cottage, and Prildor strode over with a book he’d pulled out of his bag of holding.
They had a conversation amongst equals as the children watched.
 
——
 
Piortesenzth spent two entire days in Nuvityn’s company, mostly so he could sample all the food from the Kingdom of Myths. His appearance was so noteworthy that several half-Elves stormed out of Erribathe just to meet him—if it really was him.
Nuvityn spent a delightful time those two nights reading up on stories of a certain Hunter of Noelictus who did have several favors on the books. If it was him. The books were so old that even re-copied and preserved multiple times, they were ancient.
Talking with Piortesenzth was more old-people stuff, but enjoyable. Prildor had a book, you see, which he only brought out when he met someone who was old.
“Have you heard about the Claiven Earth? They popped up recently.”
“Nope.”
Prildor made a small note in his book.
“What’s the last major thing you remember vanishing?”
The old Hunter rolled one shoulder as Tserre sipped from some tea, watching him with narrowed eyes. The two were rather competitive. Nuvityn thought it was about who was older or, possibly, more dangerous.
“They got rid of Maada eggs.”
“What are those?”
“Big…serpents? Very friendly. They lay big, fat yellow eggs, and they taste great. No one keeps ‘em anymore. I wanted to buy some, but they’re all dead apparently.”
“Interesting. I don’t remember those.”
Prildor’s brows rose, and he wrote this down, clearly very happy. Tserre’s eyes narrowed further.
“Nor do I, but they are in a book I read once. Anyone could claim to know what they’re like. What’s something unique about them only one who met them would know?”
The Hunter gave her a blank look.
“…They have ticklish chins?”
There was no followup to that, so the King of Myths just smiled and drank some wine as Prildor asked for another thing that Piortesenzth remembered. The Hunter sighed.
“The Continent of Glass. I miss that place. You could buy sunlight.”
“Ah. Um.”
Then it was Prildor and Tserre’s turn to exchange that glance that Nuvityn saw so often on the younger, and he laughed and asked Piortesenzth—
“Won’t you reconsider, Earl of Ovela? I am much taken with you.”
The Hunter scratched at his chin.
“Hmm. You’ve feasted me well, and I’ve enjoyed this, but no. It’s reputation. The beast backs down, and everyone applauds. Erribathe is the biggest beast around; it always was. Consider it a favor to me. For the Beast of Mists.”
Nothing would do but the King of Myths accede to that. He was, after all, nothing if not someone who respected old debts and traditions. He longed to talk more with the man, and to his delight, the Earl of Ovela had some time.
Two days, he let Erribathe camp on Ovela’s borders. Never entering the province, but he returned each day, and after the first meeting, he brought more people with him.
“I have to beat Ovela back into shape. I do have some Hunters I’d like your forces to humiliate.”
Hunters of Noelictus. Nuvityn had always loved the dark coats of leather and the grim hats of Noelictus’ warriors, which had felt as exotic to him as a burnoose, veil, or kilts compared to most of Terandria.
There were apparently many Hunters of Noelictus who came to Ovela for training—and the border guard—and Piortesenzth referred to all of them as ‘children’. Certainly, given the disparity in levels, Nuvityn suspected they were all children to him.
