“Is that what it requires for you to do something for family, Ielane? Is that the lesson you want to teach us?”
The Queen of Calanfer went still, because even Vensha shifted at that, and the most loyal Thronebearer’s eyes were on Ielane.
Even you? Vensha scratched at her chin and pulled a chair out slightly, but just stepped back, signalling her feelings. Ielane sat there as the cards moved slightly, as if a breeze or some strange hand of fate moved them. Wavering. Annoyed. Unwilling to give before the argument that even she admitted had a point.
The royal family of Calanfer waited, deadlocked with the Queen of Calanfer. Ielane was opening her mouth and Menisi was biting her lip as her fists clenched when someone interrupted the conversation.
A voice chuckled, and Ielane’s eyes went wide. She felt her stomach lurch in mild delight and surprise, which grew as King Reclis du Marquin spoke.
“Ielane, they have a point.”
He appeared with a flourish, or tried to. The Cloak of Balshadow caught on the table and nearly knocked it over. Reclis caught himself as he wobbled in his chair, and his family jumped.
He was seated in the chair Vensha had pulled out for him, across from Ielane. He’d been here, listening to them! It was Vernoue’s cloak; he must have taken it from storage. He loved creeping around in it, listening to conversations. Now, he steepled his fingers together and leaned forwards.
“I thought I detected some friction of late, and I wasn’t wrong.”
His son and daughters gave him such an amazed look that the King of Calanfer seemed mildly hurt.
“I can tell when things are rocky. I just leave it to Ielane, but Vernoue’s been on my mind as well. Ielane, you must admit, Menisi’s gotten you again.”
Ielane scowled at him. Menisi had always been the only one who could even score points on her when she talked back. Reclis’ eyes lingered on his daughter, and Menisi smiled crookedly.
“Thank you, Reclis. Don’t worry, I have enough to say to you as well. But if you could speak to your wife…”
He blinked at her, but then turned that smile on Ielane that was so hard not to oblige. Like…a golden retriever. A cleverer one at times, when he needed to be. She glowered at him.
“This is not a good idea, Reclis.”
“You don’t know that, Laney. The Kingdom of Myths? The Archmage of Fiends, who was taught personally by Silvenia? Perhaps it will be to our detriment, but I think I see the potential value as well as you do. Come now, you love gambling. You just don’t like someone else coming up with a plan when you’re set on yours. Hasn’t Lyonette done well? Let Vernoue have her chance. Seraphel too.”
“I don’t have a plan—”
They all stared at her, and the Queen of Calanfer glared around, but no one backed down. Reclis patted her hand. She resisted the urge to stab him with the edge of a playing card. The Queen of Calanfer sat there, unmoving, as Reclis waggled his eyebrows, and Menisi waited, smiling.
“If you won’t, we’ll just do it without you.”
Queen Ielane’s brows snapped together, and her eyes flashed. Then her face smoothed, and she let out her breath. Slowly. She rose, placing the worn deck of cards into the box.
She spoke to her daughter as she walked past her family, out of the room.
“As much as it would amuse me to see you try, I don’t believe in wasting Vernoue’s efforts. I never have.”
Then she was gone, striding down the corridors. Vensha hurried after her, and Agenote turned to Menisi. He waited, along with Reclis, for Menisi’s thumbs-up. Then Aielef’s whoop filled the royal chambers, and the servants emerged.
Queen Ielane was already mad, but she grew exasperated when she heard the cheering begin. As if she were some kind of monster.
 
——
 
The final meeting took place as the sun was setting over the royal gardens. It was evening, and they were loading the ship for the King of Myth’s departure. Vernoue was covered in sweat. She knew she wasn’t going to make it. The half-Elf had effortlessly held her mana at bay, dissipating it or something.
Menisi was gone. She had run off to rescue Prildor after cheering herself hoarse; a certain Grand Duke had come riding across the border, baying for blood. And everyone else was so in uproar over Menisi that Vernoue was alone, despite the mana clash that worried Venoriat so.
A rare moment of inattention—
A Thronebearer slammed into the ground, dead asleep, and Vernoue changed her mind. She saw someone appear before her eyes. Not with any effects, like shimmering into focus or popping into being. One moment she wasn’t there; the next, you noticed her, as if she’d always been there all along. A true [Invisibility] spell.
The half-Elf with her silvery hair was inspecting a growing Prelon, hanging from the bushy little tree over the stone planter’s ledge where her feet dangled. The round, red fruit was ripening before Vernoue’s eyes, turning yellow and developing the fuzzy rind that made it so iconic.
Effortless magic. It floated down and peeled itself, and the half-Elf ate a piece of the fruit, chewing thoughtfully. She had no vast aura of magic around her that Vernoue could see. But her fame…Vernoue saw that like a winding trail stretching back thousands of years, a long journey of triumphs and setbacks. This royal garden was but one stop on the road.
Magus Tserre glanced down at Vernoue, and for a moment, the wind blew at her hair, and she seemed to be that great [Mage] of stories from the books Vernoue had read as a child. Then she glanced up and glared, and the wind died down. When she spoke next, her voice was acerbic and ordinary, deliberately so, Vernoue thought,. As if she were trying to hide the ringing words she could speak unguarded, concealing the great deeds that lay in her eyes with petty annoyance.
“I’m sure you think yourself clever. But if it had been anyone other than me, you would be dead. What possessed you of such idiocy?”
Tserre rose from her seat as Vernoue peered up at her. She hobbled forwards on her cane as Vernoue panted.
“I would have stopped from melting myself if you didn’t do anything. But you did—so I realized you were stopping me.”
“Where did you learn that trick? You will kill yourself with it.”
“A potion that let me see the future.”
“Hmph.”
The half-Elf planted the walking stick and stood there back straight, head held high. She was unimpressed with everything about Vernoue. The filthy [Princess] panting at the end of her rope mentally and physically…the half-Elf spoke.
“Everyone wants to learn magic, girl. I’ve taught hundreds of apprentices. Literally hundreds. I’m tired of it. A thousand years ago, I was sick to death of weeping my heart out over them, and the world has grown only more dangerous for me since then. The future…what did it promise you?”
Vernoue’s throat was dry, and she croaked.
“Th-that I would become, could become, if I tried hard enough, an [Archmage].”
She met those imperious eyes framed by rimless glasses and saw a flash of amusement from within the depths. And that image of the great [Mage] looking back at her.
“Only an [Archmage]?”
Vernoue’s mouth fell open, and Tserre laughed at her. She drifted backwards, her feet never touching the ground, and sat in the air.
“I’m not letting you out of that cage. Go find another tutor. Take your levels and go to Wistram or that new academy in Izril someone mentioned to me.”
“I will. I won’t give up.”
“Well…good.”
Tserre seemed to lose track of what she wanted to say next. She glared down at Vernoue.
“Now you’ll stop levelling. It only works when we’re antagonists. Well done and all that. Magic…I wish I could say magic is its own reward or fully worth it. But whatever you find on your long journey—I’d choose it again.”
She tilted her head back to the sky and gazed into the horizon. Vernoue whispered.
“You’re beautiful.”
“Are both you sisters into the elderly?”
Tserre drew back, and Vernoue shouted.
“No! I can almost see—you’re so famous, and no one knows you! You’ve done so much for magic, and I’d never heard your name until last week! It’s a crime! I love magic. I’ve always wanted to really cast it. I felt what it was like…I’m going to do it for real. I swear on magic’s name!”
She cried out, standing, and Tserre tugged down a pointed hat over her head as she turned. They were seemingly alone, save for passed-out Thronebearers in the Royal Gardens, and she had a ship to catch.
A desperate [Princess] whose face shone with more passion than anyone had seen of her in their lives. And a half-Elf who hesitated, as if recalling something. Tserre twirled in the air, facing away from Vernoue.
No one could break that spell lock. Not a Dragon in this vanishing moment, nor a Djinni. Even the Death of Magic would have asked for an hour. Tserre nodded at Vernoue.
A perfect defeat.
“Any braggart can talk. A true [Mage] keeps her promises. Well…goodbye. It’s time for me to go. You lose. No second chances.”
She lifted a hand, and Vernoue sighed as the magical cage vanished.
It was done. She hung her head and wept on the ground, then laughed, and Tserre ignored her as she drifted away, still levitating over the ground.
The half-Elf was almost at the door to the royal gardens when she slowed. She paused in that way people did when they realized something was wrong.
As the foolish vagrants challenging the [Blademaster] did—a smile sliding off her face, expression shifting to alarm. Vernoue had heard it too.
“Huh?”
The words. No second chances.
Why did it sound so…Vernoue had lost. She definitely had. But something had—
The half-Elf swung around, then peeked right, then left. Warily. And a figure stepped out of the shadows, twirling an object around like a knife.
It was just a quill. But in the hands of the right person, a pen could cut like a sword.
Ielane du Marquin sighed as she nodded to Tserre.
“What—did you do?”
Vernoue’s face rose, and Ielane offered Tserre a smile as the wary half-Elf felt at herself and lifted a wand.
“[Royal Will: Annul Contract]. One would never sully the integrity of your test against a Princess of Calanfer, Magus Tserre. I merely request a second trial.”
“You can’t…that Skill. I’ve never seen it used like—that was a verbal agreement!”
“A contract takes all forms. Of course, you needn’t agree to take Vernoue with you. A second trial she might well fail. However you’d like to prepare it, she will answer the challenge.”
“I’m not giving her a second trial! I don’t have time for this!”
Tserre snapped. The Queen of Calanfer raised her brows.
“Surely the King of Myths may spare an appropriate amount of time to allow my daughter to test herself against Archmagus Tserre herself. She is close to reaching Level 30. It is an affair of Calanfer’s honor.”
“To hell with Calanfer’s honor!”
Tserre snapped again. She began to fly away, but slowly, and Vernoue got the impression she was listening in. Ielane turned to Vernoue.
“Your things are packed for the ship. I expect that upon your second failure, Magus Tserre will see fit to drop you back at Calanfer. Or perhaps Wistram. Or Izril?”
“She’s not coming on the ship.”
Ielane ignored Tserre as the half-Elf reappeared. She spoke to the air over Vernoue’s head as her daughter just peered at her, breathing out and in.
“His Majesty loves stories. He also owes Calanfer some boon after the impropriety of his citizen, Prildor, against Menisi. I expect you to be Level 30 by the time you reach any shore.”
“Mother…”
Ielane turned.
“Following one’s dreams made Calanfer entirely weak in Reclis’ parents’ time. Aside from marrying me. But his siblings’ dreams were so utterly selfish and banal. Except for his sister, who wished to wed in Baleros. They assassinated the Lizardman. I always thought that was the most selfish and cruel thing the former crown did. I’ve never assassinated any of my children’s loved ones. Wash your face before you go, Vernoue.”
 
——
 
That was the last thing she said—before Vernoue threw her arms around Ielane. Tserre was shouting complaints, then flying to find King Nuvityn, and Ielane du Marquin strode back into the palace. Then sat and had a smoke as she watched a frantic girl tearing towards a coach headed straight for the coast.
She felt oddly tired. After a while, the Queen of Calanfer spoke to the side.
“I can hear you breathing, Reclis.”
“Really? Damn.”
He took the Cloak of Balshadow off and reappeared, somewhat shamefaced. He pulled out a chair next to hers and signalled for a cup of wine.
“I thought we’d debrief after a day like ours, eh?”
“Of course, dear.”
Ielane’s eyes never left the girl now riding pell-mell after the flying half-Elf, followed by a gaggle of servants. Then a carriage rolled past her, and three [Princesses] were waving at Vernoue, trying to get her inside. The odds any one could fall out and break their necks…remote with a Thronebearer and their tiaras, except in Aielef’s case. But it was there.
Reclis merely spared an affectionate look for the scrying orb. He took a deep gulp of wine, then exhaled, marshaling his thoughts.
“So how was my performance this evening? I thought it was rather good, if I do say so myself.”
Ielane was the better of the two at acting and noticing body language and cues; she often gave him pointers before and after meetings with heads of state. She raised her brows.
“You forgot your spectacles. Normally, you’d be wearing them in private. Menisi might have noticed, but she’s been absent long enough that it’s unlikely.”
“—Ah.”
He deflated slightly. After a few more minutes of silence, Reclis laced his fingers together and shot Ielane a speculative glance.
“Well, aside from that small mistake, I rather thought I set you up well. Every child of ours was on Vernoue’s side, and it wouldn’t do, truly, to have them rift with us. Or both of us, rather. Even so, you changed your mind. What possessed you?”
He wore a small frown, genuinely surprised. Reclis had assumed that Ielane wouldn’t back down, even with his intervention, and that he’d be showing solidarity with the children and commiserate with them. He’d even put in an order at a bakery for a cake—and he’d had to have them redo the frosting.
The Queen of Calanfer was a while in responding again, which suited the King, who used the time to think about his changing nation and world. When she did speak, it was softly.
“I suppose I saw the value in letting Vernoue level and become a public figure, even by association. Like Lyonette. It may have been a moment of weakness, Reclis. I may be tired…of playing the villain.”
He patted her hand and gave her a sympathetic smile.
