However, Piortesenzth might have made the error of thinking Erribathe was all that he remembered too. Because some of the Hunters he wanted humiliated had turned out to be warriors as peerless as Nuvityn’s own fighters.
 
——
 
“Halt! The bout goes to the Veteran Hunter!”
After the third time one of his warriors lost to a Veteran Hunter, Nuvityn nodded for Miihey to take the next opponent on. Nuvityn walked over to Piortesenzth, who was observing, arms folded.
“Your Veteran Hunters are capable. Every warrior in my ranks is above Level 30.”
“Ah, so you’re not going to war.”
It was amazing how often Nuvityn smiled or laughed while talking to the old Hunter, though sometimes it was in chagrin, such as now. He shook his head.
“Erribathe is not the Kingdom of Myths you knew, Hunter Piortesenzth. Your Veteran Hunters are besting my warriors, which embarrasses them greatly.”
Indeed, each loser was being berated by their kinsfolk, but he thought it was well. This was a reminder to them that other nations had teeth, even more than Piortesenzth’s presence. The old [Hunter] simply snorted.
“My Veteran Hunters…they’re the best of Noelictus, but they give themselves airs. I’d prefer if your lot smashed the entire group flat so they’d work harder. Life has been too easy for them lately.”
From the look some of the Veteran Hunters shot him, Nuvityn wondered what Piortesenzth considered easy. He watched as Miihey fought the fourth Veteran Hunter, a woman with two mithril axes. She had white hair, but he thought it was just dye or natural hair color; she certainly fought like a younger woman, awhirl with slashing blades as Miihey hopped backwards.
Miihey was a [Barbarian]; the half-Elf was bare-chested and had a simple cloak of bearhide around his shoulders. He also used an axe, but a giant battleaxe instead of twin hatchets.
Faced with his aggressive opponent, he retreated, blocking with the haft of his axe as if it were a quarterstaff, lashing out with kicks or punches. One of the kicks sent the Veteran Hunter staggering back a few paces, and he followed it up with the battleaxe—the ground was cut in twain, and Nuvityn shouted.
“Don’t maim or kill your foe, Miihey!”
“She’s too good to take her lightly, Your Majesty!”
The half-Elf grinned. Piortesenzth shouted as well.
“Work harder, Hunter Haeight! Stop fighting as if you’re better and use all your Skills. He’s not even trying hard.”
The Veteran Hunter turned red. True enough, Miihey hadn’t been fighting with his all; he probably had ten levels on the younger woman. He kept changing the position of his hands on his axe haft to avoid them being cut as he blocked with his long weapon, instead of swinging it full-force like Nuvityn knew he could do.
At Piortesenzth’s words, Haeight lowered her blades, touched the brim of her hat, then activated a Skill. Her eyes began to glow, and she threw her head back as her aura swirled and condensed. Her voice was hoarse and exploded out of her lungs in a screaming howl as she threw herself at Miihey, who backed up in surprise.
“That’s…a frenzy Skill. It looks almost like a blood Skill.”
Nuvityn was shocked and saw Miihey retreating in genuine defense as Haeight came at him, swinging faster and harder. He had to swirl his cloak around and use it to block her rain of blows, cursing.
“That’s Haeight. She’s young even for a Veteran Hunter, but I told her she had to replace me when I died.”
It seemed Piortesenzth liked this particular Hunter, because he smiled as he watched Haeight’s onslaught continue. When it was clear she wouldn’t let up her rain of blows, Miihey cursed and swung his axe.
“[Axe Art: Mauling Bearclaws]!”
The slash he left on the ground forced the Veteran Hunter back; she rolled left, came up, threw an axe, and he dodged as he swung the butt of his axe into her side. It tossed her over the ground—and Miihey twisted out of the way of his final blow as the hatchet Haeight had thrown boomeranged back to her.
Not bad at all. She lost, of course; Miihey kept out of range of her frenzy Skill and used his Skills to knock her about, but she’d surprised him, and when he finally stood over her, he ruefully showed some of his kin a few light bruises on his arms from where his bearskin cloak had failed to protect him.
Nuvityn himself applauded that; Piortesenzth did not. He strolled over as Haeight got up.
“If he’d been a Skeleton Lord, you’d be dead, Haeight. You’ve been fighting undead too long, and low-level ones at that. You need to learn how to cleave Bone Giants.”
“Yes, Hunter Piortesenzth.”
She hung her head, sweaty and dishevelled, and he motioned towards Nuvityn’s warriors.
“Fight two more. Some of the armored folk next. Their place starts with an ‘O’. Beat at least one of them or I’ll make you raid Ailendamus solo.”
Osverthia’s warriors looked askance at the perceived insult. Haeight seemed quite nervous as she picked up her axes. Nuvityn winced and waved Voreca back; he might as well give the poor Hunter a chance of success.
Haeight won a bout against a regular Osverthian, then lost to Voreca. She was limping off the field, exhausted, when the old Hunter strolled over.
“More practice. Chop down ten trees with the dullest hatchet you can find before you return for supper. Beastblood, rookie.”
She reacted with a shout of alarm—but he punched her in the side so fast Nuvityn barely saw it. The King of Myths saw Prildor stop drinking wine with some Veteran Hunters and watch as Huntress Haeight flew through the air—hit a group of Forem’s [Barbarians]—and landed.
He wondered how many ribs she’d broken. Piortesenzth strolled back, hands in his pockets.
“Everyone’s softer than I remember. Which is fine. The Kingdom of Myths used to be smaller. Ten thousand would be the entire army—and they’d win because everyone would be over Level 40. But they were less hospitable. I’d have to trade three skulls for a single flask of wine from Forem’s tribes.”
He glowered at Miihey’s folk as if this was still a sore point however many aeons later. Nuvityn could only offer Piortesenzth all the wine he could drink—and he had some sent to the poor huntress that had caught the old man’s attention.
Besides, it was good to see Voreca and Andromeda lose a bit of their swagger and be reminded the other kingdoms were not so easy to push over. Certainly, when it was done, the Veteran Hunters had won as many matches as they’d lost, though the lesser Hunters lost almost every match.
As for Piortesenzth, he refused all duels and offers. He did elect to arm-wrestle Miihey and the [Barbarians] of Forem, though, as well as Torek’dale.
Well. It was just good they had time to march and a long road ahead, because eighteen broken arms would take time to heal.
 
——
 
There was one more option if Noelictus was no good: Samal. Nuvityn took his army towards the Kingdom of Keys…and marched straight across the border without even bothering to ask for passage.
“I don’t have enough keys for this. Damn. I should have taken us east instead of west!”
Erribathe was wide enough that he could have just marched that way instead to get to a coastline, and it did have ships they could sail from a river delta into the sea. However, one of the few things Erribathe had ever lost was their coastal region and the folk who lived there, the Ressins. They’d…left after a poor [King] had failed to live up to expectations.
Desonis had been founded by descendants of Erribathe’s famed sea-dwellers. However, sailing from the eastern coastline would have made it twice as long to get to Baleros, and the Village of the Spring was remote enough that Nuvityn had chosen the shortest route to a port in Pheislant.
Now, he was stymied at every turn.
Back they went, and when he was faced with having to march back the way he’d come across his entire Kingdom of Myths, he made one last attempt to gain passage south. Nuvityn confessed; he lost his temper when Ailendamus refused to issue him passage again. They were no Earl of Ovela.
He passed by their border fortresses, and they shouted and sent [Knights] to object, but short of physical confrontation, they didn’t stop his army the first week they marched. Unpleasantness occurred, of course, but he had to admit he’d wanted it with them.
“Someone’s watching us, Your Majesty.”
Tserre interrupted Nuvityn as he read a report on how the nations south of Ailendamus had changed over the years, and he glanced up.
“Could you stop them?”
“Quite likely, but watching is often preferable to doing the dance of stopping all eyes. They have good spellcasters, though.”
Ah. Good by her standards. She sat, eying his reports, as Nuvityn murmured.
“House Shoel cast magics of a superlative quality during the battle at sea.”
“I watched a recording. They were decent. Too exposed, too overconfident. Ship boarding actions kill [Mages] fast. They should have abandoned their ships and flown or fought on platforms instead. Never let a [Pirate] get on board the same ship as you.”
She was a veteran warrior, then. Tserre was a mystery to him, from her isolation in the Village of the Spring to the fact that she had—apparently—some ties with the Death of Magic herself.
And a bounty on her head from Rhir and, as Piortesenzth had revealed, death-marks. Whatever those were. Nuvityn trusted Tserre, or he trusted that she was concerned about her grand-niece, Ceria, enough to come with him.
Figuring out her story and earning her trust was the fun part.
“So you’ve seen battles at sea, then. As well as wars?”
The question made Tserre scowl.
“As Your Majesty might have guessed, one sees both over the course of a long life. Prildor hates sailing, and he’s survived multiple naval engagements. Even a shipwrecking, apparently.”
“He told me about that. He drifted eighty-nine days—which is why he hates the sea. But you’ve fought on the sea and in wars, Magus?”
She folded her arms as her two chickens pecked at some feed next to her.
“I used to be a Mage of Wistram. Fighting at sea is only natural, and fighting in wars as well, for a Mage of Wistram.”
“Really? They don’t fight in wars these days. Ailendamus was a startling exception.”
She scowled.
“Wistram Academy always fights in wars. There’s always a hothead group of young [Mages] who think that [Siege Fireball] solves everything. Much as I enjoy our game of truths, you will have to work harder than that to ferret truth out of me, Your Majesty.”
He gave her an amused smile, and she hesitated and grew more irked.
“I rather think that Wistram has changed beyond your memories of it, Magus Tserre. You didn’t even remember the Golems.”
Then again, he remembered a time before the Golems too, if vaguely. Tserre muttered.
“I remember Truestone Golems. See them once, see them a hundred times. And I also remember Calanfer! How is the Eternal Throne doing?”
More clues; Piortesenzth hailed from a time long before Calanfer, if what he claimed was true. Tserre…no. But Calanfer did seem to impress her, because she asked about it of all the nations.
“We might pass by it, though I had planned on Pheislant. Would Silvaria interest you?”
She flicked her fingers.
“Calanfer’s the only nation of the lot worth a damn. And only because they did something during the Creler Wars. Have you seen the Eternal Throne? It is a sight.”
“A few times.”
He wrote this down. Tserre didn’t realize she’d been tricked into admitting she remembered Silvaria, the nation that Az’kerash had destroyed, for several minutes, whereupon she glowered.
“How has it changed? Calanfer was fierce enough back in my day, but your court laughed about Thronebearers of Calanfer, whatever they are.”
Nuvityn put down his notes with a sigh.
“Golden knights. Calanfer nearly lost its last war with Ailendamus. Whatever nation you might remember—they’re known as the Kingdom of Diplomacy these days.”
“That hasn’t changed, at least. But diplomacy comes with pen and ink or by the tip of a sword.”
“More of the former, less of the latter. It’s…different than I remember. I’ve known several generations of rulers. This new [King] and [Queen] seem efficient. But I miss the old Calanfer.”
He sat back. A cup of tea popped into Nuvityn’s hand, and he drank from it. Tserre raised her brows.
“If you’re going to tell me a story, my ears don’t have all day.”
He grinned as one of the riding Court of Myths gave Tserre an aghast glance, and then he spoke.
“I recall it being pleasant, and the King and Queen of Radiance were excellent hosts. To hear tell of it now, one should watch one’s back because the new rulers wield secrets and favors like weapons. Their royal family—rather unhappy. One [Princess] has run away, another is shipwrecked on Baleros…”
He didn’t think he’d left Erribathe recently enough to meet King Reclis or Queen Ielane. Then again, as he explained to Tserre—
“It might be for the best. Ailendamus was swallowing nations unguarded left and right. This Calanfer has more teeth.”
“A rat with teeth as opposed to one without is still a rat. Great nation or not, the Dawn Concordat has thrown back armies of multiple nations in Krawlnmak Pass. I’ll add it to my list of disappointments.”
She was settling back in her rocking chair when her eyes opened, and she craned her neck up.
“I think we’re under attack. [Mages] incoming.”
She rocked back on her chair, and it flipped head-over-heels into her cottage. Nuvityn shot to his feet as the doors closed. An alarm sounded ten seconds later, a horn blowing.
It wasn’t quite an attack; rather a force sent to turn his army back or force them out of Ailendamus’ borders. A full two legions of Hydra Knights, a lot of those ‘Greatbows’, their regular soldiers, and—Tserre claimed—at least a dozen magical specialists.
Nuvityn didn’t heed their calls to parley or turn. He ordered Prildor to fire a warning shot.
He wanted to fight with them.
 
——
 
Vernoue du Marquin reached Ailendamus’ borders just as the skirmish began.
For context, the road to get here was a frantic four days from the moment she and Menisi realized that they were still sisters willing to help each other out.
When she was actually minded to aid Vernoue, Menisi du Marquin was most like her mother—a compliment Vernoue had decided to only give her when they were fighting. Because they would—they were sisters.
Realizing she could shove and annoy Menisi made her far less intimidating, though it meant the 2nd Princess also pulled pranks like putting a dead, stuffed snake in Vernoue’s bed. However, she had a straightforwards approach to Vernoue’s problem.
“It sounds like you need a magical teacher. Studying by yourself isn’t going to work. Give me that list.”
