The arrows vanished. Pulled back into his stockpiles. His stockpiles…which he added to each day, each hour, each year he was alive. The half-Elf, whose job it was to cut down trees, to prune them, who chopped them up into sticks, processed them into arrows—every day of his life.
And he had lived so long. Nuvityn had seen his storerooms, the only thing that Prildor had asked for help in digging—lined with arrows in bundles. So many, and yes, not enchanted, not even tipped with metal, many of them. But he had those if need be.
“Prildor is the [Royal Stockpiler], Voreca. His stores have armed Erribathe’s [Archers] for centuries. Every arrow he has ever made is at his disposal.”
“That’s not my actual class.”
Prildor huffed, seeming not to like [Stockpiler] as a descriptor of what he did. He gestured at the battlefield.
“Everyone ran out of arrows during the first war I was part of. So I prepared enough—the rest of it is just a bit of velocity and positioning. I ran out of [Archers] before arrows in the war when I reached Level 40.”
He seemed sad at that, shaking his head, until he turned to Nuvityn with one of his half-smiles. The half-Elf brushed at his white hair, blowing in the wind, and in the silence, his voice was the only one heard.
“That is why it is good that we exist, Tserre and I. Terribly as we must sometimes live, fewer children need to raise bows because of our deeds. I would prefer not to make war on this nation, though, Your Majesty.”
He turned back to the army of glass and glory, and they were hesitant to march on the half-Elf who could darken the skies with arrows. Surely, Nuvityn thought, some of them would finally find his name and remember him.
Even Tserre had no jests for Prildor now. Though his words seemed to have wearied her again; she drew a shawl around her body as if feeling the cold and murmured to Nuvityn.
“There was a wind spell that knocked his arrow off in the air. Don’t tell him, though. He needs to stay humble.”
Nuvityn snorted lightly as he turned his gaze to the enemy army, drained of their bravado.
Now, what of you, Ailendamus? If they wanted to play a game of might, he would oblige them, but he very much doubted they could best Prildor’s casual display. Indeed, Nuvityn sensed the enemy [General] was trying to retreat as soon as he re-ordered his position.
Someone had other plans, though.
“Challenge! We challenge the warriors of myths to honorable battle! Let this affair be decided by warriors of honor!”
A [Knight] of Drell rode forwards, and Nuvityn sighed.
“Knights. I forgot how many you run into. Does anyone want to hit him?”
“Me, Your Majesty?”
Miihey grinned, and Nuvityn had endless amounts of volunteers. He was debating sending someone to trounce the Drell Knight, however good he might be, when Prildor hopped off the cottage and strode over the ground.
“Prildor, what are you doing?”
“One second—I have to pick up my arrows. The first two didn’t count for [Return Inventory], you see.”
The entire army of Ailendamus moved back as the half-Elf jogged over. Nuvityn watched, lips twitching, as Prildor ran to pick up the two arrows he’d shot. Two—but he hated wasting them. He picked one up and was tugging the other out of the ground and pointing at it, clearly trying to say to Tserre ‘see? Look how deep it went!’.
…The bolt of red lightning came down fast. Tserre cursed, and it exploded eighteen feet over Prildor’s head.
“Magical attack!”
Nuvityn spun, and two black bolts of magic, so fast that he only saw their afterimages, shot towards Tserre. She blocked one with a hand-sized shield and parried the other as if her wand were a sword.
“Return fire! Defend—”
“Hold!”
Nuvityn bellowed, and his forces halted. He was annoyed, but if he had pushed Ailendamus, they were pushing back, and he’d be a fool to escalate. However—the magic attacks continued.
“Your Majesty, we can’t tell who’s sending the spells.”
One of his [Battlemages] was from Osverthia and was trying to ward Prildor as he ran back, eyes wide, but if Erribathe had humiliated Ailendamus, it was time for a turnaround.
A second bolt of lightning cracked down despite every spellcaster’s attempt to stop it. Save for Tserre; she was inspecting her wand and staring narrow-eyed past the [Soldiers].
“That’s a long-range cast from their capital. Multiple [Mages] on the ground, all high-level. Concealed. Your Majesty, get clear of me. I see you, girl. Do you want to challenge me?”
“Prildor, Tserre!”
The half-Elf was shouting ‘cover me’ as he ran—but the second bolt of lightning shot down, and this time, Tserre didn’t block it.
It wasn’t nearly as fast as real lightning. Nuvityn, as a young lad, had once made a game of trying to dodge real lightning bolts in a storm with some friends from Osverthia. He’d had 2nd degree burns and hadn’t been able to hear for a week.
Even so—it was fast. Prildor glanced over his shoulder, screamed—threw up his hands, and ran just out of the way of the crater that blew dirt and grass up.
“Prildor, here!”
The [Mages] were casting defensive barriers, and the half-Elf sprinted at them—then switched directions and ran left, still yelling.
Another bolt of lightning blew a crater in the ground—then missed again as he zig-zagged, and Nuvityn saw the bolts of lightning pause—then three stab down.
All three missed, though the last one sent Prildor leaping forward where he rolled to his feet and sprinted—still screaming for ‘cover’, arms raised. He swerved, dodging the final lightning bolt, and then raced under a barrier spell.
Only then did he wipe at his brows, turn, and glare at Tserre. Nuvityn wondered if he could have dodged seven lightning bolts, even with a moment’s warning like that.
He also wondered what kind of a [Mage] could so contemptuously bypass even Erribathe’s magical protections.
 
——
 
Everyone in his chambers was staring at the Wyrm of Ailendamus. Rhisveri avoided looking at all of them.
“He’s good at dodging. I was on-target the entire time! You saw it!”
He stabbed his claw at the half-Elf brushing dirt off his clothing. Rhisveri turned to Sophridel, who gave him a smile with one of his masks.
“Your aim is undeniable, Rhisveri.”
“Silence! I hit Ryoka first try! He’s a master of dodging! Where is Paxere? Tell her to stop shooting at that damn half-Elf! We don’t want a war here!”
 
——
 
A messenger came towards Erribathe, issuing another request for them to leave.
“The Kingdom of Glass and Glory has no desire to war with the Kingdom of Myths, but our sovereign borders will be respected, Your Majesty! Nor will we allow the passage of a criminal wanted by Rhir over our lands!”
Ah. Their intelligence was good. Tserre had been noticed by multiple powers when she’d left her home. Nuvityn glanced at the sky, but no more bolts were coming.
He was tempted to just keep marching and leave it at that, or head into Pheislant, but a second war was occurring between Tserre and those invisible spellcasters.
Some kind of fast magic kept targeting Tserre; she was blocking it with a buckler-sized barrier spell instead of a standard, full body barrier. Her eyes were narrowed, and she spoke.
“There’s your House Shoel. This is a Tier 5 attack spell.”
“Do you need protections, Tserre? If we must reply—”
“No, I do not. Eleven children can’t best me! Shut up!”
She shouted it at Nuvityn, forgetting he was the King of Myths. Still, he called to the [Messenger].
“Attacking a citizen of my kingdom is cause for war, messenger! Have your [Mages] cease their provocations. I issued my rebuke, and you have done the same. Continue, and I shall make it more than a mere display.”
The [Knight] rode back fast, and as if they’d heard him, the volley of [Midnight Shard] spells intensified the moment Nuvityn spoke. One, then six, then three—Tserre sat in her chair, refusing to move. Three more hovering shields appeared, blocking in tandem—then a chicken squawked as eight came at her.
“Tserre! Oh.”
Prildor shouted in alarm, but the chicken leapt into the way of two blasts, then ran around, squawking and fanning its wings. Nuvityn was impressed. He leaned over to Andromeda.
“Find out what that chicken is.”
She nodded, and then the volley of magic stopped as the [Messenger] reached the [General] and he bellowed orders.
There was a rather…smug feeling to the invisible spellcasters, Nuvityn decided. They’d pushed the envelope as far as it would go, though perhaps it was out of spite; Tserre was still sitting in her rocking chair, and she appeared—peeved.
The fact that she had weathered so many attack spells was impressive enough to his people. Nuvityn nodded and thought the point well-made to the magic-users who might recognize that display.
“Move out. Andromeda, that carriage…”
He was gesturing for his army to march towards the border, which was less than a day’s march away in any case. Enough of this posturing; both sides had made their point, and he was disinclined to do more when the King of Destruction and other foes were extant. And Nuvityn did think of the King of Destruction as one of the foes of this time to address if ever there should come an opportunity…
He made one mistake, the King of Myths. He had done the dance of egos well, held his forces back despite the tensions, and made a display with restraint and confidence. His mistake…was assuming that Tserre was like Prildor, an unpredictable but reliable veteran legend.
His read on her wasn’t complete. Or he would have realized she was the ornery kind of old legend.
The army was moving, and Ailendamus’ forces were pulling back to shadow them when Tserre stood up from her chair. Her eyes were blazing.
“You think you know magic, you little brat? I see you. A war of spells you want? [Identify High Magic]. [Marking of the Archer’s Star]. [Grand Dispelling].”
Nuvityn whirled.
“Tserre—”
Too late. She did something—and he saw one of the glowing markers appear over a figure who dropped out of the air before catching themselves and trying to vanish in a cloud of black smog. However—the glowing marker hovered in the air. Eleven of them.
“Uh oh. It’s like the time she got mad at the forest.”
Prildor stepped behind Nuvityn. The King of Myths shouted.
“Tserre! Don’t harm—”
She definitely heard him. She just didn’t care. The half-Elf was grinning as the [Mages] she had marked replied with a volley of spells far more aggressive than before. They were alarmed; a roaring fireball curved towards her as more black shards of magic fired in a spray—
Then the [Mage] began to fight as the 5th Princess and King of Myths watched and realized who Tserre had been.
 
——
 
She spun her wand one-handed, and magic whirled around her. It was as if Vernoue could see strands of mana forming a whirling shield that flicked the fireball aside.
All the half-Elf’s teeth were bared, and she leaned out of the way of one of the [Midnight Shards]. Another ricocheted off her wand. Then she flicked her wand up.
“My turn. [Arrows of True Seeking]. [Enlarge Spell]. Let’s see you dodge, girl.”
The arrow she fired off her wand was taller than Vernoue. It was bright red, bordered with a white nimbus, and streaked towards the eleven marked figures. Tserre didn’t fire one, though. She fired fifty.
The criss-crossing arrows made Ailendamus’ army raise their shields, but they passed over the heads of the soldiers, weaving through the air, as the eleven [Mages] dodged frantically. One of the arrows exploded, intercepted with magic—another hammered down, missing one of the spellcasters by inches.
The King of Myths was shouting, but the [Mage] was laughing. She lifted her other hand and pointed.
“[Incineration Ray]. [Expand Spell].”
A needle-thin ray of red light shot after one of the figures, then became a roaring beam that set fire to the earth as Tserre’s finger followed the figure. She narrowed her eyes, lifted a hand—
Three bolts of red lightning hit shields above her that crackled. Then she tsked.
She vanished, whirling around and reappearing two dozen feet to the left in the air, away from her cottage. A hail of [Midnight Shards] struck it, and Tserre scoffed.
She kept firing those arrows, keeping the other [Mages] permanently moving and dodging or blocking her attacks. Another bolt of red lightning—she caught it in her off-hand, as if it were magnetic, then flicked it at one of the [Mages].
She was aiming at someone—the bolt caught the invisible figure, and for a second, Vernoue saw a person appear, jerking. A young woman, snarling, with—missing fingers on one hand?
Then she vanished, and Tserre laughed mockingly. She began blinking, dodging return fire as she teleported around in a display of magical ability Vernoue was left speechless by.
That’s not [Lesser Teleport]. She’s so quick! But the King of Myths was shouting at her, and Tserre put up her wand. She closed her eyes—and then they opened. Then her eyes began to glow.
“Do you think I walk away from challenges? Threaten me with Rhir—survive this. [Mystical Spellsurge].”
The air around her condensed, and her glow of mana became a pillar of light like one of Pheislant’s lighthouses. Vernoue was so weak-kneed she could barely cling to the window of her carriage.
“Oh my.”
Menisi raised her brows, and the laughing half-Elf raised a hand to the sky.
“[Rain of Lightning Bolts]! [Mass Spell: Transmute Air to Water]. [Elemental Cohesion].”
Then a sea rose, and waters swept around Ailendamus’ army, pure black—and the bolts of lightning criss-crossed into the water, but didn’t dissipate on contact. Rather, they formed stabbing lines of force through the water before spreading out. Detonating inside the water and making it explode with force.
More than one shadowed figure was illuminated by the blasts, leaping out of the water or retreating. Vernoue’s heart was thundering out of her mouth. She saw the young woman that Tserre was aiming at struggling in the water, then go flying upwards as the half-Elf pointed a finger at her. She loosed a trio of lightning bolts from her finger, and Vernoue flinched.
The explosion never came. Tserre lowered her finger, and the young woman fell out of the bubble of water that had caught her, into the metal arm of a [Knight]. Which hurt, probably—but the other arm had sliced the three bolts of lightning in half.
A woman wearing all-black armor pointed her sword at Tserre as the [Mage] lowered her finger and eyed the Great Knight of Ailendamus. The [Soldiers] were cheering her as she motioned Paxere back—Vernoue had no idea who either one was, but Menisi supplied the names.
