Her eyes glowed for a second in a way that suggested to Nuvityn this was not a low-tier magic. Then he saw a series of blue, glowing bars catch Vernoue, and she squeaked and dropped off the cottage in a rectangular prison.
“Wh—”
“Free yourself from my prison and I shall be delighted to take you on. Simply say, ‘I give up’, and the bars will vanish, though you fail. If I sail from Terandria’s shores you also fail, because I can’t wait forever. No second chances. It is a time-honored test. Farewell, Princess.”
Tserre called over her shoulder as several Thronebearers dove off horses and caught the small cage, which suggested it was either light as air or they were stronger than Nuvityn thought. He saw Vernoue rattle the bars, which didn’t even make a sound, then eye the front.
A pulsing, multi-layered magical seal with at least sixty-two different levels of magic, some of them moving, was in the place of a lock. Nuvityn sighed, but Tserre was smiling, and he didn’t see another option himself. Vernoue made a small sound.
“Tserre! She is so terribly rude; do excuse me, Your Highness.”
Prildor shouted at Tserre, then apologized to Menisi. She offered him a hand, which he hesitated, before bowing over.
“Lord Prildor! I am so terribly sorry about all the inconvenience. May I introduce myself again? I—”
Nuvityn rode straight through the two of them on the pretext of asking Prildor about half-Elves in Gaiil-Drome, and Vernoue screamed.
“Menisi! Stop flirting and help!”
Both sighed gustily.
 
——
 
Vernoue sat in a cage. It was big enough to walk around in, a small circle, and they could pass her food in, but she couldn’t fit her head through the bars. Soon, she realized the horror that was needing a bucket and towels draped over the bars—and they had to carry her on top of her coach back to Calanfer.
Because she didn’t quit.
Oh, no. This was it. She knew this was meant to be an impossible task, but she, Vernoue, wouldn’t back away from…
“Vernoue, you’re not solving this. The note was right. She is delightfully unpleasant. She just cast this spell to get rid of you, but I can tell it’s not something any regular [Mage] could solve. I like her.”
Menisi wandered over on the first day of Vernoue’s imprisonment. The entire army of Myths around her and she was focusing all her brain power on this lock. She…saw the magical layers, could sort of poke at them with her mana, but a basic [Unlock] spell didn’t even touch the magic. It was condensed mana, internalized spell circles, layered enchantments, and she didn’t even know how you began breaking into it.
But she tried. She had to.
“See if you can convince her, Menisi. I have to try, please!”
“Oh, I will try. She’s fascinating. I already tried to seduce her—well, I just put myself out there. And she said that I wasn’t nearly interesting enough. The King of Myths also declined.”
“Menisi!”
“Don’t worry, the half-Elf and I will be very discreet.”
Vernoue put her hands over her head as she stared at the lock. She could do this! She just had to glean one spark of inspiration, one piece of the future….
 
——
 
Two days later, Vernoue’s return to the royal capital in her cell attracted countless stares, but Calanfer couldn’t hide what had happened. Menisi had vanished in Gaiil-Drome with Prildor, claiming, accurately, that she wasn’t welcome near the palace.
As for Nuvityn—well, he set the entire palace abuzz, but Vernoue, trapped in her rooms, only heard about it from visitors.
“Vernoue, what have you gotten yourself into?”
Aielef was exasperated, amused, and oddly sympathetic. She sat down as Ellet tried to pull at the bars and asked if she could touch the magical lock. Vernoue was curled into a ball, staring at the magic.
“I want to learn magic.”
“Mother says it’s the most ridiculous stunt you’ve pulled yet. She’s been speaking to the King of Myths, though. The court is abuzz with them. They’re so odd, and—well, there’s trouble because of Seraphel and Ser Solstice. But he’s very…polite.”
“He gave me a sigilstone from Erribathe!”
Ellet piped up, aglow with meeting Nuvityn, who had blown her away. Vernoue muttered.
“What about Magus Tserre?”
“She’s here. She raided our library, and Lorentha says Tserre’s a prickly woman she thinks she’s heard of—she’s going to come by.”
And the [Librarian] did, with Cindersnap, who fit through the bars and curled around Vernoue’s legs. And Mexte, who brought her food every day and sat with her, and the [Court Mages], and even her brother, Agenote. He sat, chuckling.
“Vernoue, I’d never have thought to see the day when you were in a magical cage, begging for lessons from a truly great [Mage]. Calanfer’s changed.”
He offered her some half-Elven hummus, and she just sat there.
“I’m not quitting, Agenote.”
The 1st Prince of Calanfer blinked.
“I didn’t tell you to, did I?”
“Everyone’s doing it. No one’s said it directly—except for Aielef—but they’re all trying to make me feel better. When does the King of Myths leave?”
“Ah—two days. He’s getting ships, but even with delays, he’s bound for Izril he says. Or Baleros? Or Chandrar? It seems he’s of many minds. But I rather fear you don’t have much time.”
Agenote stretched out as Vernoue bowed her head.
“I can’t even figure out how this works, Agenote. If I just knew Tier 4 magic…!”
“I don’t think this is meant to be solved, Vernoue.”
He spoke quietly, and she didn’t respond. Of course this was a false test, like when the Dragon had challenged the [Knight], Ser Gorethem, to strike him three times. But this was…
You have other tutors you could ask. You can keep trying. Don’t give up. That was what Menisi had said, but the problem was that Vernoue was wavering.
All the conviction, the determination and will from that potion felt like months ago, not less than a week. She began to doubt if she’d truly lived four hundred lives, if she was that tough or strong.
It might not be my future. Maybe I’m just a weaker Vernoue. I can’t do that. 
“Vernoue…I’m proud of you.”
Agenote’s voice made Vernoue’s head rise. He was playing with a brooch that symbolized his rank in Gaiil-Drome.
“What for? For getting locked up?”
“For visiting Menisi, Vernoue. I know that wasn’t easy. And for begging a Level 50+ [Mage] for lessons! That’s not like the little Vernoue I remember. I know things have been hard here. Lyonette, Seraphel—and Menisi. I’m ashamed I didn’t help more, but I was afraid of Mother. I still am. But look at you.”
He gave her a faint smile, his red hair mixed with blonde framing his oddly youthful features, despite his age.
“You’re trying. So is Seraphel and Lyonette. I met her.”
“So did I. What did you think of her?”
She put her hands on the bars, and he raised his brows.
“What do I think? I thought, ‘is this little, peon-hating Lyonette? Dead gods, she’s wearing an apron! This is the real imposter!’”
She giggled, and Agenote sombered before going on.
“I think—Father was there, and he got distracted, you know him. But I think if he’d looked closely, he would have seen someone doing so well that I’m envious. And I don’t know if it’s fair—but she’s not here. Seraphel might be overseas and lost, but—she’s not here. And sometimes, I think that would be best for all of you.”
He avoided her gaze, and Vernoue rattled the bars a bit.
“I’m…Menisi’s alright, Agenote. She’s very odd. But she’s better. I’d like to be like her, at least. Or somewhere else. If I can just get out of here—”
Suddenly, the bars seemed more important to make vanish. He half-smiled at her, then frowned at the bars.
“I shouldn’t waste your time if you’re that determined. Lorentha’s been finding books on cracking magic. I’ll give her a hand. I’ll come back for dinner, alright?”
He rose, and she resumed work on the lock—to no avail. But she was trying. Trying…giving up…
 
——
 
Vernoue was sobbing to herself in her rooms that night. Sobbing but continuing to work on the spell.
It rather annoyed Tserre, who silenced the voice. She monitored the spell, because that was just due diligence. It was even harder to pick a lock when the key was still in it, and information was information; even the famous ‘Thronebearers’ couldn’t stop her.
“What a small kingdom came of Marquin the Radiant.”
That was Tserre’s only comment, and then she thought of Ceria and began to do more research into how the world had changed. But then she slept and had an annoying dream about being a nervous half-Elf going to her first day at Wistram academy. The little half-Elven girl stared up at the shining citadel, raised her wand, and said—
“[Dream Purge].”
Tserre slept as the dream vanished around her.
 
——
 
King Nuvityn did not care for Reclis du Marquin or Queen Ielane. He met with them several times in public and privately as well. There were formalities to observe, station to respect, and they had a conversation about Lyonette where he assured them he was not…vengeful, but she inhabited a building he would rather vanish.
The more interesting of the conversations was the second one, actually, and it was there he got the mettle of King Reclis du Marquin.
Mists cloak me, the man can talk. He wanted to know all the minutiae of ruling Erribathe and was patently disappointed that Nuvityn’s attitude was ‘let it prosper’.
However. Queen Ielane struck him as the true force behind the Eternal Throne. At first, he thought she was in charge of everything and Reclis the dupe. Until they persuaded him to sit and discuss…well…
“A trade alliance.”
“It needn’t be for any great object, Nuvityn. Merely symbolic.”
Reclis, Nuvityn, and Ielane sat in a parlor meant only for royalty, and Nuvityn drank sparingly of some rather good wine. He played the game of impartiality well; he didn’t care for any damn trade alliance, but he resisted the forces upon him, such as the drink—and Queen Ielane.
She was good. He’d run into several earnest Calanferians who were very concerned about Princess Vernoue’s imprisonment that morning, and conversation about Lyonette du Marquin happened to come his way, especially the daughters she’d adopted.
Half of his Court of Myths had a better impression of Calanfer after being hosted generously—not obsequiously—by Calanferians who understood the love of myths and stories that his people had. Some, like Andromeda, were set in their dislike, but they seemed too busy to advise him.
Divide and conquer, use of force in the right areas—all in the realm of soft power. Even in this private room, she added onto Reclis’ statement.
“A small symbol, but it would be the Eternal Throne’s honor to establish one with the Kingdom of Myths, even at cost to ourselves. That is the weight of a symbol in Erribathe, is it not?”
Oh, she was good. She must have known better than to play up her charming personality most people saw of her, so she was more direct, trading charm for wits. He nodded his head as he raised his cup.
“It is small—but why should Erribathe involve itself with other kingdoms? We stand apart and let trade and everything else pass us by to everyone’s benefit.”
“Perhaps it would be a small boon in light of the dead? Our Thronebearers died during the disaster at sea, King of Myths. Some slain by Prince Iradoren’s hand himself. We have fought long and hard against Ailendamus, who also was unchecked by Erribathe. Is that not worth some crumb of favor?”
His hand closed on the goblet as Reclis’ face stiffened slightly; he must not have known how direct Ielane would be. But Nuvityn merely exhaled.
“You read me well, Queen Ielane du Marquin. Let me say I am considering it. Why trade?”
Then it was Reclis’ turn, and Nuvityn saw the [King]…focus in ways he had not during the banquet when he’d talked of policy. King Reclis put his fingers together and spoke.
“The objective is to curb Ailendamus’ and Taimaguros’ rising power, if I may be direct, Nuvityn. That is the obvious state of the board; the Dominion and Kingdom of Glass and Glory are allied and rising in power, and even Kaaz might be threatened in time.”
“Not with the Thousand Lances.”
Nuvityn muttered, and Reclis waved that away.
“The Thousand Lances are military. I foresee economic pressure; Kaaz is not immune to that. Ailendamus has gone for Noelictus, then the Dawn Concordat. Soon, Desonis. The theory I have operated under is simple. The southern nations must form a bulwark against Ailendamus.”
“Difficult given existing enmities.”
Reclis would never get Desonis and Pheislant to like each other. And a massive coalition would fall apart, but Reclis’ eyes were sharp.
“The bulwark is formed, Your Majesty. If not completely, each nation is supported. Sectors of power. Noelictus, Pheislant, and Avel. Dawn Concordat. Bitorm, Desonis, Nomaudrel, Nadel—”
“None of which can stop Ailendamus at full intensity. The Dawn Concordat survived this war, but it was close.”
Reclis lifted a finger.
“It needn’t have to! Merely that each coalition survives and maintains cordial relationships rather than being manipulated into war, Nuvityn. Win or lose—and I anticipate losses—so long as the borders do not shift egregiously, Ailendamus will be stalemated.”
“For how long until it wins a victory?”
The King of Calanfer leaned forwards, serious.
“Until it fractures. I am a student of history and kingdoms, King Nuvityn. Surely you are as well. Erribathe is an exception due to the many factors that empower it, but the Taimaguros Dominion? Ailendamus? These are vast nations who already show fractures, in the case of Taimaguros. Ailendamus’ war machine is predicated on victories. It shall splinter and divide into lesser kingdoms unless it is founded with masterful governance, such as the first nations of Terandria—who also broke apart in time. War is not the solution to Ailendamus. The cure is simply…unity of a sort we Terandrians may stomach, and time enough to solidify such bonds.”
What an interesting point of view. Reclis du Marquin was not like many monarchs in the north that Nuvityn could name. He was utterly pragmatic, to the point of considering Calanfer’s ability to lead a coalition that could challenge Ailendamus and finding a simpler solution.
It was not a plan without faults. His plans hinged upon Ailendamus being unable to win great victories and this war not escalating, but Reclis was calm as he indicated the imaginary board.
“They would never have taken Kaliv. The Griffin Queen would have lost the lowlands; they might have pushed into Calanfer, but the retributory response from other nations wary of them taking the Dawn Concordat was inevitable.”
