“It’s hardly a true setback in the grand scheme of things, Ielane. Admittedly, the idea to have Vernoue taught by Ailendamus’ House Shoel was a long shot. Vernoue, like Lyonette, is almost better in an uncertain state given the flux in the world right now. If I might pontificate on the larger state of affairs for a moment…”
Here, even Queen Ielane, blessed by the Eternal Throne to have the courage of Marquin the First, Defender of Calanfer, and so on and so forth—even she had a small part of her that went ‘now? Please, no.’
But the rest of her adored Reclis, so weary as she was, she half-smiled as he began to speak.
“—Placement, geographically, matters more than ensuring the old walls are standing. I’m foreseeing the potential for continental war again, which really is a damned nuisance. Calanfer should be forging ties abroad. Lyonette, Vernoue, and Lothen are finding roles that level and empower them, which is for the best especially as the former are unwed. I know there’s your comments about eligibility of [Princesses], but higher-levels will be more respected in this coming age. Lyonette having that delightful Gnoll child…fascinating. You know, the odds of a great Gnollish leader arising aren’t low either. Not that we have high odds of making a match, but the sympathy of having a Gnollish child in the royal line…we’ll have to work around that for a marriage, of course—”
“I can handle that, Reclis. What did you think of Lyonette? Did she look well?”
“Well?”
He thought about the question, surprised to be taken out of his line of thought.
“Certainly more mature. She didn’t use ‘peon’ once in our conversation. Well…I suppose so. She seemed nervous I’d order her back, but if you have her in hand, I’ll continue being the good parent.”
The Queen had a lot of things she could say, but she only murmured…
“I will continue working with her.”
“Excellent. Then her independent streak is for the better. I truly am not upset at how this Vernoue incident played out, Ielane. We may have lost, temporarily, another [Princess], but the goodwill of Erribathe and a potentially higher-level spellcaster is a worthwhile gamble. Besides—”
He wore a genuine smile.
“—our long-lost [Princess], Menisi, has returned to us. Lose a piece to be promoted, gain back an old one. Is that a good chess analogy? Drat the game, it’s too simple compared to real life. Lyonette. Do let me know when she’s stagnating in Izril, Ielane. Bringing her back will be a trial in and of itself, but that will lead to at least a few levels, I imagine.”
“Once she stops levelling, I shall, Reclis.”
He nodded, happy, and then kept speaking, thinking his way out across the vast board in which Calanfer was the only piece he desired to protect against the waves of the future. A noble goal. A kingly goal.
It was Ielane who grew distracted, taking her eyes off the prize for a moment, and watched as Princess Vernoue rode, sticking her head out of a carriage window, waving and laughing at the people passing by.
Desperate, unruly, pushed to her very limit, and unkindly used—or was that Menisi, Aielef, Ellet? All of them? Ielane had indeed never locked them in any rooms without food—well, not for the purposes of dieting.
“Slightly better.”
She whispered. Could it have been even kinder? She pictured that for a moment, trying to imagine herself acting like Reclis’ own parents. Then put the notion out of her head, because introspection would collapse one with doubts. The Queen of Calanfer sat straighter at her desk and got back to work.
 
[Class Change: Magic-loving Princess → Archmage’s Apprentice-Princess!]
[Archmage’s Apprentice-Princess Level 28!]
[Skill – Overcharge Spell Obtained!]
[Skill – Combine Spells (Tier 1-2) Obtained!]
[Spell – Tserre’s Polite Inquiry Learned!]
 
 
[Queen of Intrigue and Contracts Level 44!]
[Skill – Servants of the Crown: Invisibility obtained!]
