“She helped…let me find who I am. She’s something else, Vernoue. She’s not quite a sister, not like you or Shardele or—but she is family. A different kind.”
How that hurt. How Vernoue envied that as she clung to her bars. She peered at Lyonette, who could say that, and the other [Princess] averted her gaze.
“Of course, I love you all, but it’s—different here. So much so. I want you to see it. But this stupid cell! Mrsha, you were right, and I was wrong. Tserre does deserve that description.”
Yeah! What a b—
Lyonette snatched the note from Mrsha, and Vernoue laughed. Then the [Princess] cast around.
“We’re all cheering you on over here. We asked for help from our experts, and Valeterisa had a lot of theories she sent to Archmage Eldavin…I rather think that was for the best. The [Witches] apologize; they’d send you a charm had they time. But we can at least cheer you on!”
“Yes, exactly! We are rooting for you, Princess! Don’t give up! Miracles happen!”
Nanette and Mrsha produced wavy little pom poms and cheered Vernoue as the [Princess] gamely tried to…no, it was no good. But Lyonette did have someone she brought over covertly.
“There’s one trick we can use. We have this expert, this grumpy old man who refuses to help if Eldavin couldn’t do it…but she might. Liska?”
“Hey.”
A Gnoll appeared and poked a finger at the cage.
“[Open Says Me].”
Vernoue held her breath as Liska thrust her paws out. She made a low rumbling sound.
“Aaaaah. Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!”
Lyonette interrupted after a moment.
“Liska, what are you doing?”
The Gnoll stopped screaming and turned to Lyonette.
“Isn’t this how you throw Skills? I, uh, don’t think it’s working.”
It was so silly that Vernoue burst out laughing. Lyonette sighed, and Liska tried a few more times as Mrsha also silently shouted and waved her wand for ‘luck’. And then they left Vernoue, promising to call later.
She was wiping her tears away when someone coughed.
“Your Highness.”
King Nuvityn stepped out of the shadows, and several Thronebearers bowed warily. She froze up. Had he been…? The King of Myths knelt before her cage.
“I think Magus Tserre has done you a great unkindness. As have I. I did not realize how much you truly wanted this. Your efforts, these last few days, have humbled me. I apologize—I do not know if I could force her to take you as an apprentice, and to be candid, nor will I. We go about dangerous business, and Tserre is…”
He paused.
“Dangerous. In ways I may not understand. I had heard you counterlevelled. That alone is some small boon. I merely wished to convey my respects.”
“Your Majesty of Myths, it is an honor.”
She tried to sound proper, but he just sat there. He glanced at the place Lyonette had been. Vernoue wanted to say something to keep the silence from waxing long; her mother had always taught her to do that when appropriate.
However, she couldn’t make the words come out. For a moment, when he’d stepped out of the darkness, the King of Myths had scared her. It was something about his bearing. The way shadows seemed to cling to his body. Like dark thoughts lingering.
Vernoue’s eyes felt drawn to the sword at his side, and she realized the Thronebearers had tightened their formations around her cage. They seemed so small compared to him. He was a huge man, of course, but he seemed more a half-Giant now, looming.
His eyes were on the place where Lyonette had stood. Vernoue only realized she was shaking after she closed her trembling lips.
Then—the moment passed. The dark, troubled expression that crossed the King of Myth’s brows left, like a cloud in front of the moon, and his features became softer. The moonlight illuminated his face, and it was suddenly pained, Human, and even guilty. Troubled, yes, but not to be feared.
Nuvityn brushed at his hair as the mortals in front of him relaxed, and several glowing moths in the garden flew around him. He let one alight on his finger, ruefully inspecting it, and then blew on it gently; it flew away and he turned to her and sighed. As if that said it all.
“Assumptions make an ass out of all. Sometimes, knowledge is painful. I have always feared fortune and fate as much as coveted it. It seems to me knowing one’s destiny never works out.”
“It—does seem that way in stories, doesn’t it?”
He smiled, ruefully, and rose.
“Nevertheless…knowing is often worth it. Sometimes, we strive against foes we cannot win against, or events pass that are unchanged, despite all the effort in the world.”
He stood there, and she almost expected to see the Grand Design in his eyes, but all she found was a [King] who put hands in his pockets. A grieving father. He glanced at her once.
“But there is always, always, a part of me that hopes that someone catches the falling pillar, that the lone [Soldier] defeats the army. That is the boy that the King of Myths should never fail to lose. May I ask…what drove you to this challenge? If it was pure curiosity, that is a fine answer. [Heroes] were made of that.”
He smiled briefly, and Vernoue stammered an answer.
“No, I—I did see a future in which I was so powerful. But failed each time, King Nuvityn. Again and again, until I despaired of it. I didn’t have the courage to keep defying fate. It truly felt impossible, just like this. I’m afraid I don’t have the strength to keep pushing forever.”
“Who could?”
He shook his head and sat on his haunches; such a casual gesture for a [King]. Vernoue whispered.
“But I had to try this. Though I failed…though I’m too weak to be the best me I can be, I’m unable to stop dreaming. I apologize for wasting your time.”
His eyes lit up, and he stood. The King of Myths turned, and she feared he’d been offended, but all he said was:
“Never. Go to Erribathe with my blessing after this, Princess. Perhaps you will find a teacher there.”
Speechless, she stood there as he walked away. Was that…?
Vernoue focused on the lock and pushed her mana against it again. Then she called out after his back.
“Your Majesty! May I ask—Prince Iradoren. I am dreadfully sorry for his passing. H-he always felt to me to be striving as hard as any other I saw.”
From what she had observed of him. At the end, on that ship—she saw Nuvityn’s shoulders stiffen.
“What was his dream that carried him all the way towards the New Lands?”
She meant it as a way to connect. An offering for his words, but when he turned his face, she flinched and hid behind the bars. For that terrible expression—he stood in the fading moonlight. It took him long minutes before he finally whispered.
“…Glory? I don’t know if he had one. Just the outline. What…do you give someone born into the heart of stories already told if he cannot see himself in them?”
Then he left.
 
——
 
Magus Tserre had a lot of thoughts that night. Mostly that too many people were cheering this [Princess] on. She wasn’t the only one who had ever strived! She was a [Princess], born with a golden spoon in her mouth!
There were so many with ambitions and deserving potential. Any street corner had children like that. They would never have this opportunity. So why…
That damn ‘Archmage of Memories’ was good, but overconfident, and he hadn’t used any Skills. Maybe he couldn’t throw them—she’d had fun with that. The Knights of Autumn weren’t good at breaking spells; they were all aura, and she had the advantageous position, and they hadn’t tried to just force it to break.
But she’d had less fun waking up in the middle of the night to defend against—she had no idea.
Some random Gnoll girl shouting ‘open up’ for fifteen minutes straight! And it had almost worked! Tserre had a mild headache from countering it, and then His Majesty of Erribathe had come to call.
Well, it explained what had happened to the late Prince. Classic tales. She felt vaguely sorry for him and decided not to think at all about…Ceria.
Ceria. Dead gods, they were wasting time here. Tserre punched her pillow into shape, trying not to imagine a half-Elven girl burying…
Damn it all. Damn time, damn Rhir, damn secrets, and damn me and villages. She was just drifting off and determined to ignore any requests from Nuvityn because she meant what she’d said. But no sooner had Tserre drifted off than the final visitor came calling, and then things got…complex.
 
——
 
Vernoue was sitting, head resting against the bars of the cell. When Venoriat returned, she’d continue trying, if only to show willing, but she was tired. That was when a chaos of voices erupted around her. Thronebearers started running.
“What’s going on?”
No one answered her. She heard shouting, an uproar of voices, then—someone came running into the royal gardens.
“It’s her! It’s her! Vernoue, get out of the cage!”
Shardele was waving her hands. The 1st Princess was in a panic not helped by the Dreamleaf—she raced into the garden and pointed a trembling finger. Vernoue heard shouting.
“Who—?”
She knew it already, but even so, when the 1st Princess whispered, she felt lightheaded.
“Menisi.”
The 2nd Princess stormed into the Eternal Throne, and the entire palace shook at one point. Vernoue shouted and demanded answers, but all she got was members of her family running into the gardens to deliver news.
Ellet.
“Vernoue, Vernoue! It’s elder sister Menisi! She’s so beautiful—everyone’s afraid of her!”
Then came Aielef, wide-eyed, jogging back and forth with her daughters.
“She says she’s coming back to stay here! What did you say to her, Vernoue? Mother’s furious! She’s trying to refuse, I think—Me-Menisi says she’s come to help raise Ellet and my daughters!”
She seemed as terrified as Shardele. Then came the quake and a babble of so many [Servants], nobles, and common folk that Vernoue had to shout to get someone to tell her—
It was Prince Agenote who walked in, rather wide-eyed. He sat down.
“Uh. Vern? Menisi’s here, and she’s coming your way. Remember our conversation about being elsewhere? I think that might have been for the best.”
“Why? What did she do?”
He licked his lips.
“She announced she had come back in Calanfer’s time of need and wished to help raise Ellet and get to know her sisters. Then she and Mother were arguing—in public—and Menisi kissed her full on the lips. The two had an aura clash right then and there.”
Vernoue’s jaw dropped. Then came Menisi herself.
“Vernoue!”
She had never appeared happier. She squatted down next to the cell without a care for how improper it was. The Thronebearers were aghast. But Menisi only had eyes for Vernoue.
“You’re on your final day. Have you given everything you have?”
“I think so…I can’t figure it out, Menisi. I’m trying—did Mother slap you?”
Menisi indicated the handprint on her cheek.
“I actually set her off. I’m staying, Vernoue. Regardless of this—someone’s got to run interference for Lyonette and Seraphel. And you. I’ve run away so long. It’s time to try one more time.”
She winked, her bright hair waving, and Vernoue saw her eyes shift. She stood in her home, the 2nd Princess of Calanfer, and the 5th Princess thought only she noticed how Menisi’s hands were shaking on the bars as she reached out.
Bravery. That was the word that came to Vernoue’s mind. Menisi might not have done the right thing in the past, and by her own admission, she was twisted. But she had come to the woman who scared her the most—for her sister.
Her heart. Vernoue thought she could hear Menisi’s thudding almost as loud as hers. It was filled with that same force as Lyonette’s.
Determination.
Vernoue’s eyes began to blaze. The sapphire blue irises rose to meet Menisi’s, who sat back on her haunches.
“There we go. That’s the little sister who impressed me. Got any more cards left in the tarot deck?”
“Not really. Just one—bad one.”
Vernoue the Enchanting whispered, and Menisi reached out and touched her arm.
“Play it, then kick the board over and sleep with the [Dealer]’s husband.”
She laughed, and then Vernoue was giggling. Her eyes began to shimmer brighter and brighter, and she executed the magical move that Tserre wasn’t expecting. She pushed with her mana—and pushed—and did the one thing that the Grand Design had taught her in four hundred lives.
How to die.
 
<WAIT, WHAT?>
 
The Grand Design grew worried for a moment there, until it saw what she actually meant. Words were so…imprecise.
 
——
 
Tserre realized what the 5th Princess was doing and began suppressing Vernoue’s mana. But the 5th Princess was—
“She must be mad.”
How had she even learned to draw that deep on her reserves? It was the kind of thing that [Mages] did in battle. Draw too much mana and you’d melt or evaporate or—
She was brute-forcing it. Tserre had expected Eldavin to try it, or the Autumn Knights. That was all. The 5th Princess was throwing her mana against the wall of Tserre’s magic like a fly crashing against a fortress wall.
Or rather, a vase hurling itself at said wall. Obviously, Tserre suppressed her mana. If the idiot [Princess] died, it would be a disaster.
But she kept doing it, and now, Tserre wasn’t in an advantaged position. The entire point of the cage was to give her an edge from which she could counter her opponent, even against a superior magic-user. It was meant to be an unbreakable lock against anyone but the best magic-user ever, damn it! Even Silvenia couldn’t solve it more than one in five times!
However, manually suppressing Vernoue to keep her from blowing herself up was just—a pure mana clash. And the 5th Princess had royal magic wells and mana potions!
Tserre was still the more powerful mage, many times over! She held down the [Princess] for ten minutes, annoyed. Then…for an hour.
Vernoue couldn’t keep doing this forever. The amount of concentration it takes to overload your mana circuits is—
Three hours. Tserre saw the Order of Autumn remonstrating with the [Princess], who sat cross-legged in her prison. That 2nd Princess was cheering her on with the 7th Princess of Calanfer.
“Idiot!”
Tserre snapped. She held her hand down over the boiling kettle of steam, containing the raging energy within. She kept pushing. How did a spoiled [Princess] have this much willpower?
 
——
 
Queen Ielane du Marquin did what she always did when she wanted to relax. She shuffled a deck of cards.
Smoking wasn’t actually her go-to. It was a vice, and she took to it when stressed, but when she was trying to have fun? She’d call Vensha, Rouslin, and a few other servants or Thronebearers she could trust implicitly, and they’d play. Or she’d go to a gambling parlor in disguise and play.
