She was, after all, a former [Gambler] herself. It wasn’t her vice, though, like how Aielef painted or Shardele used Dreamleaf. It used to be how Ielane made money.
Not every nation was rich, and a [Baron] might have a higher ranking than your average [Lord] or [Lady], but only just—a family could sell or lose its holdings over the years and be little more than aristocratically poor. Hers had been closer to [Merchants], trading on their name, and she’d grown up balancing budgets, managing people—it was why she’d gotten so good at such things.
But she’d also learned to gamble and play for stakes smaller than those of a nation—but sometimes life-and-death. When Ielane had been invited to Lyonette’s little gambling night, she’d been rather tickled.
A shame she was so removed, because the Quarass had proven to be an interesting opponent. In fact, the two had played several games against each other since then—but it was more work with the Quarass, who hinted she had a way to talk to Lyonette because of course she did.
Ielane was betting copper against Vensha as the two watched their cards. Vensha had taken off a polished gauntlet that she had angled a lamp on a desk towards to try and spot Ielane’s cards. The [Queen] had palmed two cards from the deck, but she rather suspected Vensha had already slipped several spare cards into the deck. Ielane sipped from a cup of wine, then spoke.
“My daughter is trying her best, but she will fail. There’s some sympathy from that half-Elf for stubbornness, but it would be ridiculous for her to take an apprentice. I doubt even this last gambit of…what did you say she was doing—exploding her mana circuits?—will work.”
“Unlikely, Your Majesty. Magus Tserre is keeping her suppressed, and the Magus is notoriously stubborn from the stories. I imagine Princess Vernoue will be distraught.”
“Perhaps. She’ll be glad to get out of that cage. She’s worked hard this time. Her levels may be reward enough.”
Vensha said nothing, but she cast a card down. And because it had a discard symbol on it, Ielane reached for a magical card.
It activated a [Darkness] spell, and the cloud obscured both’s vision. In the darkness, Ielane guarded her cards and grabbed for one of the ones she’d earmarked as an Archmage of Fire. Vensha slapped her hand and tried to pull a card from the deck. As the fog vanished, Vensha inspected the card she’d drawn.
It was a business card for a [Merchant] who sold dolls. Vensha flicked it away, sighing. Then she sat there, fiddling with her cards. She was unusually distracted; she didn’t even notice Ielane slipping a spare card out of her sleeves and adding it to her hand. Ielane raised her brows.
“That’s three hands you’ve lost in a row, Vensha. What’s bothering you? Menisi? She’s in your domain now. You can handle whatever people she might bring in. She will be a nuisance, but a manageable one.”
The grey-haired Thronebearer cast down a card distractedly.
“It’s not just Menisi, Ielane. Your daughter, Vernoue. I…you know what exploding her mana circuits entails, don’t you?”
The Queen of Calanfer took a sip from her cup.
“I’m aware it’s fatal. And that Magus Tserre is holding it back. Unless the risk is greater than you stated, it seems she’s trying hard. Which is what I approve of. She’ll be rewarded, but the former Archmage of Fiends will leave Calanfer on her journey with the King of Myths apprentice-less. I cannot imagine a way for Vernoue to triumph. The Fall’s Sentinel, the King of Myths, and Menisi combined couldn’t manage it.”
“Of course, Your Majesty.”
A silence ensued wherein Ielane won her hand and scowled, because Vensha wasn’t putting up much of a fight. She snapped as she filled her cup again.
“Vernoue’s young. She’ll find another teacher.”
Before Vensha could reply, there was a tap at the doors. Ielane shielded her cards as Vensha turned. A servant opened the doors at Ielane’s call.
“Your Majesty. You have guests—”
“No.”
Ielane wasn’t in the mood for intrusion. Nor did she have anything important scheduled. She lowered her brows as the servant peeked over her shoulder.
“Your Majesty, it’s your royal daughter, Princess Men—”
A hand shoved the servant aside. Ielane never saw Vensha get to her feet; the Thronebearer’s hand was on the hilt of her sword as Menisi du Marquin, the 2nd Princess of Calanfer, entered the room.
“Hello, Ielane. I need a word.”
“Menisi, if you insist on vexing me, I shall have you punished. I am still the Queen of Calanfer, and my will shall be respected.”
Ielane didn’t glance at Menisi as her good mood faded. She put down her cup and motioned for Vensha to expel Menisi. The Thronebearer hesitated. She had seen what the Queen of Calanfer had not.
Menisi did not smile at her mother. She just wore an inquisitive expression, head slightly tilted, like an owl studying an opponent. Her poise was good; she had always been the fastest learner, the sharpest. The biggest failure.
Even the sight of her and the knowledge she’d come back to influence Ellet and the state of Calanfer annoyed Ielane. They had made a truce, even if it had never been with words. But Menisi’s voice was calm.
“I’ll ignore you talking to me as if I weren’t a grown woman. Though we detest each other, Ielane, I need you to do something. Not for me. For Vernoue. I insist you hear me out.”
Ielane studied one nail as her surge of annoyance grew. She didn’t like the correlation between Vernoue’s visit to Menisi and Vernoue’s improvement in levels. Ielane put that down to Lyonette’s influence, nothing…Menisi had done.
“Vernoue’s situation I am well aware of. Vensha, why are you not throwing Menisi out?”
“I fear Your Majesty may suffer a small insurrection if I do.”
Ielane’s head rose. Then she saw Menisi had brought backup.
Librarian Lorentha and Head Chef Mexte entered the room, bowing. Both ignored Ielane’s vexed stare. Small wonder Vensha hesitated; ejecting these two would cause trouble. Ielane smiled frostily at the duo, ignoring Menisi.
“Lorentha, Mexte. I had forgotten how much you doted upon Menisi. I assume you have a similar request of me?”
“Your Majesty. I would like you to speak to your daughter.”
The half-Elf bowed as her fox twined around her neck. Mexte doffed his chef’s hat to her.
“We are all terribly worried by Princess Vernoue’s state, Your Majesty. She’s almost killed herself trying to open the cage. I’ve heard of [Mages] doing what she’s doing—the last one overloaded his circuits to blow half of a rival company to pieces. It isn’t the sort of thing a [Princess] should think to do.”
“I shall have tutors instruct her to restrain herself. In this case, it was a splendid gambit. Your concern is noted, Mexte. She is in little danger. Magus Tserre is suppressing this phenomenon, and a [Mage] is prepared to step in should Tserre slip.”
It annoyed her they thought so little of her ability to see ahead. Mexte and Lorentha exchanged a glance as Menisi sighed loudly. Ielane was truly annoyed now, but she wouldn’t offend two of the palace’s best servants, beloved by all. A [Queen] was often held hostage by the will of her people. She just hadn’t expected this.
“Ielane. We have all been trying to help Vernoue. I came from my delightful home to give her my support. That I am here, speaking to you, is because I want to help her. I cannot think of a solution that doesn’t involve manipulating Magus Tserre, and I doubt she would accept any apprentice after being strong-armed or tricked.”
“Obvious. Why would I do something that removes the only eligible [Princess] in Calanfer? There are more teachers. More apt ones, and far less dangerous circumstances.”
This time, the [Queen] remarked to Vensha, avoiding turning to her daughter. Menisi cocked her head.
“I know this is going to fall on deaf ears, but it’s because it’s what Vernoue wants.”
At last, Ielane was forced to look at Menisi. When she did, sparks didn’t fly. Their auras didn’t clash. They spoke at each other, then, and felt like decades fell away. And then it was personal. Ielane sat forwards on her throne.
“You must have visited your grandmother. What is good for the individual does not align with what is good for the state.”
“You don’t know that. That’s just how you think. Look at Lyonette. She ran away because she was so miserable, and I see how you’re building up around her. You don’t believe in that simply because you never lived that life. I pity you, Mother. Let one of us be that other way.”
“That ‘other one’ is Prince Agenote. See how he has done. Two generations of that attitude left Calanfer in the worst state it has been for three thousand years.”
Ielane’s tone was frosty, and Menisi just shook her head.
“I’m not going to play historian with you, Mother. You have this notion that Grannymother and Grandking—hah, what names. You seem to think they and their parents were soft, but benign. Great Grandfather Olered was the same man who said not a word when they put Peril Chandler to death. They have their faults, which you did convince me of. Now, I’m pointing out yours. You needn’t send Vernoue off forever, but if you’d just help her pass this test—”
“And this is your opinion, Lorentha? Mexte?”
Ielane gazed past Menisi at the other two. They bowed. Mexte murmured.
“Princess Menisi’s words speak for us, Your Majesty.”
“Princess Menisi is a poor messenger. Nor does she know who Magus Tserre is. I have researched her background, and I do not deem this to be in Calanfer’s interests. Vernoue will have a suitable teacher, if we must send her to Wistram or convince House Shoel of Ailendamus to teach her.”
Perhaps it was a Skill. [Unguarded Statement]—Ielane saw Menisi stir, and the [Queen]’s eyes narrowed. She let out an exasperated sound and turned to the other two and the half-open door. Ielane didn’t worry about that; if there were servants here, they were her people and knew better than to repeat what they’d heard. No spies in her inner circle. The 2nd Princess spoke to the others.
“So that’s it. She’s got a plan that involves Ailendamus. Probably to end the war or even use Vernoue as a ransom. That’s why she’s doing nothing.”
And the fact that Tserre is dangerous and this damn test was meant to be unwinnable. Ielane didn’t say that. She kept her face blank as Mexte and Lorentha exchanged glances. Menisi swung around.
“Ielane, that’s why we’re here. We are asking you to put what Vernoue wants above whatever you think is most optimal. You have been wrong before. The King of Myths and Erribathe? Having Vernoue level as a [Mage]? These are all boons to Calanfer.”
“And you think you and two of the palace’s finest servants can force me to change my mind?”
The [Queen]’s voice was soft, and Mexte preened at her compliment in that way of his, ignoring her dangerous tone. Lorentha just seemed disappointed, which Ielane tried to ignore, and Menisi stood straight. She gave Ielane that half-smile that made the [Queen]’s back crawl. A trap. But Menisi had grown older. Ielane never saw it close until someone else spoke with that sense of timing and drama that was innate to him—even if he seldom used it.
“No, Mother. It’s an appeal from all of us.”
The door. Prince Agenote stepped out from behind it, and the Queen of Calanfer blinked. Agenote avoided her like the plague. She began to scowl at Menisi until there was a swish—and her eyes opened wide.
Princess Shardele was trying to hide behind Agenote, and she was very clearly on Dreamleaf. But she was there, and Aielef strode in behind her. Ellet clung to her bigger sister’s side, but when they halted before her, every member of the royal family in Calanfer except for Vernoue was present.
Vensha’s eyes were wide as she stared at the royal family, and her gaze flicked past the two bowing servants.
“I see. You’ve been working quickly, Menisi.”
“It’s not a scheme, Mother. We all want to help Vernoue. Please…”
One glance and Aielef fell silent, and Shardele spoke, to everyone’s surprise. She fiddled with a pipe she was hiding behind her back.
“I, um, I don’t quite know what’s going on with all the magic, but Vernoue has never shut up about magic. She’ll be insufferable if she doesn’t become an apprentice. And if she does, she’ll also be insufferable. But if Menisi’s come all this way, I think it might matter, Mother?”
It was the worst rhetorical argument the royal family could have uttered, and even Ellet gave Shardele a vaguely dismayed look, but the comment from the absent 1st Princess told Ielane that they were united.
Which, of course, made her not want to accede to Menisi’s little plan. Rebellion was like a seed. Once watered, it grew. Ellet was watching Ielane, and the [Queen] nodded to Menisi, appreciating the trap set. No matter what she did, she would either disappoint her daughter or teach her to rebel. Which was well enough in its own way.
It was Agenote and Menisi who shook their heads at the Queen of Calanfer, as if the trap wasn’t the point. They had the same despairing expression they sometimes turned on their father.
“What makes you think I even have a way to best Magus Tserre’s plans? For your information, by the Eternal Throne, I have no such means to hand. Greed could not compel her, and Calanfer cannot shield her from her enemies. I have nothing to offer her, no lever to pull.”
It was all true, and Ellet’s face fell, but Menisi just folded her arms.
“You are the Queen of Calanfer, Mother. The true Queen of Diplomacy. If you can do nothing, then you’re not the woman who’s changed Calanfer so much, for ill and—I suppose—good. Your entire family is asking you—Lyonette would if she were here, and Seraphel as well, I’ll wager.”
“Lothen wouldn’t. And I bet Kanmis wouldn’t care.”
Agenote muttered, and Aielef snorted.
“Just pretend neither one exists. I do.”
Ellet covered her mouth, but she burst out.
“Please, Mother?”
That made Ielane scowl harder. She swept her eyes over her offspring, then fanned her cards out, inspecting them. Well, it was a fine little gambit, but she played the card she always had.
“And what do I get in return for throwing Calanfer’s plans into chaos? From you, Agenote? Menisi? Calanfer is in need, and Ailendamus is still at war. You did not come to me empty-handed, I trust.”
She thought it was well-done, but her children’s response surprised her.
They sighed. Not just Agenote and Menisi, but Shardele, Aielef, and even little Ellet. Just a slight exhalation of breath, but the single gesture was so spontaneous that they eyed each other. Menisi lifted a hand wearily.
