“At the mercy of foreign powers, Agenote! We had four descendants of the throne, including myself. One passed, my older sister Rensha, during a terrible tragedy at sea—your Aunt Linerte and Uncle Roffric were both either wed or due to be, and we had…no…power. Virtually none! While Ailendamus was rolling over nations, Father and Mother—mine, your grandparents—were barely able to keep the Dawn Concordat together. There was a time when Kaliv was considering becoming a subsidiary of Ailendamus!”
“That’s not ideal.”
Agenote admitted, and Reclis waved his hands urgently.
“It was not! Pheislant was eying Gaiil-Drome at the time, and Nadel didn’t have its Lord of the Dance. The south was completely disorganized, and Taimaguros was also winning wars in the north and setting every kingdom but the Restful Three into chaos. Worse, each member of the royal family was wed either for local marriages, or in Linerte’s case, she was almost set to wed abroad! She was planning on a marriage to a Lizardman in Baleros!”
“She never was wed, was she?”
“No—it was quite the scandal, but the point was the Lizardman in question wasn’t even nobility in Baleros. Don’t you see? Even Ielane and I didn’t bring more than a few paltry ties to Morein.”
“…Sounds like Grannymother and Grandkingfather were letting you wed for love.”
The 1st [Prince] opened one eye. Reclis sighed.
“They were idealists, following King Cormed’s vision for Calanfer. You know, his postulations of Queen Marquin’s ideals for rulership that we might be that shining kingdom to inspire? It rather falls apart when you have a war-state which will roll over your neighbors. Ielane changed all that.”
“By helping you take the Throne, despite being third in line, and forcing your parents into abdicating. When did you two claim the crown?”
“…Around the time Aielef was born?”
“So that’s when Mother began making Calanfer efficient, then. Consolidating the power of the crown and marrying off Kanmis to Taimaguros, Lothen to Avel—how is Kanmis?”
“Fully brought into the Taima-side of things.”
Reclis muttered into his cups. Kanmis had been subverted by Taimaguros; his loyalty to Calanfer wasn’t even suspect, just missing. He did visit, but they could count on him less than Agenote. The [Prince] shifted.
“So you think Mother pushed all of the family so hard because we needed better royals?”
“We needed every edge we could get, Agenote. My mother worked hard against Ailendamus, but she had no tools. Ielane’s made our spy networks a thing to be reckoned with. If we weren’t so disadvantaged, we would have had a full coalition against Ailendamus. As it is, we’ve done well against the Kingdom of Glass and Glory. She might seem harsh, but she reached a [Queen]’s position from being a minor [Baroness].”
“Yes. And she’s tried to turn her daughters into the same kind of woman. Virmilla’s terrified of her, you know, Father?”
“Ielane? Surely not.”
The disapproval in his son’s eyes was a shock to Reclis, who sat back as Agenote played with his half-empty cup. The 1st Prince wore a weary expression.
“As I said, I was relieved Ellet wasn’t drinking at age thirteen or—into some other problem. I respect Mother, I do, but I’m glad Grannymother backed my marriage. I’m quite happy. I hope you are for me, even if I’m the first disappointment.”
That made Reclis’ heart hurt. He reached out and placed a firm hand on Agenote’s shoulder.
“And I’m delighted that you are happy, Agenote! I just wish…we are rulers of Calanfer. Upon us, the future of Marquin’s great kingdom rests. We all sacrifice in the name of that. It is the implicit bargain between ruler and subjects. The very ideal upon which Calanfer was founded.”
Agenote said nothing for a while and sipped from his drink. His eyes stole to the Eternal Throne, and he murmured.
“It just feels like the [Princesses] war with Mother sometimes. Menisi being the worst of it, but Lyonette, Vernoue? Shardele?”
Reclis did smile then, because he could reassure Agenote.
“All part of the plan, my boy. Ielane’s often said that counter-levelling requires a good villain. Sometimes, I think she enjoys the strife.”
He didn’t understand why Agenote gave him a pained gaze then and changed the subject to ask about Virmilla’s health. King Reclis du Marquin was somewhat unhappy with the conversation, which he sensed had gone badly, but then he was distracted by a call from Lyonette. She appeared, quite meekly, and he leapt up. Agenote’s smile of disbelief and the way Lyonette’s face lit up on seeing him was worth it.
“Lyonette! There’s my brave and dashing girl. When did you become a second Aielef?”
For a moment, he forgot he was the King of Calanfer and she was his wayward daughter and entangling Calanfer in foreign affairs. He almost went to scoop her up and put her on his lap as he had when she was smaller, and she gulped.
“Father…I’m sorry I ran away, and—and I’ve been so troublesome. And that I hadn’t called. Mother knew I was alive.”
He stopped, looking her over, and realized they hadn’t talked in so…long.
“Have you been eating properly? The Thronebearers reached you and took care of your health, didn’t they? Lyonette, so long as you’re well, I’d forgive you for all but murder. Er, but don’t murder. Ielane’s never had to cover that up before, I think.”
She blinked, then actually hid a smile for a second. She seemed nervous, and Agenote was himself gazing at Reclis warily, but the [King] just kept speaking.
“Are you in need of anything? We could have you back—didn’t Ielane say something about difficulties there?”
Why wasn’t Lyonette back? Damn, the war with Ailendamus had distracted him, and Lyonette was fidgeting.
“Father. I—I have someone to introduce to you. I’m actually a mother now. This is my daughter, one of them. Mrsha?”
His head went blank as Lyonette showed him a young Gnoll girl. And Reclis’ first thought was:
Either they grow Gnolls far faster than Humans or I’ve missed something. Oh, this is the girl that she…hm. White Gnoll girl. Meeting of Tribes. Oh, so interesting. The second popped out of his mouth, regardless.
“Do I have to have some Gnoll fellow hit with sticks?”
“Father! I don’t have any partners at this time! I adopted her after she lost her tribe. And here’s Nanette—”
King Reclis found himself being introduced to a fourteen-year-old girl who described herself as a witch. Without the hat? He was so utterly confounded he resolved to have words with Ielane, because he was sure she knew about this but hadn’t told him! He mimed shaking hands with Mrsha and, again—forgot to be a [King].
“Well, I never expected to have grandchildren from you any time soon. Are they in good health? Do you need gold or…more Thronebearers for raising them? Hello, Mrsha, was it? I suppose I’m your grandfather. How do you do? How is being a Doombearer in this day and age after the revelation of the Meeting of Tribes?”
He recalled, then, he was [King] of Calanfer and began worrying about how you dealt with a [Princess] who had two children when it came to royal succession. Or the scandal of having a witch in the royal bloodlines—it was Calanfer’s first time, but he had several historical precedents he had to search for.
Then his mind was going a mile a minute, but the thing that he forgot, and which made Lyonette fish for a handkerchief and wipe her eyes, was the same thing that made his eldest son smile.
Though King Reclis didn’t understand why until Lyonette said—
“Father, you don’t—object?”
“To what?”
He peered up at her so blankly that she teared up harder. The King of Calanfer called for a chair so he could sit and talk to his granddaughters. Of course, he didn’t ask if Lyonette was serious about being a mother. He just watched the little ones’ faces and saw how they turned to her with questions and how they acted.
That…was similar to him and his parents, so he believed her. Drat. He’d have to have the royal genealogies updated. Then he just asked Lyonette how she had been and tried to catch up with his absent daughter.
Of course, Reclis asked too many questions, especially when he realized Mrsha had a lot of opinions and excellent penmanship. He and she had a full discussion on Kheltian royalty while Lyonette dabbed at her eyes and Virmilla and Agenote asked her about the inn. Then the Erribathe-Ailendamus incident occurred, and it attracted all of his attention.
But King Reclis du Marquin was utterly blindsided by Vernoue’s actions. And Menisi’s. He always was. His family was always ahead of him or veering in directions he didn’t anticipate, much like Ielane.
 
——
 
King Nuvityn of Erribathe was shocked at how much had changed in Terandria in a hundred years. Which was a real half-Elven thing to think, of course, but he found himself dismayed as he toured the kingdoms next to his beloved Kingdom of Myths.
He truly felt like those old legends of a warrior lost to time, who emerged to find the world had shifted. It was a state of being that half-Elves could relate to, which meant he spent a lot of time in their company.
…Which, again, made him feel old. Because he was, dead gods damn it! 241 years old! Actually, they’d looked it up, and he might be even older due to them dropping some birthdays and him forgetting to celebrate them as eras changed and dates reset.
Prildor and Tserre were some of the old half-Elves from the Village of the Spring. The rest of his court, like Voreca, Andromeda, Miihey, were all young. A century at best. He tried to talk with them, like Voreca, the Osverthian warrior armed in mithril plate, a fierce warrior and leader of part of his vanguard.
“I remember when Ailendamus had yet to exist. There were sixteen kingdoms to the south. Now, just one.”
“It must have been a profusion of cultures, Your Majesty.”
She gave him a surprised glance, as if she couldn’t imagine anything but the vast empire they were passing through. She didn’t remember any of them. Not Colaan’s cheeses, galloping horses over Yort’s borders in merry cattle raids, none of it.
Tserre and Prildor got it, though they were just as bad.
“Colaan cheese? I always meant to get some of that. Has the kingdom vanished? Tree rot.”
Prildor slapped his leg, genuinely upset. Nuvityn put his head in his hands. Prildor was carving an arrow; a nervous tic. He was rather overwhelmed by all this change in scenery and ‘rushing about’. He’d emerge from their tents and still be brushing his teeth when they had to hit the road. Of course, everyone accommodated his pace as best they could, and he was a veteran of the campaigns; he took the sudden twists and turns with a sigh, as if he expected to be shocked.
Especially by this.
Tserre was faster, more inquisitive, but still a half-Elf. She sat in the same place she’d been for the last three days, on her walking cottage.
“Nations change each time you wake from the dream, Your Majesty. One gets used to it.”
“It’s only happened to me twice. Hundred Heroes willing, not too many more times. My heart cannot bear it.”
He was hugely discouraged by a lot of changes. Terandria seemed…weaker than he recalled. Smaller.
Perhaps it was the Dwarves. The first thing he’d done was go to Dwarfhome with a mind to outfit his army. He had a mere ten thousand with him, and the idea had crossed his mind to upgrade their armor—already enchanted steel, forestwood, or mithril—to Adamantium, Orichalcum, or better.
To his shock, all the old master [Smiths] were gone. Not a one wanted to forge Adamantium! When he’d asked about Forgemaster Taxus, whom he was sure would still be alive, they’d given him such looks he’d had to privately inquire about the incident.
“Terrible business with Forgemaster Taxus. Just appalling.”
Prildor shook his head, and Tserre had vanished into the mountain-city to find some ‘specialists’ she claimed might do some good work. After three days, she’d emerged and announced she’d run into nothing but ‘stone’.
On they went. Ailendamus had refused entry across the border, and Nuvityn had debated just passing through, but he’d elected to go through Noelictus—only to have King Nicte Allorev request a meeting.
An audience, rather, in person. Of course, the [Diplomats] came first. Fawning courtiers and seemingly straight-talking men and women—Nuvityn had been collecting them since the moment he left Erribathe. But he didn’t really interact with them.
Iradoren, again, was the one who had the patience and inclination to play games with two dozen politicians who wanted to get you into an agreement they could use for the publicity of it, or via enforcing it with a Skill. Honeytraps with lovely ladies, parties in your honor, quiet conversations in the stairway that could mean life or death for thousands—
What Nuvityn had learned was that it was optional. Not [Diplomats] themselves; you had to have them, and he’d sent for Erribathe’s too, but it was sort of like…chess. No, that was a bad analogy. It was more like lancers.
You sent them at each other. Someone throws a [Diplomat] in your way? You toss one at them, and it distracts the two long enough for you to walk past and get the job done. Cats, that was it. It was like cats. All you had to do was throw enough of them at each other, and whatever they got up to was fine, even if they multiplied.
A [King] didn’t have to listen to anyone else but a fellow monarch, and Nuvityn used that to move between nations relatively unimpeded. It was also because the Kingdom of Myths was so powerful, he knew, but he had a mind to do as he pleased—until he met the King of Hosts.
Who was annoyingly likeable.
King Allorev Nicte was from Kaaz, and so Nuvityn had pictured a rather prickly man. But the darker-skinned King Allorev was in fact exceedingly likeable; he had been known as the Prince of Hosts in his youth, and he’d come riding into Nuvityn’s camp and had charmed his way through three different groups of Nuvityn’s warriors before Nuvityn or his people had known he was there.
That was…impressive. It truly was. Erribathe’s people were varied, and each one had proud cultures. Treating them all like the same person was a huge mistake; more than one ruler of Erribathe had offended a particular group and dealt with their enmity for decades. For an outsider? You not only had to be knowledgeable about a multitude of different cultures, but skilled—that was what so many foreign [Diplomats] found out.
 
——
 
King Allorev was throwing horseshoes with Kehndroth’s nomads when Nuvityn found him. He wore riding clothes and had eschewed his crown, which explained how they’d not noticed him for what he was, and he was suppressing his aura.
