Vernoue was buried in her spellbook, concentrating mightily on learning [Invisibility], among other spells. After the vision the potion had given her, she was filled with determination. The weight of lost lives, the great odds she had faced, and that feeling of what she dreamed of gave her the will to focus as she never had before—
…For a little bit.
The problem with life-shifting events was that they didn’t change the fact that you could be bored, get tired, or…lose focus. It helped, make no mistake, but it didn’t mean Vernoue was suddenly some paragon of intense willpower and spirit.
What helped was that Menisi took one look at the list and began putting out feelers and came back inside of the day with news.
“Ceria Springwalker? Connected to that inn and Lyonette. Tserre? A little birdie in Dwarfhome told me that a half-Elf by the same name was with the King of Myths. I think we have your [Mage].”
“What? Really?”
“One of the few we can actually reach. Come on, pack your things. Your coach is faster than mine—she’s worth trying, and I do want to see the King of Myths. His people aren’t often seen, and I hear they have half-Elven [Barbarians]…rugged.”
She licked her lips, and Vernoue wavered.
“B-but the list says—”
“You can’t be picky. Also, it’s future-you. I don’t trust her judgement. Let’s see what she’s like, and she might at least recommend you to others.”
So that was that. Vernoue let Menisi do the arrangements; she had almost mastered [Invisibility], actually, when they broke the news to Grand Duke Naodin.
He took it surprisingly well.
“My sister needs a magical teacher, and I’m minded to help her, Naodin. You’re to stay here and mind the estates. I’ll be back.”
“You’d better be.”
He glared at Vernoue, and then his eyes became that familiar glare of suspicion.
“Are you two sleeping together?”
“No!”
“No.”
Vernoue’s response seemed to satisfy the Grand Duke, and he grunted as he turned to Menisi.
“If you stop complaining about your mother, go and see Erribathe. If they have any weapons from the Kingdom of Myths, I want one. Do you want me to ride along?”
“Knowing you, you’ll want to impress the King of Myths. Besides, the smaller the escort, the less this will seem like an affront if we have to cross into Ailendamus.”
Another grunt.
“Tell me if you need [Soldiers]. Don’t cause trouble.”
She threw her arms around him and kissed him, and after a mandatory vanishing, Menisi came back and announced they could set out that night.
“Won’t he worry you’re cheating on him? Your Skill only goes so far, surely.”
It felt like the two of them were necessarily dependent on each other—if only bound by mutual antagonism. Menisi’s eyes glittered with amusement.
“Loyalty is loyalty, Vernoue. I know how far he’ll be pushed before he gets impatient. Besides, I have my ways of placating him even if I have to be gone weeks or more.”
“…One of your servants who’s willing to sleep with him?”
Vernoue hazarded, worrying she was getting too used to Menisi’s rather shocking ways. She was glad that she wasn’t, because Menisi whispered in her ear.
“No, actually, I’ve found you can take some resin and make very realistic molds. Then you just enchant one with a sympathetic magic, and both people hold one end of the spell and—”
Vernoue covered her ears and sang until Menisi’s laughter began. She had many ways of dealing with separation that Vernoue didn’t want to know about.
 
——
 
Aside from that, and Menisi trying to seduce half her escort, the ride to Ailendamus was brisk. They skirted the Kingdom of Glass and Glory, heading back towards Calanfer along the border—but edging around any active pockets of fighting until they reached the border. Then, Menisi ordered the Calanferians to change clothing and took charge.
“I am a Lady of Nomaudrel seeking to enter the Kingdom of Glass and Glory. This is my sister—we have a mind to seek some magical tutors if we may.”
The checkpoint guards weren’t slouches, but Menisi could tell the absolute truth, and she was a woman of note. Vernoue, tiara hidden, smiled nervously at the Hydra Knight, who half-bowed.
“Your Ladyship, I merely remind you that certain substances are illicit in Ailendamus. If you will permit us a check of the carriage.”
“Oh, do go ahead. I can also speak into a truth stone.”
“Very reasonable, Your Ladyship. This won’t take but a moment.”
They were checking the carriage, and the Calanferians were sweating, but the normally-thorough inspection was rather rushed. Mostly because one of the Hydra Knights pulled out a huge, flopping—
The scream from the [Knight] was followed by Menisi’s bright voice.
“Oh, that’s mine. And that. I’m sure it’s not illegal.”
Just highly distressing. Some very flustered [Knights] sent them on their way with a few injunctions about laws regarding public decency. Menisi leaned over and whispered to Vernoue.
“And if I were smuggling drugs, I’d do the same thing. Not personally, you understand, but nothing flusters a gentleman [Knight] more than handling a phallus that’s not his own. Well, most [Knights]. Some will surprise you.”
All that to say that their ride was rather smooth—again—until they reached the army squaring off with Erribathe. Now that was a sight to see.
 
——
 
Vernoue had some trauma with Ailendamus’ forces, especially after surviving a shot from a Lance-Arrow, and the sight of the huge, X-shaped Greatbows made her flinch. Ailendamus had formed ranks, so glittering squares of pikes and crossbows were like formations on a literal war-table.
They even had several [Battlemages], who sparked with magic in her eyes, shielding their battalions with domed barrier spells. They seemed—dangerous. As one of the finest armies of Terandria should.
But they were up against the Kingdom of Myths, and despite a three-to-one advantage in numbers, there was something uncanny about King Nuvityn’s army. For one thing, they were rather…
Ragtag?
No. Not quite. It was just that they didn’t have the same military cohesion that Vernoue associated with an army. Parts did, but each group seemed to have their own odd style.
For instance, there was a core of glittering, well-armed [Soldiers] around the King of Myths. They had horses and long lances and seemed to be the image of an army of glorious [Knights]. But they stood completely at odds with a gaggle of [Barbarians] to their left.
They were bare-chested—men and women to Menisi’s delight—wearing warpaint and holding great axes. Some were even half-Elves! And they had companions—a giant warthog one was riding, and a bear who was silver-grey and roared as he stood on two legs, higher than the people on horseback.
To their left were a bunch of mounted horse-people, but not armored. They rode left and right, light on the saddles, holding longbows, setting up a wild call that roused distant birds from a forest.
Each group was so diverse, it seemed as though the entire effect of the Army of Myths should be diminished. Instead, there was a kind of sudden chill Vernoue felt upon seeing them. A surging in her bones, as if Lorentha’s stories had come to life.
It felt like stories of the Hundred Heroes themselves come to life, as if each warrior could run into an army and lay about them, ten-to-one, and come out without a scratch. It wasn’t just their appearance. Menisi grunted.
“They’re all above Level 30. Huh. They could take those Hydra Knights in a fair fight, ten thousand against ten thousand, without the [King]. Or those two. Mark that house there? That’s your half-Elf.”
Then Vernoue saw Tserre and Prildor, and she nearly went blind.
[Detect Fame: Magic].
Menisi half-turned, and her expression of interest turned to one of concern.
“Vernoue?”
The 5th Princess was crying. She didn’t know why at first, only that the sight of the short half-Elf, standing on the walking cottage, struck her with such pain in her chest…Vernoue blinked the tears out of her eyes and thought she saw robes fluttering in the wind. A nimbus like the northern lights of Cenidau blowing behind a far younger, taller woman holding a staff that shone like the stars aloft.
…Then she blinked, and Tserre merely wore old, fussy green robes, and she was sitting on a rocking chair. But Vernoue still knew.
“She’s beautiful.”
“They’re both over Level 50. Perhaps over Level 60. Right. I was going for the old archer, but your [Mage] might be fun too.”
Vernoue opened one door of the carriage and pushed Menisi out. She was about to tell the nervous [Driver] to try and get closer to the King of Myth’s army when Nuvityn lifted a hand.
They had been trying to force his army to leave Ailendamus and head into Pheislant or another nation—but the King of Myths didn’t seem inclined to accede. Which suggested he was marching through Ailendamus on purpose, because he could have turned by this point and headed into the Kingdom of Lighthouses.
Nuvityn gestured at Ailendamus’ army, and the half-Elf, the tall man with white hair, Prildor, according to Menisi’s sources, put an arrow to the string.
Instantly, Ailendamus’ army made ready. Menisi hauled herself into the carriage.
“Tiaras on. Driver, back up the carriage! Ailendamus’ army almost certainly doesn’t want to fight, but they aren’t going to want to lose face. It’s going to be waggling dicks all the way down, and I’d rather not take a stray shot from either side.”
Crude, but accurate to what Vernoue thought was going to happen too. She was expecting to see the half-Elf master-archer loose an arrow and do something from the stories, like splitting a shaft from an arrow he’d fired or knocking a helmet from one of the enemy [Soldiers].
What she wasn’t prepared for—nor, it seemed, the Army of Myths—was for Prildor to sight down his bow, aim up hesitantly, and loose an arrow up.
It flew high, high…wobbled…and came down a good fifty feet in front of the first formations of Ailendamus’ soldiers. Actually, it bounced when it hit the ground.
Vernoue stared. The Kingdom of Myth’s army turned to gaze at Prildor as the rather red-faced half-Elf lowered his bow.
“…Okay, he’s not an archer. I wonder what—”
Then Menisi cut off and swore, and the carriage began to roll back fast. Then everyone watching saw what Prildor was good at.
 
——
 
From the appalled King of Bows to the watchful King and Queen of Calanfer to Nuvityn himself, they could all agree: Prildor wasn’t that good with a bow.
“The wind was against me! And I haven’t fought in an army for at least a few centuries! I took a few shots at undead against that Necromancer fellow—”
He was arguing with Tserre, who was mocking him.
“Prildor, I could shoot a bow better than that. In front of this Kingdom of Glass and Glory?”
“You couldn’t even flex my bow. Go ahead, do it without magic.”
They were bickering as Nuvityn saw the arrow bounce off the ground. It wasn’t even enchanted; it was one of Prildor’s home-made arrows.
…Which were okay. They were, in fact, wood or tipped with stone if he got creative. No iron; he didn’t have any iron, and Prildor hated smithing and smelting the stuff. So he’d put a wooden arrowtip on them or just make it a sharpened point.
An arrow of Erribathe. He could just see Ailendamus’ soldiers glancing at each other, as if wondering if they were being pranked. Was this all the famous King of Myths had?
“Prildor.”
“What? Oh. Ah. I forgot to use my Skill.”
Prildor whirled, realized nothing was happening and, flustered, nocked an arrow again.
This time, Tserre slapped her face, and Nuvityn did wince. Prildor’s second shot was worse than his first. It didn’t have enough of an arc and landed two hundred feet short. Prildor snapped his fingers.
“What is that, two hundred feet? Better call it one hundred and fifty—Tserre, I swear. You’re the one with chickens on a battlefield!”
“My chickens have more combat potential than you do. Silence, Prildor. I need to concentrate. There are enemy [Mages] testing our position.”
Voreca was glancing at Nuvityn, clearly wanting to demonstrate her people’s abilities, or anyone’s, but he just leaned over his pommel. Prildor turned and sighed.
“Oh well. We’re not trying to hurt anyone, correct, Your Majesty?”
“No indeed, Prildor.”
“Excellent. I didn’t try hard.”
Everyone turned to Prildor, and then Nuvityn saw it. Nuvityn’s eyes hadn’t been focused on the two arrows or on Ailendamus’ army exactly. He had been glancing at an odd carriage that had slowed in the distance—one vehicle among many on the road, but which gave him an odd feeling there was someone of note inside it. But then his eyes had flicked back up.
Now, Nuvityn saw the bright, clear skies of blue spring shift, and the blowing wind seemed to conjure a shadow that passed over Ailendamus’ forces. Not a perfect shadow—it stormed across the ground like flecks of light amidst shadows, almost like rain.
Voreca’s head rose as she saw the shadows cover them and sweep towards Ailendamus’ army. There was a scream—a Skill shouted—and then silence.
“Giants walking.”
She breathed, and then the arrows began falling. How many, Nuvityn couldn’t count. Thousands—enough to seem like some great cloud of insects curved across the sky and showered down.
“Shields! Sh—”
The [Battlemages]’ shields glowed brighter, and he saw more popping up as the [Soldiers] raised physical shields, gazing up at the wave of arrows. Prildor leaned on his bow, expression weary as Tserre stopped mocking him.
The arrows hit Ailendamus’ army, and the thunderclap of sound and breaking arrows striking barriers of magic made it appear as though the entire landscape had jumped and dissolved into pieces for a second.
Arrows clattering to the ground, fracturing—shouts and screams of alarm. One barrier spell nearly went out; a secondary one popped into existence a bare foot over cowering [Soldiers]. Prildor exhaled when he saw that.
“That was close. Good thing I sent the unsharpened arrows at them. I’d hate to start a war. Do I send another volley, Your Majesty?”
Everyone was dead silent as Prildor lifted a hand. Nuvityn glanced at Ailendamus’ army. They were in pure disarray, surrounded by broken arrows, probably half-deaf from the sounds of them landing.
“Hold, Prildor. Let’s see if they have a response.”
He bowed, and someone whispered.
“Your Majesty, who is he?”
King Nuvityn eyed Prildor as the half-Elf made a beckoning gesture, and the arrows began to vanish. He said:
“[Recall Inventory]. Damn. A lot more broke than I thought. Next time, I’d rather appreciate a [Phantom Volley] first, Your Majesty. I’m not made of arrows.”
