Huh, that’s decent. She took a deep breath, drawing back just short of the dome barrier to relieve the dungeon rage just a bit, and then she flexed her domain, deconstructing every single monster corpse left over from the fight, and every arcane pylon, just in case.

Variant completed, but the imprint is full. Make space or select a new chapter.Variant: Galdrone Tetrad added to Imprint: Elemental. Variant: Arachnodrone Seeker added to Imprint: Elemental, Spider. Variant: Arcanomorph added to Imprint: Elemental. Variant: Rhomboid Blaze added to Imprint: Elemental.

Many new imprints for arcane elementals for her to study, and lots of gifts for Gage, but by far the most interesting was the Galdrone Tetrad itself.

Imprint: Dark Soul updated to Imprint: Undead Spirit.Variant: Ghost added to Imprint: Undead Spirit.Variant: Wraith added to Imprint: Undead Spirit.Variant: Banshee added to Imprint: Undead Spirit.

Ali accepted the Undead Spirit variants solely because she had the chapters to spare. Exceptional circumstances aside, she had very little desire to summon ghosts and their ilk. Although they did have a rather unique ability to shift between the spirit realm and the real world, and she had already populated some tunnels in the Abyssal Realm with her Dark Souls… no. Still no.

Imprint: Arcane Pylon completed.Runic Script has reached level 85 (+2).Sage of Learning has reached level 88.

Oh, now that’s interesting, she thought, as the knowledge of the thousands of Arcane Pylons filtered through her mind and into the tiny glowing runic script that filled the pages of her Grimoire. It was a construct of arcanite and powerful runes, much like a wand. It charged up with mana and then delivered the spell that was imprinted upon its crystalline layers.

Which explains how the Arcane Elemental could summon undead, she suddenly realized. The arcane elemental had not really summoned them; it had simply charged the pylons and let what was effectively a vast dungeon summoning trap trigger. Storing it in her Grimoire was rather convenient, given she had the space, and once she had learned the runic formations, she could free up the chapter for something more useful.

To her surprise, the notifications kept coming.

[Sage of Learning]Domain Magic analyzed: Area Curse (Arcane Impedance)Domain Magic analyzed: Clone.Domain Magic analyzed: Mass Summoning (Arcane Elemental)Domain Magic analyzed: Mana Short.Mana ShortRequirements: Creature with an Arcane or Soul magic aura. Champion domain enhancement.Source: Galdrone Tetrad.Draw all the free mana from enemies affected by your aura, claiming it for your own. Only available mana can be taken. Reserved mana remains. Recharge: 5 minutes.Skill – Domain Magic

Well, she thought, studying her new gains. Mana Short had some serious restrictions, but then again, it had been a devastating ability; but it seemed like she might be able to duplicate this boss exactly – she had, after all, just added Arcane Impedance to her repertoire.

“Looks like I guessed right,” Ali said. “Arcane Impedance was a domain curse aura.” Which meant that Mana Insufficiency must be a skill inherent to the Galdrone Tetrad itself. She would need to check that later.

“That’s interesting,” Calen nodded.

In the meantime, Ali unleashed a host of little nature elementals to fill her newly claimed domain area with moss, flowers, and mushrooms, and turned her attention inward for a moment. She spent two points each on dexterity and endurance, and eight on vitality. Seventeen each went to perception and wisdom, followed by twenty-four for intelligence. That should do nicely.

Ali popped back to the raid group and constructed an array of golden needles that she then unleashed upon the barrier. Her magic seeped into the purple construct, dissolving it from within, and as great holes appeared in the dome, a dense wave of dark energy rippled outward. The world swam, swirling around her head, and she felt her stomach emptying itself right at her feet.

You have been afflicted with Soul Well Corruption.The twisted presence of the Corrupted Soul Well tears at the essence of your being.You are afflicted with nausea and mild disorientation.+23 Soul damage per second to mana.+29 Death damage per second. Undead are healed instead of damaged. Corruption – Aura

“Well, that’s uncomfortable,” Calen said, looking positively green around the gills.

“It’s stronger,” Ali said, staggering back upright while wiping her mouth to the sound of groaning and retching all around her. “Much stronger.” In that instant, she suddenly understood what exactly it was that the giant purple barrier domes were constructed to absorb.

Malika walked over to the corpses and looked down. As corpses went, arcane elementals were rather atypical; much of what was left looked like a pile of dull purple glassy shards.

Mana twisted in her soul sight, and Ali vanished, replaced by one of her signature tiny golden dragonets. Malika sighed. Ali was one of the smartest people she knew, and yet, she regularly forgot that she was cursed by an eldritch monster and had agreed to never be alone.

“Calen?” she asked.

He glanced up with surprise on his face, but in less than a second, he registered understanding. “I’ll go watch her,” he said, vanishing in much the same way.

Finally, certain Ali was in safe hands, she turned her senses to the pile of shards.

Arcane Elemental Core.A high-level arcane-affinity crafting reagent.Value: 180 goldReagent – Elemental CoreGreater Arcane Essence x4An arcane-affinity crafting reagent.Mana: Split Greater Arcane Essences into 3 Arcane EssencesValue: 145 goldReagent – Mana EssenceArcanite Crystal x17.An arcane-affinity crafting reagent that can collect ambient mana and store arcane-affinity mana.Value: 87 goldReagent – Arcane Magicite

Not a bad haul, Malika decided, poking through the pile to make certain she hadn’t missed anything. She had no idea who would want the elemental core, but she was certain some of the crafters would be able to work miracles with such a potent reagent. Even the shards of the monster were made from arcanite – the power core of many artifacts and constructs. She worked her way through the other four corpses, collecting a similar amount of loot from each.

“We get anything good?” Mato asked. But it was abundantly clear from the ears pricking up around them that he was not the only curious one.

“A lot of good crafting materials. Five arcane elemental cores, twenty-three greater essences, and eighty-five shards of arcanite about the size of my hand.”

Mato whistled appreciatively.

“Yep,” she said. Even divided among such a large raid, it far more than covered most people’s potion and consumable costs, and everyone seemed well aware of it. That, and many of the adventurers had gained so many levels that they would need to upgrade their gear soon.

Letting the sudden burst of happy conversation wash over her, she simply sat amid the corpses to wait for Ali to return, and reviewed her notifications.

Eyes of the Soul has reached level 189 (+8).+80 attribute points.Martial Artist has reached level 91 (+2).Soul Strike has reached level 96 (+3).Healing Mantra has reached level 114 (+3).Perfect Body has reached level 68 (+2).Soul Armor has reached level 84 (+2).Enlightened Evasion has reached level 72 (+3).Divine Step has reached level 81 (+2).Second Wind has reached level 53 (+2).Clarity has reached level 68.Soul Sight has reached level 82 (+4).Dancing has reached level 21.

It was a great haul of skill levels and attribute points for a fight that had some very tricky surprises. Still, she was glad it was done, and even happier that Ali could ensure the dungeon would not be respawning it anytime soon.

And now, some points. She quickly spent two points each on intelligence and strength, the easiest choices in her mind. Eight more went to vitality, to keep up with the ever-increasing damage that was flying around in their raids. Next, she spent fifteen points on perception and then focused on her primary class attributes. Nineteen to endurance, twenty-four to dexterity, and she finished up by spending the last twenty on wisdom.

She gazed toward the center of the dungeon. I wonder what challenges lurk in there?

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
