The Guardian’s axe descended for Devin’s neck with incredible force—so fast that the man couldn’t hope to get out of the way. His eyes widened with terror as he internalized the fact that if the blade landed, it was going to cleave its head from his shoulders.

The warrior tried to bring his weapon to bear, but there simply wasn’t enough time. The Guardian smiled as it went in for the kill, eager to bring the pain.

The grin slid off its clockwork features half a heartbeat later and it let out a howl of rage.

Mere inches before its weapon struck true, a barrier had shimmered into existence—formed from a complex weave of force and pure mana. Left with no other option, Nick had gambled that his newest spell could save his friend, and he’d begun casting Arcane Shield the instant the Guardian began its swing.

The artifact weapon crashed into Nick’s barrier with meteoric force. The impact cracked the mana-forged shield. It absorbed the force of the blow before crumbling into fading fragments of light a fraction of a second later.

While it had been far too close, the spell had done its job, giving Devin a chance to dart out of the way. “Thanks, Nick,” he called out. “When we get back to Earth, drinks are on me.”

That was when the Guardian of Darkstone Tower—the final opponent standing between humanity and their lost homeworld—came to a stop. Nick felt a deep foreboding when he realized that it didn’t look discouraged at all. Despite a few moments of frustration, the boss seemed pleased by this turn of events.

Then it said something that made Nick’s blood run cold.

“That will do for a warmup. I suppose that your achievements were no mere fluke after all. Rejoice in your final moments, for I have judged you worthy of facing my true strength. Now that my examination is complete, it’s time to end this.”

Then the Guardian addressed something floating nearby that Nick couldn’t perceive. “In accordance with our contract of engagement, I am removing my Tier-1 Limiter. Increasing core output and ability performance to Tier-2. Authorization code: Taltos-3874.”

“Oh shit,” Devin said, mirroring Nick’s train of thought verbatim. “The boss has a second form.”
