Matt didn’t let the empowered spell stop him and clamped down with half of his Tier 25 mana generation. The shield looked like it would hold, but that was only for a moment, and he could see Krodag start to smile before it was wiped off his face as cracks started to appear. An instant later, the dome exploded in a wave of golden fragments that vanished into nothing.

Brian had already swapped places with one of his undead knights, which was pulverized, but Matt didn’t have the capacity to track him down and left him to Liz, who had cast a curse spell that was using her incredible life energy from Ichor to rot away the undead he kept summoning.

Ellen hadn’t been sitting on her hands either, and had driven three more blades into Matt’s back, each pumping massive amounts of different poisons as well as strange foreign mana into his body. His Millennium Willow Lifespan let him dump mana directly into his flesh and that, combined with both [Regeneration], and [Barbarian’s Hide], neutralized everything one and all.

Matt brought his sword around while casting [Sword Twin], keeping all three copies of the weapon inside his sword, empowering it while hopefully setting up for a trap.

Ellen rushed at him and Matt used his greater reach to lash out with a simple flourish, hoping to limit her movement, but she never even slowed as she deflected his blade down and blocked the [Mana Charge] explosion with her shield.

With a flick of her wrist, Matt lost control of his blade and the hand that had been holding it. He noticed as she did that, she seemed to have perfectly understood how [Cracked Phantom Armor] worked and was then able to pierce through it in the most efficient way. Considering that the mana patterns of the spell changed constantly as he varied the amount of mana pouring into it, as well given how he was using the second layer which deliberately operated on a different pattern, that was the most impressive thing he had seen so far, and he made a note to pick her brain after the fight so he could better address that.

Missing his right hand, Matt didn’t let that change his plan and brought his knee up, trying to catch Ellen mid-jump, while also grabbing all of the air with [Air Manipulation] to prevent her from using that medium to redirect herself. He even pulsed his Meld to prevent her from using her own Domain to move.

Still, none of that was enough to stop her from dodging the knee. She managed to kick off a drop of his blood that was still hanging mid-air, hardened in place with [Water Manipulation], aiming to drive a blade into his neck.

Except, Matt wasn’t trying to hit her with his knee. At least that wasn’t his true goal.

His blade, controlled by [Sword Twin], raced towards her from behind, intending to skewer her less-defended back.

Ellen bent like her bones were made out of elastic, and given her smaller relative size, she managed to only take a wound to her side, which was quickly healed by a shouted, “[Healing Alms]!”

It wasn’t for nothing though, as Krodag was punished for the interruption by Aster, who dropped an illusionary bear next to him and then swapped it for one of her ice golems.

Matt reached out and grabbed Ellen’s blade with his now regrown right hand and yanked, while punching out with his invulnerable left at the same time.

The smaller human’s helmet buckled under the impact, but she seemed unbothered as Matt found a giant dragon’s maw descending around him.

As he was swallowed up, Matt got to see that its flesh had been replaced with ink-dark mana which tried to absorb all types of energy to empower itself. More interesting was how its breath attack ate at Matt and [Cracked Phantom Armor] like acid, but instead of damaging Ellen, it swapped her out for a skeleton.

For a moment, he almost thought it was an illusion, but while the acid was doing nothing to even the first layer of [Cracked Phantom Armor], he couldn’t let himself get distracted mid fight, no matter how interesting the dragon was.

[Mana Beam] sliced the dragon in half, destroying the spells controlling the beast and making it dissipate.

That gave Matt just enough time to see a Liz getting punched into a crater next to him before getting buried in the resulting cave in.

Instead of just turning into liquid to dissipate most of the blow, she had been sent flying, a product of an ability or Talent of Moe’s. The strength-based fighter of On The Last Line could control what he destroyed when he hit it, which was a devastating counter to someone like Liz, who typically relied on letting physical attacks simply explode her body, allowing her to reform and attack again.

Seeing that Ellen was closing in on Aster, who was only defended by a pair of Lizzes as well as one of her ice golems, Matt quickly cast [Mana Beam] once more, forcing her to dodge then run away as he chased her with the spell.

However, before he could do more than graze her with the spell, he had to drop it and turn his attention to the giant dwarf that was racing at him.

Moe had grown from a dwarf's four foot five to a seven foot tall wall of flesh sometime during the fight, a spinning formation of light floating behind his back empowering him and giving him an additional layer of defense with its radiant energies.

As the Liz raced out of the crater she had been punched into, the battlefield was awash with a chill that bolstered Matt and Liz while slowing everyone else. A beam of darkness and light immediately attacked the spell, trying to disrupt it, but Aster managed to keep it going, giving their side an advantage.

At the same time, a swarm of mosquito beetle hybrids started charging out of ink black portals.

A Liz exploded herself into a mist and her Ichor ignited in a wash of flame and lightning, destroying a majority of the wave. Matt assisted by casting [Dragonflame] which she pulled into her, but that was all he could do as Moe was on him.

Matt felt a palpable spike of danger as the glowing hammer came around in a sweeping arc, trying to send Matt flying as it had Liz.

Matt ducked under the blow and cut upward along Moe’s flank. His blade skittered off the dwarf’s armor. [Dispelling Edge] managed to cut through the magical armor easily enough, but the metal armor was some of the best Matt had ever seen, and his current configuration of his sword was in its most neutral form, which was the best Matt could do when fighting at a Tier 25 level.

Spinning on his toes, Moe turned and kicked at Matt’s forward leg, aiming for the knee with an alacrity that surprised Matt.

Raising the same leg, Matt checked the blow, just to have his leg pulverized.

That caught Matt off guard and he was forced to reevaluate how he wanted to fight Moe. Given that his cultivation went entirely into his physical core, and that when combined with his various buffing spells, Matt was used to overpowering most people he fought. There had been people who were stronger than him, who were faster, who healed better, but he had always been close enough that the difference wasn’t so staggering.

But Moe? Moe had to be at least a dozen times stronger than him at his best.

Given how strong Matt was, that was mind boggling, and he considered for a moment that Moe might have let his cultivation suppression slip. But the radiated energy was consistent with what he had used to fight Liz. He also knew that was unlikely for many reasons, least of all it was hard to believe one of them would slip, let alone slip and not immediately surrender for the mistake. He also knew the reports which said Moe was the single strongest person in the Realm, but he hadn’t fully understood just how strong the dwarf was until that kick.

Grinning upon seeing that the other Ascender really did live up to the hype, Matt landed, his leg already regrown, and [Cracked Phantom Armor] creating spikes on his fist.

His left jab was met by Moe, who laughed as their fists collided.

Even with Matt’s Stygian Gossamer making his left hand nigh invulnerable, it was obliterated in the clash, along with the rest of his left arm and half of his chest.

Matt twisted with the impact to bring his blade up and around to cut deep into Moe’s left armpit, unleashing another combination of [Tribulation Strike], [Mana Slash], and [Mana Charge].

This time, his blow penetrated the armor but the laughing dwarf was as unbothered by the blow as Matt was.

Arm already regrown, Matt ducked the next hammer swing and used [Cracked Air Slide] to maneuver around Moe, able to control the erratic spell thanks to his Minkalla Winter boon.

The move also got him out of the formation Brian had carved into the ground with his skeletal minions, the chains of dark mana entangling Moe for a moment before dissipating on their own.

Having had enough of the necromancer, Matt started pulsing [Cosmic Pressure] as he ran, which flattened the terrain for dozens of miles around them as the gravity increased in varying amounts, making it hard for anyone but Matt, Liz, and Aster to move.

Krodag smashed his mace down at Matt who skirted by him, trying to buy some time, but Matt ignored the attack, letting it splash over [Cracked Phantom Armor] harmlessly.

Instead, he saw that an entire section of the battlefield was littered with bones and all equally felt like Brian. From his training on the other Ascenders, Matt knew Brian could be any and all of his skeletal minions, similar to Liz, but he did in fact have a real body.

That body was certainly not here and was undoubtedly shoved into a safe location, possibly near the Clans’ Tier 50, but destroying the skeleton part he was actively in should amount to a death in a spar like this.

Instead of trying to find it in the jumble, Matt instead created a massive amount of ice with [Hail] and fused it together with [Ice Manipulation]. Brian and Krodag both started destroying the ice, realizing what was about to happen, but they were too slow.

Aster didn’t miss a beat and cast [Cracked Shatter], causing the massive block of ice to detonate at the cost of half of her mana pool.

Ellen used that momentary pause to drive a blade into Aster’s neck, standing in for her more delicate brain, for the fifth time. This time the blade finally managed to actually hit, rather than phase through, but his bond had already activated her own death prevention skill [Deathly Cold], which would keep her spirit immortal as long as kept control of her own temperature. And Matt wished them the best of luck on raising it.

To ensure that, Matt kept [Hail] going and piling up around her, all while feeding her mana with his Concept, ensuring the poisons eating away at her icey form couldn't burn through her mana pool.

A dozen Lizzes dogpiled Ellen and Matt knew her time was limited, refocusing on Moe.

He was a moment too late, and the hammer transformed into a falling star and punched through his chest, evaporating everything it touched.

Matt’s head went flying, but he quickly fixed himself, his body regrowing and taking to the air.

Moe seemed surprised that Matt didn’t signal a defeat, but he didn’t stop or slow his reaction, and instead launched himself into the air to chase Matt.

Replying to the dwarf’s message, the fight continued with even more ferocity, the two of them not holding back.

Knowing he was outmatched in terms of raw physical strength, Matt used all of his speed enhancing spells to keep one step away from Moe, while also peppering him with attacks that slowly but surely punched through his layered defenses.

For all his strength, Moe’s durability was only exceptional instead of the best in the Realm, and after dealing with Gan Le, Matt knew how to deal with such a person.

The fight was mostly even for quite a while, only interrupted as it intersected with the other combatants.

Moe landed another clean hit when Brian managed to sneak a skeleton beneath Matt that grabbed him by the legs at a crucial moment, but any momentum that gave their team was erased when both them were washed in a psychedelic paradise of colors. Moe had to deal with the illusions Aster was weaving around him until Brian and Krodag managed to dispel them, allowing Matt to throw a small ocean of blood in Liz's direction, which she happily used to start setting up a proper [Blood Tidal Wave] to finish Ellen with.

Seeing Krodag slightly out of position, Matt readied [Telekinesis] wanting to knock the healer away.

His harassment was interrupted when Moe did something Matt didn’t expect. Moe attacked the [Telekinesis] spell itself.

It wasn’t a magical attack, but rather a raw, physical blow somehow channeled into the ether, and it caused the spell to shatter as surely as any dispel or dissipation. The surprise blowback caused Matt’s mind to go white, but he had experienced worse sparring with Zack and quickly recovered.

Matt slid to the side, using [Cracked Air Slide] once more, but Moe was ready and moved to intercept, his paw-like hand reaching out, trying to grab Matt’s head.

Instead of obediently going to his death, Matt used his Intent to freeze his movement. Moe seemed ready for that and a rope, Moe’s Intent’s anchor, snaked out and wrapped around Matt.

Matt’s Meld dispelled it almost immediately, but it still let Moe close in.

Matt’s world went black, as his head was fully obliterated. His consciousness came back a moment later when his head regrew thanks to [Regeneration] and its upgrade, as well as his sub-aspected mana keeping spells going automatically even after he stopped manually casting them.

