Moe’s surprise meant his follow up strike was less than perfect, only made worse when a single snowflake fell on his forehead and hit him with enough debuffs that, for just a moment, he was merely a lot stronger than Matt, rather than impossibly stronger. Matt happily took the opening Aster gave him and cast a point blank [Mana Beam] at Moe’s throat and the weaker armor there.

Moe tried to twist and move to stop the attack, but being in close had its own advantages. The dwarf only landed one blow, and while it nearly sent Matt flying, he was ready for it.

When Moe hit Matt he chose not to break him, which meant the force that should have just pulverized his flesh and blood had nowhere to go except sending him backward. It would have worked, except Matt flared his Intent once more, locking himself in place. That nearly rattled Matt apart, but he had enough durability to survive the conflicting forces.

Seeing that, and the [Mana Beam] that was trained on his throat about to pierce the final layer of under armor, Moe called his own defeat. Matt immediately turned his attention to where Krodag was running away from half a dozen Lizzes.

Wanting to join in the fun, Matt swapped with the lead Liz just to find himself back next to Aster as Liz swapped them again.

Seeing his bond back in full form, Matt gave her a shoulder bump. “Well played.”

She laughed as she hip bumped him in return. “You too. You should have heard Ellen's reaction to you losing your head.”

“I’m right here,” the shorter woman said, having sat down where she was defeated.

Aster dropped a pile of snow on her, “Dead people don’t speak.”

A skull appeared next to them and Brian’s voice came from it, “I assure you they actually are quite talkative. Remind me to tell you the story of the clan leader's daughter I resurrected one time. She had been dead for like a bajillion years, and yet she had so much to complain about. Really irritating, I tell you. Always moaning and groaning. All I did was rob a grave of a vanished clan. Really, she should have been thanking me for finding her family's holdings. They were thoroughly lost. Great adventure to find them. Six years tracking down rumors, two years digging through old ruins, an— oh look, Krodag is dead.”

Fight over, Moe appeared next to Matt with a single step, looking him up and down even as he shrank to his normal dwarven height. “I honestly didn’t believe you when you said you could survive losing your head midfight there.”

Krodag appeared next to them nodded. “I was ready to put your head back together if there was any spiritual disturbance, but damn, not even a flicker. That's kinda nuts. Wanna bet for the method? I have a bottle of Tier 30 Liquid Light I’d wager. The company that makes it has long gone under, so it's quite rare.”

Matt grinned. “Sure, sounds fun.”

It wasn’t his fault Krodag hadn't done his research. With how many samples of his mana had been spread around, it wasn’t, or shouldn’t have been, that hard to put together. And based on Ellen's eye roll behind Krodag, he imagined she already had realized it was just his sub-aspect keeping the spells going longer than they should.

It was a simple but very hard to counter method of healing that Krodag couldn’t really learn from.

Before the moment passed, he asked, “What can we bet on though?”

“The fate of Pesante? I’ll bet that Archwarrior Daniels will be able to hold the planet for another month, but the rest here think he’ll fold in two weeks at most.”

Seeing Matt have to look the battle situation up, Ellen called him out, “Been too busy to keep a close eye on the Federation and Monster Collection war, huh? Yeah, we were very busy too right after finishing the Path. Kind of shameful though. You had better pay more attention while we fight. We expect proper congratulations in the Legend chat when we do something cool.”

Having finished looking into it, Matt agreed with everyone else about the planet falling sooner than later, and accepted the bet.

Moe nodded along but laughed. “I do have to say, I wasn’t expecting you to be as strong as you were. I actually felt your blows.”

Matt snorted, even as Aster and Brian started arguing about the best dispelling methods, and Liz and Ellen started talking about shield techniques. “I’m not sure that's a compliment given you pulverized me with each hit.”

Krodag slung an arm around Moe, shaking his head. “Nah, it's genuine. Most people, even the best tanks, just evaporate after a single hit. Moe multiples all strength related buffs separately with no interference, which is part of what makes him so strong. The fact that you were alive at all after a single hit is impressive, let alone the healing factor.”

Matt let out a long whistle. “I kind of want to see you and Gan Le fight now. His defense is top notch. I wonder how it would compare.”

Moe leaned in closer, his accent once more overly thick. “As ‘ou fought ‘oth of us, who da ya ‘ink would ‘in?”

Matt had to parse what Moe was asking but shrugged. “If that was your actual Tier 25 peak strength, I’m pretty sure Gan Le could take the hit.”

Moe stumbled back, “No way!”

Matt shrugged, “It's hard to know for sure, of course, but Gan Le is really that hard to kill. I hit him with [Mana Beam]s lasting for minutes, hours, days. And they were also being amplified by my armor, making it quite a bit stronger. He still survived them. Gan Le may only be good at one thing, but he's stupidly good at it.”

Moe spat to the side. “I'd win.”

Brian cackled as he and Aster got distracted. “Just wait until Yun Me has him trained and Tiered up, and then we can just sneak over and find out.”

Aster laughed hard enough she snorted. “Oh, please grab me before you do. I need to see his face.”

She made an exaggerated face of shock Matt was sure had never crossed the composed Sect man's face. “This time when we were there, I hit him with a snowball and he had that exact expression. He couldn’t believe it.”

As Aster started sharing stories of how she had messed with Gan Le, Matt merged with Ellen and Liz’s conversation, just listening to the master combatant talk.

When Ellen finished talking about shield tips, she sniffed at Matt. “You're no fun.”

Matt raised an eyebrow, and Ellen waved him up and down. “Even Susanne is a much more interesting person to fight than you. Liz and Aster all have these unique abilities. I can’t copy them, but they’re a fun challenge to work around. You, however, are just a brute. There’s no skill in countering you. No clever tricks. I just have to overcome that ridiculous mana usage you throw around. Boooooring."

Matt grinned. “I’m no Susanne, but I’d be more than happy to spar with just blades. Fighting the best is a good way to learn, after all. I assure you, I’m pretty damn good.”

"You're in the top 0.1% of sword fighters at your Tier - that makes you as good as like 50,000 other people. Come back to me and say you aren't that bad when you're in the top 100 at least. Then we can talk."

As if summoned by saying her name, Susanne, along with Allie, Zack, and Wun appeared next to them.

Allie clapped. “Ready for round two?”

The four Ascenders from On The Last Line grinned and said in a clearly practiced chorus. “Always!”
