Over a hundred? Oh yes. But they had one huge problem: her aura. Their Skills against her or on her were far reduced by her own presence.
Still—it kept the Dawn Concordat in the battle the second day. As for the other thing, which even Rhisveri didn’t sense?
Perhaps it was her class. He had no class. In some ways, Dioname was stronger than Rhisveri simply because of her levels. She had risen close to his power in her short time alive.
Was that fair? Of course not. When they had first met, the Wyrm had told her he was going to be extremely unfair. If nothing else—this entire road and her life she had chosen? Dioname had known from the start what it would be. Rhisveri was honest about that.
 
——
 
“You are worthless.”
The Wyrm was, at that time, a half-Elf. He hated looking like that, and so in thirty years he would change his assumed form and begin pretending to be the [King]’s brother or other family member. He also preferred to appear older, at least middle-aged.
At the time, she had naively thought it meant he would hate her more. But the cold disdain of the man had swept over all the children he had gathered.
Over a hundred years ago, Rhisveri had addressed a group of children like this.
“You are all worthless. The children no one wants. You have no future. Each nation and city and town has no place for you. [Beggars] and [Outcasts] and [Street Urchins].”
A strange project. He had gathered them all up and placed them in this room. The half-Elf looked at the terrified half-Elf girl, as wary of him as some of the others around her. A few children were contemplating his death or looking for things to steal.
Effortlessly, he stopped a [Rogue] in mid-escape. Let the dangling child hang there in the air as he continued.
“I am giving you one chance, you worthless lot. Make something of yourselves. You will have the finest education and training; squander it and I will let you go and waste the only opportunity you have. Serve me and I will reward that. This is more than you deserve. You are worth nothing, but you have one chance.”
He looked at Dioname, passing over her and all the others. What caught her, what she saw, even back then, was the slightest catch in Rhisveri’s voice. The way he looked back at them as he spoke.
“…I was like you. Rise or fall. There is never any other option.”
 
——
 
Over a hundred years ago, she had begun her studies. True to his word, he’d let the children make of themselves what they wanted. Some had taken jobs as artisans; some had run off, and she never knew what became of them.
Some, like her, rose. 
At first, the Wyrm left it all to teachers. Even later, when there were only a handful of the best, he didn’t reveal to them who he was.
Only two ever learned his identity, and Dioname was the one he taught time magic. She remembered the first time he realized she had surpassed everyone but him—and later the Lucifen—the look of exasperated pride he’d tried to cover.
“It seems you are the best. One gem among all the others. Which means I have to teach you. Very well. Time magic. You’re already familiar with it? It’s tricky, even for me. Time is so difficult to harness that the only way that [Mages] have found is to use tricks to use it effectively. Sacrifice and oaths. Let’s begin with the basics. I need you around, so one of the Oaths of Time will do…”
She had learned to sacrifice her own time later. He had not stopped her and even helped her refine that aspect.
Later on—it would lead to one of the most famous events in Ailendamus’ two-century history. Which was the destruction of the old palace.
This was all old history, when the Lucifen and Agelum had sought Rhisveri out to make a pact. One of the many clauses in their deal was something both families stood for, albeit for different reasons. One, moral, ethical—the other more practical.
No child soldiers. Rhisveri, the Wyrm, had agreed to it and neglected, in his arrogant way, to mention the existence of Dionamella and the others. The Wyrm had tried to argue his way out when Visophecin found out—it was already in progress, they were already children, and you only specified—
Well, that was what happened to the first palace. It had only ended when Dioname herself got involved on Rhisveri’s side.
Ever after, Rhisveri was more cautious of the Lucifen and his allies. Yet even when they asked and offered her a way out, Dioname continued. She sacrificed her time and won the respect of Ailendamus’ immortals, and they wondered why.
Why, for them? Why? 
Because Rhisveri gave her what she wanted. For loyalty, for pride, and because he was right. She had always believed that, from the start.
Rise or fall. Rise or fall. You had only one chance. She wanted to see how high she could go.
 
——
 
By the third day, Dioname knew the true danger, and it was this: winning was something you needed to know how to do.
Winning was an art. Especially because it was so easy to fail at.
She had the upper hand, so the Great General of the Ages realized that the danger would come when she was most overconfident. She could not lose focus. She had seen it before; it was when the opponent’s back was against the wall, when they were on the ropes, that they counter-levelled. In the moment before your sword struck them, they could turn that tide around. The overdog had to watch out for the underdog because they always leapt.
With another army, Eldavin might have won or stalemated her. He was a devious foe, and his mana supply exceeded hers! However—the Dawn Concordat were taking too many losses. Lose the army and they lost.
Lose Tyrion, Eldavin, the Lightherald, or the Griffin Prince and they lost.
…Take the [Princesses]? Dioname was now exploring other options, but the battle was quite literally revolving around a single moment. And not for her to lose.
Tyrion Veltras rode out of the fog of acid, burning, skin searing. Another second and he was dead. The Lightherald’s shield barely caught the ray that would have disintegrated his face through the visor, a needle.
They were dancing on life-and-death. The Skills from afar trying to harry Dioname were actually growing stronger. People…were getting worried.
Even the Blighted Kingdom. Probably because they looked at Dioname, and then looked at one of their greatest [Mages]. Nereshal, another [Chronomancer]. Nereshal, greatest in his continent—at least in the Blighted Kingdom—could slow, perhaps even reverse time’s effects upon himself, the Blighted King, and a handful of others.
By his power and magic and talent, and with time stolen from others, he could arrest age itself. That was how he could manipulate time.
Dioname? She could make time dance and roll over.
Even so, they nearly killed her on the third day.
 
——
 
House Veltras went for her. They had danced around the periphery of the battlefield before, refusing to be caught and surrounded, but Lord Tyrion Veltras must have seen that the Great General of Ages was the most pivotal element in Ailendamus’ army.
More than any other [General]—if she died, Ailendamus lost. So he went for her.
The first sign of it was the Aegis of the Bow, the Golem of Terland, turning and unleashing a hurricane of fury onto the command center of Ailendamus’ army. The Golem was well-protected; the Archmage of Memory had personally warded it to prevent Dioname from destroying it.
The deadly arrows raining down did less than Tyrion wanted. Sturdy shields and barrier Skills mitigated the damage—the arrows slowed, and some just plinked onto the ground. One struck someone on the head as he passed by, galloping with his vanguard, and he heard the voice.
“Ow.”
It was a helmetless head. Tyrion turned back—just once—and saw someone rubbing at a cut. How?
The arrows which flickered through the air with a longbow’s force suddenly dropped like stones. Yet even if you froze them in time, they kept their momentum.
Ah, but what if you froze the air around them in time? Then the volley of arrows lost all momentum, dropped to the ground with no force. A [Time Mage]’s tricks on a battlefield scale.
“Who is she?”
Pellmia, the [Lord of Love and Wine], breathed. His armor was scorched, and Tyrion had lost more people in these three days of fighting than the rest of the entire war. Tyrion surged across the battlefield, cutting left.
“Griffin Prince and Archmage are diving.”
They went for one of the lesser [Generals]. Just as planned, as Tyrion cut towards another one. The Great General reacted, guarding her commanders.
It was a good feint. Tyrion saw Jericha baring her teeth and checked his group.
He rode with Swey and Pellmia; Buscrei was climbing with her [Archers] to a position on the cliffs. Literally; the Archmage of Memory had provided invisible [Light Bridges], and they were relying on stealth Skills to avoid magical detection.
The other [Lords] and [Ladies] didn’t have applicable Skills for this encounter. And…well, Tyrion glanced sideways. In the decoy-force, one of El’s [Ladies] was leading her [Mercenaries], who would benefit from her Skills. Tyrion made a split-second decision as he saw Ailendamus rotating to face him.
Time again. They were set and ready even as he galloped at a speed beyond any regular [Lancer]. Tyrion looked right and spoke.
“Pellmia. Lead the distraction force.”
“What? I’m bound with you, Tyrion!”
“Your Skills aren’t necessary. Distract her and peel off.”
It wasn’t entirely true. Lord Pellmia could definitely aid their advance. However…the [Lord of Love and Wine] was an experienced campaigner. He didn’t argue.
Besides. Tyrion wanted, needed him to return to House Quellae and share his class with his family. Tyrion shifted, and his forces broke right, splitting from the diversionary force like a bolt of lightning unleashed.
“Jericha, raise the Banner of House Veltras!”
“Tyrion! Luck!”
Pellmia’s voice followed Tyrion as the [Lord] lowered his lance and rode. The Great General was focused away from him, but she saw him coming. He couldn’t get there fast enough.
Who is she? Why have I never heard her name?
Half-Elves. How many more were like this, hidden away? Tyrion didn’t know. For once, he didn’t think of Ryoka Griffin. He couldn’t, not even of Sammial or all of what he had seen and feared.
He had to focus. 
The Great General had a personal bodyguard of only two dozen figures. He had never seen them fight; Eldavin had sieged her camp once, but the magical battle had been too fast. Tyrion had never gotten this close, and he saw the forces trying to halt him being swept out of the way by one of Eldavin’s spells.
Dimensional magic to counter time. Tyrion just rode, his people behind him bearing down in a lance-charge on the Great General of Ages.
“[Knight’s Challenge]. Lord Veltras—”
He met a [Knight] and ran them through. Tyrion let go of the lance, and someone slowed to retrieve it.
“Lance!”
“[My Lord, Ever Armed]!”
Jericha had one in his hands. Onwards! The Great General was waiting, now. Buscrei in the shadows, Swey at his side.
“Let’s get them, Tyrion—”
They needed an opening. A [Bodyguard] could literally sacrifice their lives for the Great General. Tyrion could bypass that Skill—perhaps. He had saved every Skill for this moment.
[Might of Four]. [Piercing Thrust]. [Thirty-Foot Thrust]—
A lance flickered through the air before they were even close. It went for Dionamella’s heart, or seemed to. In truth, it was aimed at the figure just to her left. She was no warrior, and the Great General had a moment of hesitation.
The weakness of [Mages]. Tyrion’s lance shot towards a leather-armored chest. Wyvern? Something else? In that flicker of time between time, not Dioname’s but Tyrion’s, a warrior’s reaction—
He saw pointed ears. A hood.
The half-Elf deflected the lance-strike with his sword. Tyrion Veltras felt his strike go wide and reset himself. He locked eyes and saw a mere twenty bodyguards, half the size of his force, waiting for them.
Each one a half-Elf. Each one…old. Tyrion Veltras had learned to fear old people.
They tended to have high-level classes.
“[My Sword Sings Twice].”
“[Lancing Hydrastrike]—”
The [Blademaster] and [Lord] switched to swords as his second lance-strike was deflected by a [Bastion Shieldbearer]. House Veltras’ finest met the half-Elves and bled.
“[Grand Fireball]! Dead—”
A knife went through one of the [Riders] next to Jericha. Her own magic fizzled as a half-Elf calmly canceled her magic. Another veteran of House Veltras whirled down a halberd and exchanged five blows with a half-Elf on the ground. Jericha saw the woman fall as the [Hydrabane Assassin] resheathed her blades, preparing for another instantaneous draw from the poisonous sheaths.
“They’re all over Level 30! Advance—”
The Great General had a bodyguard worthy of her. House Veltras on the charge met them—and one died.
Tyrion Veltras’ duel with the [Blademaster] ended in him peeling away. As two more [Soldiers] engaged a half-Elf blocking their swords with his hands, he struck down and slashed through a neck. As the half-Elf fell, a palm-blow struck Tyrion in the side, and Jericha thought she heard his ribs pop.
One. The Great General of Ages cast a spell, and dark magic slew eight warriors. Jericha saw Swey abandon his mace, trying to grapple with the [Blademaster].
“Swey!”
The [Climbing Lord] lunged, and his hand closed around the half-Elf’s throat. They had to win! The half-Elf’s greatsword was askew, not suited for the close-ranged combat of the [Lord] who had climbed mountains.
The other, gauntleted hand came up.
“—[My Hands Were a Second Blade].”
The [Blademaster] cut Swey’s gauntleted hand off, even as the fingers tried to tighten. Swey recoiled, staring at the stump of his hand.
“Fall back! Fall back! Reform the charge!”
Tyrion was circling, pulling them back for a second pass. They would get no third one.
All of this was seconds. Five seconds of fighting and the Great General’s bodyguard and she herself had left over a fourth of their number dead. She was preparing a spell for Tyrion that he couldn’t block. But he had to ride at her; if he ran, he died.
There was no opening, though. The half-Elves closed ranks, and the [Blademaster] tugged at Swey’s hand as the [Lord] stumbled back. What would he do? If he even lived…
In that gap, as they circled, as Dionamella waited, over the fighting, in the din of battle—everyone heard the faintest…
Crunching sound. The Great General glanced sideways. The [Blademaster]’s hand was locked around the severed digits clinging to his throat. He had a knife—he’d dropped the greatsword and was trying to cut the fingers away.
