They looked for something that didn’t exist, and as they did—Rabbiteater just watched Seraphel. Their eyes met—and then he was galloping next to her.
“Wear armor, stupid!”
She just gaped at him. Then Rabbiteater was swinging his axe as they plunged into the fighting.
 
——
 
“Kill that [Princess].”
Dioname gave the order quietly. Her bodyguard took aim. Live or die—she’d thrown the army into chaos, but the Great General couldn’t risk it. No matter what—
The arrow flew, and the [Knight] blocked it with one of his arms! Dioname cursed.
“Archers! Volley!”
Regular [Archers] spun and loosed a shower into the air. The [Soldiers] charged into the chaos. Even if she had charged, the keep’s defenders were few, and most were still running on foot. There was no actual force there, just one elite [Knight].
And the undead.
“Huh?”
Dioname’s head snapped back. She saw a pale face, turned blue from lack of oxygen, still swollen around the place where a blade had chopped halfway through a neck, rising. A zombie wearing Calanfer’s colors rose, and a terrified [Soldier] stabbed it down. But the ghoul that leapt on the [Soldier] was one of…hundreds.
“The dead are rising! It’s her! The Cursed Princess of Calanfer!”
People were shouting in confusion. Someone else roared.
“The disaster of Ovela has come to haunt us! To arms!”
A small army of the dead was rising, fighting around the [Princess]—and empowered by one of Seraphel’s Skills. General Dioname’s head twisted. She held up a hand.
“It is just low-level undead. Surround and cut them off! It’s not her raising them. I hear…”
She cupped a hand to her ear. The origin was far distant, but Dioname still heard it.
Someone was singing.
“Rhisveri. Music? I hear a female voice. Feren, the [Necromancer] we thought turned traitor—it’s not him.”
Elsewhere, the Wyrm stirred. A few pieces from last year began to fall into place. Yet they had no time to puzzle it out.
They had no context. Not for the 4th Princess of Calanfer. Not for the Singer of Afiele. Dioname’s eyes lingered on Seraphel and Rabbiteater a moment too long.
Eldavin descended on her. Lord Tyrion Veltras galloped through her bodyguard as they fought House Veltras, and the Great General saw it.
“[Time Slows For All But Me].”
She didn’t know how much she spent? A year for each second?
The galloping [Lord] and Archmage slowed. Eldavin’s eyes were wide with incredulity as Dioname raised a slow finger. Even she was caught in her Skill, but she moved far faster.
She put three holes in his chest. One straight through his heart. The Lucifen’s own magic seared a hole through him, and the Archmage staggered.
But he refused to die. He tried to fall back, and Dioname saw her hands…
Fading.
The skin grew grey and withered. Yet—and yet—she saw someone coming for her. The Archmage of Memory was helpless, slowed to a crawl. A tenth of regular speed?
He was still so fast. Lord Tyrion Veltras had a lance and sword in hand. His arm struck at her with a Skill, straining to reach her—she dodged the strikes, physically avoiding them.
So quick! That lance turned, and she increased the magnitude.
Slower still. Eldavin’s eyes were locked on her, and yet his magic kept fighting hers. She murmured, teeth bared.
“What are you?”
Dioname saw the ghosts trying to block her way as Tyrion Veltras turned, the lance raised. She looked at him, her hands brimming with magic. Her gaze rose. And rose.
The Great General of Ages looked up. Past Tyrion Veltras, and her eyes grew wide with horror. She stood there, despite the battle, despite it all, transfixed. She could not help it.
Some things mortals were not meant to see. In all her ages, in the company of immortals…
She had never seen something like this.
“What is that?”
The [Timekeeper General] beheld her very end as it struck her. She staggered—Eldavin recoiled, choking on his own blood, yet preserved by the magic that gave him life—
Lord Tyrion’s lance struck Dioname through the heart.
 
——
 
The Great General of Ages’ aura collapsed. Her Skills winked out, and everyone came to a standstill. Those who had known her, the thousand warriors, her bodyguard, realized it instantly.
She had died. It was beyond a mortal wound; the enchanted lance of House Veltras had gone through her chest, and Dioname possessed no magic to turn back fate that far.
In that moment, the half-Elf heard a shriek from a Wyrm calling her name. She almost rejoiced, because she had not known there was emotion left to give in Rhisveri.
She was dead, struck, and yet she lived. Tyrion was trying to pull the lance back, Eldavin, to destroy Dionamella completely, when the hand grabbed Tyrion’s arm. He froze, unable to pull back, and Eldavin was caught by the throat as the Great General rasped, blood bubbling from her mouth.
“You have been my end. But I—I am the Great General of Ailendamus. And I will only rest when I have said my piece.”
They struggled, but she had no life left to kill. Her heart had stopped, but like those of her level—
She refused to die. Just for a moment. Dioname threw back her head, and her voice echoed.
“Bear witness!”
Her [Soldiers] and the Dawn Concordat’s looked up at her as she shouted, blood running down her face.
“This day, Ailendamus has lost. This day—a Great General is slain. But remember this: this day, a common-born half-Elf girl who has never known the shade of the eternal trees held down a [Lord] with blood as old as the Hundred Families from which monarchs are struck and an Archmage from the halls of magic itself. Wistram and Veltras alone could not slay me.”
The Archmage was trying to break free, but she had a deathgrip on his throat. Dioname struggled for words. She was fading—but she had to say it.
“My kin. Do not waste your lives in our ageless villages. Each second must be treasured. For my life I have given…my promise will endure as long as Ailendamus. The Kingdom of Glass and Glory…will never persecute our kind.”
A wish. Rhisveri had offered her one wish. Just like all the others. It was done. Dionamella’s voice and magic were fading, but she shouted. A desperate warning.
“It was not House Veltras who slew me! Something is coming! They are coming up—up, but you cannot see it! Guard the gates! Make ready, or all will be l—”
Eldavin tore himself free, and a hundred lances of fire struck through her. Dionamella staggered.
Damn you.
The Archmage was fleeing, to his victory. But it would not be that easy. She caught him, and he turned, face grey with fear. Well he should be.
The last power in Dionamella was still the full might of her class. And she had no fear of death, now.
Time slowed. Then stopped. Eldavin stood with her hand on his shoulder in a world that had no continuation. She focused the very nature of her magic on him and realized the truth.
“You have no end. Only a beginning.”
He was immune, like the rest of them, to the heart of her magic. What a terrible irony.
He was beginning to break even time itself. Bitterly, she realized she couldn’t kill him.
“At least—then—you imposter to my kind. At least feel the weight of your years!”
She struck him once, and he recoiled. Eldavin staggered backwards—and suddenly his breath caught. He wheezed and looked down at the first true wrinkles on his skin. His perfect form, aged in a breath.
He fled. Now, the darkness was closing, and Dioname felt someone trying to break her grip. She looked at Tyrion Veltras.
“My lord. My friend. This lance comes for you. This terrible lance, my friend, which has slain me. To you, my mentor who gave me might and chance.”
She was whispering now, to Rhisveri alone. Dioname drifted, but she clung to it—her last duty.
“You—can yet be a good ruler—because you have forever to learn. You will never forget me.”
Her other hand touched Tyrion’s face, now. Dispassionately, Dioname looked into his face as he struggled.
“So this lance I cannot remove from my heart. It aims at you. I cannot kill it.”
Fading away.
“The most precious gift I can, I give—”
She focused, and the [Lord] fought her, aura against hers. Pride and strength. As if he were the only one who had ever known struggle. Dionamella threw him as she declared her last gift.
To the immortals of Ailendamus, the most precious thing:
“Time.”
Lord Tyrion Veltras stumbled, and she counted.
Thirty?
No…the power was slipping away far too fast.
Twenty?
She tried. Ah, but now she felt something tugging her. Sixteen, then. 
Dionamella looked up, and Tyrion Veltras, howling as something engulfed him, the last wrath of the Great General of Ages, saw Dionamella suddenly jerk.
Something snatched her up. He saw a fighting, screaming half-Elf blasting a horror he had only seen once, washed up on Izril’s shores—
And then she died.
 
——
 
What happened? No one, not even Tyrion and Eldavin or Rhisveri could answer that.
The Great General of Ages died…but to what? What had she meant?
And what had she done?
In the aftermath of battle, Ailendamus’ forces were surrendering or retreating. They left. Their Great General had fallen, and none had the will after that.
A Wyrm lost his mind. The one mortal he had ever respected died there, and he vowed a vengeance unlike any that had ever come before or would ever come after.
Men and women levelled, and a [Princess] stood with a [Knight] amid cheering Calanfer. Yet Ailendamus’ wrath would come.
At least…at least an Archmage stood against them. And the [Lord] of House Veltras. Even someone to replace the Lightherald, and the Griffin Prince, who could not die?
Yet Eldavin ached with time, which would not leave him. The second-to-last deed of the Great General of Ailendamus. She could not use time to slay someone who was immortal, even this copy.
But what had she done to Tyrion Veltras? He stood there, looking at his hands. For a moment, he had known such agony that he had screamed and begged for it to stop.
Now the pain was gone. Yet he was…puzzled. In the moments when he reappeared, when Jericha turned and the [Bodyguards] still living put down their blades and surrendered, weeping for their comrade, Jericha approached.
“Tyrion? Lord Tyrion? Are you…?”
Are you alright? She stopped, as if run through herself. He turned to her, and she heard a stranger’s voice.
“Jericha? Am I wounded?”
He didn’t…feel wounded. With the last vestiges of her power, Dioname had cursed him? Or…why did he feel better?
Better, suddenly. A spring in his step that he didn’t know he’d ever lost. It had faded and he’d made do, but now it was back, he felt it. A feeling as though he could run and jump and do everything—and wanted to.
And his hands! They looked…the same? Same size, but as Tyrion tugged off a gauntlet, he realized what it was.
They were less weathered. Veins less pronounced maybe? As if—
Then he put his hands to his face, and the younger [Lord] realized what had been done.
Sixteen years. Dioname had used the last of her strength to throw him…sixteen years into the past.
Some basic math occurred to Tyrion, though he was so shocked he might have gotten it wrong.
44 – 16 = 28.
Twenty-eight. That was…young. But why? Why not throw him into his sixties? That would do far more. Tyrion thought it was almost a blessing until something occurred to him.
Slowly, he raised his hand.
“[Lancing Hydrastrike].”
The Skill that he had long-ago gained and mastered, a superlative eight blows with a sword or lance…did not activate. Tyrion saw Jericha grow pale and then realize it herself.
She’d taken him back in time. Not his memories or personality…
She’d taken his levels.
On the fifth day of battle, Great General Dioname of Ailendamus perished. The loss of the greatest army of Ailendamus marked a turning point in the war, as its armies withdrew to the homeland and the Dawn Concordat advanced for the first time.
Dioname, as the Duke Rhisveri would later inscribe upon the many statues and tributes to her, had single-handedly held off every foe against her. He would write this on one of her statues:
‘If lesser men had not gathered to bring her down, she would have never fallen. If worms had not let her die alone, she would still be here. Mark me. She will be avenged.’
