One life, however valorous, was not enough.
One last person tried. Princess Seraphel tried to run forwards and stop the duel, but her own people held her back. The [Princess] didn’t care about the honor of either [Knight]. She would have sullied that.
Honor mattered less. Perhaps even the Goblin would have agreed, but he fought alone. No foreign Skill from afar to help him.
No miracle against the Dame of the Hills. No outsiders, just this one. 
Right?
Neither ghost nor immortal was watching him. They had never known Rabbiteater, shyly helping Erin cook food. Rescuing his own kind in Liscor’s dungeon. Taking the first steps to becoming someone who inspired even his own kind.
[Champion].
They had no right to intervene. Nor did the supercilious leaders abroad, who wanted to put their fingers on the scales for their own selfish entertainment or reasons. They did not know who lay behind his helm.
Not Goblins, who watched a timeless story. Not fellow [Knights], bound by honor. No outsiders would interfere with this moment.
There was someone, though. Someone who had every right to this moment. Who knew Rabbiteater. Who had fed him and known him.
No matter how far you went, no matter who you became…she was still bound to her home.
The last [Princess] who knew Rabbiteater had seen it all. His lowest moment. His glory! Helpless, stranded a continent away, and chasing after her daughter…
“I have to go after her. I will not go home. If I could have even gotten there and helped.”
Lyonette du Marquin gazed at the wounded [Knight] as he rose. The silent Thronebearers watched. Yet Ser Dalimont, seeing Princess Seraphel held back, saw something.
A glimmer of light. A tiny spark of…magic. Aura?
Or just hope. The [Princess] lifted a trembling finger. She had never tried this.
It felt like she was trying to lift a mountain with a single finger. The vast distance, a hostile battlefield—it weighed against her.
She pushed at it. If Erin Solstice could defy a Wall Lord of Salazsar, if Rabbiteater could challenge a half-Giant—why not her?
She was the 6th Princess of Calanfer. Lyonette the Fiery! Lyonette the disgrace! She had not deserved her class. She had been low-level, and few [Princesses] ever gained high levels.
But she had risen. The [Worldly Princess]’ voice shook as badly as her hand. Forcing the words out.
“[B—B—]”
“Princess?”
One of the Thronebearers thought she was having a panic attack! Ser Sest tried to touch her, and Dalimont shoved him backwards.
A light was growing. A flickering…Lyonette’s nose started bleeding. Even so, she pushed back.
“I have to go to Mrsha. But you—you! My kingdom. My people. Even my sisters! Rabbiteater!”
She shouted his name. You, who went so far from home! She wrestled with the power of the Great General of Ailendamus. Even though it was her nation and he fought for her people—it was so hard!
Then Lyonette remembered something. She was not the first. An [Innkeeper] had stood there and given him her blessing. He had been at her inn.
So Lyonette traced the path across the world. Just like Erin Solstice, she sent her will across this world. The only thing she could give.
To Rabbiteater, her friend, her guest. That brave [Knight].
Come back home safely.
Someday, we will meet again.
A sigil traced itself in the air. A glowing crest. It looked like a radiant throne. The symbol of House Marquin. The royal seal of Calanfer. It flashed, and Lyonette screamed the words.
“[Boon of the Princess]!”
At first—it seemed like nothing happened. Lyonette, shaking, looked despairingly at the scrying orb. Nothing happened. Rabbiteater struggled, with only blood on his armor. Then she remembered something Drassi had told her:
The scrying orbs were on a five-minute delay.
A light began to shine from Rabbiteater’s armor.
 
——
 
He felt something. Something…
Even as the sword crushed him down to the ground. Even as he fought on, against a foe he knew he couldn’t defeat.
He heard no levels. No class consolidation because he was doing what was really impossible. Not valorous or brave, or even pivotal. Just stupid.
Yet he felt as if someone did have his back. Why…why did he think of blue eyes? Red hair? Someone chasing after a little furball and laughing?
A kindly smile?
It was bright. Rabbiteater did not see the first glimmers of light. He did not hear the gasps—only saw Merila’s face as it grew uncertain.
“What is—”
She threw up a hand as the first golden ray of light appeared. It was tracing something in the air. On Rabbiteater’s armor. All those who knew their heraldry—even the basic flags—realized what it was.
The seal of Calanfer. Seraphel’s eyes went wide.
“Father? He can’t…”
There was no other explanation for it, though. Rabbiteater felt as if the world were growing brighter. He felt…
Stronger. His wounds were healing? Or maybe he just felt better. But if it was just brighter for him—
“My eyes!”
Merila shaded her gaze, trying to see. She had taken precautions against the Lightherald, but the unexpected searing light blinded her! And the Hobgoblin—
 
[Temporary Skill – Radiance of the Dawn obtained!]
[Temporary Skill – Might of the Homeland obtained!]
 
He leapt. One of the Hobgoblin’s hands carried him up the Dame of the Hill’s armor as she swiped at the ground, lashing out, unable to see. He climbed, and she twisted.
“[Omnidirectional Slash]—”
She missed. He threw himself up, springing off her knee as the panicked Hill-Knight slashed. Her blind eyes looked up as the [Knight] raised his axe.
Rabbiteater landed on Merila’s shoulder, and his brother’s axe rose. To terrible purpose.
A howl rose from Merila’s [Squire], and the [Knights] of Ailendamus looked up as Ser Solstice raised his battleaxe. Rabbiteater swung, as Merila looked at him. A moment of resignation, and he struck—
Merila’s head didn’t go flying. The enchanted edge of the axe drew no blood.
Rabbiteater held the blade there, kissing her throat. The Dame recoiled, the expectation of death fading.
“You—”
“You are bested. Can’t fight.”
The Goblin looked Merila in the eyes, and she thought she saw a toothy grin behind the helmet.
“[Knight]-logic.”
Then he leapt. The half-Giant was so stunned she saw him land, charge for the gates, and he was halfway out before she turned.
“Wait! This is not ended, Solstice! Fight me!”
She roared, outraged. She had fought every other foe to the death! How dare he spare her? Was it contempt?
Or…a Goblin unwilling to kill the only other non-Human [Knight] he had met. He was running, racing down the hill at the surprised [Knights]. Merila reached out to slash at him and hesitated. Honor.
“SOLSTICE!”
Her furious bellow followed him down the hill. Rabbiteater laughed as he ran.
And still, he shone. The blinding light came down the hill as he ran, brandishing his battleaxe. With one target.
Only you, sister. The Goblin looked up, and his eyes fixed on a confused face, half-shielded by a hand. Not a bad face. A warrior who knew something of honor.
Yet he still raised Headscratcher’s axe and threw it.
The enchanted edge of the gold-jade axe whirled through the air, a scything blade so huge it cut through space. It killed the poor warhorse. One of the [Strategists]. The [General of the Line] lowered his hand and the axe lodged itself in his chest. He was a valorous leader, a good warrior. But all it took was a moment.
The fourth [General] of Ailendamus fell as the Goblin grabbed a horse and swung himself onto it. He yanked the axe free and galloped away from the still-blind, stunned soldiers and [Knights].
 
——
 
Great General Dionamella was struggling only slightly.
They came for her, the Archmage raining fire down, Lord Tyrion Veltras tilting at her, clashing with her bodyguard, and the Griffin Prince. At last, she caught him.
“Kaliv—”
He tried to cut at her, but the spell lifted him up. Dioname twisted, and a gigantic firestorm vanished into a point of darkness in her hand. She tossed the vortex back at Eldavin, and he flew away, cursing.
Even that would not kill him. So Dioname simply whispered.
“[Teleport].”
The Griffin Prince vanished. His Royal Griffin screamed, and the Wing of Shame circled, searching for him. Even if they found him, he was thirty miles away. And two hundred feet below the ground.
Dioname turned. The lance came at her, a [Lord], his aim impeccable. Very well.
“[Lance of the Bone Giant]—”
A giant, spectral warrior raised a deadly weapon, and Tyrion turned to avoid even as he struck at Dioname. The Great General…
Flinched. She ducked, and Tyrion dodged away. But he hadn’t struck at her! Her spell went wild. What had—
“[Blade of Calanfer]!”
Queen Marquin swung a sword at Dioname’s head, but it had no weight or substance—and she’d made up the Skill, too. The dead had no Skills or levels.
But the Great General had flinched. She was suffering from her abilities. Rhisveri had taught her too much. The [Eyes of the Wyrm] were letting her see the ghosts. And they were—
Distracting.
Dioname cursed and turned, ignoring the [Princess] trying to slap her to no avail. At first, she thought that the light was her imagination too.
The Lightherald was dead, after all. The Dawn Concordat was breaking before the Five Families. Calanferian [Soldiers] surrendered, and the half-Elves and people of Kaliv were beginning to follow suit. Then they looked up as they saw a familiar light.
Did you believe in miracles? A figure rode towards Ailendamus’ lines from the rear. He was unstoppable—his axe swung left and right, an enchanted edge cutting down foes with all the reach of a lance. Even Tyrion Veltras stopped when he noticed—but took advantage of the moment.
The encircling army around the keep where the three [Princesses] lay trapped had abandoned the siege and were chasing after him, but too slowly. All except the Dame of the Hills, who was pounding the ground in helpless frustration, bested.
He looked far different than the Lightherald. For one thing, he was smaller. Perhaps he did not glow so brightly, and he carried an axe and cloak of red liquid, not the sword and shield.
Even so. To the despairing men and women, the sight of that figure charging an army alone was enough. Their officers screamed, and the Thronebearers cried out.
“The Lightherald of Calanfer! To the light! For Calanfer—charge!”
“Who is that?”
Dioname squinted against the radiance. Then she saw House Veltras and Eldavin charging. She turned her head as Marquin shouted in her ears.
“Diplomacy!”
All distractions. But all it took was a single charge. One moment of weakness—
What is it? It’s coming—
The new Lightherald’s charge upon Ailendamus was the break Tyrion Veltras sought. He rode at her as Eldavin descended.
“—an end to this. [Valmira’s Falling Starry Sky].”
He crashed down with the greatest spell of Archmage Valmira. Veltras pierced the lines of her soldiers, riding for her. The Lightherald was moving Calanfer to overrun!
The victor must watch for this moment. Great General Dioname’s lips moved.
“[Out of Time, Kept]/[They Waited, For My Hour of Need]/[We Unleashed Our Truest Potential].”
A rift in the battlefield opened. The charging Dawn Concordat’s forces, the ‘Lightherald’…saw shapes moving.
Riding out of time itself. Only a thousand.
They bore Ailendamus’ crest, but an older version. Their armor came from older times, and they looked upon a far different battlefield. Yet they had sacrificed as much as she.
“The Great General of Ages calls us hence! Charge! Charge in the name of Dionamella of Ailendamus!”
The thousand warriors held in stasis surged forwards in the silence of despair. Dioname looked at them and bowed, just slightly.
“It’s Dioname, actually…”
There was always the last stand. The final comeback. She was the one who had to crush the last ember of hope. It was not easy. Never falter, never relax.
Not even till the end.
So why do I still feel dread creeping over me? Dioname exhaled, and the Lightherald, Ser Solstice, slowed.
 
——
 
So this was it. They surrounded him, and the foreign thousand were aimed straight at him. Unfair to the end.
But I got this far. Thanks, Lyonette. Rabbiteater looked at the Great General and saw the futility of his death. So he raised his gauntlets.
“I y—”
Someone blew a horn at his back. Rabbiteater jerked as his yield was cut off. There was someone wailing on a battlehorn. Not just blowing one sonorous call, but a piping blast of music. Triumphal. Desperate?
The [Knight] looked over his shoulder and saw the gates of the keep open. The flag that flew Calanfer’s colors over the top was gone. He thought, at first, that they had surrendered or something.
Then he saw the stream of bodies charging out of the gates. [Soldiers], running downhill. Men and women on horseback, racing forwards in a flash of colors.
Kaliv, Gaiil-Drome, Pheislant, led by the brave Marshal Huges, but most of all, running or riding with every scrap of energy they had left—Calanfer’s people.
Including the [Fortress Keeper]. Every hand had abandoned the fortress. Do or die.
The most outrageously insane move that Rabbiteater had ever seen. Even the Goblin was taken aback. But as the twice-despairing [Soldiers] of the Dawn Concordat looked up, fingers pointed.
Calanfer’s [Soldiers] lifted their heads. Some rubbed at their eyes, and the Thronebearers, the much-maligned [Knights], abandoned their positions and possibly their minds. They raced forwards, heedless of the danger, charging the surprised Ailendamus [Soldiers]. There was a cry on their lips.
Beyond the Lightherald. The mysterious warrior whose name no one knew—more than even his presence, the people of Calanfer pointed to the flag waving as it was carried down the hill. The shining tiara, and the terrified woman holding it.
“The [Princess] of Calanfer!”
The 4th Princess of Calanfer, Seraphel du Marquin, rode towards Rabbiteater as he watched. Her face was as white as a sheet, and she was in danger of being thrown from the equally-terrified mare. Yet the entire force of the keep followed her. Rabbiteater heard the Thronebearers shouting.
“To the [Princess]! To the [Princess] and the Lightherald! The Eternal Throne rot your cowardice—charge!”
There was no logic to it—Calanfer just charged. [Archers] in the back, Thronebearers—the chaos of every hand and body rushing Ailendamus from every angle took even the Great General of Ailendamus back. Calanfer’s people threw themselves forwards.
And Ailendamus’ officers—began to worry. They hesitated. Not just because of the surprise. Because they had studied Calanfer.
Calanfer and the Thronebearers, who preferred words over swords. No [Princess] of Calanfer had ever died in battle. What did they know? Where were the reinforcements?
