Ironically, a Fraerling might have an easier time against Merila. Niers could have just crawled into her ear and looked for her brain.
That wouldn’t have been fair. And this was a fair fight. Niers watched as the Goblin struck the Dame of the Hills across the ankle.
That’s right, fell her. She staggered, blood gushing from the cut, but not deep enough. Steel armor—not enchanted. She drew a potion the size of a barrel with her shield-hand, and Niers cursed.
They should have forbidden potions.
Rabbiteater’s friends were all watching. From Drassi to Lyonette to Rags and the others. Dame Merila was exposed as she staggered back, sword slicing in a defensive move to give her time to drink.
Into that gap, Rabbiteater dove, dropping his shield. He vanished under her in a blur, and Merila tried to back up, but he had two hands on his axe.
He was going to try and hamstring her! His axe went for her legs.
“Go!”
He fought like a Fraerling, for all he was a [Knight]! Niers clenched his fist. He saw Rabbiteater swing the enchanted axe with a roar.
Merila spun and kicked him.
 
——
 
Seraphel du Marquin couldn’t watch. But she had to. When she saw Rabbiteater go flying, she covered her eyes.
Yet he got up.
Could you imagine the force it took to hurl an armored body like a ragdoll? He landed in a heap and rolled—not to mitigate the impact, but from the sheer force of it.
“No.”
He was drinking a healing potion as he stood. Dame Merila checked herself, panting. It had been close.
“Your axe, Ser Solstice.”
She pointed, and the [Knight] saw it lying there. Merila let him pick up his shield. Was it condescension?
If only she fought with a hint of arrogance. But no. Just like with Dalius…
The half-Giant fought with everything she had.
So did Rabbiteater. Now, Seraphel felt it. His aura rose around him. Untrained and unbidden. Not bravery—but something as hard and strange as she had ever seen.
Not like the aura of steel, but…walls? She could almost see them. The walls of an inn on his armor and body. He charged Merila, and she brought her sword down.
The walls broke. The strength of an inn…
Was not enough against the strength of the Dame of the Hills. He tried to block her, and her blow caved in the earth. The [Knight] ran, arm limp.
“Rabbiteater! Dodge!”
Meisa was shouting, hands cupped to her mouth. The Order of Seasons howled at Rabbiteater as he brought his axe down and chopped into Merila’s big toe. Howling, the [Knight] grabbed him with a gauntleted hand.
“No—”
She threw him into the broken archway over the gates so hard he cracked the sooty stone and fell down. He did not rise.
Everyone waited, including Merila, who poured a potion on her severed toe, wincing as it joined. They waited for Ser Solstice to get up, his Aura of Bravery blazing, counter-levelling…
A minute passed. Then another ten seconds, and everyone realized—
He was downed.
“Forwards! Take the keep! Dame Merila has won!”
A [Knight] of Ailendamus shouted. The Order of Seasons and defenders jerked upright.
He’d lost? Before a charge could begin, someone roared.
“Challenge! I challenge you!”
The [Knights] slowed and cursed as Dame Talia surged down the battlements. She leapt onto a horse and rode out. Grimly, Merila turned, but a Drell [Knight] lifted his hand.
“I am Ser Yonst of the Order of Drell! I accept your challenge!”
The delaying tactic was working again! Right up until another [Knight] rode forwards.
“I am of the Order of the Thirsting Veil, Dame Fewq! I challenge you, madam!”
She pointed at Meisa. Seraphel saw the [Spring Knight] hesitate, look at Rabbiteater, then grimly don her helm.
“Markus, get—”
“I challenge you!”
Seraphel saw more [Knights] approaching. This time Markus jerked, and she realized…Rabbiteater’s ploy had failed.
Hidebound and traditionalists the [Knights] may be, but they still adapted. Every [Knight] of the Order of Seasons on the walls saw a counterpart ride up from Ailendamus’ army. The Dame of the Hills stood back as over a hundred duels began. The winners would face another foe…and another…
They were not Rabbiteater. Markus tried to fight with his fists.
He beat two [Knights]. Then he was taken prisoner.
All the while, Rabbiteater just lay there. Within less than thirty minutes, every Order of Seasons [Knight] was defeated, having lost to their opponents.
Dame Talia was last to yield, a blade at her throat. No less than four opponents she’d bested with her sword, but summer was over. And fall…Ser Ilm was knocked unconscious as he tried to cast a spell against a Hydra Knight.
“We offer you a chance to surrender! If not—we will regretfully attack, Your Highnesses.”
The [General] of Ailendamus rode forwards as the Order of Seasons was dragged from the field. The [Fortress Keeper] turned to Aielef, but after no response came, he shouted back.
“We will not surrender! Do your worst!”
The [General of the Line] exhaled grimly.
“Very well.”
The Greatbows opened up less than a minute later. Seraphel saw a [Soldier] vanish in an anguished cry. The [Princesses] looked up and realized the attack was coming.
“Archers! Take the keep!”
Suddenly, the [Knights] were charging! They peeled off as arrows and the spears held them off, and Ailendamus’ crossbows and bows were volleying the walls.
“Get to safety! [Princesses]—”
“It’s over!”
Aielef wailed as the genteel battle of [Knights] turned into sudden, harrowing bloodshed. Seraphel just stared down at Rabbiteater.
Was he dead? The [General] had clearly forgotten about him, and the fighting had begun, so neither his side nor Ailendamus had recovered him. Ailendamus wanted the keep now.
“Aielef! Shut up and get t—”
Vernoue was dragging her older sister away when Seraphel saw a shape blur past her. A Lance-Arrow, loosed at the walls, hit Vernoue in the side.
“Vern?”
The [Princess] vanished. Aielef screamed, and Seraphel turned. She saw a limp body, a fallen spellbook, as everyone looked around in horror. And…
A glowing tiara.
Vernoue’s personal tiara had saved her. The [Princess] was coughing, wide-eyed. Without a word, Aielef ran. Without a word, but with a scream as the [Fortress Keeper] and Marshal Huges dragged Vernoue to safety.
The royal tiaras were high-grade artifacts. Vernoue’s might not have saved her from a second Lance-Arrow, though.
More than Ser Solstice had. Seraphel could have given him her tiara, she realized. She…remembered his fiery words. How he’d accused her of wasting her chances.
The [Princess] looked across the battlefield and saw the end. Then she ran down the stairs.
Away from the keep.
 
——
 
“Princess! What are you doing?”
Marshal Huges saw Seraphel running through the battlefield. So did the scrying spells still watching the battle. Skirts were really not the way to move around in the mud and fighting in the courtyard. Oesca, watching from her bed and eating gelato, definitely noticed that.
“Protect the [Princess]!”
Calanfer’s [Soldiers] surged around the 4th Princess, desperately fighting to save her life. Not that she was actually in much danger.
Tiara aside, an unarmed woman, let alone a [Princess], was not a target. Ailendamus’ [Soldiers] avoided her or just blinked in surprise when they saw Seraphel run past them. But what was she doing?
Everyone got their answer as they saw her run past a [Knight] at the gates who jerked in surprise, then reached for her. In reply, Seraphel offered the [Knight] of the Thirsting Veil a [Royal Slap].
A fun fact; it was armor-piercing. But only a slap.
Seraphel didn’t waste time as enraged Calanferian [Soldiers] engaged the [Knight]. She bent down…
And hauled up Ser Solstice. She was trying to rescue the [Knight]! Drag him back to be healed! Seraphel was rescuing him!
Or…trying. Her face contorted halfway up, and she realized she had a problem.
Namely, that Seraphel had tried to do that thing where you slung an arm around someone’s shoulders and bear the limp body to safety. That trick only worked if you were supporting the weight of someone still conscious.
Rabbiteater was out, and, like a floppy baby or someone who wouldn’t stay rigid, it was more like hauling a sack of grain up. Seraphel was known as ‘Seraphel the Dutiful’, not ‘Seraphel the Even Moderately Physically Fit’.
Plus, Rabbiteater was a Hobgoblin wearing armor.
“My back! My—”
Seraphel threw out her back as she picked up Rabbiteater and felt an explosion of sudden agony. Half-hobbling, she dragged him into the courtyard via pure panic more than anything.
She managed to get him halfway to the keep as people fought around her. No one wanted to kill the [Princess]—and when she got there, Marshal Huges led a charge and helped carry Rabbiteater in.
“You’re insane.”
Aielef shouted at Seraphel, but the [Princess] just collapsed as everyone tried to heal Ser Solstice.
By removing his helmet.
Fortunately, they failed. Marshal Huges gave up after half a minute.
“It’s locked into place! Damn—someone pour a potion through his visor!”
They did, and Seraphel waited. They were trying to check his armor, and someone nearly had his cuirass off to check whether he was injured when the [Knight] stirred. Rabbiteater sat up, kicked someone in the chest, and looked around.
“Ow.”
 
——
 
He woke up and felt his torn muscles and cracked bones mending. And he knew a few other things.
He’d lost.
The keep was falling.
And the Dame of the Hills was too strong.
Rabbiteater had tried, in their short duel, to do the only thing that would work. Namely, climb her, or bring her down via the legs, and do some critical damage to her head or at least remove one of her arms from the equation.
He couldn’t. She was too tough. If she were some lumbering brute, he would have had a chance, but she moved and reacted as fast as he did without Skills.
He couldn’t beat her.
“You saved me.”
Rabbiteater looked into Seraphel’s eyes, and the [Princess], still clutching at her back, dirty and panting, nodded.
“It seemed like the thing to do. You were being trampled.”
“Can you fight? Princesses…the keep will fall soon.”
Marshal Huges turned to Aielef, Vernoue, and Seraphel. He was asking them for an answer, and Aielef looked ready to grant it. But it was the Goblin who interrupted her.
“Not yet. I will clear the courtyard.”
He rose, and Huges hesitated. But Rabbiteater just stepped for the door. Seraphel had even managed to find his axe—but not his shield.
She had decent priorities. The Goblin stepped through the door.
Today—was a truly terrible day to—
He stepped into the courtyard and into a sudden hush. The advent of Ser Solstice, returned and willing to fight, the [Indomitable Champion]…
Did not cause the hush. What caused the silence, what had halted both sides from fighting, was the shadow over the keep and the world.
The Dame of the Hills.
“No more blood need be spilt. Princesses of Calanfer! I will have your surrender. Or I will drag you out myself.”
Dame Merila boomed as Rabbiteater looked up.
“…Fuck.”
She saw him, and the Hill-Knight smiled wider. But it was grimly.
“Ser Solstice. Enough is enough. The Dawn Concordat has lost this day. Please, persuade them to save just one more life.”
Rabbiteater stared up at that bright smile. The face of a true [Knight] of Ailendamus. Behind him, he knew, the [Princesses], the [Soldiers] were all looking at Merila and seeing the inescapable death.
The sky would fall on them if they fought. It was over.
The Goblin had seen the sky falling once before. Slowly, he hefted the enchanted axe onto his shoulder and stepped into the courtyard.
That bright flash of teeth faded. The Dame of the Hills looked down as Seraphel cried out in disbelief.
“Ser Solstice. You must surely jest. I am relieved you survived our first duel. I pray you do not force me to kill you. I cannot, will not hold back my blade.”
For the first time since they had met, she insulted him. The Goblin’s head rose. He pointed up at Merila with his free hand.
“Sister. How could you?”
“Whaaat?”
Aielef’s muffled shout from inside was in chorus with the rest of the world. Sister? What a twist!
However, Rabbiteater just meant it in the broader sense, like how Garen was his father. Merila’s own eyes widened as the [Knight] shouted up at her.
“You and I. We understand. How can you ask?”
“Ask?”
Rabbiteater’s heart beat painfully. He spread his arms, holding Headscratcher’s axe in one hand. He saw a waving white flag. Perhaps he was still delirious from the fighting.
Once, they had known exactly what she was asking them to do. But they followed it. And his great brother, the [Berserker], emotional, prone to laughter and tears…
“You and I stand here and there. But you…Sister. Do you believe your cause is just?”
The Dame of the Hills looked tired as she rested her hands on her sword. The cross of it was planted, the massive blade driven into the stone before her.
“Yes.”
The [Knight] of Solstice, Rabbiteater, the [Indomitable Champion] and [Aura Knight]. The Goblin nodded.
“Then. Would you ever stop?”
A sigh like the prelude to a hurricane ran from the Hill-Knight’s mouth. As weary as could be.
The stones in the courtyard cracked as the steel blade rose. Shining terribly under that bright sun. She saluted Rabbiteater with it. Her eyes implored him, but her voice was steady.
“Well said.”
He nodded and lifted his axe. Rabbiteater charged, and the 4th Princess shouted at him with all the others. She should have left him there.
Until the last Goblin at Liscor fell, Rabbiteater would fight.
 
——
 
The tenacity of a Goblin until death shocked the world that watched.
Some called it foolishness. Bravado, emblematic of the worst elements of Terandria’s warrior-culture.
Others, who understood Rabbiteater, saw the battle he had never left. Some raised their blades for a true warrior meeting his end.
Goblins, his kind, looked at the [Knight] as a blade crushed him down and he rose, spitting blood through a damaged visor.
“There goes one who would be a Goblin Lord. Or even more. But not yet.”
Anazurhe looked at Rags, and her eyes flashed. Yet the Goblin Witch’s magic twisted uselessly. As did Rags’ Skills, bouncing off an aura stronger than anything she had ever seen.
He had left her tribe, and Anazurhe had never known him. Helplessly, the two Goblins watched. There was no one to help him. The Order of Seasons was captive; they had to hold some of the struggling [Knights] down, but Ailendamus kept them from interfering.
The others, from Greysten to the Winter’s Watcher, were too far. The other combatants on the battlefield were too far and fighting for their lives, unable to interfere. Even the Griffin Prince saw his people dying by the hundred with each second as the Dawn Concordat began to break and run.
