Yet the hand kept gripping. Another half-Elf wavered and tried to remove the fingers, but they dug deeper, deeper, bending the mithril gorget, a grip that not even the [Blademaster] could remove. He severed bone and flesh, but the fingers kept tightening—
Once, Lord Swey, a young man, had lost a friend while climbing. It was an old story. His grip had slipped.
Everyone had suffered loss and tragedy. Their experiences made up their levels, classes, and Skills. Swey, drinking a potion, slowed and watched as the [Blademaster] fell, choking.
[I Will Never Let You Go].
They rode. Tyrion Veltras charged into that moment of distraction, into a hand traded for a life. The half-Elves raised their weapons, and the Great General of Ages pointed at him.
Buscrei’s arrow, enchanted by Archmage Eldavin, loosed from behind with three dozen others, flickering through the air. They hit Dioname’s barrier. Buscrei’s arrow vanished out of existence, reappeared, and struck the Great General of Ages through the back.
Not a killing blow, but it went through the base of her spine, and the magic on her fingertips failed. Falling to her hands, the Great General looked up as Tyrion Veltras rode at her. She whispered as that lance dipped down.
 
——
 
Dioname twisted as the arrow flew, and it passed under one arm. She pointed.
“[Law of the Lucifen: Punish Arrows]!”
“Wh—”
Buscrei’s bow erupted into flames, and her squad screamed as dark fire engulfed them. Tyrion Veltras broke off his charge as Dioname turned to him.
“Retreat!”
Her spell was still off. The Great General cursed as House Veltras retreated. Panicked. Not knowing how she had done that.
It was the perfect attack! How…? The wide-eyed [Mage] knew. Jericha looked at Dioname and received it.
Just…a simple spell, blasted publicly, no encryption. Nothing great. A Tier 3 spell.
[Message].
 
ARROW BEHIND. DODGE.
 
But how had she…?
The [Timekeeper General] exhaled. She felt…drained beyond belief. The amount of mana it took to cast a [Message] spell was miniscule. Some Skills even removed the cost altogether.
However. Casting even that spell through time?
[15 Second Message].
And…a Skill for her level.
“[Fate, I Take the Other Path]. Don’t let them escape. I must rest.”
On the third day, House Veltras’ desperate gambit failed. A close call.
Do not lose focus. Dioname realized she was distracted. Not just by the Archmage, nor the Skills. Her head turned left and right as she drank a mana potion that Fithea had personally brewed, and Rhisveri demanded to know if she was alright.
…What am I sensing?
 
——
 
On the fourth day, Archmage Eldavin unleashed everything he had against her. He cast spells for six hours straight, trying to consume her, her army, roaring his fury, incredulous as he failed to defeat a mortal.
For he was…she could see it on him. Pride. An inability to admit that he was lesser. Someone—the Wind Runner—had poisoned him with more than just betrayal. He knew he was better than her. So he lost.
On the fifth day, the Dame of the Hills slew the Lightherald.
The Great General watched. His armor did not break, but his body did. She had seen brave champions like this before, and if he had left or yielded, she would have simply used a Skill to prevent him from re-entering the battle.
But there was a chance he could have won. So he fought and died. Afterwards, Dioname ordered Dame Merila to the rear, to the fortress where honor had meant the [Knights] failed to take the keep.
“Do what you will, Dame Merila. I will end this.”
The morale of the Dawn Concordat and Calanfer was breaking. She looked at the Archmage, Griffin Prince, and Tyrion Veltras.
Three, not four. They would come for her again. A final, last-gambit strike on her, she knew.
Do not lose focus.
She could have ordered Merila to fight, and it would have made Dioname’s life easier. However, Merila would almost-certainly fall to Eldavin or Tyrion. She was too large a target.
So Dioname raised her staff and began the final battle. Still distracted. In the first hour, as she aimed for Tyrion Veltras, a nigh-invisible spell from Eldavin pierced every magical protection, and she tilted her head out of the way. She still had a bead on Tyrion Veltras, and his death…
Missed again. Finally, Dioname saw it. Two things.
Again, two. The first was most obvious. The second was creeping up on her, and she was trying to anticipate it. But the first…
The first was a huge woman, wearing familiar armor, squatting next to Dionamella. A mane of brown hair on her head, and scars from countless battles. Not just her; a panoply of other people stood about, and the Great General whispered.
“Who…are you?”
Queen Marquin the Radiant, First Queen of Calanfer, saw Dioname standing there as the Great General breached into the realm few could ever see in life. Dragons, ghosts, all stirred as the Great General whirled and looked at them. Yet still her gaze roved, looking for something far, far worse.
Marquin pondered her answer only a moment as a battle raged in the mortal realms. Then she smiled at the Great General.
“Probably, a distraction.”
 
——
 
Today was a terrible day to die.
Most days were. Rabbiteater had known days when everything felt like glory. When the sun shone down, and you somehow blazed brighter. When his blood rushed in his veins, and he was filled with a passion that eclipsed all others, to fight and lay down his life for a reason—
That was a bad day to die. Who would think that was a good time to end it all? On those days, you lived, and dying would end all of that.
A day when you died was a dark day. When an [Innkeeper] was shot for no good reason. Those days…yes, those days were fitting.
He knew that thinking of such things was a bad sign. The [Knight] slowly raised his head as he lay abed, reluctant to get up.
He felt it in his bones.
It was not just seeing the Lightherald die. The Redfang felt it. This was the last day for the Dawn Concordat. They had lost their morale, and the Great General would crush them or they would slay her.
But his foe waited for him. So large they could see her, sitting, even as she slept. There was surely no blanket in the world large enough for the Dame of the Hills, Merila, but somehow she still had one. Ailendamus had convened countless [Seamstresses] and denuded so many sheep of their wool just to make it.
“You do not have to fight her, Rabbiteater. It’s a ridiculous thing. The Lightherald must have been forced to attack or quit the battle due to a Skill. Do not…don’t.”
That was all Talia said. Meisa had argued far longer, and Markus, Ilm, and the others nodded.
Rabbiteater just walked onto the battlements without a word. He saw her rising and looking towards him.
It had been a battle for stories, the Lightherald’s last stand. Terrible at the end—a man dying. Held up only by his spirit as he literally bled out of his armor. Bones crushed to jelly.
That was not why Rabbiteater feared Merila. He did not know her. Seraphel did. They had a history such that the Hill-Knight greeted the [Princess].
“Your Highness. We meet again on other sides of the battlefield. Fate has put us in each other’s way it seems.”
“Dame Merila.”
Seraphel said only that. Her face was pale, and she looked at Rabbiteater. He remembered her warning. As he met the half-Giant [Knight], Rabbiteater took her measure again.
No, he did not fear her for the reasons the others did. They saw something blatantly unfair. A half-Giant, just enough of her Human side to have classes and Skills, but as large as you could get before her other nature invalidated that artificial boon. A deliberate, perhaps, champion engineered by Ailendamus.
Rabbiteater didn’t hold that against Merila. Nor did the fact that she had killed the Lightherald—at least not in itself—make him fear her.
He feared Merila because he had seen how she fought the Lightherald. She had dueled Greysten again and again, and both had been unable to end the battle because the Summer’s Champion was higher-level than the Lightherald. And his fiery aura had kept Merila at bay.
Perhaps, neither had wanted to kill each other. But in the Great General’s pivotal battle, the Lightherald and Merila had fought to the death.
She had bled. The others looked at her size and strength and saw it was unfair, and maybe this was so. Rabbiteater had seen her bleeding, cut to the bone, struggling to slay a man armed with relics compared to the plain steel she had. He looked at her and saw…
A monster. As close to it as any [Knight] he could ever dream of. Someone who would be mocked or derided by her peers. Who was a target for arrows in every battle.
Someone who knew exactly what it was like to stand alone. Rabbiteater feared no regular [Knights]. But her?
She greeted him with a smile beneath her helm, watchful for an arrow from the battlements. Because they’d taken shots at her before, he was sure. An arrow to blind a giant.
“Ser Solstice. Or the eater of rabbits! You and I have unsettled business, Ser. You are welcome to remain here, and I doubt not a single soul will scorn you for it. But I? I challenge you, should you stand in the gates. I have dishonored my Order once, letting you escape and win your battle. No longer. If you should leave, by honor, I challenge you.”
Her smile was bright. Rabbiteater couldn’t help but grin at her. For the irony of it. She and he were the only ones who saw clearly. How the Order of Seasons bristled!
“Unfair, I say, Dame Knight! Unfair!”
Markus raised a hand, and Rabbiteater nearly kicked him over the battlements. Merila just raised her eyebrows.
“I have heard Ser Solstice dueled my kin at the gates, Ser Knight of the Order of Seasons. Why not me? Am I no less a [Knight]? I tell you what—let’s settle this with our hands, eh?”
She raised one fist, and Rabbiteater started laughing. Nothing she said was wrong! Again, he saluted her. He liked her.
“Of every [Knight] I meet. You. Merila?”
She eyed him, and her eyes lit up as Rabbiteater bowed slightly.
“You are a [Knight]. I accept.”
“Rabbit!”
Meisa tried to stop him, but the Goblin just picked up his axe as Merila raised her blade to the sky.
“So be it! Clear a space! Take mount or whatever you wish, Ser Solstice! I am the Dame of the Hills, and by the Kingdom of Glass and Glory, I will bring you down!”
“You can’t win this. Don’t—even if you best her, it won’t change the battle. And you can’t. You and I and a dozen other [Knights] might have a chance. No more.”
Talia caught Rabbiteater as he descended the battlements. Merila was striding back as the true war was fought in the distance. He knew that was true, and all Talia said was probably right. That Great General was beyond him.
Even so, Rabbiteater patted her hand and then removed it from his shoulder.
“Silly Talia. She challenged me. I am [Knight]. So I go. That’s how it works.”
He had just insulted and made fools of all of Ailendamus’ [Knights]. Merila had splendidly, in true Goblin fashion, thrown it back in his face. As Erin would put it…
“She just reverse-unoed you, Rabbiteater. Oh, that’s a great game. Forget chess!”
He grinned as he strode out the gates and faced Merila just outside of the keep. The Dame had a sword longer than he was and a shield to match his axe.
“Are you resolved, Ser? I will not hold neither blow nor my strength. Some call me unchivalrous, but I cannot help that I was born. For my kingdom, I will dishonor myself.”
Her smile had gone, and she looked down at him. Twenty-eight feet tall.
What a beautiful warrior. If only she had been raised by Garen Redfang, she would not look so ashamed. These stupid Terandrians…Rabbiteater shook his head.
“You dishonor someone…never.”
She smiled sadly. Like the [Princesses]. Merila stood back and saluted him. Behind her stood [Knights] of Ailendamus. They, who had scorned him before for using their honor against them…
This day, the Orders of the Hydra, the Thirsting Veil, and Drell drew their blades and saluted the [Knight]. No less for a warrior who faced down the Dame of the Hills. He could have run.
He did not. Rabbiteater activated Headscratcher’s axe, and a glowing blade of energy grew.
A gigantic edge of magic. A bit of an equalizer. Merila grinned to see it. Rabbiteater’s cloak swirled around him as he nodded. The Dame of the Hill’s voice was filled with regret.
“I wish that we had met in another time. We might have been the greatest of friends.”
“Yes, of course.”
Then Rabbiteater leapt forwards, and the sword came down.
[Flash Strike]. Like lightning. The impact made the ground shake, and those watching from the walls of the keep shuddered. But the [Champion] was gone, rolling to his feet. Fast.
[Aspect of the Champion: Greater Speed]. Rabbiteater’s axe slashed at her foot, but she was already stepping back.
[Longstep], [Extended Reach]—
It was not fair to give a half-Giant these Skills! But lower-level Skills. She struggled to level and had to fight people with ten or more levels above her to find fair fights.
Rabbiteater—threw his shield up.
“[Giant’s Parry].”
A new Skill won from yesterday. Merila staggered, and her eyes went wide.
“So it is a match after all! Engarde!”
 
——
 
Their duel was being broadcast in tandem with the battle with the Great General. Predictably, the final battle of this great war took back seat to a simple duel between two [Knights].
That was television for you. But even Niers Astoragon, among the many watchers around the world, had to admit it was fascinating.
He hadn’t bothered throwing Skills at that Great General of Ages after the first time. He had no idea who she was, but he added her to his list of the most dangerous beings.
Rabbiteater’s battle was familiar to Niers, though, in a purely personal way. The [Knight] was fighting like a Fraerling.
A Fraerling versus the Tallfolk.
Like the people of Paeth on the Coast, it was small versus large. If not exactly the same ratio, the same problems.
Merila could crush Rabbiteater with a single blow. He could parry or survive one or two at most, but one good hit and he was out.
His advantages were speed and his small size. He could hit her, but he had to keep moving, attack from places she could not easily reach. If he found such a spot, he could literally take her apart from the inside.
But the [Knight] was a Goblin. Not a Fraerling. Numbtongue watched, head in his hands as his brother fought.
He doesn’t know how. He’s learning, but he’s not a Tallguard.
The Tallguard’s enchanted grappling hooks and their tactics were designed to fight Tallfolk and other monsters. Rabbiteater needed a ranged weapon. He needed to be able to fly or leap into the air at least.
