“He can't hear me.” Ren said. “He can only hear you.”

“B-but...”

“Just ask.” Ren said, and she nodded.

“D-Daddy... please... help me!”

The Dark Elf's Sadness Aura slowly formed and then popped into place. The child cried out in joy as her father started to slowly consume the emotions she had.

“Daddy!” The child bent down and kissed her father's forehead.

“Get ready.” Ren said, and the child lifted her head and looked at him. He felt her determination and the steel in her will, and he smiled. “You've got this.”

The child nodded and Ren felt her brace herself as she concentrated on converting the emotions for her father. Ren felt that the Dark Elf needed Misery to be the most effective emotion to be used in restoring him; so, he thought about his disastrous break-up with Lucy and started to ease a mountain of Misery he had felt into the child. She didn't gasp or complain that it was too much as she poured the Misery in turn to her father, and Ren was so proud of her that his Reassurance Aura activated.

She did gasp at that, because no one had ever shared those kinds of feelings with her before; but, Ren didn't stop feeding her, and she didn't stop feeding her father. They both felt the tipping point approach as the Dark Elf continued to consume Misery from her. Ren had thought it was an odd emotion to be acclimated to; but, since the Dark Elves themselves were an odd bunch, being able to use Misery to heal yourself was kind of fitting in a place like the Underworld. it seemed appropriate somehow.

The Dark Elf's eyes turned from his daughter's face and saw Ren, and the spike of hatred at him being so close was strong.

“You're feeling better.” Ren said, and felt another spike of hatred, then regret. “Why did you want to die?” He asked, and the Dark Elf closed his eyes.

“Daddy...” The child said, and he opened his eyes to look at her.

Now that Ren had a close up look, he saw that the Dark Elf was covered in battle scars and wounds; and quite a few of them looked recent. He also looked at the child closely and saw that she had similar fresh wounds.

“It's because of you.” Ren said, and the Dark Elf girl looked at him. “You're working so hard to keep him alive, and he doesn't want to be a burden on you anymore.”

“Daddy, I love you!” The child's own emotions blocked the Misery Ren was feeding her, and the Dark Elf winced at the change. “I'm sorry!” She said and pushed her love aside and let the Misery through. The Dark Elf sighed and looked back at Ren.

“Yes, I'm feeding you through her.” Ren said and looked at the stub of the arm Lylyth had cut off and given to Elerlyth as an apology. “I'll be right back.”

The child and Dark Elf blinked and Ren was gone, and they were surprised that he was still feeding them Misery.

“Elerlyth, do you still have the Dark Elf's arm?” Ren asked, and Elerlyth took it out of inventory and gave it to him. “Thanks.” He said and looked at the healer. “I don't know if it's possible, but I'd like your help.”

“I'll try anything you have in mind, My Lord.” The healer said, and Ren smiled.

“Come with me.” Ren said and they walked the long way around to the small cavern's entrance and she saw the Dark Elf.

“My Queen maimed him for hurting her vassal without permission.” The healer said.

“I know.” Ren said. “I'm not doing it for him, though.”

The healer looked at the child and felt Ren emotions. “Yes, I see.”

“Can you make an arm regrow?” Ren asked her, and she shook her head. “I didn't think so.” He said and knelt by the Dark Elf. “I can knock you out for this.”

The Dark Elf shook his head.

“It's going to be really painful.” Ren said, and he nodded.

“Just... do... it.” The Dark Elf said and looked up at his daughter. “Close... eyes.”

“No, I want to see.” She said.

He looked at Ren, and Ren smiled.

“She's old enough to decide for herself.” Ren said, and he felt how happy she was. The Dark Elf sighed and nodded, and Ren handed the severed arm to the healer. “This is going to be quick and messy.”

“It always is.” The healer said, and Ren took out his hammerpick. It was still 3 times it's normal size, which meant the plow end was more than wide enough to reopen the wound with a single swipe. He did the severed arm first, then did the Dark Elf's arm stub. Blood gushed out as the Dark Elf screamed in excruciating pain and the healer jammed the severed arm back into place. She activated her Major Healing ability to reattach the bone, and the Dark Elf's screams eased down to a dull roar.

“It still might not work like this.” The healer said and Ren gave her a Major Healing wand. “This... you...”

“Put it to good use, My Lady.” Ren said, and then she did. Even with the wand, it still took almost 10 minutes to diagnose and fix all the damage. Of course, once the arm was re-attached, the Dark Elf didn't want any more healing.

“You're done here.” The Dark Elf said and sat up. “You can stop feeding me.”

“I'm feeding your daughter, not you.” Ren said. “I'm doing all of this for her.”

“I know you are.” The Dark Elf said and tried to stand up. He stumbled a bit and his daughter caught him. With her help, he stood up straight. “You've done enough.”

“You know what? I changed my mind.” Ren said and looked at the daughter. “When you get big enough and think you can handle it, you come and find me.” He said. “Not for revenge, or to thank me.” He smiled. “Just to visit.”

The Dark Elf child could feel his sincerity, and that he did want to see her when she was older. A small smile appeared on her face and she nodded slightly. Ren eased down the Misery he was sharing with her to only a trickle and gave her a nod back.

“M'lady, I must take my leave.” Ren said to her, then took the healer's hand and walked out of the small cavern.

“Ugh.” The Dark Elf grunted and collapsed to the floor of the cavern when he thought they were out of earshot.

“Daddy!” The child exclaimed and tried to comfort him. “You shouldn't have sent him away so soon!”

“I had to.” The Dark Elf said. “Otherwise, we would owe him a debt that could never be repaid.”

“But...” The child wanted to argue with her father; but, she could feel that he didn't want to discuss it anymore and didn't continue her thought.

“Sorry to interrupt.” Ren said, and he saw both of them jump as they were startled. “I almost forgot to give you your present.”

“Present?” The Dark Elf asked, and he could feel his daughter's excitement.

Ren took out an Unnatural Armor Amulet with the Spider modification. “Put this on.” He said as he held it out to the child. She took it and slipped it on over her head, and it adjusted to fit and bound itself to her.

“It's beautiful.” She said as the gold sparkled and she felt the effects.

“That's not the present.” Ren said, and both the child and the Dark Elf looked at him in surprise. “That's just basic protection for you.” He took out a 4 foot wide plush tarantula and held it out to her.

“IEEE!” The girl squealed in delight and grabbed the spider that was just as big as her. Teepo chittered in laughter as the girl squeezed the plush spider tightly and rocked it from side to side as if it was a baby.

“That's your present for being such a good girl and helping your father.” Ren said. While the Dark Elf's emotions reeled over the feelings he felt from his daughter that he had never felt from her before, Ren went over to their old ratty bedrolls and replaced them with 2 nice beds with comfy mattresses, then left without another word.
