ATTENTION BRAVE SOULS OF NEW DARIA

JOIN THE ELITE RANKS OF THE ADVENTURERS GUILD

Are you tired of sitting on the sidelines while the forces of darkness encroach upon our lands? Do you hunger for glory, treasure, and the thrill of battle? Look no further! The Adventurers Guild wants YOU to be a part of the vanguard defending our realm from the perils that lurk beyond!

WHY JOIN?

GLORIOUS ADVENTURES: Immerse yourself in epic quests, face menacing monsters, and conquer treacherous dungeons. Every mission is a chance to carve your name into the annals of history.

INVALUABLE EXPERIENCE: Sharpen your skills in the crucible of battle. Gain experience in combat and grow your skills! Whether you wield magic or the sword, the Adventurers Guild provides unrivaled training to mold you into a true champion.

RICHES BEYOND IMAGINATION: Discover ancient treasures, lost cities, rare artifacts, and mountains of gold. Your efforts will be rewarded with spoils fit to make a dragon's hoard seem like loose change.

BROTHERHOOD OF THE BRAVE: Forge bonds with like-minded warriors, mages, archers, and rogues. As a member of the only transcontinental combat organization, you will command respect wherever you go. Together, we stand united against the forces that threaten our nation, our realm, and our world.

ENLIST TODAY, BECOME A LEGEND TOMORROW!

Visit your nearest Adventurers Guild chapter or our Headquarters in Southport to begin your journey. The realm awaits, and your destiny beckons – will you answer the call?

* Offer contingent on a full background check. The Adventurers Guild is not responsible for death, dismemberment or any other form of permanent damage incurred during guild duties. Support positions are available, non-combat classes are also welcome to apply.

- Recruitment Advertisement for the Adventurers Guild in Southport, New Daria.

Laurel’s Café had been fun, the food exquisite, and Ali had that contented happiness of a full stomach after some much-needed relaxation as they strolled back across town.

Not that I want to do this every day, mind you. Even just walking down the street in her finery caught the attention of all the passersby, leaving her with the uncomfortable sensation of always being watched. She didn’t enjoy being the center of attention at the best of times. It was, however, far better than the occasional looks of distrust or fear, but certainly not relaxing.

“That was a great lunch!” Mato said, rubbing his stomach, and burping contentedly. “I need to find out who their chef is.”

Ali chuckled, her tummy feeling just as happy.

“Mato!” Calen exclaimed, punching him on the arm.

“What? I’m a Beastkin…” he answered, as if that explained it. Malika just rolled her eyes.

Calen said, “There are ladies present.”

“Who are laughing –”

“I think we should all join the Adventurers Guild together,” Malika put in. She had mentioned wanting to join the guild during lunch, but this was the third time she was suggesting it.

“Why would we do that?” Mato asked, frowning.

Ali found herself nodding in agreement. The idea of joining a combat-focused guild filled her with something akin to anxiety. She had a combat class – or at least a hybrid – but her experience with combat so far hadn’t exactly left her hungry for more.

“We could quest together?” Malika responded, seeming enthusiastic about the idea. “It also might offer some protection.”

“The Adventurers Guild in Myrin’s Keep is not very well established,” Calen noted. “It’s really small and has few members.”

“It’s still respectable work for combat classes like ours, and it doesn’t require joining the Town Watch,” Malika countered. “And a good Adventurers Guild can be a force of stability in a town, helping to reduce crime. Unless you fancy yourself a soldier and want to join the garrison under Commander Brand.”

Mato snorted, “Do you really think a new Adventurers Guild can stand against the criminal syndicates?”

“Um… that’s a good point,” she said, scratching her neck. “Still, I wondered …”

“Actually, I think it might be a good idea,” Calen interjected.

Everyone stopped and looked at him. Ali remained quiet throughout the debate – she had already let them know she was uncertain about the adventurer’s life, but she was willing to trust her friends. If they all decided to join, she would too, and see where it took them.

“Joining the Town Watch is a hard no from me, but I’m pretty much broke – those thugs stole everything I had. The guild is likely to have quests for clearing out vermin and pests. They’re chores, but only combat classes can do them, so they would pay reasonably well. I’d like to buy new arrows and a replacement set of leather armor sometime soon – and pay my mother back for the money she’s lending me.”

That derailed the conversation for another five minutes while her three friends vented their frustration about the Town Watch situation, lamented the lack of decent leatherworkers, and commiserated over how expensive everything was.

“What about the Goblin horde?” Mato asked, finally bringing the conversation back on track. “Shouldn’t we be more worried about them?”

“Almost certainly, the Adventurers Guild will have quests related to Goblins. Even if they don’t yet, they will as soon as they show up. That means we can earn money defending ourselves against them,” Calen pointed out.

“Now you’re talking!” Mato said, clearly excited. His position on the Guild reversed the instant Calen suggested making money by fighting Goblins.

“Does it cost anything to join?” Ali asked, deciding to get involved after all. If it was expensive, it would be entirely out of her means and the decision would become moot at that point.

“I heard that this Guildmaster is offering free signups. The only obligation is that you do enough jobs or quests to pay off the cost of the guild membership ring,” Malika answered.

“Membership ring?”

“Oh yes, they have a ring with a quest tracker and a spatial magic storage enchantment,” Calen answered, his face lighting up. “It would be nice to have space to carry camping gear and extra arrows. We wouldn’t have to sleep on the ground anymore.”

“And food,” Mato added.

“And for you, a hairbrush and a few extra manners,” Malika teased the big Beastkin.

“Ooh, that sounds nice!” And with that, Ali was convinced.

***

The Adventurers Guild was nothing at all like Ali had imagined. It was housed in an unassuming building of mixed wood and stone construction in a quiet part of town, rather near the market. Nestled in among several merchants and other businesses, it stood out precisely because it didn’t try to catch her attention with bright signs advertising services and wares.

She waited as Mato pulled the heavy oak door open and held it for them and then stepped inside pausing to let her eyes adjust after the brightness of the sunshine outside. The guild hall that greeted them was not particularly large – wood-paneled walls decorated with trophies and stylized artwork depicting adventurers defeating monsters. The wooden floors creaked a little underfoot, covered with rugs in warm colors. A small reception desk stood near the doorway and, at the back of the hall, several people – mostly humans – sat at small tables near a bar finishing a late lunch, filling the air with the clinking of silverware on plates and the soft hubbub of quiet conversations. The aroma of toast and a hearty stew mingled with the sharper smells of polished steel and oiled leather. A stairwell, flanked by several potted plants, led to the second floor. There was a lounge area with several comfortable-looking chairs arranged around a hearth where a small crackling fire had been set, lending a radiant warmth to the entire room.

Ali grimaced at the sight of the preserved head of a monstrous boar mounted over the hearth, turning her gaze to the handful of people she could see in the bar and lounge areas. They looked like adventurers, which she confirmed quickly by identifying everybody.

Must be the members, Ali thought, noting that they ranged from level one up to around twenty. Nearly all were human, much like the demographics of the town itself, and most seemed to be warriors or rogues displaying a wide array of swords and daggers worn openly.

“Hi, we’d like to join,” Malika announced, approaching the reception desk. Her direct approach drew a few curious glances from the guild members, but they soon returned to their own affairs.

The pretty Elvish woman sitting behind the desk looked up with a ready smile on her face, which seemed to widen fractionally as she glanced at Calen. She had long flowing azure hair with big sky-blue eyes set in a delicate face. She wore a pair of stylish thin-rimmed glasses that flickered and shimmered in Ali’s mana sight. The fascinating magical interplay was rapid and surprisingly complex, leading Ali to guess it must be some type of communication device, or analysis tool.

“Hi, my name is Mieriel. I’m the Guild Administrator. I’d be delighted to get you all signed up.” She had a soft lilting voice, and as her delicately manicured hand touched the glasses, the magical array muted dramatically.

Out of habit, Ali identified her.

Spy – Sun Elf – level ?? (Mind)

Mieriel glanced at her, and an unfamiliar mana flickered briefly in her eyes, unlike anything Ali had seen before. Slightly disoriented, she caught herself staring and returned to the unusual notification.

Analyst – Sun Elf – level 18

Huh, wasn’t that just…

“Oh my, how stylish!”

Mieriel’s excitement caught her off guard, and she found herself staring at her once again.

Her eyes…

“I’d love to know who made your outfit, if you don’t mind sharing?”

“Uh…” The soft fragrance of summer lilies filled the air, and, for some reason, Ali felt confused. Wasn’t there something…

Mieriel just waited patiently, and Ali found herself answering automatically. “Oh, we were just at Lydia’s Allure, down on Artisan’s Row. Lydia made these for us as a favor.” Ali twirled, making her pretty dress flare as Malika had done earlier.

“Thank you! I will definitely pay her a visit then,” Mieriel said, a pretty smile on her face. “She is truly a genius, and you wear that so well.”

Ali smiled back and then waited while Mieriel processed everyone’s applications, the entire time bothered by a persistent feeling that there was something in the back of her mind that she just couldn’t remember.

It’ll come to me later, she thought, putting it down when it was finally her turn. Mieriel kindly brought a low wooden step stool for her to use so that she wasn’t standing under the desk.

“As I told the others, the guild membership ring is five gold. A percentage will be deducted automatically from your quest or job rewards until the cost is covered. Unless you wish to pay for it upfront?”

“No, that’s ok,” Ali said, accepting the agreement. It wasn’t like she could pay even if she wanted to.

Sliding a small glowing panel across the desk toward her, Mieriel said, “First, channel a little mana into this. The device will cast an Advanced Identify using your mana for the guild records.”

So, they do have devices, she thought, studying the panel with great curiosity as she channeled a little of her mana into it.

“Let’s see,” Mieriel said, scrutinizing the panel. “Aliandra Amariel. I love your name, so pretty! Mage class, Nature and Arcane. Race is Fae, obviously. Age…”

Mieriel stopped and stared at her over the rims of her glasses in surprise. “Are you really three thousand two hundred and eighty-seven years old?”

“Um… that’s … technically correct, probably?” Ali answered, feeling the skin of her cheeks growing warm.

“I’m sorry, that was rude,” Mieriel said quickly, looking quite mortified.

“No, it’s ok, it’s just complicated,” Ali reassured her. Well, now everyone knows exactly how decrepit I am. Me included. What’s a few millennia between friends?

Mieriel reached into a drawer and retrieved a bronze ring. Touching it briefly to the panel, she handed it to Ali. “Here’s your ring. Channel a little mana into it to key it to your mana signature and it will bind itself to you. You can track quests by touching it to the quest scrolls posted on that board by the fireplace.”

Ali channeled her mana into the ring, and then put it on her finger, happy to find that it adjusted to a comfortable fit automatically. She identified it.

Bronze Guild Ring – level 10A ring signifying bronze-level membership with the Adventurers Guild.Owner: Aliandra Amariel.Quests: None.Mana: Store or retrieve an item. Capacity: 200g / 25kg.Created by Giddy Clicksprocket.Ring

“Um, excuse me? It seems there’s something already stored in my ring…”

“Mine too,” Mato said.

“Oh, that?” Mieriel answered, smiling. “That’s a gift from the Alchemist shop on the corner, Pretty Powerful Potions. The proprietor, Morwynne Fizzlebang, thought it would be a great way to market her services by gifting every new adventurer with a Recall Potion. It’s an excellent way of getting out of trouble, as I’m sure you’re aware.”

Mato nodded emphatically, grinning as a vial of the black potion appeared in his hand with a subtle ripple of magic.

“Oh, nice!” Ali studied her ring. Her friends were all busy with their rings, but the controls seemed quite intuitive. All it took was a tiny trickle of her mana to activate the storage enchantment, and she suddenly found a view of what must be the inside of the ring’s spatial compartment somewhere off in the back of her mind – that same mental space where her notifications usually appeared, visible, but not interfering with her view of the world. She selected the only thing in it – a familiar-looking black potion – and suddenly it was in her hand. Same as the one Mato bought me. Ali found it even had the same smartass mana signature. Smiling, she used a few more points of mana and put the potion back in the ring.

“Welcome to the guild!” Mieriel congratulated them cheerily. “If you’d excuse me for a second, I’ll go get the Guildmaster. She prefers to interview all the new members so she can understand what kinds of jobs are best suited for you. Feel free to sit, browse the quest board, or purchase some refreshments at the bar. I’ll be back shortly.” And with that, she disappeared up the stairs.

Well, that was easy, Ali thought, joining the others over at the quest board. She dragged her wooden stepstool over so she could read the scrolls and leaflets pinned to the board. For a guild that had supposedly only just recently been formed, there were a rather surprising number of quests listed.

