Lots of work needs doing, I guess? There were requests ranging from help finding missing sheep, to collecting herbs in the forest, escorting merchant wagons, and exterminating spiders in a mine.

The herb one looks interesting, she thought, looking a little closer. She didn’t know what ‘Blue Mana Grass’ was, nor ‘Fire Flowers,’ for that matter. If I can grow them, perhaps I can make a little money on the side?

“Here, why don’t we get this one?” Mato suggested, putting a large finger on a scroll near the bottom of the board. The scroll was simple and to the point:

By order of the mayor, William Turner, the following bounty is set for Kobold extermination.

It was followed by a short list of payouts by monster level.

Ali touched her ring to the scroll as Mieriel had suggested and her ring glowed softly for a moment as it updated the quest tracker.

Bronze Guild Ring – level 10A ring signifying bronze-level membership with the Adventurers Guild.Owner: Aliandra Amariel.Quests: Eliminate hostile Kobolds in and around Myrin’s Keep – 0Mana: Store or retrieve an item. Capacity: 200g / 25kg.Created by Giddy Clicksprocket.Ring

“Too bad it doesn’t count the ones we already killed.”

“We’ll just get some more. It will be easier now that we’re stronger,” Mato reassured her with a kind smile. “It looks like it pays pretty well.”

A few minutes later, Mieriel reappeared. “Please follow me. The Guildmaster is ready for you now.”

They were led upstairs to a conference room of sorts. A little small and cozy, but there was a table with some chairs, and the walls were decorated with what must have been portraits of contemporary heroes. Ali didn’t recognize any of them, of course.

“Guildmaster, these are the new members I told you about – Malika, Mato, Calen, and Aliandra. This is Guildmaster Vivian Ross.”

Warrior – Human – level ???

Three marks! Vivian Ross’s identification and her high level caught Ali by surprise, and she quickly stopped herself before she made it too obvious that she was staring.

She must be over one hundred!

The Guildmaster cut an imposing figure with her long jet-black hair tied back in a functional braid. She wore striking red-and-black scale mail armor that looked like it might possibly be Dragonscale, and hanging from her belt were two slightly curved swords tucked away into plain black lacquered sheathes. She had an athletic build and held herself with an easy confidence that hinted at substantial physical power.

Ali felt a jolt as Vivian caught her gaze with her striking violet eyes, but her face and smile were welcoming.

“Welcome to the guild, I’m glad you decided to join,” Vivian said. She spoke with an unhurried calmness and a resonance that compelled attention.

“I’m Vivian Ross, a long-time adventurer and dungeon delver, now retired. I’ve seen the inside of the worst dungeons, and the most horrific bosses, and I’ve seen way too many novice adventurers, full of excitement and confidence, killed before they even reach level twenty. My vision for this guild is to train and educate people who wish to become adventurers and are willing to take advice, work hard, and value teamwork. Long-term, I believe that a strong and healthy Adventurers Guild will become a force against the crime and corruption that is so rampant here in Myrin’s Keep.”

That’s the same thing Malika said. Hmm. Maybe with her around that Kieran Mori would be throwing a few less people down into Kobold caverns.

Vivian studied each of them in turn. Ali suppressed an urge to apologize for not wiping her feet on the green mat outside this woman’s door. “You don’t need to share my long-term vision, but I insist that all members know and respect the guild’s goals. The guild is not your parent or school. If you do something stupid and die, it’s on you. This is a place to practice, find jobs, and people to work with and learn from. That said, if you actively sabotage the guild’s vision or any of its members, you will be expelled.”

She seems so intense, Ali thought listening to Vivian explain the guild’s mission. Perfect for Malika, though.

“Mieriel says you joined as a group, and I can see that you have at least enough skill and cooperation to pass the earliest levels on your own. You’re welcome to keep your current group, but four-person teams are quite rare – mainly because they typically lack some critical role, making them vulnerable. Five is our normal guideline. Once I understand your classes and experience a little better, I can also recommend people with compatible classes for you to consider. An actual choice will be up to you – I don’t make orders, but I’d ask that you seriously consider my recommendations.”

She wants us to have another person? Anxiously, Ali’s mind flitted back to the guildhall and the faces of the various strangers she had seen. I’m not sure I’d want anyone else…

“I know many people are private about their classes and capabilities, and for good reason. I won’t ask you to share more than you’re comfortable with – but the quality of my advice will be directly proportional to the quality of the information I have to work with. Just bear in mind that when you work with other members of the guild on bigger jobs, your abilities will become known quite quickly.”

Ali glanced at Malika, knowing that she had been hesitant to share, but she seemed focused on what the Guildmaster was saying.

She’s probably also assessing our knowledge, Ali worried.

Vivian scanned across the group unhurriedly before her eyes settled on Calen. “Why don’t we start with you? Calen, right? How about you tell me what you’re comfortable with sharing and how you see your role on the team?”

Clearing his throat lightly, he replied, “I’m an archer with a light magic affinity, ma’am. I have an archery proficiency skill and a magic damage enhancement for my arrows. My primary attributes are dexterity, intelligence, and perception, and I have an attribute boost skill for those. I have stealth, tracking, and silent movement. I have an advanced identification skill for monsters and areas, and for level ten I took a passive visual perception skill. My role on the team is scouting and doing as much ranged damage to monsters as possible.”

Calen’s organized description was exactly how Ali had come to see him in the short time she had known him. She just hoped she would be as collected as him, and not look like a fool in front of the Guildmaster when it was her turn.

Vivian nodded briefly, and Mieriel’s fancy glasses flickered as she took notes.

“Ambush?” Vivian asked.

“No.” Calen grimaced at the admission.

“We can work on that with training,” Vivian said. “Okay, Malika, how about you?”

To Ali’s surprise, Malika seemed to trust the Guildmaster and immediately spoke up, saying, “I’m a Monk. I have an unarmed martial arts proficiency skill and a soul magic damage enhancement for melee attacks. It has a small health drain component. I have an attribute boost, armor, and evasion skills, a touch-range heal, and a combat haste movement skill. I typically take the tank role.”

Again, Vivian nodded while Mieriel took notes.

“If she’s the tank, the Druid must be the healer?” she asked, turning toward Mato.

“No, I do damage,” Mato answered gruffly, drawing a raised eyebrow from Vivian.

“He’s a shapeshifter, and his heal is a self-heal,” Malika explained.

“Oh, can I see?” Vivian asked curiously.

Motioning the others to give him enough space, Mato showed off his Wolf and Bear Forms quickly.

“So big,” Vivian commented when Mato changed to his Bear Form, taking up so much space in the conference room that it instantly felt cramped. She followed up with several detailed questions regarding the forms, armor, and his attributes.

“I also have a damage redirection skill and an advanced regeneration aura,” Mato added.

“Oh, that’s unusual,” Vivian said. “How does that work?”

“I can take damage meant for other people within a twelve-foot radius,” he explained.

Ali shivered at the memory of a dagger stabbing her – well acquainted with Mato’s life-saving skill.

Vivian nodded, waiting for Mieriel to finish writing before turning to Ali.

“Aliandra, how about you? The identify scan seemed a little confused about your class.”

“I have a hybrid class – Mage and Scholar.” Ali saw real surprise flicker across the Guildmaster’s face for the first time.

“I have a hard time seeing how you guys leveled up with two-and-a-half damage classes,” Vivian pointed out. “What does your class do?”

Ali frowned as it suddenly dawned on her that Vivian had assessed her class as the half. Clearly, Mato and Calen were granted a full role as the damage classes on their team, but surprisingly, it was Calen who came to her defense.

He chuckled quietly and said, “Ali does more damage than me.”

“With a Scholar class?” Vivian sounded incredulous, but at least, she did not dismiss anything they had said so far.

“I normally take the role of damage, defense, or control,” Ali said, glancing at Malika who had first taught her the names and roles for adventuring. Malika just smiled at her, and Ali took some measure of encouragement from the support of her friends.

“I have an Arcane Bolt spell and a Barrier,” she began.

“Can I see those?” Vivian asked.

Ali summoned her barrier in the center of the table, quite substantially larger now than when she had first learned the skill. It popped into existence instantly and simply sparkled as Ali watched Vivian’s intrigued expression through the floating magic wall.

Vivian reached out and flicked it with a finger, making a small ringing sound. “Very nice,” she said. “The gold color is unusual; did you do that on purpose?”

“It’s always been that way,” Ali said. “My mother’s magic was the same.”

“A Fae thing, then? Why don’t you show me the bolts?”

“It needs a target,” Ali answered. “I don’t…”

“I got you,” Malika said, standing up.

Ali fired a few bolts at Malika before stopping. She was immediately reminded of the first time she had used the skill – that time also shooting her friend. Soul Magic looks so cool, she thought as Malika displayed her healing. We’ve come such a long way since then.

“Seeker bolts, very nice,” Vivian approved. “But I still don’t see how you do more than the archer. What other skills do you have?”

“I have some Scholar skills, something to help me learn languages and magic, Runic Script allows me to read and write magical runes, and a perception skill for seeing mana.”

“Not much use in combat, though?” Vivian pointed out. “At least not for damage.”

“She learned to inscribe a Druidic Restoration circle, which saved my life a few times,” Mato put in.

“Hmm,” Vivian answered.

“Mostly I don’t do much damage on my own,” Ali continued. “My minions do most of it for me.”

“You’re a Summoner?” Vivian asked. Both she and Mieriel visibly startled, sitting up straighter.

“Yes? My father was a Summoner, too.”

“What can you summon?”

“Mostly Kobolds,” Ali answered.

“Why would you choose Kobolds for your class summon?”

“I didn’t … choose? I just learned Kobolds.” What’s wrong with Kobolds? She was quite proud of them, actually. They had saved her and Mato’s lives down in the ruins – many times.

“Wait, you didn’t choose a minion when you unlocked your class?”

“No?” Is that how it’s supposed to work? Ali frowned, “I learned the Kobolds after we fought a bunch of them. I can make wolves, too.”

“Wow, that’s… interesting,” Vivian deadpanned, punctuating her nonplussed reaction with a quick grin. “Do you mind showing me?”

“Um, ok,” Ali answered, looking for support from her friends. She was feeling uncomfortable with this line of questioning, as if she were being judged by the intense scrutiny unleashed upon her class and choices, but her friends smiled encouragingly. At least they believe in me. But Vivian had such a high level – at least a hundred by the marks – and had to have an enormous amount of experience. Maybe this is just the opportunity I need to catch up on all that combat education I missed? She certainly knows how to focus on the important details, just like a good scholar, and she sounds like she might make an ally if we can keep on her good side.

Ali produced her Grimoire and summoned a Kobold. As soon as the black-scaled rogue appeared beside the conference table, Ali turned the pages, summoning leather armor and a pair of crude daggers for him.

Your reserved mana has increased by +57.

Rogue – Kobold – level 9

“I see. How many rogues can you make?”

“I can’t choose which kind it makes, nor the level. I sometimes get warriors instead,” Ali answered. “This one reserved fifty-seven mana, and I have nine hundred and forty-five, so I guess I could make sixteen of those if I didn’t want to cast anything else. Oh, and I have a skill that increases the damage of all my minions if they’re in range.”

“Well, that explains a few things,” Vivian answered cryptically. “I understand now how you guys have been leveling. Your group composition is very unconventional, and while you might still consider adding another member, I take back what I said before, you’re easily strong enough with just the four of you. In fact, you’re probably going to outperform many larger groups given the right conditions.”

Does that mean she thinks my class is ok? Ali brightened, trying not to fidget as the high-level warrior considered her for a moment longer than felt necessary.

After tapping her fingernails on the desk in front of her as if making a decision of sorts, the Guildmaster said, “I do have some immediate suggestions and advice for you all. As a team, you have all the major bases covered, albeit in unusual ways. I won’t recommend another person for your team unless you ask for it. I estimate that if you use your classes efficiently, you shouldn’t have trouble taking any of the bronze-ranked jobs suitable for your levels.”

Why did she change her mind about our team’s strength? Ali wasn’t certain because Vivian didn’t seem particularly easy for her to read, but her attitude had seemed to change when Ali summoned the Kobold.

“Normally, I would be careful telling a new team that they are strong for fear of making them overconfident – that usually gets novices killed quickly. But the fact is, you have a Summoner, and used efficiently, Summoners are unreasonably powerful. But she will also be the main vulnerability on your team.”

I’m strong? Ali didn’t feel very strong. Malika and Mato were both stronger than she was. No, she said strong and weak. Great!

