“You will need to structure your team a little differently. Calen. For you, I recommend training to unlock an Ambush skill or advancement. Paired with stealth, that would give you a huge advantage on burst damage.”

“Would you focus on burst rather than sustained damage?” Calen asked.

“Your kind of class benefits mostly from investing in dexterity and intelligence – both damage-enhancing attributes – but neither of those help you with mana or stamina. With your kind of class, sustained damage is difficult to develop without diluting your focus. With a ranged Ambush, you can eliminate the most dangerous soft target faster than any rogue or Assassin.”

Fire Mages, definitely, Ali thought, nodding her head.

“You will be highly dependent on good gear and consumables, so get familiar with using mana potions and buy yourself a better bow. Your role should be scouting, damage, intelligence, and pulling or splitting difficult monster packs. Practice your kiting skills.”

Kiting? I’m going to need to ask Malika to translate some of that later, Ali thought.

“Mato, you should consider the role of main tank, instead of Malika.”

Both of them glanced at her in surprise.

“But…” Malika began.

“Why?” Mato asked, folding his arms across his chest.

“I’ll explain my reasoning, but you should decide for yourselves. Mato, you have a strong self-heal, and your aura regeneration benefits all the melee fighters near you – the more the better. In your team, that’s Malika and Aliandra’s Kobolds. All your skills are melee and, other than your Charge, you are slow. Pinning you down to take the hits from the boss doesn’t limit you in any meaningful way. Plus, you have more natural armor than Malika does. You should definitely talk to the blacksmiths after you gain a few more levels – some of them can make shapeshifter gear. Heavy plate armor scales very well for strength-focused classes.”

Picturing a plate-armored bear in her mind, Ali did not know whether to feel excited or terrified. Mato’s normally open face was unreadable, his arms still folded across his broad chest and his expression carefully kept blank. Is he worried about Malika’s reaction to all this? Before she could consider it further, Vivian said:

“Malika, your class provides mobility and speed, and a touch-based heal. You are the team’s only general healer. Pinning you down loses about half of what your class is capable of. You’ll never reach your full potential if you give up your mobility.”

“What is my role, then?” Malika asked, scowling at her own hands.

“In a standard team I would say primary healer every time, simply because healing is so rare and crucial to the success of the team, but the Bear can do a lot of his own healing. So, your value to the team is versatility. You can do everything. You need to get good at reading the fight and choosing when to be a healer, a second tank, or a damage dealer. You won’t be the best at any role, but with some good training and appropriate skill choices, you can become great at all of them.”

Ali tried to read her teammate’s reaction. She’s not convinced.

“Aliandra, your primary role is support. As a Summoner, you will be bringing most of the damage to the fight, but you must learn to be adept at adjusting, defending, and generally controlling the flow of the battle with your abilities. You will need to adjust too – you will take different roles in different fights. Your minions are all melee fighters. That’s a big limitation.” Leaning forwards with her clenched fists upon the tabletop, Vivian said, “If you can learn new minions, you should choose ones that increase your versatility – find an archer type, or, better yet, a mage. That way, you can customize your team configurations. In the meantime, you’ll need to get your rogues better weapons and armor – those daggers are frankly awful.”

Ali squeaked in embarrassment, “Yes. Yes, they are.”

“So, everyone. Your team’s strength is its versatility; you have two sources of healing, and you can bring two tanks to any fight. Your weaknesses are a lack of area damage and general crowd control. And you lack escape skills. Especially the shapeshifter – he cannot use potions.” Mato grunted unhappily at this. “If you ever run into monsters with mind control or charm, you might find yourself fighting Aliandra’s minions and will likely die. If you’re serious about sticking together as a group, you should prioritize skills that benefit all allies, area buffs like Mato’s regeneration aura, and ways to prevent your weaknesses from being exploited. Right. Thoughts?”

It was a great deal of information for her to process, but Ali was very impressed with Vivian’s reasoning. Malika and Calen were both smart and knowledgeable, but Vivian was on a different level. Everything she had said made sense, especially her insights around using classes efficiently – gleaned from years of experience, no doubt. Although, maybe removing Grasping Roots was a mistake. Vivian had listed control as one of their weak points. It wasn’t all bad though, Ali hadn’t even considered the possibilities that would be unlocked if she had minions for different roles. Suddenly she felt much more excited to return to the ruins and try learning the Slinger Kobold, or even the Fire Mage. Could she even learn to summon a particular variant on command?

“I’m still not sure about this,” Malika muttered. “I’m hand-to-hand, and I prefer being right in their faces using my martial arts skills.”

Ali decided that both she and Mato seemed a little shell-shocked by the dramatic change in how they had perceived their roles on the team.

“Isn’t her suggestion just like how we fought the Goblin Warband?” Ali asked as the entire picture suddenly clicked in her mind. “Mato, you tanked the Bugbears and helped Malika with your aura. She healed you when the shaman blasted everything with that Lightning Bolt, and did damage when you didn’t need as much healing. Calen and my minions took out the mage and the shaman.”

“Oh…”

“Hmm…”

“Wait … you fought a Goblin Warband with elites and Bugbears?” Vivian’s demeanor flipped from lecture to serious in an instant. There was a razor edge to her piercing eyes that Ali hadn’t seen before, and the tone of her question silenced the room instantly.

“Yes, in the forest to the south,” Calen answered. “Commander Brand’s aide kicked us out when we tried to report it.” He was still obviously frustrated by their experience not being taken seriously by the authorities.

“Tell me everything,” Vivian insisted. Her intensity grew deeper, augmented with something that looked a lot like suppressed rage as Calen told her the whole story.

“Mieriel, let Brand know I’ll be over in twenty minutes. Tell him it’s an emergency.”

“Yes, Guildmaster.” Mieriel’s relaxed attitude vanished, replaced with that of an adjutant taking orders from her commander. She touched her glasses and a riot of magical formations flickered across the lenses.

“I’m sorry to cut our meeting short,” Vivian said, brusquely. “I need to deal with this immediately. Please check back soon, Mieriel should have some new quests and jobs related to town defense placed on the board at the latest by tomorrow morning.”

Clearly dismissed, Ali added her voice to the chorus of thank-yous from her friends headed back downstairs.
