The rest of the people in the classroom were either stunned, still lost by the science of the lecture, or grumbling. Except for the humans. They had packed up their stuff by now and were all looking at Erick. Krigea was looking at him, too.

Krigea stood up, then said, “Thank you, Mage Flatt, for this opportunity.” She turned to the humans, “Maia, Eduard, Ramizi. The Headmaster wishes you well, and to inform you that Ar’Kendrithyst is not to be taken lightly. Even you three could die in there. He also wishes to tell you that if you are lawfully exiled from Spur by Silverite, you are not welcome in Oceanside.”

Maia, the woman, said, “Well duh. I saw the writing on the wall before I [Teleport]ed here.” She nodded to Erick. “See you around.” She grabbed her book and papers. “Come on. Let’s go find some accommodations. Any place you’d recommend, Mage Flatt?”

“Please, call me Erick.”

Maia smiled. “Erick, then. I’m Maia, then. Nice to meet you.”

“Nice to meet you, too.”

Ramizi said, “Goddesses, it’s going to be so damn hot living here. I’m already sweating.”

“Let’s just go to the Adventurer’s Guildhouse.” Eduard picked up his books and papers. “We can figure out the rest later.” He nodded to Erick, then said, “Erick, then?”

“Yes.” Erick smiled. “Eduard, Maia, and Ramizi?”

“That’s the name!” Ramizi said, “And that was all rather interesting, but holy hell you actually spoke to Rozeta and you asked her to change your spell to be stopped by a weather [Ward]? I don’t know if that was genius, or stupid. You need to test it out with some Mana Alterations and see if you crippled yourself, or not.”

Erick grinned. “I’m not big on killing things so I don’t think it matters much.”

“That’s weird.” Ramizi frowned at him. “You’re weird. See you around.”

The three of them left. So did many others.

Soon, the only ones remaining in the classroom were Erick and Hera, and a few other stragglers, struggling to make sense of the chalkboards, going back and forth over the notes they had taken from the lecture.

Erick asked Hera, “Is Silverite going to hate me for this?”

“What?” Hera laughed. “What?”

“… Fuck. It’s that bad, huh?”

“No way! This is good! She already thinks you and Jane are some of the best things to ever happen to her city.” Hera stressed, “Getting more reasonable humans to join Spur is something she thought might take years, but it only took you a few ten-days to go from a complete unknown, to getting Headmaster-approved adventuring humans pledged to become citizens of Spur. If she isn’t in the middle of a bottle of her finest quicksilver, I’ll be flabbergasted.”

Erick spat out, “I thought she hated me!”

“What?” Hera looked stunned. “‘Hated’? What the fuck? Why?”

“Oh! I don’t know! Casually mentioning murder!”

“… Oh. Oh? Is this…? Hmm… I think this is a misunderstanding. Most likely a cultural difference.” Hera frowned. “Silverite likes both of you. Quite a bit. Sorry. Uh. How… How did you come to that conclusion, anyway? Uh. I… I don’t know what’s going on here.”

Erick frowned. Reluctantly, he admitted that his recent interpretation of events might have been due to cultural misinterpretation. He waved off that concern and asked a different question, “How would she know right now, anyway?”

“… Oh.” Hera frowned. “You don’t know that either! Of course you don’t? I can fix that problem! Okay. So. When you’re meditating, you sometimes see hallucinations, yes? Sometimes, they aren’t hallucinations. Like. Go ahead and meditate right now.”

A sudden chill crept across Erick’s skin. Suddenly, he really, really, did not want to meditate.

Hera put her hands on her hips. “Just do it. I’ll show you. It’s not scary.”

Reluctantly, Erick began Meditation. Now that it was active, he could see maybe a thousand thousand eyes floating all around in the ebbs and swirls of the lecture hall’s ambient mana. Usually, he considered those hallucinations. But maybe they weren’t. Almost all of the eyes were not looking at him, but instead looking at the chalkboards.

A ghostly yellow eye appeared in front of him, between him and Hera, looking almost exactly like Hera’s own open eyes, but bigger. Yellow, slitted like a cat's, and glowing, Hera’s third eye moved around her.

Erick vacillated between terror that the eyes he had seen were real, and the casual conversation that Hera was trying to have with him. He could have either pissed himself or laughed at the whole thing. It was a tossup as to which was going to actually happen.

She said, “This is one of the primary applications of [Scry]. If you know what to look for, you can see these eyes through the other hallucinations.”

Erick laughed. “So that’s what those are!”

“Yeah.” She tilted her head. “You’ve probably had a few of these on you, haven’t you.”

“Oh? Yeah. Not often, but sometimes.”

Erick tried to ‘see through the hallucinations’ right now. Almost all of the eyes in the room vanished, except for maybe a hundred. They were all looking at the chalkboard. A few were looking at him and Hera. One of those eyes was bright silver. Hera pointed to that one.

“We’ll get to the eye problem later. But that’s Silverite. We’re communicating with [Telepathy], right now, but she can see you with this.” Hera said, “She wants you to know that she is very happy with what you have done today, and she apologizes for any miscommunications and offense she might have given.” Hera added, “But you do want to have a war spell active in town, so, like, come on, Erick. No one is comfortable with that hanging over their heads, and she has to think about everyone. And yes, she knows about the weather [Ward] thing. But like Zago and the new human mage said, a bit of Mana Altering and you could do some damage on a whim. Maybe even accidentally.”

“Right. Right.” Erick stared at the silver eye floating in the mana in front of him. “Right. Right.”

But all he could see was the giant shadow in the background, sticking to the edges of his vision.

Watching him.

He asked, “Is there a way to prevent people from spying on me?”

“Right. The eyes you have seen.” Hera said, “There’s an easy solution, there. Just throw your Willpower or Focus at them and they usually pop, but it would be impolite to do such a thing in a place like this. Go ahead, and try to pop mine.”

At that, a lot of Erick's paranoia vanished. He felt better. He focused on the yellow eye, trying to bat it away with his mind.

“For a Focus attack you need to pierce the eye; pop it like a bubble. For a Willpower attack, you smash it. Try again.”

Erick imagined a needle, popping the eye. Hera’s yellow [Scry] eye burst into fragments of magic that drifted away to join the sea of ambient mana.

Hera’s eyes dimmed back to normal yellow. “Good job. So? About the eyes you have seen?”

“I don’t want to talk about that right now. I can figure that out myself, and there usually aren’t eyes by the Sewerhouse. Al probably pops them all and he didn’t want me to freak out. I need to lie down.”

“Then I’ll escort you to the Sewerhouse, and leave you when we get there. Someone else will be there in the morning to bodyguard you in this trial period.” Hera added, “If this keeps up like I think it will, I doubt you’ll have a bodyguard for more than a month.”

Erick nodded, then led the way out of the lecture hall, and out of the Mage’s Guildhouse.

The giant shadow did not follow.
