“Less fire! LESS!” Shiv bellowed telepathically. Marikos might have been a Legendary warrior, but he had to have a Mythic-Tier Skill of not listening to felling directions. “Marikos! Less heat! LESS! Not more!”

But Marikos was determined to remain unpersuaded. “But he's challenging me, Deathless! He thinks his flames burn hotter than mine. He thinks he's the true master of fire. I will not take such a slight. We must see who stands and who kneels!”

Candles, meanwhile, gave no coherent response; instead, he let out a piercing, maniacal shriek and doubled his output. A stream of Pyromancy speared out of his body, cupping the base of the pot. It was so dense with matter that it was practically solid, pressing into the culinary infrastructure.

He and Candles were hovering on opposite sides of the great pot, so wide and black it was practically like an inverted dome looming on the horizon, blocking the surface district's view of the Abyssal gateway. Its bottom was now glimmering dark red, ominous in heat and glow. It was also so bloody hot that Shiv was actively juggling the uncooked potstickers and battering away rising columns of erupting flame to prevent his food from being turned to ash.

He really should have seen this coming, but his political machinations had suppressed his coaching experience. He was thinking too much about driving the Dragon-Brokers and knights together, having them gathered in conflict or potential harmony, that he failed to apply his social instincts to the Pyromancers he sought to command. I'm really starting to understand why Georges smoked so much. Trying to lead people is just a pain in the ass.

“Complain less,” the Harbinger chided. Shiv felt something crack in his ribs as he became aware of his own petulance. The injury he sustained from shame was minor, but a big reminder; his Undelved Legendary Skill came with a burden to bear. “Focus on distracting Candles. The pot is hot enough. In fact, it needs to be cooled down—tilt your head.”

Shiv did, and a two-dimensional toad animated an expression of pain as it shot past him like a rocket. It didn't rise alone; from all corners of the 300-meter-wide pond, nine or so toads bounced up and down, clutching their throbbing foot-burns that projected jetstreams of boiling steam. Each time they soared into the air, they dragged a partially cooked potsticker in their wake. Though the toads were far smaller than the loads they drew, they were also Fae, and more specifically, ones that had power over food; they were using the very injuries they sustained as propulsion somehow—and gaining levels from the mayhem.

To Me My Toads 1 > 5

Such was a reminder of his new armor. Though it had been dormant in the past few days, it came alive when he cooked, and the fairies enchanted into its sinews, chitin, and ingredients proudly sprang into action as a rain of toads dressed as parodies of Shiv.

They appeared from nowhere to the startlement of the other Dragon-Knights and Tall Ben’s mirth. The Hydra-Knight bashed his heads together, cheering and whooping as the Fae toads poured it around Shiv, performing an entire dance routine in anticipation of the undertaking to come.

If Shiv ever had the gall to forget that his armor was awakened, alive, and a thing reforged in the Fairwoods, he need only invoke one of its Skills to be reminded. But the Skills it provided were useful indeed. Strange and off-putting though the toads were, they also worked with a fervent determination that put most commises to shame.

To Me My Toads was quite the strange Skill. On the surface, it should have been classified as a summoning Skill, but it didn't work when there was no food or preparation to be done. Shiv could call upon his toads at any time, but they were worthless in combat, possessing no capability to harm, and often bumbled about even when they were helping him with preparation, tripping over things comically, causing a mess as they tumbled down the slope of the pot before blasting up into the air with their asses scalding red.

That was the way they performed all their designated tasks: in fits of near incompetence. If there was something to mishandle, they would, and then they would try to remedy the situation at the last second—often making things worse.

Despite that, they were still basically an entire group of prep-cooks that Shiv could call on at any time. And judging by the slight improvements in gait and performance he saw, the increase in levels saw them gain competence as chefs more than anything else.

Come to think of it, they’re just sillier toad versions of me when I was starting out. Need to have them practice more.

“Deathless One!” one of his toads screamed in a warbled voice. Shiv saw the toad's left arm and leg thrashing from underneath the midnight-colored pot while the rest of his body was utterly roasted by the flames. “I am stuck! I am burning! Oh, my skin! My skin is turning potstickered first! Aid me, sweet master! Aid me!”

Shiv didn’t aid him—mainly because there wasn’t a point. “Fifth felling time,” Shiv spat under his breath, struggling not to gnash his teeth together. “Stop diving under the pot!”

“I keep dropping the potstickers, sweet master!” the trapped toad wailed between sobs.

Shiv rolled his eyes. “Hey! The rest of you shape up, or I’ll be sticking you down there with him.”

Suddenly, the eyes of the screaming toads shooting up into the air bulged wide, and then narrowed in determination. Somehow, that made their jaws turn square and their cheekbones grow thicker. Their bone-armored bodies swelled with rippling muscles as well, and each one of them then began piledriving the potstickers they carried back into the pot, slamming against the curved, glimmering blackness like artillery shells.

“Yes, Head Chef Deathless!” the toads cried out in unison. “Glory to the Sky-Swallowing Carp. We will destroy these potstickers!”

“No!” Shiv shouted. “No destroying the potstickers! Cook! Slow cook! Fry them well! Don’t—”

Potstickers weren’t very durable. Potstickers weren’t artillery shells. Treating them as such had deleterious consequences. In an instant, several of the half-fried dough-crusts burst open, causing the chives and ground pork to come spilling out.

“Oh, no, we burst them!” one of the toads wailed, crushed in the mashed ingredients now turning to a pile of ash at the base of the pot. To add insult to injury, the amphibious fuck wasn’t even responding to the heat anymore, despite pressing its entire body against the hottest part of the pot.

Shiv’s mind became as if a purified crystal in terms of clarity; the sheer rage building inside of him would have been enough to drive his younger self Berserk three times over. This kept him from trying to strangle one of his own toads—again. Instead, he left his fairies to their own devices as he finally went about solving his true problem: Candles.

Flinging the boulder-sized potstickers he was juggling back onto a nearby tray, Shiv launched himself at Candles while he directed his Harbinger toward Yellowbelly. “Keep rolling the dough. I’ll be back in a moment.”

“Are you sure?” Yellowbelly asked, dragging a rolling pin the size of a clock tower over dozens of flattened dough slices. “You seem to be quite beleaguered, Deathless. Are you sure you don’t want any aid from the many, many chefs of High Harbor?” The Dragon-Broker’s shit-eating grin turned shittier and grinnier. “I’m sure someone possessed of a Heroic-Tier Cooking Skill or higher would be of great insight to your current difficulties.”

Beside him, the other dragons were working away as well. Tall Ben was literally using his own necks to flatten out more potsticker slices, while Tallowine—the greatbow-wielding Dragon-Knight—regarded Shiv’s toads with a slightly perturbed expression. At least his political scheming bore fruit when it came to Know-Nothing and Garrulous. The two Brokers were chattering away with the Descender Scribe-Knights—mainly on how they hadn't expected the kitchen to remind them so much of the battlefield.

“Watched one of my battle-sisters burn to death like that toad there, I did,” one of the Scribe-Knights said with a shudder. “Same way too: Monster we were trying to bring down was awakened, and loved cooking everything. Slammed his cauldron right down on top of her. Toughness kept her alive long enough to suffer. Still hear her screams… Sound just like that toad’s too.”

“Cooking is supposed to bring joy, Shiv,” the Harbinger growled, terse and frustrated.

I know.

“We are supposed to impress people with our mastery and dedication to the culinary arts. Not start a cooking circus freak show that leaves them baffled at this carnival of madness!”

I know! Just get off my felling back. I’m going to try to fix this.

“Candles!” Shiv shouted as he nearly tackled him out of desperation.

“B-burn,” Candles babbled, sounding even more unhinged than normal.

“Oh, for fuck’s—No! Stop burning for a moment and listen!”

Candles’ head snapped toward him, and the radiant spots he had for eyes in his bony sockets widened. “Burn while listening?”

Shiv started gnashing his teeth together. “Yeah. Sure. Great. Listen. I need you to burn something else. Other than the pot.”

“Something else?” Candles asked, confused. “What else? Nothing else around that I can keep burning without problems except…” And he turned his gaze toward Starhawk’s Perch of all things.

“No!” Shiv hissed. A deep and desperate thought came to him. Maybe we should just kill Candles. Fuck, I miss Gone. Actually, where is she? I never have this problem with her. “No. Listen. Just… just try to see if you can fry one of my toads.”

Shiv’s toads all froze mid-air somehow. There was also a zipping or scratching noise that sounded out of place.

“Uh, Deathless One?” One of the toads gulped. “What did you just say?’

“Burn toad?” Candles asked, his voice filled with confusion and curiosity.

“Yeah. Burn toads. Bet you can’t do it?”

“Burn toad!” Candles shouted.

“Yes!” Shiv cheered.

“Nooo!” the toads cried, kicking their legs as they tried to flee.

Stay! Shiv mentally commanded, and his will echoed through his armor, pinning each of the toads in place. Each one of them stiffened in mid-air, as if they were frozen inside a block of invisible ice. The way they dramatically shivered accentuated that metaphor.

Candles shifted his mana. Upward. Shiv grinned. The toads shook their heads—

And then Shiv felt his physical body get cleaved in half by a beam of concreted fire as Candles never stopped channeling his Pyromancy.

Candles! You—you stupid, unthinking, insane fuck! Was what Shiv wanted to scream, but that was a little hard to do when his nearest form was back atop the Perch.

“You really should have anticipated this,” the Harbinger criticized gently. “You know your physical forms lack the full protection of your Magical Resistance unless you infuse the skill in full. You should have used your Severed Shadow instead.”

Should have, Shiv thought glumly. Got caught in the moment. Finally got to really cook again.

“And you were scheming for actual politics more than you were considering the risks to your kitchen,” the Harbinger added. The Skill suppressed a burst of embarrassment. “There are a great many things to consider, and we face countless challenges. But we were the ones that chose to take on this responsibility, and so we must bear it well. There will be consequences if we choose to be halfway between a chef and a duplicitous schemer. Think about what you intend before you do it.”

I did.

“No. You imagined a delightful outcome where your scheming bears fruit, and everyone was in awe of your cooking at the same time. There is a difference between a fantasy and a prediction.”

Shiv winced inside. Of all the things the Harbinger said, this one cut the deepest.

“But the cooking is not done; we face no severe loss. Go and finish your potstickers. Commit to the cooking now and resolve the matter of Candles and Marikos. They can still be useful, so long as they—”

“YOU DARE STRIKE DOWN MY FRIEND AND HOST! I WILL SEE YOUR FLESH CAKED AGAINST THE BEDROCK OF THIS DIMENSION!”

The insides of the Perch shook.

Marikos’ fury shattered whatever calm conversation was unfolding between Isabella and Adam’s parents. “W-what was that?” the girl gasped. “What’s happening?”

Roland shot a look at Shiv that screamed, do you need my help?

Shiv just coughed. “Uh, minor kitchen dispute that I caused, which might turn into a homicide. Just give me a second. Let me see if I can handle this.” And though it bothered him to do so, Shiv exercised some wisdom. “Uh, Roland. Can I borrow you for a moment? Just in case?”

“Place yourself upon my mace, Legend Candles! Let me grant you deathhhh!”

Shiv felt something inside him die—fuck, Georges, how did you do it? “Anyway, let’s get back outside before this minor spat turns into a brawl between two Pyromancy Legends.”

“Legends?” Isabella echoed, eyes wide. “I… Well, the perch should be warded from flames, right?”

Shiv scoffed. “They’re Pyromancy Legends, Isabella,” he answered. “It's unlikely the Parch’s current wards can—”

“Then get out there!” she almost screamed in alarm. “Why are you here explaining this to me!”

“Yeah. Good point! Rola—fuck!”

“What? What’s wrong, Shiv?” Roland tensed.

“Nothing,” Shiv said, glaring at the single notification.

Pyromancy 41 > 50 (Skill Evolution Imminent)

“Nothing at all. Just didn’t get any of the levels I really needed to make me reconsider ever bothering with cooking at all."
