Let me tell you something, Shiv. If I wanted to torture someone, right? If I had someone I really, really fucking hated, and I wanted to torture them to death, I'd make them a leader. Because there's nothing worse in this life than being in charge of other fuckwits.

I see that stupid blank look on your face. Yeah, I know the one. Look, whatever you're thinking, that's not it. What the nobles do, that's not leading; that's bossing people around. They tell someone to do something, and then they don't bother to make sure that it's done well. They're like giant children, and the Republic’s designed to keep those cunts happy instead of seeing things properly done.

Leading is something else. It's like pulling shit upstream, back into your own ass, including what other people shat out. You have to know what they've eaten. You have to know how strong they are, what they're good at, when they're having problems or half-arsing their felling job. And you have to do that while you're trying to deal with your own problems, while you're trying to keep the entire kitchen from burning down because one of the fucking idiots decided to leave a mess of siltgrass on an open fucking flame! Actually, let me make that metaphor better. You are in charge of everyone shitting. There is a certain amount of shit that they need to deposit inside a certain pot. If it's the wrong pot, the pot breaks and the shit spills everywhere, and everyone has to step in it. If there's not enough shit, you're too poor, and some of you die from starvation or something stupid. You also have to make sure no one sets any of the pots on fire, because then we'll be choking on shit fumes!

So, to answer your question as to why I'm so godsdamn pissed off all the time, that's how I feel. I have to worry about everyone else's shit, I have to worry about my own shit, and I have to worry that our shit doesn't merge into a giant shit-crusted layer on the floor before we all slip and fall face-first into burning shit.

Shit shit fucking shit I hate being in charge of this kitchen, I hate it so much I love it, and if you’re unlucky enough to be in charge of anything someday, you’ll learn to hate and love it too.

Now, for the love of my fucking sanity and all the shit we need to do, DON’T LEAVE SILTGRASS ON AN OPEN FLAME YOU SHIT-WIT!

—Georges Archambault to Shiv

380

This Shared Moment of Flavor and Monologue [III]

“A line? How the fuck is there a line? Just how many people did Arrow invite to this thing?” Gunhead’s rear hammer rattled in agitation as his cylinder cycled over and again. “We’ve been sitting out here for seven hours. Seven hours, just to get into some backwater Cat-3 Gate!”

Morgan said nothing, but his scowl signaled his accord. Packed tight in the damp, dark crevice that served as the Terminal Opus’ combat information center, he and his Ranger Lance observed the outside through a series of Awareness sensors and magical telemetries. They'd expected to see the usual assortment of spells and wards—the soft northerner variety, where everything was raw power and resource. Bunkers and layered barriers rather than any kind of distance or pre-emptive threat detection.

What they didn't anticipate, however, were thousands upon thousands of mana signatures gathered around the Gate, with more arriving every few minutes. Indeed, the surface portal leading into Gate Piety was choked by bodies. Massive bodies, little bodies. Bodies clothed in varying colors, bearing differing banners. Bodies nested in dense walls of metal and bodies veiled by the thinnest silks.

A series of encampments already littered the outsides of the gateway, and from what the Rangers could tell, only a scant few beleaguered guards—aided by someone possessed of a thread-based Heroic-Tier Psychomancy Skill—were processing the visitors. Though Gate Piety worked with all their might, they were still overloaded by the sheer amount of pilgrims who were summoned by Roland Arrow.

“Arrogant shit wasn’t kidding when he said he was calling people in from everywhere,” Morgan muttered.

A stretch of violet mana constructs was arrayed on the table before him, Divination magics capturing what was happening around the Terminal Opus on a strategic level. The Crawler created an informational overlay of the local geography and all detected entities that could be found therein. As such, for fifty kilometers, they mapped out every single life form and camp currently undergoing formation.

The Storm King's Court’s delegation had already arrived, and though they numbered only two hundred, two hundred sky beasts, each one the size of a small building, bearing weapons of Heroic-Tier or above, made for quite the sight. At their helm was a colossal, winged tiger whose eyes leaked bolts of forking lightning that trailed back through the tumultuous clouds above.

Alarmed by their presence, the local Yellowstone Prismatic Guard formed a cylindrical perimeter, trying to keep the Storm King's forces contained. But while the Republic's forces numbered many, the sheer amount of dangers surrounding them was even greater.

Less than two kilometers away from the Storm King's Court was the Silverclaw Armada, a pirate merchant group that came ashore on hulking titanships which sprouted crab-like legs from husks of wood and metal that they used to scale the Tidewall. At the helm of a dreadnought sporting so many cannons and extending so long that it practically went over the horizon in length, was the titular Silverclaw—an awakened lobster. It held its cutlass high and loudly spat slur after slur at the local Republic interceptors, demanding that they back off before he did the unthinkable: took them to court at the capital.

And from the south came all manner of other freaks and eccentrics. Morgan’s Rangers detected no less than sixteen diplomats dispatched by the cults of blood and sacrifice. Each one carried twin flags: one white, and the other representing their patron god.

The one Morgan personally recognized was the Wolf of No Suns—an ambitious lesser god of the southlands. The wolf's emissaries bore all the gifts granted by his godly patron, and were dressed in borderline offensive ensembles of wolf pelts, wolf capes, and wolf heads, while their own bodies were twisted into the shapes of werewolves.

Would be like me wearing the skin of other humans, Morgan thought, scowling even harder. But that’s just the kind of taste I’d expect from the southern leeches.

The Wolf’s' emissaries stood alone at the back of the Southern congregation. Though the Strayed Ones were all arrayed against the Republic, none of them held any love for one another. In the end, even should they band together and sweep across the territories of Yellowstone, they would go back to the way they were, ripping into each other in a carnal carnival of cannibalism and perpetual internecine conflict. For that was the way their gods were, and so too would that be the way of their subjects.

Normally, the Yellowstone Republic would have never allowed them to set foot on these lands, but these were emissaries, and they bore the custom twin flags: one signaling their pacifistic intentions, the other clearly identifying who they represented.

Diplomacy mattered even between hated foes. For before the fighting was over, deals still needed to be struck and accords needed to be formed. Anyone who spouted platitudes and boasts of there being no mercy didn’t understand the business of war. Even between the grayskins and Lone Star, there'd been prisoner exchanges and moments of truce. Frankly, that was the worst part about the orcs. They understood peace. They understood what deals they had to make.

The Prismatic Guard was comparatively far less experienced. They were scrambling their units in all directions, going north to intercept a congregation of massive blue-skinned warriors clad in dense mammoth furs and wearing armor of stone and embedded runes. The Jotun were here, and leading them was a blind Seeress representing their High Jotun and the Winter Eternal. Though they too bore the twin flags of truce, the Prismatic Guard seemed more than a little reluctant to let them come forth, so much so that they ignored the southerners entirely and committed the bulk of their auxiliaries to deal with the few hundred Frost Giants entering the fray.

And then there were the smatterings of owl-masked Pathbearers; the treacherous, snake-tongued snake-fuckers of New Albion were here too. What had possessed Roland to invite them? Morgan didn’t have a clue—he just knew it was a fucking mistake. There was never a good reason to invite a pack of jackals into your house, even if you were sure that you could trap them.

And these were just a few of the invited guests who were present. There were even more coming over the horizon, seeking to bypass the wards that line the Pacific, coming in from the east in groups and convoys, in bursts of Dimensionality, hopping continents or even worlds to answer the Dread Horizon’s summons.

Then there was the Terminal Opus and all the Rangers it carried. They weren't like anyone else here. They weren't even supposed to be here. Morgan relayed Roland’s message to high command, and the indecisive, yellow-bellied sacks of shit did what they always did: they kicked the ball. They waited and they thought and they debated, and meanwhile, the orcs still didn't invade. Meanwhile, the Culturist was in Roland's hands there and not beneath Morgan’s barrel. And so the Hero-Ranger did what he always did. He acted first and decided that he would take the consequence up the ass without giving a single shit later.

Yeah, high command might demote him. They might stick him in a factory prison for a few months, but then inevitably, there would be another war. They would need every able-bodied warrior back on the line. After a series of pointless mistakes, after countless lives lost that didn't need to be, they would call him back to the line. They would make him a deal that would give him everything he had before and then some. With the coming of the next season, they'd do this shit all over again.

Command never learned—they just made everyone else foot the bill for their mistakes. But Morgan wasn't rich enough to play at not caring anymore. If there was a chance to strike at the orcs at all, if there was a chance to bleed them, to hurt them properly, he was gonna take it. If this was a trap, then he'd shoot his way out. Because he wasn’t going into that Gate without the Terminal Opus, and with how many Post-Heroes were gathered here, Morgan doubted a big old war machine like his was going to be a problem.

But with that came a realization: he and his Rangers were just some small fish among the many. They weren't going to be able to dictate terms here. If he had any inkling as to what Roland was about to do, it was probably going to get real political. It was probably a shitshow engineered in advance to cause as many headaches for the Yellowstone Republic as possible.

A sigh escaped him. “Think we might have brought too many guns and not enough suits and whiskey.”

“Suits?” Sooth said, her rune-carved face creasing into a frown. “Are we to play house with the northerners?”

“We are to suck every shit nugget out of their asshole and pretend it's chocolate if it means getting our hands on the Culturist and finding a way to hit the Challenger where it hurts,” Morgan replied. He looked over his Rangers and considered his options. “Alright, Sooth, I want you on Divination duty. Get me as many details about the attendees as possible, starting from the most powerful High-Tiers. I want to know everything about everyone coming here. Gunhead! I’m approving leave. Take whoever you want and go mingle around the camps. Just come back alive.”

“You serious, boss?” Gunhead froze mid-revolution. “You never approve leave, especially not in the middle of a campaign. You sure you feeling good?”

“It's got nothing to do with feeling good. It's got everything to do with me not wanting some other son of a bitch to take what's ours. That orc's scalp belongs on my hip. That portal into the Tutorial? Lone Star needs that too. So, I want you to go out and start doing your brand of politicking before the actual politicking gets started and we lose whatever edge we have.”

And wasn't that the truth? They were Rangers, not diplomats—this wasn't their battlefield at all. But when were things ever ideal? When were the terms ever up to them? They were Lone Star. They made do against the impossible, and they kept making do until some day they'd come out and they'd have a future instead of an eternal, unending hell.

Morgan gritted his teeth. “Not gonna bullshit you guys. I'm feeling as much of a fish on dry land as you are, but we're here. Whatever game Roland's playing, well, we're gonna find a way past that. Whatever it takes, whatever we have to do. By the Colt or by our Will.”

A series of mumbles invoking the Colt and the Will answered him, and though Morgan grew dour, and Sooth’s hollow eye sockets lit up with hateful magic as she went back to sneaking glances at her kinfolk from the Scarlands, John Gunhead gave one of his happy little clicks as he chambered a new bullet and got up and out of his firing slot. “Well, then, guess today’s the day I finally make some use of my Silver Tongue.”

“Just try not to empty yourself into someone prematurely,” Sooth jabbed.

The automaton barked a laugh. “How many times do I have to tell you this, Sooth? I got more loads inside me than you can see.”

Morgan closed his eyes. “John. Get the fuck out of here before I put one of my loads in you.”

“Got it, boss. Ground leave, here I come.”

Morgan grunted. “Sooth. Second job: make sure his dumbass doesn’t get killed.”

She gave a rare smirk. “Always on that, boss.”

***

