Wang Sifu worked quickly, cleaning the whole shoulder, wiping down from her collarbone to her wrist, brisk and clinical, the smell of rubbing alcohol cutting cleanly through the herbal warmth of the room. He laid the gauze in even, practised wraps, avoiding uneven compression. It was a modest cast that started at her forearm and extended to her elbow, designed to constrain her movements. “Is this resin?” Eppie was surprised. UV-Resin was rare even in hospitals.

“We are sport clinic,” Wang Sifu answered with a smirk. “High tech.”

While curing her arm with a buzzing lamp, Lim’s father unexpectedly touched her chin. He lifted her face, checking for bruises.

Eppie looked up, unsure of the man’s intent.

“Who did this to you?” Senior Wang asked casually. “Was it William?”

The flatness of the question, the matter-of-factness of it, floored Eppie so profoundly she almost slid from the chair.

“No,” she replied a little too fast. “Someone else did this.”

Wang Sifu examined her again, this time as Lim’s father. The bruise, the dress, the torn seam, the ruined make-up, the soaked fabric. He looked at Zara, at the cream-caramel leg she had peeking out of the designer dress.

Senior Wang nodded slowly, sadly, his expression wooden. “In your line of work—men beat you often?”

“What?” Eppie’s whole train of thought derailed. She saw in the reflection of his eyes an old man who clearly misunderstood everything.

“No! No, it's not—” She floundered, her excuse collapsing under its own weight. “It's not like that. I had to fight this rapper. It was the Grammys! We were filming!”

The more she spoke, Eppie realised, the more she sounded like she was lying.

“Zara! Show him! Show him on YouTube!” FOR THE LOVE OF GOD, PROVE TO HIM WE’RE NOT CALL GIRLS!

Then, Mr Wang smiled. It was a cheeky, mischievous smirk. “I know. My son cares a great deal about you. He talks about you constantly.”

“Oh my God, my heart…” Eppie groaned. Who knew that Wang Sifu was also a stand-up comedian?

“Just like the girl he loved. Luciana Mio.”

The floor dropped out from under Eppie. Zara let out a little gasp.

Eppie looked at Lim’s father. Was the man serious? Was he seriously serious?”

Wang Sifu sat. He folded his hands in his lap, unhurried, the way he did everything.

“Ah-Lim told me about you. About poor Miss Mio. About Chen-ye’s granddaughter. We know of Ah-Chen’s sins.” He allowed the shock to settle before continuing. The word he used was in Cantonese. Jeui-jip, meaning karmic iniquity. Weight. Burden.

“You all know about it?” Eppie asked carefully.

“Not all. Xiao-Meng, that’s Kitty, told her mother the same day. Sister Meng did not tell her husband, considering what Kitty had to do to hide Ah-Chen’s jip. Her father’s a hot-headed one. Very protective of his daughter.”

“How much do you know?” Eppie felt no desire to elaborate, in case all of this was Mr Wang’s ruse.

“We know enough.” Wang Sifu removed the UV lamp. The cast was done. He stood. “Good. I get Yan Hu Suo. Good for pain.”

Corydalis concoction, Eppie translated for herself, still thinking of Wang’s words.

When he came back, he was with Lim.

“Euphemia! Are you alright?” The gentle giant was beside her at once. He greeted Zara, inspected the cast, the sling, her bare, bruised shoulder, and the state of her dress, and assumed the exact expression Curon had when walking through the door.

“I am perfectly fine; I am not in pain. This has nothing to do with William. I just got back from the Grammys. I saved someone and got injured!” She blurted everything all at once just in case Lim had a Glock 19 stashed between the dried mushrooms and the frog pills.

“Ah?” Lim’s pupils refocused. “... Could you repeat that?”

She repeated herself in detail. Kel, the vase, the shoe-throw, Curon asking for a gun. Lim listened without interrupting, arms crossed, jaw tightening by degrees. Not finding any of it funny.

"You are too reckless," he said when she finished. Not angry, exactly—but tired in the sense of an older brother who'd been saying the same thing since he saw her solo jogging in the dark, on a campus where William Chen prowled.

“Maybe I need a bodyguard,” Eppie joked, deadpan, lifting her cast slightly for emphasis.

“Would you take an accountant?” Lim said, looking at her once-gorgeous dress. “Since your inventory rapidly moves from asset to insurance payout.”

Eppie laughed, as did Lim. It was a joke that only accountants could find funny. Zara laughed uncomfortably. Senior Wang did not laugh, but he did prepare the Yan Hu Suo. She drank the concoction in a single pull.

Lim's face then settled back into something serious. “Shall I take you two home? Or are you riding the Limousine?”

“We’ll take the limo,” Eppie said seriously. “If Zara and I disappeared, someone over at Sony is going to find an excuse to exercise his right to bear arms…”

And that would be the merry end of my [Persona]’s adventures.

They snuck through the empty lobby, Eppie in towels, Zara in her dress.

The doorman saw nothing, nor did the concierge, because Culver City hired only professionals.

In their room, towels were already placed, as were the garment bags for their atelier outfits. Someone had already laid out bathrobes and intimates, in case the girls had packed poorly.

There were also French truffle chocolates in little Grammy bags.

Must be Maddy’s work. Eppie recognised the signature personal touch.

Then came the inevitable moment, and Eppie grew hyperconscious of it because Zara was, too.

“Sorry…” Eppie apologised in advance.

She stank, but she needed Zara’s help.

But not before Zara needed her help.

The structured bodice of Zara’s Pertegaz B in shiraz could not physically release its grip on her figure without external aid. And so, with her good arm, Eppie unzipped her partner while the living furnace of Zara’s burning body flushed her friend's complexion a vivid scarlet from her long neck to the small of her back.

Still possessed of enough tact not to giggle, Eppie studied the scene outside the half-closed curtain while the sound of shuffling clothes happened behind her. When it was all done, Zara was half-made up in a loose T-shirt, looking like some boy’s wet-hot Spanish-American Midsummer Night’s Dream.

Then it was her turn, and Eppie realised just how much worse it could be when her helper was facing her.

“You can't even reach behind your own back,” Zara said softly, her lips parting just so.

Why am I panting… Eppie felt a weird fire burning in her belly. It must be the Corydalis concoction, she decided. Good God, I better not fart… The [Causality] fallout if she did…

Her hesitation passed. Eppie didn’t fight Zara’s desire to disrobe her.There was no point.

She apologised again for the stink as her friend lifted the Miu Miu from the hem, revealing… everything.

Oh my God… Eppie felt her eyes water. The shame… the shame…

Eh? She met Zara’s helpful eyes. Her friend was staring. Zara mumbled something, then her eyes began to water.

The fire in Eppie’s belly grew in strength.

“Poor Eppie…” Zara helped lift the dress over her head. It was odious beyond measure. The ruined silk seriously stank of fetid stem slosh.

When she was finally as topless as Brigitte Bardot taking a stroll in Saint-Tropez, Zara was almost in tears. Eppie’s scalp burned. Just how flat was her [Persona] to make Zara cry in sympathy? Then she looked down.

Oh… There was a bruise that looked like an evil dragon, twenty inches long and six inches across, that covered the entire length of her ribs to her lower belly.

“Does it hurt?” “Not… really?” Eppie was honest.

Zara bagged her cast with a shower cap and rubber bands, but Eppie insisted that she would clean herself because she had never in her life been washed by anyone other than her mother. Zara relented after Eppie raised her voice, but grew happy again when Eppie invited her into the bathroom to help with her hair.

With her friend humming pleasantly behind her, Eppie found her mind drifting while Zara brushed her down like a cat. Tomorrow was Monday. School. The Crucible, Act IV, if Dr Kirby kept pace. Theatre block in the afternoon—the budget spreadsheet still needed reconciling before Thursday. Then she had Senior practice, meaning she would be watching from the sidelines for a week while her arm healed. What would William do by then? How would Valorie act, considering that they had attended the Grammy together?

She had not noticed at all that Zara had already dried her hair, and that she was being helped into her brassière until—

She looked at Zara again, wondering just what was giving her friend such glowering, unbridled joy when—

Her phone buzzed. It buzzed again.And again.

Your act of [Noblesse Oblige] has reaped the [Karmic Parasite] + Karmic Causality+ Karmic Causality

It was past midnight, and Eppie recalled that… indeed, Pines and Dream had both been unleashed into the world, riding on a tidal wave of popularity generated by half-a-million-dollars’ worth of digital, radio and iTunes promos, buoyed by 17.2 million viewers fresh off a Grammy win.
