“Calen!” A woman, clearly Calen’s mother, rushed across the room to catch him in a big hug.

“Mom! We have guests!” His face immediately flushed a bright shade of tomato-red, his voice full of awkward embarrassment at her overt display of public affection, but his arms pulled her in close to his chest, returning her embrace.

“Nonsense, your friends don’t mind a mother hugging her son who has returned from the dead!”

“I wasn’t dead,” he complained.

“I thought you were,” she answered, her voice suddenly carrying a more serious undertone. “I’m just happy you’re ok.” Her arms tightened around him one more time before she finally released him from his torment and turned to the rest of the group.

“Hi, I’m Lydia Avery, Calen’s mother. Thank you for bringing him back safely.” She nudged Calen in the ribs with her elbow, “Calen, why don’t you introduce your friends? I see you finally brought some girls home to meet me?”

Calen’s blush deepened dramatically, and he spluttered, unable to respond while his mother looked at him with a mock-serious expression, but Ali saw that her eyes were crinkled with suppressed amusement.

While Calen stumbled his way through the introductions, Ali smiled. It was clear that he cared deeply for his mother. And she, in turn, showed her affection by teasing him mercilessly. While he was being teased and introducing them, Ali indulged her curiosity and Identified Lydia, hoping she wasn’t committing some egregious breach of social etiquette.

Tailor – Human – level ??

Higher level than I can read. Nice!

Lydia’s lack of an affinity – a mana specialization – did not surprise Ali in the slightest. In Dal’mohra, only about ten percent of the population unlocked a mana affinity and the specialized and enhanced skills and magic that went along with that. Among the Fae, though, it was closer to fifty percent.

For many classes – martial classes, scholars, and crafters – a specific affinity was not required. Neutral magic, or martial stamina-based skills, were more than sufficient, but Ali would not trade her mage class and affinities for the world. It wasn’t even the potent skills unlocked by the specific affinities – Ali felt her nature and arcane affinities were simply a part of who she was, like the color of her eyes.

She took the opportunity to look around. Lydia’s Allure. Ali liked the sound of the name, and she could immediately see what Calen’s mother was trying to go for. The shop had a warm and inviting atmosphere, with a few comfortable chairs carefully arranged to break up the monotony of the space. Two or three mannequins sported stylish outfits, and there were several racks of premade clothing, bolts of cloth, and catalogs artfully arranged to catch the eye. However, the interior was clearly unfinished, perhaps a work in progress following a very recent move.

“Aliandra, Malika, I owe you for saving Calen once again,” Lydia’s voice brought her back to the conversation.

“Calen did his fair share of saving too,” Malika offered, her expression guarded.

“Aliandra, what happened to the clothes I made for you? Was the fit that bad? I’m really sorry,” Lydia exclaimed, as her eyes settled on Ali and the robes she had salvaged from a dead Kobold mage.

“I got hit by a Fireball…” Ali said, for some inexplicable reason feeling embarrassed by saying it. “And a Lightning Bolt. Sorry, the clothing didn’t really survive.”

“I can burn this for you, dear,” she offered, picking at Ali’s Tattered Robes with an expression of disgust on her face.

“It has resistances I need,” Ali immediately objected.

“Dear, it stinks to high heaven, and it’s a rag. Barely a rag.” Lydia tsked as she plucked at it gingerly, clearly not wanting to soil her fingers. “I don’t have much to offer for combat armor, but I can definitely do better than this. Where did you get it? It smells like Kobolds after mucking about in the sewer.” Her nose wrinkled expressively.

That’s … pretty much exactly right, Ali thought, embarrassed that she was stinking up the store without even knowing it. She had been underground, or traipsing around in the wilds, for so long that she no longer even noticed the smell. She wanted to kick Mato in the shins as he sniggered in the background.

Before Ali knew it, Lydia had produced a notepad and was turning her this way and that, examining her from head to foot, making quick notes with an antique-looking quill. A fashion statement? Ali had always wondered how Tailors did it, but now she could see the flicker of magic in Lydia’s eyes as she measured her with what was presumably a Tailor-specific perception skill.

“What do you mean you don’t have much for armor?” Ali asked. “Can you do something with resistances?”

“You must not be from around here,” Lydia said. “The big Tailor guilds require many years of service and an iron-clad contract before they will teach any of the more important armor enchants. I didn’t want to spend my entire life in indentured service to them, so I decided to branch out and start my own shop. I can specialize in fashion and maybe level up a little if I make a name for myself.”

“Why doesn’t everyone work on their own then?” Ali asked curiously. It seemed a bit of a predatory setup if someone like Lydia had to sacrifice so much just to learn the basic enchantments of her craft.

“As with most crafting professions, experience is gained when your work is used effectively in important or dangerous situations. Monopolizing the combat enchantments means that Tailors must work for the guild because the best experience comes from adventurers, guards, and similar classes using your work to survive combat situations. In most cities, it requires a guild-approved license to sell combat gear, and they make you pay through the nose to learn any of the enchantments. Unless you’re already independently wealthy, the path to becoming a Tailor involves binding yourself to the guild and their ruinous loans. But I can still earn some experience if a noble, a wealthy merchant, or the mayor’s wife wears one of my dresses to an important social event. It’s not nearly as much, but it’s still something. And I have always loved fashion design.”

Even if the situation seemed a little dire for Lydia, the insights into how the crafting classes worked were still fascinating. Ali had originally been interested in neither crafting nor combat, so she hadn’t paid too much attention to this aspect. But she had been aware that the best and highest-level crafters made items for the best adventurers – she had just never been curious about the why. It seemed that the relationship was symbiotic in more than just the business sense.

If we wear her work, she will gain experience when we fight monsters. I never thought about it that way. Ali nodded to herself, deciding that this felt good. Well, we will need to be closer to her level for it to matter. Still, she liked the principle.

Lydia looked up at Malika. “Your turn, dear.”

“I… couldn’t afford anything,” Malika said, looking significantly at the obviously high-end tailored clothing on the mannequins.

Oh, I didn’t think of that! Ali suddenly remembered she had no way of paying either. She frowned. How am I going to tell her I can’t accept her work?

“You brought Calen home safely. I want to give you a thank-you gift,” Lydia answered.

“I wouldn’t feel right accepting,” Malika refused, shaking her head firmly. “Calen saved me just as much as I saved him.”

Lydia pursed her lips thoughtfully for a moment. “Would you be open to a business proposition then?”

“What do you mean?”

“I’ve just opened my store, and I’m struggling to get my name out there. How about I give you an outfit to wear around town, perhaps to lunch? If anyone asks you where you got it, you tell them about my shop. Think of it as advertising for me. I will add one set of clothing suitable for mucking about in the sewers as payment.”

“I…” Malika looked surprised and deflated. “I guess … I guess I’m ok with that – if it’s something you need, and if it helps you, I mean.”

“It would be a huge help. I need to turn a profit soon otherwise I won’t be able to pay taxes, my loans, and protection against the criminals,” Lydia answered, busying herself measuring Malika as Mato and Calen exchanged glances. Ali realized that Calen probably meant to use his share of their loot to support his mother’s shop. “You’re really fit, you’ll make a great model. Maybe a little skinny, though. Are you eating enough? You have gorgeous curly hair! What do you think of this color fabric?”

Lydia fussed about Malika for a while, making small talk with a direct bluntness that was both surprising and at times refreshing or uncomfortable in approximately equal amounts. At least, Malika’s expression hovered somewhere between being bamboozled, embarrassed, and unwillingly flattered. Ali decided that to laugh at her probably was not worth the arm or leg it would cost.

“Okay, this will take a little bit to finish. Calen dear, please take our guests upstairs and show them the bathroom. I’m sure you’ll all want a shower.” The emphasis on the last part, and her wrinkled nose, made it clear that it was closer to an order than a suggestion.

***

The shower had been a taste of heaven; Ali had forgotten what it was like to be clean. Feeling much happier, and rather relaxed, she walked downstairs wearing a small towel because the bathrobes were way too large. She sat down in one of the comfortable chairs in the waiting area, enjoying the subtle interplay of magic as Lydia made the needle and thread blur with speed. While the notepad was open on the tabletop, Lydia never once consulted it, completely absorbed in her craft.

“Here you go dear,” Lydia said looking up from the table. “Go try this on.” She handed her a bundle and pointed to a curtained-off fitting room. Just the feel of the fabric sent a thrill of excitement through her. It’s so soft! Ali quickly changed into her new outfit, before stepping back out.

“Wow, Ali, that’s amazing,” Malika said, as she joined them downstairs in a borrowed bathrobe.

Lydia immediately fussed over Ali for a few moments, touching various seams and making them stretch or shift with deft flickers of magic flowing around her hands.

“There, that should do it,” she announced. With a wave of her hand, she produced a mirror illusion floating in the air in front of her. “What do you think?”

Ali stared at her reflection in the mirror. The image that stared back at her looked like a noble or a wealthy merchant. Ali barely recognized herself. She was much more comfortable with pants and a t-shirt, having rarely had the opportunity or desire to dress up. And here she was wearing a stylish burgundy dress that reached the ground, beautiful shimmery cloth slippers, and even a cute matching hat, all of which were artfully designed to show off her green hair and amber eyes.

The style might have been considered vintage or even old-fashioned by the popular icons of Dal’mohra – perhaps something one might see at a historical festival, but Ali had already spied similar style outfits on several important-looking ladies in town. But she didn’t care, it felt heavenly on her skin.

Malika prodded her shoulder. “Don’t be shy, now. The mirror won’t bite you, I promise.”

She twirled in front of the mirror, enjoying how the soft fabric flowed.

“I love it!”

Lydia was truly an artist. Ali had never imagined she would wear anything like this. And yet the outfit was comfortable and understated, not gaudy or attention-grabbing simply for the sake of it.

Lydia smiled happily and then handed Malika hers before returning to Ali.

“What do you think of this for your armor piece?” Lydia asked.

She handed Ali an eminently more practical set consisting of a robust-looking pair of pants and shirt in elegantly chosen shades of tan and beige. Ali examined them carefully, surprised to find out that it looked much like many of the items she had had in her own closet. However, the resemblance disappeared the moment she identified it.

Tailored Cotton Clothing – level 15Resistance: 216Mana: Self-repair.Requirements: Intelligence 53Body – Cloth

Ali stared at the item, feeling aghast and embarrassingly possessive in equal measure. This was an enormous upgrade over the sixty-seven resistance she had gotten from the old poorly fitted, tattered robes.

And the self-repair enchantment… The number of times Ali had gotten her clothing torn, burnt, or otherwise destroyed was more than she could even remember. The armor was simple but well made, came as a set, and, best of all, they were sized to fit her, not a Kobold. There was no tail-hole, and Lydia had artfully included slots for her worthless wings to fit through instead of being forced to fold them up uncomfortably against her back.

“This is incredible, I just couldn’t –” The Tailor’s eyebrows twitched meaningfully “– I mean, thank you so much!”

Ali was truly excited about her new adventuring outfit. What’s that, triple the resistance? No more almost dying in one shot to Lightning Bolts and Fireballs!

“Self-repair is the only enchantment I can do for armor, and I discovered that one by accident. But I can at least make something that suits your level and its higher quality than that horrible thing you were wearing before,” Lydia said, with a grin and a not entirely fake sniff of disdain. “Here let me put on the finishing touches, if you’re happy with it.”

“Happy? She’s bouncing,” Malika pointed out.

“Malika!” But Ali nodded, and then to her surprise, Lydia summoned an astoundingly complex formation of magical energy, manifesting it between her palms. It swirled and pulsed with a vibrance that made it seem almost alive.

Ali stared openmouthed as Lydia separated the formation into two, joined by a glowing ribbon of energy. She reached out and placed one hand on the garments she had made, causing that half of the magical energy to infuse into the fabric, spreading through it like rapidly growing roots. The other half sank into Lydia’s chest where it pulsed slowly, not unlike the kernel of mana she had seen in the chest of her Kobolds. Slowly the energy, and the glowing ribbon linking her to the tailored clothing, faded to invisibility.

“Wow, what was that?” Ali had never seen anything like it. The complexity was easily on par with some of the magic her Grimoire had produced.

“My mana signature,” Lydia answered, chuckling. “I guess you can see mana? I’ve heard that signatures look quite complicated.”

Ali identified the item a second time, curiosity burning like a fire within her.

