Tailored Cotton Clothing – level 15Resistance: 216Mana: Self-repair.Requirements: Intelligence 53Created by Lydia Avery.Body – Cloth

There at the bottom of the description was Lydia’s signature. “All that for a signature?”

“Look a little closer,” she suggested archly while handing Mato his new outfit.

Ali blinked. Alright, someone was justly proud of her work and she had better respond accordingly. Burning with curiosity, she focused on the signature and willed it to give up any further detail that she might access.

Mana Signature – Lydia AveryThis item was created by Lydia Avery.Experience gained while using this item is increased proportional to how much it contributed to the encounter. The extra experience is awarded to Lydia Avery.Enchantment – Tithe

A lot of things suddenly clicked in Ali’s mind. Tithe enchantments were a complex branch of magic that awarded experience to the person who provided a beneficial effect to another person. Not everything worked this way, but it seemed that crafters could use them, which explained Lydia’s comments about her gaining experience for important items. Ali knew there were a lot more details, but she hadn’t paid much attention during those lectures because the professor had habitually droned on like a bored mosquito. And now that I want to know more, I don’t have access to the library, she thought, regretting her distraction in that class. Although, he really was a snooze.

It also explained why Lydia only bothered to put her signature on the expensive outfits and Ali’s armor, but not on the adventuring clothes she had created for Malika. Malika’s gear had no armor or level requirement because it would interfere with her class, and so the item would not affect combat in any meaningful way, and thus not affect the outcome. They were just ordinary clothes. For the stylish outfits they planned to wear around town, presumably any profitable encounter might earn a little experience, perhaps if they had merchant classes, but more importantly, mana signatures were notoriously impossible to fake, and they were advertising.

Ali sat back down to wait for Lydia to finish with the boys. While she waited, she glanced down at the bag Calen had given her to hold her old Tattered Robes.

I definitely don’t need this anymore. She surreptitiously reached her hand into the bag and Deconstructed it.

Variant: Tattered Robes added to Imprint: Armor.

Fine, if I must. Can’t see myself using that variant.

Once they were all ready, and all the outfits were adjusted to Lydia’s exacting standards, she hugged Calen goodbye and then handed him a gold coin.

“Take them to Laurel’s,” she suggested. “That should be the perfect place to show off. And be sure to tip well.”

Ali didn’t have a good understanding of how much things were worth in this town, but judging from Calen’s surprised expression, and Malika’s shock, a gold for lunch was unheard of.

What kind of place is this Laurel’s?
