Ren picked up the edge of his long-sleeved t-shirt and pointed to the closet behind her. She turned around and went to the closet, opened it, and took out one of them.

“I'm going to stretch the hell out of this.” Elise said.

Ren chuckled and started to cough. Elise ran over to the bed and climbed onto it. He calmed down a moment later and sighed. Coughing was not helping his sore throat and would delay it getting better. Elise laid down on her front and used her fingers to very gently stroke his neck.

“You need to take it easy, sweetheart.” Elise said. “I want to hear your sweet voice again, sooner rather than later.”

Ren took her hand from his throat and kissed her palm. Elise smiled and sat up, then started to unbutton her blouse. Ren watched as she undid the last button, then she slowly pulled the cloth apart to reveal a very stiff and starched underwire bra. It was full-cupped and had all of her chest contained. His eyes widened at the massive amount of cloth and work that must have gone into making the thing, and he reached out to touch it.

“It's custom-ordered, but it still doesn't fit.” Elise said. “I gave up trying to find something that can hold me properly, and I just order another one of these when they wear out.”

Ren ran a hand over the cloth, then down her belly to the top of her skirt.

“No cuddling.” Elise said and took off her blouse. She picked up the long-sleeved t-shirt she had dropped on the bed, then slipped it on over her head. She got her arms into the sleeves and tried to pull the cloth down, and Ren covered his mouth to stop from laughing.

Elise managed to get herself tucked inside the long-sleeved t-shirt, but she looked like a stuffed sausage. Ren held his mouth and throat closed to stop the sound; but, tears were coming from his eyes because of the silent laughter he couldn't stop.

“It's not funny.” Elise said. “Look at this!” She cupped her chest and shook one side; but, because the cloth was so tight, both sides moved at the same time. “It's like I've only got one really big boob!”

Ren snorted and his chest shook as he laughed without a sound.

“Knock, knock.” Lisa said when she came into Ren's room. “We've got our stuff moved in.”

“Only what we could get into my trunk.” Denise said as she came in behind Lisa. “I'll have to hire a mover or get a storage space for my other stuff.” She said. “Like my couch, chair, kitchen table, bed...”

Ren calmed down and waved to the two women.

“What are you doing?” Lisa asked as she walked over to the bed. “Elise, that is not a good look for you.”

Elise chuckled and held up her damp blouse.

“Um... okay, that's a toss up.” Lisa said and smiled.

“Hey, you two.” Stella said and walked around them. “I've got some very weak soup here for the patient.” She put it on the rollaway table and brought it over to the bed. “It's not very hot, since we need to take it easy on your throat.”

Ren nodded and spooned some of the broth into his mouth. It slipped down easily when he swallowed it and he took another spoonful.

“Are you two moved in already?” Stella asked Lisa and Denise.

“I need to do something about all of my old stuff.” Denise said.

“Bring it all here.” Stella said. “These rooms are like huge hotel suites. There's plenty of unused space in them.”

“But...”

“I don't think you need the appliances, unless they have sentimental value.” Stella said. “You've got your own little mini-kitchen if you want to have your own food, rather than share one of the large refrigerators downstairs.”

“I guess that's true.” Denise said. “I should be able to get my couch in my room, at least.”

“What about you, Lisa?” Stella asked.

“Well, my mother is in denial and thinks I ran away.” Lisa said. “I invited her over for dinner next week.” She looked at Ren. “I hope that's okay.”

Ren nodded, gave her a 'thumbs up' gesture, and kept eating.

“Thanks.” Lisa said and looked at the other three women. “So, who's sharing his bed tonight?”
