He slammed the sharp tip of the [Fuxi Mountain Gate] against the dimensional tear like a caveman, dislodging a tidal wave of unstable energies. A new set of lacerations opened up across Zac’s arms, and half the statues crumbled. Such shallow wounds didn’t even register in Zac’s mind, especially not while the flame of the Empyrean Chalice still burned within him.

The wounds had already healed when Zac pressed the [Fuxi Mountain Gate]’s opening against the dimensional tear. A powerful tremor almost yanked the Void Treasure out of his grasp, but August’s aura was rapidly dwindling. The plan was working; Zac just needed to make it through without his body disintegrating from the powerful vibrations.

The pushback from the other side grew more intense as the tear shrank. The mountain gate hummed with happiness. The harder August fought, the more energy was deposited into its subspace. Its vibrations were already intense enough that countless cracks had appeared on the bones in Zac’s arms, and he felt his organs tearing apart. Zac’s heart was full of complaints and also some embarrassment. Was this how his companions felt during his chaotic breakthroughs?

“Piss off!” Zac roared, his voice wracked with anguish and annoyance.

Couldn’t August see that it was over? As though the guard captain could hear Zac’s thoughts, the dimensional tear suddenly went out with a bang. Zac’s hands were already mangled by that point, and the [Fuxi Mountain Gate] finally escaped his grasp. The Void Treasure slammed into Zac’s forehead before he could react, and then there was only darkness.

Zac was lying on the ground when he came to. His head felt like it had been hit by a train, and it took him a moment to realize he’d been out cold for half a day. Zac grimaced as he felt a large, tender bump on his forehead. With his attributes and compounded constitutions, such a minor wound should long since have recovered.

Was it because of the [Fuxi Mountain Gate]? It was extraordinarily hard, far surpassing anything else Zac owned. He’d already considered using it to block deadly attacks, and using it to bludgeon people would clearly produce extraordinary results.

His actions elicited a giggle from his left, where Zac found Esmeralda spread out sat on a pillow with a lazy expression. The vats on her back were near-empty, but she looked fine otherwise. Zac had been worried that such prolonged exposure to concentrated sin would have affected her state of mind, but it appeared it would take more than that to push a former Supremacy off-kilter.

“Good morning, sleepyhead,” she said with a grin. “You’re becoming a dragon among men, horn and all.”
