“I am Errif Jealwind, a [Merchant], and the current head of the Merchant’s Guild in Pallass. I am one of the Head Speakers for the Assembly of Crafts. We have reviewed the incident involving Wall Lord Ilvriss’ intrusion into this city, and are debating what punitive measures may be taken.”
“Okay. And you think you can take my door, huh? Why? Because it’s a threat?”
The Gnoll blinked as Erin glared at him. She wasn’t impressed by his titles. He nodded.
“And because it can open up trade between any city we want. Imagine the possibilities!”
“But it’s my door.”
This fact didn’t seem to impress Errif. He flicked a furry paw.
“We will, of course, compensate you for the artifact. However, this is a matter of security. We cannot just have visitors entering the city magically. Wall Lord Ilvriss’ intrusion was highly illegal, and his noble status does not render him immune to the law. Once he is fined, we will require his return to Liscor.”
“Wait, what? You’re making him go back to Liscor?”
Erin looked at Ilvriss. He was standing with both arms folded, practically smoldering with anger. The Wall Lord snapped at Errif.
“And it seems Pallass intends to make off with your artifact as well, Solstice. I underestimated how shameless a Walled City could become, but I should have expected nothing less from a city ruled by a democracy.”
Errif and the other Drakes and Gnolls didn’t appear bothered by the insult. He gestured, and Erin saw the [Guardsmen] surrounding Ilvriss, Jelaqua, Relc, and Seborn move a hair closer. The Gnoll didn’t quite smile as he stroked at the hair on his chin.
“Laws are meant to be enforced, Wall Lord Ilvriss. You broke our laws first, and so long as this door exists as a gateway outside our city, it is a threat to the security of Pallass. Thus, we are free to confiscate it. Your ejection is simply another matter, of course. We are well within our liberties to deny you access.”
“I see. And here I thought Ilvriss was a jerk. But you guys are double jerks!”
Erin narrowed her eyes. Errif blinked as she took a step forwards. He seemed surprised that Erin was taking part in the conversation at all and glanced meaningfully at the Watch Captain.
“I think there is little need for more debate, Captain. Now that the owner of the, ah, door is here, we may inform her of the confiscation and arrange due compensation.”
“Hold up! Don’t I get a say?”
Erin protested. Errif ignored her.
“Escort the Wall Lord through the door. And the other intruders please. I trust the door has enough mana for the trip?”
A [Mage] Drake standing by the door raised his head and wiped sweat from his brow.
“We have charged it as far as we can, Senator Jealwind. We’re maintaining the connection with our mana reserves. It should be more than enough to send a group through, but I advise moderation.”
“Good. In that case—proceed.”
Errif motioned, and Erin saw Ilvriss herded through the door with Jelaqua, Seborn, and Relc following after at spear point. She heard Relc complaining loudly.
“This always happens. Every time! I get arrested, I get kicked out. It’s not like I cause trouble each time, either! I—oh, hey Captain.”
“Now then. We will send a battalion through to secure the door and transport it back. It will take some time, no doubt, but I am confident that, once we have the artifact in our possession, we will be able to open up new trade routes between Pallass and the north. Or perhaps between this city and another Walled City. The possibilities are endless, and I’m sure you’ll agree that it will be a powerful incentive when negotiating—”
Errif was animatedly talking with the other senators, ignoring Erin. She stared at him, thought about kicking his stupid wagging tail, and realized that was the stupidest thing she could do. The Watch Captain was apologetic, but he would definitely arrest her again if she caused trouble.
They were going to march into Liscor and take her door! Just like that! Erin wondered if Zevara had agreed to this. Either way, it didn’t matter. She couldn’t stop them. They would take the door and bring it back with them! Her magic door! And there was nothing she could do. She couldn’t fight, and her door was wide open for all the big Drakes with swords to march through.
Wide open. Doorway. Erin stared at the door and then edged towards it. The Watch Captain immediately grabbed her arm, but she glared at him.
“I’m going back through the door, alright? Jeez! I thought you wanted to get rid of me!”
Errif turned. He saw Erin going to the door and nodded.
“Let the [Innkeeper] go, Captain. I am relieved that she is open to reason, unlike Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
A few of the Drakes around Errif laughed. One of them spoke up, playing with a pendant at her neck.
“I thought he might draw his sword on us. Wall Lords from Salazsar are so…temperamental.”
“Hotheaded. Quite unable to negotiate. It’s one thing to bargain from a position of strength, and yet another to stride into our city and begin making demands. Especially given that he was the one responsible for General Shivertail’s…”
Erin gritted her teeth as she walked through her doorway. She was back in her inn in a moment. She saw Zevara and a group of Liscor’s [Guardsmen] standing anxiously in front of the doorway. The Watch Captain looked upset, and Ilvriss did indeed look like he was considering going back through the doorway and stabbing Errif. Erin saw Lyonette wringing her hands anxiously.
“Erin, I’m so sorry—”
Erin cut her off with a hand. She stared back at Errif and raised her voice.
“Hey you! Mr. Gnoll! Yes, you, the fat, ugly one!”
The Senators of Pallass looked around. Errif’s jaw dropped in shock. Erin stepped back through the doorway.
“You may be a big shot in Pallass, but you can’t just take my door! It’s mine! And all your stupid stuff about security? That’s a lie, isn’t it? You just want my door because it’s cool. Well, you can’t have it.”
Errif stared at Erin for a second, and then turned back to his fellow senators and laughed lightly, dismissing Erin with a wave.
“Humans, they’re so…Watch Captain Venim, please deal with her, won’t you?”
The Watch Captain apprehensively raised his hand, but Erin wasn’t done. She pointed at Errif as she edged back into her inn.
“Not so fast, jerk! I’m not letting you have my door! And I’m going to make sure you guys can’t steal it!”
Errif’s brow furrowed.
“What is she talking about?”
Erin stepped forwards again, into Pallass.
“You think you’re so smart. Well, guess what? I can just change whether or not this door opens in Pallass. I’ll cut you off! How about them apples? Then there won’t be a security breach! So you can’t have my door!”
The Gnoll hesitated. One of the Drake senators, the female one, looked concerned.
“Can she do that? That would mean, legally—”
Errif eyed Erin apprehensively. The young woman stared challengingly at him. He stared at the door set into the wall and spoke with forced confidence.
“The door is open. It’s a clear threat.”
“Oh yeah? Well, send your City Watch through this door and it’ll be a lot more threat. Anyone puts a claw through my door and I’ll hit them with a pan! And I bet Ilvriss will totally stab them! And I have a bunch of Goblins who’ll beat you up! And an Antinium guard!”
Erin backed up through the doorway, fists raised threateningly. The Assembly of Crafts stared and saw a black hand waving from the back of the crowd in Liscor.
“I believe that is me. Hello, Erin.”
“Antinium.”
Several of the Drakes paled, and Errif backed up. He looked at the Watch Captain.
“Those are the Antinium of Liscor? Dead gods, I thought those Drakes were insane, but in an inn? Watch Captain, move your soldiers—”
“Not yet!”
Erin leapt through the doorway. Errif blinked at her, but Erin hopped back through to Liscor. She ran back through to Pallass again, feeling slightly stupid. But then there was a groan from the Drake [Mage] by the doorway.
“Senator Jealwind, the Human is draining the magic—”
“She’s what?”
Too late, Errif and the others realized what Erin was doing. Erin ran back into Liscor, hopped through into Pallass, hopped back into Liscor, hopped through to Pallass—she did three more side-hops and then leapt into Liscor as one of the Drakes grabbed for her. Erin panted.
“Wow, that’s a lot of mana. I didn’t know you could charge it up this much.”
“Keep the portal open! Watch Captain, send your men in now!”
Errif shouted as the [Guardsmen] barred the door. He strode forwards, as if he meant to go through himself. He got right up to the portal’s edge and then ducked. A chair sailed over his head and smacked two Pallassian senators in their faces. They cried out, and Errif scrambled to his feet.
He rose just in time to see Erin grabbing another chair to throw, and then the portal winked out. Errif stared at the blank brick wall in shock and then looked around. There was a nasty silence in the alleyway except for Watch Captain Venim, who breathed a quiet sigh of relief.
 
——
 
On the other side of the portal, Erin stared at the wall of her inn. She had never been more relieved to see blank wood in her life. She turned and smiled. The rest of the inn stared at her. Ilvriss, the Halfseekers, Bird, the Redfang Warriors, Zevara, Relc, and several [Guardsmen] of Liscor. Erin smiled, edged over to Lyonette and hugged Mrsha. Then she looked cheerfully around the room.
“Well, that’s that. Hey Ilvriss, those Pallass guys are jerks! Why don’t we undo the connection to Pallass and forget this all happened, okay?”
Everyone stared at her. Erin grinned sheepishly.
“No? Yes? We can always put it back later, right?”
It was Moore who broke the tableau. He carefully reached out and pried loose the colored mana stone that Typhenous and Pisces had attuned to the door. Four hundred miles south, the [Mages] in Pallass reported the link between the doors was broken. Errif and the other senators stormed off, their plans ruined. Ilvriss looked thoughtfully at Erin and smiled.
“That was quite cleverly done. For a Human.”
“Thanks! I guess you’re one of the cooler Wall Lords around, too. At least, by comparison with those guys.”
She grinned back at him. For once they were in accord.
All was well. Pallass, the City of Inventions, could wait. Erin smiled as she began to talk excitedly about all that had happened with the others. She couldn’t help but feel as though she’d forgotten something, though. Something rather important…
 
——
 
Hawk the Courier stared at the blank wall as the [Guardsmen] set up a cordon around the alleyway and the members of the Assembly of Crafts dispersed. He wasn’t angry. He was just footsore, hungry, and a bit hurt. Just a bit. He looked at the blank wall and shook his head.
“Screw the Runner’s Guild regulations. I’m charging them triple for this.”
Then he turned away and glumly found somewhere to sleep for the night. He had a feeling the door between Liscor and Pallass would be staying closed, at least for today. The Rabbitman muttered to himself as his stomach growled. This was why he hated visiting the Walled Cities.
“Politics.”
