Erin’s head turned. She heard a young male voice and saw a Drake with light orange scales striding up to her across the street. She smiled and went to greet him.
“Hi! That’s me! I’m Erin Solstice. Who are you?”
“I’m Nelliam Hailwing, your guide. Technically, I’m a [Greeter], but we don’t have many actual [Guides], and I was the only one nearby. I hear you’re some kind of troublemaker. Did you have something to do with that fight an hour ago?”
“No…what gave you that impression?”
Erin tried to appear innocent as Nelliam scrutinized her from head to toe. He was a young Drake, and Erin would have said he was in his mid-teens if he were a Human. He stared at her curiously.
“Well, the rumor is that a crazy Human [Mage] teleported a bunch of Gold-rank adventurers into the city to cause trouble. Apparently she’d been hired by a Lord of the Wall to do it! A Wall Lord from Salazsar, if you can believe that.”
“Whoa. I have no idea about that. That’s crazy. And not me. I’m just a visitor to the city.”
Erin lied as convincingly as she could. Nelliam looked skeptical, but then he shook his head.
“I guess you don’t look like a [Mage]. Okay then, you want a tour, right? Where should we start?”
“How about from the beginning? I mean, this is a Walled City and I’ve never been here so…I guess my first question is where the walls are.”
“The walls?”
Nelliam looked blankly at Erin. She pointed to the blue sky.
“Yeah, I mean, where are the walls? Aren’t they, like, three hundred feet high? Shouldn’t I be able to see them?”
The young Drake stared at Erin, and she knew she’d said something stupid. He coughed.
“Um. This is the highest residential level. You can’t see the walls because we’re so high up.”
“We are? I mean—we are?”
The Drake stared at Erin.
“You did climb all the stairs to get to the top of the city, didn’t you? You do remember going up all this way, right?”
“Uh…no.”
Nelliam stared at Erin. Erin stared back. The Drake blinked and scratched at the back of his head.
“Okaaay then. Let’s show you the city as a whole first! This way, Miss Erin.”
He led her down the street. Erin walked past groups of Drakes, seeing a few Gnolls and other species in the crowd, but mainly scaly bodies. Nelliam kept her moving at a quick pace, talking rapidly, and steering her clear of knots of people in the crowd.
“Mind your step, Miss Human! People walk fast in Pallass, and if you aren’t careful you’ll be run over! There’s not really many wagons this high up, of course, but you have to learn how to walk with the traffic!”
“Where are we going?”
“To see the city! There’s a nice overlook just ahead—are you sure you haven’t seen Pallass before? How did you get up here?”
“Uh…I guess I just wasn’t paying attention!”
“Huh.”
Nelliam shook his head, but he at least seemed used to guiding odd people about. He launched into a prepared speech as the traffic thinned, and Erin sensed them heading towards the end of a street.
“Well, if you’ve never been here before you’re in for a treat! Pallass is one of the Walled Cities, one of the jewels of the Drake lands! It’s a massive city—far larger than almost all the Human cities, and much better defended! These walls have never fallen to invasion, and Pallass is the most important northern Drake city!”
“It is? I thought that was Liscor!”
Erin exclaimed. Nelliam snorted and his tail swished across the paving stones.
“Liscor? They’re just a small city that occupies a trade route between the north and south. We’re the real gateway to the north. Our armies are close to both the Antinium and the Blood Fields—if the Humans send their armies, we’re the first city to respond. And we manufacture more arms and potions than any other city on the continent! Our [Alchemists] and [Blacksmiths] are second to none! That’s why Pallass is famous across the world!”
“Really?”
Erin stared round-eyed at Nelliam. He faltered. He was guiding Erin towards the end of the street, which didn’t end with a wall so much as a vertical drop. Erin could see a huge wall beyond the edge of the drop. A city lay ahead of her, and she found herself speeding up to see.
“Well, yes. We’re famous. You have heard of us, haven’t you? Pallassian steel? Our potions? You’ve never heard of our latest technological developments?”
“No…but I don’t get out much. You make stuff?”
“Not just stuff!”
Nelliam tried to rally. He raised his voice again as he strode towards the drop ahead of them. Erin was glad to see there were stone guardrails, placed at chest level, so no one could accidentally trip over the edge. Closer now. She could see a huge wall stretching across the gap, and what looked like levels with houses on them. They were still a ways away, and now Nelliam was chattering to her about Pallass’ many inventions.
“Just the other month, one of our [Craftswomen] figured out a way to harness the power of the wind to crank our siege weapons! We invented the smock mill!”
“The what?”
“The—it’s a more lightweight version of the tower mill. It’s designed so you can build it with wood and metal rather than out of stone. It was a huge achievement! You can use it to drain swamps, build them near farms in a tenth of the time since you don’t have to wait for mortar to dry—”
“Oh, right. I bet that takes a long time, even if you blow on the concrete. Or do you heat it with fire magic to make it dry faster? Is there a special fan you use? Wind magic?”
The Drake turned his head and gave Erin the fish-eye. She stared back innocently. He hesitated, and then shook his head.
“Humans. Look, we’re inventors! It’s in our blood. That’s what Pallass is known for! The other Walled Cities might have their specialties, but we stand on the cutting-edge at all times. Our city creates wonders for the rest of the world. And here we are! Look!”
They reached the end of the street. Erin approached the stone railing, and Nelliam threw a hand out. He shouted in triumph as Erin got her first true glimpse of the Walled City.
“This is Pallass, the City of Invention!”
Erin stared over the balcony. Out and down. She stared thousands of feet, perhaps miles across the balcony, to a huge wall in the distance. It was high and long, and was one of four walls in each of the cardinal directions. North, south, east, and west, the walls of Pallass rose, impenetrable stone towering in the sky. But it wasn’t the walls that took Erin’s breath away. It was what had been built in the city.
She was standing on the highest level of Pallass, save for the battlements. Erin hadn’t realized that before. That was why she hadn’t seen the walls, because she was too high up. But now, staring into the heart of the city, Erin could look down and see the city below her.
She saw thousands of tiny houses built on ledges that protruded from the walls. Water, actual water, being pumped up some odd conveyor belt to tiny gardens hanging below her! Criss-crossing streets filled with minuscule people, a sea of rooftops, four giant stairwells descending into the center of the city from each of the walls—Erin’s eyes strained at the enormity of it all. Nelliam grinned in pride as he gestured.
“Welcome to Pallass. Amazing, isn’t it?”
Behind Nelliam, Pallass stretched outwards and downwards, a sprawling city made of multiple levels. Yes, that was the word for it. Levels. Erin was standing on one of the highest points of the city, and she could look down into other streets, plazas, and buildings far below.
Pallass had been built so that the urban center of the city was at the lowest point, or ground level. That looked much like a normal city, but where the Walled City had changed was in the four massive staircases that rose upwards towards the walls. It was possible to ascend higher and reach an entirely new ‘floor’ where more buildings had been constructed.
Each new level down was progressively smaller and circled the interior of the walls, so that Erin felt like she was looking at an inverted pyramid. Or a bowl. The effect was hypnotic as well as grand, but what struck Erin most was the organization of it all. She could instantly plot a route from her position to the lowest part of the city or anywhere she wanted to travel. Ramps were neatly placed at intervals to allow someone access to a higher or lower floor, and the four central staircases made getting lost impossible. Walk far enough in one direction and you’d get to one of the four staircases.
“Wow. It’s so organized.”
“Of course it is! Did you think we’d build a disorganized city?”
Nelliam looked insulted. Erin shrugged, thinking of cities like Venice or London.
“I guess not. But we Humans build weird cities all the time. I guess I didn’t expect it to look so neat.”
“You Humans. So messy.”
The Drake shook his head and pointed down into the city.
“Any new construction has to be approved by an [Architect] and an official who understands the layout of the city. We build in expectation of usage, and our craftspeople move in. See—we constructed the new Blacksmith’s Quarters two years ago in response to complaints about the smoke and noise. They occupy the second-highest level, there, you see?”
Erin looked where he was pointing and saw a plume of smoke rising from a series of buildings. It was very far away, but she thought she could see tiny figures hammering industriously on pieces of metal. Or was that her imagination? The Walled City might not have had the horizontal landmass of a megacity like, say, Chicago, but Erin was still breath-taken by the size of Pallass.
Breath-taken, and a little queasy. She backed up from the edge of the wall.
“I think I’d like to not look down so much.”
“Visitors always say that. You’ll get used to the heights soon enough if you stay here. Now, let’s head down, shall we?”
“Down? How? You mean the stairs?”
Erin pointed towards one of the four grand stairwells. The nearest one was to their left and looked to be a good walk away. But Nelliam only laughed.
“No! I told you, Pallass is the city of inventors! We’ve come up with a much faster way to travel between floors! Look over there, see?”
He pointed, and Erin stared over at a place where the stone balcony ended and an odd contraption had been built into the stone. She stared at an…elevator.
Yes, it was an elevator. It was a wood and metal platform with guardrails, controlled by a pulley and system of gears. Nelliam walked Erin over to it, and she stood on the wood platform as he fiddled with the hand crank. Then he nodded to her with a huge grin on his face.
“Ready? Don’t be scared—this isn’t magic, but it’s close! We’re going down, nice and easy!”
He turned something, and Erin felt the elevator begin to descend. She expected them to drop, but to her surprise she saw a gear turning as the elevator slowly descended, regulating the speed at which they went down. Nelliam smiled broadly at Erin, expecting her to be amazed.
And she was, just not for the reasons he expected. Erin stared at the elevator and then put her hand on a lever that was turning slowly. The elevator stopped with a jolt.
“Whoa! This is an elevator!”
“Hey, stop that!”
Looking alarmed, Nelliam made Erin let go of the crank. They continued their descent, and he edged Erin back from the controls.
“Please don’t fiddle with the gears! This is a new piece of technology—it’s a platform which raises and lowers itself without magic!”
“Right, with gears!”
“Exactly—wait, how did you know?”
Nelliam looked shocked and then suspicious. He frowned at Erin.
“You have gone on one of these before, haven’t you? Well, we’re headed down—we’ll take the scenic route. Look, you can see the entire city!”
He pointed, and Erin saw that he was right. The elevator was going down, level after level, passing by Drakes who were walking down a street with trees planted at intervals, down another level where Drakes were marching in formation, and all the while Erin could see the grand staircase closest to them and Drakes moving up and down the steps.
“Wow, look at those stairs!”
They ran from the bottom of the Walled City to the top. Erin had to guess there were thousands of steps, and although few Drakes seemed willing to make the entire journey, thousands of them were using the stairway to go up or down a level. It was one of four stairwells, and each one had a side for Drakes moving up the stairs and a side if you wanted to descend.
Organization. Nelliam smiled proudly, but a bit condescendingly, as he pointed to the Drakes heading down the stairs. They were close enough so that Erin could catch fragments of conversation and see the Drakes carrying baskets, goods, and so on, with them.
“That’s the old way of moving through the city, of course. You’ll have to use the stairs to go up—it’s too much work to crank the platforms up when you’re standing on them. But this is a lot faster and easier than walking down the stairs. It’s only the old-timers who refuse to use this method these days.”
His raised voice carried to a group of Drakes that were descending the stairs near the elevator. Erin saw a few of them look up in annoyance. One of them, an older Drake woman, raised her fist and shouted at Nelliam and Erin.
“Real Drakes use steps!”
Nelliam’s tail twitched, and he bellowed back at her.
“Shut up, you old hag!”
She made a rude gesture, and Nelliam nearly copied her until he remembered that Erin was watching. He turned his back on the Drake as they descended past her and coughed, his cheeks flushed.
“Sorry about that.”
Erin stared at the Drake lady who was descending much slower than her elevator.
“Who was that?”
“My aunt.”
Nelliam shifted, clearly embarrassed, and pointed out something else to Erin as they went.
“See those Drakes running down the middle of the staircase?”
Erin turned her head and saw that there were figures running down the center ramp that separated the streams of people going up and down the stairs. The middle of the staircase was wide enough that they could race or slide down the middle several people at a time. The Drakes and Gnolls wore armbands and carried packages. Erin gasped as one leapt from the middle and landed on a level below him, taking off running as soon as he hit the ground. Nelliam smiled.
“Those are Street Runners and City Runners. They use the middle because it’s faster and they don’t run people over. Some of them jump from level to level, although that’s dangerous. But if you need something delivered across the city quick, all you have to do is find one of the drop-off points and write down your address!”
“Wow. I’ve seen Runners before, but I didn’t know it was so different here!”
