Erin exclaimed as the elevator descended to what was nearly the bottom level. Nelliam stopped it before they could get to the ground floor and pointed.
“Pallass is a lot different from most Drake cities. Human ones too, I bet. We’re at the bottom now, and you can see the walls, right?”
He glanced at her somewhat mockingly. Erin looked up. From the ground, the four walls towered over her, casting huge shadows. She stared up towards the sun and shaded her eyes as she peered at the different floors built into the walls.
“Yep, I can see them now. That’s a lot of floors. And a long way up. Hey, does this mean I have to climb all those stairs if I want to get back up again?”
The thought was dismaying, but again Nelliam laughed at her.
“No! Okay, for the small lifts there’s no way up, and you have to crank them back up if you want to get down. That’s a pain in the tail, though, so we’ll take one of the magic-powered lifts up.”
“The what now?”
Nelliam pointed, and Erin saw another elevator, far larger than the platform she was standing on, shoot upwards. The gears moving the elevator were blurring with speed—but not from any mechanical force she could see. Nelliam smiled.
“Those lifts are powered by mana stones. They’re expensive, but the city has a number of them to let people go from the bottom floors to the top ones when they need to. We’ll take it back up so you can stand on the battlements. Unless you want to look around the bottom levels first?”
“I want to ride that thing.”
Erin stared at the elevator as it went up at dizzying speeds. It looked like fun to her, a girl for whom roller coasters were an attraction, rather than a nightmare come to life. Nelliam grinned, sensing her anticipation.
“Okay then! We’ll join the queue.”
He led her over to the elevator at a brisk walk. Erin stared at the line of Drakes and Gnolls, most of whom looked older and thus were in need of the elevator’s convenience. She fidgeted, feeling a bit guilty.
“Is it okay to use this? I can walk if we’re in the way.”
“You’re a tourist. It’s okay, especially if you haven’t ridden one before. Just please don’t be sick. People throwing up over the sides is awful, especially because it gets everywhere.”
Nelliam reassured her as they stepped onto the elevator. Erin saw a Drake conductor standing at the side, waiting for everyone to file in. When he’d judged the lift was full, he touched a glowing red stone to another stone embedded in the wall.
The gears began to turn. Slowly at first, and then, with increasing speed, they propelled the elevator up. Erin felt her stomach drop and clung to the guardrail as Nelliam grinned wildly. She looked around and saw the older Drakes and Gnolls holding on for dear life. It looked like they had fought a battle between the exhaustion of climbing the stairs or the fear of riding the contraption and only barely won.
“Isn’t this amazing? We’re trying to get all the lifts to do this, but without the magic!”
Nelliam shouted to Erin around the rushing air. She looked at the city falling below them and felt a strange sense of familiarity. This was so much like an elevator from her world! Only, it was going a lot faster than most elevators she knew, and she’d never been in one that was exposed like this. Only the guardrails kept her from tumbling off.
“How would you make all of them like this?”
“With wind! We’re trying to attach a windmill to the lift gears, but it’s not working! We think we can make them wind themselves up eventually, though! Then we’ll be able to ascend and descend anywhere we want!”
The Drake hollered back just in time for the elevator to slow as they reached the top floor. Erin wobbled out, with Nelliam helping both her and an elderly Drake. He grinned, used to the sudden ascent.
“Wasn’t that amazing? Just think, someday none of us might have to use the stairs again!”
“I hope I die before that day comes.”
The old Drake muttered as he walked unsteadily out of the lift. Erin felt he had a point, but then she was on top of Pallass’ walls. She stared around and realized that, while she’d been near the top of the city, she’d never looked out over the walls.
She did so now. The walls of Pallass were exceptionally wide. So wide, in fact, that there were emplacements where trebuchets, catapults, and other siege weapons had been installed, and room enough for armed [Guardsmen] to patrol and citizens to walk along the walls. They were so wide that Erin could have had a tennis game on top of the walls with room to spare if she hadn’t been worried about the ball falling off. Because if anything did get knocked off the top of the walls, it was a long way to drop.
“Oh my god, we’re high up.”
Erin stood on the battlements of the Walled City, grateful for the guardrail. She looked down, down, and down some more. Below her, muddy ground stretched out, along with hills and forests, brown and white in some places, as the last of the winter’s frost melted. Nelliam smiled as he pointed to a series of exceptionally high mountains towering over the Walled City in the distance.
“See that? That’s the High Passes, north of here. And if you look left, you can see the roads heading west. And over there—see it? There’s a village down there, and if you look really close, you can see people! You can pay for an enchanted spyglass. Lots of people rent them and sit up here, watching. Just mind the wind. It doesn’t usually blow people off, but it can get really strong up here!”
There was indeed a terrific wind blowing at Erin’s hair. It was colder than she would have liked, but she couldn’t tear herself away from the magnificent view. Nelliam grinned smugly as he saw Erin gaping.
“This is three hundred feet high?”
It felt higher, or maybe Erin had been away from home for too long. She’d been far higher—in airplanes and skyscrapers—but standing on the top of Pallass’ walls felt more immediate. Nelliam shrugged.
“It’s actually taller in places. We say it’s three hundred feet high just because it’s exactly that short in some spots. Impressive though, isn’t it? Have you ever been this high in your life?”
He was clearly expecting Erin to say no. She nodded absently.
“Yes. Higher, actually.”
“What?”
She could look down and see people entering and exiting Pallass’ gates far below. She could look straight down, in fact. Erin did and felt vertigo nudge her stomach at last. She thought she might faint or trip and hastily backed away from the edge. She had to take a few steadying breaths until she was feeling better.
“The height, huh? It gets most people the first time. Some people who’ve lived here their entire lives won’t look over the edge. My mother won’t, and she was born here, same as the rest of my family.”
Nelliam leaned over the railing, completely at ease. Erin swallowed and looked around. It seemed the City Watch was fine with letting civilians on the walls, so long as there wasn’t trouble. More than a few Drakes and Gnolls were standing at the balcony, looking through spyglasses. Some were more daring, leaning over the battlements or standing on top of them—
Erin blinked. There was a Gnoll standing on top of the battlements, on one of the stone blocks that archers could use for cover during battles. He had a pair of feathery wings strapped to each arm, and as Erin watched, he flapped them encouragingly in the breeze. But he wasn’t going to jump, right? That would be—
He leapt from the top of the battlements. Erin shouted in horror as she raced towards the spot he’d dove from. She screamed at Nelliam, who hadn’t seen.
“Hey, that Gnoll just jumped!”
“Where?”
Nelliam’s head turned, as did several of the [Guardsmen] on patrol. They instantly relaxed when they saw the plummeting figure.
“Oh. You had me scared for a second.”
“What? He jumped—someone do something!”
Erin was in a panic. What could they do? The Gnoll was dead the instant he hit the ground! But Nelliam looked unconcerned.
“Relax. That Gnoll always comes up here. He won’t get hurt. He’s trying to fly.”
“Fly?”
Erin remembered the wings. They’d looked silly, as silly as those old movies of people riding off cliffs on bicycles with wings. She stared at the falling shape, wondering if the wings were magical. The [Guardsmen] behind her were laughing and pointing, making bets on whether or not the Gnoll would fly.
“Looks like—he might make it—aw, no!”
The Gnoll was flapping wildly with his makeshift wings to no avail. They dragged at the air and eventually the left wing snapped off his arm. He plummeted, and Erin covered her eyes as he neared the ground. She peeked at the last second, though.
Before the Gnoll could splatter messily onto the ground, his body suddenly slowed in midair. He fell the last fifty or so feet, flapping with his one good arm and looking quite upset. Nelliam shook his head as the Drakes on duty laughed and tossed a few coins towards the bet maker.
“He always does that. That’s the second time this month. I don’t know where he finds the coin for those Featherfall Potions, but he’s wasting them trying to fly. He’s not an Oldblood Drake, and his wings break half the time. And when they don’t he just wobbles in the air before he lands.”
Erin stared as the Gnoll landed on the ground and tore the last wing off his arm. He began to stomp on them, and she looked at Nelliam.
“Do a lot of people do that?”
“No, just him. He’s weird, isn’t he? But you were lucky to see him—he doesn’t jump often, and people like to watch when he does. Too bad he’ll never succeed. A few of the Oldblood Drakes with wings sometimes fly from the walls, but a Gnoll won’t ever fly. Not without a powerful magical artifact or spell, anyways.”
“Oh, really?”
Erin cocked her head, a bit surprised by Nelliam’s dismissiveness. She knew Humans couldn’t fly by themselves in her world, even with technology, but what about gliders and wing suits?
“I thought Pallass was the ‘city of inventions’. Why don’t you think a Gnoll can learn to fly?”
Nelliam scoffed.
“There’s a difference between invention and things that are just impossible. Everyone knows that. If you want to fly, hire a [Mage]. We’re making things that everyone can use, not wasting our time trying to do ridiculous things like that.”
“Hmm.”
Erin didn’t immediately reply to the young Drake. She stared at the Gnoll who was trudging back to the city with his tail literally between his legs. She smiled.
“Maybe it’s impossible. But I bet all the great inventors did impossible things.”
Nelliam snorted.
“Yeah, but none of them strapped wings to their arms and jumped off walls. That Gnoll’s broken more bones than anyone in the city! If you’re done with the walls, do you want to continue the tour? I can show you our gardens next. Or how about we visit the Blacksmith’s Quarter? Or—”
He was turning Erin away when she saw a familiar Drake in yellow armor striding up to them. The Watch Captain looked harried, and he stopped abruptly in front of Erin and Nelliam.
“Miss Solstice, we’re going to have to cut your tour short. You’re needed back at your magic…portal thing. The Assembly of Crafts, our ruling body, has met with some of your city’s leaders and come to a decision.”
“The Assembly of Crafts? Wait a second, you mean the Human who caused all that trouble is her?”
Nelliam stared wide-eyed at Erin and the Watch Captain. She winced as the [Captain] took her arm. The Drake [Greeter] wanted to hurry after them, but a [Guardsman] blocked his way.
“Wait, you’re the Human [Mage]? Why didn’t you tell me?”
The Watch Captain ignored Nelliam as he steered Erin away. She waved at the young Drake apologetically.
“Sorry! I didn’t teleport anyone! It was my door!”
“What?”
“My door!”
The Drake and Human walked off as Nelliam disappeared behind them. The [Captain] was silent, but Erin was curious, so she began to pester him with questions.
“What’s so important about the door? Is there more trouble?”
“Not exactly. A few members of our Assembly—that’s, ah, like Liscor’s Council, only we elect numerous representatives from all of the major Guilds to vote on issues—a few members met with Liscor’s council. They used the door to communicate. I gather that Wall Lord Ilvriss will be fined, but there will be no criminal charges.”
“Oh. Good. So why do they want me?”
The [Captain] avoided Erin’s gaze. He coughed.
“I think the existence of such a powerful artifact that can transport people between locations is the issue at stake. The convenience and possible security risk means you, as the owner, need to be present in case the artifact is subject to fines or confiscation.”
“Confiscation? Hey, wait a minute…that’s not right!”
“I’m just doing my duty.”
“Oh yeah, well, what if I have a problem with people taking my door?”
“It is a possible security risk to Pallass. If necessary, we may be forced to seize it—”
“Seize it? If you do, I’ll shove this fist so far up—no, wait, that’s gross. I’ll shove the door so far up—”
“It’s not decided yet. Please, follow me.”
The Watch Captain edged away from Erin as he led her back towards the doorway. Erin stomped after him, muttering.
“Some city this is. First they arrest me, and then they try to take my door? We’ll see about that.”
She narrowed her eyes. Erin stomped through the streets after the nervous Watch Captain and found a crowd around the alleyway with the magic door. There were a lot of Drakes in expensive clothing forced to stand elbow-to-elbow in the cramped side street. A few Gnolls too, which was surprising. The members of the Assembly of Crafts looked at Erin as she stormed up, and she saw Ilvriss, Relc, Jelaqua, and Seborn all standing outside the door. Hawk was there too, sheepishly hiding behind a tall Gnoll.
“Hey! Are you jerks trying to steal my door?”
The important-looking Drakes and Gnolls stared blankly at Erin, and then one of them, a Gnoll with a paunch and bright reddish-brown fur, spoke.
“We are considering impounding this magical artifact due to the potential security risk it poses, as well as the economic advantages it confers. You are the [Innkeeper] and owner of this artifact, correct?”
“That’s right. I’m Erin Solstice. Who are you?”
The Gnoll blinked down at Erin. He was wearing an expensive vest and had a skullcap on his head—the first time Erin had seen a Gnoll wearing any kind of hat.
