A fist shot out and knocked the charging Drake flat. Erin gaped as Relc charged forwards, spear whirling. The Drake [Guardsman] struck two Drakes on the heads through their helmets, incredibly fast. Erin’s heart stopped as the Drakes fell, but then she saw Relc had hit them with the butt of his spear. They fell, unconscious, and Relc whirled.
“[Triple Thrust]!”
His spear shot out, appearing to strike three Drakes simultaneously for one dizzying second. Then Relc was spinning his spear, knocking an arrow down and bashing a Drake on the head. Pallass’ [Soldiers] drew back for a second, unprepared for Relc’s sudden attack. There was a moment of confused shouting, and then another voice rose once more.
“Hold! I said hold, burn your tails!”
The [Soldiers] drew back. Jelaqua, Seborn, and Relc paused, and Erin saw Ilvriss standing unharmed in the center of a circle of Drakes with weapons. The Drake in yellow armor strode forwards. He pointed at Relc.
“There’s only one Drake in the world stupid enough to shout his own name. You there, the Drake with the spear! Are you from Liscor by any chance?”
“Hey, do we know each other?”
Relc was holding his spear warily, but he brightened as he eyed the Drake in yellow armor. The Drake snorted.
“We’ve never met, but I know your name. Relc Grasstongue, [Sergeant] of Liscor’s army, is that right?”
“That’s right!”
Relc grinned. He turned his head to Jelaqua, who was staring at him as she stood with her back against a wall.
“Told you I’m famous.”
The [Commander] seemed to agree. He nodded at the guards, and then raised his voice.
“You heard him! That’s Relc Grasstongue, the damned Gecko of Liscor! Make sure he doesn’t break the encirclement and watch him—he’s fast! Someone get me some more battlemages and more [Guardsmen]!”
“Aw. Crap.”
Relc backed up as the soldiers on the street moved towards him. He raised his spear, and Jelaqua shouted.
“Why are you lot attacking us? We haven’t broken any laws! I’m a Gold-rank adventurer—”
“You teleported in with an unauthorized spell!”
The [Commander] roared at Jelaqua. Her eyes widened, and Erin’s heart skipped a beat. She turned her head to Hawk and saw him closing his eyes.
“Oh, dead gods.”
“We tracked your position! Put down your weapons. You are all under arrest for unauthorized entry to the city, assault on the City Watch, and illicit magical activity within the confines of a Walled City!”
“Oh shit.”
Jelaqua covered her face. She took one agonizing look around and then threw down her flail. At the same time, Seborn tossed his daggers to the ground and put up his hand and claw. Relc looked around and groaned.
“Aw! Every time I go to a Walled City, I get arrested! Fine, fine! Stop aiming those arrows at me!”
He threw down his spear as the City Watch surrounded them. Now there was only Ilvriss left. He stood with his sword bared. Over half a dozen [Guardsmen] lay on the ground, bleeding or being treated with potions by their comrades. The [Commander] shouted at him.
“Drop the weapon, Drake! Drop it, I said, or—”
“Silence.”
Ilvriss’ eyes flashed. Erin felt a weight on her shoulders and stumbled. The Lord of the Wall’s aura made the Drakes around him flinch, and one actually fell. Ilvriss raised his blood-stained blade, staring at the Drakes in front of him with the same haughty arrogance he always had.
“I am Ilvriss Gemscale, Wall Lord Ilvriss of Salazsar! Lower your weapons now!”
The [Guardsmen] around Ilvriss reacted to his name and title. They hesitated, as did the [Commander] in the yellow armor. . He called cautiously to Ilvriss.
“Wall Lord or not, your intrusion here breaks the law! Put down your blade, Wall Lord, and surrender peacefully!”
Ilvriss’ scorching gaze made the [Commander] flinch. The Wall Lord turned, his blade drawn. He stared down the street filled with [Guardsmen], daring them to attack. His voice rang across the street.
“Unacceptable! I, surrender? Put up your blades, soldiers of Pallass! Or if you intend to strike, strike true, because you won’t have a second chance. If it is war your city wants, mine will happily paint your walls red over my death!”
He brandished his blade, and the Drakes nearest to him backed up. Erin’s arms were tired, so she lowered them and massaged her shoulders as she waited to see what the Drake [Commander] would do. There was a moment where he hesitated, then he gave the order.
“Blades down. Someone get a Street Runner and find me a representative of the Assembly of Crafts!”
“Oh, I can go—”
Hawk took one step and put his hands up as the Drakes around him raised their weapons. He stared glumly at his feet as the soldiers in the street milled about, and several took off at a run. Hawk didn’t quite avoid Erin’s and everyone else’s gazes as they stared at him. He coughed.
“Okay, how was I supposed to know that was against the law?”
Erin looked at him and then around. She grinned helplessly as the Drakes eyed her.
“Um. Oops. Sorry?”
The Drakes of Pallass’ City Watch stared at her, their expressions hostile. Erin noticed one of the Drakes lying on the ground and moaning from where Ilvriss had cut him. She looked about, and raised her hands again.
 
——
 
Zevara was the Captain of Liscor’s City Watch. She was a hardworking Drake, who didn’t deserve half the news she got. Particularly any of the news involving Erin. For the first five seconds after the Gnoll [Guardsman] delivered his report about Erin’s new portal to Pallass, Zevara just sat at her desk with her mouth open. Then she began shouting.
“She did what? You’re telling me that there’s an unregulated portal to Pallass open and no one’s informed the security there?”
“I think so, Captain. We didn’t hear about it until just now. The Human [Barmaid] at her inn—the former thief—went to the city to let us know that Wall Lord Ilvriss and the [Innkeeper] had gone through the door about twenty minutes ago.”
The Gnoll [Guardsman] saw the scales on Zevara’s face turn dead white. She leapt up, sending her chair clattering.
“Get me a [Mage] and send a [Message] spell to Pallass right now! Tell them I want to talk to the Watch Captain on duty now! This is an emergency!”
Zevara didn’t wait for the Gnoll to start moving. She ran out of her office, shouting for the [Mage] on-duty in the barracks to send a message at once. She was swearing, cursing Erin’s name with every bad word she knew—and that was before she learned that Relc, a [Guardsman] from Liscor, had been arrested after attacking several members of Pallass’ City Watch. If there was one bright spot, it was that the prisoners in The Wandering Inn hadn’t been hurt.
 
——
 
The door to Pallass had been open for about twenty minutes when Lyonette noticed a few shadows around the doorway. She was busy keeping Mrsha from chasing Erin through the doorway and feeding Moore a bracing snack, so she didn’t have time to investigate it. The Redfang Warriors were all peering at the doorway, and it was only when Lyonette heard the Drake [Captain] right outside the doorway that she realized there was trouble.
“Now!”
Lyonette heard a roar from the door and turned in time to see a Drake’s hand tossing a potion into the room. The bottle smashed onto the floorboards and erupted into a plume of bright purple and white flames. They shot towards the ceiling and vanished in an instant. But the eruption of smoke billowed upwards. Lyonette shouted and heard the voice from outside roar again.
“Charge in! Take down the half-Giant and Hobs first!”
A Drake in bright yellow armor, a [Captain], charged through the doorway. He was followed by another Drake with plain steel or maybe iron armor, holding an axe. The two Drakes ran through the doorway as the rest streamed forwards—
And the portal went dead behind the second Drake. The Drake [Captain] faltered as, four hundred miles south of his location, twenty armed soldiers thudded into the stone wall with commendable force. He slowed, and the Drake behind him paused and stared behind him. The two [Guardsmen] looked around the inn at the five Hobs and coughing half-Giant. Lyonette had dived to cover Mrsha. The two got up slowly, coughing, and stared at the pair of Drakes. Neither Gnoll nor Human looked happy as the smoke began to clear.
The five Redfang Warriors traded a glance. All of the Hobs were on their feet with swords in hand, and they casually spread out to surround the two Drakes. Moore raised his staff, looking annoyed by the smoke that was making his eyes water. The Drake [Guardsman] behind his commander gulped as Apista buzzed around his head, agitated by the smoke and fire.
Faced with a sudden lack of bodies and cut off, the Drake [Captain] did the most sensible thing he could. He hesitated, and slowly sheathed his sword and raised his hands.
“We surrender.”
 
——
 
“Okay, so we didn’t mean to illegally enter your city. It’s just that I have a magical door, and we thought, y’know, it’d be cool to have a portal between Liscor and Pallass. Okay? I mean, Ilvriss—Wall Lord Ilvriss, that’s what he likes to be called—said it was okay to do. And if he didn’t know it was illegal, well…it’s not like anyone died, right?”
Erin grinned hopefully at the Watch Captain across the table from her. An hour had passed. In that time, she’d first been searched, and then, at Ilvriss’ insistence, left untouched. The Lord of the Wall had demanded both the Gold-rank adventurers and Relc be unshackled and treated as guests rather than prisoners. The City Watch had been unable to refuse his request.
After that, there had been some awkward standing around, many questions asked, and Jelaqua had asked someone to pull the arrows out of her chest. Then had come the urgent messages from Zevara, a bit too late, and also a notification of the prisoners that Lyonette had taken in The Wandering Inn.
Now Erin sat across a table from the Captain of the Watch on active duty. The Drake was wearing bright yellow armor and massaging his temples with one clawed hand as he listened to her convoluted explanation of what had happened.
“Let me see if I understand you correctly, Miss, ah, Erin. Your inn has a magical doorway capable of teleporting a user over four hundred miles.”
“Yup!”
“And you happen to know a Lord of the Wall who is seeking passage to his home city. And so you and Wall Lord Ilvriss hired a Courier to install this…portal doorway…in my city.”
“That’s sort of how it happened.”
“And—and I can’t believe this is a detail—your inn also has five Hobgoblin warriors and hosts a Gold-rank team of adventurers.”
“And a Silver-rank team. The Horns of Hammerad. They’re nice people, but they weren’t around.”
“I see.”
The [Captain] stared at Erin’s desperate smile and then looked back at the report in front of him. He massaged his temples again. Erin felt rather bad for him, actually.
“So…are we in trouble?”
“Let me see here. Thirteen wounded members of the City Watch, illegal entry, illegal use of a high-grade magical artifact, resisting arrest—”
“Hey, I surrendered! My hands were up the entire time! Mostly the entire time.”
“—resisting arrest, taking two members of the City Watch prisoner, sheltering Goblins—”
“Sheltering and feeding.”
Erin helpfully interjected. The [Captain] buried his face in his claws. Erin reached across the desk and patted him on the shoulder.
“Please don’t do that.”
“Sorry. But are we in trouble?”
The Watch Captain looked glum.
“I should arrest you. I would arrest you, but Wall Lord Ilvriss has asserted his rights. He is in the wrong, but as you were all acting on his orders…I could arrest the others for assaulting [Guardsmen], but he would object.”
“And that’s a bad—”
“That would cause a diplomatic incident that I am not qualified to handle. For now, you’re not under arrest, but we’re keeping the Selphid, Guardsman Relc, and the Drowned Man here. Their weapons are being impounded until we sort this out with Liscor.”
“Oh. That’s, uh, okay, I guess. But what about Hawk and me?”
The Drake shook his head gloomily. Hawk had already left the barracks after showing them his Courier’s seal.
“The Courier? He fulfilled his request to the letter. That he was unaware of Pallass’ laws is a matter for the Runner’s Guild. We’ll send a formal complaint to them. As for you—”
Erin gave him her most winning smile. The [Captain]’s eye twitched a bit.
“—You’re free to go. But given that your, uh, magical door is in use right now for the purpose of communication, I must insist you stay in the city’s limits.”
“Okay, I can wander around—”
“No.”
The [Captain] shot out of his chair. He eyed Erin, and then sat.
“You are part of Wall Lord Ilvriss’ entourage, so I am bound to assure your safety—”
“I am? He said that? Wow, that’s so nice of him!”
The Watch Captain ground his teeth together.
“That is what he claims. Thus, I cannot detain you against your will. But I must insist you be accompanied during your stay here. I will arrange for a guide to show you around the city. Is that acceptable?”
“Oh, totally. Um, does this mean I can—”
“Go.”
Erin nodded. She got up and tiptoed to the door. She opened it, slipped out, and then peeked back into the Watch Captain’s room.
“Uh, sorry for all the trouble.”
He stared at her until she backed away. When she was gone, the Watch Captain buried his head in his hands. He’d been Captain of the Day Watch for over eight years, and he’d weathered sieges, monster attacks, and political strife without flinching. Now he was close to tears. It was a feeling Watch Captain Zevara would have sympathized with very well.
 
——
 
Erin left the Watch Captain’s barracks and looked around. A lot had happened. A lot of important stuff. She felt quite bad for the Watch Captain, but relieved that she wasn’t in trouble and no one had died. A lot of people had gotten hurt—mainly by Ilvriss. But the Wall Lord’s strutting around and acting arrogant had helped, for once. He really was a big shot, so much so that he could stab someone in the middle of a street and then boss people about as if he were the injured party.
“Wow. Wall Lords are important. I guess I should be more respectful after all. Too bad I won’t be.”
Erin murmured to herself as she stared around the street. The City Watch’s barracks had only been a street or two away, so she hadn’t seen much of the city. She yearned to look about, but the Watch Captain had said she’d have a guide. Now where was—
“You there! Are you the Human I’m supposed to be showing around?”
