He turned, and Erin slowly walked after him. She walked three steps, saw someone waving, turned, and saw Jelaqua striding towards her through the crowd. She raised her hand and was tackled to the ground as sixteen armed Drakes appeared out of the crowd and charged towards her, Ilvriss, and Hawk, with their swords drawn.
 
——
 
About ten minutes ago, Jelaqua Ivirith was standing in Pallass, right outside of the door in the alleyway, looking around and talking through the portal to Lyonette on the other side. The [Barmaid] was anxious, and Jelaqua was trying to reassure her.
“Relax! I don’t see them around, but they can’t have gotten far. I’ll go ahead with Seborn and, uh, Relc.”
She nodded to the other two figures beside her. Relc was gazing around with clear interest in his eyes, and Seborn had already stepped out of the alleyway to look around. Lyonette was anxious as she replied.
“I’ll stay here in case Erin comes back. But what happens if you find her and we’re all stuck here?”
Jelaqua shrugged, unconcerned.
“We’ll find a place to sleep. There’s bound to be plenty of inns in a Walled City if we can’t bring everyone back at once. And Moore managed to juice this door up once already—he can at least bring Erin back.”
Lyonette turned and looked up at Moore. The half-Giant was leaning on his staff, winded. He nodded at Jelaqua.
“I can recharge the door again. It takes a lot of mana, though. I’m nearly tapped out myself. I could come through if I used a mana potion, though.”
Jelaqua looked around and then shouted back through the doorway at Moore.
“Nah, don’t sweat it. Stay there, Moore! I don’t know if the door’s got enough mana to transport you, and you’re beat. If you need to charge it up, use a mana potion, but don’t kill yourself until we know what we’re doing for sure. We’ll find Erin.”
The half-Giant nodded tiredly. Jelaqua waved to Lyonette and turned away from the door. Her two companions had already reached the mouth of the alleyway. Relc looked around, jaw gaping slightly as he peered at the buildings around him, goggle-eyed.
“It is Pallass! I can’t believe it!”
Jelaqua laughed a bit as she walked over to join him. The Selphid had kept her two-handed flail, but she wasn’t wearing armor at the moment. She didn’t think she needed the flail either, in truth, but no Gold-rank adventurer would walk around without at least one weapon at all times. She eyed Relc, who had both spear and armor on. She didn’t know the Drake, but she could sense he was no ordinary [Guardsman]. She gestured at the stone buildings as Relc exclaimed.
“What did you expect? You know Erin’s magical door can teleport people far away.”
“Yeah, but Pallass? That’s…far! And this is a Walled City, not Celum. It’s not like you can just walk in here! Normally you have to wait at the gates, and they get really mad at you if your city is at war with theirs. And now we’re here!”
Relc indicated the city as a whole, his tail wagging excitedly. Jelaqua nodded.
“And so’s Miss Erin. Let’s start walking and find her first. Seborn, thoughts?”
“I see some fresh fur this way. Looks like the Courier went this way, and I’d assume that the Wall Lord and Erin went with him.”
Seborn stood up and let a miniscule pinch of fur drift to the ground. Jelaqua nodded. She set off at a steady pace with Seborn ranging ahead, and Relc caught up after another few seconds of staring.
“Hey, why aren’t you more impressed? We’re in a Walled City! Isn’t that amazing?”
“Sure is. But I’ve been travelling back between Celum and Liscor for over a month now. This is special, but not as surprising as the first time it happened.”
Jelaqua replied casually. The truth was that Erin’s magical door had been incredible the first time the Selphid had laid eyes on it. Even now she was impressed by its capabilities, and not a little bit jealous of Erin’s good fortune in obtaining it. It was like a free [Teleport] spell! And the Horns of Hammerad had given it to Erin as thanks for funding their group? Jelaqua wondered if that was friendship or folly.
As for being in a Walled City…she could only shrug in response to Relc’s indignation.
“I’ve been in large cities in Baleros before. Liscor’s small compared to some of the cities owned by the Four Great Companies. I know this is one of the Drake capital cities, but surely Liscor’s comparable to Pallass?”
“Comparable? Are you joking? I mean, our army’s good, but Pallass is at least ten times the size of Liscor! And it’s a major military power. The army here is seriously bad news—I hear it was deployed a month ago at Rheist. They tore up a bunch of other armies in a big battle there.”
“Wait, there was a war between the Drakes? I didn’t hear anything about that!”
Jelaqua frowned. A civil war was huge news! But Relc just shook his head.
“What, that? That’s normal. That’s politics and stuff for you. It’s not a war, war, right? It’s more like an argument.”
“An argument that ends up in a pitched battle?”
“Yup!”
Relc twirled his spear happily. Jelaqua stared. He tried to explain.
“Well, the Walled Cities fight all the time. You know, some Lady of the Wall calls a Watch Captain an ‘eggsucking lizard’ and there’s a big war. Obviously no one conquers the Walled Cities, but lesser cities get stormed now and then, and sieges can go on for months sometimes. I think there’s a siege going on around one of the other Walled Cities right now. Liscor’s army is fighting there.”
Jelaqua shook her head at Relc’s description of Drake politics.
“You make it sound so casual. One Drake insults another and you go to war over it? In Baleros, it’s all about gain. We fight over land, over precious resources, magical artifacts, fishing waters…”
“Oh, we do that too. It’s just that we fight each other even if we don’t need those other things.”
Relc happily assured the two adventurers. Seborn grunted as he scouted around. There were very few people about, and the Drowned Man was looking wary.
“Pretty empty for the middle of the day. Aren’t the Walled Cities supposed to be full of people?”
“Eh, this is a residential district. They’re probably all having fun somewhere else. Hear the horns and drums? That’s a military parade going on. Everyone’s probably watching. Hey, I bet that’s the way Erin and the others went!”
Relc pointed down the street, and Jelaqua heard the parade in the distance. She nodded and strode towards the noise, talking to Relc as she went.
“So what’s this you were saying about not being able to walk into the Walled Cities? Are we going to be stopped because we’re not Drakes?”
“Nah.”
Relc waved one hand, unconcerned. He strode along, light on his feet, chattering away as he looked around.
“It’s more likely they’d stop me because I’m a famous [Sergeant] and I fought against Pallass in two…no, three wars. Small wars, but they really hold a grudge. Adventurers of all kinds are welcome in the Walled Cities so long as you don’t cause trouble. Selphids, Humans…they’ll let anyone in if they’re not known criminals.”
He pointed to his chest with his thumb, looking proud. Jelaqua exchanged a glance with Seborn, but didn’t comment. Relc nodded as if they’d agreed wholeheartedly with everything he’d said.
“Yeah, the last thing you want is to have the Pallass Watch on your tail. Those guys do not play around. Walled Cities have really, really strong City Watches; better than Liscor’s. They—oh hey, there’s Erin!”
He pointed. Erin was standing at the back of a crowd of Drakes. The parade had just ended, and the Drakes were moving in a huge mass down the street. Jelaqua walked to one side to avoid the flow of bodies and waved to Erin. She did stand out. The Drakes of Pallass had green scales, red scales, blue scales, yellow scales…some very vibrant colors, others muted, but none of them had the fleshy pale tones of Human skin. Erin was standing with Ilvriss and Hawk and hadn’t spotted Jelaqua yet.
“Erin, hey, Erin!”
Jelaqua shouted, waving at the Human girl. She saw a lot of the Drakes looking at her, surprised to see a Selphid walking about. Jelaqua ignored the attention. She was used to it. Selphids weren’t a common sight in many parts of the world. She could see a few groups of armed [Guardsmen] or perhaps Drake [Soldiers] marching down the street towards Erin. She hoped that the girl wouldn’t walk off, and waved her arms furiously.
“Hey Erin!”
At last, the [Innkeeper] noticed her. Jelaqua took a step towards her and felt someone grab her arm. She turned and saw Seborn. The Drowned Man looked suddenly wary.
“Jelaqua! Those soldiers are headed right for Erin and the Wall Lord. And there are more behind us!”
“What?”
The Selphid spun. She saw armed Drakes step out of alleyways, and a whole platoon marching down the street. She turned and was about to shout at Erin when she saw a Drake in yellow and silver armor hurtle out of the crowd. He tackled Erin to the ground as four other Drakes charged Ilvriss and Hawk. Jelaqua’s eyes widened and then she felt an impact in her side as a Drake charged into her.
The world slowed. Jelaqua stumbled with the impact and then felt the muscles in her body tense. The Selphid pushed at her body, ignoring the straining tendons, forcing her damaged Human form to push past her limits. She heaved, and the Drake who’d charged into her went flying. He crashed into a group of Drake civilians, who screamed. Jelaqua saw Seborn’s daggers flash, and another Drake staggered back, shouting in pain.
And then there was chaos. Drake [Soldiers] charged down the street as the citizens screamed and ran. Jelaqua’s flail was in her hand, and she whirled it in a fast arc. The Drake [Guardsman] who’d charged towards her grunted as the spike flails caught him in the chest. The impact dented his armor and sent him stumbling back. Jelaqua struck low—the flail’s heads struck the Drake in the shins, and he dropped.
“Seborn!”
She backed up, and the Drowned Man was at her back. The [Rogue] had his enchanted daggers at the ready, and there was already blood on the blades, but like Jelaqua, he’d struck to wound, not kill. The Selphid had no idea why the Drakes were attacking, but she was acting on instinct. Jelaqua began spinning her flail in dangerous arcs, gritting her teeth. Of all the times to forget her armor! The Drakes charged, and she moved into them, lashing exposed arms, chests, backs—
But why were they attacking?
 
——
 
“Don’t move! You are under arrest!”
The Drake on top of Erin was screaming in her ears. She was screaming back.
“What? What? Get off of me!”
He had her arm up behind her back and was pushing Erin’s face into the cobblestones. She tried to move, but the Drake was holding her in place. Erin could see running feet around her and then felt an impact. Someone kicked the Drake off of her, and Erin felt a wrenching pain in her arm.
“Ow!”
“Get up!”
Ilvriss strode over to her, his blade bared. Erin staggered upright and saw he was standing over two fallen Drakes. They were rolling on the ground and clutching at deep cuts in their sides. Ilvriss’ sword had gone straight through their armor.
“Erin!”
Hawk turned to them. He hadn’t been knocked down by the sudden attack either. The two Drakes who’d gone for him were lying on the ground, their chest plates dented. The Rabbit Beastkin hadn’t bothered with a weapon—he’d just kicked both Drakes.
“What’s happening?”
Erin shouted at Ilvriss, but the Wall Lord was busy. He was turning as more Drakes charged down the street. They were armed with halberds, pikes, swords—and they were very, very angry.
“Evacuate the streets! Get the civilians out of here and surround the intruders!”
A Drake [Guardsman] in bright yellow armor was shouting orders. Erin saw Jelaqua, Seborn, and Relc fighting other Drakes to the side. The street was suddenly full of soldiers! She backed up as she saw more Drakes coming towards her.
“Throw down your weapons! You are under arrest!”
One of the Drakes shouted at Ilvriss as he slashed a halberd in half. Only now did his words reach Erin’s brain. She was being arrested! She wavered, but the sight of a dozen pointy blades aimed at her chest convinced her. She threw up her hands and saw Hawk doing likewise.
The Drakes hesitated. They stared at Hawk, but their attention was grabbed in a dramatic way by Ilvriss. He’d charged into a group of three Drakes, and, with three cuts of his sword, brought them all down.
“Get that Drake!”
Most of the soldiers rushed past Erin and Hawk while several kept their weapons trained on her. Erin felt her heart beating wildly, and she could hear Hawk groaning aloud.
“Oh, no, no, no! I’m a Courier! Look, I have a seal—”
He tried to reach for his belt pouch, but the Drakes screamed at him, and he raised his hands again. Erin turned her head, searching for Jelaqua and the others.
There they were! Jelaqua was spinning her flail, keeping Drakes back as they attacked from every side. Erin saw a pike thrust at her from the side, and the Selphid turned. Her flail whirled, smashed the pike down. Instantly, Jelaqua turned and caught another weapon, knocking it aside before slamming the flail into a Drake’s shoulders. The [Guardswoman] fell, but several more were there to take her place. Seborn was fighting with his daggers, but both Gold-rank adventurers were outnumbered.
“Archers! Stop that Selphid!”
There was a shout, and Erin saw more Drakes rushing forwards. With bows. Her eyes widened, and she cried out.
“Jelaqua!”
The pale woman turned, and her eyes widened. Jelaqua turned her Human body to dodge, but too late. Erin heard a thud and saw two arrows sprout from Jelaqua’s chest and shoulder. She screamed. The Selphid staggered back, eyes wide, and then roared as she smacked a Drake on the head with her flail.
“That hurt, damnit!”
She whirled, and another arrow flashed past her towards Seborn. The Drowned Man ducked incredibly fast, and a Drake cried out as the arrow struck him instead.
“What’s happening?”
Erin shouted at Hawk, but he had no answer. She heard a roar as the Drakes pushed Jelaqua and Seborn back. They were screaming at them to put down their weapons, but neither Gold-rank adventurer was complying. Erin saw a Drake with a sword rush at Jelaqua to the side as her flail got tangled around another Drake’s shield. The Selphid turned, raising one hand to block the sword and—
“[Relc Punch]!”
