A Human, a Drake, and a Rabbitman walked through a city. Not just any city, but Pallass, one of the six Walled Cities of Izril. If the premise of their sudden adventure sounded like a joke, well, it was fairly funny. To Erin, at least. Her companions were less amused.
“I’m just saying, it sounds like a joke! A Human, a Rabbit-dude, and a Lord of the Wall walk into a bar. Or through a magical portal. There’s a joke there somewhere!”
“The only thing remotely amusing is your simplicity.”
Ilvriss growled at Erin as he walked down the wide, stone street, glancing from side to side at the rows of apartment buildings. The Drake looked north, down the street, and turned his head as he followed the sound of the echoing drums and trumpets. Erin and Hawk followed him, mainly because they didn’t have anything better to do.
“Look, okay, maybe we’re stuck here for a day, but that’s not a bad thing, right?”
“I don’t know. I’d love to be lying down in Liscor right now, or having a hot meal and a drink. You do know I’ve been running for four days straight, don’t you?”
Hawk glanced down at Erin, and she winced. The Human [Innkeeper] was shorter than both Ilvriss and Hawk, and noticeably smaller, too. The Lord of the Wall wore his fancy metal breastplate over his clothing and walked with a swagger; Hawk strode along with long, languid strides as his runner’s jacket shifted to reveal his stunning physique underneath his clothing. Erin just walked.
“Oops. Sorry, Hawk. That was my bad. But since we’re here, we might as well make the best of it, right? Just think about it! We’re all here, in Pallass, about to meet all kinds of new people! In theory.”
Erin looked around. The streets were empty. The buildings were there, and they were quite grand—she thought she was walking through some kind of housing area, because all the apartments looked alike. They were…well, apartments. You could go up six floors and find yourself in what was probably a decently-sized home. But there was no one in said homes, at least as far as Erin could tell.
“It’s really deserted, isn’t it? I wonder why that is? Hey, Ilvriss. Where’s everyone?”
The Lord of the Wall turned his head as he strode forwards, looking peeved.
“I have told you before, Human. I am a Lord of the Wall, one of the few Drake nobility on this continent! I am not to be addressed so casually.”
“Oh yeah?”
“Yes. Refer to me by my title and with proper respect if you wish to converse with me, and I may deign to reply. If not, keep silent. I did not come here on a whim, and I have pressing business to attend to.”
With that, Ilvriss turned his head and kept walking. Erin stared at his back as Hawk eyed her oddly. She took a deep breath.
“Hey Ilvriss. Hey. Hey, are you listening? Ilvriss? Drake guy? Hey Ilvriss! Ilvriss! I’m calling your name! I can see you listening! Hey! Hey, listen! Heeeeey. Hey! Hey, hey, hey, hey—”
There was no response, although the Drake’s tail lashed the stones behind him a bit harder than before. Erin stared at the paving stones for a second. They were lovely flat blocks of smooth stone, widely cut and further flattened countless years of use. It actually felt nicer to walk on this stone street than the concrete sidewalk back home. Better to look at, too; the walls, streets, and other buildings of Pallass had been made with a sandy-cream colored stone that was easy on the eyes.
“The streets in Celum aren’t this nice. Liscor either. They have paving stones and stuff. I wonder how this Walled City was made. With magic? It’s three hundred feet high, but are we high up or on the ground? Actually, wait, we’re high up. I can tell because there’s no wall, right?”
Erin pointed past the roofs of the apartments. There was a clear blue sky behind them, but no wall. Hawk nodded.
“We’re high up. I thought that might be the best place to put the magic door. I have to admit, I chose the first empty spot—I thought you could move it later.”
“Right, good idea. Hey, Ilvriss, where do you think—”
“Shut up!”
The Wall Lord turned and shouted at Erin. Hawk backed up a step. Erin just wiped her face.
“Don’t spit. Hey, do you think the city’s been abandoned?”
Ilvriss stared at Erin for a second. He looked incredulous and then resigned. He turned, and Erin went on, keeping pace with him.
“I’m just saying, maybe something awful’s happened, you know? We haven’t seen anyone.”
“We’ve walked down one street, Human.”
“Yeah, but it’s a long street, isn’t it? And I know we can hear those drums and horns, but what if they’re like…an illusion? But for our ears? What if the city’s empty and something awful has happened? Like—everyone’s turned into zombies!”
“That is the most idiotic—”
Ilvriss paused. Hawk coughed as he caught up with the Human and Drake on Erin’s side.
“It’s not empty, Erin. I saw people not five minutes ago, when I was climbing to the top. They’re here.”
“Right, but did you see them or was it all an illusion? Or maybe it was in your head? That’s how they get you! Illusion Zombies! We’ll walk around the corner and then bam! Zombies in your face! We have to survive for an entire day before we get back to Liscor and raise the alarm! It’s a classic scenario!”
Erin waved her hands over her head. Ilvriss and Hawk stared at her and then exchanged a glance that said it all. Erin saw Ilvriss rub at his temples and lowered her arms.
“Okay, I’ll stop being silly.”
“Wait, that was an act?”
Hawk stared at Erin. Ilvriss shook his head.
“Impossible. No one can pretend to be that stupid—”
He broke off, eying Erin hard. She grinned at him and Hawk and shrugged innocently.
“Maybe? I’m just a stupid Human, aren’t I? Oh look, I think we’ve found people.”
She walked ahead as both males halted in their tracks and stared at her back. Ilvriss made a fist with one clawed hand and then stopped. Because they’d found the citizens of Pallass at last.
The residential street opened up onto a much larger thoroughfare ahead of them. Erin stared. She’d seen streets, and she’d seen roads. This was a mega road, so broad that it could have probably been compared to the six-lane highways of Erin’s world. And it was filled with people.
Drakes, hundreds of them, filled the road, their backs to Erin, Ilvriss, and Hawk. And as they walked closer, they saw that the Drakes were crowded down both sides of the street in either direction. They were standing shoulder-to-shoulder, some standing on stairs for a better view, others holding small Drake children up to see.
They were waving flags, and many were armed. But this wasn’t a mob scene—rather, Erin could hear thunderous cheering! She stared, and the pieces fell into place. A Drake waving a flag emblazoned with a city, potion and hammer on it? It had to be Pallass’ symbol. And the drums and trumpets? Now Erin was close enough she could hear they were playing a tune.
The Drakes were cheering, their voices one huge mass ahead of her. Erin nodded to herself, seeing a Drake child eating some roasted nuts out of a small hemp bag he was holding. There was only one thing this could be, in her mind.
“It’s a celebration.”
She stared at the banners flying from the tops of buildings as she walked to the back of the crowd of waving Drakes. Ilvriss shook his head as he eyed the crowds of cheering pedestrians. He gritted his teeth and his tail lashed the stone walkway.
“No. It’s a military parade.”
“What?”
Erin turned to him in surprise. Then she listened and realized he was right. Erin had never done well in music class, but she could tell the drums in the distance weren’t the huge, booming drums of doomsday, but marching drums playing a very familiar military rhythm. And the trumpets and other horns just added to the similarities. Erin was reminded of the 4th of July back in her home. The music was different, but the effect was the same.
Erin had grown up seeing parade floats going down the street, gotten used to gathering candy thrown from the backs of cars and seeing the American flag waved on those national holidays in her homeland. So as she reached the back of the crowd and stood on the tips of her toes, she expected to see something similar. She was wrong, of course.
To start with, there was no candy. And there were no cars. There was a Drake on a horse, though. He was riding with his tail tucked over the left side of the horse, curled around its belly. He was holding a flag with Pallass’ insignia on it and lifted it into the air. The Drakes around Erin roared and waved their flags, cheering him as he rode down the street.
Erin turned her head and saw a rank of Drake soldiers, six abreast, marching down the street after him. She saw a battalion of Drakes pass by her position. The Drake [Soldiers] proceeded down the street, each one armored and carrying weapons. They marched forward in perfect lock-step, their heads held high.
A huge, magnified voice suddenly roared in Erin’s ears, surprising her.
“The 3rd Infantry Regiment of Pallass!”
 
“Whoa! That’s loud!”
Erin shouted, although her voice was lost in the crowd. The Drakes around her cheered louder. She saw the Drakes marching past her salute as the voice continued, setting off another wave of loud cheers.
“The Linebreakers recently served on the Vellir Fields outside of Rheist! Following them is the 4th Cavalry, which heroically fought in the same engagement!”
As the Linebreakers, or, rather, 3rd Infantry marched past, Erin saw more mounted Drakes pass by. She saw four on horses, one of whom was missing an arm, and two more that had scars over their arms. She saw nine more file past and then…nothing.
“Wait, where’s the rest of—”
Erin turned her head and saw more Drakes following. But they were on foot. She looked back towards the mounted Drakes and saw them saluting as well. All eleven of them.
“Hmf. They’ve pulled up every regiment in the city by the looks of it.”
Ilvriss stood by Erin’s side, staring at the parade. She stared at him and then at the soldiers. And then it hit her.
They were active soldiers, not just military personnel. When the voice shouted that they’d seen action recently, it meant they’d fought in a war. And the eleven remaining Drakes in the 4th Cavalry were all that had survived of their battalion. The sight was enough to make Erin’s heart twist, but the Drakes around her clapped and cheered the eleven riders with all their might.
And why not? Yes, this was an army that fought, an army that actively defended the city. Of course the citizens of Pallass would cheer them. Some regiments would pass by with only a handful of soldiers in their number. Sometimes they were injured—Drakes with missing eyes, lost limbs—the crowd cheering louder when they passed by. Erin stared at a group of old Drakes marching in polished armor and saw the tears in their eyes as they saluted.
She felt alone in the crowd of Drakes. There were no Humans she could see, and few Gnolls. She did not applaud or cheer as the soldiers marched past. But then, neither did Ilvriss. Hawk clapped along with the crowd, but the Human and Lord of the Wall stood silent. And then Erin heard the invisible announcer shout as the last group of armed Drakes passed her position.
“And now, the hero of the First and Second Antinium Wars, the legendary Tidebreaker, [General] Shivertail!”
A hush fell over the crowd. Erin’s heart stopped. She looked down the street and saw a small group moving towards them. In the silence, she heard Ilvriss mutter an oath and saw Hawk cover his eyes. But all of Erin’s attention was on the next group.
She saw a group of eight Drakes marching down the street holding a…coffin. They bore it together, two of the Drakes in front holding flags. Erin put her hands over her mouth as she saw the Drakes marching forwards with the casket. It couldn’t be. Zel was—he had died in Invrisil! It couldn’t be.
“It’s empty.”
She hadn’t heard Ilvriss move up next to her. Erin jumped and turned. The Wall Lord was staring at the coffin-bearers. His eyes blazed and his claws were tightened into fists. Erin looked back at the coffin. The empty coffin.
A blue wreath of flowers had been placed on the top of the coffin. As it reached her position, Erin saw the Drakes around her go silent, staring at the flowers. And then, as it passed, they screamed louder, waving their flags, shouting Zel’s name.
“Shivertail! Shivertail!”
If they knew the coffin was empty, it didn’t seem to matter. Erin heard ringing in her ears and dimly heard the voice again, roaring with emotion.
“Zel Shivertail was a hero, who went north to fight for the peace of our continent! He fought against the Goblin Lord to protect our borders! He fought, and the Humans failed him! Their army fled and broke as he fought the Goblin Lord’s army alone! They abandoned General Shivertail! They were too weak, too cowardly! But he did not run!”
The crowd roared. Erin turned her head wildly, trying to find the announcer. She felt like she’d been slapped.
“He went north for us! Shivertail died for us! Don’t let his sacrifice be in vain! Zel Shivertail was a hero of the continent, a hero of the Drakes!”
“That’s not right. Zel didn’t—it wasn’t like—”
Erin’s words were lost in the next wave of cheers. She could only listen helplessly as the announcer kept shouting to the frenzied crowd.
“Never forget General Shivertail’s sacrifice! Vengeance on the Goblins! Vengeance! Vengeance!”
They roared the word with him. Vengeance. Erin saw the Drake child with the bag of nuts who had been so happy now snarling, shouting with the rest of the Drakes. Their anger was a physical thing, and Erin shuddered to feel it.
The parade ended. Erin saw the marching band move past last, and then the Drakes began to break up. She stood back, letting the Drakes move in a huge swarm out of the street as they went back to their normal lives. So many Drakes. She turned and saw Ilvriss and Hawk behind her. They were standing, watching the crowd. Hawk was in tears. He hadn’t known about Zel Shivertail’s passing until today. And Ilvriss—
He stood with folded arms, looking around the city. He had neither cheered the Drake parade nor shouted. He was an outsider, for all he was a Drake. He wasn’t from Pallass, but from another Walled City. Salazsar. And as he looked at Erin and their eyes met, he nodded.
“Welcome to Pallass.”
He paused, looked around again, and sniffed haughtily.
“Salazsar is better. Come on, let’s find some figures of authority.”
