By the time he got back to the inn, it was already mid-morning. To Dallion’s surprise, more than the normal number of patrons had shown up. Apparently, with the festival on its way, people from outside Nerosal were starting to trickle in. If this was any indication the city would be packed by the time the event started.

“Dallion!” Hannah shouted with her usual stern expression as he stepped through the door. “Come here!”

It appears you are in trouble, dear boy, Nil said.

You really messed up now, the shield added. Being unliked had made the guardian a lot more quiet than he usually was. Or rather, he spent more of his time talking to the nymph than to Dallion.

“Coming.” Dallion quickly went to the counter. Outside he might be a double-digit awakened, but here he was just Hannah’s employee. “What’s the matter?”

“What did I tell you about favors?”

“Err… they have to be earned?” Dallion tried to remember what conversation she was referring to.

“I told you not to take advantage of others’ hospitality. When someone offers you a favor, be sure to be there when they ask for one.”

“Okay?” Dallion had no idea where she was going with this, but nodded nonetheless. “Am I in some sort of trouble?”

Before Dallion could answer, he heard approaching steps behind. Instinct made him turn around, ready for anything. However, as it turned out, he was definitely not ready for what followed.

“Darude Dal.” A very familiar blond girl dressed in a fine scarlet dress hugged him.

“Gloria?” Dallion managed to say, beyond confused. A hundred questions popped in his mind, but all he could do at present was return the hug for several seconds as he went through them all.

“So nice to see you again.” Ending the hug, she stepped back “It feels like it’s been decades.”

“It probably has. What are you doing here? I thought you were busy running the village.”

“I was until we managed to level it up enough to get a few travelling emblems. The council elders are taking care of things now. That’s why we decided to see how you’re doing.”

“Veil’s here as well?” Dallion looked around. “That’s great.” There were a lot of other words he could use, but none he dared to. “How did you find me?”

“The ring guardian told me. Since you made a big impression on her, she was able to find you using one of my grandfather’s devices from back when he was in the city.”

“That’s good…” Not to mention terribly inconvenient. It wasn’t that Dallion didn’t like seeing them. He occasionally thought about visiting back, but this was too sudden. “Where are you staying?”

“Always the idiot.” Gloria chuckled. “We’re staying right here, of course. Hannah gave us rooms the moment we told her we’re your friends.”

“With Jiroh gone and you being unreliable, I thought I’d use the extra help,” the innkeeper grumbled.

“That’s nice.” Dallion fought to keep the smile on his face. “It’s very very nice.”

Now things really got complicated.
