It was now loop number three of bringing people along. And the training was hellish.

Not for himself—who enjoyed it far too much—but his students who were now truly beginning to feel the sheer intensity.

“Damn-damn! I-urk! Grk! Bwah!”

Orodan’s fists came in via dual overhead hammer blows, Edrosic’s shield barely catching them. And just as the militia man did successfully block, a knee came in and knocked the wind right out of him. A right cross, an elbow in the same motion and then a shoulder check to the jaw all came in, like a continuous chain of movement which had Edrosic battered and unable to understand how he was getting hit so many times despite Orodan holding himself back to the man’s level of strength and speed.

“You’re letting me beat on you a little too much Edrosic. You aren’t even a satisfying punching bag to abuse,” Orodan said while continuing to deliver a beating. “Return some aggression of your own. Show some grit and stop letting me do this to you.”

“You’re a little too strong for that Orodan! Urk!” the man protested as he was knocked onto his rear. “I’m not built for this sort of fighting like you are!”

“I’m matching your level of strength and speed in fact,” Orodan said.

[Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 92 → Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 93]

The skill gain came from not an attack, but the fact that he was holding a bubble of compressed time across the surrounding two-hundred metres of space around him. The Time Compression aspect of his Smite of Abrupt Deliverance was being used, and he felt that this was the limit of how many levels he could gain in the skill by working that part alone.

But it helped quite a bit when each second of time within the bubble was a hundred-and-fifty seconds outside of it. This, Orodan felt, was the greatest extent to which he could compress time without drawing undue attention. After all, last time he’d compressed time excessively, the Mage had noticed. And while he would’ve normally welcome conflict with an Administrator, training his students and Alastaia was also a priority.

Plus, if he pushed things too far, burning everything and everyone around him with the excess of soul energy radiating off his form was a real risk too.

“Well, I can’t fight like you do!” Edrosic protested as he got up and resumed his stance.

“And the enemies you might face will certainly not care for those complaints, Edrosic. Come, we’ll make a proper fighter of you yet.”

They clashed a dozen more times, with the militia man eating dirt each and every time. The man had gotten worse at fighting, not overall, but due to the circumstances of having a perfect dimensional seal around the area, courtesy of Orodan deciding that Systemless training was superior to the regular sort.

It was an area of a half-mile he had formed in a relatively barren stretch of wilderness on the Novarrian side of the border than Balastion had ordered prepared and evacuated of any wildlife for that purpose. Ozgaric had tried having his Avatar walk through, only to immediately be banished from the host, denoting the shocking effectiveness of the dimensional seal.

And Talricto, Destartes and Tegin were already discussing potential methods of dealing with enemy Gods or cutting off the Blessings of enemy troops using such a method in battle.

Still, the real purpose behind such a barrier was training. And just before Orodan could dispense any more of it to Edrosic, a shrill alarm went off.

“Switch partners! Switch!” a supervising time keeper cried out.

These men and women, time organizers and aides, had been sent en masse to this stretch of the forest by Balastion. Their job was a simple one. To keep the training going at as high an intensity and in as efficient a manner as possible throughout every second of work.

And Orodan followed that, immediately locking blades against Balastion Novar, taking care to limit his strength and speed to the first emperor’s level.

“Like a dragon incarnate your flesh is stronger than any mortal man’s could ever hope to be! How do you do it, Orodan Wainwright?” the ancient ruler of Novarria asked, attempting to push him back but utterly failing.

Even with strength and speed limited, Orodan exploded like a whirlwind of violence. Attacks flowed one into the other, his style of terrifying aggression and raw brutality honed over the loops to leave no openings, was brought to bear upon his opponent. For every motion Balastion made, Orodan performed three. Strength and speed were equalized so this was just pure efficiency and attack-minded technique. Sword cuts flowed into hilt bashes which flowed into fists, elbows, shoulder checks and then rotations for backhands with the other arm.

In less than a second, Balastion was utterly outclassed and overwhelmed worse than Edrosic had been. Mainly because Orodan had been holding back a lot of his technique against the militia man, whereas here he was truly cutting loose.

“Body Tempering, Physical Fitness and perhaps Absolute Body Composition as well,” Orodan answered raining blows down upon Balastion, attempting to pressure the first emperor enough that the man would be forced to struggle and push his limits in order to escape. “Combat Mastery helps too. Knowing the right spots and angles at which to apply my strength makes me stronger than someone with the same strength who doesn’t know where, when and how to utilize their might.”

“Grk! You are monstrous… I admire that!”

He wouldn’t have normally been giving people a savage and overwhelming mauling in order to teach them, but this specific drill was a form of pressure testing. A basic test for martial combat specialists. Adeltaj and Arvayne had run him through it themselves, and now Orodan was pushing everyone he fought against in melee with it.

The goal was a simple one. Adapt to the pressure and innovate to secure some breathing room. Melee combat was a deathly and brutal affair after all, and if one couldn’t handle the weight of it, then death in battle when drowned by real pressure would be the result.

Before Orodan could continue running Balastion through further paces, a cavalcade of elemental spells came his way, courtesy of Destartes. With one hand continuing the beating, he had only one other hand free to launch counterspells.

It would have to suffice.

[Draconic Fireball 84 → Draconic Fireball 85]

[Light Beam 38 → Light Beam 39]

[Flash Freeze 41 → Flash Freeze 42]

[Galewind 34 → Galewind 35]

The Draconic Fireball struck the giant ice lance headed for him, turning it into steam. A Galewind followed, sending the hot vapor flying back towards the caster before the wizard could somehow take control of it. Two Light Beams struck and caused the orbs of darkness headed his way to implode and a Flash Freeze iced the eviscerating jet of water which threatened to hit him, causing it to fall onto the ground and shatter.

With one hand, he had a full spellcasting exchange with Alastaia’s greatest human mage. And with the other he was giving Balastion Novar a savage beating upon the ground. Although the latter was soon to end as the first emperor’s eyes were filled with rage and determination as the man finally slipped in-between a strike and pressed forward with his own aggression.

[Teaching 91 → Teaching 92]

A mad laugh left Balastion’s lips.

“Hahah! I’d nearly forgotten about the press of battle and the crushing weight of an enemy’s blows! Thank you for reminding me, Orodan Wainwright!”

An aide threw him his club, and he quickly sheathed his sword and shield to begin using the new weapon. Balastion’s longsword met Orodan’s club, and like a brutal arm of blunt destruction his attack rammed through the sword swing. Even while holding back to Balastion’s level, the club was a heavier weapon which synergized better with raw muscle.

[Club Mastery 29 → Club Mastery 30]

[New Title → Club Apprentice]

All of his skills in general had improved across the board over the past two loops. And the newly acquired Club Apprentice was the first of some gains he was seeing in them now.

Unlike everyone else who was sparring one-on-one against each other or a designated aide, Orodan was forced to multitask. Everyone had agreed, his development was the most important. The Embodiers coming for him and Alastaia were the primary roadblock and couldn’t be beaten by anyone but him. In fact, this entire phase of him training others and cycling in-between spars wasn’t direct training for his combat skills, but his Teaching ability. And the hope that he would be exposed to different styles even at a lower level and perhaps take a thing or two away from it.

Orodan’s own dedicated training period was upcoming.

He bullied Balastion, switched partners, pressured Adeltaj, switched partners and then ended up matched against Destartes in the sparring cycle.

“Ready for it, old man?” Orodan asked.

“It’s hardly my first time facing martial specialists, Orodan,” Destartes replied, the wizards hands crackling with power and spatiomantic armor forming across his body.

“Correct. But the purpose of the drill isn’t for you to casually beat the melee fighter, but to endure the pressure. Even mages should be prepared for close combat.”

At Bluefire and the other academies he’d been to, one thing he found somewhat deficient with the curriculum was that mages never went through any real pressure drills to prepare them for extended close-quarters combat. It made sense, after all, these academies were more focused on churning out powerful mages who were proficient at their fields of magic. What use was there for a mage to learn melee unless they were some sort of hybrid combat specialist?

This, Orodan knew, was a critical error. All throughout the loops he was the nightmare of almost every enemy mage he had met. How many spellcasters had died at his hands, terrified in their last moments as he closed in after revealing that their spells were ineffective? How many mages had died, not directly at his hands, but from just the death zone of collateral damage as he fought their melee specialist allies?

The problem with Bluefire and every academy on Inuan was that mages, by virtue of what they studied, were pain-averse. A child who grew up learning magic wasn’t encouraged to play fight with sticks or get into brawls. Soon as the talent was noticed either by virtue of a large mana pool, naturally strong affinity for a particular element or just quick study for magic, that child would be marked for admission into a magic academy. And the county academies during joint-exercises with one another, would simply have mages participate in formation fighting, mock battles or spars against martials.

And these spars often ended with the mages’s victory, their defeat or some sort of first contact. Which meant, in training, the average spellcaster just wasn’t exposed to close combat pressure over an extended period the way a warrior was. Unless they were a hybrid who utilized magic and martial abilities in tandem—which was extremely rare—most mages always followed the ethos of maintaining distance and defeating warriors without ever letting them get close.

This was the ideal of course. It was smart. But real battle was rarely if ever so ideal. And Destartes needed to experience regular close combat over an extended period of time if the wizard intended to help defend Alastaia.

Restraining himself to the point where his physical strength and speed were on par with the Eldritch Avatar, Orodan blurred into motion. His target’s eyes widened as he closed the gap instantaneously and Destartes immediately backpedaled.

This was fine, tactical even. In a real fight the mage would of course be best served with continually attempting to gain distance. It was how the Fallen Void Archon he’d encountered in the abyssal depths had slain Orodan of course. However, he had no intentions of allowing the triple-Grandmaster a moment of breathing room.

An aide had tossed a halberd earlier and Orodan guided Destartes along its path before catching it himself and launching a shearing downwards blow.

[Halberd Mastery 57 → Halberd Mastery 58]

The strike hit the wizard’s spatiomantic armor and immediately shattered it, cleaving Destartes’s arm off at the shoulder.

In but a single strike, the battle had turned and the old mage wasn’t looking too good; his face pale and in a rictus of pain which he was valiantly holding back. That being said, Destartes was no fledgling who had never seen battle or injury. One didn’t get to the level of a triple-Grandmaster by being soft. Thus, the old man used the momentum of Orodan’s amputating swing to spin around and cast multiple ice barriers between them.

At the same time, a short range Spatial Fold was poised to take the old wizard away. Of course, Orodan’s combat speed was far faster than the old man, and the Eldritch Avatar was too. So when he simply smashed through the ice and lashed out with his own space magic to rupture the forming Spatial Fold, Destartes could only sigh and accept that this was going to be a gruelling melee exchange the wizard would not be able to get out of.

The rules were simple; while Destartes was allowed to use magic and even attempt to escape, Orodan would simply keep coming and pressuring him in close quarters. To his credit, the wizard truly innovated and began utilizing all sorts of tricks to try and shake off the terrifying melee berserker that was Orodan. Spatial rifts, teleports, elemental spells, illusions of light and darkness, bursts of mind magic and even attempts at hitting him with soul magic.

