It still complained that the quality of his lightning was dodgy, likely a nudge at the fact that he had Lightning Magic Mastery which used mana rather than Lightning Mastery, which used soul energy and was far stronger. But the sheer quantity of lightning Orodan could now produce with a Burst Cast of Lightning Bolt was no joke.

He had actually needed to hold back on this cast lest he genuinely overfeed and injure This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons. Last time that had happened, it spent an entire hour miserably sputtering and letting out uncontrolled arcs and bolts of lightning everywhere. The elemental equivalent of eating too much and throwing up.

“Delicious! This one thanks the lightning-bringer for a most filling if low-quality meal,” it spoke. “If only the formative ones possessed the same propensity for endless energy as you do.”

Orodan ignored the backhanded compliment and its increasingly ‘polite’ attempts to imply he should acquire Lightning Mastery and stop playing around with mana. Gluttonous elemental.

“Even still, they are progressing well. Zukelmux gave the head of swordsmanship at Bluefire an even fight a few days ago. Aliya has moved onto fighting Adepts now, and Edrosic beat the strongest student at Oxhead.”

And Wainroach? Orodan had a happy grin on his face as he recalled how he’d thrown her into the monster horde surrounding Anthus only to watch with pride as the place began getting lit on fire. It had been a thing of beauty and horror in equal measure. With the horror being experienced by the monsters who were on the receiving end of her pyromancy.

For a monster, fighting a regular mage was already fraught with peril enough. But to fight a target the size of a human thumb which moved as fast as a javelin and hurled all manner of horrid pyromancy? A nightmare scenario.

A good third of the casualties had been caused by friendly fire among the horde, and the other two-thirds as Wainroach roasted a good portion of them alive. Hells, more than half the time the monster horde couldn’t even see her, lost in the press of bodies as she was. Her pyromancy was advancing incredibly quickly, and she was even beginning to grow capable of making Zukelmux take her seriously if she got off to a good start.

In a fight, the strongest was Zukelmux, and then either Aliya or Wainroach depending on who was having a better day, with Edrosic now being outpaced. But that was fine, for the militia man’s ability to draw was a far more profound and horrid thing than even Zukelmux’s combat skill.

Evidenced by when Edrosic had unfurled a canvas and shown it to the goblin in the middle of a spar.

Zukelmux had remained frozen in place, utterly captivated by the portrait of a beautiful female goblin for a whole ten seconds. During which Parthus took the opportunity to press his sword against the vastly superior warrior’s neck.

Orodan had felt the emanation of soul energy from the drawing. It had been no ordinary thing.

All this was to say that his students were doing incredibly well. And as he ruminated upon that, space fluctuated and multiple beings stepped thtorugh the rift.

“Apologies for keeping you waiting. Finding a suitable item to help resist tremendous amounts of lightning was a bit of a challenge,” Eldarion spoke.

The elf was now a Transcendent and among the mightiest beings of Alastaia. The first among all the people Orodan had brought along to reach Transcendence too. He had high hopes that with Eldarion having crossed over, the remainder of them would also follow suit. The first of a spearhead group meant to defend the world.

“Given the duration we shall be there and the sheer volume of it, that is understandable, Lord Eldarion,” Adeltaj spoke, hefting his halberd over his shoulder and wearing a number of enchanted rings, bracers and an amulet. “I do hope you’ll keep us shielded from the worst of it, honored Destartes. And you as well, elemental friend.”

“This one shall draw the ambient currents away from the fragile beings of flesh and bone,” the elemental lord spoke.

“And the dothril rod I ordered forged should bear the brunt of the arcs away from us,” Destartes spoke.

“Oh… to be inexperienced in wandering the planes again. How I yearn for those days when I knew nothing and all the sights were new to my eyes…” Talricto spoke, lament in its voice. “Come. I suppose someone must keep you all alive, and if needs be, it shall be the mighty Talricto the Wanderer.”

“Thief lord, the Aged-Skyfire-Who-Explodes is still unhappy about your non-consensual taking of their frozen lightning core. Perhaps you should reconsider accompanying us,” This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons spoke.

Orodan sighed and his forehead met the palm of his hand.

“Of course you stole something from the lightning elementals too, why am I not surprised? And with my luck we’ll be right on the cusp of uncovering something critical when this victim of yours decides to come on by,” he said. “Is this aged skyfire an Embodier?”

“Correct. An elemental progenitor responsible for the birth of the skyfire type of our kind,” the elemental lord answered.

Why not? Orodan had already given one Embodiment-level elemental a beating during the fight against the Prophet. Why not add another?

Just as he was determined on setting out, one more individual came through a rift, and Orodan immediately frowned.

“No. You’re not a fighter.”

“You damn rockhead, who said anything about me fighting? You weren’t a craftsman initially either, were you? Who ran you through your paces and introduced you to that side of life?” Old Man Hannegan asked, bearing a pack which looked massive, and even then Orodan could sense the spatial storage inside as being far bigger.

He had to bite his tongue and stop the instinctive arguments that threatened to spill forth. Damn this old fool for being right. He did owe Old Man Hannegan for everything the man had taught him. Not just throughout the loops but even before.

“If you’re interested in learning how to fight, I can’t safely teach you while in an elemental plane of lightning.”

“I don’t care for that brutish side of things. I’m coming along for training.”

“…training? What sort of training is this?” Orodan asked, baffled.

“What else? Got some jobs to do.”

What? What in the hells?

“Lightning-bringer, this one has enlisted the aid of the fragile and elderly mortal to see some things mended within our home plane. If any are to bear the blame for this hasty decision, let it be this one,” the elemental lord added.

“First of all… how in the hells is Old Man Hannegan supposed to mend anything? How does he even know how to help you? Why did you even agree?” Orodan asked all at once.

“And most importantly, who’re you calling fragile and elderly you cloudhead?!”

“The wise and elderly human knows much.”

Orodan’s eyes narrowed at that answer.

“How?”

“You’re reading far too much into it again. I just-”

“By the System, if you say you worked with some lightning elementals back in the day I’m going to hurl you through this dimensional opening,” Orodan interjected, refusing to believe any of this nonsense.

“Bah! Nothing like that, quit getting your head twisted up into knots. Knew a few spirit mages long ago is all, and met another pair when I was catching a drink in Vorskard.”

“You were there?” Orodan asked.

“Of course! The wizard was nice enough to give me a ride and I spent some time helping out around the city. Nice people these northerners, not deserving of the bad reputation the raider tribes get them.”

“You seem concerned, Mister Wainwright,” Eldarion spoke. “You realize that Gregory Hannegan gaining in knowledge is only a good thing, right? If it’s his protection you are concerned about, worry not. Talricto’s primary role will be securing us an exit if anything goes wrong.”

Orodan was well-aware that it was a good thing. In fact, for a while now he’d suspected that the old foreman had a real talent for this sort of handyman supervision work. Not only had the Republic always hired him instead of any outside supervisor to help clear the Mount Castarian tunnels of rubble, but even Lieutenant-General Tegin Carrotfoot had commented on how useful and knowledgeable the old man was. But, revelations of the man’s talent aside, what gave him pause was his natural protectiveness towards Old Man Hannegan.

The man was not a combatant, and in entering the dimensional plane of lightning would be subject to the real risk of death. It wasn’t the same as when an ally or student of his who could fight demanded to come along. As a warrior, Orodan could only respect their decision even if it worried him. But this was a different matter. They would have to protect him in a hostile environment where Embodiers were present and who knew what else?

“I have my reservations about this. But no part of your words is incorrect,” Orodan allowed, exhaling his concerns away.

“And if the worst should happen, just hit me over the head with that orb next loop and I’ll be fine. Feel free to tell me you told me so then,” the old foreman said and then barked out a laugh.

Truly, this shameless old fool was a little too cavalier about the notion of his death.

With their party of seven assembled, they set forth and entered the dimensional rift. They would’ve liked to bring Ozgaric along, but until Orodan figured out a method of getting the God of Trickery and Illusions out of the divine dimension reliably, that was a no-go. He was still experimenting with and learning about that divine realm of the Gods himself, so he didn’t want to act prematurely and cause any harm.

“Do as you wish old man. We’re going in; I hope you’ve come prepared,” Orodan said, moving through the dimensional rift.

He went in first, crossing the open rift which This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons had opened, and the remainder of the group followed after him.

The moment he crossed the threshold, lightning and the currents of volatile blue energy were all he knew. His Lightning Resistance warded the ambient electric arcs off and prevented any actual damage, but despite having been here three times by now, the change was still jarring and unnatural. One moment prior, in the cold plains of Guzuhar; in the next within an elemental planeof eternal thunderstorms.

That being said, Orodan was not alone.

The very next thing to come in after him was a giant metallic spire. It flew past him and out into the sea of seemingly infinite lightning. As it flew, the very arcs of electricity, the roiling currents of volatile blue… they were drawn towards it.

The metal began to glow hot as the energy of the surrounding three miles of thunderstorm began assailing it directly, and Orodan was certain that the metal was close to melting and then failing in its purpose. Those worries were laid to rest as a series of metallic golems crossed through the dimensional rift and entered too. These animated hunks of metal strode forward like brave soldiers charging an impossible position, and one-by-one they began taking the elemental load off of the lightning rod as many of the arcs of energy from the thunderous sea omnidirectional sea around them instead hit the golems.

“There we are. A far more manageable level of hostility in these environs,” Destartes said as he walked through. “I don’t think I’ve ever ventured someplace so ridiculously hostile to human life before. Or directly into an elemental plane for that matter.”

“Not enough time? Gold?” Adeltaj asked, stepping through next, his feet finding purchase upon no ground as there was nowhere to stand. So he floated in the gravity-less void which looked quite unnatural within the otherwise perpetual storm.

“Both. Alongside willing colleagues of course. This dothril lightning rod cost almost the entirety of Karilsgard’s reserves of the metal to forge… but when one is in a time loop and has the research opportunity of a lifetime, what does that matter?” Destartes replied. “Council wasn’t too thrilled, but when are they ever?”

“We must get to teaching you the ways of dimensional travel, mage. With the inter-planar forces at your command, such environments are not difficult to traverse,” Talricto said, happily floating right into the sea of energized lightning and outside the lightning rod’s area of safety.

The spider had a strange layer of dimensional force around it which caused the lightning to travel elsewhere entirely. Possible only because of the high-level of skill Talricto possessed. Given how the eight-legged wanderer had spoken of traversing many elemental planes prior, it came as no surprise that it would be well-adapted to this one.

Then, This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons and Eldarion came in through the opening.

The elemental lord’s very presence caused the ambient lightning to gather towards it, feeding it a steady natural thrum of energy. Inferior to what Orodan could provide through a Lightning Bolt hurled via Burst Casting, but still enough that he could understand why elementals found Alastaia unattractive.

Eldarion though, as befitting a Transcendent, simply spoke a singular word, soft in its volume.

“Peace.”

And the storm around them noticeably lessened in its intensity.

“Well it’s good to see that your Transcendence is paying dividends,” Destartes said. “Balastion must’ve felt jilted, given his refusal to come with.”

