Orodan genuinely approved of all this. However the entire point of the exercise was that shaking the melee attacker off was meant to be impossible. It was a conditioning session meant to train him on how to grow used to enemies reaching him in melee with no escape in sight. And while Destartes was doing fantastic, the wizard seemed to be under the impression that the exchange would end with success.

That wasn’t the case.

Ten minutes of fighting later, the old wizard’s face was even paler. He had pulled out every trick in the book that a mage was capable of in order to try and shake Orodan off, but it was of no use. He clung to the mage like a blanket, wrestled him to the ground like a ragdoll, beat him like a drum and even lopped a foot off.

And just before Orodan could knock Destartes out, a shrill alarm rang.

“Time! Switch! Switch partners once more!” the time keeper called. “Healers! Elder Destartes is in need of healing! Quick!”

“Not bad, old man. You really surpassed my expectations on this one,” Orodan said. “Who knew you had it in you to hold out for so long with an arm and a foot gone? Most mages I know would have been writhing in agony from the first second.”

“I… am not…” Destartes choked out as his limbs were magically restored by a Grandmaster-level healer on standby. “most mages.”

That much was true. The sheer diversity of spellcraft, tricks and stratagems the old wizard had used was astounding. But the power and ability to truly explode for an escape was a bit lacking for some of those options, as was Destartes’s stamina and mana pool. Certainly, the mage had the largest pool of mana he’d seen in a human, but that still wasn’t enough for the high-diversity, high-intensity style of spellcasting the old man engaged in.

Orodan would have to rectify that.

“You’re going to be put through rigorous training to expand your mana pool and regeneration,” Orodan declared as he moved away to fight Aliya. “No Blessing from me, no forced churning of your soul to improve the mana regeneration capability. Just hard work, technique and a dash of madness.”

For even if he did give Destartes his Blessing like he had during the Anthus conspiracy loop, what use would it be if the old mage couldn’t draw upon the power too freely lest he burn himself out from energy overload? Better to manually condition the body, mana pool and the soul’s ability to recover it quickly.

Blessings and tricks were nice, but hard work and sweat were the only way forward that was truly reliable in the long run.

Still, those thoughts could come after he gave Aliya a good thrashing. The girl had improved, but her ability to fight against human opponents was still spotty. She was a genuine weapon prodigy with that staff, and as additional training had proved, a halberd and spear too. But her Combat Mastery noticeably lagged behind.

She was fantastic at fighting monsters; the more animalistic and mindless ones at least. Against things which were cunning and had a level of instinctual intelligence or against human opponents though, she struggled.

“Teacher! I’ll show you what I’m made of today!” she boisterously declared as though she hadn’t cleaned the forest floor with her head the prior three times in this sparring circuit whenever she came up against him. Still, he could always respect a good work ethic.

Orodan said nothing as he closed the distance, keeping his strength moderated to the Apprentice-level as he probed her defenses with light thrusts of his own spear.

Unlike Edrosic or Destartes who required pressure testing and continual close combat drill, for Aliya and Zukelmux that was their strong point. Even before Orodan had encountered her, she was sneaking off to infestation sites and fighting Initiate and Apprentice-level monsters for experience in the hopes of gaining strength. It wasn’t that pressing her with brutal aggression would be useless, but that it was one of her strengths and would only continue to improve as the girl enjoyed fighting against mindlessly aggressive monsters.

Her ability with polearms was frankly prodigious, to the point that Orodan’s current Spear Mastery of 44 was only six levels ahead of her. He was the better warrior in terms of overall talent, but she was the far superior wielder of polearms. It wouldn’t surprise him if she surpassed him in the use of polearm-related skills at some point.

[Spear Mastery 44 → Spear Mastery 45]

As he and the eight-year-old traded blows, his understanding of the spear improved. This sparring circuit with no breaks was working out quite well. In forcing such rapid combat against a variety of opponents, he himself was improving.

And he focused not on brutally overwhelming the girl, but confusing her with feints and things which would trip up someone unused to fighting.

His thrust his spear up high towards her head, only to retract it at the last moment and come in for a strike with the butt of the polearm instead. This, she saw clearly. Her skill with polearms was high enough now that she could read and react to any moves performed with them ahead of time.

But what Aliya didn’t expect was for Orodan’s foot to kick up a spray of dirt and twigs, sending them towards her face. She sharply gasped as her vision was obscured, and before she could react to it, a fist crunched her nose.

Some might have considered it excessive to pummel a child in such a manner, but Orodan thought these sorts were idiots. After all, they wouldn’t be around to hold her hand in real battle when the enemy did far worse. Better to harden oneself in training than experience the shock of violence unprepared when in a fight to the death.

Still, she was getting better. Aliya’s spear whirred about and covered all further possible approaches for him to take. Even with dirt in her eye and her vision blurry from the broken nose, she used her spear as a feeler, using it in lieu of actual sight. And it was a good move as she caught Orodan coming in from the left and swiftly engaged.

Her attacks were swift, brutal and aggressive. She sought to press towards him. It was one of the traits he really liked in this student of his, that she responded to violence with violence of her own just as Zukelmux did. But…

“Ironic as it is for me of all people to say this. You could probably stand to backpedal and utilize the reach of the spear more,” Orodan instructed as he punished her coming forward by managing to grab hold of the haft, trip her feet and throw her down to the ground. “Nothing wrong with trying to fight like me, but that depends on having a whole host of other skills and decent Physical Fitness on top. If that’s what you want, we’ll be training in unarmed combat and wrestling more often.”

And if she was as good with polearms as she appeared to be, then perhaps a war scythe would suit her well too?

Orodan decided to give that theory a test and gestured for an aide to throw him a giant scythe which he promptly shoved into Aliya’s hands.

“Again.”

His demand was short, but the expectation carried through as the girl understood the assignment and began getting a feel for the unfamiliar weapon. Orodan lowered his strength and speed just a smidge in order to give his student the time to bridge the gap and gain some skill with the new armament. However, he needed not have held back too much, as another one of his training partners decided to make their presence known in the form of a whip of dimensional energy. Reminding Orodan that his regimen was harsher than the others since he was expected to fight and engage in ancillary training every other spar of the circuit.

His focus was split as he barely created a thick and gel-like substance made of dimensional energy just in time for the whip to sink into it, dispersing its energy.

“That’s a new one,” Orodan competitively growled, fending off Aliya’s war scythe which was getting increasingly better by the second.

“I couldn’t stand watching you bully an unfortunate child, and of course… the opportunity to remind you of my superiority is as always, irresistible,” Talricto declared with flourish and far too much arrogance in its voice.

Superiority? Why this eight-legged…!

Soon enough, Orodan’s attention was occupied with the dimensional phase spider as Talricto not only sent assaults his way, but also periodically moved to tamper with the perfect sealing of the dimensional boundary around the area that Orodan had implemented. It was maddeningly frustrating to have to focus on training Aliya while also having to quickly reinforce the seal, defend himself, or send an attack of dimensional force of his own towards the spider to keep it from getting too comfortable.

But one couldn’t say it didn’t come with benefits.

“Oh, look! I spot a pitifully constructed dimensional seal! Would be a shame if something happened to it…”

“Damn you, Talricto!”

Orodan’s anger fuelled his insights as he wove multiple layers of dimensional power into a rope, utilizing the concepts behind the Weaving skill in a manner which caused Edrosic to get distracted from his own spar and eat a smack from Zukelmux.

The woven rope reinforced the seal even further, successfully stopping Talricto’s dimensional carving slice which would have otherwise slit the boundary open.

[Dimensionalism 90 → Dimensionalism 91]

And at the same time, Aliya whose movements with the war scythe had gotten better, swiftly had her swing met with one of Orodan’s own with the spear haft. The two weapons collided, and his self-moderated Apprentice-level strength meant his spear was knocked backwards.

But this was fine as he allowed her scythe to come in, barely avoided the tip, stepped past and caught her weapon handle on the swing as it passed to pull her in for a reverse strike with the butt of his own polearm.

[Spear Mastery 45 → Spear Mastery 46]

He saw a tooth go flying alongside spittle as she ate dirt yet again, although with how good she was becoming with polearms, Orodan doubted he could make the same trick work again.

“While I’m a strong advocate of saying that brute force is always the answer, you still need to consider that many foes will use that force against you or to their advantage to get you overexposed,” he instructed. “Good job. Don’t fall for that trick again. Wrestling, Unarmed Combat Mastery and Physical Fitness will be priorities for you moving forward.”

In almost every exchange they had, it wasn’t her lack of skill with the polearm which did her in, but someone deciding to grab it, grapple her or trap the weapon to pummel her with unarmed strikes. Having been knocked down yet again, she could only nod in thought.

Orodan then collided a series of sharp needles of dimensional force against a series of unstable dimensional orbs cast by Talricto when the shrill alarm went off.

“Switch! Switch! Break time!”

And by break time, the head time organizer meant it was ancillary training time. And the one thing he had to give Balastion here was that having every expert under the sun across Novarria gather here was of greater help than he realized. Mages and mana experts immediately flocked to and surrounded Zukelmux, Aliya and Wainroach, with Destartes taking the lead in showing them magic while other instructors of certain elements the wizard was weaker in gave the man pointers. Edrosic was surrounded by Elites and Masters of Calligraphy and Drawing; supposedly there was no known Grandmaster of the latter skill, but Orodan had faith the militia man would be the first one. Balastion and Eldarion were sitting across from one another, the first emperor in a state of deep focus as the elf slowly helped train the emperor in fortifying his mind. The ancient ruler of Novarria, even without the crown, was hells bent on acquiring Eldritch Resistance. And with a time loop now on his side, the man was in a far better position to do it than before. And Talricto took a rest while studying tomes on chronomancy, hoping to address its one weakness.

No travel time, no back and forth with having to give introductions and secure tutelage. The best of the best were already here and there would be no real breaks. It was an intense regimen for everyone involved.

And if Destartes had to teach people of magic even as he learned, and if Eldarion had to help Balastion with fortifying his mind… then it only made logical sense that there was nobody more qualified than Orodan to direct physical training.

“Stand and bear the burden, Adeltaj Simarji!” Orodan declared, putting a giant boulder the size of a house upon the old halberdier’s shoulders and watching closely to ensure there was no slacking off. “How can you tolerate your Mythical skill for longer periods of time if your body remains weak? Go on, up and down, we must strengthen you through physical conditioning.”

“Hrk! These old bones aren’t meant for such rigorous work nowadays… why this brings me back to my youth…” the old man muttered, struggling but still bearing the weight if barely.

Orodan watched stringently to ensure that the man didn’t pull upon any assistance via the Burden of the Hero. It would have made the task easier but would have been a cheap cop out. The old man needed to manually strengthen his body. No shortcuts would be allowed.

Still, wielding a halberd meant that Adeltaj was a martial specialist, which put his Physical Fitness at a decent level to begin with as the old Simarji had likely been training that all his life as any self-respecting martial should. Destartes however, would receive no quarter in his training.

“Now focus Wainroach! Channel the flames through- urk!”

“Don’t stop on account of me, old wizard. Keep giving your lecture,” Orodan spoke as he put a heavy rock the size of his torso upon Destartes’s back.

