“Or he simply wished to remain upon Alastaia to coordinate things in case anything were to happen?” the elf replied, not lowering himself to the level of insulting a former rival. Within a few loops, the first emperor and the Transcendent elf had genuinely begun to understand and appreciate one another better. “Not all of us can go gallivanting off into an elemental plane. Someone has to stay behind. He is also closer than you think to reaching my level.”

And if anyone was the authority on attesting to that, it would be the elf, as he regularly trained with Balastion the most out of anyone present save Orodan.

Still, there was one more member of their little group, and that man made his presence known as a ring of air propelled him through the void of the elemental plane of lightning and towards them.

“Clumsy little thing! How do you even operate this reliably?” Old Man Hannegan complained as he flailed about, floating in the void and struggling to stay oriented.

“Helps if you keep an eye on certain objects to start with and try to remember their orientation towards one another. A feel for three-dimensional, gravity-less movement will come after,” Orodan spoke, recalling his first few fights in the void between stars where it was all too easy to lose bearing and be stuck wondering where the enemy and his destination were.

“Alright, I believe we’ve wasted enough time. We should move on. I for one, am excited to explore an elemental plane. For too long have the resources to do so been denied to me, and my potential expeditionaries unwilling or woefully lacking in preparation,” Destartes spoke, a genuine smile of excitement and wonder on the old wizard’s face. “But no more. Today, in this loop, we shall explore. And we shall document the phenomena Mister Wainwright is seeking to study.”

“And assist this one in mending some of the abodes,” This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons booed cheerfully.

And so they set off.

Finding one’s way in the elemental plane of lightning wasn’t easy. It was not a forest, marsh or snowy winterscape which could be navigated through skilled knowledge of the wilderness and good Pathfinding. It was an entirely non-human plane, ubiquitously composed of an element which was quite hostile to biological life as he knew it.

The lightning elementals of course had great senses for how to navigate their home plane; being in tune with the electrical currents and arcs of energy. This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons was capable of reading the currents. But Orodan certainly wasn’t. That being said, he had been here four times now and had a relatively passable understanding of the foreign environment.

And traversing an elemental plane radically different to anything he’d known on any planet he’d been to was great for a certain skill.

[Pathfinding 68 → Pathfinding 69]

Unlike the others who remained within the ‘bubble’ of safety provided by the combination of multiple people working together, Orodan instead ventured out into the lightning, not bothered by it.

“This one sees that the lightning-bringer is familiar with our home. How many loops of travel have you spent here?” the elemental lord asked.

“Four so far,” Orodan replied. “And it’s not too bad once you learn to identify the differing power in each arc and the patterns in the landscape.”

[Vision of Purity 93 → Vision of Purity 94]

Vision of Purity, a skill he hadn’t improved in a while, was being put through some excellent training here. Not only was the majority of the lightning here pure, but there was just so much of it that his sight was being put through much just to function. Furthermore, using the skill, he could differentiate the levels of power between certain currents and others, and using that, had identified patterns such as which thunderstorms in the distance certain electric currents came from and whether the thunderstorms would be of requisite power to have those soul-creating spheres of lightning near them.

He didn’t do anything quie as fancy as ‘sensing’ the lightning, although there was certainly a skill for that which most if not all of these elementals had. But he was reading the trends, noticing the patterns and making very accurate estimates based off of that. It was a set of probabilities, one after the other. A fantastic exercise for Pathfinding and Vision of Purity.

“Oh, look. Frozen lightning of the energized sort,” Old Man Hannegan spoke, drawing everyone’s attention to it. “More of that can be found around the centers of certain perpetual storms. In fact, since we’re seeing one here, I think we’ve got one of those nearby.”

“What? How do you even know that?” Orodan asked, befuddled. “I’ve been around these parts four times now and have yet to see any perpetual storms.”

“Even this one is not aware of any perpetual storms in the area… perhaps the wise but frail one is mistaken?” This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons suggested.

“Ah… just keep going forward. Let’s find this lightning sphere you’re after,” the old foreman spoke, floating along at the center of the party.

As they moved, Destartes took many readings, Eldarion spoke to the many small but friendly elementals which flitted by their group, and Adeltaj often practiced shadow drills with his halberd, taking inspiration from the lightning.

Of course… the real problem of traveling with a party soon became apparent.

“Orodan, we must help these elementals!” Adeltaj heroically declared.

The pitiful-looking wisps of lightning, young and looking malnourished, complained of their regular feeding grounds being overtaken by a group of older and stronger ones. Needless to say, Orodan and Adeltaj were rather similar in their outlook of making a problem their problem if they encountered one.

Which naturally meant they diverted course, gave the big elementals a beating and told them to stop bullying the younger ones.

“Mister Wainwright, we must study the profound arcs of energy running between these two spires of frozen lightning. Look how the energy roils… in observing this you might improve your own Lightning Bolts further,” Destartes said, capturing still moments with a scrying eye orb.

Orodan’s gaze, which hadn’t even considered those sorts of currents before, now fell upon them and noticed the profundity of the natural phenomena. He left with an additional level in Lightning Magic Mastery for it.

“My friend, could I trouble you that we might stay a moment and converse with this elder elemental? It appears to know some of the younger elementals we have contracted to our spirit mages on Alastaia. An opportunity for great cross-cultural exchange,” Eldarion spoke.

And this too, Orodan obliged as the elven Transcendent spoke to an odd sort of lightning elemental which wasn’t composed purely of lightning, but of frozen lightning, perpetually energized with currents from within. Not all lightning elementals were the same type. This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons was a storm elemental, a sub-type. Similarly, there were other sorts, such as the skyfires and the energized frozen lightnings.

And the elf’s conversation had inadvertently taught Orodan much about the plane as Eldarion asked questions and drew out answers about the particulars about their customs and way of life.

And of course… although it should not have surprised him by now, was Old Man Hannegan.

“Say, Orodan, got a minor job I need to lend a hand with around these parts. Got a moment to make a detour?”

“Of course, why wouldn’t we?”

And so they went off-course again and he was treated to the ridiculous sight of the old foreman meeting with a group of lightning elementals attempting to construct a sphere of frozen lightning for a well-respected elemental lord to sleep within. The elemental lord was frustrated with how slowly the construction was going and these elementals in general didn’t look as though they were any good at manual labor or planning the way the mortal races of the material plane were.

A problem solved within moments as Old Man Hannegan got to barking out orders.

“You! With the spiralling arcs, focus on keeping that section energized and only move onto the next section after your fellow’s done treating theirs!” the old foreman yelled. “And you! With the wobbling bits of frozen lightning! Yes, I’m talking to you! Get your head out of the clouds and make sure the grooves are mapped before you let that one carve them out! By the hells… does nobody around here know how to work fulgurite? This is an embarrassment! Move over!”

Even Destartes was watching with rapt fascination, moving his dothril lightning rod forward so that the old man could safely step forward. The wizard, he and everyone else in the party could only watch as Old Man Hannegan brought out a coal marker and began sternly lecturing the lightning elemental on what the correct sequence of work was and how to properly do its job.

Orodan frowned in confusion as against all odds, the elemental began to do a proper job after the explanation and rebuke. It wasn’t that the old foreman knew how to do its job better than it could… but rather he simply directed it to work correctly and efficiently. He… supervised them.

“How long have you known of this?” Orodan asked the wizard who was now smiling.

“Since the first loop you brought me along. He pulled me aside and asked for help in getting to some rather… far-flung places. I did not think much of it then, but once I saw what he was doing…” Destartes muttered. “Let me just say, Mister Wainwright, that while Edrosic’s drawings are well and good, I think this foreman who you’ve known for so long might be the true monster.”

Orodan had to wonder… could he have even built the warehouse as quickly as he did without the old man being around each time? Had his crafts gained levels as quickly only because of his presence? In his mind he began comparing how quickly his crafting skills rose in level while working with Old Man Hannegan versus when training elsewhere. How he had acquired the Legendary Wood Communion early on, something he really had no particular talent for. How he had always brought new techniques and crafts to bear in building the warehouse and gained levels while under this taskmaster’s supervision, even while befuddling him from time to time in early loops.

Was Old Man Hannegan perhaps… the real prodigy of Alastaia?

“Or he’s simply the most reliable supervisor you’ll ever find,” Zaessythra remarked. “Even in another dimension.”

A point that was looking truer by the second as the sphere of frozen lightning meant for an elemental lord saw visibly quicker progress towards being made.

“Orodan! Get over here! I need someone who can work a chisel to smooth out some of these grooves.”

What else could he do but comply? Especially when the prospect of free training was involved.

It was a hollow sphere of fulgurite, meant to house a storm elemental so that it could rest. He didn’t understand how their bodies worked, but supposedly it was quite relaxing and rejuvenating for a storm elemental to enter and let itself loose within one of these hollowed out structures. Furthermore, the rock was energized, with arcs if electricity running through it and pulsing at all times, which meant that not only did he have to consider the regular side of Stonecutting, but also the notion that carving it wrong could lead to energy leakage; something quite undesirable for any elemental dwelling in one of these. Unfortunately for the elemental lord commissioning the structure, its kind didn’t have five-fingered hands and opposable thumbs like the mortal races did. They weren’t very good at craftsmanship of this sort and importing something from the material plane was expensive.

But that was why Orodan was here.

Over the next thirty minutes, he worked on smoothing out the interior and even the grain pattern of the frozen lightning sphere as best he could.

[Stonecutting 47 → Stonecutting 49]

Two levels gained by the end of it. Working with energized rock was harder than he thought it would be and he had to be careful to avoid working the rock incorrectly lest he create a leak.

But he had done it. And in just thirty minutes he had gained two levels in Stonecutting. Progress which outstripped anything else.

Further proof of the fact that Old Man Hannegan was the difference-maker.

“Such smooth granulation to it… this one feels invigorated just looking upon the abode you have created, lightning-bringer. If you reveal too many of your talents too freely, then the elemental progenitors might not allow you to leave,” This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons spoke.

The elemental lord who commissioned the structure though, was ecstatic too

“Walkers of the energy-less plane… you have greatly pleased me today. Might I keep this wise old human with me?”

“No.”

Orodan’s reply was immediate and got it to back off.

From there, the group finally moved on and began nearing the spheres.

The dimensional boundary subtly shifted in a familiar way and with a grace he only knew a certain spider to be capable of. He felt eight legs plop onto his shoulder, shifting through the dimensional boundary to appear.

“I noticed you went off to go sightseeing earlier. Seen anything useful?” Orodan asked.

“Besides the fruitless bickering of elemental lords, a duel between two elemental kings and the progenitors slumbering in their usual spots, not much. Though I’ll admit, the boundary does look a little more frayed than I’m used to. The timing does coincide perfectly with the start of your loops,” Talricto spoke.

“The boundary?”

