“Y-yes! Now as I said, Wainroach, you must push the flames along your mana circuits in an… o-optimal manner.”

He respected the fact that the old mage was committed to teaching and learning at the same time. Destartes had at least some levels in Physical Fitness already, hence he was able to bear the load and even begin pushing himself up and down, off the ground, with his arms.

Soon, all of his students were engaged in physical conditioning while still undergoing their own lessons. But this didn’t mean that Orodan himself was exempt from his own training. In fact, the tell-tale clunking of a familiar mule drawn cart drew his attention.

“Well? What are you waiting around for you rockhead? Unload this cart and get to work on cutting and polishing the stones,” Old Man Hannegan barked. “In fact, you know what? I’ll have you cut and polish the stones these sorry louts are carrying upon their backs first.”

An interesting exercise. To cut, polish and prepare a stone as someone was doing physical exercises with it upon their back. Naturally, Orodan chose the struggling Parthus Edrosic as his first target.

“Hmm… how to reach the the top… maybe if I stood upon the rock?”

“And add more weight when I already struggle?!” Edrosic protested, eyes widening with fear.

The man was forced to do one-handed push ups with the rock on his back while the other hand was busy sketching a drawing under guidance and intruction from the various Calligraphy and Drawing experts.

“Are you calling me fat Parthus?”

“You…! Have you seen how big you are?! How am I meant to bear the extra-”

Orodan tuned out the man’s protests and hopped on, beginning his work.

This… this was excellent training.

And no number of unflattering drawings of him that Edrosic drew in retribution would change that.

#

The remainder of the loop went astonishingly well.

Orodan made steady gains thanks to the training with no breaks. His crafts, weapon skills, magic and others improved all across the board. And Balastion was encouraged enough with the results that he and everyone else agreed that this method of training was for the best.

Rare resources such as special items which could only be used once—worth more than an entire city—were used to help Adeltaj and Destartes acquire special insights not found anywhere else. Rituals which either weakened a specific attribute or wiped certain memories from the mind temporarily were used to train Orodan’s students so that they could clear the mind and arrive at an insight far easier. And overall, the building of the ancient machine went far smoother than it ever had before with the Republic, Novarria, Guzuhar and Eldiron’s resources being pooled together.

He also made sure to enter the divine dimension and train with Ozgaric, although how much the God of Illusions and Trickery benefitted from the sort of martial training Orodan put him through, he didn’t know. Still, some of the other exercises and tips he gave the divine, such as how Orodan worked with absurd amounts of power, did seem to help quite a bit.

It had also been a bit of a shocker, seeing that Ozgaric’s actual form was that of a young child.

Apparently Gods and Goddesses stopped aging after becoming divine. Although that begged the question of just how young the God had been when he’d ascended to divinity. It certainly explained the fondness for mischief and tricks he was known for.

The remainder of the loop, his battle against the first of his rival Embodiers and the subsequent activation of the ancient machine went as it typically did. And he died using Balance Maker against the Eldritch Boundless One, bringing the skill to 75.

And Orodan knew that this would be an endeavor that took many loops.

It was time to get to grinding.

#

Loops four through seven were spent training.

In combination with the Time Compression aspect of his Smite of Abrupt Deliverance, the amount of time they had on-hand to train, make plans and better themselves was monstrous.

And although the thought of functionally having years worth of training for each loop was enticing, the fact was that there were some limitations which prevented that.

A 1:150 time compression ratio was intense. While his soul could bear that strain, as could Destartes, Balastion and Eldarion, the others could not. The numerous aides and supporting staff among them. Even the strongest time dilation chamber he knew of in Novarria had usage limits for that reason. Not just for the energy cost of running it, but also because the souls of unprepared users were put under a decent amount of strain.

The real problem was that besides Orodan, everyone else had the System empowered by the Eldritch Boundless One. Their very souls and essence had a part of that unfathomable being. Thus, putting oneself in such a time compression which separated them from the influence of the Boundless One caused strain, as though an integral part of the soul was cut off from its root.

Furthermore, the various experts and people still wanted to go outside the bubble of Time Compression. They had families, ventures and the like. And while Balastion commanded them, the first emperor wasn’t cruel enough to keep them separated from their affairs and loved ones for so long. And entering and leaving time compression was another thing which put strain upon the soul. It was the equivalent of going from stillness to faster than sound at a moment’s notice. The soul took a lot of pressure in doing that.

While his students and those in the loops could get used to it, the other aides they brought in would not. And everyone had agreed that it was better to just let a loop pass instead of trying to force more time out of it by any means necessary.

All this combined meant that he could only do one eight hour session per loop, which was still a lot of time. Almost two months’ worth of extra training per loop.

And loops four through seven were spent chipping away at training, exploring the elemental plane of lightning and working with Ashganruk to understand the intricacies of spider dragon silk and how to make his own soul weave good enough for what he wanted to do.

Furthermore… the reality was that such things took time. Not everyone was as monstrous as Orodan Wainwright. His willingness to embrace endless pain and death, to confront the most horrid foes and challenges? Even the most devoted of his students couldn’t quite match up to him in that aspect. Orodan had advanced to Transcendence and then Embodiment in less than a hundred functional years of fighting and training. Even with a time loop, who else could match him?

Almyra had been a time looper for how long? Her loop was ten-thousand years old, and she still just an Embodier whereas he had not only reached that level but also conquered the concept of Cleanliness utterly and fully.

What this meant now was that in three loops of training, Destartes, Adeltaj and Balastion weren’t about to bridge the gap so quickly. Although Eldarion certainly had. The elf had reached it on loop five right near the end, and that had been an interesting battle where the Hegemony descended and then promptly ran for their lives once the goat-woman Embodier showed up and began fighting Orodan.

It was an interesting thing, to see that once he had Transcendence in one loop, the elf wouldn’t be bothered by the trial or the Hegemony’s descent in following ones.

Still, the three loops of training went well and everyone had improved.

Orodan most of all, particularly in his ability to work on rock.

It was now loop eight of this, and today…

…he intended to earn the respect of that dwarven master at the quarry.

Old Man Hannegan accompanying him had a smile of anticipation upon his face. The old man was an enigma, in Orodan’s opinion. He wouldn’t force the old foreman to fight, he wasn’t exactly one of his students and his role in no way necessitated it. But even then, when it came to training he had no idea what Old Man Hannegan did.

Although the old supervisor from Ogdenborough seemed unassuming at first glance, once one got to know him, that changed. Balastion, Adeltaj, Destartes, Eldarion and hells, even that prickly jerk Talricto respected him. It was downright uncanny how Old Man Hannegan seemed to know things about the small parts of society, about where to find certain ingredients, about how to direct a task of labor, and the like.

What had really astonished him though, was when the old foreman had accurately known where to find a certain type of wood…

…on Eldiron.

It had shocked Eldarion just as much too, and ever since then Orodan had been giving Old Man Hannegan the side eye a lot more often than not. How the hells had the man even known where to find that particular species of three on an entirely different continent? Where and how did the old foreman even train? The old man never participated in the combat portion of their training, only coming in to help Orodan train his crafting skills, but outside of that nobody exactly followed him around when he was unaccounted for during large stretches of time.

In fact, it was safe to say that aside from the designated training times or when Orodan needed guidance on how to best go about training a craft, the old man’s activities were entirely unknown. And while Orodan wasn’t the sort to pry into another’s affairs, it did leave him curious as to how the hells the old man knew so much.

“Alright. I have to ask. How the hells did you know where that specific species of elderwood tree was on Eldiron? You’ve never been there,” Orodan blurted out directly.

The old man simply laughed and shook his head in response.

“Don’t read into it too much. I worked with some elven arborists back in the day, and useful information tends to get around once people are sharing drinks at the tavern after a hard day’s work. Not that you would ever know, running off to train or get into a fight after shift when you used to work with me.”

That both made sense and sounded as absurd as possible. As though such a simple explanation could account for the old man’s extensive knowledge. Why, it was almost as ridiculous as suggesting that Orodan could acquire a Celestial skill just from cleaning his hovel.

“For a rockhead, you’ve been thinking an awful lot nowadays. Come on, quarry’s up ahead. Let’s get to work,” the old foreman said as they walked up the hill for the overseer’s spot.

The overseer, the same woman who always headed the House Stenguard quarry of Scarmorrow, was happy to see Old Man Hannegan and while a little mistrustful and perhaps jealous of Orodan, saw no reason not to allow him to work the cliffside.

Before she could even finish her explanations, Orodan was down by the cliff face, his section the one where two other martial types were working already.

“Haah! Feel the sting of Haragos the World-Spli-” the man’s boast was cut off as he made a strangled noise. “By the Gods! Landslide!”

[Mining 49 → Mining 52]

[New Title → Mining Adept]

Before the loud mouth could even finish his proclamation, Orodan’s pickaxe hit the cliffside. And with it came insights. He had not only been working on Mining, but Jewelcrafting alongside Griok. That elderly goblin, soon as Fenton was back, would be getting one of the first spots onto the loop. The techniques he had learned from the oldest of the Rising Spear Tribe had been profound.

And as a result, here and now, the pickaxe didn’t just crush the rock into rubble, but it instead caused a series of clean lines to crack along the cliff face, causing solid and high-quality blocks and chunks of granite to begin falling down.

“By Halor… how the hell did he hit it like that? Quick! Get the carts and mules over here right away!” a nearby supervisor yelled.

Orodan of course denied any and all help. That being said, there were some extra steps involved in carting the stone when he had successfully broken off solid, useable chunks from the cliffside instead of mere rubble. For starters, it was heavy, and it could stack much more efficiently. Which meant that not all the carts they brought would be capable of bearing a full load.

He produced a set of tools, forged by his own hand earlier in the loop and began to work upon the carts to strengthen them so that they could bear the increased load. There were twenty carts in the quarry and Orodan had demanded they all be brought over to section four where he smashed the cliffside into useable blocks of granite. And over the course of fifteen minutes of labor, a combination of Wood Communion, Wainwrighting and other skills saw the carts reinforced to be capable of bearing far heavier loads.

[Wainwrighting 37 → Wainwrighting 38]

[Wood Communion 71 → Wood Communion 72]

[Repair 26 → Repair 27]

[Maintenance 39 → Maintenance 40]

Those were the final set of messages he got as he finished work on the last cart. Following that, he began hurling the blocks of stone with precision onto the carts.

Like the slam of the crusher pulverizing rubble, the blocks crashed down onto the space within the carts with booming noises, arraying themselves quite neatly.

“S-sir! You’ll break the carts!” the supervisor frantically warned.

“Not at all. Do you hear any ominous creaking? Any sounds of the wood splintering or breaking under the load?” Orodan asked as he finished loading the stone and began tying each of the twenty carts to himself. “I haven’t worked on these for nothing.”

And before their eyes, shocking them with the sight of a singular man pulling twenty stone-laden carts along the road himself, Orodan began pulling the carts along.

