The carts were incredibly heavy, and any dirt or even regular cobbled stone road would have failed. But thankfully the quarry’s overseers weren’t stupid. It was common practice to carve the road leading up into the cliff itself. A granite roadbed which made the twenty incredibly heavy carts roll along smoothly.

Unlike last time, the difficulty of pulling the carts wasn’t quite so steep now. His Towing and Walking skills had improved, as had Laboring. So the gains from pulling them this time wasn’t quite as pronounced.

[Towing 24 → Towing 25]

[Walking 15 → Walking 16]

[Laboring 64 → Laboring 65]

As he crested the top, dragging all the blocks up, the overseer couldn’t help but gape at him having secured so much construction-worthy granite. And before she could make a peep about how he’d done it and who he was, Orodan simply walked up to the pile of rubble assorted near the crusher and used Domain of Perfect Cleaning to cleanse it all.

“W-what in the name of the Gods!” the overseer shrieked, utterly surprised as the rubble became purified.

And Old Man Hannegan burst out laughing, the sight not having gotten old for him at all.

“Stonecutting. I want to learn that here. Will it be possible?” he asked calmly.

“O-of course! Anything! With this much construction grade granite… we’re ahead of demand by a whole month! In terms of raw material at least. The processing can catch up soon enough!” the woman said and then sharply gestured for two supervisors to come over. “Take Mister Wainwright here to Master Varnok. Have Kalin show him the ropes for Stonecutting, whatever he wants, help him with. And tell the rest of the workers to forget about mining for the next two weeks. Processing duty only.”

Orodan was led to the familiar work area of the stonecutters. Rows of workstations crewed by hardworking men and women covered in rock dust. And at the center, the dwarven Master stonecutter whose assistants were helping him shape a particularly pristine boulder.

“Kalin,” Orodan greeted one of the dwarf’s assistants. “Your daughter is growing quite strong huh?”

“Oh! Mister Wainwright? How odd to see you here. Have you been teaching Aliya the ways of the Cathedral’s diviners? The girl has been oddly accurate in predicting how my day will go today… down to the eeriest detail such as your arrival.”

“Nothing like that. She just seems to be having a little too much fun abusing the situation she’s in,” Orodan replied, leaving out the part about the time loops. If Aliya wanted to tell her parents about that, that was her business and not his.

Of course an eight-year-old would be chomping at the bit to abuse the foreknowledge a time loop provided. Frankly, he was somewhat impressed that the girl hadn’t been causing more of a ruckus with her increased powers and knowledge of what was to come. Then again, Orodan repeatedly worked her to the bone and had her eating dirt with every training session, so perhaps she didn’t have much energy left to get up to mischief.

“Eh? Some sort of divining artifact you possess perhaps? In any case, she’s safe and growing stronger by the day so I won’t ask questions… even if she has this exceptionally mischievous look on her face nowadays,” Kalin said. “We had the Burgher come by the house yesterday asking if she wanted to join Bluefire, but she outright refused saying her teacher taught her better than any stupid academy could.”

“Heh… which is funny considering she detests all the reading and mana exercises she’s being forced to do,” Orodan replied. “Now, I’ve come to practice my Stonecutting alongside you, if you’ll have me?”

“Oh? Is that why you two are here as well?” Kalin asked the two supervisors accompanying Orodan.

“Right. Boss’s orders, whatever the lord wants, he gets.”

“Not a lord. But come, let’s begin.”

And so he got to work.

Over the past seven loops of this, if there was one craft skill Orodan had been specifically focusing the most on, it was Stonecutting. Not only did a number of his existing skills such as Mining and Jewelcrafting contribute to his understanding of it, but he also considered the skill to have the potential for great use in combat once he finally got around to activating Combat Mastery. Chiefly though, he had some ideas about helping take some of the burden off of the ancient machine’s metal and enchantments during its activation. Although that would take much more work and self-improvement still.

Consequently, when Orodan began carving the slabs of rock meticulously and with a focus and steady hand that none of the other assistant stonecutters could manage, eyes began to turn his way.

[Stonecutting 46 → Stonecutting 47]

His practice in Jewelcrafting with Griok had paid off massively. That elderly goblin’s ability to handle a precious gemstone was masterful, and the practical tips, tricks and techniques he’d learned in the craft from the Rising Spear Tribe were in many cases superior to whatever conventional Jewelcrafting in the human nations of Inuan taught in the academies.

Equipped with these special techniques from the goblins, Orodan’s stonecutting was immediately and noticeably superior to that of anyone else around him save the dwarf working on the rock at the center platform.

“Good Gods… I wasn’t aware you were such a fair hand at Stonecutting too, Mister Wainwright,” Aliya’s father spoke with envy. “And here I thought I had one thing…”

“Once things are settled, I know of a goblin who’d be more than happy to teach you,” Orodan spoke, thinking of how he had much to do before Alastaia was ready to defend itself, but even after that there would be much work.

The senior most assistant stonecutter was frowning at his work, unhappy with the attention Orodan was getting. Of course, such petty jealousy was pushed to the side when the dwarven master turned his way and looked at the stone with appraising eyes.

“Human, who taught you that?”

“A goblin. Griok of the Rising Spear Tribe,” Orodan honestly answered.

“A greenskin? Not many associate with those savages.”

“And not many would insult my allies in front of me so brazenly. Recant your words lest I give you a beating here and now,” Orodan warned with a clenched fist.

In response the dwarf’s eyes widened and he took a step back before giving him an approving nod.

“Aye, I’ll retract my words. Not too often I get to see a man in these human nations stand so strongly for his friends. I can respect that,” the dwarf said and then looked even closer at the well-worked rock. “Your skill… it’s passable, but the most impressive part about this polished slab is the technique. I… suppose I can put my prejudices aside to admit that some of the goblin tribes I’ve met have had phenomenal craftsfolk. They have a way with intricacy and the smallest details that dwarven hands are too stout to enact.”

“Then will you teach me Stonecutting?” Orodan directly asked. “There is a device I’m working on, and I hope to take some of the burden off of its metallic skeleton and enchantments.”

“Teach you? Does it look like I have the time for that nowadays? I have my own pursuit of mastery to focus on,” the dwarf grumbled. “What would I get out of teaching you?”

“Gold? Power? Protection?” Orodan tried, but even he knew the dwarf wasn’t interested in any of that.

“I left that damn under-mountain because I didn’t give a mole’s arse about those things. I just want to be left alone to work on stone. Do you think gold, power and security mean much for me? I get that through the Burgher and the Republic.”

“Then what about an opportunity to improve your craft?” he asked.

“And what sort of opportunity could you give me? You look like the fighting sort. I’ve built a third of the castles in the Republic and more than half the ones in Novarria. What else could I make that would help?” the dwarf asked pointedly.

“So you are a Grandmaster… and you’re seeking the path beyond that, aren’t you?” he asked, and the dwarf gruffly nodded his head in affirmation. “Then… if you’re tired of building castles… how about building a mountain?”

#

Varnok Grimbreaker, because of course such a Grandmaster stoneworker was related to the under-mountain line of kings, wasn’t too hard a dwarf to convince once Orodan had begun laying out the plan he had.

One which involved not just rebuilding the ancient machine, but to rebuild and reinforce the entirety of Mount Castarian itself so that the very stones of the mountain could contribute towards bearing the load of the machine’s activation. It was a grand and ambitious plan, and the dwarf had only tentatively agreed after Orodan’s revelation of the time loops and all the allies he was gathering.

Needless to say, Varnok had made no direct commitment yet, but had said that he might come by near the end of the loop to see what this ancient machine was about and to meet everyone. Which was all Orodan wanted anyhow.

Now, on the snowy plains of Guzuhar, with the Valley of Spires visible to their west, Orodan and This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons were waiting.

“This one wonders why the lightning-bringer puts so much investment into the formative ones.”

“Does your elemental plane of lightning stand by itself? Are the mightiest Embodiers the only ones keeping vigil there?” Orodan asked in turn. “Alastaia must stand on its own two feet. This world must become capable of defending itself with or without me if it’s to prosper.”

“The lightning-bringer’s analogy does not equate. Who will invade the endless lands of stormlight? Where the mere presence of the currents reduce any beings not of the thunder to ash and energy?” the elemental lord said. “Only aberrant beings such as yourself may survive and perhaps thrive. But not for long. Even with the most curious skill of Lightning Resistance, most do not get as far as you do without the ability to heal themselves and perpetually generate energy.”

He had asked the elemental lord why it considered the Lightning Resistance skill curious once, and it had simply replied that to it, Lightning Resistance was as curious as he would consider a being with Air Resistance. And to that he had no reply and could only wonder what sort of void-dwelling being would require Air Resistance in the first place.

Still, the This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizon’s words weren’t wrong. Even if someone had higher Lightning Resistance than he did, what did it matter? They couldn’t live within the elemental plane of lightning indefinitely. Lightning was still hostile to the physical form of anyone who wasn’t an elemental of the same energy type. Over time they would suffer damage, and even if they healed, over time their energy would run out or their mental willingness to keep living in a perpetually hostile environment would erode.

Although, it was wrong about anyone not wanting to invade its dimension.

“I wouldn’t be too sure about the invulnerability of your elemental plane. After all, look what happened to the dimension of light.”

The elemental lord immediately recoiled and looked angry. But mainly, fearful and anxious.

“The lightning-bringer speaks falsities yet again!” its voice boomed. “We of the thunderous domain would not succumb the way those of the light have! Our ears are blocked from treachery against… against…”

“I did not intend to dredge up worry in you, I apologize,” Orodan spoke softly. “Rest assured, I shall not allow the Prophet, nor any Eldritch for that matter, to invade your home.”

For the elemental lord, the topic was a touchy one. For the mortals of the cosmos the news wasn’t very well known, but the fire and lightning elementals knew that long, long ago… elementals of light had existed, and for some reason unknown to them, had simply stopped appearing in the material universe. And when Orodan had revealed to This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons the truth of the matter, that the Prophet had somehow escaped the bounds of Godhood by merging itself with the dimension of light and corrupting it with Eldritch? The elemental lord hadn’t taken the news well and had vowed to wage war against the Prophet immediately.

Of course, it had taken much arguing and insistence from him that Orodan would be the one to personally take that vile zealot’s head off for the elemental to finally lay off. That and the reminder that he was in a time loop and could simply choose to not remind the elemental lord of this knowledge in the next loop. Mainly, his grand ambition to purge System space of Eldritch had given the elemental some measure of reassurance.

“The lightning bringer induces feelings of anxiety within this one… they are most unwelcome. May the lightning-bringer speak of less troublesome things? Such as when my next meal is coming?”

Orodan rolled his eyes at the greedy elemental and hurled a mighty Lightning Bolt its way.

[Burst Casting 47 → Burst Casting 48]

[Lightning Bolt 45 → Lightning Bolt 46]

[Lightning Magic Mastery 24 → Lightning Magic Mastery 25]

Over the past few loops Orodan had been stringently training his Lightning Bolt and Burst Casting. Hard not to when one’s teacher was a triple-Grandmaster mage with exacting standards on maintaining perfect control over a spell. And to add to that, feeding a hungry elemental lord on the regular also helped.

It definitely answered the question of why it was so hard to summon and contract powerful elementals on the material plane. Why would they want to come to some random world where their food would be extremely limited? Orodan though, could sidestep that problem by hurling powerful lightning magic at it.

