“Oh? You were not aware? As you know, the System is hardly everywhere. Even in the material plane, but also within the elemental dimensions. Just like when you were thrown out of its bounds in the material plane during that miserable loop you spoke of, so too does a boundary exist here within all the elemental planes,” Talricto explained. “And that boundary is tested quite often.”

Orodan knew that a foreign and hostile Boundless One was continually attempting to breach System space right from the start of his loops. Ever since he had empowered the time loop mechanism himself and supercharged it to the point that it encompassed all of reality, that had started. Of course, the System encompassed many dimensions, and the material plane was only one of them.

It made sense that things attempting to breach the sanctity of the space carved out by the Eldritch Boundless One would try other dimensions as an avenue too.

Which Administrators defended the bounds of these dimensions? Orodan could only wonder that as the party finally reached the nearest sphere of lightning that he knew of.

It was a meeting of two gigantic, perpetual lightning bolts. No mere flashes like many of the other currents in the ambient environment of this dimension were. The bolts came from somewhere deep within the plane of lightning, and two of them just so happened to meet head-on, creating a perpetual but volatile sphere of pure electric energy.

A sphere within which new elementals were periodically born.

“Genesis… the meeting of two primordial bolts against one another, and from it… life,” This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons spoke.

“You know… I don’t think I ever asked where these primordial bolts come from. Almost everything else in here pulses or goes out after a singular flash, but I’ve never seen these things fade,” Orodan said, staring at the perpetual bolts of energy coming from… somewhere.

“This one does not know from where… but the elderly ones often say that it came from a time before the life we know. A breath of life from the very first of our kind. A first-born of lightning itself,” the elemental lord answered, as though speaking of a myth.

“Like veins… we passed a few of these primordial and perpetual lightning bolts, and they seem an awful lot like the veins running through a human body. But, that is going off-topic,” Destartes spoke and then inclined his head at him. “Mister Wainwright, for long have I dreamt of exploring an elemental plane, a dream I thought impossible with the circumstances of my life. But it is a dream you have helped me realize. In fact, you have helped each of us find something in here. Now, it is our turn to help you. Let us peer into this sphere whose inner-workings elude even you.”

Orodan dismissed the gratitude in the old mage’s voice, not deeming the praise necessary. But this… this was what he had sought power for all along. Each time the loops ended, it would all reset. But with Fenton’s orb that was no longer the case. He could truly be the pillar upon which the dreams of others could become reality.

Perhaps for even more than just these people once the mad idea in his head came to fruition.

“You give me too much credit. You could have entered this dimension just fine yourself,” Orodan brushed off.

“And die to any number of hostile elementals who would see me as a human intruder and not a guest under the protection of our elemental friend here?” the wizard asked. “Anyhow, let us focus on the matter at hand. You mentioned that actually seeing what is occurring is the problem?”

“Aye, and despite what Adeltaj suggests, I have no interest in visiting a brothel,” Orodan firmly reiterated while glaring at the old halberdier who only smiled in response.

“We will spare you the horror, Mister Wainwright,” the wizard spoke, producing a device from his spatial ring. “Let us see if we cannot peer past the elemental interference and see exactly what is occurring.”

The problem with observing the phenomena was twofold.

One, the sheer amount of lightning radiating off of these primordial lightning bolts was tremendous. It was absolutely titanic in a way even Orodan hadn’t seen before; nowhere had he seen lightning of such quality. Hells, even This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons had said that it couldn’t properly absorb or digest the primordial lightning due to it being too high-quality for it. But despite the sheer amount of it, the actual lethality of the electricity wasn’t very high or else he’d have been diving in to train Lightning Resistance. But… that he suspected was by the design of whoever or whatever was responsible for producing them. If meant to be lethal… Orodan wasn’t sure if he would survive even with his existing resistance skill.

The first problem meant that actually seeing how the soul formed via Vision of Purity was a tall task. In fact, a solid portion of his gains in the skill came from attempting to peer past the sheer amount of lightning. It was as though new elementals were just appearing from within it, pushed out of the sphere of collision between the two primordial bolts of energy.

Second, was that the newly created souls didn’t tell him much about how they were made. Like the soul of a newborn babe, these newly formed elementals were entirely pure, completely undetectable via Vision of Purity unless he switched to seeing everything around him as dirty. And they had no distinguishable features on their souls at all. Which, like newborn infants, meant they were a blank slate. Possibly even more so since a newborn infant had some interaction with its mother’s womb and the voices of those outside. These creatures were completely and entirely fresh, knowing nothing at all.

But the wizard he had brought along seemed to have a solution for that.

“What’s that?” Orodan asked, looking at the series of metal cubes Destartes brought out.

“Dothril from the abyssal depths. From the poorly fated expedition to those depths the Republic attempted a few centuries ago,” Destartes explained, surrounding the cubes with magic before sending each one out to a very specific spot near the collision sphere. “Quite possibly the strongest metal we have available. Although even it won’t last for more than a moment. But that’s not a problem with your abilities, correct?”

Orodan caught on quick.

“Chronomancy? Or my quick eye?”

“The former. These cubes have been very carefully calibrated by an artificer to draw the excess primordial lightning away from the sphere. They will not last long… but with the excess cleared away from the surface…”

“I can properly see the inner workings. And reverse time to bring the cubes back as needed,” Orodan finished. “Alright, this seems a smart plan.”

Destartes nodded, sending the cubes out via Telekinesis to surround the sphere of primordial lightning as closely as possible. Although the old man looked to be under visible strain and his mana pool draining quickly under the tremendous effort of keeping the magical barriers surrounding the cube intact. The primordial lightning, naturally, wanted to strike the metal. And keeping a barrier up to prevent that natural attraction was straining him greatly.

“Now, Mister Wainwright! I cannot hold on for more than a few seconds!”

Orodan nodded and gestured to Destartes to let go of the barriers surrounding the cubes. And almost immediately the arcs of primordial energy left the sphere of collision and struck the dozens of cubes surrounding it.

The cubes, reinforced as they were, did worse than expected and vaporized almost instantly. But for the briefest of moments…

…Orodan had seen it.

No Time Reversal had been necessary. RIght away as he saw it, he realized it. Almyra’s theory had been true. That the soul could not form in a vacuum. It needed two things: the conditions for life, and the presence of another soul. There were other things which influenced it too, such as any significant events around the soul, memories, life experiences and the personalities of those contributing to the life portion. Hells, a child could supposedly even be conceived in an alchemical vat, according to some of the experiments Almyra wrote about the blood mages of her galaxy doing. But even in those cases, events, objects or memories of significance needed to be around. In a vacuum, without at least one of those things, the soul couldn’t be birthed from nothing. The previous time looper’s conjectures had all proven true as Orodan watched the formation of the lightning elementals.

The conditions of life for a lightning elemental were simple enough within this collision of two separate primordial lightning bolts, the lightning itself was abundant… almost living. And the soul?

That, Orodan realized now… as the bolts of primordial lightning weren’t actually lightning. No, they were extensions of something’s soul.

Something which was now looking very squarely at him. Just as he had noticed it, so too had it noticed him. And by the hells was it massive.

“Talricto get them out. Now.”

The command in his tone couldn’t be missed, and the spider complied, immediately shifting the other six out of the area and hopefully back to Alastaia.

But Orodan? The primordial bolts of lightning separated from their slumbering collision against each other and suddenly moved. They shifted and traveled with frightening speed, making way for him.

His sword erupted and cleaved against the first, a Smite of Abrupt Deliverance, but it was of no use at all. It simply overpowered his attack and pushed past. Yet oddly enough, it didn’t even seem intent on harming him, simply wrapping around him…

…studying him.

The moment the primordial lightning touched his soul, he felt the enormity of the presence. Its soul was now in contact with his own, and he could truly gauge just how powerful it was and where it lay.

His mind strained, but managed to comprehend how veins of its massive thunderous form were spread all across the elemental plane of lightning. How old it was, having existed long before the Eldritch Boundless had even sealed System space away and begun empowering it, and how portions of its form were trapped between the boundary of System space within the elemental plane and the remaining majority of the elemental plane outside of it.

Gigantic. Enormous.

In the same league as that thing he’d met which had shattered his System entirely and forced him to create a new one.

And it…

…was curious.

[Lightning Resistance 51 → Lightning Resistance 62]

Electric power enough to destroy portions of a galaxy flowed through its touch. And despite it not even trying to harm him, Orodan was nearly killed on the spot.

The knowledge and insights his allies had gained during this loop… it would be lost if he didn’t get back and managed to absorb it into Fenton’s orb. He refused to go quietly.

His own soul energy erupted, and it appeared surprised. As though a child looking at a bug which could glow in the dark. It recoiled backward giving him some space, not even having realized how tumultuous its power was.

And before Orodan and it could converse any further, he felt the stirring of the dimensional boundary.

A familiar face, one he despised, came through wielding a scepter and holy book full of lies. As did another, wielding a mage’s staff and covered with enough elemental power and an array of spells which would cause any Alastaian mage to faint on sight out of awe.

Two Administrators. The Prophet and the Mage.

“Tch! Who has awoken the slumbering child?” the Prophet asked, angry.

He detested this sick zealot. But its crimes did not erase the fact that it would defend the sanctity of System space from outside invaders.

But before the two of them could see him; just as he thought to engage in battle then and there, he felt the irksome pull of a dimensional bubble encapsulating him, and eight legs pulling him back to the material plane.

Orodan would have normally fought it, struggled to remain in such a fight. But he needed to think of more than just himself.

His allies’ memories needed to be preserved. And this new Boundless One hadn’t even been hostile.

But more importantly was all he had learned from this critical expedition. The sights had been brief, but he had seen them clearly. He had understood what needed to occur.

The secrets he had seen regarding the creation of the soul within that sphere. And the profundity of that Boundless One’s soul which could extend out into veins reaching far.

Perhaps he had been approaching the process of replicating Action Increases incorrectly.

Maybe it was time to revisit his training with the spider dragons from a new perspective.

#

Like that… five more loops passed.

Five more loops where he had the resources of all three continents of Alastaia funneled towards developing him and the people of importance alongside him. Five loops where he compressed time and got fifty extra days per loop totalling two months per loop total.

It added up to just under a year altogether.

Orodan trained, taught, died and repeated like a madman. Except this time he wasn’t the only one.

His students had grown strong… very strong. And the Grandmasters who were with him? They had all achieved Transcendence under hellish training. And throughout it all, Alastaia’s nations had grown efficient right from the start of each loop as Balastion, Eldarion, Destartes, Adeltaj and Ozgaric had all focused on developing their respective nations and continents. With endless tries, which ruler couldn’t figure out the optimal ways of organizing and making efficient the various systems and institutions of their countries?

