Though the Avatars couldn't see, their Ascendants sensed it just the same as Shiv, and soon those possessed with the capability to view vitality saw a colossal structure looming over the world in the far, far distance, shaped like a broken crescent. It was a shard of a moon, outlined in vivacious red, and embedded into the earth. It was from this fragment of a celestial body that the vitality flowed. It was from this broken piece that the Pale sprang forth, like water from a spring.

"Something that might be to your advantage in the war to come, but not for this intrusive operation, is that the North is assuming a defensive posture. Originally, they intended to invade, to strike hammer and anvil with their nominal allies from the South." Valor let out a slight chuckle as if finding the idea laughable. "But the moment they subdued and caged the Tarrasque, all hints of that paltry alliance collapsed. There is no truce to be had with someone whose cards include a world-ender. To unleash the Tarrasque on the Republic will see it end up in the Southlands once more, once it has crushed this nation of yours flat. The Southern Gods made their demands, and the Pale of the North ignored them. The Shattered Moon abides by its own will, as does the South, and so that relationship fractured under irreconcilable differences."

All hints of aggravation vanished from Veronica. Now she leaned back, her posture slack but also excited. No longer was she infuriated about Valor's presence. He was proving to be a wealth of information, more than any Inquisitor could provide. "These defensive measures, have they adopted them for the Deathless alone?"

"For what he represents: the System's flame. The Pale understands the risk he poses, and it is not the destruction he is capable of. It is not his immortal nature, his ability to create many bodies and strike from many angles, his nature to expend himself only to gain new power without penalty from trauma nor death. No. What the Pale fears is the flame of strife he carries, for if he penetrates deep enough into its realm, that flame might spread to it as well. And the Pale has no desire to suffer strife, not of its own pace."

"Yeah, so, sorry to interrupt," Shiv said, holding up a hand, "but I might be missing some context here. What the hells is this Pale exactly?" He dimly remembered the Pale somehow being part of one of the Quests he'd gained upon entering the Fairwoods, but he never ended up finding out what it was.

"It is the alien will that governs and shapes the Jotun,” Veronica began. “It is that which determines how the Frost Giants act, that defines their culture, that rules over them in flesh, mind, and spirit." She scoffed derisively. "It poses as a Divinity, but it is far more insidious than that. Our research has concluded that the Pale is instead some manner of Cryomantic plague, granted sapience and intelligence when Hvelhuuld’s moon shattered and this piece of it fell to the planet. When they lost the Legendary-Tier Incursion against Earth and our planet absorbed and merged with Hvelhuuld, the part of it that contained the source of the Pale’s presence ended up where you see it, which is why it is still contained within the Jotuns’ initial invasion point in the North. And the Pale has remained sequestered there since then, dreaming of regaining that measure of power it once held, of possessing an entire world once more, boundless slaves, boundless servants, all in service to its singular will."

"But it's not a god?" Shiv asked for clarification, noting the lack of incandescence.

"Not even remotely," Enoch spat. The Builder sounded more hateful than Shiv remembered him from the Rubix Well. "There is no touch of the divine, and how could there be? That sickness which calls itself the Pale lacks all interest in artistry and expression. There is nothing worthy in that festering cold that pretends to be holy. Did you know that the Jotun lack any form of formal scripture or literary language of their own, Deathless? Did you know that those runes they carve are meant to only be interpreted by the Prophetesses? Did you know that besides the Pale’s stolen eyes, any who are found capable of literacy are put to death? Did you know that they each bestow Paths upon their lessers, forging a perfect chain of slaves all the way down from the Pale?” A trembling snarl escaped the Ascendant. “Wretched, disgusting, unholy."

But beyond Enoch’s judgment, Shiv had insights of his own. "Look, I could agree with your sentiment, assuming you're not bullshitting me. But if they have no equivalent to you guys and they're this messy, this enslaved, why hasn't the Republic just swept them off the map yet? Why haven't you crushed them completely yet?"

"There is more to war than divine power," Anthony began, but his lie, even so vague, proved so egregious that the Gardener of Doubt awoke inside Shiv. "The Pale is technically considered an ordinary Pathbearer by the System, but it is a Pathbearer that shapes and constructs, that provides materials and almost negates the burden of all logistical needs. We can smash through one of its outer walls, but it has enough expendable lives and High-Tier Pathbearers of its own that any victory will be hard-fought and brutal. Any push will cost the Republic far more than it could ever gain, and it is not the only enemy we have to beware of besides."

The Gardener of Doubt waned during that second half, but it still lingered. The Republic could defeat the Jotun, but for some reason, they hadn't. They refused, or perhaps they deliberately wanted such an enemy: one that was perpetually inferior but a reliable foe. One that could always threaten their own Pathbearers and serve as a balance of threat against those inside. Shiv glimpsed it. Out of raw intuition and political talent alone, he understood.

His eyes shifted; he looked upon Veronica, and the faintest of smirks played across her features: one of near pride, but one devoid of enthusiasm or amusement. Cold as well, cold as the frost that constructed those mountainous protections guarding the Jotun, cold as the Pale. It was all political calculus. The only reason, or at least a major one, why so many people remained enslaved, why the Frost Giants held the North, was to give the Republic a manageable foe to work upon as a whetstone for their Pathbearers and culture.

"And just because the Pale isn't divine in its own right doesn't mean it doesn't have gods it can wield," Jessica said, speaking up for the first time in a while. The hatred in her voice was dull and dry. It didn't even burn with the heat of inflammation anymore. It was a simple fact of her life: She was the Giantsbane because she killed giants. She slaughtered them, hated them, butchered them, massacred them, and it was simply who she was. But with that came an understanding she had to possess in order to facilitate the genocide that had granted her her namesake. "The Crone, the Warrior, the Child. Three separate gods that were, to our knowledge, the original gods of the Frost Giants. But as the Pale ate through the fuckers, it ate into their gods too. Which makes it a rare case of a Pathbearer stealing faith from within."

"So imagine how weak and primitive those gods must have been," the Songbringer mocked.

Yeah, I guess they have to be, considering they couldn't match up to a collection of thirteen senile pretenders, Shiv wanted to say.

As everyone settled into silence, the scenes above continued. Valor descended from that platform, venturing deeper into the Northlands using his skills, passing across a frigid tundra that seemed to extend beyond the edge of the world. Shiv noted that there was a limit to Unseen, Unheard, Unknown; or perhaps an extreme penalty that came with interfacing or trying to hijack someone else's spell. As Valor slowly closed in on that distant shard of crescent vitality piercing into the void, he witnessed it in its full glory. Shiv saw a curved wall grander than mountains, more polished than marble, and made of crystal clearer than mana-forged glass.

All around that shard of a foreign world's moon, rising like a continental plate erupting vertically from the earth, knelt Jotun in their hundreds of thousands, prostrating themselves in supplication and prayer to the Pale. Towering Prophetesses upon massive pedestals stood dotted throughout the land, using blades to carve their willing lessers, to lash the Pale into them, scars and bestowals of divine favor both. Shiv wondered just how high a Social Skill this Pale had, and that sparked his intuition once more.

“If the Pale possesses a consciousness and a psychology of its own, then it's more than the strife we carry that presents a danger. It is the fact that we might be able to strike at its fundamental essence, at its sense of self. If we can break its grip, then what holds the Jotuns together? If we can shatter the Pale in mind and heart, ruining its physical manifestation, then true death awaits. We are more than a metaphysical danger, as Veronica said. We are an existential one.” The Harbinger's words settled inside Shiv, and a new, silent objective took hold.

This was supposed to be an infiltration run, but wouldn't it be better for the Republic and the people of the North themselves if the Pale was knocked off the board? It would be an act of liberation and emancipation, and even if it wasn't a success, it would be a good means of discovering the true shape of his enemy.

After all, if the System was so desperate to betray Shiv to the Pale, that meant it was going to be a problem down the line. Pathbearers did not linger passively; it would be a fight on its terms or his.

And I choose me, Shiv declared, speaking to himself and the voices within him.

***

Minutes stretched into hours as Valor elaborated on the critical defenses and internal layout of the North. The Pale seemed to provide a measure of sustenance and vitality to all its pawns. Such was why the North lacked agriculture entirely, why no one seemed to rest properly, choosing to collapse in the snow for short periods and rise soon after. It was also why the only art, the only expression as claimed by Enoch, was shaped in the form of massive runestones and group prayers led to praise the three divine faces of the Pale. It was complete civilizational dominance, control so deep that it usurped religion itself, wearing the hollowed sleeve of faith and its three usurped gods without them ever truly rebelling, or so it was claimed.

And that impressed Shiv more than it disturbed him. Maybe he would mostly break the Pale, and in exchange for leaving it alive, he would learn its ways. He was still raw, and Veronica was not going to teach him everything. She was trying to sculpt him in her image, but the way to surpass a master wasn't to be their shadow. It was to step beyond it. It would be a most useful means of flaying the Republic open to solve their problem in turn in an act of consecutive irony.

The Republic refused to finish the North off, and so the Deathless would use the sacked North as a means to finish the Republic, or at least transform it from within.

“Do not be misguided by daydreams. That is utopian, and though it might be made manifest through chance or skill, do not lose focus on your main mission.” The Harbinger centered Shiv, and he reeled his drifting thoughts and emotions back in. Everything had to come second to the Tarrasque. Absolutely everything.

By the time Valor finished with his memories, the Ascendants and the true governing power of the Yellowstone Republic looked on, entranced and pleased. Veronica's gaze was distant. She was thinking about more than the Tarrasque now, considering perhaps how she could subvert or strike at the Pale from within. Anthony had gone missing halfway through Valor's dissertation, vanishing into his god's darkness, doubtless to convey commands to the Inquisition or a specialized division of the Republic's Prismatic Guard.

Though he lacked tactical, strategic, and general experience in relation to warfare or grander conflict, the scenes weren't wasted on Shiv, either.

He could see why invading the North was such a hellish prospect. The Pale, through its many minions, could summon forth sprouting structures shaped as bunkers of ice. Igloos, they called them. According to Valor, it was a bastardized term stolen from a people that once lived on Earth far beyond even the North—a cultural act of theft that somehow nourished the Pale.

That bit of lore came second to what those structures represented: easy manufacturing. The capacity to create rows and rows of complicated structures, much like Uva could, using her Dreaming Storm, except on a far grander scale.

Trying to push into that with Adept-Tiers would be absolute hell. Every step would be denied as walls rose behind you. If you couldn't hold territory, your forward-operating vanguards could be encircled because the environment itself festered with an alien will that fought in perfect concert through its Prophetesses and rune-carved minions to surround and encircle, wearing down even greater forces over time. There was no easy way to overcome the Pale. You had to burn it away through concentrated attrition. Suddenly, Shiv was only half-certain the Republic intentionally kept the North as a whetstone.

The Ascendants themselves had the power, but a single Legend?

Shiv regarded Jessica through the corner of his eye and felt a sense of newfound awe for the woman. He knew she was a good blade. He knew she was a dangerous Legend, a proper warrior beyond almost anyone else he faced. But to survive amidst the Pale, to fight there for years by herself, and to gain the name Giantsbane: Just how many of them did she kill under those conditions? Just how did she survive for that long? She couldn't die, not like him. She couldn't come back.

So how?

