But judging from the darkness in Jessica's eyes and that scarred look of enduring hate on her face as Valor's presentation went on, it wasn't something she would answer. Not willingly. If he wanted to hear the truth, it would need to be forced out from her, or earned through repeated acts of companionship and sympathy.

When Valor finally finished and the illusion faded, Veronica studied the ancient Pathbearer with a burgeoning respect of her own. "I must offer my deepest apologies, Legend Thann. I thought you were here to intrude, but instead you've provided us service worth centuries of intelligence."

"Not you," Valor rebuffed. "I am only here to give aid to my disciple and protect what is mine. Our alliance remains nominal, like the one that died between the North and South. Do not imagine yourself capable of bribing me. There is nothing you have, Veronica, that I both want and cannot take for my own. No, this is a moment of convenience between us. A common goal. I'm simply assisting you so that this houndhunt can prove fruitful and final. But I have need of you as well—or at least of the intelligence and resources your empire provides. Though I am capable of trespassing into the territory of the Shattered Moon, I must admit that I am not without limitation. I cannot reach and steal information from hostile minds without straining my skill to the extreme. I can serve as your stalker and hunter, but you must be my intellect, my processor. For without either of us, I do not think we will be able to find which dimensional prison holds the Tarrasque within the requisite time."

"And there are several?" Veronica asked in confirmation.

"Logically," Valor confirmed. "A dimensional cage meant to entrap something as powerful as a Tarrasque demands an immense quantity of mana, enough to sustain an entire city, possibly even a great city. But such a cage demands more than mana. It demands the maintenance of countless layered dimensions to stop the Tarrasque from teleporting out, to resist and endure its magical nullification. And so, to prevent an outside, or in the extremely unlikely case, an inner enemy from breaching the right prison and bringing destruction to the Northlands under the Shattered Court, separate prisons become a condition of necessity."

"And since the Pale is the only one that truly needs to know, it can deliver bursts of misinformation to select Prophetesses to counter us," Stormhalt muttered. His interjection into the conversation both surprised and disappointed Shiv. Such was a reminder of how versed Stormhalt was in matters of war, how his intellect was more than capable, but how he betrayed that because of his emotional weakness.

Echoes of the Vicar linger in all people, Shiv judged. It’s just godsdamned sad by now.

"Correct." Valor’s affirmation was immediate and indifferent. "And so I would like to trade my understanding for a measure of yours. If you can help me come to a solution as to which dimensional prison we are to infiltrate, then this partnership between us can be bridged to become one of mutual benefit."

"You doubt our worth," Maiden said, her tone cool and impassive, like a researcher contemplating a disproven theory.

"I’m asking you to make me believe," Valor replied diplomatically.

But instead of the Ascendants, it was Shiv that found himself inspired. "Wait, I think we have another way to get this knowledge: Gate Piety has a bunch of different factions mingling inside it. One of them’s New Albion. It's there thanks to Five."

"Ah, the birds of the Faceless Queen," Kathereine spat with derision. "You cannot be this much a fool, oh blood of my… despised foe," the Songbringer said, an almost imperceptible lag in the middle of her words, likely Veronica preventing her grandmother from letting Shiv's relation to them slip openly. "They will play their own game. They will deceive and use you to their end and see you given nothing."

"That’s why we don’t just rely on them. Also, I’m not planning to be the one that makes the request." Shiv leaned against the back of his chair—which promptly snapped in half from his weight. He caught himself before he tumbled to the floor and continued playing it cool. "We got a Penitent, you see. And just maybe, if it asks these little birds for a favor, and you cross-reference with your own information, we can get somewhere a lot faster."

A shared glow of approval radiated from both Veronica and Valor’s cores.

"Ah. I was too quick to judge." The Songbringer hummed in contemplation. "Yes. A degree of separation is most beneficial here as well. But in the meantime, since Legend Thann has the means, we should continue gathering insights through infiltration; in the time we do have until the scheduled transference of the Tarrasque, we might yet gain the knowledge we need."

"I concur," Valor said. "But I do not think I will do this alone." His glowing, green eyes settled upon Shiv. "I think it is time that we continue with your training in the quiet ways."

"Legend Valor, I must protest this," Harlock said, uneasy—and unexpectedly reverent toward his superior in the unseen art. "The Deathless is potent in many ways, but—"

"Shiv," Valor cut the god off. "Show them."

The Deathless went backstage. He'd prepared to immediately return, but before he did, he caught sight of the girl who didn't exist and the Red Rider’s Hand playing chess with pieces of hovering rubble in the corner of his eye.

"Fuck you!" the girl snapped under her breath. "This is bullshit!"

The glowing right hand of war gave her a sarcastic thumbs-up, and she slapped it aside with a hiss of annoyance.

"Not trying to kill her anymore?" Shiv asked the hand.

It wiggled sideways, as if to say: Eh, we’ll see.

The girl turned and fixed Shiv with a deadpan stare. "Turns out, you can’t die if you don’t exist. Another win for me."

"Well, at least you can play chess, right?"

"Felling no," she complained. "I haven’t won once."

Shiv nodded. "I see. Well, win, or I’ll make fun of you."

The Rider’s Hand gave him a thumbs-up, but the girl froze.

"Wait, you are speaking to—"

"Yes," Shiv answered, before hopping back across the vitality threshold.

"Shiv, you motherfuc—"

As he crossed back into existence, everyone in the room jolted back in alarm, and Harlock let out an uncharacteristic gasp as the darkness retreated. The awkwardness grew worse as Anthony strode out from a corner just at that moment, almost tripping as the shape of his god reeled back. "What happened? What did I miss?"

"Do you understand?" Valor asked.

"How…" Harlock breathed.

Shiv couldn’t help but join Valor. "What do you mean? Just hide better. You’re the God of Stealth or something. You can figure it out."

Comedy 34 > 36
