Do not receive him. Do not believe his forking lies.

His tongue burns. His words are acid and flame. His presence is defilement.

If the Deathless stands before you, strike him down, or yourself. Deny him your mind, your flesh, and even the pleasure of taking your life.

This I command, my Prophetesses! This I decree!

Sunder your own souls if you must.

His voice must never reach me.

His flame must never defile me.

—The Pale of the Shattered Moon

420

Houndhunt [II]

Valor's intrusion upon the gathering was like smearing fecal matter into a wound. The tension within the dining chamber grew unframed, and the Avatars were barely restrained as their Ascendants manifested in full. Their power fell like an anvil and poured forth in waves toward the intruder. Where mostly expendable Avatars thought themselves harbingers of the divine and unbeatable by faith and holy decree, the Ascendants knew better than to waste these vessels against He Who Stills Eternity for nothing in return.

Yet, one among the Ascendants diverged from the others. One stood inverse to their own Avatar, rising as Havel Stormhalt remained seated. The Endbreaker was a god of no words at all, but his silence was not stoic nor subtle. Even without language, he conveyed what he felt in an instant. What possessed him was rage. Rage in the shape of a fracture. Rage in the form of black lightning spreading across the space of reality like it was a cracked pane of glass. Dark tendrils of electricity reached toward Valor, but neither the Undying nor Shiv rose to intercept. Instead, the Deathless spoke directly to the Endbreaker, delivering a veiled halt that was coded as a plea to the man containing the god.

"Havel, this isn't a threat. I want you to listen, and I want you to listen good: Get the Endbreaker to stop, because I can't save you from Valor even if I wanted to. You got until Valor disappears to save your own life."

The City Lord shuddered as Shiv's voice thundered deep within his mind; his head lifted like a blade being drawn from a scabbard, and the gleam in the whites of his eyes shone bright in disbelief. There was no translucence carrying Shiv's thought in the form of mana. There was no act of Psychomancy or hidden skill that allowed the Deathless to spit words without moving his lips across the subtle winds in the room.

And it was thus that Havel understood how deeply Shiv had marked him. The scars he'd left upon his psyche were more than mere damaged tissue lingering upon mind and heart; Inland Embassy granted Shiv access to Havel at any moment, and at the same time, it allowed him to break Havel at any moment. Should he will it, he could shatter the City Lord and deprive the Endbreaker of his prized vessel at a whim.

But it wasn't Stormhalt who stopped the Endbreaker. Before Havel could lift his head and beseech the calamitous form of the Endbreaker—manifesting in billowing clouds of midnight and forking lightning—a loud, shrill note filled with soothing tones, layered as an unseen orchestra, crashed into the Endbreaker.

The Songbringer herself intervened to calm her lover, bringing pacification before internecine or deicide could unfold.

The crashing veins of lightning went still, frozen in mid-air. The Endbreaker turned his head as Stormhalt mirrored the gesture. But as Veronica stared straight ahead without betraying any hint of fear, the Songbringer sprang forth with arms held out, offering herself in a gesture of embrace toward everyone, including Valor Thann. The purity and overwhelming warmth that sailed out from her voice drowned everyone in more than song. It was truth. It was utopia. It was everything someone could—

"It is a divine lie. It is scripture infesting your soul." The Harbinger hardened around Shiv, and suddenly the music became bewitching, but nothing more. It was no more religion wriggling into Shiv's mind than it was gibberish propelling him towards an unwanted belief. The broken pieces of his pre-Legendary skill gleamed bright, but if the Songbringer was offended by his resilience, she didn’t state it this time.

Instead, as her initial aria died down, her voice transformed into a rising chuckle, and she shook her head as her raven-black crop of short hair ruffled and danced upon her brow, animated in a way that was inhumanly entrancing.

"The audacity to come into our house, to speak to us in such a manner." Kathereine’s words collapsed into a rising whistle as her hatred broke like a fever and gave way to admiration. "If only I could have sung to you in ages past, Valor Thann."

"You did," Valor replied casually, "but it is beyond your memory now. I knew you before what you did to yourself. I knew you before you betrayed my confidence. I knew all of you. I am not here to bring retribution for the desecration you inflicted upon my faith. I am not here to fight and argue with you over matters of theology." The Undying paused, and Shiv felt the heat of withheld wrath radiating from his master. "I should, but I refuse, because in this moment, as you have disciplined yourself in fear of me, I too shall discipline myself with respect to our greater task: whatever bloodshed is to follow between us can wait until after the Tarrasque is bested, not before."

"So you claim, and so you demonstrate," Veronica replied dryly, but there was an aggravation to her Shiv hadn't read before. It was in her body language, in the way her left index finger tapped upon the table, breaking from her previous state of decorum. Something inside the Deathless's stomach curdled. He knew there would be a penalty for this, a punishment for not revealing the presence of Valor. But that would be for later; for now, she wished to make use of the Undying's knowledge. "So, what have you learned that my Diviners could not? What do you know that will allow us to strike into the heartland of one of our most vexing adversaries?"

"An assortment of things, yet never truly enough." Valor clasped both his hands behind his back, and his eyes gleamed bright with necromantic energy. Then something more. He projected a thread of mana out from his sockets, and it painted a visualized memory upon the ceiling above. Heads turned upward, yet a few kept their gazes locked upon Valor. Their paranoia was high, suspecting he might use this moment of sorcery to divert their attention to strike. When no blow came, they grudgingly turned their gazes high as well.

A vast vista came into view, a place that stretched from horizon to horizon to reveal colossal structures made from pale, bright ice. They rose high into the sky, slipping past the boundary of clouds as their spires became a staircase toward the upper stratosphere. At a glance, it was clear that these massive peaks born of frost were not natural formations. The sheer Cryomancy radiating from every surface was colossal, immense, and downright absurd. Furthermore, there was a veil of cold that formed a protective barrier. It tumbled forth, not like mist, but hardened fingers of intrusive white, and Shiv saw something else there: a glow of faint vitality, as if the creeping frost had a life or awareness of its own.

Cloud-striding monsters and swarms of harpies kept their distance from these massive structures. Along their sides were battlements and mortars, hollows and caverns that were positioned and reinforced by magical turrets. And then there were the ones who manned these battlements. Each wall was separated into two layers: a rampart that placed the Frost Giants above, and then below them a series of chains that bound rows of crudely armored slaves as an expendable frontline.

Most of them were automata; their machine bodies more capable of suffering the frost. But there were beings born of flesh as well: goblins, the second most populous upon the wall, followed by humans, then elves. Those who were of pure biology were riven by marks of unnatural frostbite, disgusting runes upon their bodies that saw their flesh separated from bone, yet left the rest of their form untouched. It was like an expression of the cold: a focused imprint that wounded them but never drove them to the point of death.

Shiv sensed a significance to those runes: there was a reason why they were marked in such a way—and his curiosity climbed higher as he saw each of the runes capable of connecting body to body, as if they were an extended series of patterns separated across different vessels.

As the scene played on and the point of view—that of Valor, no doubt—drifted, Shiv realized this massive wall of risen frost surrounded all of the Northlands, and everything behind that colossal barricade was shrouded by a spiraling vortex of unnatural pallor.

"The Fangs of the Pale," Veronica commented pithily. "Presented from a bird's-eye perspective. Quite a feat. The low stratosphere belongs to the Storm Lords anyhow, but someone of your caliber…"

Her words trailed off as the perspective closed. Instead of remaining beyond the walls, Valor descended to walk past the rows of enchained slaves, looking upon their faces, clasped in hardened helmets, and down at the blood spilling down their torso. Shiv realized the insides of their headgear were riven with pointed spikes of ice.

Valor ventured further, walking through those moving fingers of pure frost as winds might glide across water. He descended into confusing, maze-like hallways connected to colossal staircases and teleportation anchors that led across the grand architecture of the interconnected walls. As time continued on and Valor teleported through a few places left unwarded and unprotected from Dimensionality, everyone took in just how deep the North's protections went.

In a matter of minutes, Valor crossed through the first section of walls to arrive in front of a magical perimeter. Dense walls of pure, concentrated mana greeted him, but they were not colored or coded like something of lore. Instead, they were unattuned. Shiv could see the truth of it by the chaotic expression of the mana, and he guessed they were like expressions of perception. Perception tied to the crawling Pale that radiated from the ice used to make the grand wall, from every Frost Giant and the frost-bitten scars of every slave.

And the vitality blazed bright through and through. Shiv was certain the veil was alive, and it was searching, coiling through the hallways like a flowing serpent, as if it could sense something was wrong but couldn't find the root of the disturbance.

Valor passed through those protections with ease—but not without cost. The Pale congealed behind him, freezing the entire hallway solid, and he was forced to pick up his pace lest he grow encased in the aftermath of his enemy's suspicion.

Veronica was leaning forward now, as was Anthony. It was clear that they had never obtained such a penetrative look at the Jotun's defensive measures.

"Prophetesses!" a voice, low and hissing, carried by the crackling cold, radiated through the halls and greeted Valor's ears. "Open your eyes. Let me see through you. Let the Shattered Moon gaze where you cannot. Is it him? Has he slipped through? Has he arrived? Has his flame come to stain us? There is a heat here. There is a fire. There is an alien favor not of our own. The System's hand falls vulgarly upon our shoulder. A Favored has come, and Favored not of our embrace. Show me. Make me see. Is it he? Is it the Deathless?"

Goosebumps spread across Shiv’s flesh at the mention of his name.

The scene played on, however, and Valor continued venturing forth, down and up staircases wide enough for a dragon to use, through grand halls filled with Jotun warriors. He walked past hundreds of Prophetesses, their eyes stitched shut, a wound spilling pale mana carved into each of their foreheads, connecting them all. Bound to their hips with chains rigged to anchors of frost and metal combined were swarms of slaves, their bodies misshapen by the cold. Where flesh was lost, ice set in and grew. More than a few were already dead, mere puppets to be worn by the essence of the living Pale.

"To start with the most immediate variable: the Jotunn and the being they serve above all others know the Deathless is coming," Valor began. Faces turned to regard Shiv, but he kept his expression as if stoned. Valor continued on as if this wasn't a terrible revelation unto itself and that worse was to come. "But I do not think this is a matter of intelligence. They do not know that he is here in the heart of the Republic, having struck an accord with its highest halls of power. No, I suspect it is because the System has betrayed his presence to them. The System has given them a Quest—a warning that Shiv will bring their destruction. The Pale thus commands its servants, demanding they stand ready for his inevitable approach."

The projected illusion played on for a while longer, and between his Dimensionality and Stealth, Valor finally emerged through the other side of the wall, kilometers away from where he'd entered, where he found himself standing upon a colossal platform inscribed with swirling patterns of spatial mana. The size of the platform was comparable to a small town, and thousands of Jotun and slaves were constantly transported every other second.

But here in the heartland of the North, perception grew difficult, even for Valor. Everything past the point of ten meters became a screen of pure white. So dense was the presence of the Pale that everything else had been blotted out. But to Shiv's gaze, there was something else, a growing pulse of vitality that led further, that provoked him to gaze deeper into that all-consuming whiteness.

