“You’re not wrong about that,” Aribella said, shaking her head. “I have a feeling there will be a lot of little Andys running around within a few years of his evolution.”

“Well, we could use a healer if you’re serious about wanting to join a party,” Cora said, shifting the conversation back to the original topic. “Neither of us has a healing skill, so your ability would be welcome.”

I wasn’t quite ready to jump right into a party just minutes after meeting someone, though I did get the sense that the four individuals sitting with me were friendly enough.

‘I really wish I still had Sense Intent right about now.’

That old skill would have been so helpful in determining whether or not they were trustworthy. But since I didn’t have such a skill, I could only rely on my own judgment.

“I thought you were going to pick up a couple of natives and train them?” Aribella said.

“We actually tried that yesterday,” Mike said tiredly. “We took three of the newest kids into the dungeon, and they weren’t that bad, really. But it was very obvious that we would always be their teachers and never their party members. The difference in experience is just too vast.”

“We also barely got any essence since we were trying to help them get better,” Cora added. “Sure, we could have taken some of the essence cores to make up for it, but even considering it felt like stealing from children. It just… it felt wrong.

“Maybe when we need a break from the grind, we can reconsider working as teachers. But our trip yesterday made it clear that we can’t train the natives and work on our own progression at the same time.”

I could see that. And honestly, the fact that they’d even cared enough to try in the first place made me a bit more comfortable considering them as long-term party members.

“Well, if you want to give delving together a shot, I don’t mind working together on a trial basis,” I said.

I wasn’t ready to truly commit, but a trial run seemed perfectly reasonable.

“Absolutely! Nobody would expect you to promise a long-term partnership without testing the waters first,” Cora said.

“Speaking of waters,” Mike said, turning to Aribella. “Have you gotten a chance to work on the technique I showed you yesterday?”

I listened for a minute as the two Magi discussed their craft. They had different elements, but it didn’t take long to realize that a lot of the same effects could be created by both.

Obviously, not everything. But there was enough overlap that the two could share some of the discoveries they’d made about using their elements in this new realm.
