“Then, there are the eyes and currently missing antennae. But that’s best experienced directly. After I show you how to mend the armor faster.” The orc Biomancer waved a hand as the armor opened up entirely. Along the insides were ridges of threaded tissue. This reminded Shiv of a mushroom's mycelia, and it glistened invitingly, seeming almost warm. "And finally, here is a mycelial network. It allows your skin and this armor to be properly interfaced together. It will glide under your epidermis and allow you to feel your armor. In fact, it becomes like an external organ for you. An exoskeleton, if you will. More of an exoskeleton than what you currently have."

Slowly, the orc placed a large hand on Shiv's shoulder. "Insul Shiv. My dearest Deathless. We managed to find this piece of armor on a particularly hard-to-kill Inquisitor Biomancer. And though my covetous heart wanted it for myself, I said to my little greedy heart, You can starve for a while. Starve because I know someone else that might have a proper use for this. In fact, I know someone else who desperately needs a piece of armor. So..." Helix leaned beside Shiv's ear. "I have a counterproposal for you."

"A counterproposal?" Shiv said, trying to fight his own itch—an itch born of material greed.

"Indeed," Helix breathed. "You let us have a little bit of time, nothing truly excessive, with these still-living hostages... I mean, uh, victims... I mean, uh, inquisitors, and you will never see them again. Afterward, we will fight according to your…" The orc barely held back a laugh. "...ethics. And make sure your pet Gate Lord is never bothered by our actions again. You, however, need to amuse us some more. Because we need it. The amusement. To keep ourselves controlled. And ethical.”

Shiv finally looked away from the armor, and he glared at Helix. "You think bribing me with this is going to make me softer? Gonna make me let you just torture those people to death?"

"Mercifully," Bonk added.

"Mercifully," all the orcs chimed in, speaking in uncanny sync.

Helix, meanwhile, was utterly unashamed. "Yes," Helix said, "I think that bribing you with this armor will make you look the other way just long enough."

A long moment passed as Shiv stared in the orc's eyes, and the orc stared back. The Deathless clenched his jaw together, and then he looked at the pile of writhing inquisitors, and when he looked behind himself, the dimensional gateway was stable. No one was coming in or out. Shiv’s fingers tightened around the armor. "...and I can fuse my bone armor with this?”

"Why do you think I brought it to you?" Helix asked, his voice filled with vindication. “We’re going to teach you how to get a Crafting Skill through Biomancy as well! There’s more than one reason why I wanted you to have this.”

Shiv stared at the orcs. Stared at the armor. Stared at the pile of groaning and whimpering inquisitors. And looked at the Surface Gateway again. “Huh. Well. Uh. You know. Just be merciful as soon as you can.”

The orcs cheered. And Shiv discovered another weakness about himself: He was very, very bribable. And now the orcs knew. But that meant they were going to bring him more shit in the future…

What is mercy philosophically, anyway? Shiv pretend-ruminated while blatantly bullshitting himself.

Deception 21 > 22
