Touched by her kind-hearted sentiment, hubby’s Natal Soul finally responded and promised on Rainy’s behalf to teach her as best he could, a promise which made Lin-Lin beam with glee before realizing something was different. Not wrong, but changed, as if the Natal Soul was getting warmer and heavier around her, more real and palpable with each passing moment. It wasn’t a physical weight, but an emotional one, as his presence grew stronger and his affection more distinct and emphatic as if it were really him standing behind her. “Love you more,” the Natal Soul replied, and for a second, Lin-Lin thought Hubby himself had Sent it, but he was still staring at the stinky Uniter while struggling to stand tall for the soldiers, exhausted and drained from splitting off who knows how many Natal Souls and whatever else he was doing. In fact, he was so weak that the Natal Soul embracing Lin-Lin felt stronger than he did, and she was of a mind to send it back to him instead, but the Natal Soul imparted the emotional equivalent of a shake of his head and said, “That idiot wouldn’t appreciate it, and he’d just send me off to help someone else. Don’t worry about him, sweet wifey. He knows what he’s doing.”

Which knowing Rainy wasn’t much of an assurance at all, and his Natal Soul realized as much, so he stopped holding himself back. Unable to resist his warm and comforting presence, Lin-Lin welcomed him with open arms the same way she’d always end up hugging Rainy even when she was mad or upset, because she loved him too much to be anything but happy around him. Fully merging with his Natal Soul was even better than revelling in his emotions, better than even ten-thousand hugs, and it set her heart to pounding and stomach aflutter like nothing else ever before. It was snuggling into his arms after a long day’s travel, clinging fast to his shoulders as he Cloud-Stepped through the skies, their first kiss, wedding night, and morning after all rolled into one enchanting act of pure love that entwined their two hearts into one. The sheer joy and contentment from this union was impossible to describe, so incredible that the surge of Heavenly Energy to follow fell far short in comparison. A raging bonfire to flickering candle, that was the difference between them, for though the Mother’s Embrace was warm indeed, how could it compare to her darling hubby’s undying love and affection?

Oh how she ached to run over and hold him tight, but she knew they couldn’t afford the distraction. Plus, the stinky discount Demons were throwing themselves at him, and her standing at his side would only make things worse. Even though Daddy was too sweet to hurt a fly, he was strong enough to run away if the Enemy should target him, but if Lin-Lin let herself get caught by the ugly, bald Uniter, then Daddy and Rainy would both go to great lengths to get her back, likely at great risk to their own lives. Lin-Lin was strong enough to keep herself safe from the likes of stinky Hideo and other people her age, strong enough to kill a Peak Expert even, so long as she could catch one off-guard, but in a big, crazy, chaotic brawl like this, she was only a liability. Soldiers did more than just fight, they fought together, and Lin-Lin didn’t know the first thing about fighting, whether it be alone or alongside her allies. All she knew how to do was lash out in anger and the rest just sort of happened, all without rhyme or reason and as naturally as can be.

That’s how she killed that stupid Situ Clan Guardian all those years ago, when she spotted him hiding in the shadows to better track and kill them. She’d just lashed out with her scarf on instinct and it cut him up really bad, and then she chased him down and killed him with the second blow. To this day, she had no idea how she’d controlled her scarf like that, nor did she understand how she outran a Peak Expert, but it had felt so natural and normal she didn’t even think twice in the moment and just let it all happen. Logically speaking, she shouldn’t have attacked, should have just told Set-Set or Char-Char someone was hiding there, but Lin-Lin acted without even thinking and by then it was already too late. Daddy was furious when he found out later on, especially since Aunty Hua-Hua didn’t do anything to stop her, but she said Lin-Lin would have to learn how to kill eventually. She was right too, because effective as going along with her emotions might be, it wasn’t enough to kill stinky Hideo in Meng Sha, so Lin-Lin wasn’t willing to rely on her strength here in Shi Bei, not with so much at stake. A wolf was a terrifying beast of fang and fury, but even an entire pack was nothing before a single man with a bow and arrows enough to kill them all from afar, meaning instincts were hardly enough to protect her. She was in the same boat as Ping Ping, in possession of so much potential for power yet no idea how to use it effectively, so it was best for them both to stay where it was safe and let others handle the fighting for now.

Stupid Rainy. Even his Natal Soul was so overprotective that it refused to teach her how to fight. Aggrieved though she might be, Lin-Lin knew that this was the best decision. She didn’t understand tactics like Mi-Mi or Yan-Yan, didn’t know how to support others like Li-Li or Luo-Luo, and it would take time and practice to learn, so all she could do was stand here and watch while others fought and died. It hurt to see everyone risking their lives and giving this battle their all, especially Rainy. Even though he wasn’t physically fighting, Lin-Lin could feel him expending more Heavenly Energy than she ever thought possible as he deployed Natal Souls to every corner of the battlefield to save an ungrateful Empire that would soon turn against him.

Even though she’d seen this same phenomenon unfold in Meng Sha, the results of Rainy’s efforts here in Shi Bei were even more impressive. Mi-Mi erupted in a dazzling light which incinerated the enemies around her, only to fall to her knees exhausted and spent. Then Li-Li took up her sabre in hand and fought off all comers like a Peak Expert of twice her years, while Yan-Yan conjured up a windstorm which cleared out an entire section of the wall all by her lonesome. Luo-Luo made the next move as she took up her zither and struck a single note, one that cut through the clamour of the battlefield and raised Lin-Lin’s spirits to new heights. The melody that followed was pleasant to the ear, but while everything Luo-Luo played was beautiful beyond compare, this was different somehow. Giving herself over to the song, Lin-Lin listened with all four ears and bobbed in time with the notes, mostly because it amused her to see Ping Ping bobbing alongside her, but Mama Bun also loved being rocked as well. Halfway between Rainy and Mi-Mi, Nai-Nai became One with the Heavens in preparation of Shattering the Void, and the battlefield fell still to watch her Ascend. Even though it would benefit Lin-Lin greatly to see the miracle of Ascension unfold, especially after the creepy and icky examples set by the stinky old monk and even stinkier Uniter, she couldn't tear her eyes away from hubby.

Because even though all this and more took place in the blink of an eye, Lin-Lin experienced it whilst immersed in Enlightenment. Each passing moment stretched out into long minutes so she could luxuriate in Rainy’s emotional presence, but to her great dismay, she also saw his physical presence dwindle away to almost nothing in the process. His actual body was unchanged, still as fit and handsome as ever, but while her eyes saw nothing amiss, Lin-Lin senses were screaming that something was wrong and she needed to help her hubby through it. There was nothing specific about the warning, just an impression of… lessening, like he was fading away before her very eyes without growing any less substantial or real, and the thought of losing him terrified her to no end. While Daddy never brought it up, Aunty Hua-Hua, Nai-Nai, Sar-Sar, and so many others took Lin-Lin aside in the weeks before her wedding to warn her about Rainy’s shorter lifespan. Even if they lived a happy, blessed life, she would eventually lose him to old age in a hundred years or less, but she was happy to have him for even a day, much less an entire century.

Except now they’d been married for less than a full year and she might lose him today, and she wasn’t ready to let him go just yet.

Why was he so willing to die and leave her behind? Why couldn’t he learn to run away and live to fight another day? There wasn’t any real value to the city, yet he was so desperate to win the battle here in Shi Bei because he couldn’t bear to see so many soldiers die for his cause. He started this war for the West without thinking it through, because not even the greatest generals in history could win every fight, but Rainy was stubborn as a mule and sometimes even stupider as he refused to accept anything less than victory. That’s just who he was, because even back when he first arrived at the village and jumped at every shadow in sight, he never once gave up on anything he set as his goal. It didn’t matter if it was something as simple as learning to cook, dangerous as cuddling the quin pups before Pafu and Suret were ready to let them out of the den, or stupid as going for a jaunt through forest alone despite his woefully lacking ability to keep himself alive. If Rain wanted to do something, then he would do it regardless of the consequences. An endearing quality in many ways, and he owed much of his success to his stubborn determination in the face of overwhelming odds, but today, it might well be the end of him as he strove to grasp something too far beyond his reach.

Rainy had made a habit of making the impossible possible, but now, he was willing to die for it, and Lin-Lin refused to allow it.

Whatever this affliction causing him to fade away might be, it must have something to do with how he was sending so many Natal Souls out without a care for the consequences. Unable to even imagine a future without him, Lin-Lin put aside all other thoughts and simply bounded over to his side. Rainy needed her to save him from himself again, this much she knew, even though she had no idea how to help. The how wasn’t important though, because as long as she was there with him, then they could work on a solution together. Luckily, her actions went unobstructed since the Imperials and Enemy alike had all stopped to gawk at Nai-Nai, but Lin-Lin regretted her decision almost immediately once she noticed Mama Bun and Blackjack were still with her. Ping Ping too, who followed her over to Rainy’s side without so much as a squeak, the sweet turtle with a heart of floof just happy to be with them both. It was too late to turn back now though, for hubby would have fallen flat on his face if Lin-Lin hadn’t arrived just in time to catch him, her arm slipping around his waist to hold him steady and prop him against the battlements while resting her forehead between his shoulder blades.

He'd gotten so much taller than she remembered, and she didn’t want him to grow anymore, because then she wouldn’t be able to easily run up and slip her arms over his shoulder for a hug and a kiss. Those were the best, when he slipped his arms under hers and lifted her feet off the ground, squeezing as tightly as he dared while she pressed her lips against his, a kiss that took her breath away each and every time.

Unwilling to have already shared their last kiss without even knowing it, Lin-Lin checked hubby’s vitals as best she could while also holding him up. He’d gone comatose again, and she knew that it would be bad for morale if everyone saw Rainy pass out on his feet, even if they knew he had something to do with everyone’s new attainments in the Martial Dao. At least he was still breathing, she could feel that much, but his pulse was weak and faint and his presence was fading fast, which was never a good sign unless he was Concealed. Scouring her mind for something that might help, she stood frozen in fear and ignorance both, because even though Rainy loved discussing the Martial Dao, Lin-Lin only listened because she wanted to help him in any way she could, even if it was by being a spring board for ideas. All his talk about Chi and Cores and Visualization and Intent always went right over her head though, because her Dao was not the Martial Dao, but a Dao all her own. All she knew was that he’d given everything to help the Empire seize victory here in Shi Bei, and now he was paying the ultimate price.

A Balanced Natal Soul was merely a severed portion of Rainy’s actual soul, so what happened when he severed off too much? The same thing as what would happen to a body and mind without a soul, meaning hubby’s organs were slowly shutting down because his body no longer had a soul to sustain it, and therefore no reason to remain alive.

