Cheeks puffed and chin buried in Mama Bun’s floof, Lin-Lin held her breath and glowered as hubby gave up too much for nothing in return.

Less than nothing actually, since he put more into this war effort than he got out of it, unless you counted silly, worthless things like face, honour, and recognition. Even being Minister of Finance and Legate wasn’t worth the hassle, since he had to work day and night with barely a moment to spare. While Lin-Lin didn’t care much for wealth so long as she had enough to eat, it wasn’t right for all the coin hubby earned to go right back into the war effort, funding stuff like Runic cannons, Runic shields, Spiritual Weapons, bell towers, and more out of his own pocket in order to better defend the province. As if that weren’t enough, he even made enemies just doing his job, because his successes somehow made them look worse off for it. Now these enemies were all too happy to leave him high and dry here in Shi Bei and pretend like he failed because he wasn’t smart or strong enough, rather than the lack of support, a lie anyone with half a brain would see through but no one would care to argue. Stupid is what it was, and Lin-Lin would have much preferred if they went home and left all this behind, but hubby was too kind for his own good.

That’s the way it’d always been though, with Rainy always looking after others before tending to his own troubles, and Lin-Lin loved him all the more for it. Of course, when she was younger, she’d been the one to benefit from all his consideration, whether it be arriving early for his lessons to help her braid her hair and review her lessons, or putting the last dumpling on her plate for her to enjoy even though she’d already eaten more than half the plate, it was these little gestures which made her hubby the best. Generous and compassionate, without ever caring about silly things like gratitude and recognition, that was the sort of person he was, because it made him happy to see others happy, and it made him sad when they were sad. Until recently, Lin-Lin thought his charitable and considerate nature was admirable and praiseworthy, but there were times when he let it go too far, and now she thought he was being stupid and senseless for letting the Empire take advantage of his kindness and work him to possible death.

There were always taller shoulders to hold up the Heavens, that’s what Daddy often told her, and Lin-Lin understood this simple truth better than most. How could she not? Daddy never hid the facts from her, and she’d always known that she wasn’t really his daughter, but an Ancestral Beast, one so weak she didn’t even have an Aura of her own. Almost anyone could walk right up and capture her, a valuable prize most would kill to have in hand. That's why she never tried to run off or sneak away on her own, no matter how much she wanted to, because she knew she needed someone to protect her for at least a few centuries more unless she cared to suffer through a fate worse than death. Big Sister Ling-Lu was even older and stronger than Nai-Nai, but Grandpa Wolfy still scowled and grumbled every time she tried to take a walk by herself, even if she promised to stay on the same mountain, and no matter how powerful she might become, she might well never be truly safe.

Because there are people beyond people, and Heavens beyond Heaven, or as Rainy so loved to say whenever the occasion allowed it, there’s always a bigger fish.

Now that Lin-Lin’s secret was out, Daddy alone would not be enough to keep her safe, and even with Grandpa Wolfy, Auntie Hua-Hua, and everyone else lending a hand, they still might have to live a life on the run. That’d just be the worst, hiding outside the borders of the Empire and hoping no one ever finds her lest she be captured and enslaved. That was a problem for later though, one Rainy would no doubt see as something for him to solve, because he refused to rely on someone else unless absolutely necessary. He had this need to shoulder all burdens on his own, and he would always find something that needed to be done because he was too kind to sit idly by while others suffered without assistance. Everyone was fine and happy back in the village, but hubby thought they’d be happier with some extra coin, even though no one in the village used coin to trade. So instead of enjoying his childhood and spending more time with Lin-Lin, he started a company to hire villagers who made medicine to sell in Shen Huo for coin they didn’t need, which she thought was just silly all around. Then, at the Northern Wall, he saw beggars on the street asking for food and decided the best way to help was to open a school and feed everyone who wanted a meal, which was just impractical to say the least, but he did it anyways because he’d rather give in to greed than see one person go hungry again.

And that was only the beginning of a problem that continued to haunt them to this day. Hubby’s districts were just more of the same, and then a few months ago, he decided he wasn’t happy sitting idle and defending the border anymore. People were suffering in the West, so it was his job to save them, which is why he launched this crusade to retake the province. Again, his heart was in the right place, and it wasn’t that Lin-Lin lacked sympathy, but how was it his fault the Defiled broke into the province and enslaved the entire populace? The stinky Emperor clearly didn’t care about his people, so why did hubby have to be the one to save them? It wasn’t fair for him to demand so much from himself, especially with so many ‘allies’ working against him, but he did it anyways and now they were all fighting desperately to stay alive against an army of ugly discount Demons. Even if they won here today, Lin-Lin knew there would be little more than empty praise and insincere thanks awaiting Rainy after all this was said and done, as well as more trials and tribulations to come.

Unable to hold it any longer, Lin-Lin huffed into Mama Bun’s fur to expel all her angry thoughts, because she was afraid of what she might do if she kept it all bottled up inside. Stupid Emperor and his stupid Clansmen, stupid Legate and his stupid pawn Shuai Jiao, stupid Marshal Yo and the rest of stupid Central who stood on their side, all of them had left hubby to fight the Defiled by himself, and it was a miracle they even made it this far. The worst part was knowing that if hubby lost here today, his enemies would forget all his contributions thus far and use this single setback to condemn him as a failure, maybe even justify having him stripped of title or simply have him killed just to get him out of the way. Then again, they’d probably try to do that even if he won, because the people running the Empire weren’t happy to learn that Rainy refused to be controlled. He was like a wild quin, sweet and cheerful enough when he liked you, but murderous and vengeful when he didn’t, liable to chomp off your hand sooner than take the treat held in it, not matter how delicious it might be. Which meant regardless of the outcome here in Shi Bei, he’d end up butting heads with the Emperor eventually even if Lin-Lin’s secret never got out.

A pang of regret coursed through her as she considered what she could have done differently, but even if there was anything, it didn’t matter anymore. People knew she was a Divinity now, a second Ancestral Cloud Chaser Hare, which meant she would never be safe again. Everyone would want to control her now, her and Daddy both, all because they were a ‘breeding pair’ of Divinities. Yuck. That’s how the world saw her, as livestock rather than an actual person, and she’d known all along that this is how it would be, which was why she had no love for the Empire itself. Let the Defiled and Imperials fight all they want, because they were both equally bad, but Rainy was silly and idealistic enough to believe in the concept of a unified humanity, even though the truth was far from unified as could be.

But that’s just another reason why Lin-Lin loved her hubby so, because of his silly, but beautiful dreams and his courage to chase them in spite of the odds.

So immersed in her pity party for one, she almost yelped in surprise as Rainy’s Natal Soul made his presence known to wash away her bitter thoughts. Her pouty grimace gave way to a giggle of sheer delight, for hubby’s love and affection was even more wonderful than she’d ever imagined. It was so amazing that she even fell into the State of Enlightenment to better appreciate this moment, one which stretched on and on as time slowed enough for her to count individual grains of sand floating by in the wind. This had always come easily to her, but it also gave her a headache when she used it for too long. Fighting with stinky Hideo had already pushed her past her limits, but it was well worth the pain to memorize everything about what it felt like to merge souls with hubby.

It was oh so wonderful, her cheeks immediately started hurting because her smile was so wide, and she watched him through half-lidded eyes because she couldn’t open them any wider. There he stood across the battlements, yet he was also here with arms wrapped around Lin-Lin’s shoulders in a warm and comforting embrace. His love was deep and fathomless as the ocean, wide and all-encompassing as the sky, so full of blazing passion, grounded sentiment, heartfelt admiration, sincere respect, and so much more. There was a persistent yearning underneath it all, a hunger which could never be sated, only kept in check with her constant presence which he could not live without. Even though he was always forbidding her to come along on his military excursions, the truth was that he even happier than she was about spending each and every day together, but their current circumstances made him feel guilty and sad at the same time. He blamed himself for not being firm with her and insisting she stay in Central, because then her secret might still be safe and she wouldn’t be in danger of dying. He wasn’t angry she didn’t tell him about being a Divinity, nor was he particularly pleased by the news, but he wasn’t upset either. Mostly ambivalent really, as if she’d come out to tell him that she was really left-handed rather than right-handed, an inconsequential detail that had no bearing on how much he loved and adored her.

And he did too, as much as she loved and adored him, so much that it hurt to be apart for more than a few hours, though hubby hid it better than Lin-Lin. He’d loved her for a long time now, longer than he cared to admit, which made it all the more puzzling why he tried to avoid marrying her for so many years. He was so silly like that, but it was nice to know how much he cared, and doubly so regarding how he loved everything about her. There was nothing he would change, nothing he found lacking, not her height, her figure, her fashion choices, or anything at all, because he loved her just the way she was. He loved Mi-Mi and Yan-Yan just as much, as well as Li-Li and Luo-Luo even if he didn’t want to admit it, and she knew he loved them all equally because he loved them with all his heart. For different reasons of course, but there wasn’t one he loved more than the others, or any less, because he’d given them everything he had to offer and would happily give them more if he could. Lin-Lin was his wifey who he spoiled the most, Mi-Mi his beloved who he teased, Yan his partner who he challenged every day, Li-Li the woman he wanted to cherish and adore, while Luo-Luo was the courtesan he bullied. This was just the way he showed his affection for each and every one of them, and in his heart, there was no place for happiness without each of them there to complete him.

Rainy really was the best, and Lin-Lin would be sure to let him know it.

Basking in his presence for as long as she could, she held off from letting his Natal Soul meld entirely with her soul just so she could keep him and his emotions around for even a moment longer. This was only a small portion of Rainy’s soul, but it was still him all the same, so how could Lin-Lin let her hubby go without a goodbye? “Love you hubby,” she whispered, hugging Mama Bun tight since she couldn’t hug him instead, and the sweet rabbit perked up to grace Lin-Lin’s cheek with kisses. As for hubby’s Natal Soul, she tried to impart upon him how much she loved him in turn, but she wasn’t sure if it was working. If only she actually had an Aura, a goal she’d been working on for years now ever since Rainy first introduced her to his Emotional Aura, but her progress was non-existent. Oh how wonderful it would be to show everyone how much she loved them, especially the shy floofs like Guai Guai, Princess, Cinnabun, and Rakky, as well as hubby when he was being particularly stupid. There were days when he was just gloomy for no reason, and even though she knew he needed those days to ground himself and Balance his emotions, Lin-Lin also wanted him to be happy and cheery all the time even if that wasn’t realistic. A hug was always enough to get him to smile, but just imagine how much happier he would be if she could show him how much she loved him each and every day.

