Not Rainy, who was still recovering from his ordeal and only just regaining consciousness. Nor was it Buddy, who was still running around in circles, but this time in joy rather than concern. No, the encouragement came from another source, one even more familiar to Lin-Lin than Buddy, because she spent most of her time with Ping Ping these days, since Rainy was either too busy or too comatose to play. At some point, the sweet turtle had joined them in the Void that was now Rainy’s Natal Palace, and though Ping Ping didn’t entirely understand what was going on and was feeling sad because the lake and waterslides were all gone, she still took the effort to share her love and confidence with Lin-Lin and Rainy both.

But that was not all she shared, as what began as a brief burst of emotion turned into a steady stream of Heavenly Energy and more, a warm and nurturing sensation that filled Lin-Lin with glee and excitement. It was a fresh breath of air after an afternoon of study, a cool breeze after a long climb up the tallest tree, the scent of a flower in blossom and the sensation of slipping her fingers in between Rainy’s as they held hands and made love.

It wasn’t just love, but also life, a gift Ping Ping shared without thinking twice.

A second stream joined soon after as Pong Pong made his presence known, radiating a sense of amusement at her frantic emotions, like he was making fun of her for panicking over nothing. He was always teasing her like that, and Rainy too, like a sagely older uncle laughing at their youthful ways, but Pong Pong was just as silly as Ping Ping and Mama Bun when it came time to play. Putting aside her pique and amusement, Lin-Lin watched as the two turtles made short work of the fearsome deathly energy, though she failed to understand just how they were able to manipulate a power so ineffable and empyreal. This was the energy of life itself, not just birth and creation, but youth and vigour and so much more. Then again, their control over it shouldn’t be all that surprising given how long an animal’s lifespan could be, as even Ping Ping was several millennia old at least, older even than the grouchy but kindly Guan Suo. Maybe most animals instinctively learned how to utilize this energy of life, which explained why so few Spiritual Beasts ever died of old age, and now Lin-Lin was determined to study it because it meant she might have more than a hundred years with Rainy and Luo-Luo, and more than five hundred with Mi-Mi, Yan-Yan, and Li-Li.

Forget the next life. This was a chance to spend this life together forever, a chance Lin-Lin would be silly to pass up...

So immersed in these thoughts, Lin-Lin didn’t even notice Rain woke up and cast them all out of his Natal Palace until he turned around in her embrace, his expression one of confused contrition and sheepish humiliation over having been caught trying to die. Rather than say anything to scold or comfort him, she reached up to pat his cheek while Mama Bun showered the other side with kisses. The love in her eyes would speak for her, and she’d already forgiven him his transgressions, though they would talk more about this later when he was ready to speak. Right now, all he’d do is apologize and feel guilty, but she didn’t want that. She wanted him to be happy, but he also needed to focus on the battle around them, so as he opened his mouth to speak however, she pushed Mama Bun into his arms and flashed him a smile before bolting away while Nai-Nai took the fight to the Enemy overhead. “Love you hubby,” she yelled, running slowly enough so he could hear. “Gotta go now, bye bye!”

Ignoring Daddy’s Sendings asking her where she was running off to, Lin-Lin made a bee-line towards Mi-Mi to test if their souls were one as well. If so, then they could share souls and Mi-Mi would have more Chi to set her enemies aflame, which was oh so fun to watch. Yan-Yan might also need help, since she was bound to run out of Chi soon enough, and then maybe Li-Li and Luo-Luo if Lin-Lin was still feeling fine, but neither of them were using Chi too too fast. This was how she would help, the same way Rainy helped others, albeit with a much more limited pool of recipients, and there was nothing anyone could do to stop her.

And the best part? Now that hubby knew she could restore his soul and life at the cost of her own, he wouldn’t spend it all willy nilly without thinking of the consequences. That was just how he was, always looking out for everyone else and never caring about himself, so he was lucky he had Lin-Lin to look out for him instead. Honestly, she didn’t care about winning this war or retaking the west, or even having to run from the Emperor and the Imperial Clan. So long as she was together with her hubby and all her sister-wives, then nothing else mattered.

But if all else failed, then she would find him in the next life and be his wifey again, so either way, Lin-Lin was just happy to be here with the people she loved.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
