Panic bordering on hysteria followed by absolute delight, these two waves of extreme emotions crashed into Lin-Lin and almost swept her off her feet, only for shock and surprise to overwhelm her as hubby turned around to look her in the eyes. No, not hubby, for it wasn’t Rainy looking back at her in a wide-eyed plea, but Buddy in control of Rainy’s body, so uncertain and unsure he was trembling from head to toe out of pure, unmitigated fright. Patting his belly to soothe his nerves, Lin-Lin closed her eyes and focused on finding Balance as quick as she could, which in reality meant she more or less fell fast asleep. Hopefully they’d stay standing, else Mama Bun and Blackjack would be in for a rough surprise, to say nothing of Rainy and the rest of Shi Bei. There was no reward without risk however, and Lin-Lin forged ahead without hesitation, because her hubby had no time left to spare. Perhaps the Heavens were smiling down on her, or perhaps her need allowed her to better focus her Intent, but she soon found herself immersed in the Void with Rainy and Buddy there in front of her. The poor sweet dog ran circles around them, zooming about in pure panic even though she was here to help, and it was easy to see why. Though Buddy was as solid and substantial as ever, Rainy’s soul was flimsy and almost transparent at times, weakened and fading fast after giving his all to the Empire.

Rainy was dying, and Lin-Lin didn’t know how to save him.

Reaching out to hold her hubby close, she jumped in fright as Buddy’s booming bark warned her away. When she first heard it, she found it so funny for a sweet, silly, floppy eared dog to have so domineering a bark, but now she was glad for it. Buddy wasn’t warning her because Rainy was too weak for a hug, but because there was something else at work here, something Lin-Lin failed to notice until Buddy warned her of the danger ahead. In Rainy’s soul was a foul infection, a nasty, unpleasant energy that was sapping away what little energy he had left, and it was only a matter of time before it killed him. Focusing on the infection itself, Lin-Lin felt a fear that was primal and instinctive, for she recognized this energy even though she had no name for it. It was the stuff of death and decay, oblivion and the grave, an all-consuming force that all mortals feared and embraced. It was the end of all suffering, but also the end of all joy, as well as the end of everything else in between. Where there was life, there was hope, but this dark energy threatened to snuff out both with little more than a glare, a foreboding finality devoid of hatred or contempt, but brimming with implacable inevitability.

It was the taste of Lin-Lin’s birth control tea made manifest in reality, and not even a whole jar of honey was enough to sweeten that horrid concoction. She would know, because she tried, and it still felt like drinking death warmed over.

Just being in the presence of this Energy left Lin-Lin paralyzed in fright, yet as she studied it further, she was amazed to discover Rainy inexplicably embracing that same terrifying energy without fear. There was still life in him yet, and here in the Void, he radiated his emotions without restraint, allowing Lin-Lin to almost pick out his thoughts because she knew him so well. Thoughts she never expected to find in her sweet, silly hubby who she loved so much, for the most prominently featured emotion was not love or joy, nor was it guilt or despair, but rather a sense of neutral indifference that bordered on weary exhaustion. He was so tired of fighting to survive that he no longer cared to, his will worn down and his drive all but spent. This wasn’t the Rainy she knew, for her stubborn, intractable hubby was ready to give up and give in. He loved her dearly, loved all his wives, family, friends, and floofs dearly, but he was so tired and exhausted from hurting all the time that he just wanted to lay down and rest. It wasn’t physical pain and exertion which drained him so, nor was he tired of loving Lin-Lin and everyone else. No, they were the only reason he’d gotten this far in the first place, but he felt as if he couldn’t keep going on anymore.

This was the hardest part, leaving them all behind, but grateful as he was to have found them all, he never once felt like he deserved them, and therein lay the crux of the issue. Deep down, Rainy truly believed himself unworthy of love, believed that everyone he knew would be better off without him. That’s why he was so eager to die for a noble cause. It wasn’t courage which drove him to make this sacrifice, nor was it benevolence, determination, or any other obvious aspiration, but hopeless despair. He didn’t know how he could keep fooling them all, tricking them into loving an unworthy and insignificant man like himself, and he loved them too much to continue this deception. The deathly energy was just an excuse, one he didn’t even try too hard to fight, because even if he had strength enough to survive it, he didn’t see any other way to win this fight. Victory and death, that’s what he yearned for, and now he saw a chance to secure both in one move.

Well too bad. Rainy was Lin-Lin’s hubby, and she refused to let him leave her behind.

Love won out over fear as she ran headlong into his embrace, one his unconscious self responded to on instinct. The deathly energy afflicting his soul surged into her as she opened herself up to him, and its cold, draining touch almost robbed her of all courage, but she was determined to see this through and save her hubby no matter the cost. Much as she wanted to scream and cry at him for being so stupid and selfish, he needed love and support more than anything else, so she swallowed her anger and focusing on the same love and affection she imparted to his Natal Soul only moments ago. “Love you hubby,” she declared, shouting into the Void so there was no chance he wouldn’t hear her. Nothing else needed to be said, so she held him tight as she reached out to the Heavens Above and exerted her Will.

And the Heavens responded, because Lin-Lin was an Ancestral Beast and a true child of the Mother, one birthed by the four elements and moulded by the Heavens themselves.

That’s what Daddy always said, and she believed it, because even though she lost her Spiritual Heart in the process of rebirth, her soul was still powerful when compared to a regular person. That’s what she based her plan on, one she came up with in the moment and made sense enough to act one. Forget the deathly energy which she knew nothing about, because even if it was harming them both, she didn’t think there was enough there to kill them. No, the problem was Rainy’s soul was too weak to fight it off on his own, because he’d severed so much of it in a desperate last bid to save Shi Bei. So if the problem was the soul, then Lin-Lin had more than enough to spare, and the rest was unimportant. Then again, she was almost certain there was more to this than soul, else Buddy could have easily saved Rainy himself, but that wasn’t important either. She didn’t need to know exactly how she was sharing her soul or what it would cost her, only that this could save her sweet hubby without killing her in the process. She wasn’t even certain about the last part, but she didn’t much care about that either, because it would serve him right if she died trying to save him, and then Daddy would be safe too since there would no longer be a ‘breeding pair’ of Ancestral Hares.

Not the ideal solution, but better than nothing, because Lin-Lin wasn’t ready to live in a world without Rainy.

Time came to a standstill as Lin-Lin envisioned her strength surging into Rainy, only for it to resume as she felt an ominous sense of threat settle upon her. The Heavens warning her of their impending Wrath, for she was drawing upon too much of it to save Rainy. Though determined to see this through to the end, fear and apprehension welled up from within despite her best efforts to focus on helping her hubby. Then, in a moment of Insight, Lin-Lin passed those emotions to him as well, showing him how scared she was and how sad she’d be if he ever left her. If he thought she was better off without him, then she would show him just how wrong he was, even if it made him sad to do so. Finally holding nothing back, Lin-Lin gave herself over to the Heavens, and they were receptive to her Will, for she possessed a powerful soul that had once been part and parcel of her body and mind both. Now, she wasn’t sure how they were all connected, but she was certain her soul was entwined with the Void and the Heavens both, so closely knit that even an errant effort of Will could set reality in flux, so one could imagine what a focused effort could accomplish. Hence why the Heavens did not take her meddling lightly, or the meddling of any Divinity, Ancestral Beast or otherwise, but Lin-Lin was more than happy to risk its Wrath for this cause.

Because Rainy was the best, and he knew how to stop Heaven’s Wrath, and stop it he did as his Domain Materialized to reinforce reality while she leveraged the full weight of her Will to save him.

The Heavens surged and swelled within the Void, like tall waves crashing against the cliffs and heavy winds uprooting trees, but Lin-Lin had hubby here with her today, which meant she had nothing to fear. Power unlike anything she’d ever experienced before threatened to overwhelm her, and for a moment, she worried she might have overstepped, but then hubby’s love and affection rose up to support her from within while his firm hands clasped onto hers to hold her tight. The emptiness of the Void disappeared around them as she was enveloped by a wholeness that made her feel complete, for she had her hubby here with her and was happy to give him everything she had to give, which he accepted as readily and instinctively as he accepted her embrace.

Only then did Lin-Lin realize her hubby was still unconscious and acting solely on instinct. Good. Rainy’s Natal Soul used love to trick her into accepting him, and now she was repaying the real Rainy in kind and tricking him into accepting her help. It was only fair, ya?

Beaming as she held her hubby tight in reality and the Void at the same time, Lin-Lin magnanimously forgave him for trying to leave her so long as he promised he wouldn’t do it again. He would, because now he could no longer pretend like he didn’t know how much he meant to her. Dummy. Pleased by how this all turned out, she took some time to catch her breath and think about what exactly was happening here, because even though she didn’t need to know, more knowledge was always a good thing, even if the end result was something of a setback. As far as she could tell, this wasn’t all that different from what Rainy did with his Natal Souls, in that she was helping him at the cost of her soul. The only difference was that she wasn’t making Natal Souls who were Balanced spiritual entities able to connect directly with the Heavens themselves, since souls were more or less the stuff of Heavenly Energy. Or maybe only part of it, or perhaps even something more, either way, Lin-Lin wasn’t entirely sure. What she did know was that she was Healing Rainy the same way Daddy Healed his patients, except she was using her soul to Heal instead of Chi or Heavenly Energy. Even though she’d never Healed anyone before, she understood the basic concept well enough. All she needed to do was convince Rainy’s soul to accept hers, the same way a Healer had to convince a wounded person to accept their Chi. Daddy never really got into the specifics of how one might do that, but Rainy had already figured out that love worked well enough for him, so why wouldn’t it work for Lin-Lin? He said it himself, even though the soul was inviolable, love and trust rendered those defences moot, which was how Roo-Roo Healed Sai-Sai in JiangHu. Now, Lin-Lin was Healing her hubby the same way, except rather than an injury of the body, she was mending his soul by sharing some of her own.

Because they were one soul in two bodies, lovers in this life and the next so long as she had anything to say about it.

… Or maybe one soul in six bodies, if you included Mi-Mi, Yan-Yan, Li-Li, and Luo-Luo, but the specifics of how that might work made Lin-Lin’s head spin.

No, it wasn’t the concept of six linked souls making her dizzy, but the process of Healing Rainy combined with fighting off the insidious deathly energies threatening to overwhelm them both. Lin-Lin thought it would be easy enough to deal with, because even though it scared her something fierce, there wasn’t too too much of it to start with. As far as she could tell, so long as they had strength enough, they could just wear down the deathly energy in a battle of attrition, and accept whatever damage it caused as a necessary expense. Now that it was surging through her however, she realized it was much worse than she thought, because rather than an infection that might well burn itself out, it was more like a poison settling into her bones and contaminating everything it touched. While it would still eventually dissipate in time, the damage was far worse than she imagined, and she wasn’t even sure if she could Heal from it. Feeling more than a little frightened once more, Lin-Lin made no effort to hide her fears because she was still immersed in sharing all her emotions to save Rainy, but to her surprise, someone responded to comfort and reassure her.

