Rhisveri spat, and the Dragonlord of Flame growled.
“Don’t play games with me, Rhisveri. You won’t find a treasure equal to my Dragonthrone anywhere in this world.”
“I don’t want it. I’d cherish it if it were a prize taken from you in battle. A gift? A bribe? A patronizing little gesture for the ghosts? Give it to the Sariant Lambs. Ailendamus refuses.”
“You are arrogant beyond belief.”
Teriarch hissed. Rhisveri flicked his tail, rising slightly.
“Do you want to try again, elder Dragon? I am not the one feeling my age. Nor will you stop Ailendamus from doing as it wishes.”
“Do you think your nation is the largest I’ve seen burn? Mortals struck down your vaunted armies, my help or not.”
The Dragon paced left, and Rhisveri slithered, uncoiling slightly. The Great Wyrm snarled.
“If you want to back the other nations, be my guest. Shall we make it a proxy war or will I see you on the battlefield? I’ve defeated other Dragons. I fought in the Creler Wars and before that. Do you remember the Silver Dragonknight? I sent him crawling away in battle.”
Teriarch snorted a gout of purple flame in amusement, and Rhisveri hesitated, uncertain.
“Yderigrisel? He loses to everyone. Lost to. I remember a Necromancer beat him nearly a hundred times in a row. Yderigrisel was a Silver Dragon. Better at escaping or illusions. That idiot wore armor and fancied himself a [Knight]. He was no Dragonlord. Unless you fought him with an army at his back, that would be the last Dragon to boast of defeating.”
Rhisveri’s eyes narrowed.
“It must be so convenient to be the famous Dragonlord. No one can ever match the foes you’ve met, nor live up to some ancient kingdom of Crelercrap that existed two hundred thousand years ago and built Adamantium towers out of mud sticks. You have no right to demand anything of me. I am the last Wyrm.”
“And I am the last Dragonlord of Flame. I did not come here to make demands on Ailendamus nor you—”
“Oh, no. Just to assume I was a tyrant and tell me to change my ways or face rebellion. Do not prevaricate with me, Teriarch. I understand nuance.”
The Wyrm and Dragon narrowed the gap. Teriarch was trying to draw back from another heated exchange, but he was a fire Dragon.
He went in hot.
“If you keep conquering Terandria, I will not have to do anything. I came here seeking an ally. You know what’s coming back. Dead…gods.”
He spoke it into the silence, and the Wyrm recoiled. Rhisveri looked at Teriarch, and the Dragon’s pulse thundered.
Even saying their nature was anathema. Their natures…Rhisveri nodded slowly.
“I know. It’s impossible to fight what doesn’t exist yet, though.”
“There are ways to combat them. On this continent alone, no less. And more, in places even I do not know, hidden. Perhaps the new lands.”
“If so, Ailendamus will find and use them. We do not want your meddling. My advisors, my allies I trust. Not you. If you had come here with even the shred of humility—”
“I offered you my Dragonthrone.”
“Your agent killed Fithea, the last Dryad! Ryoka Griffin stole my Scroll of Resurrection and used it on you!”
The two roared at each other, so close they could taste each other’s breath, close to igniting or spraying acid. Teriarch had the sudden desire to copy a trick he’d seen the Dragonlord of War do. Which was plant a kiss on the head of a Dragon howling in her face. Then kick the upstart into the sea when they charged.
Not his style. The Brass Dragon’s voice turned into a low growl, and Rhisveri backed up as Teriarch’s body changed again.
Metal scales. Metal eyes. Only this time, it was pure Adamantium. That was what Rhisveri had collided with midair. Flames seethed from the gaps between Teriarch’s scales, coating his body in glowing magenta fire.
“Listen to me, boy. The Lucifen are not your friends. Do you think they’re fine allies? They twist and manipulate and predate on mortals by their very nature.”
“You generalize. I expected better of a Dragonlord. Are all species defined by a single individual?”
Rhisveri backed up. Teriarch growled as he took a step; he was sinking into the ground with his weight.
“I remember all their sins. Ask yourself this—where were the Lucifen before they came to Terandria? You don’t know, do you? The Infernal Court weren’t always allies with the Agelum. Did they ever say what drove them into hiding as petty Human nobles?”
The Wyrm’s silence was all the answer Teriarch needed. He hissed.
“They were on Rhir. Before the Blighted Kingdom! Before the Crelers! Another failed containment for whatever is buried down there. But unlike the current guardians—the Lucifen were exiled from Rhir. Do you know how depraved you have to be for that to happen?”
Rhisveri backed away, uncertain. Teriarch shifted back to normal—even that was draining, but the effect had worked.
“Count your allies alongside your enemies, Great Wyrm. Don’t think the Glorious Host is any less dangerous. An Elemental of Masks? A Dryad? Not all of their forests were kind, you know. The mortals drove Treants into the sea to their shame, but some Dryads spilled blood like water and sacrificed innocents upon their groves.”
“Do not speak of Dryads to me.”
The Wyrm’s voice was deadly calm. Teriarch backed down a step—Rhisveri had gone still, and the Dragonlord realized another word on that subject and this would escalate beyond the realms of mere anger.
The two moved apart and glared at each other. Rhisveri spoke first, laying his body like a line in the sand.
“…Stay away from Ailendamus, Dragonlord. Stay out of my affairs.”
“Make your peace with mortals and relish your kingdom as it is, Rhisveri Zessoprical. Your nation is grand for this era. I have seen wondrous civilizations burn before threats greater than Crelers. And worse is coming still.”
The Dragonlord turned. He spread his wings, and the Wyrm watched him begin to fly away. Rhisveri’s teeth ground together—then the Wyrm shouted.
“Dragonlord! WHO IS KASIGNA?”
He saw the Brass Dragon flinch in the skies. A head turned, and two ancient eyes burned down at Rhisveri. But the Wyrm saw the fear.
“You aren’t ready to battle them. Not yet. If they find their full flesh—my fire will barely scratch them.”
He whirled and soared away. Rhisveri was left staring up at the sky. The Wyrm bitterly drained the last of his drink.
“So there’s the hierarchy? Mortals before Wyrm, before God?”
Rhisveri spat onto the ground, and the venom hissed and bubbled away, eating at the firmament of the world.
“In time, neither Dragonlord nor dead specter will threaten my kingdom. Flee back to Izril. I’ll even let you have the Wind Runner. She can run wherever she pleases, until all she ever sees will be Ailendamus’ banners, hanging from shore to distant shore.”
 
——
 
If Ryoka Griffin had heard Rhisveri’s oath, she might have been less surprised by how she left Ailendamus.
Not in a bag. Nor teleported. Nor while being herded through the streets as people spat on her while being beaten with sticks by sock puppets. And yes, amazingly, that was one of the outside options.
Even she was surprised by her exit, though. However, it was entirely in keeping with Rhisveri’s nature.
Pride—but also cunning. Perhaps Teriarch had forced him to release Ryoka Griffin unharmed. Somehow, she thought that this had been planned from the outset.
Especially because it was no easy task to convene thousands of people—in the throne room, no less. Ryoka stared at her bare feet and wished, for the first time in her life, she’d put on shoes.
Viscount Visophecin looked surprised—or he had in the first moment when she’d been summoned. Now, he watched her from the ranks of Ailendamus’ nobility.
Queen Oiena of Ailendamus had a smile on her lips, but her eyes were searching Ryoka’s face. Yet it was King Itorin II who spoke and beckoned Ryoka as Oesca and Ivenius stood next to the throne.
Oesca had her hands folded in her dress, very demurely. Ivenius jiggled slightly with impatience, but he’d done quite well.
Baron Regalius had spoken for nearly ten whole minutes, and in royal time, that was a lot. Ryoka Griffin walked forwards in a bit of a daze.
Um. What was going on here? Dame Chorisa, standing among the many [Knights] flanking her approach to the throne, looked like she felt like she was having a fever dream.
Such was Rhisveri’s plan. King Itorin II spoke into the silence.
“…We recognize the Wind Runner’s exemplary service in no less than our personal token of esteem, to be granted from our own hand. Kneel, Courier Griffin.”
She knelt—someone would have kicked her in the legs otherwise. Ryoka stared up at Itorin as he accepted a medal made half of glass, the other half of some shining metal representing glory. He placed it around her neck, and the applause and cheering began on cue.
Ryoka Griffin stared at the Signet of Glass and Glory and then at Itorin II. He gave her a rueful smile of amusement before he schooled his expression and rose.
And that was how Ryoka Griffin left Ailendamus. Exiled—and also with the highest medal of honor dangling around her chest.
Because, like Itorin’s ability to bluff, Rhisveri had a simple choice. Pretend Ryoka had been a mistake, an enemy, and all the things she’d done had been out of his control.
Or pat her on the head and claim her deeds as Ailendamus’ own. Not least of which was muddling the claims of House Veltras and Archmage Eldavin.
It was really, really going to make Ryoka’s life complicated. And that, she thought privately, was probably the principle reason the Wyrm had done this.
She might never return. Viscount Visophecin walked her towards the border after a silent ride in his portal-door.
“…You have guests waiting for you, Ryoka. Time will tell whether or not you answer Rhisveri’s demands. I trust you will. It behooves Ailendamus to have—interesting—mortals like yourself in its company. I believe even Rhisveri understands this.”
It was the most straightforward way of saying things Ryoka could expect from the Lucifen. She turned, and Visophecin held out a hand. Ryoka shook it.
“I’ll try. I—I’ll come back, Visophecin. Once I’ve settled my debt. I hope I’ll be welcome. I want to make amends and…”
And. The Lucifen nodded, and Ryoka took one more look at the strange kingdom of Ailendamus. Terrible, glorious—and she wondered if Rhisveri were out there, watching her leave.
She walked, slowly, towards the border, glancing up at the sky every now and then for a flash of crimson lightning.
None came. Nor sock puppet. Nor Wyrm in any other form or fashion. When she looked back—Visophecin was gone too.
Was it all over? Ryoka felt disbelief, sadness for her meeting with Teriarch, uncertainty for the future, and general worry—standard emotions—running through her veins. And she saw a reflection of that in the group of people she saw gathered as she climbed a small hill, waiting for her.
Lord Tyrion Veltras and the Five Families saw the Wind Runner slow as she jogged forwards. Pellmia pointed, and Buscrei shouted.
“There she is! Look at the damn traitor! Put five arrows in her and let’s go home!”
She loosed an arrow, and Ryoka yelped as the shaft thunked into the ground a good ten feet wide of her, but Buscrei was already riding forwards. Swey, grinning, followed. But it was Lord Tyrion Veltras who got there first.
Ryoka Griffin stared up at the young man sitting in his saddle.
“Uh—”
She didn’t recognize him for a moment. Who was this guy? Jet black hair, a serious face, dark blue eyes…
Then she realized who it had to be. Only, instead of the middle-aged man, she found herself looking at a younger man, under thirty years.
Tyrion Veltras dismounted as Ryoka’s mouth opened and stayed there. She had known about Dioname’s last gift to Tyrion, but seeing him up close?
“Ryoka. I imagine I look—different. I was apparently made more youthful. By…Pellmia’s Skill.”
The [Lord of Love and Wine] sighed as Ryoka Griffin turned her gaze to him—then caught onto the lie. She goggled a second, then blurted out what she needed to say.
“Tyrion! I’m sorry that I got—Sammial’s fine. He’s with two Couriers and headed to Izril.”
“Yes. He arrived in First Landing four days ago. He is in our people’s care. Miss Ryoka. Good job.”
Jericha rode over, looking—well. Almost as bewildered by recent events as everyone else. She actually nodded to Ryoka, and the Wind Runner hung her head.
She was going to apologize to Tyrion for, well, everything that had happened since Pellmia’s manor was attacked. Explain, or try to, how she had ended up on Ailendamus’ side. Say something about this war, the death, the bloodshed, and her culpability in all of it.
Tyrion beat her to the punch. The younger man removed his helmet and then, adjusting his armor slightly, sank down to one knee.
Oh no. Oh, dead gods.
Ryoka turned white. Before anything else could happen, Pellmia kicked Tyrion in the back slightly. The [Lord] turned—then coughed and stood back up.
He stared at the sky, then at Ryoka, then glanced at his cousins, who were watching him with both deep reservation, and, at least for Buscrei, great excitement. It could be terrible, despite all their advice.
It could be gloriously horrible or great. The [Lord] spoke after a moment, looking Ryoka straight in the eye.
“I have a number of things I would like to discuss with you, Ryoka. But I feel…rather foolish at this moment in time.”
She blinked at him, and Tyrion went on, staring at Ailendamus’ quiet borders. At least—for now. The war was going on, but here was House Veltras’ last quarry. He glanced at his hands, felt the youthful energy in his body and a far weaker class hovering above him.
“…I set out to right a wrong, in my eyes. A simple cause that demanded no further inquiry beyond the need to act. Now—I must ask myself a question. Did I make everything worse for my people? Did I do what was best? Could I have saved more lives, done better, another way?”
He glanced at her, and Ryoka Griffin saw, to her amazement, Tyrion flush.
“Forgive me. This is my responsibility. I set out to make the world better in some small way, and I do not know if I did. I hope you are well. I fear I had little involvement in your trials.”
This was not what he’d meant to say to her…but it was exactly why Pellmia sighed in relief. Ryoka Griffin stood there, looking at Tyrion, and in his guilty expression, the uncertain look in his eyes, the difficult future—
Well. She sighed and nodded.
“I know what comes next. At least—for me.”
“Oh?”
The [Lord] of House Veltras waited, hopefully, and Ryoka’s smile was entirely crooked as the Wyrm watched her covertly. He saw her look down at her feet, brush some hair blowing into her face, and then reply.
