“Looking for mercy now? Show me something to be afraid of, Dragonlord of Flames.”
I can’t feel my face. He kept swallowing blood, and Teriarch was sure that was not a good sign. Yet the rest of his body was intact. The Dragonlord of Flames crouched as Rhisveri called his bluff. The Wyrm charged, only to realize the mistake of young warriors.
The wounded Dragon only became deadlier. Teriarch flickered, and Rhisveri traced the magic straight up. He looked up. Then up.
Then…
 
——
 
Up. The Dragon was still flying higher, flames blasting above him, and the air was growing cold. He was hurt. The Wyrm could kill him.
So. He had flown like this before. The Dragon whispered no magic. He cast no spells. The Wyrm might be his equal in the magic he knew, which twisted like Dryads and had been learned from other immortals.
Yet he had never seen this. He had never fought in wars where Dragons were as footsoldiers in number. Teriarch had seen armies as dreadful as the Seamwalkers he had glimpsed in the lands of the dead.
Death. Blood ran in his lungs like poisonous vapors. He flew higher until the air vanished and the cold sting of starlight burned across his scales.
He flew through the Harpy Wars, roaring. Coming down as Wyrms fled. A charge, alone, with the last three Dragonlords against the Crelers.
He would die when he landed. Not before. The Dragon turned and began dropping through the skies. Claws outstretched.
The air, so cold on his scales, began to warm again as he re-entered the atmosphere. It grew hot—but no hotter than the bursting fury in his chest. It grew hotter still as Dragonfire engulfed him.
A manifestation of his rage. He was wounded. Yet he was the oldest of Dragons. He had seen them all die. He had killed far too many.
The Dragon descended faster. Now, he felt his scales turning to metal. Heavier…the weight of age. Gold was heavier than lead. He was denser still, a meteor coming down to earth.
A Djinni had once seen a Dragon’s killing blow and copied it. This? Fire and metal. It could wipe out a city.
 
——
 
Or burn a wound across a continent. 
The Elemental of Masks looked up. Some of his masks were cracked, but he barely felt the damage. He looked up—and tried to find somewhere to run or hide. But where?
The book. The book—Rhisveri was flying upwards, and it seemed like an ocean of magic was distorting the world around him. He was trying to open a hole in the world. Sophridel shook as he looked up.
It was just like the book.
 
The Dragonlord of Flame took wing. He burned with the last three Dragonlords, gouging a hole across the sands. Across Chandrar. Sand fused to glass. The very desert caught fire, and Wyrms burned, screaming. Eight days and nights, the fire burned. Even now, the wound remains. The Glass Straits, endless miles carved by Dragonfire. 
 
Down, like armageddon. A blow so powerful it would crack his own bones. The Wyrm had made a mistake. He wasn’t fighting Teriarch. He was fighting a memory.
 
——
 
The Dragonlord of Flame was coming. Visophecin pointed, and Menorkel ran into the door he had opened. Everyone was evacuating. Sophridel rushed past Ryoka, flowing in a mass through the door.
“Stop!”
She had heard them shouting it at Rhisveri after Teriarch had crashed. Ryoka wasn’t saying it. She was gazing upwards, head craned back.
Was she smiling? The Devil looked at the young woman insane enough to dance with him, to befriend immortals. He began to understand how she had befriended a Dragon.
“Ryoka Griffin. Come with me.”
Even Uzine wasn’t mad enough to stay in one spot. The Agelum turned, and Visophecin shouted.
“Where is Gadrea?”
“Already gone! Ryoka—”
“I have to stop it. Tell Tyrion I’m ashes if he asks. And Erin—”
The Wind Runner spoke dreamily. Visophecin was so astonished he was too slow. He grabbed for her—and she was already leaping into the air. He stared upwards. The climbing Wyrm shrieked at the Dragon carving a blazing path through the skies.
Even the mortals of Ailendamus looked up and pointed at and feared the comet falling to earth. Yet the wind rose, and a Human shouted as she drew her sword.
Neither one could hear her. Ryoka knew that. Even if they could hear the wind howling in their ears, her voice was like a whisper before two colliding planets.
Who could stop them by force? No one. Yet Ryoka flew up, the air tearing at her flesh, trying to get close enough. She had mere seconds as the Faeblade burned with flame.
Yet even plasma seemed paltry before the fiery Dragonlord. Even alien technology could not warp space like the Wyrm twisting through the void.
Ryoka’s other hand reached down for the only weapon she had. She tore it out from her belt pouch and screamed.
“Dragon and Wyrm fight, and both will fall! And upon their bodies, I, Merlin, say to build a castle tall! Upon their bones, in King Arthur’s name! Just as planned—Oberon’s twisted game!”
She did the rhyming just in case it helped. The single piece of paper tried to tear itself free as she held it aloft. Just a…signature. From King Arthur Pendragon.
The most famous Dragonslayer. The Faerie King’s name. But most of all—what she hoped and prayed a Dragon would remember.
A famous story, yes, from another world. But a famous story about how two Dragons died.
The autograph was just a name. So was the Faerie King. Neither element could stop the collision, but the most primal, instinctive motivation in both Rhisveri and Teriarch’s heads might. She thought she saw the Wyrm’s eye flicker as he shot past her. And she saw that brief, welcome flash of the thing Dragons and Wyrms shared, besides their arrogance, greed, immortality, and pride.
Paranoia.
A—trap. Ryoka felt the searing heat baking her skin and then—suddenly—disappear. The Wyrm twisted in midair, and Ryoka saw a twisted land opening in a cut in the sky aimed at her. A dirt path and a really scared-looking white Gnoll appeared before her eyes as Rhisveri screamed—
“Traitor!”
The dimensional hole vanished. Ryoka saw Teriarch flash down, leveling off and away as Rhisveri howled. She sighed in relief a second before Rhisveri’s tail slapped her out of the skies.
 
——
 
The Wyrm of Ailendamus came back to his senses as the fear this was all a ploy by Visophecin to get him killed—some long con—turned into a realization of what Ryoka had done. He saw Teriarch flapping back and exhaled as he looked up at the vapor trail in the clouds and realized how close he’d come to—
Then he saw the falling Human and hesitated.
“Oh.”
He might have broken her ribs. All of them. And he was staring at part of her lungs. From the outside. The Wyrm caught her gently on the tip of his tail. He whispered a healing spell as Teriarch turned to stare at the strange young woman. Rhisveri heard him murmur.
“That was—impressive. Especially for a mortal. Is that—an autograph?”
 
——
 
Some might think that the greatest politician, the most implacable, devious, and impossible-to-read being in the world would be a Dragonlord. Or—failing that, perhaps a Wyrm so used to cunning and subterfuge he had built a kingdom to rule in secret. Failing that, what about a being of literal masks, or a Devil?
Whoever thought that was, of course, a fool. For the being whom even Sariant Lambs could not match in the art of faking his emotions was none other than King Itorin II of Ailendamus.
He stood at the windows of his palace where the comet had landed. A comet out of thin air, along with a minor quake.
The moment Itorin had felt the quake, he knew Ryoka Griffin had something to do with it. In that way he had learned to survive his own immortals, he was aware today some judgment was being carried out.
He had—carefully—expressed his desire that she live to Rhisveri, but Itorin II had only been able to hope for the best. Now?
The court was ashambles with minor alarm. The [Geomancers] thought something heavy had impacted the ground or an unnatural cause, because this was no tectonic tremor. As for that comet…
Every eye was on the King of Ailendamus. And what did he do?
He turned, quirking one lip, and held up a hand, as of a man trying to hide a self-evident smirk.
“I must apologize to the royal court. I was aware, of course, of our [Mages] trialing a new spell. They assured me it would be private. Evidently not. The throne shall make its statement later today.”
What genius. What improvisation. Just the slight hint—the glance of evident regret and biting of his tongue to suggest he’d let slip some secret project in a moment of indulgence, and the court calmed down. The [Spies] composed frantic reports, and Itorin II hoped there would be an afternoon for him to do the cover up in.
He returned to his throne, the lone performer deserving of every award. He hoped Ryoka was alive.
 
——
 
Near-apocalyptic events had a way of diffusing the situation. Once you saw someone actually, accidentally slap the big red button, you reconsidered very quickly whether you actually wanted to get to this point or if there were another way out.
When the Dragon and Wyrm’s fury cooled, they both had minor heart-attacks at how close they’d both come to killing each other and, more importantly, themselves.
The only person closer to having their heart actually pop out of their chest was Wer, who decided he was never going to use this damn Skill ever again. First the Witch, now…?
It was not worth whatever the damn <Quest> was offering.
At any rate, everyone stood down. They waited—mostly watching and commenting on the young woman lying on the ground.
“Just push it back in, Paxere.”
“Push it back—it’s not supposed to come out. Those are her lungs!”
“Move aside, I’ll do it. Is this—healable?”
“[Restoration]. [Restoration]—bodies are incredibly resilient. Her heart stopped once—exploded, rather—and I was able to return her to life.”
“Canceling my puppeteering…lungs are working. Heart is beating, blood seems to be contained in veins without help. Ribs are…one, two, three…there’s a bit of bone there. Someone pull it out. [Pain Null] is still working? You would think that if you could heal this, whatever that other Human had with the crossbow bolts wouldn’t be so dire.”
“Indeed. Well, magic has deteriorated to the point where [Stasis Field] was not even an option, apparently. As for freezing a body solid—the aftereffects were so severe even the Potion of Regeneration hadn’t fully dealt with the issue when I did a checkup of the individual. The bodily possession did not help, frankly. A Drake was using the other Human’s muscles as if they were galas-muscle and possibly starting development in said body. Throw that all together and then have the body try to go back to normal functionality—”
“Fascinating. Gilaw. Stop that. I said, stop—”
A claw was poking her in the face. Ryoka could see it, but not move her head. Nor, thankfully, feel any pain.
Incidentally, the feeling of someone maneuvering an internal organ back into your body with all the delicacy of someone stuffing a sandwich into a bag was unforgettable. Ryoka Griffin resolved never to buy Barbie dolls or any other toy where you forcibly assembled or disassembled them.
It was only as bad as getting a tooth pulled under anesthesia—aside from the mental trauma. However, unlike modern medicine—
“I think she’s good. Someone, check her body. Not like that, all of you disgusting—no younger immortals. Wouldn’t [Restoration] have fixed it?”
That was Rhisveri. The second voice was familiar. Teriarch’s.
“Er…[Restoration] only assumes a set amount of damage. And it merely restores.”
“Ah, of course. [Restoration] one more time. Canceling [Pain Null]—”
A second later, after the scream had finished ringing in the air, Rhisveri spoke very calmly again.
“—and it is back. Er…what caused that?”
“Maybe a stone was lodged in a nerve? Is she still…?”
Someone poked Ryoka in the head. Azemith, and the world’s ills became so wonderfully inconsequential, and the young woman began giggling.
“[Delirious Happiness]. Oh, look. Flip her over. One of the ribs you broke is sticking out her back. The spell must not push it out of the body. Want me to yank it out?”
“Ah. That might be the culprit. But let’s make sure there’s no other causes.”
Here was the thing. Was this the foundation of all the nightmares and trauma therapy for the rest of her life?
Absolutely. Did she regret her actions?
No. Seeing someone else in that level of pain really brought people together. If only in mutual sympathy. And most importantly—when Ryoka Griffin got up and assured everyone she felt fine with all the enchantments dispelled, even Gilaw gave her a pat on the head.
There was nothing like watching someone get cracked open like a clam to make a tiny bit of amends. Menorkel looked like he’d been sick at least once, and even the Lucifen were a teensy bit sympathetic.
She looked up at Rhisveri and Teriarch. The Wyrm withdrew his head, and the Dragon harrumphed as he realized all eyes were on him again.
“I had—apparently—saved your life once before. Miss Ryoka Griffin? Please understand. To me, this is the first time we have met. Yet I am aware of your deeds.”
She looked up into that familiar face and almost asked him to break her ribs again. This was harder still, but Ryoka stared up at the Dragon and nodded.
“I…you did. And we did know each other.”
Teriarch looked sadly down at Ryoka.
“Indeed? I would say that is astonishing, surprising, and unlikely. But I cannot profess that after that last moment of bravery. I am sorry. I understand this ‘Eldavin’ has caused you much grief.”
“He did. I mean…he was confused.”
Teriarch’s head bowed lower as Rhisveri watched Ryoka with the other immortals. He was longing to jump in, but he had calmed down, vented his pique, and was just observing. Ryoka looked up as Teriarch stared down.
“Did I do the right thing?”
“Hm? Oh—yes. I was dead. The backlash—something occurred. I do not know what, but it must have disrupted the connection enough to slay the host, myself. You brought me back.”
He said it gently, even, Ryoka thought, trying to thank her. But there was a note of accusation there he couldn’t hide.
If they were in his cave, she would have asked him to explain it to her. Yet the Dragon here did not elaborate. He simply nodded.
“I am in your debt. I shall repay it, Miss Griffin. I intend firstly to return you to Izril or the place of your convenience. Allow me a moment to—settle matters.”
He glanced at the immortals of Ailendamus, and Ryoka almost nodded. He was so aloof. She called out to Teriarch.
“Are you still planning on changing Wistram?”
