“What is it?” Detective Ramirez asked.

“The print came back.”

“He actually sent the info to you?”

Officer Stonewall nodded. “I'm just as surprised as you, John.” She said. “But it gets better.”

“Stop beating around the bush, and tell me who it is!”

“You're not going to believe it.” Officer Stonewall sighed. “I don't believe it either.”

“Holly!”

“The fingerprint.” She looked at her partner. “It belongs to Mayor Danicot.”

Detective Ramirez was too shocked to swear this time.

********

Ren walked out through the door at the end of the hallway, and saw Rosie was still helping the same man from before. He felt a bit jealous, and stopped walking. She saw this, excused herself from the man, and came over to him. Rosie took his hand, and led him down the closest aisle.

“What is it?” Rosie asked him.

“I...” Ren remembered that he shouldn't hide what he was feeling, and told her. “I'm jealous of the guy you're helping.”

Rosie had a slight surprised look on her face for a second, then she beamed a smile at him. “You're such a flatterer.” She ran a hand though his hair, batted her eyelashes at him several times, then leaned in close. “You don't have to be jealous.” She whispered in his ear, then walked away with a lot more sway in her hips than she ever had before.

Ren shook his head in disbelief, because he had watched Rosie walk all the way back to the table that the man sat at, and she stood a slight bit away from him. Ren walked out of the aisle and towards the front door, and glanced over at her. She gave him a little wave, and used the hand to point at something in a book that the man wasn't paying any attention to. It had been such a smooth movement, that if you hadn't watched closely, it didn't look like she had waved at all.

Ren left the Library, and Teepo took off from his shoulder as he ran down the street and around the Library, to come up the back street. He was now 2 streets over from where he had come down, and if anyone was trying to track him, they would have to move. He slowed to a walk, to avoid looking like he was trying to run away or something.

“I got them!” Teepo said, from about 60 feet up. “The next alley has two somethings moving in it.”

Somethings?

Teepo chittered in laughter. “They're still obscured, or camouflaged, or something.” He said. “I only caught the movement.”

Anything else?

“Not that I can... wait!” Teepo exclaimed. “On the roof of the next building. They are definitely trying to get ahead of you.”

Should I slow down?

“No. There's two more up ahead on the fourth building.” Teepo said. “If I had to take a guess, it looks like... yeah, it's definitely a net.”

A net?

“They're going to try to capture you.” Teepo said. “The other two on the roof are with them now, and the somethings from the alley are behind you.”

Any suggestions?

“Go all out and make minced meat out of them.” Teepo said.

Ren glanced around, and saw several townspeople. I can't. He thought. I'd scare too many people if I did that.

“You could equip your armor at least.” Teepo said.

I can't do that, either. Ren thought. They'll know that I know they're tracking me.

“Well, then.” Teepo said. “I only have one more suggestion.”

What's that?

“Get caught.” Teepo said and chittered in laughter.
