We walked across a series of forklifts and engineering panels. Situated into the wall, dozens of different power armors covered the walls. They used the same discharger design, converting raw mana into power using a variety of different methods. Some even used a technique I'd never heard of, the elemental muscle design. EMD for short.

It was something Diesel came up with. Specific individuals had affinities for different kinds of elements or elemental forces. By implanting those elements into the joints of power armor, a mage could use them to manipulate the suit. It acted like a muscular system and required years of training to master.

At the same time, the maneuverability and power of these devices were unmatched, at least for other armors. Even better, the user's level-ups enhanced the plate mail as well. This was because their mastery of mana and the element increased the control and force they could use with the devices. In fact, it mirrored my own use of gravity in combat.

I enhanced my movements with gravitational flows. An ice bender would do the same technique but by jerking icy blocks hidden in the armor. My method skipped the whole armor and elemental grafting part, but not everyone could use gravity like I could. This let someone cleverly overcome physical limitations.

My instincts about Diesel were right. After getting showed a few more experimental and less practical designs, I worked my way towards the eldritch holding cells. Here I found a few surprises. The first involved Amara and Hod, both of them talking with a feminine blob of sorts.

Hod reminded me of his previous self, though his demeanor changed a bit. He stood eleven feet tall, a bit of a shadowy aura ebbing from him. The birdman looked tense, ready to strike at any moment. Amara stood at ease, trusting Hod with her protection as she faced her palms to Wrath.

On the other hand, the dark, gray-blue blob spoke with quiet confidence. The humanoid figure's words echoed across the rooms with an absoluteness to them, the same as Helios or Caprika.

Yup, she was royalty. What kind of royalty I couldn't say.

As I stepped up, I analyzed her.

Wrath, Queen of Svia(lvl 12,837 | Class: Fringe Walker | Race: Ahcorus(Otherwise known as slimes)) - Wrath is the queen of the Svia sector of the slime's home planet, Slus. She earned her name by conquering several of the nests that surrounded her before Schema assimilated her planet. Since then, she's proven very effective at cleansing worlds of eldritch infestation...

They all stared at me as I walked up, each of them looking confused. I waved,

"Hey guys. I'm here to visit. Did you get my message?"

As I stepped up, I outsized them all, though Wrath carried a weight to her presence that made up for that. Well, that's not factoring in my auras. Before the queen responded, Hod raised his hands,

"Harbinger back. Hod miss buddy."

He ran up, giving me an awkward hug. I hugged back with one arm,

"It's good to see you too..."

About seven seconds later, Hod still held on.

"So, uh, are you going to let me go?"

Hod pulled himself back, a look of satisfaction coming over his face.

"Hod understand Harbinger's confusion. Hod's brilliance hard to understand. See, Hod not know how long hug last. Sometime long hug. Sometime short hug. Always hard work telling which hug should use."

Hod tapped the side of his head,

"Hod discover secret. If Hod hold on until ask to stop, Hod not have to tell which hug type is. Hod activate easy mode." Hod lifted his chin, pleased with himself,

"Hod outdo himself sometimes."

Amara stared down, even aiming her hands down as her long, wispy black hair covered her expressionless face. It impressed me that Hod evoked shame in an eldritch. Socially speaking, it was an achievement. Wrath walked up, ignoring them both. Her steps were silent, akin to a predator. She turned between the both of us,

"You must be the guild leader here? How do you know who I am?"

I pointed between us, "We met before during my interview with Chrona. I'm the 'Gray Giant.' This is me without the disguise."

Wrath tilted the rough approximation of a head, "So you hide your true self in a shell, like a hatchling before birth. Why?"

I waved my hands, "It's complicated. Thisbey used my identity for his own means. I didn't agree with those means, so I separated my personal identity from the Gray Giant. Either way, it's almost irrelevant at this point, but please, don't go spreading it around."

Wrath lifted her arms, each of them ending with four fingers and golded claws,

"You are a predator with many faces. I understand the concept, though it sounds exhausting. I prefer the simplicity of a single face. Otherwise, I am lost in a web of lies of my own making."

Wrath carried a strange dialect and wording that took some getting used to. Still, I got the gist of what she meant.

"I get that. It wasn't easy, but at least I don't have a ton of bullshit associated with my name now. Reputational blowback sucks to deal with. Either way, what are you here for?"

Amara walked up, her eyeless face as unnerving as ever. She peered at me, the eyes of her palms inspecting me with a bit of fear. The small hairs across her body stood on end as she said,

"Wrath came here to understand her enemy. To understand us."

I glanced between them both, "Yeah, that's not ringing any bells."

Wrath raised a hand, squeezing it into a fist. Her claws retracted, she moved her fist sideways in a long arc. The alien hand gestures mismatched what followed,

"When we met many moons ago, I asked for your teeth in facing Svia's greatest threat - Plazia-Ruhl. The hivemind harbors in the center of my homeworld. It sucks the life from my homeworld. We need an eliminator to cull its kind from us."

I raised a palm to her, "First off, don't worry about using hand gestures with me. I can tell they're awkward for you, and I want you to just relax."

Wrath let out a big sigh like I just took a massive weight off her shoulders. I continued,

"Second off, I can help you with that. It'll be at least a month before I can fight it directly though."

Wrath pointed her finger at Amara, "That is the true reasoning for my hunt here. This...eldritch is known as an expert on intelligent eldritch. Plazia-Ruhl is a tactical genius, making maneuvers at every turn. His armies of insects plague our planet, and his presence shades our world in darkness. He must be killed."

A bitter memory of being locked in a cave and at the mercy of a hivemind flashed before my eyes,

"Wait a minute...Plazia-Ruhl...You sure about that last name?"

"It is an ancient enemy of our species. Forgetting its name is difficult even after our kind dies. That abomination bends the rules of the universe, toying with what should not be toyed with."

My stomach sank after hearing that. I fought Baldag-Ruhl a long time ago, and his genius with the cipher is what made my armor. If Plazia-Ruhl rivaled his intelligence, killing him would be a tall order. Hell, it might be impossible at this point. Learning from him might even be an option further down the line, however.

Either way, it was definitely interesting, to say the least. I made a mental note of that before turning to Amara,

"So, you're a known expert on eldritch now, huh? How does that work?"

Amara cackled, "My knowledge is not as limited as one might think. I use the laws and rules of hunger to keep myself alive. Whoever comes here needs my expertise. Killing me results in them gaining nothing."

Hod's head twitched as he mouthed, "Hod not take well to any hurt for Amara. Amara beautiful."

Amara steepled her hands, "Hod defends me with totality. It serves well in my meetings with others. As my reputation grows, I garner more resources for my...research. The cycle continues, giving me more material to work with."

I spoke to Amara, "Yeah, I'm going to need to see this research in detail." I turned to Wrath,

"Alright, we'll help you after agreeing on the rewards. I'm sorry, but outside of that, I can't promise much. I need to cut this conversation short cause I'm in a hurry. As for Plazia-Ruhl, I have a few tips."

Wrath sighed, "Then your assistance is appreciated, but your knowledge of Plazia-Ruhl cannot outdo my own. He is an enemy of epochs, one who has existed since ancient times. We've fought with him more than any other foe, and we've learned of his trickery."

I counted on my fingers, "Well, a reminder never hurt. First, don't walk into traps. Second, get an expert in runic knowledge. Third, don't give him a lot of time to plot and plan. Keep it busy, or it will gut you while you sleep."

A phantom pain ran up my spine, "With a bit of time, the guy can craft some pretty unimaginable horrors."

Wrath stepped up to me, raising her clawed hands,

"You understand our enemy well, better than many of our world. I too have warned the other queens of giving Plazia time to fester. They neglect the diligence to quash this enemy. That abomination has blighted our worlds for long enough. We must destroy him before he is given a chance to do the same to us."

Wrath paced back and forth, "The others ignore my worries. They say I am a bloodthirsty razor queen. Though truth soaks their words, my bloodthirst has yet to cloud my judgment on this issue. I know this to be true. Plazia is plotting something. We must strike before that monster finishes his plan. Otherwise, we may be the ones who are eaten in its place."

I frowned, "If you ask me, your planet is already doomed. If it's anything like Baldag-Ruhl, it's far too late to recover now."

Wrath stopped pacing, turning up to me, "You'd say Plazia's jaws are already around our neck then?"

I shrugged, "Well, the situation probably isn't that bad. It just sounds like the situation has gotten complicated. If that's the case, the more intelligent someone is, the better a chance they have at succeeding. That's why I recommend smashing someone like Plazia before that ever happens. Otherwise, your chances of winning begin to dwindle."

Wrath peered down, "I will use your omen to sway the other queens. Perhaps your reasoning will bolster my own claims. Time will tell."

I turned to Amara, "So, how about you show me your research?"

Amara grinned at me, "You will be pleased I would think."

Wrath and Hod followed, the four of us passing over towards an orichalcum bunker. The green metal served as a reinforcement to the eldritch's prisons, runic markings suppressing them. After stepping up, I pulled open the doorway, making a note of the security involved.

Once inside, a metal hallway lined with clear, crystal glass kept the eldritch at bay. Finding a panel near me, I inspected the glass. At a touch, I learned it wasn't glass at all; it was some kind of polymer composite. Upon closer inspection, I found tiny strips of gray crisscrossing the glass.

Amara stepped up behind me, her hands clasped behind her,

"It would seem that you are curious. I shall explain. This uses strips of graphene to strengthen the cleared crystal. While not wielding the same strength as orichalcum, it allows us to study the eldritch."

Behind the panel, a ravenous, acid hornet stayed locked in a nest of its solidified saliva. It glared at us, its glowing green eyes piercing and loaded with malice. I peered back, Event Horizon saturating my frame.

Its bravery crumbled as it skulked into the back corner. Wrath and Amara turned to me. Amara murmured,

"That is...impressive. That's the Blight Wasp. It's a sample we found forty miles south of here. Her kinds saliva solidifies into materials harder than steel. It's the strongest adhesive we've found. The acid breaks it down, though it also breaks anything else down as well."

"Huh, interesting."

We continued down to the next containment cell. From within, a shapeshifting being tucked itself into a corner. Its body wriggled back and forth, struggling to take a set form. I turned to me, locking hollowed eyes with mine. It's frame expanded, cracking as wood covered its skin. Glowing green veins streaked across a now muscled frame.

A mane of flowing leaves reached its waist behind the creature as it reached out with a massive palm. Larger than life, its voice echoed through the chamber and glass,

"It's good we meet once more, Harbinger?"

I took a step back, fear racing up my spine. The spitting image of Yawm laughed before stepping forward with its arms spread wide,

"I still see you own the same fear as before. Good. Your fear will keep you alive. It shows you when you're outclassed, and at this moment, it is ringing in your ears, isn't it?"

With absolute confidence, Yawm steepled his hands, "I suggest you listen to it. Otherwise, you might find yourself shattered and broken, a corpse among the many."

My heart pounded in my chest until I could hear the pulse in my ears. I turned to Amara, "What the fuck is that?"

Amara seethed, "It is a shapeshifter that mimics your greatest fear. I despise the creature. It is a coward that relishes in the fear of others."

The shapeshifter glared at Amara, its form changing once more. Bark turned to metal, and biological panels of darkened steel formed over its frame. It increased in size further, an aura of red saturating its structure. This suffocating, weighted presence soaked over us, permeating every crevice of the room.

A spitting image of me, the shapeshifter crossed its arms and leaned towards Amara, "You think I'm afraid of you?"

Amara's face wrinkled all over as she frowned. She kept herself composed as she turned to me, however,

"It's ability to read into the mind of anyone that locks with its eyes is invaluable. The ability to reform is useful for several of our members as well."

The shapeshifter took a few steps forward until it stood inches from the glass. It glared down at Amara, a sinister smile of jagged, metal teeth forming on the helmet,

"Are you ignoring me?"

Amara's breathing hastened. It continued,

