"I'm your only hope to survive, yet you think you can ignore me?" It banged a massive hand against the glass. Amara whimpered, taking a step back. The shapeshifter goaded,

"I can melt you with so much as a thought. Be careful, or you'll be locked in one of these cages next." It turned to me,

"Isn't that right?"

I grimaced while showing it what the real thing was like. With a wave of Event Horizon, its hand evaporated into mana. I frowned at the eldritch,

"Fuck off."

The shapeshifter scampered back to the back of the compartment. It shivered with fear as I turned to Amara,

"You think I'm scarier than Yawm? Really?"

Amara twitched, "Please speak on this later when other hunters aren't here."

I turned to Hod and Wrath, "Alright, if you say so."

Wrath glanced up at me, "You fear that being of wood the most?"

I shrugged, "Uh, I guess so. It makes sense to me. When we met, I was as helpless as I could be against Yawm. I had to lie to him over and over just to survive. Otherwise, he'd use me as an experiment or mana battery. At this point, he wouldn't be able to lord over me like that."

I sighed, "But...I still remember what that was like I suppose."

Wrath tilted her head, "You're open with your weakness. Few would do the same in Svia. As queens of many, we must feel no fear and relish in devouring the weak. Otherwise, the other ahcorus will believe we are frail. The frail are fed to the strong in Svia."

I raised my eyebrows, "That's a way of living, I guess. As long as the weak contribute, I'm fine with them doing whatever personally. Anyways, someone mentioned eldritch escaping here. What escaped and how?"

Amara grimaced, "An incorporeal eldritch escaped its containment through one of the guards. They ended up devouring several other guards before we could respond. Seeing the swollen belly of a possessed human...it left a mark on many who saw it."

The image of a fattened zombie popped into my head. I gestured towards the cells, "What do you do now to prevent that?"

We stepped towards a cell. Two mages stood guard of a shadow wisp floating under florescent lights. One of the guards slept while the other suppressed the wisp. Amara spread her arms to them,

"Torix has been teaching many students the art of mental manipulation. Using those students, I created a rotating set of guards. They keep the shadow wisp confined to this space, and they reap the rewards for it. We keep the controller since it gives insights into mind magic and possession."

Amara met my eye, "Considering the enemy we face on Giess, it is invaluable to learn what we can, any way we can. Otherwise, we will be hunted."

I nodded, "Alright, that makes sense. Set up a few more guards along the outside of this place to contain any events of contamination. Give a stipend to the guard's families, and have a reward ceremony and burial for each of them. Make it clear how much their sacrifice helped the colony. That should help ease the grief if only a little bit."

Amara bowed to me, "It will be as you requested."

I turned towards the doorway, "I'm setting up additional defenses for this base. You'll be safe, but if the eldritch leave this facility, they will be disintegrated. Just letting you know."

"Understood."

"Alright, see you guys later. Sorry I couldn't talk more, but I'm in a rush."

Hod stepped up, so I turned to him, "What's up?"

"Hod...Hod sorry for eldritch threat. Hod not prepared. Hod not let happen again. Hod protect home."

I put a hand on his shoulder, "It's alright. You guys did a good job holding this place down while I was gone. Everything's coming along nicely, and there were only a few mistakes. I doubt I'd have done a better job in all honesty."

I turned around, waving to them, "Keep it up, guys."

As I left them, Wrath and Amara gushed about the eldritch, though they kept their tones different. Wrath focused on killing them while Amara concentrated on understanding them. They complemented one another, each of them offering something new.

After stepping out of prison, I made my way towards the third floor. Along the massive pillar of stone at the center of the mountain, orichalcum bonds reinforced the structure. While not as robust as my armor, it held some antimagic properties, and it was harder than steel. Combine that with murals of runic work, and the defense here wasn't bad.

It could be better. It would be better.

As I stepped out onto the third floor, the curved bookshelves met my eye. They oriented themselves around the colossal pillar, giving easy access to students studying on the third floor. Stepping out, I drew in another scene's worth of people, but I expected as much. After handling a few questions, I hovered myself up towards the top of the pillar.

There I intended to create the runic inscriptions and positioning of the blue core. The central position was at the deepest part of Mt. Verner. This made coating the mountain with a forcefield the easiest it could be. Hovering up there along the high roof, murals of battle covered the ceiling. A few of the art students must've been commissioned for the work.

A few segments of the painting depicted our battle against Yawm. Other portions showed my fight against Polydra, the paint still drying in a few spots. The flowing art style gave a dramatic feel to the equally dramatic events. I liked it a lot.

After appreciating the aesthetic, I sliced into the stone using a blade of thermal energy. It melted the rock into a thin slice of magma. I pulled the chunk of stone out of the pillar, using a gravity well to stop magma from dripping below. Once inside the support, I hollowed out a portion of the support by melting it. I pooled the magma outside, freezing it with bursts of icy energy.

Once I hollowed out a sizeable space, I reinforced this inner sanctum with the molten portions of my own armor. A thick plating of the dense, dimensional fabric kept the chamber safe. After adding a few more supports, I kept the overall structure safe.

With safety ensured, I pulled out one of my blue cores. With it, I created the specific zone needing the core's protection using the menu. I created the area necessary for the eldritch facility, and I gave Amara immunity to the core's defenses. After finalizing a few more details, I finished the defense system's creation.

The hexagonal patterns dispersed around Mt. Verner, though I missed the sight deep within its depths. Sitting there, I charged the blue core while stepping out and inspecting the magical area. Before leaving, I resealed the stone doorway, knowing no one needed access.

I found several new areas here. Instead of having the old world magical feel of before, quite a bit of tech crept its way in. One of the departments used the same virtualizations as the previous floor. After making the same comments as before to this area, I explored further.

Along the northern side, sorcerors refined their magic in surprising ways. They used runic weapons, pistols with barrels and handles lined with inscriptions. These runes gave them superior balance, aim, and power for their own magic. Some even assisted the conversion of mana into their own elemental forces.

Further within, I found sparring matches within the armors that Diesel designed. Like golems fighting, they practiced wielding EMD's by wrestling. Jerky, unrefined, and raw, they needed quite a bit more experience before they were ready for an actual dungeon.

Still, it was a start.

Outside of that, I found the elemental weapons department. Turns out mana acted as an excellent catalyst for elemental casting. Weaponizing it proved far more effective than using conventional means. Room-clearing acid bombs, blinding spore gases, origin mana overloading mines, insanity potions, hell, they even had tranquilizer darts that turned you into easy to kill animals.

The creativity at work defied convention. Compared to my own use of magic, it almost embarrassed me. I took a few mental notes as I passed, impressed by the work on display. The most impressive sight was when I passed the sparring room. A young, orange-haired mage sparred against three other sorcerors. None of them wore armor, each of them preferring the mobility of robed combat.

I gazed at the battle as the three mages attacked Mr. Orange Hair all at once. Mr. Orange Hair created a panel of violet, arcane energy in front of him. The other energies fizzled against it, the arcane energy dispersing as Orange Hair shot out a few blips of the volatile energy.

The other mages blocked using created matter. I nodded as I saw that. It was a tactic I used as well. Arcane energy disintegrated anything it touched, meaning something as simple as dirt was a highly effective defense. These mages took full advantage of the opening that defense offered, pummelling orange hair with a variety of spells. Orange hair rolled sideways before standing upright with two hands raised.

Violet spears formed, each of them about six feet long. I nodded with a grin. Clever. If matter blocked arcane energy, then the longer the bolt, the more piercing power it had. Orange Hair feigned against the two outer mages. They rolled out of the spell's way, both of them crumbling under pressure.

As they stopped, Orange hair ducked under a bolt of lightning while slinging the spears. They stopped inches in front of the chests of the two mages. After that, the middle mage and Orange Hair exchanged a few spells. Within minutes, Orange Hair suppressed them.

Impressed by the display, I walked into the sparring area. Within it, I remembered who Orange Hair was.

"You...You're Alexander, right?"

Orange Hair turned to me, "Uh, yes. It's good to see you, commander."

The four of them bowed to me, but I raised a palm, "Guys, at ease. Anyways, that was impressive. Just stopping by to let you know to keep up the excellent work.

Alexander beamed a grin at me, his chest puffed, "Of course sir. Ah, my pain tolerance is seventy-six. I didn't let that lesson go to waste."

I grinned, "Get to the upper eighties soldier. Dismissed."

Alexander went back to help his fellow fighters while I finished my inspection of Torix's university. It was in excellent shape. With that finished, I took a tour of the fourth floor where the logistics for the guild was handled. All kinds of accountants, managers, and organizers worked here.

Along with handling the logistics, other shops popped up in the floor. They sold exotic alien goods that were traded in for Earth's pre Schema goods. These oddities filled in all kinds of needs, from eldritch goods to specific tech for obelisks. After passing that floor by, I moved up to the fifth floor where the garden flourished.

Strange plants of all kinds covered the area, many new types prospering. They offered exotic fruits with unique properties for alchemy. Many expanded faster than typical plants, their actual growth evident in real-time. Either way, they fueled the growth of the colony, and that was the general message since coming here - the situation was pretty damn solid.

If anything, Torix managed the facility with a deft hand and great care. It surprised me, but it also put me at ease. Having somewhere to return to made traveling more comfortable. It kept me grounded. With those thoughts swimming through my mind, I sent a message,

The Living Multiverse(Lvl 10,250 | Guildmaster: The Harbinger's Legion(S-) | Titles: The Harbinger of Cataclysm, The Cleanser of Polydra | Cities: Mt. Verner, Elderfire) - The base is looking good. Keep up the excellent work.

With everything handled, I traveled back down towards the residential ground floor. As the giant elevators at the center of the facility hummed, I noticed a holographic screen in the elevator's room. On it, an edited video of my battle raged on screen. Several others riding the elevator peered back between the fight and me.

I ignored the attention until something unexpected popped onto the screen. Images of the dreadnought's underbelly flashed with a black and white filter. Torix edited the footage to show the horror that Tohtella committed. I winced at the footage, the brutality cutting like a knife.

It reminded me of what I was fighting for as well. Well, that and the fact Tohtella would be pissed when she saw that footage being spread around. As I stepped up past a few onlookers and into the warp, it felt good having somewhere to come back too. My helmet crept over my face as I glared forward.

This place was my home, and I'd do everything in my power to keep it that way.
