Carten laughed. “Sorry, sorry,” he said, grinning at her.

Rain took a deep, steadying breath, then shook his head. “Carten.” Once the big man looked in his direction, Rain tilted his head sharply away from the light of the torch they’d left at the entrance. “That way. Quietly.”

Jamus cleared his throat. “Pardon, Rain, but we are here to kill the monsters, are we not? Perhaps Carten has the right idea?”

“Exactly,” Carten said, nodding. “I was thinkin’ I could sing a little song. That should bring the beasties runnin’.”

“Please, no,” said Val.

Rain considered it, then shook his head. “The idea of pulling is to break off small groups, like I explained before. If Carten starts singing, every single monster in here will rush us all at once just to make him stop.”

“Hey!” Carten said, laughing. “I’m better’n what’s ‘is name.”

“True,” laughed Mlem. “When Shet started up that awful ballad yesterday, I thought somebody was strangling Romer’s cat.”

“Enough,” Rain said, starting to get annoyed. “What did I say about chatter in a lair?”

Carten opened his mouth to protest but shut it when Jamus elbowed him in the side.

“Sorry, Rain,” Jamus said, rubbing his elbow. “Carten, just do what he says. He is the captain, and he’s right. Remember what Ameliah told us the last time?”

“Oh, fine,” Carten said, turning to face Rain. “We’ll do it your way.”

Rain nodded to him. “Thank you.”

Carten harrumphed, but the group formed up and resumed their trek through the snow. Samson caught Rain’s eye and gave him an encouraging nod. Rain nodded back, thankful that someone at least was remaining focused.

The light of the torch behind them faded into the storm as they walked until it was no longer visible. There was no evidence of the town, only an endless plane of white with an occasional snow-laden tree. They kept going for twenty minutes like that, even Carten starting to look a little more serious as the silence pressed down on them. It was hard to tell, but Rain thought the air was getting even colder as they advanced into the lair.

“Rain,” Lyn said softly, her whisper making him jump. She was staring out into the snow. “I thought I saw something.”

Rain followed her gaze, using Detection as well. There was nothing there.

“There,” Val hissed. “A shadow.”

Rain whirled, seeing him pointing in the opposite direction. He used Detection again, this time boosting it to the absolute limit with Aura Focus. Once more, there was nothing.

“Ghosts in the snow…” Mlem muttered, shaking his head. “The lair is playing games with us.”

“Continue, or turn back?” Samson asked, looking at Rain.

Rain turned slowly, surveying the frozen landscape and their tracks leading back into the storm. He pinged again with Detection, checking their position.

“I’m not turning back,” Val said. “Let the monsters play their tricks. When they come for real, I’ll be ready.”

Rain frowned. “Keep going, Carten. We’re still following the road, more or less. I can sense it under the snow by the lack of grass.” He stuck a hand out of his cloak to point, immediately regretting it as the cold air rushed in. “The town should be that way. If it’s there at all,” he said quickly, then bundled himself back up, lamenting the loss of warmth.

Carten nodded, resuming his march. The silence seemed to grow ever more oppressive, and Rain was convinced that the cold was growing sharper, nipping at his skin through the slit in his visor and billowing up from beneath the hem of his cloak. Still, he resisted using Immolate, even to warm just himself. Once he gave in to that temptation, he knew it would be difficult to stop. Detection was more important, as was keeping his mana up with Winter, as cold as that was making him feel.

Finally, a dark shape swam into view ahead of them. As they drew closer, it became recognizable as a wall of tree trunks, sunken into the ground. They approached cautiously, heading for an opening in the wall where a wooden gate stood open, marking the spot where the presently-buried road led into the village.

“Essed did not have a wall like this,” Mlem said softly. “The lair has changed things.”

“You getting anything, Rain?” Tahir asked. The normally composed hunter had an anxious expression on his face.

Rain shook his head. “Still nothing.”

“I don’t like this,” Lyn said, holding her spear defensively as they crept closer to the gates.

“Shh,” Jamus hissed, suddenly. “Listen.”

Carten stopped in his tracks, and the party froze, listening hard. Muted by the snow and the distance, Rain heard a low rumbling.

“A millstone?” Jamus asked.

“I don’t hear anything,” Tahir said, cupping a glove to his ear.

“No, it’s there,” Val said. “I can hear it too.”

Mlem shook his head. He looked oddly composed, compared to the others. “Essed had no river, and there is no wind.”

“Okay, Carten,” Rain said. “Now it’s time to pull. Go knock on those gates, just like you did with the farmhouse. Everyone, be ready if something comes out.”

“But you said there are no monsters,” Tahir said. “What is he pulling if there are no monsters?”

“The lair might be waiting to spawn them,” Jamus replied softly. “Remember what Ameliah said. It isn’t like outside. They don’t need darkness, not in here.”

“Entering the village might be the trigger,” Rain said, nodding. “That or they’re there, and I just can’t sense them. Some monsters can hide from divination.”

“Have I mentioned that I don’t like this?” Lyn asked, gripping her spear tightly. “I can’t fight something that I can’t see.”

Carten grunted, approaching the gates. He looked back, and at Rain’s nod, slammed one of his shields into the wood. A loud thunk sounded flatly, the echo consumed by the snow. Carten hit it again, then twice more, but other than some falling snow from the wall, there was no reaction.

“Harder, Carten,” Rain said, approaching slowly, the group following. “Break the gate, if you can. I don’t want it swinging shut and trapping us in there. I’m getting that kind of vibe.”

Carten nodded. This time, his shield blurred, so quickly did he slam it into the wood. The thick timbers split as the force of Carten’s strike tore them from the nails holding the door together. Rain watched as Carten smashed the door a few more times, alternating shields until it fell completely from its heavy hinges.

Shield Bash? Rain’s eyes flicked to the party display, noting that Carten’s stamina had barely dropped. His own had fallen further than that just from walking. He shook his head. “Okay, we’re going in. Carefully.”

The party moved forward, passing through the wall and into the town. Wooden buildings rose around them, none taller than three stories. A thick layer of snow carpeted everything, hiding details from view. The sound of the millstone was clear now and growing louder.

Wordlessly, Carten led the way, the front line fighters forming a defensive circle around the mages. Samson and Mlem hadn’t drawn their swords, but they had thrown back their cloaks in preparation. Rain scanned the windows of the buildings as they crept forward, which felt like eyes looking down on them, black and lifeless.

“What in the depths?” Samson said, pulling Rain’s attention back down to ground level. They’d rounded a corner and located the source of the sound. Inside an open-fronted building, the mill equipment was visible under the protective cover of the overhanging roof. It was the circular type, with a large rolling stone meant to be hauled along a track. The stone was presently turning on its own, with the harness that would have held the work animal dangling from the axle.

Carten led the way closer, almost needing to duck as he passed under the overhang of the roof. Now that he was closer, Rain had to fight off a shiver that had nothing to do with the cold as he watched the harness dragging along the ground.

“Ah, fuck!” Val swore suddenly, light flashing from his fingers.

Rain had not been nearly so fast to react, though he’d seen the same thing Val had. A form had appeared, exiting a shadowed doorway at the back of the room. Val’s beam had struck it before Rain had even registered it was there. He watched, his heart thudding in his chest as the form collapsed to the ground.

“The hells is it?” asked Carten, edging toward the fallen creature, leading with his shields.

“Gods…” Jamus cursed as the form twitched, then hauled itself back to its feet.

Rain stared, frozen in shock. It was a man, his face deathly pale, and with ice and snow coating his workman’s clothes. There was a charred hole over his left eye where Val’s spell had struck, but no blood. Also, as far as Detection was concerned, the man didn’t exist.

“Clumsy of me…”

Everyone took a step back as the man spoke. His voice was slow, sounding like nothing more than the dry rasp of the wind over the snowy ground. The figure bent, retrieving a sack that he’d dropped when Val’s magic had struck him.

“What the fuck is this?” said Lyn, her eyes wide, fixed on the man as he made his way to the mill, carrying the sack.

“Hit him again, Val,” Jamus said.

Wordlessly, Val raised an arm. The next flash of magic took the man full in the chest, and he collapsed again, a trail of smoke rising from the body. He didn’t stay down for more than ten seconds before he groaned and began pushing himself to his feet.

“Damn…uneven…floor…” the man whispered, his words coming even more slowly now. The charred circle over his heart didn’t seem to bother him as he upended his sack into the mill, having slipped in behind the slowly-moving axle. He turned, but before he’d even started to move away, he vanished, though the discarded sack remained. The millstone ground to a halt moments later, as if whatever force had been animating it had departed along with the specter of the miller.

“Well,” Mlem said lightly, “I suppose I won’t be sleeping tonight.”

“What the hells was that?” Tahir asked, staring at Rain.

Rain shook his head. “I have no idea. Detection said it wasn’t there. Some sort of illusion?”

“Not like anything I’ve ever seen,” Val said. “And I know a fair bit about the subject. If it was an illusion, my spell should have just gone right through.”

“Gah!” Tahir swore, stumbling back from the millstone. He pointed. “Bones. He was milling bones.”

A flicker of movement caught the corner of Rain’s eye, and he whirled, raising his arms defensively, uncaring of the cold. A sudden wind whipped his cloak, sending snow swirling into the mill from the street. There was a dead woman standing there, holding a purse and digging around in it with one hand.

She looked up, her eyes glassy and lifeless. “I’ll take…millet…three copper’s…worth…” she said, the words seeming to come from the wind instead of her mouth.

Rain jumped again as she vanished in a swirl of snow. “So, this is horrifying,” he said, lowering his arms and pulling his cloak back around himself.

Carten set his shields down with a thunk, straightening. “Ghosts. Bah.”

“Fascinating,” Jamus said, adjusting his hat. “I’ve heard of strange things happening in lairs, but the truly odd stuff was supposed to only happen in those of Arcane aspect.”

“If the lair is causing it, what do we do?” Lyn asked. “Are we supposed to fight them?”

“I don’t know,” Rain said, shaking his head but keeping his eyes on the street. “The miller reacted to Val’s magic, but it didn’t really stop him. Not for long.”

“Can they hurt us?” Tahir asked.

“It would be best to assume that they can,” Jamus said, sounding entirely too calm. He turned to Rain. “Detection didn’t register them at all?”

Rain shook his head. “No. They’re not monsters, but they’re not human, either. They aren’t even entities, which is as vague as I can get.”

“Hmm,” Mlem said. “Perhaps they are merely…ambiance.” He gestured, and Rain saw the specter of a little girl tumbling down the street before vanishing in another puff of snow. “Some…memory of the townsfolk that died in the Shift, perhaps? Are there any bodies around?”

Rain shook his head. “No. I checked.” Rain pinged again, then gestured to the mill. “Those bones are real, but they’re not human.”

“There’s more of them now,” Samson said, pointing out at the street. “I just saw a man with an axe, and now there’s a woman down that alley leading some animal, maybe a horse. She has its lead, but the end of it is just floating—And, she’s gone.”

“I vote we burn the whole place to the ground,” Lyn said.

Rain frowned, though the suggestion didn’t sound entirely unreasonable. “We can’t do that,” he said after a moment of consideration. “The snow would—” he paused, looking out at the street. The swirling flakes had stopped, leaving the air clear, yet still dim from the overcast sky.

A shrieking roar suddenly split the air with a sound like shattering glass, pressing on Rain’s mind as much as it did his ears. He shouted, but the sound of his own voice was drowned out by the continuing screech. More and more figures were flashing into existence, the street filling with dead townsfolk going about their daily business. Soon enough, there were dozens of them, then hundreds, appearing and disappearing rapidly.

Abruptly, the sound stopped, and all the figures turned as one to face them, dead eyes staring with icy hate. None of them vanished as they stood there, waiting.

It was almost a relief when health bars began flickering into existence above their heads, the accompanying name tags identifying each of them as a ‘Frozen Memory of Essed’. Their levels were low, varying from one to three. Rain barely had time to process this before the building across the street exploded, a shaggy bear-like creature bursting through the wall of the second story and crashing to the ground behind the line of dead villagers.

The creature rose up on its hind legs and roared, the sound of its call nothing like that of a normal animal. It was the same cry as moments ago, sharp and piercing, digging into his brain like an icepick. Its teeth were wicked, and far, far too long, looking like they were made from ice. Swirling tentacles of frost suddenly burst from its back like wings, spreading out and snaking toward the dead villagers. As each tentacle made contact, there was a sharp cracking noise. Shards of ice erupted from the villagers’ forearms, creating jagged blades, stained black with frozen blood. The beast’s breath seethed out as a frigid mist, wrapping around the villagers and hardening into icy plates.

