Saliss gave the [Herbalist], Master Igniz, a narrow-eyed look. The [Herbalist] beamed, quill raised.
“Now, how much can I put you down for?”
 
—-
 
“Those lizard kissing—hoard stealing—money Crelers think they can rob me? I’m Saliss! I annoy people!”
Saliss stormed out of the eighth shop in half as many hours. Leafhold’s guards nervously held open the door, but Lyonette was impressed.
Saliss had not blown up the shop, caused a fuss, or even removed his pants. She was confused as to why, at first.
Not why every [Herbalist] in Oteslia had almost the exact same prices. That was obvious.
They saw the news. Ironically, Pallass News Network had shot Saliss in the back with crossbow bolts, to use a poor metaphor. Normally, Named Adventurer’s exploits might be the talk of the city, but there was always someone who hadn’t heard.
These days, everyone knew Saliss was out of potions. So Oteslia’s emporiums of alchemy goods knew that they could turn a massive profit. And they had apparently decided to universally agree to raise prices, rather than let him find the one person willing to undercut the others.
“Clever.”
“They’ve always been clever bastards. Damn, damn, damn…”
Saliss stomped around in front of the shop. The Drake within was slyly watching. Lyonette folded her arms, thinking.
“I don’t understand, Saliss. They know you won’t buy at these prices…why isn’t one willing to mark it down a bit and get all the sales?”
“Because I have to buy! They just have to outwait me, and they will. But I’ll buy through third-parties. I’ll find the cheap stuff…but it means that I’ll probably be paying above market price on everything, even if it’s not at their rates! They’ll line their pockets with gold!”
“And you didn’t destroy the entire shop because…?”
Lyonette looked at the nervous [Guards], who were wondering the same thing no doubt. Saliss glared at Lyonette. He pointed at his face.
“Do I look stupid? I’m not about to destroy my suppliers!”
“So there are actually people you refuse to antagonize. Amazing. I should start selling herbs.”
“Well, you should think about being generous. Because the next time there’s a monster attack, guess who can’t afford to help?”
Saliss bellowed into the shop. Master Igniz waved at him. Saliss muttered to Lyonette.
“They won’t all be in on it. There’s always someone who compromises. Trouble is—I could buy all of the Obsidian Leaf in Leafhold and I’d still need more. Damn, damn…”
After a moment, the Drake looked at Lyonette.
“And why are you here? I thought you were asking about a [Researcher]!”
She gave him a shamefaced look. This was one of the business districts—but a specialized one. Next to vast, indoor gardens where specialist plants were grown, [Herbalists] had made their shops. This in particular was Horticulturalist’s Way, where any number of [Scholars] and [Researchers] did business next to the providers of the very same plants and ingredients they needed.
“We have been. But—could you, um, get them to open their doors?”
She felt more useless again. And she had done her best. Saliss stared at her, then accompanied her to the fifth [Scholar]’s residence.
Four [Researchers], all the best in the area, had signs saying ‘not taking research subjects’ or ‘no appointments available’. Even this [Scholar] had refused to even open the door for Lyonette.
She thought she was charming! She knew that if she could get in the same room with them, she could make a good case for Erin.
But she couldn’t even get in their shops without Saliss.
He effected this Erin-style. He hammered on the door until an angry [Scholar] appeared.
“Can’t you read the sign? Who in the name of Rhir’s hells are—”
“I’m Saliss.”
“S—? The Named—I am extremely b—”
“I’m Saliss.”
“Adventurer or not—”
“I’m Saliss.”
Lyonette felt like she’d get arrested if she tried that. And she didn’t have the…ability to just repeat her name fifteen times until the [Scholar] let them in.
And even then?
He was a young Garuda, apparently from Chandrar. An up-and-comer—not the best, but Lyonette had tried four before him who refused to even see her. She did her best.
“I am so sorry, Scholar Meirq, but Adventurer Saliss and I are both desperate to find a cure for my friend, as you see. And you were recommended as being the brightest and most energetic [Scholar] in all of Oteslia.”
She held his wing-hand for a second. The Garuda hesitated.
[Calming Touch]. Also, a [Charming Smile]. Lyonette was using [Basic Negotiator] and her [Imperial Aura], all to soothe and flatter the Garuda.
It seemed to be working pretty well, because he blushed and preened at his messy, ink-stained feathers. As Garuda went, he probably had trouble with his own species; his plumage was disordered and Lyonette wondered—politely speaking—if he might have come to Izril to have better luck outside his species.
“Well—that’s very kind of you, Miss Lyon. And a Named Adventurer’s patronage—”
“Not to mention the revolutionary insights of curing someone in such a state. And the gratitude of Liscor?”
She pressed him. He blushed again.
“Of course, of course. I tell you what—I’d be delighted to look into the matter. Frozen flesh? Not to mention detoxifying a venom? I can think of a number of [Herbalists] and [Researchers] I could contact who might get in on a project like this—if amply funded.”
Saliss sighed. But Lyonette brightened. At last!
“We’ll pay for speed and a team if needed! How soon can you begin working?”
“Ah. Well—two months?”
Lyonette’s face fell. The Garuda hastened to qualify.
“It’s not that I don’t see the urgency! It’s just that I’m in ah, competition at the moment with my fellow [Researchers] and so on. I would make this my second top priority, but—”
“You can’t put it aside even for someone mortally wounded?”
The Garuda looked distressed at Lyonette’s reproachful look. He blushed under his feathers.
“I am sorry. But this is—well, it could define my career. Literally put me above all my competition, Miss. And it’s a certain thing. Two months. From what you say, your friend can wait that long. Let’s discuss it over dinner. I can spare an hour or two tonight if you—Miss? Miss…?”
“I’m going to another shop. Meet you after the next researcher?”
Lyonette nodded. She walked to the next address. And then met up with Mivifa, Ratici, and Wilovan.
The Oldblood of Feathers had returned from commissioning the sports projects to help. She was looking miffed.
“That’s the third [Researcher] completely occupied, Miss Lyon. Have you found anyone?”
“No, Mivifa.”
“Not one? Something must be up. I wonder…”
The Named Adventurer frowned. She looked at Ratici and Wilovan. They tugged at their hats.
“I’m terribly sorry, Miss Lyonette. But even Miss Mivifa couldn’t sway the [Researchers], as it were.”
Lyonette stared, incredulous. Mivifa’s frown only deepened.
“Something must be up. I’ve never seen Horticulturalist’s Way this obsessed. Even if they’re all competing, there’s always someone willing to spare time for…and is Saliss still having trouble buying anything?”
“Yes.”
Mivifa sighed.
“The First Gardener won’t be happy. But she won’t want to fight all the [Herbalists]—enough is enough. Saliss is one thing and he can take care of himself. He’s rich. But this is a mission of mercy. Follow me.”
She strode back to the first [Researcher] that Lyonette had tried. It was a rather strange…building. Lyonette saw lots of enchantments around it, and the doors were locked. She suspected it was the kind of place where experiments both dangerous and mundane could be carried out; it was long and had few windows, although—six chimneys.
“Excuse me! This is Mivifa Selifscale! I request a meeting with Researcher Dromenl! At once!”
The Named Adventurer knocked on the door and shouted loudly. People in the street glanced at her. She knocked—waited—and then, after no response came, began to lose her temper.
“By the order of the First Gardener of Oteslia, open this door! Now! I know there’s someone in here! If you do not open this door within the minute, Oteslia’s Treewatch will force it open and lock the facility down for the day!”
There it was. Lyonette was impressed; Saliss had never used his authority like this—or rather, that of the city. But Mivifa was clearly more trusted by the local government. Named Adventurers were their cities.
And sure enough, an assistant practically sprinted out of the back rooms at that. He fumbled the doors open, breathing apologies.
“I am so sorry, Adventurer Mivifa—”
“I demand to see Researcher Dromenl. Now.”
The [Princess] had had the sense that Mivifa had a temper. Here it was on display. She waited in the empty lobby as the assistant ran off.
Researcher Dromenl was actually Human. Lyonette was surprised, but the aged man was clearly a resident of Oteslia for a long time.
“Adventurer Mivifa! What can we do for you? I—did not realize you were here. Is the First Gardener well? No side effects? The pills…”
“They worked splendidly, with her compliments. She wants more. What I want to know, Researcher, is why every facility of study is closed! I have a guest from Liscor, vouched for by Saliss of Lights and myself who can’t even get a single Level 20 [Scholar] to help her! The First Gardener herself is interested in this case.”
Mivifa was throwing all stops out for Lyonette. The [Princess] introduced herself, and Dromenl blinked at her.
“My, the First Gardener? You—young lady, do you know you have an extraordinary hair color? Less than 2% of all Humans have this vivid shade of red; it’s considered a marker of royal heritage in Terandria, and that’s not far off.”
She froze.
“Er—I’ve always been told so, sir. But please—”
She rushed to explain the issue. Researcher Dromenl was fascinated.
“A frozen body that is neither alive nor dead? Poison? Of course we can help! Why, I could freeze half a dozen rats—”
“Researcher, the [Druids] don’t approve of that.”
One of the assistant [Researchers] whispered urgently. The entire team had turned out after Mivifa’s wrath had been made clear. Dromenl hesitated.
“Of course. One doesn’t want to offend the [Druids]. But…little rats?”
“This is very good, Researcher. Then—can I count on you to help Miss Lyon? She can fund the entire project—and Saliss of Lights as well.”
Mivifa was smiling. Dromenl and his team perked up at ‘fund’; Lyonette got the impression they were always hungry for funds, even in the best facilities. But then—it happened.
“Er, we will make it our top priority, Adventurer Mivifa. After our current line of investigation is done.”
Mivifa’s smile vanished. So did Lyonette’s.
“What is this about, Researcher?”
He hesitated and looked at Ratici, Wilovan, and Lyonette. The two Callers, not at home here, were glancing around and murmuring to each other.
“Candidly, Adventurer, that’s confidential. I could tell you—but not outsiders. No offense to Miss Lyon, but we verge on a huge discovery! I am 100% confident of this and that is an extraordinary thing to say, haha—”
He looked excited. Mivifa hesitated.
“Tell me. Excuse me, Miss Lyonette. But it is confidential between research facilities—does this have to do with…?”
She walked away with Dromenl. Lyonette wished she could read lips or had a hearing spell, but the facility was probably guarded. She walked back.
“Seems something is attracting attention, Miss Lyon. We’d like to help, but Ratici and I aren’t the most charming of sorts insofar as it comes to polite negotiations between upstanding sorts.”
Wilovan murmured. Lyonette shook her head.
“It’s fine, Wilovan. Thank you for looking around. I don’t know what this is—something wrong, Ratici?”
The Drake was scratching at the back of his neck. He tipped his cap.
“Begging your pardon, Miss Lyon. Old habits.”
Ah. The [Thief]. She hesitated.
“I don’t think Mivifa would take kindly to any…”
“Not me, Miss Lyon. I wouldn’t jeopardize anything. It’s just—there’s something valuable back there. Familiar. I was trying to place it.”
Lyonette blinked. She wondered what made Ratici’s [Thief] senses tingle. She glanced at Wilovan.
“You can’t hear…?”
“They ward the entire facility. Sensible, Miss Lyon. I’m afraid we’re in the dark, so to speak.”
He shrugged and she sighed.
Mivifa was no better. She knew—but obviously it was a secret matter.
“I can see why they don’t want to help. The First Gardener might be able to insist one drops the issue. They don’t all have to work on the same thing, although if one gets lucky—I’ll bring it up with her. But it is a find, Miss Lyon. Let’s find Saliss and see if he’s had any luck.”
 
—-
 
He had not. Saliss was spitting mad as he stomped from shop to shop. Wilovan and Ratici had taken themselves off to ‘do some investigating on the sly, as it were’, and Mivifa was checking more researchers to confirm they were all on the same thing.
Lyonette glumly watched him enter another shop, the smallest so far compared to all the big ones. He had been shouting really pithy insults at all of the unified sellers of herbs as he realized they were working together to raise prices on all the things he needed.
She expected him to do as he had done in the last shop; kick the door open, and ask if the shopkeeper wanted to make money, or be an obstinate Lizard.
However. This shop was…interesting. The Drake at the counter leaned over and blinked.
“Is that Saliss?”
She was middle-aged. Saliss walked up.
“Herissa. Please tell me it’s not everyone marking up their prices?”
She swished her tail as Lyonette looked around the establishment. This wasn’t a huge facility, but it was doing well. The [Herbalist] sighed.
“They smell money, and you’re rich, Saliss. Sorry. What’s your list? As if I don’t know—it’s been going around.”
“So they’re working together? Creler eggs! I’d chuck it in their gardens if it wasn’t a war crime!”
“Don’t be too mad—they’re doing it to all the [Alchemists]. They know there’s a shortage—or will be once you’re done buying. The television.”
“Damn Sir Relz and that thing. I’m gonna take off his pants live!”
She laughed at that.
“Let me know so I can watch! Alright, alright. Stop stamping around. Let’s see. Obsidian Leaf…sulfur…Eir Gel…Sage’s Grass—why do you need that? And who’s your Human friend?”
She was glancing warily at Lyonette. Saliss waved a claw.
“She’s from Liscor.”
“Really? The Liscor I’ve heard about? Is she…?”
