Wilovan seized the crack of the window, yanked it up. His Skill silenced the explosive crack of masonry and wood. Ratici leapt through the narrow gap, his body twisting—it would have been a struggle for him normally, but the single leap carried his entire body through without even brushing the sides.
…four, five…Wilovan counted to ten. He heard a rustle, and Ratici dove back out.
“That fast?”
“Sitting on the table. On we go.”
 
“The rich man awakes and his goods are gone,
The wise man doesn’t ask, and looks at the ones who yawn;
But says not a word from dusk till dawn.”
 
What a glorious night! Wilovan’s head was bare at times, and he was an indistinguishable Gnoll, or one wearing a mask—Ratici likewise. But they strolled and did a jig near the end, chuckling, singing together.
“Ah, but there’s a smart girl. A [Princess], you’re sure?”
“So they say. Bright future ahead. I feel like we’ve earned our beds, eh, Wilovan?”
Ratici sat back. Wilovan nodded. They both stared down.
Sixty seven faerie flowers. That was all that had been produced beyond what Xif and Saliss had personally had grown. A little—and a lot, spread out across Oteslia. But there they were, brightly poking up at the two from the little cup.
A fortune. A wondrous plant. Wilovan slowly turned to Ratici.
“A man’s fortune can look like a lot, Ratici, old friend. Makes you think.”
“I think a man’s fortune is his word, which is his bond, Wilovan.”
The Gnoll touched the brim of his hat.
“Too true. I was rather thinking that some should be sent back to the inn—to grow again.”
Ratici relaxed.
“Ah, that. Miss Lyon said they were cared for. That Saliss will open his shop and have Miss Octavia transplant some he had in his laboratory.”
“Oh, good. Beautiful little things, eh? Look like gold if you…well then.”
Wilovan put the cup of flowers down. Ratici produced something from his pocket. He poured the liquid into the cup.
There was a striking sound. Wilovan tossed the match and both men stood back. They’d been warned.
The cup flared as the liquid ignited. The match vaporized. They stood there a moment. Then walked off, humming, as the sun began to rise.
 
—-
 
The next day, the Treewatch and Oteslia’s best growers and scholars descended upon Mivifa’s home. Saliss and Xif were both summoned before the First Gardener.
“They’re all gone! Where did you take them? I never thought you’d sink so low—”
Lyonette listened to the proceedings. But the Oteslians had made a mistake. Both Xif and Saliss were honestly bewildered, as was Mivifa.
Saliss glanced at her just once. But under truth spell, they admitted to knowing nothing.
So did Lyonette.
“I swear I did not instruct anyone to steal anything, or conspire to do so myself, or use magic or Skills to effect the theft of the faerie flowers. Nor do I know where they are.”
She hadn’t, either. She’d…discussed the matter. With two men of certain understandings.
As it were.
It was all in how you worded it, and the distracted [Guardsman] and the crowd had only focused on Saliss and Xif.
Misdirection. Even so, everyone knew.
“First Gardener, we demand the flowers in the two [Alchemist]’s possessions be distributed amongst us! It is only fair!”
The group beseeched the First Gardener. Saliss and Xif’s eyes flared.
“I will burn it all before I let that happen! This will be more than an incident!”
Xif vowed. Lyonette just watched the First Gardener massage her temples.
The [Princess] knew more than the [Alchemist]. The First Gardener would do just that—she’d waver and try to placate, but she’d never let this slip away. So, as the First Gardener was turning to Mivifa—who had also been looking at Lyonette and the conspicuously absent Wilovan and Ratici, for all she hadn’t mentioned anything—Lyonette spoke up.
“Excuse me, First Gardener. But I believe this has gone on long enough. We have been very patient, but this is too much. I request adjudication by [Druid]! ”
The angry crowd stirred. The First Gardener blinked—then narrowed her eyes as she spotted Lyonette. Cire, poking his head out of his rooms to see why everyone was shouting—stared too.
However, Igniz and the others were triumphant. He practically crowed.
“Hah! Let the [Druids] sort this out, yes! Good idea!”
But he’d celebrated too soon. The First Gardener looked at Lyonette, frowning.
“That is your right, Miss Solstice. But are you sure? The [Druids] are—direct. And even I cannot lightly overturn their judgment.”
Lyonette du Marquin smiled. And the First Gardener felt a twinge of—but it was too late.
“Yes, First Gardener. I request adjudication by Druid—and I name the Druids Shassa and Nalthaliarstrelous to pass judgment!”
The room went quiet. Saliss began to laugh again. He nodded at Lyonette and she inclined her head to him.
 
—-
 
“A non-Oteslian [Druid] cannot pass judgment in Oteslia!”
“He is the highest of his circle in Invrisil.”
“He’s biased—”
“I am a [Druid]. Be silent or I will hit you.”
Nalthaliarstrelous stood with Druid Shassa in the center of the arguing crowd. More than one [Druid] had come; they knew about the precious flowers. But Lyonette had requested the two by name.
She had remembered, as a [Princess] does, how the child-kidnapping [Druids] had intended to go to Oteslia. How clever! Magnolia Reinhart’s great warrior of nature, here in Oteslia when she was.
Perhaps it was just coincidence. Now, Nalthaliarstrelous regarded her. He turned to Shassa as they eyed one of the flowers taken from the two surviving gardens—both under watch. They’d be confiscated by Saliss and Xif if they won.
If not? They went to the people of Oteslia.
“It is clear someone stole all the flowers, Druid Nalthaliarstrelous.”
Shassa ventured after a moment. The [Spider Druid] was clearly nervous.
He was not. The [Druid] looked at Lyonette.
“Yes, someone. Thieves, no doubt, with a reason to do so.”
She smiled innocently back, keeping her face straight. Nalthaliarstrelous pointed.
“I mean, you.”
“But there is no proof, Druid.”
She calmly replied. Everyone was glaring. Nalthaliarstrelous harrumphed.
“I do not need proof. You called for [Druids]. The evidence is plain as the smile on your face. Which is my evidence. Explain yourself, ‘Miss Solstice’.”
The [Princess] did not sweat. She did incline her head.
“Very well, elder [Druids]. Perhaps the flowers were stolen. Destroyed?”
“Destroyed?”
Igniz repeated. Lyonette didn’t even look at him.
“Who knows? But Druid Nalthaliarstrelous—”
His eyebrows rose as she actually pronounced his name.
“—I believe you and I, and Druid Shassa, know that there was only one place they came from. And if they appeared in places other than that of Xif and Saliss’ gardens, they were stolen. I have no proof. But you were there.”
Both had walked Erin’s [Garden of Sanctuary]. They had seen the flowers. Nalthaliarstrelous had even commented on them. Shassa bit her lip and looked at Nalthaliarstrelous.
His eyes narrowed.
“Burning such plants should be a crime. And if they can help Oteslia—many people and animals, I rule that they should be spread around as widely as can be, as Sage’s Grass was, rather than hoarded!”
Lyonette felt sweat run down her back. She’d forgotten how much he made her mad. But this was her shot. So she went on, nodding.
“Perhaps so, Druid Nalthaliarstrelous. But do you deny that it is also wrong to steal and lie about the truth, even if it is obvious but without evidence?”
She indicated the Oteslians and they shifted. Nalthaliarstrelous snorted.
“This entire affair is petty and childish. I agree with that. And I say those flowers came from one garden alone. Druid Shassa. Do you deny that?”
“I—I—but they were grown elsewhere and they are plants, Druid Nal—”
He glowered at her and raised his staff. Half the [Druids] edged away from his wrath. Shassa actually had to block his staff as it swung at her head.
“Okay! Yes! I don’t see how they could have come from anywhere else!”
The First Gardener looked worried.
“But Druid Nalthaliarstrelous, this incident is highly tenuous. Could we perhaps take a break to—”
“You called for [Druids]! We don’t wait on justice!”
He snapped back. She looked at the other Oteslian [Druids]. Lyonette just smiled.
“Druid Nalthaliarstrelous. Let me assure you of one thing. Oteslia will not be without the faerie flowers. But it will accede to basic law of possession.”
The old man in his filthy robes looked at her.
“Explain.”
“Saliss and Xif have their flowers. Oteslia can trade for them. But they will trade.”
She met his eyes. The [Druid] harrumphed.
“So that’s your game. If you weren’t the little landfriend’s mother, I would hit you. As it is—[Stinking Cloud].”
“Wha—”
Lyonette was engulfed in a cloud of putrid, foul brown air. She stumbled out of it, coughing and hacking. Nalthaliarstrelous was already turning away.
“The flowers are the [Alchemist]’s. They were stolen, and it is a crime to steal that which was so carefully raised and taken care of. Shut up, all of you!”
The other [Druids] were protesting. Nalthaliarstrelous raised his staff and Lyonette saw druid-politics at its finest. He shouted on.
“They came from a place of old roots and power! You know they were stolen, shared about! Well, this is what comes of lies and deceit. Buy the damn things! They must be bought—so be it! Beg or buy for them. This judgment is over!”
He slammed his staff on the ground and walked off. Lyonette shouted an insult at his back and got another [Stinking Cloud] to the face.
But she’d won.
 
—-
 
Afterwards, Lyonette regretted telling—hinting—for Wilovan and Ratici to burn their stash. But Saliss and Xif had flowers, and she hadn’t been sure if Mivifa would order them searched.
Better to deny anything.
She soaked for three hours before the magical spell abated. Feathi was fanning her dry as the first people slowly came to negotiate.
Saliss and Xif were waiting. They had desires. Lots of herbs, ingredients…and they were about as kindly-disposed to the people who wanted the flowers as Lyonette was to Nalthaliarstrelous.
However, there was business to be done. And more than one [Researcher] wanted those flowers. So—they had to negotiate.
It had begun. And it had only taken two days. Lyonette sighed as she saw Dromenl in the waiting crowd. She beckoned at him, smiling.
Mivi looked at the strange Human girl. She eyed Saliss and Xif, who had put their feet up on the table while Igniz took a seat, having to drag it across the room.
How things changed. Just a few more things had shifted in those two days, that not even Lyonette could predict.
Rumors about the heist. Oh, what a splendid job. How skillful. You might applaud if you heard about it and realized a small group had done it—and a new one to the city.
Oteslia’s gangs were unhappy. Not as it were. They were as angry as could be. They had been assured burning down Xif’s shop would skyrocket the value of the flowers. Now—what they’d been intending to steal once the value was established was in a Named Adventurer’s claws. They began to ask just whom had tread in their city.
The second thing? A Dragon was daydreaming as he sat, rather unhappily, with his mother at a tea time.
So that Human was a mother? No way. So young. Cire knew it happened—never to anyone he slept with—but Fetale had been talking about it. He couldn’t imagine…
He’d known Lyon was special when he looked at her. But why? He didn’t care about the flowers, but Mivi had dropped by to say she might have access to a skateboard soon, which was totally Archmage. He yawned at the table and the First Gardener judged him.
“Cirediel! Be polite. I am so sorry—should I say Lady Reinhart, or…?”
The Dragon looked up. A woman dressed in pink smiled at him as a [Maid] stiffly poured more tea. Magnolia Reinhart met Cire’s eyes and he thought there was something too-knowing about her look. But then the [Lady] was laughing.
“You must call me Magnolia, Shaerrha! We should be friends before we part! But do tell me about that curious incident—and what was that young woman’s name? Lyon? How very interesting.”
Cire blinked and sat back. At least it seemed like interesting things had come to Oteslia. He wouldn’t be bored for a while. And he had heard Rafaema was coming too.
He was excited for that, even if he’d play it cool. He eyed the tall [Maid]. He wondered if he could talk to her instead of the [Lady]. She was probably into him.
That would be so Archmage.
 
—-
 
[Worldly Princess Level 23!]
[Skill – Endowment of the Thief obtained!]
Lyonette woke up from a nap with a single faerie flower on her blankets. Feathi ate it and then went cross-eyed—or as much as a horse could. Lyonette eyed her chest and sighed in relief.
