It was Mivifa who strode in and forced the Drake to stop choking the Gnoll [Gardener]. The Named Adventurer saw the [Gardener] collapse, gasping, to the floor. Lyonette watched with Wilovan and Ratici.
 
—-
 
“I—I didn’t sell a thing, Master Saliss! I obeyed your instructions to the letter!”
The Gnoll protested—from behind Mivifa—when he could finally speak. His daughter, a younger [Gardener] with dirt in her fur, was protectively shielding him. Saliss was furious. Lyonette had never seen him so angry and Mivifa actually had a hand on her sword as she blocked him.
“Then who was it? Xif’s person?”
“I don’t know, Master Saliss. But more samples began popping up as I was having success with my flowers. I assumed more people were sending it in, or another source had been discovered—”
Xif and Saliss traded looks. They charged out the door, Xif with his club raised. Lyonette looked at Mivifa. The Named Adventurer was cursing.
“Saliss! Don’t kill them! Master Elroz, I need you to swear to me that it wasn’t you. I’m sure Saliss confirmed it—”
“I swear, Miss Mivifa. I can’t speak for whomever Alchemist Xif hired. It might have been—he was persuaded to share—Oteslian generosity.”
The Gnoll coughed. Mivifa bit her lip. She turned to Lyonette.
“Is there any chance that it could have come from anywhere else, Miss Lyon? These…faerie flowers?”
“That’s what everyone’s talking about, isn’t it?”
Lyon met her eyes. The frightened daughter of Elroz, the Gnoll, and Mivifa all nodded.
“It’s the newest thing. We thought Master Saliss had found a source, but someone else had discovered it. Like adventurers finding it in a dungeon. Isn’t it possible it was just someone else?”
Lyonette smiled. That was a fair assumption. She met Mivifa’s eyes and shook her head.
“No, Miss Mivifa. It’s impossible. Because I know where the faerie flowers come from and there’s no way anyone got another sample.”
The Named Adventurer blinked.
“You know? Then it was Liscor. There’s no chance…?”
“None. So it was Xif’s person. Or—no. I can’t imagine how anyone else would get that.”
Unless the Frost Faeries had tricked someone else with fake gold. And they didn’t even look like faeries to anyone but Earthers. Mivifa saw the certainty in Lyonette’s eyes and cursed.
“Ancestors. Then this is Crelered to all hells and back. I’d better stop those two from murdering—Master Elroz, you stay here. I’ll make sure Saliss doesn’t lose it.”
The Gnoll nodded, eyes wide. Lyonette barely stopped at ‘Creler’ as a verb, but it was curious. She hurried after Mivifa.
“But how did it happen? Someone sold it despite Xif’s orders?”
“Yes—no. Sort of. It’s…Oteslian generosity.”
Lyonette stared at Mivifa’s back. The Named Adventurer gave her a pained look.
 
—-
 
The [Culturist] had gotten word Xif and Saliss were on the warpath. Her private gardens were closed, and she was nowhere in sight. Xif and Saliss had broken down the door and searched the place.
“Oteslian generosity.”
Saliss spat when Lyonette repeated the phrase. The [Princess] raised her brows.
“Meaning?”
“Meaning, I bet the [Culturist] Xif hired went to someone else after she failed to grow the flowers. Asked for tips—maybe even lent one out if she had spares. As a ‘thank you’. And someone else began growing them and selling them—”
“I told her—I paid her for secrecy!”
Xif stared around. Mivifa cleared her throat.
“Master Xif, Saliss. Oteslia’s more liberal about sharing ideas and—”
“And goods that we paid to be kept secret?”
Both [Alchemists] turned on her. She raised her claws.
“Don’t snap at me! Lyon claims it’s impossible for the flowers to have been spread, but you’re certain no one even took a single flower or clipping?”
Lyonette hesitated. So did Saliss and Xif. It was…possible…that someone might have used a dried faerie flower, or taken one back when they were on the windowsills in the inn. Or—Erin took them out to use for the faerie drinks and the Minotaur’s Punch. Someone could have stolen one.
Possible, but unlikely. Extremely so. She repeated that, and Mivifa ran a claw through her neck spines.
“Saliss, Master Xif—neither of you hits or attacks anything. I’ll help you sort this out, but peacefully. You don’t do that, and I’ll call the Treewatch, understand?”
The two [Alchemists] fumed, but they nodded. Saliss snapped.
“I want to find Xif’s person. Who is it, Xif?”
“Culturist Greeka.”
“I’ll ask the Treewatch to investigate. In the meanwhile—let’s see where Master Igniz got his flower.”
Lyonette fell behind the three as they stormed off with the power of fury to the herbalist. Wilovan and Ratici found her panting and slowed.
“Bit of a spot it seems, Miss Lyon. Goods misplaced—grown, should I say. Tricky business. Not something I’m used to. Rather like growing gold, isn’t it, Wilovan?”
“Indeed, Ratici, indeed. Would that it were so simple with our lot.”
“What do you two…think…? Did Master Elroz or his daughter sell the flowers? The culturist?”
Lyonette panted. The Gentleman Callers glanced at each other. Wilovan tapped the side of his nose.
“A gentleman never suspects a lady. And his daughter looked innocent as could be to my eyes, Miss Lyon. Wasn’t questioned; didn’t need to be, honestly. Master Saliss is a sharp sort, and that Miss Mivifa, but it could be wasn’t even the culturist to blame.”
“Really?”
Lyonette doubted that. Ratici illuminated her. He leaned in.
“Master Elroz has a number of staff, Miss Lyon. Assistant hands. So too would a good [Culturist]. Seems to me—even if one of the two was to blame, there’s plenty of cracks for a flower to slip through. And the problem with growing is—it won’t be easy to find the source.”
She looked at him. Ratici’s words turned out to be prophetic. Master Igniz was all too alarmed as Mivifa herself confronted him with the angry [Alchemists], but he was willing to say where he’d gotten the flowers.
“It was a friend, alright, Alchemists, Adventurer Mivifa? A…[Gardener].”
“A [Culturist]?”
Saliss snapped. Igniz frowned.
“No. a friend. And respectfully—unless the Treewatch orders me to, I will decline to divulge who it was.”
“Master Igniz, this may be a matter of theft. I am a Named Adventurer, true, but I will bring in the Watch if I must. You know my authority. By the First Gardener, I am conducting this investigation and everything you say is being tested under truth stone and Master Saliss’ potions.”
The [Herbalist] gulped. But he held his ground.
“I swear to you, Adventurer Mivifa, it was not a [Culturist]. Moreover…my friend gave me a sample as a token of appreciation. I…understand…he had nearly a dozen more and was growing more as fast as possible and giving a few more out for handsome sums to other researchers.”
Lyonette’s eyes narrowed. This was unacceptable! Saliss didn’t even keep the words inside.
“Tell me who. Tell me now, Igniz, or so help me, I’ll do to this place what I dreamt of doing to Xif’s!”
The Gnoll was nodding. Mivifa rounded on Saliss.
“Saliss! Enough!”
Igniz backed up.
“I don’t—listen. If you tell them, it wasn’t from me. I stole nothing!”
“Then give me the flower!”
Xif reached for it, but the guards and employees closed ranks around Igniz. He guarded the pot with both arms.
“Absolutely not! It could be worth a fortune! No one has any to sell from Oteslia yet, but I have a buyer overseas—”
“It’s not yours to sell!”
Xif roared. Mivifa had to push both [Alchemists] out of the shop.
“Master Igniz, you will not sell that until the Treewatch and First Gardener decide on this. Saliss, back up. This isn’t your city. Don’t make me call a group to arrest you.”
Saliss calmed down. He stormed towards his next victim, the [Gardner]. But Lyonette was beginning to sense a bad pattern.
 
—-
 
The [Bluemoon Gardener] was made of sterner stuff than all the rest. He refused to let them see how many flowers he had. And even when grabbed by Saliss, he refused to waver.
“Look, Alchemists. I’ve stolen nothing. And I can swear before any number of truth stones you want! I was given this flower. Yes, I grew more! So what? And yes, I’m sharing or selling it about! It’s a wondrous plant! Looks like gold if you look at it under the right light—and it has any number of properties! I’m no [Alchemist], and even I can uncover a few! It’s going to make me rich.”
“It’s. Not. Yours. And it wasn’t meant to be spread about!”
Saliss snarled in his face. The [Gardener] was unmoved.
“It’s not yours either, Alchemist. It’s a plant and it can benefit everyone! Maybe someone illegally spread it about to begin with. Well—charge them. But the rest of us gave each other notes on how to grow the tricky devils properly. And we’re sharing it with the research teams because everyone will benefit once all the effects are documented. Oteslian generosity!”
Oteslian generosity. Lyonette was getting sick of the expression. It wasn’t a hard concept to grasp.
Sometimes, a [Researcher] needed to look into, say, the effects of Threadvine. So maybe a [Gardener] helped with that. Maybe they were paid back in turn. Perhaps the horticulturalist techniques of growing a tricky flower were spread around.
Everyone benefited. This was a community. Oteslian generosity explained why the flower was in so many places, despite still being so few in quantity. Everyone of note had one.
Lyonette saw the reason, even sound arguments for that kind of goodwill and cooperation. However, the notion of free exchange of goods and mutual cooperation for everyone’s benefit horrified the Pallassian [Alchemists], who had wanted it to be secret.
“How dare these lizards work together? This means war! A boycott, Saliss! We have to tell the Alchemist’s Guild in Pallass!”
Xif was growling and Saliss was nodding as they paced about Mivifa’s home. The Oldblood of Feathers was exasperated. At their attitudes, as well as the situation in general.
Without finding the first thief and recipient, everyone else could and did claim innocence, as Ratici had warned. Moreover…it was exceptionally hard to take the flowers back. Mainly because, as Igniz pointed out when summoned to the First Gardener’s residence, how did you know it had come from Saliss or Xif?
 
—-
 
“First Gardener. Yes, Alchemists Saliss and Xif might have had those flowers first. But they are a plant. It’s entirely possible someone else got a hold of them.”
“Impossible!”
Igniz glowered at Saliss as the First Gardener, headache-free, listened to the argument. The [Herbalist] and a group of fellow [Gardeners], [Researchers], and so on, were pleading their case.
“The fact remains that Master Xif and Saliss sent the flowers here. They are claiming ownership of the faerie flowers, which were illegally grown despite their payments for security and secrecy.”
The [Herbalist] scoffed.
“But that doesn’t mean our flowers came from them, First Gardener! Flowers germinate. With respect to the [Alchemist], even Sage’s Grass came from numerous sources when it was first grown en masse!”
“Not in this case and you damn well know it!”
Saliss hissed. The First Gardener turned to him.
“Alchemist. Can you prove that these flowers only came from one source that only you and Xif could have access to?”
The Named Adventurer hesitated.
“I can swear via truth spell, First Gardener—”
“But can you swear that there was no chance it came from anywhere else? We need proof! How did these miraculous plants only fall into your possession?”
And there it was. Saliss hesitated and glanced at Lyonette for just a second. So did Mivifa. The problem was—Saliss probably could explain they had only come by way of Erin Solstice, or Lyonette could.
But she would have to explain about the frost faeries and Lyonette didn’t know how much Saliss knew. The end result was that it was hard to say ‘yes, those faerie flowers absolutely came from the samples sent by Xif and Saliss and not from the inn by way of someone else, also I can’t tell you how I know those flowers are the only ones in the entire world.’
The First Gardener pointed this out, albeit more diplomatically. The two [Alchemists] listened as she spoke.
“I cannot simply order each flower confiscated and given to the two [Alchemists].”
“That’s fine. We’ll let you burn them. So long as you don’t inhale the fumes.”
Researcher Dromenl burst out at the same time as the others.
“What? Outrageous!”
“This could revolutionize medicine! First Gardener, you’ve already—”
“Ooh, burning them does something? What?”
“Silence, please!”
The First Gardener rubbed at her temples unconsciously, although she didn’t really have a headache. Lyonette, who was listening in, realized what was happening as she tried to soothe the [Alchemists].
She was going to let the faerie flowers stay in the possession of the Oteslians. The [Princess] knew this to be a fact.
Why? Because she was a [Princess]. And the First Gardener ruled Oteslia. Lyonette hadn’t missed that the First Gardener was using a pill based on faerie flowers. And even then—who would turn down the next Sage’s Grass?
“I am terribly sorry, [Alchemists], but I do not rule in favor of destruction or confiscation.”
Xif made a strangled sound and turned away, throwing his paws up. Saliss? He narrowed his eyes.
“This is between Oteslia and Pallass, First Gardener. I warn you—this will become more than a little incident.”
She hesitated. The Oteslians went silent and even Mivifa looked uneasy. The grandson of Chaldion waited. The First Gardener slowly shook her head.
“Even then, Alchemist. I hope we can discuss the issue further, perhaps even offer compensation and certainly find the culprit. But I cannot simply take away this product from the different groups present.”
She indicated them all. They all stood there, representatives or individuals, smiling, thanking her. Saliss looked at the First Gardener. He walked to the doors, opened them, and slammed them so hard they shook on the way out. Lyonette followed him, thinking.
 
—-
 
For the first time ever, Saliss had lost in terms of…personality? The Saliss-level antagonism had fallen apart in face of Oteslian, well generosity.
It was not fair. It was not right…
But flip it on its head and it was two [Alchemists] trying to suppress a miracle ingredient that might help countless people! Who mattered more, the individual, or the group, no matter if there had been some illegality?
That was Oteslia’s ethos. Lyonette sat in Mivifa’s apartment. Outside, she, Xif, and Saliss were bellowing at each other.
“A right to-do.”
