The truth was, Mivifa would have done away with all the beauty products and time spent if she could.
But it wasn’t for her.
So, Mividel Maxiclaw, no relation to the Named Adventurer, Silver-rank in her twenties, exited her relatively modest apartment an hour after waking. And stretching; you had to stretch. She already knew someone would be waiting for her.
“Mivi, what’s on the wing?”
A Drake folded his arms and leaned against the doorway. It was the kind of lean with attitude. He spoke casually, without formality; his neck-spines were oiled back, and he had on a trendy jacket and shorts. He was Oldblood; his wings were long and vermillion, like his scales.
“Fetale, I was just monking out over breakfast. I am good to fly today. Where’s Cire?”
The Drake raised one thumb-claw, using the common vernacular of Oteslia’s youth, despite not having wings herself. The other male Drake, Fetale, made a psht sound.
“How should I know? He’s circling. I figured we’d meet up at the Root—see what’s what.”
Mivi nodded. They leaned on the balcony of her apartment. After a moment, they both saw that Mivi’s neighbor, a female Drake in her late thirties, was sweeping her porch. She had systematically winced her way through the entire greeting and was giving them a side-eye. She hurried inside after a moment.
Mividel…sagged after a moment. She looked around, checking the skies, and after a moment shuffled over to Fetale.
“Where is he actually?”
Cire. Fetale dropped the casual lounge-maneuver, which took a lot of practice and was actually straining on the back. He rubbed at his shoulders.
“Morning fly with some of the actual kids. We’ve got eyes on him. We’re meeting at the Root to hang out.”
“Got it.”
Mividel sighed. That was her actual name; Mivifa was the alias, the Named Adventurer. She ‘lived’ in this apartment, unlike the very nice, much more sumptuous one she had in the upper part of the city. But she had gone out that door in full youth-mode.
Just in case he was there, as he sometimes was. She nodded.
“Let’s slide on down to the Root, then.”
She was trying. But Fetale caught her before they headed onto the street.
“Mivi. I can’t do this anymore.”
She looked at the other ‘young’ Drake. Fetale could have been…nineteen. Or—if you looked past his glossy scales, his trendy dress for anyone still in their teens, and looked at him—
Thirty.
Mividel was older than her neighbor, and she knew the other Drake had long-since figured it out. Oteslia’s Treewatch had probably spoken to her and let her know…everything, if she didn’t just know already.
That one look had made Mivi feel old. She stared at Fetale.
“What do you mean, Fetale? Today or…?”
Her heart sank as the Drake leaned on the balcony. He stared down at the street, with genuine, 100% actually young people, and older ones, mingling, going about their day.
“This, Mivi. I can’t do it. I was doing my appearance this morning and I looked myself in the eye. It all just…fell apart.”
“Don’t do that. Listen, Fetale—”
“No. I’m serious. Mivi—I can’t be you. I gave it my best shot. But I’m thirty, and my wife is talking about a family. She knows the job, but…am I supposed to tell her to wait another decade? Five years? Please. I need out.”
This was the conversation she hated to have. And it had looked like…well, this was setting the tone for her morning. Mivifa—Mividel—Mivi—chewed on her lip for a second, and then realized she might be ruining the gloss.
“Fine. I get it, Fetale. But—four—six months. Six months, alright? We’ll phase you out. You can even bring up settling down. Starting tomorrow, start easing back on the makeup. Got it?”
He gave her a relieved smile, and a guilty one.
“Thank you, Mivi. I’m sorry. I thought I could keep doing it. It’s just…”
Silently, she patted him on the arm.
“It’s fine. We’ll put you on surveillance, or one of the non-contact jobs. But you get to find your replacement, or train one, huh?”
He groaned. Then—checked the position of the sun.
“We’d better take wing. Root’s just opening and you know Cire’ll be there. And he doesn’t wait.”
Mivi knew it full well. He might wait for her—but why risk it? She and Fetale hurried down into the street. There they moved at a jog. Sprightly. Youthful.
She was the only one who had done it for this long. Everyone else had…quit. Fetale was actually fairly long for his job. Ten years—no, fourteen, really—since he’d been recruited. And he had been a deliberate choice. Mividel had been an accident. Her becoming Named Adventurer had also been—well—accidental. But she was ideally placed, such that the First Gardener relied on her and she essentially commanded the Treewatch’s branch in this area.
But how much longer could she be Cire’s friend? She and Fetale were old, and growing older. At least, compared to the people they were hurrying to meet.
There they were, about eleven Drakes, two Gnolls, all sitting, around four tables at the Root, a popular hangout for younger people in Oteslia. Mivi recognized them all; two more planted individuals like her and Fetale; the rest actual kids.
Four unpredictable ones. Those not in the know, or not trustworthy. She grimaced. It might be a rough day.
She, Fetale, and the two Drakes who casually called out to her, had a class in common. Mivi was a [Beast Master], a [Pegasus Flier]…
And an [Actor]. The class had existed before the Players of Celum. She slid over, actually sliding on her claws.
“Hey, people. What’s growing? I miss anything?”
“Mivi!”
A loud voice called out. Mividel turned, and in the center of the gaggle of teens was…him. The young Drake, who could have been seventeen, lounging around with all the others, at home, and not acting.
The one who never changed. The reason for the Gardener’s headaches, Mivi’s strange circumstances.
A beautiful young man—boy. Something in between. His scales were brown and purple and green, blending across his body. He was apparently Oldblood; he had full wings, and could spit an acid. But that was to trivialize what he was.
Among the other Drakes, even ones naturally gifted with beauty or extraordinary athleticism, he stood out. He was so handsome it hurt, and he never seemed to run out of energy.
He was Cirediel—but everyone called him Cire. Son of the First Gardener.
Dragon of Earth.
“Yo, Cire.”
Mivi slid into a seat he’d kept waiting for her. Cire, her best friend, grinned at her.
“Took you long enough! You’re never up when we are for the mornings!”
He teased her. Mivi grinned.
“You know me. I eat breakfast, Cire.”
And I can’t wake up at dawn anymore, especially if I have to do my makeup. Fetale just jerked his chin at Cire, too cool for greetings. Cire copied it.
“Went for a fly since we were all wearing wings. We were talking about what’s going next. Thought we might go see if we can get out the gates. The Meeting of Tribes is what’s what, and everyone’s talking about mad sights. What’s your thought?”
Mivi grimaced, but only inwardly. She glanced around casually and saw a covert claw-sign from one of the other plants.
The Drake with her leg up on the table, leaning back, had given Mivi the sign. Necla—with dyed neck-spines, the tips of her wings painted to almost resemble claws; oh, and her actual claws too. She looked like she spent half her time running with a gang, and the serving staff of the Root were glaring at her. She’d added a spiked collar, another fashion trend, and she had ‘bite me’ scrawled on one arm over her scales.
Anyone could have reasonably assumed this was a teen in the height of rebellion, like many of the people Cire surrounded himself with. And they did have Necla’s look. What made the Drake stand out was that she was twenty six, a decorated [Wing Lieutenant], and extremely serious in actuality.
The covert sign meant that this was not a planted idea. Mivi glanced around and saw a young Drake with crimson scales and black wings smirking and nodding at a Gnoll she didn’t know.
Great, Cire’s made more friends. The Dragon boy did so easily; he was popular in the city, famous, and likable. But it did complicate things.
“You want to go over the walls, Cire, my guy? Your mother will tear up. Twice.”
Fetale jumped in before Mivi. Cire scoffed.
“Her? I don’t follow her rules. We could fly to the Meeting of Tribes, get back—no one notices. What do you think, Mivi?”
He looked at her. The Drake swept back her neck spines in a practiced, bored motion.
“You want to fly all the way to the Meeting of Tribes, Cire? That’s like…miles. Dozens and dozens. And I’m not flying there.”
“Oh, come on. You’ve got Fessi—”
He meant her Pegasus. Mividel was still a [Pegasus Flier], one who was a Silver-rank adventurer. Fiction was based on fact. But the Drake just leaned back as she grabbed for a morning tart as a platter was brought around. Everyone tried to snag a snack.
“Please, Cire. You want to fly all the way there when there’s better glamour to be had here? I’m not monking for hours just to stare at a few stalls for an hour or two before we have to get back.”
“That’s what’s what. I say we wing about the lakes. See what we can get into locally. You want excite? Check the bazaars; Gnolls’ll come here to sell.”
Necla added. Mivi jerked her head at her. Good timing.
The three voices made Cire hesitate.
“That’s a good point. Hey Melt—no-go on the Meeting of Tribes. Maybe if something interesting is there.”
“Aw, come on, Cire. It’s amazing!”
Melt, the Drake who’d suggested it, was actually young. He glanced at Mivi, annoyed, and pointed to the horizon.
“They’ve got a Named Adventurer there! The Stargnoll and her team! And it only happens every twenty years! You’re saying you don’t want to see that?”
Cire hesitated. He cast a glance at Mivi, then relaxed.
“Named Adventurer? Oteslia’s got two—no, three coming in and out. And I’ve met one. They’re boring as Dullahans.”
“No way. You’re rogueing with me.”
“Am not.”
The Earth Dragon flicked one wing.
“Met Mivifa the Oldblood last year. My m—my old woman had her over. Stuffy and boring as you can get.”
“Aw. Really? I heard she was cool.”
“You think that, but she wouldn’t even fly with me.”
Mivi relaxed, nodding along, feeling a surreal sensation creep down her back. Cire thought he knew ‘her’, but that was an [Actress] who had played in for Mivi.
All was going well. These rogue elements, ‘Melt’ and the two Gnolls, plus the Drake girlfriend of one of the two Gnolls, weren’t interfering too much. That was when it happened.
“Besides, the Meeting of Tribes isn’t that rare. I’ve known like…four that took place. We can always go to the next one.”
Melt frowned. Around the table, half the people stirred. The other half just blinked.
“What are you talking about, Cire? It’s every twenty years.”
“Nah, it’s not. It’s…”
Cire frowned. His eyes flickered. Before he could say or do anything, Necla lifted her foot, and smacked it on the table.
All the dishes jumped. Everyone stared at her as she rocked onto her feet.
“I’m bored as a Dullahan. You lot going to monk about Gnoll events? No offense—but Cire probably remembers some other random gathering. You know his memory’s shot.”
“Hey!”
Cire feinted a punch at her shoulder. Everyone laughed, and some of the Gnolls chuckled.
“Tribes, they’re always gathering and meeting. I can’t fly and unless someone’s carrying me, I say let’s scatterbrain and see what’s what.”
To Mivi’s relief, one of the City Gnolls echoed Necla’s statement. Cire leapt to his feet. He crammed another tart into his mouth.
“Sounds good. Let’s see the bazaar, though!”
Mivi hopped to her feet and felt a twinge in her back. Gah! Posture! She frowned at the tarts. They’d have to get another [Chef] if he kept having breakfasts like this. One who could incorporate something better than jam, sugar, and bread into the snack-foods.
One minor crisis averted. She checked the others to see if they were thinking about the Meeting of Tribes comment Cire had let slip, but she didn’t think it was a huge issue. She nodded to Fetale and Necla. Then she strode after Cire.
It was hard. Harder than being a Named Adventurer—well, not trying to fight Wrymvr. She’d been laid out with a flu for the last two weeks, and so had had to be with Cire after that. He’d been worried about her.
This was her job. As long as she could do it, she would. But she was forty four. She couldn’t do this another century.
Oh. Mivi closed her eyes. And for a second, she was a young Drake again.
And he had never changed. Cire ran down the street, laughing, jumping and gliding down a staircase.
He didn’t change. Not since she was eleven and met the cool, older Drake and wanted to inspire his respect. And then realized he didn’t grow taller. That some of the older Drakes and Gnolls were…off.
That was why Fetale and the others quit. Not just because they got too old. But because it hurt to move at different speeds through time.
 
—-
 
Oteslia, the Walled City of Growth, had four gates you could enter through the lake over bridges. Lyonette was anxious; but she knew the city was vast, and they might need to be here a while.
But she’d go home to Liscor and Mrsha after two weeks, bring them here if she had to. She checked the gold in her bag of holding, her enchanted artifacts, and saw that even Saliss was making concessions to this foreign city.
He had put on pants. Not any upper garments, but some alchemy-stained pants.
“What? I’m not in Pallass and I can’t spend a week in jail.”
He grinned as he inserted his tail through the hole in the Drake-style pants. Lyonette looked at Wilovan and Ratici.
“You couldn’t have put those on during the four days it took to get here?”
“I could have. But why would I do that?”
Anyways, he was an asset, an asset. Lyonette reminded herself of that as the carriage stopped. The Drakes and Gnolls were speeding people through the gate after stopping them for only a few seconds. When it came to them—a problem arose.
“Let’s see…Izril’s Wonders, right. Passengers?”
“Four.”
The [Guard] did a bored head-sweep. He blinked at Lyonette, but took it in stride. He nodded, stepped back; he’d been holding a gemstone. He consulted it—then did a double-take. He stared at the passengers.
It must have been an artifact-scanner or something to detect magic-levels because he seemed to perk up a bit. He blinked at them again, and then held up a claw.
Quickly, with practice, he rifled open a small flipbook of loose papers. It looked like…
“Ah. That would be bounties and warning illustrations.”
Wilovan murmured. Lyonette…looked at him.
