Wilovan commented as he fixed himself a drink. Feathi stuck her face in his mug and sipped the strong bourbon. The Gnoll stared at her—then put the mug down and made himself another.
The problem to Lyonette, was that the faerie flowers were not of this world. They were Erin’s. And the [Innkeeper] had never wanted to share them with Xif or spread them.
But she refused to say it, even if it changed things. And honestly?
It would not. The First Gardener was a ruler. She wanted those faerie flowers. So Lyonette sat there.
She felt useless. And seeing Saliss run into this—this—outrage hadn’t helped her bad mood. She closed her eyes.
“The faerie flowers should be our trump card. That’s not fair.”
“It seldom is, Miss. Begging your pardon, but all levels play with daggers under the table. The daggers just look different.”
Ratici tipped his cap as he took a drink from Wilovan. The other Gnoll nodded. Lyonette nodded too.
“I know that. It’s just—”
She felt like those Oteslians were arrogant. Sneering at Pallassian greed while denying any wrongdoing had taken place on their part. It rankled her. She knew pride and rude prejudice. She had embodied it. It was no more fun to see in this form, or fair.
But what could be done? She sat there, thinking. There was something she could do, wasn’t there? She hadn’t come all this way for nothing.
She had come for Erin. This? This was just a distraction! Lyonette’s eyes opened wide. Yes—why did it even matter?
Because the [Researchers] were focused on the flower. What if—she told them Erin had been responsible for them? She frowned.
But Erin had no more left. And yet—damn! She felt at her pouch. Slowly, she took something out.
“We don’t have anything more than Saliss’ gold. And I don’t have the flowers myself. If I did, I could…prove…but they all died. And I wish Erin was here. If she was…I don’t have…”
She was fumbling with something. Staring at it. Ratici glanced up.
“What’s that you have there, Miss?”
Wilovan looked up too. Lyonette hesitated. She put it back in her belt pouch.
“Nothing. Maybe. I don’t think it can help…here. I just—”
She had left the inn. But she had taken one thing when she had stopped in Erin’s room for something, anything. A bit of hope, an edge.
A ring.
But it was just brass. Maybe Erin had only used it as jewelry. Lyonette put it out of her mind.
“What do you two think of the flowers, Ratici, Wilovan?”
The two Gentlemen Callers looked at each other. Wilovan tipped up his hat and scratched at his head.
“Well, it’s a straight snatch-and-whistle, if you don’t mind me being a bit of the street, Miss Lyonette.”
“Snatch and whistle?”
She smiled. The [Worldly Princess] liked to learn new things, but they came from a different world than even the one she had learned. Wilovan explained.
“Fellow snatches something, passes it onto the next. That fellow puts it down, or hands it off. So the third fellow can say he don’t know how it was gotten—or say he paid for it all legal. Easier than saying ‘it fell off a wagon’, which truth spells fail. By the time it’s gone from six people, it’s hard as can be to identify the culprit.”
“Mind you, the smart Watches don’t care and make trouble for everyone. But you can…persuade law to not bother investigating. The First Gardener’s a bit tricksome, if you don’t mind me saying.”
“Everyone is. My father included. He’d do exactly as she’s doing.”
Lyonette sighed. She respected that, actually. It was just—they were doing it to her. She sat there, thinking.
But what would Erin Solstice have done, if she’d come here and learned of this? Accepted it? Done what Saliss was doing and gone to war between Walled Cities? Lyonette thought. Then her eyes opened wide. Ratici and Wilovan blinked as she stood up.
“Miss Lyon? Heading out?”
They reached for their coats. Lyonette looked at them and nodded. She raised her chin and inhaled.
“Yes. I might not be as good as her, but—it’s time.”
 
—-
 
The doors to Igniz’ shop, Leafhold, blew open. The [Herbalist] looked up and the additional [Guards] he’d hired stirred apprehensively, but it was not Saliss of Lights who entered—but a young woman.
“Master Igniz?”
“Yes? Can I help you, Miss? Does Alchemist Saliss or the First Gardener have another request?”
He eyed her, recognizing Lyonette from earlier. The young woman shook her head. She put one arm on the table as Wilovan and Ratici tipped their hats and loitered, inspecting goods.
“I am Lyon Solstice. And I believe I have a way to resolve the issue of the faerie flowers.”
The Drake hesitated.
“Indeed? I am not willing to sell them.”
The [Princess] smiled. Her blue eyes glittered as she tossed her red hair back.
“No, Master Igniz. I…challenge you. To a game of chess. The winner takes the faerie flower!”
The Drake blinked. The customers, employees, guards, and two Gentlemen Callers stirred. Lyonette smiled with serene confidence, belying the flutter in her chest.
But she had learned from the greatest player this world had ever seen. And [Flawless Attempt] burned in her mind. Master Igniz blinked, looked at her, and—
 
—-
 
Lyonette du Marquin sat with her head buried in her knees. Outside, Saliss was still laughing. The Gentlemen Callers sat, clearing their throats, giving her room.
Master Igniz had refused to take her chess challenge. In fact, he had laughed her so hard out of his shop he’d actually hurt himself.
Everyone had. Lyonette’s cheeks and ears were burning.
Stupid. She’d tried. She really had! But she’d failed to pull off the origin of the [Innkeeper] of Liscor’s mythos for a few reasons.
Firstly? Erin hadn’t challenged Lism. She’d confronted him and he’d tried to trick her, not knowing of her chess skill.
Second? Who was going to wager a flower of that much worth on a chess game?
Thirdly? Well, it was just a stupid idea. Lyonette knew Erin would have been more inventive. She would have…have…
Well, if she knew, she’d be Erin! And come to that, Erin didn’t always succeed. In fact, business and economics were where she, Lyonette, was supposed to excel!
But she had no tools! No leverage! The [Princess] sat there until Feathi licked her ear. Then she yelped.
“I’m fine! Thank you, Feathi!”
The [Princess] looked at the Pegasus. Feathi gave her a sympathetic look. Lyonette stared about, glumly.
The problem was—she was a [Princess]. And it occurred to Lyonette now that a [Princess] wasn’t the person who charged into battle. Or if she did—it was with an army at her back.
She was good at managing people. At diplomacy, yes, and a [Worldly Princess] did a lot of things. But she had always had her staff.
And she had left them all behind. All she had was Saliss, now incapacitated by hilarity, maybe Xif, Mivifa’s friendship, and the Gentlemen Callers, who didn’t have the Skills to fight in the world of negotiation or business treachery.
Lyonette sat there, calming down.
What would Erin do? How about you stop thinking what Erin would do, hm?
“The problem is, there is something here. I just…”
The [Princess] frowned. And thought. And then she had a good idea—or the beginnings of one. She blinked.
What would Erin do? How about this? What would Erin not do? What could Erin not do that Lyonette could?
Because she had an ‘Erin’, who was actually Saliss. Lawbreaker—or maybe just chaotic influence. But Lyonette had seen him fail. He had gold, insanity, and levels on his side, but Oteslia had beaten him.
It was time for a [Princess] to do something. And Lyonette’s head slowly rose. She had resources. Few—but they were there. Sports, knowledge, and…
“Wilovan, would you care to pass me the chips?”
“I do believe I would, Ratici, old chum.”
“Fascinating turn of phrase, that. Old chum. Nautical?”
“One assumes so. Although chum is not a rather endearing thing, to my understanding of it.”
“Well, I shall take it in the spirit it was intended, then. Here are the chips.”
“Thank you, sir.”
“Thank you, old chum.”
She stared at the Gentlemen Callers. Lyonette had investigated into them, a bit. Or at least, listened to Palt.
“Ratici, Wilovan. I have a…request.”
She spoke slowly. The Drake and Gnoll duo looked over. They saw Lyonette du Marquin sit up slowly.
She had no crown. Nor was she Lyonette at this moment, but Lyon Solstice. And yet—Saliss had failed. Oteslia’s First Gardener was unwilling to help.
Perhaps it was time for some good, old-fashioned, underhanded monarchy. After all—she was a [Princess] of Calanfer. The smiling, angry [Princess] beckoned the two Gentlemen Callers over. They looked at each other.
That was when the Gentleman Callers’ errand of guilt and aid, sprung from their failure got interesting. Because the [Princess] had just remembered who they were. And if Lyonette didn’t know how to lay bricks—she did know how to hire the [Bricklayer].
 
—-
 
Later that evening, Master Igniz was locking up for the day. He still felt smug about putting it to those Pallassian [Alchemists]. Prices would soon mean his stockpiles of goods would be worth a lot more, and the flowers? This coming meeting of the rich and powerful and the Meeting of Tribes?
Business was good. He carried the faerie flower with him as he locked up. He was going to put it somewhere safe. The First Gardener had instructed him to not sell it while the matter was investigated, but he’d have this on a Courier-ship to Chandrar as soon as was legal.
He didn’t break the law. Humming, the Drake locked the shop, activated the enchanted seals—
“Whoops, terribly sorry, sir.”
He turned and collided with a Gnoll. The man steadied Igniz. The Drake wasn’t concerned about himself. He checked the pot and the flower—it was intact. He smiled.
“No problem at all. Have a good—”
The Drake’s eyes rolled up and he collapsed. People in the street turned as the man cried out in alarm.
“Someone call the [Healer]! I think the poor fellow’s had some kind of fit!”
He stood there, reaching for a potion, as someone ran to do just that. The passersby were worried—but the Gnoll seemed to know just what to do. He stood there, until Master Igniz began to come around, and then, certain he was well, walked off before Igniz woke up.
“Must have been the sun—maybe you were hurt, or maybe it’s overwork. You were lucky, Master Igniz. Someone had a potion—shame I didn’t see what the cause was, but you’re in the peak of health. But do stop by my clinic, just in case.”
The local [Healer] assured Igniz. The Drake groggily sat up.
“That—that was fortunate. Maybe it was stress? Or the day? I—”
He looked around. Then, in alarm, patted his vest. He stared about.
“The flower. Where did it go?”
The [Healer] stared at him, puzzled. Igniz shot to his feet and demanded everyone turn out their pockets or look for—
But of course, the flower pot was long gone.
 
—-
 
Researcher Dromenl was working all-night. Again. He knew he should sleep, but half the staff were sleeping here rather than going home. It was just—too exciting!
They had eight samples of the flowers, dearly acquired, rather than the one of everyone else. But then—they had a staff of eight of the best [Researchers] in the city! They would crack the flower’s secrets first, he was certain.
He was even certain that the flowers had another form that no [Gardener] had managed to grow. It was thanks to Dromenl that they even knew how to germinate the things.
“Bee pollination. Cross-pollination Skills kept failing so use bees. Simple. Butterflies—they resist Skills, but hand-tending yields fascinating results.”
He murmured to himself as he walked back from the bathroom to the flower he was working on. He’d known about incineration, but he wondered if freezing a bit of his sample might…? Well, better to hold off until he had more—
The man dropped his cup of tea with a shattering sound that had all the [Researchers] on their feet. They ran to check on him, make sure nothing valuable had been br—
The faerie flower pot was still there. And the soil. But the bloom was gone. Scooped out, replaced by a single, fat gold coin. So were all of the other seven. In the span of time Dromenl had gone to the bathroom. Gone.
 
—-
 
Across the city, a crime spree was taking place. It was fast. Expertly done.
One of the best [Horticulturists] opened his window for some fresh air. He closed it after a minute when a bee climbed in. He didn’t even notice his flower had been replaced by a little bell-flower for the next hour.
The Garuda [Scholar] that Lyonette had talked with didn’t sleep in his research area. He awoke the next day to find someone had broken in. Rather than fight the double-enchanted lock with six cunning tumblers—they’d grabbed the door and ripped it out of the socket. They’d left gold—enough to cover the costs! But the flower was gone.
And those were the mundane heists. The real ones were far more impressive. Like the shadow that flickered through one of the private gardens and stole twenty two flowers in between the [Gardeners] tending them, and raising the alarm. First five were missing, then eight—they realized the rest had been stolen as they panicked and looked around!
Word spread of the thefts, but too slowly. Nowhere was safe! A flower in a vault with ventilation too small for anything but air to enter was stolen! How? The owner was found asleep at his desk, with nary a bruise, and his key placed in front of him!
Stealth and force. Where one didn’t work, use the other. And where neither one worked alone, use both.
A pair of men strolled across Oteslia by night. They had a list. After all—a fellow should plan things straight out. Normally, they’d take more time.
But a [Princess] had seen all of the anxious people trying to protect their interests. And she had a good memory. They hummed a haunting tune, a children’s rhyme. Occasionally one or the other would part for a bit, and join the other.
 
“The night’s been long and the bodies are wet,
But don’t you fret; be quick and ain’t not a guard who’ll be upset
The good folk are rising, and we’re off to our beds,
The smart thieves away with the loot and the slow ones are dead.”
 
The rhyme of one of the great gangs of Izril. And two experts. Oh, but it had been a long time since they practiced their craft. It felt good. Liberating.
Oteslia knew crime. But it did not know one of the best duos in Izril. They were so quick.
“Enchanted window.”
“I see it. One, two, three—”
