“As in, for criminals?”
“Killers, famous [Thieves], and so on.”
Ratici nodded. Lyonette stared at the [Gentleman Thief]. Ratici adjusted his cap.
“And you didn’t think to…?”
“Miss Marquin. We are an upstanding lot!”
Wilovan looked hurt. And indeed, the [Guard] went through the flipbook, checked them again, this time tapping another amulet, and saw that they weren’t under an illusion—and didn’t match his papers.
“Very good. Sorry, everyone, random security check. But you seem…good to go.”
Lyonette exhaled. She had been worried about herself as much as…she smiled and then the [Guard] held out a claw.
“I just need to see your travel documents.”
Saliss…blinked. Wilovan, Ratici, and Lyonette, stirred. They stared at Ferris through the sliding door gap. The Gnoll slowly hunched his shoulders.
“…Shit.”
 
—-
 
The problem was—and this was most embarrassing to Ferris—he’d planned on taking Erin to Manus. In which case he wouldn’t have had a problem.
But he and Saliss had forgotten since they had little need to deal with basic travel. They were a special agent and Named Adventurer, respectively.
The [Watch Sergeant] came over to see what the holdup was as the Oteslian [Guard] spoke to Lyonette as if she was mad.
“…You have a passport, Miss, don’t you? I assume your travel grade is at least Grade-2 to request official transport? Izril’s Wonders is an established company.”
“Of course it is. But—we weren’t asked for a passport when we hired the carriage.”
Now all eyes were on Ferris. The [Watch Sergeant] frowned.
“I will investigate this with Izril’s Wonders, Miss. They need to check documentation. You, [Driver]. Your name?”
Ferris was cursing to himself as he produced his documents. The [Sergeant] turned to Lyonette and smiled apologetically.
“This appears to be a simple error in produce. In that case, may I see your Grade-1 passport, Miss?”
She visibly hesitated. The Gnoll [Sergeant] paused.
“You do have some passport, Miss? What Drake city did you come in from?”
“Well—we came from the north.”
“Past Pallass? And you didn’t stop at any city along the way? Really.”
The [Sergeant] gestured and more Oteslian [Guards] sauntered over. That was a bad cover story. Any Drake city she entered would have issued her at least a Grade-1 passport.
“I—did not know I needed a passport. But I can prove I came from Pallass. I would like to send a [Message] to someone who can vouch for my authenticity, if I may.”
Chaldion? Grimalkin? Lyonette’s mind was racing. The [Sergeant] just raised her brows.
“If you entered Pallass, miss, you would have been issued a passport. I think this calls for an investigation.”
She felt a tug at her arm. The first [Guard] whispered in her ear. Inside, Lyonette was looking at Wilovan and Ratici, who had…tensed a bit at the word ‘investigation’.
“Sarge—it’s high-quality artifacts. They didn’t fit any of the wanted posters, so I was just going to mark them and let them through, but…”
She grimaced. This was getting hairier by the second and it was the morning. She was just about to tell everyone to step out slowly, when the door opened.
She recoiled as a Drake wearing only pants emerged. She lifted her spear and the other [Guards] hefted their weapons, but he shoved something at her.
“Saliss of Lights. Hi, this Human’s with me.”
The [Sergeant] blinked. Then she stared at the mithril-plated card, glowing magical writing, and her eyes went round. One of the [Guards] made a sound.
“Named Adventurer—hold on. Someone get me a Glass of Identification. Excuse me—”
Five minutes later, the [Sergeant] completed the check. She handed the card back and bowed.
“Adventurer Saliss! Your identity checks out. Please excuse us—you’re free to enter the city. The other passengers, though…”
She looked into the carriage. Saliss reached out and casually unhooked the door.
“Funny story. They actually came from Liscor via Pallass. Magic door. So they never went through the gates.”
“Liscor?”
The Gnoll was blank. But one of the [Guards] had heard about it.
“They’ve got some kind of teleportation door, [Sergeant]. It might have actually happened.”
“That’s a violation in protocol. And Liscor doesn’t issue travel documents?”
“They haven’t really had to in centuries.”
She tsked.
“Well, in that case…we’ll go through Pallass and confirm this. The driver’s in trouble either way. I’m sorry for the confusion, Adventurer Saliss. Are these passengers acquaintances of yours? It won’t take more than a few hours if all is in order.”
He nodded reasonably.
“I get that. However, I’m Saliss.”
She hesitated as she went to unlatch the doors.
“Yes, sir, you are. Free to go…”
She reached out and he stepped in front of her.
“But I’m Saliss.”
“Yes, Adventurer?”
She stared at him. He gestured at the passengers. He spoke slowly, as if to try and get the words to sink in.
“They’re with me. And I vouch for them. And I’m Saliss.”
She replied, just as slowly, as if talking to a child or an extremely fragile person they were having to stop.
“Yes, Adventurer Saliss. But there’s protocol…”
“And I’m Saliss. They’re with me. Why don’t you contact Pallass now?”
He smiled. Lyonette, in the carriage, saw the [Sergeant] thinking.
 
—-
 
It was true that Drakes had rules and regulations that Human cities lacked. But it was also true that a Named Adventurer was a Named Adventurer. Saliss relaxed as their carriage was taken to the side.
Ferris was in trouble; Saliss hadn’t given him any protection, but Lyonette, Wilovan, and Ratici were having their Grade-2 documents written up at this very moment, instead of the hours-long wait. Authority was speed in bureaucracy.
“I forgot about those stupid documents. I never have to worry because I’m Saliss.”
“So you’ve said. Can you explain what they were talking about?”
Lyonette saw the [Scribe] working on her paper documents; they’d get stamps and time codes, signatures, and such, but they weren’t anything like his mithril card. Saliss shrugged.
“Grade-1 is basic. You can enter cities, and you’re not a criminal. Almost anyone can get those. Grade-2 means you can use services like carriages, buy goods in bulk, etc. Grade-3 means you can purchase land; most people can get Grades 1-3. Grade-4’s more about your clearance. And so on. They go up pretty high.”
Lyonette eyed him.
“So what is yours?”
He was picking at his teeth.
“Me? Grade-6. Because they don’t like me. I should have like, a Grade-8; Grade-9 is for top brass like a [General] or head of state. Walled Cities are petty. You know, Zel Shivertail was only actually Grade-7?”
She nodded slowly. This might not matter too much for her future, but it was just another way in which she was realizing how cut-off Liscor had been.
“Miss? We’re nearly done with your background certifications. Pallass has provided that…I can write in the last details. Adventurer Saliss, can you sign one of the authentication forms here?”
Saliss sighed and did it three times. The [Scribe] stared at him; she was in awe of Saliss, probably because she hadn’t ever met…Saliss…and only knew the better rumors.
“Yes, what do I do?”
Lyonette sat there. The Drake smiled.
“Just your name, age, country of origin, and minor details, Miss.”
Ah. Lyonette du Marquin hesitated. She eyed Wilovan and Ratici, who both looked just as unhappy about this kind of documentation. She opened her mouth—and then had an idea.
“Lyon Solstice. Spelled ‘L-I-O-N’, by the way. I come from C—Invrisil.”
“I see, I see. Lion Solstice…age?”
“Eight—no, nineteen this year.”
“We try to be accurate, miss. Eighteen…a few more questions…any prior criminal charges with a Drake city? No…mhm…”
Lyonette was sweating a bit. But the [Scribe] was writing all of it down! Wilovan and Ratici gave identical responses, nearly. First Landing was where they came from.
“All right! This is all set.”
The three relaxed. The [Scribe] smiled brightly.
“Now, all I have to do is take your statement via truth stone that the following is correct, you sign here, I sign here…and we’re done. Let me just find my stone…”
Lyonette began sweating again. She saw the [Scribe] fussing about and then the Drake of the hour swept in. His name was Saliss. It should have been Chaos.
“Hey. I know this is taking a bit, so I’m going to just stand outside in front of the carriages until you’re done, alright?”
The [Scribe], Watch Sergeant, and other people in the gatehouse office looked around. Saliss stood up.
And he had removed his pants. The [Scribe] recoiled. The Desk Sergeant stared.
“Adventurer Saliss, what are you—”
“Don’t mind me! Just going to do some stretches while I wait. Not like I’m in a hurry or a famous adventurer or anything! Excuse me! Stop! Pushups here. One, two…”
“Adventurer Saliss, we have a procedure—why are you naked?”
Lyonette began to breathe as she heard a commotion. People were shouting, screaming, and still, Saliss was quite audible.
“Don’t mind me! Nothing to see here! How long will it take? Thirty minutes? A thousand pushups—no, two thousand. Hey! What are you staring at?”
Lyonette had never seen someone sign or stamp the passports as fast as in the next two minutes. She received hers, the ink still wet, and she was practically thrown out of the gatehouse, with Saliss’ pants. He put them back on and Wilovan inspected his passport.
“Now that, sir, was a handy bit of improvisation.”
“I blame Ferris. I hope they take it out on him. What kind of [Driver] doesn’t do this? I thought he was a professional…er, [Driver].”
Saliss grumbled as he put on his pants. The [Guards] stepped back. The unlucky gate crew had gotten word from higher-ups; Saliss had been here before.
Thus, Lyonette entered the city. And the effort it had taken just to do that…sort of set the stage for everything else. This was not Pallass, where they had numerous connections. She had gold, and Saliss was a Named Adventurer.
But Oteslia wasn’t their city. Lyonette felt at her money in the bag of holding and wished there was a lot more. She wished she had an Erin to let loose to get all the favors they might need. Or…something of true value. She had some of Numbtongue’s gemstones, all the gold the inn could spare.
There was one thing she could parlay. One very valuable item that even the City of Growth might not have. A flower from a land beyond this one.
Or she would have. If only. Because disaster struck time and time again. Something had happened on the Summer Solstice. It had barely mattered among all the rest. But still, it twisted in Lyonette’s gut. A dark visitor, never seen. And a consequence of their passage—
All the faerie flowers were dead.
 
—-
 
“Hey, why are we monking around when we said there’d be something Archmage around here instead of the Meeting of Tribes?”
Translation: Why are we wasting time, sitting around, doing something pointless, when we said there would be something grandiose, exciting, magical around here instead of the Meeting of Tribes?
The slang was the hardest part to keep up with. It kept changing and it was really only the kids who used it. Mivi had never heard a fellow adventurer use ‘monking’ as a verb. Nor was it entirely accurate. They said ‘Archmage’ to mean cool.
But they had clearly never met an Archmage before. Anyways, she and the others were sitting on a rooftop. Those without wings had climbed up. They were tossing bits of tart at flocks of birds; a monkey climbed up and was shooed away by one of the Gnolls.
Oteslia had animals. It was haven to countless species, and it was considered the least-militant of all the cities along with Fissival. One of the most inclusive too; Gnolls were in far higher numbers here, along with other species like Garuda, Humans, even Selphids, and half-Elves in fair numbers.
Nature was for Oteslia. It wasn’t always great, though. The streets got dirty from all the uh, excrement, and if you’d ever been hit by aerial Pegasi poo, you understood why the streets had lots of cloth canvas awnings and ‘splatter shields’.
“Hey Vuc, you don’t like it, you can Creler off.”
Mivi retorted to one of the genuine young people. He huffed and gave her a side-long look of appraisal. She ground her teeth. He knew—but he wasn’t suited for this.
“Come on, Vuc. This is fun. Look at all the sunlight down there.”
Cire was admiring the visitors, especially young Drakes or Gnolls of a female persuasion. Mivi sighed. He was…predictable. And unfortunately, once he had reached a certain point in his adulthood—about when she’d been twenty—he’d hit a Dragon’s stage in puberty.
As in, he had sex. And he went through relationships like Mivi went through scale polish cream. It was really, really troublesome to deal with and a new phase in Oteslia’s difficulties rearing him.
Mivi had heard that the Dragon of Manus had been just as bad, although she was female and perhaps easier to deal with in some ways than a brash Dragon boy. Then again…perhaps not.
Different, not easier. Anyways, Cire was infamous for it. And the problem was—
“Hey, don’t be jealous, Miv.”
He was sitting next to her. He twined his tail around hers and tried to put a claw down the back of her pants.
Mivi nearly kicked Cire off the rooftop.
“Cire, knock it off.”
He looked hurt and scooted back as the others laughed.
“Come on, Miv! It’s been ages since we were a thing. I thought you were down with it. What’s gotten into you? Well, whatever.”
He looked hurt, then turned his head as if he didn’t care at all. Mivi tried to calm down. But that?
Twenty plus years ago, then, for a while ten years back. And he…forgot. Deliberately, or accidentally. Mivi on the other hand had long-since changed.
“If Mivi’s giving you the cold wing, Cire, take a look at that. There’s a Plains Gnoll! Shining.”
One of the other genuine youths pointed. Cire was staring in a moment.
“Where? Where? Wow. Is that markings from her tribe on her fur? She’s wearing nothing?”
Necla gave Mivi a look and muttered.
“You okay?”
“Yes. Forget about it.”
Perhaps she should…retire. Her past relationships, when they had been the same age and she had been head-over-tail in love with him, was complicating the now, especially when he thought they were still back then, or no time had passed. She was to blame, as well as the elaborate system of lies and deception. But the alternative had been bad, too.
Fetale was going to start ‘aging up’. He’d stop using makeup, start being too old to hang with. Soon, Cire would understand he was older and if he met Fetale—
But he wouldn’t. Fetale and he wouldn’t meet again. So it went.
