She supposed that was true. Saliss led her towards the nice part of Oteslia, large homes, practically mansions. Not as rich as some parts of Pallass, she thought, until she realized the real luxury was into the homes built into the tree itself.
Mivifa the Oldblood of Feathers had a huge studio mansion, with a large pool, outdoor area; even for Oteslia, it was a lot of lawn. That was until Lyonette saw Feathi, the Pegasus, grazing outdoors. Saliss waved.
“Hey! There’s Feathi! Hey! It’s me!”
The Pegasus took one look at Saliss and put up one of her brilliant, speckled wings and hid behind it. Saliss looked at Lyonette.
“See? Now, let’s go bother Mivifa so we can bring back the person everyone actually likes.”
He smiled so sadly, then. But he was bounding up the steps in an instant.
 
—-
 
Mivifa flew back to her home with feathered wings. That was—Mividel’s home. She slipped in from the porch, having shed the wings with feathers she could grow two blocks away. She just had to grab—
Cire was sitting in her living room, on the worn couch. Mivi froze as she entered.
“Hey. So, like, was he your ex or something? Or was that really Saliss of Lights? Because everyone’s saying he is. So…are you Mivifa?”
He was looking at an illustration of them together. Around her little home. Mivi froze.
She hadn’t prepared. Had he seen her vanity? She normally only used this place to sleep and host parties where Cire was coming. It wasn’t a place lived in.
“What? You’re Creler-brained. Hey, I sorted it out. He thought I looked like Mivifa. Maybe that was Saliss. Archmage, right? Maybe I’m related to Mivifa after all, though.”
She tried with a grin. Cire just looked at her.
When he sat there, alone, not socializing as he almost always was, he looked older. Despite being so young. He didn’t even like sleeping alone, Mivi knew.
He said he had bad dreams, alone.
“You know, you’ve been a Silver-ranked adventurer for a while. Like—how many years now?”
Mivifa froze as she walked into her apartment. She tried to shrug.
“Years. Who uses those stupid numbering system. That’s the tree-system, Cire. I don’t bother, do you?”
Normally he’d laugh. Today? He just looked at her.
“Where’s Fessi?”
“At the stables. What, you think—you are monking, Cire. Just because we both have Pegasi? Do I have wings coming out my back?”
At last, the Dragon grinned. He relaxed.
“I know that! I’m just—flapping about. That was weird, is all. But hey—you saw I was nearly in that Human girl’s pants, right?”
“Gross. And no, you weren’t. If I hadn’t dragged you off, she’d have stabbed you.”
Mivifa was relieved, and thought he was just as relieved. Cire scoffed.
“She was into me. There was something about her, you know? She was like…shining. But not just because she had a nice body. There was something else.”
Mivifa frowned, but she put it down to bluster.
“You mind Crelering off? I need to talk to the Guildmistress.”
“Aw, no, really?”
“Yep. She wants to make Saliss happy, so guess who gets to help because you had to make him toss a potion?”
“I Crelered up. Look, I’ll make it up to you.”
“Whatever. Get lost, you.”
She smiled until he was gone. Then she packed up the few things she needed to take.
Fetale slipped in and she glared at him.
“Thanks for the warning.”
“It’s on your [Message] scroll. He lost us, believe it or not. He’s too fast when he wants to be—sorry.”
“It’s Archmage.”
“Gah.”
They both grimaced and grinned at the slang. Mivifa turned.
“I need to deal with Saliss. Handle him for me?”
“Yeah. I guess I’m in charge until he’s gone. Mivi—”
She turned. Fetale was standing there.
“Hm?”
The Drake met her eyes, seriously.
“That was the most shaken I’ve seen him in years. He’s not going to stay fooled. We’re putting together a ‘Mivifa’ so you can deny it, but—”
Her smile vanished.
“I know. It might be time for Mivi to leave.”
He nodded slowly. With heavy wings, Mivifa changed and flew towards her home.
 
—-
 
It was two of them. The Human and Saliss.
That surprised Mivifa as she flew back to her home. The Oldblood of Feathers had thought it was mere coincidence or a passing acquaintance.
She didn’t know why Saliss was h—wait, yes she did. That war with the Guild of Assassins in the north.
She’d forgotten about the massive detonation he’d caused. He had to be out of his potions stock, even for Saliss. And his power relied on having hundreds, thousands of pre-prepared battle potions.
No wonder he’d come here. Mivifa went over what to say as she landed on the patio, and went in through the back. By the time she opened the door, she was half-smiling.
“Saliss, just when my day can’t get worse.”
“Mivifa!”
He had a similar expression. Lyonette, behind him, half-bowed, uncertain what to do. Mivifa’s eyes flicked to her.
“Hello, Miss. Sorry about my—the young Drake who bothered you, earlier.”
“Oh, it’s nothing, Adventurer Mivifa. My name is—”
“This is Lyon. Mivifa, let’s talk. Lyonette, you stare at the door for a moment.”
Saliss strode on through, closing the door in Lyonette’s face. Mivifa heard an outraged sound. She sighed.
“I’m sorry, Miss Lyon! The patio’s open around back. Saliss, do you have to lock her out?”
“Named Adventurer stuff.”
The Drake was being his usual, antagonizing self. But in truth—
Here was the thing. Mivifa did not hate Saliss. On the contrary, she and he got along. Better than she did with the Swordsman of Six of Manus, for instance. Or Shriekblade, although those two were polar opposites.
They understood each other in a way. She’d known him back when he was just ‘Chaldion’s grandson’, and she was just Mivifa the Flier—one of those generic names you sometimes got. Not even a real title. Just something like—‘hey, that adventurer with the Pegasus is pretty good. Who? Mivifa. The flier? Oh, her…’
But Saliss? Perhaps it was Cire. One was unintentionally childish. Saliss was all intention. And if you remembered that, sometimes he was a lot more bearable.
Sometimes.
“Nice place you have. Feathi still hates me.”
Saliss had found her kitchen. He had an amazing memory; he’d already put some tea on. He was glancing at her, but Mivifa just folded her arms.
“She likes you, as much as that’s possible. Did she do the wing-trick? That’s her being playful. If she hated you, she’d fly over you and give you a shower.”
“Hah! I knew I liked her. So. Sorry about interrupting your fun.”
Saliss glanced up. Mivifa kept her face half-smiling, even though her insides went cold. That was Saliss. He could switch from friendly to barbs in a moment and some idiots couldn’t tell which was which. He’d been pissed during their failed raid on the Antinium. Now he was…different.
“You didn’t interrupt much. Although what happened to respecting privacy?”
He shrugged.
“I was deniable. But you could have said ‘I’ll tell Mivifa if I see her’. That’s sort of how [Spies] do things. I think. You don’t acknowledge me, I dance naked on your doorstep. That’s how it works.”
That was true. Mivifa glared, but he was unapologetic. If she’d been thinking, rather than panicking, she would have done that.
“How’re the lungs?”
Another change of topic in a moment. Mivifa coughed, reflexively.
“Good. They got me a full treatment. No permanent scarring…not much. Nothing like Izril’s Courier got. She actually sent me a [Message], you know. Making sure I was alright.”
“Huh. And here I thought it was a secret operation. So much for that.”
Saliss poured two cups. And then put a third out, empty. For Lyonette. Mivifa saw him toss one end-over-end at her.
She didn’t flinch. The liquid never left the cup. And it slowed and fell right into her hand. She sniffed, sipped.
Neither one missed a beat. If you blinked at that, you weren’t able to be a Named Adventurer.
“I think Oteslia contacted her, honestly. To make sure they knew how to deal with the poison. I never thanked you for bailing us out.”
“Well, it was a stupid idea and I just went full-idiotic until even the Antinium had enough. They weren’t being serious, either.”
Saliss relaxed. The two adventurers nodded; that was recap for you. No talking about ‘we nearly died’, or ‘what was up with Klbkch the Slayer being attacked by Wrymvr?’ If they knew, or had ideas—they represented each other’s cities.
A careful dance. And Saliss could dance. The opposite of Cire, again.
“About what you saw—”
Mivifa brought it up and Saliss was ready.
“Secret. Lips sealed. Help me out, though. You know I’m out of potions?”
She exhaled.
“I’ll introduce you to anyone you need. Not that you don’t have a reputation. But I bet the First Gardener would lean on the big suppliers just to have you out of her city. Please don’t cause more altercations.”
“No promises.”
He grinned. Mivifa waited. One, two, three…sip. And then it was daggers out again.
“So, that Drake was pretty young.”
He was almost predictable at times. If you knew him. Mivifa folded her arms, as if defensively. And this was her time to be an [Actor]. Her first class.
“It’s my business what I do in my spare time. You never asked when you sold me any of the potions.”
The [Alchemist] looked at her. And Mivifa felt her stomach churning. He might not say anything. Probably not, actually. But if he did—this was what the First Gardener had asked of her.
If it came out that Mivifa the Oldblood of Feathers chased younger men about in her free time…it wasn’t the worst thing to come out about a Named Adventurer. It was only her reputation.
For Cirediel, she would do it in a heartbeat. Saliss shrugged.
“Fair enough. He was cute, I guess. I’m not an expert on what Drake women like. But they don’t get younger than that, do they?”
Mivifa was caught mid-smile. She reflexively answered.
“No! Of course not!”
This time the [Alchemist] did grin. His eyes flickered. She saw him flick a claw and knew he’d been using some kind of potion.
“Good to hear. Because I’d have had to kill you, otherwise.”
They looked at each other. The air tensed—then both Named Adventurers laughed. They began talking, Mivifa asking about the Guild business, why he’d even done something that stupid. Saliss about the Meeting of Tribes and new developments in Oteslia.
Both of them knew Saliss had meant every word he’d just said.
 
—-
 
Lyonette stomped around the back of Mivifa’s home. The gate was unlocked, which made her worry the Named Adventurer was as careless as Saliss…
…Until she realized Mivifa had the world’s most dangerous attack-Pegasus in her huge, open lawn. The splendid creature wasn’t actually snow-white, like all the picture books. If anything, her fur and feathers were a slight blue, and speckled with bright bits of cerulean.
She was magnificent, too. And intelligent. Lyonette halted.
She had begun to realize how much Saliss was doing and how little she was. He’d gotten her into the city, found them a contact—if not a place to stay—and knew Oteslia.
Lyonette hadn’t even been able to chase off an obnoxious Drake. The [Princess] did not like feeling useless. It was nostalgic, but not everything nostalgic was good.
She knew Saliss had to be discussing something he couldn’t say in front of her—Drake politics perhaps. So she waited outside. Feathi was watching her, a bit warily, but she must have a connection with Mivifa that told her Lyonette was harmless.
Was she like Apista? Lyonette investigated the nice patio, built onto the balcony. Mivifa was a…[Beast Master], according to Lyonette’s vague knowledge of her. Apista was hardly a dedicated companion, but Lyonette had a few Skills. And Apista was smart enough to send messages, do guard duty on Mrsha, even go hunting for rats and other pests. And that was a bee, no offense to Apista.
On a hunch and memory, Lyonette turned. She walked out onto the lawn and the Pegasus’ wings instantly rose in an aggressive position. She was already horse-sized, but when she raised the wings, she looked massive.
Lyonette halted. She gulped, and then—bowed. The Pegasus blinked at her. Lyonette bowed very gracefully.
“Hello, Pegasus Feathi? My name is Lyon Solstice. I am very pleased to meet you, and hope I am not intruding…”
 
—-
 
“I’ll let you stay here. Four? It’s no problem. My apartment can handle that many, easily. Mind you—a lot of rooms are dusty.”
Saliss hesitated.
“We can go to an inn or somewhere.”
He was taken aback by her putting him up. Mivifa just shrugged.
“I don’t care.”
In truth, she wanted Saliss under her watch. She’d live with seeing a naked Drake walking about and his constant annoyances for a week or two. He shrugged.
“Well, aren’t you generous? Okay, let’s meet Lyon. She’s—interesting. And she’s here for that antidote I mentioned.”
“Who got hurt?”
“Another Human.”
He said it lightly, but Mivifa thought that was what she would have to dig into—if she cared. She nodded, and they walked out onto the patio, negotiations completed. There she saw Lyonette just in time to see her bow, and Feathi trot over.
 
—
 
Mivifa’s laughter made Lyonette jump. Then blush. But the Oldblood of Feathers leapt from her patio and soared all the way to where they were in one gliding jump. Saliss copied her and splatted onto the lawn. He rolled after her, then sprang to his feet. Feathi snorted at him, but continued to let Lyonette stroke her head.
“I’m sorry. I didn’t meant to insult you, Miss…Lyon? But that was cleverly done! Feathi doesn’t let many people so close.”
The Named Adventurer was approving. Lyonette smiled, and felt like it was the first smart move she’d pulled off since coming to Oteslia.
“What did she do? I’ve never seen that mule with wings ever let anyone pet her head without you being there first. Hey, Feathi. It’s me—ha!”
He jerked an arm out of range as the Pegasus bit and missed. She was a lot more…aggressive…than the legends of the gentle, winged steeds indicated.
“She introduced herself and bowed, Saliss. You could be more respectful—Feathi understands everything people say. Was that spontaneous, Miss Lyon?”
“No. I’d heard of bowing to a [Beast Master]’s companion in my—where I come from.”
Saliss blinked at Lyonette. Mivifa was approving.
“Well done. I’m told you come from Liscor. That’s a long ways away. Is it true the city’s practically unrecognizable? I’ve flown there once or twice, but I’ve never gone much further.”
“It’s something. Ah—I am Lyon Solstice. Pleased to meet you, Adventurer Mivifa?”
