Resigned, Mivi listened to the young Drakes pointing out attractive females. This, at least, was the true occupation of young males of most species. It wasn’t just her and Necla rolling their eyes.
“I bet you that you couldn’t talk to her for more than a minute, Vuc.”
“You what, Cire? Bet.”
The Drake Oldblood, outraged, leapt from the rooftop and made his way through the crowd. His friends jeered or laughed as he went for the Plains Gnoll they were so taken with. He did his best, leaning against the stall and introducing himself.
…He struck out after eight seconds. The Gnoll was clearly older than him, and clearly not in the mood for this. Vuc flew back as Cire and the others made fun of him.
“Told you. I bet I could get her to laugh, though.”
“You wish.”
Vuc muttered sullenly. He was blushing, but trying not to show it. Cire pointed arrogantly down at the crowd of visitors coming through the northern gate.
“You name any one down there—I’ve got Gold-rank moves. Everyone knows that.”
He bragged. That raised their tempers. Mivi sighed. Vuc’s head turned.
“You don’t have mad—what about her, then?”
“The same Gnoll? Psst. You ruined that, Vuc.”
“Oh yeah? What about her?”
Another Gnoll. Cire shrugged.
“Not interested.”
“Oh yeah? That Garuda, there.”
“I…eh. I could do it. If I wanted to.”
“I dare you to.”
“Why that Garuda? I’m not into feathers. What about that Drake, there?”
Cire pointed. Vuc snorted.
“I thought you could talk up anyone, Cire. Not just your own species.”
Oooh. Some of the new Gnolls whistled. Cire turned red.
“Oh yeah? Point and I’ll decide. Give me options!”
“That Gnoll. Or that…Minotauress! Hah, you’ve got moves enough for her, Cire?”
“Not interested.”
“Why are you wagging your tails off, Vuc, Cire? This is boring.”
Mivi called out. She gave the young Drake, Vuc, a warning glance. But he was too angry. He pointed.
“What about that Gnoll? Come on, Cire! I [Druid]-dare you. No, I Demon-dare you!”
“Vuc…”
Cire was getting angry. So was Mivi. She knew what the Drake was doing.
He knew what Cire was. And he also knew that a lot of Cire’s ‘Gold-rank moves’ had to do with the fact that Oteslians knew too.
That was why Vuc was pointing out Gnolls, non-Oteslians who weren’t ‘in the know’. It was stupid, childish…he deliberately turned away.
“Come on, Cire. How about…that one? I Dragon-dare you.”
Mivi heard another oooh, and laughter. But Cire’s head spun around. He stared down at the person and then looked at Vuc.
“Sure. You’re on.”
There was no way he’d have turned down that dare, even though it was common parlance. He leapt from the rooftops and sauntered through the crowd.
Vuc was grinning triumphantly—right up until Mivi tugged him back with a friendly arm like steel. She dragged him away as the others watched Cire make his move on the female visitor that Vuc had pointed out.
In an alleyway, Vuc grinned, almost as if he expected something.
“What’s this about, Miv—”
She put an arm against his throat and pushed his head into the wall.
“Listen, you little hatchling. Stop egging Cire on or I will throw you into a Shield Spider nest, understand?”
He gurgled. Mivi was a Named Adventurer; he was just a kid. She increased the pressure slightly.
“You know exactly why not to provoke Cire. And you. Are. Doing. It. Enough. Stop talking, find an excuse to leave, and don’t let me see you again or we will have problems. Understand?”
She kept the pressure on. He gasped when she lowered her arm.
“You—you can’t do that! I’m—you’re an adventurer! I’ll tell—”
Mivifa folded her arms.
“Tell someone? Listen up. That’s two mistakes you’ve made today. If you don’t want to forget the last three months since you met Cire and wake up in your bed, you are going to walk out of this alleyway, and leave. Don’t go back on the roof. Tell someone? Go ahead and find a Guardswoman. See what happens.”
She stared at him. He flinched. This was Oteslia’s secret. Mivi pointed.
“Get lost.”
He ran. She looked around, and saw Necla lounging at the alleyway’s entrance.
“Send a group after him. I don’t trust him to be halfway smart.”
“Got it.”
He was going to wake up with hazy memories at best. And Oteslia would have spent gold on another stupid kid who couldn’t handle the truth. Mivi rested her head against the wall before leaving.
Wouldn’t it be better to…?
No, the truth could not come out. Cire was too young, and she knew exactly how other cities—other nations might respond. But this acting—maybe that had to end. She felt like there were Drakes like Vuc every week. No wonder Oteslia was poor. Well, this was a poor excuse. But she’d seen the budget and it wasn’t helping.
Why did Cire have to take so long to grow? She felt bad about scaring Vuc already. He was just a young Drake. Barely more than a brat and she was a Named Adventurer. She went out of the alleyway just in time to see Cire accost a young woman in the street.
 
—-
 
“Okay, what’s our first step?”
“I think it’s to meet with my contact. Unless you have somewhere you want to start?”
Saliss of Lights sauntered into Oteslia with Lyonette, Wilovan, and Ratici. The Gentlemen Callers held back, politely letting the two take lead. Lyonette nodded.
She had no contacts here. No knowledge of where to start.
“Who’s your friend? Another [Alchemist]?”
Saliss winked at her.
“You think my only friends are [Alchemists]? Wait, you think I have friends? Touching. But we need a place to stay, and introductions. Oteslia is about knowing people as much as having gold to spend. And we’ll have to go outside of my regular suppliers to find the exotic stuff and experts.”
Lyonette had feared that. She nodded.
“Do you know where to find them?”
“Eh, I thought I’d ask. Hey—hey you. Is the Oldblood of Feathers in the city? I’m Saliss. Excuse me…”
The Drake promptly went to the nearest person, a Plains Gnoll shopping in the market right by the gates, and tapped her on the shoulder. Lyonette sighed.
He had Erin-energy. Which could be a good thing, but…she looked around.
She didn’t know where to begin. Did Saliss even need her? Ratici sidled up.
“Miss Marquin. If you feel safe in Saliss’ presence, Wilovan and I might do a bit of recon ourselves, as it were. See what our scene looks like.”
She glanced at him.
“You won’t cause trouble?”
The Gentleman Caller tipped his cap.
“We’ll be discreet. But there’s few ways for us to help you aside from sorting out the wrong sort unless…”
“Yes, thank you. Er—whatever you need to do. I’ll stay with Saliss.”
“You’ll be safe?”
Ratici studied her. Lyonette swirled the Cloak of Balshadow and showed him her rings—and the Wand of [Fireballs] that Hedault had recharged for her.
“I think so.”
He nodded. Wilovan tipped his tall hat and they vanished in a second. Lyonette turned back to Saliss—
And the Drake was gone. How did an [Alchemist] without a shirt vanish? The crowd swirled around her.
It was like being in a new city again. Lyonette felt a moment’s apprehension. She was alone—like Erin had been. Maybe she should have asked for one of the two to stay with her? But it wasn’t like she’d be hurt in a crowd. Surely. She made her way forwards, looking for familiar scales or a voice—or just someone screaming about nudity.
“Hey, lovely lady. You look lost. New to Oteslia? I could show you around.”
…And within a moment, someone had found her. A Drake leaned against a shop counter, grinning. Lyonette blinked.
“Um. Hello?”
The Drake had loose trousers and a tunic—both rather nice, but altered to make room for his wings and a tail. That already made him Oldblood, but he was, well, rather splendid.
His scales were a unique green coloration that turned to brown or even purple in places. A pattern almost as vibrant as Lizardfolk’s, unlike the Drake monochrome color. And he looked—healthy.
It was hard to describe. It was like the one out of ten thousand, or a million, who had a vitality that let them do back-to-back marathons, or other obnoxious feats of endurance. He gave her a grin with swagger.
“The name’s Cire. And you are?”
Not interested. In spite of all his good looks, Lyonette did not intend to waste time. Nor was she available in any sense of the word.
“Very pleased to meet you. Excuse me. I’m just looking for a friend, actually.”
She stepped around him. The Drake blinked as she walked past him in a moment. He hesitated, glanced at a distant roof, and hurried after her.
“Come on! Who’s your friend? Where are you from, Miss? The north? Another continent? Are you here to buy something? I know everyone in the city.”
“I’m sure you do, but I’m really busy. Thank you!”
It was funny. Lyonette had not had this problem before. Not in Liscor, or even First Landing when it might have worked.
Something about…her personality…might have repelled young men trying it then. Lyonette vaguely recalled something like that. Actually—
Cire was walking next to her.
“Where are you going, at least? Do you have an inn in mind? I bet you don’t. I know the best spots. How about—”
He saw the young woman with fiery hair swing around. Lyonette’s blue eyes met his—she was very attractive, even if she hadn’t dressed up—and the Dragon felt a…shock of something. He blinked at her. But then he saw her friendly mouth open and—
“Excuse me, peon. But I don’t recall inviting your solicitations. Begone, and do not trouble me again.”
She lifted her chin and sniffed. He stared at her. Lyonette walked off through the crowd. Or tried to. Five steps and he was asking where she was from again.
 
—-
 
“Aaay, my crew. Vuc and I just had to message each other over something and he had to tele out. Someone spell me on what’s the fly with Cire?”
One of the Gnolls who wasn’t part of the team turned to stare at Mivi.
“…What? Is that Oteslian slang I don’t know? Because that didn’t sound like words.”
Mivi hesitated. Then dialed it back.
“Is Cire down there still?”
“Yep. He’s eating his own tail with that Human. Looks like he’s gone 0-4. He’ll be eating grass soon if she brushes him off any harder.”
“I’d eat her grass, if you know what I mean.”
“You’re disgusting. Wait—do Humans even have that?”
“Believe me, they do. Because I’ve seen it so many times.”
Mivi sighed. She coughed and felt her lungs rasp. But would she go another ten minutes against Wrymvr the Deathless rather than be stuck here?
…Maybe, honestly. She looked down at Cire—and shook her head.
“I’m going down there.”
Necla blinked at her. But Mivi had had enough. She wasn’t Cire’s age and he wasn’t acting his. That poor young woman probably didn’t want to have a Drake trying to flirt with her. Mivi hopped down off the roof again and walked through the streets.
Doctrine among the group overseeing Cire’s…growth…was to let him do anything that wasn’t drugs, dangerous, or revealing. And they had implemented the false actors and memory-altering program after far too many close calls.
Cire wasn’t Rafaema, and Oteslia wasn’t Manus, which could suppress rumors or news. Mivi had been inducted into the group at eighteen, when Cire had told her he was more than he seemed while they were…a couple.
Since then, Mivi had taken more and more responsibility. Now—she felt like Oteslia’s organization of secrecy had gone too far. Cire was uncontrollable, and he needed some discipline. Perhaps not like Rafaema; Mivi had met her as Mivifa or on the joint-visits every few years at minimum for the last of the Dragons.
Rafaema had always seemed too controlled, too perfect and rigid. A product of Manus. But Mivi was tired of Cire’s wildness. He had to grow up some day.
Dead gods. He still thought the First Gardeners before the present one had gone on vacations around the world. Or if he did know—
He surely did. But the boy refused to admit the truth. Oteslia and the First Gardener had once tried to confront him with it. Disastrous. He had nearly starved to death in mourning. It had taken six years to recover his shattered health. Mivi had read the reports, and the First Gardener had resigned in shame.
Even so.
 
—-
 
Lyonette was wondering how much trouble she’d get in for a [Flawless Attempt] punch to the face with this annoying Drake. He would not give up.
And he was distracting her from finding Saliss. She kept thinking he was ahead—
“Come on, just your name and I’ll leave you be.”
“Lyon. Will you go away?”
“Lyon. Sssexy. Hey, you know that I’m like, famous, in Oteslia? My mother’s…”
Lyonette stomped off. She saw a commotion ahead and hurried towards it.
“Thank goodness. Saliss? S—”
A large dog with a hurt foot was whining in the crowd of onlookers. A [Guard] was confronting a family of four. Drakes.
“We haven’t done anything wrong!”
“No, Miss. But your pet is injured. And you appeared to be pulling it with you. We have laws in Oteslia.”
“It’s a scratch.”
The mother and father were exasperated. One of the two Drake children—holding the leash—were impatient.
“He got it while playing fetch! Do you have any authority to detain us, sir?”
The father was not an Oteslian, that was for sure. Lyonette slowed as she realized this was not a Saliss-incident, surprisingly. Just a commonplace altercation.
Over an animal? The [Guard] was sighing.
“All I need you to do is accompany me to check with a truth stone about—”
“This is ridiculous. I heard Oteslia was full of inane rules, but this? We have an appointment at the Merchant’s Guild!”
The Drake father was blustering. The mother, more sensibly, was trying to calm him down.
“Guardsman, what if you checked on us later? Dear—dear—let’s not shout at the Watch.”
The two sons were in their late teens, like the annoying Drake. Lyonette was scanning for Saliss when she heard one of them say something.
“We don’t have to deal with this.”
“Indeed we don’t. I—I request an adjudication of [Druids]! Hah! I heard you can do that! Have one sent to us later.”
The [Guardsman] lowered the pad where he had been talking with the wife.
“Sir—I don’t think you want to do that. Sir—”
But it was too late. The crowd looked around and people began circulating it.
An adjudication of [Druids]? Lyonette had never heard such a thing.
“Oh, wow. He’s in trouble.”
Cire popped up next to her, smirking. She stared at him and nearly walked away, but she was curious.
“Why?”
“You don’t ask for the [Druids] if you want to get out of something. He’d better hope no one’s nearby or…whoops!”
