“No, but she’s a friend. And I bought Sage’s Grass from the [Farmer] in Celum, but he’s a damned [Pirate]. Literally. Still cheaper than Oteslia, but his is only one farm…I need it all.”
The [Herbalist] pursed her lips.
“Well, I need some for my brews too. Alright, here’s what I have. I made it up as soon as I knew what you were dealing with. It’s all I can spare.”
Lyonette blinked. The Drake [Herbalist] began putting box upon box on the counter. Saliss relaxed.
“That’s your entire stock.”
“Well, I can get more faster than you can. And you can pay me just enough for a profit.”
Saliss hesitated.
“Let me at least do market-value. Everyone else is going to gouge me—you might as well earn something. Maybe they’ll think twice now that you did this. Unless you want me to keep silent…?”
She waved a claw.
“They’ll be furious, but it happens. Good luck, Saliss. How’s Pallass been?”
The Drake glanced at her.
“Same old, same old. Oteslia?”
“Better than Pallass.”
“Hm. Need a tail while I’m here on anything in particular?”
Another look at Lyonette. The Drake shook her head.
“Nothing I can really complain of. Just don’t get yourself killed, Saliss. I nearly swallowed my tail when I saw the fight with those Human [Assassins]. Tell Mirn he’s welcome to vacation here at any time.”
Saliss nodded. They actually hugged. Lyonette blinked as he put the boxes in his bag of holding and signed a slip for her to cash in at the Merchant’s Guild.
“You got your ingredients?”
“Enough to begin working. Herissa’s not a huge supplier—but she gave me what she could. Maybe it’ll help. Hopefully it doesn’t put her in too much trouble with the Herbalist’s Guild.”
He sighed. Lyonette hesitated. The Drake had just forked it all over without even haggling, unlike the united [Herbalists] and [Suppliers] of every species.
“Do you know her? It sounded like she owed you a debt.”
Saliss glanced at Lyonette.
“We’re old friends. And yes, we help each other. Forget about it. Friendship and stuff goes beyond economics. I still need more. I could wish for ten Herissas and I’d still need more. Damn. Let’s see if that makes Igniz change his tune. Any luck on the [Researchers]?”
“No. They’re all working on some project or other.”
“Really. That’s what I heard. Half the shops are selling something in the backrooms. But I’m not interested right now. Probably some ‘wonder herb’ like usual. I’ll see if I can find out what it is after this.”
They were walking back into Leafhold when they saw an angry customer arguing with Mister Igniz.
“But this is ridiculous, no? Listen, you cannot charge these prices! Pallass’ [Alchemists] cannot afford it!”
“Then they will buy it somewhere else. Oh, Baleros maybe.”
The angry Gnoll with stained fur stuck his finger up at the Drake as Saliss and Lyonette came to an abrupt standstill. He was actually trembling with fury. The Gnoll was old and he still wore his partly-corroded apron.
“This is robbery! We have been doing good business for years! And right when I need help most, you—”
“Xif?”
The Gnoll turned at Lyonette’s voice. He started, then stared.
“Is that Miss Lyon? And—”
His gaze turned left. The yellow-scaled Drake gave him a huge smile. Xif went white under his fur as Saliss opened his arms wide.
“Xif! Just the Gnoll I didn’t want to see! Lyonette, run and get me some shears, will you? I have a promise to keep. Xif, remember the inn and those [Assassins]? This is how I express gratitude!”
“Saliss!”
The Gnoll [Alchemist] yelped. Lyonette saw his hand go to his side as Saliss strode forwards, claw clenching into a fist. She saw the Gnoll [Alchemist], second-best in Pallass turn—
Then rip a club from his side and charge at Saliss. Even the Named Adventurer didn’t expect that.
“You bastard, Saliss!”
“Me? You big-mouthed [Alchemist] idiot—”
The two went rolling onto the floor, punching and biting at each other. Master Igniz shouted as the shop’s employees and guests scattered. Saliss was howling.
“Do you know how many potions I wasted because you couldn’t keep your mouth shut? I could have walked to House Veltras, but nooooo—I’m going to burn your shop down, Xif!”
“Was it you? Was it you? Everything I had was there! You—”
Saliss caught the club as the old Gnoll panted. He held Xif off him effortlessly.
“Wait, what?”
He forced Xif back as the guards and Lyonette dragged him back. The Gnoll struggled, but he was older, and—there were tears in his eyes.
“My shop. Was it you?”
Saliss hesitated. He sat up.
“Wait—”
“Someone burned it down. My shop! Everything I had!”
Xif was sobbing. The old [Alchemist] looked weary. And sad. Saliss and Lyonette blinked. The Named Adventurer got to his feet.
“Okay—I’ve said a lot of things. But I didn’t do that. When?”
“Two days ago. I was coming here to do business and my apprentice said—it’s all gone. All my work, my laboratory, my home—I knew it wasn’t you. But someone heard what you were saying or—the Watch said it was arson.”
Arson. Saliss stood there, blinking at Xif.
“Wait—but someone did—that’s madness. Pallass needs your potions! And burn down your shop? Even I’m not crazy enough to actually do that!”
“It took out eighteen other buildings. They actually burned it—I had anti-fire wards, but someone must have…I’ve lost everything, Saliss.”
The Gnoll collapsed, weeping. Lyonette stared at him as Saliss looked around. Master Igniz looked apologetic.
“Alchemists, I’m deeply sorry to hear about this. But please—no fighting in my shop.”
Both Xif and Saliss glared at him. Xif slowly rose, pointing a trembling paw at Igniz. He turned to Saliss.
“You arriving makes sense. I was trying to buy enough to make potions again when the prices skyrocketed. No one’s willing to help me in my hour of need!”
“Too right. Oteslian price-gougers!”
Saliss patted Xif on the shoulder. The two outraged [Alchemists] turned on Igniz. The Drake folded his arms.
“Pallass has always lived richly off the ingredients we supply. I’m sorry about your shop, Xif, but you both have gold.”
“Yes, and we earned it! Or do you think making a Potion of Blast is as easy as watching an herb grow for six months?”
“Have you not ever seen Vorepillar infestations? Let me tell you—”
The heated argument took place as Lyonette stood back. Xif, Saliss, and Igniz were trading insults as Mivifa, Ratici, and Wilovan arrived to once again report no luck. At last, Igniz threw up his claws.
“Alright! Alright, listen. I know it’s hard, but our prices aren’t that far off! Try negotiating rather than telling us we’re all cutthroat [Pirates]! We’re willing to come down if you’re willing to come up.”
“Above market price? Come on!”
Saliss snapped. Suddenly he and Xif were united. Igniz hesitated. He lifted a claw.
“—tell you what. I’ll sweeten the deal. You two give me a fairer offer, and I’ll throw in a sample of a new ingredient both of you will be begging me to buy. I wanted to have a larger sample, but—follow me.”
The two [Alchemists] exchanged suspicious looks. But they followed Igniz into the back of the shop. Lyonette watched as she turned to Ratici and Wilovan.
“Someone actually burned down Xif’s shop.”
“That’s terrible. A man shouldn’t lose everything.”
Wilovan looked shocked. Lyonette nodded. She felt bad for Xif, and she had been right on team-shave with Saliss a moment ago. But that was just talk. Some idiot had actually…?
“What do we do about the researchers? Mivifa, can you share anything about what they’re researching?”
The Oldblood of Feathers looked uncomfortable.
“I—I don’t know, Lyonette. It’s business. I can share that it’s new, and it’s very efficacious. I’ve seen it working myself. Maybe if Saliss finds out—Igniz might have a sample. But I can’t just divulge th—”
“WHAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAT?”
The voice was so loud that everyone flinched. Saliss came raging out of the backrooms with Igniz dragging at him.
“You thief! You crook!”
“Saliss, let go! That’s mine! I only have one sample—”
“Who is responsible for this? I’ll burn down your shop!”
Xif was right behind Saliss, waving his enchanted club. Lyonette had no idea why they were so upset. Then—she saw the mysterious item that had been sweeping Oteslia’s research teams, and the [Herbalists] shops. The enigmatic wonder-herb of the moment. The secret—obvious—
She stared at the little yellow flower in the pot and Saliss’ face. He turned to her, eyes wide with fury.
And all the pieces fell into place.
 
—-
 
They were called Faerie Flowers. Wil Kallinad had heard it more and more from the best [Herbalists] in Oteslia. Apparently someone had managed to cultivate the things and while they were few in number, they had astonishing effects.
And they were easy to work with. So much so that research was exploding. And the results were already…
“Yerranola? Can you hear me?”
The Selphid’s eyes opened slowly. She gasped, as the Gnoll body jerked; she had been taking command of its systems. She opened her eyes—made them move in different directions, opened and closed her mouth—then looked at him.
“Wil?”
He grabbed her in a fierce hug. Feshi let out a howl of delight.
“It worked! Yerra—are you—?”
The Selphid flexed her body, still testing it out, then gently hugged Wil.
“I—I can move! It doesn’t hurt!”
There were no tears in her eyes like Wil’s, but a bit of orange fluid had been excreted when he had first administered the new medicinal variant. She shuddered.
“The pain—I was in agony for days. Weeks! How long…?”
“Nearly a month. The poison’s still in there. I’m so sorry. We went as fast as we could, yes, but—”
Feshi was hovering next to her. Yerra nodded.
“I remember. You all worked so hard.”
“You took the arrow meant for me. If it hadn’t been for you—”
Wil Kallinad was thinner. He hadn’t slept or rested fully until Yerra had been better. And even after the first antidotes had been manufactured, coming from Xif of Pallass by Courier—he had spent money liberally to see it done. But even then….Yerra shuddered.
“The pain. It didn’t go away, even though I felt the antidotes working. But that new medicine…what is it?”
She’d been getting better, but agonizingly slowly, able to talk and tell them how much it hurt in her glass jar enchanted to hold her, but it had been too hard to see. But—Wil gestured with a trembling hand.
“It’s a new pain-drug one of the [Researchers] came up with. Faerie flowers. You’ll need to take it along with more antidote treatments until you’re all better, but—there’s no pain?”
She wept an orange tear that matted her fur.
“None. Thank you, Wil. Thank you.”
She hugged him tight. Wil relaxed. He didn’t mention how much the experimental medicine had cost, nor the rarity of the plant. But there was more growing and—Yerra was better.
At last.
 
—-
 
Xif had once bought a single faerie flower from Erin, using a Skill to force the sale. Saliss had been given more for friendship.
Both had sent them to Oteslia after [Gardeners] in Pallass had failed. Because Oteslia grew things. It was their specialty. It had been…months ago.
It was tempting to blame Xif. But his Skill was [The Avid Collector]. And he had paid what Erin was willing to sell the flower for.
It was an unfriendly sale, as Salazsar would well know, but it had been legal. It occurred to Lyonette, now, that she wasn’t needed here. The best person to have would have been…
Selys.
[Everything Had a Price] would have let Saliss and Xif buy what they wanted. Maybe at the same prices? Maybe not. But either way—the faerie flowers were in Oteslia.
But they weren’t a secret, or being kept by one person. And again—you couldn’t blame Xif.
Because he was as angry and confused as Saliss.
“I have forty one flowers, which is all the person I sent them to could produce. And they had numerous failures and setbacks! What about you?”
“I told my [Gardener] that this was top-secret. Which is why I can’t see why Igniz had one—let alone all these [Researchers]!”
The Gnoll and Drake traded looks. They came to the same conclusion at the same time Lyonette did.
 
—-
 
Saliss kicked the door to the indoor growing house open.
“Master Elroz! We need to chat!”
He bellowed. Lyonette stared into one of Oteslia’s greenhouses for unique plants.
She’d heard Erin talk about greenhouses, but hadn’t been as surprised as Erin thought. Because of course, Oteslia and other places had enchanted buildings to grow plants year-round.
For instance—this greenhouse specialized in difficult plants. It cultivated things like Glasswhistle, the exceptionally fragile plant that would actually kill itself under its own weight in time. That was how it reproduced, but large varieties of the thin, weak plant were more valuable.
So there was a low-gravity chamber where hanging pots of the plant grew, suspended in the air, branch-structures slowly expanding under glass roofs.
There was a chamber Saliss stormed through that Lyonette wonderingly saw had massive trees with roots nearly twenty feet long, as to touch the water below. That was because the roots were valuable, so the trees were encouraged to grow them long.
Saliss found Master Elroz tending to the faerie flowers. They were in a room of their own, bathed in sunlight and—Lyonette noted, planted spaced-out in beds filled with…mana stones?
Yes, glittering mana stones, and surrounded by pools filled with chopped-up Sage’s Grass and water! She felt the mana density here; they were feeding the faerie flowers with rich mana, as well as strong fertilizers, Skills, and everything else. There were other experimental beds at hotter or colder temperatures, and the Gnoll was replanting a handful of—
“Alchemist Saliss! I was just going t—”
He got no further before Saliss put him in a headlock. Xif had his club drawn.
“Master Elroz, Master Elroz. I was going to pay you a visit after shopping, but it seems like I have to put you at the top of my list. And I’m getting sort of annoyed about my list. I told you—I paid you—to grow Faerie Flowers in secret. So why does half of Oteslia have one?”
The Gnoll [Gardener] tried to speak. But all he made was a spluttering sound; Saliss was choking him. Xif was swinging his club.
“Let’s do my [Culturist] next. What say we lay him out, burn the place down and—”
“Father! Father! Ancestors, stop! Someone call the Treewatch!”
A horrified Gnoll raced across the greenhouse. She grabbed at Saliss, but the Drake refused to let go.
“Saliss! Enough!”
