A shout. Someone was moving through the crowd. Lyonette saw shaggy, fur robes, a bare-chested—well, debatably—Gnoll with an antler-staff? Wood had become antler near the top. He hurtled through the crowd.
“Clear the way! [Druid]! Where’s—”
He saw the scene. The outraged family, the [Guardsman] who was backing up in resignation—
Lyonette didn’t know what she expected. But she didn’t expect the Gnoll [Druid] to shoulder-charge the young Drake man holding the leash, knock him flat, and pick up the dog.
“Hurt animal! Clear a path! Where’s my backup!”
The Drake lay on his back as the Gnoll stormed towards a second [Druid]. She was a Drake and bent over the dog.
“Oh dear. His paw’s wounded. Are you hurt anywhere else?”
The dog instantly stopped whining and perked up. A healing potion was produced; the family stared as the animal was instantly healed.
“A potion on a dog? What madness is—”
The Gnoll was ignoring him. He bent down as the dog tested its paw.
“Yes, yes. And how did it happen? Who hurt you? Was it a rock or…? Don’t be shy.”
The two [Druids] looked up. They stared at the Drake who’d been holding the leash. The Gnoll rose.
“Someone called for a [Druid]?”
“Yes, Druid. These four Drakes in regards to the animal.”
The [Guardsman] saluted. He stepped back as the family stared at him. Lyonette saw him turn and just…walk off. As if his part had ended.
“I see. Well, Bertel here claims his paw was hurt whilst being dragged about by that one. And that his living conditions are less than ideal. Sometimes he’s not fed on time.”
“What? How do you know our dog’s…what is this?”
The Drake [Merchant] was outraged. The Gnoll [Druid] leveled his staff.
“Druid Occla. My verdict is confiscation and fining. What’s yours?”
“Death!”
He looked at her. The Drake amended her statement.
“Fine, what you said.”
“Very well. The fine is four gold pieces. And Bertel comes with us.”
“What?”
The word exploded from the father’s mouth; he had been gasping for air the entire time. The [Druids] were already telling the dog how he’d like their new place.
“You can’t do this!”
“On the contrary. You asked for an adjudication of [Druids]. You pay up. And if you harm a dog again, you—anywhere near Oteslia, or where we walk, we’ll find you and…”
Lyonette stared.
“And that’s legal?”
She breathed. Someone laughed.
“That’s Oteslia! We have two enforcers of law. The Treewatch, and the [Druids]. They don’t interfere with each other. But people only ask the [Druids] if they’re talking about plants, animals, or whatever. And the [Druids] aren’t nice. That guy was an idiot.”
Cire again. He put an arm on Lyonette’s shoulder.
“You’ve never been to Oteslia. But I know the [Druids] too. Let me introduce you to—”
“Take your arm off my shoulder or you lose it.”
He blinked. Cire eyed Lyonette. She put her hand on her sword’s hilt.
He took his arm off her shoulder.
“Aw, come on. I’m just—”
“No. Enough! Stop bothering me or I’ll call the Watch—or the [Druids]!”
Cire smirked at that.
“What, them? Go ahead. They know me. Everyone loves me.”
Lyonette doubted that, but his confidence made her hesitate. Either he was a better liar than she imagined, or…
“Cire! Why are you monking about? Stop bothering her and let’s go swimming or something.”
Another Drake approached through the crowd. Lyonette saw light green scales, makeup around the eyes, an…almost absurdly vivid clothing.
She looked like some of the Pallassian kids who begged Kevin for skateboard lessons. Cire turned.
“Aw, Mivi! You’re Crelering me up!”
“I can’t Creler what never flies. Come on. Sorry, Miss.”
Lyonette was rubbing her ears. Something was seriously wrong because they were using words the wrong way. Mivi grabbed Cire and he tried to resist.
“I’ll look you up, Miss Lyon!”
“Please don’t!”
She stepped away, relieved, as the crowd broke up. The red-faced [Merchant] was paying a fine under threat of being stabbed with the antler-staff. The Drake who had mistreated the dog was getting dirty looks and another lecture as he watched his pet disappear for good.
And then Saliss appeared.
“I think my friend’s here. Hey, Lyonette. Where were you? Where did Hatman One and Hatman Two go?”
She glared at him. Saliss sauntered over in his pants, and grinned at her.
“Where have you been? I’ve been accosted once already!”
He shrugged.
“Sorry, but hey, not like people with crossbows are running around here, am I right? Hah! Hah! Ha.”
He frowned, as if the joke had hurt even him. Then he turned. Cire was struggling with Mivi.
“Who’s that Drake without a shirt? Hey, Miss Lyon! I’m way cooler! Come on, Mivi—”
Saliss’ head turned. He blinked at the Drake, at Lyonette, and grinned. Then—his eyes slid back with a frown. Lyonette heard him mutter.
“…can’t read either…wait a second. It can’t be…”
He stared. Not at Cire—not long—but at the Drake who’d frozen for a second and then tried to drag Cire back into the crowd with renewed gusto. She turned her head, but Saliss was already striding forwards.
“Hey. Hey—is that you? Mivifa? Well, I just say your name and you turn up! It’s me! Saliss!”
He spread his arms wide with a grin. Cire stopped fighting and the Named Adventurer—who had been using all her considerable strength but barely managed to drag him half a dozen paces—looked around.
“Mivifa? Oh, no. I’m Mividel. Sorry, wrong person.”
Saliss stopped. He eyed the young Drake as Lyonette blinked at him. She knew the name of the Oldblood of Feathers. So did Cire, who crowed at his companion.
“Hah! It happened again, Mivi! Wait. Did he just say his name was Saliss? As in…no way. That’d be Archmage.”
He stared at Saliss. The [Alchemist] ignored him. He was just…looking at the young Drake woman. Then—he grinned.
“It is you. I sold you that Feigned Youth Potion. Don’t play games, Mivifa. I need a favor.”
Cire laughed. Mivifa was giving Saliss ten kinds of unspoken warnings. On the rooftop, Necla, Fetale, and the others were silently panicking.
“I don’t know who you’re confusing me with, mister. But I’m Mividel.”
“Yeah. And I’m Saliss of Lights. Fine—don’t be like that. But I’m stopping by your place in thirty minutes.”
“Listen to this guy.”
Cire was laughing. But Saliss wasn’t. He was looking at Mivifa and…Cire. Lyonette was blinking at both of them. Mivifa let go and Cire pointed.
“No way you’re Saliss of Lights.”
The [Alchemist] looked at him. He shrugged.
“Yeah. No way. Lyonette? I think we should be going. Did your Hatguys tell you where you were meeting up? No? They’ll find us. Let’s check in at the Alchemist’s Guild and then I’ll meet my old friend.”
He turned and winked at Lyonette openly. Cire snorted.
“Hey, guy. I don’t know who you’re trying to Creler about. But don’t just throw names around! Saliss of Lights is awesome. He blew up thousands of Humans! You can’t just steal his style!”
He shouted at Saliss. They were attracting more looks. Saliss looked around. He glanced back at Mivifa. And at Lyonette. She gave him a warning look.
“You are meeting a friend, right?”
She stressed the word. Saliss shrugged.
“Yep. Well, no. Comrade. Acquaintance. Also, it may be Oteslia. But if you want attention…you get it.”
Lyonette tensed to grab his claw. But he just took her by the arm and led her briskly away. Cire kept laughing and jeering as Mivifa stood still, sweating under her makeup.
“Did you hear that guy? What a lunatic, Mivi—”
Saliss flipped a bottle over his shoulder as he walked through the crowd. The people by the north gate saw it rotate upwards, and upwards…and then fall, spinning. Mivi jumped for it, but Cire was in the way. He saw it l—
Poomph.
It wasn’t toxic, and it was actually colored air, so those caught in the massive epicenter of the cloud weren’t harmed—no more than the dust stirred by the explosion made them cough, really.
Still. People across the city and even the First Gardener, having tea from her balcony, saw the huge, rising cloud of reddish ‘dust’ expand and turn into a grinning Drake for a second—then slowly drift apart on the wind. She spat out her tea.
She had another headache.
 
—-
 
Mivifa Selifscale, Oldblood of Feathers, stood in front of the First Gardener. To say she was in trouble was an understatement.
“So, Cirediel now knows you are the Named Adventurer. And Saliss of Lights has entered our city at a time when mass pandemonium is the last thing we need.”
“Yes, Ma’am.”
Mivifa was sweating. She had removed her makeup, but was no less tense. She had lost Cire only after literally dodging into the Adventurer’s Guild to ‘clear up the mistake’. She felt bad for anyone trying to handle him now.
The First Gardener’s migraine was legendary today.
“Please tell me Saliss of Lights knows nothing.”
“No, First Gardener. He does not.”
The Drake looked up, massaging her temples. Shaerrha looked more worried than Mivifa could remember her being in ages.
“He cannot learn anything, Adventurer Mivifa. Not about this. A Named Adventurer would be bad enough since we cannot control them. But he is the Cyclops’ grandson. And if that Drake learned about Cire…”
Mivifa nodded and felt a cold clenching in her stomach.
The Cyclops of Pallass. No one called him that in his city, but the great [Strategist] of the Walled Cities was known to every other city.
And not for being a kind, inclusive helper. He led them in times of war. But when Pallass was at odds with other cities…what might he do if he knew Cire was a Dragon?
“First Gardener, I will do whatever it takes to keep Saliss of Lights from knowing. But I cannot manage Cire at this time.”
“Of course not. They will have to do without. Help him to be on his way, by all means. Is he…as troublesome as all the reports say? I recall his last visit…”
The First Gardener saw Mivifa grimace.
“I’ve worked with him directly, First Gardener. Honestly? He’s worse than the incidents you saw from afar.”
Shaerrha shuddered. She rubbed at her temples again.
“I need—where are my pills? There must be new medication.”
Mivifa looked sympathetically at her boss and friend. Since they helped care for Cire, Shaerrha was one of the few people that Mivifa could talk to. They spent time talking and commiserating.
“The pills from Drath not working?”
“Barely. They don’t fog me over, but they don’t do much when it’s bad. I’d go back to Dreamleaf if it wasn’t so…where is…oh, here’s something new. From our [Herbalists]. Argh. I suppose it’s better than nothing.”
She unveiled another pill, this one perfectly round, and sniffed at it. Then she popped it into her mouth and chewed. Mivifa went on.
“I think Saliss is here to replenish ingredients.”
“Give them to him—obviously let him work, but what else?”
“I don’t know, First Gardener. But I’ll see to it.”
“Good, good. My claws are full with Reinhart and the new guests. I’ll just have to…to…”
Shaerrha was resting her forehead against the steaming tea cup for relief. Then, slowly, her shoulders untensed. She sat up, and blinked.
“First Gardener?”
Mivifa hesitated. The Drake looked at the box and then at the Named Adventurer.
“The pain’s gone. That pill just took my entire headache away with it. And I feel light as…”
She stared at the box. So did Mivifa.
“That must be some new drug! I’ve never seen anything work like that on you.”
“Neither have I. Who made it? Misten? He’s not high-level. Has he reached Level 50? No—there’s no way. I’d be hearing it from the rooftops. What is…oh.”
She stared at a note attached to the wooden box, with the padded interior which held five more of the miraculous pills. Mivifa waited.
“First Gardener?”
“It’s the new discovery I was telling you about. The flowers. And they just—this could be it, Mivifa.”
Shaerrha looked up excitedly. She gestured at the note, and the box.
“This could be the next Sage’s Grass.”
Mivifa smiled despite herself. It was the newest thing to come to Oteslia—a plant that people were saying might be like Sage’s Grass, a revolutionary new herb. If so—this was when Oteslia would shine. She bowed.
“That’s one bit of good news, First Gardener. If you’ll excuse me—”
She left the First Gardener to sit back, blissfully free of pain for the first day in years. Shaerrha hadn’t credited the rumors; there was always ‘the next big thing’. But this? She stared at the note.
“Faerie flowers? Where did they come from?”
 
—-
 
Saliss and Lyonette didn’t wait on Ratici and Wilovan. He introduced himself at the Alchemist’s Guild to a flurry of excitement—as if his showy bottle hadn’t done that to begin with.
Once again, Lyonette felt helpless, riding on his fame and ability to move mountains—literally, it seemed. She watched and observed.
Oteslia had a lot of color to it. Terraces seemed to make up the city, built around the giant tree which hung over everything. It provided shade even in the daytime, and the leaves alone were huge. She’d seen one crew dragging a single leaf off a home to be processed.
And Oteslia was all about processing what it grew. It had massive farms, fed by the lake, plants grown in vast gardens. You could buy anything that came out of soil here. Even plants suited to arid climes, tundras.
[Druids] ruled here, as did the First Gardener. They flew Pegasi about, and Lyonette felt like a girl reading of them in books and dreaming of finding and taming one.
Ah, but all that was overshadowed by the mission. And Saliss was taking them to Mivifa’s home in the upper part of the city.
“That was her?”
“Yep. I recognize makeup and attempts at covering up stuff. I have an eye, you might say. And Mivifa’s one of my clients.”
“So she’s not going to be angry you revealed her?”
The Drake grinned.
“Of course she is. That’s the plan, Lyonette. Think about it. I’m a Named Adventurer, she is—she can introduce me, get us contacts. But we’re not staying at her home.”
Lyonette eyed Saliss suspiciously. She was good at politics and thought she had a handle on the finer points of diplomacy; she didn’t use Erin’s all-or-nothing style, but Saliss had lost her.
“How so?”
He shook his head.
“Lyonette, Lyonette. No one likes hanging out with me. You think Mivifa wants to put me up? No, she’ll help me find a good place, do everything to keep me off her back. No one likes being around Saliss all the time—even I can’t do it all week.”
