Sitting on top of my bed, I look at the various magical tools scattered across my sheets. I have my three best sketches of the runes I found in the light hat pinned to the wood to my left on the wall next to my bed.

Since Kervin brought me the magic tools a week ago, I've been too busy to analyze them properly. I've already injected mana into each of them, and mother was thrilled when I showed her the water purifier and the enchanted knife.

I brought home a small crate of magicite for her to use if I'm not around, but I usually inject my mana into them around dinnertime to keep them working.

If Kervin was right about his new schedule, he should be back with the materials I need in another two weeks. I need to practice drawing more runes before he returns.

I scan the five magic tools laid out in front of me. I start with the fire box first. I haven't noticed any damage to master's light hat since I started probing it, but I don’t want to start with one of the tools my mom has grown accustomed to using first, just in case.

I tuck my legs underneath one another in a cross-legged position and move a flat piece of wood onto my lap. I grab my engraving pen and channel my magic into it.

Once my pen is charged, I start injecting my mana into the fire box. Using my mana sense, I look at the runes hidden inside the box.

I follow the route my mana takes and single out the individual rune sections.

I start where my mana is entering the runic structure and quickly find the same primary symbol I deciphered in the light hat. There are different lines hiding the structure, but it's easy to trace the rune hidden in the mess now that I know what to look for. I find two of the runes on opposite sides of the magic tool’s sides.

I’ll have to see how many of these items utilize the same runes and compare them later.

I move on to the next section, following my mana, expecting a repeat of the regulating rune I found in the light hat.

I smile when I can’t find the rune I’m looking for. There must be a new rune; I jump into deciphering the many lines to find the rune hidden underneath.

Using the flow of mana as a guide, a new rune slowly becomes discernable under my eye.

The two mana absorbing runes feed into each side of this new regulating rune. The rune slightly changes the mana's frequency like the rune I already copied out of the light helmet. I've studied the light helmet a lot this past month, and I can tell the converted mana is similar but not the same frequency.

Different runes must need various frequencies of mana to activate them properly.

After I think I’ve found all the dead ends hiding the rune, I carve it into the plank of wood in my lap.

I’ll practice drawing it later and add the best representation to my wall of runes.

I move on to the last part of the runic structure near the top of the cube. The rune is positioned up against a small metal tube that leads out the top of the box. The flame coming out of the magic tool isn't very impressive, but it’s strong enough to cook on it.

The fire rune proves much harder to decipherer. It looks like whoever made the magic tool focused on hiding this rune over the regulator. The whole thing is covered in random lines and dead ends meant to conceal the rune from prying eyes.

I was a little disappointed the final result turned out less complicated than I imagined.

Mana flows in from the bottom, and the rune produces its flame at the top of the structure. That’s two new runes for me to practice.

I set the fire box off to the side and grab its sister, the cold box. As soon as I inject my mana into the magic tool, I quickly find the swirling patterned mana absorbing runes I've seen in the other two tools.

I track my mana and find the mana absorbing runes heading into the familiar regulating rune I just deciphered in the fire box. Everything leads to an area that I assume holds the frost rune that’s producing cold air out of holes in the box.

I take my time tracing the mana flow in the rune and slowly figure out its design.

The circular rune is emitting chilled mana that gathers inside the box and escapes through holes in its top, merging into the surrounding atmosphere. The cold mana blends into the surrounding space; it has little effect on my already cold room.

I carefully carve its structure down onto another piece of wood before moving onto the next magical tool. That’s three new runes so far.

Because everything is going swimmingly, I decide to look at the water purifier next. I start at the bottom of the device, knowing the cube has to hold the mana absorbing runes. I inject my mana into the tool's base and pause when I notice the difference in the runes structure.

Instead of broad lines, these mana absorbing runes are a third the size of the other tools I've looked at. I can tell whoever made this magic tool is a higher caliber enchanter. The runes are small enough that my eyes can't make out the fine details of the structure.

I close my eyes and focus purely on Sense Mana. The runes' size would be enough to deter the average person from copying the structure but not me.

Unlike the last two boxes, this magic tool has four mana gathering runes like the light hat. I follow the lines from the gathering runes and trace them to two independent regulating runes I found in the boxes. Those regulators both lead to yet another regulating rune, changing the frequency of the mana again.

This tool shows me the regulators can be stacked to change the mana's frequency to a finer degree.

After the regulators, I track the mana to a new rune. It’s ironic that thanks to these runes' smaller size, it's easier for me to decipher them. Whoever engraved this tool couldn’t add in as many false lines without compromising the rune's detailed structure.

Judging by the mana, the next rune is expelling; it has to be a water rune.

Though the water rune isn’t where this enchantment ends, another line breaks off the top of the water rune and goes to another new rune.

The rune is engraved near the magic tool's middle, where the water passes from the top part to the bottom. This rune has to be what purifies the water of its impurities. The rune releases a magical aura only half an inch wide but resembles the magic I feel when I cast my cleaning spell.

It doesn't take me long to copy down the two new runes. I move the wood planks next to the other three runes I copied and grab another piece of wood and refocus on the water purifiers enchantment.

The last three tools I've looked at have all been relatively simple. I feel like I should copy down the water purifier's entire runic structure to reference how runes can be mixed and matched.

The enchantment uses nine runes total to purify the water. I've noticed different runes connect at various points, but they mostly join at triangles or near them.

When I transfer the design to paper, I'll put notes around it detailing the insights I think I gained. It won't be until I figure out how to make engraving ink that I can test any of my hypotheses, though.

I still have two more tools to examine. I shuffle the magic tools around and move the charging cube and knife in front of me.

I start with the cube first.

I've charged the cube every night for mom, and I already know this cube is different from any other of the magic tools. I've already pinpointed were inside the runes are, and from what I can tell, there're only three runes total.

Though all the tools I've examined have three different types of runes, they have multiple mana gathering segments. The fire and ice boxes had the least number of runes so far. They had two gathering runes, one regulating rune, and a rune that emits the magic for four runes each.

I know master isn’t an expert when it comes to runic knowledge, but I'm sure he said enchantments need at least four runes to function correctly. I start to decipherer the runes and watch what happens to my mana as it works its way through the enchantment.

I think the person who made the water purifier might have also made this charging box. The runes are small and incredibly hard to perceive, just like the water purifier. It takes me fifteen minutes to figure out the first rune, and that's only thanks to its shape resembling the other mana absorbing runes.

As I pour my mana into the rune, I notice it absorbs the same amount of mana as four of its smaller variants. It looks much more complicated to draw, so I wonder why this one is used instead of the others. Each triangle on each of the swirls leads to the next rune.

The regulator is the same as the one used in the boxes and the water purifier, so I move on to the third and final rune.

The last rune is the most puzzling because it doesn’t have a single triangle in its design. The line leading from the regulating rune is simply attached to one of the corners of this rectangle shaped rune.

All the mana I pour into the cube is ending up trapped inside the last rune. I stop supplying the magic tool with my mana to see what happens.

The enchantment finishes processing my mana, and most of the runes become inert. The last rune still glows in my mana sight, holding onto the mana I pumped into the tool.

Why doesn’t every magic tool have one of these runes? The rune acts like a battery, so I assume every enchantment would be better off with one.

I continue to examine the rune and notice a difference in the amount of mana contained within it. The mana contained inside the rune is leaking. I watch the rune continue to dim until all the mana I fed it is gone.

After pumping 50 mana into the enchantment to study it, the rune could only hold the mana for twelve minutes.

I don't understand the point of this rune. Never the less, I diligently carve it onto a piece of wood. Maybe after I look at the knife, I'll try examining the two magical items together.

I set the charging cube off to the side and carefully pick up the kitchen knife.

Gripping the handle, I start feeding the knife a part of my mana. I immediately notice something is wrong.

There are no gathering runes on the knife’s handle. All the mana I inject into the knife’s handle is drawn to the tip of the blade. The entire sharpening enchantment is inverted on the face of the knife.

The gathering runes are near the knife's tip, while what I assume to be the sharpening rune is etched close to the handle. The slight glow on the knife's edge means the enchantment is working as intended despite the inversed enchantment.

I start studying the runes and quickly find the same gathering rune that was used in the charging box. The gathering rune leads to another regulator that matches the previous magic tools before connecting to a new rune.

As the mana passes through the new rune, it takes on the properties of earth mana. I know a fire and frost rune can conjure a flame or chill the surroundings; I wonder what an earth rune does by itself?

I make a mental note that I need to test the rune when I’m able to.

I follow the converted earth mana into the final rune.

The line channeling the earth mana is connected to the triangle with the star shape in it. One more line comes out of the rune and stretches across the knife's edge. It's the mana leaking out of that line that produces the glow on the knifes edge.

Kervin said the knife had a sharpening enchantment on it, but looking at it with my mana sense, I don't think that's accurate.

The enchantment isn’t sharpening the blade; it's merely strengthening the already sharpened edge. The knife is decently crafted, and someone put real effort into honing it, but the enchantment is only protecting the knifes edge.

If the knife were used without the enchantment activated, it would dull like any other knife. And once the blade is dulled, the enchantment would be worthless. Strengthening a dull knife won't help you cut any better.

I soon notice another flaw in its design. If the knife becomes dull and needs to be sharpened, won't the enchantment line along the blade's edge be worn away?

I don't know if you can modify an existing rune. You can draw a new line across the freshly sharpened edge that would fix it if you can. But if you can't, the knife is reduced to a simple tool with scribbles etched onto it. I’ll need to warn mother not to use the knife unless its enchantment is activated.

I decide to make a quick carving of the knife’s enchantment to compare with the water purifier later.

Now I need to see how the two magical tools work with each other.

I slip the knife back into its charging box and start injecting my mana. I watch, fascinated by what happens.

The charging box takes in my mana and stores it in its last rune. The knife's blade tip rests up against the rune holding all the mana.

Even though they aren't connected directly, the mana inside the battery rune is drawn out by the knife's gathering rune. Part of the mana is lost, but the knifes enchantment activates as it should.

The charging cube doesn't do anything meaningful by itself but acts as an extension on the knife's enchantment. Maybe different items can hold segments of enchantments that only work when they’re placed together?

I look over the many wood carvings scattered across my bed. I learned nine new runes from the magic tools bringing my runic library up to 11.

The only tool I still need to look at is master’s pickaxe. I’m confident I won’t break it; I just hope he doesn’t consider the runes as Stone Kin secrets.

After looking at the five tools' finer details, I think two people are responsible for making all of them. The style of the runes inside the fire and cold box were too similar to be a coincidence. Also, a lot of the fake lines were used in a similar fashion to hide the runes' structures.

