The other three tools are much more complex and obviously made by someone with more skill. If all of them were made in Drey than these might be the work of a local enchanter and their apprentice.

I gather up everything I can fit in my arms and carry it out of my room. I walk down our hallway and into our living space. I set my wood carvings on the table before putting the water purifier next to our water barrel and the knife and charging cube back on the kitchen counter.

“Are you finished practicing, sweety?” Mother asks from her sewing station.

"Not yet, I still need to copy everything to parchment," I explain to mother as I approach her.

"And you're going to draw out here." Mother already knows my plan. She fiddles in the cupboard she keeps all her supplies in and hands me a small stack of parchment along with some ink and a quill.

"You need to start buying your own parchment and ink if you're going to be drawing on a regular basis." Mother knows how much I'm making from selling my goods to Kervin and that I can afford it.

“I’ll order some from Kervin when he returns. I’ll make sure to replace everything I use,” I assure mother.

“It isn’t that big of a deal. I just can’t have you using up all of it in case we need to write to your brother."

“I understand,” I say as I move over to our table.

I shift in my seat until I feel comfortable. It will take me a few hours to copy the runes onto the parchment. I need each rune to be perfect, so I don’t have to reexamine each magic tool in the future.

I dip my quill into the inkpot and wipe the excess ink on its rim. When I have some free coin, I need to ask Kervin if he can get me a better writing tool.

He should be back in another two weeks. He must be in Teeburn by now. I wonder if the arrows I made were good enough for the army?

I quickly banish any negative thoughts from my mind. I'll worry about it later; right now, every bit of my focus goes into my drawing.

I settle into my own little world and start copying each rune onto the parchment in front of me.

Kervin’s Point of View:

I try to pick out the small changes in Teeburn’s surroundings as I guide my bivol towards the army’s trading clearing. If you look closely, you can see the city slowly coming back to life. It’s been less than a month since I was last here, and the number of inns has multiplied.

"Gods, your beasts are slow, can't you prod them a little harder?" A whiny voice interrupts my sightseeing. I turn and look at the culprit.

"They're moving fine. If you want the cart to move faster, you can help them pull." I scowl at our new companion.

“I’m just saying, you should ask headquarters for a pair of their finest bulls now that you’ve been promoted.” Reel continues to complain.

I ignore his protests. He’s been complaining about their speed since he joined us in Drey. I would fire him if I could; sadly, we all know why he’s here with us. He had a note signed by the boss himself informing me he was to join my guards.

He told me he would follow my orders, but I take everything he says with a grain of salt. It’s obvious he’s here to watch me and gather information for Giovanni.

Behind his annoyed façade is a dangerous man. Lurte and Ryiba both agree he's stronger than them. More than once, he's vanished into thin air, only reappearing twenty minutes later saying he had to take a leak. The two daggers at his side are hidden in plain-looking sheaths, but when goblins attacked us on the road, we noticed they were enchanted.

What's disturbing the most is how plain he appears. Light brown hair, green eyes, no distinguishing features on his face, even his bone structure is so common you wouldn't look twice at him if you passed him on the road.

“Maybe in a few months. I want to see how the business with the army pans out before I ask headquarters for anything.” I tell him, knowing anything I might say might be reported to the boss.

“Fine, it’s your decision. Are we almost there yet?" All three of us glare at him, but he pretends not to notice.

I chose not to dignify him with an answer. The clearing the army is buying goods in is just up ahead.

The familiar clearing comes into view, and we're immediately flagged to an open spot by a soldier with a clipboard. Knowing what he’s going to ask of me, I hold out my Silver Heard plate. “Kervin, from Silver Herd Trading Company. I was told to ask for Captain Nathanael?”

The soldier looks at my plate before looking up at me with surprise. “Mr. Kervin, we aren’t expecting you for another week. Wait here while I grab the captain.” The man says as soon as he hands me my plate back.

"Wow, didn't know you were such an important guy." Reel laughs, aware of how uncomfortable I am. The last time I was here, I encountered many problems; I would be stupid if I didn’t expect the same to happen again.

I spot Captain Nathanael approaching my cart with a big smile on his face. “You’re early,” He shouts when he notices I’m watching his approach.

I hop off of my cart and wait for him to reach my cart before I greet him. “It’s nice to see you again, Captain Nathaniel.” I lie through my teeth.

"Is it now? I would think you would be mad at me for shorting you last time you were here." He gives me a look that says my fake smile does not fool him.

"I would be lying if told you I wasn't a little disappointed after our transaction." I keep up my friendly smile, but I'm sure he knows how I'm feeling.

"As you should be," he acknowledges my disappointment. "Your goods were a blessing for the army, and the general told me to keep an eye out for your delivery." He looks around us, focusing on Reel for but a moment before addressing me again. "Follow me; we'll discuss your cargo in a more private spot."

I hop back up onto my carriage and usher my bivol to follow the captain. He leads us around the army’s wagon train, to a secluded alley between two fallen buildings.

We’re out of view from the other merchants.

I park my cart and hop down. “Lurte, Ryiba, Reel, start unloading the crates," I order them. For once, Reel does his job without any snide remarks.

I turn to Captain Nathanael, “I have 28 spears and 400 arrows. I need 80 gold for everything.” I try to get a jump on him this time and activate all my skills, ready to face the captain’s suppression.

He smiles at me, and all the hair on back of my neck stands up. “No need to rush, I already contacted an expert to meet us here to look at the arrows.”

"An expert?" I get a terrible feeling in the pit of my stomach.

“Yes, she should be here soon. She was quite happy to hear you made it back early.” There’s only one person he could be talking about!

“Talking about me, Nathanael.” Everyone jumps except for the captain as a chiding voice echoes between the buildings.

I hurriedly look for the general, but I can’t spot her. Lurte and Ryiba aren't having any luck either, but I notice Reel looking up with a concerned look on his face. I follow the direction of his gaze and finally see General Pitz standing on top of a section of a crumbling wall, looking down on us.

Her powerful eyes scan each of us, narrowing on Reel before she focuses on me. “Did you bring what I ordered?”

Before I can answer her, she vanishes from my sight. I feel a slight breeze next to me; she reappeared, standing four feet away from me!

I feel sweat start to form on my brow. “I got you the best arrows my blacksmith could make.” I nervously reply.

"Is that so; how many did you bring me?" I feel like I'm being interrogated under her piercing eyes.

"400 Lady Pitz," I quickly respond.

“And 28 more spears,” Nathanael says from the side.

“Let’s take a look at them then.” The general walks past me as I struggle to stand on my weak knees.

She walks over to a crate Lurte just placed on the ground. He offers her a crowbar, but she uses her bare hands to rip the lid off with her incredible strength.

With her back to me, she reaches inside the crate and removes an arrow.

“What is this?” She asks without turning around. Lurte, who can see her expression, looks like the life is being drained from him.

"Is something the matter?" I ask. My heart feels like it's about to burst from my chest.

She turns around, facing the rest of us. In her hands is an arrow shaft…

… just an arrow shaft. Did Aaliyah sell me faulty goods?!

Oh gods, because of our fight, I forgot to check the arrows! We headed straight here, and this is the first time we opened the crates!

“There must be some mistake,” I stammer.

“I’m curious how you plan to explain yourself?” The general slowly walks towards me with the arrow shaft in hand. I feel like the Goddess Ebeon is coming to collect my soul.

“It must be a bad batch!” My excuse sounds pathetic even to me; the rage on her faces only intensifies.

I don't have time to think of a better excuse, so I double down. "Check the rest of the crates! I'm sure the others are fine!"

Sensing the impending doom, my three bodyguards use crowbars to start prying off the lids of the crates. The general casts a sidelong glance at them and watches Reel remove another lid.

When his expression drops even further, I start praying for a miracle. He holds up yet another unfinished arrow for everyone to see.

"It looks like you and your blacksmith had a falling out. It’s quite a shame.” Bloodlust washes over me with each of her words.

She starts walking towards me again.

I start to make peace with my life once she's within armlength. She raises her hand and…

“Arrowheads!”

Her open hand freezes inches before they’re about to grab my neck.

She tuns towards Ryiba, who's standing over an open crate. She starts walking towards him, and my legs give out from under me.

Sitting on my knees, shaking, I watch her stand over the open crate. She reaches down and removes a shiny arrowhead from the box. It looks flatter than the arrows I usually see sold by blacksmiths and has a weird triangle design.

(Helix Arrowheads Link)

"What do we have here?" The general asks curiously. Her bloodlust vanishes as she looks from the arrow shaft in her left hand to the arrowhead in her right one.

We watch in suspense as she examines each in great detail. She pays special attention to the base of the arrowhead before looking at the arrow shaft again.

“I get it now,” She says to herself.

She holds the arrowhead to the shaft and starts twisting it. The two pieces fit together perfectly. She glances at the other crates and walks over to one that hasn’t been opened yet.

She places the arrow in her hands in her quiver and rips open the crate with brute strength.

I manage to get back to my feet and start to walk closer to everyone else. I begin to sway, but a strong arm wraps around me, helping me stand.

I look to my side to see Nathanael helping me closer to the crates.

As we approach, I can see inside the crate she just opened. A different type of arrowhead than the one Ryiba found was in there. Aaliyah made two types of arrowheads for the army. The second type of arrowhead has three sides to it made from solid steel.

(Link for image)

“What a clever design! Look at this Nathanael,” General Pitz redraws the arrow from her quiver and holds it up for us to see. "The arrowheads twist into the arrow shaft so that you can change them out." She says with an excited smile. You couldn't tell she was just about to kill me.

“It’s quite interesting, Miss Emily. But is the composition to your requirements?" Holding me up, the captain smoothly directs one of the strongest people in Olebert.

"Always to the point, Nathanael." She smiles before staring at the arrow one more time. Her smile grows wider the longer she looks at it. I can't tell if she's using a skill to examine it or if she's just that knowledgeable.

“Your blacksmith didn’t disappoint; you should introduce her to me.”

“I’m glad you’re happy with the product. She should be making more for you as we speak.” I try to ignore the carnivorous look she’s giving me and deflect her question. “Do you have any specific requests for her, anything she needs to change?”

General Pitz laughs like she just heard a good joke. “Good job underappreciating her work yet again. You should be happy I don’t have the time to find her and steal her from you.”

I'm shocked at her words. "Let me tell you what you brought me," She holds the arrow up to her eye level. "This arrow is quality steel mixed with some sort of wind nature magic beast parts. Not only does the material have a good magic conductivity, but its internal structure is perfect for channeling magic. Do you see where the arrowhead and shaft are connected? She forged both materials, so their internal magic matrices align perfectly when the arrowhead is screwed in. Not even my houses best blacksmith could replicate this if I asked him to; these arrows are unique. With basic ingredients, she forged arrows good enough for a level 75 archer."

I can’t believe what she just told me.

“You asked me if I have a request?” The general gives me an almost manic look. “Tell her I want the best arrow she can make me with 10 gold coins. I want her very best!”

She looks at Nathanael, "I want these delivered to the fort immediately." She moves back to the crate, and with lightning-fast movements, assembles twenty more arrows. With her quiver full, she pushes off of the ground and soars into the distance.

"Let's set you down." Now that his general is gone, Nathaniel moves me up against my cart. He fishes a note out of his pocket that looks like the one he gave me last time I was here.

"You said 80 gold, correct? I'm sure you're aware of where you need to cash it." I watch, slack-jawed, as he scribbles on the parchment.

“Wait, that isn’t…”

