“What your goods were worth?" He cuts me off. "I was surprised by the general's assessment, as well. It's a shame you already gave me a price, and I know no self-respecting Silver Herd merchant would renegotiate after their price was accepted." The old man has a sly smile plastered across his face.

He whistles, and five soldiers quickly rush over to my cart. With a few hand signals, they're moving the crates of arrows and the spears out of sight.

"I hope you understand why I can't stay longer. I'll be waiting for your return, Mr. Kervin." He gives me a friendly salute and walks away.

I slam my hand up against my cart. It happened again!

Damn it, Aaliyah. You couldn’t warn me about your new design!

I sigh out loud. It's not entirely her fault. I never checked the arrows she sold me, and I was too quick to offer that crafty bastard a price.

To make matters worse, I’m sure Reel will report this to Giovanni.

I need to get back to Drey and hope they were able to gather the materials I ordered. I need to get back to Aaliyah and discuss the general's request.

I look up at the conflicting sky. Dark snow clouds are hovering overhead, but it’s so hot it feels like we’re in the middle of summer. We won’t rest in the city tonight; we'll hit the road as soon as I collect my coin from the barracks.

I hop onto my cart as soon as the soldiers finish removing everything.

I swear, the next time I come here, I'm asking for triple whatever I think I should quote them.

I never thought I could be this mad after earning 80 gold coins. Why would Giovanni want to work with the army in the first place!

I steer my bivol out of the clearing, ready to leave this cursed city.

General Emily Pitz Point of View:

I watch Kervin, and his bodyguards leave the clearing from my hiding place, watching the young man retreat with a fire in his eyes.

That fire will drive him further, Nathanael will have to be careful when he returns with the next order.

I push off the ground with my powerful legs, and the world becomes slower in my eyes as my body moves with incredible speed. I stop directly next to Nathanael.

He notices me out of the corner of his eye and doesn't look perturbed by my sudden appearance. “What do you think, my lady?”

"His new bodyguard is definitely a spy," I confirm his suspicions.

"I thought so; I already sent a message to Silver Herd asking for confirmation that he's theirs. If they don't acknowledge his existence or say he's not theirs, I'll have him dealt with if he's stupid enough to return."

I smile at Nathanael. "I doubt it will come to that. I can tell by Kervin’s body language that he despises the man but has resigned himself to put up with it. The only reason he would be acting like that would be if he received orders from his company telling him to do so.”

The two of us watch the entrance of the clearing, seeing cart after cart being shuffled around.

“How long before you can have the goods ready to be transported?” I ask Nathanael.

“My men are preparing as we speak. The cart should be ready in five minutes.”

"That's good; we need those arrows."

“Is Scholl recovering faster than you expected, my lady?”

“No, but that was never my worry. We’ve been fighting them for months now and have continuously driven them back despite our numbers. It’s only a matter of time before they send someone to counter me.”

“You need more suppliers before they come, then.”

“I’m happy I don’t have to explain myself to you. This will be the last time I leave the fort before our reinforcements arrive," I solemnly tell him.

“We were lucky you were able to cripple their army as you have. Who knows, maybe the arrow you commissioned will be strong enough to handle your skills and your worrying is for naught.” Nathanael playfully laughs.

"I'm not getting my hopes up. The blacksmith can do wonders with magic conductivity, but I doubt her skills are high enough for what I require. If she can create an arrow that can withstand my bow’s force without any of my skills, it will be a miracle."

“I’m sure she’ll be happy for the challenge and the chance to work with premium materials.”

"Happier than Kervin, I imagine. I thought I told you to give him a good price?" I give my subordinate a questioning look.

“He already gave me a good price before you got here, my lady. What would you have me do, renege on such an offer? We don’t have the luxury to do that.” Nathanael’s playful look becomes serious.

“How bad is it?” I ask in a low tone.

"Our treasury is running low. I told everyone to be stricter with their negotiating, but we can only stretch our reserves so far. I sent word to the local lords again, but I suspect their willingness to help us is fading.” He says with a scowl.

“Use my name if you have to. We need to be ready for Scholl’s retaliation.”

“It will be done, my lady.”

“I trust you to handle it, Nathanael. I have to return to the fort; I leave everything in your capable hands.”

“My lady,” Nathanael salutes me.

I nod my head in farewell. I activate my movement skills and launch myself back towards the fort, back towards the battle.”
