She glanced at the Thronebearers, but they wouldn’t be here forever, hopefully, and they weren’t hers.
“—and even a stable handler, cleaners, and so on.”
“A stable? Aw. Wait—don’t we have one?‘
Erin peered out the window vaguely. Lyonette nodded.
“Yes, we do. And Erin, if someone wants to have their horse staying here overnight—can you make sure it’s bedded down and fed? Do you know how to undo a saddle?”
Erin squinted suspiciously at Lyonette.
“I bet there are belts and buckles and stuff. I could figure it out.”
Lyonette ignored that. She was drumming her fingers on the table, trying to figure out where you got people like that. And once again, Ser Dalimont spoke up with a slight smile.
“You have aptly described a group of employees, Pr—Miss Lyonette. I fear they may refuse your offers, but they do exist.”
“I have? Who?”
The Thronebearer bowed slightly.
“Lady Magnolia’s staff meets all such descriptions to a tee.”
The face Erin made said her opinion on hiring Magnolia’s staff. Lyonette shook her head. She sat there.
“Aside from the fact that we cannot hire them, Ser Dalimont—no. I think we have to make do. I’ll tell Temile we can open. You four will simply have to serve the tables.”
She glanced at the Thronebearers. Erin brightened up. That wasn’t a bad idea! They were certainly elegant, and the Thronebearers knew their way around all manner of tasks including cooking.
That was why it was so disappointing when all four Thronebearers instantly refused.
“I fear we cannot, Miss Lyonette. Despite any orders you may make—we will serve you and those with you without hesitation, but to work a busy inn would compromise our duty as bodyguards.”
“Not even…? Well, then—we have to hire someone else! Ulvama, Numbtongue! That’s it—Gothica and the Fellowship!”
Erin snapped her fingers and came to a realization. Of course! The Fellowship of the Inn!
They had nowhere to go with the exception of Sergeant Gna and Salkis. But this would solve that! She turned to them, and Gothica raised one finger.
“No one makes me work.”
Erin’s face fell. Numbtongue glanced up with a huge frown.
“I don’t want to work either.”
“Nope.”
Ulvama had just wandered in to get a bowl of ice cream. She walked away so fast Erin was left spluttering.
“But Numbtongue—we’d pay you!”
The [Bard] gave Erin a long look. Slowly, he reached into one belt pouch and produced an uncut emerald. He put that on the table.
“Oh, your hobby. But th—”
He put a nugget of gold there next, then silver, then a citrine. Erin waved her hands, scowling.
“Gothica?”
“Nope.”
The [Goth] did not want to wait tables. Which was fair. Erin put her head down, and Lyonette realized they might not be able to actually open the inn today after all.
“I guess we have to reconsider our options. Maybe if we raised prices…but the cost is already…Ishkr, we need to calculate how much we can raise the pay to. Do you remember…? Erin? Where are you going?”
She turned, and the [Innkeeper] looked around guiltily as she wheeled towards an inviting door in the wall.
“Um—lunch break! Let’s think about it later.”
 
——
 
Gireulashia didn’t want to ever stop playing with Mrsha. It wasn’t always fun.
In fact, it wasn’t often fun after ten days. It was hard for the two to play a lot of games together. Tag? Gire won. Hide-and-seek? Gire won. Triumphs? Gire won so badly Mrsha sulked for ten minutes.
They were different in ages; Mrsha still didn’t like walking on two legs. Gire could do a triple backflip from a standing position.
And yet, they managed. For one thing, practicing magic was something where Mrsha was ahead, and Gire’s look of wonder hadn’t faded from just casting [Light].
“Mrsha, you’re so smart.”
“I know, I know.”
Mrsha modestly tucked Pisces’ wand into its holster as she produced a patch of grass. She peered at Gire as the [Grow Grass] spell failed for Gire again.
“All I can do is a single blade of grass. I’m going to keep practicing! I’ve already figured out how to cast [Flame Arrow], but it’s so weak. I’ll cast a hundred—a thousand times per day of [Grow Grass] as well.”
Mrsha hesitated. She scribbled on her notepad.
Hold up, you cast that spell how many times?
Gire scratched her head.
“I can’t do a thousand. But I did a hundred mini [Flame Arrows]. With mana potions. I stopped when I felt like I was getting one of those giant headaches or mana burn, but I won’t learn unless I practice, right? How much do you cast your spells?”
Mrsha hesitated.
All the time. Every day. Every hour, really. I can’t not think when I don’t practice.
“Mhm. Me too. I’ll catch up soon!”
Ekhtouch had a different attitude towards training. However, play was more important. And Mrsha was the master of play. Also, because they had shared all secrets, Gire was someone whom Mrsha could share everything with.
“Mrsha, what is this? Is this…a super-phone?”
Gire’s eyes went round as Mrsha presented Kevin’s laptop. The two sat down and began playing Numbtongue’s favorite video game. Mrsha showed Gire how it worked as she proudly erased Numbtongue’s save files.
“How does it work? You—aah!”
Gire jumped as Mrsha demonstrated her amazing [Gamer] skills on the easiest difficulty. She had to use the touchpad, and it was hard using Gnollish finger pads. Bam, bam! Look how good I am!
“Amazing! Mrsha, I want to try! And you do—look out!”
Boom. Mrsha sighed. Another death. But she, Mrsha the Space Warrior, could show Gire a new level of combat! She graciously handed the laptop to Gire and hopped into the [Paragon]’s lap to watch her fumble around.
…Yes, even Apista could tell what was going to happen next. Gire finished the first level without dying once. She might have done so on a harder difficulty, but Mrsha snatched the computer back and set it to the hardest mode instantly.
Legendary. Gire played for six minutes without dying as Mrsha’s mouth opened wider in outrage.
She was good at the game! But she did die at last because she didn’t know where the enemies were coming from and the game was genuinely hard; Gire could only move as fast as the character in the game. Mrsha sighed—then looked up at Gire’s face.
It was shining with excitement.
“Mrsha, I lost! It’s hard! Did you see? Let me try again!”
Mrsha blinked up at Gire and saw not a trace of the smug, stupid Hobgoblin’s grin and the condescending pat on the head that Numbtongue gave her. Gire…was having fun.
So Mrsha sat up and began guiding Gire on advanced tactics, like knowing where the enemy was coming from. They were just high-fiving a victory that had ended with Gire dying spectacularly when Erin’s voice came from behind them.
“Damn you gravity! I’ll fight you!”
Both Gnolls turned around and saw a young woman trying to get up the hill with her wheelchair. It was not going well. Gire stood up, and she and Mrsha pushed Erin up the hill.
“Thanks, guys. Whatcha doing? Oh! Video games! What are you playing, Minesweeper? Oh, Halo.”
Erin pshed, much to the indignation of Mrsha and Gire.
“Oh yeah? Oh yeah? You think you’re great? How good are you, huh, huh?”
Erin pushed Mrsha’s face out of hers.
“Mrsha, it’s just not fun on a touchpad. You really need a mouse. I’ve played that game! You need a multiplayer thing. So both of you can play.”
Mrsha and Gire locked onto Erin’s words. Mrsha instantly sat on Erin’s lap and gave her a sweet smile.
Tell me more, wise and generous person.
Erin laughed and looked at Gire. The [Paragon] ducked her head.
“Hello, Miss Erin. Thank you for letting Mrsha play with me. I have lots of fun with her.”
“You’re here every day, right? Does your tribe want you? I mean, I’m glad you can come. Come every day! I’m just curious.”
Erin saw Gire hesitate and her face close off.
“I—they want me to go back. Most of them are still at the Meeting of Tribes, but Chieftain Feshi is there, and we’re…we’re reduced. I don’t know if Ekhtouch can rebuild. Fir—our Chieftain is gone. It’s too much to do. We should probably join Gaarh Marsh or Weatherfur or Wild Wastes. Plain’s Eye is gone, and a lot of tribes will probably ally or join together.”
Mrsha looked at Gire, and the big girl twiddled her thumbs.
“My tribe wants me to help, but I’m too young. I can’t—I just want to learn magic. I’m too young. Like Mrsha.”
She picked up Mrsha and put her on one shoulder. Erin stared up at the giant Gnoll.
“Well, yeah. That’s true. You’re really young, right? Even though you’re so tall.”
Had Gire ever told Erin that? The [Paragon] looked delighted that Erin had noticed.
“How can you tell?”
Erin laughed.
“Easy! Mrsha isn’t friends with old people. Even Relc—she doesn’t play with them like you.”
Mrsha nodded proudly from Gire’s shoulder. Old people got tired too fast!
Gireulashia was relieved that Erin wasn’t pressing her, however gently like Krshia or the others did. She sat down and began trying to figure out if they could play together on the same computer. Meanwhile, Erin watched, glancing towards where Lyonette and Ishkr were planning.
“I totally get it. I’m not good at planning for the future. It’s too much work. What can I do? It’s…that’s how I’ve felt.”
Gire nodded rapidly. Her paws danced over the keyboard, and she focused on it, but talked absently. The words slipped out of her mouth.
“It’s too much—what if I got things wrong?”
Erin scowled in agreement. She still had the pot from last night, but she looked at it and gave voice to a feeling she’d had. A familiar one.
“Yeah! Why do we have to get only one chance? Only one…and then it’s gone forever. Even if you can try again, it’s not the same. If you screw up…”
She looked at the pot and shook her head, troubled.
“It’s a lot of work. The world’s okay in some parts. I mean, it’s not okay, but Krshia’s smart, and the inn’s okay. If it continues, that’s good, right?”
Mrsha and Gire nodded. Gire liked this game. Even though it was about killing, she looked at it like a dream. When you died, everything was back to the way it was. There were no consequences, aside from Mrsha deleting Numbtongue’s save data.
This…was fine, wasn’t it?
 
——
 
Erin Solstice heard an echo of her words from the Mrsha-Gire childhood alliance. This was how she’d felt. It was good to hear them agreeing with her, getting it.
Except that one was an actual child, and the other was a giant [Paragon] pretending to be Mrsha’s age.
Except…Erin felt at her chest. She shook her head, troubled. Then she eyed the unearthed safe now depleted of much of its gold.
“Drat. I guess we do have to make money, but we made money anyways. I’ll just…Mrsha, help me bury this again?”
One second! Gire, left, left!
Mrsha grabbed Gire’s arm, and the [Paragon] yelped.
“I can’t hear you, Mrsha. Don’t—blue exploding thing!”
Both Gnolls dove off the hill away from the laptop. They got up, giggling, and Mrsha began to roll towards Erin and then slowed.
She realized Erin was staring down into the safe. Erin had found something. She had it in her hand, and Mrsha saw a beautiful flash, beyond silver, like what you imagined starlight smithed would be.
A little round coin, too big for any modern coinage. The Gnoll slowed, not because that was unusual.
It was the look on Erin’s face.
Perhaps the coin had been in Erin’s room, but it was entirely conceivable in the chaos that Ishkr had found it and put it into the safe. Certainly, if Erin had seen it before that—
She held the mithril coin with Tamaroth’s name on it up to the light. Gire stared at Erin, perplexed.
“What a strange coin? What word is that missing?”
She couldn’t think of it, and the [Paragon]’s brow wrinkled up. Erin just stared at that coin. And if ever there were a reminder—she looked around slowly. Something’s words echoed to her, in another world.
“Headscratcher says goodbye.”
“Erin?”
Mrsha tapped the rune stone, but the [Innkeeper] didn’t turn. She just held the coin up, and her eyes were suddenly distant. She looked it over, playing with it in her hands, and it almost looked like she might smile.
But she never did, and the coin gleamed as if a second brightness fell upon it. Was it growing…more beautiful? Mrsha began to walk forwards, but Gire stopped her. The [Paragon] squinted at Erin’s hand. Then she pulled Mrsha back.
“Don’t touch. Miss Erin?”
The [Innkeeper] didn’t respond. She held up the coin to the light, and it looked…odd. A bit squatter than it had before. Mrsha blinked at it. The faint writing, the engravings, did they look—
Melted?
Was the coin drooping in Erin’s hand? Yes—yes it was. That pure glow of hard mithril had changed, and it looked…luminescent.
Wet. Then Mrsha realized the metal was melting. Mithril was—
“Her hand. Mrsha, what is that fire?”
Gire pointed, and Mrsha stared at Erin’s hand. She only saw the empty air or a faint shimmer of…every hair stood up on her body.
Invisible fire. The [Innkeeper]’s flame of hatred did not engulf her, but it burned that coin. Burnt and burned—until she noticed the Gnolls looking at her.
The coin stopped melting. It began cooling, and Erin hurriedly tossed it from her hand.
“Uh oh—it’s probably—”
She aimed it at the pond, and it was very, very lucky that no fish or Fortress Beavers lived there anymore.
Because the explosion of steam and water blasted into the ceiling of the dome. Lyonette ran in with the Thronebearers.
“Erin! What did you do?”
“Um. Sorry.”
It was raining in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Erin rolled over to the edge of the pond and stared down as Lyonette waved her arms. She saw a little glimmer down there.
“I’ll grab it, Miss Erin.”
“Don’t touch it.”
Erin stopped Gireulashia from diving in. Mrsha backed up too—her fur had gone up on end as she reached into the very depleted pond for it. Erin demanded a long-handled scooper and had to fumble for five minutes to pick it up herself, but she let no one else handle it.
It was a mangled, melted bit of mithril, dirty and nowhere near as fine as the coin. Just a lump of twisted metal. Lyonette stared at it as Erin made Mrsha promise never to touch it.
“Why not? Is it still hot?”
“Nope. Just warm. It’s just cursed. Or you could use it in a curse.”
The [Witch] said it so lightly. She put the bit of twisted metal away in one pocket as Lyonette threw up her hands, and Mrsha looked uncertainly at Erin. But the [Innkeeper] suddenly looked tired, and she gazed at Gire. Then into her reflection in the pond.
“…Yeah. I think I need a video game too. Mrsha, grab the laptop before the rain destroys it. Gire? Do you want to play a game of chess?”
