“Let’s get ‘em moving. I can feel the road calling. We might skip all the way into the Great Plains, but I don’t know…maybe it’s a new meeting. Be very respectful; that’s the ticket. You never know who’ll become famous.”
Rhaldon scrambled to stomp out the fire and get things moving. He did stuff like that, like unloading or arranging the night’s rooms as the apprentice. Termin looked glad not to, and only when they were on the road again did he speak.
“…Nicknames. Nicknames? Ah, got one. You haven’t met her, and you’d better be on your best behavior around her. No weird questions. Not around Karsy.”
“Karsy?”
Termin nodded.
“Her nickname’s…Karsaeu the Unmarked. She rolls the Unmarked Coach, and you don’t ever trouble her or her passengers. Who else has a stupid name? Oh—Chaoisa, the Contempt of Man.”
Rhaldon snorted, but Termin gave him a serious look.
“That’s the actual nicknames we get given. So ‘Termin the Omnipresent’ is better than some.”
Rhaldon supposed that when you were a bored [Wagon Driver], nicknaming yourselves in the most grandiose way possible was a way of coping. He badgered Termin for six more names, then, as usual, they fell into a peaceful silence. Termin hummed as they left the road, following a trail only he knew, and they rolled onto the grasslands. It was hard for Rhaldon, and the donkeys had to struggle despite his smaller wagon; Termin’s rolled across the grass as if it were perfectly maintained stone.
“Watch for soft spots. I don’t want you stuck. Follow me exactly; I’ll maneuver us.”
Even then, Rhaldon could still steer very easily since the donkeys could follow the wagon in front of them. He spent his time reading.
Baleros, Chandrar, adventurers and wars. And we’re going to the spot where the Gnolls were nearly all murdered by Drakes. This is history—and none of this is for me. I can’t do much unless…
Rhaldon pulled out his money pouch and stared at the singular gold coin and silver he had. He had spent most of his earnings, and Termin had bought the donkeys and wagon, so it was quite fair how much Rhaldon got, or so he understood.
Not nearly enough to make any purchases, and since Plain’s Eye is gone, I don’t think Gaarh Marsh will be selling anyways.
Maybe after they did this trip. Termin glanced over his shoulder.
“You still looking to buy some fancy glassware and such?”
“And other things.”
“Wait ‘till Liscor, then. They’ve got this fancy magic door that connects to Pallass and Invrisil. You’ll do all your shopping then, and by the sounds of it, we’ll both get at least a few gold.”
That did seem good. Rhaldon relaxed and nodded. Termin was smiling again.
“Did I say that I know the [Innkeeper]? Even transported her magic door with those Gold-rank adventurers.”
“Yes, Termin. You’ve mentioned it.”
“She came back from the dead, even. ‘Course, that’s how it is for me. I told you about that [Farmer] that I took from his farm, right? Eldertuin the Fortress?”
“Him too. And the Wind Runner. And the Horns, yes. And Griffon Hunt, and the Halfseekers…”
“I once had Elia Arcsinger herself in here, you know. Just a ride to Dwarfhalls Rest, since her team was tired.”
Rhaldon sighed. The one problem with Termin was—
He did like to brag. But Rhaldon was quite grateful. He just—
He was not going to be a [Wagon Driver] all his life. Hopefully. That was not what he was good at. And yet, how else were you going to make enough money to get all the things he needed? Adventuring? No shot. He had no experience with any weapons, and even if he had a gun, he’d heard Termin talking about Crelers.
Acting as a [Merchant]—maybe. Rhaldon had a very good head for numbers, but starting that required capital. He had really toyed with the idea of apprenticing himself in his chosen profession, but he might have years of a regular apprenticeship, and all his expertise would not jive well with this world’s understanding of his field.
Better, far better to work with Termin, especially because it paid far more than regular [Wagon Drivers] earned. Once he had a few gold coins, maybe Rhaldon would see about his first foray into the world he knew.
But then again—from all he’d heard, alchemy was an explosive, mad-science approach to creating potions and whatnot. He had worked in chemical labs where an explosion never occurred.
Rhaldon hummed with Termin as they slowly came over a hill and saw a ruined battlefield and a bunch of Gnollish huts. Termin’s eyes focused on a single Antinium Soldier drawing pictures on the ground, surrounded by Gnolls as they spotted the two wagons. The Earther gazed at the foreign bug-man that the world hated so much.
It certainly wasn’t ever boring with Termin.
 
——
 
Unfortunately, Termin was a boring fellow. At least on first blush. So while Chieftain Feshi herself met with him to make sure he understood his task, she left the escorting duty to Nailren of Kelia’s Pride, the Silverfangs, and the Ekhtouch warriors.
Termin was not famous enough to warrant Rose meeting him. And even if she had—no. But Antherr would be going to Liscor, possibly a bit faster than usual.
Erin Solstice was happy to learn that Antherr had a ride, though, and she did a double-take at the name listed.
“Termin? Wow, he gets around, doesn’t he? Why’s he down south?”
“I don’t know. Is he that [Wagon Driver] that’s helped you out, Erin?”
Lyonette vaguely remembered the name, but Erin nodded with a huge smile.
“That guy’s cool. I mean—I’ve met him a few times, and so has Ryoka. Weird. He gets around.”
That was all she thought about Termin the Omnipresent. It would take him a while to arrive, and Erin was simply glad of the news.
However, there was a bit of unhappiness in today’s employment decisions. And that person came by the inn to protest in person.
“I am sad.”
A Worker with silver antennae announced his grief. He poured a cup of water over his head.
Erin stared at him. Water dripped off the Antinium’s head. He drooped.
“Have I failed? I have levelled up. Is my cleaning no good?”
“Silveran? Wh—what’s wrong? Why are you sad?”
“You do not want me.”
“What? Silveran!”
Erin had to make him bend down so she could hug him. She didn’t get why the [Cleaner] was so upset until he sat down.
“You wish to hire [Cleaners] from me. And the Free Hive. But not me. I am no longer needed? I cleaned my best, but Ishkr said the inn was closed. Did I clean the wrong stores? I will stop now.”
He was trembling, he was so upset. And as Erin looked at the water dripping from his mandibles, she realized he had learned to cry.
“Silveran, that’s the exact opposite reason! You’re…too good at cleaning!”
The Worker stopped crying and stared at Erin. Too good at cleaning? Was such a thing possible? He opened and closed his mandibles.
“But I was told I could not be employed at The Wandering Inn any longer.”
“By who?”
For answer, Silveran pointed an indignant Erin to the culprit.
“Lyonette?”
“That’s not what I said! I would never—I said Silveran is too successful!”
The Antinium did not understand the difference. Lyonette hurried over, flushing, and defended herself as Erin realized the miscommunication.
“Silveran runs Silveran’s Cleaners, Erin. He employs dozens of Antinium! I told you we couldn’t match his prices.”
“I will work for free. I earn enough money so I will work for free, please. Or I can pay you…”
Silveran was calculating his income, and Erin started chuckling. She put a hand on Silveran’s.
“I get it. Silveran—Lyonette is saying you’re doing so well it would be wrong of us to make you work here for a fraction of the pay. It’s not fair.”
“But I wish to work here.”
The Worker was still upset. Had he cleaned his way out of his dream job? He succeeded into failure! Erin urgently patted his hands and called for a bracing bowl of acid flies.
“Silveran, that’s not it. Now you can send us some of your good Workers and even Soldiers if they can clean stuff. Listen—I know you don’t want to hear it, but it’s better if you keep Silveran’s Cleaners running. Doesn’t it really help?”
It did, and many [Shopkeepers] told Silveran his prices and quality couldn’t be beat. It also meant Workers got to have a paying job and far better conditions than the Hive.
And yet…Silveran closed his mandibles sharply.
“I do not want to help. I want to work here.”
He knew that was wrong, but it seemed to him that by helping everyone, he had thusly made himself less happy. He wanted to be…here.
He looked around The Wandering Inn, and the [Innkeeper] hesitated. Then a big smile crossed her face, and she poked one of his ‘cheeks’ since there was nothing to pinch.
“You silly Silveran, you! Don’t you get it? You might not be able to work here as a [Cleaner] all day—but that just means you can come here whenever you want. And hang out with me!”
“I can?”
The Antinium gave Erin a blank look. She rubbed his head.
“Yes, you can. And you don’t have to clean, so you and I can hang out and play chess.”
“I do not enjoy chess. But this sounds enjoyable.”
“…Huh?”
The betrayal. The drama. But Silveran looked at Erin, and his overwhelming distress faded into…well, he still wanted to work here. But maybe he could pay to sweep the floors? And if he was a paying customer, could he not, in fact, eat all the acid flies he had ever wanted but been too afraid to ask for?
“Erin. If I can pay for food—may I ask for two bowls of acid flies?”
The gluttony. Erin looked at Silveran and began laughing. Then she personally brought him a bowl, and Silveran began to appreciate money in ways he had never thought of before.
“Do you and the Workers actually spend money, Silveran?”
Fascinated, Erin rested her chin on her hands as she sat with him. Silveran replied absently, gobbling acid flies.
“We pay for food. And pillows.”
“And…?”
“And paint? Garry has a bakery which offers food for coins. We often spend money there.”
“Nothing else, Silveran?”
The Worker hesitated. Now that he was a [Cleaning Manager], he did understand money. He had kept trying to offer some services for free, but he got paid, and so he had divided much of his profits to his Workers—but he had needed to keep money for supplies and such.
He understood the myriad things that people spent money on, but he, as a Worker…Silveran glanced at Erin, and in many ways, he was as much of a stranger to Antinium as Yellow Splatters, Pawn, or even Crusader 57.
It was just that Silveran was to economics what Pawn was to faith. He had brought pets to the Free Antinium. Now, he had the most devious of thoughts.
“…I do not spend coins, Erin. But I could. Could I pay you for a…room in your inn?”
Erin blinked at Silveran and glanced at Lyonette.
“Absolutely! Why, we’d let you stay for—Lyonette! Lyonette!”
The [Princess] had devised a new method for dealing with Erin while she was wheelchair-bound. Which was to roll Erin away from Silveran and sit down. Silveran put down a payment on a room and then was told he could move in now.
He walked upstairs, peered into his room of choice, and decided that he didn’t want Bird for a neighbor, so he took one down the hall that he liked. It wasn’t that Bird was noisy—he just left rotting birds around his room, and Silveran objected to his lifestyle.
The inn had its first new (paying) guest. Despite her being slightly annoyed at Lyonette, Erin was glad of it and smiled.
“Now we just need Workers and Goblins. Hey—I guess we might need more rooms, Lyonette. Especially if we’re putting them all up here.”
“In that case, we need to talk to Hexel. But let’s talk to Rags first.”
Erin nodded instantly and frowned.
“Speaking of which—she’s at Goblinhome, right? Maybe I can go there. I’d like to see it.”
Erin wistfully looked around. The person she owed speaking to most was arguably Rags. There were others, of course, like Fetohep and such—but Rags?
Yet it seemed like the little Chieftain had left and not come back, and Erin didn’t know why. The only people who would know how to get to her would be Numbtongue and Ulvama.
And Kevin, for some reason. Erin found Numbtongue first. He was playing cards with Gothica, Octavia, and Liska over lunch.
“Psst, Numbtongue.”
“I’m working! I just sat down because they asked!”
Liska abandoned the table in a flurry, and Lyonette frowned after her as Numbtongue blinked at Erin.
“What?”
“We’re going to hire Rags’ Goblins if any want to work here. I think they will, right?”
Numbtongue stared at Erin’s face and around the famous inn and at what might be the only [Natural Ally] of Goblins.
“…Yes.”
“Great, great! Well, I haven’t seen her either, and I bet Goblinhome is hard to get to. Especially for, y’know.”
Erin gestured at her wheelchair. She leaned forwards.
“So I was thinking—why don’t we ask if Rags can put a teleportation stone in Goblinhome? Once we get the magic door back, obviously.”
Numbtongue heard a snort from Gothica. He himself kept a blank face as he took Liska’s cards and reshuffled them into the deck.
“Nope.”
“Huh? Why not? I don’t really want to ride a Wyvern or something. It looks really uncomfortable even if I could get up there.”
The [Bard] gave Erin a long ‘are-you-serious’ look, and when she didn’t blink, he sighed.
“Think about it.”
The [Innkeeper] frowned at him, but it took her only a minute before she sighed.
“Oh. Not a good idea?”
“Nope. Lots of people hate Goblins.”
“Okay, then we’ll just send a [Message]. Can you tell me who to send it to? Lyonette needs to know.”
“Nope.”
Numbtongue scowled as Gothica took the hand. He pushed two coins forwards, and Ulvama sauntered over to the table. She was dealt in as Erin waited.
“…Why not?”
“What she want to do, send [Message] to Rags?”
Numbtongue rolled his eyes and nodded. Ulvama laughed.
“Nope!”
Erin looked from Goblin to Goblin and then folded her arms.
“I get it, I get it. It’ll reveal them. Fine. Then we’ll send a messenger or something. Er—how do we do that? Maybe we have to hire someone to hike up there?”
“Into the High Passes?”
Octavia had to interject at this point, and Erin scowled as she heard what she sounded like.
“Well—how are we supposed to talk to Rags? Wait until she comes down?”
“She might not come down. Tenbault’s [Healer] is making a huge fuss. If she comes down by Wyvern, they follow the Wyvern back.”
“Or shoot it for bounty.”
Ulvama agreed. Erin looked from Ulvama to Numbtongue with an increasing frown.
“Then—if she goes on foot or with those wolves? And disguises her trail?”
