You just didn’t hear Pisces shouting because he was smart enough to [Silence] his rooms. She would have noticed anyways, but she didn’t have to.
A [Witch] could tell. Vaguely—but she was an [Innkeeper] too, and the classes were linked across some talents. Erin Solstice slowed as she wheeled through the [Garden of Sanctuary].
It was like a dark cloud over Gire—but it passed like the sun blooming as Mrsha offered her a bite of the decorative fruits on top of the Archmage of Syrup’s damned creation. That was good. They really did like each other.
Still, after the wonderful campfire and talks, Erin felt like today was a day for something. She brought the pot she’d filled last night and put it on the breakfast table. Mrsha reached for the top, and Erin stopped her.
“Not so fast, Mrsha. You’ll let it out!”
“Your…magic? I have breakfast, unless you want something else, Erin?”
Lyonette carefully reappeared, holding a more normal-sized pancake and egg and bacon breakfast.
“The good old American stuff is fine with me, Lyonette! Just like Mom used to make. Well, aside from the lack of blueberries. And, actually, it was my dad who made this breakfast. So exactly not like my mom used to make.”
Lyonette blinked at the references, but Erin just smiled, and she very deliberately thought—Shauna Solstice. Gregori Solstice.
She remembered them, and not just the fake memories of waking up. It was…hard to focus on them, like a name you kept forgetting. But because she knew why it was hard, Erin could pull the names and the memories out.
“Is this what you ate every day, Erin? No wonder you cook like, um…”
“If anyone brings up roasted corn today, I’m gonna shove this piece of bacon up…an ear.”
Erin waved a fork around dangerously. Gire and Mrsha were nudging each other, clearly daring one another to do it, and Ser Sest reappeared with a drink.
“Miss Solstice.”
“Thanks, Sest.”
The inn was weird. Thronebearers, all four of them, practically helped Lyonette into her seat and provided her with a more elegant meal of crepes. Which Mrsha instantly stole half of. And then the Horns came down to their table—well, all but Ceria. She was still snoring apparently.
The inn began to fill up with a few more guests. No Relc nor Klbkch, and Kevin had apparently gone back to Solar Cycles and never returned.
“Joseph?”
“Already out the door. He has to train Pallass’ football team.”
“I-Imani?”
“Timbor’s.”
“Uh—Hexel?”
“I think he didn’t sleep here. Maybe he was working late after he left the fire?”
Mrsha rolled her eyes as Lyonette answered Erin’s questions. But neither young woman noticed it. Erin gazed around the fairly empty inn just in time for Numbtongue to appear.
He was carrying a dead body. No—wait. It was just Octavia. The [Alchemist] only stirred from her zombie-like state when Numbtongue waved a bowl of porridge in front of her face.
“Numbtongue! And Bird! What are you doing with Octavia, Numbtongue?”
The Antinium wandered down in pursuit of breakfast as Numbtongue nodded at Erin. The [Bard] shrugged.
“Found her in her shop. She forgets to eat.
“I do not! I just…delay my meals sometimes.”
“For days.”
The Hobgoblin eyed Gireulashia’s huge breakfast with respect and rubbed his claws together as another standard plate was put in front of him. He reached for a fork, and Ulvama snatched the plate.
“Yum.”
She walked off, and Numbtongue began to rise.
“Another plate for Numbtongue. Miss Ulvama! You can’t do that!”
Lyonette rose with a huge frown, but the [Shaman] turned. Archly, Ulvama stared at the [Princess].
“My food, now.”
“Yes, but that was his—”
The [Shaman] put a thumb on her chest then pointed at Mrsha.
“I save silly little girl.”
“Yes, but—”
“Good, good. Goodbye.”
And with that, the Hobgoblin walked off and went to the lounge to watch the scrying mirror over breakfast. Lyonette and Erin looked at each other. Erin leaned over to Mrsha.
“Is that normal?”
Numbtongue, scowling, was torn between going after Ulvama and starting a fight and decided to sit as another plate came out of the kitchen. Mrsha sighed and wrote on a notecard.
“That’s Ulvama. Very rude. And has big butt.”
Erin stared at the hallway and decided not to ask for elaboration. Lyonette puffed out her cheeks.
“Well—the nerve of her! We’ll put a stop to that once the inn opens. And speaking of which—I think today’s the day, don’t you, Erin?”
“Hm? Absolutely! I mean, uh, I’m still a bit slow with the wheelchair, but—”
Lyonette smiled at Erin and began to tie her hair back.
“Don’t you worry, Erin, I have it covered. You just…add in anything that’s helpful. But The Wandering Inn is back in business! We have to be, since we didn’t charge anyone for last night.”
“Ah. But it wasn’t much more than corn, and it was friends of the inn…”
The [Princess] sighed.
“Yes, yes, I know, Erin. But that’s why we need regulars. So! I’m going to make sure we’re all stocked up, and let’s say—open at lunch?”
“Yep, that’ll work. I’ll help. Mrsha, what are you going to do today?”
“Mrsha and I were hoping we could play in the [Garden of Sanctuary] again? And she’s going to show me some magic. Then, after that, we’re visiting Selys.”
“I—suppose that’s all very good. Just so long as you stay in the inn! And we’ll let Selys pick you up and send Dame Ushar with you.”
Lyonette approved the plans, and the two Gnoll girls ran off at once. Erin blinked at the Archmage’s We—
“Where did it go? She ate that?”
“Amazing.”
Numbtongue agreed, staring at the plate where only syrup remained. Lyonette closed her eyes a moment.
“…We have to open the inn soon.”
 
——
 
Money was not an issue for The Wandering Inn, but it was going to be. Not just because Gire ate like eight Mrshas—because she ate like that and didn’t pay for what she ate.
No one currently visiting The Wandering Inn did. Some, like the Horns, were long-standing guests, and it just hadn’t been brought up because it had been part of their tabs, which they repaid weekly.
Other guests? They didn’t have money.
Gothica, for instance, who’d come in this morning from who-knew-where, was happily eating a load of black eggs. Not Noelictus-eggs—she’d just asked for someone to add a bit of charcoal or something to make them look dark.
The same for Infinitypear, Ulvama, and even the Thronebearers. Lyonette knew it was tough, but she had to bring it up.
“Um. Erin. We have to charge them for their food.”
“What?”
Erin broke off from staring at the pot and frowned at Lyonette. The [Princess] frowned back.
“Not immediately and not for everything so far! But I am saying—we have to charge them for food. Or how long do you intend to keep feeding them?”
“It’s only a few meals each day.”
“Across how many people? All of the Fellowship? The [Crusaders]? That’s over a hundred Antinium each day at—”
“Okay, okay! Fine! But I’m not charging them today. Or tomorrow. Or…”
Lyonette was prepared for this. She had done some thinking and gave Erin an easy alternative. In fact, she even volunteered to make the announcement as Squad 5 filed in for breakfast—they were still on leave.
“Excuse me, everyone! I have something a tiny bit difficult to say. I must tell you all that The Wandering Inn will begin charging you for food and rooms!”
Gothica looked up, concerned, as Rasktooth and Infinitypear stopped chowing down and glanced at each other worriedly. Squad 5 didn’t look worried, but they had money.
“Charge us for food? I saved—”
Ulvama appeared in the hallway, and Lyonette glared at her. She spoke over the Hobgoblin.
“For one month, everything is free. That means twenty—nineteen more days, to be exact. After that, we will regretfully begin charging you for food and accommodations. We hope you can understand.”
The request didn’t go over as well as the [Princess] had hoped. Pisces Jealnet frowned at her and then rose to his feet with a sniff.
“Excuse me, Miss Lyonette. But I must point out that, despite the braggadocious nature of the statements, we did abandon our causes and fight for our very lives in a war for the inn or the people within. Surely there is some…egregious nature to charging us for simple food and drink after a mere thirty days? I hope you can see how odd that sounds.”
Yvlon glared at him, but Lyonette took a huge breath.
“I understand, but Pisces—we cannot afford to do more than a month. Frankly, we may serve up to a hundred guests free of charge. Not every day, hopefully, but…there is not enough gold in our coffers, understand?”
She flushed a bit, and Pisces hesitated. His supercilious expression faded, and he coughed.
“Well, I, ah—I understand fiscally this all makes sense. And I, personally, have to say that the Horns could and always intended to pay for our food, without needing for a month’s reprieve. We are Gold-rank adventurers after all.”
He backpedaled so fast that he was sitting down and applauding her choices as Lyonette sighed. Erin waved a hand urgently.
“I know it’s tough, but I’ll make it up to everyone in other ways. Lyonette’s just pointing out that we can’t give away food forever, and one month is sorta fair? The Wandering Inn isn’t that poor! We’ve got money! I think.”
Laughter from the tables, and everyone relaxed. Lyonette was relieved the message went over well, although she knew she’d have to repeat it for other guests. But most, she thought privately, would pay anyways.
Saliss, Grimalkin, and a number of guests did not exactly hurt for coin. It was harder on the Goblins and Antinium, but Gothica looked very pleased at learning she had nineteen more days of guaranteed food and ordered a bloody piece of pork to go along with said eggs.
“We can even afford the quest bounties that Erin put out without asking me quite easily. So don’t worry—we’ll manage a month once the inn opens. Which is today! I just need to make sure we’re good on food and we have the Players. Oh, and the staff!”
Lyonette was joking in relief with everyone else. An aged voice spoke up as Tekshia Shivertail cleared her throat.
“Wonderful news. Then I suppose you won’t mind me leaving this bill here? I’ll take payment in full by the end of the day.”
Uh oh. Erin Solstice froze as Tekshia walked forwards. The old [Spearmaster] was smiling, and the Guildmistress of the Adventurer’s Guild had a piece of paper in her claw.
“Uh—Tekshia! I’m so glad you’re here! I—please don’t stab anyone.”
Tekshia didn’t have her spear, but with bags of holding, you never knew. However, the old Drake just sighed as Erin rolled forwards.
“I’m not going to hurt you. So put your Hobgoblin away.”
She nodded at Numbtongue, who sat down with a grin. He liked old, tough people of any species. Tekshia handed Erin the slip of paper with a long stare.
“I am glad you seem well enough to cause trouble again. And in light of everything, I’m even willing to give you a pass for destroying my old Guild. It was in need of repairs anyways; the damned city was willing to move it around, but not give it a redesign, which it needed.”
She glanced around Erin’s inn.
“…Is this all Antinium work? I think I’ll be quite happy if Liscor’s Council advances some gold like they promised. Cheap building, and that [Architect] knows what a proper Guild should look like. Three or four floors, twice as large—completely redone. So just pay what the old one cost and I will happily let you in again. Destroy the second one and I’ll stab you.”
Erin smiled weakly, but all things considered, this was the most reasonable response, and from Tekshia, no less!
“I can do that, Tekshia. And believe me—I didn’t know it’d knock down the guild. So, um, how much is—yikes!”
Lyonette du Marquin did not like the sound of that. She peeked over Erin’s shoulder and blanched.
“Two thousand gold pieces?”
At Pisces’ table, all three Horns winced. For a Gold-rank adventurer, it wasn’t the worst price tag. You’d pay that for an expendable Wand of [Fireballs]. But then again…that was the cost of a wand that shot explosive balls of fire.
A Silver-rank team would scream at such a price. And an inn?
“That’s so much! Are you sure this is right?”
Erin was protesting to Tekshia, but the Drake just gave her a long look.
“It’s the price I came to for rebuilding a guild. Not a house. The average house in Liscor can cost a hundred gold coins, Erin.”
“A hundred? That’s so much!”
Erin understood that the average person could earn around a gold coin a week in Liscor. Tekshia shrugged.
“Once again, that is to build from the ground up. I imagine that Hexel can do it for a fraction, and it would cost more depending on where it is. Wood, for instance, is far too expensive here. But that is a house. My guild is in pieces. You caused it.”
“But doesn’t Liscor have, um, insurance? And the Council is going to help, right?”
Tekshia stared at Erin.
“What’s insurance? You mean rebuilding spells? No, we do not have that, and yes, Liscor’s Council has assigned me funds for rebuilding. Which I will use along with the money you owe me. If anything, I am not charging you as much as I could ask. Can you pay it now? If not, I will give you time…and add another thousand gold.”
She waited, eyes glinting. Erin was shaking her head, but Lyonette grabbed her arm.
“One second, Miss Tekshia?”
The Drake nodded, and Lyonette dragged Erin back to whisper to her.
“Erin.”
“I’m sorry, Lyonette! What are we—”
“Erin, we can pay that.”
The [Innkeeper] stopped.
“…We can?”
Lyonette was grimacing. But she glanced towards the [Garden of Sanctuary] where Mrsha and Gire were playing in blissful oblivion of adult fiscal responsibility.
“We have money in our safe. Exactly three thousand one hundred and twenty-four gold coins. Ninety-six silver, and four hundred and two copper coins, unless Ishkr took some out for use.”
She knew exactly how much money they had in the vaults. Erin blinked at her.
“How do you—do you count the money?”
“Erin. Why would I not know how much money is in our coffers?”
“Um…”
They could pay the hefty price tag for Erin’s quest, but it punched a hole in their reserves, and Lyonette knew a thousand gold coins was a ‘lot’ for non-adventurers and non-nobility, and they’d eat into it replenishing their food supplies, rehiring everyone…but they’d begin making it back.
Grimacing, the two came back to Tekshia and agreed to pay her up front rather than take a year’s extension at a thousand coin addition. Tekshia did have to wait while they filled up her bag of holding from the safe—but she was generous enough not to count.
