“You didn’t know a bunch of Drakes were lying outside the inn with crossbows. Erin. I’m not blaming you for anything we did. The Horns of Hammerad are big boys and girls, except for Ksmvr. We went into everything with eyes open, just like Halrac and Jelaqua’s teams, and everyone else. We will settle our dues. Tree rot, they still have that Helm of Fire, and they’ve been negotiating for it for months.”
Ceria sighed, and Erin stirred.
“Oh, the artifacts? Wait, they still haven’t distributed the loot?”
Ceria shrugged.
“Adventurers and the biggest raid in decades? Nope. We complicated it too, by being alive instead of dead. Personally, I think the teams are waiting to see what we have before claiming some of it. That’s going to be—a problem.”
She scratched at her head.
“…They’re not getting our stuff. I think we’ll have to sort it out, but that’s our problem.”
Erin didn’t envy Ceria that, but this wasn’t the core of what they needed to say. They were circling.
“How was Savere, Ceria? It sounds like a really nasty place.”
The half-Elf shrugged.
“It isn’t so bad. There are some truly unpleasant characters, like this half-Elf I met, but I got through it by being cool-headed.”
She winked, and Erin groaned at the pun. Ceria went on after a moment of thought.
“…It’s very different from Izril or Terandria in many ways. Chandrar, that is. But the people were still people. I bet you can understand that.”
“Yep. So—Fetohep of Khelt really helped you out? Or did he take you away from what you needed to do?”
Erin squirmed in her chair. Ceria chewed that over.
“He helped me. I didn’t lose too much. Yvlon, Ksmvr, Pisces, they all had things to do. But me? I made one huge change in Chandrar, and all my challenges were simpler on my side, I think. I feel like coming back to Izril is where things will…matter.”
She was speaking very casually about everything. There was something off about Ceria that Erin couldn’t explain, but then she heard the half-Elf curse.
“Tree rot, I’m going to explode if I don’t bring it up. Erin! Tell me what Gerial said.”
She slowed, and Erin saw Ceria walk around to face her. Then she saw the half-Elf’s face and the barely suppressed nervousness in Ceria’s eyes.
The fear.
It was there, and Erin relaxed because that was the half-Elf she knew. Ceria raked at her hair.
“I ran away when you brought it up. I’m sorry.”
“No, I’m sorry, Ceria. I shouldn’t have said it like that. And I had no proof. But…”
Erin’s mouth had gone dry. She spread her hands.
“…Believe me. I met ghosts. I…believe me?”
Ceria sat down cross-legged. She picked up some grass, put it into her mouth, and spat it out.
“I believe you. I believed you the moment you said that.”
“Wh—you did? Then why did you…?”
Why’d you run off when you were about to hear the words of your dead friend? Numbtongue was right. Erin did have stupid ideas.
Ceria was scratching at one cheek, and she kept glancing at Erin. Her face was trying to smile, but she was rubbing her fingers together on her skeletal hand and making a faint rasping sound.
“I…I think I’m ready, now, Erin? What was he like? What was it—no. You go ahead. I’ll just listen. I’ll shut up. I’m…ready.”
She fell silent, and Erin’s own heart beat painfully in her chest. The [Innkeeper] opened her mouth, croaked, felt a lump, swallowed it, and felt her eyes stinging.
“He…Gerial was great. Just like he was. You know? They all were. It wasn’t bad. He—he saved me before I came back to life, you know. He was the bravest.”
“Gerial? He got to be a hero?”
Ceria’s look of apprehension faded, and she smiled slightly. Erin nodded, and Ceria exhaled.
“Good for him. He always wanted to be in the storybook.”
That one line was all it took. Erin began blinking hard. Ceria waved at her.
“Don’t you dare! Or I’ll start crying! Don’t you—what did he say?”
The two laughed, and Erin pinched herself.
“I’m trying. He…we talked for a while. But you know—you know—you know? He said the words right before I left.”
Tears spilled from Erin’s eyes. She sniffed, and Ceria looked at Erin blankly. Then she rose; Ceria couldn’t help herself.
“He said it? Death before dishonor? That…twice?”
The way she said it—Erin had started crying, but then she started giggling and put her hands over her mouth. Ceria looked torn between a laugh and a sob.
“He couldn’t think of something better?”
Then that was it. They began laughing. Erin tried not to fall out of her chair, and Ceria’s eyes were wet with tears. It was the meanest thing she could have said. And it proved how much she had cared for him.
When the laughter faded enough for her to speak, Erin was able to talk again.
“He had a message for you and Calruz too, Ceria. Well…part of it is private. He said—he said he had no regrets. He wanted to be a hero, but he was just glad you survived.”
Ceria had stopped laughing and smiling, but it returned as Erin spoke. This time, though, it wasn’t wild humor, but the smile of someone like Ceria. Like Erin, in a way.
It was sixty years old, and it had seen friends go. It was old, but she looked like she had when she sat with the Horns, the originals, as Erin told her what Gerial had said. Then she whispered in Ceria’s ears, and the half-Elf laughed sadly.
“Yeah. That sounds like Gerial. As much of an idiot as Calruz in his way. He only pretended to be sensible.”
That last part was only for the half-Elf. Ceria wiped at her face, then she grabbed a handful of grass and blew her nose with it.
“Ew, Ceria!”
The half-Elf looked rattled. She took several deep breaths in and out, then brushed some grass from her nose. She wiped her face and then looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] had a handkerchief. Another deep breath, and Ceria set herself. Erin blinked at her as the half-Elf squared her shoulders.
“Okay. Okay. That one hurt. But I…I’m really glad you told me. I’m glad—”
She trailed off, then closed her eyes. Ceria took a few more breaths, faster now, and opened her eyes and clenched her jaw.
“I’m ready. Who’s next?”
“Huh?”
Erin looked at Ceria, and the half-Elf frowned at her.
“Who’s next? Hunt? Marian—my—just let me know.”
Then Erin understood why Ceria was so afraid. There was a look of fear in the half-Elf’s eyes, circlet or not. The kind of knowledge that had come from not only believing Erin, but thinking.
Only, she was wrong. She was waiting to hear their words. Just like Gerial.
All of them. Everyone she had ever known, and she was a half-Elf. Even if she wasn’t old…Erin understood why Ceria had run away. She raised her hands.
“I don’t…I don’t have anyone else, Ceria. I didn’t meet them all. There was fighting—it was only Gerial.”
“Oh.”
It was like Ceria was waiting for a blow, but she untensed and then Erin hit her. Because there were no words. None from her…
None from her grandmother. None from her teammates. None from Calvaron or…she blinked and passed a hand over her face.
“Oh. I see. Silly me.”
“I’m so sorry. I didn’t realize you thought—”
“No. I mean, yes. I’m relieved? I’m…”
The half-Elf looked at Erin.
“Just Gerial?”
“Just Gerial. There were millions, but I met so few of them. And there were terrible things there.”
Erin bowed her head. Ceria looked at her.
“Will we have to fight these things?”
The [Innkeeper] stared down at the grass and a little ladybug or something similar wending its way forwards. She looked up once and scared the half-Elf again.
“Someday. Yes.”
Ceria looked at Erin and then stood up. She wiped at her face again, but her tears were dry.
“I’ll have to…I’m going to have a lot of drinks tonight. But thank you, Erin. Thank you. Gerial did it, didn’t he?”
“I’m only here because he bought me time.”
Erin answered truthfully. Ceria turned.
“Good. You need to tell Calruz. I…thanks. We’ll sort out the rest as it comes. But I did hear you back in the inn this morning. Did you mean what you said about us not being able to do it?”
Erin squirmed in her chair, but Ceria just waited, and Erin nodded.
“Yep. Sorry.”
“Don’t be sorry. You’re being honest. I think I get why. I was at the Great Plains, and I saw those ghosts crack Izril. And they still lost. So. When the time comes, hopefully we’ll be ready.”
Ceria turned, and for a second, Erin thought she saw—but then the half-Elf smiled at her. She scratched at her head.
“I guess it’s time to get back to work. New lands await. Let me know if you find those Crossroads of Izril or get your magic door to go four thousand miles instead of four hundred. It’d be nice not to waste time travelling.”
Erin flapped her hands at Ceria.
“I’m not part of the new lands, Ceria. I have my hands full here.”
An exasperated look filled Ceria’s gaze. She rolled her eyes.
“Sure, whatever you say, Erin.”
“I mean it! I have nothing to do with the new lands! I don’t even know how you’d get there aside from that quest. Even the Gnolls I don’t have much to do with.”
“Mhm. And it’s a quiet inn life for you now as well?”
Erin flapped a hand at Ceria.
“Don’t be mean. I’m serious.”
“Yep. Say, look over there, Erin?”
Erin turned her head, and the Human and half-Elf stared at a quartet of people who’d begun walking their way from the city. They had either missed Ceria’s warning or didn’t care. Ceria raised one eyebrow as Erin hesitated.
“C—no.”
It was a Minotaur, but not Calruz. He had two arms and a greatsword made of green diamond on his back. The second was a [Lord], peering at Erin and Ceria. The third, a Dwarf with a hammer on his shoulder and gesturing at a Garuda flying overhead to come down and be polite. Ceria glanced at Erin.
“What about him?”
She didn’t mean any of the three male [Strategists] here. Erin Solstice bit her lip.
“…I’m working on it. I don’t know what to say, really. But—he’s not as crazy as they say, right? Mrsha exaggerates a lot of stuff, and Bird told me he’s a [Liar].”
For answer, the half-Elf just looked at her friend and started guffawing until a ladybug flew into her mouth. Then she swallowed it.
The four [Strategists] walked forwards hesitantly. They were supposed to be a group of six. But Feshi would never go back to the academy. The adventure they’d gone on—
It had led them here. And whilst they’d seen a lot of what happened, they were newcomers to a strange story.
But every piece had their role to play. However unwillingly. Venaz the Minotaur looked more apprehensive than he ever had in his life.
Partly because there was an Antinium aiming a bow at him. And at least two Hobs glaring at him out the window. The Minotaur ignored the [Knights], but the [Strategists] got the same message the spies did.
Back off.
However, they had—orders. And an overwhelming desire to meet her. Wil hesitated. The [Innkeeper] was talking with the Gold-rank adventurer and waving them over.
“Does this mean we don’t get shot if we walk over? I think we do—Peki, stop that.”
She was embarrassing her friends. The [Martial Artists] kept flying through the air, rotating left, dipping down, and Merrik was hissing at her to behave.
“We’re all nervous, Peki, but this is not helping! Remember your diplomacy class!”
She’d nearly failed that. However, the Garuda wasn’t doing it on purpose. She squawked back.
“I can’t…dodge…it.”
Venaz looked at Wil and then focused on the Antinium in the tower. Peki looked uncomfortable. Merrik squinted up at the figure.
“He’s got a bead on you? He can see you.”
“He’ll hit me. There.”
Peki landed in the only safe spot she could find. Behind Venaz. Then she began fidgeting again.
“Here, too? I’ll catch the arrow. Let’s go.”
It was already off to a bad start. No, this plan of engagement was fundamentally flawed to begin with. Wil hadn’t understood his lessons on why sometimes even great [Strategists] and [Generals] lost wars. He knew sometimes you got bad orders, but he’d always argued that, no, when it came down to the wire, he’d stand up and say ‘absolutely not’.
And yet here he was. Walking into a bloodbath. And he wasn’t even the [Marked Target]. They’d gone five rounds of Lizcards, and Venaz had lost.
“Merrik, break my legs. I can’t do it.”
The Minotaur whispered to the other three as they marched forwards to the half-Elf and [Innkeeper]. The Dwarf retorted.
“Not on your life. Just get it over with.”
There she was, the young woman who employed a [Princess]. Or were they working together? The girl who came back from the dead and who had been possessed by the ghost of the greatest [General] of the Drakes in a hundred years.
Erin Solstice. And oh, if only Wil could have come at any other time. But she was smiling warily as they approached.
“Hello! You’re the, um, [Strategist]-students, aren’t you? The ones with the shiny swords?”
That was one way to put it. The four stopped as Ceria raised a hand. She glanced at Venaz’s greatsword and Wil’s shortsword. Most people did, but there wasn’t the starstruck effect that sometimes came over people.
That was to be expected. The young woman stared at Venaz the most, then Merrik. The [Strategists] tried to feel out the [Innkeeper] as they introduced themselves.
“Wil Kallinad, Innkeeper Solstice. House Kallinad of Pheislant, but I am a student of the Forgotten Wing company in Baleros. Honored to make your acquaintance.”
She didn’t hold out a hand, but she did smile. She blinked at Merrik and visibly hesitated as he introduced himself.
“Merrik Hostone, of Deríthal-Vel, Miss Solstice. Nominally from Deríthal—I’ve done mercenary work across the nations thereabouts. [Stoneshorn War Leader].”
Everyone looked at Merrik at that. He’d actually used his real, full class? He was trying to make a real impression. Erin blinked and then smiled.
“Wow! Another Dwarf from the same place! I guess that’s really the home of all Dwarves, eh?”
“Most of us, Miss. Although—no, most.”
Merrik blushed as he stumbled over his words. Erin smiled and then hesitated. She looked sideways at Ceria, and the half-Elf nudged her.
“Erin…”
“Oh, come on. Merrik, do you know, um, Dawil of the Silver Swords? Or Pelt?”
Ceria sighed, Merrik blinked.
“Er—yes. A Gold-rank adventurer and Master Smith Pelt? Former…yes, I do.”
“See, it’s just them.”
“It’s still weird, Erin. It’s like asking if he knows…”
“Calruz of Hammerad?”
Venaz interrupted the whisperers, and Ceria jumped. He gave Erin a brisk clasp of a fist across one shoulder. Erin’s head snapped up.
