“I’m sure you’re as good as your words. I’ll take this to the Merchant’s Guild now. I’m very pleased we can settle this. I didn’t even have to fetch my spear. Feel free to visit any time. Liscor’s new Adventurer’s Guild should be constructed within the week. Hexel has made it a priority.”
She smiled, got two painful faces of bared teeth in reply, and was gone. Erin didn’t meet Lyonette’s gaze as she rolled back to the table.
“So, um…let’s open tonight. I think we can really—really make a profit if we get coffee sales in. And the Minotaur’s Punch sells well at good margins, you said?”
Lyonette kept a straight face.
“Absolutely. I’ll get the Players to stop in. Imani for cooking, Ishkr’s agreed to rehire, and the Players for entertainment. Would you like to help me? That would take a load off my shoulders.”
Erin took a huge breath and sighed.
“Yes.”
 
——
 
Complications arose.
The story of Lyonette’s life, really. The first people she went to talk to were obviously the Players of Liscor and the Players of Celum. Imani was already the [Chef], and the staff were important, but the Players had to set up.
“…so we’d be exceptionally pleased if you could see about letting the Players of Liscor or Players of Celum perform, Temile. I know it’s an imposition to ask, and I don’t expect the Players of Celum to do so! But…”
Lyonette felt odd, finding Temile. Because he was no longer the former [Actor] from the startup troupe who performed out of an inn, but the [Producer] of the Players of Liscor. And yes, they were not the continent-famous Players of Celum still going north and apparently performing at noble estates, but the Players of Celum had a theatre in Invrisil, multiple teams, and they did not leave their cousin-groups out to dry.
Temile wore bright, eye-catching clothing like he were an [Actor] himself, a cascade of yellow and blue tastefully put over a black surcoat that made him look like a cross between some [Lord] and, well, a [Troubadour], but bridged the gap into maintaining both dignity and entertainment.
No less than a Level 40 [Seamstress] had worked on it, Invrisil’s finest, and the Players of Liscor were no longer in need of housing at The Wandering Inn.
They had received funding from the Players of Celum—indeed, to help the Players of Pallass start up as well—and there was a certain largesse that Lyonette noticed in the back rooms. Far more complicated makeup, magical artifacts to aid in their illusions or getting ready, and even the chairs were plush, costing no little amount of gold per embroidered seat.
And yet, despite all this, Temile instantly nodded.
“We’ll have a group playing in your inn tonight, Lyonette! You have my word. Maybe not our best team because they are booked for the theater here, but I’ll arrange it so our best group from the Players of Liscor performs, with maybe the Players of Celum performing every month at least once?”
“That is so generous. Thank you, Temile!”
Lyonette exhaled and then took a look around.
“But what about your theatre here?”
They were standing in a new building in the developing western district of Liscor. Temile waved it off.
“We can fill it. But The Wandering Inn is where we began—well, the Frenzied Hare, but you know what I mean—and The Wandering Inn is where we’ll perform. Until the next time it shuts down. Er, do let us know if the monsters are going to attack.”
He laughed, and Lyonette noticed his missing thumb and laughed too, but weakly. Still—the Players of Liscor were exceptionally generous.
“I will let you know, Temile. We need to make sure the staff can accommodate a crowd—can I send a runner to confirm?”
“Absolutely. We’d like to set up in…two hours at the latest?”
“I will let you know by then, thank you.”
Lyonette hurried away from the guild, resolved to make sure she had staff. But that was when she ran into the complications, because when she went to see how Ishkr was doing, she found Erin Solstice talking with Imani in front of Timbor’s inn.
The [Innkeeper] was there too, and Erin waved Lyonette over.
“I, um, really appreciate it, Imani. But are you sure it’s okay?”
Oh no. Erin’s generous nature was getting the better of her. Lyonette cursed as she hurried forwards, Dalimont and Lormel behind her. And a shadowy Drake too, but Lyonette couldn’t even deal with that.
“Absolutely, Erin. Timbor has agreed to let me change jobs, and—it’s the least I can do.”
Imani was smiling, but both turned to look at Timbor. He had a long history with Erin, but the man mustered a smile. He didn’t look…happy, but who would want to let go of a star [Chef] like Imani?
“It’s quite all right, Miss Erin. Miss Imani started in your inn, and I—I would have hoped for her to leave my inn a month ago.”
“That’s very kind. But you’re sure, Imani?”
“Erin, is there a problem with Imani cooking at The Wandering Inn?”
Lyonette hadn’t heard the beginning of this conversation, but she understood the moment Imani’s gaze slid sideways.
“It’s…not too great an issue, Lyonette. I just need to discuss my hours. I can try to work ahead of time, but your guests eat a lot of food. I think Palt will just have to manage the kitchen here by himself until I work out a way to divide my time.”
“What kitchen? Oh—”
And then Lyonette realized she’d been out-of-touch with Liscor almost as much as Erin, because she turned and there it was.
Barehoof Kitchens, [Chef] Imani and [Illusionist] Palt.
The sign hung over the building next to Timbor’s Drunken Gnoll with an odd logo—that of a hoof upon a dinner plate. It was certainly something. The artwork was very well-done, and Lyonette knew it had to be Palt who’d done all of it, including the painted lettering.
“You…have a kitchen, Imani?”
The [Chef] tried to appear modest, but it was clear she’d been dying to tell Erin all about it.
“It began with my cooking classes. You remember that, Erin? Well, I was leasing kitchens but at such prices that Palt began grumbling how it would be easier to buy a new building since they were going up. We looked into it, and it cost a bit more than that, but we’ve more than made up for it with the classes. In fact…we provide for more than Timbor’s inn. The classes are just part of what we do. I come up with new recipes from home…”
She looked meaningfully at Erin.
“…or my take on it. And I’m creating new dishes, of course!”
Erin groaned.
“Good luck. They’ll steal your recipes instantly, those jerks!”
“Not if they pay Imani to teach them how to make it. That’s a Wistram sales-model. Coin for knowledge. Coin for secrets. My unshod darling, are we going to rescue The Wandering Inn’s dire cuisine once more?”
Palt trotted forwards, and Imani took his hand as he smiled at Erin. The young woman eyed the growing beard on the Centaur’s face.
“Yuck.”
“Yuck? Imani didn’t protest!”
Palt looked wounded as he covered his beard. Imani sighed.
“I didn’t not protest. He can always hide it with illusion spells. Palt, I need to work at The Wandering Inn. You get to run the kitchen.”
“I—suppose that works. We can hire some of our assistants full-time, I think, and devote one to the inn?”
“No, no, I’ll work there for the day. Let’s ask if Meritss can work full-time. If not…”
The two began conferring, and Lyonette glanced at Erin, who was standing with Ser Sest and a bored Numbtongue, who was placated eating Imani’s attempt at a spicy fried bean tofu and rating it on a placard Palt had designed.
She felt it too, no matter how hard she wanted to ignore it.
Could they do this? Lyonette smiled weakly.
“Er—how good is business, Imani?”
“Booming! There are so many new places opening up with all the Gnolls and Humans—and I’m getting people from Invrisil, Pallass, and beyond! The Wandering Inn will be good advertisement, I guess. Especially if the Players are performing. They are, aren’t they?”
“Temile promised his best group would perform regularly.”
Timbor whistled with envy.
“That will fill the inn alone. I offered him to keep every ticket sale and a margin on what I make from the common room, but he had his theatre, and I can’t compete with that.”
Lyonette and Erin exchanged a glance. Imani was taking an apron when Erin cleared her throat as Lyonette sighed and gave her a slow nod.
“Imani…maybe we can find someone else after all. Um. How good are your assistant chefs?”
 
——
 
It was not fair. Yes, the Players of Celum owed everything to Erin Solstice, and they had not forgotten it.
However, Lyonette heard an echo of the argument she’d used on Erin to justify only offering a month of food for people fighting in a literal war for the inn.
Could they ask Temile and Imani to give up their business for The Wandering Inn? Well, obviously, yes. But was that fair?
It was fairer to…ask Barehoofs to send some of their food to The Wandering Inn, not demand their [Chef]. It was fairer to tell Temile that his second-team could perform at The Wandering Inn and cut him at least a portion of the profits.
It just wasn’t easy. Erin and Lyonette went back to the inn, discussing the problem.
“Okay, so Temile will send his junior [Actors] some nights. That’s great! We don’t have to always have chaos. We just need a new [Cook].”
“[Chef]. Erin, competition is going to be more difficult. We need a [Chef].”
“Bah, I can cook a bit. Just let me get out of my wheelchair and…”
The [Princess] halted Erin with a look. Ser Sest kept pushing her despite that.
“Erin, you have never liked cooking as much as you need to. Besides…you might have [Advanced Cooking], but that’s the only Skill you have. And that’s not as great as it was anymore.”
Erin puffed out her cheeks indignantly.
“What? I’ll have you know that Ilvriss was super surprised I had it! It’s not common in Liscor—”
“It wasn’t common earlier. Now? Erin, I think most [Chefs]—and they are [Chefs]—have that and a dozen Skills you don’t. Imani has [Expert Cooking].”
The [Innkeeper] hesitated and gulped. There it was. Erin Solstice had, despite herself, raised the bar with cookies, ice cream, and, yes, actually interesting ideas that Liscor hadn’t tried. So now she was looking up at the bar. And she was in a wheelchair.
“Fine. [Chef]. We still have our magical foods.”
“No one’s eating your blue paste.”
“It’s magical. I’ll make something good! I have tons of new ideas. For the food, for the inn—and my pot! Let’s just open up today and play it by ear.”
The two entered the inn, nodding to each other, and found Ishkr reporting for duty with Liska and a whole lot of empty space next to him. The [Head Server] gave Erin an embarrassed look as the [Princess] and [Innkeeper] came to a stop. Lyonette groaned.
“Oh no.”
 
——
 
Ishkr had tried. He really had. He went around to every former employee except for Silveran, and they had all refused to work at The Wandering Inn.
“Why not Silveran?”
“Because he runs a company that can pull in more money in one day than we can pay him in a month, Erin.”
“Oh. Right. Continue.”
Ishkr looked embarrassed as he played with his apron pockets.
“I, er…asked the other former employees, Erin. Cisca? She already had good, steady work. Thoss joined the army. And the rest either had jobs that paid as much as we did or they didn’t want to come here.”
“Why not? Because they were working?”
Ishkr coughed into one paw.
“That and—”
—And they really didn’t want to die. The Wandering Inn was famous for being attacked. It had been overrun by Crelers, stalked by Raskghar, and blown up three times. So when Ishkr had gone to headhunt individuals, over half had heard The Wandering Inn and refused flat out.
“The other problem is that I did go to many, many pubs, inns, and taverns. Even Invrisil!”
He’d spent six hours today rushing around, and yesterday too. Lyonette looked at him.
“Not one employee volunteered?”
“No. I had as many as sixty I interviewed. Not one was suitable.”
And here it got interesting. Erin peered at Ishkr, and Lyonette frowned.
“We could have interviewed them, Ishkr. What do you mean, not suitable?”
The Gnoll began ticking off points on his fingers.
“I do have a Skill or two, Miss Lyonette, Miss Erin. As [Head Waiter], yes? I could tell some were simply criminals. Petty [Thieves], untrustworthy. Those were easy to sort out. However, I took the liberty of—testing them.”
“By…?”
“Asking if they’d serve a Goblin or Antinium food. And then, if they did, I would ask them to take a fried bee out to Bird. Then pour acid in the outhouses to clean them. Finally, I asked them to throw a seed core at a Rock Crab.”
It was a basic litmus test, and Lyonette gave Ishkr an approving look. Frankly—it wasn’t even the most onerous stuff a staff member might be expected to do. However, the results?
Bird had gone hungry. Most people hadn’t even gotten to the Rock Crab before deciding they could get just as good pay somewhere else. And that was fair.
Erin Solstice was already sitting down, but Lyonette had to find a seat. The trio looked at each other as Liska poured herself a drink behind the bar.
“Wait a second, Erin. Wait…Ishkr? How many employees—ever—has The Wandering Inn retained?”
“Including you, Miss Lyonette?”
“Not including me.”
Ishkr hesitated. He glanced at his sister.
“Long-term? One.”
And that was him. Now, many establishments like an inn had low employee-retention rates. That was just a reality in the service industry in any world. But The Wandering Inn might have had the worst retention-rate of any inn in Liscor or a thousand miles.
To be fair, it wasn’t even that the inn was so bad they all quit! Look at Drassi! Look at Imani, for that matter! They had quit because they had found something even more successful. Even Kevin and Joseph had upgraded.
It didn’t solve the problem, but it made Lyonette and Erin feel a bit better when Ser Dalimont pointed this out. Then the [Princess]’ face fell.
“…But that means it may be even harder to hold onto any good employees we do get. They’ll leave because Erin turns them into a [Sword Fire Slaying Saint Rockstar] or something.”
“Hey! I wouldn’t do that! Unless I could, because that sounds sort of cool.”
Numbtongue nodded vigorously from one table. Lyonette stared at her hands.
“I think the problem is that we need…workers who are capable. Trustworthy, who can serve Goblins and Antinium well. Who are good at combat or can at least survive a dangerous situation.”
She began ticking off points on her hands, and Ishkr and Erin nodded. Lyonette looked around.
“We need a [Bartender], a [Chef], servers, security—”
