Both Hobgoblins considered the idea as Gothica tried to peer at Octavia’s cards surreptitiously and got a glare from the [Alchemist]. Someone whispered in Erin’s ear.
“Can’t do that. They’re watching the inn.”
Erin jumped. She turned, and a Drake with scars all over her face stared at her with huge, piercing eyes.
“Who—Tessa?”
Numbtongue and Ulvama nearly shot out of their seats with Octavia, but the Named Adventurer just stared at them and then pointed out the window.
“They’re watching the Goblins. And you. And the [Princess].”
Erin rolled over to the window and stared blankly out at the grasslands. She didn’t see much, just a lovely orange sheen on some of the grass. She could see the Blue Fruit grove from here, a Dinobird flying well out of Bird’s range, and one of the new villages under construction.
“Who’s watching? Or is that a general thing?”
The Named Adventurer pointed. Erin squinted.
“…Nope. I don’t see anything.”
“One second.”
Shriekblade popped the window open and clambered out. Erin saw her race across the ground and draw two daggers in her claws as she ran low, eyes fixed on—
“Aaaaaah!”
Erin jumped as someone wearing a camouflaging cloak that looked just like the grass leapt up and ran screaming. She caught sight of a spyglass, a terrified face—and then Tessa was walking back. She crawled through the window.
“Want me to stab everyone I see? I could kill them or just…stab them.”
“No. Thanks.”
Erin turned back to Ulvama and Numbtongue and saw both nodding appreciatively. She frowned; she hadn’t sensed the people outside, but they were well away from her inn. She turned back to the others.
“Wait a second, is that why Rags left so fast? She was afraid of being tailed?”
“Probably. You said she was smart.”
Ulvama poked Numbtongue, and he grouchily poked her back. Erin looked out the window at the High Passes looming beyond.
“But hold on—how will she come back? How will I speak to her?”
No one had an answer for that, and Erin looked around. The mission changed from being…recruit Goblins to something else.
Find a safe way to Goblinhome. Erin rubbed at her head.
“Why is everything so hard? I just want to send Rags one message without it being difficult. Numbtongue, could you get there if you were, like, invisible and we made sure no one was tailing you?”
The [Bard] considered this.
“Yes…but I don’t want to climb the High Passes alone. Sounds like a good way to get Eaten-Death.”
Erin’s face fell. She looked at Ulvama, and the [Shaman] stared back. Does it look like I’m going to go hiking, ever?
Erin gazed around, and someone waved a claw in her face.
“Me? I could go. No one finds me.”
Tessa stood to attention, and Erin blinked at the strange Named Adventurer. She hadn’t really said much more than she was here to guard Lyonette. Had Ilvriss sent her or…?
“You’d do that, Tessa? We can’t really pay—are we paying you?”
“Nope. But I’ll work for free. Just keep giving me Faerie Flowers. I can go now. It’ll only take two days if it’s not too high up.”
Erin looked back at Numbtongue. He eyed Tessa. Send a Named Adventurer to Goblinhome? Erin sighed.
“Yeah, don’t give me that look. I get it, I get it. Bad idea. Darn. Damn, even.”
Erin was rolling around in frustration, trying to come up with a good way of doing things. Goblinhome…that was another problem for the future, and unfortunately, even the wisest ghosts hadn’t had much input on Goblins.
Except for Zineryr. Well—Erin wasn’t out of options yet. She rolled back to the table with the pot, and Ulvama looked up from her card game as Erin tapped the pot.
Did it vibrate slightly? Even Tessa stared at the pot; it was faintly magical, but this was not spellcraft like most understood.
“I could try to send something to Rags. I don’t know how to do, um, sendings. Or—what would it be? Not a hex, but maybe a physical vessel? I might have to do one of those messenger spells, but I don’t know how.”
Or rather, she needed a teacher and practice. Erin thought to herself.
“What if…I made like a flying soufflé that homes in on Rags? I probably have enough power here to do that.”
Octavia looked at Gothica, and the Cave Goblin shook her head. Clearly insane, fold. Ulvama spoke up as Erin frowned at her pot.
“Waste of power. Don’t waste that, stupid.”
She pointed indignantly at the valuable well of power. Erin jumped.
“It’s just a thought! Hey, you’re a [Shaman], right?”
“Maybe.”
Ulvama gave Erin a suspicious look. Erin waved her hands.
“Can’t you—tell Rags something secretly?”
Ulvama, the [Shaman] of the Flooded Waters tribe, thought about it.
“Yes.”
Numbtongue put down his cards and glared at her. Erin lowered her hands.
“Wh—you can? Then what am I doing asking for help? Can you send something to Rags, please?”
“Hm. Fine.”
Ulvama yawned, looking very reluctant to bestir herself over this trivial issue. She snapped her fingers and looked around.
“Give. Give.”
“What? This?”
They were keeping score on a piece of parchment. Octavia handed Ulvama a quill and a scrap to write on. Ulvama lazily scrawled on it then folded it up, flicked open her claw twice over it in a vaguely magical way, and handed it to Erin solemnly.
“Here. Use to contact Rags.”
The [Innkeeper] hesitated, because…she could tell Ulvama had not cast any magic. But perhaps it was some kind of trick. She opened the piece of folded parchment and read what Ulvama had written.
Go talk to Kevin.
The [Shaman] smirked as Erin lowered the parchment and gave her a narrow-eyed look.
 
——
 
“Talk to Rags? Sure! I’ve got the private speaking stone right here. It’s not live, so you send a message and she gets it. Do you want me to leave her something? Erin? Erin?”
Kevin looked around for the rogue-type speaking stone that Rags had been given by her ‘contacts’ in the underworld, and Erin kept smacking her head into his desk.
“Ulvama didn’t tell me—she just let me—”
“She’s sort of like that. I think she’s testing you. Okay, let me record a message. ‘Hey, Rags, it’s me, Kevin. Erin wants to know when you can meet secretly because of all the watchers. And, uh, she’d like to hire Calescent to cook in her inn, and other Goblins. Peace. Let’s hang soon. Kevin out.’ Sound good?”
It was the most Kevin message ever, which Erin supposed was a type of cipher in itself. She thanked Kevin and rolled back to the inn with Numbtongue pushing her.
She glared at Ulvama, and the [Shaman] looked up from her game of cards.
“Shamanic wisdom. Pay me later.”
Erin’s eyes narrowed, but she missed the way Lyonette glanced sharply at Ulvama. The Hobgoblin was a guest with everyone else for helping save Mrsha and bring Erin back. But there might be a reckoning sooner rather than later. Oh, yes…
But perhaps it was simply time to have those conversations being put off. Erin’s heart thumped hard at the idea of speaking to Rags. She’d heard some of what the Goblin had done.
Kidnapping a [Healer]? Attacking a city? That wasn’t good—and yet she had come to Liscor leading a tribe of Goblins.
How had she changed? What would Erin say? And…the [Innkeeper] slowed as Numbtongue came to a stop and looked towards the card table.
“Erin, you want to go anywhere now?”
She hesitated, but someone spoke up.
“I could push her, Numbtongue. If she wants to go anywhere. Erin. Do you want to speak now?”
The [Innkeeper] looked to her left, and Ceria Springwalker walked forwards. Erin’s expression changed slightly as Numbtongue stepped back.
“Ah. Ceria. I…is now a good time?”
Ceria had her hands in her pockets. She looked at Erin apprehensively, but nodded slowly.
“Now’s as good a time as any. Should we go for a walk in the [Garden of Sanctuary] or…?”
Mrsha was playing with Gire inside, and they had ears like a hawk. Or ears like a hawk had eyes. Erin glanced out the window.
“Why don’t we go outside? Assuming there are no spies everywhere.”
“I can keep them away.”
Tessa offered. Lyonette looked up in alarm.
“Why don’t I send, uh, Ser Dalimont and—”
“No. I’ll take Erin. We’ll be safe together. Does that sound good, Erin?”
The [Innkeeper] looked at Ceria as Lyonette began to protest. But the [Cryomancer] just took Erin’s chair as the [Innkeeper] nodded, and the two headed outside.
Erin didn’t see any obvious watchers as Ceria wheeled her into the sun, but she thought she felt some eyes on her. Ceria looked around and pointed the way Erin had seen before.
“Most of the Shield Spider nests are gone, I hear. What if we did a big loop around there? It’s mostly flat. All we have to do is get down the hill without you crashing. And without anyone watching us via spell.”
“I should have anti-spying gear thanks to Saliss.”
The half-Elf nodded. Ceria gestured, and Erin dug her feet into the ground, ready to help slow the descent down the fairly steep hill. But to her surprise, she felt herself sliding—
“Oh no! Ceria—whoooooaa!”
That was because instead of going down the hill and wiping out again, Erin felt herself rolling down a slick ramp of ice. It wasn’t nearly as steep as the hill, and she looked back as she flailed and saw Ceria skating behind her.
“Ceria! That’s amazing! It’s a rollercoaster!”
The half-Elf laughed.
“I have no idea what that is. Here we go.”
She came to a stop and began pushing Erin across flatter ground. The ice ramp melted behind her, and Erin looked at Ceria. It was so—effortless. She had seen Ceria learning to cast [Ice Wall], but this?
“That’s amazing, Ceria. Is this all magic you learned in Chandrar or the Village of the Dead raid? I never said…thank you properly for everything. I’m sorry for jumping you with the stuff about Gerial yesterday. It’s just—”
“One second, Erin. We’re out of magical surveillance, but I think we should be in private, don’t you? No watchers?”
Ceria looked to one side, and Erin hesitated. The half-Elf’s pale gaze was focused, and her voice was cold as she stared at a patch of air.
Something rippled as another watcher fled. Ceria kept staring as Erin blinked at her.
“No watchers. And no second warnings, understood?”
Erin blinked at Ceria and looked around. Nothing seemed to move that she could see, and she wondered how many invisible or unseen observers there could be. Ceria pushed Erin onward four steps. Then she pointed a finger.
“[Ice Pillar].”
Erin heard a short scream. Then she saw a pillar of ice punch a hitherto invisible figure up into the air. Erin’s head tracked the figure going up and landing. It did not sound like a good landing.
“We—we could go back to the inn, Ceria. It’s private, and the garden’s secure. I could ask Mrsha and Gire—”
“You have to warn them at some point, Erin. Looks like they’re clearing out.”
Indeed, it looked like one of the observers was even tending to the one who’d gotten their ribs broken. Erin looked at Ceria, and one of the masked watchers raised two hands and backed up. The half-Elf nodded, and they recovered the wounded person.
She’s changed. That didn’t seem like a Ceria-move. Insulting poor beavers with foul language? Yes. This? Maybe Ksmvr’s talk about displaying dominance was rubbing off on Ceria.
Yet, when the half-Elf looked down, her rueful smile was completely familiar.
“Dead gods, Erin. You just can’t come back from the dead quietly, can you? The world will never be the same. Yvlon nearly swallowed a chair when she saw the Quest.”
“I, uh—well. I did it to help Antherr. And it’s not like anyone didn’t want to find the City of Stars.”
Erin spluttered, but she smiled in relief. Ceria shook her head.
“If it exists, you mean. Now we know it exists and—you came back from the dead, and I thought surviving the Village of the Dead and teleporting to Chandrar was going to be the big story. Now I’ll be lucky if anyone buys me a drink.”
“Hey! That’s huge! I can’t believe you did that.”
“Neither can I. We went—sort of crazy. When you died, I mean. In hindsight, that was a really, really stupid thing to do. Attack a death-zone with Gold-ranks and two Named-ranks? We should have died, but we got bailed out by a real adventurer. Do you know what happened?”
“I—only the clips.”
“Clips?”
Erin tried to explain.
“The video recordings of the scrying orb.”
“Oh, I see. Clips. That’s another word from your home, right?”
Ceria glanced at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] nodded. It was amazing how many secrets lay between them. Yet…Ceria just moved on, and Erin stared down at the lovely orange grass they were moving on.
“—You did that for me. People died. Seborn nearly got killed, I heard. And some people. There were deaths.”
The half-Elf nodded. Her voice was level. But not emotionless. She took a deep breath and spoke in a sigh, looking sad.
“There always are, Erin. Don’t blame yourself. Do you think all the teams that went there went for you? They went because we told them there was a shot. Adventurers go in and go out. You remember how we went into Liscor’s crypt. We knew we might be underlevelled, but we prepared as much as we could. We do risky things. The Village of the Dead was stupid.”
“Not stupid. Not that I—”
Ceria stopped Erin.
“It was stupid. It was a calculated risk, but going into a death-zone? Going into a dungeon even with all the precautions in the world? That’s what adventuring is. Whatever you want to call it—if I could go back in time knowing what I do, Erin? I’d try the raid again. Only, I’d get more Named-rank adventurers, prepare a bit longer.”
“Really? Even knowing what happened with that crazy sword-guy?”
Erin looked at Ceria, and the half-Elf smiled crookedly.
“He wasn’t the worst thing there. But believe me, Erin. What we got from that raid was more than worth what we, the Horns, put in. I can’t speak for everyone. And what happened in Chandrar doesn’t count. Myself? I’d take it all, but I’m not—Pisces.”
Erin looked up and nodded slowly. Her smile faded, and she bowed her head.
“No. I need to talk to him. Do you know what…?”
“No. He won’t talk to me, Yvlon, or even Ksmvr about the specifics. We left some of his friends behind.”
“For me. Again. Ceria—”
The half-Elf waited as Erin struggled for words. The [Innkeeper] burst out at last.
“If you’d died, I’d never have forgiven myself. I’m glad you made it—but I wish you hadn’t done that! What would have happened if you died?”
Ceria thought about it. She was walking at a sedate pace. After a moment, she flicked Erin’s forehead gently with a finger.
“I think you would act just like we did after you died, Erin. We weren’t thinking straight.”
“I’m sorry.”
