Jessica chuckled and waved a finger at him. "I know that look. I made that look after that conversation I had with the dead Legend. Or was it with you? Doesn't really matter now. Didn't matter before." She sniffled and rubbed her nose. "You were not the first person to rebel against the Republic. I did it. I did it after Jackie died. After I lost a cause to fight for. I came back from the North unsatisfied. The revenge I thought I was going to take didn't really happen. But something was different about me. I was a Legend, and I thought I could change things."

Shiv’s breath stilled. "You tried to fight the Ascendants?"

"Ah, no. Wouldn't call myself particularly religious. Still not, but my biggest grudge across my life wasn't with the gods. It was with the people that decided to stick themselves in between: the fucking nobles. See, after I got done blaming the giants for starting the war, the blame shifted over to the nobility, because they were the ones that kept feeding and suckling off the teats of our Republic. They were the ones who kept siphoning away resources—doing everything to enrich their houses at the cost of the rest of us. That's what I told myself, anyway. The fact that some snot-nosed noble bastard decided to put my oldest daughter in the hospital just before didn’t help."

Jessica’s eyes darkened. "Imagine me. Imagine me coming back home from the North, a fresh Legend. Barely even cleaned all the Jotun blood off my armor. Now, imagine me, standing there, listening to a Biomancer explain to me how she'd had an 'accident,' how she was hurt during a sparring session over some 'misunderstanding.' Unfortunately for the Biomancer, I'd had those misunderstandings before too. I knew what he meant."

She held up a hand and mockingly balled a fist. "And once again, I had a reason to burn. New reason to hate. I didn't even go see my other kids. Went straight to the noble bastard's house. Wasn't much of a conversation to be had. I showed up. I wanted an explanation. They thought they were better than me; they told me to fuck off. One of them still thought I was a Hero. He died first. The rest of the House didn't do very well either when they jumped me. Killed them all. Killed practically every man, woman, bot, and child who filled their hands with steel, who could conjure or shape or wield a skill against me, didn't matter if none of them were any threat to me at all. And when I was done, I decided to set their estate on fire. Then I moved on to their neighbors, who came to assist them. By the end of that night? I'd killed, I don't know, a good five hundred nobles and three thousand retainers. Hadn't even broken a sweat when the sun came up. And when I saw that sunrise, I realized I was pissed enough and so broken that I had no issue dying. I didn't care what happened to me. So, I went over to the next house. I wanted to see just how much of the nobility I could clear out. You know. For fucking up the defense of Delphia. For getting Jackie killed. For everything they did—and for the parasites they were. Quite a bit, as it turned out.”

“I… I didn’t know this,” Adam suddenly whispered. “I don’t remember—I’ve never heard of the Giantsbane committing a mass slaughter. How?”

Shiv was utterly speechless. Despite everything, he struggled to imagine Hawgrave murdering children. "How the hells did they let you stay alive afterward?"

Adam wanted to know the same thing. “The nobility wouldn't stand for this, wouldn't stand for just some up-jumped peasant—Hero or Legend regardless—butchering entire houses. Even if they are at odds, even if they are rivals. This would be ruinous for their authority."

"Chandler," Jessica said. That was her answer. And Shiv really should have seen it coming. “Chandler decided to get involved. Because if there’s one thing to know about Veronica Chandler, it’s that the bitch never lets a good crisis go without her taking advantage of it…”
