"You know, I… I don't understand you. I don't get you at all," Shiv said. "I'm telling you all these things, and on some level, you accept it, but you just don't seem to care." And then the realization hit Shiv. His mouth fell open. "You… really don't care. You don't care about any of this, do you?"

And at that, Jessica's body rattled with the vibrations of doubt.

"Do you even care that they tortured your grandniece?" Shiv pressed. He expected to see something akin to anger flare within the emotional core rooted within Jessica's chest. At present, nothing flickered. There weren't even the faintest embers. It was just a sloshing, viscous mess of hollow moroseness. The emotions that spilled from her were at once dour and slow—like sludge, akin the beverage she consumed; caustic but unable to kindle a flame.

"I guess I do," Jessica said, but there was no true animation behind her. It was just a reaction. It was just something she knew she was supposed to say. "Look, I'm not gonna do nothing about this. There will be an investigation, and I’ll speak with Heather and explain to her the way of things.”

Shiv growled. "The way of—You aren't listening to me. You're not listening at all. I have already dealt with them. Your grandniece has already taken her revenge, for whatever that's worth. What are you even thinking about? This isn't about a few interrogators who were inquisitors. This is about all of the Inquisition. This is about your Republic. They're the ones who decided to do these things. They're the ones who decided to turn on Blackedge. They are the godsdamn monsters here."

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Let your emotions run free. For once, she wants to see something from you. She is not offended by your anger or your accusation. She seems to almost appreciate it. She seems to be attracted by it. She wants to see that you're human. She wants to see, so show her. Show her the outrage she no longer seems to possess. She is a moth, and you are the flame. Set her afire if you can.

"You asked me what my game was earlier, when we were fighting in the hospital. Well, I'm gonna ask you the same thing right now." Shiv clenched a fist and seethed openly. He wanted to squeeze the life out of her. He wanted to shake her until she gave him something. Anything that he could cling to. Anything that he could fully comprehend.

There was something wrong with her. Something absent. This conversation was feeling worse than useless. Part of him wished they would just start fighting. This felt pointless, almost, like she wasn't here—like there was too much of her missing for words to serve any meaningful purpose.

Shiv let out a breath. "You stopped fighting me to go save those patients, to stop them from being crushed under the falling debris. If you don’t care, then why?”

"Yeah, about that." Jessica uncrossed her legs and leaned in. "You did the same thing. Tell me why."

Shiv’s nostrils flared. If there was one thing she did like, it was annoying him. "You motherfu—I'm the one asking you. I want to know why you did it first, since you don't seem to care about anything. Since you're just reacting and living, doing whatever the Ascendants or the Inquisition tells you."

But the rival Legend shook her head, and she taunted him with a faint glimmer of amusement behind her eyes. "Nah, you care about this more than I do. You'll learn, kid, that in any kind of relationship, the person who cares less than the other has the upper hand. So, you flap your gums first. I want to know what you feel. I want to know what drives you. Mainly so I can better hunt you later, but also because I'm curious. You’re a pretty interesting animal, Deathless.”

Once more, Shiv found himself struggling against the urge to launch himself across the room and bury his frying pan in her skull. "Because I don't want any bystanders to die, alright? I don't want to see more dead innocents. I hate collateral damage. I've done enough collateral damage for a lifetime. If I have to see another person who doesn't have it coming get killed because of me or someone else, I'm gonna feel it, alright? I already feel it. I feel it too much. It makes me think that I'm pathetic, that I'm not a proper Pathbearer. Because what's the point? What's the point of letting people who can't protect themselves die? What's the point of killing these people?"

"Some might think of that as power," Jessica retorted. “They will say that being able to kill whoever you want, break whatever you want, is power.”

"Yeah, and some people are unfeeling monsters. I'm going to be more than that. I mean, what's the point of becoming a Legend? If we can't do things that matter for the world, if we can't make lives better, if we're just breaking things, then why not just be a Tarrasque? Why not just let everyone be a Tarrasque? What's the point? What's the felling point?"

And Jessica continued to be aggravating. She shrugged. "Maybe there is no point, maybe there is no purpose. You ever think about that?"

"No!" he nearly shouted. He was reaching the point where he didn't even want to have this conversation anymore. "No, I don't think about that, alright? Because of course there's a point! Of course we care if other people live. We're trying to all just live together. It's the thing we do where we break things, and we talk about dominance. What's the point if we can just hurt someone who is weak? What does that give you? Satisfaction? I can get satisfaction from food or sex. If we're talking about that, then we might as well just burn our brains away with drugs or drown ourselves in alcohol. It's just about pleasure, isn't it? No! No, it fucking isn't! It can't be! It can’t! That shouldn’t be the way of the world. Not for us! We’re not animals. We… we make things. We create. We should be more.”

Rhetoric 3 > 4

On some level, Shiv understood he was making an overly emotional appeal to Jessica. That there was very little logic involved. But in his defense, he had little grasp of whatever psychology she was going about, and frankly, he didn't have the mental capacity to understand or relate to her. He was just telling her how he felt. Telling her what mattered to him, things that didn't matter to her. More and more things mattered. People mattered. And he was going to make her believe him.

"I saved those people because I could, because doing the right thing is dominance. It's dominance against the System. It's proof that even if I have to put up with strife, even if I am going to become more powerful, more destructive, I don't need that to be someone else's problem. Because I guess I think that it means more if your strength makes a better world. If you can stop people from dying from suffering. If you can make people happy. If you can feed someone who's hungry. That all matters. It's something that you've done. It's something that you can create. It's not just break and break and break. Seems like that's all of the other Legends do, though. All the great powers, all the Divinities, all they care about is how much they can break, how many they can kill. But if we're all like that, if all we do is just break and kill, then what's going to be left of us? What's going to be left of this world?"

Jessica placed her chin upon one of her hands and batted her eyes at him. "You know, I can't tell if you're really, really naive, overly optimistic, or just desperate to see a better world."

"I'm just tired," Shiv admitted. "I can try doing the whole bleak thing or the 'don't care about anything' thing that you think I'm doing, but it doesn't work, alright? Until a while ago, I lived for survival. For a time, all I wanted to be was a Pathbearer. For a time, all I wanted was power. For a time, I didn't even think about myself as a person. That was before. Now that I can choose, now that I have seen how people live and how bad this world really is, I want to add to that. I don't want to be part of the cancer. I don't."

He took in a breath, and Jessica said nothing. She just kept observing him. He did, however, detect a hint of something from her blade. Rusty shivered in the air and slowly moved away from him, as if it was overcome by a sense of shame.

"When I look at you, when I talk to you, when you just blow off everything, and you don't react, and you don't care... I just don't get it. I don't. And you frustrate me because you're not like so many other people in the fight. Because you do seem to care about some people. You’re not here just to break things and hurt people, like the orcs. And you care about the Republic, but you just..."

Shiv trailed off. Something clicked inside him. “You don't care about yourself that much, do you?” he said, frowning. “Do you not remember what you wanted? Do you not remember who you used to be?”

Gardener of Doubt 57 > 60

And for the first time, something behind Jessica's eyes shifted. Her breath slid out of her as a long sigh, and she lay back on her bed, completely indifferent to the fact that she was leaving herself more exposed to attack.

"I do, in some ways. Don't want to die, for one thing, even though I think it's coming. Even though I think there's no avoiding it. But… you know how tired you are of watching all those people die of that collateral damage? Yeah, I know how that feels a little too well. Now, you imagine that it keeps on going for years. And years. And years. And even after you become a Legend, you realize you can't protect them. Even after you reach the apex of your skills, even after you can cut a mountain in half, even after you butcher armies of invading giants, you still end up spending the aftermath digging bits of dead kids out of debris. You still spend your days listening to loved ones howling for the ones they lost. You still keep losing people close to you. Still. You realize that being Pathless or a Legend doesn't mean anything at all. I wasn't shit as a Pathless, I wasn't shit as an incest bastard, and I’m not shit now."

Jessica stared up at the ceiling and gave a bitter laugh. "It's all just noise and bullshit. It doesn't get better. It's not going to get better. Not alone, and not when you don't have absolute power."

Shiv's eyes widened for a few seconds. He couldn't even find the words. "So you just... You live like this. You spend your time here, doing the Inquisition's bidding, reacting. You barely care, because you're tired, you're a coward, and the System’s hurt you too much. That's what you're telling me?"

"I'm telling you that you're going through a phase," Jessica corrected, still not looking at him. "That you seem like a nice kid, but you're in a really ugly situation. That everything you're doing, that all you're struggling to do, that all you want to see done, isn't going to come true. Because it doesn't matter if you're an Adept, a Master, a Hero, or a Legend. It doesn't matter that the System is freaking out about who you are and wants the world to kill you or keep you in a cage. You're just a Pathbearer. You bear a Path. You're just dancing to the System's tune, and eventually it's going to grind you down. You're going to be either a monster or..." She lifted her head and stared into his eyes with a predatory gaze. "Gonna be exactly like me. Someone who doesn't give a shit. Someone who barely cares. Just enough to make a better world. Just enough, because the rest's all been used up."

"No." Shiv's response was immediate and filled with grave intensity. "I'm not gonna be like you. I will be dead for good before I ever become like you. You say you're tired? Fine. Guess you've been doing this a lot longer than I have. I guess you've probably suffered more loss than I have. But I know tired too. I've taken pain too. And I see the end. I see what's coming for me if I don't do this. If I just... give myself to the Ascendants. Just be their slave. Just let the Republic use me, like they're using you."

Jessica sniffled. She sat up again and stared directly at him. In her eyes was not judgment, but pity. And there was bitter irony there as well. "You know something funny, kid? I think I said something like this years ago. I think I gave just about this speech to someone else. Some other Hero or Legend before my time. Now just dust. Food for the worms—back to the mud. As it goes." She shifted a bit on the bed and patted the space to her left. "You want to sit down here? I'm tired of looking up at you. You're too goddamn big. Too tall. Hurting this old woman's neck."

Shiv just glared in response. He wasn't here to offer her comfort. He was here to get information from her, to see what he could make of her. And so far, rather than getting anything useful, she just felt pathetic. She was ruined. What the hells was there with Legends and being ruined? So far, not counting his allies, who all had issues of their own, he'd faced Sullain, Udraal, Veronica, and now Jessica. All of them were wrong in some way. All of them were deformed on the inside. Shiv couldn't claim to be mentally healthy himself, but even with his being partially constructed based on a Tarrasque, he was still more of a person than they were.

It can't be inevitable, he told himself. What they are, what they've become, it can't be inevitable. But though he said this, he felt himself rattled as well. The Gardener of Doubt took effect on him. He was beginning to worry. He was beginning to suspect. And he desperately hoped—refused to accept—that the System might wear him down someday as well.

