Let me tell you something about loyalty.

Loyalty is a story about heartbreak.

Every time.

If you become a Pathbearer powerful enough to matter, you're probably going to live for a while. And slowly, as time goes on, you're going to notice that the people you know either start changing, or they die.

Eventually, you will realize that the culture around you is like quicksand at your feet. You will wake up one day and suddenly find that you don't truly know anyone anymore.

You don't know what motivates the people around you anymore. You don't understand what the fuck the kids are talking about. You don't get what the hell the political birdwits around you are trying to do—they’re not even good at being corrupt, like back in your day.

But you're still stuck with them because, well, that's the way of the world, isn't it? They’re “family”! You’re a “people!” You're supposed to stick with your nation, with your people—family! Whatever the fuck. You're supposed to hold out with them and try to make a better life for everyone.

Except that's all bullshit. It really is. The sooner you face that reality, the sooner you'll set yourself free. Loyalty is not a valuable trait in the long run.

Loyalty to people doesn't work because people either die or change and stop being worthy of your loyalty. Loyalty to a nation doesn't work because a nation isn't a thing. A nation's a nebulous concept, see? Not even your culture is something worth being loyal to, because by the time you hit Hero, you've probably lived for, I don't know, a century or more. A century’s like three, four, maybe five different generations for humans.

And in those generations, things change. People change. History leaves wounds. Strife leaves us deformed. And what comes out the other side? Not what went in. You wake up one day and find everything a husk of what it used to be.

Sure, things could get better again, but if you cling to that hope, it's eventually going to get worse too. Nothing big lasts for long. Not when individuals can have as much power as they do in our age.

The kingdoms and nations that last, they last because they’re some hyper-powerful Pathbearer's personal pet project, a carefully curated, fragile sandbox, rather than a real, natural society.

I was born into an empire known as the Laxus. The Laxus was a beautiful place: big marble statues everywhere, lots of different gods. They'd talk to you if you spoke to their statues, offer encouragement, and all that. The buildings were clean, the streets were wide and grand. At our peak, we boasted three different worlds under our dominion. Three planets conquered and subdued, integrated into our superior culture. The Laxus was the greatest thing in Integration, and I loved it more than anything.

But you can probably guess where I'm going with this. It didn't last. The Laxus endured for well over a thousand years, much longer than most nations, especially ones at a cosmic scale, but in the end, it came apart all the same. In this instance, it was because of three specific people. Our glorious Empress had three children before she decided to do the noble thing and fall in battle, saving us from the Viridescent Scourge.

And then her three hyper-powerful children, who were all supposedly honorable and well-intentioned Pathbearers on their own, quickly realized that their notions of honor and good intentions were different from each other. And so, when their dialogue broke down, we went from being an empire that ruled over three different worlds to an empire tearing itself apart, fighting over these three worlds, and then to three separate empires after the fighting didn't turn out the way anyone wanted it to.

I was barely more than a Low Hero at this time. And when I came out of that, a much greater man than I was before, when I woke up one day after the fighting had mostly died down, I realized everyone I knew was gone. Gone or unrecognizable. Billions were dead. The culture I believed in was shattered and ripped to pieces. And there was nothing replacing that.

I can't tell you how much I cried. I can't tell you how hard I tried to put things back together. I can't tell you how hard I tried to convince every single one of the inheritor rulers that we could still be a single nation.

It didn't matter. Loyalty doesn't matter. Loyalty is like fucking a Pathless, taking a fancy to them, and expecting them to live longer than a century. They just won't. Unless you dump all the resources you have into keeping them alive. And even then, you're going to be wanting to keep them inside a special little cage away from harm, otherwise any stray gust of wind might rip them apart. And in that cage, they're going to rot. They're going to wither. And they're going to go away at the end despite it all.

Don’t cling to anything but yourself. It’s the only thing you might be able to keep in the end.

-The Realmrunner

259

Loyalty [I]

"So, run this by me again," Jessica said, rubbing the bridge of her nose. "The Inquisition captures Heather and the only other survivor of her Slayer team. And rather than holding them in a cell and properly obtaining information from her mind, they decide to torture her to death instead? Inside a black site located in the basement of the Republic Consulate of Gate Theborn?"

"Yeah, that's about the way of things," Shiv grunted.

Jessica made a series of noises like she was trying to process the truthfulness of his words. "Listen, kid. When you're trying to convince someone the people they're working with are outright evil—"

"They are," Shiv said, not even bothering to let her finish. “Fuck the Inquisition. And fuck you for pretending to not know who you’re serving.”

"You need to make it seem more realistic," Jessica finished, a tired growl entering her throat.

"That's what happened," Shiv insisted. "She would be dead if not for me reaching my Biomancy Skill Evolution right then. She and Tran would both have died inside that anchor, tortured to death by a bunch of Interrogators who shredded their minds and mangled their bodies. A bunch of Interrogators and Inquisitors that she and Tran ended up killing later out of revenge. Something that only happened because of me.”

Jessica blew out a tired breath. "Alright, that's your claim. But do you want to know what I think? I think that I don't know if I can trust you. I think that I'm not even sure that you actually know Heather."

"I don't know her well, or personally," Shiv admitted immediately. "I didn't like her when I was growing up because she was always kind of a bitch to me. But I do know her. I even knew her before she turned into an elf."

"Huh? She what?" Jessica did a double-take. "She turned into a what?"

"She took on some kind of Blessing, and she turned into an elf," Shiv said. "You didn't know that? It happened quite a while ago."

"Look, it's kinda hard to keep track of everyone in my family—"

Shiv barely held back a derisive snort. "Well, congratulations! You heard it from me first. Heather got turned into an elf. Heather also nearly got turned into a corpse by the Inquisition. Which is the more important part here. You don't want to believe me? Fine. You don't want to believe my memories? Fine! But I know where Heather is. She's still in Weave. And if you want to accuse the Composer and her people of twisting Heather’s mind, sure, go for it. But she's alive, and she's only alive because of me. Meanwhile, you and that shit-fucker Stormhalt decided to—”

“Yeah, yeah, alright!” Jessica snapped, cutting him off. “You know what? Fine. Fine, I believe you. I believe you.”

And now Shiv felt whiplash going the other way. "What? Just like that?"

The Giantsbane shrugged. "Look, kid, everything between us is not personal on my end. Well, aside from whatever reason you’re coming after my grandkid. I'm not out here hunting you to try and bring you in because I don't like you or something. That doesn’t matter that much. I'm here because the Ascendants are coming after you, and I am loyal to the Republic and the Ascendants. It's really that simple. At the same time, I know the Inquisition gets up to some fucky bullshit—that a bunch of inquisitors are upjumped nobles playing their own bullshit games and making a mess of things for the rest of us."

"And you're still working with them?" Shiv asked, his incredulity rising by the moment.

"Yeah, of course I'm still working with them," Jessica said. She looked at him like he was simple. "Because what's the alternative? Go at it alone? Do my own thing? Stop caring?" She threw up her hands and rolled her eyes. "Let me tell you something about that whole 'I can do it myself,' 'I don't need to be loyal to anything,' kind of thinking, kid. Doesn't go anywhere. It's about as useless as being overly loyal. Both of them are pointless. Neither of them does anything for you. You're going to have to make a choice, and you're going to use your power to enforce that choice. You're going to use your power to shape a world you want. The easiest thing for me to do, the smartest thing for me to do, so that I can live the best life I can and my kids stay safe, is for the Republic to keep standing and for the Ascendants to stay as strong as they possibly can.”

She pointed a finger at him. “We have a good thing going here, Deathless. You're young, right? And you're being dumped into one nightmare after another. I can't blame you for being angry and lashing out. But I'm telling you now, you don't know what it was like before. You don't know what it was like to see tens of thousands of people wiped out on some random fucking Restday because a Primal Gate opened up, vomiting up an endless tide of Master-Tier monsters. Frankly, the best thing you can do for yourself is just give up. Walk back into a cell. Let Chandler cut a deal with you—and odds are, you’ll end up in the Inquisition too, after a while. It’s the way it goes for most of us reasonable Pathbearers.”

Shiv's eyes blazed with black fire while looking at Jessica, who was proving to be a test of his patience. "You know the Ascendants are degenerating, right? You know they're becoming caricatures of themselves."

Jessica shrugged. "Yeah, I noticed. I'm not stupid. I don't like looking at it. But Chandler's gonna fix it. Chandler fixes fucking everything. It's what she does. It’s who she is. And so long as she’s here, and she’s most in charge, then I’ll be doing what she wants me to do—”

“Then why the FUCK were you with Stormhalt?!” Shiv shouted, taking a step toward her before he caught himself. “She didn’t sanction that! I know she didn’t! That was Kathereine and that murderer bastard Havel’s personal grudge!”

“And mine as well,” Jessica replied. She bared her teeth, and for a moment, she looked more like a jackal than a woman. “I was going there to see something settled with Roland. That’s it. And frankly, it would have gone better with me there. I would have taken the city, dealt with Sullain, and made sure no one died. You getting involved is the reason why everything went to shit. There wouldn’t be an Undying Tarrasque if you didn’t give a soul donation to the Vicar.”

Shiv almost had an aneurysm right then and there. “You—felling—I—”

“You know I’m right,” Jessica said—but the tone of her voice told Shiv she didn’t believe that, and the impish grin on her face revealed she was just trying to piss him off. If he didn't have Sage of the Enkindled Heart, he would have likely snapped right then and smashed something. As it stood, his reservoirs of rage climbed just a bit higher.

“You’re enjoying this,” Shiv said, his anger fueling his calmness. Talking to her made him more rational, more astute. “Do you want me to start a fight?”

“I like the tension,” Jessica replied honestly. “Makes me feel alive. The possibility you might just try to kill me tickles me somewhere deep. And the fact that you’re not attacking me makes you more interesting. It’s like adding some condiments to the conversation.”

Sage of the Enkindled Heart 112 > 115

“Okay… Okay.” Shiv was practically ejecting steam from his nose at this point. “I will tell you now, I’m not going to hit you. Not unless you start the fight first. So, you can forget about pissing me off enough to start a brawl.”

Jessica pouted. “Aw. Really wish you didn’t have Sage of the Enkindled Heart. That would make things more thrilling.”

Shiv's fingers twitched as he desperately tried to think of where to take this conversation. “Why won’t you take me seriously?” he hissed.

“I am. I just… Fine. Sure. I already accepted what you said about Heather. So. What now. What are you trying to do here, boy? Some Inquisitors fucked up. I’ll let Chandler know. She’ll fix it. Hell, she’ll probably spank Stormhalt and get Kathereine under control right after. Nothing for us to do about it.”

Shiv stared at her. To his incredulity, it almost sounded like she genuinely believed that. "Really? That’s what you think? Because my grandmother seems to be really selective about what she fixes. She sure as shit didn't fix the lives of all the bastard children she abandoned. She sure as shit didn't fix Daughter and whatever the fuck she's doing to all those poor orphan kids. She sure as shit didn't fix the Tarrasque. She didn't fix the Blackedge siege. She didn't fix anything that's happening between Roland and you, or Stormhalt, or between the Starhawk and the rest of the Ascendants! What did she fix? Tell me! 'Cause I'm missing your perspective, I think."

To add oil to the fires of his frustration, Jessica didn't say anything. She just looked at him, her expression unreadable.

