He guessed that there were dimensionals slipping out from the gateway, that students were fighting some manner of primal elemental or something. No alarms were going off, and there was a distinct absence of any Prismatic Guard or militia activity in the area, so he guessed that this was just normal. Sections of the campus were designated combat zones, and it was simply that the place he occupied right now was calm and peaceful. Maybe I'm just where all the first years are supposed to be, Shiv thought to himself, first years or the non-martials.

Turning away from the gate, he swept the west and east some more. There were several gardens between neighboring dorms, and there, he saw a collection of statues. Even with his Farsight, it was a little bit hard to read the plaques lining their base, but a flicker of light came from the left, and Shiv found himself staring at one of the dorms.

Then a massive ball of flame erupted out of it, followed by a thunderous blast. For a beat, Shiv blinked, wondering if this, too, was a normal part of campus life along the second threshold. Then, as the alarm sounded, Shiv realized it probably wasn't. His pin blinked twice, and a pitched alarm sounded.

Warning! An alchemical explosion has taken place at Dragon Dorm. Students within the dorm, please shelter in place. Head to your bathroom and stay near a hydro dispenser. Other students, please do not approach the endangered area. Rescue personnel are on the way.

Shiv looked on for a moment as the flames quickly crawled up the sides of the curving building. They were eating through it at an alarming rate, and soon, the entire west end of the building was utterly consumed by a flickering conflagration. If they don't stop it soon, the entire structure might catch fire, and who knows how many students will…

Shiv sucked in a breath. But if I get involved, I might just expose myself. There are a lot of risks that... And then Shiv realized he had already launched himself off the top of the tower and was making a swan dive for the darkness below.

“Godsfuckingdammit,” he muttered, “I just can’t let shit go. Helix, we're going to go fight a fire. You want to give me a primer on how to properly treat burn victims without using my Aegis's Woundeater ability?”

"Burn victims, you say?" Helix said with giddy delight. "Tell me more. Is it an alchemical fire?"

"Seems to be."

"Oh, then this will be absolutely nightmarish. You’re going to need to regrow some skin and lung tissue. Far more delicate work than just removing some plaque.”

“Ah, shit,” Shiv mumbled. “Well, looks like I’m sticking to crystallizing injuries for now.”

And as he splashed into the blackness, time drew to a near-standstill as Shiv tore off across the darkness, wary of compromising his cover, yet unable to leave his fellow students to their fate.
