To his credit, the twin tried. Even as his leg buckled and failed him, he managed to pivot and tried to carve her. Had his sword been higher quality, she might have been in trouble. But his own Skill had rendered the blade brittle. As he activated the Sound-based attack again, the blade shattered—without her landing a single blow upon it.

And the ogre’s own body absorbed the bulk of the sharp shards of metal. Ranthia’s armor wasn’t reinforced by her vitality (she never had gotten that damned armor Skill she had seeded), but it was still steel. It largely withstood the aftermath of the sword’s catastrophic failure. And the injuries Ranthia’s legs took weren’t enough to stop her.

She drove her knives through the back of the ogre’s neck.

[*ding!* You have slain a shimagu [Glorious Sword of Enduring Conquest] (Ooze, level 709), [Bolstered Power] (Gemstones, level 503), [Applied Force] (Gravity, level 653)!]

Ranthia could count on a single hand the number of times that she had managed to kill a parasite without the host succumbing immediately. The reverse occurred somewhat frequently, but few beings could endure such a severe wound. Yet even with both knives having erased a deep swath of her opponent’s throat—including his spine—the ogre managed to cling to his fading life.

A horrific sound of metal being torn apart filled the air. Ranthia couldn’t see what was happening, but [Combat Awareness] was almost redundant—she was already desperately lunging away from her crippled adversary.

“<Gemstones!>” Avyna’s shout provided the context, an instant before Ranthia’s world turned to chaos.

“Which medical tent is the top dwarven [Healer] in?!” Ranthia demanded, even as she barreled through the still-rising gates.

One of the dwarves shouted a number, and Ranthia moved. She was blind, but she knew Remera’s streets—and she had to trust that they would be largely barren while the battle continued. Her heart thundered in her breast as she rushed through the narrow spaces between tents, haunted by the sweet scent of Avyna’s blood.

Why in Xaoc’s glory did elven blood have to smell sweet?!

“Help her!” Ranthia pleaded, desperately, as she tore past—through, if she were more honest with herself—the flap of the medical tent.

“With wot?! M’mana ain’t moved!” The shrub-like dwarf demanded.

Ranthia looked down at the unamused elf she cradled in her arms, not that she could see her lover, but she could certainly feel Avyna’s elbow digging into her armor as the elf kept her arms firmly crossed.

“I told you the potion would suffice!” Avyna complained.

Okay, yes, she had probably panicked a bit too much when she had recovered from the explosion of assorted charged gems and found Avyna on the ground—slick with her own blood—on the opposite side of the affected area. Avyna had even verbally confirmed that she was okay, but she had sounded a bit weak and pained…

…

“I’ll repair the tent tomorrow.” Ranthia allowed her growing shame to bow her head.

No shimagu had escaped the battle, even after Ranthia quit the field. Eight twins had become seven and the base commander had eagerly sent word to the Coalition. Remera celebrated its victory for days, while Ranthia struggled to make up for the missteps she had made with Avyna. The argument had involved far too many feelings and Ranthia had truly made an ass out of herself both then and in the aftermath of the battle. Thankfully, Avyna was a better person than Ranthia could ever hope to be, and after a heartfelt apology, their relationship was fine.

Not that it stopped Ranthia from her constant efforts to show her love and absolve herself of her lingering guilt.

A little less than four years later, Ranthia stepped out of the command tent, drained and weary. The latest update from Legion Command about the war had been interesting, but Ranthia was sick and tired of listening to the base commander’s advisors while they circled through the exact same arguments time and time again. Yes, many of Remera’s experienced personnel had been cycled elsewhere and many of their replacements were greenhorns that were barely trained, but there was nothing that was going to change that.

Honestly, they just needed to trust the skilled personnel that they had left and the training programs that had been established, but every time Remera exchanged communications with Legion Command, the advisors hungered for some excuse to demand better personnel.

At least she was finally—

Ranthia side-stepped and pivoted, just in time to watch what appeared to be a sealed scroll pass through where her head had been.

“Sorry! Take that to your base commander and Sentinel Grace!” An unfamiliar voice shouted from above.

Ranthia looked up just in time to watch what had to be the enigmatic Sentinel Gravity as she flew away. Logically, the descriptor was unfair—the woman was well known to many people and had visited Remera several times before. Yet Ranthia had never laid eyes on Sentinel Aurora’s nominal replacement, which made her enigmatic.

Not that Ranthia had much of a chance to observe the woman as she shot into the distance, clutching a bag to her chest. Between the flying woman’s speed and Ranthia’s momentary discombobulation, there wasn’t even time to call out to her.

Ranthia shrugged and retrieved the scroll, before she cracked it open. She was a valid recipient, so it was fine! Besides, she was more than a little curious about what could be so important that they were receiving a second official communication in the same day.

And she was glad that she did. A genuine smile lit up her face as she read the first several lines.

The seven remaining shimagu twins had officially become six! Two of their most dangerous foes had been eliminated in the span of a handful of years! The scroll was written in Night’s elegant hand and was just as verbose as the man was in person. But at least he had the decency to frontload the best bit. Ranthia had no idea who Sentinel Solace was—though it was always great to know of another woman amongst the Sentinels—but that hardly mattered.

With a mere six twins left, the momentum of the war had to change. Ranthia couldn’t claim to be an expert at the minutiae of the state of the war, but she felt certain that between the Sentinels, the dwarven [Battlemasters], the elves in general, and everyone else that had joined with them… they had to have at least twice as many combatants that could meet a twin on the field of battle.

With dreams of the war entering its final stages, Ranthia reentered the command tent to share the news. She still had thirteen years left with Avyna, and—at last—she truly had hope that the war would end before conflicting obligations tore them apart!

The war changed, alright.

It had ground itself to a halt.

The bulk of the Legions had come together to form a great army in answer to the convergence of the shimagu’s remaining soldiers. The situation had been ripe for a grand final clash, and for months Ranthia had earnestly anticipated the order to deploy. With the Sentinels, the dwarven [Battlemasters], the centaur [Champions], the gnoll chiefs, and the elves with over a thousand levels united, they would smash through the shimagu’s final army to crush the remaining twins until the parasites were, at last, ready to admit the folly of their ways!

As time passed without the call to action, Ranthia chose to hope that negotiations were already underway.

The truth proved to be stupider than anything she had imagined: the bulk of the elves declined to leave Coalition City. The situation was somehow—despite everything—deemed to be “too risky.” With victory right in front of them, the Coalition threatened to crumble into infighting as factional lines entrenched.

With the elves effectively refusing to commit any resources—outside the handful of ‘children’ that treated the war as though it was a game to level in—many powerful allies chose the path of safety and refused to step forward.

The shimagu’s final stand had created a new form of stalemate, where inaction ruled the day. The armies barely even skirmished, and the elites that the Coalition army possessed proved unable to strike at the shimagu. Each time one of the highest tier combatants stepped forward, reports claimed that they were stymied by a unified force of the remaining confirmed shimagu twins. And the specter of uncertainty over the existence of unconfirmed twins further chilled any efforts of escalation.

It was as if the inanity of Ranthia’s life under the previous base commander had infected the war as a whole. Much as she and a solitary twin somehow kept one another in check by standing on their respective towers, those with enough power to end the stalemate were rendered impotent by the mere existence of opposition.

Ranthia found herself tempted to join the battle. She couldn’t match six twins, but if she joined with Sentinels Pierce, Night, Solace, and whomever else had joined the ranks of the War Sentinels…! Even if they couldn’t win, she wanted to believe that they could light a fire under their allies and coax the others into joining in.

But it was a stupid idea that reflected her frustrations and even she knew it was somewhat worse than foolhardy. It wasn’t a plan; it was blind optimism wrapped in wishful thinking until it became a temptation.

With the war concentrated in a single, largely static location, the remaining bases were left with minimal staffing. Ranthia’s orders were to remain in Remera so she could respond to any shimagu aggression that bypassed the front. A single Sentinel tasked with protecting half the wasteland. It would have been an absurdity, had there been any real chance of action. Stray shimagu beyond their final army were all but unheard of, and the rare individual that was found was cut down by Coalition scouts on sight.

Piecemeal shimagu cut off from their peers were no threat to anything, but no one seemed to be inclined to grant them anything more merciful than a swift end.

With the silence of the war hanging over her, Ranthia’s precious remaining years with the woman that she loved trickled away one by one. For as much as it felt like the world had stagnated with the war locked into a stalemate of cowardice, the days still passed all too quickly.

Ranthia needed to make her final choice. It was obvious that the war wasn’t going to end—not in time. And it would take a miracle on the scale of Xaoc or His peers to change that, it seemed. Which meant that Ranthia was faced with an impossible choice. She would have to either part ways with the woman she loved, or she would have to betray Remus and leave the war behind—and risk disrupting the delicate balance to favor the shimagu.

She couldn't predict the future. She had no way to know if her presence would prove superfluous if she stayed, or if the shimagu would start an all-out final offensive the moment she left, forcing the Coalition to desperately call for every last resource they possessed. The only thing she was truly confident about was that there was zero chance that Ranger Command would sign off on her leaving for the Tympestshard Council's sovereign territory while the situation remained in deadlock.

The indecision haunted her. It remained a weight and source of stress that lurked at the back of her mind while her time to decide dwindled day by day. In the end, it was up to her. Xaoc would never provide guidance for such trivial matters—and she had no intention of asking Him. She couldn’t even ask Avyna; she couldn’t just let someone else give her permission to choose one option or the other. Each day she faced the question of what mattered more to her: her heart or the lives of unknowable numbers of people—most of which were practically strangers to her. And each day she failed to seize her final answer.

She hadn’t faced such potent indecision since her youthful days, when she struggled to choose whether or not to become a Ranger. It was almost nostalgic when she framed it like that. Had it been possible, she might have actually been stupid enough to seek the advice of that asshole [Priest] once again.

But Ranthia was a grown woman, and it was high time that she found the courage to make her own decisions in life. Down either path lurked obvious regret. She just needed to choose the path that allowed her to someday accept that she had done what she had to do.

A task that sounded far easier than her mind or her heart allowed it to be.
