“Fuagh! Disgusting,” he growled.

“You… You ate him?” Ali exclaimed.

“His avatar. Liches are tough to kill, even for me,” Azryet said, frowning. “And that creature is far stronger than I expected; you will need to be cautious.”

“Wait, did you bring us to this cavern to lure him out?” Ali asked, the idea suddenly sprouting in her mind. “You meant for him to come?”

“Good. You’re smarter than most,” Azryet rumbled.

“Azryet! You said you’d prevent him from coming!” Ali said, her voice rising to almost a shout before she remembered her shame of swearing at the dragon god and tempered her tone.

“I said nothing of the sort. I promised to protect you, little Fae. I cannot leave this realm, and so I cannot help you directly in your fight against him, but at least now, the Lich might think twice before coming for you.”

“But you breathed on me!”

“I happen to know you’re strong enough to withstand it,” Azryet said, his eyes whirling in apparent frustration. “Or did you forget how you earned your Defiance of the Meek title?” With a toss of his head, he unleashed his pure healing fire once more, and the damage Ali had sustained to reinforce her barrier melted away.

“I…” Ali said, finally lowering her barrier. “Thank you.”

“You’re welcome,” Azryet said.

“I’m still a bit upset with you, though!” Ali pointed out. “That wasn’t a nice trick.”

“I imagine you are,” he chuckled. “Less nice for him.”

Ali sighed. Dragons! Still, he had taken care of the Blind Lich, and in a way that gave her a week or two of grace. It was, by all accounts, a significant boon. If only she could get her heart to slow down. She turned her attention to the shrine and spent the next hour meticulously extracting everything of value from it before she unsummoned her Eye of Agnor and dissolved the dungeon.

“Do you want this?” she asked, pointing to the artifact.

“I have no need of it,” Azryet said. “I have already made substantial improvements to the one you gifted me. I suggest you deconstruct it and enhance your own shrine.”

“I can do that?”

“Yes, it should work. Artificial or not, it counts as a shrine.”

Flexing her mana, Ali quickly deconstructed the shrine. If nothing else, destroying it would be the right thing to do. As it evaporated into mana, she felt something releasing within her. Relief perhaps that it could no longer be used against them.

Requirements met for shrine advancement.You are a Shrine owner.You have deconstructed a Shrine.You may choose one of the abilities of the deconstructed shrine.Shrine of the Ancient Grove gains Denizens.You may bind an entity to your domain using Domain Enhancement.Accept this advancement?

“Is Denizens worth using?” Ali asked, eyeing the description skeptically. She couldn’t imagine binding anybody to her domain as a boss. Nor would she use it often, even if she found someone willing.

“It won’t hurt to have it,” Azryet said. “It can circumvent some of the limitations on the minion-enhancement load on your domain, but it’s not one of the most useful. Recording it from this shrine means that when your shrine grows, it will offer you something else, and that is probably worth it.”

Ali twisted her lips and asked, “I’m not sure I want it. Doesn’t it seem… unethical?”

“It has proved useful on occasion,” Azryet said. “It is an early way to train your shrine with unique classes and races. It does take consent, and you can choose not to use it if it worries you, however, I do recommend taking the ability. The opportunities are unpredictable and potentially transformative – if you have the ability when something comes up, you can make the choice.”

“I see. When you put it that way, it doesn’t sound as bad,” Ali said and committed the Denizens advancement, feeling her shrine expanding in response. Then, she glanced up at him and said, “I wish I could get that Imprint ability you showed me.”

“That is certainly a useful one, but it costs Authority, so I only use it on something extremely worthwhile,” Azryet said.

“Is this worth it?” Ali asked, holding up the Eye of the Lich, dark shadows dripping from the band.

The dragon god lowered his head and peered at the dark ring held between her fingers. “That is an impressive ring,” he rumbled. “Where did you get it?”

“From Haverron, deep in the Crypt of Kings,” Ali said.

“I will copy that for you,” Azryet said. “It is worth adding to my own repertoire.”

“Technically, we could get more if we kill him a few more times,” Ali admitted.

“It is worth the Authority to copy immediately,” Azryet countered. “That Summon Supremacy enchantment is no small thing. Besides, you will need one without the Lich’s mana signature.”

“Ok, thank you,” Ali said, and then looked up to meet the giant dragon’s gaze. “I have one more gift for you,” she said. She had spent quite some time at her shrine, explicitly finding every single compatible class and creating a variant for it in her Grimoire. “I can make Dragonkin.”

Azryet froze. It was, Ali reflected, rather intimidating just how still and silent he could be. “Tell me they have an interesting class,” he said, staring at her intently.

“I have seventeen dragonkin-compatible classes that use holy or void affinity so far,” she said, grinning up at him. “I made all of them.”

For the first time since she had known him, the Dragon God appeared to be speechless.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
