“I appreciate that. I need to practice lifting a heavy vehicle with my skill, and I need…I think reaction speed training definitely and a couple more things that would help me kill a specific kind of demon.”

Bobby blinked.

“I’m not really going to kill a demon,” Alden said. “It’s an exercise for my mental health.”

“What is the demon like?” she asked slowly.

Alden considered giving her an entire breakdown of a bokabv demon’s hypothetical abilities, then he realized how long that would take. “To start with, I just need to be able to consistently get my shield in front of a big, quick, dangerous thing that can behave in unpredictable ways.”

“How big?”

“About the size of a rhinoceros.”

She looked like she was thinking about it. “Are you sure about this?”

“Yes,” said Alden. “I’m very sure.”

“All right. For lifting cars, I’ll need to make sure you have some safety in place. But reaction speed is something you can work on right now.” She raised a hand to start typing on her interface. “Let me see which training rooms are available, and we’ll get you into one.”

******

“Well, this hasn’t been a standard morning. I’ll give it that.” Boe Lupescu was walking down a road that was so low on traffic Alden hadn’t seen a single car since he turned the call from audio to video about three minutes ago. Behind his friend, he could see a rusted water tower rising above a warehouse.

“You’re sure I’m not distracting you?”

“You’ve spent most of the past hour grunting, cursing, and panting,” Boe replied. “It wasn’t the most melodic soundtrack I’ve ever listened to, but it didn’t require a lot of engagement on my part either.”

Alden sat in a molded plastic chair in his own private training room, having a brief break and a drink of water. Soon, he would figure out exactly what tools he’d be using in the dream, and he’d bring the closest equivalent he could find here with him. For now, he was still getting the hang of the room Bobby had introduced him to, and using a towel he’d brought along as his shield was working fine.

When he stood in the center of the room, a holographic humanoid figure—because whoever had made this place didn’t anticipate Avowed wanting to be attacked by an alien herdcreature—ran at him. He’d get his shield in front of it, and it would try to slip around. There was no feeling of impact; this definitely wasn’t the magiphys gym. But it was good for practicing what Alden had wanted to today. Getting a wall of magic in between his body and something dangerous was basic; he didn’t have to save it for MPE.

The room provided a constant readout of his successes and failures. When he was on a good shielding streak, the hologram attacks sped up; when he was failing, they slowed down. Bobby was going to ask somebody about getting a more bokabv-like attacker for him for next time.

Boe adjusted his scarf and then shoved his hands back into the pockets of his jacket. Alden watched him turn off the street toward a brick building. Tracks ran beside it, and an old steam engine rested there.

“That’s not the kind of train you see every day.”

“This is a rail museum according to a sign over there. I don’t know why the kid would have come this far. Especially not when it’s freezing. But I looked like a suspicious character wandering around too close to the other searchers. Nobody from this town knows me, and this is the kind of place where I bet they care about that.”

“What are you going to do if you succeed in your mission?” Alden asked, suddenly realizing there was a problem with that. “You can’t take him back home without everyone wanting to know who you are.”

“If I find him, I’ll tell him pythons eat little kids who scare their parents as bad as his are scared, and I’ll point him toward his street.”

Alden shook his head. “Your persona needs some work.”

“Your persona is doomed forever if you sing songs with Sharon,” Boe said.

“I heard her popularity is on the rise.”

Boe shivered. “Go back to your workout. Nothing exciting is going on here, and I’m…a little…”

He tilted his head.

Alden leaned forward in his seat. “What is it?”

“Shhhh.”

Alden shut his mouth. Plans to return to his practice evaporated as he watched Boe’s frown deepen. He watched as Boe turned toward the steam engine, walked past it, and hopped a fence to head toward a line of orange railcars on another track.

The kid he was looking for was only six. It was frigid. He’d been gone from home for hours.

What are the chances he made it miles away on his own? What if he’s been kidnapped? Or he’s freezing to death? What if something really horrible has happened, and Boe’s about to have to deal with it?

“Be careful,” Alden whispered.

Boe was walking more purposefully now. And moments later, he was standing behind a caboose, looking down on a scene that left both him and Alden temporarily speechless.

Alden recovered his voice first, but he had a hard time getting words out around his laughter.

“Don’t…don’t be mad at him! Look how much thought he’s put into it!”

The child and Boe were still staring at each other. The boy had brown eyes. Not much more of his face was visible, since he was bundled up in what had to be half of the winter wear in his family’s house. And he was trying to cook a can of English peas on top of a mound of disposable hand warmers. The whole unopened can, label and all.

“Are you David?” said Boe.

Which Alden found extra funny, because how many six-year-old runaways could there be in one town?

David nodded.

“He didn’t even start a real fire,” Alden said. “He just wanted to go camping!  Or escape on a train. One or the other. Let him off easy.”

Boe sighed and bent down. “You need to go home. Your mom and dad are very worried about you.” He was talking in a kind, soft voice. “I’ll walk with you to your street, and then you just go straight down the sidewalk until you see someone.”

David grabbed his peas and held them protectively  to his stomach. “I can’t talk to you,” he said in a severe tone. “You’re a stranger.”

“Listen,” said Boe, “let me tell you about pythons.”

******

Alden whipped around, shield up to meet a faceless attacker. Boe was watching him silently from the backseat of a ride-share.

It wasn’t a fair trade as far as entertainment value went.  Watching Boe persuade a stubborn outdoorsman to take his peas, his twenty-four hand warmers, and himself back to the house they all belonged in went beyond mere amusement into the realms of treasured memory.

Alden was just a guy, learning to respond a little more quickly to incoming threats.

The hologram jumped, and he lifted the shield. It dove, and he lowered it. Having it get faster and faster when he was successful at blocking was good feedback, and it helped him fall into the activity better.

When his time ran out, he stood breathing hard, and raised his eyebrows at Boe.

[Good job. You taught that imaginary guy to fear the power of a Rabbit with a towel.]

[And you taught a child that pythons migrate to Illinois in the winter.]

[Now you see why some of us aren’t meant to be heroes.]

“No,” said Alden. “You did good.”

Boe rolled his eyes.

“You did good, asshole,” Alden said firmly. “I just wish you were here, on Anesidora, so that I could tell you that in person.”

I really wish that. So damn much.

******
