Unfortunately, it wasn’t so simple as the ability to teleport anywhere she had ever seen. It was more about her spirit, and Talent, learning where a given location was so she could then teleport there whenever she wanted. It would happen automatically over the course of a couple months, or she could force it to learn a single place with active effort. She could even teleport back to where she’d just left from, but only for about half an hour before her spirit ‘forgot’ where it was.

Zipping across the Empire and leaving ‘waypoints,’ as she thought of them, at strategic locations was leaving her spirit feeling like a wrung-out washcloth from the strain. But it was pretty much entirely worthwhile.

She’d been able to visit some pretty great coffee shops during this little trip, and now she could visit them whenever she wanted. She could get coffee from a different planet every day. Multiple times per day. Whenever she wanted. In the middle of a fight, even.

Now that was a good Talent. She just hoped the Emperor didn't want to turn her into a taxi.

“Wanna hop back to Relco and get a scone? I could really use a scone about now.”

The Emperor was surprisingly easy to talk to, she’d found, and she’d learned a lot about higher-level Talent theory during their trip. Apparently, her new Talent worked by actually engraving the locations of her waypoints within her spirit, and because he copied her Talent as-is, he couldn’t add new waypoints to their now-shared itinerary. Conversely, her temporary waypoints were permanent for him, at least until he refreshed his copy of her Talents.

She chose to interpret the twitch of his lips as a smile and continued, “Man, when I’m delving next, it’s gonna be great. Instead of being trapped in a rift for months and eating packaged food, I can just pop out and get something good. That would be amazing. A steak. Chicken marinade. Even a bagel. Ahhh.”

As Allie trailed off, she paused as the Emperor froze mid step, an actual grin spreading across his face.

“If that works…”

Before she could ask what he meant, Allie felt her own Talent coiling around her, whisking them both away. They materialized for a split second, then space twisted under the weight of the Emperor’s Domain and they were suddenly in front of a Tier 35 rift.

The guard flinched and readied his weapon before he saw who it was and stammered his apology.

“No worries. When was the last delve? Has the instance cycled?”

“Last week, sir, we can get more mana if you ne—”

The Emperor interrupted him. “No, it's fine. I can handle it myself.”

Allie whistled as she felt millions of mana pour out of the Tier 50 and into the rift.

Once the rift had enough mana to support another instance, the Emperor swept in, with Allie trailing close behind.

She hadn’t even gotten her bearings when she realized everything in her spiritual range was dead. She had been less than a heartbeat behind the Emperor, and he had wiped out an entire Tier 35 rift.

Insead of gawking, she knew what to do, and blipped out of the rift instance. She waved at the very confused-looking guard, and fixed her eyes on the rift. She could feel the chaotic thrum of folded and fractured space deterring any attempts to reach inside of it. With a deep breath, she commanded her Talent to bring her back to where she just was.

Allie was taken aback when it actually worked, and set her down right next to the Emperor, where she’d been not a moment before.

She was just getting excited when the Emperor shook his head. “Don’t get carried away yet. We don’t know if it’ll still work after the instance cycles, and that’s what would be useful. Most talents which can access an existing rift instance need close proximity, and even most of those can only access rifts up to their Tier.”

At nearly an eight-to-one time dilation between the inside of the rift and the external world, fifteen minutes turned into two hours, and Allie used all of that time pestering the Emperor with questions as she established a new waypoint.

He even answered some of them.

When their wait was up, he looked at her, and Allie pulled herself to the beacon she had set up next to one of her favorite scone shops.

Buying two, she reached for her newest waypoint and pulled herself to it.

She braced herself for the sensation of slamming into a wall, or being flung into chaotic space should her blip fail, but much to her surprise, she appeared next to the Emperor. Seeing that it worked, she proffered him a scone.

“It works!” Her words were only a little muffled as she chewed her scone.

The Emperor's grin turned a little feral as he said, “It did indeed. Slight change of plans, as I believe we’ve set enough waypoints on the warfront for the time being. We should get you reunited with Light, and properly introduced to Team Zero. I think they’ll be quite pleased to meet you.”

Allie no longer had a bad feeling that she’d be playing taxi in the near future. Now she knew it for sure.

Shit.
