As the news anchors bantered lightly, Aster brought out a small bucket of skills and assorted valuables. “Oh, and I got some cool stuff from graduating from the Academy. It’s mostly utility skills, nothing super fancy, but the amount of thought put into it is really nice. Let’s see, there’s [Create Mud] with a booklet on how to modify it to make clay for pottery practice. There’s [Damp Hands], though I’m not sure I’ll take that one, and a few more skills for pottery. Ooh [Layers] is a great drawing skill, too...” Matt had raised an eyebrow at that one. “It lets you draw on different magical layers, shifting, merging, or erasing them, before you release the spell and your sketches are finalized on your paper. [Mechanical Motion] is another good one, great for drawing the same thing over and over. You have that for enchanting, right Matt?”

At his nod, Aster continued, “There’s a few of the cheaper sword skills-.”

“Aster, you’re not going to use a sword. Not in a real fight. I’ve been to the academy. I know the sparring club you were in and while it can be fun and can teach good skills, you don't have the cultivation to actually use any of those skills in a real battle.” Luna chided.

“No no, I get that. But some of the skills look so cool, especially the impractical ones. And I have plenty of slots in my outer spirit, so what’s the harm? Anyways, here is the shining jewel of the bunch, worth more than all the others combined.” Aster held up a pair of skill shards that had actually been polished.

From the theatrics, Matt assumed this would be some of the cracked skills from King Frederic. Possibly some unbelievably great ice skill for Aster. Maybe even a powerful winter ability.

“[Toucan’s Tongue], which enhances the taste of fruit and berries! I got one for each of you. It's a really nice skill,” Aster exclaimed, even as she shoved the skills into their hands.

Luna rolled her eyes as Liz and Matt laughed, and Aster continued, “It looks like I got my skills from Fred-.”

“King Frederic,” Luna said.

“From Fred. [Black Ice] and [Cracked Ice Canopy], the first is a real aurora spell that makes my ice, air, and winter spells harder to notice through exotic senses. The second is a good support skill, summoning an ice aspected mana barrier around a target, with the crack letting it work on summoned entities too. Both of the skills were very thoughtful, I’ve already sent him a thank you card and a fruit basket.”

They talked about Aster’s new things for a while as the reporters went over the comings and goings of celebrities and politicians. While Matt was inspecting a nice air magic wand from Aster’s graduation gifts, a breaking news banner appeared over the screen.

“Word is that Light and Shadow have just finished the ceremony to complete The Path of Ascension, and we should be receiving the transmission packet any moment now.”

It took a few minutes of building tension, but then, the male anchor started narrating as a highlight reel started showing parts of the ceremony.

Light and Shadow walked down an aisle in the throne room in ornate outfits while the Emperor and all the Royals watched on. Then the video jumped forward slightly until their masks melted away and revealed their real faces.

The news anchors had something to say there, but Matt had missed it as he studied the two.

Light, or Zack Varon, as was apparently his real name, was an ordinary man who could have been a run of the mill mortal on half the Empire worlds. He had lightly tan skin, brown hair, and brown eyes. The man was utterly unremarkable.

Shadow, or Allison Spein, had gone a little too far on the body modifications, though Matt couldn’t be sure if they were part of a mask or her real body. Her eyes were swirling pools of violet and blue, and her skin was practically jet-black and covered with white freckles in the shape of famous constellations from all over the Empire. Even her hair, as short as it was cut, was a riot of grays, silvers, and blacks. And with each step that she took, her hair bounced and created a tapestry of shifting shadows.

She had really leaned into the shadow motif.

Now that he had seen them, Matt would bet every penny he had that Light and Shadow had swapped personalities when under the mask, like he and Liz modified theirs. There was no way someone as deliberately and intentionally bland as Zack had come up with half the colorful things he had been quoted saying in the past. His spirit was far too no-nonsense for that.

Allison, even with a carefully-schooled expression on her face during the entire ceremony, positively radiated fun and mischief.

Together, the four of them sat in silence as the news anchors cheered and clapped.

Matt knew what was coming next, and figured the two immortal news anchors did as well, but they seemed carefully reserved.

Light and Shadow completing the Path meant that war was upon them.

The video replayed the envoys declaring war and the female anchor nodded. “As we feared, but predicted. Everyone please remain calm. The Empire has known this would happen and is well prepared. Our planet is far from the borders, but don’t worry, even if you have family there. These conflicts can last hundreds of years, and no one will interfere with the mortal populations. If you want more information about the war, we will have twice daily updates morning and evening. But if you follow our sister channel, they will be dedicating themselves to the war coverage day and night.”

When there was a pause, Aster sighed. “Damn it. Why did it have to happen so soon?”

Liz nodded along. “They’re also so casual about it. Sure, this planet is far away from the frontlines, but there is no reason for them to brush it off.”

Luna raised an eyebrow. “If you think that was casual, look at the Tier 35 plus channels.”

The screen in front of them changed and another pair of reporters were on the screen. They seemed to be watching the highlights as well, but when the video turned to the envoys declaring war, the anchors laughed.

“Well, it's about time. We haven’t had a good war in a while, and our boys and girls deserve to get their hands bloody. Push back the invaders and earn unmatched glory and honor! When I was Tier 25, I killed dozens of those Republic weaklings. Anyone who dies before them is worthless.”

The male anchor nodded as his counterpart spoke and then touched his ear, interrupting her. “We are getting reports from the Watchers about the first engagements. Viewer discretion is advised for the content going forward, it’s going to be fucking awesome.”

After a pause for people to turn away, the screen changed to show a smaller planet that was turned into a giant fortress. It looked all so peaceful until the ships appeared out of nowhere and started opening fire.

Mana cannons fired bolts the size of buildings just to splash on the planet's shields. The anchors cheered, but Matt just felt sick.

That was an enormous amount of resources being spent as both sides started firing upon each other.

Ships were blown into chunks of nothingness, and many people died, but the anchors laughed and cheered those who scored kills on the Sect attackers. They, or rather the Watchers, were keeping score of each attack and its result, and the news anchors commented on the rising and falling of merit earned.

When the battle settled into simple probing attacks, the anchors returned with beaming smiles. “There you have it, people. The first attacks of the new war. Subscribe to stay tuned for all the war-related information on our sister channel, Ribble 2. They will have dedicated themselves to the war until its final attack, so get ready for more blood and glory. Betting channels are also opening up as we speak. I already have a bet on how soon until we see Light and Shadow, so join me in adding a little excitement for this fight.”

Matt felt sick at how they treated the fights. In comparison, the Tier 15 network they had first seen treated things with great solemnity.

Liz asked the question he wanted an answer to. “Is there an information source we can get that doesn’t treat this like a game, or like it doesn't matter?”

Luna shook her head. “Mostly the lower-Tier networks, particularly mortal ones, treat the war more seriously. I don’t advise relying on them, though. Remember that for most intents and purposes, this is a game. There are rules, and the destruction is kept outside of inhabited areas. Ascenders are half soldiers and half celebrities. The stakes are real, but they aren’t dire stakes for the Great Powers as a whole. Mortals don’t fight, and anyone who is fighting for the Empire is there willingly. At the end of the wars, whoever wins, whoever does best, will be paid and rewarded, just like any other competition, and so too are the wars broadcasted like them. I daresay that tournaments and the like will become far less frequented for the next few centuries while there’s true battles to follow.”

Aster shook her head. “It feels so callous how the higher Tiers were treating deaths.”

Luna shook her head. “Is it truly? Consider the alternatives, should the Great Powers not utilize their armies as champions to settle disputes. Without a strict structure in place, inhabited worlds would pay the price, and everyone would suffer. But that is not to diminish the importance of these wars. When the Monster Collective broke from the Federation, the proposed reparations from the Tier 35 war were so immense that the fighting expanded fully to Tier 43 out of desperation. That fate, clawing them from the strongest Great Power to one who just barely managed to escape a death spiral, is what we fight to prevent.”

After that revelation, none of them felt like sitting around, so the four of them left the planet and boarded Matt’s shuttle. With four full-size adults, it was cramped, but that was helped when Luna turned into her cat form and curled up on top of a cabinet.

Liz copied the idea and turned it into her bird form, taking a perch on Matt’s lap where they cuddled at the helm. Aster shot Liz a glare for taking her traditional spot, but took Liz’s chair in retribution, making a show of changing all the adjustments.

Activating the chaotic space engines, Matt waited for the ship to successfully tear through the fabric of reality and started following the set route to Ventillyria.

With the planet in mind, Matt looked up to Luna and asked, “What's so special about Ventillyria? Couldn't we just go to any of the other Tier 22 worlds?”

Luna held up a paw without looking up, three claws sticking out. “Three reasons. The first is that it’s near the Sect border, and will give you the opportunity to feel a bit of the war’s impact without actually participating in a battle. Similarly, the area will be flooded with spies and I want to give you a chance to engage in some light counterespionage. Thirdly, I like the system. It was a favorite planet for Pathers quite some time ago, but fell out of favor as the native population grew. I’ve spent many years there, and know the rifts well.”

Matt nodded and started going through the information he had downloaded on the planet.

He wanted to know the basics by the time they arrived.

Before he could get too comfortable, Luna spoke once more.

“While we have downtime, I want all of you to start practicing your mana control with mana patty. Aster, you stick to human form, and Liz, stick to bird form. Your control still needs work, and I need to see exactly how far you have slipped, Aster. There was a lot of time you could have been honing your skills at the bond academy. Like that rift challenge. It was atrocious. I’ve seen children handle themselves better than you did.”

Aster stiffened as she squeaked. “You saw that? How? What did you hear?”

“Did you think I wouldn’t be keeping an eye on you? I peeked in when I was close enough to send a [Clone], but I actually heard about it from Mara sending me a recording from your guide uniform. Imagine my surprise when I found out what you were saying. Now, let’s see how many debuffing skills you need to stop a Tier 18 monster, shall we?”

Aster started nervously laughing, but there was a thread of actual fear that Matt could feel through their bond.

Not really caring that Luna was there, Matt asked, “What did you say? You mentioned the rift but not what you said inside. How bad could it have been?”

Aster’s laugh got more nervous as she tried to deflect, but Liz squawked at her too.

“I was giving myself a running pep talk. Talking like how Luna talks when she's critiquing us. Her words of wisdom. And I may have added a few of my own.”

“Like what?”

“I’m not going to say it again and get myself in more trouble!”

“Come on, she already heard. There’s no reason to keep us in the dark.”

“You guys are crazy!”

“Don’t be a coward.”

“She’s glaring at me right now!”

“Cat’s are always glaring. Just tell us.”

***

Allie followed the Emperor as they finished the first leg of their ‘trip around the Empire’. The man hadn’t been lying when he said that, but she hadn’t been expecting him to literally take her on a trip around a large portion of the Empire’s border regions to stop at important places.

But it made sense when she found out exactly what her Tier 25 Talent could do.

Tier 1: Innate free [Teleport].

Tier 3: Control space. Distance and control grows with Tier.

Tier 25: You may [Teleport] to places you are familiar with.

