“The price is awesome, too.” Dillon said. “You don't want to know how much her armor is worth.”

“Ya don' really need it, though.” Clint said. “Ah know it's ah grea' deal...”

“How much have you got on you?” Hank asked, but the guys didn't laugh this time.

“Even combined, I don't think we have enough.” Dillon said.

“If'n ah hadn't splurged aftah tha las' quest...”

“I might get a hundred gold for my old armor, after it gets repaired.” Hank said and sighed. “I guess I'll have to say no to this deal.”

“Ah'm sorry, Hank.” Clint said.

“We all are, man.” Tommy said, and Billy and Dillon nodded silently.

*

“How long are you going to let them sweat?” Elerlyth whispered very low.

“Just until they walk back over to me.” Ren whispered back and smiled.

“The things you're feeling.” Elerlyth said and licked her lips. “You're really tasty right now.”

Ren chuckled softly. “Concentrate on your Spider Aura.” He said, and did it himself. Their Auras merged, and Elerlyth gasped. She put her forehead on the Phantom Steed's neck and sighed.

“Good god, I want you so much right now.” Elerlyth said.

“It'll have to wait for a little while.” Ren said. “Here they come.”

Ren turned and watched as the 5 men walked over to him, and you could almost see the feelings of sadness and disappointment that covered them.

“So, what do you think?” Ren asked. “Is it a good deal or what?”

“It's unbelievable.” Hank said. “It's too good to be true.”

Ren chuckled. “That's me in a nutshell.”

“Ren, I...” Hank sighed. “I can't-”

“Before you give me your decision, what are you doing with your old armor?” Ren asked.

“I was going to sell it.” Hank said.

“Let me see it.” Ren said, and Hank took it out and handed it over. Ren examined it saw it was down to below half of it's Durability, and it's appraised value was almost 100 gold coins. He took out his blacksmith hammer and repaired it, and brought it's value up to just over 150 gold.

“I can sell it for you.” Ren said, and the men looked at him. “I'm a registered business owner. I can sell things back to the system for a 10% discount.”

“Oh, man!” Tommy said. “That is so neat!”

Ren laughed.

“But...” Hank said, then Ren sold the armor and it disappeared. “Hey, wait!”

Ren handed Hank 138 gold coins, and Hank just stared at it.

“Oh, shit.” Billy said and looked at the other guys, and they all had surprise and shock on their faces. They were stuck in a bad spot, because Hank still couldn't afford the new set. They were going to start the new quest soon and the tank of the party didn't have any armor at all now.

Ren fought hard not to laugh, and he heard Elerlyth breathing heavily behind him. “Well, what do you say? Do you want the new armor or what?”

Hank moved his gaze from the gold in his hands to Ren face, but he didn't say anything.

“Oh, I almost forgot to tell you.” Ren said. “For really large purchases, I put my friends on a payment plan.”

“You WHAT?!?”

Ren grinned. “I don't expect my friends to somehow come up with the outrageous prices I have to charge.” He said. “Imagine if you had to pay full price with all the enchantments!” He laughed. “I'd never sell anything!”

Hank looked at the other 4 guys, and they still had surprise on their faces. “Ren, even if...”

“The payments are pretty steep, though.” Ren said and smiled evilly, and Teepo chittered in laughter.

Hank sighed, because Ren had him over a barrel and could screw him over for the rest of the time he played the game. Since he had no armor at all, he was going to have to accept whatever deal Ren gave him.

“What are the payments?” Hank asked.

“It's 1 gold coin a week until it's paid off.” Ren said, and Hank lost motor function in his arms and dropped the pile of gold.

“WHHHAAAAAATTTTTT?????!!!!!?????” Hank yelled.
