Her name was Cognita. That was what she told the people she met.
Her name was Cognita. She had once been shaped and given life by Archmage Zelkyr, the greatest expert in Golem creation of his era. Perhaps ever. Because Cognita was a Truestone Golem.
The word itself was a symbol of her authority. Truestone Golems or Truestone Constructs as they were once known were thought to be the pinnacle of artificial creation. For if Cognita was not the strongest Golem that could be made, she alone had what other Golems lacked. Personality. Thought. Feeling.
Perhaps even a soul.
But who could tell? Few people found Golems reassuring, despite their usefulness. And Cognita was feared for reasons beyond just her nature.
She killed mages. She had killed hundreds, perhaps thousands. And yet she was subservient, helpful, polite. So those who met her were both terrified and confused by her, because a monster should look and act like a monster.
But what Cognita actually thought was a mystery. At all times her carved eyes judged and saw, but never gave away anything. She had seen countless mages, seen their triumph and their end. She looked at two more now.
One was a half-Elf, the other a Human. Both were young by the standards of their species. Once, they had been friends. The Golem saw traces of it still, even as they argued.
“They won’t ever let you stay. Not after what you said.”
“They haven’t accepted me thus far, Springwalker. Why should those fools change their minds now?”
“Don’t call me Springwalker! And you know damn well there’s a difference between keeping your head down and poking the beehive!”
Pisces and Ceria were shouting in front of Cognita, a rarity in itself. Few people raised their voices anywhere around the Golem, but Pisces knew Cognita. He alone had sought her out, asked her questions, befriended her.
Ceria just didn’t care. She was close to kicking the mage—again. He hopped away from her, glaring.
“Those philistines that make up the so-called Council—they are blind to what I proposed, but you at least should be able to consider the implications of what I’ve said!”
“Implications? You want to create an undead that can level, Pisces! You’re an idiot! If you succeeded you’d destroy the world, but that won’t happen because it’s impossible!”
He raised a shaking finger. He was angry. He was always angry, and hurt, of late. So was the half-Elf. Together, Cognita saw fury and fear on both sides clashing together.
“It is possible. In theory! Didn’t you listen to my proposal? If I were to create an undead by weaving the spells into it on a much more in-depth level than normal—something closer to how a Golem is created than a body is animated—it might work!”
“It’s stupid.”
“What’s wrong with that idea? I have all the pieces of the puzzle in my possession—almost. Cognita taught me the formula used for embodying Golems with sentience, don’t you see? That alone—”
“Only you would be stupid enough to ask! Cognita is—”
Pause. The half-Elf’s face shifted towards Cognita and the Golem saw her red cheeks pale slightly. She looked away rather than meet the Golem’s gaze.
“Sorry, Cognita. But Pisces—you’re a fool. It would never work. Why hasn’t a [Necromancer] done it before? Two reasons. One—it’s stupid and the second is that if the undead could level, they’d destroy entire nations!”
“I would only make one. And it is possible, but only with the correct base materials.”
Pisces’ voice was calm. He stared at his former friend, speaking with the conviction that was halfway into insanity. He glanced at Cognita too, but his gaze was burning. He looked at the Golem not as a threat or something to be feared, but as a challenge. A vision of what could be done.
“Golems require high-grade materials to be built. Mana stones, rock without impurity—Cognita, if I may refer to your construction, you are a product of both spellcraft and the superior base products from which you were given life. So why not apply that theory in the case of the undead? Most bodies are just that, bodies. But if there were a way to obtain superior parts—”
“Parts?”
Cognita turned back to look at the half-Elf. She was furious. And the Golem knew the conversation was over. Ceria pointed a shaking finger at Pisces.
“You’re—disgusting. And insane. And I don’t have time to argue with you. If you want to go spouting off crazy theories, go ahead. I’m going to practice real magic.”
She stormed off. Pisces called to her once as she left, but Ceria did not turn her head. He turned back to Cognita in frustration.
“I’m sorry you had to witness that, Cognita. Please, accept my apologies. I thought I could convince Ceria with your help, but she is unwilling to listen to reason.”
Cognita made no immediate reply. She could have told Pisces a thousand things, spoken from decades of observation. Some would help, others might shatter the young man. After a moment, Cognita made a decision and spoke while looking Pisces in the eye.
“She cannot accept what you do. And you cannot accept that she does not consider you a friend. Perhaps the question is then whether you value friendship or magic more.”
He was speechless. He opened his mouth to respond, but Cognita strode down the hallway after Ceria.
 
——
 
“Ceria Springwalker.”
If it had been Pisces or anyone else, Ceria would have ignored them or shoved them aside. But Cognita’s deep, inflectionless voice made her tense in sudden fear. She turned, trying to conceal the fear in her heart.
“Yes, Cognita?”
“I believe Pisces would like me to express his apologies in his stead. However, I will not do so. I would merely like to speak with you for a few more moments if you have time.”
Ceria paused. She was still furious at Pisces, livid. His presentation to the Council had set Wistram in an uproar, and he was now more of a pariah than he had been before.
That wasn’t the only reason she was so angry, though. The day Illphres would challenge Archmage Zelkyr’s Golems was only two weeks away. And so Ceria was angry, frightened, and nervous. But she tried to hide all that from Cognita.
The Golem was the enemy.
“Talk to me? I—sure, Cognita. Why do you want to talk?”
“Hearing your reactions and thoughts intrigues me. I was created to think and learn, and this topic—and your discussion—is interesting to me in a way few things are.”
That was extraordinary. And unhelpful. Ceria stared at Cognita as if searching for a weak point. But the stone woman was flawless.
“I guess I can talk.”
“Very well. Thank you.”
The Golem fell silent. After a few seconds of awkwardness, Ceria realized Cognita was waiting for her to speak. Ceria didn’t know what to say. She’d said what she thought. Pisces was insane. His idea was insane. But Cognita—
She glanced up at the Golem. Cognita’s face seldom changed, but Ceria could remember her smiling just once.
“Cognita? Did you really teach Pisces one of Archmage Zelkyr’s spells?”
“Yes.”
“Why?”
The Truestone Construct—the thing that had a name and a mind—paused.
“He asked. And it was an incomplete spell. I believe Pisces has a chance of completing it. In his own way.”
Another revelation. This one hurt Ceria’s heart. It was one thing to know Pisces was smart, acknowledge that he could do things Ceria could not. He was a genius, but this? Pisces had a chance to do what Archmage Zelkyr could not. Cognita had said so. It made Ceria doubt the angry words she had spoken to him.
“Do you support him doing necromancy? Do you even care?”
“I see in his magic something akin to what mages do when they shape Golems, but different. I care not if they are dead bodies or clay and stone that is shaped. I believe his ideas are intriguing. I wonder if he will be able to do as he claims. Even for Zelkyr, the only creation he was able to imbue with true intelligence was a Truestone Golem, my kind. What base material would be equivalent among the dead?”
Ceria had no idea. But she shivered again to think of a walking thing, some shambling zombie with rotting flesh that could grow stronger. What if it could talk? What if it could think, like Cognita? A talking, leveling undead was too close to an actual person, yet indescribably far away from life at the same time.
“I don’t know if Pisces can do it. But I feel like it’s wrong. That’s all I can say. I’m sorry. I have to go.”
She didn’t want to look at Cognita anymore. The Golem nodded.
“I will leave you to your business after mentioning one last issue. The day when your master and four other mages plan to challenge me is fifteen days away. I trust they are all prepared and aware of the consequences of failure?”
The breath caught in Ceria’s chest. She stared back at Cognita, eyes wide. How did the Golem know?
“That—that’s right. They know. My master knows.”
Cognita nodded once again.
“Please inform her that if she or any of the other mages desire to wait or change the appointed time, I would be happy to do so. Good night, Ceria Springwalker.”
She turned and began to walk away. Ceria took one look at Cognita’s back and fled.
 
——
 
“You told Cognita when you’d be challenging her?”
Illphres looked up with a frown as Ceria slammed the door behind her and stormed into the room.
“Told who?”
“Cognita!”
Ceria clutched at her hair. She’d run all the way to Illphres’ room. The mage shrugged.
“Oh, yes. We told her.”
“Why?”
“It’s convenient. It means she knows and won’t be busy, and it means we can’t back out.”
“But if she knows, she could set traps. Prepare—”
“She won’t. She never has and never will. But this way we won’t alert the entire academy when Cognita goes striding up to the top floor.”
Illphres was too calm. She was always calm. She held a book with a light blue bound cover in her hands, glancing at the page and at Ceria as she spoke. It was her personal spellbook.
“Calm down. Stop pacing. It’s annoying.”
Ceria stopped. She whirled and looked at her master.
“Tell me you can do it.”
Illphres sighed and closed the book. She stared at the ceiling, and then looked at Ceria.
“We have a chance.”
“How do you know?”
“Because it was nearly done once.”
“Really?”
Ceria’s ears perked up. Illphres nodded.
“A group of mages nearly succeeded. So we can too.”
“But how do you know? Is there a history or—”
“A few records of challenges, but no. We can tell just from the Golems in the room. Sit. Think about how we can tell.”
Ceria sat unwillingly. She fidgeted, and then came up with the only explanation she could think of.
“The missing Golem. The one replaced by the armored knight one.”
“Exactly. That’s proof.”
“But that’s only one of the five Golems—”
“No, it’s a sign. Think.”
Illphres sighed as her tone grew waspish. She hated explaining things when she thought Ceria should understand.
“Any idiot could figure it out. Archmage Zelkyr made this challenge for any mages trying to reach the higher floors, didn’t he? He designed it to be challenged over and over again, which meant that he would expect his four guardian Golems—plus Cognita—to never be destroyed. They would fight in tandem and overwhelm their opponents without sustaining enough damage to be destroyed.”
“So the missing Golem—”
“It’s a sign that someone broke their formation. And nearly won, too. Because if they could isolate one of the Golems long enough to destroy it, it meant they could hold off the rest. None of those Golems would be easy to disassemble with any one spell.”
“And that means you can all do the same. Easier, especially if one of the Golems is weaker…”
Ceria sat up, eyes shining. Illphres nodded calmly.
“We can do it. There is a possibility.”
“That makes me feel better. I was talking with Cognita—”
Slowly, Ceria explained her argument to Illphres. The mage rolled her eyes when Ceria was done.
“I heard about that. Levelling undead? I don’t see why everyone’s so upset. ”
“But—”
“It’s no different from anyone else leveling up. A half-Elf can live for centuries if they want, how’s that different from an undead? It sounds like it would be hard to make more than one or two. If they get out of hand you can destroy them. The real reason you’re upset is because you hate necromancy.”
Ceria bit her lip and made no reply. Illphres sighed.
“Necromancy is magic. I don’t fear your friend. He reanimates the dead. I freeze people. And I hardly look better than the undead. You have seen beneath my mask. You know that.”
“It’s not the same.”
“No?”
Illphres raised an eyebrow.
“Magic is magic, and that boy Pisces was your friend, once. Does knowing he practices necromancy change all that?”
“Yes!”
“I suppose you weren’t good friends, then. Enough.”
Illphres waved away Ceria’s objections and levitated the book in her hands over to the half-Elf.
“Study the [Glacial Spear] spell. I want you to make at least some progress before the challenge day.”
“I’d learn more if you let me keep the book! Or made me a copy!”
Ceria complained as she bent over the pages of tightly-written text. Illphres laughed sardonically.
“Copy the book? I don’t know how to write magical spells down. That’s a specialist class, [Magical Scribe] or some such. And it would take a Level 40 one to write that spell down.”
“Really?”
Ceria looked up with a frown. Illphres nodded. She began lecturing as Ceria listened with one ear and read with both her eyes.
“Spellbooks are rare because they can’t be copied without extensive study by a powerful mage, or a class with similar Skills. And scribing a spell is only possible for someone of an equal or higher level than the spell itself. So a Tier 4 spells might be rare but findable in a given collection of spellbooks, but Tier 6 would be extremely difficult to locate. And Tier 8—”
“How would anyone learn the spells, then?”
“By piecing together clues left by other mages, following instructions in languages other than magic to come up with it. Or by leveling and obtaining it or coming up with such a spell themselves.”
“So this spellbook—”
“Is mine.”
“Can you let me borrow—”
“No.”
 
——
 
Two weeks was too long and too short for Ceria. She went through each day emotionally and mentally exhausted, and tossed and turned each night with nervous, physical energy.
That also led to her actively avoiding her friends, and them avoiding her. Ceria was waspish, irritable, and prone to snap at anything and everything. She confined herself to her room when she wasn’t with Illphres or the other mages.
Three days before the challenge, Ceria was in her room, almost out of her mind with the agony of waiting. She heard a knock at the door and snapped.
