The moment they stepped through the doors, the space opened into a wide chamber. On one side, rounded tower walls stretched high above, ending in an intricate glass window near what had to be the top of the mountain. Silver moonlight beamed directly down through that opening, illuminating the space with a bluish tint. Curling stairs ran along the walls, a few arched bridges occasionally connecting various platforms in a spiraling ascent upwards.

The walls themselves were carved with swirling patterns and designs. The door they’d stepped in from, when closed, sat flush with the etchings in the walls, indistinguishable from everything else. Pyre could see how it had remained hidden so well.

The floor, meanwhile, was decorated with a carefully laid mosaic. Thin streams of silver ichor ran along the glass pieces, outlining an image of sprawling wings. Tall white marble pillars encircled the expansive space, casting long shadows under the light of the flickering torches. Combined with the ichor glow, the sanctum was brightly illuminated. Only the small glimpse outside through the skylight gave any indication that it was night.

Slowly, Pyre stepped deeper into the sanctum. Her footsteps echoed throughout the chamber, but the sound was nothing compared to the roar of the waterfall.

A deep well of pure, silver ichor sat in the center of the sanctum, its surface so bright that it hurt to look at it for long. It was fed by the waterfall pouring down the side of the mountain, and Callan’s description hadn’t been an exaggeration. It really was a waterfall of pure ichor. It looked almost ghostly, more like a mist than a liquid as it cascaded down into the perfectly circular pool. She couldn’t see them, but the demon guessed that a series of pipes below ground distributed the ichor throughout Magrath.

While the ichor waterfall was even more impressive than she’d imagined, Pyre found she couldn’t focus on it for long. Because despite the pristine beauty of the place, a few jarring details stuck out like a sore thumb.

Around the ichor-pool, red lines had been painted over the floor, marring the mosaic. A circle of runes and glyphs covered everything inside.

High above near the top of the waterfall, a second matching circle had been drawn into the side of the mountain, half obscured by the falling ichor. Below it, a platform had been set up in the center of one of those arching bridges. It held a distinct array of objects that were carefully arranged like an offering.

One of them was a curling black demon horn that gleamed in the light of the ichor.

Pyre barely paid attention to it, though, because ever since she’d stepped into the sanctum, that pulling sensation had returned stronger than ever before.

Now, steel grey eyes peered up at the object in the very center of the display—a silvery, mist-like sphere that rippled and swirled like a coiling storm. Alive. Contained. The demon had never seen it before, but she knew instinctively what it was.

That was a fragment of her soul.

“…What the hell is this?” someone breathed. Pyre was vaguely aware of Daphne taking a tentative step closer to the red circle drawn around the ichor pool. “This isn’t—this can’t—”

Whatever the noble had wanted to say was abruptly cut off when Callan yelled and darted back. The sound was enough for Pyre to finally tear her eyes away from the soul fragment and look down again.

Sprawled across the center of the sanctum floor, the lines of the rune circle began to glow.
