Trash Body was a passive boost. As far as he could tell, it basically allowed him to trash his body and maintain some semblance of ability over it, even past the limit he should be able to move. When shock, pain, and broken bones should have stopped him from advancing, Trash Body stepped in to push them back and allow him to push just a little further. But there was more to it than just that. He could sense it. He just hadn’t figured out what it was, yet.

Now, he had a slight suspicion, as he turned his attention to his mana-addled body. He pulled the mana forth and weaved it into his body. Usually, enhancing his body with mana was a difficult process, one that he beat his head against. From the back of his mind, a memory welled up. In his mind’s eye, he sat under a waterfall, shoulders freezing from the pounding water. The air was pure, and overflowed with mana. His legs crossed, cold water pooling around his waist. There were no distractions. Any that remained were washed away by the roar of the waterfall. In that perfect setting, he focused on his legs. With all his might, he pushed mana into them. They grew warmer, but that was it. His muscles refused to hold the mana, or enhance themselves from it.

He glanced beside him, peeking for just a second. Bast sat there, perfectly serene. A faint blue aura hovered over his skin, undulating slightly with the flow of the water. Even from where he sat, Rhys could sense Bast’s whole body growing steadily stronger.

“How?” he muttered, in disbelief. What was he doing wrong?

A piece of reed smacked him on the chest. “Focus,” Straw demanded, arms crossed and brows furrowed.

He shut his eyes again obediently and focused once more. Yet, at the end of the session, Bast had advanced by leaps and bounds, while Rhys remained the same old weak him as ever.

But no longer. Here and now, in the present, torn apart by his own foolish actions, he strengthened his body with ease. His trashed muscles drank up the mana he pushed into them and obeyed his will when he directed them to reform. For the first time, he understood how easy it was for Bast to strengthen himself. It was that easy for him! As long as he trashed his body first, anyways.

He snorted under his breath. From the beginning, he’d been unable to advance except through the trash. Why would his body be any different?

His body came back together, bit by bit. The mana cost was immense, but the supply of ultra-pure mana from the impurities was more than enough to handle the remodeling. The parts of his body he didn’t manually reconstruct, he surged mana to Self-Regeneration to force them to heal. That, too, had immense mana cost, but under his current situation, that was no problem at all. Now that he couldn’t feed the impurities’ mana into the seed without overwhelming it, that power had to go somewhere. It might as well go into improving his body.

At the same time, he kept pouring mana into the plant. The plant grew slowly. The amount of mana he’d poured into it was already more than it had taken to grow all the herbs he’d grown last time, and the seed still had plenty of growth left in it. It had put out two slender, long leaves, and a bud swelled atop its stalk, but it was still far from blooming. Tarais stood beside it, monitoring it alongside Rhys, and fed it water whenever its soils dried. Rhys kept the mana going, but the trash was dwindling. He cut back on reconstructing his body to gather the ultra-pure mana inside him instead, preparing to feed it into the plant later. Ideally, he would have simply stifled the impurities and re-ignited them later, but he didn’t know how to stop the burning once it had begun.

As the trash burned down, he started pushing the ultra-pure mana in alongside the mana. He had to carefully limit the ultra-pure mana; after the initial surge, too much made the plant wilt. But just enough, and it began to grow at a wild rate. The bud swelled up. The two leaves trembled, growing darker green. The stalk thickened, toughening in order to carry the heavy bud.

The trash burned out. Rhys could no longer absorb mana from it. All he had were the impurities, and the ultra-pure mana. He fed that carefully into the plant, urging it to push its limits and finally bloom. The bud grew and grew. Traces of color appeared behind the green leaves that engulfed it.

Come on! Rhys clenched his teeth. The ultra-pure mana ran down. The bud shuddered. One after another, the leaves peeled off, but the bud remained stubbornly furled. The black smoke petered away. The last of the impurities burned out, leaving a few lumps of the harder, darker impurity in the pit of his core. He poured the mana into the flower, willing it to bloom. Just a little more. Just a little more—!

His mana ran dry. Rhys lowered his hand. He and Tarais both stared at the bud. It sucked in the last of the mana and sat there, trembling slightly. The petals strained outward.

“Oh?” Rhys stepped forward.

Tarais stared, holding her breath.

The bud settled in. The trembling stopped, and the petals went still.

Rhys sighed. He shook his head. “Oh well, maybe that’s close enough. Let’s take it to Sorden.”

Tarais shook her head. “After all your hard work…”

“It’s fine. I’m used to failure,” Rhys said. He was used to failing, but he couldn’t help but feel a little bad about failing Sorden. She’d trusted him, and he’d let her down. His failure didn’t just impact himself, it impacted Sorden, too. He turned away, running a hand over his hair. Maybe with a mana potion…? But would the mana be pure enough?

Tarais gasped. “Rhys!”

He turned back around.

The flower unfurled, blooming beautifully in the pot. White petals traced with dark blue spread under the sun. A faint cold wind blew, and Rhys swore he saw ice crystals swirling around the heart of the bloom.

“Holy shit! We did it!” Rhys said, punching the air. He snatched up the pot and ran off. “Before it withers, let’s get it to Sorden!”

Tarais nodded. She set down the water and raced after him, both of them hurrying toward Sorden’s classroom.
