“I kind of feel like I'm only along for the ride, so I want to help when I can.” Ren said.

“Don't you think that deserves a kiss?”

“That depends.” Ren said.

“On what?” Stella asked.

“If I can spout more science-like gobble-dee-gook, will you kiss me like that again?” Ren grinned.

“Only if it's relevant science-like gobble-dee-gook.” Stella said and laughed.

Ren started to spout as much medical and science terminology as he could think of, and Stella kissed him again just to shut him up.

*

Six times! Holly thought as she lay contented beside John. How the hell did he do it six times?

How the hell did I do it six times? John asked himself. The most I've ever gone was twice, and that was only because I'd done it by myself an hour before meeting my date that time. He looked at Holly, and put his arm under her shoulders. Holly figured he had felt as much of her as he could already, and a little bit more wouldn't make any difference; so, she moved in close to lay against his chest. John could feel her naked body pressed against him under the blanket.

“So, do you really like t-shirts?” Holly asked, after she let her curiosity get the better of her.

“Not really.” John chuckled. “I think it was the fact that I saw a very attractive woman wearing something that just barely covered her assets, and I couldn't tell if she was wearing any underwear underneath it.”

“Then it was the possibility of a peek at my assets that made you so... vigorous?” Holly asked. “If I'd bent over and you'd seen that I had underwear on, would I have been less attractive?”

“Hell, no!” John said and hugged her tight with the arm around her shoulders. “That little frilly lace thing nearly drove me wild when I saw it.” He chuckled. “After you wiggled your ass at me all flipping day in those tight jeans, getting to see it set free was so fantastic that I could barely think about anything else.”

Holly laughed. “Is it really that cute?”

“Holly, you're so damn sexy that you're better than Viagra.” John said. “Speaking of which...”

“John!” Holly said, surprised at the bulge that had grown under the blanket. “Again?”

“Well, they say that seven is a lucky number.” John said as he pulled Holly on top of him. “Now help me prove it.”

“I really have unleashed a monster.” Holly said, and laughed.

Seven was definitely a lucky number for the both of them.
