“Aaliyah?” Tabitha calls my name, reminding me I haven’t answered her yet.

“Yeah?”

Tabitha doesn't need to see my expression to hear the hesitation in my voice. "I take it you know of this skill?" Like a slash to the vitals, Tabitha cuts to the heart of the matter.

Pacore already knows I have Sense Soul, so there wasn't a reason to hide what I knew about the skill since Tabitha had already unlocked it. It seems that no matter what I do, I can't avoid the subject of my skills. Well, at least it isn't one of the scarier ones.

"I do, and it’s a good one; you unlocked a tier 5 skill,” I give Tabitha the good news and wait for her reaction.

“What!” Tabitha begins to raise her voice in alarm, but she catches herself before she gets too loud. “A tier 5 skill!” She exclaims in a hushed voice. “Are you sure?”

“Positive,” I assure her, but I don’t think she was listening to me.

Tabitha was back to mumbling to herself. “I finally unlocked a tier 5 skill. I really did it. Me.”

“Yep, you sure did,” I casually interject to remind Tabitha that I was still here.

In the dark, Tabitha's head slowly turns in my direction. "I unlocked a tier 5 skill—but you already have it." She wasn't accusing me of anything; it was more like she was trying to process everything.

“Yeah, and before you ask, Pacore knew about this one."

How did I explain this properly? “You know the skill I use to judge levels? It's Sense Soul, though you need to level it before you can sense other people’s souls.”

It was surreal and oddly liberating to talk openly about one of my higher-tired skills. Due to all my paranoia, I rarely mentioned any of my stronger skills to anybody else, and the few people who did know about Sense Soul weren't aware of my other skills or what they could do.

Any information I had on Sense Soul should be considered a major secret, but after how much Tabitha has helped me, it felt right to tell her the few things I discovered or at least point her in the right direction.

I start by warning her, "Be careful not to focus too closely on your soul, at least when you're not somewhere safe."

"And why is that?" I could sense Tabitha hanging on my every word; is this what it feels like to teach someone?

“It’s a defensive mechanism. If you try to look at the core of your soul, your conciseness will be dragged in there. It’s a great place to meditate and rest, but you'll expose your body to danger if you aren't careful."

“So, you’re saying I shouldn’t use the skill until we’re back at the village," Tabitha immediately understood what I was hinting at.

"That's probably best. Getting used to it will take a lot of meditation and practice."

"Just my luck," I hear Tabitha grumble lightly. "I unlock a tier 5 skill and it doesn't suit me at all."

“Sorry?” I confusingly reply.

“Ignore me,” Tabitha brushes off my concern. “I know I shouldn't complain; most go their whole lives without unlocking a tier 5 skill. It's just— I've dreamed of this day since Master Pacore accepted me as one of his disciples. I just thought any tier 5 skill I would get would be something more physical, like Master's. Or maybe something to do with my sword skills, which I’ve spent my whole life honing. Instead, I got a skill I have no idea how to use. It sounds more like a mage’s skill than anything else."

“But you know magic; I’m sure you’ll get the hang of it,” I offer Tabitha some encouraging words, but she just huffs in amusement.

“I am no mage; I only know enough magic to charge my gear and cast the most basic spells. I despise meditating and anything else that requires me to do nothing for hours on end. I'll trust you that it's a valuable skill, but it isn't me,” Tabitha lets out another tired sigh. “How did I even unlock such a skill?”

I cough into my hand embarrassingly. "That was probably my bad. The hands you saw coming out of my back were touching your soul. So, it only makes sense you'd start noticing it after suffering through such a thing. And I don’t know what other tier 5 skills are like, but I’m sure you’ll find Sense Soul more useful than it sounds. Trust me.”

That wasn't just me trying to make Tabitha feel better, either. Tabitha wanted a tier 5 skill she could use in battle, but I spoke from experience when I said physical skills weren't everything.

Sense Soul, Soul Manipulation, and Soul Devourer were all overpowered in different ways, and two out of three were considered passive skills. I could only imagine what a tier 5 sword would look like by comparison, but I wouldn't trade any of them for the world. Each had saved my life in one way or the other and would likely continue doing so long into the future.

"If you say so," Tabitha didn't sound entirely convinced, but I was sure with some time and some help from me, she’d come to appreciate the skill she was given.

"Now, enough about me," Tabitha suddenly decided to flip things around. "Tell me, how many levels did you gain?"

"What?" I answer back dumbly.

"Come now. Don't tell me you forgot to check your status page?" Tabitha chuckles mockingly, but not in a bad way, more like a sibling. “You helped me escape the lesser dragon, saved my arms, and protected me against the soul horrors. If I gained this much, I'm almost afraid to hear what you got."

I can't help but blush, partially from Tabitha's praise but mainly because I was embarrassed. It wasn't my fault I forgot to check my status page; Tabitha was the one who distracted me....

Okay, so it slipped my mind.

The truth was, between resting and everything going on with Tabitha, it never crossed my mind to check my stats.

I pushed the majority of the soul horror experience into Tabitha, but I still had a lot to process myself when I passed out. If she said she got twenty-seven million, how much did I keep?

Only one way to find out.

"Alright, give me a second,” I tell Tabitha as I pull up my status page.

Let's see what almost turning into a soul-sucking monster earned me; it better be good.
