Niala informed Marcel that she and David were staying for the evening and would help the overworked caretaker with handling the kids. The bearkin tried to argue against it, because normal people didn't go out of their way to help orphans like these two.

The catkin bulled through his case with applied compassion, and he discovered that it was possible to feel trampled with kindness. His brain needed a little while to reorder itself and make sense of it.

While it did that, she went out and began playing with the kids outside, especially the younger ones. David ended up gathering the older, uninterested kids and setting up stick duels, with him acting as both the trainer and referee.

Evening came around, and the kids were corralled to the washing tubs set up in the basement, and witnessed the second miracle of their day: hot water. Appalled when the kids told her they had no way to heat the water, she told them to step back and plunged her hands into the tubs.

Young eyes were transfixed as the water glowed a sun-bathed yellow and soft steam began wafting up. She repeated the exploit for every tub present, on both the boys' and girls' side, and declared the baths open.

Incredulous hands reached out, touching the warm liquid, and heads turned to each other to confirm they weren't dreaming. Clothes flew off, and what was usually a chore became a giggle-filled activity.

Marcel had to force them out of the tubs instead of in them.

Just to confirm that she absolutely was an angel who could perform miracles, a warm, soothing breeze picked up inside, dancing around the soaked bodies and drying them off like laundry on a clothesline.

The kids made a game out of it, trying to figure out where the wind was coming from. Niala smiled as she directed the air current into playful swirls, buffeting the boys who made a show of being able to resist the gusts, and caressing the girl's hair dry.

Bedtime rolled around, but Niala had one last surprise for everyone: a story, but not from her. Instead, she coaxed David into telling of one of his past courier jobs.

The younger kids were a bit apprehensive toward the hirsute, towering man, while the older ones put up a mask of indifference. David himself needed a few minutes to find his voice, his tone flat and artificial, and his story light on details, closer to an after-action report than a tale.

Niala broke his tempo with questions, leading him into tangents and descriptions. He noticed how the little heads tended to turn his way when he did so, and the stone began chipping.

By the end of his story, he had everyone's full attention, Niala's included, who hadn't heard this specific adventure of her husband.

Then it was over, and against a wave of complaining and begging for a second story, the kids were sent to their beds, with a promise that if they went to sleep quietly, they'd have warm pastries for breakfast the next morning.

Marcel appreciated how quickly the room went silent even while he grumbled that he, too, could bribe the kids to sleep if he just had some extra money to get the ingredients for pastries.

Niala looked his way and smiled.

His cheeks flushed somewhat. He thought he'd been quiet enough...

The three adults met back in Marcel's office. David and Niala sat down and waited. Marcel slumped into his chair, his expression weary and conflicted.

He looked at the two strangers who had followed after Donnie and, instead of taking him away screaming back to the guards, had given his kids a gift he wished he could duplicate.

A feeling of normalcy.

His face gradually scrunched up until he grabbed at it and grunted. “Fine, I give up. What do you two want?”

Niala's tail swayed gently. “We really just want to help, if you'll let us.”

“That's what I just said, girlie. I'll take your saint-damned help. I'm asking what you want in return?” Marcel grumbled.

Because no help is ever free in this world.

He waited for her to state her price, and hoped it was something he could live with. If they could just help him feed the kids and make them feel like they had a normal life a few times per season, he'd agree to just about anything.

Her tail went still, her ears swivelled to face him, and her eyes went... not cold; he wasn't sure if she could entirely drive the warmth present in those orbs, but more focused, intense.

“The Allwarden family will purchase this orphanage and the land it is built on. A non-profit entity will be created to manage it, and the land will be bequeathed to it. This entity will be gifted shares from the Old Woman brewery and Timeless Runeworks. The necessary funds will be allocated to this orphanage so that all of its wards may have three filling and nutritious meals a day, all of the schooling they need, clean, high-quality clothes, healthcare, proper sanitation, games, and enough guardians to oversee their days.”

His face was frozen on something between shock and incredulity.

She kept going. “Left-over funds will be reinvested into the non-profit to purchase assets to finance further orphanages in neighbouring towns. The Allwarden family will cover any gaps in the budget should they arise.”

Niala slightly leaned forward. “In exchange, the guardians of these orphanages will be required to provide seasonal reports on the well-being and development of their wards, detailed financial reports, and submit to bi-annual audits.”

Her offer delivered, she leaned back into her chair and kept her eyes on him, waiting.

Marcel managed to close his mouth, and eventually how words worked. “Wait, just wait a second now. Who's the Allwarden?! You know some nobles? And what's the price you're asking, girlie? All I heard were things you were giving!”

Niala's expression softened, her eyes losing their edges as her ears flip-flopped. “We are the Allwarden, Marcel. David and I are nobles. We have plenty of money, and I've been trying to find something to do with it that didn't involve just, I don't know, buying stuff. Something that would help everyone!”

She tapped a fingertip on his desk. “And did you miss the part about your accountability? That's the price.”

“That- that's not a price. That's just good practice! What's the catch here?”

She gave him a sly smile. “The person who'll be managing those reports and audits enjoyed creating a 5-volume set of state laws and procedures from scratch.”

His eyes went round. “...Oh.”

“Yes, but she's a good person. Anyway, that's our offer for your orphanage. Obviously, it includes renovations and expansion. Probably the first step, in fact.”

He narrowed his eyes. “Expansion?”

“Oh, yes, totally. The monastery isn't that big, and you're already pretty much at capacity with your thirty kids. You'll need a lot more space to take in all the town's orphans.”

He choked a little. “All the town's orphans?!”

She nodded. “Yes. Unless you were lying about the official orphanage and how they treat their charges.”

“I wasn't lying.”

“Then they'll be relocated here, as soon as you have enough space. So, do you accept?” she asked with a smile, her ears wiggling happily.

He stared at her for a while, straining his eyes to look for anything that would betray her angelic face, and groaned.

If she was being duplicitous about anything, he sure as pit's tits couldn't notice it. “We'll put everything into a contract, clean, hard words, and I'll sign that. For now... if everything you offered is true, then there's no way I can refuse, lady Allwarden.”

That got her to frown. “I'll add one condition; you're not allowed to call me a lady or any sort of honorific like that.”

He blinked once, then determined she was serious, and then he grinned. “Alright, girlie. None of that pompous shite then.”

Sighing, he glanced at the silent man in the room with them, who simply shrugged.

Marcel was still wondering if he was dreaming or hallucinating when the pair left some time later, having spent a few bells hashing out a contract draft right away.

Turns out they kind of were fanatics, but the good kind of fanatics; the ones who believed in doing good, apparently.

David and Niala returned to the orphanage the next morning, before the sun had begun colouring the sky orange. They headed to the kitchen, unpacked supplies, and got to work on their promise.

A bell later, just as the night was beginning to flee, the scent of crisp, flaky, buttery croissants filled the halls of the old monastery.

Little eyes on the second floor flung open. The first few ventured down on reconnaissance, still remembering the deal they had been offered last night, yet not willing to accept it might have been true.

The leading kid froze as his head peeked around the corner and into the kitchen; mounds of golden-baked crescents covered the kitchen's island, next to large pots of butter and jams.

Niala caught the kid staring and gave him a wink. “It'll be ready soon. Go wake up the rest, get dressed, and go get the dining room ready, ok?”

The scout disappeared faster than she could blink. Within a minute, a cavalry charge of little feet rumbled down the stairs and assaulted the common room in a cacophony of screeching desks.

Marcel stepped out groggy from his room just as Niala and David were ferrying full platters of pastries. His half-asleep brain followed the scent before he realized where he was going.

He woke up, beholding a scene that froze all of his thoughts cold. His kids, smiling, giggling, stuffing their faces with fluffy baked goods. Happiness, so long denied them by uncaring adults, filling their hearts and reaching out to fill his in turn, one peal at a time.

Their full-bellied laughter, a song he had yearned to hear for so long. This morning, an ephemeral moment where they were just kids having a great meal and an even better time.

He felt thirty years younger when he had been a junior brother and the monastery witnessed such scenes nearly daily.

This is what an orphanage should be. A place of mirth, where their terrible, lonely fate could be softened. A home to let their little hearts grow big, so they knew what it meant to love and be loved, even when the world had tried its best to take that away.

He turned his face toward the Allwardens. The girl, a giant smile on her face, warm as the sun, basking in the radiant joy of the kids. The man, a silent, powerful presence, watching over his wards, eyes alert for anything that could disrupt the moment.

His gaze drifted back to the kids. The soft morning light of the sun bathed the room in a hazy glow.

This was the girl's third miracle.

The man's words came back to his mind: rejoice, for an angel will grace your kitchen.

That had been wrong. She hadn't only graced his kitchen. She'd graced the monastery, and he'd pray she would continue doing so.

Somehow, he firmly believed that she would, no matter what he did.

David and Niala ended up spending most of the day at the monastery, though they had to give tearful goodbyes and return home.

They had, after all, some very important things to do.

The contract needed to be finalized, the funds had to be allocated, the non-profit organization needed to be created and staffed, a contractor had to be hired for the renovations.

And, perhaps more importantly, they had a pair of Scion Guards they needed to assign a special mission.

RIVERWALL

Sybil's ears snapped up straight. “Investigation?!”

Then she leaned forward, lowering her tone. “Is it for justice?”

Niala nodded. “Yes, totally. Justice for the orphans. If you're up for it, we'd like you to investigate the orphanage in Bellharbour. See how well the kids are being treated, and into the finances of the auxiliary building, the old Order of Oridor monastery. We think they aren't getting the funds they need, or are supposed to.”

While the bunnykin was lost in her inner world of vigilante justice, her eyes shining and unfocused, Sammie crossed his arms and leaned back. “They always short the orphanages. Easy money, and nobody listens or cares about the kids.”

David sighed. “A little pessimistic, but you have most of a point. In this case, we're the ones who will care.” He lifted an eyebrow. “Unless you're not interested?”

“Oh, no, not at all. As orphan alumni, Sybil and I, we're a hundred percent interested. Right, Sybil?”

“I'm going to kick so many evil guy butts!”

He turned his head back to David. “Yeah, she's interesting. When do we go, and do you have any idea where to start?”

Niala nodded. “You can leave whenever. We'll cover your expenses, and you should start by talking with Marcel, the bearkin caretaker at the Oridor monastery. We intend to take over the care for the orphans in Bellharbour and sign a contract with him, but we kind of want the greedy rats dug out first.”

Sammie grinned. “We'll- urk!”

Sybil jumped to her feet, her arm shooting toward her comrade's collar and grabbing on. “We're leaving right away! Common Sammie!”

The bunnykin spun and stormed out of the room, dragging the man along.

Niala blinked, got up and ran after them. “Waaait! I wanted you to ask Anna to come to check the paperwork! And I still need to give you funds! Sybil! Wait!”

David listened to his wife's departing shouts, left alone in the meeting room. He scratched his chin.

I should probably send Luke a letter and let him know things are going to get weird for the next week or two...