After spending a good thirty seconds cursing the unpatriotic bead of water to no effect, I turn to Taduk and shake my head. Sighing, Taduk slumps in his seat and snuggles with Lin, looking like the weight of the world sits on his shoulders. “I used to boast of how I could heal anything short of death,” he says, voice thick with regret. “Perhaps this is the Mother’s way of teaching me humility. I’ve failed my friend and now I’ve failed my country. What use am I?”

While Lin and I comfort Taduk, Baledagh chimes in, having watched the entire episode from his room. “Why can’t Nian Zu’s body take anymore Healing? Can't you just give him more Chi?”

Putting my thoughts together, I explain to my little brother, “Healing isn’t as simple as most people think. Most of the time, Taduk doesn’t fix injuries. Technically, he directs the body to fix itself. Sometimes, a little physical effort is needed, like setting bones and removing foreign objects, and other times he structures the Healing in a way to make it more efficient or see the process through to its entirety, but mostly his Chi acts as a catalyst, speeding along what will naturally happen. With me so far?”

“Yea.”

“Now, the energy to heal has to come from somewhere, and Chi can’t create matter out of nothing. That’s why we’re so skinny, because every time we’re injured, our body breaks down fat and muscle tissue to fix our injuries. Now take a look at Nian Zu. He’s gaunt and emaciated, with little muscle left on his frame, and still in this poor condition. His body’s been overtaxed and if Taduk heals him without giving him time to replenish blood and nutrients, then his body will shut down and go into organ failure.”

There’s a long pause before Baledagh speaks up again. “Then how do Demons do it?”

“Do what?”

“Create matter using Chi.” Sensing my confusion, he explains, “Vivek Daatei, the Defiled Chieftain. While turning into a Demon, he grew twice as large in a matter of heartbeats. Heavier too, his footprints went deeper into the soil than before. Wasn’t he creating bone and muscle out of Chi? Or the Demon equivalent or whatever?”

Opening my mouth to refute him, I’m unable to produce a counter argument. It doesn’t mean he’s wrong, it’s just that I don’t know enough to dispute it. Instead, I pose the same question to Taduk who frowns and shakes his head. “A good question, but I hardly see how the answer will help.”

Once again, Baledagh picks up the slack. “Could it have something to do with these Spectral remains?”

Seeing no harm in asking, I take Taduk’s hand and explain everything about the purified Spectres through Sending, including my tests on the subject. While travelling home, we found that although the Spectral remains differ from Chi, neither Baledagh nor I can explain how it’s different. It’s more... more, I guess. I can’t absorb it like Baledagh does, but I can use it in place of Chi. In fact, I think it's better than Chi, easier and more responsive to my directions. Otherwise, it's the same.

When Baledagh absorbs the Spectral remains, it doesn’t change our physical body, but his Forms have shown marked improvements in a short time. Despite only being in the driver’s seat for short periods of time, Baledagh’s grace, control, and reflexes have left me in the dust. Why, I don't know, but I assume it's giving him some form of Enlightenment or something. Why him and not me? I dunno.

When I’m done explaining everything aside from the twinned-soul aspect, Taduk ponders my words in silence, cradling the sleeping Lin in his arms. Boiling a pot of tea while he thinks, he snaps out of it as I hand him the cup. “After you killed the Demon in the city, you were covered in its fluids yes? Too much for your friend to neutralize in time?”

“Yea.”

“And you used some of that... Energy to heal. Did you suffer significant weight loss?”

“Nothing notable. Actually, I remember thinking I looked surprisingly healthy. I was half covered in burns, but I still had the hand that got soaked in Ichor. I never did thank the Healer who saved me the trouble of regrowing it.”

Shaking his head, Taduk points out the flaw in my logic. “You were burned by Demon Ichor, unconscious, and in the midst of battle. Any Healer worth their salt would have stabilized you and moved on. The hand would have been ignored. It’s possible you healed yourself, or rather, the... ahem, Energy, helped heal you.” Perking up, he asks, “Do you have any left? I’ve a theory on what these remains are, so try to transfer it to Nian Zu and we’ll test it out.”

“What if something goes wrong?”

Taduk shrugs. “Then he dies and the nation grieves. At least it’ll spare him from another two weeks of agony.”

“Well... better to try and fail than fail to try, I guess.” Wrapping the Spectral remains in Chi, I whisper a small prayer before placing my hand on Nian Zu's chest and directing the Spectral remains into him. My Chi dissipates into nothingness the moment it leaves my body, but the Spectral remains are unaffected, flowing into the wounded hero without resistance. I used more than half of what I collected on Yo Ling’s island in testing, so I hope what remains is enough to save Nian Zu.

“Stand aside,” Taduk says as he lays hands on Nian Zu. Holding my breath in anticipation, I’m not left waiting for long as Taduk removes his hands only seconds later. While my teacher stands in shocked silence, a tear falls from my eye in honour of this celebrated hero, waiting as he draws his last breaths. Beloved by the people, he dedicated almost half his life to the Wall, following an already impressive military career. A high ranking member of the Situ Clan, his story could have gone much differently were he a lesser, more self-serving person, but his love for his fellow countrymen led him to give up his pursuit of power and accept the thankless task of Commander of the Bridge. For decades, he held the Wall against wave after wave of Defiled warriors, killing Champions and Demons like plucking chickens, and I’m running out of things to say, because honestly, I didn’t know him all that well and only met him that one time, where he prevented me from killing his nephew. Is Zian his nephew? No that doesn’t seem right, but then again, I don’t really understand the family bonds. So confusing, sharing the same name yet not really being blood related, how does that happen?

...

Not to be rude, but why isn't he dead yet?

Breaking the silence with a whoop of joy, Taduk lifts me into the air and twirls me about, laughing as Lin wakes up and joins the celebration. “Rain my boy, we did it!” he exclaims, relief and satisfaction flooding his face. “Do you know what this means?”

“Er... we saved a national hero’s life?”

Putting me down, Taduk scowls and throws his hands into the air. “Who cares about one life.” Switching to a silent Sending, he explains, “Those Spectral remains? That’s pure Heavenly Energy. Heavenly Energy which you can manipulate at will! This is the discovery of a lifetime!”

...

Maybe I’m dumb, or maybe it's because I haven't slept in thirty-six hours, but I don’t get it.

What's the difference between Chi and Heavenly Energy?

...Whatever. Taduk's happy, Lin's happy, Nian Zu's alive, so I'm happy. I'll take the wins wherever I can.

Chapter Meme
