He shouted, launching a Firebolt at the lead rat. It would have missed, had not the rat’s attempted dodge actually brought it into the missile’s path. It screeched as its fur caught fire, and the other rats hesitated long enough for Jaks to plant himself between the mages and the oncoming swarm.

“Don’t get bit,” he said, then charged.

“A little help over here!” shouted Stoneshield. The Stumper roared in pain and anger, and a blast of cold wind told him that Mahria was responsible, though most of Kettel’s attention was on the rats.

“Roots! Ten seconds!” Elmwood shouted.

Kettel blinked as the cobblestones beneath the rats erupted with grasping vines, clinging to anything and everything above the ground, Jaks included.

“Damn it,” Jaks said, struggling against the vines with a rat hanging off his forearm where it had sunk its teeth. He hacked into its back with his axe, severing its spine, then tossed the head away.

Your group has defeated [Venomfang Plague Rat]

Contribution: 1 in 100

Experience: 1

Shit, what am I doin’? Kettel swore, then took careful aim and shot a Firebolt at another of the entangled rats. It hit with a puff of flame, igniting the rat’s fur, but not killing it. Damn it! I need fuckin’ metamagic! He fired again, then once more. The third shot did the trick.

Your group has defeated [Venomfang Plague Rat]

Contribution: 3 in 4

Experience: 112

Jaks roared, breaking free of the vines, which were starting to dry and crumble. He took advantage of the still bound rats, slashing at them mercilessly. A random javelin took one in the neck, killing it instantly.

What the hells?

Kettel looked around and spotted Elmwood, and what he saw was so distracting that he temporarily forgot about the rats. Spears were erupting from the ground surrounding the Nature Mage. It took him a moment to realize that they were actually trees, growing rapidly as if they were being pushed up through the cobblestones. As Kettel watched, Elmwood pulled one from the ground and hurled it, its leaves falling away and turning brown as it flew toward the monsters.

“Damn it!” Stoneshield roared. There was a mighty thud of impact as the Stumper’s fist crashed into his shield, driving him back. Mindyblades took the opportunity to carve an X into its back, and only then did Kettel realize she was no longer with them. The Stumper’s health was already at half, and another chunk of its bar vanished as a shard of ice struck it in the cap. Depths, that’s way stronger than me Firebolts.

“Fucking pay attention!” Elmwood shouted at Kettel, pointing at the rats.

Kettel jumped. Damn it! He’d only looked away for a moment, but Elmwood was right. He turned back just in time to see a rat lunging for his leg.

Instinctively, he used Flamestrike. Feet counted as melee weapons as far as the spell was concerned, and his fiery kick sent the rat flying. He sent a Firebolt after it for good measure, but it missed horribly.

“Someone get ‘em off me!” Jaks shouted. He had three rats latched onto him, one on each leg and another hanging from the back of his shirt. He killed one with a strike from his axe, but another rushed in to replace it.

Short of launching a Firebolt at him, there wasn’t much Kettel could do to fulfill Jaks’s request, especially since he was busy with his own problems. The first rat that he’d torched had finally managed to put itself out and was coming for him, angry and burned, its health at half. Kettel fired another shot at it but missed. Damn it! He stomped at it with Flame Strike, but the rat skittered out of the way of his boot. It took advantage of his unbalance and leapt at him, sinking its teeth deep into his arm. Its sharp fangs plunged straight through his shirt as if the tough canvas wasn’t even there.

His shout had come more from surprise than pain, though it definitely didn’t feel great having teeth scraping against the bones of your forearm. Kettel slammed a flaming fist into the rat’s skull, killing it in an explosion that probably did just as much damage to him as it had to the rat. He dropped to the ground, rolling to extinguish the fire before it could burn through his shirt.

By the time he managed to put it out, the battle was over, the system’s chime announcing the Stumper’s death. Kettel had no idea who’d killed it, nor did he care. The pain from his arm was growing worse and worse, the heat from the bite rapidly eclipsing that of his own flames.

Shit, venom! It’s in tha’ name.

Kettel tore at his sleeve, then raised his arm to his mouth, sucking at the wound. His blood tasted sharply metallic, with a foreign tang of acid that must have been from the rat’s bite. He spat, then placed his lips on the second puncture as he glanced at his health. It was dropping slowly, the green bar in his vision still mostly full. He spat again. Suddenly, the pain from his arm lessened, the fire receding to a dull, smoldering ache as his health bar stopped dropping.

Fuckin’ hells! What’s tha’ about?

“I said don’t get bit, pup,” said Jaks. Kettel looked up to see the scarred man grinning down at him. His scarred face was a ruin of shredded skin and blood. “I’m the only one who’s allowed to get bit.” He offered him a bloody hand attached to an arm that looked like it had been through a meat grinder. “Come on, walk it off.”

Several hours later, Kettel cursed as a piece of broken glass sliced his hand. He was using a rag to mop up a spilled potion, the glass bottle having shattered when it had struck the ground. He lifted the sopping-wet rag, the white cloth stained green with potion and with a smear of red near his thumb. He stared at his blood numbly, his head pounding from mana overuse.

“Hurry,” said Elmwood, his voice cracking with panic.

Kettel snapped out of it. He got to his feet and hurried over. Elmwood took the rag, then maneuvered it over Stoneshield’s mouth, wringing out the liquid. Stoneshield spluttered, then gulped it down.

“Gah, tastes like shit,” he said, then spat a bloody glob onto the ground. “And I could have done without the glass.”

“Is it gonna work?” Kettel asked, looking at Stoneshield’s twisted leg. The bone was sticking through the skin, and Kettel once more had to look away. They’d moved on from the Guild square, crossed the river, and had actually been making good progress until they’d tried taking on a trio of Stumpers at once. They’d felled one of them, but then Mindyblades and Jaks had gotten dosed with a lungful of spores. Stoneshield had gotten cornered while protecting them, which ended up with the Stumper smashing him through a house.

“It should,” Mahria said. “The potion hasn’t been exposed to the air for that long.”

“We should have brought a healer,” Elmwood said for the fifth time.

“Depths, this hurts!” growled Stoneshield. “Straighten out my damn leg. The potion’s trying to—ah wait, it’s gonna do it on its ow—FUCK!”

There was a sickening cracking sound as Stoneshield’s knee snapped back into place. Kettel’s stomach tried to revolt, but it was Elmwood that vomited. Kettel looked away, fighting to avoid joining him.

“Well, I can’t say I’ve seen THAT happen before,” Mahria said. She sounded curious, not even slightly disturbed by the sight of blood, in contrast to how she’d reacted to Kettel’s slime-fighting technique.

“Mahria,” Stoneshield wheezed. “Check on Jaks. Kettel, help Mindy.”

“Mindyblades,” came a weak rasp, followed by a hacking cough. Kettel had gotten back to his feet, but Mindyblades raised a hand, waving him away. “I’m…okay. Breathing hurts, but I’m—” She stopped, consumed by another fit of coughing.

“Jaks is out,” Mahria said. She had her finger pressed to the man’s neck. “His heart’s beating, though. He’ll be fine. I think it’s just Healing Trance again. Bastard’s regeneration is insane. I mean, look at him, there’s not a scratch on him.”

“Gods’ damned mushrooms,” Stoneshield said, wrapping the cloth around his knee.

“At least we got tha fucks,” Kettel said, gesturing to the burning building. Belatedly, he realized that the cut on his hand from the glass had healed. The potion? He rubbed the mixture of blood, potion, and mud on his punctured arm, which was still burning slightly, even though it had been hours.

“We’re fucked!” Elmwood said, coughing as he pushed himself away from the puddle of his own vomit. “Totally fucked! We’ll never make it back now.”

“Calm the hells down,” Stoneshield said. “Summon your damn ent, and somebody drag me away from this fire before I cook. I swear, if any of you even think about leaving me here, I’ll murder you.”

“Um, problem,” Mahria said, pointing. Kettel’s blood ran cold when he saw what she’d seen. There was an enormous group of Coal Lurkers headed straight for them down the street. No, ‘enormous’ was too small of a word. It looked like every Coal Lurker in the city had come to play, bringing their entire families with them, going by the number of broodlings. The clitter-clack of their armored legs grew louder, the sounds blending together until it sounded like distant rain, then a downpour, drowning out the crackling of the burning house. I thought fire drove monsters away. Guess I was bloody wrong about that. Fuck!

Elmwood fell back to his knees. “Oh Dystees, forgive me for my lack of faith. I’ll sing of your glory night and day, I swear it. Please! Shelter me in your light!”

“Shut the fuck up!” Mahria shouted, raising her staff horizontally across her head. “Summon the damn ent. Kettel, stop gawking and distract them or something. I’m gonna drop a Froststorm right on us, but I need time.”

“Oh, great, that’ll fuckin’ help!” Kettel said sarcastically, opening fire on the approaching spider wave. At least I don’t have ta’ aim. Depths, there’s thousands of ‘em.

Stoneshield struggled himself up into a sitting position, then cried out and fell back to the ground. Mindyblades was up, still coughing and with snot running from her nose, but she had her swords in her hands.

“I just need sixty seconds,” Mahria shouted.

“Well, we’re dead, then,” Kettel said, launching another Firebolt.

Jaks suddenly gasped, sitting up. He took one look at the oncoming horde, then started to laugh. “What the depths did I miss?”

Jaks was still laughing when the spider-things swarmed over them. It didn’t seem very funny to Kettel. He screwed his eyes shut and flailed about wildly, calling fire to his fists, and rolling on the ground, trying to smash the spiders to pulp. He felt the sharp pinpricks of their legs tearing into him, and the wet sucking pressure of their sucker-mouths as they latched onto his skin. He didn’t scream. Screaming would just let them get down his throat.

Flamestrike! Flamestrike! Flamestrike!

Kettel was completely focused on the burning interface in his mind as he fought to keep the panic at bay. His mana was burning away, the white bar that represented his reserves being consumed by fire with each cast. Likewise, his green health bar was crumbling to ash as spiders attached themselves to him faster than he could remove them. He could feel the blood being drained from his body even as his skin crisped from the heat of his own flames.

“Summon Lesser Ent!” Elmwood shrieked, his shrill cry cutting through the clacking din and Jaks’s continuing laughter.

No, ye fucks! Flamestrike! Flamestrike! I ain’t dyin’ like a coward! Flamestrike!

The last sliver of Kettel’s mana bar vanished in a puff of smoke, and he had to fight to stay conscious. He wasn’t sure if one of the monsters had stabbed its armored leg into his brain, or if the excruciating agony was just from the mana usage. Burning smoke filled his lungs, rank with the scent of burning hair, blood, and shit. He couldn’t breathe; the heat was overwhelming. Still, he didn’t stop fighting. He tore the spiders away, ripping out what felt like huge chunks of his flesh in the process.

Ah, balls. His health had dropped down to a quarter, and he could feel the strength draining from his limbs.

Suddenly, a howling wind filled the air. There was a thunderous crack, and an explosion of kill notifications filled his mind with fire even as his body was pelted by freezing sleet. Mahria’s voice reverberated through the air, seeming to come from the maelstrom itself.

“FROSTSTORM!”

Jaks’s laughter was the last thing that Kettel heard before the fire in his mind extinguished, along with his consciousness.

“Congratulations,” Rain’s voice said. “You died.”

“Welcome to the club,” someone else said, a voice that Kettel didn’t know.

He opened his eyes, fighting against the light and the disorientation. Rain was there, and the man from the Fells, and what was clearly a divine messenger, her beautiful face lit by the brilliant smoke that was flowing from her skin.

Where am I? That light…Heaven Dystees? Did Elmwood actually—?

“I’m dead?!” he shouted, trying to sit up.

He didn’t make it very far. The moment his head lifted from the ground, he was struck by a gut-wrenching bout of vertigo and a spike of pain that made him abort the attempt.

Rain laughed, sounding relieved as he hugged the divine messenger. “He’s fine.”

What? The clouds were spinning in the sky, and his thoughts felt sluggish and snarled. Why is Rain…here?

“It was close,” the divine messenger said, smiling compassionately at Rain as he released her. “We got to him just in time.” Kettel blinked as the light faded, realizing that it was just the same spell Rain was always using, though the luminous smoke had been behaving slightly differently. The woman’s face also wasn’t as divine as it had seemed. She was beautiful, yes, but it was an earthly beauty.

“I think I’m in love,” he said stupidly, staring at her.

“Does this happen to you a lot, Ameliah?” the man from the Fells asked.

“All the time,” she said, sounding suddenly tired.

“Here, Kettel,” Rain said, sweeping off his thick black cloak and heading toward him. “Looks like you need my cloak again.”

“But I’m no cold—oh.” Looking down, Kettel had noticed that he was completely naked, his body lying bare on the dirt. He looked back up, his face heating as Rain covered him with the fabric. “It were the Froststorm, I swear.”

The man from the Fells snorted, then turned and walked away.

“Uh huh,” Ameliah said, turning to Rain. “I’m going to go fix the others. They’d probably be fine, but I’m not waiting for Wallace. Sooner is better than later with healing.”

