Kettel scowled after the retreating noble. “What an asshole. Thinks he’s so fancy with his stupid gold trim.”

Jaks laughed. “A noble like him doesn’t need money, not like us starving bronzes. Makes sense he wouldn’t be interested since he said he doesn’t need the experience either. Shouldn’t have gotten your hopes up, pup.”

“Don’t call me pup!” Kettel snapped, glaring at the scarred man.

“I’ll call you what you are, pup,” Jaks grinned, running a bare hand along the edge of the axe he’d been sharpening. “If you don’t like it, do something about it.”

Kettel cringed as the blood from the wound flowed unnaturally to coat the jagged blade in a layer of red. Jaks licked his palm, blood staining his chin, then slipped the axe back through a loop in his belt and drew another one of the same type from his opposite hip.

“Oh, please do,” said Mahria from where she was seated on a barrel, staff across her knees as she kicked her feet. “I’m getting bored.”

“No fighting,” said Stoneshield, “Save your mana for the monsters.” Stoneshield was a bronzeplate warrior of the traditional variety, using both a sword and a shield. He liked telling people what to do, for all that nobody wanted him as a leader. Also, his shield wasn’t even made of stone. Why call yourself Stoneshield if yer shield’s made o’ wood, dumbshit?

“Quiet, dad,” Mahria said.

Kettel snorted and looked away. Jaks ain’t worth me time. He’s jus’ tryin’ to get me goat, an’ Stoneshield might be a bossy git, but he’s right. There’re monsters tha’ need burnin’ more’n some asshole blood mage axe murderer or whatever tha depths Jaks is supposed to be.

“Can we just go already?” said Elmwood. “We’ll be fine with six.” Elmwood was a Nature Mage, and he was clearly taking pains to look the part. His youthful face bore an unkempt old-man beard, and he had hair that a bird would have been happy to call home. He’d described himself as a utility caster, and supposedly, he could summon a tree spirit, though he was refusing to demonstrate.

“And what happens when you’re out of mana, Bushface?” said Mindyblades. She was their final member, a dual-wielder like Jaks, obvious from her name even if you missed the pair of shortswords strapped to her hips. She was also the closest to his own age, a year or two older, at most.

“It will be fine, Mindy,” said Elmwood. “And don’t call me Bushface.”

“Mindyblades,” she corrected him. “I’ll stop calling you Bushface when you get it right. Or shave.”

“Damn it, fine,” said Stoneshield. He muttered something under his breath, then continued in a louder voice. “Okay, here’s what we’re going to do. Jaks and I are the battle line, plus the ent if we need it to turtle for us. Elmwood, Kettel, and Mahria are in the back throwing spells, and Mindyblades is in charge of making sure nothing sneaks around and guts them. Everyone fine with that?”

Kettel shrugged. It sounded reasonable. The man did have more experience than he did with this kind of thing, and just going with his plan was easier than trying to propose one of his own. This was only Kettel’s second experience in a party, after all. I jus’ wish Rain weren’t famous. He’d be a better leader than this bossy git, but the Watch would never let ‘em go out alone. They’d come with ‘em, and then they’d claim all our loot. Six-way split is bad enough.

“Good,” Stoneshield said. “Now, I propose we start at the Guild square.”

“There’s nothing left there,” said Jaks. “I should know.” He juggled his axe into his elbow and raised his hands, showing them the rings adorning his bloody fingers. “Raided the Havenheild Outfitter myself.”

Mahria snorted. “And you went for statrings? Really?”

“Piss off,” Jaks said. “I ain’t got much mana, and I’m bloody broke. You think I can afford to keep fancy equipment charged? Plus, I wasn’t the only one, and I wasn’t goin’ to start a fight over something I don’t need.”

“I’ve got an idea,” Kettel said, interrupting Mahria’s reply.

“Oh, cute,” said Mindyblades. “The pup’s got an idea.”

“Stuff yer’ hole,” Kettel said, not even looking at her. It was Stoneshield that he needed to convince. “So ye know the Night Cleaner, right? I was talkin’ to ‘im a few days ago—we’re friends, him an’ me—an’ he said tha he thinks Rankin’s been stealin’ Tel an’ shit from tha Guild. Said he thinks he’s been stashin’ it somewhere. I’m thinkin’ we find his house and see if Rain were right.”

“I’d believe it,” said Elmwood. “Rankin’s an ass. Halgrave was much better at the job.”

“Mmm,” Mahria said, as if unconvinced. Kettel looked at her, raising an eyebrow. Ain’t Halgrave her da? She got some problem with ‘im?

“And I know where Rankin’s house is, I think,” said Mindyblades. “It’s not that far from the Guild. We can start at the Guild square to make sure that it’s really been picked over, then head there next.”

“Sounds good,” Mahria said, hopping off the barrel and thumping her staff against it loudly. She gestured to Stoneshield. “Let’s go. After you, old man.”

“Who are you calling old?” said Stoneshield. “I’m twenty-four. How old are you?”

“None of your gods-damned business,” Mahria said.

“Older, then,” Jaks said, laughing. “Sure don’t act like it.”

The group moved cautiously down the street that led to the Guild square, weaving around the occasional chest-high mushroom that had erupted through the crumbling cobblestones. It was daytime, and they had yet to run into any resistance, the monsters preferring to stay within the ruins of houses and shops rather than roam the streets. They were still within sight of the barricade, in fact. The Watch had let them through grudgingly, warning them that they were going to be on their own and insisting that they not cross the river. That was a request that they planned on ignoring, as their second destination was on the other side.

Kettel was reviewing everything he knew about awakened combat as they walked. In addition to his own experience, he’d picked up a few snippets at the Guild, as well as endured Rain’s monologue on skill selection. On a mission like this, mages like him were the reserve. They were only supposed to use their magic to attack if it looked like the warriors would be overwhelmed. It all came down to efficiency. It only took like a point of stamina to swing a sword dozens of times, but a single Firebolt cost ten mana. Once a mage had exhausted their reserves, they were done, usually for at least a day unless you were some sort of mana freak like Rain.

In Kettel’s case, with only two spells and no metamagic, the math wasn’t unapproachable. It was just adding and counting. All you had to do was start with the cost of the spell, then keep adding it to itself until you got to your maximum mana, counting how many times it took. That got you how many times you could cast the spell. Both of his abilities needed ten mana per cast, and he had eight hundred mana, so that was eighty shots. He was pretty sure that he had that right, even though he’d never tested it.

In practice, the headache got so bad that he had to stop well before he got to that point. He’d been resting for the past three days to let his pool refill, and he was actually at full for the first time since he’d cast his very first Firebolt. He could have recovered all of that mana in a single night, probably, if he’d been willing to subject himself to Rain’s aura. He shivered. It’s jus’ so damn unsettlin’, bein’ cold without bein’ cold.

He knew he’d have to get used to it eventually if he was going to travel with Rain, but he just couldn’t see the point to regaining mana that fast. Twenty shots in a row left him feeling like he wanted to die. Spreading it out over a day helped, which he hoped he’d be able to do here. Worst case, he still had eighty shots. A headache wasn’t going to stop him from throwing fire if he needed it to save his life. He’d do his best to conserve his mana nevertheless—after he got the first kill, of course.

Kettel glanced at Mahria. I wonder how many shots she’s got? Probably no more’n me. Rumor is she ain’t got no class neither. He shifted his gaze to Elmwood. This guy, though, no idea. What’s a Nature Mage even do?

“Movement ahead,” Stoneshield said. “Just some slimes.”

“Mine!” shouted Mahria. There was a blue flash, then a spike of ice flew over Stoneshield’s shoulder. It struck one of the slimes, piercing straight through it and smashing into the ground on the other side with a sound like shattering glass. A bell chimed in Kettel’s head, accompanied by burning words.

Your group has defeated [Slime]

Contribution: 1 in 100

Experience: None

“Yeah, perfect shot!” Mahria shouted. She had her staff in a two-handed grip over her shoulder, one end pointing at the unfortunate slime. “First kill.”

Kettel frowned. Damn it, she beat me to it. Does tha’ staff help her aim or somethin’? Should I get me one? He returned his attention to the burning message. Contribution one in one hundred? Fer what? Moral support?

There were two more flashes in rapid succession, and two more slimes met their ends, pierced in the exact same manner.

“It’s just slimes. Save your mana, idiot,” said Jaks.

“Ugh, foul things,” Stoneshield said. He raised his sword and advanced, shield leading.

“I could summon my ent,” said Elmwood.

“Save that too,” said Jaks. “We aren’t gonna get very far if we’re afraid of a little mess.”

Kettel watched as Stoneshield and Jaks tore into the slimes. There were only four left, and it was over in seconds. The only damage taken by the party was to their noses. Me contribution’s still one in one hundred fer all of ‘em, even though I did fuck all. Why’s tha’?

“We’re not gonna try sifting through them, are we?” Elmwood asked, following after the warriors. Kettel joined him, deliberately walking around the spreading ooze. The slime’s acid would still be active, and he wasn’t about to ruin his boots. They were new.

“Forget it,” said Stoneshield. “Not worth the effort, and I hear these things aren’t dropping Tel anyway. Besides, I left my colander at home.”

Kettel laughed. “That ain’t a bad idea, actually. Beats how I used ta do it.”

“How’d you used to do it?” asked Mindyblades.

“Greased meself up and jus’ went at ‘em starkers.”

“What?” said Mahria. Her head whipped around as she turned it to stare at him, revulsion and disbelief warring on her face. “Tell me you’re kidding.”

“I ain’t!” Kettel said, laughing at her reaction. Fancy girl like ‘er’s prolly never been dirty a day in ‘er life. “Trick is in keepin’ yer mouth shut. Made tha’ mistake before.”

“You’re serious?” said Elmwood. Kettel grinned at him. “By the gods. You are serious.” Elmwood looked queasy as he stared at Kettel. “You’re insane.”

Jaks laughed. “The pup’s got the right of it. I’ve had my clothes burned off me more times than I can count. Acid, fire, shit, whatever, it’s all the same. Skin you can wash; clothes, you just replace when you’re done. Now come on, I ain’t got all day.”

Mahria sniffed. She deliberately strode straight through the remains of the slimes, her boots making unpleasant squelching noises as the hem of her blue robe dragged through the ooze. “Or you get a basic Chem-resist treatment from an alchemist. Honestly, I think some of you like being completely filthy.”

“If you’re hunting slimes for Tel, you can’t afford something like that,” said Mindyblades. “Not everyone’s got a mother like yours to get them started. I remember when I—Hey! You splashed me!”

“Don’t fucking talk about my mother,” Mahria said coldly, lowering her boot after having sent a glob of slime her way.

“Enough,” said Stoneshield. “We’re moving. Come on.”

“But my cloak is—”

“Just stop bloody talking, all of you,” said Jaks. “About anyone’s mother, your laundry, the weather, or whatever. We’re here to kill things and loot shit. This isn’t a morning stroll.”

“Well, we have a problem,” Stoneshield said, darting out of the Guildhall and back into the square. “It doesn’t want to come out. We’re going to have to fight it in there if we want to go in.”

“Damn,” said Jaks. “That’s just what I had planned for today when I woke up this morning. Getting crushed by a building.”

“I vote Kettel sets the whole thing on fire,” said Mindyblades.

Kettel grinned. “I could do, sure, but then we’d have ta wait fer it ta burn out.” He tapped his forehead. “Ya gotta think these things through. The point’s ta see if there’s anythin’ worth takin’ in there.”

“Guild pays in Tel,” said Elmwood. “That means they’ve got to keep plenty on hand. I vote we go for it.”

“Someone already would have cleared out the money chest,” said Stoneshield. “Probably Rankin or one of the clerks. I know Rankin’s already got the ledgers. He wouldn’t have taken those and left the cash.”

“I could use the experience, either way,” Stoneshield said. “A Stumper is worth sixteen fifty. Even split six ways, that’s worth the effort. The things are slow and easy to kill. Greater monster, my ass.”

“I’m not fighting a Stumper inside a building,” said Mindyblades. “Getting crushed by a falling roof might be on Jaks’s list for today, but it’s not on mine.”

“You need to actually hit it if you want it to follow you into the light,” Mahria said. “If you hurt it, it will come out. Trust me. I’ve done this before. Here, move.”

She stood facing the open door to the guild’s dim interior, then raised her hand. “Everyone ready?” she asked. She didn’t even look back before she launched a spike of ice. There was a soft thwump of impact, then a deep roar as Mahria calmly but quickly backpedaled from the entrance. Kettel grinned and raised his hands as the front of the Guild exploded. The gigantic mushroom man had smashed through the wall rather than try and squeeze through the door. Time ta burn, ye idiot mushroom! Jus’ gotta wait fer me chance.

“Shit, behind!” Mindyblades shouted.

Kettel whirled to see a pack of gigantic rats flowing out of an alleyway. They were headed straight for them. Burning text above their health bars labeled them as Venomfang Plague Rats. They were significantly smaller than the Trundlers that Kettel had fought in the Fells, but they looked quite a bit faster. It was clear that they’d heard the Stumper’s roar and rushed out to investigate. Tha’, or me luck is jus’ tha’ fuckin’ bad.

