Kervin's Point of View:

I snap the reins controlling my bivol, ushering them to pick up more speed. Bivol are brisk walkers on a good day, and it's only due to the selective breeding the Silver Herd Company experimented with in their early days that mine are trained to keep a steady pace.

Depending on what happens in the next few hours, I might be promoted and awarded some of their prized bulls, or I might be looking to buy my own after being fired.

Lurte, Ryiba, and I took turns driving the cart, pushing my poor bivol to their breaking point, trying to return to Blaiton as fast as possible.

We haven't stopped for more than a few hours to let the beasts rest for four days. While one of us slept in the back of the empty cart, using our canvass covering as a makeshift bed, the other two kept the cart moving.

This is all that damn general's fault! Giving me only a month to deliver her the arrows she requested. If my message didn't reach Aaliyah for whatever reason, or gods forbid she ignores it, I'm screwed.

I steer my cart alongside the walls of Blaiton, heading for the gate reserved for Silver Herd Company members. The company is the biggest provider of income for the city, and the mayor's family unofficially serves the company's interests. The gate was funded by the mayor's family and reserved for our company as a sign of goodwill.

The current head of Silver Heard, Giovanni Turrini's father, established the company after he bought a small farm outside Blaiton that raised the best bivol this side of Olebert. Using the stronger and more striking bivol to haul his goods around, he quickly made a name for himself and grew the company to encompass the major trade routes between Blaiton, Drey, and Teeburn.

Once he passed the company down to his firstborn son, Giovanni wasted no time continuing to expand up into Yleles, making Silver Herd the fourth biggest mercantile company in Olebert.

Giovanni Turrini has always been aggressively expanding the company ever since he took over and even sent his daughter to join the military's healing order to develop his contacts. Ever since his daughter quit the military, he's been searching for other avenues to expand his reach.

He probably thanked the gods Scholl decided to attack us. For him to be committing three of his carts towards regular deliveries to Teeburn shows how aggressively he's trying to attract the military's attention.

There's no doubt in my mind he's already heard about my encounter with General Pitz. I don't want to think about what might happen if I tried to pretend nothing happened in Teeburn.

I see the gate leading into town just ahead of us.

The gate is guarded by two of Blaiton's guards, but they're there just for show. The people really in charge of the gate are the four people with the Silver Herd emblem on their coats.

We're quickly flagged down and directed to stop in front of the gate. I don't recognize the man who's approaching us; I try to avoid coming here unless I need to submit my income reports.

He doesn't have any striking features and has most of his face covered to combat the winters chilly wind. "Plate," he demands in a cold tone. He holds out his hand towards me but directs his gaze into my cart. Even with most of his face covered, I can see his judging eyes questioning why my cart is empty.

No self-respecting merchant doesn't have anything in his cart; we're expected to be continually hauling goods to make a profit. I'm sure he'll send a message to headquarters, but that's the least of my problems right now.

I hand him my plate and wait for him to inspect it.

He looks up at me again, but this time his eyes look much more severe. "You're, Kervin?" He waves my plate at me.

"Yes," I hesitantly respond, taking my plate from him.

"The boss is waiting for you. I'll send word you arrived." I shiver in my seat and not because of the cold.

"I'm aware." I try to sound more confident than I am.

I snap my reins, trying to get my bivol to move forward. They reluctantly continue on, and we enter the city. I turn around as we leave and watch the man pull his left sleeve up and talk into his bracelet. It's a communication's bracelet; those cost 150 gold or more depending on its range! He's probably sending word that I arrived.

The main road leading to the company's headquarters is lined with perfectly placed stones, and you can see traces of where it's been shoveled to make the trek for the carts easier. I've heard rumors Giovanni's father paid for a group of earth mages to lay each stone with magic, so it'll last for generations.

As we work our way down the street, we pass multiple storefronts with our logo on the side of their buildings. We even pass an inn that offers discounts to us traveling merchants when we're in town.

We round a corner and come into view of the Silver Herd Trading Company headquarters. The small castle of stone and wood is designed to look like a noble's residence. The stone arches draw the eye to the beautiful masonry while the woodwork accents the windows with exquisite panes of clear glass in them.

I steer my bivol to the left of the building, towards the stables.

The stables are divided into two sections; one area is used to store carts while the other is a fenced-in area the bivol can be left to roam freely. I park my cart, leaving my valuables in the safe built into the carriage. There are plenty of guards walking around, and Silver Herd doesn't take kindly to thieves. I once heard the boss walked into the city's jail and cut the hands off of someone who stole from the company personally. Only a fool would steal anything on this property.

I walk my bivol over to their enclosure, sliding over a latch that secures the short gate shut. The gate is only three and a half feet tall made from beams of thick steel. Bivol don't jump or climb, but they're incredibly strong, so the fence is short but very sturdy. The lock isn't designed to keep people out; it's only to keep the bivol in.

Once everything is secure, we make our way inside the building. As soon as we step through the door, we remove our coats. The building has heating runes installed somewhere, keeping the building warm, a luxury that only someone with money to burn can afford.

The three of us walk down the corridor connecting the stable entrance to the reception area in the front of the building.

We pace by a few people carrying stacks of paper who pretend we don't exist. This entire building is for the accountants to monitor the company's holdings. I've heard rumors from older merchants that there's a secret vault somewhere in the building that holds the truly expensive items and the company's treasury, but no one is sure if it exists.

When we enter the front receptionist area, I walk to the main attendant flanked by Lurte and Ryiba. The woman operating the front station has beautiful straight blond hair and is wearing cosmetics, showing off how much she's paid to do her job. Her deep green eyes evaluate me for only a second before she addresses me. "Mr. Kervin, Giovanni Turrini is waiting for you in his office. Straight back to my left and up the stairs. His office is the room with the double doors."

Whether she has nothing more to say or she's swamped, she turns her attention back to the papers in front of her ignoring our existence. I look behind me at my bodyguards and notice they're just as nervous as I am. The whole, everyone knows who you are without you saying anything is unsettling.

We follow the receptionist's directions and make our way to Giovanni’s office. I start to sweat, the closer we get to his office. I haven't spoken to the man since I was hired years ago, and I've never stepped into his office even once before. I still clearly remember the day I was hired.

After my parents left our stall to my older brother, I spent a year working under him before deciding I didn't want to work in Blaiton my whole life. Funny how now I'm trying to be promoted to a more stable position.

I asked around town and had the fortune to be recommended to Silver Herd by one of their stores my family regularly did business with.

For my interview, I was grouped with six other applicants and told to wait in a small room with no furnishings.

We waited for two hours, silently sizing each other up when Giovanni Turrini finally entered the room, followed by his bodyguard. "Let's get this over quick!" He said to us. "I'm busy and can't waste much time here. You each have two minutes to tell me your qualifications and why I should hire you. You first!" He thankfully pointed to a man on the opposite side of the room.

I was the last to be called on. I waited twelve grueling minutes, listening to the other applicants try to stammer out their qualifications in the allotted time. Each one of them was cut off by Mr. Turrini when their time ran out.

When he finally turned to me and told me to go, my mind almost shut down due to the pressure. It's funny; I can still remember my answer word for word and what happened after.

"Kervin, I grew up helping my family's produce stall. I want to become a better merchant and make more money!" I practically yelled out my response by instinct.

……

"Is that all you have to say?" He glared at me after a few seconds of silence.

"Yes, sir. You said you were busy, and time is money. I thought I'd keep it short and sweet." The other applicants looked at me like I was crazy, but everyone flinched when Giovanni Turrini laughed.

"You're hired, kid. Come back tomorrow to start your training. The rest of you can leave." A few of the other applicants advanced on him, trying to protest their dismissal. They were quickly stopped in their tracks when his bodyguard released a wave of bloodlust that made everyone collapse to their knees. Not one of them was able to get within five feet of Mr. Turrini.

That was the first and last time I met the boss of Silver Herd Trading Company. The rest is history.

Standing in front of the two wooden doors leading to Giovanni Turrini's office, I hesitate to open the door myself or knock first? Everything that's happened until now gives me the impression he's waiting for me, but a part of me is screaming not to touch the door.

I decide to knock first, but before my hand touches the beautifully carved wood, green lines glow across its surface, and they swing open by themselves. I end up standing in the doorway with my hand raised frozen like an idiot. The large office is decorated with shelves on either side of the walls with different pieces of artwork and statues, some of which have precious gems embedded in them. At the far end of the room is a large desk with Giovanni Turrini staring at the three of us. Behind him, off to the side, is his bodyguard, standing like a gargoyle ready to pounce.

In front of his desk are two seats with a table in between them. "Don't keep me waiting, come in and sit down." Mr. Turrini's authoritative voice breaks me out of my paralyzes.

Once the three of us are through the doorway, Mr. Turrini waves his hand behind his desk, and the doors behind us shut by themselves.

Having already been told to sit, I take a seat in the right chair while Lurte and Ryiba take their usual positions behind me.

I silently wait for Mr. Turrini to make the first move.

"You made it here quicker than I thought you would." He looks down at a piece of parchment in front of him. "It's a good thing you’re smart and chose to come back here on your own free will. I was happy to hear you were heading straight back here from Teeburn. It would have been a hassle if you decided to try and avoid me."

"You knew we were heading here?" I timidly ask.

"Of course, I have my ways to track my employees. After I heard about your run-in with the esteemed general, I immediately had people figure out where you were and which direction you were heading." He casually explains to me.

"I assumed you would want to see me." Mr. Turrini gives me a grin that looks positively vicious.

"Of course, I would. It's not every day I receive news General Emily Pitz leaves Fort North Ridge to meet with one of my merchants. And right after she single-handedly slaughtered thousands of Scholl's soldiers too. Imagine my surprise when I learned the merchant, she met with wasn't even supposed to be anywhere around Teeburn." She what, she found me after slaughtering an army!

"I made sure my route was covered." I try to explain.

"Oh, I know. I already messaged those who helped you pick up your slack. Each one said they did it because they owed you a favor. I was told you sold a whole cart of weapons to the army; how much did you make?"

I hesitate to answer his question. He isn't using any skills on me, but that can change quickly. I gather all my courage before answering him. "That is none of your business, sir." I immediately feel the tension in the room growing thicker.

"That's funny; you work for me, so I believe it is my business."

"I mean no disrespect, Mr. Turrini. I only meant I conducted the trade on my own time with the goods I purchased with my own personal coin. I started using my profits to buy weapons when the rumors we were going to war with Scholl started floating around." I carefully explain.

"I see. You took the initiative to earn yourself some extra gold; I can respect that." The pressure in the room fades a little. "That said, explain to me why the general sought you out. You might not have broken any of our rules, but you still identified yourself as a Silver Herd merchant. If you did anything to jeopardize the army's image of my company, we'd have a problem." The pressure that was decreasing a second ago returns even heavier than before.

I slowly reach to my side as not to aggravate Mr. Turrini's bodyguard and pull out the parchment the general gave to me. I stand up and gently place it on Mr. Turrini's desk. As he grabs the rolled-up parchment, I once again cower in my seat.

