"Father told me it was one of his greatest regrets in life, investing money in that dwarf. Before he grew his company and learned that the dwarf city's never let their people leave unsupervised unless they're not worth the effort to supervise. The fact he was traveling by himself was all the indication someone needed to know he must have been a reject. At least it sounds like his apprentice has true potential."

"You want me to have our people look into her?" Marshall asks to my left.

"Please do. We already have our spies silencing information regarding my daughter living the village. Have them find out the blacksmith's name and tell them to look out for any information regarding her or her master. As to the rumors flying around about Kervin, make something up about us punishing him for selling faulty equipment to the army and that the general approached him demanding reimbursement. That should buy us some time to see how things play out."

"Are you worried about her skills not being up to par with the general's demands?"

"No, that's not it. The general herself asked for arrows after inspecting the blacksmith's work. I wouldn't dare claim to know more about weapons than she does. It's just that I've heard rumors about General Emily Pitz. She leveled quickly, making her name through hunting strong magical beasts. She was known for finding the scent of strong creatures and mercilessly tracking them down. It's rumored she does the same for talented individuals." I run my hand through my hair, a nervous gesture I picked up as a kid.

"There was a reason I promoted Kervin to oversee the transaction with the army. Should something go wrong, we won't lose one of our senior merchants. And on the off chance he succeeds, we'll have a new battle-tested Specialty Sales Merchant. Speaking of battle-tested, how strong were his bodyguards? Should I warn him to hire better ones?"

Marshall thinks to himself for a moment. "They were level 57 and 59 respectfully. Higher leveled than the bodyguards I usually see for traveling merchants. They'll either rise to the occasion the first time they encounter any real danger or die horrible deaths. It all depends if word gets out about the cargo they'll be carrying. Bandit activity is increasing in rural areas while the main roads remain clear with all the soldiers moving towards the fort."

"A trial by fire, then," I ask the level 88 warrior.

"Isn't that what you were going for in the first place?" He smiles down at me.

We both share a laugh.

Things are about to get interesting. This might be just what Silver Herd needs to reach its next level and compete with the big three trading companies.
