Mr. Turrini unravels the parchment and scrutinizes the contents.

His expression relaxes halfway through the note and turns into a smile by the time he finishes reading it. "A special order from the general herself, this is excellent news! Finally, we have a direct commission from a high-ranking military officer." The boss looks like he's ready to jump for joy.

"Tell me, Kervin. Why did she place the order through you? I have my three best traveling merchants constantly bringing goods to Teeeburn. What did you sell them that got you noticed by the general?" Mr. Turrini questions me.

"Apparently, some of the spears I sold them were of a higher quality than I realized. The general wanted to place an order for some quality arrows based on the spears I brought them." I deliberately try to be vague, but the look in Mr. Turrini's eyes says he's not falling for it.

"Did you purchase the spears through one of our affiliated blacksmiths? Tell me, and I'll send our best negotiator to them to draw up a deal." I knew this would happen.

"They aren't one of our affiliates or a known blacksmith."

Mr. Turrini's eyes widen. "A new talent, are they? That's even better; we can get a better deal for their work if they're an emerging blacksmith."

I have to be careful how I proceed. If I screw this up, I'll lose everything I've done to establish myself with Aaliyah. "I'm afraid that won't work, Mr. Turrini."

The giddy look he just had falters. "Explain," he demands.

"I've been in contact with this blacksmith for a few years now and know them personally. They have deliberately tried to stay obscure. I fear if you send a negotiator, they'll vanish."

Mr. Turrini narrows his eyes. "You make it sound like the person is hiding from something. Why would they hide their abilities, every truly great blacksmith needs a backer to grow properly?" He gives me a look that says I better explain.

I'm not making it out of here if I hold back now. "I believe it has something to do with her master." I drop my first hint. "Is this room secured?" I ask, trying to entice him more.

"My office is warded. Stop being suspenseful and tell me." He says that but his ire has slowly faded, and I need to properly establish why I'm needed.

"I'm sorry, Mr. Turrini. It's just that the information is sensitive. The blacksmith I bought the spears from, her master is a Stone Kin."

"What!?" Mr. Turrini stands up from his chair. You've been buying good from a Stone Kin and haven't reported it to the company!"

"No, not the Stone Kin." I hastily defuse his anger towards me. He retakes his seat while I explain. "The Stone Kin has refused to talk to me, let alone trade with me. From what I gathered, he wants to be left alone. He has however, taken on a human apprentice, who I regularly trade with. I wasn't aware of her goods' quality and sold them to the army for a dirt-cheap price. It's her goods the army is interested in, not her master's. She might not be as secretive as her master is, but she has multiple times told me to keep their existence a secret. If you try to establish contact with them, they'll likely leave." I make sure to emphasize her willingness to leave.

"I see, and I bet you just happen to be the only one she's agreed to trade with, is that right? I'm sure someone with higher levels and skills could come to an agreement with her." He sends me a challenging look.

"That might work?" I acknowledge his underlining threat. "It's a shame I'm the one who was acknowledged by General Pitz and Captain Nathaniel. It also helps I already established a contract with the blacksmith." I was hoping to see some shock on Mr. Turrini's face, but he doesn't look perturbed by my revelation at all.

"The Contract skill is a staple for any good merchant. I wonder what level yours is at? Is it above 40, judging by your expression it isn't, is it? Though it makes things more annoying, a contract can be broken in many ways if its user isn't a high enough level. Did you specify who takes over your contact if you suffer an unexpected accident? Many contracts automatically cancel when the user of the skill dies, did you know that?" I pale at his threat.

"You did a good job making sure you formed a contract with her, but you should never boast about it unless you have the ability to back it up. We'll have to discuss another time, but for now, we need to move on. Did you already send word to her that she needed to craft arrows for you? I heard the general only gave you a month to fulfill her order before she left the inn you were staying at." He even heard about that! The general's privacy magic was only deactivated for two sentences, and he somehow captured what she said? It's a good thing I sent the message to Aaliyah with a courier falcon, or someone probably would've intercepted it if I sent it by normal means.

"I've already sent a message by courier falcon. She should have enough arrows for me by the time I'm scheduled to return to her village. General Pitz made it sound like she wanted the best arrows possible, and hopefully, she's satisfied with what we can procure on such a tight schedule."

"Your blacksmith is in a village, is she? It makes sense if they're trying to remain low key. Which village are they located in?" Mr. Turrini shuffles a few papers around before finding the one he's looking for

"Spotted Creek Village," I answer him. He freezes in his seat with a surprised expression.

"Where my daughter is?" He probably would've heard about Aaliyah sooner if he remained in contact with his disgraced daughter.

"That's right, the same village your daughter moved to. I was lucky to be assigned a backwater location only to discover a future master craftsman." I take the chance to brag a little.

"The gods work in mysterious ways." I hear him mumble to himself before he decides to move on. "When are you due back in their village?"

"Roughly ten days from now."

"You should gather some supplies and leave immediately. Your deal with the general takes precedent over your previous route. I'll have your route be distributed to other merchants while we fill your previous position."

"You're firing me!" I panic.

"You've made it abundantly clear I need you to negotiate with your blacksmith friend, so no, I'm not firing you. This matter is highly sensitive, so I'm promoting you to a Specialty Sales Merchant. You won't need to worry about your previous route."

Specialty Sales Merchant, I've never heard of that position before? "What kind of position is that?" I hesitantly ask.

"They're the department of the company that deals with the movement of specialty materials and high-class goods with selective clients. You'll start off catering to your blacksmith, and if you prove to be adapting to your new position, you'll be given other clients in the future. But right now, I want you to focus on working with your blacksmith and regularly delivering whatever the general requests of you."

I'm almost afraid to ask about my pay. "Mr. Turrini, what is the pay like for my new position?"

He gives me a merchant's grin that has me reaching for my coin pouch. "Still thinking about your profits, that's good. Specialty Sales Merchants receive different salaries depending on their actions. You'll be dealing with much more expensive goods from here on out and working with a select clientele. Depending on what you need from the company, we take a flat fee for procuring the item you need, and from then on, the item technically belongs to you. You decide how much you want to charge your client. If you want to charge a higher price to make more of a profit, we won't take any of your earnings. However, if you lose us any of our clients, you'll be immediately fired, and the only merchant job you'll be able to get is selling manure from a farm."

I've never been so excited and so afraid at the same time. "That means I need to pay for my goods outright from now on."

"Correct. The position of a Specialty Sales Merchant is different from being a simple traveling merchant. For all intents and purposes, you're still a traveling merchant under our company, but because of the nature of the items your hauling, you should hide your new position and maybe hire a few more guards." He grabs a blank piece of parchment and starts writing on it.

He puts his seal down at the bottom and hands it to me. "That is your reference letter, take it to our main store in Drey and give it to the store manager. He'll be your contact with the company from now on. You simply need to ask him for whatever you need and have the coin ready. He'll keep track of your business and relay it back to a special department here. For whatever reason, you might find yourself in trouble. You can seek help through him. Any questions?"

"If you have a direct line of communication to him, can I send a list of things I need ahead of me?" I cautiously ask.

"I suppose we can do that. What do you need?" Mr. Turrini gives me a curious look.

"May I?" I motion to a stack of blank parchment on his desk.

He slides a piece of paper across his desk to me and hands me an enchanted pen that expels a perfect amount of ink from the tip. I can't afford to waste time being impressed with his expensive writing utensils. I quickly scribble out everything I need and hand the paper back to him.

He quickly scans through what I wrote down and looks back at me, confused. "Crates of dried food and a bunch of cheap magical tools? I give you full access to our company, and you want to order a few gold worths of stuff? Why so much dried food?"

My eyebrows rise in exclamation. "Sir, did you not read the report I sent you on the status of Spotted Creek Village?" When I was assigned to my route, I was told to write up a brief letter detailing anything I heard regarding his daughter every time I visited the village. I must have mentioned the threat the village is facing at least three times now.

"What's wrong with the village? Your letters are analyzed by one of my aides; I'm only told about direct dangers to her life."

Does he not care about his daughter at all? I spend the next thirty minutes explaining the threat the village faced with the goblins and what they continue to face with the chameleon spiders. The whole time he merely nods along with my explanation with a look that says he could care less about what I'm saying.

"I see, it doesn't sound like my daughter is in any real danger at the moment. The village head knows the price he would pay if he made my daughter participate in anything hazardous. If anything, this is a great opportunity for you." I send him an uncomprehending look.

"With the village in chaos, they'll be more reliant upon your deliveries. Focusing on delivering food to the village will be a great cover for you. Besides, it sounds like the village is strong enough to repel the beasts. And if the local lord is already notified, the issue should be resolved soon. He's notoriously known for the magic beast hunters, he employs. Once spring rolls around, he'll be looking for a place to train new hunters depending on his losses at the fort." Is this the callousness one needs to run a mercantile company?

"Your order will be sent within the hour. I suggest you hurry to Drey and plan out your immediate future. You better pray your blacksmith is up to the general's task. You can leave now." He waves his hand behind his desk, and I hear the automatic doors open behind us.

I don't have to be told twice. The three of us move as quickly as we can without appearing disrespectful. The doors once again close behind us as we move towards the exit.

We’re alive, and in the end, I was promoted. I never imagined it would happen like this, though. Let's hope the gold is worth it.

What am I saying, of course, it's worth it! The money I'll make from the army will make what I've earned up until now look like a dirty copper coin you find on the side of the road.

Giovanni Turrini may have tried to be threatening, but I won't buckle under the pressure.

It's time to head for Drey, levels, and gold coins are waiting for us to claim them!

Giovanni Turrini's Point of View:

I watch Kervin and his guards scurry out of my office like it's on fire. I quickly seal my doors again and sit back in my chair, exhaling deeply.

"Remind me, Marshall, to find the person in charge of going over the letters regarding my daughter. I should have been notified the minute a goblin tribe was spotted near her village. To think I wasn't told about such dangers around her." I slam my hand against my desk.

"Sure thing, boss. You want me to send a hunting party to the village to exterminate the magic beasts?" My close friend and bodyguard, offers his brand of help.

"No, it sounds like most of the danger has already passed. I'm just angry I wasn't notified about something so serious beforehand!"

"You could try writing her once in a while if you're so concerned about her safety." I narrow my eyes at Marshall.

"You know very well I can't do that. There are too many people watching my movements, trying to hinder the growth of the company. If people thought I still cared about my daughter, she could be abducted or have something worse happen to her. Better even my employees think I no longer care about her."

I close my eyes and surrender my full weight to my chair. This is the price I must pay to expand my family's company. Throwing my daughter out into the wilderness and moving my three sons around constantly to avoid assassination attempts.

Sometimes I wonder if the coin is worth it?

I can't sit here moping. I turn to Marshall. "You started serving my father a few years before he passed the company to me. What do you think, is it the same dwarf who wasted my father's money trying to make magical weapons?" I ask.

"Probably, Stone Kin live much longer lives than we do, and not many leave their mountain fortresses." He gives me a lighthearted answer.

