At first glance, the skill seemed simple, much like Malika’s Perfect Body or Calen’s Blessing of the Dawn, boosting the troll’s strength, endurance, and dexterity – the ideal set for a physical melee warrior. The first unusual thing about it though, was the bloodline itself, granting the skill an extra boost, and implying that the skill was inherited.

The troll’s neck and face began to flush, and Ali quickly withdrew her hand from its tusks in embarrassment, but she couldn’t stop staring at the runic magic. The spirals and swirls of mana seemed to evoke patterns with an uncanny likeness to Malika’s soul magic, and yet all in the troll’s own bone affinity. She dearly wished she could read the runic symbols, but to her surprise, her Runic Script was no help – they seemed to be written in some ancient language that she did not understand.

The tusks of the blood shamans had not had these runic carvings, but she had found equally indecipherable tattoos with a different style of magic on their skin – although, without the animating energy of the live troll, the runes had been indecipherable. As she had discovered, in the case of the shamans, Ali still struggled to even see anything related to their magic.

Sage of Learning began drawing heavily on her mana as she studied the runic structure and the mana flows, but it seemed she didn’t have enough knowledge yet to decipher the puzzle.

Perhaps if I learn the language of the trolls. She resolved to study this further once she returned to the library and could consult with Ryn to see if they had any books on troll magic and their runes.

The rest of the skills seemed rather self-evident. Create Bone Weapon was how the troll made the throwing axes or blades, and Bone Rush was its movement skill.

“Bone Mastery is the only other skill with the Bloodline trait,” Ali said when she had finished reading all of them. “It improves the speed and power of all its bone magic skills.”

“That’s a very interesting bloodline,” Malika said, obviously curious to find details on a bloodline that was different than her own.

Initially, Ali had planned on summoning the troll just to give them the opportunity to look at the abilities, but after having studied them, she couldn’t unsummon it and go back to using the Hobgoblins. Her troll was so much more powerful, and the stronger her minion army, the safer they would be facing the denizens of this dungeon. Not to mention she was level sixty-five. With the additional wisdom from the pretty beads Malika had given her, her mana pool had grown, and she decided she could afford to reserve the mana for a second troll even though they were her highest-level minions. It was unfortunate that she didn’t have any imprints for head gear or rings to further outfit her troll, and with the way it created its weapons by extruding bone out of its hands and arms, any bracer or glove equipment would have to be custom crafted or it would simply be shredded. Still, she gave it a tusk ring from their collection of loot and filled it with an assortment of potions.

She took her time deconstructing everything else, giving Malika the leftover gear, which included another set of Ancestral Spirit Beads the shaman had been wearing, and then resummoned the rest of her minion army, with a few small tweaks.

Her awareness hovered just beyond, tentative, afraid to rejoin her body for some reason. But the pull came again, stronger than before and she was drawn in closer and closer until…

Gara opened her eyes and screamed.

She was a troll of Aman Rak, proud of her heritage and bloodline. Never in her entire life had she screamed in pain, not even the time that Jotan had accidentally crushed her hand under the boulder when they were both eleven.

But this was something different. Black streamers of energy arced from the altar of bone, punching through her exposed chest where her body was staked to the stone wall of the temple, ripping her life force out of her in a great torrent. It went on and on until she felt her soul would shatter.

And then suddenly it ceased.

She collapsed, sagging back down against the wall, hanging off the steel stakes driven through her belly and shoulders, almost drained of all her life as her regeneration slowly started recovering her health. A cruel laugh cut through her pain, and she looked up to find Kir’mogan standing by the altar with his acolytes; a greataxe casually resting on his shoulder, dripping blood and gore onto the ground.

“Woke you up, did I?” He grinned at her, stepping over the pile of corpses littering the ground around the altar. “This part is fun, you should watch.”

She had no choice but to watch. The steel stake through her belly had been expertly hammered through her spine, making the entire lower half of her body numb and unresponsive. Her shoulders were staked to the wall to prevent her from falling forward, and her arms had both been severed just above the elbows, the wounds cauterized with fire to prevent her regeneration from repairing them. She swallowed, her body still trembling and shaking from the agony of whatever magic he had inflicted upon her.

“You should be happy; you’re a troll and you can contribute your life to the altar again and again,” Kir’mogan said, mocking her and the heritage they shared.

“You have betrayed our bloodline, and the spirits of Aman Rak,” Gara declared, raising her head in proud defiance, but the altar pulsed ominously with the energy it had torn from her, and then a wave of darkness rippled outward from it, washing over the bodies of the slain trolls on the ground. And to her horror, they all twitched, powerless to resist the pull of the unnatural sinister black energy even in death. With a gruesome wet ripping sound, their skeletons tore their way free from their fleshy prisons and stood up amid showers of dripping blood and gore.

Gara screamed again, and this time not from pain.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
