Lehesion's eyes widened as his aura returned to the flesh. I poked it, and Lehesion turned to his tail and gawked, "What...what kind of ability is that? Is it not a void of death? Maybe a disintegrating circle of some sort? How can I continue to feel my tail? That's fascinating but-"

He shivered, "Disturbing as well."

I shoved it back into the portal a second after. Lehesion raised his brow and widened his eyes, "To think that such an ability could even be possible. Incredible."

I shrugged, "It's my dimensional space. I'm a living dimension. Multiverse, actually."

"Dimension? Like Chrona's insane musings?"

"She's right. See everything around you? Anything and everything is in our dimension. It is the dimension." I pointed at myself with a thumb, "Everything except me, that is. I'm not a part of this space. I'm a different dimension, just way smaller. I'm more alive as well...Probably." I frowned, "I'm kind of lost on the details, to be honest."

"Hah. Then you are puny for your kind."

I crossed my arms, "I'd rather be the chief of a village than the pawn of a king."

Lehesion rolled his eyes, "Ah yes, you're very witty, but what does this have to do with my predicament?"

"I can put your head in here." I gestured at my warp, "They won't be able to control you then. You'll be in stasis, just like that hunk of tail was earlier."

"Is that not the same as death?"

"Of course not. You'll still be alive, and eventually, I'll be able to get you out of your awful circumstances. Besides, Elysium could collapse in just a few weeks without you propping up their system. Hell, just breaking free for a few minutes is probably wrecking their credibility as we speak."

A long silence lingered over us. Lehesion tilted his head at me as if I were insane,

"You're actually serious?"

"Dead serious."

Lehesion peered as if searching for some hidden intent oozing out of me. He found none, and he bellowed out in hearty laughter, "By the Old Ones, you're a fool. An imbecile. A complete moron."

I frowned, "Yeah, yeah, laugh it up."

Lehesion grinned at me, "But, you're just the kind of fool I like. Your childish idealism is amusing, perhaps even infectious, but...I am too broken. I will never have myself fully restored. Thank you for giving me hope, even if it was hollow in the end."

I snapped, "You know what? You piss me off."

Lehesion's smile turned wicked, "Now that I'm unwilling to do as you ask, you're opinion of me changes. Disappointing, surely, but expected. I have more reason to hate you beyond mere differences of belief, however."

I pointed at him, "No, I'm not mad you disagree with me. I'm mad because you keep pretending you're helpless just so that you can give up."

Lehesion's eyes turned to slits, "Giving up? I've been tormented for decades, attempted every option available to me, and you say I've given in?" His face wrinkled, contorting in anger, "You've never seen nor faced even one of the obstacles I've overcome. You've never been rived open, whether from your own failures or by the tortures of tormenters."

I beat my chest, "You haven't even tried my plan, so how can you say you've tried it all? And besides that, you don't know me. You don't know whether I've lost everything or not."

With his frame shining, he echoed, "And you expect me to trust you, a different tormenter, one who has torn me to shreds, Over and over again?"

"No, I don't expect that at all. I'm letting you know you have other options, whether you think you do or not. You just prefer having everyone choose your options for you because you're afraid to fail again. Hell, you're afraid to clean up the mess you left behind because you think you'll make a bigger one."

He yelled, "And what of you? You murder in the millions for personal gain. You're a monster who hasn't even tried to improve the lives around you. All you do is devour while everything burns around you." Lehesion pointed at everything around him, "Here's an example."

I narrowed my eyes, "I wouldn't have chosen this. I pacified the eldritch on this planet to stop the blood sacrifices, and I'm working to establish order and prosperity."

"That order is built on blood and corpses. It is no different than Elysium's governance."

I pointed at some constructor golems behind me, "You see them? They're literally made of my blood, and that's the difference. I'm not wiping out species, torturing eldritch, and mind-controlling people to get what I want. I'm taking the time to build from the ground up with my own two hands."

Lehesion hissed, "I see that you've deluded yourself into believing your justice is somehow greater than the Adair's, just as all bloodthirsty conquerors do."

I glared at him, "I stopped your species' extinction. They'd be wiped out to subservience, a military tool if I hadn't stepped in. Bloodthirsty conquerer? If that were the case, I'd of eaten the gialgathens instead of saving them."

Lehesion stepped back, "I...That-"

I pointed at a blighted one swimming in the distance, "You see that? That's what Elysium's done, and don't you ignore it and pretend it never happened. The gialgathens would be wiped out if not for what I did. And it cost me. It cost me dearly. I was dragged into the center of this war for doing that. I could've backed away and come up with some kind of deal with Elysium instead. I didn't. I refused to turn the other way while they decimated your kind."

Lehesion's eyes widened as I pointed at him and shouted, "And now I can't give them a new home because you'll destroy it." I let my hands drop to my sides in frustration, "It's like you won't stop until you've completely killed everybody. It's like you want a clean slate, and you're willing to do anything for it."

Lehesion blinked as his face followed the corrupted form of a gialgathen swimming across the ocean. Lehesion gripped his claws into the ground, his proud stature shrinking. I shook my head in disgust, "Calling me a bloodthirsty conquerer, the nerve. How about you look in a mirror?"

Beads of sweat poured from Lehesion's brow, his heart racing in his chest. Lehesion's composure cracked before I raised my hands, "Come then. There's no point in talking anymore. I'm not going to compromise with madness. I can see what's right is right, even if you can't."

The burden of protecting Lehesion's mind deluged over my own like a dam breaking. The psionics rallied, rebuilding the scaffolding that contained Lehesion so well before. That framework shut down any tampering of my own, and I only delayed the inevitable as they closed in on a complete reconstruction.

Furthering that repair, Lehesion stopped defending himself. He blinked while he tried to escape his contrasting thoughts. Something in him had snapped as if the weight of his deeds crushed him. In a fury, he turned to me, "I...I can no longer bite the hand that feeds me."

I roared, "It doesn't feed you. That hand is strangling you."

No longer in the mood to talk, Lehesion rallied the last inklings of his defiance. He charged at me like a storm. Darting in a blinding dash, his enormous body moved with uncanny agility as if he held the speed of many in his wings. My auras reverted, Event Horizon smothering his skull before his paw crushed me down.

His mana scales were empowered once more by streams of mana. I sunk into the ground before it melted beneath me. I liquified the sand and stone before pulling the magma over Lehesion with telekinetic nets. He outpoured his aura. The molten rock splattered across the buildings and wastes nearby, water fizzling into boiling bubbles. Lehesion took a breath, siphoning country-breaking power into his maw. Releasing it, Helios created a portal in front of Lehesion's mouth.

Lehesion's beam transferred towards his side. It collided with his defensive aura, and the shielding held strong, its protective properties emboldened by untold amounts of mana. Seconds passed, and the ocean evaporated in a heated boil, plasma piling beside Lehesion with bursts of steam. A blue glow ebbed from Lehesion as a growing crater formed beneath him.

He was releasing radiation—lots of it.

Despite these enormous, rebounding forces, Lehesion only empowered his ray of death. Helios lunged to one knee as the edges of his portal cracked. Another surge from Lehesion and the warp snapped like a glass jar landing on a stone floor. Helios collapsed behind me before Lehesion reached out a clawed hand.

My eyes widened as Helios stared forward. From under his black mask, blood leaked out of Helios's eyes and ears. He growled as mana siphoned into his elemental furnaces. He thundered in defiance while creating a defensive barrier of void ice around my city.

The water, hardened by the absolute coldness, sustained the light before exploding outwards. It was enough time for two super golems to stand in the way of the beam's wrath. They caught the ray's volatile stream, the arms, chest, and faces melting off the golems while Helios threw up his hands. More void ice swallowed them all, and it protected the golems long enough for them to regenerate. Lehesion's laser kept plowing through their defenses as I charged him.

I smashed my fists into his mana barrier, but his onslaught never ceased. Helios stared down at my guildsmen and the Vagni below. He grasped a hand into a fist, his mana furnace revving. The barrier around our city snapped, and Helios lifted his hand.

A mountain of void ice materialized between the city and Lehesion's ray. Helios put this mountain at an angle, and the beam rippled upwards towards Helios and the golems. Helios arms fell, and he took his last breath. In that endless light, a shadow fell over all three of the figures.

The blinding glow flashed over them, and I blinked, my stomach sinking like a stone in water. They were gone.

The beam carried past them, angled up over the void ice. This beam obliterated an enormous pathway of Saphigia, my golems protecting our city and charging the blue core's barrier once more. The flashing bolt nulled all before it until it crossed into the horizon, leaving a gaping hole left in the ocean.

One attack and Lehesion parted the seas. Those vast walls of water piled back in, tsunamis forming and ebbing out in all directions. They'd swallow the few coastlines across Blegara, wiping out entire populations of native wildlife. All in one breath.

I turned to Lehesion, stunned by his utter destructive abilities. Whether he could kill me or not, he'd leave this entire world scarred and mutilated. Even more so, Helios's sacrifice left me stunned. We weren't his guild, and these weren't his people. No matter his motivations, the ruler of worlds put himself in the line of fire.

And he was consumed by it.

Lehesion's enormous form loomed with that same promise as he snarled at me. My pulse raced, the enormity of the battle falling over me like a lead cloak. Everyone could die. Every single guild member, the Vagni, even the eldritch, were all going to die here in a dry sea doused in atomic fires. Fire, I'd survive.

Those thoughts racked my mind before Lehesion smashed me into the dirt. Another tectonic explosion ushered forth, and the ground caved without measure. Buildings miles away tumbled. The sea acted as a puddle splashed by a child. The apocalyptic nature of Lehesion's will evinced out undeniably; his destructive potential was infinite.

I couldn't comprehend the full scale of our fight any longer. It exceeded the bounds of what I considered real, and for that reason, I was afraid. Not for my own death, but the deaths of everyone I cared about.

And that was because of one factor - I withstood the carnage. My body remained formed. My mind retained reason. My bones did not break, and I did not crumble. At the bottom of a pit of magma, steam, and stone, I kept my hands overhead. I held Lehesion's paw.

The behemoth's eyes widened as I glared up at him. Every fiber of my being oozed out desperation, the sheer scale of this fight putting me on a razor's edge. I couldn't just distract him anymore or leave him in pain. I needed Lehesion away from here. We needed to evacuate this place, or else there'd be nothing left.

And every single mind under my domain raced forwards towards that goal. No longer was I crippled by the Adair's psionics. They all rushed for Lehesion, and that left me undaunted by their relentless hounding. Without the need to face them on that field, I regained my own full abilities.

I turned whole, and I would show him the Harbinger of Cataclysm's absolute fury.

In an enormous display of magic, I siphoned mana into my frame. It pooled for seconds, Lehesion grinning down at me as he smashed his other hand on me. Ignoring him, energy flowed in my blood and heated me until I burned. Arcs of white lightning burst forth as I shifted to the Rise of Eden. The water trembled along with the sky and clouds above. Even the fabric of time around us curved out from me as I made my presence here complete.

Releasing the mana in a single burst, the roaring energy poured from my hand until cracks formed on my palm. Deep beneath Blegara's crust, I generated a gravity well of untold proportion. It swallowed the ocean. It lifted not just us but the entire battlefield as well. An enormous chunk of Blegara rose, cracks echoing out in the sea and the sky alike.

This region stretched out for miles, and the clouds over us parted as massive waterfalls fell into the waters below. Lehesion and I drifted into the heavens, where we left Saphigia and my city behind. Lehesion gawked around him, his own battles rarely measuring to this standard either. The air washed over us before I reached out a hand, willing mana to saturate the risen seafloor beneath us. In a torrential display of might, I inundated this vast island, keeping it afloat.

Lehesion marveled, "The depths turn into the heavens above."

