I squeezed my left hand, my armor steadily drilling itself through Lehesion's armor. He peered down at me, swatting me with his tail. My vision flipped, spiraling in a tumble. Before losing complete control of my levity, I snapped myself still. Lehesion followed me, but I met his tackle head-on.

We jolted in an overwhelming collision. The ocean caved beneath us, and the ground relented before us. The buildings left disintegrated as kinetic energy rebounded in a kinetic outpour that liquefied metal and powdered stone. We unleashed a shockwave that collapsed buildings for hundreds of meters in every direction.

In all of that, I flew backward like a boulder let out from a catapult. I gouged out a trough of earth and sand football fields broad. Standing from the heated pit of glassy magma, the wet rock dissolved before re-solidifying once more. Wrenching my feet from the fresh stone, I wiped bits of rock from my shoulder, no worse for wear.

Lehesion's arm bent in the wrong direction, and he snapped it back into place. He raised his scaly brow, "You're inexhaustible. I'll give you that."

Before I shouted back, a spear sliced into the behemoth. The lance of bone carried cracks of violet, ebbing some kind of foreign, palpable energy. A section of Lehesion disappeared before he imploded. Splattering in all directions, half of his body lay disfigured. Regenerating in an instant, Lehesion snarled,

"The silver girl. Obnoxious."

I turned where he stared, finding only a whisp of hair remaining of her. Althea left me smiling before Lehesion's eyes widened. He winced as decaying arms crawled from the earth and pulled him down. The craggy, sandy ground turned to tar that rushed into Lehesion's mouth, eyes, and ears. Enchanted skeletons made of the Omega Strains rose from the mush, stabbing at him before Lehesion's aura purified his surroundings.

To my side, Torix landed with his hands crossed behind him. He turned to me, "The evacuations are complete, disciple. We've done what we can, and others are charging the city below."

A shadow beneath Lehesion swelled, and from it, Other Hod sliced. He left a nasty gash that burned with an umbral fire. It fed liquid and sizzled on blood as Hod unleashed a torrent of other attacks, using a bit of light magic he learned. He created artificial shadows, and they worked as well as real ones, Other Hod escaping through my shade when Lehesion outpoured golden lightning in all directions.

I generated conductive plumes to siphon the electricity to me, feasting on the raw energy. Other Hod stood behind me, releasing two super golems and Helios from his shadow. That's why darkness flashed over those three before the ray consumed them. Helios peered around before standing upright. Other Hod hissed,

"I saved them, Harbinger."

"Good." I met Helios's eye, "I won't forget you saving the city."

Helios took a breath, the albony shaken. He took a hand and slapped himself in the face before growling out, "Don't thank me yet. Your city is still at his mercy."

Undeterred, Lehesion stepped forward before a chorus of sonic roars forced him back. Krog and a legion of his elites flew past Lehesion, tearing him down with ebbs of sound. This new battalion landed behind me after making their assault, Lehesion peering at them with disgust. Whether he admitted it or not, the dribbling blood from his ears meant the attack busted his eardrums. It looks like they'd been practicing.

Lehesion opened his mouth, and an energy beam poured out at us in an instant. Before landing, it slowed down, entering a time dilation.

Chrona's silvery figure flew over us while I reached up with my own dimensional shield. Lehesion's energy poured into my dimensional space before I pulled myself towards the colossus. As I did, I followed the beam's trajectory, swallowing it in the shield before reaching him. Lehesion concentrated his aura into the tip of his tail and whipped it at me.

I pulled out my shield up and unleashed the grimoire creation's aftermath. Simultaneously, I shrunk the pocket dimension's entrance, condensing its releasing energies into a beam—that ability drilled through Lehesion before I arced it sideways. Cleaving through Lehesion's torso and mana scales, a clean gash appeared over his skin.

His precise tail whip turned into a chaotic mess as Lehesion's long limb crushed the ground behind me. Shifting on my feet, I smashed my fist into his chest with all my strength. These attacks mutilated Lehesion, but a patch of his mana scales burst, knocking me far back. I dragged along the ground on my feet before a wing stopped my slide. Turning around, Krog and several gialgathens used wind magic for the catch.

Chrona walked up to my side with the other gialgathens. Following in their wakes, dozens of my golems hovered up along the edge of our floating battleground. I linked my mind to theirs. Our enormous, mobile unit faced Lehesion down before the golden gialgathen showed his fangs,

"It appears you're no longer alone."

I took a breath, the air clear. I always held all this responsibility on my own, but now it felt like everyone else took it off my shoulders. That alleviating pressure let me breathe deeply. Refreshed and grinning, I peered at Lehesion, my confidence returning,

"Yeah. It looks like it."

Lehesion sheened bright, "Excellent. It appears as though I'll kill you all without needing to find everyone."

The sky darkened as he eclipsed it with his magic. Lehesion trembled the ground with his voice, "Though you will find there is nowhere left to run."
