Erin jumped. She saw Relc getting to his feet. The Drake’s eyes were narrowed, and in his hands was a spear. It wasn’t long, but it did look extremely sharp. And the way he held it, Erin instinctively knew he was ready to use it to kill.
Pisces took one look at the spear and immediately raised his hands.
“I—I give up.”
Relc spat. His leather chest armor was singed in multiple places, but the scales underneath only looked soot-blackened, not damaged. However—Erin could tell how furious he was. The Drake’s claws tightened on the spear.
“Not likely. I’m gutting you like a fish right here.”
Erin stared at Relc in horror. But there was no joking in his eyes. He was practically quivering with rage, but the arms that held his spear were completely still and tensed.
“Gutting? Hey, that’s—”
“Don’t be hasty!”
Pisces backed away from Relc, talking fast.
“I assure you, my life is worth far more than you would ever get for me dead. This can all be solved amicably. I will fully cooperate—”
“Cooperate?”
Relc stepped forwards, and Pisces pressed his two fingers together. A strong breeze flew through the inn, and a flickering barrier of wind appeared in front of Relc.
“I will cease all magic and go with you quietly if you assure my life. I meant no harm to you or your companion. But we are at an impasse until you do.”
Relc’s eyes narrowed.
“By that? You think a piddly little [Barrier of Air] spell is going to stop me?”
The big Drake’s body tensed. He crouched slightly and then dashed into the wind wall. Relc’s massive body smashed into the semi-transparent barrier of wind. He sunk into the barrier, and then the winds pushed back.
Even from this distance, Erin felt the tremendous force in the spell and saw chairs and tables being blown away. For a moment, she thought Relc would go flying. But his claws dug into the ground, and the wind howled—
The whirling winds blew apart with a small clap of air that sent the nearest chairs flying. Pisces staggered back, face grey with shock. Erin stared.
Relc, on the other hand, just twirled his spear in his hand. He spat contemptuously on the floor.
“That’s what I think of your spells. I’m a former soldier of the 4th Wing of the Liscorian Army. I’ve killed more [Mages] than you have levels. Now, are you going to die quiet or will I have to pay for painting the walls red with your blood?”
Pisces stepped back, tripped over a fallen chair, and fell on his back. He raised his hands and cried out in a shrill voice.
“I can be ransomed. Quite highly! My school will pay ten—thirty gold coins in whichever denomination you like for my return.”
Relc raised the spear.
“Still don’t care. I don’t need money if I can get rid of a stinking fleshbag like you.”
Erin raised her voice in horror.
“What? No! No killing! Do you hear me?”
But no one was listening. Klbkch was closing in, swords and daggers at the ready. Relc raised his spear higher.
“Last words, [Mage]?”
“I—I—”
She couldn’t believe what was happening. The friendly Relc was lowering his spear, a dozen paces away from the backpedaling Pisces. But he could close that gap in less than a second. His eyes—
He was going to kill Pisces. And Klbkch wasn’t going to stop him. Erin’s head swung to the Antinium, and Klbkch stood by the door, impassive. She couldn’t read his face, and in that second, he looked like a true insect. Pisces was white with fear. Erin was in denial until she saw the Drake’s eyes. Even then…she saw Pisces hit a table. He looked at Relc and grew calm for a second.
That bitter, blank look returned to his face. He bared his teeth and lifted the wand like a dagger. It glowed, but with no real hope. Just like his eyes. But he drew himself up, a pale, thin young man, and shouted, eyes bulging, his voice hoarse and—Erin’s head swung to him as he raised his voice.
“I have only ever done what I loved. Slay me as well, you thoughtless fools. Just like all of my kind. One day—one of us will follow Az’kerash.”
Erin’s skin crawled. Klbkch looked up sharply, but Relc just grinned with all his teeth. His tongue flickered around them, like blood.
“Nice last words. But remember—your Necromancer died here. Miles from this very spot. The Tidebreaker was his end.”
Pisces’ look of defiance flickered. He lifted his wand.
“I know.”
The Drake lowered his spear and ducked, sweeping low as Pisces took one step forwards, a word, a name on his lips.
“Gewil—”
“Hey!”
Erin slammed the pot on the table top as hard as she could. Relc, Klbkch, and Pisces paused as one to stare at her. Relc froze in his killing charge as Erin pointed one shaking finger at them.
“No fighting. Not here. And no killing!”
Relc blinked. He lowered his spear a fraction. Erin pointed to it.
“Stop that! Put the weapons away and get out.”
“But he’s—”
“I don’t care! You don’t kill people just because they practice stupid magic! And you don’t kill people just because you don’t like them! And you don’t kill people because killing people is wrong!”
“What?”
Relc pointed down at Pisces angrily. He didn’t lower his spear, but Pisces had stopped mid-cast of whatever spell he had in mind.
“He’s a criminal.”
“No, he’s an idiot. But he didn’t do anything wrong enough to die for. All he did was try to scare me.”
“He hit me with lightning!”
The Drake gestured at the burns on his chest. Erin pointed to Pisces’ bleeding nose and bruised cheek.
“You punched his brains out! That’s not enough to kill him over!”
The Drake lowered his spear. He turned to Klbkch in disbelief, then back to Erin.
“I can’t believe this. Are you defending him? Because he’s Human? Or do you not want the blood in here? In that case, I’ll take him out back and—”
“No!”
Erin shouted at Relc. She waved the pot around dangerously. 
“Are you stupid? I don’t want anyone killing anyone! You can’t do it! I forbid it! It’s wrong! It’s illegal.”
“In point of fact, my comrade’s actions are not—”
Erin whirled and pointed at Klbkch. The Antinium actually backed up a step as she glared between the two [Guards].
“I don’t care! No killing, do you hear me?”
Relc hissed angrily.
“Then I’ll arrest him, and he’ll be executed tomorrow. Happy?”
Pisces turned pale again. Erin’s mouth replied before her brain caught up.
“I withdraw my testimony.”
“You what?”
Erin lifted her hands. 
“I withdraw it. All of it. I was never attacked yesterday. This mage-guy never visited the inn, and I never saw him until today. So there’s no reason for you to arrest him.”
“You can’t do that!”
Relc turned and looked at Klbkch.
“Can she?”
The ant man nodded reluctantly.
“She is correct. Without her testimony, we cannot submit a report regarding his attempted thefts.”
Relc faltered. He looked uncertainly at Pisces and then remembered.
“But he’s still a [Necromancer]! That’s a crime no matter what he does! And he attacked us!”
Erin crossed her arms.
“Prove it.”
“What?”
“Prove. It. Can you? Is there a way to check his, uh, class?”
Relc gritted his teeth.
“…No. Not without an artifact. Klb, you got an [Appraisal] scroll?”
“No.”
“Then go. Now.”
Relc gaped at Erin. It was surprisingly frightening. Erin could look right down his throat. He had a lot of teeth.
“Are you serious? One word to our Watch Captain and she’ll send a patrol back to capture this idiot! And if we don’t arrest him, you have a [Necromancer] running around! You want us to let him go knowing his class?”
“Absolutely.”
Erin glared at him. Relc lowered his spear, grabbed at the spines on his head, and hissed. 
“I could still arrest him for attacking me. Yeah. I’ll just do that. Who cares about testimony or whatever?”
He took a threatening step towards Pisces, and Erin’s mouth once again beat anything else.
“You do that—and I’ll tell all the people who vouched for you that Senior Guardsman Relc arrested someone after a fight he started. You have no proof, no testimony, and I’m pretty sure if you arrest him, that’s illegal. There are laws, and you have to follow them. If this isn’t the first time you’ve done something like this, you could get a permanent citation on your record.”
Erin was just making things up now. She had no idea what kind of legal system Relc had to work under, but she was taking a guess based on their limited conversations. And it worked. Relc hesitated.
“No, I can’t.”
“Yes, you can. You have no cause whatsoever to arrest Pisces.”
The Drake’s arms were bunched up. He turned, furiously, and called in backup.
“Klb—help me out here!”
Erin’s heart sank as Klbkch sheathed his daggers. But only so he could pull out something from his belt. A handbook. How had he fit it on his belt? 
Wherever he’d gotten it from, the Antinium read carefully.
“I believe Senior Guardsman Relc does have just cause, Miss Erin Solstice. It is true that his personal sworn testimony would be called into question if you were to speak against him. [Detect Truth] spells would settle that matter, but Relc’s history of inappropriate conduct on-and-off-duty does not help his case.”
“Hey.”
The Antinium raised one finger.
“However. As Senior Guardsman Klbkch, I will vouch for my partner to take this Human into custody for unlawful practices which include extortion, theft, and intimidation, which we have every right to suspect, with or without your testimony.”
He closed the book, and Relc waited, clearly unsure if that meant he had won. Erin’s heart sank. She looked at Klbkch and then at Pisces. And then around her inn. How could she save him? For once, she didn’t want the [Guardsmen] to be…
Here?
Here? Erin’s eyes lit up, and she stopped Klbkch, who was stepping towards Pisces to effect the arrest, with a shaking finger. Literally—she shook it in his face as the surprised Antinium halted.
“Oh no. Absolutely not. You’re all wrong, Klbkch.”
“I do not believe I am.”
Erin’s shaking intensified, from nerves as much as faux-fury.
“Oh yeah? Oh yeah? Well, this is outside your jurisdiction! You said it yourself—you don’t patrol my inn! Therefore, it is my inn, and I deny your city’s authority here!”
Klbkch’s mandibles opened and stayed there. Relc swung his head to Pisces and Erin.
“Wait—what did she just say? Jurisdic—we don’t do that, do we, Klb? Buddy?”
Erin froze, but Klbkch clacked his mandibles after a second. He stared at Erin for a long moment, then at Pisces, then slowly sheathed his swords. He met the [Innkeeper]’s desperate gaze—then nodded.
“…I believe I am incorrect. Relc, the Watch has no authority here. This is an independent inn, and the [Innkeeper] is allowed to deny our authority here.”
“What? Then let’s arrest her too!”
Relc protested, and Erin’s heart sank, but Klbkch stared at Erin for a long moment and then backed up.
“That would be inadvisable, Relc. We are off-duty, and Miss Solstice has stated her case. Executing a [Mage] of Wistram might also affect the Academy’s relationship with our city. Which the Council and Watch Captain would not be happy about.”
Relc spluttered. He looked from Pisces to Klbkch to Erin, and his scales grew darker. Was he…blushing with fury? Relc lowered his spear, made an inarticulate noise of rage, then pointed at Pisces.
“You take one step in the city and I’ll—I’ll—you take one step in there and I’ll do something about it. If I so much as see you on my patrol—”
Pisces was panting, looking at Erin with disbelief. He lowered his wand, slowly, and spoke.
“I assure you, you will never see—”
Relc’s eye twitched.
“Shut up.”
Pisces wisely shut up. The Drake looked at Erin, then whirled around. He stomped towards the door.
“Humans!”
Relc kicked the door as he left. Erin winced as she heard the wood crack. Then he was gone.
Klbkch walked past Erin and nodded to her politely.
“Do not mind him. You are within your rights to enforce law within this establishment as you choose. I apologize for the mess on both our behalves.”
He left. Erin stood around the room, looking at the broken chairs, overturned tables, and general wooden carnage. Behind her, Pisces got to his feet. He was still shaking and sweatily pale.
“I don’t know how I can thank you, good M—Miss Erin. Please, accept my humblest—”
Bonk.
Erin tapped him on the head with the pot. Hard.
“Out.”
“What?”
Pisces stared at her in disbelief. Erin raised the pot higher.
“Out.”
He stumbled out. Erin kept staring at the mess in the room. It had to be said. Definitely.
“Males.”
