With a wide smile, same as before, and highly reminiscent of a teacher instructing a student who understands everything the teacher says, she said, “We already work with civilization, Erick. That is what we do. We make people better than they were before by killing those that don’t deserve to live.” She added, “You would kill the killers, and the corrupt, and the dangerous, but that’s just a variation on the various Shades out there who kills those of every type who fail to live up to their potential, be their crimes those of uselessness, stupidity, or even volatility. If they survive, then they’re not what we thought they were; they’re qualified to live. You and I, and us, we just have different lines in the tunnels between acceptable and non.”

All anger fled, to be replaced with a coldness, and a certainty.

Even if Fallopolis’s words were true, which Erick did not believe for a second, Fallopolis was acting up for someone. There were no [Scry] orbs hanging around them, but Erick didn’t believe that meant no one was watching.

Fallopolis was acting up for someone.

For him, to convince him of her lies? To convince him of some other thing?

For someone else, to convince them of her own intentions?

Probably the latter.

Or maybe both. Or neither.

Erick had no real base to draw upon when it came to Fallopolis. He had spoken to Killzone for a while, about every Shade there was, and about what to expect going into this Shadow’s Feast. Jane had spoken of her own time inside Ar’Kendrithyst, as well. Everyone knew a little bit about Ar’Kendrithyst, and Erick had heard a lot over the last year. One of the things everyone agreed upon was that the Shades were dangerous truth tellers, who spoke in candied half-truths and believable perspectives, as much as they could. They only lied when they respected the person they were talking to.

Killzone had told Erick that the Shades he would meet might tell the truth in the beginning, but the lies would come out soon enough. Right now, Fallopolis was likely trying to manipulate him with a partial truth.

With a gleam in her glowing white eyes, Fallopolis asked, “You’re not going to refute me?”

“I know perfectly well where my line lies, but I’ve seen people with nothing become better than who they were before. Lost souls high on drugs to get away from their lives, or behind bars and waiting for a judge to sentence them to life in prison. Rape victims too depressed to move on with their lives. They needed help, and I gave them that help, and sometimes I failed, but sometimes I succeeded and the world was a bit better for it.” Erick demanded, “What good is the harm you do when life itself is more than harmful enough to temper or break the people living it?”

“You overestimate our impact.”

“Monsters kill people.” He said, “You tempt people to your city to test them, and kill those who fail. Those who succeed gain items you release into the world with the intent to cause damage long after they’ve left your power, like the Sword Staff, or other artifacts.”

“You release artifacts into the world, too.”

“Don’t even try to equate the two. It is a disingenuous argument.”

“Your Particle Magic killed Odaali, Erick, for you just opened the door, exactly like any good Fire of the Age, or Shade. And then people were people. Your argument is the disingenuous one.” Fallopolis said, “If anyone should be fielding this question, it should be Rozeta, for we Shades have been trying to destroy the inequality of the Script and all the empowerments you seem to detest, for a long, long time.”

Erick almost retorted, but a strange shadow appeared on the glowing red road, not a hundred meters away. He turned a few more Ophiel eyes toward the blot in the red brightness. Fallopolis noticed.

She waved an arm wide, saying, “And here’s the bag boy! You took your sweet time.”

The blot moved forward and stopped ten meters away. It stepped up from the ground, resolving into a thin human man, with a wrinkled face and greying hair. The first noticeable thing about him were his clothes, for Fallopolis wore the same thing, but Fallopolis’ outfit was downright shabby, compared to his. And then Erick noticed his long arms and legs, as though he had been stretched, more than slightly.

The man regarded Erick with eyes that were grey pits of light. “My Queen wishes to welcome you to Kendrithyst.” Two more blots appeared behind the man. They stepped up to reveal younger, shorter butlers, or whatever they were. The first man asked, “If you would be so kind, would you please allow this one to take your bags? They will be ready for you at the Palace.”

“… No thank you.”

The butler looked ready to sigh, but instead, he turned to Fallopolis.

Erick turned to Fallopolis, too.

Fallopolis frowned at everyone, then said to Erick, “You’re going to be attacked before you reach the Palace. Best give him most of your things unless you would prefer to arrive at the Palace without dessert. Queen will not like it if you don’t bring her what she asked for.”

Erick had a refusal on the tip of his tongue, but this was not something he was willing to upset someone over. So instead, he asked Fallopolis, “Can I trust you at your overt words?”

Fallopolis stood up a bit straighter, as she blushed. “Ooh?” She put a hand to the side of her face, as if in thought. “Well.” She lowered her hand. Unsure, “I guess? Yes.” With a triumphant nod, she decided, “You can trust everything I say to be true, from here on out.”

Erick asked, “Are these really porters for Queen? They’re wearing your outfit.”

“Ha!” With a sly smile, she said, “Yes. They truly are her porters. Whatever you give them will go right to Queen, while you and I must take the longer, walking route.” She chided, “And apparently I need to take a slightly longer route than you!” She tugged at her outfit, saying, “I’ll have you know that this was my outfit first.” She gestured at the butlers, adding, “They look like that because they are a power play by the Queen, who takes every opportunity she can to shame me.”

Erick acknowledged the powerful monster in human guise, then turned to the others monsters in human guise, and floated his luggage-carrying Ophiel forward. With a few easy set-downs, Erick laid down most of his clothes and his glass-covered dessert tray. He kept one bag back, for it held his essentials; a few miscellaneous items, a jug of water he could [Duplicate], a few food items, and a few chocolate bars, just in case he needed a back-up dessert.

Erick had studied a map of Ar’Kendrithyst before he came. He knew the Palace District laid to the far south of the Dead City, over a hundred and twenty kilometers away. Past the Spire, where the Shades ruled the Dead city, and past Umber Street, where Bulgan rose to power. Past the Garden, which Treant took from Planter when Champion Yetta came and killed him. Past the Armory and three different lakes and a hundred other smaller places Erick had heard of from his daughter, or from Killzone.

For there would be no blipping to the party.

Because, though Erick barely noticed the tingling against his skin, it was there. Either Fallopolis or someone else had deployed their Blessing, disallowing all Spatial magic. It hadn’t been active in the beginning, but it was active after the wall closed…

Erick asked Fallopolis, “Is that your Blessing?”

“Nope!” She smirked, saying, “That’s part of the preparations for the Feast.” With her kendrithyst staff, she pointed to the sky. “If you can guess which plane I designed, then I’ll reward you with something special!” She turned shadowy, saying, “Be right back, gotta change!”

Fallopolis vanished from sight.

Erick turned his full attention to the butlers. They had picked up the luggage he had given them, but they had yet to leave. They were just sort of… waiting. Perhaps for Erick to say something? So he said, “Thank you for taking my things to the Palace. I look forward to meeting Queen.”

The lead one spoke, “Queen welcomes you to Kendrithyst, and to Shadow’s Feast.”

His words said, the butler and his entourage dropped into the red road, all at the same time. Their three shadowy blots zipped away, faster than Erick could track them, but not too fast for his Ophiel. They passed beyond sight when they got half a kilometer down the road, and turned right into a crystal tower, to vanish down into the depths.

And Erick was alone.

Maybe.

He took the time to gaze upon the city, again, since it was beautiful, and this was a calm moment.

Glowing red spires of crystal turned purple in the edges and down below, while the crystal skyroad ahead of him was a bit more muted in its brilliance. And now that he looked, he saw that different spires were different shades of red; the road was actually crimson. A real good color for Strength Stat enchantments, actually. There were shadows crawling inside every glowing tower and every crystal structure, but that was par for the course, for Ar’Kendrithyst. Nothing too unusual, there. The gentle undulation of the shadows reminded Erick of crashing ocean waves, or maybe ink swirling in water, or maybe… He wasn’t quite sure.

Erick stepped a little to the side of the red road underfoot, and looked down.

A glowing purple abyss stared back.

Erick turned on [Greater Lightwalk]—

And experienced a slowness he had never known. The spell activated over the course of a second; his skin turning fractionally brighter as he extended a tendril outward. Ah. So Killzone had been right. He had warned Erick of this possibility. Oh well. He could deal with limited spellcasting, due to a time-magic interacting with the global cooldown of the Script.

Erick experimented with his [Greater Lightwalk] tendril, moving the tendril around perfectly fine. No time-based shenanigans, there. But when he went to cast another spell, a [Force Bolt] this time, targeted onto the road ahead and too low-powered to actually do anything, the spell didn’t activate. It wasn’t an Error, or anything like that. These were the normal limitations of the Script.

The global cooldown prevented the casting of more than one spell every second, and while the 12 hours of Shadow’s Feast passed normally for everyone outside of Ar’Kendrithyst, inside the Dead City, it would take 10 days to pass those 12 hours. Meaning 240 hours inside the city. Meaning 20 seconds per single spell cast.

Luckily Erick had 10 Ophiel, each able to cast their own spell, once every 20 seconds.

… But they’d spend most of those global cooldowns just keeping themselves afloat with their [Airshape].

Erick glanced to his [Familiar]s. He thought. With a moment’s introspection, he decided that he was going to run [Greater Lightwalk] all the time, just keeping it on the periphery of his understanding, and not actually becoming a lightform being himself. He’d also run his [Handy Aura] the second he was able to cast again, which was coming up… now.

He turned on his [Flight of a Thousand Hands]—

With a dawning realization, and as he was tucking in his Handy Aura and his light tendrils, he understood that those butlers had likely been waiting for their global cooldowns to reset, and not to hear Erick speak, or anything like that. Shadelings still had Script access, after all. Mystery solved? Had Erick accidentally made a fool of himself?

Whatever the case, his next action was to have an Ophiel expend themselves to cast a [Prismatic Ward] on his luggage; casting the movable-option version of the Solid [Ward]. When Erick’s cooldown came back so he could recast that [Familiar]...

His Ophiel were going to run into problems with the global cooldown, weren’t they? He had never really paid attention to it before, but they used [Airshape] all the time; sometimes more than every 20 seconds. They would each need a different way to fly.

… Would there be mana problems, too? Was Erick’s regeneration cut in 20, as well?

Checking his Status, which took a few moments to actually manifest, Erick watched his mana regenerate as he expected it to regenerate. He was not that separated from the Script; the only thing he was truly separated from, in this fast-time space, was access to the Script. Mana regeneration and other Stat-derived powers were aspects of the Script, but either the Script was more robust than Erick imagined, or maybe this ‘cooldown limitation’ was just one of the ways to ensure Time Magic never got out of hand.

Jane had spoken of not being able to reach the Script when she was time-locked by Melemizargo, all those months ago. Perhaps, what she had actually experienced, was not a denial of Script access, but the very same limitation Erick was experiencing right now.

… Whatever the case, Erick opted to solve Ophiel’s flying problems now, while he had time. With a thought, he switched them all over to Handy Aura flight. They naturally regenerated 1 mana every two seconds, but that spell cost 1 mana per second, so they’d have to dip into the Restful, dense air every now and then. This was fine, for [Flight of a Thousand Hands] was good for both aerial movement and fighting off smaller beasties. Erick could have one of them, the one holding up the bag, actually, run [Greater Lightwalk], for that one would always be in the Restful air, and thus able to support the much larger 10 mana per second of [Greater Lightwalk], and also be able to better protect the bag. So he did just that.

Ahhh, planning.

It’d all go to shit soon enough, but it was best to be prepared if possible.

A spark of darkness drew Erick’s attention, just as the spark resolved into Fallopolis. The Shade wore a black dress with poofy shoulders and a cascade of fabric down the body, almost like a flamenco dancer’s outfit, but softer. It matched the style of her grey hair.

Erick asked, “Are you limited by the global cooldown, too?”

There was no harm in asking this question, to Erick’s knowledge. Fallopolis likely knew every single nuance to the spell currently locking down Ar’Kendrithyst. She would know that his own casting was somewhat limited.

She cackled once, then said, “Nope!” She pointed to the left. A bolt of shadow ripped out of her body like a tsunami packed into a football. It soared across the city to impact a red tower and splinter the crystal. Fallopolis waited a beat, then pointed to the right, sending another [Black Bolt] into the side of a different tower. She said, “You’d need to abandon the Script to be able to do the same thing with your [Greater Lightwalk].”

Erick could not stop the slight frown that pulled at his face.

