He pointed at the same distant tower, and flexed his [Greater Lightwalk]. He threw out a tiny, completely normal-sized [Force Bolt]. The tower was too far away to hit, so the spell vanished before it got there, but that was fine. He might not be able to recreate spells beyond Basic Tier, but he could certainly do that much. He wasn’t a complete rube.

Fallopolis smirked as she gestured down the red road with her crystal staff, saying, “Come! We must journey on foot to the Feast, so we will have lots of time to talk of the inadequacies of the Script, and to dodge or fight the trials and tribulations arrayed against us.”

Erick did not follow close, but he did follow to her side, leaving a good three meters distance between them. He asked, “Is your plan to distract me or protect me from attacks?”

“If anything, you will have distracted me when I am attacked. You are Untouchable. Directly, anyway.” Fallopolis shrugged, as she casually said, “But then again, there’s no predicting crazy, and these insane priests of Melemizargo are as noodle-noggined as brainsnakes.”

“… Okay.”

“You’ll want to prepare for collateral damage.” Fallopolis declared to the Dead City, “Won’t be my fault if he gets hurt!”

Erick stared out at the bright, crystal city, with spires reaching high and towers extending too far deep to see where they ended. Fallopolis was obviously speaking to someone, but the shadows in the glowing stones didn’t respond. No one responded.

So when was the first problem going to appear?

They silently walked down the road to Forward Base for a little while. The plot of crystal allotted to Spur’s Army loomed in the distance; a darker tower than the rest. It was supposed to be empty right now, and it certainly looked the part. No sentries standing atop the battlements. No soldiers stationed at the end of the road—

Fallopolis turned to the left, to the south, to stand on the edge of the red road, and then she walked off the road. She did not fall. She just kept walking, as though she was standing atop an invisible road. But she wasn’t truly ‘walking’ either. With every step she took, she moved double the distance as normal. It wasn’t three seconds before she pulled at least a dozen meters ahead.

After a moment of introspection, Erick followed, flying along on his Handy Aura, easily catching up.

Fallopolis noticed. She frowned at him, then looked to his dangling feet. “No flying!” She said it without malice, but there was an edge to her voice. “Walk with [Greater Lightwalk].” She gestured to the sky around her, the bright red crystals, and the glowing purple depths. “Is there not enough light to your liking?”

Erick returned her frown, and stepped onto the light. He almost stumbled, trying to match her stretched-out speed, but Erick got the hang of it after a few tries. With radiance splashing under every footfall, his Handy Aura pulled back to his back, and his balance secured, Erick said, “I did not expect you to take the ‘walking’ part seriously.”

“Serious as cancer!”

“Thank Rozeta for [Cleanse].”

He said it as a reflex, panicked for a brief moment, then decided it was okay. Because Fallopolis laughed.

“Ha!” Fallopolis said, “She didn’t make [Cleanse]! [Cleanse] has been around for more than a million years and cast a million different ways, long before the Script came along and locked it down to a press of intent and a brush of mana.”

“… Believable.” Erick asked, “But so what? It’s here, and I’ve used it because of her implementation of the Script, and I’m happy for it.”

Fallopolis questioned, “Happy to suffer the yoke of another?”

“Freedom is a lie kids and fools tell themselves is possible so they don’t have to labor under the harsh realities all around us. To live in a city, to love and be loved, to peacefully exist with others? These require sacrifices of freedom that I am all too happy to accept.” Erick said, “And besides that, there is always someone more powerful than you, for even if you’re at the top, you are still beholden to the mob, and I am not going to become a hermit.”

Fallopolis went, “Hrm.”

Fallopolis said no more, and Erick didn’t either.

They just walked, for a while.

- - - -

This was all too fuckin’ weird. Here he was, strolling through the sky next to a true monster. Though she might walk with a slight smile and a happy look upon the world, and though she might seem like a kindly grandmother, she was a monster. No doubt about that.

Jane had shown him telepathic images of the people Fallopolis had turned into musical instruments, and of the monster ‘cake’ she had set out for Champion Yetta and the rest of her party. Jane showed him pictures of her time rescuing people from the Arena, who Fallopolis had dumped into death games, and when they succeeded, she harassed them all the way through the city, all the way back to the Crack, and outside. It was awful, what she had done to all of those people…

Those people who had invaded her home?

No no. That was being too generous to Fallopolis. But...

With that thought, Erick just had to ask. But maybe a more generalized question, rather than a specific one. It might reveal more.

“Why do you harm people who come to Ar’Kendrithyst?” Erick clarified, “Why play the villain, and ply with treasure, if the goal is to make the world stronger?”

Fallopolis lost some of the happy pep to her walk, as she said, “Fair warning: Don’t use that name around other Priests of Melemizargo.”

“Fair enough.”

She looked to him with eyes made of light, then turned her attention back to the empty ‘road’ ahead, saying, “We devoted sons, daughters, and otherwise of the Dark Dragon… We appreciate power. We cultivate cunning. We love losers who turn everything around, and upend the world for their own gain, or for the lives and love of others. But if you think we’re the greatest danger this world faces, you don’t know anything.” She pointed all around at the pristine crystal towers, saying, “If we were the biggest bads on the planet, then they would all come to kill us all, bringing this city low, for even a collection of couatls will band together to strike at strangers. Now, it is true that we have been Big Bad Problems every now and again. We’re only mortal, Erick. But for every time one of us has managed to convince the rest to go to war, and thus made targets of ourselves, there was someone else out there that has done worse.”

“And those people should feel shame for their actions, too.”

She asked, “Want to become a Shade and teach them that they should feel shame?”

“What about the people in Champion Yetta’s incursion into Kendrithyst? Why did you turn those people under your power into musical instruments?”

She nodded, then began, “The Champion was coming to kill Planter; this was unavoidable. By planting those Daydroppers and putting himself on Atunir’s Kill and Exterminate Quest, he had overstepped his bounds as a good Shade. To make a long story short, he had gone insane or succumbed to his monstrous nature, or whatever you want to call it. And thus, he had to die.

“A Full Meeting determined our collective response to our fallen member.

“We decided to assist every adventurer who came to kill him.

“There were more than a few attempts to use the new influx of young power to kill off some of our own. I stood firmly in this camp as I often do, and I will make no apology for trying to kill unfit Shades.

“But then you sent Yetta after us, and everything changed. We had another Full Meeting. We could not assist a divinely appointed soldier unless we thoroughly tested them first, and took at least one or two of them for ourselves.

“Halfway through this meeting, Melemizargo got involved. There were too many of his pieces in play for him not to. You had given Yetta the quest to kill Planter, and Jane was already in the city, killing and culling weakness like a good girl. Champion Tania Webwalker usually remains silent during Full Meetings, but she spoke. My usual desire to see the weak culled from our ranks was met with unusual furor from Tania.

“This set the tone for Yetta’s incursion.

“From there, a lot of boring things happened, but I cleared my part of the city of adventurers, and waited.” She looked to Erick, asking, “And you know what I saw when I saw Yetta?” She returned her sight forward, and answered herself, “I saw a scared girl, on the precipice of horror, flying forward for she knew no other way. So when Yetta and them decided to go along with the Army’s suggestion to rescue the people we cleared out of the city in preparation for Yetta’s arrival, I waited. When they came my way, I rapidly mutilated the adventurers and turned my guardwolf into a cake, in order to prepare them for what they would find at Planter’s Garden and elsewhere in Kendrithyst.” She added, “Others had more horrible dungeons planned out because some of them are more horrible people than I, but if Yetta decided to forgo my dungeon then my intention was always to let the poor people go.”

Erick took a moment to understand what Fallopolis had revealed.

It sounded like it was all perfectly reasonable, but that only showed how insidious it was.

He asked, “Why did you have a Daydropper in your dungeon?”

“Because Planter gifted one to each of us. Left the green vine right in some of our own bedrooms, he did. None of us touched them, though. We didn’t want to get caught up in his insane ideas.” Fallopolis said, “Not a single person made it to the Daydropper room in any of those dungeons, because we killed each planting before either Yetta’s team or anyone else got anywhere near the wretched thing.”

Erick almost had another question, but a shadow to the left of their path caught Ophiel’s eyes.

Fallopolis flinched just after Ophiel, and then she reacted.

She caught a ten-meter long spike of red crystal in the space above her upturned hand. The spike had come from the crystal tower to the left, breaking off from the whole to impact the Shade, who just stood there, not three meters from Erick. A second passed. The spike could not reach her. It sparked and cracked and strained to push through her casual show of telekinetic power—

With her other hand, gripping her kendrithyst staff, she caught three more spikes that launched up from below. Another second had passed, by that point. While Erick was rapidly switching between deciding to help, or to let it all play out, the Shade looked almost bored by her attempts to defend herself.

Erick almost launched a few spells at the monster, as it revealed itself.

The upper twenty meters of a nearby crystal tower, the whole bright, red thing, broke, revealing itself as a cross between a spider with a hundred too-long legs, and a crystal elemental. It had been camouflaged as the top of the kendrithyst tower, but now the true top of the tower was visible below the beast, gripped by thirty crystal legs. When the elemental was hidden, there was not a single part of the monster that gave away its true nature. Even now, it still looked mostly like kendrithyst.

Animated kendrithyst that filled up a lofty space the size of Erick’s wizard tower; a monster that moved too silently to be believable. Not a single one of the crashing, suspending crystals that made up its body, made a single noise.

It certainly made noise when Fallopolis ripped it apart, though.

With narrowed eyes and a casual disdain for the world, the Shade ripped the legs off of the crystal creature, five, seven, a dozen limbs at a time. Those legs crashed through the abyss below, sparking and breaking and… oozing? What?

Within a handful of seconds, Fallopolis had de-limbed the ambush predator in a shower of crystal chips, and splashes of glowing red light. In a few moments more, she had torn the monster down to a core; a piece of red kendrithyst with a bright white light inside. She turned her hand, and the red outside of the core broke, splashing more red liquid light into the world like an egg cracking, then falling away to reveal a grand rad as bright as any Erick had ever seen. The jewel floated to the Shade, becoming a drop of light that touched her chest and sunk into her body, carving a tiny hole in her black, ruffled dress, but leaving behind bloodless, unmarred skin.

Erick had either directed an Ophiel to turn on his [Cleanse Aura], or Ophiel had done that himself. Either way, misted red ‘blood’ did not reach Erick; it turned to thick air before that could happen.

Fallopolis turned to Erick, and smiled, saying, “You didn’t react except to back up a step, and activate your [Cleanse Aura]. Why was that?”

“… I am not sure. Didn’t feel right when it was your kill?” Erick frowned at himself. That answer was not honest, but he didn’t feel like explaining any further.

“They’re just monsters, Erick.” Fallopolis said, “You can kill them, you know. You might even get some Participation next time. Get some nice levels!”

Erick looked to the red splashes dripping down the kendrithyst tower. He asked “That wasn’t a golem?”

“Not at all.” She gestured to the bloody tower behind her. “That was a Kendrithyst Mimic. The true adult form of the Crystal Mimic. They’re rather… rare...” She adopted a frown, and put a finger to her lips as if thinking some deep thought. She turned and viewed the tower. “Why did it attack me, though? They never come out against Shades.” She stood straight, asking herself, “Or maybe they always come out against Shades?” She turned to Erick, saying, “Hard to keep the facts straight, sometimes. Ol’ Melly-mel might be gettin' better, but some of us were stuck with his lack-of-sane for a long time. Still!” She admonished, “Best not freeze up like that again, Erick. Throw out a spell or two next time! But now... Where we were? I think you were asking me something about Daydroppers or mutilating people or somesuch minutiae.”

And with that curt dismissal of all of Erick’s concerns for morality, and decency, and maybe a little bit because of the power Fallopolis had just displayed, Erick had a thought. Who was he, to think that he could change the Shades? Maybe, if he were the same person he was a year ago, he would give that pursuit a bare modicum of effort, but knowing what he knew now… The Shades did not deserve that chance. So he switched topics.

“What other monsters do you think we will encounter?”

“I’m sure there’ll be something for you to murder soon enough.” She gestured to the Ophiel that was still running the [Cleanse Aura]. “Bring ‘em in for a landing, will ye? I got red in my hair.”

… She looked clean, but Erick moved the [Cleansing Aura] Ophiel toward Fallopolis.

