”At the core,” the voice of Arnold echoed from seemingly everywhere yet nowhere at once.

Jake nodded as he looked around, finding himself in the bare cavern with no sign of Arnold’s presence besides the shutter that had allowed him in and a few wires running to it from somewhere deeper within the moon. He looked around a bit but quickly began making his way further inside.

The further in he got, the more signs of Arnold he began to see as drones moved about here and there, and when he approached closer to the core room, he spotted a massive factory through his sphere in a cavern that Arnold had hollowed out into a big rectangular shape and reinforced with metal walls.

He saw more and more things like this, which really hammered home how scary Arnold was. It hadn’t even been that long since he’d taken up the moon as his new primary residence, yet he had already done so much construction. By the time he was done, Jake wouldn’t be surprised if the entire moon was just one big metal sphere filled with factories inside and powered by the core.

As Jake approached the core room, he noticed that Arnold had done much to terraform the surrounding tunnels. There used to be several ways into the core room, but now there was only one way through a large hallway filled with gates and defenses. Just seeing these defenses, Jake immediately knew that Arnold had definitely also evolved to B-grade, as if he were still a mere C-grade hunter, he wouldn’t be confident making his way through all the defenses the mad scientist had set up.

A small part of him wanted to test out what Arnold had set up, but Jake decided to be polite and just floated through the hallway, all the doors open and different traps and other defenses inactive.

Arnold had unsurprisingly made the massive core room into his main laboratory, and through his sphere, Jake saw the very impressive setup the scientist had made. The core was covered in a sphere of metal with several dozen wires leading out of it, and the entire room was filled from top to bottom with electronics and several ongoing experiments that were slightly unsettling to look at, even through his sphere. Granted, Jake could only look at them through his sphere, not with his eyes, as they were all covered in cubes of thick metal to contain whatever was going on inside, but that wasn’t the point.

Inside the laboratory, a wave of dense energy assaulted Jake. The mana at the core was far more potent than anywhere else, to the level where Jake doubted D-grades could even survive there. He looked around curiously as he walked toward where Arnold was sitting in a chair, tinkering with what looked like a weird pyramid.

When he finally turned a corner and spotted the scientist, Jake’s eyes opened in surprise at the sight of the man.

Seems like I’m not the only one with a variant race.
