“Indeed,” the Holy Mother nodded. “I propose that we enact an agreement to freely share information about this unknown group whenever we obtain it. Let’s make it clear that unless they are willing to enter the light, they face a united front.”

“I have no problems with that,” Aeon said, easily agreeing to something like that, probably because he didn’t even have a faction to care about or to gather information for him.

“The Pantheon of Life will agree,” Nature’s Attendant nodded. “Though I would add the stipulation that anything that happened here today is to be kept an absolute secret from everyone besides those involved. We don’t want panic to spread, so let’s keep things under wraps for now.”

“That’s definitely for the best,” Gudrun nodded while Valdemar just stood menacingly behind her while allowing his wife to do all the talking. “We’ll also agree to freely share information.”

“Sure,” Villy just said.

“I don’t think I’ll ever have anything to add, but okay!” Stormild was as flighty as ever.

“Very well,” the Holy Mother smiled. “I’ll seek to contact other pinnacle factions and see if they have any knowledge while also trying to integrate them into this agreement.”

“You do that,” the Viper agreed. “Meanwhile, I think it’s about time we stop dallying in the void before the rest of the C-grades wake up. We shall reconvene at a later time, hopefully once we know more.”

“Likely for the best,” Nature’s Attendant nodded.

Jake felt attention turn toward him again, but at least he shared it with the Sword Saint, who had finished his entire mug of coffee while observing the entire discussion between gods with interest.

“Yeah, better not scare Sylphie too much,” Stormild said as she actively began to fade away. “Bye-bye!”

After being the first to leave, the other gods also began to make their exit, and Jake noticed how all of them showed respect to Oras before leaving. When Aeon left, he made sure to teleport the Sword Saint back into the teleportation vessel so he could come with Jake to the Order.

Valhal was one of the last factions to leave, but before doing so, their leader finally spoke up a little now that all the complicated stuff was over.

“Hey, Jake! Don’t make this an excuse not to visit!” Valdemar yelled with a grin. “I’ll just come fetch you if it is, and I’ll dare them to try anything!”

“Oh, I’m not gonna let some unknown mega-faction that even puts the Primordials on edge stop me!” Jake responded with a smile, clearly making the War God happy before he left.

After him, Nature’s Attendant took his leave after ensuring that Artemis and Dina were truly fine, leaving only five beings conscious. Jake, the Sword Saint, Artemis, Villy, and the Void God that floated ominously within the deep nothingness.
