"I think you should go. For a ball like that, everyone would be in attendance in fear of missing out on meeting you, and with the ancesor of the Chairman there, they wouldn't fear for their lives," Cyphion explained. "You could use it as an opportunity to sow discord among the Monarchs or even kill them all. Assuming you can guarantee your people's own safety, of course."

Those were good points. If Ashlock had Larry's domain surrounding the ball with his domain, they wouldn't be able to kill his sect members.

"When is the ball?" Ashlock asked.

"A week," Elysia replied.

"That gives us time to decide," Ashlock mused and glanced at the World Tree looming over them. Just what was the Chairman planning by inviting him, and specifically Stella? Did he want his experimental child back? "Either way, Elysia, your duty now is to tend to the believers. Ensure they know the Celestial Empire is behind the attack and that we heroically fended them off. Really paint a vivid picture for them."

Elysia rose with a smile. "That's something I can do."

Ashlock's attention was then drawn to the scepter. What should he do about it? He could devour it on the off chance an infant soul counted toward the number of Monarchs he needed to devour.

Or... he could use it as leverage.

"Cyphion, could you contact the Mycothane Hive for me? Tell them I have something they might want back and that I'm open to trades."

"I can send them a message," Cyphion nodded. He looked pale and still shaken after experiencing death and coming back.

"Good. Oh, also tell the Mycothane Hive that if they aren't interested, perhaps the other canopy factions would be?"

Cyphion chuckled. "You really are a dark god. There's no chance they would allow an artifact that gives the secrets of their insect control to their enemies."

"I know," Ashlock said. Why else would a Monarch willingly blow up their own infant soul unless it was to protect a precious secret?

With that sorted out, Ashlock checked on the damage. The area directly surrounding the Hellroot Abyss was destroyed by the battles, with corpses ravaged by insects face down in murky water.

"I'll have the Hellroot Abyss's fiends clean those up," Ashlock mused. He couldn't have corpses sowing seeds of doubt among his believers. "What a long day. I need to review that battle and implement better defense. Perhaps I should get Douglas and the Mudcloaks here once they have completed the docking station for my growing fleet of airships—"

His thoughts were interrupted by a system message he had been waiting for.

[Notice: Stella has exited the Eternal Realm]

He rushed to his Inner World to greet her.
