“I don’t know that they’d had time to call. The Leshkin were in pursuit of a Mistress Xakiri, and she unintentionally led them to the caravan while seeking shelter.”

A sigh escaped her lips. “Very well. I don’t suppose you got a full report from the woman? She does like to stir the forest…”

“Better.” Tala grinned. “I have her with us.”

That caused both the older woman’s eyebrows to climb. “Well, then. Please produce her.”

Tala focused on the Mage, finding her just finishing up a light meal provided by Mistress Petra. Tala notified her cook that she would bring their guest out shortly. “One moment.”

As soon as the two women had said their goodbyes, Tala willed Mistress Xakiri to the superficial.

The dark-haired woman staggered slightly yet again as she arrived on different terrain. “Mistress Tala? Is there trouble? I…” Her eyes widened, and she bowed deeply to Mistress Noelle. “Mis… Noelle.”

The older woman’s eyes narrowed, but she didn’t interrupt.

“It is a pleasure to see you again. I had not expected to arrive so quickly.” She gestured to her still disheveled clothing. “I would have made myself more presentable with a bit more warning.”

Mistress Noelle waved that off. “We are in the woods, Xakiri. No one smells of roses…except the black trumpets, but they hardly count, and they are always rude, regardless of their smell.”

Tala blinked a few times, looking to Rane and Mistress Xakiri for explanation. The woman seemed just as confused as Tala, and Rane just shrugged noncommittally.

-Maybe a type of forest creature? But it sounds more like a plant, except the bit about rudeness.-

Yeah…

Mistress Noelle clapped her hands together. “Well, it seems that there are a few conversations that need to happen. Shall we adjourn to somewhere a bit more comfortable?”

Everyone agreed—save Terry, who gave Mistress Noelle a wary glance before he flickered back out into the surrounding woods to hunt—and so they proceeded back toward the stump.

“I’m so glad that we could get together like this. It has been far too long since I’ve had truly stimulating company.”

“I was here less than two weeks ago…” Mistress Xakiri grimaced.

Mistress Noelle arched an eyebrow at the other Mage. “I know what I said, child. Come on, now. It’s tea time.”
