"You—" But before Adam could lose control of his temper, Shiv seized him by the shoulder and silenced him with a shake of the head.

"Don't feed their cruelty," Shiv's telepathy hammered against Adam. The young Gate Lord's expression quivered between the verge of fury and resigned disgust for the orcs. All around him were smiles, gleeful expressions that relished in the power they held over him. "They enjoy domination, and that means all forms of domination, Adam. You give them your pinky, they will rip off your head. They know I care about you, so they're going to squeeze you as hard as they can. But they know if they go for you, I'm going to hurt them in ways they won't recover from, or I'm just going to pretend that they're not here. You, though? They're going to feed off your misery however they can. Don't give them anything."

"It's a waste of effort, Insul," Helix replied. He pulled his spectacles off and began wiping them using his silk coat. "He can't resist. He's not like you. He doesn't know what we are. He refuses to see it." Slowly, Helix cracked a grin. "I know this because I've never actually met Rose Van Erren. Love Thief has. Me personally, no. You're very easily provoked, Gate Lord." Adam blinked as his face contorted. "Yes, yes, that is the expression I'd like to see. But it will only remain amusing for so long.”

Several other orcs laughed. Shiv just let out a long sigh. "See what I mean? Don't feed the assholes."

"How do you put up with them?" Adam asked through clenched teeth.

"I mean, I let them kill me and teach me stuff, so usually there's not that much of a problem for me.”

"Shiv, sometimes the things you say, I can only imagine in my most demented fever dreams."

“And that is why he is Insul and you are not,” Helix said. “We understand why you came over, Gate Lord. But understand this yourself: We do not follow you. You gave us this briefing, but we are the Insul’s to guide into the fray. You are but an interesting victim to us right now. An interesting victim protected by the Insul. And unfortunately, he cares too much for you. And you reek of too much nervousness. You wish to gain our measure? To see if you can lead us?”

“We are not to be led by the likes of you,” Bonk said with a laugh. “It won’t work. The details were nice, though. Your oration is pretty good. Good Rhetoric Skill.”

Adam just glared at the orcs.

Shiv sneered as well. “And this is them trying to drive a wedge between us or something because I’m the Insul, while you’re the guy actually trying to organize this war.”

“Ah,” Adam said wearily. “I suspected, but—”

“It’s usually the most psychotic thing you suspect with these guys.” Shiv sighed. “When they’re not being terrifyingly charming, that is.”

"I have a suggestion, Gate Lord," Whisper finally said. The orcs turned to regard Whisper. More than a few let out grunts of annoyance and distaste.

"Great," Helix sneered. "Now the child stands to speak. Barely any reincarnations and he seeks to make himself a presence.”

Whisper ignored the Biomancer’s snide comment and continued. "I do not believe we need that great a concentration of force to resolve the Inquisitor's expeditionary assets. You've told me about them. Even with additional forces, they are probably moving apart from the bulk of their army, moving fast from what you described."

"Yes," Adam said slowly.

“Then, I would like to volunteer. A small group should suffice here to capture essential personnel. That should consist of you, I, a few more Stealth Heroes, and some Psychomancers. The rest of the force can be devastated with ease thereafter. And without much sacrifice on our part, either. We have the Masters and Heroes. They can be crushed easily.”

“Crushed or turned against the Necrotechs,” Bookworm mused. “We should take some of these Inquisitors alive. And use them as sacrificial soldiers. You said the Vicar already suspects them. Then let us exploit that. We have the Psychomancers for this act of deception. It will be a most interesting false flag to engineer.”

At once, the orcs broke into discussions of their own about how to most optimally approach this without taking any losses whatsoever, and Adam’s mouth opened slightly.

Shiv leaned closer to him. “I think the trick with them is letting them improvise a bit. They don’t have discipline or inexperience issues. I think that's the only thing keeping some of them from fighting each other all the time. Because orcs got this cliche warfare thing going on.”

“Uh-huh,” Adam breathed. “Shiv.”

“Yeah?”

“Can we trust them?”

“Hah! Fuck no. But we can use them. Just like they’re definitely going to use us. They’re already using me to make themselves System-favored and level faster anyway.”

Adam did a double-take. “What? I—” He grimaced. “I should have seen that coming.”

“Maybe. But still, we can use that too. How many orc Heroes do you think it'll take to kill a Legendary Mage?”

“A lot?” Adam ventured. “Maybe we have enough.”

“Yeah. But it’s more than that. They managed to get my Biomancy to Heroic over the past day and a half. They might be using me to level. But I’m using them as well. We just need to make sure they’re being set loose on the right people. And kept away from everyone else.”

“Like Blackedge.”

Shiv nodded. “Like Blackedge.”

Adam looked at the orcs and breathed out. “Well. Beggars cannot be choosers. Let us see how these orcs arrange themselves.”

“Don’t worry, Gate Lord,” Bonk said, leaning down to place a large hand on Adam’s back. “We’ll do just fine. We’ll make sure your Inquisitor friend is taken alive. But everyone else… I hope you’re not so attached to their fates. Because you can’t save them from us. You can’t save them from anything we do.”

Adam shuddered.

Shiv glared. “Bonk. Stop leveling your Intimidation on Adam.”

“But his fear is funny?”

“Yeah. I know. And he’s mine to scare. Not yours. Find your own asshole.”

Adam scowled at Shiv. “Thanks, bastard.”

“Bastard is right,” Bonk said, nodding with Adam. “Solidarity.”

“And don’t use him to level your Charm Skill either,” Shiv chided.
