Erick sighed. He was sorry that he hadn’t been there for more of that fight. He did see as some [Grand Fireballs] struck the great stretching branches of Arbor Nosier, and watched as stone rumbled through the streets of Arbor O’kabil, upsetting buildings and breaking much, but he was maxed out on Ophiel. He could do nothing else except for stopping the fight at the commune, which, admittedly, was the largest fight. Others helped to end the Cultist threat in the rest of the city, for Treehome was very much not defenseless, with the Arbors themselves providing much of the counterattack. But still… Erick was sorry he couldn’t have done more.

Poi, deep in his scan, mumbled, “They say not to worry about it. Ending the fight here was a win for them, too.”

Erick allowed himself a small smile, and almost said something else. But then he turned around to face the interior of the building. He flexed his control over the Light in the air, and let a [Teleport] happen. He had picked up quite a few tricks from that book on Domains, and after seeing the Arbors of Treehome, and how effortlessly they denied certain spells, it was not a large stretch to employ such methods with his own Domain. Blocking [Teleport]s coming in was easy. All Erick had to do for that was to make the space a bit more constrained, thus shunting out all inward-bound blips toward the outside of the Domain. He’d need anti-[Teleport] runes in the walls, exactly like the Arbors used, if he wanted to block people from blipping away, though.

The air blipped, and a small platoon of people appeared in the open room beyond; Koropo, Naervion, and a few other Special Forces members. They were dressed for full warfare, with heavy armor, but without any weapons, or paperwork. Maybe they were prepared for war, and not for paperwork? If that were the case, then Erick was disappointed. But it was understandable. Hopefully it wouldn’t come to that.

Erick greeted them, saying, “Hello, Special Forces. The heads are upstairs. Omaz has been soul-shifted into repentance and he’s out in the Forest in a safe spot, for now. That’s as much as I am doing for that murderer and traitor; the rest of his existence is on him. If you wish to pursue him, then you can, but as you have no doubt noticed, I have already dismissed the map in the center of the city. There will be no easy searches for him, this time.”

Koropo rumbled, “We’re going to talk about all of that, Erick. But we’ll deal with the heads first.” He touched the Light in the air, asking, “This you?”

Erick nodded. “Yup.”

Koropo grunted, then turned to the stairs, taking the forward position as he walked upward. Naervion did a little bow at Erick, before rapidly following Koropo and everyone else. She seemed to be taking up the rear. Erick would watch her closely. She was a very good actor. Erick turned back toward the shadelings of the commune, to watch over them, and to watch over Poi, to make sure his friend stayed safe while he worked.

“Thanks, sir,” Poi mumbled, as he continued to scan the person in front of him. “I can do multiple things at the same time, though.”

Erick smiled, then thought at the man, ‘I didn’t want to say it earlier, but you seem to be messing up your telepathic messages and your verbal ones.’

Poi flinched as though struck, coming back to himself with a start. His sapphire scaled face briefly turned darker, then he focused again, sending, ‘Well… It won’t happen again.’

‘Don’t worry about it.’ Erick sent, ‘Thank you, Poi. This is much more than I expected, and I won’t forget to repay this to whoever needs repayment.’

‘We’ve decided to throw in with you, sir.’ Poi sent, ‘But if you’re worried about repayment, then Imaging for the various monsters we’ve already discussed is more than enough. In fact, we would still owe you quite a lot.’

‘… Well okay then. I did not expect that, but it is rather nice of you, Poi, and everyone else on your side.’

Poi just nodded, as he continued to scan the person in front of him.

Erick quietly watched over the proceedings, along with everyone else on the streets. Soon enough, Poi released his current target with an all clear, Ophiel took them away, and Poi moved onto the next person, repeating his request for consent. The next person in line readily gave it, and the line moved up.

- - - -

After fifteen people had gotten through the line and even more shadelings had chosen to get into the line, Naervion came down the stairs. Erick turned toward her.

She said, “We’ve confirmed the heads of fourteen of the eighteen up there. A few of them are the heads of those who broke him out of the Hole. A few belong to the guard who we had stationed around the commune—”

Toruke shouted, “We told you!”

Naervion didn’t engage with the man. She ignored him completely and kept going, “And a few more of them were a surprise. Which is what we need to talk about. Can we talk?”

“I want to. But that depends.” Erick asked, “Why did Koropo not step down here to tell me this, and what is the discussion going to be about?”

As if expecting the question, Naervion said, “Warchief Ikabobbi is currently engaged with the entire Conclave of Elders over the identity of some of the heads up there. Firstly, the discussion will be about locating the rest of the bodies up there, and the people themselves, if they live. I don’t know what it’ll be beyond that.”

Erick nodded. He neither sensed nor saw any lies from Naervion, but maybe that was just because she had told the truth and the people who sent her were lying, or due to the fact that she was a rather good actor. He decided to go along with her request. He said, “Sure.” And then he stepped forward.

Naervion led the way upstairs.

He set another Ophiel to watch over Poi, and followed the Special Forces woman up the stairs, to the room with the heads. Naervion stepped to the side and made herself available, but out of the way, while the rest of the soldiers had the heads separated around the room, and labeled. Erick saw some paperwork, this time, on the clipboards in the hands of some people, and in a box set to the side. Koropo Ikabobbi stood off-center in the room, his fingers supporting his forehead while tendrils of thought radiated from him. He turned to Erick, then turned away, muttering that he’d be a moment.

Erick waited.

Ten seconds later, Koropo dropped several tendrils of thought, and turned to Erick, saying, “A lot of people who have been sympathetic toward the shadelings are now dead, and the Cult shows itself yet again.” Before Erick could get mad, Koropo pointed to three of the heads. “Specifically Elder Atanaro-Home, Elder Huni-Rottundra, and Elder Demetriol-Leaf-Cutter. We don’t know when they were replaced, or if they were turned long ago. We think that Huni and Demetrio were replaced at least four months ago with some unknown magics, the least of which were [Polymorph]. Atanaro was turned. Arbor Home is inconsolable at the moment. Atanaro had control over much of the commune, and was responsible for much of the anti-shadeling sentiment that kept them separate from the rest of Treehome, along with a great deal of the sentiment that kept this place from being bombed to an abyss.” Koropo added, “He worked over both sides, trying to establish more power by holding the looming threat of the shadelings over them all. It wasn’t hard, for though they look like people, they are monsters, Erick. You know this.”

“Yes. They are.” Erick said, “But so are dragons, and if it weren’t for their Blood Curse they would be monsters that weren’t crazy like all the rest.”

Koropo paused, alongside everyone else in the room who had been listening. He said, “It does the monsters downstairs no benefit to compare them to dragons.”

“You’re right, of course.” Erick asked, “So who needs finding?”

Koropo pointed at the three heads. “The Elders, first, to make sure they truly are dead. From there, our people are going to do some heavy [Witness]ing to see if we can find out who helped Omaz to do all of this.” He looked to Erick. “And we need to find Omaz, if you could help with that, too.”

Erick glanced through the light, then he turned back to the room, saying, “He hasn’t moved much. He’s still crying. I can’t help you find him, though. He has been soul-shackled, too, and I have a responsibility to let that play out.”

Koropo frowned.

Erick gestured toward the woman’s head Omaz had been reaching for, saying, “That one has some special connection to Omaz. Not sure what it was, though.”

Koropo glanced to the head, then said, “Yeah… Her. That’s Blackfist Groka. She was a major player in the Adventuring scene out of Steel-Branch’s Guildhouse. Look. Erick. This is a fucking mess. It’s gonna take us months to get through all the shit that unloaded all over this city today. What can I do to speed along whatever you’re doing out there? I want them gone, and their problems vanished from my purview.”

“… I appreciate the pragmatism, Koropo, so I accept your help.” Erick said, “A lot of them don’t want to accept a Mind Mage rooting around for secrets and hidden murders in their pasts, so any help you can give to clear the rest of any malicious murders or known connections to the Cult? That’s what I need to get them out of your city and into mine.”

Koropo asked, “And what will you do if we find out they’re Cultists?”

“Two people who’ve gone through Poi were already found to be Cultists.” Erick said, “They committed no crimes and enabled no murders. They’re already safe at Candlepoint. I’m not sure what we’ll do about the Cultists who don’t submit to a mind probe. I suspect I will hand them over to you.”

Koropo sighed. “Just like that? Eh? You really trust those monsters that much?”

“They’re only technically monsters. Every single one of them has their own mind, and is their own person. If there was one thing that I learned when I was at Shadow’s Feast in Ar’Kendrithyst, it’s that Melemizargo doesn’t do mind control. If there’s a monster that can speak and reason with you, then chances are they’re not that monstrous. They just have bad urges sometimes.”

Koropo asked, “You know that Moon Reachers can trick you and speak Ecks and hunt just as good as any person, right? With traps and feints and planning. Does that make them people, too?”

Erick stared at Koropo. “… Moon Reachers are people too? Fuck me. Shit.”

“Ha!” Koropo chuckled, then said, “That’s not where I thought you would go with that!”

“You’re— You’re lying to me, right? Moon Reachers aren’t people, are they?”

Koropo lost all of his mirth. “They know enough to pretend to be people long enough to get where they need to get in order to do the most damage. They enjoy hurting the people they hunt. They rip off legs and arms and watch as people wonder why they can’t walk or why they’re suddenly bad at using a sword. They’ve been using a sword their whole adult life. They can’t even imagine why they thought they were good with a sword, though, because they don’t have any arms.” He pointed down at the floor, toward the entrance to the building, saying, “That’s what everyone sees when they see those shadelings pretending to be people, because that’s the type of monster they’ve always been. That’s why they were in a commune and separated from everyone else. A lot of people were calling for their deaths, but a lot of people decided we couldn’t do that simply because they resembled people so well.”

Erick suddenly recalled something that Al had told him, long ago. The Headmaster routinely had to break ‘idiot, naive nobles’ from believing that they could talk to the monsters and play nicely with them, or that the taint of monsterhood could be removed from a monster. He had experiments set up for all of that. People could try to talk to monsters, or watch them, or do their own experiments. Almost always, the experimenter came out of those experiments with a newfound appreciation for monster killing. Sometimes, that wasn’t enough, though. Once a person was done with the idea of civilizing a monster, they moved onto the more radical procedures.

One of those experiments was the raising of monsters in captivity, and the separation of rads from a forming fetus. Those baby monsters never developed right, and routinely had to be euthanized for they were in constant, never-ending pain, for the constant removal of nascent rads from their bodies always left heavy wounds that never healed quite right. If they let the rads form, though, the monsters became what they were meant to be, their damage healed, and they were as murderous as any monster found in the wild.

Except for shadelings. And dragons. And Ancients, with their powers of speech and thought, like the Queen Unicorn that Jane fought. And the Shades themselves…

Those monsters were perfectly capable of being civilized, for a certain definition of ‘civilized’.

Erick said, “I don’t have all the answers, Koropo. All I know is that there are two types of shadelings. Those who have lost themselves to the monster therein, and those who have woken up to who they were before the Darkness claimed them. It appears every single person who took in more than one of the New Stats is of the second type. They never had to go through the trouble of regaining themselves through reincarnation, and they are lucky for that.”

