“I don’t know that word, ‘Reincarnation’. But I do know [Polymorph]s. I do know pretenders. I know of changelings in the dark that lure you in with pretty words and long-forgotten faces. I know that sometimes, being a person isn't good enough of a reason to be spared the axe.” Koropo asked, “Do you know of those horrors? Or are you willingly looking the other way?”

“I know that what I believe to be true is vastly different from what you believe to be true.” Erick said, “So let us discard this discussion, and get the problem out of your city and into mine.”

“… Fair enough.” Koropo said, “I’m gonna need some cooperation from you and your Light. It blocks the shadelings, right?”

“It blocks a shadeling from using their [Shadowblend]; yes.”

“… I’m gonna need spaces where you can keep the people I send safer than under just their own power. I'll provide the desks and paperwork and everything else.” Koropo said, “We’ll clear this backlog of shadelings and send them on their way, one way or another.”

Erick said, “Thank you, Warchief. I can imagine that this space is a rather black mark on your violent crimes records. Sorry about that.”

Koropo bowed, slightly, then said, “Archmage.”

- - - -

Soon, desks and people and papers and permissions came down to the commune. Clerks stood under [Weather Ward]s, while it rained, and shadeling orcols stood in lines, eager for clearance to leave. Back by the building, Poi’s line shrunk as people went to the desks, and the clerks. A fight could break out at any moment, but with any luck, this forced bureaucracy would happen and then everyone would go their separate ways as quickly as possible. This commune did not need to exist, and Erick would ensure its end as soon as possible.

A lot of drama happened outside of Erick’s purview, and that was fine with him. He was running on fumes. Too much magic cast too many times. He glimpsed his own soul and the damage was much worse than it had been before he started with all this awful killing and terrible justice. Ragged edges circled his body and spotty glows filled his being. By contrast, the souls of the shadelings in front of him were solid and whole, but really small and really dense, for those souls were constrained to the rads in their chests.

Erick briefly checked himself over for rads with a [Cascade Imaging], cast small, and overlaid with his body, producing a map of himself right in front of himself. More than one person in the crowds looked toward him.

Blue dots glowed just below his ribcage.

Ah. Yeah. He had used too many mana potions too recently. With what was probably a bad idea, he briefly turned partially to light and ripped the nascent rads out of their current tracks to his heart. Blood spurted into his robes. He had an Ophiel immediately tap him with the rod of [Greater Treat Wounds], and the sudden pain of the moment turned transitory, then vanished.

“Ouch,” he mumbled, a delayed reaction, as he tossed the small flecks of solid magic onto the muddy ground.

A small [Cleanse] took care of the blood.
