Omaz reached for one of the heads; a woman’s.

He never touched it. Erick blipped him away with a [Teleport Other], sending him into a spot of the Forest he had already scouted ahead of time, into the carved-out knot of a tree. An Ophiel watched as the man curled his outstretched fingers into a fist, followed fast by his entire body, curling in on himself as tears streamed from tightly-closed eyes.

With an insouciant shrug, Erick said, “Glad to see it works on non-Shades.” He stared down at the heads. They glimmered quite brightly in the surreal glow of the [Domain of Light] all around. Blood seemed as rubies, and emerald eyes truly resembled emeralds. He said to Poi, “Can you let them know Omaz has been soul-shackled with Empathy, and that several heads of the cult and one Elder are possibly dead. There is some overlap in those two groups, too.” Erick added, “They can start moving in some investigators, now.”

Poi resolutely said, “Done.” He added, “They’re on their way.”

Erick stepped out of the building, to stand upon the short stairs leading up to the place. He and Poi were soon joined by others, but not by soldiers of Special Forces, or anyone else from that direction, but instead by Lashii, Toruke, and lots of other shadelings. The people of the commune stood in the shadows, and in the rain on the street, but they stood tall, and proud, shoulder to shoulder, gazing up at Erick where he waited on those short stairs into the building. They looked at him like he was the only path leading out of a forest fire. In a sense, he was.

Lashii spoke for the people she had gathered, “Greetings, Archmage. We are those who would be cleared by Mind Mage, and who would like to move out, right now, to Candlepoint.” She added, “We will need your assistance to get through the blockades, as all of our own Spatial Magic has been stripped from us.”

“Okay.” Erick quickly counted, then said, “There’s about eighty of you.” He looked to Poi.

With a dozen tendrils of intent coming off of his head and more being added every second, Poi answered Erick’s unasked question, saying, “I can do this. It will take a little under a minute per person to uncover anything but surface thoughts.” As a wave of worry silently passed through the crowd in front of them, Poi silently sent to Erick, ‘This is very irregular. There will be blowback from asking this of the Mind Mages, and you know this, but I must actually say it so that you understand.’

Erick acknowledged Poi with a nod, then spoke to the people in front of him, “We’ll finish in groups of ten, and then I’ll send those people on their way, but know that you do not need to do this mental probe. This is just for speed of departure. There is nothing wrong with doing this the harder, longer way, with background checks and the support of Treehome, and with final farewells to anyone who you might be leaving behind.” He repeated, “Once again, agreeing to a mental probe is not necessary to leave this place, or for joining Candlepoint.”

A few people in the crowd stood relieved, their shoulders loosening and their eyes relaxing. Others looked to Poi like he was their quick ticket out of this place. And he was.

Lashii spoke for herself, and for many of those behind her, saying, “We understand, Archmage Flatt. We’re ready to leave as soon as we can, but I will go after everyone else.” She stepped to the side, shouting behind her, “Form lines and ranks! We’re doing this as fast as possible.”

Before many people could move, Toruke spoke up, “I’m going to wait for the law of Treehome to clear us, as will many of us.” He said, “Full disclosure: Many of us participated in the battle that you ended, because they were coming after us. The Cultists have infiltrated much of the guard here, and we had to defend ourselves.” With a hard voice, he said, “We will not be held accountable for defending ourselves from those people.”

Quite a few people in the crowd behind either nodded, or gave small ‘Yeah’s.

Erick narrowed his eyes, and said, “You will be held accountable if you actually participated in that fight, as will I be held accountable for stepping into Treehome’s affairs like this. But the nature of that accountability will be subject to politics instead of summary judgment. I will ensure that you are treated fairly, to the best of my ability.”

The crowd didn’t know what to make of that, and that was fine. Erick felt like he was talking out of his ass, but he made it work, as best he could. Who knew what Treehome’s response would be, now that Erick had taken this position, and already dealt partial judgment to Omaz, one of the worst terrorists of Treehome, according to his own words.

Poi stepped to the side, Erick keeping him safe inside of his Light-filled Domain, while the orcols under Lashii lined up. A sort of silence descended, as many people watched the first person get a memory probe.

Poi declared, “What you are about to participate in is a full mental scan. Nothing will be shared with anyone else if you consent to this action, except for Cultist status and any malicious murders you might have committed. These two statuses will be publicly shared. Do you consent?”

“I do,” said the woman, with steel in her voice.

Poi nodded, then stood there, his eyes partially unfocused and staring out into the middle-distance, while tendrils of intent floated away from him to intersect the young woman. Poi’s tendrils did not just touch her head, but also her chest, legs, and all the rest of her, seeming to soak into the woman’s skin, to catch upon her bones and layer across her flesh. She raised her right hand just a bit to look upon the tendrils. Oh? Ah. For a brief moment, Erick stopped all of his unnatural, magically enhanced Sights, and saw that Poi’s intent was visible to normal vision. The color of his magic was the faintest blue, like a clear sky. Erick resumed his magical sights, and his straightforward gaze.

Twenty seconds in, with no one nearby speaking, but several small voices asking questions of other people in the deeper parts of the crowd, Poi’s eyes focused, as he turned to Erick, and said, “Warchief Koropo Ikabobbi and a few Chieftains, including Peron Wyrmrest, are asking to speak with you about your current actions. Would you like to meet them at the guardhouse, back across your dividing light at the first battlefield?”

“No,” Erick said, “Tell them to come here.”

Poi withheld a sigh, then said, “Chieftain Wyrmrest’s words are as follows: They will not treat with a vigilante in the middle of a field of monsters.”

Erick said, “Then they will not get their meeting, for I am a very busy person at the moment, and so are you. Please continue as you were, Poi.”

Poi nodded, then went back to scanning the woman in front of him.

Erick stood on those steps leading up to the building, stiff as a statue, devoting half of his attention to seeing through the eyes of his Ophiel, to make sure certain situations were either resolving, controlled, or not worth his time, while also maintaining Domain strength and keeping an eye out on the line of golems, and the various forces gathering all around the commune. He had an Ophiel cast a [Prismatic Ward] across him and Poi, just to give himself a bit more of a buffer if someone should decide to attack.

Poi softly said to the woman, “You’re clear. Please step to the side.”

An unruly tear fell from the woman’s left eye, but she brushed that away as quickly as it had come, then did as she was asked.

Erick had a half-sized Ophiel come down from point defense, to float to the woman’s side, as he said, “I can take one at a time, too, if you wish to go now.”

The woman said, “Please!”

Ophiel wrapped the woman in light, turning into a reflection of the sun, while others looked on, and Erick said, “You’ll be there in under ten seconds, so just hold on to the light.”

The woman nodded once, and then she was gone, along with Ophiel and his sunform. Erick briefly watched as Ophiel lightstepped without stopping. Five seconds later, and Ophiel deposited the woman into the center of Candlepoint, not too far from the waters, and rather close to the bright white Crystal in the center of town. Slip and a few other guards stood to the side, for Erick had already notified them of what was happening. The Guardmaster of Candlepoint waved, then tried to start a little speech.

But the woman broke down. Tears of joy rolled down her face as she thanked Ophiel and the man, profusely, and Slip went with it, handing her off to one of his orcol guards. Erick noticed that he had a minotaur guard, and then he noticed an incani guard that was not a shadeling. She must have been recently transformed back into her former race, for Erick didn’t remember seeing her before now. Good for her.

Back in the commune, to Erick’s left, Poi was already scanning another person; a man.

But that look back to Candlepoint got him thinking.

He spoke up to the crowd, “There is a Dark Temple at Candlepoint, where one can speak to Melemizargo and rid themselves of their shadeling status, if you so wish. It is not a pleasant experience, just so you are aware.”

A chuckle started in the crowd.

Toruke took up the chuckle, and turned it into a laugh, as he said, “You should have led with that!”

Erick warned, “It’s not a sure thing. I’m not sure what happened in the Well with those other orcols who went there and came back as themselves.” The laughter died. “Whatever personal meeting you might have with Melemizargo in that Dark Temple does not mean that you will come out of it whole and unharmed. The very process of recapturing your previous self is filled with danger.”

Toruke said, “Aye! And that’s fine with me. I thought I hated the Red Bitch, but I’d take her over any more of this. I’ll miss Constitution and Dexterity, but they’re not necessary.”

Someone shouted in the back, “They wouldn’t let us all go to Ar’Kendrithyst!”

Another shouted, “Some of the cult tried to get one of them Dark Temples up and running here!” A few people turned to the newcomer, and he spoke louder, “Yeah! That’s the rumor I heard. If we had a Dark Temple here, then we could have scoured these New Stats from us and gone back to Treehome!”

“Why didn’t they do that?” Erick asked. Though he had a guess as to ‘why not’, he still asked the question.

Toruke spoke loud enough for everyone, as he said, “The Elders and the Chieftains voted against that. Couldn’t have a Dark Temple here, even if it would have let some of us brave that transformation. A few Elders tried to get it to happen, but they couldn’t.”

“Which Elders tried to get the temple?” Erick asked.

Toruke blanked. “I’m not sure.”

Someone spoke up, “Elder Atanaro-Home and Elder Bilovac-Nosier.”

Erick nodded. He expected the first name, but had no idea who the other person was.

Silence descended once again, filled with the sounds of rain.

It’s not like the Chieftains and Elders were wrong to not let a Dark Temple be put up in here, but it still would have solved a lot of problems. Maybe the commune would have dissolved on its own, as people chose to walk away from Melemizargo after hearing what the Dark Dragon had to say. But… At the same time… Erick could understand not wanting people to ever speak to the Darkness. That was just asking for trouble. Which is likely why Elder Atanaro-Home wanted the temple here, in the first place.

Another person spoke up, “Wouldn’t let the Registrars visit, either!”

“That’s just downright wrong,” Erick said.

Erick briefly watched as Poi gestured to a waiting Ophiel, and softly gave the man he had been scanning the all clear. The man stepped toward Ophiel. Ophiel whisked him away to Candlepoint in a flutter of light, then came right back, by himself, chirping in violins as he fluttered back into his waiting position.

Erick asked, “Why not let the Registrars in?”

Toruke said, “Not sure.”

Lashii responded with a shrug, but then immediately went back to the line for Poi, giving a few people the evil eye who had tried to push forward.

Poi gave his little speech to the next person in line, “What you are about to participate in is a full mental scan. Nothing will be shared with anyone else if you consent to this action, except for Cultist status and any malicious murders you might have committed. These two statuses will be publicly shared. Do you consent?”

“I do.”

Erick watched Poi, and many other things, all at the same time.

Poi got a few seconds into the next person, when he turned to Erick, and said, “Warchief Koropo and a small team wants to be here for this. They have ended the various threats concurrently happening around Treehome.”

“Sure.” Erick said, “I will attend to them as we are doing this. Tell them to bring some paperwork or whatever for whatever criminals that they need to find, and to come directly into the building behind us.” He looked up at the sky, and though he didn’t really feel the rain, and it was putting out small fires all over the place, it was likely mightily uncomfortable for everyone standing in the streets all around. Some of Treehome was still burning, though. He asked, “What about the rain. Do they still need that?”

Poi had already returned to his scan, but he said, “The Arbors are all using the rain to repair. Every single one of them was struck hard today. Leave it raining, they say.”

