Lopas tilted his head a little before lifting his clawed hand towards his mouth. A healing potion appeared in it, and the sloth lazily threw it into his mouth and munched on the bottle as all his wounds healed in seconds, showing he had quite a skilled alchemist on his side somewhere.

The sloth motioned by raising his claws, clearly showing he was about to make his move. Jake smiled, opening his eyes wide as his senses were on high alert, and almost instinctively, he activated Arcane Awakening at its stable 30%. Just in time, too.

Jake moved at the exact same time Lopas did, relying on his danger sense to react in time. The sloth closed the distance in an instant and swung his arm upwards, barely missing Jake as a massive amount of soil and rock was torn up, creating a massive fissure.

A second swing came, Jake ducking under it, before quickly having to kick off the air and blast himself to the side before Lopas slammed a claw into the ground, making the ground erupt and sending both of them flying away from each other.

Still mid-air, Jake swayed, avoiding several infused rocks thrown his way before using One Step, disappearing just as Lopas appeared and tried to rip off his head in a single move. Which, to be clear, he likely would have succeeded in if not for Jake dodging.

Jake reappeared not far away, ready to respond again, but Lopas didn’t continue his attack. He just floated there in the air for a few moments, his arms falling lazily to his side before he just fell down, not even bothering to land properly as he fell over upon landing.

Perplexed, Jake also landed on the ground as Lopas got up and looked at him again. The sloth waved his arm and turned around, walking away from both Jake and the treasure, waddling away after only making a few moves.

Jake considered saying something, but ultimately just shook his head and smiled. Lopas clearly didn’t want to fight, and after this brief encounter realized that should he and Jake engage in combat, it wouldn’t be a quick endeavor.

Would have been an interesting one, though, Jake smiled, raising his arm as he looked at his torn-up sleeve. The sheer power and instantaneous speed had put even a Behemoth to shame, and Jake would have loved a fight, but alas, Lopas clearly wasn’t interested.

Sighing, Jake turned his attention to the barrier hiding the statue, a bit disappointed while secretly hoping this was some ploy by Lopas to ambush him. Alas, the sloth just kept walking away slowly as Jake approached the barrier and summoned his Supreme Arcane Soulflame to quickly break through it in a far quicker and more efficient way than Lopas lazily love-tapping it.

It had been an interesting, quick encounter, and Jake had a strong feeling they would meet again, and hopefully, next time, Lopas would find a bit of willpower and energy to actually fight him. Though maybe he shouldn’t expect too much from a sloth...
