JR’s snort sent another spike of pain through Quill’s brain, but the drink was doing its job, and even that had dulled slightly.

“What you want to know is something I won’t tell you. Not only is it personal and relevant to my crafting, you have zero chance of understanding what is actually happening in a million years. So when I say be content with the following explanation, I’m not saying it to be rude like usual. I’m saying it because it's the best I can do.”

Waving him to continue, Quill singled his understanding with a flick of his fingers.

Words were too much effort right now.

“We were inside your name working on it, your armor, as much as it doesn't even exist yet, and your spirit all at the same time. I know you probably think I did something the moment you walked through the door, but I didn’t. I’d have loved to, it's much more dramatic, but as per our agreement, I need your mana to run the stabilizers. As for explaining things any more. Much but not all of the process will happen in that state. You’ll grow accustomed to it over the next few sessions, but like I said earlier, you showed a remarkable resilience. That will help us going forward. The oddities you noted in about removing the armor in and out of the name body is simply us working between reality and the… lets call it unreality.”

Quill could confirm that he didn’t like JR’s answer, but he also had no recourse. What was he supposed to do? Force the Tier 50 to explain?

Massaging his temples, he thought about what had happened.

“You could have warned me.”

Quill only heard the ruffle of feathers, but he could tell JR had waggled a wing to disagree. “Most people instinctively resist the transition, and while I could force you in, showing you that it's possible the first time makes everything that follows so much easier.”

Leveraging himself to his feet, Quill moved to Blake’s body. Looking at everything they’d done with his own eyes only confirmed that he had no idea what was going on any more. His memories and reality seemed to blend together, but the work had been very real, and that was what mattered.

“Will I get a headache like this every time?”

The laugh was like a needle being driven into his head. “Its never going to be pleasant, but you’ll grow accustomed through repetition.”

Quill pictured strangling the raven, but the smile it brought to his face hurt almost as bad as the laugh had.

When the latest shocks of pain subsided, he brushed himself off and confirmed, “We meet in a month?”

Understanding the underlying query, JR said, “Any sooner and we’d risk your mind. We can push the time inside as much as we want, but we need a month between sessions.”

“Does that logic translate to less sessions?”

Laughing, JR waved him out the door. “I’ll see you next month, Quill. Oh, and while you are gone, I want you to think about a question for me. You can answer it whenever you want, but I want a good, serious answer from you, not a textbook.”

Stopping, Quill focused through the pain to analyze each word the raven spoke, looking for a trap. When he didn’t find any, he waggled a finger. Nodding would have hurt too much.

“What trait does a Tier 50 look for when looking for their replacement? Before you rush to answer, consider this: At this moment I consider every one of the current leaders the type to pick a good replacement in the event of their sudden ascension. What I want you to consider is what quality I considered uniformly good between such vastly different backup heirs.”

Not having the energy to remember any of that, Quill sent the speech to himself as a message to arrive in a week, and walked out the still open door. Finding himself in a familiar lobby, he did the polite thing and thanked Rosemarie for the smoothie. Even if he was wrong on its source, sucking up to the person who did most of the day to day work of any organization was a good move.

As it turned out, even Rosemarie wasn’t immune to that form of flattery, if the small smile he got for his pain was any indication.

Pushing through the torment, he cast [Portal] and arrived back at the estate. There, Quill immediately crawled into bed, sending Liz and Aster a message telling them not to worry before he passed out.

***

Quill woke up two days later feeling significantly better, with all but the distant ringing of his headache to remind him of what would come monthly going forward for the next decade or two. He wanted to complain, and he would later when it would actually be funny, but he knew if he was to voice his irritation now, Liz would have zero sympathy if he worded his frustrations that way.

That amusement was enough to get phoenix Liz’s attention, who quickly turned into a human Liz.

Pressing a hand to his head and sensing his body, she asked even as a new phoenix formed on her shoulder, “How are you feeling? Aster said you were okay but needed to sleep, so we weren’t too worried. Your message…”

Only half remembering the message he’d sent, Quill brought it up and better understood their confusion.

“The hole in my head wasn’t quite literal, though it felt like it. The technique we used had a side effect of a migraine. JR could have warned me, but refrained from doing so. It wasn’t pleasant, but from what I could tell through the pain, it's well worth it.”

Crossing her arms, she glared upward. “Of course he did. If you hop in the shower I’ll have breakfast ready.”

Showered, he felt remarkably better sitting down to breakfast with the two Lizzes.

They loafed around for the remainder of the morning until his malingering ended with an idea about his talisman problem. Kissing phoenix Liz on the head, he tucked her under an arm while human Liz watched on in bemusement as he left.

Dropping his golden heat lamp off on a swivel perch, he changed a few of the secondary runes he was using to less effective alternatives. While that further hindered the efficiency of the already awful talisman, the changes fit into the general pattern, better letting him undo other now unnecessary fixes.

That didn’t instantly solve the tracking talisman, but it did help, and he was able to create two better prototypes he actually liked.

The talismans almost worked.

Or rather, they did work. But the moment he added the resonance aura, things started to fall apart. His original, most successful, talisman design burned up the moment he activated it with the resonance aura, but he didn’t let that stop him.

Instead he continued his testing, gathering as much data as he could before returning to the drawing board. To solve the new problems he’d created, he designed a third more general rune to handle the overload. But while that fixed his original problem, it only caused more serious side effects, forcing him to restart from the beginning.

Two weeks and an entirely new design later, he started from what felt like scratch. He quickly found three new problems, but that boiled down into a singular one.

Duration.

Resonance talismans weren’t designed for prolonged use at any point in their designs, and trying to stretch one out for an entire delve proved impossible. No matter what he did, no matter what activation sequences he used, no matter how many contingencies and backups he added, the moment the talisman activated, it acted like a faulty engine as it ran at full power until it burned itself out.

The answer, as it turned out, was simpler than he expected and could have been found in any beginners textbook in the section on things to never attempt.

Instead of letting the talisman work constantly, he converted it into a cycle based talisman. That converted a two hour duration into a set amount of activations usually called cycles after the mechanism itself.

He didn’t love the answer, cycle talismans had to be half designed like enchanted items, which added multiple new problems he was forced to solve one at a time. His redesign of several components to better handle the sudden aura empowered deactivations looked like it was going to be a nightmare. However his first idea worked perfectly, giving him a needed confidence boost going into the following issues that came about from such a radical change to the talisman design.

When he was done, he had a talisman that could activate a few thousand times before running out of energy or burning through its material shell. Or if activated and allowed to run freely, a bit under two hours. A regression of total activation time on the surface, breaking the talisman’s activation into discrete cycles added a lot of flexibility to how those two hours could be spent.

When he was done, he only managed to fit four activation modes. One, three, or five cycles, with a final full throttle mode that needed to be manually disengaged. Once activated, the talisman would trigger that many times before turning itself off. Used appropriately, the three and five cycle modes would allow for quick pulses that could be used to calculate monster trajectories, while the single pulse mode could be used to check on particular targets without waste.

The more he designed around the cycle based talisman, the more his excitement rose, feeling like he’d figured everything out. That good mood lasted until he returned to his testing.

Looking at yet another pile of talisman ash, Quill threw his hands up and walked away, grabbing phoenix Liz and taking them to the hot tubs for a break. Dropping the sleepy bird in an ichor tub, he flopped face first into the neighboring tub and let it randomize the mana types as it saw fit.

Quill laid there as the water simulated various mana types, trying his hardest not to think about the tracking talisman.

He failed, but he did at least pivot to something slightly less irritating.

The ink.

He still hadn’t figured out a method to incorporate the resonance aura, but he was starting to think that was a dead end. He could probably eventually get something to work, but after thousands of tests, he was coming to an upsetting realization.

Aura didn’t seem to mesh with the temporary nature of talismans like they seemed to with more permanent enchantments.

Talisman were meant to be by their very nature disposable. Aura… Quill wanted to say aura didn’t want to be disposable, but aura was so naturally unstable the thought refused to manifest.

In fact…

Changing his mindset, Quill started looking at the talisman ink as purely an aura stabilizer, but almost instantly realized why that wouldn't work. He’d not only lose any possible increase in power that might be gained there, any such ink would be stupidly expensive.

It would be so much easier if he could just permeate the talisman paper itself with the aura instead of trying to fiddle… with… the… ink.

Bursting from underneath the woody air bubbles, he startled phoenix Liz, who’d been swimming around her tub doing her best impersonation of a swan.

Her regalness was only mildly lost when he laughingly threatened to drag her into his still ever changing water. She quickly realized he wouldn’t do that and started preening at him in triumph.

Her tune changed when he splashed some of his woody water into her tub. The magically conductive water quickly transformed to ichor when it fell under her tub's influence, but the battle had started.

With the winner sitting on his head instead of on his shoulder, they returned to his testing room to check his new theory, feeling refreshed.

Only seconds after getting started, he ran into a new problem.

How did he imbue something with resonance aura, such that both retained all of their original properties? Knowing he could only learn by testing, he tapped into his various repositories, looking for anything that might help.

He wasted four bottles of aura trying various combinations of talisman materials and imbuing methods, but he learned what he needed to. If aura talismans were going to be a thing, it was most likely going to be achieved by merging the aura and the talisman material itself.

For all that none of his attempts worked the way he wanted them to, they hadn’t failed explosively like his earlier attempts. He just needed to find a method that could merge aura and talisman paper together.

Pausing between tests, Quill pondered his results. Talisman paper was a bit of a misnomer, given that most talismans were made on parchment. Rifts were full of monsters and most civilian delvers would happily skin a planet full of monsters to recoup their costs, let alone a rift. That, in turn, made talisman parchment more plentiful than paper.

Most of the time, the talisman base product didn’t matter, but some testing showed him it very much did when it came to aura. Though not in the way he thought it would.

The divide wasn’t drawn between material, rather the material’s origin. Any material with any kind of fire mana in its original mana make up had immediate negative reactions with the resonance aura, the base material burning up and wasting everything. Worst of all, mana type seemed to be only the highest level compatibility he needed to balance and he had no clue where to even start looking for the others, or how to test for them.

Getting the stupid aura into the stupid material nearly caused Quill to tear out his hair in frustration. Inevitably in every process he found that seemed like it might be able to interact with aura and the base material well, there always happened to be some snag in the process that made it non-viable.

One process exploded the aura, another destroyed the base material, and while his third looked like it would work, it ultimately failed to perpetuate past the top-most layer. Two days later, he was idly going through more and more obscure imbuing methods when he came across a familiar name that gave him the lead he wanted.

