Chapter 491

Quill continued to slam his head against the wall of his new project, trying to solve numerous problems both large and small. His main goal was trying to rectify the duration problem before it was time for his first meeting with JR.

He failed spectacularly.

Stopping by Liz’s alchemy room, he nearly decided to play hookie right then and there, in a repeat of his last visit when he saw a small model of her business displayed over her work station. She’d changed the name and logo since they’d last brainstormed.

Legion’s Quill had a nice ring to it, though he knew she’d have an uphill marketing battle tying the name to an alchemy business. However, none of that mattered.

Her new logo at least was perfect.

Both in terms of business and tickling his ego.

Her logo was simpler than most, his namesake feather pen and his current business logo, held aloft by an indistinct hand. In more detailed renderings it was clear that the ‘ink’ was actually a drop of some unknown potion precariously perched on the razor sharp tip.

He loved it.

Unable to linger as long as he’d like, Quill wasn’t that apprehensive as he [Portal]ed to JR’s office. Upon arriving, he realized he probably should have been, at least a little, on edge.

That was okay. Seeing his name strung up and half dissected like a science experience did that better than his imagination could have.

The raven laughed at his clear discomfort. “Don’t get squeamish on me now, Quill.”

Walking deeper into the room, Quill shook his head. “It's more surprised than squeamish. For some reason, I had expected my name self to be… not that real.”

“This is what you get for doubting me. See? If you had simply assumed the best… well, you still would have fallen short, but you’d have been closer.”

Not commenting on the mocking, Quill started looking at the various tables scattered around the lab. Despite each table being large enough for two or three items comfortably, they only held a single material or Natural Treasure.

That was at least partially explained by the stasis fields enveloping the tables, but JR was happy to talk. “I’ve already done the prep work, so now we get the privilege of doing the harder but funnest parts. Putting plan to action. Thought to reality. It's true magic.”

“Is there any particular reason we are starting in the shoulder? It seems random.”

JR nodded seriously. “It was at perch level when I was getting started.”

Determined not to bicker with the bird, Quill rolled with it. “I’ll buy that. Okay, what do you need me to do?”

“Spit out the mana you want me to work with for starters.”

Ruffling a few wing feathers, JR made it very clear what he wanted.

Tossing a prepared storage ring over, Quill lost track of the raven for several minutes as he flew around the workshop, shoving claw fulls of mana stones into machines, and sometimes places, at what looked like random. It wasn’t, he was sure of that, but he also knew that asking wouldn’t do him any good, so he didn’t waste his breath.

Instead, he hurried JR along with a waggled finger.

That only earned him a snort, but his instructions were forthcoming at least as JR started to slice open Blake's reformed shoulder.

“If you are so impatient, let me talk as we get started. For the first few meetings, we'll work on harmonizing the Natural Treasures. That way, I can start building out the framework. If I want to have work to do when you leave, we need to get at least these three done today. Look over these notes and ask any questions if you have them.”

Quill didn’t, so they got to work. Harmonizing with Natural Treasures wasn’t hard, just strenuous on the spirit. All he was truly doing was getting them familiar with his spirit. While a necessary step for some exceptionally rare or dangerous treasures it was normally a step that happened with the absorption of the Natural Treasures. However, he wasn’t absorbing the treasures, they were being integrated into his armor. Since it was being melded with his name, this was a step that couldn’t be skipped.

Feeling like he’d fought through a rift with cultivation suppression bands on, Quill wanted to die after the first. He also understood why JR had set the expectation at three. His name’s removal had taken the main engine out of his ship. He could move and function like usual with auxiliary systems during normal day to day life, but when asked to perform he found himself lacking.

JR was waiting for him the moment he opened his eyes, standing on an actual perch for once. “It feels terrible doesn't it? One memorable lass compared it to going to school to take a test while sick. No matter how well you know the material, it's hard to do well when you aren’t all there. I always hated getting sick. Pre-sapience, it was always random and a potential brush with death. Thankfully, it's pretty hard to get sick after Tier 5, so I don’t actually remember getting sick that much. I have to go digging through memories buried so deep, even I strain to find them. Born on this very station, I learned the truth of the world early. Life is fragile. It’s why the first item I made was a tool, and with that tool I made armor. I complain about them being boring, but in truth, armor commissions are some of my favorites. My trick is that I don’t take the boring ones any more! Hahaha!”

Quill couldn’t help but raise an eyebrow at the unprompted information, but he’d reciprocate if the bird wasn’t being rude.

“I hated being sick as a kid too. It always sucked.” Remembering Minkalla and its false life where his sudden sickness had saved his parent’s lives, he couldn’t help but add, “It wasn’t always possible, but one of my parents always tried to stay home when I got sick. I’m sure they would have stopped before I got too much older, but I was too young to really appreciate that.”

The silence only lasted until he stood and moved to the next table and restarted the process with the next Natural Treasure. When he finished that time, JR was already working on the first treasure.

Not letting himself get distracted, he pushed through to complete a third and then a fourth Natural Treasure before taking a break. He’d used most of the allotted time, but he was confident he could squeeze another in if he was willing to stay a little longer.

JR had other plans. “Don’t bother going any farther ahead than you already are. Instead, come over here and help me. I need a hand or eleven, and you are the only one who can assist.”

Using most of his concentration to avoid slamming into a desk— he was sure he’d hurt himself more than JR’s work benches— he only got a good look at what JR was going on when he arrived. The raven had already started layering support structure enchantments in Blake’s shoulder.

Quill was far from being able to jump in and start enchanting parts himself, but because they were ultimately making a Tier 30 item, he could assist. His part amounted to warming the tools up before the professional started using them, but he gave it his full attention and effort.

He even picked up a few enchanting tricks he thought might be useful from watching the Tier 50 at work. He particularly liked the trick to enchant layers of unstable runes without holding the entire runic structure together with his own spirit. By carefully arranging the build order and runes used, JR made it so that the previous runes held the preceding one stable, allowing him to only worry about two runes rather than dozens.

Then when he was done, he was able to work backwards through the assembly, slotting everything into their final places. It took a little more work to plan everything out and then remove unnecessary runes, but when used appropriately, the effect was incredible.

JR surprised him further by speaking out of nowhere after over an hour of silent progress. “Each piece that you place is a part of you. With something like this armor, the harmonization…” he used the Guild word with an inflection usually reserved for Power talk, but Quill understood what he’d meant. “... Never really ends. Sure, you might pause it, but think about it for a moment. This is an item tied into your name, your spirit, your domain, your body. Just as how all of the listed things can grow, so can this armor. Not because of the gem you smuggled through time. No, it is due to such an item's inherent nature as being one with the user. The gem will help, I’m sure, but once homogenized and stuffed inside you, you will no longer be able to swap out Natural Treasures or change base effects. But that doesn't mean changes are impossible. Nothing is static. Not even in death.”

Quill didn’t have an immediate response and JR didn’t pressure him, letting him think as they slowly built out the scaffolding in his shoulder. He thought he’d have more time, but they were less than a quarter through the structure done when JR called for a break.

Backing away, he stretched before stomping across the table like a bird on a mission.

“That’s enough for today. Next month we’ll do this again.”

Looking at Blake, Quill asked something that had been on his mind. “Is this okay for these tests to happen inside of my name?”

JR paused in his stretching to shoot Quill a strange look. “A little late to bring up that concern, isn't it?”

“No, I mean we are building all of these support structures to build the armor inside my name, but we are also removing and rebuilding the armor dozens of times throughout the process. I understand wanting to have a perfect reference to build around, but couldn’t we use any of the alternatives?”

Laughing, JR shook his head. “No no no. You're over thinking things, your name isn’t your body. There isn’t wear and tear on it with what we are doing. Look at it yourself.”

Quill did as commanded but saw nothing out of the ordinary.  “What am I supposed to be seeing? It's our work project, the same as it was twenty seconds ago.”

“Look. Look. Look.”

JR wasn’t speaking, but the word repeated itself in Quill’s head like a gong being rung.

Or was that 『　』’s head?

“Watch the shoulder. Keep focused on the shoulder. The shoulder.”

JR’s words gave him something to focus on and Quill tried to listen, but couldn’t look any harder. And yet, as his words overlapped, they seemed to fill his head with noise.

“Look. Look. Look.”

“Shoulder. Shoulder. Shoulder.”

It was the same shoulder.

It.

He was about to ask another question when the raven barked two words simultaneously nearly sending him reeling.

“Look!”

“Shoulder!”

Having never taken his eyes off the shoulder, Quill wanted to bark right back, but the words died in his throat as his name was perfectly normal. All of their work existed inside the name body perfectly, as if the shoulder hadn't been splayed open like a school project only a moment ago.

Except… it hadn’t been.

They hadn’t been.

They—

Quill clutched at his head as he felt a spike drive itself through his mind. An obliterating migraine appearing out of nowhere like a rubber band snapping into place.

Forcing his eyes open, Quill resisted the urge to cover them again to stop even a fraction of the pain to look at his name body. He was confident it was the source of his pain. Or was he its source of pain?

He couldn’t tell any more. It was all too blended together. All he knew at the moment was that he and JR had been working on it mere seconds ago.

He remembered it from both perspectives.

Every moment, every movement, every enchantment, every support they layered, every word, e—

“Breathe.” JR’s command lacked the same ringing sensation as it had a moment ago and Quill followed it, manually manipulating each muscle as they tried to remain locked up.

That return to normality helped, though it did nothing for the migraine, nor the ravaging his spirit had undergone.

Especially his shoulder.

He…

Quill tried to focus on JR, but the raven ushered a teal smoothie packed with medicinal herbs to float next to him.

When he didn’t immediately move to take the suspicious concoction, it bumped into his hand. “Drink. Slowly now. It will help and I’ll explain while you recover.”

Braving the agony that was moving his head, Quill glared at the raven but took the drink and did as instructed without speaking.

It helped.

So did the refreshingly cool smoothie as it spread a mildly numbing sensation everywhere it touched, giving relief to Quill’s agony. That assistance was enough to get him to seriously contemplate cracking his skull open and pouring the rest inside, but his intuition told him it had to be ingested to be effective.

He was halfway through when JR started explaining. “Let me start with a hearty congratulations. You handled that better than most people I've done that too. Few make it through the first set of harmonizations before they can’t handle it anymore, let alone have time to help at the end. Your work with Max combined with your own innate resilience will make this much easier than I’d feared. Now as to what we just did? What did you expect, Quill? We aren’t exactly working on a normal base material, our methods of interacting with it shouldn’t surprise you either.”

Scanning Blake's shoulder, Quill was shocked to find that while his body was still dissected as it had been before he arrived, the work they’d done was seemingly integrated with every misplaced strand as if they’d been there from the beginning.

Everything was so stretched that he couldn’t comprehend how their support structures hadn’t imploded. Combined with his headache, he didn’t have the faintest grasp of what was going on.

“Elaborate. Please.”

