The infiltrators themselves were not much better off. The enormous discharge of corruption had gone off right in their faces; a few were missing, a few more sprawled out and unmoving across the jagged slope. Most of the survivors had mutated into the kind of monstrosities with twisted flesh he’d encountered when traveling the alternate version of the Transformation Docks.

It was time to mop up the aftermath. Zac shot forth at utmost speed, avoiding the vents of corrosive mist rising from the new cracks in the mountain. At the same time, he heard Esmeralda’s giggles echo through the valley as two blurs shot off toward the horizon. Esmeralda hadn’t just singlehandedly undone the ritual; she’d also managed to lure away the hidden Monarch. The opportunity was too great to play it safe, and Zac switched up his plan without any hesitation.

‘Take care of the stragglers!’ Zac urged as he rushed for the island’s largest remaining chunk.

Less than a dozen miles separated Zac and his targets, with no formations barring his path. He descended nearby in a gust of Abyssal Death in the blink of an eye, releasing layers of billowing death. Another flash brought him past two invaders stumbling to their feet, his arm a blur as he released two flashes of darkness. Still reeling from the blast and blinded by [Abyssal Drive]’s sense-obscuring domain, they didn’t get the chance to react.

Zac was already gone when the invaders collapsed into neatly separated chunks of tumorous flesh. His goal was Zorm and the five henchmen around him. They were the strongest of the bunch, but they were also those who’d suffered the backlash the fiercest. Only two of them retained fully human appearances, and Zorm’s aura had grown even more chaotic.

As the array’s principal controller, Zac was impressed that Zorm could stay standing after the backlash. Monarchs truly were resilient cockroaches, able to stubbornly hold on. Except, everything had its limits.

“Incoming!” Zorm roared as he unleashed a herculean punch.

It held the power to topple mountains, yet it could do nothing to stop the absolute darkness that swallowed the surrounding miles of land. The mists of [Fields of Despair] covered senses and recast the broken mountain into a world of death. [Deathmark] added lethal corrosion, and the first generation of wraiths was already emerging from the shadows.

Towering above it all was a desolate eye wrought from utmost desolation and the countless figures locked in a perpetual orbit. The rattle of countless chains created a ghastly requiem that welcomed the nether realm’s newest members to the afterlife. Zac had fused with the darkness, already draped in [Arbiter of the Abyss]’s cloak of judgment as he crept closer.

“Gather up!” the beleaguered Monarch growled as he destroyed an axe wraith, only to realize he was utterly alone.

It was an intentional act on Zac’s end. [Eye of Desolation] held two layers, and he’d moved all the subordinates to the other layer. His ultimate skill and [Deathmark] weren’t enough to deal with the squad. They were all Late and Peak Hegemons chosen for this important task. However, the constrictive combination was enough to keep them occupied while Zac dealt with the main threat.

Zac usually worked the other way around, sweeping away the surrounding flies before focusing on the main threat. However, the second Monarch would soon realize that something was wrong and return. Before that, Zorm needed to fall. This would be Zac’s first solo hunt of a Monarch, and his heart thumped with the winds of war.

He’d made extraordinary gains in this short year on the Left Imperial Expanse. Was it enough to join the peerless D-grade warriors who could overcome the pressure of a world?
