“He was scared,” Astrid said quietly as they cut through a plaza at the back of a noisy, nervous pack of people. “Not too bad. He was trying to read me his emergency summoning notice, and I was telling him it was fine, the System probably just needed him to help someone in the water. And he was saying of course it was fine and he’d do his best. Only I could tell he was scared. And then he was gone.”

It was a while before Reinhard answered her.

“Who wouldn’t be scared?”

******

******

Alden went down the stairs quickly. But not too quickly.

Don’t run. He’ll hear your feet on the steps. Running makes it look like you’re trying to get away from him.

Trying to get away might make him wonder if he shouldn’t let you.

He hoped he was being paranoid. Liam seemed more like a person who would beg for your stuff than a person who would actually threaten you for it. A decent enough guy who was coming face to face with the terrible choices he’d made tonight.

It didn’t really matter.

A scared stranger was unpredictable. The consequences for misjudgments were too high. There was a new, dangerous feeling in the air.

Alden was acutely aware of his own weaknesses.

I can’t outrun him. I can’t fight him. Helping him look for his family sounds like a suicide mission. And if I drop Zeridee, she could die.

The second floor landing was below him, and the emergency lights in the stairwell were bright, illuminating an absolute wreck.

The water had drained away, leaving behind so much destroyed stuff—the broken door, glass, wood, an easel, an office chair.

A dozen flavors of unidentifiable, sharp, shattered crap.

Alden approached it cautiously. There was no way to avoid stepping on some of it. But the hiking sandals Zeridee had gotten for him had thick soles, so that was something at least.

Stay up there trying to wrap your head around this shitty situation just a little longer please, Liam. Just long enough for me to get out.

He made his way through the maze of garbage step by step, trying to balance his need for speed with his need to still have functional legs and feet once he made it outside.

You know, Dura Brute would actually be fantastic. Can Haoyu walk across broken glass like its beach sand already? I think so. Once he gets himself where he wants to be, he could just barrel through a mess like this for sure.

Or he could cannonball off the roof and skip the stairs altogether.

He was almost at the bottom when the stairwell reverberated with the sound of footfalls.

Damn. Okay. More fast; less careful.

Alden jumped four steps into a spot that looked clear enough, landing hard thanks to the weight of his passenger. Here, below the second floor, drops of water rained down from all the pockets and crevices of junk they’d been trapped in.

Alden wanted to stop and study the movement of it, to see if he could figure out if there was some kind of rule or clue about how it got pulled toward its next target. The individual falling drops seemed to be responding to gravity like normal in here, but there was also a big wedge of water building up against the wall, as if the room were tilted.

“Tina? Tina, are you there?” Liam was still talking loudly to the earring. His voice echoed.

Alden reached the last staircase.

Surprisingly, the debris wasn’t that bad down here. There was a lot of smaller stuff littering the floor. A whole electric keyboard was in the corner on its side. And the door was gone. It wasn’t even in the stairwell. It was just gone like it had never been there at all.

Alden ran out without pausing to question his good fortune. Within three steps, though, he realized the ground floor was going to be pitch black as he got farther from the emergency lighted staircase.

I know where the puzzle door is. Apogee’s ground floor had more than one hall lined with the reinforced boom rooms. He couldn’t currently see the central hallway where a few strides past the Long siblings’ torture room would lead him to the exit, but it wasn’t far at all. One turn and a straight shot. It’s fine.

But the pause gave him a split second to consider another urgent problem. If he ran straight out into the street, he might not be able to jog away from Liam at whatever pace he wanted. Outdoors it was probably at least as difficult to navigate as this.

And what if there wasn’t a puzzle door anymore? Just rubble for him to dig through to find a way out.

If I’m even a little slow, Liam might catch up to me. If he can’t find his own shoes, he might actively try to chase me down.

It’s safer if I watch him leave.

The man was about to reach him.

Thought turned to decision, and Alden rushed to hide himself and Zeridee in the deeper darkness of the hall he was on.

Soon, his feet were crunching on things he couldn’t properly see. He dodged larger shapes and walked along a damp wall.

I think the end is just ahead?

It was getting harder to make out anything.

He shuffled a few more steps, and he accidentally kicked a pile of something that shifted and plopped on top of his foot. It felt like a giant wad of wet toilet paper, which seemed unlikely.

He shook it off and stood still, lifting a hand to his chest as if that might keep his heart from beating out of it.

Okay. Okay. Far enough. Don’t let yourself panic and keep stumbling around for no reason.

He turned just in time to see Liam stepping out of the stairwell. The light at his back make him super visible, and Alden’s lizard brain hissed that the other Avowed could definitely see him right now if he looked this way.

He bent his knees and squatted to make himself less obviously person-shaped.

Even if he looks this way, he won’t see me. Not unless he’s got vision enhancements to help him, and I don’t think he does.

Liam had bumped into a couple of statues on the sixth floor while he was freaking out up there.

Alden understood that people standing in bright spots couldn’t clearly make out dark areas. He knew Liam’s night vision should be at least as dull as his own was from being in the brighter stairwell.

He still felt like a sitting duck.

A few seconds passed, then Liam stepped out of the light and headed for his boom room. He’d never even looked in Alden’s direction.

He’s walking well. Maybe he took the pain injector I gave him already.

It was the same as the one Alden had taken earlier. Knocked everything down to manageable levels.

But really…please put something on your feet, man. Fabric, cardboard, anything. Having no skin left on them is going to suck so much.

******

Liam looked for his shoes.

Alden sat on the floor in the dark, monitoring him with his ears. There was scuffing, thumping, splashing.

A lot of splashing. Did he find a whole lake in the torture chamber?

Alden did have some questions about how the water had entered and exited the building down here. Without windows, had it punched through walls?

I hope the whole place isn’t about to fall on top of my head.

He stretched his shoulders, organized his thoughts. He was trying to take advantage of the short delay as much as he could. Zeridee lay across his lap. Water dripped from the ceiling around them as if in mockery of the rain that had so recently stopped falling outside.

I’m going to need to take that stimulant sooner than I planned. And I need some light. I’m too tired to search the whole building for a light, but that’s what I’m going to need. How do people make torches? Can I do that?

“Royce, can you hear me? Come on, Roycee. Come on!”

Alden closed his eyes and swallowed.

Liam kept calling for his brother and sister. His voice was growing more desperate every time.

Please answer him, one of you. Please don’t leave him alone.

The man was still looking for the shoes. Or maybe he’d found them and he was gearing up in other ways. That would be smart.

Alden tried not to feel ashamed. And sad.

Afraid.

He tried not to wonder if he was letting another person suffer more than he had to. And at the same time, he tried not to feel like he was already in trouble so deep that he might not make it to the surface no matter how overcautious he was.

He patted one of Zeridee’s arms a few times, just so that he felt less alone.

It’s all right. We were moving forward well enough earlier.  We were getting closer and closer to safety. We’ll make it out.

He didn’t quite believe himself.

And because of that, because he wanted this terrible situation to end, he found himself pulling up his interface and flicking to the Privileges tab.

One simple, weighty word at the bottom of the list stared at him:

[MOTHER]

So, thought Alden. I guess it’s finally time to think about this seriously.

It didn’t look like a button. Just a word.

Can I really…?

A memory came to him. Sharp and fresh.

Alis-art’h’s hands had touched his cheeks, in that teleporatation room on her spaceship that was supposed to kill him.

“Mother,” she’d said, “if this one makes it to you, place both your eyes upon him.”

And because of that, because Alis-art’h had suffered and served for who knew how long and earned herself “a favor or two” from that entity, Alden Thorn got to live a little more. He got the sort of extraordinary help the Quaternary had so regretfully informed him he was not deemed worthy of.

More extraordinary than that, even.

I got to make a couple of important choices. And I got the chance to be safe again.

Though it had been as simple as Alis-art’h asking, Alden had never for a second thought it was actually simple.

She hesitated. She was so upset about what happened to me. I saw how guilty she felt. But she still hesitated to ask.

The knight had been walking out the door to leave him to his fate when she changed her mind and turned back to ask for that favor.

This option—if it was an option at all and Alden wasn’t misunderstanding completely—would come with so much more than strings attached.

I don’t think I’m misunderstanding. She was paying attention to me when I saw the privilege for the first time. She knew exactly what I thought. I even told her I knew she wasn’t a genie.

He wasn’t Alis-art’h. He wasn’t owed.

If Alden wanted to ask for favors, he was going to have to earn them. And Quiet Rabbits probably couldn’t do that.

He opened a text message window to nobody.

[If I use my final privilege, then don’t you have to talk to me? I can’t get in touch with Artona I without you.]

The dripping of the water all around him seemed loud. A frigid drop hit his head and slid down the side of his cheek.

Then, a voice whispered in his ear. It was a pleasant enough one, neither male nor female.

“Are you using that privilege, Alden?”

It’s answering. Like this. I can’t even use it to send a text if I beg right now, but it answers this.

If just the mention of the privilege was enough to reprioritize its attention…

Alden suddenly felt like he was hanging onto the edge of a cliff by a single fingertip.

The question hung there, too, right beside him.

[No,] he wrote. [I’m sorry for bothering you. I wasn’t thinking clearly. I won’t mention that subject again unless I mean it.]

******
