Erick glanced toward the guildhouse-like structure sitting at the southern side of the main courtyard, opposite the ironcrystal castle that held the dungeon entrance. Except for the construction material, which was a facade of ironcrystal over normal grey stone, the guildhouse was a rather normal space meant for gathering and coordination. There weren’t any normal guildhouse structures, like a library or adventurer clerks, or all of the normal accoutrements, but there were a few large leaderboards, and a large restaurant and bar space that took up most of the main floor. Some offices in the back looked like they were for dungeon guides and other paperwork spaces, but there were only two actual clerks working right now, and they were both arguing with a team about their place on the boards. It looked like a complicated argument about depth versus ‘decoration’.

‘Depth’ was easy enough to understand, but ‘decoration’, in this context, seemed to mean the amount of metiron and metamonds that a team could field, in full. The very fact that ‘decoration’ existed as a stat meant that there was some sort of limit to the amount of power a person could wield on the field, which was good to know.

That was very different from Veird, where everyone had access to their full Status whenever they wanted.

Erick glanced at the leaderboards again.

There were actually a few leaderboards, and looking at the argument between delvers and guides, Erick realized that they wanted to add another leaderboard to the mix. Which was whatever, Erick supposed. Anyway. The two main leaderboards were Depth and Decoration.

A team called the Iron Bandits was down to depth 191, and Erick disliked their naming immensely. Bandits? Seriously? Well whatever. The closest team behind them was at 159, with a bunch of people at 149. One of the ‘teams’ at 149 was actually an individual delver named ‘Clarice Icewind’.

Was there a 10 floor breakpoint? Or something? Probably.

The Decoration board was listed by individual name first, team name second, if applicable. Clarice Icewind was in the lead there with no team name, and with a ‘metiron cap’ listing of ‘3450’ and a ‘spells known’ of ‘239’. The next person behind her was from Iron Bandits, with a ‘3250’ and a ‘108’. A big drop off in spellwork, for sure.

A few other team names popped up, but there was no repeat from Iron Bandits, and most people on the Decoration board had numbers similar to the guy from Iron Bandits, but lower. The guy from the Iron Bandits was named ‘Bob Woodvale’, and since he was the highest decorated Iron Bandit, and that team was at the top of the depth board, Erick made a mental note of his name, and moved on.

Erick rapidly deduced a few things.

Clarice was probably an archmage, or equivalent. Everyone on the Decoration board was probably a mage of some sort, with a focus on spellwork.

And the ‘metiron cap’ was the amount of mana that a person could draw upon; the amount of metiron bits and bobs they had on their person. So like their mana well. 3000 mana was about the top range for a delver, for whatever reason. Erick suspected most people were far below that number.

The ‘spells known’ was rather clear; it was the number of metamonds a person had on themselves. Probably.

For comparison, Erick glanced at his Status, here on Veird. Mana comparisons were easy to find. Erick’s current mana well stood at a maximum of 55,800 mana. His spells known was a metric that was a bit harder to suss out of his Status, because Erick knew a lot of spells.

Well over 450.

According to the basic numbers, Erick was a lot more learned than the top delvers, but Clarice Icewind, which was probably not her real name, was either an archmage or a wizard or a dragon, and she was rather competent… Probably. Erick wasn’t sure how the Gem Dungeon worked, exactly, but Clarice was rather far up there… Or ‘down there’. Hmm.

Whichever!

Erick furrowed his brow, and suspected he was probably wrong about something to do with ‘Decoration’, because the people in the courtyard, under the morning light, did not have hundreds of little colored-gems stuck into their ironcrystal armor. The most Erick saw was…

Ten.

Quite a few people had ten gems stuck into their gear here and there, and none had more than that. A few people had seven or even four gems. Many had none; they looked like first time delvers, ready to get into the dungeon for the first time, just like him.

Hmm.

The most impressive display of ironcrystal was on the woman with the large shield and the ironcrystal tunic, who was surrounded by people. She was not, as Erick had first suspected, talking to her team, for her ‘team members’ each only had a few metiron and metamond pieces to them; they were rookies. She was instructing the lot of them on this and that, but mostly on various tactics for fighting a boss on floor 5, and for progressing fast through the first floors, and she was doing it with a beer in her hand. Day drinking, this early in the morning. She was truly enthusiastic about her instruction, but her charges were not. They were ready to get in there and go.

Erick was ready to go, too, but there was just one more piece of information he needed before he stepped into the dungeon. Now where could he find... Ah. There. That conversation.

“I’m at my limit and I told you this already. I said what I said before we even went in there!” said an exasperated woman, coming out of the dungeon castle. She and her younger male partner had come out of the dungeon itself not two seconds ago. Both of them only had two metairons apiece, each with a single gem stuck in them; they were rookies. “I’m not dying in a dungeon. I hit my 10 saves, and I’m done.”

The younger man was exasperated, but he tried to keep his voice even as he said, “This is the easiest dungeon we’ve ever done and we can live here if we can get past floor 5. We can brute force the boss with a few more tries.”

“No, Jono. I’m done with this place.”

“Please, Kerri. We can…”

Their conversation turned into a quiet quarrel, and Erick stopped paying attention because he had heard enough. Based on that conversation and a few more conversations across the courtyard, he suspected that there was a special system to prevent the need of [True Resurrection] all the time. A ‘saving’ system.

He wouldn’t need to [Time Stop] or [Return] when he was in there, which was good.

And that was enough information gathering for now.

Erick strode forward with confidence, right into the open doors to the ironcrystal castle.

Beyond the large, thick open doors, the black [Gate] into Darkness loomed in the center of the otherwise-empty-looking, shadowy space. The castle doors could be closed and the main entrance locked down in case of a dungeon break, but a quick check through the manasphere revealed that the doors to the main castle hadn’t been shut in at least the last week. They probably hadn’t ever been closed, since a properly maintained dungeon never broke, and the Gem Dungeon was a Grand Dungeon and therefore incredibly stable.

A much more thorough check of the manasphere and a flexing of his [Water Domain] revealed a monster hanging in the shadows above and all around. It was not an amalgamation moon reacher, like Quilatalap had at the entrance to his Grand Dungeon of Candlepoint, but instead a massive spider of a hundred legs, standing over and around the interior space of the dungeon gatehouse, with the shadows acting as its web. That unseen monster held above the black [Gate], unmoving, waiting for something untoward to happen below, and then it would strike.

Erick ignored the massive not-monster, but he did note the perfectly-formed core within the center of its head. The ‘monster’ itself was hidden through a bunch of magics, but that core was definitely a core, and not a grand rad. So it wasn’t a monster at all.

The spider was either a person, like a dragon doing a job, or a sacred beast.

Probably a sacred beast.

Sacred beasts sometimes happened these days, since dungeons and their arcane rules allowed for the safe accretion of uniform mana. Dungeons were made (partially) in order to allow people to grow their own magical production, and eventually their own cores, so the advent of sacred beasts was a rather normal ‘side effect’ of that allowance.

Not many people had cores these days aside from shadelings and Shades, so there was still a lot of stigma about a person making their own core. Dragons didn’t even have to have cores in their human forms; that was just an option for them. Erick always had a core, though. Anyone who had a core these days was either an extreme xoatist, or one of the rarer cultists of Melemizargo who didn’t care about being open about their ties to the Cult. Or a shadeling.

… Reluctantly, Erick decided that ‘Ashes’ would be a xoatist, if his core should be revealed, and it probably would, if Script-based spellwork eventually eroded further down in the Gem Dungeon.

Erick glanced around.

People walked in and out of the dungeon without worry about anything snatching them up, and the sacred beast didn’t move at all, even when people accidentally tripped the few shadow webs that lay across the path. Erick put his own worries out of his mind.

Beyond the black portal, the dungeon itself was grassland.

Erick stepped forward, into the dungeon gatehouse, under the spider.

The spider didn’t move.

A few strides later and Erick stepped across the [Gate] threshold.

He was in the dungeon now, upon a dirt path where others walked in and out of the dungeon. Yet again, Erick was reminded of Quilatalap’s Grand Dungeon, back at Candlepoint. Everywhere Erick looked was grasslands, but a forest held in the far, far distance, and beyond that lay mountains.

Down the dirt path lay what looked to be hillsides, raised up here and there. According to what a few people were saying around him, those hills were where he would find the entrances to the first floor, or whatever passed for a ‘first floor’ around here. Some people were even talking about stepping into the hills and arriving directly at floor 5… Because that was a thing they could do? Well sure.

This grassland was simply the entrance zone.

He’d get to all that eventually.

First, though: Just ahead of Erick, about twenty meters distant and ringing the entrance like a low fog, lay a ring of shadows. That demarcation was the true separation point between the ever-safe entrance, and the unknown.

People stepped across those shadows without worry or care.

… And so Erick stepped to the side of the path and watched for a while. As people entered the dungeon from outside, their ironcrystal bits and bobs remained ironcrystal, until they were inside the dungeon space for maybe ten seconds. After that, those jagged crystals transformed into almost-shiny, smooth iron. Going the other way, headed from the hills to the dungeon exit, it took people about three seconds of being in this safe space for their bits and bobs to transform the other way, from smooth, shiny iron, into jagged, hard grey crystal. The same thing happened to their gemstones. Smooth gemstones turned into jagged twists of colored crystal, or jagged crystals turned into smooth gemstones of every color, filled with fractal light, depending on which way the person was walking.

A lot of people had spellwork on them, too, and the change there was perhaps stronger than the change taking place in their ironcrystal.

Going into the dungeon, nothing much happened; [Personal Ward]s remained.

For those stepping out of the dungeon, their spellwork gained inside the dungeon washed away like broken glitters, as people stepped back into normal, Script-based reality.

So the dungeon had [Personal Ward]s of its own? Looked like.

Physically, there were also changes.

Going from reality to dungeon, a lot of people seemed to stand taller, and walk surer, gaining power inside the dungeon that they didn’t have under the Script.

Going from dungeon to reality was much more pronounced, though. Many people seemed to gain an inner strength in that transformation, with shoulders evening and eyes clearing and backs straightening. Just as many people had just as many transformations in a negative way, seeming to lose power and ability as they stepped back into reality.

Looked like the Gem Dungeon had systems similar to Strength and Vitality and otherwise. Going away from the Script would cause people to gradually lose Script power, but they would gain Gem Dungeon power.

Erick watched for a while to confirm what he was seeing, and yes, all his initial observations looked to be correct.

A few people looked at him, wondering what he was doing. A few of the more veteran delvers knew what he was doing; he was new, and he was checking out the dungeon, trying to see what was happening to everyone as they walked through.

A guy and his friend walked by, and the guy tried to be helpful, “The first floor is safe! Just go on in!”

Erick smiled, saying, “There’s no way any dungeon is ever safe, but I get your meaning.”

That earned him a few chuckles from the guys, and from other people all around, but nothing more than that.

Erick rapidly decided at least one thing:

All these people are way too comfortable with dungeons.

… But this one seemed safe enough. Erick even saw some people step off the dirt path, to head into the grasslands. And sure, that was one option. Just go out there and see what was what. Always a valid choice, unless ‘what was what’ was the emptiness of space which would lead to explosive decompression…

But then again, the first floors weren’t that bad according to the guide back there; Blacksmith. This entrance zone was certainly fine.

Erick gazed across the inner world of the dungeon. Ophiel, on his shoulder, did the same. Soon the little guy would need to step off, because he was a mana construct and this dungeon would kill him, as most dungeons would do to all ongoing magical effects. For now, though, Erick studied his greater surroundings, with Ophiel on his shoulder.

Grassland in every direction. A dirt road that went toward some hills. And then one more nearby thing that Erick didn’t know about.

Behind the [Gate], on the other side of where people came out, there was a squat fort over there. It sat about a hundred meters away from the backside of the entrance. It was off on its own, and Erick wasn’t quite sure what to make of it, for no one was headed there for some bizarre reason.

Erick asked a passerby who looked competent, with all his silver pieces, “Pardon me. Why does no one go to the castle over there?”

