The passerby didn’t even look back as he said, “That’s the start of the Eternal Depths… Sorry, you look new and I’d love to help, but I gotta catch up to my friends. Good luck! Just do the tutorial!” The guy kept walking.

Erick pulled back from further interactions.

He people-watched for a while. Mostly, all he saw were people heading either into the hills, or away from the hills, where black shadows formed doorways leading elsewhere. Sometimes some people stepped off the path, to hunt for what looked to be slime/lizard things, hiding in the green.

The amorphous lizards dashed across the ground, praying that the heavy grass overhead would protect them from the hunting delvers. Mostly, they got away.

People just kept trying to kill them, though.

One guy who was chasing a slime-lizard couldn’t quite catch the darned thing, so he flickered through the air, almost like he was airstepping, his bracelet flickering with white light. The guy caught and killed the beastie, and the beastie shattered into light and mana. That mana then soaked into the man, and then into his bracelet. The man smiled.

Erick was rather sure he understood what was happening there, too.

The guy had a bracelet that was mostly dull iron, with a single white gem insert, and the gem had flashed when he did that airstep. When he actually caught the slime lizard, driving a sword through the thing and as the thing popped like broken magic —and not like a living thing at all— the animal vanished and the guy’s bracelet turned almost cleaner. The gem was brighter, for sure.

And then the guy went back to his friends, who were waiting for him to finish.

Not many people were hunting the slime lizards, but those who were hunting all had some dull bit of metal on them. Successful hunts made their metal shiny again.

They were recharging their metals? Through basic monster kills? Maybe. Seemed logical.

Anyway. Erick silently bade Ophiel farewell, and the little guy fluttered off of his shoulder. Intangible and invisible, the little guy hovered in the air on this side of the [Gate], outside of the way of others, while another Ophiel sat on the roof of the building on the other side of the courtyard, outside the dungeon [Gate] house. Ophiel had line of sight to himself, so if Poi or anyone else needed to send Erick an emergency message, they could. Erick wondered how valid this whole setup was, because Script magics failed deeper into the dungeon and if the mana got too thin… Eh. Erick would be fine for a few hours.

If Ophiel revealed himself, things would rapidly turn serious for a great many people here, and they could contact ‘Ashes’, for sure. Erick soundlessly told Ophiel that and Ophiel fluffed up, prepared for duty.

Erick smiled at that, feeling an inner warmth, knowing that Ophiel could do this task. For a moment, he lingered. Ophiel gave him a salute. Erick chuckled a little, and probably looked like a crazy person to those walking by, but whatever!

And then he turned and walked into the grass, prepared for death, and to fight death off.

And then...

He was in the grass.

No big deal.

Stepping off of the path would have caused some monsters to attempt to kill him over in Quilatalap’s dungeon.

… Erick kept walking, right through the smoky line of shadows encircling the safe space around the entrance—

Erick almost jolted as words appeared in the air before him. There was no box; just words, untethered.

Hello, <NEW DELVER>. Welcome to the Gem Dungeon.

We see you are a new user. There are a great many differences between the Second Script here in the Glittering Depths and the Script out there on Veird. We suggest you try the tutorial, though it is not required. Do you wish to experience the tutorial?

If you have any questions or concerns, or if you wish to engage the tutorial, speak to the dungeon, and the dungeon will respond.

Well that was a change.

“No blue boxes,” Erick said to himself, feeling some kinda way about that.

… He probably would do the tutorial. But first, he wanted to test out some things and he needed to be further out of sight of the traffic at the entrance. So Erick stepped deeper into the tall grass. The green came up to his knees, and slime-lizards scurried around under the tall fronds, but only to get away; nothing attacked.

Out a good fifty meters from the entrance, Erick made sure of a few things before he selected ‘yes’ to the tutorial. First, he checked out his mana sense, stressing his ability to be ‘one with the mana’ to his current limit… and his range was about 400 meters. Less than usual, but not too much lower than normal. He couldn’t mana sense beyond any of the nearby entrances to the first floor, though, and some people had some sort of weirdness on them that completely prevented mana sensing around them, but other than that, mana sense worked exactly how it should.

The mana sense blocking mostly pertained to those who came out of the black doorway to the first floor, which meant that anti-sensing spellwork was probably necessary further down.

Erick supposed in a dungeon devoid of mana, that mana was the most important resource, and so monsters and people would need to learn how to cloak themselves from mana sensing, completely.

Erick suspected the range and usefulness of his mana sense was probably going to go way down, but not too much down, and not because of any actual dungeon restriction, either.

A dungeon could very much limit one’s mana sense, like they did at the Pit at Storm’s Edge, but that was not normal. The purpose of leaving mana sense alone, as Quilatalap had explained to him a few times before, was to reward those people who actually learned that most basic of skills; not to punish everyone who had the skill, to make that learning useless. It seemed the Gem Dungeon followed Quilatalap’s guidelines more than they followed the guidelines of the Pit, at Storm’s Edge, or other similar places. There were surely places inside the Gem Dungeon where mana sense was actually blocked; security places, and such. But other than that...

If the density of mana went way, way down, which it was supposed to do, Erick’s mana sensing range would go down, too.

Moving on.

For the next test, Erick tried casting a [Force Bolt] through the Script, as he normally would.

Nothing. Not even a flick of mana and a premature spell break. Erick’s mana felt dead to him; it was there, he could feel it, and he could also feel the mana he kept inside his core, but casting as he would with the Script was right out. Not happening.

To be expected, really.

A few people were watching him from over by the entrance, but not too intently; they were new, too, and they were watching everyone, everywhere that they could, just like Erick had been doing minutes ago.

Erick ignored it.

Next, Erick kept his [Water Domain] tight around his core as he flowed his aura out of his core, into the air, to use the mana he kept inside his core to manually cast a spell—

His Domain-enhanced aura ripped apart before he could extend it more than a centimeter past his skin. All intent was… scrubbed from it? Whatever was happening, it was clear that manual casting outside his body didn’t work.

Erick could still shape mana inside his body, where his soul fully encapsulated the area where he would work his spells. Interior magic would therefore work. Stuff like [Greater Treat Wounds] would even work, but since the Script was not here, then it would be a rather shitty heal job. Not something to rely upon for anything outside of emergencies, and trying to cast Healing Magic on himself would likely result in cancers. Erick knew he could flex his Domains a lot harder than he was and actually cast normally if necessary, for a spell like [Return], but for now, this was fine.

Erick tried a trick.

He conjured a [Force Bolt] in his mouth, where his soul fully encapsulated the space, and then spat the Bolt onto the ground.

So that was good. Manual casting worked if he could fully enclose the space. He could probably [Benevolence Breath] too, if—

Manual caster detected.

Congratulations! You have passed the test for floor 2!

But not really.

You have also found a known vulnerability in our Rules. This vulnerability exists here on the entrance zone, but it does not exist on floor 3 and below. We suggest you don’t rely on this method going forward, or else you will have a bad time once the mana saturation falls below naturally fluctuating levels, and your soul covering a space will not protect that space from the Rules of the Glittering Depths.

NOTICE: All mana you attempt to exude into the air will be sucked away by the dungeon soon enough! Use the mana gained inside the dungeon to work magic inside the dungeon!

NOTICE: Since you haven’t done the tutorial or gained any meta-irons or meta-diamonds, you will not be able to actually use any real magic beyond this entrance zone. Please try the tutorial to gain your first bits of casting iron and diamonds, to then brave the Glittering Depths!

Well okay then.

So ‘mouth casting’ wasn’t going to get him through all of this, and eventually, even casting inside his body wasn’t going to work, because all the mana he tried to flow from his core would be wisped away by the dungeon…

Soooo…

Erick still had his core and all of his mana therein, so he could use any of his Domains and create a space for his own magic to work, but that would be about as bad as trying to cast spellwork out in the middle of space…

Which had been horrific.

He’d save that for an actual emergency.

“Let’s do this how they want,” Erick said, “Let’s do the tutorial.”

The ground opened up.

Erick let himself fall.

- - - -

Erick landed on his feet in the dead end of a white hallway.

His mana sense ended ten centimeters into the walls, floor, and ceiling, which was how it was going to be going forward, Erick thought. Whatever the case with that, the hallway was empty, and it led off into an open room ahead.

Words shimmered into the air.

Welcome, <NEW DELVER>! Please pick a unique name for yourself, and clearly speak that name to the dungeon, for the dungeon does not know what you are thinking or doing at all.

NOTICE: All commands must be said verbally to be understood by the dungeon.

“Ashes Woodfield is my name.”

Accepted! Name is not taken. You are now Ashes Woodfield.

Your current status:

- -

Ashes Woodfield.

Mana Production (MP): 1 per day.

- -

That is your entire Status for now. More parts will unlock later.

Don’t worry about having a low MP right now. 10 mana per day is the average mana production for a normal person on Veird, and you will reach that soon.

Your MP here in the Glittering Depths will increase rapidly as you complete challenges and reach new floors, and if you gain a [Meditation] meta-diamond, you can turn that ‘per day’ into ‘per hour’, just as under the Script.

The current maximum mana production of the deepest delvers in the Glittering Depths is around 100,000 per day.

There is no Health until you get a metamond for Health and can channel Mana into Health.

Erick tried to mentally dismiss the messages in front of him, but nothing happened.

So he looked away, and that did it. The messages vanished.

Erick reconsidered the leaderboards he had seen before. That ‘metiron cap’ of 3200-ish was a mana well cap, but a person’s mana production was personal… Which, yes, that’s of course how it worked.

Another message popped up.

NOTICE: The tutorial has robust messaging. Robust messaging does not exist inside the actual dungeon, except in special locations. The quantity of messages you receive will go down drastically beyond this tutorial.

NOTICE: Without an [Identify] meta-diamond, you won’t get much information outside of this tutorial.

NOTICE: The robust messaging of the tutorial will change based on your actions herein.

Do you acknowledge these notices?

“… I acknowledge these messages.”

Please continue forward into the main testing room. There is little lethality in the tutorial, but it does exist. This is mostly a measure of your own capability for violence.

… Erick did as he was told, he supposed, and walked forward into the large room ahead.

The large room was simply that; large and featureless and a dome, about 20 meters in diameter, with no exits except the one he came in fro—

The wall behind Erick slid shut, and now the room was completely featureless.

A different wall opened up on the other side of the room and a standard green slime rolled out. The wall shut again, and then it was just Erick and the slime, each about 18 meters away from the other—

The slime rolled toward Erick, menacingly.

Erick almost laughed at the little guy. That little tilt of its tiny core, that little rumple on its front side where it was rolling forward too fast for its slime body to keep up, the way it was moving with purpose; everything about it spoke of menace. Rage and hate.

All that menace in a form barely the size of a toddler.

Erick let it come to him. He let the slime attack a little, but all it managed to do was climb onto his shoe and then flop off when it couldn’t climb him at all. It struggled, oh how did it struggle!

“Sorry little guy.”

Erick stomped it.

The slime became a splat of green goo that rapidly turned to motes of mana, to vanish into the ether. It wasn’t a real monster; just a facsimile of one, like the ones above ground. Erick wondered if there would be any real monsters going forward, or if the entire dungeon was filled with fakes.

Real monsters couldn’t exist inside a mana vacuum, after all. If all of the Glittering Depths was a near-vacuum, then… Where were the monsters? Because there were surely monsters in a dungeon; that’s just how it worked.

Erick filed away that query for later, because words appeared in the air.

Test 1 of 5 complete!

MP up! +1 mana production per day!

Erick furrowed his brow at the message. His mana production went up? Just like that?

Well okay then.

Another door opened up and a mangy dog launched into the room. The door shut behind the beast, and the beast yipped and squeaked at Erick. The dog was the size of a large toddler.

It attacked, as best it could, aiming right for Erick’s groin.

Erick slapped the back of the dog’s neck with the edge of his palm. The dog fell to the ground, limp and dead and rapidly turning into mana. A part of Erick was ashamed for killing a dog, even if it was a summoned creature, but there was an instinctive reaction that happened when the beast went for his family jewels—

The dog vanished into motes of mana.

Test 2 of 5 complete!

MP up! +1 mana production per day!

Another, different door opened, and out walked a teenager with a big stick and grubby clothes. Erick’s eyes went wide. A person? Well. Person-shaped. Probably not a person—

