The skinny, 40-kilo-at-the-most teenager, rushed at Erick with his big stick. Erick caught the stick, took it from the kid’s grip, hip checked the boy to the ground, and then stepped back, holding the stick; it was his weapon now.

He waited for the kid to attack again.

But the kid just sat there on the ground, and smirked. The kid turned into a splash of broken mana. The big stick remained in Erick’s hands—

Test 3 of 5 complete!

MP up! +1 mana production per day!

Another, different door opened, and out stepped a full-grown man, the size and shape of Erick. He wore leather armor and had a stick big enough to be classified as a club. That club even had some nails driven into the head and out the other side. It was almost a morningstar.

The man did not rush at Erick; he took a measured walk—

He exploded into motion, crossing the distance in a matter of a second, his mace swinging down, aiming for Erick’s head.

Erick casually raised his stick and adjusted the course of the man’s attack, opening the man’s side up to a punching counter, which Erick expertly delivered into the space just below the man’s armpit. The man crumpled under Erick’s Strength, his breath stolen from him, and Erick helped him down to the floor. The makeshift-mace skittered across the room, away from both of them.

The man vanished into motes of mana before Erick fully put him down.

Test 4 of 5 complete!

MP up! +1 mana production per day!

A small portion of the wall opened and a floating ball of mana drifted into the room. Without getting close at all the little cloud started throwing [Force Bolt]s at Erick, one right after the other. Multiple Bolts hurtled through the air before the first one even struck, which meant that the cloud-thing was manually casting.

The first Bolt never struck, because Erick raised his stick and intercepted every Bolt. Bolts always went toward center-mass, so it was rather easy enough to navigate those trajectories—

The little cloud adjusted its angle of attack, throwing Bolts wide to let them arc up and out before they came at Erick from oblique angles.

Erick still slapped the Bolts out of the air with his stick, but his stick was rapidly failing him. The stick began to split after seven Bolts, and then outright broke after ten. Erick almost considered getting the nailed mace to fend off the attacks, but he could also just raise his palm and stop the Bolts that way, but neither option would stop the cloud from attacking, and the little cloud didn’t seem to be running out of mana at all. In fact, it looked to be building up power—

A [Force Beam] lanced out from the cloud and Erick put his hand in the way of the beam so it wouldn’t hit his head.

The Beam didn’t do shit.

Broken Force spilled into the air; Erick’s innate absolute damage reduction and his [Unbreakable Form] [Personal Ward] were more than enough to handle this level of threat. He could have let the Beam hit his face, directly, and nothing would have happened, but that would be taking a risk he didn’t want to take.

The Beam continued to spill its attack directly at Erick for a full 15 seconds, before it sputtered out, and the cloud faded some.

One more Bolt came for Erick, and Erick batted the Bolt away.

The thin cloud vanished into tiny motes of mana.

Test 5 of 5 complete!

Challenge room complete!

MP up! +5 mana production per day!

A chime echoed through the room like the singing of divinity, and then faded.

Tabulating results!

Results collected. Martial ability vastly exceeds minimal parameters. Defense vastly exceeds minimal parameters. Unknown magical capability.

Ashes Woodfield is accepted as a delver.

Current Status:

- -

Ashes Woodfield.

MP per day: 10

- -

Three different doors opened up on the other side of the room, each of them leading to a different hallway.

Beyond those hallways lay rooms exactly like this one. Erick wasn’t sure what was supposed to happen, exactly. Obviously he needed to go through a door, but was this room done?

He didn’t have to consider his options for very long, because words began to scroll down from the air, informing him of what was going on.

What you experienced in this room was a normal challenge for basic mana gains, and you gained the normal amount of reward for clearing the room, as everyone does who manages to clear the room.

NOTICE: You killed the smaller threats, hesitated to kill the people, and you brushed aside the damage of the force cloud instead of killing it directly. It will not be so easy to gain your rewards later. Later, you must actually kill the threats in a mana challenge room if you wish to claim the rewards.

NOTICE: Whatever personal power you have active now will fade when you go deeper into the Glittering Depths, and you will not be able to brush off a [Force Beam] as easily as you have.

Nothing you fight and kill in the dungeons is real, but the danger is real, and the outcomes of those fights are very real. If this should change, you will be alerted before the change.

If you fail any fight that is stated as a fight, and if a monster looks to kill you, then you will be saved by Glittering Depths Saving Protocol 10 times per month. If you go over this allotment, then you will be killed, as you would be killed in any dungeon. Delvers killed by the Glittering Depths will be subject to a [True Resurrection] and deposited on the grasslands of the entrance.

There are ways to gain power that do not require killing, but you will need to seek them out specifically.

Look now upon your new status, and upon the choices laid out before you in the rooms ahead:

- -

Ashes Woodfield. (10 saves remaining)

MP per day: 10

- -

The words of the message began to fade away as words began to appear in the air above all three different paths forward.

The first pathway was labeled ‘martial progression’.

The second was labeled ‘magical progression’.

The third was labeled ‘death this way’.

As far as Erick could mana sense, there was nothing in any of the rooms. That would probably change when he made his choice. Whelp! Not much to do except make a choice.

… Erick went through door 3—

The doors shut behind him and the door at the end of the hallway shut, too, trapping Erick in the hallway.

Spikes poked out from the walls, each of them aimed at Erick—

The world flashed blue, and the spikes suddenly retreated.

Erick was prepared to fuck up this part of the dungeon or [Return], if necessary, and he was absolutely sure that a hallway of spikes could not kill him, but he didn’t get the chance to prove himself in that way. The danger was over.

A message appeared along with an update to his status, and Erick realized what had happened. He had been ‘saved’.

Lethal damage averted.

- -

Ashes Woodfield. (9 saves remaining)

- -

The door behind Erick opened and the spikes slid into the floor—

Erick almost taunted the dungeon to come at him for real. But then he decided that there was no need to do that yet.

With the way ahead of him closed and the entrance back to the previous room open, Erick turned around. Words hung in the air as he stepped into the previous room.

Danger is everywhere. Most of the time it is clearly labeled.

... Erick went into door #2, the one for magical progression. This time when the door shut behind him the hallway did not fill with spikes, and the door to the further room remained open. Erick walked through into the larger room, and the door shut behind.

Once again, Erick was locked in a featureless white room.

Six panels slid open in the floor in the middle of the room, and six motes of differently-colored light drifted up from the darkness below. The dots moved through the air, to form an octahedron shape. The top light was white, the bottom was black, and the four lights between those were red, yellow, blue, and magenta. It was the standard elemental array shape and coloring code. Light on top, Shadow on bottom. Fire, Stone, Water, and Air forming four more points between them.

Words appeared.

The number of spells a person can have under the Script is unlimited.

Inside the Glittering Depths a person can also have unlimited spells, but you will find that every meta-diamond socketed into a meta-iron is a cause for weakness in that meta-iron. Mana leaks rather easily from that which is too holey.

Therefore, the maximum number of meta-diamonds anyone can have active at any one time is 10.

Once you find the option, excess meta-diamonds can be stored within the Glittering Depths.

Once you find the option, excess meta-diamonds can be joined to each other in order to attempt to create new spells!

Try to create a basic spell now by joining together two meta-diamonds! Pick and choose and make a basic [Force Bolt]. If you put too many of them together, you’ll get a spell that’s too expensive to cast. Choosing just one meta-diamond will produce a pure variant of a Bolt spell, and be cheap enough to use repeatedly.

NOTICE: This is your only gifted meta-diamond in this tutorial.

NOTICE: Picking Light and Water will make [Rejuvenation] instead of a Bolt spell, which we feel might be what you want, based on your fighting style and actions previously.

NOTICE: The [Rejuvenation] you receive here is not like the one in the Script.

NOTICE: If you forgo this option now, and if you want [Rejuvenation] later, you will need to make [Rejuvenation] yourself. This creation will not be so easy out there in the real dungeon.

The floating bits of light broke away from their octahedral formation to form a line of floating gems, each of them floating about a meter away from each other and sparkling brightly, like beads filled with fractal dimensions.

Erick’s choice was barely a choice at all, especially with that notice at the end; the Glittering Depths had him pegged rather well with his desire for Healing Magics, but not for the reasons it stated.

Undirected Healing Magic was perhaps some of the most dangerous magic possible, because it led to cancers, misalignments, excess blood leading to dangerous pressures, and a bunch of other maladies. Erick had to know how this [Rejuvenation] was different, and exactly how different it was, and if it didn’t cause cancers.

Perhaps this [Rejuvenation] was a simple touch of Elemental Healing, applied to the soul and to the body, making for a generalized healthiness. A heavier touch might produce actual healing, but only if used sparingly, and perfectly.

The [Rejuvenation] of the Script was none of that. The Script version of that spell was a heal-over-time applied to Health, to repair the ‘shield’ that was Health.

But since the Gem Dungeon didn’t have Health…

Erick had to know how it worked. So Erick went and plucked Light and Water from the air. Both of them felt a little bit like hard gummy bears. Erick held the white and blue gems together…

And nothing happ—

Would you like to combine Light and Water together? NOTICE: the other choices will vanish.

“Yes. Make [Rejuvenation].”

The unused gems shattered like so much broken magic, and then there was a flash, and the solid, glowing gems in Erick’s hands turned into liquid and flowed into each other. In a rapid moment the two liquid gummy bears became one, blue and white swirling into a bright blue that remained rather dull. Two more moments later, and Erick held a single, marble-like gem made of pale blue crystal with fractals all throughout. It didn’t glow at all; it had lost all power.

A divine chime echoed, briefly.

Words appeared in the air.

You have selected [Rejuvenation]!

This is a basic heal-over-time and endurance-increasing spell, but it doesn’t heal Health, like in the [Script]. As long as this [Rejuvenation] is empowered with a flow of mana, it will increase the body’s natural ability to heal itself. It will not heal someone on the brink of death, but it will allow a person to fight at a low level for a rather long time.

Think less [Treat Wounds] and more ‘one week of sleep for every night’s sleep’.

This is how basic, SAFE Elemental Healing works without the Script, and without gods to help direct that healing. Later on, you will be able to make your own Healing Magics, but according to the statistics we have, whatever Elemental Healing meta-diamonds you create beyond the tutorial, on your own, will simply cause cancers and other malformations.

Use of such disastrous Healing Magics on yourself will cause the dungeon to save you, using up one of your saves. You will be deposited in the entrance zone, and directed outside to receive proper healing.

Use of such Healing Magics on enemies inside the Glittering Depths will probably not cause enough damage, fast enough, to win any sort of fight, though don’t take our word for it. Try it, if you wish!

NOTICE: When combined with a Health meta-diamond, [Rejuvenation] will heal Health instead of increase endurance, granting or supporting the Health that others or yourself might already have. Doing this sort of combination will consume the [Rejuvenation]. That means that you can’t use the original spell anymore. This goes for all meta-diamonds you find and seek to use with each other.

NOTICE: Unlike in the Script, when meta-diamonds are used to create a higher tier magic, the original is gone forever.

Well that was rather informative!

And it made Erick feel a lot better about choosing [Rejuvenation] as his starter spell. Erick grasped the dull gem in his hands—

Three doors opened up on the other side of the room. Writing appeared over the options. The first hallway led to ‘offensive healing’ while the middle hallway read ‘support healing’. The third path read ‘self healing’.

Other words appeared in the air.

Choose your meta-iron starter.

NOTICE: The form [Rejuvenation] takes will change based on your choice.

Well then…

Erick had no interest at all in causing ‘offensive healing’, and he was by himself, so… Third room it was.

Erick went through the third archway, into the next room ahead.

The door shut behind him and a hole opened up in the expansive white floor ahead. A thin stream of mercury-like metal flowed up from below, splashed upon some unseen ring-like object, and then settled down onto that ring, like iron filings falling upon a magnet. In a flickering second, the splash of liquid metal turned solid, and then expanded a fraction.

It was a bracelet. A dull, metiron bracelet.

Erick walked forward and took the bracelet out of the air and stuck the gem into the metal. Fascinatingly, the metal wrapped around the gem and then settled down, almost like an ooze, or a slime, but more like metal that felt like being not-metal when it encountered something interesting.

Erick was not surprised when a divine chime echoed through the room.

Words appeared.

Congratulations!

You have received your first meta-iron, your first meta-diamond, and you have joined them together!

