You have created a Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation]!

Upon placing the bracelet on your wrist you will feel a chill as the item takes your mana, both to store and to use. Since you only produce 10 mana per day, all of your mana production is going into the item, so this chill will persist until the item reaches saturation. Kill some slimezards in the grasslands for a quick boost of mana to fill up your first bracelet and the drain and chill will vanish.

Your starter bracelet can hold about 100 mana, and the personalized [Rejuvenation] will always be active at a low level on you at all times.

You can also activate the spell, for a quick, temporary healing boost, that will actually heal small wounds. Activating the spell is as simple as calling out the name, and the spell will activate, draining the power of the bracelet in order to power the spell contained therein.

This need to speak the name for the spell to activate goes for all basic meta-irons.

There are mental-based meta-diamonds that can be joined to any existing spell to allow one to circumvent the need to speak the spell for activation.

Proper aura control can also be used to activate your paired meta-irons and the spells therein.

NOTICE: It will take about 10 minutes to heal from several small cuts or bites. Missing flesh will take longer to heal, and will require a second activation of this magic, preferably after an hour has passed since the last activation.

NOTICE: Overuse of the active healing function will cause the dungeon to save you before you start to develop cancers. <Estimated safe healing: 5 activations per day, no more than 1 per hour>

Well that was interesting.

Quite nice of the Gem Dungeon to have all that robust messaging, too; it answered most of his questions about cancers and the like. Erick was rather glad that he went for the third door. This was all working out rather interestingly. Soon enough, Erick would be making his own magic, too, and that thought brought a smile to his face.

Erick put the bracelet on his left wrist—

The metal was cold, and it rapidly got colder as something slicked away from Erick’s body and fell away into the bracelet. Erick had to pause for a moment to try and understand what had just happened, because the thing had not taken his mana directly. It had taken some mana that had overlapped his body without his noticing, until it was gone.

The dungeon had said that this is exactly what would happen, so… Erick wasn’t worried. The other thing that made him not worry was that Blacksmith had explained earlier that the Gem Dungeon didn’t operate on the mana a person actually produced; it operated on the mana a person had won from the Gem Dungeon’s system.

And since all of Erick’s Gem Dungeon mana was currently going into the dull gem, set into the dusty-looking bracelet, of course he was already ‘empty’ and ‘cold’. But the bracelet seemed to be doing great.

The gem began to faintly glow as some inner fire began to rekindle—

The bracelet turned pleasantly warm as a certain kind of heat flowed into Erick. It wasn’t the warmth of his missing dungeon mana. It was more like he had taken a shot of espresso. He was already wide awake, but now he felt almost ready to move. He smiled as he inspected the bracelet.

“Well aren’t you nifty,” Erick said to himself—

Congratulations!

You have completed the tutorial!

As you explore the Gem Dungeon, you will find rooms filled with all sorts of challenges to overcome, with most of those places labeled beforehand. Sometimes the challenge is labeled, and sometimes the reward is labeled instead. Sometimes nothing is labeled at all, and you must find your own way through the thick of it all.

There are many secrets to be found in the more dangerous parts of the dungeon, but risk doesn’t always end in reward. Keep in mind your own limits, but push them, too, and gain all you can gain!

SPECIAL NOTICE: In order to progress past floor 1, you must find a spell creation tome and make your own spell, and then you must find the way down to floor 2. It’s a lot more complicated to create your own spell than what you did here in the tutorial.

Good luck, Ashes Woodfield! Here is your new Status:

- -

Ashes Woodfield (9 saves remaining)

MP per day: 10

Meta-Irons: 100, 0 in storage

Meta-Diamonds: 1/10, 0 in storage

Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation], 10/100

- -

We hope you enjoy the Glittering Depths!

SPECIAL NOTICE: Escape is always easy outside of dangerous situations. Just call out ‘Emergency Upside Exit’ and an exit to the entrance zone will be provided. Getting back down to where you were is not nearly as easy, for in escape, you might have given up everything that you might have gained.

Good luck!

NOTICE: robust messaging is now off

A door slid open on the other side of the room.

A familiar grassland waited beyond; it was the entrance zone. In the far distance stood the hills, the Eternal Depths castle, and the black [Gate] entrance to the dungeon itself. People still walked up and down the road leading from that [Gate], headed off to wherever they desired. Erick took one more look around the tutorial area, the featureless white room…

And then he stepped out onto the grasslands—

The door behind him vanished, as though he had stepped through a [Gate]. All was grassland, all around him, knee-high and as dense as an unmowed lawn.

Erick smiled a little bit as he took in all that had just happened.

Overall, he liked that experience back there. It was simple, direct, and full of explanations. Erick’s introduction to the Script of Veird all those years ago had been similar, but Irogh, the Registrar of Spur, had needed to explain a whole lot more to him than he had needed to explain to normal inhabitants of Veird. That conversation had taken hours, and Erick hadn’t learned nearly enough in that conversation to do anything on his own until after a month had passed, and after he had become familiar with the Script.

Erick suspected that he would acclimate a lot faster to the Glittering Depths.

Erick turned, and sought out a slimezard, since those were good at replenishing mana. As he looked out across the land, he saw people killing ever-present slimezards right now.

Erick went hunting, too.

He found his prey twenty meters away, having popped out of a hole in the ground that was not there until the slimezard left it. The creatures ‘respawned’, as Jane would say, rather often. The small creature was at home in the deep grass, slipping and sliding around and sometimes passing directly through the thick undergrowth, but it was not nearly fast enough to escape Erick and a quick stomp.

As the facsimile of a creature vanished into motes of mana, those motes fell into Erick, warming him briefly, before that warmth slicked away into the bracelet on his wrist, leaving him chilled again. The [Rejuvenation] metamond glowed ever so slightly brighter, and the bracelet was a bit less dusty.

Erick checked his ‘status’ to try and see if there was a change…

Nothing happened at his mental command.

“Right,” Erick said, realizing what he had done wrong. “Status.”

Words appeared to him.

- -

Ashes Woodfield (9 saves remaining)

MP per day: 10

Meta-Irons: 100, 0 in storage

Meta-Diamonds: 1/10, 0 in storage

Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation], 20/100

- -

Verbal commands would take some getting used to.

It seemed each slimezard earned him 10 mana, through some sort of soul-resonance and flow system, and then that 10 mana flowed into the bracelet. Erick wasn’t sure if that’s what he expected to happen, but it made sense after the fact. There was probably some sort of [Renew] action happening in there, in order to make the mana adapt through three different systems without much loss… Or maybe something else was going on.

Erick would find out later.

After eight more slimezard kills Erick’s bracelet stopped absorbing mana from him and a warmth began to return to his body, though that warmth was already moving on. A person couldn’t hold onto mana here in the Gem Dungeon, but metirons could.

The metamond was bright blue and filled with fractal flashes, while the metiron was shiny as silver. With that basic task accomplished, Erick turned his attention to the hills in the distance; where everyone else was going.

He walked that way to see what was what.

- - - -

By happenstance or fate, Erick arrived at the dirt path in front of the entrance just as the woman with the shield and sparkling tunic walked into the dungeon, her charges tailing behind her. As the woman stepped further into the dungeon, her tunic transformed from sparkling crystal to shimmering metal, the links so fine that it almost looked like fabric, while her shield became a slab of silver on her back.

She was talking about what to expect in some part of the dungeon that Erick didn’t have enough context to know, but when she looked at Erick she did a double take. She went right up to him, and asked, “You’re new here, aren’t you? And that’s [Self Rejuvenation] on your wrist. Do you want to join a party?”

Erick paused a little, taking a moment to take in his surroundings again, and this time with a lot more information. First thing he noticed was that a bunch of other people were now looking his way, after the woman had called out his bracelet. A few of the morning delvers heading in or out (perhaps some of them were very late night delvers, actually) perked up, and then they looked Erick over. Two people spied the bit of silver and sky-blue on his wrist, tsk’d, then promptly ignored him for whatever reason. Most simply opted to ignore Erick; he was too new, with too few bits of metiron on him, and he wouldn’t get very far because most people didn’t get far. Maybe. Erick could be misreading some of what he was seeing.

Only the tunic-wearing woman was truly interested in him, for she stood in front of Erick waiting for an answer. Three of her five charges seemed to want Erick to say ‘no’ while the other two wanted him to say yes, but they didn’t truly care.

The woman was eager, and she seemed honest.

But Erick didn’t want to go anywhere with other people right now.

So Erick said, “This is my first day here and I’m not looking for a party, but thank you for the offer. I do have a question, if you don’t mind answering: Is Healing Magic actually rare enough to be called out like this?”

The woman gave a small, resigned smile. “Ahh. Well if you change your mind, just look up the Crystal Raiders in the delver’s hall and leave a message for us with the clerks. We’re a small but growing group of delvers looking to push far and raise others up to push far with us, because the Glittering Depths can more than support you if you choose to live here, and the only way to trade items between people is to use a grouphall, which is like a guildhall but for groups, like us, the Crystal Raiders.” She explained quickly, “But anyway. To answer your question: Yes, Healing Magics are rarer than anything else down here, and the tutorial wouldn’t have given you the option for [Rejuvenation] if it didn’t think you knew how to manually use Elemental Healing. It doesn’t even matter if you chose the Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation] right now, because the fact that you have Healing as your first item means that you’ll be able to use Healing Magic elsewhere in the dungeon without causing cancers and the like.

“Because you can manually make these items, you can find and make some more Bracelets of [Self Rejuvenation] and then sell them to others, making you a rich man— Well. Locally rich, in this dungeon.

“As another treat of information: you can turn the [Self Rejuvenation] into [Touch Rejuvenation] easily enough with the right metamonds. The [Aurify] metamond does that, but that’s a damned mana-sucker once you get down to where the manasphere is thin. A better option is the [Bequeath] metamond, which will allow you to imbue individuals with [Self Rejuvenation] for a time; it’s more limited than the aurify version, but it’s more mana-cost friendly.

“But if you’re not up for partying, then there’s no real need to go in those directions.” She smiled brightly, with a faint hint of alcohol on her breath. “I know a lot more than that little bit of information when it comes to the Glittering Depths. You sure you don’t want to join us? We could always use more skill.”

Erick returned her smile. “I’m grateful for the explanation and for the hint of where to go next, but my answer is still ‘no’, for now. The name is Ashes Woodfield. It was a pleasure to meet you…?”

“Veracity Speed,” the woman said, without seeming to lie, but who the heck had a name like that? Crazy. Erick almost asked her about her odd name, but she noticed Erick’s doubt, smiled a bit more, and said, “It’s the name I’m using these days, ‘Ashes’.”

Erick laughed. “ ‘Ashes’ is a perfectly valid name!”

“Sure sure sure,” Veracity rambled as she winked. Then she moved on, saying to her charges, and maybe also to Erick a little, “Come along now! We’re gonna get you all some real starter spells, and work on getting you the pieces to make the truly fun ones, like [Curse Bloom], [Mana Purge], and [Fireball]! I’m partial to [Fiery Corruption] over [Fireball], though, because single target touch-spells are much more mana efficient once you get past the early levels, where mana density is still high. Any spells that go wide often fail when the mana gets thin, because, like I said earlier…”

Veracity’s voice drifted on the air, like all the other small conversations happening on the main dirt road, from the entrance to the hills. Her charges followed along, one of them muttering, ‘she never shuts up’. A different charge elbowed the one who had disparaged the verbose Veracity, whispering, ‘You stop that, Migh.’

Erick watched them go for a moment and felt that if Veracity’s group wasn’t so absolutely filled with teenagers, that maybe he would have gone with her. She seemed like a nice enough person.

Erick gave a quick mental look back at Ophiel, and a telepathic check-in. Thankfully, the telepathy-connection worked fine, even in the dungeon, since Ophiel was a part of Erick’s soul; the dungeon didn’t seem capable of blocking his omnipresent connection to his [Familiar]s at the moment, and it probably never would. He would probably lose his [Telepathy] connection as he got deeper into the depths, but even in the deepest parts of Ar’Cosmos and past the Edge of the Script, his [Familiar]s had remained intact.

Here, on the grasslands, where his actual [Telepathy] connection was strong, Poi informed Erick that nothing bad was happening out there right now. Just a bunch of paperwork, for now. They wouldn’t even get a meeting with a judge for another 14 days.

