"Mountain lizard, and you shouldn't have seen it. It shouldn't be within a hundred miles of here." the old mage answered him, "Not sure why it was, but we'll need to let Lord Hazelwood know, it's too strange." he said thoughtfully, "At least its body will be able to pay for all the damage. They're useful for a half dozen or so different parts."

"Okay, that's about as good as I can do, for right now at least." I broke in as I finished up what I was working on.

"Alright." Mystien looked me over a bit, "It should be more than enough. You'll have to manage on your own from here Orlen." he smirked a bit as the man reached up and ruffled my hair, with a loud objection on my part.

"Thank you Alana, one day you'll make some man really happy." I stuck my tongue out at him at that, I didn't need to make anyone happy except myself.

"And one day you'll not get half eaten by a beastie." I retorted before I turned to leave, gaining me a few chuckles.

A couple days later I returned to my lessons. Though I couldn't stop looking at the place on the floor where Leon had died, my mood sinking every time I did.

"You can't save everyone girl." The comment shook me out of my thoughts a bit.

"I wasted a bunch of mana picking fruit. If I hadn't, then maybe I could have..." I began.

"Oh? Did you know how dangerous that monster would be?" my teacher asked.

"No... dad said it was probably no big..."

"And you went to get your fruit after knowing we were coming back with injured?"

"Well, I didn't know..."

"Ah, are you the one who brought the mountain lizard here then?" he prodded.

"Of course not!" I snapped at him.

"Well it was brought here. We found out just this morning, none of this was your fault, not even a little, and it's no small thing that you managed to save one." That gave me something to think about.

"Now, listen up, you won't be able to save everyone, and if you try you'll just run yourself to death, so don't. Save who you can, help who you can, and those you can't... well it happens. It's sad, but it happens." I chewed on his lecture, finding one thing that stood out.

"It was brought here? Who would do that?" I asked, disgusted once I understood it.

"Not someone you need to get involved with if you can help it, so don't say anything. I thought your father was going to put a fist through a wall when we got the news. On a happier note, Creekrun sent over a bunch of smoked and salted fish, which will be quite nice." It was obvious he was trying to distract me from questions I was better not knowing the answer to.

"Hooray! Meat's expensive too!" I cheered, hoping I was being convincing, but I did like fish...
