“I am the Ravenous, Jealous Devourer. Shall we devour as one? Shall we finally complete the journey that we started on so long ago?”

Kit had been like her hands, a manifestation of her aura and authority that was more real than any purely ethereal bubble. In real terms, Kit was the true reach of her authority and everything outside—even when within her aura—was but a pale imitation of her true capacities.

Within Kit, Tala was sovereign, not because of Kit—the devourling didn’t have the magical weight or power to hold such true sway over anything, let alone over so much—it wasn’t because of ‘Tala’ either. She lacked the magics, understanding, and nature to do most of what she could accomplish within the expanded space.

No, that ability—that authority and power—was a manifestation of them together. It was only when they were acting in singular purpose that their mastery of the space reached its true potential.

Kit wasn’t truly sapient, not really. She never had been, but she was more than sentient. She had been a pre-consciousness, growing and seeking power and mastery in order to one day acquire a consciousness for herself.

Now? Now she had acquired one and that consciousness was Tala.

They weren’t actually separate, any more than her feelings of hunger—and the biological systems that created it—were separate from her.

They were symbiotic parts of a singular whole, and they had been for a very long time.

There was nothing physical for Tala to absorb, but Kit’s magics were already harmonizing with the inscriptions and natural magics in the new form, melding seamlessly and—

A great boom echoed through the non-real space that Tala’s perception occupied, followed closely by a second, then a third.

A moment later, a crack came into being, clearly showing the Doman-Imithe beyond, somehow being imposed upon Tala’s Reforging.

A great eye looked through the cracks, and the nature of the creature resonated with Kit at an ancestral level. In the same vein, it resonated with the incorporated nature and magics that had come from the dasgannach, though that was more about similarity than descendancy.

A pressure of power beyond anything Tala had ever felt bore down upon her, and her very soul trembled.

In that moment, she received an impartment that manifested as words within her head that shook her to her core. “Who dares to attempt a merging with my daughter?”
