It flowed down into her legs, easing the cramping muscles, and forcing them to sprint with a speed she didn’t know possible, blurring out of the bush, past the trees, past the first building, the second, the third, and up against the wall.

It loomed impossibly high; more than all but the tallest building at the center of the world. Even had she possessed a rope, there was no way she could have thrown it over the edge.

It had no windows, no openings.

In desperation she sprinted along it, eyes scanning the wall while her mind scanned her memories, feet pounding the ground while her heart pounded in her chest.

There!

A hole, too small for a human. Too small for her, almost. Her shoulders were barely more than half the width of even the smallest person she had ever seen, but they had not even enough space to fit within without hunching and contorting in like a rat’s, in a way no human could.

This was her perfect escape.

But she hesitated.

What if I grow again? What if I get stuck?

The image of before, wriggling helpless in that tube after the injection, filled her mind, amplified to a thousand times worse by the hard, unyielding stone of the wall.

I don’t have a choice.

She dove in, regretting it with everything she had as she did so, but fearing remaining outside even more.

The rough stone scraped against her burned fur and skin, and the pungent stench of stale groundwater swamped her nose. A vision of diving into a pool of water, tunnel too narrow to turn, flashed through her head, and the rat ignored it.

I’m a rat. Rats like tunnels. Tunnels are good for rats.

The mantra repeated over and over in her head, as she tried to force herself to believe it fully.

The tunnel grew tighter as she progressed. And then tighter. And tighter still.

Eventually, she was no longer crawling, but dragging herself through the merciless stone grip, and then, slowly, painfully, that too came to a stop.

She was stuck.

It hurt.

Even breathing hurt, feeling her chest pressed tight against the stone, her ribcage permanently compressed. The rat wanted to cry, but the idea of her wails echoing down the stone to the eager ears of who knew what that could have been listening while she was trapped and helpless was just barely enough to stop her. Just barely.

All she could taste was dirt. Tainted, filthy, foul dirt. It filled her mouth with its taste, even without touching it. It was complex, smelling of wetness, of death. She would join it soon enough, if she stayed. Maybe even if she didn’t. But that didn’t mean she had any choice but to try.

She wiggled, feeling the stolen things in her stolen pockets press into her. The sharp edges of the cube were thankfully down below the thickest part of her body, and the point and blade of the scalpel were blessedly not aimed at her.

But the unwrapped watch now dug into her side, right below her ribs, with every breath. She twisted, trying to bring it up, and felt it flip, then the needles of it pierce into her flesh.

It was almost laughable. Why not? After all, why shouldn’t this go wrong as well? Why shouldn’t she—

A voice, something she saw but didn’t see, and heard but didn’t hear. Something she just knew, in a way she couldn’t explain.

New User detected.

System Activating…
