They laughed as they removed his collar. He still bled a bit, but that blood eventually stopped on its own. He would carry the scars of it for the rest of his life, though.

Maybe his life wouldn’t be too long, now? He couldn’t give them what they wanted! Even if he wanted to, he couldn’t...

He found himself not caring about anything, anyway.

Nothing mattered.

All magic was gone.

Tadashi was an alchemist, though. One very versed in the Antirhine Elixir. This was why, even though he had no thoughts for the rest of his life and everything was ruined, he found himself thinking about all the various ways in which he was well and truly fucked.

You could take off antirhine manacles. You could remove the needles of certain Enforcers who liked to use those types of needles. But you couldn’t remove the Elixir. Not once it was inside of you. Imbibing the Elixir was a permanent change, given only to those too valuable to exile or kill. It was routinely forced upon Elders who were found guilty of a terrible dereliction of duty, like Tadashi’s great grandfather.

Tadashi glanced at his Status, and started to laugh. For the first time in a week his Health and Mana had started to rise. But what was the point? You couldn’t use any of that Health or Mana when you had the Elixir in you. Maybe you wouldn’t die to the smallest of cuts, and with Health to boost your immune systems and recovery systems you could heal from most unintentional small damage, but forming mana into magic? Forming Health into [Strike]s? All of that was now impossible.

He could accidentally eat an amoeba and he’d die to the shits. He couldn’t work in the alchemy labs anymore, for he would truly die without daily [Cleanse]s.

Ahh…

… Shit.

He would have to bathe himself, daily. Like his great grandfather had needed to do. It had been so degrading.

For a long while Tadashi laid there on the stone, in the center of the bandits’ camp.

And then the Sadist poked his calf with a knife. Tadashi yelped and moved to staunch the blood flow with his hands. The analytical part of himself eyed the wound, and knew it would close over fast enough; even faster now that he had some Health coming back to him. But it would scar over. Healing magic was now useless. He could make an ointment to gradually reduce the scar, but…

What was the point?

The Sadist was having none of Tadashi’s angst.

The Sadist mocked, “Little boy got a wound, huh? Why don’t I just heal it—” He reached forward with a glowing red hand. The light winked out as he touched Tadashi’s shoulder. “Ohhh. Such a shame. No magic for you, it seems. Best get to those herbs we got you. Work up a non-magical solution.”

A sudden, hard anger came over Tadashi. He spat, “I can’t cast the spells necessary to even attempt to make the potion now, you idi—”

A light punch sent Tadashi to the ground. A punch like that would have done less than nothing to Tadashi before his capture… before the Antirhine Elixir. But now… He couldn’t fight. He was useless.

The Sadist loomed over him, saying, “We provide for your every need. We have your payment of ten thousand gold when you complete the potion. All we ask is that you do one little thing that we know you know how to do. Your obstinance is becoming tiring.” He twirled a finger at the ground around Tadashi, saying, “And this act is especially tiring. One would think you didn’t even know how to make what we know you can.”

“I can’t, though. I managed an experiment that worked once and I don’t even know which part of the experiment caused success! I told you all this already! And the potion wasn’t even biologically compatible! It would kill a person if they drank that!” Tadashi said, “I told you this already!”

The Sadist held his knife. “I can poke more holes in you if you wish. Do you want that? Or.” He pointed at the alchemy shed that they had tried to get Tadashi to use for the last week. “You could try to make a second successful experiment; try to work your magic again.”

Tadashi lost all tension in his face, as melancholy came on him like a drowning tide.

The Sadist mocked, “Oh. Was ‘work your magic’ a bad choice of words?” He began to laugh.

Tadashi had already tried to kill the man several times, but he failed in each attempt. In that moment, he wanted to go for attempt number 9, even if it would kill himself in the process.

He walked toward the alchemy shed.

The Sadist laughed, following along.

- - - -

Three gluttons came from directly below. Ezekiel hopped into the air. Paul matched him, exactly, wordlessly picking up the ideas Ezekiel was putting down. Seven pink flashes flickered below the two of them as Ezekiel layered [Quick Wall]s one atop another, each one defending for 500 points of damage. It was enough. The three gluttons slammed against the Force like birds hitting a window.

Thump-thump-thump.

— Right as a large, orange maw appeared in the mists above Julia. She turned to light and the orange glutton, half-stone and half-mist, flowed through her, snapping and slashing at the ephemeral. Tiffany was suddenly there, at Julia’s side, her fists raised and empowered.

She struck the misty, orange monster, the fire power of her [Strike] becoming literal flames that burned away the orange mist.

The orange glutton roared in pain. It solidified, slamming into the side of the mountain, looking to escape, or— No. It attacked with its other weapon. A long, orange tail flickered across Julia. She deflected the flowing stone. The monster adjusted, aiming for the closer target, only by circumstance of her own height. Tiffany punched the monster as it tried to maw her from above—

Julia called out, “Freeze him! That’s money!”

Ezekiel did so, throwing a thousand-mana [Slowing Bolt] at the orange beast.

The orange glutton was half-sunk into the mountainside, looming over the path, its maw open, hissing as it came in for another strike against Tiffany. Pink mist flowed over the monster and it became more Gothic-architecture than threat.

While that beast chilled out, the four warriors of Clan Phoenix accepted the regroup-attack of the three smaller monsters, who had been underground, but now were not. The ground was still covered in pink Force. The gluttons attacked from the open, misty air.

Julia threw a [Fireball] at the mist. Heat bloomed in the wet valley. Mist burned. Mist Stone monsters shifted fully to stone and dropped to the valley wall, below the path. They burned, but they scrambled into the mountain, leaving behind that fire.

Tiffany got into position. She waited. Ezekiel checked on the Stopped orange beast; it would be Stopped for a while. More than long enough to finish this fight.

Paul held himself ready to do… whatever it was he did.

Paul glowered at Ezekiel. “I helped us to jump at the right time, if you must know exactly, but it seemed like you already did.”

“Right. That.” Ezekiel said, “Thank you very much, Paul.”

“Do you want to try a fight without me assisting?” Paul asked, going from rather annoyed to simply asking. But Ezekiel could tell he was still actually mad.

“Well of course I am! Every time—” Paul shut up. He almost said something else, but then kept his mouth shut.

Tiffany looked away from the man, toward the mist, and said, “Hmm.”

Julia eyed the mountain. “… Are they done?”

“I think so,” Ezekiel said. Then he turned to Paul. “Sorry about that.”

“I never throw out any spells except when necessary. I know what it looks like.” Paul said, “It looks like I do nothing at all.”

“Are the monsters done?” Julia asked, stress in her voice.

Tiffany relaxed. “They’re hanging out a hundred meters away, down the mountain. Four are above us, doing the same.”

“… So the fight is over?” Julia asked. “I’m not letting anyone talk about tactics till we’re sure we’re safe.”

“We’re safe,” Ezekiel said. “As safe as we could be in the Tribulation Mountains, anyway.”

“Then let’s have this discussion: The only way to get better is to actually get better,” Julia said. “Maybe you wouldn’t need to ask what Paul does if you can see what it’s like when he’s not active.” She looked to Paul, saying, “These fights are honestly way easier than they should be. These are level 45 monsters, and every single one is using [Defend] in battle. That automatically makes them an entire star rank or two higher than usual. I’d put them at a 5. 6 for a pack, and they are clearly pack hunters. They are killers. This has been too easy.” She looked to Ezekiel, saying, “And you can’t even appreciate how much easier this is with Paul here. You fight way too many things from absolute range. It has made you tactically weak for the kind of thing we are trying to do here in the Highlands.”

Ezekiel had what was either a brain-fart, or a revelation. He turned to Paul, asking, “Do you not like adventuring because people don’t see what you’re actually doing? And they always dislike having you around for that reason?”

Paul’s eyes went wide, and then narrowed. “Okay. That’s part of— Just. You know— Just. You can forget about that little revelation you’ve just had, if you please. I am not that needy.”

Tiffany’s eyes went wide. “Oh my gods. Paul!” She teased, “Is that true? Do you not feel wanted?”

“Of course he doesn’t feel wanted,” Julia said, “His power is soft in a world of hardness.”

Paul ignored everyone, and said, “We should try a few fights without me! These might be large-threat monsters, but they won’t be able to kill you in one hit, Ezekiel. Not with all that magic on you.”

“I’m so sorry, Paul.” Ezekiel said, “I have seen you work before. I know what you can do. I just… I forget, I guess? I have no excuse. Sorry.”

“I’m sorry, too,” Tiffany said, smiling.

Paul frowned deeply at her. “No.”

Tiffany opened her arms and tried to approach Paul for some physical affection. But Paul stepped around Ezekiel and did not let the woman get closer.

“Again, I am sorry, Paul,” Ezekiel said as the man took refuge behind him. “We don’t have to talk about your perfectly valid responses to other people’s ignorance, mine included, if you don’t want to.”

Paul stopped and leveled a glare at Ezekiel.

Ezekiel stepped away, clearing a path for Tiffany, who then instantly caught the man and pulled him up and off the ground, into a hug. Paul protested, as was his wont. Ezekiel reached up and patted the man on the back, saying, “Sorry, sorry.”

Tiffany dropped the man, adding her own small apology.

Paul protested louder, saying, “You already know what I do, Tiffany! Why are you pretending at this nonsense?”

“Because even I can see you need a hug,” Tiffany confessed.

“No. What I need is a drink.” Paul said, “I have decided I am a drinker.”

Ezekiel smiled, then looked to the orange glutton, still stuck like an overhanging gargoyle above the mountain path. He pointed. “So?” He said, “This guy is still alive. Variant gluttons are worth money if we can kill it and keep the body intact.”

Paul rolled his eyes. “We’re gonna need that money for the drinking, later.”

“I agree.” Tiffany nodded, as she reached forward and patted Paul on the head.

He slapped her hand away, scowling.

Tiffany said, “I am sorry that not everyone sees your worth. You’re worth a lot to me.”

Paul groaned, “Oh my gods.”

Ezekiel added, “You’re worth a lot to me, too!”

Julia said, “I already knew your worth.”

“And Tiffany does, too, but she’s having too much fun.” Paul straightened himself, adding, “And none of you are being false friends, and that almost makes it worse.”

“Makes it better, you mean!” Tiffany smiled.

Julia had had enough of the moment, though. She exclaimed, “Back to the STILL LIVING MONSTER hanging above our heads.” She pointed at the monster, offering, “Cut it from the mountain. Put it in a sealed box. Make the box on fire to burn away the moisture, turning it fully to rock. [Cleanse] the rock. Fire shouldn’t damage the stone too much?”

Tiffany offered, “Low and slow cook? Fire will damage rock with moisture in it. Make it break apart.”

Ezekiel said, “I heard a ton of ways back in Eralis. A water-purge spell is the preferred method.” He eyed everyone, casually saying, “Sooo… I got this new spell! Called [Purge Water]. It’s that new particulate magic, or whatever it’s called. I’m going to try it.”

Tiffany blanked. And then she laughed.

Paul blanked, and then he sighed, saying, “We’re going to have to wipe the manasphere in this area, now.”

Tiffany laughed louder.

Ezekiel heatlessly spat, “It’s just a bit of that new magic! No big deal. Doesn’t make me anyone special! Let’s try it out!” He pointed at the orange glutton. “[Purge Water]!”

The frosty glutton began to spout like an actual gargoyle; mostly from the mouth, but also from every part of its body. The effect lasted less than a second. The creature’s orange coloring became more like orange-white coloring, as it dried. It didn’t die or break, and though it might have been his imagination, the monster seemed fractionally smaller.

Ezekiel cast again. And a third time. And a fourth time. On the fifth cast, no more water came from the beast. The orange glutton still clung to the mountainside like the downspout to a cathedral. Though the light in its eyes was gone, it was not dead; no notification came.

“Huh.” Ezekiel said, “No notification.”

“It’s a stone, air, and water elemental.” Julia frowned. “So getting rid of one part of it isn’t good enough to kill? Usually that’s enough… But it's not, is it? I’m going to try something.”

“Don’t damage the body!” Tiffany said. “I want some good food tonight.”

Ezekiel smiled. “Only the best food for my retainers.”

Paul rolled his eyes.

Julia flicked a rapier out of the air, then took a step right underneath the glutton’s open jaws. She aimed. She pierced inward, through the mouth, into the monster’s chest. A tiny crack sounded through the monster.

The whole thing turned into several tons of sand, promptly burying Julia.

As she dug herself out of the pile, it was to the sounds of laughter filling the valley.

She spat out dirt, saying, “Don’t pierce the core. Right.”

Tiffany’s laugh turned into a groan. “And now we’re down a core!”

“We can get more.” Paul said, “But erase the space before you forget, then we can continue hunting.”

Ezekiel cast and then canceled a few [Sealed Privacy Ward]s around the small battlefield.

