Julia kicked some orange sand down the mountain, asking, “How are you supposed to keep the body intact if breaking the core kills the beast? You can’t [Stoneshape] a living elemental.”

Ezekiel said, “Killing them normally didn’t turn them to sand. I suspect we have to make them harden themselves, and then we break them apart to kill them, then we put them back together, afterward. Or something. I’m not sure. They’re rather odd creatures, though. There’s a trick to this, I’m sure.” He added, “Ah! But— Getting rid of the water would leave air and stone, which.” He gestured at the result. “Sand.”

“[Air Purge], Scion Phoenix,” Tiffany helpfully suggested.

“Yeah… I should make that one.”

Julia said, “Odd creatures, for sure. Or… Odd elementals. They’re not really elementals though, are they? It looked like it had an actual digestive tract when I looked in the mouth.”

“I noticed that, too,” Tiffany said.

“They still got something of a mind, as well,” Paul said.

Ezekiel said, “Vestigial organs everywhere.” He pointed up the mountainside, at a lump on a tree that had not moved in minutes. “That lump is actually a lizard, and I bet they’re the progenitors of the gluttons.”

As if knowing it had been spotted, the lump lifted from the tree, flashing open a sail on its back to expose a bright redness. It dashed around the tree, out of sight.

“Probably true. Lotta monsters come from humble origins.” Tiffany eyed the pile of orange sand occupying the mountain path. “Where would we have taken that monster, anyway?”

“I know not where, exactly, but that hardly matters.” Ezekiel said, “That pose? Hanging from above and in the middle of a downward pounce? I would have carved out this cliff and tried to move the whole thing. I would have braved the monsters in the sky for such a prize! If they buy mist stone, someone would have bought that, for sure. Such poise! Such fierceness! Or maybe it would have been a good gift for a Songstress.”

Julia lightly glared, not happy with being teased in a battlefield. “Okay.”

Ezekiel smiled.

And then he said to Paul, “Really sorry about that—”

“You can stop teasing me, too, if you please,” Paul said, trying to fight a smirk.

- - - -

In the purple twilight of the fading day, Ezekiel smashed his staff into the head of the charging lizard, deflecting the monster into the ground, only to spin and batter away a tail that threatened his neck. The tail scraped along the staff, and if it had been metal, there would have been sparks.

And suddenly Tiffany was there, her left arm a bloody wreck and her grey armor broken. She grabbed the tail as it came around again, yanking the monster off of its feet and into the air. The five-meter long glutton turned to mist halfway through the action, slipping out of her grip as it came back around, jaws and fangs turning to stone, its size more than a match for Tiffany.

Five meters away, Julia turned to light.

A hundred carving lines of illumination blasted around the sunset battlefield. Mist became steam, which billowed away from everything and everyone, as radiant force carved into each suddenly screaming, roasting rock monster. Julia’s [Radiance Beam]s lasted several seconds.

Of five gluttons, only three stuck around long enough to die. Her attack ended before she could carve far into the losers’ bodies. When it was over, Julia rushed to Tiffany and cast a burst of healing into the bloody orcol. Flesh knit.

The battle was over.

Odin whined in guitars on Ezekiel’s shoulder, complaining that he hadn’t gotten to participate because he hadn’t been allowed. Maybe it had been a mistake, to disallow his participation. But this whole battle had been an experiment. This whole battle had almost backfired, disastrously.

Ezekiel stared at the battlefield, and breathed. He looked to Paul. Paul was okay; he hadn’t been injured. He had even managed to deflect away the single glutton that came for him. Tiffany was already healing up and her scars were vanishing, but that had been a lot of blood—

“Got ya’, ya fucker!” Tiffany exclaimed as she thumped the stone corpse of the glutton that almost got her, breaking what was already on its way to breaking. The monster’s core glittered in the resulting sand. “Those jaws hurt! Ha!” She said to Julia, “Thanks for the healing.”

“Thanks for the sudden save, too, Julia,” Ezekiel said.

Julia tapped her father with healing magics. “I think we’ve learned enough for one day.” Then she tapped Paul with healing, just to be sure.

Tiffany laughed, saying, “We could spend the night out here!”

So… Uh.

She was having a great time…

Both Paul and Ezekiel looked away from her, and at each other.

“That went downhill fast,” Paul said.

“Yes. We got in each other’s way rather quickly.” Ezekiel said to Tiffany, “Sorry about that.”

Tiffany happily exclaimed, “Oh! Don’t worry about that! It was just a little fire spell.” She cast a grey magic onto her burned clothes. Fabric [Mend]ed back onto her body.

It had taken less than an instant for the battle to go wrong in the beginning, at the most important part of the confrontation, and it was when Ezekiel had cast a [Firelight Beam] at the glutton attacking Tiffany, but Tiffany had stepped into the beam’s path. He had cut the spell right away, but the damage, and disruption to the battle, had already happened.

“Still. Sorry about the firebeam.”

Tiffany said, “I’m fine. We’re all good.”

“I think the experiment into fighting without me was a bad idea. Let us not do that again.” Paul said. “I was barely able to keep myself alive.”

Julia said, “You are valid and we appreciate you.”

Paul scowled. “Don’t you start, too!”

Tiffany said, “I’d like to not get firebeams up my backside anymore, so know that you are appreciated, Paul!”

Paul lost most of his scowl.

Ezekiel said to Paul, “You are appreciated. No more of these experiments.”

Paul came back with, “Now that’s going too far. We should continue with these experiments because normal teams won’t make any of the mistakes made in that last fight.”

Tiffany said, “I agree.” She added, “Paul can do… Some of his own [Fire Beam]s, or something. Or whatever it is he does aside from making us all be better.”

Paul regained his scowl, and Tiffany smiled wide.

Julia said, “I had to bust out the emergency button, and I should not have needed to do that.”

“Okay… Well…” Ezekiel said, “Fair. But anyway. With these gluttons here, we now have eleven cores. Should be worth 55 gold if the conversion rates are the same. We’re done for the day.”

“The sun’s likely already set on Eralis.” Tiffany said, “Want to try for a coastal town’s inn?”

Ezekiel saw right through Tiffany’s suggestion. “We can room outside the city, if that makes you more comfortable. We can go to Eralis in the morning.”

Tiffany smiled, saying, “Good.”

- - - -

The coastal city of Darzallia was a sprawling city of expensive courtyards, massive play houses and other public attractions such as mall-like areas, with lots of light and a vibrant nightlife. When Ezekiel, Julia, Tiffany, and Paul, blipped into the local Teleport Square, they were exposed to that nightlife, briefly, mostly in the form of rich and powerful people blipping into the space all around them. And then the guards on the square spotted them, thinking them poor, and shouted at them to move. Ezekiel recognized their classism for exactly what it was, for the guards did not shout at the very well-dressed people blipping in right beside them.

Ezekiel’s team had arrived in peasant clothing, after all; their colorful armors dismissed before they blipped in. They didn’t make a fuss about being shouted out of the way. They just left, exiting to the north, to a Mage Guild exchange that Ezekiel had scouted before they arrived.

The Adventurer’s Guild might not be present in Nelboor, but the Mage’s Guild sure was.

- - - -

“Damn all the gods for scheduling conflicts.” Sikali exclaimed as she grabbed onto Xue’s arm, pressing her ample bosom against him. “It’s been too long since we’ve gone out.”

The fabric of her dress was sheer to the point of scandal, while half of her was on full display. She drew eyes from everyone else in the Teleport Square, and Xue loved it. A cold wind blew, and his wife, Sikali, pressed against him even tighter. She bit her lip as she stared into his eyes, and Xue wanted little more in that moment than to treat her to everything she deserved and wanted, which he usually did, and which usually involved lots of drink, song, food, sex, and the thorough enactment of violence against those deemed worthy.

When they weren’t working, of course.

Work almost called to Xue, in that moment, as he looked across the courtyard, and saw an anomaly.

Sikali leaned away from him, recognizing that he wasn’t fully present in the moment. Then she followed his eyes and saw what he saw.

A team of commoners walked out of the other side of the Teleport Square, headed north. One of them had [Familiar]s on his shoulders, and a magical effect strapped to his wrist. Another was an orcol, which was pause enough, for their kind weren’t very populous around here and they were very, very large people. All of them were dressed like the worst of peasants, but none of them walked like peasants.

They walked like they had power.

Which could only mean—

Sikali stepped in front of Xue, between him and the commoners, saying, “No. Xue. No.”

Xue’s eyebrows danced in incredulity. “Who is this in front of me? Some impostor, perhaps? Surely this is not my beloved Sikali, for she would want to investigate the oddity, too!”

“I don’t care. We’re not enforcers for Star Song tonight. No.” Sikali said, “We are here in party-town Darzallia, and I have been wanting to see this show for a year. This is their last week of performances, Xue.”

Xue smirked. He began, “Let’s—”

“Don’t you dare.” Sikali frowned. “I don’t trust either of us to ignore them if we simply ‘go see what they’re about’, so I will enact my self-control right now, and so will you.”

Xue smiled, devilishly, saying, “Let’s go see what they’re about.”

Sikali tried a different tactic. She whined, “Noooo. Please, Xue. I want to see the show.”

“The show is already ruined. All you’ll be able to think about is this missed connection.”

She looked away. “… That’s… Not… True.”

“And if you really wanted to see this show, you would have seen it months ago.”

And that was the wrong thing to say, apparently.

Sikali hardened, staring straight at him. “Now that is untrue! We’ve always got work! We never have time for each other anymore. I’ve been hunting in the mountains for our lost alchemist for the past week and you’ve been hunting down new Particle Magics for this entire past year and—”

“Okay! Peace!” Xue held up a hand, then put that hand in Sikali’s, entwining their arms together. “We will see the play. I can track those anomalies down later, for both of us.”

She pressed against him as they walked off of the Teleport Square toward the carriages. She kissed his cheek, saying, “Love you.”

“Love you, too.”

They got into the carriage and headed toward the theater. He put a hand on her leg and she moved his hand upward, much to both their joys. With one hand occupied down below, he moved his other to cup her breast. He kissed her deeply, and she responded in kind.

And then Sikali pulled away, just a bit, and suddenly said, “I have to go back to the mountains tomorrow.”

Xue frowned, and yet his hands did not stop what they were doing. “Do you?”

She gasped a bit as his hands worked their magic, trying to distract her. She lamented, “I do.”

“Are you sure?”

“I— Ah! I...”

Xue smiled.

- - - -

The Mage Guild was also called the Clan Exchange. Both titles were displayed above the gateway to the Exchange, though the second was much more prominent. Ezekiel affixed the new designation into his mind as best he could and strode through the inviting gateway, to the courtyard beyond.

Under pink blossom trees, robed students of the arcane arts discussed theory and execution while steaming tea was served by brown-tunic people who were barely seen, and never heard. The pagodas beyond were where the actual exchange took place, but the front courtyard was where the public mingled.

Ezekiel spotted no spells among any of the guests. He did spot a guard, next to the entrance, who eyed him, and expressed his displeasure at Ezekiel’s shield with a frown. Ezekiel got the message. He dismissed his shield. The guard lost his frown, and lifted his head a fraction. Ezekiel knew he probably shouldn’t walk around with that thing active, but he was not feeling the most publicly comfortable he had ever felt, especially since a lot of people eyed Odin, like he was a prize. Even here, in the Mage’s Guild, people still eyed Odin.

Tiffany drew even more attention than Odin, though, and she probably didn’t like that.

Ezekiel strode forward. He headed directly toward the exchange like he had done this a thousand times before, wanting to make this quick. No one accosted him, or his people.

Five minutes later, it was done. The four of them walked out of the Clan Exchange in a perfectly normal way. Ezekiel was as surprised as anyone else.

As they walked toward the hotels, Ezekiel had time to think. He thought mostly of money, and what had just happened. The exchange rates here were the same as in Spur, and the ordeal of transferring them at this Mage’s Guild was as easy as showing up and handing over the rad— the cores. The cores. They were cores, Ezekiel.

A 10 mana core was worth 5 gold. A 5 mana core was worth 3. A single gold was worth the equivalent of about a hundred dollars, in 1980 money, which was considerably more than what a gold would have been worth in modern-day dollars, which was about 300. Apparently, Spur had been in a bit of an inflationary period…

Which may or may not have been because of ‘Ezekiel’. Huh. He did bring the rains and all that prosperity, but most money flowed into the city in great big lumps due to adventurers and their various hauls, which was normal for Spur, but the adventurers had only been there because of Erick. So that inflation back home was probably his fault.

Coming to The Songli Highlands, which had absolutely no adventuring-based economy, might be rather easy, in a monetary sense. Ezekiel’s expectations of money had been thus:

He would be spending all of his 55 gold tonight, and likely come up short tomorrow.

