Niala wanted to mount a rescue expedition right away, but she reluctantly agreed with David when he brought up all the issues with that. Chiefly, they had no idea how to retrieve the captured minds, if that was even a thing.

For now, it was a theory, but they needed more information. For this, they put together a team to look into the issue, consisting of Marshalla, Leandro, Anaakendi, Rinka, and Anna, who was acting as Rinka's aide while she learned Lumiran the old-fashioned way from the magister.

The group decided they would observe the other hummers to see if they began displaying the same behaviour as Soyana. If they did, it would be strong evidence that the theory of ripped minds was correct.

Marshalla also went and took baseline pathway measurements for all the hummers.

Or rather, she tried to, because none of them had pathways, which led to two very important questions: how could they use their powers, and perhaps more importantly, how were they even alive?

Mana was to the soul what blood was to the body. Without it, the soul had no way to remain attached to the flesh it inhabited.

The hummer couldn't fully explain it themselves; they said their powers were “gifts” from the divine. As for mana, they only knew that their bodies were created in a way that they could never develop a magivoring ability. By extension, it meant they didn't interact with mana the same way as everybody else.

A few frustrating days of tests followed, revealing only that their bodies passively absorbed minute quantities of ambient mana, akin to a mana-gathering array. As far as Marshalla could tell, it was a way to keep any corruption from accumulating, and she termed the process mana osmosis.

It left the question of their powers unanswered, but Leandro suspected it might be something similar to imbuement, or organic runes. Since their bodies were supposed to be manufactured, they very well might contain built-in powers.

The theory didn't answer how they could even fuel such powers if they lacked any sort of mana reserves, but it was the only one they had at the time. They figured more answers would be uncovered with time and effort.

Marshalla was, of course, overjoyed with having even more mana-related puzzles to untangle. For everyone else, it was an unknown that made further confrontation with hummers an even more dubious proposal. How could you prepare for an enemy you didn't understand?

That night, Niala lay pressed against David's body, silent and still. If it wasn't for her regular breathing, he would have figured her to be asleep.

Instead, he could feel that she was tense, or maybe preoccupied. He could take a guess why; his wife wasn't all that hard to read.

He ran a hand through her hair. “We did everything we could back then.” He said gently.

She shifted her head upward to look at his face, meeting his eyes as she did. Her ears were kept low. “I know.”

“But you still feel responsible.”

“...Don't you?”

He sighed, but gave her a loving smile. “Not like you. If they really are stuck in some sort of mind jar, then yes, I'd like to go and help them. But, Niala, I will never willingly put you in danger if there is any other option. Especially not if all we have to go with is a theory.”

He craned his neck and put a kiss on her forehead, pulling back and looking her in the eyes once more. “Kitten, I'm sorry, but your life is worth more to me than anything else. If I had to choose between this entire town and you...”

She stared back into his deep blue eyes. She knew he'd choose her, and so would she if the role were reversed. She knew all that, and she wasn't so oblivious that it meant that, ultimately, she was willing to kill to save David.

As the very last, desperate, ultimate resort!

But she would if she didn't have any other choice. She already had, in a way; the anti-health potion she'd used on the fel didn't have the effect she thought, but she'd used it with the intent to end its life.

She burrowed her head into his chest, her tail slowly swaying under the sheets. “I know, trumpet. You know I'd do the same. I just... I guess it's hypocritical of me. I feel responsible for those seven people because I was there, when there are thousands of people who could use my help right now. The only difference is I never met them.”

He shifted in bed to face her, and put his arms around her, pulling he in closer. “You can't save the entire world, and neither is it yours to save. If you disappeared tomorrow, it would have to keep going. People have to try and save themselves a bit.”

She moved her head up and down against him instead of answering.

He wished he had the perfect answer for her. Yet, he also knew that he didn't need one; his Niala was strong, and she wasn't naive. His wife might see the world in brighter colours than he did, but she wasn't blind to reality.

This was just her way of dealing with her conflicting emotions. In the end, she'd make a sensible, logical decision, and he would be there to support her.

She pressed her head into him. “Thank you, David. I love you.”

He couldn't help but smile. “I love you too, Kitten.”

There were other words he could have added: I'll be there for you, I'll support you, you'll do the right thing, and so many more.

But he didn't need to, because when he said he loved her, it meant all those things, and more.

She woke up humming like a songbird the next morning, and sauntered throughout breakfast.

Seeing her happy never failed to lift his own heart.

They went on their way; David visiting the runeworks once more, and Niala sequestering herself in her lab and experimenting with a recipe that a certain luce-turned-rat had given her.

David had been right last night; she wasn't the only one involved. Marshalla, Leandro and Anaakendi were going to help, as would many other people once they had more information.

There was, however, one looming question at the far end of this path. Assuming they were right, that the minds of the missing people were preserved somewhere, and that they could find and retrieve them, what happened next?

They would need a body to inhabit.

She had no idea what the solution to that would be, but she figured that having one additional option couldn't hurt.

And it was alchemy anyway. Even if it didn't work out, she'd still learn new and interesting things!

It was another week before another hummer had a panic attack. This time it was Ariala Three-Twenty, the second lowest of the group. She exhibited the same sort of fears as Soyana, though she confronted Niala with more certainty.

Another sign that the threes' minds were not created; if they had been constructs, they would have had the same underlying psyche. Ariala and Soyana, subdued it might be, had different personalities that were trying to break free.

If the trend continued with the other hummers, then Niala's fears would be realized.

It was also at this time that the Crown's delegation regarding the Old Woman arrived in town. Rupert had returned from Daylight for the occasion, and he and Linzy had spent the last few days going over their strategy and options.

David and Niala were present for the meetings that ensued, even if they mainly let the business-savvy people handle the talks themselves.

As Linzy had predicted, the Crown wasn't interested in completely banning the sale and distribution of Old Woman, much like many other similar “soft” remedies that had no or few apparent side effects.

Instead, they demanded in very clear terms to be handed all information regarding the nature of the drink, its recipe, and any other relevant details.

Instead of fighting for concessions and benefits as any other sane merchant would have, Linzy and Rupert simply smiled and slid them a folder with everything requested.

The delegates eyed the folder for a few seconds, eyes wide, as if they were trying to determine what kind of trap this was.

Eventually, once they accepted that this was a genuine offer, the talks resumed. Rupert explained that the Old Woman Brewery and, by extension, the Boudoir Corporation, wished to have their names attached to the free distribution of Old Woman.

Before the Crown's agents could argue about the unfair publicity this would grant them, Linzy butted in and sold the benefits of using the Boudoir network to distribute free doses of Old Woman.

Most of her arguments boiled down to cost-savings and, more subtly, lessening their accountability; any dose of Old Woman paid and distributed by the brewery or corporation was one less the authorities would have to deal with.

Rupert wrapped it up with a proposal to create a Crown-approved Old Woman distribution guideline; a set of requirements that any other commercial entity could sign and adhere to so they could be recognized as official distributors of Old Woman free doses to the population.

With the offer to save on costs, logistics, responsibilities, and a way to quell any complaints of biased competition, the delegates were having to keep themselves from signing immediately.

They had a few more follow-up meetings to go over the details and minutiae, but by the time they left, Rupert and Linzy were entirely confident their offer would be ratified by the Crown.

Now, they would just have to somehow capitalize on state-mandated visits to the boudoirs by every adult within walking distance.

As they said their goodbyes to the delegates, and once they were out of earshot, Linzy looked up at Rupert with a toothy smile. The old bunnykin met the goblin's gaze and curled his lips in turn.

She began giggling.

He followed suit.

She erupted in a full laugh.

So did he.

David and Niala turned and left. They could hear the laughter for quite a while. By the end, it was more of a mad cackle.

After a third hummer began showing signs of an emerging personality, Niala found an instructor to teach Amberan to the octuple. If they were gaining back their past selves, she figured they ought to be able to communicate with the people they lived with.

Surprisingly, or perhaps not, they absorbed the lesson at an incredible pace, and had a highly functioning grasp of the language after a mere two weeks.

During that time, all but Aryin Three-One and Mikalin Three-Five “cracked”, though Niala was hopeful it wouldn't take much more time before their healing could commence.

Soyana already had several sessions with a mind-healer, especially in the first week after her “awakening,” when she had bordered on panic daily and suffered from periods of absolute despair.

Little by little, however, she had begun taking small steps, often at Niala's encouragement, and could now walk around in public without succumbing to the need to run back to her “One” and begging to be reclaimed.

Every hummer had the same urge to self-report when their mental conditioning began fraying. This was yet another proof that their minds were not artificial; they had a safeguard compunction to turn themselves in at the first sign of individuality.

Whoever or whatever ruled over the hummers, Niala felt that it was one entity that she could never reconcile with.