Burn to ash!

- Inferno [The Consuming Flame]. Unique Fire Elemental.

The continual burning of Malika’s skin, hair, eyes, lungs, or basically every part of her exposed to the air, left her feeling drained and exhausted. She sat cross-legged in the pool of lava, simply because the wretched Path of the Earth: The Defensive Arts had clearly indicated that she could learn defensive skills by meditating on the nature of the damage. It had sounded quite straightforward when she had first read it, but after days of sitting in poison traps while meditating, she had made no breakthroughs – and sitting to meditate while her flesh blackened and burnt from the magic of the dungeon’s fire and lava was easier said than done.

“You look toasty,” Mato said.

“I’m busy, Mato,” she said, her prior irritation making her words sharper than she liked.

“Mhm,” he offered unhelpfully.

She pulsed another heal, regenerating the burnt flesh and feeling a fresh rush of pain from the newly regrown nerves that instantly began to char again in a never-ending cycle, and tried to force her mind to become calm.

You can’t force it. The words of her father’s teaching, guiding her through her first meditation, sprang clearly to her mind and she sighed as she let go of her need to make anything happen. Instead, she focused her attention on the incredible pain and the sensation of her flesh cooking from the magical energy and molten rock. To her surprise, her mind quietened, settling into the waves of alternating burning and healing. As she contemplated the rhythm, she began to notice how fire felt different from the poison of her prior study subject matter. Then another cycle flowed by her steady awareness, and she began to sense the distinction between fire and lava.

So that’s what it meant…

“I’m ready,” Ali said, her voice echoing from the small side chamber.

Malika released her meditation after finally having achieved something resembling calm, reminding herself to also release her annoyance at being interrupted by Ali’s voice right when she was making progress. Progress will be there when I return. At least she had invested heavily in her endurance. It was certain that without it, her rather extreme training would not have been accessible to her, even with healing. The confounded book clearly stated the importance of a calm and receptive mind.

The ancestors had pretty messed-up training methods, she decided, getting up and reequipping her stored equipment straight from her storage enchantment with a thought – a handy trick Calen had taught her. Ali emerged from the side chamber with her repopulated army following her about like a brood of ducklings.

“I found this while deconstructing the corpses,” Ali said, summoning an essence and balancing it on a small disk of her barrier magic.

Clever.

“Thank you,” Malika said, taking the ever-burning flame and instantly noticing just how different the essence felt from the ambient fire and lava as it burned at her skin. Something to investigate later, she decided, storing it in her Seal of the Quartermaster ring.

Calen’s voice echoed from beyond the far entrance, “Lots of side passages up here.”

They headed out, Malika taking her spot near the front, resting a hand on Mato’s furry shoulder and pulsing her healing constantly to keep them both topped up. At least with the benefit of Mato’s aura, her stamina regenerated faster, and her healing would take some of the burden off Ali’s Acolytes.

She hopped over a lava flow, landing lightly on the other side, and then confronted a much larger pool that filled the tunnel, spilling out across into a side passage. Rock crackled and popped constantly from the fluctuating heat of the lava stream.

“Dead end,” Calen said, emerging from the passage, and flying over the lava.

While she could have simply Divine Stepped over the large expanse of molten rock, she chose instead to copy Mato and waded through it, healing them both constantly while the holy magic of Ali’s acolytes ticked her health up. I really hope this is worth it, she thought, waiting till Ali had finished ferrying her minions across before continuing.

The tunnels continued to meander randomly with excavations of many different sizes and extents branching outward. It took ages to progress with each side passage needing to be investigated, explored, and deemed safe, rather than risk monsters adding from behind when they least expected it.

“There’s a difficult pull up ahead,” Calen said, raising his bow and aiming with a grimace. “I’ll try to split them.”

They were clustered up in a wide bend in the tunnel. Up ahead, Malika saw the glow of two Shards of Flame, gliding back and forth between the main tunnel and what looked like it might be a passage to the side in a complex weaving dance. They vanished and re-emerged as their paths took them into and out of view, causing the angry red glow to dim and brighten erratically. She held her breath, tension building as Calen studied their movement, aiming for the perfect shot.

Suddenly, his bowstring twanged. The arrow fletching buzzed loudly over the soft sizzling and creaking of superheated rock. The white, glowing arrow slammed into the core of the nearest elemental as it popped into view, and it immediately turned, surging toward their group with a hissing roar like bellows fanning a forge. It glided over the rock, clearing pools and rivulets of lava without slowing.

But a second roar echoed from within the side tunnel and the other Shard of Flame emerged right behind it.

“Fuck, missed that,” Calen swore.

Mato answered the challenge with a roar of his own and immediately charged forward past Calen to intercept the elementals. Right. Action time. Malika sprang forward, alongside Mato, keeping pace with his tremendous speed. But as soon as she entered the auras of flame the elementals were emitting, she realized the problem. Her body immediately ignited as she entered the two overlapping auras of ravenous consuming flame. No way! Urgently she unleashed a flurry of blows, supplementing the sudden demand for healing magic with her Soul Strike.

“We aren’t doing any damage. They’re healing each other!” Ali yelled.

Malika slapped Mato, unleashing a torrent of healing into his burning flank, and then whirled to do the same for Ali’s Hobgoblin. But the instant her hand touched the crimson, burning skin, the powerful goblin collapsed, reduced to a heap of rapidly charring flesh and dense coils of smoke. Crap, too slow!

“Split them!” Calen shouted. “Malika!”

“I’ll take the left one,” Malika said, immediately taking on the role of the second tank and letting Mato know which one she wanted him to ignore, so she could peel it off him. He just grunted, never letting up his focus on his attacks.

Can I even do it? Malika had no fire resistance because of her class’s frustrating gear restriction, and she was already struggling to keep up with the damage, but there was nobody else. The only difference between her and the Hob was that she had a healing skill. So, she leaned into her attacks, punching harder and interleaving her attacks with rapid kicks and brutal knee strikes, imbuing every single one with her mana-stealing Soul Strike. It took several long seconds and more than a dozen hits before the elemental whirled about and punched her with its strangely insubstantial fiery arm. She brought up her forearms in a cross-guard block, but it was only partially successful, most of the damage slamming through her defense and crushing her ribs. She doubled over from the sharp spike of pain, feeling her health drop precipitously.

Right, dodge those, she thought, reacting instantly with a full heal, ignoring the stamina cost, and began to back away from Mato. And here she encountered her second problem.

“Where can I take it?” The brawl had erupted in a tunnel – broad if one were merely walking through, but constricting for a fight. If she moved away from the group, she would be isolated and likely die on her own. But, if she moved toward the group, she would bathe them all in fire. Making the safer decision, she began to draw it away.

“No, bring it here,” Calen called, countering her decision decisively. “We need to kill yours first.”

“Ok.” It was not the decision she would have made, but she trusted him to know what he was doing. At the very least, a coordinated strategy was far better than arguing about which might be the ‘best’ one. She sprinted straight up the tunnel toward Ali and Calen, leaping lava streams, dodging firebolts, and even occasionally managing to avoid the magical damage from the auras themselves with her advanced Enlightened Evasion, but never enough to give her a moment’s pause. She was burning through stamina rapidly, and now that she was beyond Mato’s aura it wouldn’t regenerate nearly as quickly.

“More,” Ali said, making golden flashes as she wielded her barrier magic, reminiscent of the time Rezan had blocked the entire seventh form’s punch sequence with just his palms. “You’re still in the aura. Another five meters. Uh… fifteen feet.”

The elemental hit her with a staggering blow, followed by a firebolt, neither of which she managed to dodge, and her health dipped instantly into dangerous territory. Somewhere behind one of Ali’s barriers, a pillar of holy light shone forth, but she poured her stamina into her healing again, unwilling to risk waiting for the Acolyte. Her health shot up and instantly vanished as the Shard of Flame landed a heavy blow on her back. The gentle embrace of holy healing settled onto her, but with a rapidity and force that had been empowered.

She dragged the elemental further and further down the tunnel in an effort to escape the aura of the other elemental.

“That’s good,” Ali called out. “Right there!”

Malika breathed a sigh of relief as the intensity of the overlapping fire auras halved. She glanced over to see Mato still fighting over by the distant lava stream, and she hoped the little Kobolds would be able to keep him safe from that far.

“Healer down!” Ali yelled, urgency making her voice shrill.

Glancing backward, she saw the kobold Acolytes all on fire, healing rapidly. As she watched, a second one triggered its potent desperation magic, forming a new pillar of brilliant holy light. One of Ali’s rogues collapsed, followed shortly by one of the shamans.

This is bad. She filled her own body with a constant stream of healing, focusing intently on dodging as much as she could to take the pressure off the beleaguered kobold healers. It was clear that Ali was forced to make them stand in the fire aura to reach Mato. If only we had space to separate them properly.

“Another healer down!”

“Recall?” Malika yelled.

“Not yet,” Calen said as he lit the tunnel with his powerful Righteous Fury skill, unleashing a hail of arrows to try to burn the monster down as fast as possible.

Ok, your call, she thought, going all out with Soul Strike, trying to match Calen and hold the Shard of Flame against his prodigious damage. She didn’t have a taunt skill like Mato’s roar to recover it if she let it get away from her. Several more of Ali’s melee minions collapsed in burning heaps as the healing throughput dropped dramatically.

Suddenly she found Ali beside her, standing on a platform of barrier magic.

“What are you…” Malika’s voice cut off as the elemental punched through her guard and hit her in the stomach.

“Don’t move from here,” Ali said, and then something flickered almost imperceptibly in Malika’s Soul Sight – as if Ali’s energy was, for the briefest of moments, in several places at once. Then she felt the pulse of magical restoration coursing through her body.

What skill was that? She couldn’t see the runic circle that Ali had made in that instant, but she most certainly recognized the feeling of the spell that rapidly healed her, taking the place of the fallen healers. Grateful for Ali’s quick thinking, Malika diverted some more mana to stamina and focused on picking up the remainder of her own healing so that the two Acolytes could help Mato instead.

In the zone of continuous punching, dodging, healing, and blocking, Malika became aware of the fading of Calen’s light, but her Soul Strike suddenly came up empty, and the Shard of Flame imploded with a dull whoomph and collapsed to the scorching rock.

She turned to charge over and help Mato, but Calen brought her up short. “Mato, bring it back here to the runic circle.”

Smart. Malika thought, waiting in the circle, letting it top her up before she yielded it to the burning Bear. With two healers down, the Acolytes had to be running low on mana, and they still had a second Shard of Flame to deal with.

The intensity of her self-healing dropped dramatically as she no longer found herself contending with fiery punches blasting through her defenses. Instead, she unleashed her martial arts upon the fire-spewing elemental, dodging in and out to heal Mato whenever she could. It was just her and Mato, and the only remaining shaman Ali possessed, and under the potent effects of Mato’s aura, her stamina began to recover. More and more, she wove heals in between the forms of the Nine Paths, shouldering a progressively larger burden of healing now that he was taking care of the tanking.

With Mato in the circle and her own increased output, the flow of battle suddenly reached a precarious stability.

Ali surveyed battered and burnt remnants of her minion army, with a frown that provoked feelings of uneasiness to spill over through her connection to her few remaining kobolds. It had taken a mere two Shards of Flame and her minion army had been wiped out. The overlapped auras of flame, combined with the underlying fire of the dungeon’s domain, had proved all too deadly for her forces.

The Hobgoblin had died almost instantly, caught in the crossfire of the auras and both volleys of firebolts. Without any fire resistance, her highest-level monster had proved to be worthless, incinerated like so much kindling on a bonfire. Even her Acolytes had rapidly fallen once exposed to even one of the elementals’ auras – a necessity for them to reach Mato with their healing skills given the confines of the tunnel system.

“Deep thoughts?” Calen asked.

“My minions don’t have enough health,” Ali said.

“Even with the Studded Jackets I got?” Calen asked.

