“This stuff is insanely strong,” Malika said, shaking her hand vigorously as she got a bit stuck on her fingers. “Appraise says it’s a valuable crafter resource. How about we collect some and see if Lydia can use it?”

“Oh, that’s a great idea,” Ali answered, not having considered the crafting angle at all. She was debating whether to commit the Flame Web imprint to her Grimoire solely on the strength that she might be able to make some good traps with it, but if Lydia could use it, that would be so much better. And I got my spider imprint, too! It wasn’t exactly what she had had in mind, but she was excited to see if they had some good perception skills she might put to use.

Her Grimoire had the space right now, so she added both new imprints while Malika burned herself collecting as much of the burning web as she could find. “How did you get it off your fingers?”

“I stored it in my ring,” Malika said, grinning as she produced a still-flaming chunk of web and then made it vanish.

“Where did the big spider land?” Ali asked. While there had only been one, she wanted to make sure to get it so that she could learn the variant as soon as possible. If the little spiders proved useful, she just knew the big one would be far better. Maybe not in here, though, she thought, recalling the flames and burning web.

“Over here, Ali.” Calen pointed to where it lay, a thick carapace jutting out of the middle of a heap of hundreds of Flame Skitterer corpses.

“I vote we call it here; I have a lot of stuff to sell,” Malika said, and everyone agreed.

“Yep, I’m getting tired too,” Mato said.

“Hungry, did you say?” Calen piped up.

“Always. Besides, your mom told me to help you put some skin on those bones.” The half-elf’s eyebrows lifted, whereupon Mato said in a terrible falsetto, “Mato, please look after my poor little Calen and make sure he eats three square meals a day, because no girl wants to marry a stick, no matter how handsome he thinks he is.”

“As if!”

Saving their potions, the quartet shared a few more playful insults as they retraced their steps back through the tunnels. On the way out of the mine, Ali couldn’t help noticing that the domain of the fire dungeon ran up against the opening she had bored through the rubble of the fallen city, but without Shards of Flame drawing the domain out, the only fire mana that escaped was a dense flow of ambient and unstructured mana, similar, but not as chaotic in nature as the original mana that pervaded the jungle itself.

“Can we take a moment here?” Mato asked, stopping their group. “Ali, how about planting some of those fire plants we collected? That way I can harvest some and see what kind of potions Eliyen can make for our next trip.”

“Oh, yes,” Ali said. It was a great idea actually – the lashers at least required some ambient fire mana, and this was the only place near her domain that had any. Pulling out her Grimoire, she planted a giant Lirasian Oak outside the entrance to the mine, close enough to extend her domain through the tunnel, but not too close that her mana would overlap with the dungeon within. With that towering detail taken care of, she filled the cracked and burned ground with Fire Grass and grew a couple of dozen Flame Lashers up the rubble walls beside the tunnel entrance. It took a while for her to finish, but by the time she was done her domain had reclaimed the space, and using that, she blocked the entrance with a series of dense barriers that she attached to the domain itself, hopefully sealing the fire elementals inside in the event that the dungeon respawned them.

It was a tricky tradeoff. Blocking the entrance would preserve her domain from the Shards of Flame, but that meant her boss would no longer be killing them and generating a steady stream of essences. Perhaps I’ll open it again after Mato’s done, she decided, watching him harvest the pretty fire flowers and samples of grass.

***

Race: SpiderClass: Flame Skitterer – level 16- Flame Bite – level 11Stamina: Bite your target. Bite does additional Fire damage. Range: Touch.Fire, Physical, Dexterity- Flame Aura – level 10Mana: Emits an aura of fire doing damage to everything in range. Aura combines with overlapping auras of swarm members. Range: 1.3 feet. Reserve: 100%Fire, Area, Swarm, Intelligence- Flame Sight – level 10Can see heat sources directly. Can sense nearby fire.Fire, PerceptionAptitudes- Mana (Affinity): Fire- Immunities (Racial): Fire- Vulnerabilities (Racial): +50% extra damage from Ice or Cold- Swarm Spawn (Racial): Spawns in groups of 12- Swarm Tactics (Racial): +6.5% to Accuracy per Flame Skitterer attacking the same targetAttributes- Vitality: 23- Strength: 15- Endurance: 19- Dexterity: 39- Perception: 34- Intelligence: 11- Wisdom: 19Armor: 112Physical Damage Reduction: 20%Evasion: 134Dodge: 23.02%Health: 230/230Stamina: 190/190Mana: 0/190 (190 Reserved)

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
