“Those are fantastic! Vitality and resistance – they’re the reason the rogues can survive at all,” Ali said. However, being dragged under the lava by the crushing grasp of a lava monster while still taking fire damage from the ambient dungeon domain proved far too much for a level twenty kobold rogue, regardless of his natural racial boosts to fire resistance and the quality of his gear. “The Hobgoblin was useless, and I didn’t even get to test my Brine Oozes properly before they disintegrated.”

“I see,” Calen said. “Fire resistance really is that good? Maybe we can see if Thuli can craft something for your Hobgoblin once we collect more essences?”

“That would help,” Ali said. Even with fire resistance gear, the rogues and shamans had struggled. Higher-level monsters like the Hob were at less of a disadvantage against the elementals and had more vitality and therefore health.

“Maybe we can find you a few higher-level monsters in here?” Mato suggested.

“As long as they don’t have fire,” Ali grumbled. “Even my Scalding Slimes have enough of the fire trait in their steam that they’re healing the elementals.”

“Nice save during the fight, by the way,” Calen said.

“I had to use Arcane Recall to inscribe that restoration circle,” she admitted. They needed to know her ace skill had been burned and she would not be able to pull off that maneuver again – at least for today.

“Ok, if I see a potentially tricky pull again, we go home instead of risking it,” Calen suggested.

“You mean to continue?” Malika asked.

It was the question on Ali’s mind too. Just being in the fire dungeon was dangerous enough, not counting the elementals, or the lava oozes, and who knew what else lurked up ahead.

“I think it’s worth exploring a little further unless you all would prefer to stop here,” Calen said. “I have a better idea of their range now, so I can be more precise.”

“Ok,” Ali said. “Let me resummon my minions.”

Her friends waited patiently while she rebuilt her little army. When she was finally done, she put her Grimoire away, knowing that she had scoured it for ideas and come up wanting. She knew every option she had and understood the limitations she faced, but it was not like she had many better choices.

I really need higher-level monsters. It always came back to that. In particular, a more robust healer would be fantastic. For various unrelated reasons, all her highest-level monsters were unsuitable for this dungeon in some critically important way – from the fire vulnerability of her Forest Guardians to her frustrating inability to summon most of her elemental imprints. She could only imagine how effective a Radiant Brawler or a Coruscant Ray might be down here. Burning down the Shards of Flame with beams of intense light from the far end of the tunnel would be so easy.

At least she might find some success with her Hobgoblins if Thuli was able to turn the latest batch of Essence of Flame into some decent plate armor like Calen suggested. The only problem with that approach was collecting enough essences. This excursion into the mines had so far added two to their haul, and delving deeper had the potential to earn more. Alternatively, they could just wait for her boss to kill enough of the monsters the dungeon spat out, but that seemed frustratingly slow. Not to mention, she needed to earn experience so she could grow her mana pool.

What a mess! Ali sighed and announced, “I’m ready.” If there was one thing she had in abundance, it was problems to solve.

“Ok, follow me,” Calen said.

Even given the struggles of the prior battle, Ali found herself surprisingly curious about what lay ahead. When they had first explored the Ruins of Dal’mohra she hadn’t known she was a dungeon, and for at least the initial exploration, she hadn’t even had her Arcane Insight skill to see mana. Now with so much more information under her belt, from personal experience and finally studying Nevyn Eld’s book on dungeons, she found it extraordinarily educational to study the domain of the Emberforge Mines.

They pressed onward, following Calen through the twisting mine tunnels and exploring the frequent side excavations. Occasionally they ran into isolated Lava Lurkers – mostly in lava-filled chambers off the central path – but, true to his word, Calen managed to pull each of them separately, allowing them to overcome the threat with minimal danger.

Ali spent most of her time between battles trying to ignore the oppressive heat and the weight of tons of rock overhead. It surprised her that it felt so uncomfortable, given her entire dungeon was underground, but somehow the rock ceiling being so close overhead conspired to prevent her from ignoring it. Interestingly though, the best way she found to manage the incipient claustrophobia was to keep the point of view of at least one of her slimes. With their strange amorphous biology, they perceived space vastly differently, and small crevices and large openings seemed interchangeable within their otherwise simplistic minds.

As she rounded the next bend, Ali’s eyes were instantly drawn to a jagged sliver of dark gray rock jutting out of the ceiling overhead. Up in a corner, by a small opening, a set of cobwebs hung loosely from the bare stone. What caught her eye was the fact that they were on fire. Nothing down here could be on fire for long without being utterly consumed, so the fact that the cobwebs were still there meant they were either very new, or…

Fire affinity. Focusing on the sense of the mana, she struggled to parse it out from the background of the domain itself, but the web was clearly burning on its own. It seemed to be spun by winding fire affinity into the substance of the silky webbing itself.

“Do you see that, Calen?” she asked, pointing.

“Yes,” he answered, his alert eyes scanning the crevices constantly. “I haven’t seen any sign of what made them… yet. Always the spiders, right?”

“Can’t wait to smoosh them,” Ali grinned wryly.

The tunnel led further downward, punctuated by small holes and crevices, some of which leaked lava into the main path. As they picked their way over the streams and boulders, more and more webbing appeared draped among the rocks overhead until the entire ceiling vanished behind a dense net of burning web.

“Another Shard,” Calen said. “Solo.”

His radiant arrow made shadows flicker down the long tunnel. A loud sizzle and hiss echoed back as the arrow slammed into the blazing Shard of Flame up ahead.

Mato roared, as usual, and rushed to meet the surging elemental midway down the tunnel. Malika danced in behind him, flickering with soul magic as she healed both of them. Ali’s barriers went up with their golden radiance, easily in time to catch the first volley of firebolts before they slammed into her healers.

Halfway through burning down the elemental, with her forces fully engaged, she heard something unusual. Well, it was more that she felt it. Connected as she was to the senses of her Brine Oozes lobbing water bolts from behind her barriers, she detected an unusual, rapid scrabbling as if many things approached quickly. She shivered despite the heat, uncomfortably reminded of that Bone Skitterer crawling across her skin. She glanced around rapidly but couldn’t see anything with her eyes or her mana sight, so she focused back, splitting her awareness into both her remaining oozes simultaneously. What do you sense?

Her eyes snapped to the erratic glow from within the cracks and holes beyond the webbing. “Something is coming!” she yelled. Moments later, a stream of gleaming black shapes skittered out of the holes, crawling along the ceiling and the web. Fire mana radiated from each creature, wreathing them in auras of flame.

Flame Skitterer – Spider – level 12-16 (Fire) Swarm x43

“Shit, bunches of spiders!” Calen yelled, reacting to her warning. “Incoming!”

The endless swarm spilled from the crevices above, attracted to the sounds of combat. Ali’s eyes widened at the sight of the growing aura of flame. “If they reach the Shard, we’re going to lose!”

“Mato, move!” Calen shouted, provoking a roar from the burning Bear.

“Wall it off,” Ali commanded, and her Bone Mages instantly filled the corridor up ahead with their Bone Wall spells. But the ridges and cracks of conjured bone began to blacken under the onslaught of the combined flame of the spider swarm building up behind the blockage.

“I can’t hold them off long!” Ali shouted, spending a sizeable portion of her precious mana on a floor-to-ceiling barrier to reinforce the bone wall.

“Mato, further!” Calen shouted.

Ali immediately reacted by moving her mages and Acolytes so that they remained out of the flame aura, but still close enough to heal Mato as he moved.

“Ali, can you make a small opening in the barrier?” Calen asked. “We can’t let them build up for too long, we won’t be able to handle the rush when they break through. Put all the ranged attackers on the hole and leave the Shard for the melee.”

“Got it,” Ali said, reorganizing her minions according to his directions. I need a tank. She glanced over, but Malika was fully occupied healing Mato, so she redirected one of her shamans instead. When it reached the barrier, she shifted it sideways, creating a gap between the rock and her defensive spell. A stream of spiders burst forth from the gap, right into the shaman’s lightning-enchanted shield. Immediately, volley after volley of water bolts, arrows, and bone spears tore into the horde of spiders as Ali redirected all her minions. She could barely add a single barrier shard, most of her magic tied up in the enormous barrier she was using to block the entire tunnel.

For a moment it seemed like they would hold them back, but then spiders began pouring out from nearby crevices, bypassing the barrier and beginning to overwhelm their arrows and bolts by sheer numbers. Calen responded instantly with Righteous Fury and volleys of triple-conjured light-affinity arrows. To Ali’s relief, the horde began to fall back slowly. But then something else came through.

“Big one!” Calen spat through clenched teeth.

Flame Spinner – Spider – level 54 (Fire)

Oh, that’s a big boy. Big was an understatement. Ali had no idea how something larger than her had managed to crawl through that tiny tunnel, but it emerged, unfolding long spindly legs of shiny black chitin, blazing with powerful flame. It tipped its abdomen toward them, and with a wet thump a blob of fire arced overhead, sizzling as it unfolded into a flaming web. With her barrier magic fully committed, Ali could only watch as the web slammed into her and her ranged minions with a splat. The weight of it knocked her flat and pinned her to the ground. She struggled against the tough silk, her skin blistering and blackening wherever the sticky flaming silk touched, but she had nowhere near enough strength to break free.

But the same was not true of her oozes, they slipped free of their bindings with ease, heading for the walls. Ali picked one and switched places with it, freeing herself and putting the ooze right back into the trap, from which it promptly escaped once again.

No bones is a handy skill…

A surprising chime sounded, followed by the sight of Malika sprinting right up the wall and into the flaming silk web on the ceiling to punch at the huge Flame Spinner, freeing Calen to concentrate on the little spiders once again. Mato stomped into the center of the tunnel and roared, provoking most of the spider horde to swarm him.

“Heals on Mato,” Ali instructed, wincing at the sight of fire converging toward him on far too many legs. She left her Acolytes webbed, choosing instead to use her barrier shard to saw away at the threads binding her archers, but it took mere seconds before she realized it was futile. Instead, she reached out with a hand and began to deconstruct the binding web, strand by strand.

While she worked to break her minions out of their flame bindings, she studied the deluge of monstrous spiders swarming the tunnel. Her mages’ walls were creaking under the weight of the spiders building up behind them. If I can’t contain them…

“Wall on that side,” Ali commanded, pointing to where she wanted it. “And you do the opposite side,” she added. Still bound by the flaming web, her Bone Mages threw up their walls. She did not intend to block the spiders, instead, the new walls formed a series of baffles to channel the tide, funneling them through the center channel and serving them up to Mato’s claws and Calen’s arrows.

“Lightning Nova totems in the breach,” she said, lining her shamans up behind Mato, and making certain that they were deploying their lightning effectively through the bulk of the spider horde.

“Good work, Ali,” Calen said, nodding his approval and unleashing a fresh volley of arrows.

With each archer she broke free, she added a stream of arrows to help Malika with the oversized spider still clinging to the ceiling. Fortunately, Malika had drawn all its ire, and the blasts of the burning web were exclusively aimed at her. Even more fortunately, Malika had managed to dodge all of them.

The chimes continued to ping as the smaller spiders died in droves.

Sparkling oozes would be so good right now, Ali grumbled, annoyed that she hadn’t thought of it earlier. The strangely glittering oozes with their light-affinity area damage would have decimated the clumped-up spiders in seconds. Certainly more effective than them, she thought, observing the Brine Oozes trying to blast the spiders one at a time.

The crawling black tide slowly began to ebb. Bunched up as they were by the bone walls, Mato’s claws killed them by the dozen as he slashed furiously back and forth. Calen’s new multishot, conjured arrows seemed similarly effective, killing three at a time, which left Ali feeling more than a little jealous. Typically, she brought the area damage, and taking care of a swarm like this would have been her job. But, without her Fire Mages, she was relegated to the sidelines, making do with shamans and barriers, and just taking care of the bulk of the healing.

Enough grousing. Instead, she switched her attention to the giant spider on the roof and sent her barrier shard slicing upward to assist Malika.

***

Your group has defeated Flame Skitterer – Spider – level 12-17 (Fire) Swarm x311Your group has defeated Shard of Flame – Elemental – level 36 (Fire)Your group has defeated Flame Spinner – Spider – level 54 (Fire)Imprint: Flame Skitterer completed.Imprint: Flame Web completed.

“What are you looking at, Malika?” Ali asked. Her friend was bent over poking at some burning web on the ground.

