Hardly the powerful ogres and stolen legionaries that the shimagu had used during the war. Solaris knew what had happened to their original hosts, but a young goblin and a few local animals weren’t much of a threat. Even the human that they held in check was practically skin and bones; his rough, panicked breathing was wet and wheezy enough that it left no doubt that he was sick.

Solace paused to unleash a barrage of Void-imbued bolts of Brilliance into the nearby pond—a shallow body of water so brackish that Rani struggled to think of it as anything more than a mudhole—just in case any shimagu were spawning within it. When no notifications came, she shrugged and set her hand on the man, burning out his sickness and parasite.

[*ding!* A shimagu has been slaughtered. Be aware, its host remains.]

They all released the breath they were holding; disappointment keenly displayed on a few faces. Night’s standing orders were to assume that Hwinthel’s wish became true for everyone—that the day the final shimagu was slaughtered, the System (or a similar announcement) would let everyone know.

But that day had yet to come. Rani didn’t even need to give the order; Decia was already investigating the camp for any signs of a sixth shimagu.

Hestia was trying to talk to the man they’d saved, but he clearly didn’t understand a word that came out of her mouth. Like many former hosts, he seemed unable to grasp that his body was his once again—he just sat there, unmoving, with unmitigated horror in his eyes.

It was Rani’s least favorite part of the job. She already knew what was coming…

“Nothing ma’am, it jus’ the five of them.” Decia gave her final determination.

“The highest level shimagu was only level 372—non-combat classes only, given the names.” Rani gave her own report. It wasn’t really relevant anymore, but she’d spent years summarizing the scale of the feats they’d achieved. She wasn’t going to stop just because there was no glory left to be had.

“Then we backtrack to the handcart and move further south. Decia, find me another trail!” Solace gave the order, and they saluted in unison before they set out.

With minimal fanfare, they left the man behind. If he was lucky, he would discover enough independent will to drink from the brackish water they left him next to before he perished—and likely sicken himself anew in the process. But there was nothing else to be done; Solace would never return to base for a broken host. Even the sensate one they found two seasons ago had just been given directions and a waterskin.

…Rani hadn’t even bothered to check while they were at Spearpoint to learn if the girl had made it. By necessity, she had hardened her heart to the plight of those that fell under the shimagu’s control. She never could have survived a single year under Solace without doing so. Because in truth, they weren’t the great saviors that the propaganda claimed they were.

They were nothing more than butchers, just the same as every other War Sentinel that had ever been seated.

But Solace was far more determined than her peers ever were. Their hunts would continue until the final kill notification came. And even Rani was morbidly curious about what form the extinction announcement would take. Time would march on without them, and it was becoming clear which direction Remus’ Legions would next march—but they would march without Sentinel Solace.

May Solaris forgive them. And, as Rani never believed in asking too much of her favorite goddess, may she also light their way to their enemy. Because the sooner the shimagu were eradicated, the sooner she could find what was left of her life.
