The energy sunk into the dirt, warping it as it had warped the air. A moment later, space itself seemed to churn, the distortion quadrupling in size before abruptly crashing back down on itself. As the magic faded, a perfectly spherical crater was revealed, as if everything within the volume had simply been deleted from existence. There had been no sound.

Well, that’s fun, Rain thought as Tallheart stood him back on his feet. “Nice dodge, Tallheart. Hey Ameliah, don’t get hit by those.”

Ameliah snorted. “Good tip. See if you can get it to take another shot at you. If it runs out of mana, this will get a whole lot easier.”

Rain nodded, dropping Essence Well. He’d transferred two-thirds of his pool over to Ameliah by this point. If this was a battle of attrition, it was a battle that they would win.

Suddenly, the cloud of darkness hanging over the cavern broke. Rain tensed, but nothing else seemed to happen. Either the duration of the Hababa’s gravity spell had expired, or the monster had dismissed it. It grunted, the noise conveying annoyance, meaning it was likely the former.

Round two began with no warning as Ameliah launched herself into the air, giving herself an angle over the protective stone. She loosed her spell, and at first, Rain thought she’d missed, the magic flying high above her target. He saw the truth of it as the Fireballs hooked tightly around to strike the monster from behind. The Hababa had attempted to move its stone to intercept them, but it hadn’t been able to keep up. It howled in anger, writhing in pain as the blast sent it flying forward. It recovered quickly, then flung the stone at Ameliah, but she dodged through the air with contemptuous ease, freed of the crushing gravity. She was already chanting as she prepared her next spell.

The Hababa made no further attempt to chase after her. Instead, it began drifting slowly downward, shifting into a cross-legged position in the air and bringing both pairs of hands together in front of its chest. It wove its long fingers together, locking them into a pair of arcane sigils, then closed its eyes.

Rain cursed. “Something big coming!”

“We shall see,” Tallheart said. They weren’t near the shard anymore, but there were plenty of boulders around. Tallheart stooped quickly, coming up with one the size of his head. He pitched it overhand at the meditating Shaman King, and with the gravity field gone, there was nothing to disrupt the path of the nonmetallic projectile. It struck the Hababa directly in the forehead and exploded into powder, though the effect on its health bar was underwhelming. Ameliah’s next spell did quite a bit more, partially absorbed by the crown as it was, but the Hababa didn’t even flinch.

“Hmm,” Tallheart said, lifting a larger stone. Before he could throw it, the Shaman King’s eyes snapped open, burning with Arcane light. It whipped two of its arms up and the other two to the side. Its crown blazed to life, wreathed by purple flame, and darkness exploded outward—the same gravity-increasing spell as before. Rain’s relief at recognizing the known threat was short-lived. His saturation had increased again, but that wasn’t the problem. Outside of a small radius around him and Tallheart, everything that had been on the ground had flown into the air as if fired by a cannon, blocking his view and deafening him in the process.

No…that’s not…

Rain’s eyes widened as the air rapidly cleared, and he corrected his assessment. The ground ITSELF had been fired into the air. Everything had risen in a great wave faster than he could believe—rocks, branches, trees, the dirt itself, even the river of lava in the distance. It was as if the chamber had been upended like an hourglass within the radius of the spell. He gasped as the ground suddenly slumped beneath him. The dirt was spreading out, then streaming upward like a curtain as it came into contact with the spell. The veil that this formed wasn’t thick enough to stop him from seeing Ameliah as she tumbled into the sky. She was falling more slowly than the former ground had fallen, but it was still fast. Very, very fast.

Rain cried out wordlessly as she struck the ceiling at speed, leaving a crater in the puck of dirt that was glued there by the spell. Rain heard the impact loud and clear over the sound of Ahbahabam’s laughter. The monster was spinning slowly, turning itself over so it could fall feet-first into the sky. As Rain watched, powerless, it pointed one long finger at the site of her crash, then fired a sphere of void.

Brace!

Ameliah managed to activate the spell moments before she slammed into the ceiling, but even so, the impact was far from painless. The dirt had been packed down under its own weight, and it was filled with jagged chunks of broken wood and stone. She grimaced as she pushed herself back up, her body feeling several times heavier than normal under the influence of the spell. Moving with urgency, she flipped herself over, struggling to dig out of the crater. Staying still was a good way to die, and she was proven correct as she spotted one of the monster’s void spells warping its way directly toward her, glowing brilliantly to her magical eyesight.

Shit.

She kicked off as hard as she could against the packed earth. Her jump carried her not nearly as high as it should have, but she’d expected that and was already in the process of compensating.

Airwalk.

It took three more rapid jumps to get out of the crater, but she managed it with almost a second to spare. The void spell seemed dangerous, but it wasn’t fast, which was likely why the Hababa hadn’t been using it more often. The distortion slammed into the ceiling where she’d been lying, and as before, the spell detonated in a wash of turbulence, erasing dirt and stone alike.

Ameliah landed heavily nearby. She looked up, searching for the Hababa, and her stomach flip-flopped as she beheld the entirety of the cavern laid out above her.

This spell is bullshit. It’s like Levitation, but enormous and undodgeable. It’s no fair.

She shook her head to clear away the momentary disorientation, then stood, ready to dodge again if needed. She was used to sudden changes in perspective thanks to Redirection, just not on this scale.

Below her, a bare patch of stone on the floor corresponded to the circle of dirt around her. The two circles were connected by a pillar of shadow that made making out details difficult. The darkness was partly from the spell and partly from the simple fact that the Fire Moss below—above?—her feet was now buried. Outside the circle, the rest of the moss was still glowing brightly, and her eyes were quickly adapting. The river of lava was visible below her as a crimson snake winding through the trees. Where it touched the boundary of the spell, it fell into the air in a torrent of glowing droplets—droplets that were now raining down all around her. The molten stone had spread as it fell, and with a thought, she activated Shrouded by Flame to protect her clothing, though it was already ripped practically to shreds after her passage through the rising ground.

Damn bullshit spell.

Ameliah’s eyes latched onto the Hababa King, tracking it as it smoothly descended toward her. The monster was glowing clearly in the magical spectrum, despite the gloom. Good. It’s coming for me. Looks like it’s at half mana. She shifted her gaze, searching for Rain and Tallheart and finding them standing on a small island of dirt, upside down from her perspective. The area around them was brighter than the rest of the circle, clear of the spell. She nodded to herself, relieved, though she already knew that their armor would have protected them.

They’ll be fine. I need to worry about myself. I’m on my own until this expires, but as long as I’m careful… Oh shit, it’s going to expire.

Quickly, she used Message, forming a connection to Rain.

[I’m planning to stall until this spell wears off. Make sure you’re not standing where you are when it does.] She paused, then recast Message, judging it worth the extra mana. [Oh, and I’m fine, by the way. This is some major Arcane bullshit, though, for sure. Did you know that you’re standing on the ceiling?]

She let the connection close, focusing once more on the Hababa Shaman, which was falling quite quickly now. She tensed, watching as mana built in its fingers. The signature appeared to be similar to that of the void spheres, yet subtly different. Wary of what that might mean, she dodged backward, but when the monster loosed the magic, it didn’t aim it at her. Instead, the spell struck the stone directly below its feet, creating a perfectly circular hole through which the Hababa vanished.

Oh. Ameliah blinked. So that’s how it dodged my Meteors. Void tunneling. She shook her head. This thing would be a nightmare if it was a higher level.

A tremor ran through the stone, and Ameliah jumped away just in case the Hababa was able to tunnel horizontally. The ground erupted while she was in mid-air, though not below her as she’d feared. Ahbahabam had emerged right where it had entered, just as it had done the first time. Also as before, it was surrounded by Arcane energy and countless chunks of debris.

Ameliah narrowed her eyes, waiting for the trick as she prepared herself to dodge. It can’t be just planning to do the same thing as before, can it? It doesn’t strike me as being that dumb. It has to have realized by now that it can’t hit me with one of those.

“EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE!” The monster screamed, releasing a pulse of magic. The stones around it shattered into a cloud of tiny shards, about the size and shape of arrowheads. It whipped its arms around, the stones trailing after its hands and forming four spinning rings around its body. The magic built further, the individual stones beginning to glow independently of the magic field surrounding them.

Ah. Something new. I’m guessing it’s going to spray them at me, and they’ll explode on impact. Dodging that’s going to be tricky.

The Hababa smiled, pulling back its lips to reveal its jagged yellow teeth.

Ameliah crouched down, preparing herself. The glow was getting brighter as the monster’s mana continued to drop, and concern started to worm its way into her heart. That’s…quite a bit of mana it’s using there. It must be trying to finish me off. Don’t tell me they’re homing. That would be just unfair. Damn it. Should I just run out of the field? No, I can’t do that. It might go after Rain and Tallheart.

Ameliah looked up to check on them, then smiled. They’d come up with a plan, it seemed.

Brace.

The Hababa’s magic flared, but just before it launched its spell, a boulder the size of a black bear landed on its head. The stone was moving with ridiculous speed after its fall through the weight-altering spell. Ahbahabam was hammered out from the center of its rotating stones so quickly that it seemed to vanish, leaving the spinning rocks behind. The ceiling shook beneath her feet from the force of the impact, and tiny explosions of magic peppered the air as the rings broke apart, each stone detonating impotently in the air.

Ameliah smiled. That looked like it hurt. She sent a quick message to Tallheart. [Nice shot.]

Walking forward carefully, she began chanting the incantation for Fireball. She’d have prepared a Meteor instead, but she wasn’t sure how the spell would function inside the Hababa’s field. Meteor normally appeared high above the target, and it wasn’t clear how that would work given her present situation. Besides that, she didn’t think Tallheart’s improvised version of the spell had injured the monster badly enough to prevent it from dodging. Meteor was slow.

Debris exploded upward, and Ameliah leapt back. The Hababa King was bleeding, and its health had dropped, but the damage was even less than she’d expected. Its mana was the real casualty. The disruption of its spell had left it with only a quarter remaining.

Not seeing a reason to wait, Ameliah launched her Fireball. The Hababa raised a protective screen of debris with a wave of a hand, then tossed a rock at her in retaliation. She dodged easily, smiling.

Got any tricks left?

Apparently, the answer was no. After a half dozen more exchanges, interspersed with two additional gift boulders—neither of which hit, unfortunately—the Hababa King seemed to decide that it had had enough. Its mana almost empty, it turned, then flew toward the edge of the field.

Ameliah jumped—not after the Hababa, but backward, out of the magical field. Watching it flee, it had occurred to her that there was another explanation for its sudden departure. She was proven correct seconds later as the field expired and the circular slice of dirt dropped.

[Get out of the circle!] she screamed to Rain with Message as she began to fall. Quickly, she reoriented herself, then used Airwalk to leap after the Hababa. In the corner of her eye, she caught a flash of white light from off in the trees.

That’s Purify. Ameliah smiled as the falling dirt crashed into the ground below, happy in the knowledge that Rain had heeded her first warning. She wasn’t worried about Tallheart. He’d obviously been the one who’d remained in the area to do the boulder chucking, but he wouldn’t be hurt by something as minor as a tidal wave of dirt. Worst case, they’d just have to dig him out.

She began chanting up a Fireball, dismissing Shrouded by Flame as she locked her eyes onto the fleeing monster. It was angling for the treetops, which was unacceptable. She kicked herself after it with Airwalk, shoving against the air as if climbing stairs two at a time, only horizontally. Landing would be interesting, but that was a secondary concern. You are NOT getting away.

The Hababa King crashed into the treetops, breaking branches and ricocheting off a tree before thudding heavily to the ground. Ameliah arrested her own fall with considerably more grace, surprising even herself by landing adroitly on a branch. The Hababa was just getting to its feet below her, so she promptly blasted it with the Triplicate Fireball she had at the ready.

Without a stone to block, nor the mana to raise one, the monster took the full force of the spell right in the back. It was slammed roughly into the ground as the surrounding vegetation was blasted away, burning from the flames. The monster got to its feet slowly, limbs shaking as it looked around. After a moment, it tilted its head to snarl up at her.

