Many thoughts crashed together in Rain’s mind all at once, warring for his consideration, but he shoved them all aside. There wasn’t time to think.

Purple light flashed, and an asshole puckered.

“Down!” Rain shouted, Ameliah’s voice mixing with his as she yelled the same thing. He was already bending his knees to jump, but a push from Tallheart sped things along. As he tumbled through the air, trying to control his fall, he saw an enormous boulder crash through the branch where they’d been standing moments before. There was a ripping crash as the stone struck, and the branch disintegrated into jagged shards of shattered wood.

It was a quick trip to the ground, and Rain landed hard on his back, not having managed to get his legs under himself. He didn’t let the impact faze him, however. The fifty meters from the canopy to the ground was nothing. He scrabbled to his feet amid a downpour of rock and splintered wood, placing his shield between himself and the danger. He pulsed Refrigerate at maximum power to flash freeze the underbrush and started moving before his senses even returned. Frozen foliage snapped, then shattered as he sprinted for cover.

More stones hit, the impacts high above him, and Rain cursed, crouching behind one of the enormous trees. There was a purple flash, much larger than any of the others so far. The world darkened in a wave, and simultaneously, the saturation meters on his HUD jumped by over five thousand points. Shards of rock and wood pelted down on him like bullets, slamming into the ground and shattering the frozen underbrush into icy powder.

No, wait...

The foliage had been flattened BEFORE the impact of the debris. All around him, Rain heard the creaking and snapping of wood as branches were torn from the trees, but he couldn’t spend even a second to process that, as he’d just seen something that made his breath seize in his throat.

Ameliah had hurtled out of the sky, crying out as she hit the ground with incredible force. Rain cursed, fighting to stop himself from running to her aid. He knew he couldn’t. There was nothing he could realistically do to help her other than to stay out of the way. He watched helplessly as she pushed herself back to her feet, struggling against the same unseen force that was affecting the trees. Branches were still breaking, one after the other, and Rain raised his shield above his head, hearing alarming creaking from the large limb directly over him. It was bowed down as if weighted by an incredible amount of snow.

Ameliah took a few halting steps, then straightened her back with a grimace and looked up at a nearby limb. She jumped but got nowhere close to reaching it, landing in a crouch with a heavy thump that was much louder than it should have been. The frost that had been kicked up by her landing was sucked back to the ground like iron filings to a magnet.

Rain’s eyes widened as the full implications of what he was seeing settled over him. It can control fucking gravity!? Arcane bullshit!

He looked around, then up. The air around him for about a meter was clear, but outside of that, the darkness extended as far as he could see, both through the trees and all the way to the ceiling. It wasn’t like smoke, more like shadow—as if the light of the Fire Moss was just that much dimmer.

Just how big is this spell?!

Rain’s attention returned to Ameliah as she rose, moving with more certainty now. She dashed forward, heading in the direction of the monster, snapping the fallen branches as she plowed right over them. Her footsteps were loud, a testament to the amount of force she was putting behind them.

“Hmm,” Tallheart said from beside Rain, making him jump. He turned his head to see the antlered smith standing unbowed beside him at the center of his own, larger sphere of clear air.

He motioned to Rain, then began walking briskly after Ameliah. “Come. She will appreciate my assistance, and I cannot leave you behind.” As Tallheart moved, the shadows seemed to flow into his armor, leaving a tunnel of clear air in his wake. What few branches hadn’t been completely shattered by the impact with the ground sprung back slightly as he passed, the enchantment broken.

Rain stood, hurrying after him. This spell isn’t like an aura. It isn’t replenishing itself. It’s an AOE curse, probably with a set duration. He shook his head, increasing his pace to catch up while making sure to stay as far from the darkness as possible. Tallheart’s armor would have an incomparably higher saturation point than his own, given what it was made from.

A chill ran down Rain’s spine as he considered what would have happened to him had he been unarmored. He’d have been subjected to the full force of the spell, which wouldn’t have ended well for him.

It’s affecting Ameliah, and her Arcane resistance is in the thousands… He glanced up. The branches are bending despite how stupidly tough the wood of these trees is. Just how strong is this spell? Ten times gravity? A hundred? His steps slowed as he neared the edge of the trees, then he stopped. Maybe I should stay here.

“Come,” Tallheart said, turning to look at him. Firelight flashed from behind him. Ameliah had engaged the monster.

“But—“ Rain began.

Tallheart cut him off by grabbing his hand and pulling him forward as he turned to continue. “You must remain near me. We do not know what else it can do.”

“Right,” Rain said, shaking his head. If it has more AOEs, hell, even if it just casts this one again, I could be in trouble. He glanced at his HUD, where the saturation bars were decaying incredibly slowly. If my armor saturates, I’m done. Pancaked.

They passed through the final trees, then stepped out into the clearing. Here, too, shadows hung in the air, the normal crimson cast from the Fire Moss darkened to a bloody red by the Hababa’s spell. Ameliah was sprinting along the ground through the flattened remains of the colony. As Rain watched, she suddenly changed direction, dodging a car-sized stone that the Hababa had sent hurtling toward her. She retaliated with a trio of Fireballs, and a detonation rocked the cavern as the cloud of stones surrounding the monster was blasted away. Gravel pelted the ground like hail, only the largest stones remaining aloft.

The Hababa’s health bar was down by a tenth. Ameliah had been busy.

“Hmm,” Tallheart said, stopping near the edge of the Meteor crater, the walls of which had slumped down under the gravity. He released Rain’s hand, then bent to pick up something that glittered metallically in the ruddy light. Rain recognized it after a moment as a jagged piece of a Hababa blade.

Tallheart straightened, turning the shard over in his hand as he inspected it. He looked up, then pulled back his arm and whipped the chunk of metal like a Frisbee so hard that there was a blast of wind from the motion. The shard flew too fast for Rain to follow its motion, but he did hear it shatter as it struck its target.

“EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE!” Ahbahabam shrieked, blasted backward by the force of the impact. The path the shard had taken was visible as a thin line of light through the shadow. It didn’t curve in the slightest, telling of just how fast the shard had been moving. The metal probably hadn’t even had time to saturate.

“Hmm,” Tallheart said, sounding satisfied.

Holy shit. Rain could only stare. The monster had already recovered, swooping as it dodged another blast of fire from Ameliah, despite the way the missiles curved to follow it through the sky. I am so out of my league.

“Find more shards,” Tallheart said, laying a hand on Rain’s shoulder. “Use Detection.”

Rain nodded, doing as ordered, then pointed. “There.”

“Come,” Tallheart said, moving in that direction. “We must— One moment.“ He leapt diagonally, intercepting the boulder that the Hababa King had sent hurtling straight at Rain’s face.

Deepstone shattered before the might of Tallheart’s kick, but he wasn’t able to block the boulder completely. A large shard struck Rain in the shoulder, exploding into powder and sending him stumbling back. His armor had easily withstood the hit, though its durability dropped by a few hundred points.

“Ah,” Rain gasped, raising a hand to his shoulder.

Tallheart skidded as he landed, then reversed direction and placed himself between Rain and the Hababa King.

“Hmm,” he said, straightening and dusting himself off. “That was unexpected. Its retaliation should have been toward me, not you.”

A Fireball detonated, and the Hababa screamed again. The sound was just as piercing as ever, but not nearly as rattling to Rain as the realization of how close he’d just come to death.

If that had hit me, I’d have been paste… He lowered his arm, marveling that his shoulder didn’t even feel bruised. Actually, maybe not, but still. It would have HURT.

“Come,” Tallheart said, tilting his head forward. “We must retrieve the shard.”

Rain nodded. Worry about that later. He moved, careful to keep Tallheart between him and the fight.

Ameliah was doing quite well, in his estimation. Ahbahabam clearly wasn’t king of dodging. Its flight was rapid, but not agile. Each change in direction was signaled by a sweeping gesture by one of its arms, its fingertips glowing with Arcane power. It wasn’t flying, so much as falling, he realized, watching as Ameliah used one of the monster’s gestures to pre-aim her next spell. She only had to curve the missiles slightly to intercept it, though it moved a boulder between itself and the blast.

The stone shattered from the impact, some of the pieces plummeting down to the floor, but most falling horizontally with the monster as it shot toward the trees. It gestured upward, changing direction and falling into the sky. The cloud of shards fell with it, under the influence of the same local gravity field. Among them remained only three large boulders, which the monster was directing separately from the others, using one hand for each. As he watched, it fired one of them at Ameliah, who jumped over it, leaving it to slam into the ground. The impact sent a tremor through the cavern that Rain felt even from this distance.

This is insane!

Rain’s heart was pounding in his chest as he dug through the dirt for the shard. Finding it, he tossed it to Tallheart, who snagged it out of the air and whipped it at the monster in one smooth motion. The razor-sharp chunk of sword flashed in front of the creature’s face, missing by a hand’s breadth. It turned its head, following the clear streak back to them, then screamed its horrible piercing scream. That scream turned into a strangled cry as a trio of Fireballs exploded against its back.

“Ameliah says to continue,” Tallheart said mildly as the noise faded. “Apparently, we are a good distraction.”

Rains eyes widened as the Hababa pointed a long finger directly at him. “Look out!”

“I see it,” Tallheart said, summoning his helmet. The darkened light of the moss glinted off his antlers as he calmly walked between Rain and the monster, which fired something at them moments later. It wasn’t a boulder, but something else. Something new—a spherical distortion, about a meter across, sliding through space toward them and warping it like a fisheye lens.

Rain cowered in Tallheart’s shadow. He raised his shield, not that he thought it would seriously help. The impact, when it came, was underwhelming. The magic was simply swallowed by Tallheart’s armor with not so much as a whisper or a gust of wind.

“Hmm,” Tallheart said, his voice echoing. He glanced over his shoulder at Rain, the metallic features of his great elk helm visible in profile. “Powerful. We will dodge next time.” He looked back up at the monster, crossing his arms as he watched it hurl its remaining stones at Ameliah. “Is there another shard nearby?”

“Yeah,” Rain said, shaking his head. He moved to stand beside Tallheart, then pointed. “That way.”

Tallheart nodded and started moving, orange light reflecting off his silver antlers as yet another of Ameliah’s spells detonated. The Hababa King had lost over a quarter of its health now, and only had one large boulder remaining.

Ameliah skidded to a stop, not far from where Rain had sensed the next shard. She was holding a trio of Fireballs at the ready, but she didn’t launch them, merely tracking the monster with them as she panted to catch her breath. The monster, to Rain’s surprise, didn’t immediately blast her when she stopped. It slowed in the air, coming to a standstill as it hovered with the large stone between itself and Ameliah.

Maybe it doesn’t want to get rid of its shield?

The silence stretched, but Tallheart didn’t stop walking, clearly intent on reaching the shard. Rain followed, and, realizing that Ameliah was now in range, he activated Essence Well to send her a trickle of mana. She was facing away from them and didn’t look back as the blue rings appeared around her. Her gaze remained locked on the monster hanging motionless in the air. The monster, for its part, did react to the spell, but only by shifting its gaze to Rain. It sneered at him with a mouth full of crowded teeth, then licked its lips.

Well, that’s not unsettling.

“I think it likes you,” Ameliah said, still not looking back. Ahbahabam snarled, returning its attention to her, and she laughed. “That’s right, dum dum. Eyes on me.”

“I think it wants to eat me,” Rain said. “It looks hungry.”

“It doubtless is,” Tallheart said with a snort. “It is starved for essence. Ameliah deprived it of its meal when she obliterated the Fatbird. This area cannot sustain it for long.”

“I’m not so sure,” Rain said, again looking at the depth gauge. “I think the depth gauge might be broken.” He shook his head, then pointed at a spot just to the left of Tallheart’s feet. “The shard is buried right in front of you.”

“Hmm,” Tallheart rumbled, looking down.

The moment Tallheart took his eyes off of the Shaman King, it snapped up an arm and fired another of the strange distortion blasts from the tip of its finger. Tallheart had clearly been expecting something like that, as he was already moving by the time Rain and Ameliah shouted out warnings.

Rain grunted as Tallheart crashed into him. He found himself being swept off the ground, carried along for the ride as Tallheart dashed away from the path of the missile. The magical distortion curved to follow them, but not sharply enough. It struck the ground, and Rain had trouble making sense of what happened next despite having a good view from his position as baggage.

