Ameliah paid it no mind, busy preparing her next spell. The monster seemed to be having difficulty standing under its own weight. Looks like it’s done. I can’t see its stamina, but there’s no way it ran out. This has to be essence starvation. She finished chanting and immediately fired. Too bad, Ahbabawhatever. You’ll get no mercy from me.

It took more than one cast to finish things, but Ameliah didn’t move from her branch as she ruthlessly hammered the Hababa with Fireball after Fireball. There was no need to use anything else, and soon enough, the Hababa King died. According to the system, her contribution was eighty percent, and she was sure that some of the remaining twenty percent was Rain’s. The boulders had probably been his idea, and even if they hadn’t been, he’d given her mana. That was more than enough.

She dropped to the ground, then walked over to the charred body of the Hababa. Its crown was lying nearby, having finally tumbled free during her barrage. The silvery metal was glowing to her eyes, saturated with magic but apparently undamaged. She knelt to pick it up, finding it warm to the touch, but not unreasonably so.

She raised it to her head, then sighed. It was far too large, of course. Besides that, the system had nothing to say about any enchantments that it might hold. She was reasonably sure that monsters couldn’t bind items, which meant there was nothing there. It was only metal.

Oh well. Tallheart will want it, I suppose. Is it silver, or something better? It’s heavy, I can tell you that. After another moment of consideration, she shrugged, then looped the band of metal over her shoulder. She turned to face the corpse, then activated Purify and watched as it began to dissolve away.

Level twenty-four, huh? Poor Rain. She smiled. I guess this just means we need to keep going. If this is the kind of thing we’ll be fighting, though, I’m not sure how far we’ll get.

Light glinted from within one of the monster’s evaporating bones, and she looked to see a purple crystal about the size of a robin’s egg fall to the ground. She smiled, adjusting her grip on the crown.

That should help.
