“The karmic resonance that took place during his journey. Through my own bond with the very concept of karma, I managed to glean a little. Your Chosen was not alone when he appeared at the Gate of Enlightenment. Not truly. There was something else there, or perhaps just remnants of something else. Something carrying that very familiar karmic signature I’m apparently not allowed to know the owner of,” the God of Karma said, truly living up to that title of his.

“In other words, you already knew, and all of that theorizing was just bullshit?” Vilas asked, shaking his head. “Man, you’re really just bored sometimes, aren’t you?”

“Oh no, quite the opposite,” Eversmile chuckled. “I find this entire situation extremely interesting. With so many unpredictable developments and so much I don’t know… how can I not be intrigued?”

The Viper turned a bit more serious as he looked at the other Primordial. “My previous words still stand. Don’t fuck with Jake just to sate your own curiosity.”

“I see no need to be anything but an observer for now. Your Chosen is fully capable of piquing my interest all on his own. Besides, it’s not him I’m most curious about right now.”

“Another poor sod caught your attention?” the Viper asked a very leading question that he also highly suspected the answer to.

“I wouldn’t say you’re poor,” Eversmile chuckled, shaking his head.

“Eh, have you seen how many resources Jake has gone through during his bane poison experimentation?” Vilas said with an exaggerated sigh. “But fine, I’ll bite. What suddenly makes me so much more interesting today than I was yesterday?”

Eversmile leaned forward as he looked at the snake god. “You’re always good at hiding your true thoughts. At revealing nothing, neither through words nor your expression. You can even hide your deceit from my senses… yet today you slipped up. I felt it. When I said your Chosen wasn’t alone, and when I mentioned that mutual Forbidden Knowledge subject you and your Chosen share, there was something there. A faint shiver. An emotion you couldn’t hide.”

The Viper looked as neutral as he could while Eversmile continued.

“It wasn’t your Chosen who originally met this individual… it was you. Jake got to know this entity through you. I don’t know how, but I suspect it’s related to that odd ability of his to experience your Records. Ah, yes, I’m aware of it, but that’s neither here nor there. Through this skill, he somehow made contact with something or someone from your Records. Something that’s now Forbidden Knowledge.”

Eversmile seemed to get even more excited as he leaned even further forward.

“Someone you have an extremely strong karmic and emotional connection to… and knowing that such an entity existed without me knowing about it, how can I not be intrigued? How can’t I be curious? Especially knowing that this entity seems to have influence echoing through history and even shares a karmic connection with me.”

Vilas could only try to remain neutral as he definitely had to admit once more… Eversmile was scarily good at figuring things out that he really shouldn’t be able to, and once he was obsessed with something, there was nothing in the multiverse that could stop him from scouring all of existence to satisfy that obsession.

Which, maybe, wasn’t the worst, because the Viper did have some curiosity himself about just how much of a mark his Master had truly left on the multiverse, and if there was someone he would trust to uncover anything and everything, it would definitely be Eversmile. For better a worse.

Assuming Eversmile continued down this path of obsession, there was even a chance he could one day learn about the First Sage himself and thus no longer have him be considered Forbidden Knowledge. The thought gave the Viper mixed feelings, but again, Eversmile could prove an asset in uncovering some of the secrets his Master left behind. The Viper had realized by now that, despite how much time he’d spent with the First Sage and how much he’d come to believe he’d at least partly understood the man, Vilas had barely scraped the surface of his Master’s existence.
