It was hard not to be envious sometimes.

Still, she didn't want any handouts, especially from a friend.

As she started scrubbing the failed poison into a waste disposal storage bucket, Liz helped her rinse and empty the vials. It was a nice gesture, as she had more downtime before her next step, where she needed to add the extract of a Silver Bear’s blood.

Liz nodded to her workstation when Sam didn't move to start again. “Are you going to try again? We still have enough time left.”

Sam thought about it but shook her head. “I need to get out of my own head. I’ve made potions harder than this. The shit product doesn't help, but I could have noticed that, and added the brine of Harpy eggs to prevent that.”

“We all have off days.”

The redhead looked worried about Sam.

She waved the concern off. “It's fine. Really, it is. I just need to step away for a bit. What are you doing tonight?”

Sam could use some girl time with someone not on her team for a change.

Liz wiggled her hand. “I don't have plans, but we have team training early tomorrow.” She paused with a look that Sam knew meant she was reading her AI. “And I have a meeting tomorrow. Your Pather boss is a pain in my ass.”

Sam had never met Talous, but the impression she got from Liz wasn't exactly a good one.

“I was thinking we should go to the bakery and tea shop. I want a strawberry cake.”

Liz nibbled on her lip and smiled a smile that was half predatory, half devious, and all-around attractive. She understood how Matt had fallen under her spell. She was as attractive as any woman could wish for.

When Liz’s potion turned a peculiar shade of purple, they tossed the contents and cleaned up, heading off to get their snack.

They were sitting around when Sam indicated that she wanted to talk, and Liz activated her trinket to block sound.

“I was thinking about your Talent.”

Liz just raised an eyebrow in both question and encouragement.

“Have you heard of [Torch Sprite]?”

At the woman's shake, she explained, “So I was trying to see what cheap Tier 8 skills there were, and if I could make something out of the box work. I happened upon the skill while I was searching.”

Liz nodded. “The skill sounds like it would work with what I think you mean, but it would be a gamble. The report on the skill says it's iffy with control at best. It’s more general ideas than anything else.”

Sam grinned and stabbed her cake in triumph. “Ah, but have you read Madam Delvers? It had a way to upgrade the skill to add more control. It could take a while, but you could get exactly that.”

Seeing the ideas whirl around behind Liz’s eyes, Sam dug into her treat and preened internally.

Friends helped each other. She wouldn't take the woman's money, but giving her a good idea or two felt good.

***

Vinnie dodged the wind empowered slash by rolling to the side to avoid the pretty woman's attack. He had every intention of asking the woman out on a date. Her dark skin glistened with sweat, which only made her starburst eyes all the more striking.

He used his innate [Earth Manulapation] to raise a small wall to disrupt her follow-up [Wind Blade]. His tattered shirt was a testament to learning that trick.

A gong rang, and the woman stopped her barrage of attacks and went on the defensive.

Vinnie started with a [Earth Spear] that punched through the woman's [Wind Wall], but was slowed enough for the woman to be able to side-step it. He had the advantage through their elements, but that didn't mean that his opponent was helpless.

She was forced to refrain from retaliating, but it was still good training. He avoided using the much slower [Earth Manipulation], and she avoided flying. They both could use the training, and the two instructors tried to discourage people from using instant-win conditions in every bout. That habit was only a good one until you fought someone with a counter.

Instructor Adam stopped three flights down from Vinnie's sparring ring and started yelling at the two mages, Gerald and Yenna.

The two gave half-assed effort in all of their duels, to everyone else's troubles.

Hearing them get yelled at put a smirk on both Vinnie’s face and his unnamed opponent’s. Use of their AI was strictly against the rules for any reasons less than an emergency message, so Vinnie still hadn't picked up her name.

Instructor Prices appeared out of nowhere, right next to their circle, and shouted at them, “Good! You want to laugh at others getting yelled at, do you!? Soo funny, isn’t it!?”

Vinnie shouted at the top of his lungs, “No, ma’am!”

The Tier 21 woman just shook her head. “No, I don't hear the right sincerity in your tone. I think you want to laugh, so let me give you something to laugh about!” She tapped a finger on her chin before grinning with malice. “Now I want to laugh... Five laps around the training yard!”

That wasn't that bad, so Vinnie instantly began running to the edge of the sandpit-lined wall. Hesitation only meant more laps, and five was an easy sprint.

“Hold up!”

Vinnie and the unnamed woman skidded in the sand as they turned around to face the grinning instructor.

“I want to laugh, but normal laps just won’t do the trick. I want you to jump like frogs for the five laps. Make sure you’re croaking while you jump.” Her grin split her face as she added, “Any jumps without a ‘ribbit’ won't count.”

Vinnie turned and ran before any new additions could be added. He saw more than one person smirk and laugh at the sight of the two of them jumping like frogs. But, Prices caught everyone and gave them a new animal to imitate.

He took a perverse pleasure in watching the growing farm behind him.

Halfway through, he started using his [Earth Manipulation] to assist his jumps and send him farther. He only had to make a ribbit sound each time he landed, so increasing the distance of his jumps seemed like a good idea.

His frog partner started copying his tactic with wind skills. They had nearly lapped the most recent offenders when he noticed Prices and Adam watching the two of them.

He thought they were busted, but Adam winked at them, and Prices nodded slightly.

That changed his perspective on the methodology of the soldier’s training, and for the rest of the day, he tried to use his skills in new ways to assist everything he was doing.

People started noticing when he and his dark-skinned compatriot went to the mana stone pile more often than everyone else. It wasn't their money, and they abused the free mana with glee.

Soon, everyone caught on, and they were cut free once the group had finished their assigned laps. That evening, Vinnie was finally able to make a move on his partner for the day.

“So, care to get a drink?” Seeing her raise an eyebrow, he stuck out a sandy hand. “Vinnie.”

She smirked as she shook the proffered hand. “Brianna. And I could use a drink... or eight. I think I swallowed half that sandpit by the time we finished.”

Brianna unashamedly looked him up and down before a smile crept over her face, and she said, “Why don't we freshen up at my apartment? It's just a few streets down.”

Vinnie smiled as he messaged his team that he wouldn't be back for the evening.

He had better plans.

***

Kyle stretched in line with everyone else. To his team's confusion, he was taking a Proprioception class.

He fully intended to get a melee instructor, but he wanted the personal tutelage, not a group class. After hearing how effective it was from Tara, he wanted to spend his points in the most effective way possible.

But after his time fighting new people in the war, he had learned something crucial. His strength meant nothing if he couldn't hit his target.

And with both his strength allocation doubling in effectiveness, and his regeneration cultivation boosting his strength further, he didn't need to worry about being strong.

He needed to hit his target.

Right now, that was hit or miss, depending on how many people he was fighting. In a mass battle, it was fine, and he was a harvester of lives. But in a one-on-one fight, it was a questionable proposition at best.

In his training with Matt and his team, he did the worst out of everyone. He was just too slow with his massive sword. Even when he was fast enough, he couldn't control his body with the precision he needed to do any damage.

He still had every intention to keep his massive greatsword as his primary weapon, but he wasn’t going to be dumb about it.

After Matt had nearly beaten him in a wrestling match, he concocted his plan. Matt hadn’t nearly won through greater strength, but through wiggling like a fish.

The instructor called out, “Now bend left.”

He planted both of his hands flat on the ground while keeping both of his feet planted.

Kyle groaned as he tried to get his left hand to the ground without bending his knee too much. He could feel his body protesting the unnatural position as things in his back pulled and twisted in ways they weren't meant to.

He ignored the burning that only increased as he held the pose.

The second instructor came and wordlessly tapped his right foot. With sweat running off his face, Kyle tried to follow the guiding taps, but lost his balance and had to scramble up and reset.

The instructor was a shorter man who quietly said, “You need to breathe more.”

Kyle opened his mouth to say that there was no way to breathe when bent like that, but the man stopped him and smiled over him.

“If you can't breathe in a position, you’re trying too hard. This isn't fighting, or strength training. Flexibility will only come with time. Don't force the positions. Just relax into them as much as you can.”

Kyle took the advice as it was meant and reset.

The instructor tapped his foot again, and this time, he was able to bring the foot out. That adjustment allowed him to go deeper into the bend without discomfort.

As the lead instructor moved to a new position, Kyle groaned. This was going to be a long two weeks.

He almost wished he hadn't signed up.

Almost.

***

Melinda sat in the hospital room with Baxter. They had a monster strapped down and sedated.

It was so drugged up, it was guaranteed to feel nothing. In fact, the creature was so sedated, it didn’t even have the energy to bite and claw at them.

If she wasn't well aware of what this monster could do when awake and aware, she would have never agreed to this.

Doing their testing in a hospital felt wrong somehow. Almost unfair in a way. At least when they went into a rift, they were being attacked. This felt cruel, even though she knew all too well that if this bear monster got free, it would try to kill everything and everyone around it.

She knew that lesson all too well.

With a small burst of willpower, she targeted her Concept on the monster while the monitors beeped around her.

As her Concept tore at the spirit of the monster with slightly amorphous blobs of darkness, she cast [Ranged Heal] and tried to prevent her own Concept.

There was resistance, but the spell faltered. She then cast [Directed Heal] and tried the same again.

She once again failed, but the experience got her slightly farther. She was so close.

Baxter waved his hand when the monster was little more than a pile of goo, and the mess vanished. Then, he vanished for a moment, and the fifth monster suddenly appeared.

While Baxter was gone, she inspected the instrument's readouts and used the data to adjust her approach for the next attempt.

This one was a giant squirrel that chittered slightly as the sedative knocked it out.

Melinda met the red eyes with her own, and even with the monster nearly unconscious, she could see the hate and rage in its eyes.

She activated her Concept and repeated the process once again.

A failure. And more analysis of the acquired data..

It wasn’t until their thirteenth monster when something fell into place. With an apparent mind of its own, her healing spell attacked her Concept like a rabid dog.

Her Concept broke with a headache-inducing rebound effect, but she had done it.

Baxter had comically wide eyes. He blinked several times before his jaw slowly dropped.

“I can't believe you did it...” Seeing her look, he shrugged and grinned. “I hoped for it, of course, but I didn't think it would actually work. That's...”

She filled in for him, “Impressive? A visualization of my hard work?”

“‘Unbelievable' was what I was going to go for, but sure, if you want to fluff your own ego... This is as good a reason as I've ever seen. Congratulations.”

They spent another two hours testing until the headache from Melinda’s Concept breaking over and over finally grew too large, and she had to stop.

That night, she celebrated with her team and asked Matt to meet her. Now, she had gotten her Talent to interact with the spirit. It was natural to make the changes she wanted to.

She tested with Matt, and found that it was easy if detailed work to coerce her spirit to accept a copy of the changes that the Tree of Perfection had wrought on his body.

The changes that only took a year for him would take at least three for her without the energy provided. Though, if she had Matt to constantly feed her mana with his Talent and Concept, she could do it in a week.

Baxter was even impressed with the amount of mana Matt generated, although he didn’t show it. He only shook his head when they did the math. Without a higher Tier giving up a mana stone, rapidly changing a body to perfection was a pipe dream.

That didn't stop them from very carefully applying the same transformation to her team. It only took an hour, and a few thousand mana. The changes would take longer, but with Matt’s help, they could have been done in a few months at most.

