There was something bittersweet about seeing them coming out the garden to cheers. Together, the [Innkeeper] and the Goblin.
And the bee, but she didn’t count. Niers noticed, of course, but only because Apista was flying. He stared blankly at her.
“Is that…fire? And here I was going to send her a leg. And a wing.”
Back to Niers. It was—it should have really been him there. Waving his hat at the audience, being part of the changing continent of Izril.
But for Belavierr, he might still be there. So Chaldion had removed him from the board on more battlefields than just the one he’d left.
It made the Titan fuming mad to lose a battle like that. The Grand Strategist had been playing, but on a different board. But mostly, Niers just looked at the image of the young woman and the Goblin as the crowd circulated around them.
“…and it looks like the [Innkeeper] has come out herself for these festivities for the new ‘Hive’ of the Antinium. Sir Relz, we know Miss Solstice, don’t we? Have we ever done a piece on her?”
The Drake in the studio appeared as the image cut back to him with a smaller image of the inn in the background. Niers scowled at Sir Relz as the Drake shuffled his papers.
“No, Noass, we have not. But perhaps now’s not the time? The Wandering Inn has Goblins, Antinium, and chaos as usual. However, now, I think the news should be on the disrupted trade cycle. I have a segment coming up where I interview a [Merchant Captain] on the supply lines across the world. Don’t miss it!”
Noass nodded rapidly, but he hesitated as he smiled into the camera. Niers gave Noass a sinister smirk, because he knew what the Drake was realizing.
“This is Noass, Channel 1 of Wistram News Network. Our favorite [Reporter], Drassi, may cover any entertainment-related incidents on Channel 2. You can switch channels with our Wistram News Network patented scrying orbs or by consulting any local Mage’s Guild affiliated with Wistram. However, I encourage you to—”
Niers changed to the channel instantly, and he assumed that went for a large amount of viewers. Oh yes, television was moving in leaps and bounds. Drassi was smirking slightly as she waved at Noass; they were in the same inn.
“Thank you, Noass. I’ll be covering this party and anything else ‘fun’ and ‘inconsequential’. Like the Antinium Crusade marching back into Liscor, whenever it happens. Light stuff. Now, let’s see what’s going on around here. Can I get an interview with Erin? Personal friend, by the way.”
He should be there. Just saying. But Niers still smiled at the sight of the familiar inn. Right until someone screamed at him.
“Titan, are you out of your mind? Head up!”
“Yes, yes. I was watching. [Covering Fire].”
He pointed, and the screaming Fraerling turned as a volley of arrows and spells loosed over the battlefield. Niers glanced up, saw the exploding green monsters bearing down on his front lines, and went back to watching.
“We have it under control.”
“Unbelievable. Is he always like this?”
The Fraerling was one of the forces assigned to the Forgotten Wing Company. She was not happy about fighting monsters a hundred times her size, but Niers was calm.
“It’s a mopup, Tallguard. Save the Skills and energy; they’ll barely reach our front.”
He was right. The green-type monsters could explode and spread a nasty ichor around, but there was something about a thousand Lizardfolk with crossbows that deterred even a few hundred of them.
The real fighting would be when they pushed into the area around the Dyed Lands, not mopped up the rampaging monsters. This was almost…forensic. Kill monsters, see how they fought and which ones had tricks, adjust strategy, and move up slowly. Dissect, analyze.
The Fraerlings who were watching Niers peer at the scrying orb mounted on his wristwatch were a mix of awe and chagrin. The Titan’s company was like his arms and legs, and he didn’t look up as he swatted a hundred and twenty monsters.
Wistfully, Niers watched as Erin raised a hand and Drassi pushed forwards. Now…
“What are you going to do, Erin? All eyes are on you.”
It was possibly the first time The Wandering Inn had been a direct broadcast of Wistram News Network. Incredible, yes, but the inn had almost always been part of something, like a monster attack. This was the inn on its own. And the [Innkeeper]…she was known enough that people might recognize her face.
Erin looked up and around the party with a look of surprise, as if she hadn’t quite known how large it was. And there was the [Princess]. What kind of party, indeed? Niers saw Erin give Drassi a pair of finger-guns, smile—and hurry off. He laughed as she went to high-five Goblins.
“Good luck trying that forever.”
 
——
 
The party at The Wandering Inn was a three-day affair. The initial event had occurred as adventurers and Goblins arrived, just past midday.
In four hours, the skating rink that Ceria had made had become the main attraction, as well as the inn’s reopening. Mostly?
It was visitors coming through the doors. Liska was opening and shutting them nonstop, only pausing to let [Mages] recharge the door.
“Pallass? Step through. Inn is on your right. Liscor on your left. We don’t have time to open a door to Liscor. Thank you, goodbye.”
She shut the door, adjusted the dial, opened it.
“Celum? Step through. Inn on your right. Liscor on your left. No door to Liscor today. Anyone going for Celum?”
She looked around, and some people waiting in the exit queue raised their hands. Liska glowered.
“Why aren’t you in a group? Stand there for Celum. I need a sign. Who else is going to Invrisil? Got your money?”
People fussed about with money and asked the worst questions. Like a Human who tapped her on the shoulder.
“I’d like to go to Pallass. Can you open the door?”
Liska stared at him.
“No one’s going to Pallass. You have to apply for the waiting list.”
“You just opened the door.”
“That’s from Pallass.”
“Just open the door. I have the fee right here.”
Liska was almost tempted to as the man puffed up with indignation. She spoke slowly, as if trying to hammer the words into his head.
“The checkpoint will stop you. No one’s going to Pallass. Invrisil, Celum, and Esthelm are open. Who’s going to Celum? You need to pay me.”
“I just did!”
“That was from Invrisil to Liscor.”
“I have to pay per city? What a ripoff!”
Liska groaned. She needed signs, lines, and helpers. And indeed, the prices per door usage were at least keeping a horde of people from going through. But the visitors were of all kinds. She turned and closed the door to Celum and opened it to Pallass as a [Mage] tapped her on the shoulder.
“[Merchant].”
“I got it, I got it. Hello, sir or ma’am!”
A Gnoll gave Liska a long look. The helper tried to smile, but then she almost went blind.
“I’m heading for Liscor for this bazaar. I’ve got goods—mostly in bags of holding—and a staff of seventeen. Where am I staying? And whom do I pay?”
“Me, Miss…”
Liska was trying to shade her eyes. Even in the checkpoint, with the guards, the Gnoll was…sparkling? She was reflecting light like a radiant beacon.
Qwera, the Golden Gnoll of Izril, sniffed as she eyed the inn’s portal operation.
“Some place. Hey, Ysara, get in here! Do I step through?”
She gingerly stepped through the door as the crowd oohed. One of the [Merchants] had come to make a profit in the coming days.
The Golden Gnoll dropped a shower of gold and silver into a bucket that Liska had put out, and the other Gnoll quickly stowed it in a bag of holding before anyone got any ideas. Qwera sniffed the air.
“The bazaar hasn’t started yet, has it?”
“I—I don’t know, Miss. Um—you’re a [Merchant], right?”
Qwera gave Liska a long look as a Human woman wearing a sword and silver-style clothing strolled through the door with a bunch of helpers. Then the door portal flickered out. Liska groaned along with the crowd as Qwera spun.
“Door’s out. Mages?”
“I’m tapped.”
A sweaty young Drake was drinking a mana potion. He looked around.
“We’ll need to wait for more. Let me tell the Mage’s Guild.”
“Is my crew safe? How long till the door’s back up?”
Qwera demanded, and Liska nearly screamed—until a Gnoll poked his head out.
“I sensed a disturbance. Liska?”
Ishkr gave her an accusing look, then spotted Qwera. His eyes widened. He instantly stepped forwards.
“Door’s out? You, please send a [Message] spell telling the Mage’s Guild we need someone in five minutes or less. Everyone, we will have a ten minute wait! Hello, Miss Merchant. Are you waiting for the bazaar? It’s open tomorrow—accommodations are listed here.”
He had a piece of parchment which had begun to circulate. Liska had had one, but someone had walked off with it.
It listed every inn and place to stay in the cities as well as upcoming events. Qwera snatched it as she sniffed.
“That’s more like it.”
“Ishkr. I’m dying here! I need help! I need organization!”
For once, her older brother didn’t snap at her. He just looked at the door and sighed.
“I agree. I can’t fix it.”
“Don’t leave me!”
She almost clung to his shoulder, but he just waved her back.
“I’ll ask Lyonette to talk to Liscor. We’ll ask them to send whomever managed the door last time. Hang on for twenty minutes. Then you’ll show them the job for forty. Break for the day in an hour, okay?”
“Okay.”
He vanished out the door as Qwera raised her brows. Ysara Byres had been eying the ramshackle operation of the door, but she whispered to Qwera.
“That’s one calm worker. Mrsha must not have been lying about how chaotic the inn is. Or Krshia. Do you smell them?”
“Do I look like a [Tracker]? Mrsha’s about, but there’s a sea of people around. Do you think your sister and brother are here?”
“Yvlon? Yes. Ylawes…well, that’ll be fun.”
Ysara did not smile. Qwera bared her teeth.
“At least we’ll get to see the [Innkeeper] of renown. Alright, let’s wait for my team. Are we staying here or…?”
“Depends on if the inn has rooms. What are the odds it’s not full to bursting?”
 
——
 
Good, actually. The Wandering Inn was doing mad traffic in people, but few thought to ask for rooms. Mostly because—who would stay in an inn filled with Goblins?
A lot of visitors who had come to see the Antinium took one look at the Goblins in the common room and decided to find another inn on the list. But some stayed. It was a kind of deterministic selection: if you weren’t cool with the Goblins, you really wouldn’t like the rest of what the inn had to offer.
Ishkr had just gone out to check on Liska when he tapped Lyonette on the shoulder. She jumped.
“Ishkr? What’s up?”
“The door’s out of power again. I sent for more [Mages], and we will need to contact the Council for their staff. Liska cannot handle this alone. Nor are the Goblins and Antinium ready for that job.”
Lyonette bit her tongue.
“Damn. That’s the one job they cannot do. Alright, I will task Ser Sest with that. Thank you, Ishkr.”
He nodded, and she wondered how he was managing to do this. She had never seen someone move so fast!
They needed to give him a raise. And hold onto him! Some of the [Innkeepers] still loitering about looked just as impressed with Ishkr. But then—if The Wandering Inn was still weak organizationally, it did have capable talent.
Like Ser Sest, who was already halfway towards the door. He didn’t even have to be asked; he’d just heard Lyonette speak.
“On my way, Miss Lyonette.”
He passed by Miss Agnes, whose eyes bugged out at his golden armor. Her husband, Mister Jerom, murmured.
“Now there’s a serving staff that’d attract the eye, eh, Agnes?”
He laughed, then coughed. She patted his hand and smiled nervously. She didn’t quite look at Lyonette.
“Yes, dear. We should be getting back to the inn. Or I should. We’ll have business—but you just sit here for a moment. Can…can someone help him back? I should, but I must get to The Frenzied Hare now—”
She had a staff, but she was dithering, and someone spoke up.
Ulia, owner of another inn in Celum, Blazehound, turned to Agnes.
“You go ahead, Agnes. Jerom and I will head back.”
“Oh, thank you. Goodbye—Lyonette—”
Agnes glanced at Lyonette, and the [Princess] managed a smile.
“Best of luck, Miss Agnes. Sir, are you alright?”
“Quite alright. I just have a cough. It doesn’t go away, but I’m not abed. I was last fall—I was too cold, and it took me out for months. But for Miss Solstice…what a wonderful inn. And it is a pleasure to meet you, Miss Lyonette. I have to apologize, again, for any unpleasantness and thank you for—”
He shook her hand earnestly as she called for a cup of something. Ishkr appeared with a mug of goat’s milk and vanished. Jerom sipped from it.
He was so—nice—that Lyonette was slightly aghast. And embarrassed. She assured him there was no ill will. He was reasonable, calm, if sickly, and she remembered meeting him once before, but even when Erin had been in the inn, she had barely seen Agnes’ husband.
“It’s Jerom, isn’t it? Or Ronald? Cecil? I, ah, didn’t quite know if you existed. Not that Miss Agnes didn’t bring you up quite often to Erin!”
He laughed at that.
“Oh, that. I’m afraid that’s my fault. When Agnes and I first met, I was called Cecil. Then, we went out, and I had to find work further north. When I came back, I was using Ronald as my name. I headed south—actually past Liscor. I worked around there and came back as Jerom. All three times, Agnes didn’t quite remember me until I reintroduced myself.”
“You had three names, Jerom? Why in the world? I used to joke with Timbor that you didn’t exist and Agnes was just pretending she had a husband. Pardon me, but it was funny.”
Ulia looked fascinated, and Jerom coughed into a hand.
“Past jobs, Ulia. It’s a long story.”
No it wasn’t. Lyonette’s eyes sharpened, and she saw Ser Lormel glance up. He took one look at Jerom, and he clearly realized the same thing Lyonette did.
Jerom was a former [Spy]. That or he had some kind of job that required you to change names. And there were precious few like that.
Now Lyonette thought of it—she only knew one person who had poor lungs and an endemic weakness that couldn’t be solved by healing potions. And that was Mihaela Godfrey, who had been…poisoned…
Jerom saw Lyonette’s glance and smiled.
“It’s a long story. We all have stories like that, I’m sure, Miss Lyonette.”
“Of course, Mister Jerom. I am delighted to meet you.”
He was a thin man, probably due to being confined in bed all day, but Lyonette could see how Agnes had fallen for him three times. He looked, well, like someone who could fit in Calanfer’s top staff.
