“I know. That is why I was not angry. But Krshia Silverfang did not want her Gnolls to be a game. I am more fine than she was.”
“I’m not trying to take anything from anyone! It can be positive for everyone!”
“Yes. That is my point. Do not be defensive, Lyonette. I am agreeing.”
The [Princess] hesitated and reddened. She tossed her head and then spoke more quietly.
“And how are the Antinium doing, Pawn? Now that the Crusade is—a separate Hive? Has it changed things?”
Pawn nodded. He opened his hands, clenched them, and rubbed at his eyes gently, folding two arms and sighing. As he did so often these days.
“So many. Now it seems like there are Free Antinium, Painted Antinium, and [Crusaders]. That is better than it was before, but more…complex. Does that make sense? We are all Antinium, but they are so different from even me. Zimrah…I do not know her. I grieve for her, but she wants to be what she is.”
Lyonette came over and rested a hand on his shoulder.
“Oh, Pawn. Responsibility is painful like that. Do you—are you trying to take command of the [Crusaders]? Shape their opinions? Yellow Splatters is a [Sergeant]—no, a [Captain] now, isn’t he? Perhaps he could be a liaison?”
The [Priest] looked at the [Princess], confused.
“Why would I want to tell them what to do? They are their own people.”
Lyonette turned to face him, bit her lip, and modulated what she was about to say. She stepped left, trying to guide him into a seat, but he refused. So she faced him, her face tightening with a hint of exasperation.
“They might need help. And…be nudged to make the right moves now and then. Pawn, you are possibly the most influential Antinium in the Hive’s leadership behind the Free Queen and Klbkch himself. You shouldn’t let it go to waste.”
He stood there, not knowing what to say, and Lyonette walked over to her dresser again, restless. She was pinning up her hair in a complex bun, and Pawn helped her. He knew how to place the hairpins, but he hesitated as he replied. She seemed so impatient, and he felt awkward and kept missing the spots until she took the pins and did it herself.
“I do not wish to do that, Lyonette. That is like when I was ordered to fight with Belgrade and Anand. I am not that kind of leader.”
She turned to face him. And he saw a look that showed him she didn’t understand. But that was fine. He didn’t understand all of what she was. It was supposed to be fine.
So why did it feel like there was a wall like his [Holy Barrier] between them? He reached out to take her hands, and then his lowered. Lyonette took a deep breath, then set her face. She straightened her back like he knew she did when she was about to do something unpleasant.
“Pawn. I have to ask you something serious. Have you—do you feel like something has gone off between us? Like there’s some separation? I fear that’s my fault, in part. Quite a lot, actually.”
Pawn nodded slowly. He looked at Lyonette.
“I do. What happened, Lyonette? You were gone for only a few months—”
She laughed. Bitterly, almost hysterically—and covered her face with her hands. She pulled her eyelids down a second, staring up at the ceiling in a kind of horror.
“A few months! Pawn, it felt like years. Didn’t it? I was at Oteslia, and Erin was dead, and we…Pawn, I have a confession to make.”
Uh oh. The [Priest] wanted to run, and he refused to. But he slowly sat on the bed as Lyonette spoke to him.
“In Oteslia, I was desperate to find a way to help Erin and save Mrsha. Remember, I only knew she was kidnapped and I had no idea where she was? There was this young…Drake named Cirediel. And I was trying to do everything in my power to help. So—I was considering entering an affair with Cire to manipulate him. Or whomever else.”
She waited for Pawn to react. He did not, so she went on.
“A sexual affair, Pawn.”
“I understood that. Alright. That is fine. I forgive you if you needed forgiveness.”
Lyonette blinked. She looked at his face, looked down, and he didn’t know why she gnawed on her lip like that. Where was his smile?
“Just like that?”
Pawn got up. He stretched, not because he was stiff, but because he felt awkward in his very shell. He turned back to Lyonette.
“Mrsha is your daughter. You would do anything for her, and I understand that. I fought Belavierr for her. It is fine, Lyonette. You did not, after all.”
She looked wretched and upset, perhaps that he wasn’t angrier.
“No, but I thought about it, Pawn. Pawn. You can be angry. I was thinking of being unfaithful. Intimately. That means—”
“I know what it means.”
The [Priest] felt his first flicker of actual anger so far. Lyonette bit her lip, and he wanted to pat her on the head. He sat down and stared at her.
She hadn’t grown that much older. But somehow, she looked different.
“What happened, Lyonette? There has to have been something more. Why does this feel odd?”
Lyonette laughed sadly.
“Oh, Pawn. I think we changed. It’s happened to me before. I was a young girl who liked to run around Calanfer. I had crushes—then I became a teenager. My sisters. You know them.”
“By name and personality. Unpleasant, mostly.”
The 6th [Princess] of Calanfer stared at a vision of something else.
“They weren’t always. I remember, vaguely, Seraphel being so nice before she got married. Aielef used to be this wild painter who drew on the walls of Calanfer, and I loved it even though she got in trouble. Vernoue was as shy as a mouse—now she’s just a ‘mage’. I think, sometimes, it’s not always bad. Dalimont told me about Seraphel, and it sounded like she changed again. Into something far better. No—I saw it. People change. I’m just afraid we did.”
“Then we should find out how the other has changed. Not hide from each other, Lyonette.”
He reached out to take her hands. The [Princess] looked at him unhappily.
“I think that’s true, Pawn. But maybe we should start all the way from the beginning.”
Ah. It was so quiet, he didn’t realize the boulder had hit him. The Eater Goat Antinium in his metaphor stared at half his spine before he realized that he was crushed. Pawn held so very still—his antennae twitched and moved faintly, as if in a breeze. Lyonette was squeezing her hands together until her fingers were white. Pawn looked at them.
“Why? Why do that, Lyonette?”
He took her hands with two of his own to make her stop, and the [Princess] avoided his gaze. She gently freed her hands, put them beside her. Then she came out with it at last.
“Your [Crusaders] scare me, Pawn. While I was gone, you took on the Stitch Witch of legends. The Spider of Terandria, who has led the Hundred Families of Terandria on a wild chase and dance ever since they were founded. You hurt her, Pawn. With a club, Mrsha said. And you formed the Crusade against Hectval.”
“I did not march with them. We were too weak, Lyonette.”
She nodded. And met his eyes with her earnest blue ones.
“But Pawn. You and I have different visions. When I was in Oteslia—”
“I’ve already said I understand.”
“Well, not about this!”
She whirled, and her red hair flashed along with her eyes. She splayed a hand across her chest, as if suddenly impassioned. Not the nervous girl he had once met. Or maybe the same? Prideful. But this Lyonette was also simply confident as well. And terribly sad.
“I was happy, Pawn! Happy, when I danced with Ilvriss! When I was struggling—but finding ways to move the City of Growth. When I had two of the Gentlemen Callers, Ratici and Wilovan, under my command? That’s why I didn’t push away the Thronebearers when it was all over. Because I wanted them. I wanted to explore, to push at my parents. And you…”
She looked at him, and he stared at her. She was the first person he’d been in a relationship with. Not the first person he’d loved. But the sky was just the sky, after all.
“Are you ending our relationship? Just like that? Do I get no say?”
“Pawn—I have to go downstairs. Can we talk about this later?”
He stood up from the bed. Then he lay down on his back shell.
“No. This is unfair. I am going to cry. Waah. Waaah.”
He tried to do a Bird and flailed his arms like he’d seen Mrsha do when she was throwing a tantrum. Lyonette stared down at him in horror and backed away. Pawn began to raise his voice…then he stopped.
Because he felt like an idiot. Slowly, he got up and felt at himself.
What was wrong with him? He recalled, very vividly, hiding in the Free Antinium’s Hive and refusing to eat or move because he was so sad that Lyonette didn’t like him.
Reach for that, you fool! Where was the Antinium who would have probably leapt out the window in despair? He didn’t feel it. He was upset, angry, and sad—
But something was missing. He looked at Lyonette, and he was angry at her. Angry because she wasn’t the person he remembered.
Then he realized Lyonette was right. And that hurt worst of all. Lyonette’s eyes began misting up as Pawn sat there.
“Lyonette. You have the power to do what you wish. You may be right. But can I ask you for one last thing?”
“What is it, Pawn?”
“Can I hug you like this?”
He spread his arms, and she stepped forwards. She didn’t hesitate, but walked forwards gently and raised her hands as if to cup his head. Then she lowered them and reached out as if they were dancing, but her grip tightened and she gazed up wordlessly. Elegant and wretched.
The [Priest] had so little of that in him. So with all four arms, he gently hugged her, as if he were embracing Heaven. But he could touch her. But he felt no certainty or faith, just a painful, comforting warmth. No ray of light from the sky. Even so, for a moment, it felt like nothing had changed until he let go. And he tried not to. Another Worker would never have, but Pawn?
He had his people to go to.
 
——
 
She wept. She wept, as if spilling all the tears out for all the broken hearts and changing of ways. Visma howled and sobbed in front of the fireplace as Pawn and Lyonette came back.
Unconsolable. She didn’t want another piece of paper.
“My p—p—my! It’s burned up! It’s gone!”
She was wailing as Ekirra ran back in. The panting Gnoll stopped as Visma cried, and Mrsha tried to give her her drawing.
“Now, now, Visma. We can do another! Oh dear, maybe you’ve had enough. At least the others can have fun?”
The children looked at the screaming Visma, and their enthusiasm waned. Ekirra himself looked at Lyonette as she fixed her eyes on him.
“Ekirra, where’s your kite?”
He should be flying the piece of paper on a string. The Gnoll scratched at his head.
“It ripped up, Miss Lyonette.”
The [Princess]’ face fell. She hurried outside and saw a piece of paper—cheap paper—was torn in half by the brisk wind. Ekirra went to pat Visma on the head.
“Can we go eat now?”
The activity was in jeopardy. Lyonette looked around as Pawn stared at the ground. At least some people knew what had happened, and Numbtongue went to solemnly pat him on the shoulder.
“I—I—I think we need to reconsider. Um. Does anyone have…?”
Lyonette looked around, an expression of concealed panic on her face. And then, she spoke.
“Does anyone have a way to rectify this situation? Please?”
She gazed around, and Pawn looked up. He met her gaze as the inn’s guests turned, and Erin smiled. The [Innkeeper] put down her quill and stretched.
Pawn? He shook Numbtongue’s hand and walked out of the inn. Lyonette turned her head to follow him, but her feet stayed where they were. And then—
Jerom spoke up.
“Here now, little Miss Drake. Don’t cry. What a terrible thing happened to you, didn’t it?”
He stifled a cough as he came over and crouched. Visma was holding the bit of emerald that Numbtongue had given to her.
“My Antinium’s gone! He was going to be named Super Star! I liked him!”
She wept, and the Antinium staff in the inn glanced at Visma once, then at the fireplace. Jerom bent down as he fumbled with something he’d been working on at the bar.
“That’s terrible. Super Star deserved better than that. I’ll tell you what—why don’t you take this and…bring him back? It’s not a piece of paper, but maybe it’ll last longer.”
He put something in Visma’s claw, and she looked down and gasped. Lyonette blinked—and covered her mouth in surprise, for there was a tiny little Worker.
“Whoa! That’s amazing!”
Troydel blinked at the piece of wood. It was a faster piece than Mrsha’s, but Jerom had carved it into a Worker so well that he had even done tiny antennae.
Naturally, the piece of wood was just plain wood with a few whorls of the tree giving it a slightly uneven texture. But Visma understood what Jerom meant.
“You mean paint this?”
“You could place it on your dresser.”
Or make it one of your dolls, Visma! It’s so good! I want one for White Paw!
Mrsha held up a notecard. She looked enviously at Visma as the other children crowded around.
“That’s so much better than stupid paper. Let me have it, Visma. I’m gonna make Soccer Man again!”
Ekirra reached for it, and Visma punched his arm.
“No! Super Star! Mrsha, come help me! I’m going to paint him all over!”
“Be careful not to mix the paints up. You have to do it very carefully.”
Someone interrupted Visma before she could dunk the piece of wood in a pot of black paint. And that was someone who knew that painting wood or metal was a delicate process that required drying, special brushes…
Troydel eyed Jerom as the innkeeper glanced up. He advised Visma to paint on her design then carefully fill in the other parts with the dark paint—so if she messed the design up, she could cover it with the shell.
“Jerom, that’s so thoughtful of you! Although, now all the other children want a permanent figurine.”
Lyonette exhaled, and Jerom looked at the children. His eyes twinkled.
“I don’t think I can work that fast, Lyonette, but it might be something, to have little figures rather than a piece of paper, wouldn’t it? I could do six more for a few of the children.”
Unfortunately, they all wanted one. Lyonette didn’t think overworking Jerom was a workable idea, but Troydel was all for it.
“You should look into that, Lyonette. Figurines are huge money.”
That caught her ear. Lyonette turned.
“You think so, Troy?”
“Everyone loves them. Can’t you hire a bunch of [Carvers]? Or if you had resin, metal, or even clay, I guess, you could cast a lot of them. Like Pallass’ forges. I’ve seen the smiths do lots of parts all at once. Although Pelt spits on them for not doing it by hand.”
