“I’m well connected. How can I help you? Consider everything I’ve said a free sample of my intelligence networks. Mind you, I won’t help if you try and attack Tenbault. That’d land me in hot water; even Faces—high-level criminals—need the Healer. Some don’t like you on the basis of that alone; some think your tribe is very valuable. Have you gotten any offers for employment as [Mercenaries]? Oh, and what did you get from the Healer? Any…spells?”
She was itching to know any of this, but Rags just studied her fingernails. To Fierre’s mortification, the Goblins were calmer than she was! Maybe her mother had a point about the atmosphere.
“I can tell you—if you help me first. If you know [Rogues] are visiting Goblinhome—we’ve been trading for their artifacts. I know their names. But they’re probably fake. Do you know a Whet? [Rogue], five feet ten inches tall, black hair, has a slightly limp back foot. Two curved blades on his hips, a stiletto on wrist? Carries a spell to make him jump in a scroll on his belt.”
Fierre’s fingers twitched. Her mind lit up as she sorted through identities.
“…I can do a lookup. Sounds familiar, but that’s not actually distinguishing for a [Rogue]. Still, there are only a few who’d make contact with your tribe.”
Rags thought.
“…The catalog on offer had a ‘scrying spell deflection’ spell by Mage Aumeth for sale. They also offered strange blades. Shurikens. Very…twisty blades with multiple edges.”
“Aha. Aha. That sounds like you made contact with the Wharf group.”
Fierre knew who sold Drathian-related items. Only a few had harbor access, and she named the likeliest mob who dealt in goods, not services like the Brothers. Rags smiled.
“That’s what they called themselves.”
Fierre and Rags sat back for a moment in mutual appreciation. So, that had been a test. Fierre was glad she had said it.
“So, are you not happy with their goods?”
“Mm. No. They’re decent. They work. But only the [Rogue] came to deliver goods, and he asked for Wyvern hides and other parts in payment. Gold, gemstones…his prices seemed high. Even for me.”
Now, Fierre understood. She smiled tightly. Oldest con in the books was selling to someone who had no other options.
“Oh, I see. So you’d like me to take a catalog or look into whether they’re ripping you off? Cheating you? Do you have a catalog?”
For answer, Rags slid a pamphlet of paper over the table, and Fierre chuckled. But Rags just smiled blandly.
“No. I want to know by how much they’re cheating me. This is useful, right?”
“Oh, very. My goodness, is this their complete catalog of saleable items? And they just let you have it?”
Rags shrugged. She probably understood what she’d just given Fierre, but the Vampire had to explain.
“This…this is all their latest prices on all the goods they sell. They must have thought you could afford a lot, but their representatives don’t leave this lying around. Tell you what. Can I make a copy of this? I will give you a lot of credit. It’s worth money to all their competitors and enemies.”
“Sure. I like credit. It’s worthless unless we work together. But I think we can work together.”
Rags folded her hands over her stomach as Fierre quickly produced a magnifying glass. She ran it over the catalog, page by page, then ran it over a blank piece of paper. The ‘copied’ text was often blurred and badly transferred, so Fierre had to jot down quick notes and prices, but it even captured the layout.
As she worked, she looked at Rags.
“I can have a list of market prices and competitors you could find in a day’s time. I’ll even help you make contact if you can get word to me. There are speaking stones and [Message] spells that can’t be easily tracked.”
“I know. But I don’t want other competitors. It’s too much work. If they cheat us, we’re Goblins. We go into a city? We die. Better to deal with this Wharf if they’re reliable.”
That was true. Fierre shrugged; she had never considered how ‘monsters’ would have to deal with even the underworld on unfavorable terms.
“So, what? Information?”
“Mm. Information. But…I heard that Openers could open letters too. Get you things. Get rid of things.”
The Vampire glanced up, and her hand paused with the magnifying glass in hand.
“Normally I approach a fence, but I have moved items that come in Runner’s letters now and then. Why?”
Rags scratched at her chin.
“Well. I don’t need many criminal artifacts. Some—but my smiths don’t have lots of iron in the mountains. We have to dig for veins. Wood is expensive. Everything is hard to transfer. But the inn has a door, and Palt the Centaur is a…shady [Illusionist].”
“Ullsinoi. He’s a contact for spells and recreational drugs. Nothing dangerous. Yeah, why?”
An idea was percolating in Fierre’s mind, and it was the same one that Rags was surely here about. The Vampire slowly closed the catalog and slid it back over the table. Rags fixed Fierre with a smile.
“How hard is it for an Opener who knows everything to get me…two thousand steel nails? Fifteen pounds of butter? Books? Chickens? We have to find a way to take it home, but if you get me what I want, I will pay you to get it.”
Fierre blinked. She had expected it, but when Rags said it, Fierre realized—she wanted a broker. Someone to carry out her goals in Invrisil. Instantly, Fierre went to danger and benefits.
The danger was…being associated with Rags. Perhaps it’d be suspicious if she bought all that, but it wasn’t hard to hire someone to buy nails. And Rags was hardly a wanted monster like the Goblin Lord. The Wharf might be unhappy, but business was business.
And the plus side really outweighed that. Rags might be a Goblin in a tribe, and maybe she was ‘poor’, but if the Wharf wanted her business—
Imagine a town’s worth of goods. Even a fairly self-sufficient one imported sugar and goods and whatnot. Six thousand of them? Even if it were only six thousand…
Imagine the tariffs on all the goods they bought. And Goblins paid no tariffs, and neither did the underworld. So imagine you, Fierre, were pulling all the coin off a margin on whatever you bought.
The Vampire almost drooled at the thought. Rags gave Fierre a smile, and the Opener pulled herself together. Focus.
“Why me? Because I’m a friend of the inn?”
“Yep. You’re probably trustworthy. More than a random [Rogue]. So, how about it? I give you coin, you give me things I need. Say—the nails, tomorrow? Small list?”
“Let me—let me just call a few people. By all means, did you say two thousand steel nails? Any size? Fifteen pounds of butter—why chickens?”
Rags scowled as she sighed.
“My cooks want it. Chickens? My Goblins want feather pillows, and they want to raise chickens for food.”
“I could get you pre-made pillows. Soft ones. Silk or filled with Sariant wool, even. Pricey, but there’s very reasonable goose feather ones.”
Rags perked up as Fierre slyly began to scribble numbers down. She smiled and reached across the table. Fierre eyed the claw, then took it. Both gave each other a toothy grin.
“I think we could do business.”
The Goblin smirked, and the Vampire’s eyes twinkled with avarice.
“I quite agree. Speaking of—is there anything else I should know about coming up tomorrow? Anything with your tribe or the inn, or are you really just here to visit?”
Rags gave Fierre a polite smile.
“I had my talk. Now? I get to watch the fun.”
 
——
 
The inn was the place to be for meetings. For opportunity. If Rags were one example, well, seeing the meetings of adventurers, knowing this was the place of <Quests>, it all but confirmed it for others.
Like the new lamb named Nerry. She had been very sedate as she trotted from table to table, charming guests. A Sariant Lamb, like a housecat, was an actual draw for an establishment. Nerry curled up next to a snoozing Ksmvr, who had won the right to host her in the now-full guest rooms.
Adventurers and Qwera filled the other rooms, and the inn was quite spacious and nice, even for a Sariant Lamb. Why, you could even hear some of the occupants up late at night. Having intimate encounters.
Or, like Ysara and Ylawes, having the world’s quietest screaming match. The little lamb might not have been able to open doors, but she could hop up and down stairs quietly and listen under doorways.
However—she hadn’t found a way into the secret rooms in the inn or the garden. She’d tried, and a force had held her back from the entrance. Later. She slept, knowing her time would come.
Like that, the first night of The Wandering Inn ended. A night of reunions, of laughter, of bittersweet talk and meetings. When people woke, it was time for actual activities, festivities, the bazaar—and for the real celebrations to begin amping up.
However, even the best couldn’t predict what would come the next day.
 
——
 
The day started for Rags with waking up in an unfamiliar bed. She got up, grumbled, and felt at her sheets. She was serious when she told Erin that she valued sheets more than people in her bed. She liked a good damn bed, alright? The inn had quite lovely beds, but she’d already put in an order for some more good silk sheets and pillows for herself. Even magical sheets. Imagine how much you could get.
Fierre had told her you could buy an actual waterbed where you pulled a sheet of water over yourself as you slept. It didn’t sound the most comfortable, but it did sound fun.
…Unfortunately, Rags’ bed was occupied, a phenomenon she had grown used to. She kicked one body who grunted and another who kicked back.
Poisonbite, Redscar, and Taganchiel glared at Rags, but she mercilessly jabbed them awake. They had not been having fun. In fact, Rags’ rule was that if you found someone nice, you would not sully her room with it.
The reason they were sleeping four to a bed was that even with renovations, Erin’s inn could not physically house all the Goblins, adventurers, regular guests, and new staff. Even some of the guests like Qwera’s staff had to find other places or sleep multiple per bed.
Badarrow and Snapjaw got a smaller single room to themselves, but this room had two big beds—and the other one had six more Goblins sprawled out in various poses. All things considered, the Goblins had really enjoyed the accommodations.
Redscar stared out a glass window as the sun rose over the High Passes. He hmmed as Poisonbite fought over her clothes with one of her warriors.
What a strange way to live. He missed not waking up with Thunderfur, but he supposed it had some appeal. Numbtongue certainly lived like this, but as the Redfangs knew, he was a nerd.
As for Rags, she was poking everyone out of bed with a simple promise.
“Breakfast. Breakfast. Up.”
The idea of breakfast stirred her lazy Goblins, and soon they were dressing, buckling on belts, and arguing over whether they should explore the old Flooded Waters tribe cave or stay around the inn all day.
It certainly seemed like a fun vacation. However, before they filed out, Rags had an idea. She raised a claw, and Poisonbite stopped teasing Badarrow and Snapjaw, who’d come in from their private rooms.
“Hold on. I got a new Skill yesterday. I’m going to try it out. Poisonbite—stand there.”
The Goblin instantly hid behind Badarrow. No one liked being the test subject of a new Skill, and every Goblin threw themselves out of the way of the finger.
“What’s the new Skill, Chieftain?”
Redscar didn’t move as Rags grinned. The Goblin pointed at him—then nodded at Poisonbite as she aimed her second finger at the cursing Goblin.
“[The Innkeeper’s Daily Bounty].”
Poisonbite shrieked, covered her head, and ducked as she tensed—and here Rags had to admit, in hindsight, that for all her study of the common language, she still had something to learn.
Because she had assumed, quite reasonably, that there was only one word for bounty. She, personally, had only ever heard it employed one way, but that was the thing about language. Poisonbite shrieked as something struck her. She looked up—and the first egg bounced off her head with a thunk and landed on the floor.
Thunk. Thunk. Crack.
Four eggs hit Poisonbite in the head as she looked up.
“What the—”
Redscar caught one of the eggs as it bounced off Poisonbite’s forehead and she swore. They hurt! That was because, to her great surprise, as Redscar checked the cracks, he saw no oozing yolk. They were, in fact, boiled eggs.
“Eggs? Chieftain, what’s your Skill?”
“I don’t know! It said bounty, bounty!”
Eggs were raining down on poor Poisonbite, and the goblin shrieked back.
“What bounty? Egg bounty? What are you, an [Egg Bounty Hunter]?”
Someone coughed in the doorway, and all the Goblins turned. The surreptitious nerd himself, Numbtongue, was laughing at Poisonbite.
“Bounty. Bounty as in, generous. A bounty of food.”
The [Bard] grinned. Poisonbite raised an egg to throw at him, then glanced up. She swore.
“Chieft—argh.”
A ham hit her in the face, and she went down. Rags stared. It was a lot of food pouring out of the air! Was…was that ham green?
It was. And then she saw why it was Erin’s bounty: because only she would make a loaf as black as night to join the eggs and ham. Poisonbite looked up and rolled out of the way as a spoon nearly took out an eye.
[The Innkeeper’s Bounty] turned out to be, well…breakfast. Or, Rags realized with the new definition in mind, whatever an [Innkeeper] might serve.
But, crucially here, an Erin-style breakfast or supplies. Which meant it was stupid.
Stupidly delicious. The Goblins were already stuffing themselves as they came downstairs, much to an [Innkeeper]’s indignation. She put her hands on her hips as her special continental breakfast lost some of its charm.
“Hey! Who gave you all that food?”
“…You did.”
Erin’s jaw fell open, but that was nothing to Palt. The Centaur was coming down the stairs as Rags explained the free food, and he slipped. The crash and scream of a Centaur falling down the stairs?
Indescribable. Imani raced out of the guest rooms she and Palt still used despite their new lodgings in Liscor, and found Erin pouring a bit of potion over Palt. Everyone else came down, but the Centaur barely felt the pain. He was pointing at Rags.
“I didn’t break my leg, did I? I didn’t—good. She’s got a cornucopia Skill! How does she have—that’s one of the rarest Skills along with healing!”
The Goblin stopped. Another word she didn’t know. She munched on a slice of the deliciously fresh ham as several of Erin’s guests made suitably awed noises. Mostly Ceria, Ksmvr, and Mrsha, who imagined what they’d do with all that free food.
Eat it. They’d eat it.
