Troydel was a bit of an expert. He had a collection of one of the world’s most famous…ly expensive tabletop games. He glanced up, and Lyonette felt a familiar prickle on the skin. Jerom’s own ears perked up, and Lyonette began to make rapid calculations.
“We’d need a mold…”
“There’s Skills for that. But what if you had a hundred of these figurines yay tall, and you let people paint them—and buy them for a small profit? I could try to arrange that. I know some good people with metalwork, and Pallass is a second away, isn’t it?”
“It’s definitely profitable. Hey, can I get in on this? Copyright? Trademark?”
Troy got up excitedly, but the [Princess] and [Innkeeper] ignored him. They were getting excited, and someone whispered across the inn.
“Nerd. Neeeeerd.”
Joseph called to Troy. Redscar high-fived him as Troy glared back. Lyonette was all set when she realized Pawn was gone. And…she hesitated, looking at the little figure of the Workers.
But it was already being fought over by the children begging for one of their own or trying to carve a table leg into one. So she nodded to Jerom.
“We still need more activities. Anyone—I am so sorry, but if you have any activities that match the Antinium—Silveran? Or—or Chieftain Rags! Are there things we could do that celebrate Goblins?”
She looked around, and the two representatives of each species looked at her. Silveran adjusted his mustache from behind the bar uncertainly, and Rags stirred.
They looked at each other and then realized something odd.
The Antinium and Goblins didn’t…have many activities. Rags looked at Redscar, and he mimed combing Carn Wolves or punching each other for morning training. The Mountain City Goblins under Poisonbite knew feasting and their own contests, like throwing knives, but these were things modeled after Human cities, which they had stolen everything from.
Even culture. For some reason—the lack of something to define them hurt the Antinium and Goblins present more than most. Every species had something unique about them that made them good.
Even Drakes. Lyonette spared them the embarrassment as she turned.
“Well, let’s keep brainstorming. Drassi! Drassi—where are you going?”
“Sorry, Lyonette, but this is, um—not entertaining. When the Crusade rolls in or something happens—you know how to contact me.”
The Drake was making a beeline back to her studio in Pallass. Rags was signaling one of her Goblins to find a member of her posse still asleep, and Silveran was wondering if a seminar on cleaning counted.
Something was coming. But Drassi knew that she could come back and find it, and her audience was getting bored; she had a staff member, a Gnoll, covering a story while she got back.
She was halfway towards the door as Lyonette sighed when someone blocked her way. Erin Solstice was scribbling on a piece of paper, but she held a hand out as Drassi slowed. The [Reporter]’s eyes widened—and Erin Solstice looked up.
“What about my interview, Drassi? Let’s do a quick one—and you’ll have your story.”
She winked at Lyonette, and Drassi inhaled sharply. The [Reporter] looked around for a place to sit with Erin, and the [Innkeeper]’s heart began to pound. But this time she was ready.
And the [Witch], the [Innkeeper], nodded at Lyonette. This was the [Princess]’ party. But sometimes, you needed a hand. As for Erin…her eyes twinkled.
“Are you sure, Erin? And do you think it’ll be entertaining? Because some of the [Messages] people get when they look back on the scrying orbs are ruthless.”
Erin shrugged.
“Let them come. As for entertaining—”
She showed Drassi the first line of the piece of paper she was writing, and the Drake sat down. She turned on her camera, handed it to the Drake [Cameraman], and they began.
 
——
 
Niers Astoragon glumly watched as Drassi interviewed Erin. It looked like a fluff piece—the Drake was introducing The Wandering Inn and giving the interesting notes—monster attacks, a Human outside of Liscor, Antinium and Goblins welcome.
It was already, of course, fascinating enough to attract most of her regular viewers’ attention, but Niers was, uh…not invested.
Somewhere, Altestiel was probably laughing at him. Niers wondered how much you had to pay an [Assassin] to poison an [Earl]’s lunch. He thought he’d suffered once? Niers would procure laxatives made by Foliana herself!
War’s not over. Rally, regroup, and get back in it.
He worried for Erin, because as she had just said—this was not her forte, and if she thought Drassi was going to play nice the entire time—she hadn’t seen Drassi’s interviews.
The [Honest Reporter] had kept up her habit of pressing her interviewees, and the Queen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen had been only the first victim. So Drassi leaned over the table as the camera caught both of them—Mrsha was trying to pose in the background until the other children shoved into the camera, and they were all herded off by a member of Drassi’s crew.
“So, Erin. We’ve been friends and for our viewers, I have to tell you I was a [Barmaid] and then a [Bartender] at The Wandering Inn before I found my current job. There’s a bit of bias here, but I want to be impartial. You’re an [Innkeeper]. Dare I say the best in Liscor?”
“Hm…I dunno about that, Drassi. How do you rank best inns and stuff? People complain about mine all the time.”
“Level? What level are you, Erin? Over Level 40? Over Level 30, definitely.”
Erin hesitated.
“That’s private. Sorry.”
“No problem. But your inn is rather fantastic, don’t you agree? I’ve been to Liscor’s top inn within the city, The Tailless Thief, and while it’s ahead on staff, service, consistency—your inn has been at the center of any number of huge events. You’ve survived Creler attacks, the inn’s been destroyed how many times?”
“Tw—three? I’ve lost count.”
It was definitely a funny interview. The [Innkeeper] was nervous, but she had a bit of composure a lot of guests lacked. As if she knew how to do this. Drassi laughed.
“And you make magical food! Can we get an example, maybe of your ‘mana candies’? So you have magical food, Antinium on staff, and your inn has a sign that says ‘No Killing Goblins’. Can you tell us why?”
“Um…because I don’t want people to kill Goblins? They saved my life once.”
Drassi nodded reasonably.
“But Goblins are monsters to the rest of the world. Now, one group did just bail out a bunch of Humans and the Antinium Crusade in the north, and we have a precedent with Velan the Kind—but that cuts both ways. How would you discuss the issue of the Goblin King with Izrilians or other people who remember him within this generation?”
Erin hesitated.
“…There are dangerous Goblins, just like there are criminals and [Warlords] in every species. I’m just saying—not every Goblin is trying to kill you. Like…like her. See? There’s a Goblin. Hi, Gothica.”
She smiled as a Goblin wearing all black, including lipstick and makeup, passed by. Niers winced because he knew this was not the example Erin needed.
 
——
 
Somewhere across the world, on Rhir, a passing Earther grabbed a scrying orb.
“No fucking way. Hey! Tell Béclaire I found her other [Goth]! She’s not going to believe this!”
The orb caught Gothica as she froze, then deliberately turned to Erin and flipped her off. And in doing so, she flipped off the entire world.
She leveled.
 
——
 
Drassi covered a smile as Erin waved a fist at Gothica. She went on with a chuckle in her voice.
“Alright, we can dig into the Goblins angle later, but let’s just settle one thing so our viewers understand—you’re hosting this celebration for the victory at Orefell. Including a chess tournament with a modest cash prize, which I believe we might cover highlights of. You’re a [Magical Innkeeper], and you can produce amazing food—but can you tell the audience something that makes you special? Like how you posted the first <Quests>? Who is Erin Solstice in her own words?”
And here it came. Niers bit his tongue because he knew how he’d talk about himself, or Erin—but she was so classically humble and awkward—he squeezed his eyes shut as Erin froze for a second. Then she replied.
“Me? I’m…um. Well. This is embarrassing, but…”
She fiddled with her fingers, then looked up. And Niers missed the spark of mischief in her eyes. The twinkle that made her friends sit up in the bar and disarmed Drassi. Erin Solstice smiled and leaned back in her chair. If she had a baseball cap, she would have twisted it around. If she had a pair of sunglasses, she would have slowly lowered them onto her eyes.
“I’m the best chess player in the entire world. So yeah, I’m backing the chess tournament today. If you think you’re hot stuff, sign up. You can even play remotely.”
Niers Astoragon’s eyes opened wide. Half the Fraerlings who were trying to ignore his small scrying orb turned. Drassi sat up and blinked.
“Did I just hear you right, Erin? That is a bold claim.”
The [Innkeeper] was shaking with nerves, but she made a peace sign. Then she began to play it up.
“That’s right. I’m the best. Don’t believe me?”
“That’s, uh—a hard thing to quantify.”
Someone was choking in the background. It turned out to be Pisces, who was dying on a piece of late egg for breakfast. Erin and Drassi watched as Yvlon raced over and slapped him on the back. Erin turned back to the camera.
“Well, it’s true. Put me on a truth spell.”
“Delusion can pass a truth spell, Erin.”
Drassi was trying to be tough, despite the smile edging its way across her face. Erin raised her brows.
“Oh yeah?”
“That’s just a fact.”
“Oh yeah?”
Erin leaned forwards, and Drassi leaned back a bit to avoid being headbutted.
“Erin, I’m going to need proof you’re the ‘best’ chess player. I imagine our viewers are already getting upset and calling in.”
The [Innkeeper] turned to the camera and smiled.
“You can prove it at the chess tournament. But if I need to prove anything—do you know Chaldion of Pallass, Drassi? Have you seen me playing him regularly in this inn?”
The [Honest Reporter] swallowed.
“I have…seen that.”
“And you’re so honest everyone knows you tell the truth—haven’t you seen Earl Altestiel playing me? I’ve beaten Venaz—hey, Venaz.”
She waved at a Minotaur, who jumped as he, Wil, and Merrik stood there. Merrik waved back. Niers watched, heart pounding with disbelief, as Erin turned.
“I’ve played more chess games than anyone else. It’s not a brag. It’s just how it is. I’ve beaten Grand Magus Eldavin when he was at my inn. I’ve defeated the Lord of the Dance remotely.”
“I think other players could say the same. The game isn’t that old, Erin. In fact, what about the Titan of Baleros? The inventor and world’s best player if I had to guess?”
Drassi was on the edge of her seat. Because she knew, before Erin turned, what the [Innkeeper] would say, and the [Reporter] just set her up for it. Erin Solstice looked right into the camera.
“Niers? He’s my chess partner. I play him every week. I am the [Innkeeper] of Chess. Don’t believe me? Get a chessboard and I’ll play a game right now. Ask Niers if you don’t believe me. Hey, Niers.”
She waved. And the Fraerling saw the young woman wink at him.
“…Fancy a game?”
 
——
 
The Titan’s mysterious chess partner had once been the talk of the world’s gossip—at least in chess circles. In the way of all the new developments, it had become old news.
Right until the [Innkeeper], Erin Solstice, revealed the truth for the world to hear and reignited that old flame.
You might not believe it. You might scoff, and many would certainly take umbrage at her claims to be the world’s best.
But…that claim bore more weight when you saw the splitscreen image of Niers Astoragon sitting with his legs crossed in front of a miniature chess board and Erin in her inn. Both were staring at a scrying orb and arranging the chess board.
Live. This was how the tourney would go, and the two competitors could even speak to each other. And when they did…
It was the first time the two had really talked. It wasn’t Niers giving Erin a speaking stone or a gift. It was him and her and an audience of the entire world.
“You have me astounded, Erin. And here I thought you were too busy to play a game.”
Erin glanced up from setting up her pieces. She met his gaze, and his eyes were shining with wild excitement. He was so…tiny! A mug was providing her with a frame of reference, and it was as tall as he was.
Yet he was also the Titan of Baleros. Some Fraerlings were jockeying to be seen, much like Mrsha and Gothica and people on Erin’s side. She locked eyes with Niers.
“I never said that. I just felt like you were fighting a war against Jungle Tails, the monsters from the Dyed Lands. You’re so famous—this is where you live. Isn’t this where you’re happiest?”
To that, he had nothing to say. Because she was right. When he went to her inn, it was like a Fraerling in the night.
But she had come up onto his world stage and brought a chessboard. She took the black pieces, he took white, and they began to play.
That was enough. That was enough for him to call this a really wonderful day, but Erin Solstice wasn’t done.
“I’m going to beat you, Niers. Sorry, but I have to use my full power.”
She posed, two peace signs across her chest in what she might have thought was a cool pose. Niers just snorted despite himself.
“Erin. I will back you being a statistically better player than I am, but you can’t guarantee a victory.”
“Oh, that was true before I got shot with crossbows. But I’ve been practicing. I know we played a game together, but right now?”
Erin stretched.
“…I’ve got a tournament to help run and participate in. So I am going to squish you. Wait, is that rude to say to a Fraerling?”
“Absolutely! I am such a fan, Miss. Take him out!”
A Fraerling behind Niers shouted. It was safe to say almost every Fraerling settlement with access to scrying orbs was watching. And at least one city, Paeth on the Coast, was staring at…
Erin Solstice. The Titan looked annoyed at Erin’s bravado. He moved a pawn forwards.
“Pawn to E4—oh, you can see it. Well, back up your words, Erin. No Skills, but I will be making you eat those words.”
“Just one second.”
Erin was scribbling on something. She raised her head, and Niers felt a chill. As if he’d walked into a trap. He’d thought the trap was invoking her true potential to the world. Or facing him across the chessboard and lending his name to this day.
But what if…? His eyes slowly fixed on the piece of paper. Erin finished writing, then lifted it. She brought it down and slapped it on the table.
