“You might want to check the Adventurer’s Guild, guys. I just posted a <Quest>. Now—”
She cracked her neck, winced, and her eyes lit up.
“Let’s begin the demo match.”
Then the news broadcast, already gaining momentum, truly began to pick up speed. The incredulous and outraged people went silent. Did you feel it now? Niers looked up, and the chessboard kept shaking. His eyes flickered uncertainly—then widened. Because even he found his heart beating painfully hard.
 
<Yearly Heroic Quest – Face the World’s Greatest Chess Player>
 
Limits: No cheating, no magical interference. No Skills to change the board. Everything else, including predictive Skills, is allowed.
 
I am the world’s greatest chess player. I have played the best in the world, and I would have been in the top ten thousand, at least, a few months ago.
None now remain. I am the Grandmaster of Scales, by virtue of victory. 
Challenge me at the chess tournament taking place in Liscor today. The first person to defeat me will win. The right to challenge me, formally, will be won by working their way up the tournament. I will play you at my utmost best and keep playing until I lose.
I’ll come at you with my best.
 
Posted Reward: Eighty gold coins to tournament winner, lesser rewards for finalists.
Quest Reward: One level in any <Intelligence> class.
 
——
 
Az’kerash dropped the plate of magical delicacies he was handing to Nerrhavia. The ghost dropped a fork.
 
——
 
Archmage Eldavin stopped drinking his cup of morning tea, and Telim ducked.
 
——
 
The Blighted King sat up upon his throne as his trusted advisor, Nereshal, practically sprinted into the room.
 
——
 
Silvenia, the Death of Magic, the greatest [Mage] in the world—
 
——
 
Well, you got the picture. Was that real? No, it was. And if it were real—no matter what level you held? <Intelligence> classes?
That wasn’t all. The quest itself. As far as anyone knew—you couldn’t lie on a <Quest>, right?
The world’s greatest chess player sat in The Wandering Inn and looked up. She smiled into the camera.
“We’ll do a quick demo match. Niers, you’d better bring your best because you have to work your way up in the tourney like everyone else.”
The Titan stared at Erin—and his dangersense began going off. Not the Skill, but something more instinctual. Slowly, he re-read the quest and realized that Erin hadn’t banned…
He glanced up. Then, to the audience’s amazement—the Titan tipped over his king. He stood up.
“In that case—I’ll see you later, Erin. But I don’t intend on wasting a chance. Especially if I need to surprise you.”
The [Innkeeper] grinned. The Titan stepped back and glanced at Lyonette. The [Princess] looked excited, pale with nerves—and she jumped as he bowed to her.
“Miss? Please put me down for the tournament. I will be ready.”
He stepped back, and then half the Fraerlings were shouting, demanding to be put on. Lyonette gulped as her Thronebearers whirled.
This party was heating up fast.
But that wasn’t fun, to hear the quest. To see the Titan tip over a piece and not see a chess game. Now, everyone wanted to see Erin do a demo match, even if it was just chess.
“Someone take his place! Just for a demo match. Erin, is that alright?”
Drassi practically screamed. Erin smiled.
“I’ll let someone take a shot at the reward right now.”
The Titan whirled back, and she gave him a wink.
“That’s called courage. Anyone but the Titan—who wants to get a free level?”
The inn suddenly fell silent. Who would take Erin on? Gireulashia almost stepped forwards, but she hesitated. Wil, Venaz, Merrik—they were taking cues from their Professor.
They might need to save their plays. After all, if Erin thought she would be taking on challenger after challenger…
On the other hand—this was the chance to win a level. You could, in theory, take a game off Erin!
And the clever people had realized something.
She hadn’t banned all Skills. Just Skills that actually altered the game itself. So someone stepped forwards with all the arrogance in his sniffing nose.
Pisces Jealnet turned to face Erin and smiled.
“I believe that I might be a suitable opponent. For a demonstration match. Pray, don’t feel too upset if I take the quest right now.”
He looked around as the inn’s crowd susurrated. Niers eyed Pisces as he sat down. The [Mage] had no Skills to help him out, but Niers vaguely remembered him being a sharp player, and he had trained against Erin Solstice.
Perhaps the [Necromancer] just wanted to be part of the moment. However—he’d made a critical mistake. In fact, Erin had, in a sense.
Because she had posted a <Quest>. Because she knew she could. A <Heroic Quest>. And as Pisces sat down, Erin’s smile to him changed. Her hazel eyes suddenly began burning, the brown-green-gold shimmering and dancing as if her very irises had caught on fire.
The [Necromancer] blinked. That wasn’t a trick of the light. Then—as if he had forgotten, as if he had taken the words for granted, he saw a line on the <Quest> paper light up.
 
I’ll come at you with my best.
 
Then—the table began shaking. Pisces was thrown about in his chair, and the [Necromancer] shouted.
“What—what’s happen—”
The table dropped, and suddenly, he was free-falling through space. The flailing young man fell—and the inn and the guests vanished. He landed without pain on the ground, crouching, reaching for his rapier instinctively. Then he looked up.
A lunar landscape of blasted pale, sooty ground and glowing lines drawn into perfect squares stretched out ahead of him. Pisces saw graven towers rising out of the dirt—and he was simultaneously staring up at an equine [Knight] rearing above him, snarling as the hooves pawed at the air.
A Golem? The tower was sixteen feet tall. And at the same time—it was a knight piece, small enough to pick up. He was in the void of blackness. Then—he saw something rising in the distance.
Her head appeared over the horizon like a Giant of old. Her eyes were on fire, and she had a hat burning on her head. The [Necromancer] looked around and tried to pinch himself out of the illusion. But Erin Solstice stared down at him as the entire world began to shake. He saw light writing itself over her head.
Then—the [Necromancer] felt a pit drop out of his stomach. Because he was reading something. Her very best? He looked up and saw a class.
 
[Temporary Class Assigned: Grandmaster of Death, Advent of Living Chess]
[Temporary Skill Assigned: Visions of Defeat (Legendary)]
[Temporary Aura Assigned: Aura of Giants (Chess)]
[Temporary Skill Assigned: Chessboard: Subsumed Reality, Our Board is the World]
[Temporary Skill Assigned: Clash of Wills]
 
An [Innkeeper]—no—the [Grandmaster of Chess] stared down at Pisces as he felt an aura pushing at him. He looked up—and a hand the size of Liscor reached down and picked up a chess piece. Erin placed a pawn down, and her pieces were white like ivory.
The ground quaked. Pisces felt it vibrate like an [Earthquake] spell. And he—he had to play that? He tried to pick up a pawn piece, and he could. He looked up—and that was his last mistake.
A pair of black wings sprouted from Erin’s back. Her eyes were slitted pupils now, and he felt like they were a pair of [Disintegration] spells boring holes in him. Then he blinked—
And a roaring Dragon, the last Void Dragonlord, was staring down at him. Xarkouth roared as Pisces’ hand shook wildly. He tried to look away, and the deathly pale face of Khelta was looking right at him.
The great [Necromancer] and first ruler of Khelt stared Pisces down as he turned white. He tried to play a chess piece.
The [Innkeeper] was smiling. She began to play, and the entire lunar world quaked as she put down her pieces. The guests of her inn only saw part of what Pisces saw—
Like they were staring at a distant dreamy battle occurring on the horizon. It reflected itself over Pisces and Erin’s heads. Just for a second. But that was enough for them to realize what made the [Necromancer] flinch.
Pisces was almost—almost able to think of a move when a wailing sound filled the air. He jumped and heard a screaming wail of electric strings. A bass howling like the storm he felt whipping around the world he was trapped in.
The [Necromancer] and the guests turned and saw a Hobgoblin [Bard] playing on a guitar. Like his other theme songs—he was playing one for Erin. But not Erin the [Innkeeper] of so many emotions, wondrous and gentle.
He was playing a rock song for the chess monster sitting across from Pisces. Erin’s eyes flashed with amusement, and a ray of solar fire baked Pisces. She pointed at him, and his mind went blank as he saw what Inkar feared.
A hill—a mountain with burning eyes, as tall as the horizon, flanked by the legends of death, waiting for him. She spoke, and his bones quaked.
“Your move.”
 
——
 
The [Necromancer] died so fast that only his slow play drew out the match to five minutes. But that was okay—no one said anything as he tipped over his king piece, then shot out of his chair.
Mrsha was hiding behind Moore. They could only see—flickers of what Pisces was seeing. But they felt the inn trembling. Numbtongue liked it, and so did his band.
Kevin was slamming on a drum as Saliss took a backup guitar and Bird just—screamed into a microphone. The band was revolutionizing a sci-fi rock song genre, and the music was like a challenge. It slowed a bit as the [Necromancer] backed away and Erin stopped glowing.
“What was—what was—”
Pisces pointed at Erin, and the burning gaze faded. Erin blinked—and the glowing class and Skills faded. She poked at herself and then seemed to come out of a trance.
“Whoa. What was that?”
That was what the chess players had to face. Gire, Niers’ students, the Titan himself—
Niers was grinning. He felt sweat rolling down his back, but he couldn’t stop the smile. What a monster.
If only she’d taken levels in her real class. But for a second, you could sit down and face—
Erin Solstice. 
Chaldion, the greatest chess player in Pallass, was sweating himself as he tried to figure out another move. His [Path to Victory]…
No longer seemed like the trump card it had been. Erin Solstice stood up. She spread her arms as she faced the scrying orb.
“I’ll be waiting. If nothing else, I’ll probably get tired. Now. Who’s coming at me? Sign up now. The first person to work up the rankings gets a chess match with me. And we continue until I lose.”
So who was going to play? The answer was…
Everyone.
 
——
 
Earl Altestiel was on his way back to Desonis from Calanfer. But he was screaming at Kiish to go faster, and his carriage was swerving left down a road. He’d begun picking up speed ever since this morning, but the first games in Liscor’s tournament had begun!
There was a two-silver entry fee, which Lyonette had imposed just to pay for all the [Mages] and stop the number of entrants from climbing past the thousands. In fact, she’d begged the Mage’s Guilds to send her the regional champions.
And even then—Altestiel was speaking into a stone.
“Your Majesty, every single [Strategist] and [Tactician] over Level 20 in Desonis. No, most won’t make it to the finals, but we need to flood the competition because there will be too many to play past otherwise. And they might level from the contest alone! Play yourself! Kiish and I will be entering the bracket in a half-an-hour, but I need to—”
He was headed to a neighboring kingdom that he’d been passing through. Location! Altestiel cursed not riding or finding an inn. But if he was going up against…
Erin? No, the Grandmaster of Scales, he needed more than to just be rested. He needed someone to bounce ideas off of.
And it was clear his only ally in the area had thought the same thing.
Lord Belchaus, the Lord of the Dance, came storming up the road towards Altestiel and whirled his horse around in a quick u-turn.
“Altestiel! Get to my manor! We need to compare notes! I have stamina potions, boards set up—are we allowed to practice or get help while playing her?”
“There’s no rule against it! Do you have any intellect potions?”
“No, but I’m sending for a [Tutor]!”
“Brilliant! When’s your game?”
“In an hour! Are we competing with each other?”
Altestiel didn’t know. He bared his teeth.
“I think—we had better plan on working together! If we’re going to take her down, it might have to be through exhaustion!”
They were speaking like she was some great monster to be slain. Like a Dragon! But if what he’d seen was true—she’d beaten Dragons. Erin Solstice was playing chess as he watched, and he would have felt a twisting in his stomach that she’d lose before he even got a chance.
But as he watched, she was taking on the first local champion of Liscor and any thoughts about the unfair system of the tournament was lost. Because if anything, the people playing her first games were the unlucky ones.
 
——
 
Thousands of people in Liscor had picked up a chess board after hearing about the quest. And the eighty gold pieces. Even if they had only played once or watched the game—why not give it a shot?
They organized in vast queues, playing each other, trying to psyche the others out, and using Skills liberally. The only cheating was asking another player to literally play for them.
But Skills? Skills were free-game, and the winners of each bracket would clash with each other as they rose in the rankings. International players who’d won their regional brackets squared off, but Liscor’s local tourney concluded fastest.
Who won the first tournament? Olesm was signed up for a scrying orb game, so he wasn’t participating.
But Wil, Venaz, and Merrik had signed up for the first tourney. If they lost, they could enter a later bracket and work their way up to Erin. They had reasoned that the only good players were Gireulashia, Bird, and possibly Klbkch the Slayer or a local [Strategist]. Pallass had its own game, so there was no one else, right?
In came Belgrade. Straight through the door that led to Liscor’s army. The chess games were so intense it was like watching him come in, pick up a chair from the inn, and beat Wil to death with it. Then he ran over Merrik.
Venaz was struggling. Gireulashia had gotten lucky with the Silverfang Gnolls who’d all queued up with her, but he had run into a bunch of Antinium.
Even if not all of them were as good as he was—they played far too well for amateurs. He was sweating as one took him down to trading his queen for a sacrificial play that netted him the closing checkmate. He got a bit of breathing room the next game.
“How did you get this far?”
Mrsha the Squire of Chess had beaten Relc, Menolit, and Visma to get to her spot. She cracked her knuckles as Venaz set up the board.
