…Punting the Gnoll into the far wall in a metaphorical sense gave Venaz the chance to relax. Mrsha flipped the board in rage as she sulked off. He turned—and saw Belgrade dueling Rags.
The two were going at it like lightning, and the Goblin and the Antinium were good. Venaz eyed them, then frowned as he heard a howl.
“No! I lost! Mrshaaaaaa!”
Gire went crying to Mrsha, and the two hugged each other. They were joined by a sobbing Bird. Venaz twisted in his seat.
Gireulashia and Bird were both taken out of their bracket? He had assumed one would knock the other out after a tough game. But then Venaz found it was going to be him or his opponent versus what looked like Belgrade for a shot against Erin.
Rags was growling, but Belgrade was using his Skills, and Rags’ weren’t strategy oriented. Poisonbite kept trying to massage her Chieftain’s shoulders and distracting Rags.
So who had knocked Gire and Bird out? The opponent went to sit down, and Venaz eyed an unknown Antinium.
“Greetings. I am Venaz of Minos. Who are you?”
The Worker stared at him. He was no Painted Antinium, and Venaz’s first thought was that he was up against a [Crusader]. Or Garry?
No. The Worker had taken out Garry and everyone else. When the mandibles opened, Venaz’s blood ran cold. For it sounded like six voices were speaking through the Worker.
“We are the Queens of the Antinium.”
He looked up—and the Unitasis Network was flickering through the Worker. Six Queens were combining their intelligence. Then Venaz felt his skin crawl as an aura began pressing down at him.
“[Predictive Analysis].”
The Worker whispered. Venaz employed his own Skills.
[Unpredictable Insight]. He thought he saw a flaw in their thinking. What if he opened up with a side-charge from one of the knights? Then—the opening vanished.
Six minds were working in unison. The Minotaur slowly looked up as the Worker smiled. After all—even if they were divided, what if you could get six levels for the price of one?
“F-foul! I’m facing more than one opponent.”
“It’s not against the rules. I’ve played the Antinium before. Do your best, Venaz.”
Belgrade was staring at the Queens as Erin Solstice waited. She was eying the Queens. And she knew they would be her final opponent, Belgrade or not.
It wasn’t just that they were six working as one—it was the intimidation factor. The Queens had a presence, a combined weight through their vessel. It pushed at Venaz. He was good enough to deal with it, but he was an inferior player who tried to go for speed to unsettle his opponents’ decisive moves.
They were six minds linked. Queens who could command a battlefield. In a sense, it was like watching them give Venaz a spanking. However—Belgrade was very good.
He fell to the intimidation aspect. The Queens pushed at him mentally, and he shook with nerves. His game began with a strike across the center of the board but lost momentum and fell apart. The Queens had an iron defense and fell for no tricks or casual mistakes—it was like they were checking each other’s moves, and so they never missed a weak point in their game.
Erin wondered if they were better than early computers. She sat across the Queens in a televised game.
 
——
 
Antinium versus a Human. Queens—Silvenia watched.
“Well. That’s certainly not fascinating.”
Yet she watched as she cast every predictive spell against her opponents. She had to camouflage who she was playing as, and she was actively trying to crash every connection she came across to give herself less opponents.
She hated chess. But hey…she smiled as several sacrificial Demons lined up. They looked reluctant as Silvenia pointed at them.
“[Siphon Luck]. Your sacrifice is appreciated.”
There were ways to play, and the Queens were using their best tactic. They came in hot, and Silvenia knew the pressure that True Antinium could exert.
…The first champion to face Erin was reflected in Altestiel and Lord Bel’s scrying orbs. The Titan, the Death of Magic, and the other opponents watched the Queens squaring off against Erin.
 
——
 
This time, the Queens found themselves in their real bodies. Staring up. They were all vast beings who towered over other Antinium. The Silent Queen gazed around the alternate chess-dimension, and the Armored Queen raised a rook like a shield.
“This is not a battle. Focus.”
The Twisted Queen snapped at the others. She was the best player, and she would have added Wrymvr to the connection—but he was terrible at chess. And Anand wanted to take Erin on personally.
“Our Skills must be employed. Intimidate her.”
The Grand Queen was leading the charge, and the Worker sitting across Erin in the physical world opened its mandibles and screeched.
[Intimidating Shout]!
The Free Queen was having fun, despite their sense of contest. But…she had a bad feeling that her fellow Queens were underestimating Erin. The class was writing itself in the air again.
 
[Temporary Class Assigned: Grandmaster of Death, Advent of Living Chess]
 
…But something was different about the Skills. Erin’s eyes flashed as the screaming Worker slowly stopped. She looked in pity at the Worker bound to the Queens.
“Play me yourself, you six.”
The Worker jerked and then recoiled from the board. Shaking, it looked at Erin as she winked at it. Then she turned, and the six Queens looking up at her saw a Skill writing itself in the sky.
“…That is not good. That is green. Is anyone else seeing that? I am. It’s a fetching color, but I’m getting uneasy.”
The Flying Queen’s mandibles clicked. In silence, the six Queens saw a Skill appear.
 
[Temporary Skill Assigned: The Laughing Folk Bowed to None; Neither Shall I]
 
Their auras winked out. The Queens looked up, and they thought they heard voices. Laughing at them. Chuckling, practically wheezing with mirth. The [Innkeeper] smiled.
“Challenger one. Let’s begin.”
 
——
 
The game between the Queens and Erin Solstice was causing ripples in the chess community.
“Oh my god. Oh my god. Who is she? I think I know her. She’s…wasn’t she a chess prodigy?”
“Wait. You know her?”
The Earthers of Rhir were going crazy. Most of them were queueing up for local games, but one group of them was huddled around a laptop and coming up with a plan to win. However—there was one member of the thousand that had come to Rhir who stood head and shoulders above the rest.
That was International Master Antal Fekete of Hungary. An actual chess expert. For those who didn’t know—which were a lot of his peers—he was one rank below a Grandmaster of Earth, the highest chess level someone could obtain.
And he was watching Erin Solstice play one of the best games he’d seen against a bug-person. They were both playing at such a high level he no longer doubted her claims to being a Grandmaster of Scales.
…He was queued up against an ‘Earl’ of Desonis. Antal glanced over with a frown.
“I could use my laptop. I want to log this game—what are you doing?”
“Nothing! Just win this one, Antal. And if you don’t…”
“What are you doing with my chess program? If you’re going to cheat—”
“Run for it!”
A group of laughing young men and women ran, and Antal, cursing, got up. But then his chess game began, and he sat, biting his tongue. He began playing, but much to his dismay, whomever he was playing was close to his level or…
They had Skills he didn’t. It was like they had a predictive software of their own. Antal had to forfeit, and he sat back.
Chess—wasn’t like how a lot of newcomers thought it was. Erin’s claim of winning every match was incredible. True, if she was really the world’s best, then it was likely you’d draw a lot of games. But she was just aiming to win.
Now he saw that she had the benefit of Skills, it made sense. She was affecting her opponents on a psychological level. If they were relying on their own Skills—and she took them away—she was effectively someone with a much higher chess level crushing people who were using crutches.
It was like everyone had a chess bot they could sometimes use for pivotal moves. Which was cheating, and he quite understood why some would call this entire tournament rigged. Different rules for a different world.
Cheating in the world of chess…well, if Antal had the inclination to cheat, and he did not, he knew that all you needed at the highest level was a move or two. Not to cheat the entire game, but to have a perfect move at a decisive point in the match?
He supposed that could lead him to beat Grandmasters consistently if he had that. Which was why Skills were so upsetting to the fair game. However, that was also contingent on them being the best moves.
Chess was a game that favored AI. In that a computer could always, always win over a regular person because it could calculate optimal moves where they could not. Some Grandmasters could and did make machine-perfect moves, but not for an entire game.
A computer could. Most chess programs weren’t that powerful, especially ones built into a computer. But an artificial intelligence could beat even the ‘best’ mind.
He wondered what would happen if Erin ran into his laptop. Or…someone else.
 
——
 
Challengers #22 and #23 were odd. Erin’s games with each challenger were quick. Even if they took a long time, she was playing them in rapid lightning matches.
[Immortal Moments].
…But she was growing tired. She had run straight into Niers in her 4th match. The Titan of Baleros had pulled out every single Skill he thought he could use.
She had activated [Path to Victory]. Against him! He’d been forced to change his strategy in some way or lose—and Chaldion had been opponent #8.
The Cyclops of Pallass’ own Skill led him straight into a trap. His [Path to Victory] turned into an illusion.
 
[Temporary Skill Assigned: All Plans Fall to Dust And Ruin (Chess)]
 
That had been when her opponents realized she could appear with a Skill that not only trumped theirs, but deceived their actual Skills.
If they had one consolation, it was this: Erin Solstice would lose.
She might have been boosted every time she sat down in a challenge match, but the mortal body was weaker. Erin Solstice was visibly tired after the 20th game against the Blighted King, but her game was still as sharp as a blade.
Earl Altestiel, Eldavin, Viscount Visophecin—they were just among the twenty-one players she’d brought low. Soon, though…she might begin slipping up. How many games until she fell over? Of course, all she had to do was lose once.
…So while it felt like her opponents were literally getting punched by boulders when she took a piece across the chess board or staring at an undead [Queen] pointing a legion of chess pieces at them—that was only what they saw.
If anything, the most interesting parts for the audience watching was seeing Erin Solstice talk to her opponents and acting away from the chess board. She would speak to them a minute or two before she sat down and played, mostly in silence.
That was the fascinating part for people not interested in chess.
“Well, hey there! Magus-Crafter Femithain? Wait a second, don’t I know that name? Saaaay—did you attack my friend?”
The leader of Illivere blinked at Erin as she waved someone over. He bowed slightly.
“Adventurer Ksmvr. I regret to say that I was an impolite host.”
“Oh, hello Magus-Crafter Femithain. You were a very wonderful host. I regret that someone accidentally freed Nsiia. Yes. Have you seen Yinah or Spitty? Or Nsiia? She stole my sword.”
Ksmvr bowed to Femithain, and the Magus-Crafter hesitated.
“I regret that I have not exchanged words with any of them, Ksmvr.”
“Wonderful. I mean, that you know each other.”
Erin smiled wanly and yawned. The sun was still high in the sky, but it was on its way down. She looked at Challenger #21, and Femithain blinked as Erin motioned someone into frame.
It was a tossup who Erin met, and it was mostly just good chess players. Some people could fake their way to the top via magic, but to Silvenia’s complete and utter fury, she’d lost to Feshi. Luck, magic, Skills to intimidate or read an opponent—
The game was better than that. Nevertheless, there was a correlation most times between the players and their station. If only because a [King] could politely suggest to his vassals that they let him win.
Like Flos, who took Orthenon and Gazi’s spots to get a shot at Erin. Raelt himself kicked the King of Destruction off that region of Chandrar’s championship. Then Fetohep beat him.
However, if you made it to Erin…she motioned someone into frame, and Femithain hesitated.
“This is Rags. Hey, Rags, it’s the guy who makes Golems.”
“He rules an entire nation. Hello.”
Rags gave Erin a brief look, and the [Innkeeper] looked embarrassed. But Femithain bowed very politely.
“Good evening, Chieftain.”
“Greetings to you.”
That was all. And Femithain was probably being polite, but the Magus-Crafter didn’t miss how Erin had laughed with Altestiel before making Belgrade come over to say hi. She wasn’t bad at statecraft at all.
He bowed, sat, and Erin Solstice played like thunder for eighteen minutes. Then she got up and stretched.
“Who’s Challenger #22?”
The fascinating thing about her games of chess was not the incomprehensible and difficult notation of the chess games—but who was trying to get a chance to play her.
And who was not able to do so.
 
——
 
A cursing Drake was edging into line in the huge queue going to Liscor from Pallass. She was checking her dark red dress when someone tapped her shoulder.
“‘Scuse me. ‘Scuse me. I’m headed to the inn, and no, I was not waiting in line. Who do you think I am? I just came back to grab some stuff—out of the way, I’m important.”
Saliss of Lights was strolling through the crowd, after his band performance. He had come back here, apparently just to annoy the crowds by deliberately stepping in front of people waiting for the inn. He shoved Lady Salkis out of the way and stopped as he saw the top chess championship of Pallass ending.
“Victory!”
A laughing Human woman fanned herself, a [Merchant] by the looks of it, as one of the [Strategists] under Chaldion slumped. She stood up, and a [Guardsman] hurried over.
“Adventurer Saliss, please stop getting in the way of the queue. The door is cycling. You can enter in ten minutes.”
“Ah, damn. Is this the winner? Hello, Miss!”
“Oh my. A naked Drake. You must be Saliss of Lights.”
The woman gave Saliss an amused glance. She had black lipstick and winked at him. He threw an arm around her shoulders, and she glowered as he grinned at her.
“Are you heading to play Erin? Fancy that, so am I! Ten minutes? Say, do you need to buy any magical makeup? A potion, perhaps?”
“I, ah—”
