Handsome, with a strong chin and a twinkle in those pale sapphire eyes. He even seemed graceful—if that were marred by moments of weakness. His hair was swept back in a greying curl.
Whomever he had been, Lyonette was sure he’d been good at his job of being likable. But all that was marred by his weakened state.
For all that—Jerom clearly was talented. He had been a good enough cook to keep Agnes’ inn running despite—Agnes. And even here, he took a drink from the cup and grimaced.
“I should head back whenever you’re ready, Ulia. Agnes will need help. But this inn is fascinating. The rec rooms, that weights room?”
He sighed about, and Ulia smiled.
“What if I sent some helpers to Agnes’ inn? Just one or two. You can take your leisure.”
“That’s extremely kind of you. Are you sure?”
He looked reluctant, and Ulia smiled and winked at Lyonette.
“If you help me win a few coins at the card table, perhaps. You haven’t had time to meet him, Miss Lyonette, but Jerom is a fantastic cards player. Very good with his hands cooking and in other ways. Don’t you carve as well?”
I just bet he is. Lyonette smiled, but she blinked as Jerom produced something with an embarrassed smile.
“Hardly good. I’m confined to bed, so it’s reading or something else. I picked up the class and—well, I was going to present Miss Solstice with this.”
Lyonette gasped. She stared down at a tiny, hand-cut figurine. Of Mrsha! The little Gnoll even had spiked fur, notched delicately with a tiny blade, and she was prowling around on all fours, sniffing at the air.
Jerom had even added mini indentations like whiskers. Lyonette exclaimed.
“Mister Jerom, this is the most beautiful—this is fantastic!”
“As I understand it, you’re the one who takes care of Miss Mrsha. Please, if you don’t think it’s a burden—”
He offered her the figurine, and Lyonette accepted it. She smiled at him.
“Thank you, sir! This is a delight.”
He nodded, and Lyonette thought that if the inn in Celum never worked out, she could send him to Riverfarm. Laken Godart had a [Carver] of his own, but the man, while good, was, uh…
Spitty.
Maybe not. Jelov the [Carver] and Jerom the mysterious [Innkeeper]? Too close. He’d have to change his name a third time.
But that was the kind of thing happening in the inn right now. While it was true that the grand party was more of a ramp-up, there was already a kind of meeting of peoples that would otherwise never go together that was generating excitement enough.
Not for Drassi, perhaps. The [Reporter] actually didn’t linger long in the inn once it became clear Erin wasn’t going to be interviewed. She found Rags for a short moment, but she’d had her interview with Rags. So—Drassi was off to her new studio to give a talk with the Singer of Terandria.
She’d be back tomorrow. Meanwhile? Lyonette was almost glad that Erin hadn’t taken over when she came back from the garden.
This was Lyonette’s big event, and she wanted to prove she could do it alone. She felt nervous, but she squared her shoulders and got back to work. Erin?
For the first day, Erin sat with the Goblins. She hugged Badarrow and stayed with them. Goblins before all. But the meetings between people were not isolated just to Goblins.
 
——
 
By evening in Liscor, a Gnoll returned from checking out the bazaar and put her hands on her hips.
“The Tailless Thief is out.”
Ysara Byres looked up from the stand she and Qwera were going to operate. Hers was right next to Qwera’s, and she had a huge supply of goods to offload, many from the tribes. She had a feeling there would be a huge market to match.
They had hurried down to inspect the plaza, and [Traders] and [Merchants] they knew from Pallass as well as Invrisil were all present. Lots of excited rookies too, who kept coming up to Qwera to ask for tips.
Don’t get fleeced was Qwera’s big tip. This was the opportunity for everyone to make a profit. Just sell at a good markup and watch out for fellow [Merchants]; they’d run you down with flash-deals. Unless you had gold in hand or paw…
Well, this was their battleground, so the [Merchants] were excited. So was Ysara, because she’d headed down here before having a chance to explore the ice skating rink that hundreds of people were skating across. An annoyed half-Elf had to keep recasting the spell, but she considered it training—as well as her own slip and sliding across the ice.
However—the person Ysara really wanted to see was Yvlon. And Ylawes. But before that…
“Not the Tailless Thief? We need somewhere secure.”
They had lockboxes of gold, and their best items and stock would need security. That meant The Tailless Thief; neither Ysara nor Qwera were stupid enough to chance being stuck in Invrisil when they should be at the bazaar.
“No. And it’s not the name. The [Innkeeper] is simply a Drake. A beautiful idiot of a Drake who I wouldn’t trust.”
“Ah. Speciesist?”
“His guests are all Drakes from Pallass. We can out pay them, but…let’s try The Wandering Inn. If only for storage. Besides, I haven’t seen Mrsha.”
They could have rushed into the common room and reunited with Mrsha the instant they got there…but neither Ysara nor Qwera had. A few hours would not kill them, and they had their priorities straight.
Now, though, it occurred to Ysara that if they wanted a room…she sighed and checked her bag of holding.
“Let’s go now, then. And keep checking your bag of holding, Qwera. I know Liscor’s a good city—or so Yvlon claims—but the [Thieves] have to be out in force knowing how much gold and visitors are here.”
That was true. Qwera and Ysara were not easy targets; they had Skills and the wherewithal to defeat most [Flash Thieves], who could snatch a bag with sheer speed, or covert ones, who would steal a bag of holding unnoticed in a crowd.
Even so—a certain young woman with a gemstone hand saw several [Thieves] loitering about the square. She herself had a lot of interest in Qwera and Ysara’s bags of holding as well as the top [Merchants]’.
They were rich. One of Pallass’ best [Traders of Curios] had already lost his chest of holding. His actual chest of holding. He thought it was right there, locked and waiting for tomorrow, and his [Guards] did too, but the crystal-handed [Thief] had seen someone walk off with the entire chest and cast an illusion spell in the same place.
One of the Faces of Invrisil. They’d probably sell the entire chest back to the merchant, and that would be the last theft today.
The [Thieves] of big cities often had deals with the Merchant’s Guild to only be a pest up to a point—otherwise, the [Merchants] would hire a Named-rank Adventurer to kill you. A merchant-rogue war was a bad, bad incident.
She had no such compunctions, but she was wary of making an enemy of the wrong group, so Ysara and Qwera were a good target as independent [Merchants]. Obviously, she was waiting for her chance with Klbkch the Slayer, but profits were profits. Besides.
The contest had begun. The young woman strolled into range. Qwera wasn’t stupid; the Golden Gnoll would notice someone dogging her. But the crystal hand [Thief]’s range was wide. She flexed her hand, and the pale quartz hidden under the glove shone.
[I Stole Lightning].
Her hand blurred across the ground between her and Qwera, forty paces. If you could have seen it—and it moved at the speed of lightning—it would have been a disembodied hand of crystal, reaching out. A man’s hand, not the young woman’s. It reached out for both bags of holding—
And someone caught it. Or rather, blocked it. The hand slammed into a body, and the [Thief] recoiled. She saw a Gnoll hurtle out of nowhere into the hand, and Qwera and Ysara whirled. The [Thief] looked up, saw a Gnoll staring at her—
“Vetn!”
Ysara exclaimed as one of her ‘helpers’ broke cover and blocked the Skill. The Thief of Clouds rubbed at his ribs as a young woman began to hurry in the other direction.
“That’s one.”
“What? A [Thief]? Point her out.”
Ysara was ready to draw her sword or call for the Watch, but Vetn just growled.
“Don’t bother. She’ll be gone before the Watch even reaches us if you shout. That’s the second high-level [Thief]. Ow. My ribs hurt.”
He whined to Qwera, and she was unimpressed.
“Blow on it. This is why I hired you, Vetn. Keep it up.”
Sulkily, he nodded. Some of the other [Merchants] were eying Vetn nervously; a few could spot a [Thief]. But Qwera had hired him to run interference against other competitors or thieves.
She wasn’t an idiot. She patted Vetn on the shoulder, and the three of them headed off to the inn. They met the girl they were looking for ahead of that.
 
——
 
Mrsha was sniffling a bit, as if she had a cold again, and Ser Dalimont was worried he’d get in more trouble, letting her skate so long.
But as it turned out, she just had a runny nose from the chill. She was beaming, her white fur all puffed up along with two sweaty, beaming children. And one big one.
Gire, Ekirra, and Visma had been skating for hours. The novelty of being able to skate before the winter was only compounded by the food flowing from the inn. Right now, they were all having some hot-hot fries, which were spicy—but didn’t kill you! Calescent’s fries were hitting tables, and a certain witch had helped him get used to his new job.
Well, Erin was inside sampling his cooking with the laughing Goblins, and Mrsha was just about to suggest they all have a big bowl of ice cream to go with the fries when she smelled something odd on the air. She turned, sniffed, and her brows crossed.
“What is it, Mrsha?”
The Gnoll smelled a familiar acrylic scent that came from a lot of paint. A familiar smell—but that couldn’t be right. She looked at Gire, and the [Paragon] stopped wolfing down fries.
“Hm?”
She sniffed the air as Ekirra copied her. So did Visma, snorting and giggling as the Gnolls glowered at her mockery of them. But then Mrsha saw Gire’s eyes widen, and their heads turned. Mrsha watched as the skaters, couples and families running and slipping on the ice, looked up.
The fading fall sky was turning into an ember glow across the High Passes. Even green, instead of blue, and the two colors ran together like some crazy artist’s palette.
But then the Antinium marching to the inn for their food, the people of Liscor, and the inn itself experienced a revelation.
For there was a shining figure upon a hill. She stood like a golden messiah, light glancing off her painted fur. The Golden Gnoll shone, and Mrsha dropped her fries. Ekirra bent down to eat them off the grass, but looked up as Mrsha began racing over. Her snuffly nose began to run again, and she was a blubbery mess before she was halfway there.
It’s you! It’s you! She raced at Qwera, leapt up, and the Gnoll blocked Mrsha’s head with her paw.
“Gross. Someone get me a handkerchief.”
She fished one out of her belt pouch as Mrsha landed, and then the Gnoll found one paw picking her up. A piece of cloth wiped at Mrsha’s face, and then she glanced up, and Qwera grinned.
“Look at you, you silly girl. Did you miss me that much?”
For answer, Mrsha hugged her. Then looked at Ysara and Vetn in astonishment. The [Armored Merchant] patted Mrsha on the head, and the Gnoll beamed at Vetn, who shyly waved at her.
“I told you she’d remember us, Qwera!”
“I wouldn’t bother. There, there. Stop crying. It’s not like we were even gone more than a month.”
But I love you guys! Mrsha reached out as Gire raced over and beamed at the others.
“Vetn, Qwera, Ysara, hello! I had no idea you had arrived! Where’s Tesy?”
She noticed the absence of the [Magical Painter], and Qwera rolled her eyes.
“Off causing mischief in another city. Vetn would be too, but I needed a [Thief] to stop a [Thief]. When we heard about the bazaar, I picked up the pace. I would have gone on foot rather than via Pallass, but gold doesn’t wait. Hello. And who is this?”
She eyed the Thronebearer, who glowed almost as much as she did with his armor. Ser Dalimont bowed.
“Merchant Qwera, Merchant Ysara, I am Ser Dalimont of the Thronebearers of Calanfer, and my ward is in your debt, as I understand it. May I escort you to the inn? Miss Lyonette will be delighted to meet you, as will Erin Solstice herself.”
“Oho. Aren’t you competent?”
Qwera raised her brows, but she seemed curious, not hostile. She tried to put Mrsha down, but the Gnoll clung to her neck.
“You little blubbering rat. Where did all that bravery go?”
Qwera gently teased Mrsha, and Ysara’s smile was genuine as she walked towards the inn.
“She’s at home, Qwera. She’s allowed to cry.”
Mrsha had actually stopped crying at this point, and she was waving for Ekirra and Visma to come over. The two friends looked up at Qwera in awe.
“You’re shiny!”
Ekirra gaped at Qwera. Visma, on the other hand, actually knew of Qwera’s reputation. She squeaked.
“My mother loves you! And my older sister! Can—can I touch your fur? You’re beautiful!”
Even the grumpy Golden Gnoll of Pallass had to smile at that, and Mrsha saw Qwera’s face turn softer. As she put on her stage show.
“Well, I can do more than that! Here! Hold out your hands, both of you…”
She drew out something and then pressed it on Ekirra’s and Visma’s hands. They looked down in delight, and Mrsha saw a golden stamp of a pawprint embossed on their scales and fur. Qwera winked as she raised her paws to call out to the crowd.
“The Golden Gnoll will be holding a seminar after the bazaar, tomorrow. Tell your friends! Free coins!”
So saying, she drew a pawful of coins out of her bag of holding and tossed them across the ice. Gold coins went scattering and people shouted and scrambled after them.
“You’re such a…performer, Qwera.”
Ysara looked mildly disapproving, but Qwera had done this before when Mrsha was on tour with her, however briefly.
“It works. I thought this was supposed to be exciting. Aha. And I think here’s our famous mother of the world’s most endangered child.”
She looked up, and Lyonette du Marquin was coming out the doors of the inn, flanked by all but one of her remaining Thronebearers. Mrsha waved her over, and the [Princess] caught Mrsha as she leapt into her arms.
“Mrsha—oof! Do I have the honor of meeting the people who helped you? Merchant Qwera, Merchant Ysara, Mister Vetn? Welcome to the Wandering Inn. And thank you—I have wanted to say that ever since the Meeting of Tribes.”
She took Qwera’s hand as she held Mrsha and Ysara’s. Lyonette’s genuine look of gratitude seemed to disarm Qwera, and the Gnoll murmured.
“Well—it’s not like there was anything else to do. Hello, hello. I’m delighted to meet you, Pr…Miss Lyonette.”
