The woman gave the [Guards] a desperate glance, and they tried to peel Saliss off her, but he practically dragged her back.
“Come on, let’s go for a walk! I have a bunch of potions to foist—I mean, sell to top people!”
The woman smiled desperately, but there was no help for it. The Drake was strong. She followed him down the 8th Floor, and somehow, the pedestrians waiting for the door practically vanished only two corners from the door.
“Mister Saliss, please. You’re hurting me.”
They turned down a quiet street as the last Drake woman hurrying the other way vanished. Saliss looked concerned.
“I am? I didn’t ruin your makeup, did I? How do you do it? Wonderful powder. It even conceals dead skin.”
The Human woman looked perplexed, and she snapped open her fan. Then she slashed it across Saliss’ neck—or where he had been.
He ducked. And the undead woman lurched back and stared at the acid eating one foot. She swiveled.
“Wretch.”
Nerrhavia’s ghost struggled to control Az’kerash’s minion as she raised the fan. She had no Skills, so the corpse began firing [Deathbolts]. She turned, and Saliss slapped a glowing ember into the corpse’s mouth. Nerrhavia’s ghost recoiled as, remotely, the puppet burst into flames.
“Now who are you?”
Saliss kicked the puppet aside and bent, warily, to tear open the chest with a knife as several Eyes of Pallass appeared, but the corpse began to disintegrate, and he stepped back with a sigh.
 
——
 
Az’kerash cursed as his third puppet failed to get to Erin.
He had none in Liscor, which he hadn’t thought was a problem—but two had been taken out, one by the [Guards], another by Saliss just now. The third had just lost a contest in Invrisil. Fuming, the Archmage of Death debated how risky it would be to play Erin remotely via scrying orb.
“I can invoke one of my puppets to play the [Innkeeper]. Why do you, Nerrhavia, require a game up close? You claim to be one of the finest players!”
Nerrhavia scowled at him.
“Do not be uppity with me, [Necromancer]. Do you think Erin Solstice won’t squash you like an insect across the board? She calls herself the Grandmaster of Scales. She beat Dragons and Giants in the lands of the dead. I have one chance, and that is to be up close with a vessel. To distract her.”
The Necromancer folded his arms.
“Well, I fear that is unlikely. Two agents are now defunct, and I have no more I care to lose with Named-rank adventurers on patrol. The risk is beyond me.”
“Oh, then go and play your little game, Necromancer. I shall enjoy watching you lose.”
Nerrhavia turned and ignored him completely. Az’kerash ground his teeth—but he had seen Tulm lose the fifth game against Erin Solstice. Now—he turned, and Challenger #22 appeared. He halted, and Nerrhavia’s head turned back.
“Hello. Who is this girl?”
 
——
 
The scrying orb showing Erin’s next challenger made even the [Innkeeper] stop.
“Hi? Um…are you, uh, uh, I know your name. You’re…”
“Cognita Truestone.”
Every head in the inn turned, and Ceria began to choke on her popcorn. She hadn’t even bothered to try taking Erin on, circlet or not. But Cognita?
The Truestone Golem had beaten the Great Sage of Nerrhavia’s Fallen and everyone else in Nerrhavia. Now—she sat down.
“Am I not allowed to play, Erin Solstice?”
“No…but I don’t know if the <Quest> will work on you. W-wow.”
The Golem was made of marble and perfectly composed. She raised one brow.
“I merely desire to challenge you. I am Zelkyr’s creation, and I have picked up chess like every other game. Will you oblige me?”
Erin Solstice exhaled.
“…Yeah. Just out of curiosity. How good are you?”
Cognita’s smile was her only reply. Erin Solstice sat down—and no Skills activated. Her eyes didn’t blaze. The <Quest> didn’t acknowledge her opponent. But Erin did.
Thus began the longest game of chess yet. It was just Erin—versus a Truestone Golem. The first thing that Erin and some of the people who knew chess realized was this:
Cognita was no computer.
Or rather, she wasn’t as adept as a computer program. But she was the closest thing to it. Erin did not place pieces down with certainty. She sat and played.
The game took two hours and five minutes. When it was done, Erin looked toasted. She had a handful of pawns and a knight against several of Cognita’s and the audience was dead silent.
However, before the Golem could try to corner Erin, the [Innkeeper] forced a threefold repetition—something that most novice chess players had no idea was even a rule. That technically made the game a draw.
“Draw. Another game?”
Erin croaked. But Cognita just stood up.
“I believe I am satisfied. Fare well on your next game, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] nodded. Then she groaned as another player appeared in the scrying orb. Due to the delay, all the other champions had lined up and beaten each other senseless.
“Who’s next?”
“Correy, from Rhir! Hey, Erin! I’m totally a fan!”
A young man sat confidently behind a chess board. Erin frowned at him and sat up…and nothing happened. He began playing, and Erin began playing too.
Chess Challenger #23 was as strange as #22. None of Erin’s Skills activated—and yet, this young man had beaten even Chaldion in a chess game against the other people waiting for a turn.
Whether it was Erin’s exhaustion or his abilities—he had Erin from the moment they began. The [Innkeeper] started losing pieces. Lyonette ran over with a refreshing drink and food, but Erin merely lifted a hand after forty-six moves.
“Wait.”
“What’s wrong? No takebacks. I’m a [Fire Mage], and I want to level.”
Correy was smiling, but he had been staring at something just past Erin every few seconds. He had frizzy red hair that made him look his class—and his smile was too relaxed.
The other chess players, from Chaldion to Niers, were waiting as Erin Solstice glanced at him. Their suspicions were confirmed when Erin pushed the board back.
“I’m afraid, Correy—that the game’s off. You’re cheating.”
“What? No I’m not! Prove it.”
Erin just stared down at the chessboard, and Antal nodded. If he’d been able to use his own computer, he suspected he’d be able to perfectly match Correy to an algorithm’s perfect moves. But then again—he didn’t have to guess.
Correy was staring at his damn laptop. Erin Solstice might not have had proof, but she just folded her arms. And her eyes flashed.
“The <Quest> and I know you’re cheating. What’s up, Correy?”
“Hey, I’m a huge fan, Erin. We should talk.”
“Maybe, but not here. You don’t belong in that seat. Next?”
It was the same thing that Niers and the other opponents that Correy had ‘beaten’ had sensed. It was one thing to ask for advice. When Altestiel met Erin on the board, the Lord of the Dance was talking to him on one side, Kiish reading out fellow [Strategists]’ input in the other ear.
But it was still a joint effort, a communal victory or one person taking help. There was a difference between even that and letting someone else do all the work. Letting a computer play for you. Erin turned her head away, and Correy got mad. He leaned over the board.
“Hey! I’m w—”
The [Innkeeper]’s eyes flashed. Then Correy shouted, and his scrying orb went dark. A flash of light bloomed—and the laptop exploded. She blinked, but Challenger #23 vanished. The only sound she heard before the feed cut was someone else—a young man?
He was laughing in a high-pitched cackle. The [Clown] howled with laughter amid the screams and Correy’s shouts of pain.
“Did…did I do that?”
Erin gulped. She didn’t think so. And if she didn’t do that—she saw Nerry staring up at her, as wide-eyed as Ulvama.
A bunch of potential cheaters eyed her face…and slowly put away their various cheating implements.
 
——
 
She was insane. Drassi’s Channel 2 news was breaking records—again. Even the famous summit with the Arbiter Queen hadn’t done this well—because the news was becoming something people tuned into.
However—what was significant about this wasn’t just the games themselves, but how people were interacting. It was almost as fun to watch people getting mad about Erin or hearing alternate takes.
“She has to be cheating herself. There is no way a Human can beat every person who’s gone up against her. She’s not even old! Her brain isn’t half as big as—as a Gorgon’s!”
A Lizardfolk woman was ranting after being kicked out of the second-rung of her tournament. Some people were also pointing to Erin’s use of Skills as clear proof that this was all rigged.
Others were just mad because most of the opponents making it to Erin were Humans or humanoid. Another Lizardfolk grabbed the magical microphone.
“This is a conspiracy! I’ve been counting, and do you know how many Lizardfolk got to play that Human? Two! Umina and one of our Lamias! Two out of twenty! Everyone else is a Human!”
“What about Tulm the Mithril?”
The [Mage] doing the interviews had to ask. The Lizardman scowled.
“Practically Human!”
“Fetohep of Khelt? He’s undead!”
“Still a Human!”
“The Quarass?”
At this point, the Lizardman hesitated.
“Uh—well, she’s Human right now!”
“What about the Antinium who faced Erin first?”
“Stop saying things that refute my point.”
Not everyone was a fan of Erin Solstice when all was said and done, for reasons that were better or worse depending on the logic involved. However, for every person complaining?
 
——
 
“Well, well, well. So my opponent is none other than the famous Feshi of the Gnoll Tribes?”
If Erin Solstice were flashy enough in her games with her opponents, her aura was still mostly confined to people who sat down against her. Drassi had tried to show the audience what it looked like to play against Erin. But the scrying orb only caught…flashes.
Like a flash of a distant lunar battleground—a vision—flickering across the air. Or those black wings, Void Dragonfire, or the hints of laughter running around her.
Which was making some people think she was a Dragon. No, no, think about it. Who knew how to play chess that well? She had magical fire, right? And she just happened to start an inn outside Liscor? Who survives crossbow bolts? Dragons.
Cirediel thought the theory was sort of stupid because he noticed, but he also saw the appeal. The wings looked hot.
But he was cramming popcorn into his mouth with his friends in a bar as he saw one of the challengers sit down to vie to be one of Erin’s opponents. He had the scrying orb’s control, but every time a game began, Cire kept switching channels.
Because he hated chess. But watching the people talk? That was something.
The Earth Dragon felt it. In that way, he saw something people were missing.
The opponents from around the world were talking to each other. Feshi Weatherfur looked up as someone entered the scrying orb’s frame opposite her. He came in like a wrestler entering a titleship match.
Fifteen servants set up a raucous serenade of trumpets as a man in armor ran forwards to cheers from his audience. His enchanted armor flashed as he threw back a cloak off his shoulders and pointed a finger at her.
General Thelican of Nerrhavia’s Fallen was all show, despite having lost three bids for a championship position. And while Feshi herself was perplexed by his entry—he was beaming.
“I am delighted to meet you, Feshi Weatherfur!”
“Thank you, General Thelican. How is Nerrhavia’s Fallen?”
His face fell slightly.
“Oh, we’re at war with the King of Destruction, but you know how it is. Unlike some nations, we’re used to facing legends on the field, eh? You’ve clashed with the Walled Cities—how are the tribes, if you don’t mind me asking?”
It was a rather insensitive question, but Thelican followed it up with some actual insight.
“As I understand it, the lack of Chieftains means your Tribes will be partnering and safeguarding the younger ones until Chieftains emerge. No direct appointing to the role and risking a poor candidate. I think that’s a fascinating way to run leadership classes.”
Feshi blinked and ducked her head.
“That is…the way the tribes organize. I am impressed you know this, if you do not mind me saying so.”
“Everyone has been fascinated with Gnoll culture. I was dining on silkap just the other night. Delightful dish.”
What, the snack for dinner? There were obviously some disconnects, but Thelican could do worse. And in fact, he insisted on talking for nearly twenty minutes before the game even began and while it played. That was partly why he’d won some games; not all of his opponents could talk and play.
“I shall send you a suit of Nerrhavia’s [Sandstorm Dervish] armor—the kind we arm our best warriors with. Obviously, we are used to fighting in different terrain, but I think you might take something from it. And some fine items from home. A rug, perhaps. A flying rug—send her some good vintages.”
He clicked his fingers grandly to his servants, and Feshi looked surprised, but Thelican had been doing this all day. She hesitated and ducked her head.
“Then I shall send you some of Weatherfur’s finest paints and dyes. I am told even Nerrhavia lacks for the pigments we have.”
“Truly?”
Thelican raised a cup, and half of Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s [Painters] began to lambast Feshi and mock the tribal Gnoll…until she smiled.
“You do not have access to them, General Thelican. We do not sell such dyes save at the Meeting of Tribes due to how rare they are. I will send you some for cloth.”
That made him smile.
 
——
 
[Strategists] from across the world were introducing themselves. In fact, the Blighted King, whenever he appeared in a scrying orb against his opponents, often took the time to briefly speak to them.
He was one of the world’s top players. Which astonished anyone outside of Rhir. The Lizardman’s complaint wasn’t entirely unjustified.
Of the best players—the Blighted King, Eldavin, and the Titan of Baleros were among the finest. Added to that, the Lord of the Dance and one more.
Archmage Feor was the last of the five best players that Magnolia Reinhart had once vouchsafed to Erin Solstice. All five men had lost.
Even the Blighted King’s Skills lost against Erin. Eldavin? She had beaten him once before. Their games were among the best, but Erin Solstice was not losing.
—In fact, when the Archmage of Elves waited for his turn, heart pounding, ready to greet her, he saw the oddest sight.
Challenger #46 saw Erin Solstice blearily walking around the inn, gulping down coffee, as she yawned. But then a cheering group of people had her on the floor.
Doing pushups. Feor watched as a group of Redfangs shouted, trying to give what they thought was a boost to Erin’s energy.
“Five! Six! Faster! Harder! Stronger!”
