“And I am honored to meet you. Silver and steel guide you, Princess Marquin. You’ve been a friend to my sister and brother, and I am grateful for everything you’ve done.”
Ysara didn’t even try to hide what she knew. Lyonette’s eyes focused on Ysara and widened a bit.
“Yes! And you’re Yvlon’s older…she’ll be delighted to meet you! I am so grateful to meet you—but Yvlon’s just inside! And you won’t believe it, but the Silver Swords just came in via Invrisil.”
“Ah. Wonderful.”
The older Byres’ smile slipped slightly, but Mrsha was sniffing the air. Then her eyes went round, and she leapt out of Lyonette’s arms.
“What’s gotten into her?”
Qwera eyed Mrsha as Lyonette scolded her daughter, but Gire was sniffing the air too. And then she bounded past startled guests. For Mrsha had smelled someone else who’d just arrived.
 
——
 
The little Gnoll burst into the common room just in time to see the most high-powered meeting yet. The Golden Gnoll had come to Liscor.
But so had Gold-rank teams. The Silver Swords, teams like Todi’s Elites from Invrisil, the Horns, the Halfseekers—
And one more. In fact, they had just arrived, and they were so famous that they had even put the Silver Swords’ return to shame.
“Goblins! Pizza! Ice cream! This is what I’ve been waiting for! I made it! Oh, hey Mrsha.”
The Stargnoll, Lehra Ruinstrider, was running around as excitedly as Mrsha. Her team, Stargazer’s Promise, were greeting the surprised Horns and the wary teams, who eyed one of Izril’s top adventurers with a kind of awe.
And wariness, because they remembered how ‘Regrika Blackpaw’ had gone. The [Innkeeper] was standing warily in front of her Goblin friends, but when the little Gnoll leapt forwards and tried to give Lehra a flying headbutt, the Stargnoll whirled her around in the air and put Mrsha on a table, laughing.
Then she turned as Qwera walked in.
“Hey, the Golden Gnoll! Everyone’s back from the Meeting of Tribes! Is Honored Krshia here?”
She waved, but a pair of Humans froze at the table where they were awkwardly greeting each other. Yvlon Byres half rose, and Ylawes looked up, stunned.
“Ysara…?”
She halted when she saw her two younger siblings. Ysara smiled awkwardly, but Yvlon shot to her feet. She came over, smiling genuinely as Ysara stared at Yvlon’s arms. She had seen, during the Meeting of Tribes, and she had no doubt seen images of Yvlon, but it was one thing to see and another to get a look up close.
“Yvlon. Ylawes. It’s been a long time. You two look—great. Especially you, Yvlon.”
She reached out and embraced her sister gingerly. Yvlon returned the gesture, almost as timidly, and Ylawes got up. He reached out, went to embrace his two sisters—and both let go. Ysara hugged Ylawes briefly, patting him on the back.
“Ysara, this is an amazing coincidence. I am delighted to see you! What brought you to Liscor? The bazaar? Father and Mother will be delighted to hear from you.”
“Of course. And yes. Here I am, back in the north, or close enough. Look at you two heroes of the day.”
Ysara’s smile was about as genuine as Qwera’s fur. Which was to say, it wasn’t completely fake, but it had layers and hidden meaning. Yvlon glanced at her sister, but she reached out.
“You’re still wearing your sword.”
She pointed, and Ysara’s look of reserve turned to amusement.
“I still have to defend myself. But I’d say you two have long since passed me.”
“Not in talent. Not in talent. How are you? Is that—is that Gnoll made of gold? We just got in. This is incredible. Sit, please. Are you staying?”
Ylawes regained his composure faster—right until he noticed Ysara’s tattoos. One ran up her neck, and she had some on her arms and other places, more hidden by her clothing. He stared at the colorful tattoos with his mouth open, and Ysara sighed.
“Those are new.”
Yvlon managed. Ylawes was silently gobbling air, and Ysara was endlessly grateful for Qwera. She must have sensed the awkwardness, and she came over in full merchant-mode.
“Well, here are your younger siblings! I’m Qwera, the Golden Gnoll. Just an alias. It is a delight to meet Ysara’s family—she is endlessly proud.”
“Oh, hello, hello.”
Both Yvlon and Ylawes instantly turned to greet her, and the moment warmed back up again, especially when Ceria came tromping into the inn.
“Is that your older sister and a golden—tree sap, it’s Lehra Ruinstrider!”
She pointed at Lehra, and the Gnoll pointed back.
“It’s Ceria! I saw you on the scrying orb! Autographs! Where’s the Silver Killer? Ohmygosh, there she is!”
She swerved as she saw Yvlon, and the [Armsmistress]’ face said it all. Ylawes tried to bow to Lehra.
“I am such a fan, Yvlon! You are the most hardcore adventurer ever! And—hi, are you a warrior too?”
“Ylawes Byres, Captain of the Silver Swords. A famous Gold-rank team.”
Someone hissed in Lehra’s ear. Elgrinna, the Dwarf [Warrior], actually yanked on Lehra’s tail. The Gnoll started, slapped Elgrinna’s hand, then turned beet red.
“Oh no! I mean—hello!”
“Adventurer Ruinstrider, it’s an honor.”
That was all Ylawes managed. He couldn’t help but glance at Yvlon, then looked up—and saw his older sister’s knowing smile.
It was rare for Ylawes to look that uncomfortable. But Dawil was all there for it. In fact, he was right there, and he and Elgrinna were slapping each other on the back.
“A Dwarf from home! What’s with your adventurer? Don’t recognize some veterans, Miss Elgrinna?”
“Aw, here comes Axemaster Dawil, here to lecture me. Hero of Dwarfhome! If I could have teleported, I’d have been right with you. You damn credit to your people, you.”
Falene Skystrall was nodding to the Gazer [Wizard], Suxhel, and Emper, the Stitch-man [Monk]. They were certainly a sight for sore eyes!
In fact, Lyonette could barely keep up with the introductions! Mrsha was in the mix as Lehra tossed her up and down, and Moore gently caught her; Lehra gaped up at him in delight. But no one could get in a word edgewise for a second.
That was, until someone waved.
“Hey. Who’re all these people? I’m Erin. Are these your friends, Mrsha?”
Then they turned, and Qwera, Ysara, Vetn, Stargazer’s Promise—all looked at Erin Solstice. Ylawes himself hadn’t seen her, and he rose to his feet in awe. Dawil turned and smiled. He exhaled as if he’d been holding a breath, and Lehra pointed at Erin.
“You’re the one who posted the <Quest> for Mershi. You’re Mrsha’s friend. Aren’t you…?”
“Erin Solstice. Hi.”
She said it so casually, but her mere presence somehow halted the chaos for a second. Erin stood with the Goblins peering at the adventurers and newcomers in the background. She might have been unhappy in large events where everyone stared and fawned over her—
But in this moment, the [Innkeeper] knew just what to do and say. She spread her arms wide and beamed.
“Welcome to my inn! If you’re friends of Mrsha’s, you’re friends of mine. Do you want food? Somewhere to put your things? The Wandering Inn will never turn new friends away! Just remember to read the sign.”
“What sign?”
Lehra looked nervous, but Qwera brightened up. She reached out, and Erin’s eyes fixed on her golden fur.
“Whoa! You’re amazing!”
“It takes one to know one. Did I hear rooms, Miss Solstice? I’m afraid we couldn’t find suitable accommodations. Safe ones. [Thieves] and the like.”
“Oh—of course! We’ve got rooms on the second and third floors! Actually—we haven’t taken in any new guests, so we’ve got tons of room! Even group rooms. And my inn is super safe. Well, my garden is. No one gets in who isn’t allowed. Got valuables?”
“That would be excellent, Miss Solstice.”
Qwera smiled with great satisfaction. Lehra was still gobbling.
“You—you’re the one who knows about Mershi! Please, tell me everything!”
She tried to get to Erin, but Lehra had made a mistake—she assumed being a Named-rank Adventurer meant anything here.
She tried to reach out to Erin, and the [Innkeeper] rose two feet in the air. Mostly because Dawil was hugging her.
“Hey! Put me down! I—oh, Dawil!”
The Dwarf had tears in his eyes. But he let Erin down and gently patted her on the arm.
“You did it. Grandfathers awake, I can’t believe it.”
“Oh, Dawil. And Ylawes, Falene? I’m gonna cry! Don’t make me cry again! C’mere!”
Erin looked up, and the [Knight] and [Battlemage] were drawn into a hug far more genuine than the one Ylawes had given Ysara. Lehra practically danced around the edge of the hug, but even she couldn’t interrupt it. Then Erin was exclaiming.
“Yvlon’s sister is here? Whoa. Whoa! You have tattoos! Hi, I’m Erin.”
She shook hands with the smiling [Merchant], and then Mrsha was tugging over Vetn, who looked incredibly nervous for some reason. He stared at a point over Erin’s shoulder as he shook the [Innkeeper]’s hand.
Lehra, by contrast, had suddenly begun to explode. The genial Stargnoll was often so laissez-faire it exasperated her teammates. But when she had seen Erin—
The armband of metal on her arm had begun to glow. The Stargnoll interrupted the greetings with Vetn, or tried to.
“Excuse me, Erin. I’m Named-rank Adventurer Lehra Ruinstrider. And you know about the City of Stars. I own the Blade of Mershi.”
Erin glanced up. She focused on Lehra and frowned as the Gnoll tried to push past Falene. Obviously, the half-Elf stepped back, but Erin’s brows instantly knitted.
“Yeah. I posted the <Mythical Quest>. I’m happy to talk about it—but hold on, Falene! You have a Blade of Mershi? You’re almost there! Better work on finding the Crossroads first, though. Word to the wise.”
She gave Lehra a polite smile, and the Stargnoll gaped at Erin.
“What? Why do I need to find that? Tell me what you know! I’m—the blade has a—”
“I’ll meet with you later. Later.”
Erin was smiling, but Lehra was so excited that not even Emper and Elgrinna could stop her. She reached out to grab Erin as the young woman turned.
“Wait! Hey! I’m a Named-rank Adventurer!”
She pulled rank, a rarity, and a clawed hand caught her arm. Another caught her shoulder. Lehra blinked as a pair of strong grips halted her dead in place. She tensed—because she felt a sudden prickle down her spine, but then she looked around.
“Oh yeah? Join the club, kid.”
An orange-scaled Drake was leaning on Dawil’s head as he held Lehra’s shoulder. Saliss of Lights nodded at Shriekblade as Suxhel screamed, jumped, and Emper had to stop her from wiping out.
Even she hadn’t seen Shriekblade. Lehra stared at her senior adventurers and gulped.
“But I—”
“Hey, kid. Kid. Kid. We’ve met, right?”
Saliss poked her on the shoulder repeatedly. He nodded at Stargazer’s Promise as they stared at the two Named-ranks in awe. Lehra thought they had, but only briefly at an Adventurer’s Guild or fancy event. Saliss gave her a friendly smile.
“Here’s some free advice: act like a Bronze-rank in this inn. Or the [Innkeeper] will serve you her specialty. Humble pie. Wait, why did I tell you that? Go ahead and bother her.”
He shooed Lehra with his claws. Shriekblade hadn’t let go, but Saliss winked at Lehra.
“I could use a good laugh. Hello, who are these delightful [Merchants]?”
“Saliss of Lights, you rogue.”
Qwera shook his hand with a sigh, but she actually smiled. As for Ysara, she nodded at the Drake, and he looked her up and down as Ylawes stared in horror at the naked Drake. The Goblins were just laughing—those that weren’t eying Saliss and Shriekblade with alarm.
“Hey, Saliss is here! Get the nuts-box!”
Erin shouted. The inn exploded into laughter, and Mrsha beamed. She ran forwards and tried to pose in front of these famous people as Drassi practically dashed back into the common room. The scrying orb illuminated these people—and Saliss, who had just dumped a potion of [Invisibility] over Mrsha’s head.
But that was alright. The [Alchemist] was laughing as the world’s first censor bar appeared. And Mrsha the Invisible embarked on her greatest reign of terror yet. Especially because Saliss handed her the half-empty vial.
 
——
 
“What an inn.”
This night, the attraction was the guests. Lehra sat, slightly more humble, but still as loud as could be, scarfing down food. The Golden Gnoll was eating with three top [Merchants], while the Players of Celum performed on the inn’s stage.
Just like the old times. However, the new times included more good things, at least, to the inn’s family.
Like Rags, sitting with Erin and looking urbanely amused as she dined with the funniest group in the world.
Namely, a stiff, nay, wooden Ylawes, Erin, Dawil, Numbtongue, Ysara, Yvlon, and Pelt. The Dwarf [Smith] had come out of his forge to see why Hedault was missing meetings, and nary a stranger group existed.
Especially because Dawil and Pelt had a weird relationship, and the three Y-named Byres siblings were a mix of uncomfortable with each other—and very familiar with their own friends.
Plus Goblins. Pelt glared at Rags suspiciously as she ate spaghetti off a fork.
“How’s it, Rags? Just like you remember?”
“Eh. I’ve had better cooking since then. I’m not the Goblin I used to be. Sad.”
Numbtongue looked horrified and outraged. Erin’s mouth fell open. Pelt? He roared with laughter, and a little Goblin compounded Erin’s pain.
“Yeah. Bad food. Stick it to the man! Woman.”
“Gothica! Shoo! Shoo! Wait a sec—Kevin! Are you teaching Gothica?”
“…No.”
Kevin ducked at another table, hunching his shoulders as Poisonbite and a bunch of Goblins fed a little bee preening and fanning her wing with awe. The herald of a new age buzzed happily.
“So, um, Ysara. I see you’ve kept up with your sword training. Perhaps we should spar later.”
Ylawes poked at his plate as if trying to poke a hole through the awkwardness. Ysara tried to wave it off.
“These days, you and Yvlon are the real adventurers. Let’s talk about that, not the old days. I heard you were at Wistram. How was that, Ylawes?”
The [Knight] froze, and his eyes slid sideways to Falene, who was eating with Suxhel, but Dawil bailed him out.
“Wistram? We met with Eldavin, and the first thing he did was chuck Ylawes out a window. We were trying to make a deal to help out Erin, but the Silver Swords aren’t worth much in the heart of magic.”
“He what?”
Yvlon looked astonished, and Pelt snorted.
“Sounds like every [Archmage] I’ve met. He didn’t turn the idiot into a frog…and you broke the axe. I’ll kill you!”
