Redscar was screaming at Erin. The [Innkeeper] was screaming back.
“Stop making me do pushups! I hate exercise!”
It was the silliest thing in the world, and when she saw Feor staring at her, she turned beet red. But there she was.
Like Niers, no—like no one before, Erin Solstice was dead center in the news, doing what she did best. Which was, when you got down to it, chess. She wiped sweat from her brow, sat down, and smiled.
“Hey, is it Archmage Feor! Wow! This is amazing! Ceria—hey Ceria, Falene, look!”
She turned to Ceria and Falene, and both half-Elves pretended they didn’t know her. Erin was meeting people that she had heard of only as famous names. Eldavin, Tulm, the Blighted King…
But not Magnolia Reinhart. The reason was simple. Magnolia was watching the chess games, but she had declined to participate. Mostly because she had a fairly good idea how well she would do without obvious Skills that would lean on the competition and make her look unfortunate.
However—she was smiling. In that exasperated way she had when she watched Erin do anything, but with some genuine admiration.
Now, that was not to say that Magnolia was not part of this entire affair. Heavens, no. Lord Tyrion Veltras and the other Five Families might have lacked the, ah, chess acumen to make it to face Erin Solstice.
With the exception of Lord Deilan El. But Magnolia Reinhart was a [Lady]. She knew how to invite herself into the right situations even lacking the pure chess ability of some, and she could manufacture that moment herself.
“…It seems as though Archmage Feor is quite taken with Miss Solstice. Did she ask if he ‘got her letter’? My word, she is speaking to everyone.”
She lightly fanned herself as she turned to address the rest of her panel. Which was Queen Jecaina, a terrified Yerranola, Drassi herself, a very pleased King Reclis of Calanfer, and yes, in deference to Lizardfolk fury, Lamia Tusxe, a mercenary commander on Rhir.
They were providing commentary, and unlike Jecaina’s more clinical trial, this wasn’t about law. In fact, instantly, King Reclis leaned forwards.
He was just as good as Magnolia.
“Please, Lady Reinhart. Are you insinuating that Miss Solstice is in a…clandestine literary affair with more than just the Titan of Baleros?”
“Your Majesty of Calanfer, what are you suggesting? There’s nothing untoward about letters. If there were, Erin would be in bed with half a dozen [Kings] and some [Queens].”
“Really?”
Lamia Tusxe nearly spat out her drink as Magnolia chuckled. She gave Reclis a smile which he returned. It was like they were playing a game of chess themselves, only they were learning the rules.
Oh, so this was how you did it? Drassi broke in with a laugh.
“Lady Reinhart, King Reclis, you two are crazy. But is Erin actually sending letters to…Archmage Feor? Oh my, she’s destroying him on the board. I think we’ll let our analysts tell us how the game went.”
Magnolia pursed her lips as Jecaina squinted at the board.
“It looks like Archmage Feor in the first part of the game actually opened up his left rook by moving his pawn forwards. Can we replay that, Drassi? My, my. I didn’t know he was this amusing.”
“My understanding is that Archmage Feor is considered a top-level player across the world, in the [Mage] community and elsewhere, Lady Reinhart. I, myself, have played him, and I was considered one of the foremost players in Calanfer. What is so amusing?”
Reclis teased her as Yerranola fumbled with her notes. Magnolia just sighed.
“I happen to know that is called the, ah…what was it? The Kadas Opening? A very bad opening for a very fine player, indeed. Archmage Feor might well be a skilled player, but I have been assured that is a terrible way to start a game. From playing myself, you understand. Perhaps it works on other players, but not Miss Solstice.”
“I believe she’s seen it before, uh, uh, Lady Reinhart. Y-your Majesty. She took it apart very fast.”
Yerranola stuttered in, and Magnolia turned.
“Miss Yerranola, please. Magnolia will do. Or even Mags. You must come by Oteslia, and I will host you. What I am pleased about, though, is that Erin is keeping herself fed.”
The rest of her commentary group looked askance as Magnolia smiled at Erin. Queen Jecaina murmured.
“You must be joking, Lady Reinhart.”
“Humans. She’s going to die. Wait, I heard you had sugar for blood. Do you eat like that?”
Tusxe pointed in horror as Erin, desperate to replenish her energy levels, snatched a bowl of ice cream from Lyonette’s hands, then dumped it in a cup of milk. She proceeded to pour in her cup of coffee and add in a nali-stick. Magnolia smiled.
“Not in that way, but I have a tiny sweet tooth.”
“Someone—someone stop Mrsha. Hey, Drassi—stop Mrsha!”
The Gnoll was trying to copy Erin’s example and make her own coffee latte ice cream shake with extra nali. Drassi ran off-screen and intercepted Mrsha. Magnolia defended herself as Reclis, Jecaina, and Tusxe took her to task about her eating habits.
Nothing would do then for them all to make the shake and publicly shudder—except for Tusxe, who finished hers. Meanwhile, Reclis eyed a certain red-haired young woman. Well, formerly red-haired.
She was wearing a bad wig. Magnolia rolled her eyes, but she kept going. This was quite amusing.
 
——
 
“Erin.”
Ryoka Griffin was watching her friend. So were the other Humans. They had to be. From a certain [Driver] heading north with an excited Antinium, to the Earthers of Rhir, the Singer of Terandria…
They saw her and saw Erin doing what she did best. Something wild and crazy. Her friend, the Wind Runner, wanted to be in Liscor. She was so antsy she almost went over to where Lord Pellmia, Tyrion, and a bunch of [Lords] and [Ladies] were scheming.
“What is the easiest tournament? No, no, I don’t want a local one—this is First Landing. Enter us in the Yoldenite tournament. Lord Pellmia, Lord Tyrion…fine, make them Drake names. Lord Pellsia, Tyllion—”
They were, uh, not doing well. Ryoka hadn’t bothered trying to get in the tournament. She had played Erin when the [Innkeeper] was being nice.
Right now, it looked like Erin Solstice could breathe fire and spit lightning. In a literal sense. Some of her Skills seemed to actually sap her opponents’ strength. Every time she took a piece off the board when she played a Centaur [Tactician], he grew paler and paler.
Mind you, he had already begun hyperventilating, but Ryoka actually saw a phantom bolt of lightning, like a flickering apparition, go through him when she knocked out his queen. He trotted around in a circle in his scrying orb—then passed out.
“Whoa! She’s killing them if she wins! It’s a chess game to the death! That’s awesome. Ryoka, Ryoka, it’s your move.”
Sammial thought it was neat. He slapped his board impatiently, and Ryoka glanced down. She was playing him and Hethon, and she frowned.
“You moved your pieces.”
“I get my pawn back.”
“…Why?”
“Because you have too many of my pieces! I get my pawn back!”
Sammial insisted. He folded his arms, and Ryoka rolled her eyes.
“Sure, take your pawn back. Check.”
“Argh!”
As the young [Lord] tried to scheme his way back to a victory, Ryoka turned to the scrying orb once more. What impressed her about Erin was not the Skills or the <Quest>. Well, those were amazing, as was her wiping out foe after foe. But it wasn’t even her meeting the rich and powerful. To Ryoka, that was dangerous. It wasn’t the community, the excitement…
It was Ryoka Griffin’s eternal envy for anyone who saw her opponents in that half-seen world. What she and her chess opponents saw was mostly lost to Ryoka. But the Wind Runner knew—perspective. She watched Viscount Visophecin appear in the scrying orb and his careful look at Erin Solstice.
She suspected that Erin saw something completely unique. She hoped that Erin was smart about it. This was the second game, and if the first had been any indication—
Erin had seen him.
 
——
 
It was just supposed to be a game. Once more, he sat down and sank into another dimension. Unlike the other players, he knew other dimensions.
This was a power like his own. Given to an [Innkeeper] for this quest? Incredible. Unbelievable.
But what made the Lucifen’s skin crawl even as he kept his face smiling for the cameras was this.
The illusion of a man faded, and a Devil spread his wings. He stood in a world of blackness as a roaring river the size of an ocean ran under the chess board hovering in the air.
Another area this time? The Lucifen looked up, and there was no giant this time. Erin Solstice was sitting across from him, tired. Mortal. Frail. Sweaty.
So—why was his hand shaking? He looked at it idly and then at her. His true form was revealed. The first time, he had been so disconcerted he’d thrown the match.
This time…he watched her face and wondered if he would have to kill her. For she was seeing something she should not be able to. Yet she was Ryoka’s friend. And what made the Lucifen’s heart beat fast was…
The [Witch of Second Chances] sat there. Empowered by the glowing Skills and class hovering over her head. But that was not what made Visophecin freeze.
There were a pair of horns growing out of her head. Her skin was grey, like his, and when she smiled, her pointed teeth were a copy of his own. He looked at her—and she nodded to him.
“Viscount Visophecin, isn’t it? Ailendamus?”
“Yes.”
He knew their voices were being picked up by the scrying orbs, even if this wasn’t. The Viscount had heard her greeting some of the Humans with familiarity, but no one could say what was truly secret. Yet—Erin just nodded.
“Ailendamus must be a fun place. Although I don’t support the war. I have friends that Ailendamus attacked. You look familiar, though.”
“I don’t believe we have met. Although we did play earlier today.”
The Lucifen carefully scrutinized her face. The [Innkeeper] leaned back and laughed. Her eyes glittered red, and she smiled.
 
[Temporary Skill Assigned: Visions of Defeat (Legendary)]
 
Slowly, the Devil gazed past Erin as a figure walked out of the shadows. He said nothing at all as a Lucifen wearing Chandrarian clothing in the style of old Khelt plucked an obsidian rose and placed it behind Erin’s ear, like a memento. The [Innkeeper] didn’t seem to notice.
“I’ve met a lot of interesting people today. It’s familiar. Now—shall we begin? How far away is Ailendamus, anyways?”
A [Princess] walked into the void and whispered urgently in her ear. Visophecin had seen the [Princess] and the Thronebearers cueing Erin into her guests. She blinked and laughed as Lyonette hurried away with a look at Visophecin. He nodded to her.
“Far from Liscor, I am afraid.”
Erin sighed.
“Everything cool is. But tell you what. If you ever travel to Izril—consider visiting my inn?”
The Lucifen saw her lift a chess piece, and he managed a reply as the first piece came thundering down and the river below him began to twist and roar.
“I believe I shall if ever the opportunity arises.”
 
——
 
Visophecin went down in flames, but he didn’t just go back to preparing for another game. Instead—he pulled out a [Message] spell as the Lucifen and Agelum demanded to know if everything was still safe.
He assured them it was and logged onto the world’s largest [Message] thread group.
 
Viscount V: Attacking her control by focusing on her knights did nothing. She is endlessly adaptive.
Rainy Boy: She still prefers to take the center. I suggest that anyone going at her force her into more unique patterns.
E: I will not waste my chance on possibilities, Earl. It seems to me that trying to be ‘unique’ is a surefire way to lose; better to play an opening you know well.
Rainy Boy: You say that—but I have seen her lose.
Viscount V: To whom?
Fetohep: Your diction is excellent. I believe that would be Bird, who plays in unique styles, is it not?
Strategist Coleom of Chandrar, Nerrhavia’s Fallen: Archmage Eldavin, I am such a huge fan of yours. Could I ask you if you’d be willing to entertain a visit to—
E: Deleted. Apologies. Didn’t someone press her quite hard? Who played her in that game with diagonal approaches?
Scout Leader Illn: Me?
Rainy Boy: Wonderful game. She might be adaptive, but she has a weakness. Does anyone want to volunteer to try that on her?
Fetohep: Assuming the chance occurs, I shall.
Quarass: And I. Excuse me, I was away.
Mri: AND MY AXE! Forsooth! I have defeated Erin Solstice before and have come to impart my wisdom!
E: Get out of here. And stop coming back.
 
——
 
The second day of the party was all about chess. Chess and meetings. Lyonette thought she was mostly ready for the big party on the final day. Even if Pawn and she…
She was staying up, lighting lanterns, and there was still a huge crowd, even if the children had long since passed out. Because there was Erin Solstice.
Challenger #87. Fetohep, again. His golden eyes burned in the darkness as he tipped over a king piece.
They were…cycling. Eighty-seven challengers, and most had gone through [Immortal Moments]. Otherwise—it might have been days.
Erin looked like she was spent. She just nodded to Fetohep, but she waited. Niers, Chaldion—all of the players that were the best kept reappearing to take their shot at her.
And each time, they got closer. However, they were feeling the effects of exhaustion, and, too late, Niers realized he should have gone to sleep and started fresh.
That was hindsight for you. The world’s audience and Drassi were just waiting to see who finally took Erin Solstice down.
It was like watching a pack of Carn Wolves taking down a Mossbear. They were circling—and then one would come in, and there would be a flash of fangs and a bitter, bloody battle. The [Innkeeper] was no longer smiling.
She was concentrating, and she was visibly reacting to the quality of her opponents. She actually groaned when the scrying orb flickered.
“You again.”
A lot of weaker challengers were appearing, local regional masters. However, while some were surprising, Erin could knock a Naga flat, or Beatrice, or even Valeterisa.
…But the Quarass of Germina was a top-tier opponent. She twirled a pawn on one finger, then put it down. Erin inhaled—
And the Quarass stood by the thousands. Lifetimes of mastery facing down a world of ghosts. Erin Solstice looked in her eyes, and the Quarass nodded.
We have more to talk about than mere games.
The [Innkeeper] was blazing out, but she was going down swinging. She put down a piece, and the Quarass felt it like a quake.
Take me out and we’ll talk. The [Innkeeper]’s mouth was a line of concentration as she bit her lip to keep herself focused. You cannot best me that easily.
“Dead gods, they’re going at it.”
