A yawning Qwera watched as pieces flew off the board and the Quarass and Erin’s hands blurred under the effects of their [Immortal Moment]. To outsiders, it looked like they were sped up, locked at the horns.
Speaking of horns…Olesm pushed himself back from the table and went back for his second rematch as Venaz smashed a fist on his board. Erin Solstice took down the Quarass and wobbled. She looked up.
“Niers? Don’t you have any sympathy for little old me?”
The Titan appeared, grinning.
“This is your hour, Erin. Show us how the ‘World’s Greatest Player’ goes down. Five seconds per move? Flash game?”
He taunted her, and Erin’s lips moved.
 
[Temporary Skill Assigned: My Thoughts Run Like Lightning]
 
A crackling storm swept over the void between them, and the Titan sighed as he saw her straighten her back.
“Bring it on.”
The Skills were still adapting to every opponent. Niers lost, swearing vividly, as Erin drew him into a rapid defeat. He couldn’t keep up with her!
…However, that had drained her even more. But now the audience was riveted. Again, not by the game.
By the atmosphere. The fourth challenger in a row appeared.
Fetohep, the Quarass, the Titan. And then…
International Master Antal Fekete appeared to cheers. Like the [Hero] facing the final boss—they were beginning to cheer on each player.
“You again. I’m sorry I can’t play without Skills…”
At this point, Erin was recognizing her opponents’ levels, and she gave him a guilty smile. Antal replied.
“No need. You’re insane.”
It was not the first time they had played together. But it might be the last. There was no roar of black wings beating, no moon this time.
Antal sat in an [Immortal Moment], with words only for the two of them. In a [Garden of Sanctuary], feeling a spring breeze blowing across his face. He looked up as they played under a vast sakura tree with light green petals blowing in the wind.
Erin Solstice sat in the dress the owner of this garden had once worn. A silk kimono perhaps, but so long it spilled around her resting on a blanket over soft grass as she studied the chess board in front of them. Her hair was pinned by a single jade-green hairpin. She looked serene. Exhausted—and he thought she looked like a reigning champion waiting for him as she sat there.
“There’s so much I want to talk to you about.”
That was all Antal said. He looked at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] looked up. She smiled briefly.
“I know. I’m sorry, though. I’m tired. And—I’m playing you at my best.”
Her eyes flickered, and the wind picked up. Antal’s heart was already racing. They could only speak like this briefly—but he spoke, desperate.
“I know, but you’re my senior in chess and—here. Do you know anything?”
He was a hero of Rhir. Erin Solstice looked up slowly, and her eyes were sympathetic.
“I don’t know everything, Antal. But I can tell you this: it will not be easy. It’s all real, and—I cannot go across the world. Not yet. If you come to me, if you need help, I will try to give it. But you’re going to need to find your way.”
“…I just play chess.”
The [Chess Player] closed his eyes. When he opened them, the [Innkeeper] was smiling gently.
“So do I. It won’t solve everything. But take this moment and use it. You’re not alone. You have to do your best. More than you ever thought you could. This? This is your first step. Show me what you have.”
Then the breeze in the garden became a gale. Antal thought he saw a flaming bee flying past them as a hurricane blew around them, and he should have been so disconcerted that he didn’t play well. Instead—his mind was on fire, and he was pushing himself and hoping he remembered every move of this game.
He felt alive, like the truest moments of genius he had ever captured, like he was reading a hundred moves ahead. And his opponent was living in this world? Antal looked up at her as she came at him, and he wondered what opponents she’d met to make her smile like that.
He dreamed, in that moment—of playing chess with species he had never met. With Djinni and [Queens] and immortal beings and Golems. And he was not so afraid of the future.
 
——
 
The game took an hour and thirty-one minutes. To the audience? A minute, thirty-one seconds. Erin took a desperate gulp of a stamina potion, but she was swaying when she sat down.
“Come on, easy opponent. Easy opponent. Oh—uh, I didn’t mean to be mean.”
A Drowned Woman grinned as she saluted Erin in a swaying cabin. She whispered.
“Shh, if you please. We’re in the deeps. But it’s an honor to play.”
In silence, they dueled, and the Drowned Woman bowed out as fast as she’d entered, looking pleased to have challenged Erin. But—it wasn’t clear that even these ‘breaks’ were helping Erin. She raised bloodshot eyes and smiled mirthlessly.
“Et tu, Anand?”
The [Strategist] raised his arms as the Antinium began clicking and applauding wildly. So did the Goblins, cheering him.
“Erin. I’m sorry, but I wish to win.”
“So do I.”
Even now—Anand’s raised mandibles trembled. The [Innkeeper] took a breath—and her eyes began glowing again.
“Oh dead gods, it’s like that’s her special form or something. It’s like she’s a boss about to do a special attack. Joseph. Hey, Joseph. Do you think you’ll be able to do that in soccer?”
Kevin whispered to Joseph as Erin faced Anand down. The [Football Coach] hesitated. He imagined someone activating a Skill for a kick.
“We’re already in a videogame, Kevin. She’s just the final boss of chess.”
“Dude, I make bikes. What kind of videogame is that?”
How little he knew. Erin staggered off to the bathroom, but she came back in three minutes. She sat down and actually fell asleep. Her head dipped—she jerked upright—
And her opponents knew it was time.
Who was next who could take her out? Who was going to get that level?
Az’kerash, wearing a puppet-Naga, was trying to bludgeon the Lord of the Dance out of the way, and he’d had a winning position, but the nimble [Lord] was hanging on for dear life. Tulm the Mithril was determined to crush Feshi, but the Gnoll was hanging on. Umina and Olesm were vying for next place.
Erin waited, sipping a glass of water as another local master appeared. Tulm lost to Feshi. Az’kerash cemented his victory, and Olesm sighed in relief.
One of them would be next. Who? And would it be the first person or the third? Or in ten challengers?
Erin Solstice sat in her chair, and her hat was full to bursting. She was alive. She was dying. She was crying for the ghosts. She was triumphant, standing upon the metaphorical bodies of her enemies.
She was probably hallucinating at this point, but the [Innkeeper]’s eyes were glowing, even against her weakest opponents. Sometimes she manifested other powers, even seemed to slightly change shape depending on the Skills she got.
Now—a burning hat made of flames as pink as Magnolia’s carriage flashed above her head. It burned, and the [Witch] began laughing.
She threw her head back and cackled as the tired audience saw her stop playing chess. Then—as Az’kerash, Olesm, and Feshi waited—she pushed herself back from the table. They stared in disbelief as her unknown opponent, who had challenged her for the first time, froze.
Erin Solstice lifted a hand up and swept the burning hat from her head. She bowed—and looked her opponent in the eye.
“You’ve done it. Who are you? I didn’t even ask your name.”
She looked her opponent in the eye, and they seemed as stunned as Erin. Drassi looked up and lurched to her feet—she’d missed it? She swung the camera over, and slowly, a pudgy Human man raised his arms.
Calidus sat in his mansion as the scrying orb reflected his disbelieving face turning to rapid exultation and altogether too much pride.
“I won? I woooooon! I am the greatest [Lord] in the world! Do you hear that?”
He began posing and running about. In dead silence, the world’s best chess players looked up as Calidus Reinhart began whooping with glee.
“Erin—”
“He beat me. He’s…good.”
Erin Solstice turned. The great expectations that had been placed on the other players…the shocked audience looked at Erin Solstice, and she pointed. The image on the scrying orb became a split-screen of her best opponents.
Fetohep, a scowling Eldavin, the Quarass, Niers, Altestiel—Erin saluted them.
“The world’s best chess players took me on. I am the Grandmaster of Scales until someone replaces me—in a formal tournament, not a silly <Quest>. More will appear. Chess has a future longer than what we’ve seen. The game is deeper than I know. But you? You are all amazing players. And I hope you level.”
She beamed at them, and most smiled back, ruefully. Calidus was showering champagne all over the air and himself as he celebrated unabashedly—but it was true.
He was not the only one levelling tonight. But the [Innkeeper], of all of them, just stretched. She turned to Drassi.
“That’s who I am. It’s a shame I don’t level up from chess. But that would be…too easy. Anyways, that’s my inn. Look forwards to more tomorrow. Thanks. Night.”
She smiled—then her eyes rolled up in her head. She passed out on her feet and fell straight backwards until Mrsha, Normen, and Pisces all dove to cushion her.
The legend of chess slept.
 
——
 
[Conditions Met: Hedonistic Wastrel → Genius of Sloth Class!]
[Genius of Sloth Level 23!]
[Class – Hedonist Removed!]
[Condition – Drunken Oblivion Removed!]
 
[Skill – Brilliant Insight (Weekly) obtained!]
[Skill – Store Intellect obtained!]
[Rewarded Skill – Move Reality Like Chess obtained!]
 
In the night, as a voice spoke across the world to many, a [Lord] opened his eyes in sudden, mortal terror.
“Wait. Wait. No.”
 
——
 
[Knight Marshal of the Rains Level 45!]
[Ritual – The Fourth Tide Pours In Blood and Storm obtained!]
 
“Yes! Kiish! Kiish—Bel, get the wine out!”
 
——
 
[Quarass Level 18!]
[Skill – Remembered Skill obtained!]
 
She woke from her doze, and one eye cracked open.
“Good, at last.”
 
——
 
[King of Intrigue Level 37!]
[Skill – Agreement of Stories obtained!]
 
The [King] said nothing at all, but hummed merrily as he thought about his daughter.
 
——
 
[King of Blight, King of Centuries Level 55!]
 
“…”
It was to be expected after last time, but he scowled.
 
——
 
[Midnight Goth Level 22!]
[Skill – Morticious Insult obtained!]
[Skill – Shadowcloak Stealth obtained!]
 
“Heh. Heheheheh.”
A [Head Server] working late into the night felt a chill on his fur as a Goblin started giggling.
 
——
 
They were coming out across the world, and if the Titan was left empty-handed—progress was made. Even if there was no Skill gained, next time, surely…
The quest rewarded one man overwell and the rest of the world in spades.
 
[Eleleu Strategos Level 36!]
[Yodelling Lieutenant Level 25!]
[Dragonslayer Strategist Level 41!]
[Magus Level 15!]
[Strategist Chieftain Level 32!]
[Stoneshorn War Leader Level 29!]
[War Strategist Level 34!]
 
On and on. The voice did not discriminate—even if it changed and decided and assigned due to a logic only it knew. Even if things were different and someone was pushing the very rules themselves. But even they had no authority over everything.
So it spoke and spoke, until it came to one person to whom it delivered the announcement without waiting for sleep.
For, there would never be sleep again. It whispered after so long in his ears.
 
[Undying Lich, Myth of Death and Vengeance Level 78!]
[Skill – Create Spectral Undead obtained!]
[Skill – Sanctum: Death Magic Leyline obtained!]
[Skill – Teacher of Magic (Universal) obtained!]
[Spell – Death King’s Mirage of the Living obtained!]
[Spell – Might of the Glomroath Beast obtained!]
 
He stopped at his work. Az’kerash tapped his lips—and laughed despite himself. A fairly normal level up at this stage—but quite delightful, even so. And like so many, he decided he owed Erin Solstice a great favor indeed.
The Necromancer smiled.
