Rags, for her part, was quite pleased by another supplement to the food issue that often plagued Goblins. But she just had one question.
“…Why is the ham green?”
“Eggs is green too. Chieftain.”
Redscar spoke between a mouthful of egg as Numbtongue tried not to correct him and say, ‘eggs are’. Because he was a word-nerd.
It was funny, to Erin, to see a relationship that she hadn’t known existed of the Redfangs punching each other and teasing Numbtongue. But she was also perplexed by the eggs.
“They look…different. Is something in ‘em?”
She was worried, but Poisonbite chewed happily.
“Melty cheese. Hot eggs. Nice eggs. This one has bits of bacon inside.”
Bird gasped.
“Green eggs? Are they from…green birds?”
Everyone looked at him. Bird waved his arms frantically.
“Super green birds! Even the whites of the eggs are greens! I must know which bird they came from!”
Rags pointed at the ham—it didn’t taste bad. Erin heard a snort. She turned, and Kevin had come up.
“I bet I know. It’s green eggs and ham, Erin. That is so like you.”
“Wh—no it’s not! Wait, that’s hilarious. I’d totally do that. But I haven’t!”
“Then maybe it’s something you would do? Or have you never made green ham before?”
Erin hesitated. Everyone stared at her, and she scuffed a toe on the floor.
“Maaaaaybe for Christmas. Y’know, Dr. Seuss? But I’m amazed the Skill grabbed that!”
“This. This is why you have a [Chef], Erin. Imani, my dear, do I look like I’ve recovered my dignity?”
“Recovered, yes. Dignity? You had little to begin with, my bygone stallion.”
Imani teased him, and Palt looked hurt.
“I give the flirtatious appellations, thank you. As for food—someone pass me the ham. Or anything to eat. It’s going to be a busy day.”
 
——
 
When you started with green eggs and ham, you couldn’t start any better. That was how Erin saw things, but what a morning.
The inn was opening to regular customers for breakfast, so Erin glumly munched on bisque as her friends ate, then she switched over to real food. But the chaos of yesterday was turning into real energy today.
“Free green eggs! Just peel ‘em and eat! Genius. They have food inside them! Why don’t we carry these, Suxhel?”
Lehra waved around the eggs, which were filled with treats, like a devilled egg yolk or cheese or bits of bacon. Suxhel answered out of the corner of her mouth.
“Because they’ve already been cooked. Take them with you on a trip and they’ll rot.”
“Oh. Well—hiyah!”
The Gnoll karate-chopped the egg in half, and Emper blocked a fragment of eggshell as it spun towards his face. Lehra’s team gave her such glowers that she hunched over and began to eat like an adult.
However, Erin grinned and forgave Lehra for yesterday. She was such a funny Named-rank adventurer! Unfortunately, Lehra was enough for everyone by herself—but this was The Wandering Inn.
The guests got stupid. Garia Strongheart was staying here, having never left the group, and when she tried to copy the chop, she struck her plate so hard she split it in half, flipped half her table up, and took Numbtongue out as the edge of his table rocketed up and slapped him on the chin. Mrsha stared as Garia bent over him, apologizing. Then she got up in her chair and performed a headbutt straight into her plate.
“Mrsha!”
Qwera looked amused, Lyonette horrified. Ylawes, who was silent this morning, stared at the worst manners he had ever seen—straight until Dawil joined the scolding.
“That’s not what you do at a table, Miss Mrsha. Watch.”
He took a boiled egg and cracked it over his forehead. Like a gentleman. Rags’ Skill was clearly meant for a tribe, so there was food to spare.
In fact, there was so much that Moore was eating his fill for once, but Seborn was adamant about not even touching the green stuff.
“I grew up on a ship. Sometimes, provisions rotted, and that was all we had. I’ve eaten actual green ham. No. And no.”
Nanette peeked at Seborn as she nibbled at a magical croissant roll. She was timid, but even Nerry the lamb seemed to like the day’s food. However—to Inkar’s mild chagrin, she was eating an entire rash of bacon.
“Don’t worry, Sariant Lambs eat anything people do.”
Tkrn assured her, and Inkar nodded uneasily.
“I know—deer eat baby birds. But she looks happy.”
She was beginning to pick up on Nerry’s advanced intelligence, and that, more than anything, made the girl used to animals uneasy. However, her comment provoked a coughing fit at another table.
“Deer don’t eat birds. What are you talking about?”
Joseph grinned as Inkar gave him a strange look.
“Yes they do. Cows too. And horses.”
“Nah, that’s when they’re sick. They’re herbivores.”
“Who eat meat. When they need the nutrients.”
“…They don’t eat meat. Kevin, back me up.”
“Dude. I’m not an animal expert. Inkar is. Deer eat birds? That’s gross, man. Too bad you didn’t download Wikipedia onto your stuff. Inkar—how was the trip? I’ve got a bike for you if you want to try it.”
Inkar smiled at Kevin shyly; the Earthers had a camaraderie, even if they didn’t know each other.
“Thank you. Can Tkrn ride with me?”
“Hey, you got it. Anything for you two.”
Kevin nodded at Inkar and turned back to his tablemates, Joseph and Bird—the Antinium’s mouth was open.
“Bird? Hey buddy, what’s up?”
“I have competition? More competition? I thought horses were an ally!”
Bird began slapping the table as everyone laughed at him. But Inkar eyed Kevin and leaned over to whisper in his ear. Tkrn tried not to listen in or look jealous.
“Kevin. Kevin, that reminds me. You have a laptop and phones, right? And your bicycles—you should give them all to Krshia for a week.”
“Why?”
Inkar showed him her phone covertly as Rags, Pisces, and half a dozen people either looked up sharply and curiously or pretended like they had no idea what was going on.
“She can upgrade it.”
Kevin’s eyes bugged out as he saw her phone. He grabbed Joseph, and Joseph grabbed him back.
“Kevin! Dude!”
“Dude!”
Poisonbite mocked them from the table, and it had already been ironic.
“Dude.”
She sniggered, but Numbtongue was gazing up sharply with the scent of someone hearing that his favorite object besides his guitar could get…better. Rags glanced at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] smiled.
“That’s something I think we should show you, Rags. And I don’t even have to be there. I hear Lyonette’s got a chess tournament going on, and there’s the bazaar, Lyonette’s activities—but there’s always time for a phone, right?”
 
——
 
Phones. Phones were something, you had to admit. Even if you came from a world where you were used to them, the modern phone even of Erin’s 2016 was so advanced it could do things that would astound any Human who had come in centuries before.
And that was back then. Inkar’s upgraded phone was so powerful that, if it had internet, it would have been able to perform an endless number of functions with ease. Without?
It was…less useful. However, consider the uses.
It could perform any number of advanced mathematical calculations in the blink of an eye, take perfect recordings of sound and image, play music and even entertainment. Depending on the apps, it could translate words, play games, and all it took was a [Repair] spell to keep it going forever.
For someone who didn’t know what a phone was—it was addictive. So real that when the first enemy came screaming at Redscar, he nearly broke Kevin’s laptop with a punch.
So—imagine how addictive this technology was if you had context, even if you were an Earther. Now, imagine if you were a Goblin who got to play with one.
Then, imagine if you were a Drake with onyx black scales, who had found a phone, managed to unlock it, and had the most wondrous, mysterious device, all available at the tap of a claw.
Lady Salkis Blackwing was from one of Pallass’ largest noble families. The Wall Lord and Lady tradition was weak in the Walled City of Inventions, but she was still related to the late Thrissiam Blackwing and General Edellein.
Her own father, Lord Werdin, and her stepmother, the Garuda, Melika, were high nobility in Pallass. For context, Sir Relz, the monocled Drake now the beloved star of Pallass, had been a brownnoser compared to the cream of society that Salkis was in.
—It didn’t stop her from being practically confined to the Blackwing family estate, though. Salkis was in huge trouble. She had been ever since she had returned from the Meeting of Tribes.
Not that her father had seen her fighting, thankfully. Salkis had actually found herself in the mass battles, but there was so much confusion that unless you knew she was there, she could claim she had been on an adventure with the Titan of Baleros. She’d run away like the innocent Drake she was and fallen in with terrible adventurers!
She thought at least her father had bought it. He really couldn’t believe she had gone off to fight deliberately, and his wrath had abated over this month mostly because Salkis hadn’t gone out and caused trouble.
And that was because…
Salkis rolled over in her bed, clutching at the phone. If anyone knocked, she’d hide it under her covers, but right now, she was listening to a very, very quiet song.
Music! While she tapped happily and a fat bird ruined a few structures with its face. Salkis hadn’t even listened to every song—there were hundreds! But ever since the helpful [Lockpicker] had opened it—
Oh, she was so glad Ryoka Griffin hadn’t died. Because this phone was amazing. Salkis opened up the photos and stared at images of Ryoka’s most personal lifestyle. She paged through street graffiti that Ryoka had found interesting, an attempted selfie, her posing under a streetlamp—
The amount of blackmail she had was amazing. Not least the fact that this was an old phone that Ryoka had had for years. It had…personal voice recordings. Videos. And a lot of songs and music that Ryoka liked.
But the main thing in Salkis’ heart right now was a burning curiosity to know what the hell this was. She knew it was an iPhone, and she had deciphered some information from the product details, but none of it made sense.
Even if this were top-secret, Salkis heard Edellein talking with her father. She would have known if an artifact this powerful were in the possession of a Walled City or in the world. Since they hadn’t discussed it, she had to assume it was even more top-secret still, and why would Ryoka have it then?
Or…Salkis was wrestling with another idea. She was coming to the same conclusion as a certain Sinew Magus, but unlike Grimalkin, Salkis could well believe that there was some secret she didn’t know about.
After all. She was a Bloodfeast Raider.
Mind you, Salkis hadn’t done any raiding since she’d left with the Fellowship of the Inn. It had been a whim, the hunch that the Goblin, Numbtongue, could lead her to a great and bloody adventure.
Well, she’d gotten that, but not in the way she expected. Now she was in trouble, but Salkis didn’t care.
She was famous. Her father still let her go out once a week, and he was easing up; the moment Salkis had found some of her real friends, they had been all over her. They knew that she’d been in the Meeting of Tribes, and they told her that the others were furious.
The Raiders had a hierarchy, and Salkis wouldn’t have denied that made her nervous, but even the others in the city who shared her tastes looked at her like someone who’d gotten to rub shoulders with legends. The Titan? Fighting in a war?
She basked in their approbations. For a few hours. Then she went back, played on her phone, and claimed, accurately, that her father had kept her from going out.
But she was sure that she could have begged Werdin to let her visit her friends’ estates. He thought they painted each other’s nails or gossiped.
In reality, the truth was more complex. Salkis didn’t go out on the town or visit the raiders, and not just because the phone fascinated her. That was one thing. The other was…
Ancestors, my friends are so boring.
The Drake did not say that out loud. She just thought it and wondered why she suddenly found them boring. They were dangerous, able to kill, wild and crazy—
And she just thought it sounded weird. They had asked if she wanted to join another raid soon, and she had gone…eh, inside. Because what was the point?
Fighting, killing. That wasn’t a war. That wasn’t marching across half a continent with Goblins and Antinium, sneaking past armies, literally running with them! Salkis feared the Titan had given her too much of an adrenaline rush.
Or…the Drake tapped disconsolately at the iPhone, and Ryoka’s voice echoed out.
“Diary, um, number fourteen. Fuck, I forget. I don’t know. I’m just—am I really going to go to college? Or am I—”
There was something Salkis was missing, much like Ryoka’s chronicling of her own personal torment. And that something was…
Oh, maybe marching through the tall grass, picking ticks off your scales and pointing them out and watching the Antinium eat them. Or sitting around as the Fellowship talked with a Goblin playing guitar and teasing Gna.
For some reason, Salkis missed that. She missed that, and it irked her. Much like Ryoka’s recordings.
“—it’s what my dad wants. Which makes me tempted to burn down the college. Just burn down his company—and wouldn’t that be a great change for the world if I got him and all his friends in the same building? They’re not all evil, but they’re all rich millionaires or, hell, billionaires. Anyone in political office is. Can you burn down all of Wall Street? I’m probably on a watch list already, but I just want to take it all out rather than waste my life.”
“You and me both, Ryoka. You and me both.”
Salkis rolled over a third time and fell out of bed. Instantly, she rolled upright.
She was bored. She wanted out, but not…not the raiders. If she missed one group, one person, it was…
Well, probably Numbtongue. The Drake thought about the [Bard] and smiled as she checked the news. If there was anything my father would forbid me from doing, it’s going right back there again.
Which made her really want to do it. So she thought about what excuse would get her out of the house that morning as she tucked the iPhone away. And if she found an answer to the phone while she was at it? Numbtongue did know Ryoka Griffin.
Plus, when you got down to it, the Goblin was hot.
 
——
 
He couldn’t keep getting away with it. That [Bard].
How dare he? Troy watched with dark scowls for the Goblin. How dare he charm and philander his way with so many? Nevermind that he was open about it. First Octavia, then Garia? Then…did he have no shame?
