“Not at all. Not at all. If I was in your shoes, I’d be ready to jump a man who did that, sea or land. I like you. And I’ve actually been wanting to talk to you, so this is a happy coincidence. Wailant Strongheart. Strongheart Farms—in Celum. You’re the Lischelle-Drakles. Practically royalty.”
The [Pirate] stuck out a hand challengingly, and now Himilt remembered the rumors of one of the most insane [Farmers] in the region who produced Sage’s Grass. He shook the hand.
“Himilt Drakle. A pleasure.”
“It is! Although all the competition’s starting to make me nervous. Like a man pissing next to a half-Giant. Have you heard about Riverfarm? My own daughter just brought me back a sample of their produce as a ‘gift’. D’you have a moment? Viceria, Viceria—here’s the Drakle family!”
“And you’ve made the worst impression so far, Wailant. Hello, sir. At least invite the family over!”
To Himilt’s surprise, the two [Farmers] were exceptionally cordial, if unique. In short order, he found himself discussing his new venture with Wailant.
“Seems like a huge risk, moving from Reizmelt all the way here. Don’t tell me the Drakes offering you a pittance to do it was why.”
“Not at all. Actually, our old farmlands were dead. Not even Skills could help—if we had them.”
“Damn, really? But you’re herders, right?”
“That is our speciality, but Liscor is so fertile, we’re hoping to expand the farms.”
Wailant poured Himilt a glass of wine.
“With what, magical crops or mundane? I can’t imagine you want to try mass-farming on the lumpy hills.”
Himilt smiled.
“We will have to shift a lot of soil, but we are willing to put in the work. Even if we need to hire earth mages or the…Antinium. As for crops, we would, of course, try magical. Ashwheat. Something rare and profitable. We do feed our animals on such crops. But we’ve sold much of our herds and will acquire local stock.”
Wailant’s brows rose.
“Well. And I thought the only brave men were at sea. You’re starting completely over, aren’t you?”
The Vampire ducked his head.
“We must. So far, it has been a promising start.”
Promising, but lonely, despite them being closer to a city. And Himilt had realized that was because his family had to be, by their nature and necessity, private. Yet Wailant just indicated the door that led out the inn.
“Well, it wouldn’t be right for me not to offer a Lischelle-Drakle the hospitality of my house. Would you care for a luncheon or dinner sometime this week? You could take a look around, and if you need to know the best vendors, I can set you up. Although frankly, this inn is lucrative in itself.”
“Thank you.”
Himilt felt oddly touched by the gesture, and he ended up taking off his gloves to shake Wailant’s hand. The [Farmers] smiled, and Wailant winked.
“Just so you know—I’m hoping this might be a profitable relationship. The best kind. I might be ‘retired’, but it seems to me there is a world of possibility in Liscor, and I’m glad I’m not the only one who saw it.”
Himilt hadn’t actually considered that, only a place to be free. But as he shook Wailant’s hands and looked around for Colfa, he realized—
This might be a new chance in more ways than one. The Lischelle-Drakle family had always been careful not to be outstandingly rich or successful because that was dangerous. But Liscor?
New ventures could be a wild success. If you were willing to put in the work and you actually found success, of course. But a Vampire?
Himilt feared no work any more than he feared monsters. What he feared…he glanced at Ylawes.
What he feared was silver. And the people who carried it.
 
——
 
Serafierre val Lischelle-Drakle knew that this was the hour she had been waiting for. A party. Entertainment. Already, huge names were coming into The Wandering Inn.
And here she was, stuck, while the inn was probably winding down for the day. She checked the clock gloomily.
Half past ten. Wonderful. And she was here.
Working.
It was inevitable. She was a secret broker. The inn was having a moment. This was the prime time to move information and secrets about Erin, the adventurers, and so on.
Very profitable, of course. Why, she’d just sold a weird [Thief] with a crystal hand all the information she had on the Thief of Clouds. And that [Thief] was a goldmine of information in and of themself.
Fierre suspected she was part of something bigger, like the thefts in Calanfer. But there were ranks to any group, and if the brokers who could tell you what was up were Named-rank, Fierre was, um…
Silver-rank. High-Silver or low Gold-rank, maybe, maybe, with all the gold she’d gotten from Ryoka, but Fierre felt like she was just Silver where she’d been Bronze in Reizmelt. She needed power, more contacts, more secrets.
So she had to sit here, put in the work, and be sad that she wasn’t getting to be in on the action. Fierre assured herself that there was a line, even at this late hour. How many brokers could boast of that?
How many brokers had more agents and didn’t have to have a line? She forced that idea out of her head as the Steel Golem, standing motionless on one side of the room, slowly scanned its head left and right, as if searching for threats. It did this every ten minutes, but it hadn’t moved from when Fierre had last told it to stand there.
A thin layer of dust already coated the reflective metal, but it just meant Fierre’s tiny office, hidden by the enchanted steel door, worked. Her single desk filled with notes and the cabinets behind her faced a wooden chair she’d upgraded to have a padded seat.
Quiet, professional—Fierre heard someone knocking and sighed.
No one even knows the knock anymore. That was fine. She’d paid off the Watch already.
“Enter.”
The door opened—and Fierre tried her best mysterious smile with just a hint of fangs as she sat up behind her desk. She’d bought some more form-fitting clothing, in a quasi-[Assassin] look.
She still had yet to really unveil her full potential, but she was now familiar enough in her new body to understand how dangerous an opponent was. Seeing a war had told her that high levels could still threaten her—and that she was a threat.
So it was with confidence, mystique, and perhaps veiled sexual innuendo that she gave her new visitor a sly look. Then a look of horror.
“Mother!”
Colfa Lischelle-Drakle looked around Fierre’s room.
“So this is where you work. It’s so…pedestrian, Fierre. Is that a Golem?”
She did a double-take as Fierre saw Colfa hadn’t even closed the door! A polite [Rogue] pulled it shut, and Colfa waved.
“I won’t be long! Just visiting my daughter.”
Fierre stared in growing horror as a group of…highly awkward robed or hooded figures stood in line. Like someone having a bad dream, thoughts swam into her panicking mind.
Why is my mother here? How did she find me? How long has she been waiting in line, and crucially—what did she say to them?
These were dire questions, and Fierre feared the worst. But Colfa was peering around the room.
“Fierre! I know you took on the Opener job because you wanted to be your own woman, but have we taught you nothing? Your desk is so plain. You have no decorations aside from this Golem—how much did it cost? Is that why you sent back so much gold? Your father was beside himself, and we did expect your presence anon at dinner.”
She was a bit casual since they weren’t being proper Vampires, but it still worked itself in. Colfa could direct [Shepherds] and talk shop with a [Butcher], after all. Fierre spluttered.
“Mother! My work is secret—how did you even find me?”
“Oh, Garia Strongheart told me when I asked. A very proper young woman who pays respect from blood to blood. Her father is a [Farmer]. A quite fascinating one.”
Garia. Fierre hissed, but Colfa wasn’t done.
“And your clothes!”
Fierre tried to cover her clothes, which were like [Assassin]’s garb…yes…
Cosplay assassins. Colfa pointed at it.
“Completely unacceptable. No daughter of mine will look like some nightwalker. Night stalker, Fierre. Less bodice and webbing, more cloak.”
“Mother!”
Colfa wasn’t done. She pointed at the far wall.
“And your wall? It’s pale beige. Beige, Fierre? Are you some kind of [Scribe]? You could do black or red or even texture it like brickwork. No drapes? No…ambiance?”
“Mother, it’s my office. I can decorate it how I want!”
Fierre’s aggrieved tone seemed to hurt her mother, and Colfa sighed.
“I’m sure you do very well. You had a lot of very keen customers. I shan’t take up your time! But at least let me…”
She found a handkerchief and began dusting the Golem. Fierre protested, but that was the thing about mothers. Fierre was going to dust the Golem! Just—at some point. Then her mother placed something on the table.
“Although we drink the ichor of others, I thought you might be hungry. Here.”
Fierre stared down at her favorite bloody shepherd’s pie as Colfa looked around. She smiled, and Fierre muttered.
“Thanks, Mother.”
“Make sure to visit tomorrow or we shall worry.”
She pinched Fierre’s cheek affectionately, then swept out of the office. And it was a real sweep. Fierre wished she could pretend to that level of casual arrogance that made one of the people in line step out of the way deferentially and another tip his hat to her.
Then again, that might come from being royalty among [Herders]. Fierre did tuck into her food because her mother was gone, and she resented that Colfa had somehow known Fierre hadn’t eaten since breakfast.
She had the terrible feeling that the next guests had received something like a baked snack from Colfa, because one of them was crunching on something, and another hid what looked suspiciously like a meat strudel behind their back when she walked in.
Fierre glumly provided intelligence to someone else who wanted intelligence on a ‘Jerom’—he looked familiar, or rather, his blood felt familiar, but she didn’t ask questions of Lyonette’s people. She took a report on a theft from a [Merchant] and sent a notification to the Merchant’s Guild—as if they didn’t know who had it already and weren’t negotiating.
And then the most interesting visitor of the day walked in, eyed the Golem, and took a seat. Fierre stopped and stared, a fork raised. Indeed, even the people waiting outside had gone quiet. They backed up because even if they were ‘permitted’, the sight of a dozen Goblins, most Hobs, appearing on the quiet street alarmed even Invrisil’s rogues.
Redscar, Badarrow, and Snapjaw had joined Poisonbite’s team to escort a single person into Fierre’s office. Rags nodded to Fierre.
“Evening.”
Technically, it was night, but the greeting completely caught the Vampire off-guard. She gulped.
“You’re Chieftain Rags, aren’t you?”
In her office? Of course, she’d intended to meet Rags, and she knew she was a friend of The Wandering Inn and Erin, but—the Goblin was eying Fierre’s cabinets with great interest. She sniffed at the remains of the pie, then spoke.
“I am. Do you know me?”
Fierre blinked and hesitated. The Goblin had to know who she was, so despite her panic, she found a piece of paper and read from it.
“Flooded Waters Tribe? High Passes, estimated at least six thousand Goblins, high-level Hobs, some possibly over Level 30. Ogres and Carn Wolf auxiliaries, and it’s estimated at a Level 40+ infiltration job? No huge…worthwhile goods aside from monster parts.”
Rags raised her brows. She looked impressed.
“40+ to steal from us?”
“No, 40+ for infiltration means to get in and out without someone getting killed. You can force it below the issue, but it’s our benchmark.”
“Ah. Hm. Not bad.”
Rags looked vaguely pleased at the appraisal. Fierre fumbled with the paper. This was incredible. A Goblin in Invrisil?
Wasn’t that insane? But no—she knew there were Goblins in the underworld, and let’s assume you were the Watch. If you saw some people with hoods on down the street, you might be curious, but you wouldn’t assume they were Goblins.
Yet only this Goblin would be so bold! Fierre flashed back to the Kraken Eater Goblins who’d gotten loose, and she wondered if she were in danger.
Heh. I’m not the one in danger, she is! Fierre was confident—right until she looked up and saw Rags watching her. The Goblin made her nervous, despite being short and Fierre having a Golem nearby.
“You’re Fierre. Erin told me about you.”
“She did? Oh, so that’s how you found me?”
Rags shook her head.
“No. I knew about you. [Rogues] know you as one of Invrisil’s Openers. When I asked, Normen told me you were good. Reliable.”
Now that made Fierre blush slightly. If a Brother said it, that was a recommendation worth a lot! She wondered if he’d let her quote him.
“Well—I do my best. And I am an Opener. Ahem. Excuse me, I’ve never had a Goblin as a client. Can I…help you?”
Rags narrowed her eyes slightly.
“I think so. So I know—I pay you for whatever information I need.”
“Information, connections, secrets, weak spots—even blueprints, plans. I can get you anything, but remember—you never saw me. That’s the rules around here. Not that anyone writes them down, but it’s about trust. Gold up front—and if I cross you, my reputation and life is on the line.”
It felt weird saying all that out loud, but Fierre felt like it was necessary. Rags thought about this.
“Hm. Anyone ever try to kill you?”
“Mostly only idiots who make mistakes and want to blame me for it. I’ve handled a few—but one time I sold information that got me hexed.”
Fierre still sometimes felt a prick and wondered if she had a needle still buried in her body. She shuddered, and Rags nodded.
“So you choose your danger. I understand. Well. I am Rags. You know me. Will you take me as a client?”
The question surprised the Vampire girl, but she nodded slowly.
“Can you pay? I could accept more than gold.”
“I have gold. I have a lot I want to know, but how did you know that about Goblinhome? The [Rogues], I assume?”
Fierre waved that off.
“Don’t take it personally. Information is gold, so if a dealer came to you to make contact, they’d sell it. Not to adventurers—not unless they really thought there was nothing to gain. Er…”
Then she realized she’d just given away valuable intelligence. Rags didn’t smile, but Fierre caught herself. Clever Goblin.
She sat up a bit and stabbed her leg with a toe to wake up. Rags nodded, glancing at the Golem.
“Good. Then you know quite a lot.”
Fierre had bought a bunch of connections with gold, which was an expensive way to put yourself ahead. She nodded.
