Troy scowled along with Menolit, Relc, Ksmvr—who had no idea why everyone was glaring but wanted to be part of things—Ylawes for the impropriety—and Mrsha as Lyonette demoed her new activities for the day in the inn.
Garia, Octavia—how did he do it? Then he got Visma, and Mrsha’s scowl became a glare of rage. Just because he was probably good looking, played a guitar, was good in a fight, generally nice, and he gave gemstones to people? Was that the basis for liking someone?
Visma gasped as he gave her a bit of emerald glued to a stone. The Hobgoblin grinned and gave her a thumbs-up. Then he went over to watch the group activity as a bunch of children sat at one of the tables.
Only Mrsha glared at him, and Octavia leaned over to whisper.
“What’s with Mrsha?”
“Dunno. Maybe I erased her save data?”
“Weird. Thanks for bringing me breakfast. I got you this.”
Octavia shyly handed him something, and Numbtongue peered at the vial marked ‘bubble bath’. He grinned and put it in a pocket.
“Soft.”
Redscar whispered, and Numbtongue whirled to punch him, but the other Goblin blocked the fist. They all watched as Lyonette’s plan for the day took shape.
“Design your own Antinium?”
Erin hadn’t heard of yesterday’s exhaustive planning until today, and she looked slightly askance as the children drew on a front and back image of an Antinium Worker or Soldier. More guests had come with the children, and Jerom was sitting against the bar as Fierre yawned and scribbled on a piece of parchment in one part of the inn. Himilt had come to admire Erin’s [Garden of Sanctuary], and Lyonette was distractedly talking.
“Yes, a chess game. Can you attend? The prize is modest—eighty gold pieces, but we will have excellent players from around the world! It will be broadcast via Wistram News Network if there is time…”
She was having trouble. But she hadn’t asked for help—yet. Erin watched Visma dab glittery paint all over her Antinium.
“Is this in bad taste?”
She whispered to Bird and Ksmvr, and both Antinium looked at her.
“I do not know. I am Bird.”
“I am not part of the Free Hive either.”
Erin turned to Klbkch, but the Prognugator just shrugged when she sidled over.
“Children are performing an activity with Antinium. This is a positive for the Antinium as I see it.”
“Yeah, but it’s painting. That’s sort of a personal thing for the Painted Antinium, you know?”
Klbkch stared blankly at Erin and sighed audibly.
“Is this another emotional element for them? I would not know, Erin. I do not paint my shell.”
Erin gave up. Clearly a representative for the Painted Antinium was not here, and the children seemed to be having…mild fun.
“Miss Lyonette, Miss Lyonette, I’m done! Can I fly it now?”
The first child to be done was Ekirra, who ran over so Ushar could help him attach it to a bit of string. Then the paper could soar in a brisk breeze.
“Anyone gone to the bazaar yet? I’m going to.”
“It’s pretty exciting, Erin. There’s a lot on sale.”
Selys smiled as Erin casually opened a roll of parchment and winced at what she saw. The [Innkeeper] looked up with a laugh.
“Then I’ll definitely go! I want to see what Ysara and Qwera sell.”
“Oh—can you wait, Erin? I’m trying to find a bunch of activities, but I still don’t have quite enough to fill all of today!”
Lyonette was fretting, and Erin sighed, but agreed to hold on. She sat there as Mrsha industriously slapped her Antinium sketch with black pawprints…then stared at the Antinium and drooped as she remembered.
Today, the only big thing Erin knew she was part of was the chess tournament, and she actually thought her day might be restful. However, Rags had reminded her that it was one thing to talk or be ‘friends’ and another to know someone.
So, thoughtfully, she gazed down at the [Message] scroll as she idled at the bar and began to write. Once more, The Wandering Inn began to fill with guests. Lyonette was hopefully organizing the chess tournament. She had a bracket system and everything for people to win upwards and challenge Erin.
International guests would start ‘higher’ than a general tourney locally, which would produce around sixty of the top players. Then they would repeatedly clash on their way up.
She’d promised Erin that the [Innkeeper] wouldn’t be ‘forced’ to play more players as she would be seeded very high. Which just went to show that she really didn’t understand Erin’s passions at all.
Naturally, Drassi was there, because the tournament with a cash prize was news. However…one look at the inn setting up board games on a lot of the tables and Drassi saw a problem.
“…like heck this is going to be fun to watch…”
Erin glanced up as the Drake edged past her to have a conference with Lyonette. The [Innkeeper] smiled. She glanced down, and a line of text appeared.
“Is he checking this every five minutes? That wasn’t even twenty seconds!”
Grumbling, she went back to writing, but…she got it. Multiple things. For instance, she really got the fact that watching chess nonstop on Wistram News Network Channel 2 would probably crash Drassi’s viewership rating.
That was probably why the Drake kept glancing at her. After all, Drassi had to be thinking the same thing Erin was fearing.
It might be time for an interview.
Erin Solstice had been interviewed before, but as ‘[Innkeeper] of that inn that just suffered a monster attack’. Never before as Erin Solstice.
Today, though? Erin saw Drassi arguing with a nervous Lyonette, and Erin felt like the [Princess] should have asked for more help. If not from Erin alone, perhaps from others? After all, Erin never did anything by herself. Lyonette had the basis. But problems were encroaching from multiple angles.
Pawn was marching through the door with Yellow Splatters, Purple Smile, and some of the Painted Antinium with a look that said he wanted to talk to the [Princess], and this time, no Thronebearers were going to get in his way. Also, Liscor’s entertainment director, poor Teliv, the [Negotiator], was fretting about more activities. One could not hand-paint their way out of all the children and guests here.
Well, Erin would handle some of that burden. Juuuust as soon as she finished here.
For she was writing, and the conversation, if you were a certain little lamb innocently reading upside-down while an [Innkeeper] gave you the stink-eye, looked something like this.
 
Niers: Nice hat.
Erin: Yo, yo. What’s up? How’s it going?
Niers: Yo indeed?
Niers: I apologize, I forgot you were entirely on a vacation.
Erin: It’s cool. :)
Niers: Aha. Anazu-speak.
Erin: ?
Niers: That’s what some [Mages] call the little symbols.
Erin: Emotes. Emojis. Um…smiley faces. You’re going to be seeing a lot of ‘em, I bet.
Niers: Wonderful.
Erin: u mad? ヽ(ಠ_ಠ)ノ?
Niers: No, I just hate having to learn new languages. Better to be fluent now. ◔_◔
Erin: …You’re no fun.
Niers: I’m studious. Do you want to talk over a game of chess? I can squeeze one in for the morning if we make it fast. 10 seconds per move?
Erin: Eh. I’m sort of busy.
Niers: Ah, understood. It’s been difficult for us to play.
Erin: Since I was dead. We played a game or two when you sent me that chessboard.
Niers: No need to thank me. It’s a collectible.
Erin: Got it.
 
Silence for a second. Nerry the Lamb gave Erin a long look, and the [Innkeeper] actually stopped trying to poke her with the quill enough to sigh.
“What, you too?”
The lamb made a gagging sound as the conversation continued. She trotted off, and Erin rolled her eyes.
 
Niers: I’m not hurt, just disappointed we’ve been chatting less and less. I hope Bird hasn’t been spreading lies about me.
Erin: Bird lies about everything, including birds. It’s just sorta odd, y’know? Like chatting up Altestiel. We played then too.
Niers: True. I’m just kicking myself for not being there. Listen, if I’m bothering you, do tell me. I know you’re in a busy situation right now, and I’m always checking my artifacts. It comes from having a spy network and a company to run.
Erin: See, you’re doing it again. This. This.
Niers: What?
Foliana: He’s doing it again.
Erin: Hey, Foliana! Are you feeling better?
Foliana: Is thumbs up.
Erin: That’s not quite how emojis work, but that’s great! Hey, how are you on this? Is Niers sharing the chat…scroll or something?
Foliana: I stole it from him.
Erin: You’re cool. Can I speak to Niers?
Foliana: Mm. Be nice.
Niers: Foliana is a pest with no uses aside from eating moldy cupcakes off the ground. I apologize for that.
Erin: She’s sort of fun. But I was going to say that I’m pretty sure she’s not watching me via scrying spell right now.
 
The [Innkeeper] stopped and looked around meaningfully. An undead rat ducked behind a windowsill, and the Titan of Baleros winced from across the world.
 
Niers: I’m sorry about that. It’s a force of habit. My students are there, and I realize that might also look bad.
Niers: I’ve had enough of being blindsided, and getting ambushed just outside the inn counts. It’s not intrusive beyond what someone would reasonably see in the inn. The [Spies], which I’m sure you know you have, would be doing the same thing.
Erin: Yeah, but this is the thing. You’re someone who needs spies and runs the 4th Greatest Company of Baleros.
Niers: One of the Four Great Companies. I wouldn’t call us 4th, even with setbacks.
Niers: …That was meant to test my ego, wasn’t it?
Erin: Nah, I’m just being mean there.
Erin: Niers, I don’t even know you. You’re a continent away. I like playing chess, but it’s difficult to share a lotta stuff.
Niers: I understand that, and I do enjoy the chess games. :)
Erin: Well, if I’m not playing, it’s because there’s more to life than chess. I know, shocking.
Niers: Unbelievable. Well, I take your point and apologize.
Erin: Accepted. So, how’s fighting the green going? Are you making sure that icky stuff doesn’t get on your soldiers when it splashes?
 
And then the silence between the replies grew longer.
 
Erin: How fast did The Dyed Lands expand, anyways? Pisces told me you’re nearly a hundred miles out and still fighting them in some places.
Erin: Niers? You there?
Niers: Are you watching my campaign?
Erin: Don’t you get mad. It’s on the scrying orbs if you go to the Baleros networks. I thought you were watching my inn.
 
And then, if you turned to one of the scrying orbs that showed the television for The Wandering Inn, you would see that instead of an image of, well, themselves, the breakfasters were watching a quiet broadcast of the fighting in Baleros.
 
Erin: That’s the thing. Are you fighting a war and chatting?
Niers: It’s not an active battlefield, just skirmishes. Put your troops in the right spot and sometimes the enemy doesn’t even reach the front.
Erin: Yeah. But that’s not me.
Niers: So you claim.
Erin: I’m just saying, where you are, your kind of thing is different than mine, Niers. It’s not that I dislike you or think you’re a bad guy necessarily. It’s just that you’re the Titan of Baleros.
Niers: I understand. And I do have to go. Battle.
Erin: Luck.
 
She rolled up the scroll and exhaled. Erin only jumped when Ulvama tapped her on the shoulder.
“You going for a record for killing people this week?”
Erin gave her an unhappy look, and the [Shaman] bared her teeth. Erin shook her head.
“No. I’m just being honest. Sometimes you gotta.”
She turned and watched as Lyonette left the main common room with Pawn. Her Thronebearers protested and were told to stand there and help the painting. Visma beamed as she ran over to Ser Dalimont to make her kite.
She tripped, and Erin sighed as Visma’s colorful paper fluttered up and flew, flew…straight into the fireplace. Visma stared in horror as her piece of paper lit up.
Sometimes, things just sucked.
 
——
 
When they finally had a moment to talk together, Pawn was happy.
Happy in the oddest of ways. Because he had marched right up to Lyonette and told her he wanted to speak, and she had looked at him and hesitated until she agreed.
Those Thronebearers. They had truly ruined what should have been a happy reunion. Because of them, Pawn and Lyonette couldn’t do what they had done in secret and private.
Sit and read stories together, talk, cuddle, other stuff, and Pawn missed that. He had missed Lyonette greatly.
He just felt like she had been avoiding him because this was one of their first long talks together. So he was happy.
Happy—in the way he imagined an Eater Goat might be, skipping along under a boulder teetering over a cliff high, high above.
Now, why did he think that? Lyonette flashed him a smile.
“We’ll have to make this quick, Pawn. The children are doing their Antinium painting, and it’s going well—I think we’ll set up a booth after all today and tomorrow.”
She hesitated as Visma’s wail came from below.
“Oh dear. That was Visma. Maybe there are complications.”
“We have not had much time, Lyonette. I know you are very busy putting on this party—but I have missed you.”
He took her hands, or tried to. Lyonette was busying herself at the mirror, walking around her room, checking her hair.
“I have too, Pawn. I’m very sorry Lormel and the others are getting in the way. You didn’t have to curse him, you know.”
“I wanted to talk to you. I was angry. I lost my temper.”
Pawn felt vaguely bad about it, but that sense in the air was growing worse. He smiled, or tried to—then felt something else tug at his mind.
“I wish I could have helped with your party planning. I think your painting of the Antinium shells is a good idea. On paper, with children and adults.”
“Thank you, Pawn! Yes, I wish you could have been there too.”
She flashed him a distracted smile, and Pawn went on carefully as Lyonette fiddled with some earrings.
“I think it is good because people will see how the Antinium are unique and how being Painted Antinium matters.”
“Exactly!”
“And I believe the Free Antinium support this idea as did I.”
“That’s wonderful.”
“Which is why I know you would have asked a Painted Antinium or me for our feedback, but you were so busy you were unable to.”
This time, the [Princess] stopped with a tiny opal earring in one hand and turned. Pawn stared at her and then looked out the window, following her gaze. He looked back at her and saw how her gaze slid past him. It lingered for a moment on his face, and then she was staring at an autograph of all the Players of Celum on her wall. As if she couldn’t quite look at him.
That—hurt, and he didn’t know what was wrong with her eyes. Or him? Was something on him?
“I—I just wanted to put on something entertaining, Pawn.”
