He half-overturned the table, and everyone had to pull him back. Dawil fended off Pelt—every few minutes, the [Smith] would turn homicidal. But food and drink calmed him down. Yvlon had to wrestle Pelt back down, and Ylawes tried again.
“I only regret we didn’t enchant our blades or gain something other than a few levels from the journey. Which is, in itself, good, but I felt rather foolish at the expedition. Yvlon has leveled up. Ysara, did anything interesting happen at the Meeting of Tribes?”
“Oh, only a war.”
Ysara coughed into one hand. Her younger brother wavered.
“Ah, yes.”
She took pity on Ylawes.
“I could have used your sword there. I never felt as useless as I did with a single blade in front of an army of Drakes.”
She tapped the sword at her side, and Pelt snorted as he gulped down a huge mug of dark ale from Noelictus. The good stuff.
“Well, fancy skill at arms won’t do you much good with a piece of pig iron like that. Even if you are a [Merchant], you should be ashamed of yourself. The only person sitting here with good metal is Dawil, and he snapped his—and Yvlon’s arms.”
He pointed accusingly at the two. Ylawes and Ysara looked outraged. The [Knight] bared part of his silver-metal blade.
“Master Pelt! My sword was made by a Level 30 [Blacksmith]!”
“And mine’s an heirloom from House Byres’ armory!”
Ysara added. Pelt looked at both their swords.
“Amazing. And here I couldn’t tell. Heirlooms? A Level 30 [Smith]? You could throw them in a bucket of inferior swords in Deríthal-Vel and I’d never notice.”
Both Humans bristled, and Rags began cackling. Gothica poked her head up and took a huge bite out of some macaroni and cheese for the table.
“Your blades are so dull I wipe my butt with them.”
“Hah! I like this Goblin. Pull up a seat.”
“Master Pelt!”
Erin looked amused and horrified—and that was before Rags joined in.
“Be nice to the Humans, Smith Pelt. It’s not their fault they think anything shiny is sharp.”
The relentless savagery of the two Goblins and Pelt was making up for the Byres’ awkwardness. Dawil was pounding the table and laughing until Pelt glanced at Rags. He clearly knew her from Orefell; even he paid attention.
Hedault, who was sitting at the table where he was suffering the presence of Suxhel and Falene’s most elevated company, glanced up sharply as Pelt suddenly stood.
“Wait a second. I never noticed—show me what’s at your side. Who made that sword?”
“What sword? I dunno what you’re talking about, Pelt. Hey, Ylawes, what about them goats, huh?”
Erin began sweating as Rags put a hand on her new sword hilt. Hedault got up, and everyone was staring at Rags—right until they turned to Erin and gave her a look.
However, that just prompted another Goblin to hurry over. Redscar had three swords—although he wasn’t about to put the third in his mouth. Even his teeth weren’t that strong.
Pelt recoiled as the Goblin dumped three swords on the table.
“What’s this?”
“My swords. These two.”
The Hob pointed at Garen Redfang’s famous blade and the frost one that he used in his off-hand. Then he pointed at the third sword for some reason. Hedault had gotten up, and Pelt snorted.
“You want me to do what, Goblin? Reforge…well, this one has a nice enchantment. This one is nice trash.”
He dismissed Redscar’s two personal blades, and the Goblin didn’t seem that hurt. He nodded and pointed to the third blade.
“What about this?”
The [Smith] frowned. He pulled the blade out of the sheath, then eyed the sharp blade with the faintly maroon tinge of magic that glowed if he held it up to the light.
“Eh…steel’s not that pure. Enchantment, Hedault? Looks average. Hm.”
He broke off for a second and gave the sword a longer look. Pelt, who could stare at a blade mostly in the sheath and tell you how worthless it was, frowned. Hedault was on his feet too and frowning.
“The enchantment is [Bloodletter] and [Sharpness]. Competently enough done. I would call it a Level 25 [Enchanter]’s work. Average to a Silver-rank adventurer or a low Gold-rank one.”
“Right. Right. Anything…good about it?”
Redscar’s eyes gleamed. Pelt glanced up suspiciously, and suddenly, Rags looked fascinated. Ylawes sat up despite himself, and Ysara’s ears perked up. Everyone turned to Pelt, and Numbtongue thought he realized why that third blade was special.
“It’s odd as shit.”
Pelt held up the blade, grumbling. He swung it, and half the table leaned back, then frowned.
“Not perfectly balanced, but good enough. Steel’s not perfect. But it’s—”
He suddenly dropped it and wiped a hand on his shirt. Hedault was nodding. The two artisans looked at each other and then turned to Redscar.
“…Who made that blade?”
Pelt eyed it, and Redscar smiled.
“Was wondering. Why? Anything special?”
Rags glanced at Erin, and the [Innkeeper]’s own eyes widened. Did that mean…? Pelt slowly took a huge bite of breaded mac and cheese. He chomped down a rash of bacon, reached for a handful of buttered greens, and Ysara handed him a fork. He gave her a long look, but snatched it.
“…No one forged that sword with a hammer. I can’t sense any metalwork on the blade. It’s uncanny. It’s as if something just—produced the steel, ready-made, with flaws in it. Hedault?”
“I sensed no magical…identity behind the magic either. Every [Mage] has a signature to their mana. This one has none. It is not perfect. But it is just magic, spun, without a hand to guide it.”
Both looked at Redscar, and the Goblin exhaled.
“Yeah. Guess where I got it?”
“Where?”
Redscar pointed up.
“Out of the sky. Reward from a <Quest>.”
Every head turned to Erin. Pelt slowly muttered an oath under his breath, and Hedault’s brows shot up. Ysara stared at the free magic sword in sudden fascination. Erin raised her hands. She looked from face to face and smiled nervously.
“S-so, how about Rags’ sword, huh? Fascinating.”
 
——
 
“What an inn.”
The same person repeated himself as the table broke into further arguments. That person wore dark clothing, but not midnight black. More the worn, thick, casual clothing of a man who was used to being outdoors all day at work.
That man was old Bamer, who had ears good enough to pick up on fascinating conversations around the inn. Some were cloaked, but he was…
Well. He was like a hungry man at a feast. And despite the bloody steak he was eating, his hunger was something different entirely.
After all, he could smell so many things. Mind you, he was keeping as far away from House Byres as possible, damn them.
But even he and his companions hadn’t resisted the allure of the inn. They were actually sitting in the ‘quiet’ part of the inn, where a [Silence] spell kept table-conversations only audible to each other.
That was to let the Players of Celum perform on stage. A curtain kept the light of the eating and dining portion from reaching the people who sat in darkness.
On stage, Juliet and Romeo enacted the timeless tragedy. The crowd was fairly enraptured; the [Actors] had Skills and levels such that you felt like you could feel the longing for each other, and when they fought in duels, it looked real and bloody.
Of course, that only made the Vampires hungrier. Himilt, for his part, did not listen. He was watching the play with one eye. Colfa? She was rapt, fascinated with the play itself. Why Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle, who dressed in high red velvet and black and white like some ancient queen of Terandria or Calanfer’s knights, liked the stage with all its light and glamor—one couldn’t possibly guess.
Himilt’s clothing was as subdued as Bamer’s, but he was watching the busy inn with different eyes. He was counting.
Lehra Ruinstrider was subdued at her table, longingly glancing at Erin, but she was speaking politely to Jelaqua and the Horns. She was one—and the Vampires kept shivering whenever the Named-rank Adventurer crawled overhead on patrol.
That made two. Two, to make Himilt’s own cold blood run. But the third, Saliss of Lights, had left after a while.
A female Drake with rose and cobalt scales had replaced him shortly thereafter. She was sitting with Qwera, a male Drake, Councilmember Elirr, and the Lamia, Hexel. In fact, Ysara excused herself from her table to join them presently.
Who or what she was, Himilt didn’t know. Nor did he know why she was special, only that he knew.
The blood called. Yet he was a master of himself. Not all of his family were.
Fierre was not here. She had promised to join in and visit, but she had work. Himilt was sympathetic to it; Colfa was more concerned about her daughter’s wellbeing, especially after her changes.
He had his own worries. Keeping an eye on the Byres family was one of them.
“We cannot escape them. If they perform their trick in Liscor…”
“The Watch Captain stopped them. There is a river and groundwater aplenty. Hold your peace, Bamer.”
The older Vampire was fidgety. But the most restless person was…Rivel.
Fierre’s older brother and the youngest member of the family who still worked the new farm they were setting up. Ever since he had learned the truth of their treachery, he had been unhappy. Unhappy—and he had spoken like many Vampires who’d learned what Ryoka had uncovered.
Silver in the water. Himilt had done what he could, but he could not rule his kin. He worried—but here, at least, Rivel seemed more pleased.
“I think I’ll join the others. They have a dice room. Cards. Even the Goblins are playing. And weights.”
“Don’t show off.”
Himilt cautioned him, and Rivel scowled. But he sometimes did when wrestling with the Humans in Reizmelt. Everyone made mistakes. He was just about to head off when the group of four froze at their table again.
They were not the only vampires who’d come to set up the new farm in Liscor. But they were a family, so they were dining together. Now, they froze—and even Colfa looked away from the stage.
Himilt saw Rivel tense, but he glanced at his son, and Rivel put his hands in his pockets. Bamer studiously stared at his plate, and all four heard…
Giggling. Even a normal person could have heard that. Himilt reached for a piece of melted brie that he’d actually sold to the markets and that had landed up in this inn. Perhaps I could sell it to this place directly?
But he hadn’t introduced himself to Erin Solstice. He was wary of her. Her blood whispered to him.
No…he watched as a mysterious ‘something’ lifted the piece of cheese up. Then someone else snatched a bit of herring off Colfa’s plate.
“My word, what is this?”
Colfa sounded fairly astonished, although she might have hammed it up. The giggling grew louder before a shh made the voices grow silent. Himilt made a show of half-rising, looking concerned.
“Is someone there?”
He tried not to stare at the outlines of the three giggling children, Mrsha, Ekirra, and Visma, as they stole bits of food off the tables. The other Vampires looked everywhere but Visma, who was waving the cheese around in what she thought was a spooky manner.
“Ooh. Ooooooh.”
Himilt was hoping they’d leave so he could stop pretending when a voice shouted.
“Got you, you little rats!”
Everyone in the actor’s section of the inn’s [Grand Theatre] jumped as a loud voice cut through the [Silence] spell.
Wailant Strongheart was a loud man, and he snatched Ekirra up by the scruff of the neck. Visma squeaked and turned to run, but he had her up under one arm. Mrsha bolted for it.
“Come back, you salt-[Thief]! I’ll teach you to nab my damn omelet!”
“Sir! Sir, there’s a play going on!”
Temile practically sprinted towards them. Wailant glanced up at the stage. Juliet, the Gnoll playing her, raised a paw as she looked around the balcony.
“Hush, Romeo! Do you hear that? Lower your voice, lest we be overheard!”
Wonderful improvisation. The Vampires nearly applauded that themselves as Wailant drew behind the curtain, embarrassed. Himilt rose and nodded to the others as he followed.
He was worried the unfamiliar man would take out his embarrassment and apparent wrath on the children. If he did, Himilt was sure that Erin Solstice wouldn’t stand for it.
But just in case. He saw the [Pirate] scolding the two as Viceria waved a wand, and they reappeared.
“It’s one thing to play pranks—another to ruin someone’s meal! Let alone run your grubby paws over everything! Where’s that Mrsha gone? Show yourself or it’ll be worse for you when it’s time to settle debts.”
He threatened the air as Visma gulped and stared up at the angry [Pirate]. Himilt watched, ready to grab Wailant’s raising fist, and Visma burst into tears. Himilt stepped forwards—and Wailant lowered his fist.
“Ah—I didn’t mean to shout. Don’t cry, little girl. There you go, there you go. I just meant it’s not something to be done. Especially around people with bad tempers!”
“Like you, Wailant? You’ve terrified the children! Come here, little one. Where’s your family?”
Viceria reassured Visma. Himilt exhaled as Visma clung to her, and Wailant looked embarrassed again. He snatched at the air, and a wiggling Mrsha appeared. Dame Ushar came over, and Mrsha glared defiantly at her.
Whatcha gonna do? Whatcha gonna do, huh? Go get Erin or Lyonette!
The Thronebearers had never actually done any disciplining of Mrsha, and so Mrsha the Radically Defiant had little fear of Dame Ushar.
…That was, until the Thronebearer took hold of her.
“I deeply apologize, Farmer Wailant. I will make amends with the staff. Excuse me one moment, though?”
She pulled at Mrsha, and the Gnoll’s ears flattened. Uh oh. Which would be worse? Erin or Lyonette?
She was wondering which one Dame Ushar was taking her to—until she realized Ushar was taking her into the kitchen. There, the Thronebearer calmly presented Mrsha to the person whose meals she was ruining.
Imani and Calescent. Mrsha gulped as Dame Ushar calmly announced that a number of guests’ meals had been ruined.
Nanette poked her head out from behind Calescent as Mrsha the Suddenly Accountable looked at Dame Ushar as the Thronebearer bowed to her. And the rest of her night?
Dishes. And cutting onions.
 
——
 
Ekirra and Visma got off easier, and their parents and siblings recovered them. Himilt was satisfied with that and sneaking away when the [Pirate]-[Farmer] caught him.
“Hold on. I saw you giving me the evil eye, fellow. Thought I’d be lashing those children?”
“…I was mistaken, sir. I hope you won’t take my actions amiss.”
