The Dao Avatars barely had time to endure the first round of lightning before a second bolt descended. It opened angry scars through Zac’s body, and he stumbled with a grunt. However, he smoothly consumed a second set of Dao Treasures along with a set of Healing Pills. The heaving clouds kept going, unleashing a third bolt. By this point, Zac sensed a hint of the Four Desolates in the lightning’s center.

It was nowhere near the level of his Core Breakthroughs, but it still wasn’t something he was ready to face head-on. The Void enveloped him, and [Void Mountain] inverted into existence. Both bodies moved in perfect symmetry as he punched the incoming bolt with a roar. Weakened by [Void Zone] and drained by [Void Mountain]’s Dao-annihilating seal, the third bolt didn’t even carry as much energy as the second upon entering his body.

However, the Four Desolates remained, and the Four Laws caused far more destruction in their wake. Zac staunchly endured it, his eyes never leaving the clouds. A fourth bolt was forming, and he was happy to see it would be the last. This one was both the most dangerous and the safest. As in previous breakthroughs, Zac released his hold on [Void Heart], and the final bolt was reduced to a snack.

Zac smiled. It wasn’t often he got to perform such smooth breakthroughs. It was as though the Heavens took offense to his arrogance and sent trouble his way. His Draugr body was suddenly grabbed by the cuff and yanked away. Zac’s heart lurched, only relaxing upon realizing it was just Esmeralda.

The toad’s tense expression made him hold his questions and ready himself for a fight. The surroundings turned into a blur, and Zac felt them pass through something akin to a spatial gate before being thrown onto the ground.

“What’s the matter?” Zac asked with confusion at seeing Esmeralda’s heaving breaths and burning eyes.

“You—!” Esmeralda wheezed, taking a calming breath. “I’ll deal with you later. For now, please try not to cause any more trouble before I’m back.”

Esmeralda disappeared the next moment, leaving Zac looking like a question mark. A deep rumble from his stomach made him realize three more days had passed. The sound also made him recall that his Void Emperor bloodline seemed to have been raging for quite a bit of that time. With a sinking feeling, Zac pieced together the clues.

The Void had spent days trying to devour the invading Daos, only to be rebuffed. Because of his growing hunger, he must have turned his attention outward. He knew all too well what kind of commotion his bloodline could trigger. Esmeralda was probably busy putting out fires or diverting enemies. What was worse, her hard work was for nothing. A dull ache hid behind the tribulation’s crackling pain.

He’d inadvertently attempted a bloodline evolution, and he’d failed.
