Motes of Light – level 20Mana: You can summon up to 3 [1 + skill / 10] motes that emit clear light and can dispel stealth effects. You can freely control the motes of light anywhere within your range. Duration: 30 minutes, Range: 800 feet.Mana: Your motes of light grant additional light magic damage on hit to all your allies in range. Reserve: 35%, Range: 48 feet.Light, Area, Buff, Intelligence

“Everything ok?” Mato asked, placing a plate of steaming stew on the table beside him.

“Um, yes…” his mind reconnected to his surroundings, finding everyone else sitting around enjoying Mato’s cooking. One whiff of the aromatic duck served on a bed of perfectly chargrilled root vegetables – how did Mato do it? – had him reaching for a bowl. “I got a skill advancement that needs some testing. Ali, I think you might be interested in this.”

Balancing the bowl on his knee, he shared his advancement with all of them.

“Depending on how much damage, that could be incredible in our group,” Malika echoed his thoughts.

“That works on my minions, right?” Ali asked, leaning forward in excitement.

“I’m game to be the punching bag,” Mato said, grinning as he clearly anticipated the next step.

“Maybe with the Hobgoblin?” Ali suggested.

“Why not wait until you all finish dinner?” Lira suggested, fixing him with a pointed look, and Calen suddenly realized that the delicious smell of the food Mato had given him was making his stomach grumble audibly.

“Is there more?” he asked hopefully, digging in with a groan of appreciation.

After dinner, they began their testing in earnest. Mato stood waiting in his Bear Form while he summoned his Motes of Light – three now that the skill had reached twenty. He concentrated on the new advancement, and it activated, reserving more mana than he wanted to think about. All three motes flared brighter as the skill took effect and began to pulse softly.

“Ok, ready.”

Ali said something in the harsh guttural language of the Goblins and the female Hobgoblin let loose with her pair of matching axes, hitting Mato with a rapid flurry of strikes. After that, he disabled the beacon effect, and they hit Mato some more. Then, in the interest of study, they tested spells, rogues, unarmed strikes, and several other variations, each time having Mato revert to his Beastkin form to tell them exactly how much health he had lost, so Calen could note it down in his book.

“It’s a flat damage increase,” he said, examining the table of data he had compiled. No matter what they hit Mato with, every single hit was enhanced by the same amount of additional light-magic damage. It didn’t matter the size of the strike, speed, or whether it was magical or physical. The benefit for high-speed attackers like Ali’s rogues and the dual-wielding Hobgoblin was phenomenal.

“I love this,” Malika said.

“Of course the speed freak likes it,” Calen muttered. She attacked faster than anyone in their group and therefore stood to gain substantially from his new advancement. To be fair, he was a bit of a speed freak himself, so it was great for his arrows too.

“How are you going to manage that mana reservation, though?” Ali asked, putting her finger right on the thorny conundrum.

“It’s already a challenge to keep up with mana,” Calen said. “Enabling this will probably cost me a lot of my own personal power. But it looks like most of the time the tradeoff will be worth it, given the number of minions you can bring to a fight.”

With the twenty percent reservation for Blessing of the Dawn and the new thirty-five percent for his beacons, he would be reserving more than half of his most scarce resource. That meant his personal damage contribution would be substantially reduced, but rationally, this was the most optimal choice. Ali was often bringing up to ten minions and had several swarm options, and with Mato and Malika, that meant his Motes of Light would likely be the single largest contribution to the team’s damage output.

“Calen, are you really happy just taking a hit for the team?” Mato asked, surprising him. Mato could be bull-headed, but occasionally he was quite perceptive.

“It’s the smart choice,” Calen said. “But I can’t say I’ll enjoy the increased dependence on mana potions.”

“I think we should be buying your potions from the group fund then,” Malika said, her voice firm, allowing no argument. “If you have to bankrupt yourself to make the team stronger, that’s not fair.”

“I agree.”

“Same,” Ali said. “Perhaps I should reserve the next free chapter in my Grimoire for potions?”

“You can learn potions?” Calen exclaimed.

“I don’t know,” Ali said. “I’ve never had enough space to try.”

He had known his friends were generous, but it was surprising just how little hesitation they all had. Mana potions were expensive, and he knew he consumed a lot of them. “Speaking of money,” he said, recalling his skinning practice earlier. He hauled out the demonic warg hide and handed it to Malika. “Can you see if Weldin wants to buy this?”

“Oh, yes! Thanks, Calen. And before I forget, I picked up these from those hunters.” Malika tossed him two bows. “You should definitely upgrade.” There was a soft chime in his mind as Malika shared the item’s appraisal with him.

Flamecaller Bow – level 51Bow is wreathed in flame when used.Damage: Ranged, Physical, FireAttacks gain +10% additional damage as Fire.+12% to Attack speed.Requirements: Strength 84, Dexterity 142Quality: MagicalValue: 15 gold, 63 silverTwo Handed – Bow – Drake Bone

The second bow was almost identical, having +11% added fire damage and +11% attack speed as the only minor differences. They were the powerful recurve bows that had been used so effectively against them by the hunters. Obviously, the added fire damage wouldn’t be useful against the many fire-immune creatures in their current dungeon, and he would need to be careful if they ran into elementals that healed from fire, but the increased attack speed was phenomenal.

There was only one problem…

“I can’t use it,” Calen said, frowning. “I don’t have enough strength.” Lyeneru had warned him about this – she had literally told him he would encounter good bows with a strength requirement to draw. He hadn’t ignored her advice, bringing up his strength little by little, but he hadn’t anticipated needing quite so much. Even with all his gear and investments, he was only at sixty-four strength – if he invested all his free points, he would still be short by ten.

“Argh,” he groaned, running his hand through his hair. “If only –”

“Does this help?” Malika asked, tossing something else his way. Calen snatched it out of the air and examined it. The dark leather bracer seemed to have been cured by some chemical process, and had cross-stitched leather laces along the side to allow it to fit different-sized forearms. “Here’s the other,” Malika said, tossing him the matching bracer to complete the pair. The Flamecaller hunters had worn these on their scaled arms, but he hadn’t connected them with the bow. He studied it without understanding, but Malika was quick to share the description with him.

Flamecaller Bracers – level 44+12 Strength+34 DexterityRequirements: Dexterity 154Quality: MagicalValue: 12 gold, 30 silverHands – Demonic Hide

“Wow,” he said. And Malika was holding another set just like it!

“Good, isn’t it?”

“I can make this work,” Calen answered excitedly. “Thanks!”

He quickly stripped off his level ten Bracers of Accuracy and laced the new Flamecaller Bracers to his forearms, feeling the way the power of the item’s enchantments strengthened his limbs and made every movement even quicker. He then spent all his free attribute points on strength and picked up the Flamecaller Bow. Instantly, the entire length of the bow burst into flame, but curiously enough, the flames failed to burn him. Without asking, Ali summoned a barrier on the far side of the room, in the shape of a target.

Sighting on it, Calen paused to call over his shoulder, “Did you all get an advancement in mind reading, or what?” Turning back, he winced privately. Well, after what Mieriel did… maybe not the best joke.

He channeled his mana into Radiant Archery, summoning four arrows of light, and fired them all at the target simultaneously. Each of the arrows flared with flames as they left the bow, crashing into the target. A sharp crack sounded through the room, and he could see that the barrier Ali had summoned had sustained some visible damage.

“That was a lot of damage,” Ali said, looking at him in surprise. “I got a ton of mana back from that hit.”

Suddenly, it clicked. Hovering above Ali’s head, his Mote of Light was still pulsing with the energy of his mana reservation, forgotten after their tests. It was adding light magic damage to his hits. And if he wasn’t much mistaken, because it said ‘on hit’ it was adding the same flat damage to each arrow, instead of dividing the damage. Which meant he had found yet another way to multiply damage across his multishot advancement without penalty. Once again, Lyeneru’s insight was proving invaluable to guide how he should think about… well, everything!

He stashed his old bow in his storage ring – he would still need to swap to that every time they fought a Shard of Flame or Living Flame – and he would need to test it against all the other monsters in the mines, but against anything that didn’t heal from fire, this bow was an incredible upgrade. Carefully, he studied his sheet, shocked to see how much his dexterity had grown, simply by the combination of his new pair of bracers and his Blessing of the Dawn.

Name: Calen AveryRace: Half-ElfActive Buffs: Blessing of the Dawn, Mirage Armor, Motes of LightClass: Archer of Light – level 54- Radiant Archery – level 32- Arrows of Brilliance – level 37- Motes of Light – level 20- Explorer – level 30- Blessing of the Dawn – level 24- Eclipse – level 24- Eyes of the Archon – level 25- Righteous Fury – level 20- Azrael's Wings – level 17- Mirage Armor – level 12General Skills- Bowcraft – level 7- Cartography – level 13- Skinning – level 5- Basic Daggers – level 2Aptitudes- Languages: Common, Elvish- Mana (Affinity): Light- Perceptive (Racial): +11 to Perception- Quick (Racial): +5 to Dexterity- Timing (Class): You have an innate sense of timingPatrons & Tithes- Deity: The Wanderer- Mentor: Lyeneru SilverleafAttributes- Vitality: 106 (+54)- Strength: 86 (+60)- Endurance: 36- Dexterity: 423 (+249)- Perception: 249 (+109)- Intelligence: 304 (+163)- Wisdom: 57Equipment- Weapon: Flamecaller Bow – level 51- Body: Studded Jacket – level 40- Hands: Flamecaller Bracers – level 44- Feet: Pathfinder Initiate Boots – level 40- Ring: Silver Guild Ring – level 30- Ring: Pathfinder Initiate Guild Ring – level 40Evasion: 1147Dodge: 43.13%Resistance: 336Magical Damage Reduction: 18.18%+12% to Attack speed.Attacks gain +10% additional damage as Fire.+10% to Movement speed.Health: 1060/1060Stamina: 360/360Mana: 199/570 (371 Reserved)

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
