"I was thinking more than 'I'," Uva said. "I was thinking 'we.' And I was thinking about more than Weave. I was thinking about our gate, about the people you and Adam helped save, about what we're doing now. I think we stand close to change, and we must be prepared to embrace it, but also to be strong enough to decide our own fate. But after that, yes—it would be a dream seized from the trials of this nightmare to avenge my mother, to return home with the power to better the lives of my Sisters and Honored Mothers, to aid my goddess. And to see my home grow beyond what it is. To see my family grow grander as well."

That made something inside Shiv do a flip.

"The Republic will come after Blackedge's survivors. They will not stop until they seize Roland and capture the Starhawk. During my time in the Outside, I have come to value them, and I will see my health unmade before any harm comes to them. And I think the best thing we can do for them is to see them sequestered within our gate, and, if needed, to see them granted amnesty under the Composer’s protection."

"That might bring the heat pretty close to your doorstep," Shiv muttered.

"The flames are already spreading across the abyss. The Ascendants and Udraal have their eyes on the Great One. Hesitation cannot serve us here. Hesitation will only see someone else determine our fate, and I am tired of ceding my destiny to the whims of another—divine, eldritch, or superior Pathbearers be damned. Everything we've suffered was thanks to the machinations of someone that thought themselves greater, that wished to feed their own selfish desires. I will not become as they are. I will not make another shadow of myself in another Umbral, or allow foul hands to compose the tragedy behind your birth. Damn Udraal. Damn Hawgrave. Damn the Ascendants. And damn the very System itself.”

"Damn the System," Shiv agreed. "And let’s start by fucking over the Eldest and getting you out of the Outside. Ah, speaking of—I was a little caught up in everything earlier. Georges, is he alright?"

At his question, a blank look crept over Uva's face. She asserted control over her expression almost immediately, but Shiv noticed, and he went very still.

She quickly shook her head. "He's not—He has not passed. He's alive. But his condition is dire, like that of a great many of Blackedge's people. Sullain inflicted a plague upon the town during the siege, and it has only grown worse in the past weeks. We are dry of medication, and the only Biomancer left is an Initiate. The last Master Biomancer we had died in defense of the town two breaches ago. At the current rate, those in the infirmary likely have about as long as I do."

As if Shiv didn't need even more motivation to see his home freed. He swallowed heavily. "Is he… awake? Can I talk to him?"

"I'll check," Uva replied. "Sometimes the fever breaks, and he has a moment of lucidity. He resists the disease better than most others, but it is only growing stronger. From what I can tell, it's not merely a plague of the flesh, but something that withers the soul as well. To infect so many people to punish one person… The Vicar is a vile man for sinking to such depths."

"Was," Shiv corrected.

"Vicar Sullain is dead?" Uva asked, her eyes widening. "Are you certain?"

"Beyond certain." Shiv thought back to Sullain's final moments, how Udraal used him as a sacrifice, a doll to teach Shiv how to break the prison’s mana core. He told Uva about the Vicar's final fate, and though a complex array of emotions played over her face, the final feeling she decided upon was acceptance.

Utter, cold acceptance. "I cannot claim to relish in the final suffering of one who faced atrocity at the hands of a mutual enemy. But at least he will never strike at us again. At least he will not hurt another soul.” Uva sighed. “Do you think Udraal made you kill him to earn a measure of trust from you?”

Shiv considered that. "No. Udraal doesn't think of me as a person. I don't think he thinks of anyone other than himself as a person. We're all just variables for his big experiment. He probably killed Sullain because he interfered with his tests, interfered with me, and maybe because he was offended by the whole Undying Tarrasque thing as well. Speaking of, the Tarrasque went missing."

"It's not dead?" Uva asked, utterly aghast. "The Ascendants didn't slay it? How?"

A scornful scoff slipped out from Shiv like a blade ripping free from its scabbard. "Well, the dumb bastards decided that it would be more useful alive than dead in the short term. They punted the thing south so that it would savage a neighboring nation. It did that for a while, then, imagine this, it went missing. Probably got picked up by Udraal or something. Last time they had a read on it was in the ocean somewhere, maybe the Pacific. Can't quite remember all the details."

Uva's characteristic calm broke. "This creature could end the world, and they're using it to… assert geopolitical advantages?"

"Apparently, being a politician means that you have to do the opposite of the smart thing on the regular. I mean, I know it's bad because even I think it was stupid! And I love doing risky and reckless shit."

"That's because this isn't risky and reckless; it's just pointlessly cruel. A Tarrasque is a living bomb. It's a wild beast that can destroy entire worlds. And this one doesn't die."

"It could have been killed," Shiv said. "It could have been killed if the Ascendants had decided to pull their heads out of their asses and help us. We could have solved everything if they'd just—Ah, to hells with it." Shiv clenched his fist and controlled his building agitation. There was no point going down this line of dialogue. The Sage of the Enkindled Heart simmered inside of him, and he stored that rage for better use later.

As little breaths escaped him, Uva mastered herself as well. "He's awake," she suddenly said, and the mood between them shifted.

"Georges?"

"Yes. I'll connect you to his mind now. But do take into account that when the fever comes on and the sickness swells, he might experience a bit of delirium."

"Yeah, I don't care about that," Shiv said immediately. "I just want to see him."

She nodded. With a flex of her power, the vague mists of the mindscape shifted once more, and through the translucent haze emerged another form. That form, however, wasn't as Shiv remembered.
