The rise and fall of the rolling tides did much to calm this Sovereign’s weary spirit, a most welcome balm to soothe the soul in these tumultuous times.

A rare and pleasant surprise, to discover a Natal Palace in so complete and comprehensive a state. Truly a remarkable find, especially given the subject’s crude and lacking upbringing. A second-generation outlander born in the desolate north beyond the borders of the Empire, one whose roots traced back to a group of tribal rustics living on the northern border of this Sovereign’s Empire. For so extraordinary a talent to emerge from such trials and tribulations was unexpected to say the least, one whose attainments in the Dao were wholly unique and unlike anything ever seen before. The subject possessed a fresh and distinct perspective of the Natural Laws this Sovereign thought he knew so well, and it brought him new Insights and outlooks which he’d never even considered before.

The fresh sea breeze held notes of earthy soil and fresh forest, while the water bristled with sediment and vegetation both, yet there was an unfamiliar quality to the air which this Sovereign struggled to identify. Careful analysis and comparisons eventually rendered an answer which was almost as surprising as the Natal Palace itself, for the fundamental composition of the air itself differed slightly from reality, the ratio oddly skewed in ways he could barely perceive. Most Natal Palaces he’d visited treated the air a singular essence, or enough of one that the differences were negligible at best, yet this boy knew enough to not only separately include all the base components of air, he even went so far as to change it to include far more impurities than normal. This change accounted for the aforementioned unfamiliarity, but for what reason, this Sovereign could not say, as there was no fundamental benefit or even a detriment to be found, or at least not one significant enough to matter. Yet this seemingly inconsequential change spoke volumes to the meticulous design of this sublime Natal Palace. It made no sense to go to so much effort for no reason at all, yet the subject must have intentionally done so because there was no other explanation as to why this change would exist. Even the air of the outlands were not so befouled, so there was no chance the subject was simply recreating the ambience of his childhood, meaning he chose to make the air in his Natal Palace less… not clean, not pure, but palatable as a whole, with less of what the human body required to sustain itself and more of the waste it produced. An odd decision, but one this Sovereign suspected no one else would have even noticed, which made the change all the more unfathomable.

The sunlight too, that had been adjusted to be harsher and more unforgiving on the skin than in reality, and the ambient pressure weighed slightly more heavily upon this Sovereign’s frame. Not by much, but again enough to notice, which marked another two changes which appeared without rhyme or reason. The water was more pristine and refined than any natural source in reality, which was not out of the ordinary given its significance to mortal life and sustenance, but it was not entirely pure either, containing an assortment of natural impurities which had no ill-effect on the human body, but were significant for the framework of non-human life. All of this and more hinted at the thought and foresight which went into crafting this Natal Palace, clues which led this Sovereign to suspect that the adjustments from reality were significant in ways even he could not wholly comprehend.

How delightful. A puzzle to solve after so many millennia of tedious monotony, one which might even provide noteworthy answers.

So distracted by his study of this most promising discovery, this Sovereign even gave voice to his admiration without meaning to, an inconvenient adverse reaction to occupying an unsuitable host’s framework. It had not always been this way, for this host had been carefully selected from amongst thousands of possible candidates whom he identified from birth, only to pit them against one another in various tests to ascertain the best possible successor. Alas, the host’s Will was stronger than most and his determination unmatched, and he’d grown so unsuitable in recent years that this Sovereign’s existence had finally been uncovered. Not for the first time, and he had his methods to make his return unknown, but the timing of this mishap was most inconvenient indeed. The work of one Liang Wu Di, as it were, a talented young Scion who would have made for a fine host had he been born two decades earlier or three decades later. Alas, this Sovereign only had himself to blame for allowing matters to devolve so far, his attention too fixated on the actions of his Nascent Soul to notice Liang Wu Di’s subtle machinations until far too late. Even Xing Ao Tian, this Sovereign’s hand-picked foil to the troublesome Liang Scion and a contender for the title of Divine True Warrior, failed to keep Wu Di in check and was won over in the end. Such a frustrating setback, to lose control of the Empire this Sovereign had created at this most inopportune of times, but the gains from his Nascent Soul and this new subject would likely be more than enough to make up for the losses.

And if not, then he would wait a century or three and seize a subsequent successor as his next host once the Supreme Families were no longer so guarded against him, as he’d done twice before. The memories of mortals were so short and fleeting, and this Sovereign’s patience without end, so it was only a matter of time before he reclaimed what was rightfully his.

A self-deprecating laugh echoed in the dark recesses of this Sovereign’s subconscious, finding humour in the irony of having been deposed from the throne of the Empire he’d created, but he paid it no mind when he realized his thoughts had strayed. It took a conscious effort of Will to draw his attention back to his surroundings, and what he found was promising indeed. While only a sliver of the subject’s Natal Palace had been Materialized, this Sovereign’s cursory investigation indicated that this inner realm existed in one contiguous state, a seamless microcosm of Creation which was far from perfect, yet superior to most others in terms of stability, cohesion, realism, and autonomy. There were currents of water and air flowing in and out of the surroundings, while the sun traced a slow path across the sky, drawing shadows underneath while affecting the temperature, humidity, ambient pressure, and more in an endless cycle of reciprocal exchange. This Natal Palace wasn’t simply fixed at a favoured time or comfortable climate, but adjusted itself accordingly to the shifting variables of the environment, variables which adhered to the same Natural Laws of reality, or close enough so that the flaws were nigh on imperceptible to the senses alone, and would require in-depth study to ascertain more.

Study this Sovereign could hardly wait to begin, hence his haste to enthrall the subject’s soul forthwith. Given how the immediate environment was able to maintain Balance with little to no conscious effort on the subject’s part, the rest of this Natal Palace would likely behave in a similar manner. More evidence of the subject’s advanced attainments in the Dao and comprehensive understanding of the Natural Laws, and this Sovereign yearned to know how this Falling Rain had progressed so far in so little time.

Which made it all the more vexing when the subject evaded this Sovereign’s initial attempt to capture him.

An outcome this Sovereign only discovered after the fact, which necessitated going back in memory to uncover how the subject had accomplished such a feat. By way of conjuring a Dharmic Icon, one which saw him spin in place before backsliding away while making movements to the contrary. An odd and artistic Dharmic Icon to craft, but the visceral disgust and voice of frustration stemming from this Sovereign’s subconscious told him that the subject had many just like this, most of which were rife with wry humour and mocking amusement. Another mystery to pore over, but one less important than the subject’s understanding of the Dao. Impressive as his Martial accomplishments, economic innovations, and technological advancements might be, this Sovereign knew full well the folly of relying on external factors to progress. Might makes right, so any strength that could be taken away or relied on the compliance of others was no true strength at all.

This was not to say that borrowed strength did not have its uses at times, and the subject used his well enough to avoid immediate capture. Seeing how this Sovereign needed the subject intact for further study, a delicate touch would be required, but it was only a matter a of time before the boy was caught. As this would require more effort and attention that he’d spared thus far, he exerted his Will and brought his full attention back to the present in order to ensure success. Always a jarring transition, shifting from his Divine Senses to utilize his mortal ones instead, a disparity which came about due to an imbalance in the body, mind and soul as the last was much stronger than the first two. Thankfully the Heavens were smiling down on him for his Nascent Soul had likely stumbled across the answer to all his woes, but it would take time to uncover the answer and there were more pressing matters to attend to first.

For almost an entire second in reality, this Sovereign struggled to acclimate to his lessened perceptions, an unpleasant sensation best described as if he were a fully functioning mortal had suddenly been blinded, deafened, and numbed from head to toe, with only two of five remaining senses to rely upon to make his way through the world. Most unpleasant, but needs must, and he stood vulnerable for a brief moment which lasted far too long for his tastes. A good thing the subject lacked the comprehension needed to injure this Sovereign, much less overcome him, for even here in the subject’s Materialized Natal Palace, there was nothing the boy could do to alter his inevitable fate, a truth which he could not deny for long.

After an exhaustive show of wildly imaginative and ineffective attacks, he gave up on his workings of Water Chi and applications of Sword Intent, wasting his only chance at victory to ask a meaningless question instead. “So which one are you?” The subject’s tone was full of mockery, his features twisted in a knowing smirk despite his obvious enervation. “Ying Zheng? Or Zhen Shi?”

A laughable question, but the subject was a mess of contradictions, so astute and promising yet also foolish and short-sighted. A consequence of his lacking age and experience, which made his attainments in the Dao that much more impressive, for he’d derived too many correct answers to attribute his comprehension to mere luck, coincidence, confidence, or delusion. No matter though, for this Sovereign required time to acclimate to his heavily reduced perceptions, so he answered the question with one of his own knowing it would infuriate the subject to no end. “Are you Falling Rain, or the Undying Savage?”

The subject’s face twisted into a grimace, which this Sovereign read as displeasure, and he derived a sense of hollow accomplishment from having needled him so. The pride and arrogance of youth, this aversion to being proven wrong, but to be corrected was a blessing to be treasured and appreciated. How long had it been since this Sovereign had a peer to discuss the Dao with? Someone worthy of exchanging thoughts and ideas with? Someone who could change how he perceived a topic with little more than words? Too long, a deficit which cost him time and effort aplenty, for no singular perspective was wide enough to encompass the Dao in all its infinite permutations. Hence why he’d gone to such great lengths to craft and sever a Nascent Soul in the first place. Or a Natal Soul, as the subject knew them, an equally appropriate epithet, but labels were merely a convenience for the mortal mind to keep discrete information organized in a systematic manner.

That being said, the subject was intelligent enough to recognize the wisdom behind this Sovereign’s words, though he continued to scowl in unvoiced disagreement, likely because he was unable to grasp a logical fallacy to comment upon. Instead, he resorted to scorn and derision in a blatant attempt to manipulate this Sovereign’s thoughts, but the subject was a thousand years too early for this battle of wit. “That sure sounds like something Ying Zheng would say.”

