The statement sent a jolt through the boy as he hurried over to his Throne, sharing the seat with his hound as the glass panels flickered with light to show the scene of Shi Bei. A most startling accomplishment, since technically the boy’s Natal Palace was still encapsulated within this Sovereign’s Domain, and thus should be cut off from reality, yet this child was somehow able to slip through all the same. Curious and curiouser, for this Sovereign was at a loss to explain it, yet the boy barely even gave it any thought as he defied all logic and understanding, but perhaps this was for the best. A full second passed as he connected with reality and time resumed all around them, a second in which he was exposed to all the death and suffering of Shi Bei, a scene which brought him much pain and anguish. When he was done looking, the glass panels went dark once more and the spinning lights followed suit as the boy stepped out from the room to confront this Sovereign directly. Eyes brimming with pent up emotion, he struggled to find an answer to a question he could not voice, and after a long moment of quiet deliberation, the boy met this Sovereign’s gaze. “With all your power, all your strength, you could have led humanity to thrive and prosper, built a utopia in which suffering was merely a forgotten memory. Instead, you sit on your throne and let your nobles play their games of politics while the world stagnates or even regresses from all the needless hardship and conflict.” Brow furrowed in confusion, he heaved a sigh and asked, “Why?”

Amused by the boy’s lacking comprehension and more than happy to draw this out, this Sovereign’s lips quirked in the hint of a smile. “Were you not present for my final lesson to Liang Wu Di?” Giving the boy some time to think it through, this Sovereign only spoke again when it was clear he would never arrive at the answer himself. “Even an Emperor cannot change the hearts of man. Were this Sovereign to strive and struggle to bring humanity to prosperity, they would soon take it for granted and destroy it themselves. Balance does not come so easily to most, and without trials and tribulations to temper them, they would soon fall victim to emotions such as greed, envy, lust, and more. In order to keep the world and humanity intact, a careful Balance must be kept, one of success and suffering unending, for such is life.” Manifesting his Domain with a wave of his hand, this Sovereign recreated a scene from memory, one hearkening back from a time when he was almost as young and naïve as this child before him.

An act of impulse, one he had not planned on making, but the boy possessed promise and potential enough to tempt even this Sovereign. Not to seize Falling Rain’s secrets for himself, but to enlighten him and guide him to become the second most powerful being under Heaven, for as this Sovereign noted before, it had been too long since he’d had a peer to discuss the Dao with and having a sixth brother would make for a welcome change.

Perhaps that was the true prize at stake here, a gift bestowed upon him by the Heavens above. Despite starting with a clean slate, this Sovereign’s Natal Soul had failed to even come close to reaching his potential, but not without reason. Zhen Shi’s purpose had been to progress along a different Path and provide this Sovereign with an alternate perspective of the Dao, but this required pursuing a Path less suitable for his disposition. A flaw this Sovereign had long since noticed while watching over his Natal Soul, but one he had no way to fix save to hope his Natal Soul could find a solution himself. He had, in a way, but now this Sovereign also had this promising child here before him, one with potential enough to one day reach these same soaring heights so long as he received the proper guidance, so this Sovereign would be remiss to not at least try to tempt the boy to his side.

And what better way to do so than to present him with the indisputable truth?

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
