A clumsy and unsubtle taunt, yet it still sent flicker of irritation coursing through this Sovereign’s thoughts, a rare burst of emotion which he quickly reined in. From this, a pattern emerged, a problematic lack of control over his mental and emotional state, and he arrived at the heart of the issue post haste. A sequelae from his Natal Soul’s unrestrained indulgence in the negative aspects of the Dao, but one kept in check easily enough with a minor effort of Will. Not an ideal solution, for much like a single crack in the ice could lead to a wide-spread collapse, this lack of control might well spiral out of control if left for too long, but he would have to make do until he had time and attention enough to devote to mending this flaw. “It matters not,” this Sovereign intoned, dismissing the subject’s concerns with a wave of his hand. When it came time to mend his flaws, he made a note to also divest himself of these mortal habits, ones which again could be attributed to his recently reincorporated Natal Soul. “Your struggle is futile, your fate sealed, so this offer will be made only once; Submit and surrender control of your Natal Palace and you will be left intact. Resist, and suffer the consequences of this Sovereign’s wrath.”

A useless threat, which he would have known if he’d taken full stock of his Natal Soul’s memories beforehand. Even as the subject gave voice to his crude and anatomically impossible retort, this Sovereign was struck by a brief and ephemeral sense of familiarity as his temper soared in response. Another unintended consequence of forcibly merging without proper preparation, a haphazard and incomplete grasp of his Natal Soul’s memories and perceptions. Better if he’d taken the time to allow his Natal Soul to remain separate and distinct in order to pass along everything of value while keeping behind anything which might be detrimental to his progress, but this Sovereign had no choice but to act as he did. They’d been separated for so long that the Heavens no longer recognized them as one and the same, but rather saw his Natal Soul as a distinct entity capable of entering into the cycle of reincarnation. That the subject was so resistant to Compulsion was both unexpected and unprecedented, so this Sovereign did not expect his Natal Soul’s vessel to be struck down so abruptly even after seizing the sword that would have claimed his life. Had this Sovereign not acted immediately to take his Natal Soul in, then it might well have escaped to be cleansed and reborn anew, taking with it several millennia worth of perspective and experiences while wasting their combined efforts since the founding of the Azure Empire.

Alas, blessings arrive alone, but troubles often travelled together. This Sovereign’s Natal Soul was so beyond saving that it even sought to supplant him as the ‘superior’ existence, when their true relationship was more akin to a reflection. His Natal Soul was originally intended to be a copy of himself bereft of his memories and biases, a clean slate with which he would use to study the Dao from a different perspective. The first host he procured for his Natal Soul was even his direct kin, the great-great-grandson of the mortal bloodline he’d been born to. Alas, somewhere along the way, this ‘Zhen Shi’ somehow forgot his origins and developed an irrational hatred for this Sovereign, a seed no doubt planted and nurtured by the hordes of Spectres which he’d grafted to his very soul in a misguided effort to become complete.

One that succeeded when it shouldn’t have, which was most interesting indeed, and one reason why he was so willing to pass on the throne and mantle without contest.

This Sovereign had yet to wholly unravel all the ramifications of his Natal Soul’s actions and decisions, but unfortunately, it was clear ‘Zhen Shi’ had ultimately been unable to overcome the hurdles which spoiled this Sovereign’s progress, the inability to rise above the constraints of Heaven and harness the power of Immortal Energy. There was still much to be gleaned from his Natal Soul’s memories, more than his rambling journals could ever convey, but his understanding of Life and Death Energy was sorely lacking. No matter though, for the Natal Soul’s twice-Refined body was a treasure trove of information just waiting to be uncovered, to say nothing of its value as a source of energy. Once this Sovereign learned enough to recreate his Natal Soul’s success, he would then use the corpse to empower a new generation of Nascent Immortals controlled by his Natal Souls and sweep through the Empire to retake what he’d given up today, but that was a matter for the future.

One which would never come to pass, as this Sovereign noted the marked absence of the beheaded corpse laying at his feet in reality.

The Predator. An answer which sprang to mind before the question even fully formed, one provided to him by his Natal Soul’s memories. Disconcerting, having these unfamiliar thoughts and emotions surface without warning, but a necessary trial he must overcome, and he devoted more focus to reining his temper in once he noticed himself glaring at the offending dog. The beast was an anomaly, one Created by the subject in an unprecedented act of genesis, bestowing a physical form unto a creature of Spirit without the use of a local host. The so-called Spectres of the Defiled underwent a similar process in order to form Transcendents, while this Sovereign’s Natal Soul was able to modify the parameters to ensure the hosts retained control once all was said and done, but never before had there been a confirmed instance of creating an entire living, breathing, conscious organism from nothing.

Until now. This was a true act of Creation, in which the subject was able to harness not just the Energies of Life and Death, but Immortal Energy above it in a feat beyond the realms of mortal abilities.

The outcome was less than impressive however, for the wretched hound did not behave like a Predator, hiding behind the subject’s legs and not daring to meet this Sovereign’s eyes. Odd that its personality seemed more akin to a scavenger, waiting until this Sovereign’s attention was otherwise occupied before Devouring the Natal Soul’s host body in one fell swoop, robes, bones, and all. Not even the blood soaking into the sands had been left behind, and only then did the hound notice its master’s plight. Even more curious was the fact that the creature was here in the flesh, rather than in spirit like this Sovereign and the subject, a most fascinating instance of transubstantiation which before today had only existed within the realms of possibilities, and not even a probable one at that.

Perhaps this was the step this Sovereign was missing, a union of body, mind, and soul that went far beyond what he’d already accomplished, a higher level he never even thought to aim for.

The boy, the dog, the Natal Soul, oh how this Sovereign hungered to uncover their secrets. A thousand possibilities played out in his mind, then a tens of thousands more as he sought to calculate and conceptualize the optimal Path to theoretically achieve this advanced state of Unity, but try as he might, there were too many unknown variables to derive an acceptable course of action. More study would be required, of the subject and hound both, but fate and fortune had smiled upon this Sovereign for theses prizes were all but in hand. Returning his focus to reality, he reviewed how events had unfolded during his lapse of attention, which lasted a whole three-hundred and eighty-seven milliseconds in reality.

Time enough for the subject to lose his temper and patience both as he resumed launching attack after attack with little to no effect.

Despite standing in the centre of his power within his Manifested Domain, the subject’s reliance on physical attacks showed just how shallow and lacking his comprehension was. Flying weapons and towering waves filled with boundless Sword Intent crashed into this Sovereign’s soul only to melt away like ice thrown into a blazing forge. Colossal cannons of complex design bombarded him with exploding projectiles of steel and water both to greater effect, but they shattered upon contact with his golden Dragon and Phoenix robes, the Manifested Dharmic Icon of his unyielding Authority which was second to none under the Heavens above. Tendrils of water sought to consign this Sovereign to the waters below, and the subject piloted all manner of steel monstrosities aiming to do the same, all while a myriad selection of unique and eclectic melodies emanated from a series of black boxes larger than the subject was tall, but this Sovereign merely stood in place throughout it all and defended without needing to think.

It wasn’t that the subject was wholly incapable of harming this Sovereign, but rather that he knew not how to properly wield the tools he had in hand. Though wholly capable of harnessing the Energy of the Heavens and even assimilating his Sword Intent into different forms, he still lacked the critical insight needed in order to understand the nuances hidden within these secrets of Heaven and link them back to the Dao as a whole. One only needed to hear him use misnomers such as ‘Sword Force’ and ‘Water Chi’ to know he did not wholly understand his gifts, and this lacking comprehension in matters of Intent, Heavenly Energy, and the soul would be the subject’s downfall. Unlike the trapped souls of his founding generals, this Sovereign was not so easily ensnared by the base workings of this Materialized Natal Palace or generic manipulations of Manifested Domain, for though water could carve through stone if given enough time and effort, he had no intentions of giving the subject that much leeway to act. Even without his full attention, his eternal soul possessed the accumulated knowledge of millennia of experience and was more than capable of not just resisting the subject’s best efforts, but crushing him underfoot, and this conflict only lasted this long because this Sovereign wanted him alive. A tricky prospect, akin to catching a fly using chopsticks without causing it any undue harm, so patience was his greatest weapon here, but the subject tested it with every attack and quip as he disregarded face and dignity both.

Aggravating though his actions might be, the subject’s glaring inadequacies made him that much more valuable, if only to study how he achieved his high attainments and understanding of Natural Law in spite of his meagre comprehension of the Dao. Small wonder this Sovereign’s Natal Soul had risked everything to capture and abscond with the subject, for the secrets contained within Falling Rain’s youthful mind were worth more than the Empire itself. Pearls cast before swine, that was the idiom which came to mind as this Sovereign looked down upon the subject with contempt and disdain. Exhausted from his efforts over this last half-second, the boy stood upon his bright yellow raft made from materials most curious, his chest heaving and brow covered in sweat despite having no lungs or body to overheat. The hound was equally useless, propped up against its master’s leg while emanating an aura of nervous fear and concern. More evidence of the subject’s unworthiness, for even with the power of an Immortal and an Elemental Spirit in the palm of his hands, he was unable to Create anything of note. No matter though, for all this and more would belong to this Sovereign soon enough.

Deploying his Divine Senses to examine the flow of energy all around him, he traced a thousand different avenues in an effort to seek out the core of this plane, the foundation upon which the boy’s Natal Palace had been built. A Natal Throne, as it were, and most used this same imagery to depict it, which was hardly convenient considering it forced this Sovereign to remain seated for all time. His current host’s throne sat empty now, but the chained soul would never have strength enough to shatter his bonds and reclaim it, bound as he was by shackles of his own making in his misguided desire to ascend to Immortality. Fools one and all, the scions of the Five Supreme Families, puppets he elevated above all others so that they would spend most of their efforts keeping those beneath them in check. Though his five Great Generals had been his closest comrades and allies in life, his five sworn brothers with whom he shared weal and woe, this Sovereign had long since discovered that all relationships were temporary, but benefits eternal. Had he not arranged matters so that the Supreme Families were in contention with one another, they would have long since united against him to seize the title of Emperor for themselves, a title this Sovereign would have long since abandoned entirely had he not erred in making his jade throne in reality the linchpin to all his plans.

It only made sense, given how much time he spent in court, and the Runic Inscriptions upon his Jade Throne enabled him to better study the secrets of Heaven. A shame he had to abandon it so soon after discovering a subject worth studying, but alas, needs must. If only there were a way to abandon the Imperial Clan, yet keep his Jade Throne in the Forbidden City, then this Sovereign would have long since washed his hands of these troublesome mortal affairs. The Supreme Families were useful enough as pawns and fodder, but now that Liang Wu Di had uncovered this Sovereign’s existence and united the Supreme Families against him, he almost felt relieved if not for the sheer humiliation eating away at him from within.

Hm… Perhaps the forced merger with his Natal Soul had affected this Sovereign more than he realized at first, but no matter. He would reclaim his Jade Throne soon enough, or perhaps even do away with it entirely once he understood more of the subject’s perspective and Path.

