A bolt of lightning jolted this Sovereign from his thoughts, and he glanced up to see dark storm clouds gathering overhead. The subject was learning rather quickly, having discerned that Materializing more of his Domain would afford him more leverage and power within it, but as impressive as his understanding of the Laws of Lightning might be, this was far too little too late. Had the subject Manifested his entire Natal Palace in full and set his mind to reject all foreign presences, then perhaps he would have had some chance at victory, but he’d all but invited this Sovereign to set foot into his partial Domain, believing he would hold the upper hand. Fool. If a mere child could exert his Authority whilst within another’s Domain, then how could this Sovereign fail to do the same? Such hubris would be the subject’s downfall, for this Sovereign’s Will stood unmatched, and he had suffered the boy’s disrespect for so long.

“Cease. Your. Struggle,” he Compelled, imbuing each word with the weight of his Will and Authority both, but the subject was a resilient one indeed. Reacting as if physically struck, the boy reeled in place only to rally his spirits and stand firm before this Sovereign, an act of defiance which induced rage and fury both. A wave of his hand sent a Manifested blade of Domain rippling towards the boy, an invisible edge of Sword Intent which sundered the yellow raft and black sound boxes with a single pass, and only then was this Sovereign able to reign his temper in. A troubling lack of restraint on his part, these impulses deriving from his Natal Soul’s experiences, ones which had suffered humiliation after humiliation at this hateful child’s hands. There were a thousand ways this Sovereign could have better handled this child, but he acted with petty spite and used Sword Intent to show Falling Rain just how feeble and powerless he truly was. A mistake which even his Natal Soul should have known to avoid, for the boy was stubborn and intractable even at the best of times, and humbling him would only make him that much more determined to resist.

Standing in mid air with his hound behind him, the boy continued to call down lightning upon this Sovereign’s head to no effect. The look in his amber eyes spoke volumes to his mindset, one which would rather break than bend, so this Sovereign needed to make him pliable before he exhausted his eternal soul struggling against all odds. “Where there is life, there is hope,” this Sovereign began, his words catching the subject off guard long enough to cease his attacks for a time. “Is that not what you believe?” Gesturing at the storm clouds above and the trapped souls below, this Sovereign continued, “If so, then your interests would be best served by heeding this Sovereign’s advice, for you know not the cost of your ineffective resistance.”

“Life Force?” Though posited as a question, the boy’s expression made it clear he cared not for the answer. “Soul Force? Whatever the price, I will pay it. Even if it ends in death or oblivion, at least it will end on my terms. I will never give up, never surrender, no matter how dire the odds against me, because that is who I am.”

With this affirmation of his Dao, the boy resumed his attacks with a spray of highly pressurized water powerful enough to scythe through steel, which combined with his Sword Intent made for his most formidable attack yet. Hardly enough to turn the tides of victory, but there was no sense in accepting this attack head on. Instead, this Sovereign stepped aside to avoid the attack and approached the boy to discuss matters further, only for his control to slip upon arrival as he delivered a backhanded blow to the hateful child’s face. Even this wasn’t enough to wipe away the subject’s smug little smirk, with one corner of his mouth raised ever so slightly in an obvious show of contempt towards this Sovereign’s strength. As he should, for a physical attack had little to no bearing to a Spiritual entity, a blunder this Sovereign had derided the boy for making only to fall victim to the same mistake.

Steeling his resolve to calm his nerves, this Sovereign idly defended against the boy’s retaliatory strikes while striving to convince him to see the truth. “You think you hold the upper hand because we do battle within your Domain, but did you ever stop to consider why this Sovereign would enter so easily and cede over so obvious an advantage?” Waving at the army of souls stationed outside the boy’s Natal Palace, this Sovereign continued, “They all thought the same, that their Will and Authority stood absolute within the demesne of their eternal souls, but this Sovereign conquered them with laughable ease.” Moving aside so that the boy could see his current host’s soul kneeling at the foot of his own throne, this Sovereign sneered, “Even without this Sovereign present, this feeble soul is incapable of reclaiming his throne, for my Authority is absolute even within another’s Domain, but you need not share his fate.”

Throughout it all, the boy continued to deliver a barrage of endless attacks, not just with body and weapon, but utilizing his entire Domain to strike. Waves of water transformed into blades of steel, while the air itself threatened to crush this Sovereign where he stood and explosions rang out all around him from massive rifles firing thousands of rounds per minute. An impressive display of strength, but that was all, and this Sovereign stood in place to show the boy just how futile his efforts truly were. “Your defeat is all but inevitable,” this Sovereign declared, and he saw a hint of acknowledgement inside the boy’s determined glare, for even he had lost all hope of victory yet continued to fight on regardless. “So stay your hand and accept your fate, else this Sovereign shall seek retribution elsewhere.”

Where force and logic had failed to rein the boy in, a simple threat was enough to stay his hand, and this Sovereign cursed himself a fool for not thinking of this sooner. The boy’s Dao was contingent on freedom of action, but he’d bound himself in chains of love and sentiment, chains which would forever hinder him on his Path. No matter how promising he might be, Immortality and ascendence would forever be denied him so long as he held fast to those restraints, the feeble obsession for love and connection that firmly bound him to the mortal world. Consider the phenomenal power this child possessed and what little he’d accomplished with it, an outcome which came to pass because he was too constrained by the red dust of the mortal world to move beyond fallacious concepts such as morality and ethics. This boy could have Shattered the Void and Ascended to Divinity twice now, and perhaps even gone further to match this Sovereign’s Natal Soul’s accomplishments, yet he refused to do so on such baseless grounds. Were he to fully embrace the Dao and rise above his frail human emotions, then he might well be worthy of becoming this Sovereign’s sixth brother, but this child was too afraid and too unwilling to take the next step because he knew it meant leaving his humanity behind.

So foolish. Emotions and morals were merely the frail trappings of mortality, chains meant to bind the weak to the strong and the strong to the weak in order to ensure the perpetuation of the human race, but the boy stood at the precipice of becoming something more than merely human, more than merely mortal, yet he balked at the last step. Such power was wasted in his hands, for the strong thrive and the weak die. Such was the way of the world, and this Sovereign had long since been the strongest being in all existence.

Though his words had almost no effect on the boy, they’d bought this Sovereign time enough to find the Natal Throne, and he Willed himself over to it. An act which required more effort than he expected, for the boy had hidden it well and fortified it greatly to prevent any and all foreign entities from entering without invitation. A towering building of steel and liquid stone, one which stood an impressive two-hundred and six metres high, more than thrice as tall as the tallest building this Sovereign had ever seen, the Hwarang Temple of bygone years built by fifth brother, Di Zi. Even more impressive was the structural integrity of this fortress built to house the boy’s Natal Throne, so sound and sturdy he suspected it could be built in reality if given time and effort enough. This was no fanciful creation of imagination, but a feat of architectural design which this Sovereign could only barely fathom, and he marvelled at the thought and care which went into its construction, though the overall result left much to be desired in terms of aesthetics. The surroundings seemed equally drab save for the inclusion of staggered plots of dirt to house a single, paltry tree each, and a beautiful marble fountain upon a dock of liquid stone which exuded power and significance as water coursed through and out of it.

The more this Sovereign learned of the boy, the more mysterious and incomprehensible he became. How could one child master so many different Paths in the span of a single decade? Not just the Martial Path, but economics, artistic expression, Water, and now construction in a style unrecognizable even to this Sovereign, the boy was truly an enigma worth studying. Putting aside his idle curiosity, this Sovereign lifted himself up into the air rather than head into the tower itself, for he sensed that the Natal Throne existed in the highest room and was well defended against intrusion. Better to approach from outside than to let himself be trapped within, but as he peered through the remarkably transparent glass which barred his way, he found an even more shocking surprise hidden inside. As if the tower itself was not otherworldly enough, the boy had gone to great lengths designing the room which housed his Natal Throne and making it so bizarre that this Sovereign knew not where to start.

The architecture itself was foreign enough, and not just the materials either. The room was all white, but in varying shades, with the doors and doorframes being pure as fresh snow but the walls slightly darker like aged bone. The floors were cured hardwood, but carved into square panes no larger than a palm and arranged so that their natural lines created intricate patterns which were pleasing to the eye. A most satisfying aesthetic that this Sovereign had never before seen, one which would require untold effort to fix into memory, and far too much work to place down in reality. And yet, this design was still wholly possible and more than that, plausible enough to seem wholly reasonable and logical, whether it be here in the Natal Palace or out in reality. Then there was the furniture, which again was unlike anything this Sovereign had seen, painted wood and treated leather as well as an austere and uncomfortable porcelain seat within an adjoining room which was filled with water and so much Significance that he almost mistook it as the boy’s throne. No, the true seat of power was the leather chair, but rather than four legs, this throne only had one, a single column protruding from the boom of the chair which split into five beams which ran parallel to the floor and bore a wheel each. Another strange yet wholly reasonable design, which left this Sovereign to wonder just how Falling Rain’s mind was put together, but it was nothing compared to the Throne itself.

For the strange leather chair was merely part and parcel of Falling Rain’s Natal Throne, which also included a black, rectangular desk upon which sat three glass panels enclosed in black boxes, two smaller, rectangular black boxes reminiscent of the larger sound devices from the boy’s raft, and another black box pulsing with multicoloured lights and power aplenty, among several other unrecognizable items.

Despite his head start, this Sovereign had yet to make sense of the madness before the boy arrived to contest him, appearing in the room and placing the hound on the chair before waving at him through the glass. “This is my house,” the boy declared, imbuing the seemingly innocuous statement with weighty significance beyond the context of the words themselves and further reinforcing his claim to it. “So I don’t care what sort of Soul-Fu you’ve got up your sleeves, but you are not welcome here. In fact, don’t even look, you peeping pervert.” The windows went dark to obscure this Sovereign’s sight, but his Divine Senses were not barred in any way, so it mattered little in the end as he continued to study the room and all its mysteries, which revealed more questions than answers in the end. Why were the books written in an unfamiliar language? Who were the colorful and oddly-dressed warriors depicted on the images plastered to the walls and ceiling? Why make a porcelain seat and affix it to the floor in a tiled room adjacent to his living quarters? How was the large black box with the glass side able to illuminate those spinning discs and emit every colour underneath the sun?

All questions which would soon be answered as this Sovereign stood outside the fortified tower and made his intent clear. “Formidable though your defenses may be, how long can you hold out within? This Sovereign can afford to wait for as long as necessary, but you lack the luxury of time, for the fate of your family hangs in the balance.”

