Ren shook his head and jogged down the hill to catch up to the Warriors that hadn't slowed down when Ren did. Gausen continued to just walk and he caught up to them just as they arrived at the outer gate. They weren't challenged by the guards stationed there and were let inside. The walls were 50 feet high, just like they were by the bay. The gate was made from planks of wood that were about a foot thick and covered with metal straps. There were gates on every side of the 100 foot square area. Ren followed the Warriors straight forward through 3 more gates of similar sized areas and then 2 to the right.

The area they entered was quite different from the others Ren had seen, as it was much larger and encompassed nearly an entire field by itself. It was filled with roped off sections, and to Ren's surprise, had a full sized obstacle course. Ren did a double take because he had assumed that since everything else was dwarf-sized, the obstacle course would be, too. He followed the dwarf warriors to a door off to the side, and they knocked.

Teepo, go! Ren thought and Teepo hopped out of the hood and skittered under the door. I wonder why they don't use windows?

“They're too weak to take an axe or a crossbow bolt.” Teepo offered. “There's just a dwarf and a desk, again.”

Ren smiled. Thanks, Teepo.

The dwarf inside told them to come in and the 4 of them entered the room. A dwarf sat behind a desk and looked at the new occupants of his office.

“We've brought the recruit.” Maldir said.

Ren came to attention. He knew how to act, at least inititally. Once he started training, it was all new territory. He'd have to wing it and watch what he said. “Sir! I was drafted, sir!”

The dwarf stood up and Ren smiled. He was exactly Ren's height.

“Did I do something amusing, Recruit?”

“Sir! No, sir! I'm just glad to finally meet someone of your stature, sir!”

The dwarf chuckled and walked around the desk, then sat on the edge with one leg up. “I like your uniform, Recruit.”

“Sir, Thank you, sir!”

“Even from here I can tell it's high quality. Where did you get it?”

“Sir! Master Tailor Lord Neram of House Neram, sir!”

“How much was it?”

Ren looked down at the uniform and used Appraisal. “Sir! This uniform cost 15 gold, sir.” Ren said. “Sir! The Military would get a nominal discount if you bought in bulk. I'm sure the price would drop to 10 gold, and possibly 7 gold if enough were ordered, sir!”

Quest Update!

You have informed the Commander of the Garrison about the origin of your uniform, and he will let everyone know that High Quality Uniforms can be ordered from House Neram.

Rewards: Influence: +100

Influence Bonus: +30%

Possible Tailoring Contract

“I also noticed your cloak. That's not standard issue.”

“Sir, no sir! Even though it's not against regulations, I will remove it if you require it, sir!”

The dwarf shook his head. “No, you can keep it on. It might inspire some of the other Recruits to try to do better.”

“Sir! I'll do my best to be a good example, sir!” Ren said as Teepo crawled up his back and into the hood.

“I'm glad we have at least one Recruit that knows what he's doing.” The Commander said. “Orders.”

Ren handed over his draft notice and the Commander read it, then frowned, and put it on his desk. Gausen stepped forward and handed the Commander a piece of parchment, too. The dwarf read it and his frown turned into a scowl.

“What the hell is this?” He said to Gausen.

“Those are supposed to be Ren's orders, sir.” Gausen said.

The Commander closed his eyes and sighed. He opened them and picked up the draft notice, then looked at Gausen's note. He shook his head, put the draft notice back on the desk and tore up Gausen's note.

“You... why...” Gausen didn't know what to say after that.

“I hate complications.” The Commander said. “I'll allow him to leave at night, but that's all. None of that other crap will fly in my Garrison. He's to be back here by daybreak, or he'll be sent for... and he won't want that.” The Commander looked at Ren. “Isn't that right?”

“Sir! I didn't want to see these two the first time they came to get me. I definitely don't want to see them again, sir!”

The Commander nodded. “Good. You're to report to Division A-113.” He turned to Maldir. “Show him where to go.” He turned to Darhom. “Go back to your post.” He turned to Gausen. “You may leave.”

Gausen looked at the Commander with surprise. “But... but... I'm his assigned Ambassador!”

“Are you offering to volunteer and stay?” The Commander asked.

The blood drained from Gausen's face and he shook his head.

“Then your job here is done. You've delivered your note. Have a good day.” The Commander motioned to the door and Gausen had no choice but to leave. Once he was gone, the Commander turned to the two Warriors and Ren. “Carry out your orders.”

“Sir, yes sir!” The three of them said and left the Commander's office.
