“Fucking nonsense,” Velika said as he rose into the sky. “What the hells does that even mean, ‘my essence is bent upon my self’? You could at least do me the courtesy of using some random mumbo-jumbo like a normal mage. Now I’m going to be trying to puzzle out that spiritual bullshit the whole time you’re gone.”

Westbridge ignored her, shooting up into the sky rapidly, but not so rapidly that he left thunder in his wake. She would learn in time, or she would not. He had more important things to concern himself with than her opinion. She was not even a mage. That had been another requirement for her selection.

As he rose over the city, he looked down upon it, scanning for any sign that he had been seen. A small boy pointed at him, tugging on his mother’s skirt, and a lone fisherman dropped his pole in surprise. Nobody of importance. It was fortunate that people so rarely looked up. Still, it would not do to tarry. Their intrusion would not remain undetected for long. For all he knew, the Watch was already aware. He did not want to rely on Velika to secure the platform on her own. Fortunately, he would soon give the defenders of the city something else to worry about.

He activated Mana Sight with a thought, an entirely new spectrum of colors overlaying itself onto his vision. He always perceived mana of course, but he was looking for more than the ambient flows of the energy through the air. It was a shame that the skill was channeled. Unlike Flight, which had a set duration, he could not use Chanting to enhance it further. Channel Mastery was an acceptable substitute.

Boosted by his will, the eddies and smears of mana that flowed through the city sharpened. Even from this height, he could see the pimples on the face of the fisherman as he pointed up at him, gesturing wildly. With the addition of Mana Sight, he could make out the soft glow of the man’s soul as it flowed around him as well. The peasant wouldn’t even be aware that he had a soul, weak as it was.

Westbridge shook his head. Sad. He scanned the city, picking out the souls of the eighteen Watch sentinels that were inside the walls, shining bright by comparison. He also marked the souls of the four Adventurers’ Guild silverplates, and the one Bank enforcer, deep within the organization’s shielded vault. He needed to activate Unveiled Sight to see the last, their building having been ensorcelled to prevent just what he was attempting. Such shoddy spellwork was but a minor inconvenience before his all-seeing gaze.

He nodded to himself. There was no threat here beyond the lone goldplate, his soul shining like the sun compared to the stars that were the others. The background glow of the unawakened wasn’t even worth mentioning. He already had a plan for Halgrave. There would be no surprises.

Just as he thought this, a glow caught the corner of his eye, not from within the city, but from a forest to the east. There was a powerful soul there, but it was shrouded somehow. He couldn’t get an accurate lock on it. No matter. It will not be of any consequence in a few moments.

He sharpened his focus further, using Piercing Gaze to pare back the roofs, then the buildings, then even the ground. He stared deep, searching the sewers below the city. He saw the Lair as a bubble of impenetrable magic, blobby and misshapen. He could not see past its border, but that was not a problem. It was not the Lair he was after. It was the other bubble of magic that he was interested in.

The Lair’s boundary swirled with corrupted green mana, indicative of a Chemical alignment. The Lair’s barrier was a wall that separated it from the outside world. It was a natural phenomenon. The barrier that he was looking for was anything but natural, and it had been made not to divide, but to conceal.

He searched methodically, tracing the countless strands of ambient mana as they twisted through the earth. He was looking for a small distortion. The Majistraal were skilled. It would not appear as a barrier like the Lair, nor even a void in the ambient mana. They had been better than that. However, there would be certain signs that—Ah, there we go.

With a thought, he activated his DKE implant, forming a telepathic link to each and every one of the Citizens. They would already be watching, of course, but it was his duty to inform them nonetheless. He kept the thread narrow, not wishing to form a full connection. This was just an update, not a vote. A simple message would do.

[This is Citizen Westbridge. I have confirmed the presence of the artifact. Proceeding with phase two.]

He allowed himself to rise further into the sky, maintaining his focus on the spot he’d noticed as it shrank away. He stopped after a few moments, satisfied that he had sufficient height. He directed his thoughts downward, canceling his upward momentum and inverting it, flinging himself at the ground. He fell like a stone. No, faster than a stone. The air shuddered as he passed the speed of sound, accelerating faster and faster toward the rapidly approaching ground. He would need the speed to penetrate the earth. He struck the ground with the force of a falling star, destroying several buildings and sending a blast wave out through the city.

He had made sure that there were no awakened near his entry point. As for the unawakened, it was regrettable, but it could not be helped. There were no tunnels leading to where he was going. The ground parted before him, giving him no more trouble than the air had as he tore the stone asunder with his passage. He canceled his remaining momentum, falling lightly to the floor of the chamber that he had known would be there. He was not concerned about breaking the artifact itself. He doubted that such a thing would even be possible for anyone short of the gods. All of the Majistraal’s cities had been wiped from the face of the planet in their terrible civil war, yet the teleportation platforms had survived. There was no reason to expect that the barrier stone would be any different. The artifact itself would be as close to indestructible as it was possible to get.

He stood, dusting himself off. The wet earth and powdered stone fell away easily, leaving him pristine once more, his jacket not even rumpled. He was operating on limited time now. His entrance had hardly been subtle. He conjured light, though he did not need it, looking at the obelisk that stood before him. This was what he was here for, the construct that the Majistraal had used to protect their way station. It had not been enough to save it from destruction. There were more like it under a few other old cities in the DKE, the presence of the ones that had never been used a tightly kept secret due to the tactical advantage that they represented. He had known that this one would be here. It was more than just a hunch. He was something of an expert.

Just because it was easy for him to find, it did not mean others could, however. There were rumors of its existence, of course, just as there were rumors of ancient Majistraal secrets below every city with a teleportation platform. Those rumors would be confirmed today. There would be no hiding what was to come. It struck Westbridge as a waste, using it this way, but the DKE had decided. He was bound to execute their collective will.

He reached out, laying his hand upon it. It took but a thought to form a connection, the pathways of the Majistraal spellwork unfurling in his mind like finely woven lace. A lesser mage would have been driven mad instantly. Many had, and from much less powerful constructs than this. He took his time, making sure to familiarize himself with the controls before activating it. The obelisk helped him, guiding his understanding. He marveled once more at the mastery of the ancient order of mages as he modified the list of residents for the city, scrolling past the names of thousands of long-dead Majistraal and adding his own to the end, as well as one other. He was only allowed to do this because of the failsafe the Majistraal added to all their technology. If there were no living users, anyone could gain control, provided that their mind could handle the strain. His could.

The barrier stone was a marvel. It was not like the Majistraal platform above. That had been designed for anyone to use. This was something else entirely. This was designed for the defense of a nation. He smiled as he activated the final enchantment. He felt more than saw the mana in the room swirl as it was sucked into the obelisk. The field extended, drawing in all the ambient mana in the city to fuel the ancient Majistraal artifact. It did not stop there. Though he was an approved resident, he was not exempt from the magic that fueled the barrier as it sprung into existence around the city. He felt the draw on his own mana as the artifact stole his regeneration to power itself, like a leech feeding upon his soul. It was as if he had no more arcane resistance than the hapless fisherman above. He did not need to know how it worked to appreciate such craftsmanship. This was what spellwork was meant to be.

“Wait here,” Halgrave said, stepping through the door. He’d hurried down here immediately after he’d felt the ground shake. He knew what it meant. The impossible message that had appeared in his mind when the barrier activated was further confirmation. The city had been attacked.

On the ground floor of his mansion, there was a room that served a singular function. There was but one entrance, and that was warded. As Halgrave entered, light blossomed from the enchantments lining the walls. This was no mere byproduct of the enchantments themselves, this was light in its pure form, created by runes cast in rare crystal for that very purpose. Such things were not often seen in Fel Sadanis. The materials required to support a light-based enchantment were rare in general and the abundance of cheap chem-crysts made evertorches a much cheaper alternative.

That was nothing compared to what stood in the center of the room. There, upon a plinth of reinforced iron, rested a hammer. The head was made of a dark crystal, black as night. A worldly traveler might have identified it as volcanic obsidian. They would have been wrong. The head of the hammer was the size of the torso of a man and the haft was fully three stride long. The thick metal handle was made from adamant, the dark swirls of shifting color within the metal proof of its purity. The materials alone would have made the hammer worth guarding, but were that all, Halgrave would not have bothered to construct this room.

The metal plinth itself was enchanted, minor inscriptions providing long-lasting durability and hardness. It was necessary to prevent the metal from buckling under the immense weight of the hammerhead. The crystal that it was made from was dense, heavy beyond belief. Perhaps the stone of the floor could have withstood the pressure unaided, but without the plinth, he would have had to be exceedingly careful whenever he set it down so as to not shatter the floor. He was not patient enough for that. This was not a showpiece to be arranged carefully for display. This was a weapon, and this room had been designed with practicality in mind.

Center of Mass.

Halgrave reached out and grasped the handle with one hand, lifting it easily and holding it extended at arm’s length. He checked the enchantment as he swept the hammer in a circle, the head barely clearing the walls. There was plenty of charge, the runecraft of the renowned smith Karamaugin holding strong after all these years. An uninformed observer of this feat would have been awed by the strength required. Even had the head been made of mere stone, the strength required to hold the head up by the handle at such a distance was simply inhuman.

A more informed observer would have quickly realized that there was more at play than mere strength. There was a common problem that even the densest warrior came to realize as their strength grew. As monsters grew powerful, more powerful weapons were required to fight them. The easy way was to simply make the weapons bigger. A sword became a greatsword. A hammer became a maul. At some point, the warrior would realize that he was no longer swinging his weapon, the weapon was swinging him. Going further served no purpose.

Halgrave was holding it by the very bottom of the handle. The shaft made a line parallel with the floor, perfectly straight. If not for the enchantments carved into the hammer by Karamaugin, even the adamant shaft would have bent from the weight. To anyone who was aware of the incredible density of Ixyn Crystal, the scene itself was impossible. Had anyone other than Halgrave tried this, they would have found themselves parallel to the floor instead of the hammer, the heavy head firmly planted on the ground. This was perfectly natural, as the dark crystal weighed many times more than both him and his armor combined.

He swung the head up, simply by tilting his wrist. The shaft fell to rest against his neck as he turned to walk from the room, the head of the hammer hovering behind his head as he carried it over his shoulder. It was casual. Easy. This was the benefit of a tier-4 skill. For him, the hammer was as light as a feather, its mass distributed evenly across his entire body. However, anyone struck by the head would have to contend with the full, concentrated weight of the supremely dense crystal, accelerated to ridiculous speeds by his strength.

Airwalk. He remembered to activate the skill just in time as he stepped down from the metal plinth. Instead of touching the ground, his foot stopped a few fingers above it, yet still supporting the full weight of his body as well as the hammer. It was fortunate that he had remembered this time. Without the skill, his armored boots would have shattered the stone the moment he stepped down.

He gestured to his servant as he exited the room. “I am going to the center of the city to wait for them to make their next move. Bring me word if—”

[Attention, residents of Fel Sadanis,] a voice echoed. It came from everywhere, and yet nowhere. [By the majority accord of the Citizens of the Democratic Kingdoms of Ekrustia, this area is hereby claimed as…]

Halgrave snorted. “So it is them, then. Damn. At least it’s not the Empire. Helmet.”

