In Jarro, something unusual was happening. The trade complex was quiet. Normally, the area would be busy with the arguing of merchants and the coming and going of laborers. Instead, the area was deserted. The Bank officials that would have normally overseen the day-to-day operations of the complex were gathered together, standing unnaturally motionless. Uniformed guards with the crossed swords of Jarro embroidered on their leather armor formed a wall, screening the area from the public. This was official DKE business. No one was to be allowed in.

In the center of the trade complex was the teleportation platform. There were two figures standing upon it, an older man and a young woman. Simply by standing there, they prevented any inbound transport. The woman was dressed for battle, wearing two swords on one hip and another, longer one on the other. That was without even mentioning the massive blade strapped to her back. The man was wearing a tailored jacket of expensive green fabric and dark pants. He had four golden rings on the fingers of each of his hands, as well as two small golden studs, one piercing each ear. The symbol embroidered on the back of the jacket in gold thread was not that of Jarro that the guards wore. It was something else, an owl. This symbol was his own.

Hanging before them in the air was a distortion, like a pool of water. Through the rippling surface of the pool, a city could be seen from on high, as if viewed by a bird. Smoke curled up from the chimneys of the city, creating an obscuring haze. Nevertheless, people could still be seen moving on the ground. Detail was difficult to make out at this distance, but the two watchers had vision sharp enough to pick out individuals from the crowd.

The woman tapped her foot impatiently. The man simply watched. He had learned the value of patience. He would wait until the opportune moment.

Elsewhere in Jarro, a blond-haired woman spoke quietly to the barman of a tavern called the Smoky Tail. It was an old establishment, and the owner knew her by name. The clientele here were people of importance, rich merchants and influential bureaucrats. It was a good place to get information about the doings of the various noble families in the city, as well as within the DKE at large. It was here that Ameliah heard a rumor that made her blood run cold.

In Fel Sadanis, Rain stared up at the sign hanging over the doorway to a stone building. The shop looked out of place, nestled amid the upscale homes of this part of the city. The name of the shop was painted on the sign in a fancy script and, like most other shops, it featured icons indicating what the shop sold for the benefit of the illiterate. In this case, there were two, the potion bottle that indicated a chemist, and the bar of gold for an alchemist. It was the alchemist that Rain was here to see.

Fifth bell rang in the distance as he shifted the heavy sack that hung over his shoulder. He looked down from the sign. Myth and Reason, huh? This is definitely the place. Myth is the alchemist that this crap is for according to the posting. Is he a chemist, too, or is there some dude in there who calls himself Reason? Seems a bit over the top, but hey, whatever works. I used to get my hair cut at a place called ‘curl up and dye’, after all.

He shrugged the sack off his shoulder and let it fall to hang at his side. Damn moss is heavy. He pushed open the door and entered, looking up at a familiar, yet unexpected jingle. There was a bell hanging on a spring over the door.

“One moment!” came a female voice. “I’ll be right with you.”

The woman was standing at a wooden workbench with her back to him. The room was lined with shelves filled with glass bottles, metal tins, and odds and ends of every description. There was a counter between him and the woman, but he didn’t have time to walk over to it before he was attacked by a whirling mass of white fur.

Excited barks filled the air as the dog bounced up and down. Rain had reflexively activated Force Ward but he slowly relaxed as he realized what was going on. Is that a Samoyed? No, it’s too big. It looks like a puppy, but it’s enormous. Just to be sure… He activated Detection, scanning for monsters. His scan came up clean. It was a normal puppy, just very, very large. He held out his armored hands to ward off the excited canine. “Hey, hello there. Good dog. Easy!”

The woman laughed, still focused on whatever she was working on. “Oh, don’t mind him. He’s harmless. Come on, Cloud, stop bothering the customer.”

Rain smiled. Cloud, huh? Good name for him…wait, that was English. His smile widened into a grin. “Ah, so this is the cloud Jamus was talking about. It all makes sense now.”

The woman froze and looked over her shoulder. She did a double-take when she saw his armor. “You know Jamus?” she asked, recovering quickly and turning to face him.

Rain nodded. “Yup. I take it you do too. Unless…this is your dog, right?”

“Yes, he’s mine. Cloud, down!” The puppy ignored her, its nails scrabbling against Rain’s armor as it tried to climb him. “Sorry, I only just started training him. You must be the one Jamus mentioned. The one who speaks the really weird language. Hi, I’m Meloni. Oh, oops, hang on.” She had extended a hand to him over the counter, but it was covered in a sticky greenish substance. She turned back to the workbench and peeled off her gloves. Rain blinked. They looked like they were made of thick rubber instead of leather. Staavo said they didn’t have rubber…

She turned back to face him. She was a tallish middle-aged woman, around 40 or so by his estimate. She had greying hair that had once been brown and was wearing a green high-collared dress. She offered him her hand again. “There, sorry. Hello.”

Rain shook her hand, still fighting off the puppy attack with his other arm. “Hello. It’s nice to meet you, Meloni. I’m Rain.”

“Rain…” she said his name carefully. “I like it. What’s it mean?”

“What, Rain?” he shrugged. “It’s just my name. My middle name, technically, but I’ve hated my first name since I was young. Kids can be vicious, you know? ‘Rain’ means ‘rain’, as in precipitation. I’ve gotten teased plenty for that one too. At least it was my choice.”

“In what language?” Meloni asked.

Rain paused. “Jamus didn’t say?”

She shook her head. “So, you’re a noble or something where you come from?”

“What makes you say that?” Rain asked, looking down at his armor. “That’s the third time today. Why does everyone think I’m a noble?”

Meloni smiled. “Well, the outfit is a dead giveaway for one. You don’t often hear of nobles joining the guild, but that armor must have cost…” she whistled. “More importantly, you said ‘Rain’ was your middle name. That means you have at least three. I’ve never heard of anyone who wasn’t a noble having a use for more than one.”

Huh. He tilted his head. Now that I think about it, she’s got a point. Other than Velika, all the people I know just have one. I hadn’t even thought about it.

He shrugged. The dog was still bouncing up and down excitedly. He knelt down, fending it off as it went for his face. “I’m not a noble,” he said, trying to keep the wet tongue away from him. It was a losing battle. He didn’t have his helmet to protect him as it was currently tied to his waist.

“Your common is very good,” Meloni said, watching him play with Cloud. “Where did you say you were from?”

“I didn’t,” Rain said, standing. He resisted the urge to use Purify to clean the dog slobber off his face. Who knows where that tongue has been. It’ll be fine. I’ll take care of it later. He looked back at Meloni. “What did Jamus tell you about me, exactly?”

Meloni laughed. “Not much. He said you were secretive.”

Rain smiled. Good. “I’m not, really. I just have trust issues. The first people I met when I came to this city tied me up like a chicken. Hey, get out of there, that’s not for you!” Rain pulled the sack away from the dog.

“Cloud, come! Sit!” Meloni said sternly. The puppy ignored her of course, snuffling at the burlap sack. Rain hoisted it out of range and set it on the counter. “Here, this is for Myth.”

“Bip!” the woman hollered in the direction of a curtained doorway. “Your nasty sewer moss is here!”

Bip?

The curtain parted and a man stepped out. He was tall and lanky with striking blue eyes and neat blond hair. His nose and mouth were obscured by the high circular collar of his white coat. He was dressed all in white, in fact, the coat falling to his ankles. It flared out at his hips, revealing a pair of white pants and white boots beneath. The coat buttoned up along the left side of his chest, rather than in the center. Well, he certainly looks the part.

Another man followed him into the room, slightly shorter and stockier and with dark hair and eyes. He was dressed in a matching outfit, except all in black. His coat was mirrored, buttoning up on the right side instead of the left. Rain smiled. This must be Myth and Reason. Fitting. Gotta say, I think I really like the theme they’ve got going here.

“There you are,” Meloni said. “What were you two doing back there? Just waiting to make your entrance, I’ll bet.”

The man in the white coat sighed and turned to face her. “Meloni, what have I told you about talking to us like that in front of people?” He had a strange accent, clipping his words oddly and accentuating the consonants.

Meloni laughed in his face. “And what have I told you about those jackets? Nobody is going to want to buy potions from someone if they can’t even see their face. The strange and mysterious look is all well and good, but—”

“Meloni, enough,” said the man in black. He turned to face Rain. “Welcome to Myth and Reason. I,” he took a bow, “am Reason. Please pay no mind to our assistant. You have something for us?” His accent was identical to the first man’s.

Rain fought to control his smile and nodded at the sack. “One bag of damp sewer moss, as ordered.” He fished out the quest posting, placing it on the counter. “I just need your signature. Actually his, I suppose,” he nodded to Myth.

Reason nodded, opening the bag and inspecting the contents. He seemed to consider, then inclined his head. “The terms have been fulfilled, and thus the work shall bear fruit.”

What?

Reason lifted the bag and stepped over the excited Cloud, heading for the curtained doorway. “Myth will see to your document. Go with my thanks. He who labors brings enlightenment to us all.” He disappeared through the curtain.

Okay? Rain scratched his head. He turned to Myth, hoping for an explanation about whatever the heck that just was. Myth was in the process of signing Rain’s quest slip, having produced a massive feathered pen from nowhere. Rain blinked. There was no pot of ink. “Is that a magic pen?” he asked, pointing at it. The pen vanished with a wave of the man’s hand. “Perhaps.”

Meloni punched him and looked at Rain. “Yes, it is. Writes without ink. Alchemical. The tip transmutes the color of whatever you write on. We sell them, in fact. Twenty Tel apiece. Interested?”

Myth rubbed at his shoulder, looking insulted. “Meloni, you’re ruining my mystique.”

She snorted. “Your mystique doesn’t pay the rent. How much do you two owe to the Bank, again?”

Rain smiled. This place is great. It is exactly what a fantasy shop is supposed to be like, not like that crappy store over by the Guild. Is that a frog in that jar over there? Why would anyone buy that? What is the possible use?

Myth sighed. His eyes looked old and tired, though Rain was sure he was younger than he was. Probably early 20s, by his guess. The collar made it hard to tell. “Fine, Meloni, fine. Yes, it is a magic pen, and yes, I can make you one. Honestly, woman, just let me do my thing. I was going to get there eventually.”

Cloud whined. Nobody was paying attention to him. Rain reached down to scratch his ears, then straightened, facing Myth. “Well, I can’t say that I can really justify spending that much on a pen. I’ve got a pencil that works perfectly well. Maybe some other time. While I’m here, though, do you sell any potions or scrolls or anything? Maybe something that boosts resistances?”

Myth spread his arms wide, taking a breath, but Meloni cut him off. “Why yes, we do. I have healing potions at 10 Tel apiece, and a selection of alchemical oils that you could apply to your armor to provide resistance against the elements. Heat, cold, force, even arcane, though that last one is quite expensive. Myth is the only one around here capable of making it.”

Myth looked surprised as he turned to her. “You used my name,” he said in a pleased voice.

“Quiet, Bip, I’m working here,” she said, glancing at him. “So, Rain. What will it be? Fancy a potion?”

“Humm,” Rain said, smiling at the interplay. “I suppose I could do with a few healing potions.” No way I’m paying ten Tel though. “The price is just a little…”

“Ridiculous,” Myth said, completing Rain’s sentence. “Meloni, I have told you, they do not cost nearly that much to make. You are trying to overcharge him.”

Meloni rolled her eyes. “Useless. Fine. 5 Tel. Happy?”

Myth shook his head. “Two would be more than enough. Reason does not need more than a single cryst to make an entire batch of the weak ones. Even the higher-tier potions only require…”

“Shut. Up. Bip,” Meloni said. “And you wonder why you’re in debt.”

Rain opened his mouth to respond but was interrupted by an explosion of sound and a tremor that shook the room. Everyone cried out in alarm as the shaking continued, fading after a few seconds.

“What the hells was that!” came Reason’s voice from behind the curtain, all pretense of mysticism discarded. Cloud was barking in alarm.

“An earthquake?” Meloni asked, looking at the mess in the room. Many bottles had fallen from the shelves, though none had broken somehow.

“No,” Myth said, looking at the door. “That was something else.”

Earlier and on the other side of Fel Sadanis, Val was standing in line impatiently. He was in a bad mood, mostly due to the fact that he was currently inside one of the four Watch strongholds in Fel Sadanis. It had him on edge. He didn’t like the Watch, but there was no help for it. This is where he had to be if he wanted to get paid.

