“Move,” he said, pushing the bound man up to the desk. The family in front of them had finally left. Val hadn’t cared enough to listen to whatever it was that they were complaining to the officers about, focused on his own situation. He pushed his captive again, harder this time as punishment for his refusal to move. The man stumbled and crashed into the desk, making the officers sitting there jump to their feet.

“Shit, my tea!” exclaimed the one on the left, scrambling to save a stack of papers from the spilled beverage. “Watch it!” he said, angrily, glaring at Val.

Val sighed. Damn, I didn’t notice the tea. He shook his head. Great, now I pissed them off. “Sorry about that. I’m just in a bit of a rush. I’m here for the bounty on this idiot,” he said, pulling his captive back to stand next to him.

“Damn it, this is going to stain,” the tea-covered officer said, brushing at his pants. The other officer looked at him apologetically, then turned his attention to Val. “Alright, don’t worry about it. Who is this supposed to be?” he asked, nodding at the prisoner. “And who are you?”

“I’m Val,” Val said, pulling off his guild plate and tossing it to the man. “And as for this guy, I don’t know his name. He matches the picture, though.” He fished in a pocket and pulled out the poster. It wasn’t a Guild quest. The Guild didn’t trouble itself with this sort of thing. This was a wanted poster he’d collected from another of the Watch’s strongholds. The big one near the west gate had a job board for things like this, as well as anything else the residents of Fel Sadanis wanted to post. The Watch didn’t manage the board like the Guild did, leaving it up to the posters to sort out their own affairs. In this case, though, the Watch had been the ones doing the posting.

“Humm,” the officer said, turning to his companion. “Vaast, where’s the book?”

Vaast pointed at a shelf behind the desk. “Third shelf, Kellen. You should know this by now. Damn it, I’m going to go get a cloth. Why does this always happen to me after the aides have gone home?” He got up from the desk and walked away, muttering to himself.

Val waited while Kellen retrieved the book and flipped through it, eventually finding a page bearing the same sketched image of the man standing despondently in front of his desk. The officer peered at the page, then up at the man. “You’re Korral?”

The man shook his head. The officer frowned. “Lie.” He looked at the man. “You are Korral.” It wasn’t a question. The man closed his eyes and slumped down, defeated. He nodded.

Val shivered. The Watch officers were fucking spooky. Every last one of them had some way of telling truth from lies, despite there being no skill to his knowledge that would allow such a thing. He wasn’t sure if it was something that they had been taught or some artifact that each of them possessed. All he knew was that he had rarely seen one of them be wrong. The sentinels were even worse. Their insight was uncanny.

“Very well,” the officer said, speaking to Val. “We will take him. The bounty is 100 copper.”

Val sighed. The low sum hardly made it worth his trouble. He’d collected all of the postings for minor criminals in the city on a whim, looking for something to do. The Guild hadn’t had any quests available when he’d checked the past few days. He hadn’t found Rain or Jamus, either, despite searching. They were probably staying with Tallheart outside the city, but he needed to make money, not spend a week lazing about in the forest. Getting his father’s jacket repaired had been expensive, leaving him practically broke despite the sudden windfall from the lair. He couldn’t even afford the two Tel for a bunk, making it difficult to get a good quest. He’d take whatever he could get.

“Humm,” the officer said, looking at a leather-bound book. “Val, bronzeplate, Adventurers’ Guild, identification number 302-12221. Issued in Ellum. You’re quite a ways away from home.”

“So?” Val said. The other officer was returning, cloth in hand.

Kellen shrugged. “So nothing. Just saying. Our last record of you is dated over two years ago. It places you at category two. Has that changed?”

Val shook his head. “I don’t need to tell you anything.”

Kellen narrowed his eyes. “You do if you want your bounty.”

“Nope,” Val said. “There’s the criminal, as ordered. Just give me the reward. It doesn’t matter who I am.” He snatched his guild plate up off the desk, slipping it into a pocket. The cord had broken in the scuffle with the man he’d captured. He’d had to subdue him physically, not being stupid enough to actually blast someone in the city.

Vaast shook his head, mopping up the spilled tea. “If you weren’t awakened, fine, we’d let you get away with that. But you are, and we need to know what you can do. It’s policy. You have to tell us if you want to do business with us in any way. Relax, it’s just a question or two. We’ll find out, one way or another. Just answer, then you can get paid.”

“Fuck that,” Val said, turning to walk out. This was a bad idea and a waste of time. I’ll get money some other way. Fuck, if I could find Rain we could go slime hunting. No fucking way I’m digging through slimes for Tel without that aura of his. He looked over at the prisoner, then sighed. “Keep him. I don’t care.” There goes 100 copper. I’m not telling them a damn thing.

“Stop,” Kellen said. “You can’t just leave like that.”

“Watch me,” Val said, making his way to the door. He swore as a woman in a red robe opened it before he got there. Shit, that’s a silverplate. A sentinel.

The sentinel stopped, glaring at him coldly, then looked over at the prisoner and the two officers. She raised an eyebrow. “Bounty?” she asked.

“Yes, Sentinel Lamida,” Kellen said. “Don’t let him get past you. He’s refusing assessment. I think he’s hiding something.”

“Shit,” Val cursed as the woman’s gaze returned to him.

“Why?” she said.

Val fought back his instinct to make a run for it. That wouldn’t end well for him. Neither would fighting. Now that a sentinel was here, he was basically fucked. It all depended on whether this Lamida wanted to make an issue of it.

At his silence, Lamida frowned. To his surprise, she stepped aside. “Fine. Go.”

“Sentinel, you’re sure?” Vaast said, rising from his seat. The sentinel shook her head. “We have bigger problems at the moment, officer Vaast. There’s been an incident at the teleportation platform.” She turned her attention back to Val. “Go on, get out of here. I’ve already dealt with one idiot adventurer today, I don’t have the patience for another. Leave, before I—”

The sentinel was interrupted as the room shook, a massive concussion rattling the shutters. The earth quaked below their feet, forcing Val to take a step to steady his balance.

“Damn,” Lamida swore. “Out of time. Kellen, Vaast, come with me.” She turned to look at the prisoner, standing meekly by the desk, arms still bound. “You better still be here when we get back.”

Val ignored them. It was time to get gone. What the hells was that? He ducked out of the office, hurrying from the Watch’s stronghold. Officers were streaming out of the barracks like bees from a kicked hive. He quickened his pace, heading in the direction of the sound. Unless a fallen star had struck the city, or a dragon had come out of nowhere, a crash like that could only mean one thing. There was someone strong here. Someone very strong. He had a guess for who that might be based upon recent events at the Guild.

Lavarro versus Halgrave. I’ve got to see this. He missed a step as he felt a massive pulse of something flow through the city. The rune representing his mana flickered, dimming as his regeneration all but stopped. He looked at it in alarm. That’s not good… A new glyph suddenly appeared, one he had never seen before. It was a message, and what it was saying was simply impossible.

Back in Jarro, just after the striking of fifth bell, lightning flared and cracked as the charge built up within the platform. Citizen Westbridge waited patiently, still watching through the scrying pool he’d summoned. Satisfied, he dismissed it with a thought, the view of Fel Sadanis vanishing. The Watch sentinels guarding the teleportation platform had been pulled away, to what purpose, he did not know. It did not matter. In fact, it would have hardly mattered even had they remained. However, he did not like to take unnecessary risks.

He did not know the full capabilities of each of the thirty-seven sentinels that he had seen in and around the city. If more than a few were toward the upper end of the range, it would be problematic to confront a group of them all at once. It would cause a delay. Unfortunately, he could not measure their strength through the window of his spell. For all that it was a valuable tool for seeing long distances, Scrying Pool was not technically a sensory skill. Mana Sight would only show him the construct itself, not what it was displaying beneath the surface.

“Old gods, this thing seems like it’s being even slower than usual. Come on already!” the woman next to him complained. Westbridge sighed. I cannot believe she is the best we could find. “Be ready,” he said, looking at his impatient companion. “Five seconds. Do not forget your role.”

The charge built to a peak and the world disappeared in white. Westbridge stood at ease as his senses twisted and warped. The feeling could be disorienting to those who had never experienced it before. He would never let it show, of course, but he was particularly sensitive to it. He didn’t often leave Westbridge, and he didn’t have the tolerance he once had in his youth. He kept his face stern. It would last but a moment.

The whiteness disappeared with a muffled clap of thunder, bolts of lightning falling unnaturally like water and expanding in a ring around their feet. The Fel Sadanis teleportation complex came into view and he immediately stepped forward, striking the Watch officer who’d come to challenge them. The man froze as Westbridge’s hand touched his chest. The spell would only last for a few hours, but until then, the man would remain there, unaware, and as still as a statue. The temporal lock induced by the Stasis spell was powerful. It targeted the unfortunate officer’s soul, sealing him within a bubble of altered time.

Westbridge’s companion was a little less restrained. The head of the second Watch officer fell to the ground with a wet thump, her body crumpling. Westbridge frowned. He moved quickly; there was not much time. He knelt to straighten the woman’s body and collect her head. He placed it back on her neck and concentrated, speaking quickly.

“What was done, be undone. That which was severed, be restored. The blood that has frozen, let it flow once more. By the power of my soul, be healed. Greater Restoration.”

Light flashed and the officer gasped. She thrashed, clawing at her neck until Westbridge froze her as well. He stood, the woman’s blood sliding off the fabric of his suit as if repelled. He turned to look at his companion. “Velika, I told you not to kill any members of the Watch. We cannot afford the backlash it would cause. That goes for the Guild and the Bank as well.”

Velika sniffed. “You think not killing any of them will prevent that? They’re going to lose their shit once they realize what we’re planning.”

“You will obey my commands, Velika. You are not a Citizen. Not yet. I am in command.”

“Fine,” Velika said. “I don’t see why the assembly didn’t just raise me back in Jarro. So what if I need a city first? I’ll have one in a few minutes.”

Westbridge shook his head. At least she isn’t as bad as her mother was. He sighed. “For the record, Velika, I do not approve of your elevation, no matter how I vote in the coming confirmation. I supported your aunt to take up the Mantle of Kallias, not you. Had we any other recourse, I would not choose you for this duty. It sets a dangerous precedent, having two Citizens from the same family.”

Velika glared at him. Her disdain rolled off him as the blood had, finding no purchase for it to sink in. He looked around. The sun was setting and the area was quiet. He’d made sure of that before triggering the Majistraal platform. He looked at Velika. “Secure the area. Block all inbound and outbound destinations as I showed you, then disable the link to the charging matrix. I will meet you back here in fifteen minutes. No one gets out. You should be undisturbed. Once I find the barrier stone, I will activate it immediately as planned.”

“Get going, old man. Don’t make me wait any longer.”

Westbridge ignored her jab. Yes, he was old. She was young, and it showed. He’d seen her like before. She was barely able to keep control of her own impulses. Giving her domain over Fel Sadanis was the height of folly; however, the DKE had decided the city needed to be taken, and the city could not be taken without raising a new Citizen to rule over it. Velika was the only option, the only suitably-minded person strong enough to withstand the implantation.

The rules laid out by his great grandmother were clear. No citizen could rule over more than one city. That was what had led Westbridge to war, time and time again. His great grandmother had ruled over the city as queen before the unification. She had been the first Citizen Westbridge, and he was not about to sully that legacy just because he disagreed with the DKE’s decision. Velika’s confirmation vote would be unanimous, as every Citizen’s always was.

He put the selfish upstart out of his mind. This was no time to be distracted. “The wind is the breath of the world, ever-flowing agent of change. I am of the wind, and it is by my will that my essence is bent upon my self. By my own power, I am uplifted. By my own agency, I am unbound. Flight.”

As he spoke the final word, his feet left the stone. He rose slowly, directing himself with his thoughts. The incantation was not strictly necessary. He had more than enough power to get the effect he wanted without the boost that Chanting provided. However, he found the metamagic helped him focus his thoughts, above and beyond the numerical boost that it lent. Many mages eschewed Chanting altogether. Such mages were fools. Every advantage was meant to be taken. Ignoring one as basic as this just because it was inconvenient was unforgivable.

