The servant offered it to him. He grabbed it with a hand and slipped it onto his head. He activated another tier-4, Living Armor. His stamina oozed out of his skin to permeate the metal of his blue plate. The thick slabs of metal, already massive, grew even larger and melded together, entombing him within. As the metal grew, it changed, becoming a part of him, a natural extension of his defense as a shell was to a tortoise. The golden symbol of the Adventurers’ Guild on his chest shone in burnished gold, contrasting the deep blue of his metal body. He stood transformed, looking more like a statue than a man. He activated several more skills in quick succession. This was only the beginning. It would take time for the transformation to complete, bringing him up to full strength. From the outside, he already looked like the metal golem he would become. He still held the hammer, the massive thing now looking slightly more reasonable in his metal hands.

Halgrave listened to the mage prattle on in his ear with growing concern as he made his way outside. The hallways and the ceilings had been constructed specifically with his current form in mind. Even at over four stride in height, he had plenty of room. He located the mage the moment he stepped out of the building, spotting a pair of figures floating in the sky, high over the city. He sighed and looked down at his servant. The features of his face were slowly growing out of the plate of armor that had covered his head. The mouth barely moved, the transformation incomplete. Nevertheless, his voice came through loud and clear. “You might want to cover your ears.”

The servant nodded and scuttled back inside the building. Halgrave looked back up at the sky. Mages have it too easy. He stepped forward. His foot froze in the air as if he’d struck an invisible step. He started climbing, using Airwalk to form a staircase in front of him as he made his way up above the walls of his estate. Once he deemed that he was high enough to avoid any collateral damage, he stopped and stared at the mage, judging the distance. He fell into a crouch, then sucked a breath deep into his metal lungs.

Velika paced impatiently. There was nothing to do while she waited. She’d already secured the platform and the teleportation complex was deserted. There weren’t even any Watch officers to play with. She idly poked a finger at the frozen officer in front of her. He felt as hard and as smooth as glass to her probing finger. She couldn’t move him at all.

The ground shook as Westbridge made his move. Good, at least he didn’t take too long. Cries of surprise and terror washed over her from the city, but she was distracted by the message that appeared before her. Westbridge had told her that this would happen, but seeing the magnitude of the effect was still shocking. Every mage in the city just got fucked. I wonder if that includes Westbridge?

She dismissed the message and returned to her pacing. It wouldn’t be long now. True to her expectations, Westbridge quickly appeared. “Come, it is time.” He offered her his hand, hovering a few feet above her.

She reached out to take it, feeling weightlessness overtake her as he pulled her into the air. She hated the feeling of magical flight, preferring to keep her feet on the ground. She wouldn’t admit it to anyone, but she’d been afraid of heights as a child. That fear was long gone, but the feeling of weightlessness was still disconcerting. Honestly, she preferred teleportation.

[When I let you go, you will need to support yourself. I must conserve my mana now that the barrier has been activated.]

Westbridge spoke in her mind, his voice buzzing annoyingly. The rushing wind would have made it difficult for her to hear him, otherwise. It was more annoying still as she had no way to respond. Bloody mages.

They stopped to hover above the city. Westbridge released her and she used Airwalk to catch herself, standing on a platform of solidified air, held there by her will. The Stamina cost was trivial, but it required concentration to keep herself from falling.

Westbridge turned to her, frowning. “Try to look a bit more dignified. This is your elevation, after all.”

Velika growled at him as she struggled to stay steady. “Just because it’s called an ‘elevation’, it doesn’t mean we have to do it in the fucking sky.” Slowly, she managed to steady herself. Airwalk was not meant to be used like this. In her mind, it was for quick steps and redirections, not hovering.

Westbridge had already moved on. She felt him re-establish the connection to her mind, but it was clear that he was doing more than that. One by one, glass spheres popped into existence around him, each about the size of a fist. They looked real, solid, not like the manifestations of mana that they were. Within each sphere hovered a face. She recognized many of them, but a few were unfamiliar. These were the Citizens of the DKE, the glass orbs the physical manifestation of the connection that they all shared through their implants. Westbridge had summoned the full assembly. There were thirty-six faces all staring at her from within the orbs, with Westbridge’s annoying superior stare making thirty-seven.

His voice echoed in her mind.

[Attention, residents of Fel Sadanis. By the majority accord of the Citizens of the Democratic Kingdoms of Ekrustia, this area is hereby claimed as a protected territory for summary annexation. I am Citizen Westbridge, and I will be overseeing the transition of control from the Vigilant Order of Watch Keepers to a Citizen of the DKE. Rest assured that we will make this transition as painless as possible. This action has been taken as a preventative measure in the conflict between the DKE and the Adamant Empire. We do not intend to harm any members of any other organization through this action. On behalf of the DKE, I hereby offer a formal apology to the Watch for the attack upon their outpost. We regret that the necessity of secrecy did not allow us to negotiate for the peaceful transfer of the contested territory.]

He cleared his throat, the feeling coming through the mental link. Velika blinked. Why did he transmit that?

[As many of you are no doubt already aware, a barrier has been raised surrounding the city. The barrier cannot be breached and it will sustain itself using the mana of all those within its boundary as an energy source. Do not be alarmed. This measure has been taken to prevent incursion by the Empire via the Fel Sadanis teleportation platform. No entry or exit from the city will be allowed by any means until the conflict is resolved. We apologize for the inconvenience. Should the conflict extend longer than anticipated, the DKE promises to provide the city with whatever resources it requires.]

A collective roar of outrage was rising up from the city, but Westbridge ignored it. Velika smiled at the clamor of the peasants. Sucks to be you.

[On a more positive note, I have been given the great honor of officiating the elevation of a new Citizen of the DKE. To oversee the city, I hereby nominate Lady Velika Vekuavak for elevation to the office of Citizen Fel Sadanis, pending confirmat—]

“OI! WHAT THE FUCK DO YOU THINK YOU’RE DOING?!”

Shutters rattled from the force of the shout that rose from the ground. It was quickly followed by a shining blue form, speeding toward them from the city. It was heading straight toward them. Velika took a step back in alarm, almost falling as she remembered her precarious footing. She swayed, fighting to regain balance. Damn it, I need to practice this more.

If Westbridge was annoyed at being interrupted, his face didn’t show it. He watched calmly as the massive metal golem arced past them and began to fall. The golem, no, the man with a golem’s form landed softly as if there was solid ground beneath them. He stalked forward, looming over the pair, a massive hammer held over his shoulder. Velika cursed as she recognized him by the description Westbridge had given her. This had to be the Guild branch-leader, Halgrave. It wasn’t that she felt threatened by his appearance, what was bothering her was something else entirely. Damn it, he makes Airwalk look easy. I need more practice.

[Halgrave. Do not interfere. This matter is between the DKE and the Watch. The Guild has no basis upon which to intervene.]

“The fuck we don’t!” Halgrave yelled loudly, though at a more human level. “You attacked the fucking city and you expect me to just sit around?”

[We did not attack the city. We are merely—]

“What the fuck is that, then?” Halgrave shouted, pointing at the massive crater. “That’s the middle of a residential district. Do you have any idea how many people you just killed? Do you even care?”

[Casualties of war. Regrettable. No Guild members were harmed. I made sure of that. You have no cause for grievance.]

“I disagree,” said Halgrave. “You will lower the barrier and leave this city or else.”

[Or else what?] Westbridge sent, tilting his head. [The Guild has no legal recourse in this matter. If you attempt to stop us, it will be as an individual. Your superiors will not support you. I will be free to do with you as I see fit as a matter of self-defense.]

“Horseshit,” Halgrave said, gritting his metal teeth. “We’ve got plenty of recourse. Fine, we don’t care what you do with the city. You will let all of the members of the Guild leave through the barrier. We aren’t staying trapped in this prison of yours. Anyone else who wants to leave, you let leave too.”

Westbridge shook his head. [I am afraid that there can be no exceptions. We cannot allow word of this to reach the Empire. Who knows how many spies they have in the city?]

“That’s a fucking crock and you know it!” shouted Halgrave, his volume rising once more. “This is a land grab. You aren’t fooling anyone. Drop the barrier. Now.”

[I will not.]

Halgrave narrowed his metal eyes. “You will not? Are you speaking as Citizen Westbridge, or as the DKE?”

[Both.]

“Prove it.”

Westbridge sighed. Velika grinned at his expression. It was satisfying to see someone stand up to the powerful Citizen like this. Westbridge was a bit of a pompous windbag. She was looking forward to watching the fight between him and the goldplate. That rank meant the Guild branch-leader was over level 50, which was not-coincidentally the line for DKE Citizens as well. It was a line she had technically not crossed yet. A full group of 7 Citizens had taken her hunting in the depths to find the required essence beast to raise her cap. None of them had been as strong as Citizen Westbridge, but still. It had been a humbling experience. She would be on their level soon. She just needed to grind out the required experience. Then I’ll really show that bitch Lavarro what’s what.

[Very well.] Westbridge turned to face the assembled glass orbs. [Citizen Westbridge formally requests a vote of the full assembly. The motion presented is as follows: The Adventurers’ Guild has requested that the barrier be lowered to allow their members to exit the city of Fel Sadanis. Will the DKE consent to this request? A yes vote constitutes agreement to lowering the barrier for a period of precisely one hour to allow the city to be evacuated. A no vote denies this request.]

One by one, the glass orbs lit up as the Citizens cast their votes through their implants. The result was easy to see for all. Over three-quarters of the orbs were red. Westbridge turned back to look at Halgrave.

[Request denied. You will stand down.]

“No,” Halgrave said. “I will not.” He lowered his hammer, holding it at the ready. “Do not even think of holding the city hostage. If you do anything of the sort, the Guild and the Watch will retaliate. Hells, they probably will anyway. This is between you and me.”

[You are wrong there, but very well. I will fight you on your terms. This is your last chance to back down. You have no hope of defeating me.]

Halgrave roared and raised his hammer.

Velika grinned. This is gonna be good.
