That left the skill shard. Thomas picked it up. The tag in his system read: Minor Ember of Life.

"Look at this," he said. "My system just gives the title and no descriptions. What does yours say?"

"My system? Oh yeah, I have that," Zach said, then his grin faded as he focused on it. "Minor Ember of Life? Uh... that's good, I think. But since it's minor, I don't think it's the type of thing that can save your brother's hand."

"No," Thomas said. "And I don't want to chance it. We only get one skill shard per level, you know, and I already have a skill." He realized what he'd just said and paused, wincing. "I'd appreciate it if you didn't share that around."

"With who?" Zach said with a laugh, gesturing around. "Your secret's safe with me, bro. But just because you get a skill doesn't mean you have to use it. I don't want it, either. I'm doing fine without skill shards for now. Just want to focus on the mana, y'know?"

Two impulses warred in his head: his greedy loot heart (probably the reason why he'd gotten a Gift like what he did) and his sense of fairness.

He let out a sigh.

"Look, the fact is that you did most of the work here and kind of carried me through this dungeon. Let's just split the profit from this shard. I'm going to go to the Reno auction, see what I can get for it."

"You sure?"

"Well, now that I know what to expect, I'm going to run this dungeon again," Thomas said. "Though not without drinking, like, a gallon of water."

"I hear that. And yeah, sure."

Plus, if he was working alone, he wouldn't have to worry about his loot drops.

They made their way to the exit door and the reward chest located in the exit room. The loot wasn't spectacular, likely because Zach had done most of the killing and they hadn't completely cleared out the dungeon. Still, they picked up three more B-grade red crystals and one more B-grade healing crystal.

Thomas kept the healing crystal and just gave the reds to Zach.

As they left, Zach said, "You don't mind if I run this dungeon again?"

"No, of course not. Run it as many times as you want. Just be careful."

Before they parted, Zach mentioned he wouldn't mind going to the dungeon, so Thomas arranged to pick him up around ten the next day so they could head down together. Unsurprisingly, Zach didn't have a reliable car.

Thomas liked the guy. They could even be friends.
