“So what? They’re customers. Erin will be happy. Anyways, they’re guests, and probably hungry. You can take their orders. I’m going on lunch and so is Safry.”
“What?”
Ishkr and Drassi had already gone on their break, but suddenly Maran was finding a seat and Safry was bringing over some of Erin’s magically fresh food, heated up and piping hot. Lyonette protested.
“You can’t do that!”
“We get a break. That’s the Innkeeper’s Guild’s policy and Erin agreed. We’re having lunch now. We’ll be done in thirty minutes. You can handle things until then.”
Suddenly, there were over twenty hungry people all demanding drinks and food at the same time. It was like the bad old days, but worse, because there were two [Barmaids] having a grand time watching Lyonette hurry around.
“I’m going to kill them. I’m going to feed Safry to a Rock Crab and let Maran walk into an Ashfire Bee hive…”
Lyonette was cursing under her breath, struggling to open another keg when someone held it steady for her.
“Don’t bother with monsters. Let’s just push them down the outhouse hole and put the lid down.”
Drassi grinned toothily at Lyonette as the girl stared at her. She offered a mug as Lyonette finally got a dark, amber-colored liquid to come forth and the girl hurriedly filled it.
“Thanks. I know you’re on your break.”
“Don’t mind a thing. I had to help out once I saw those fleshbags lazing about. Not you, them, I mean. I don’t know why Erin hired them.”
Lyonette made a face. She hurried over to the table and spoke as she grabbed the other two mugs Drassi was quickly filling.
“I think they thought they’d be working a lot less over here. And they’re not used to Drakes or Gnolls. I wasn’t—I learned, but it took time.”
“Think they’ll quit?”
“I’m going to talk to Erin. They’d better quit, or I’ll kill them myself after Safry bullying Mrsha.”
Lyonette’s face was a thunderhead. Drassi nodded in complete agreement, and then flicked her tail to the two [Barmaids].
“I might quit. Because if I have to listen to them ask me which Drake is which when one’s an old guy and the other one’s barely hatched—”
“Don’t do that! Erin will sort things out.”
“I hope so.”
“Hrr. She had better. Or I might take up your offer with the outhouse as well.”
Someone else came to join them. Ishkr had some food ready for the Humans. He nodded awkwardly at Lyon, not as comfortable as Drassi at socializing.
“I am not cleaning myself each time I get wet walking through snow. I do not smell. I have a good sense of smell, and it is not problematic.”
“You smell wonderful.”
Lyonette smiled at him and got a wide grin in response. She felt better after that moment, and once the Humans were fed and given something to drink, she had a chance to have a short break herself.
The knowledge that Drassi and Ishkr felt like she did was a relief. It meant Lyonette wasn’t prejudiced, that she was right, and that Maran and Safry had better watch themselves around the outhouses from now on. But it didn’t solve the problem.
More guests arrived from Liscor. Erin’s inn was developing a reputation as a hangout for adventurers, and also as the only place you could get good, cheap honey, aside from buying it from a certain Gnoll. Lyonette hadn’t gone on a run to the Ashfire Bee hive in a while, and she worried she might run out.
But there were bigger problems to deal with at the moment. Drakes and Gnolls had come into the inn, some to play chess, others to enjoy an inn not completely full to the rafters, as many inns were in Liscor at the moment. Some wanted to go through to Celum. In any event, the inn was bustling before the sun had yet to fall far in the sky.
By now there was an invisible line across the inn. Maran and Safry circulated the tables where the Humans sat, chatting, laughing with them, while Lyonette, Ishkr and Drassi tried to cover all tables equally. But because the two Human [Barmaids] were focused only on half of the room, the non-Human staff and Lyonette had to focus more on their side. And the guests noticed.
They weren’t idiots. And they had eyes. More than a few Drakes glared and some of the Gnolls sniffed and muttered quietly under their breaths, words only they and the other Gnolls could hear, which made Ishkr bare his teeth.
“Hey yo!”
Erin came back at the best and worst time possible. The best time because things were really heating up and every hand was needed. Safry and Maran’s pull for humanity had resulted in more people coming through via the group effect—if everyone was here, something good had to be happening—and that was on top of a weekend crowd!
It was also bad because Lyonette didn’t have a chance to pull her aside and talk about Safry and Maran. Oh, but it was going to happen soon! At any moment! As soon as she got more water, filled a few drinks, served five plates of piping hot pepper Corusdeer steaks—
“Drassi, you serve drinks, Ishkr, can you see if we have more of the Fireshot kegs in the basement? Safry, I need you to serve the Drakes. Just memorize where they’re sitting and—”
Lyonette was ordering everyone around, backed up by the knowledge that Erin was watching. However, Safry balked when she realized Lyonette hadn’t given herself a task at this busiest point.
“What are you going to do? I’ve got my hands full!”
Lyonette pointed to the stairs where she’d seen a furry white Gnoll head giving her imploring looks.
“I’ve got to feed Mrsha. She’s hungry and she needs a snack.”
“Her? Let her wait! Half of the room has an order.”
That was a good suggestion, a decent one. And because it came from Safry, Lyonette refused to consider it.
“I’ll be back in ten minutes.”
“You can’t just—”
“Hey, what’s the problem?”
For the first time, their argument had attracted Erin’s attention. Or it would be more accurate to say, this was the first time she’d been in the inn while a disagreement took place. And it was hard for Erin to miss the two [Barmaids] scowling at each other as the room heaved with work to be done.
Lyon opened her mouth to explain, but Safry beat her to it.
“Erin, Lyonette told me she’s going upstairs to take a break!”
Erin’s mouth opened. Lyon was faster.
“To feed Mrsha!”
“Oh, well then—”
“She can do that later, surely. And she’s been giving us orders all day!”
“Why’s that—”
“I’ve been trying to work with Safry and Maran, but they—”
“We haven’t been the ones letting that Gnoll run around—”
Safry was jabbing a finger at Lyon and Lyonette was trying to speak to Erin and butt Safry out of the conversation. Erin looked helplessly between the two and then raised her voice.
“Enough!”
The entire inn went silent. It felt as though someone had clapped a huge hand over Lyon’s mouth, knocking all the words she’d wanted to say back in. Erin looked around.
“Oops. Sorry everyone. I uh, may have used a Skill. [Crowd Control]. You know. Sorry about that.”
And then in the silence she turned back to Lyonette and Safry. And folded her arms. Lyonette gulped, because Erin was looking unusually peeved.
“Okay, what’s this about? Why is Lyonette giving orders so bad? Safry first.”
Was there a flash of triumph in Safry’s eyes? Did her speaking first mean she’d get more of a say? Fear overruled hot anger and determination to be proven right in Lyonette’s bowels.
“Lyonette’s a lower level than we are. But she acts as if she’s in charge while you’re gone.”
Erin nodded.
“Right.”
She paused.
“So?”
Safry faltered.
“We’re higher level! Both Maran and I are twice Lyonette’s level—”
“Okay, I get it. And Lyonette?”
Erin turned to Lyonette, cutting Safry off. Lyonette suddenly felt afraid. She couldn’t just list off all the things Safry and Maran had done, not with everyone watching! But it was now or never. She took a deep breath, and steeled herself.
“Maran and Safry don’t listen to my orders. They prefer serving Humans, and take more breaks than they should. I don’t think I should be in charge—”
Something in Lyonette squeezed tightly on that last word. That wasn’t what she should say. No, that was what part of her wanted to say, but another part, a part of her that was royalty, rebelled.
“—Actually, I do think I should be in charge. I know what’s best, and I think Maran and Safry need to listen to what I say.”
Both Safry and Erin stared at Lyon, surprised by her statement. Lyon was surprised too, and worried, but another part of her knew she had spoken her mind, and spoken the truth as she saw it.
In the silence, all eyes fell on Erin. She seemed used to that, and took only a minute before nodding to herself.
“Okay, I’m resolving this. Safry, Maran, Ishkr, Drassi, and Lyonette, everyone listen up.”
All the staff looked at Erin, worry reflected in some measure across every face. Erin met their eyes and then turned.
“Lyonette? Uh…she’s in charge.”
Relief followed vindication followed vindictive joy in seconds. But Lyonette didn’t have time to smile before Maran burst out across the room.
“But we’re higher level. That’s not right!”
Erin turned towards Maran, and Lyon saw she was frowning.
“Higher level? So what? That might be how you people do things, but not where I come from. Lyonette ran this inn while I was away. She’s got more experience.”
“But she—she hasn’t worked half as long as a [Barmaid] as we have!”
Safry burst out, but Erin was unmoved. She pointed at the floor.
“Yeah, but Lyonette’s been working here longer. She knows what’s important, and I trust her. So…you and Maran listen to her now, okay? Problem solved!”
Erin smiled and clapped her hands together. No one else moved. Safry and Maran exchanged looks, and then Safry sighed.
“Okay. I quit.”
“What?”
Erin and Lyon stared at her, wide-eyed. Safry threw up her hands.
“I’m not dealing with Lyonette! She’s impossible and I—I deserve better treatment than this! I’ve worked at Agnes’ inn for over eight years, and I know my job better than some arrogant girl who thinks she can push me and Maran around.”
“That’s right. If Safry quits, I quit too!”
Maran spoke up. Lyonette felt the purest element of rage settle into her soul. She felt she could harness that fury into some kind of incredibly destructive spell, it was that fierce. She was the problem? She was pushing them around?
But what was worse than the two [Barmaid]’s stupid dramatic exit and accusations was that it worked on Erin. She looked worried and chased after Safry as the other woman walked towards the door, but not too fast that Erin couldn’t block her way.
“Hold on Safry, let’s talk about this.”
“Either Lyonette stops or—”
“Okay, okay, let’s talk about this. Why don’t you take a break and—”
“Go ahead and leave. It’s for the best.”
Someone spoke up across the room. Heads turned as Ryoka appeared at a table, as if by magic. The watching guests murmured as she stood up and strode over to where everyone else was standing. As far as the inn’s patrons were concerned, the current tableau had turned into a better piece of live theatre than an actual play.
“Ryoka? Where did you come from? I’ve been looking for you all over!”
Ryoka pointed at an empty chair and a table that had somehow remained empty despite the full room.
“I asked Pisces to put his [Invisibility] spell over me. I’ve been hanging around here all day.”
Ryoka rubbed at her backside.
“It was a pain in the ass, and I kept having to deal with assholes trying to sit on me, but I saw what I needed to. Lyonette’s not the problem, Erin. Those two are.”
She jerked a thumb at Safry and Maran. The two [Barmaids] looked suddenly apprehensive.
“We didn’t—”
Ryoka rode right over them. She seemed to be enjoying the moment, in the way only the detective unveiling the mystery at the end of a case, or a judge handing down a sentence could be.
“I watched everything, Erin. Safry and Maran brought in humans so they wouldn’t have to serve Drakes and Gnolls as often, they can’t tell non-Humans apart, neither of them will go get water, and they take breaks when things are busy. Oh, and they’ve been grade-A assholes towards Lyonette all day.”
Lyonette’s jaw dropped. She hadn’t expected this! But it was a relief to hear Ryoka say all of that. More than a relief.
Erin stared at Ryoka. Her eyes slid sideways to Safry and Maran, who were both looking uneasy. Erin thought, and then looked at Ryoka.
“Okay, they’re in the wrong. But—”
“Safry pushed Mrsha.”
It was just a little detail, slipped in. Erin was still formulating her next word when it hit her ears and reached her brain. She stopped.
“What?”
“I didn’t—”
Safry backed up as Ryoka turned to her. Ryoka was grinning, but it wasn’t really a grin, more like a rictus of bad feeling.
“Right, it was just a little push. And you were angry. Well, I’m just a little angry. So how about that?”
Ryoka cracked her knuckles, and Safry backed up fast. The Runner eyed her and Maran and nodded to the door.
“If you leave now, I won’t get a chance to break something. Go ahead and stay, I dare you. We’re in Liscor, and I bet Zel wouldn’t bat an eye if I broke your nose for bullying Mrsha.”
“I—”
“Okay! Stop!”
Erin grabbed Ryoka’s shirt and pulled the girl back. Ryoka nearly fell backwards as Erin dragged her away. Erin got between Ryoka and looked at Safry and Maran.
“No one’s beating up anyone. But I’ve heard enough. Safry, Maran, I don’t like to say it, but I believe Ryoka and Lyonette. So you’re both fired. Get out of my inn.”
The two [Barmaids] looked horrified. Lyonette suspected neither had been serious when quitting before, and now they protested loudly.
“You can’t just fire us!”
“I did. Just now.”
Erin crossed her arms, looking uneasy, but also deeply upset. Safry glared at her, turning her ire over the entire situation into unrighteous fury.
“You can’t take away our jobs!”
“You just quit.”
“What are we supposed to do without jobs? Agnes won’t have us back! You owe us pay if you’re going to fire us. The Guild says—”
“I’m not paying you for today. Lyonette says you were miserable, and you pushed Mrsha so just—just go away! I paid you yesterday, so be happy you got that!”
Erin was clearly unhappy, but she stood her ground as the two protested. Ryoka kept trying to edge around her, and Erin was busy pushing her back. Maybe that was why Safry and Maran took a stand.
“We refuse to leave! This isn’t fair! You promised us paying jobs, and now you’re taking them from us! You told us we’d be working in an inn, not hauling water and avoiding monsters, or dealing with [Necromancers], or Ants—”
