Kaelor and I were drowned in as much silence as there was darkness. We could hear our friends walking above on the upper decks, where the breeze alone could dismiss the silence.

But down here? We were left on our own.

Each second we stayed like this was another second of anxiousness. Of suspicion. Of wariness.

I let out a soft laugh. What else could I have done in a situation like this?

“Keeping secrets?” I said. “I don’t know what you’re talking about.”

He shot a look at me with so much aggression that I instinctively braced myself in case he’d attack me. But of course, he didn’t.

Kaelor would never hurt his friends.

“I know what you and Meriel have been hiding from the rest of us,” he said. “I just don’t understand why the two of you would do such a thing. We’ve already been through so much together. We’re not strangers anymore.”

I didn’t say anything.

“You don’t think I’m serious?” he continued. “The Narrative, tropes, the System… I know about them.”

My breathing came to a halt. “What…? How…?”

I looked at the ring on his finger.

“You heard about these from the demon, didn’t you?”

“Yes,” he said. “The demon heard about every conversation you had with Meriel.”

I gritted my teeth. “How do you know he’s not lying?”

“How do I know he’s not telling the truth?”

“Because you can’t trust demons.”

Kaelor peered into the darkness, shaking his head. “No,” he said. “But I can trust you to tell me the truth.”

I took a breath. “This isn’t something you should know about.”

“Why not?”

“Because now isn’t the right time.”

“Then when is the right time?” he asked. “You’ve already told Meriel. What makes me different from her? What makes Reina, Talon, and Aeris different from her?”

It was because she had awakened, which allowed her to comprehend what tropes and the Narrative even were. Without it, she wouldn’t understand them even if I spent all the time in the world trying to explain it to her.

Even if I knew where this would end, it was worth a shot.

“Then listen closely, and I’ll explain it as best as I can,” I said. “Tropes are… patterns in stories. They’re the same kinds of things that happen again and again across many stories. The hero arrives just in time. The mentor dies so the student has to stand on their own. Two enemies are forced to work together. Someone everyone thought was dead comes back at the worst possible moment. Different people, different places, different stories. But the shape of what happens is the same.”

Kaelor furrowed his brows.

“And the Narrative recognizes those shapes,” I continued. “Now tell me. Do you understand what all of this means?”

Kaelor was silent for several seconds. Then he slowly shook his head.

“I understood every word you just said, but I don’t quite understand what any of them mean together.”

“Yeah,” I sighed. “That’s the problem. I’m not hiding secrets from you because I want to. You literally won’t be able to understand these things in the first place. Hell, I even tried telling Reina about tropes when the two of us first met, but she didn’t understand them either.”

Kaelor leaned back.  “But Meriel could understand them?”

“Because she awakened.”

“Awakened…?”

“The act of awakening was what allowed her to comprehend tropes,” I said. “And I believe Reina might be the next to awaken.”

Kaelor gave a look of disbelief.

“You said you trust me, right?” I asked.

“I do.”

“Then believe me. When the time is right, I’ll tell you everything. But for now, there’s no point in trying to convince you and the others to understand something you all physically can’t. Things will only get more confusing.”

The Soul Anchor ring on Kaelor’s finger began to glow. Then, a flash of purple light illuminated the entire underdeck of the ship. I covered my eyes. When the light dimmed down, a figure appeared before us, his wings tattered and his horns pointed straight.

“Gal’Meth,” I said, calling my [INVENTORY] to pull out Dawn Sunderer.

He waved a hand. “Settle down. Our battle is already over—that is, unless you yearn for a second defeat so desperately.”

I narrowed my eyes, casting my [INVENTORY] away. “You’re the one who was defeated by us.”

“By Kaelor,” he said. “You, on the other hand, didn’t have much to do with it.”

I stood, but Kaelor held my hand, stopping me from lashing out.

“It’s fine,” Kaelor said. “He isn’t here to hurt us.”

“And how do you know that? Just because he said so? Weren’t you the one who said demons couldn’t be trusted?”

“I did.”

“Then it sure doesn’t seem like it.”

Gal’Meth pointed at me. A heavy weight pressed on my body—or rather, on my soul itself. My body slammed into my seat, causing me to groan from the weight. I tried to stand, but it was impossible.

“He doesn’t want to hurt us, huh?!” I cried. “Then what the hell’s this?!”

“This is just to get you to be quiet,” Gal’Meth said, releasing the spell on me. “Be still, and it won’t happen again.”

He walked over to me, standing in between Kaelor and me. He leaned over to our head-level, putting a hand on my shoulder.

“You and I both have secrets,” he began, caressing my shoulder. “But as allies, it would benefit us greatly to share them together.”

I frowned. “Since when was I allied with a demon?”

“Since Kaelor became mine.”

I turned to Kaelor. He nodded.

“Seriously…?” I muttered. “But… Why? Kaelor, you were so against him! And now you’re saying we should work with him?”

“I know,” Kaelor said. “I know. But he was never our enemy to begin with. He even gave us the Soul Transference spell so we could save Camille, just like he promised.”

“Yeah, after fighting to our deaths!”

Gal’Meth laughed. “Fighting to the death? Nobody died during our battle.”

“Because Kaelor defeated you before anyone could,” I said.

Kaelor shook his head. “No. I didn’t defeat him.”

“What…?”

“Gal’Meth let me win. When I struck him down with thunder, I knew that such a thing couldn’t have possibly defeated him in one hit—even if it was among the most powerful spells I have.”

I looked at the demon. “Why would you…?”

“I did say I’m not your enemy, didn’t I?” he chuckled, walking around the table. “So that’s that.”

“But I don’t understand—”

“You don’t have to,” Gal’Meth said. “I’m not asking you to understand anything. All I ask is for you to let me accompany you on your journey. And don’t worry—I don’t plan on interacting with you and your other allies. I’m only here for Kaelor.”

“And if I say no?”

He laughed, pointing a finger at me—a threatening finger that would attack my soul with whatever magic was under his sleeves.

“I don’t think you could say no even if you wanted to,” he said.

“Tch. Then what’s the point of even asking?”

“Demons have etiquette, too.”

The hatch leading to the upper deck of the ship opened, and sunlight poured in. Gal’Meth quickly disappeared into the shadows at the corner, hiding.

“Allene? Kaelor? What’re you two doing down there for so long?” Aeris asked. “Nothing strange, I hope?”

I walked over to the ladder, seeing her head just over the open hatch.

“Nothing strange at all,” I said.

“That sounds awfully suspicious. Anyway, we’re about to arrive at the island. I’m starting to see the statue they’ve built for us.”

“Ooh! What’s it looking like?”

She held back a laugh. “It’s uh… interesting, to say the least. Why don’t you come see for yourself?”

I blinked. “Interesting…?”

Without another word, she closed the hatch, letting darkness take over once again.

Gal’Meth reappeared from the shadows, taking a seat beside Kaelor.

“Hey, that’s my chair,” I said.

“It’s mine now.”

I sighed, walking over to the table and crossing my arms.

“So what’s your fascination with Kaelor anyway? Are you in love with him or something?”

Kaelor blinked. The demon blinked.

“Bad joke?” I asked.

“Horrible,” Kaelor said.

“My bad.”

Gal’Meth pointed at Kaelor. “Why don’t you tell her about me? About what I really am?”

My eyes widened. “Huh? You’ve got even more surprises? And here I thought your cosmic-looking form was the last one.”

He smiled at me. “Oh, I’ve got plenty more surprises. What if I told you I’m actually a woman?”

“WHAT?!”

“I’m just kidding.”

Kaelor stood, walking over to the ladder leading up the hatch. “Gal’Meth is a Firstborn, just like I am,” he said. “But he’s not the same kind as me. He’s from an ancient era—an era far more frightening than anything the modern age could compare to.”

He looked back at us. “He’s here to be my mentor, and to help me with my journey through this world.”

“What does he gain by doing that?” I asked.

“To bring back what has been lost,” Gal’Meth said. I blinked, and he suddenly appeared beside Kaelor. “This era’s magic is pitiful, and so are the current living Firstborns. It pains me to see such a thing. We Firstborns are of the same lineage. In a sense, we’re family. As such, I see it as my duty to change this era of weakness.”

Before I could ask anything, the same flash of purple light appeared again. Once it faded away, Gal’Meth was gone. He was back inside of the Soul Anchor ring on Kaelor’s finger.

“Let’s go,” Kaelor said. “The others are waiting for us.”

“Hold on—”

He climbed the ladder and went through the hatch, leaving me under the deck by myself.

I sighed. “There’s way too much happening. I can’t believe we’ve got a damned demon in our party now.”

Just as I put a hand on the ladder, my head began to pound.

“Ugh…” I muttered, wobbling. “Why am I…?”

All at once, the pounding intensified, causing me to collapse. I clutched my skull.

“Argh… agh… ah…”

I let out a quiet scream, having no strength to even thrash around from the pain.

Then, several System notifications began to appear. But they weren’t normal. They weren’t the ones I had been seeing all throughout my journey.

They were red.

[TROPE INITIATED: ???]

[TROPE INI—ATED]

[TROPE…][Trope…][trOpE…]

[…][…][…]

[You have received your final Trope.]

[TROPE INITIATED: AGE OF TRAGEDY]

Completion Criteria: None.

Description: You know far too much, Allene. You were never supposed to. So now you must be punished for it.

I barely managed to stand.

Someone was speaking to me through the trope initiation.

“Who… are you?!” I tried, slumping into the wall. “Argh… my head!”

[TROPE UPDATED: AGE OF TRAGEDY]

Completion Criteria: None.

Description (New): You know who I am. Sister Callia told you about me.

Sister Callia…? The God of Comedy…?

Then this must be—

“You’re the God of Tragedy,” I said. “Why are you doing this? How are you doing this?!”

[TROPE UPDATED: AGE OF TRAGEDY]

Completion Criteria: None.

Description (New): I’ve finally reached you. But don’t be afraid of me. I am only doing what I must.

My status window opened by itself.

[PROTAGONIST: Allene]

Level: 159 (+2)

HP: 1026STAMINA: 360MANA: 1050

Strength: 21 (+1)Agility: 35Vitality: 37Endurance: 32Intelligence: 41 (+1)Wisdom: 42

I gritted my teeth.

“Don’t you dare mess with my stats, damn it!”

[…]

[TROPE UPDATED: AGE OF TRAGEDY]

Completion Criteria: None.

Description (New): You needn’t worry about your stats any longer. My sister’s gift has given you enough.

[…]

[SYSTEM ALTERATION IN PROGRESS]

[…]

[Stat progression has been disabled]

[Stat visualization has been disabled]

[All previously acquired attributes are now permanently bound to you]

[…]

[Trope detection has been disabled.]

[Trope initiation has been disabled.]

[Trope progression has been disabled.]

[Trope rewards have been disabled.]

[…]

[…]

[ERROR]

[SYSTEM AUTHORITY CONFLICT DETECTED]

[COMEDY][TRAGEDY]

[COM—][TRA—]

[…]

[Objectives unlocked]

[Objective rewards unlocked]

[…]

[In-progress Tropes detected.]

[Evaluating compatibility with new System parameters…]

[…]

[5 Tropes compatible.]

[5 Tropes have been converted into Objectives.]

[2 Tropes incompatible.]

[2 Tropes have been terminated.]

[…]

[Converting final Trope…]

[…]

[TROPE: AGE OF TRAGEDY] → [OBJECTIVE: SURVIVE THE AGE OF TRAGEDY]

[…]

[SYSTEM RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE]

I clenched my fists, my eyes bloodshot from the pain.

“Get out of my head!” I screamed.

[…]

I mustered a laugh. “Fine. You want to mess with me? Show yourself then! I don’t care if you’re one of this world’s gods!”

[…]

[Look at you. Foolishness under the preface of bravery. I’ve seen it time and time again. It never ends well.]

“Oh, I get it! You’re scared of me, aren’t you? Is that why you’re keeping yourself hidden?”

[…]

[I don’t need to face you myself. They’ll handle you under my bidding.]

“And who’s they?”

[…]

[…]

[…]

[Candidates to be the new Protagonist.]

My eyes grew wide. “What…?”

[You were never meant to be this era’s protagonist. So I must take back what has been stolen by you, the unworthy.]

[But don’t worry. You’ll find that you have a lot in common with them. Some of them are from another world, much like you.]

[You aren’t the only one who could be brought here.]

After what felt like forever, the pounding in my head began to settle, letting me think clearly.

“I’m not falling for your lies,” I said. “I’ve seen countless stories before. Gods are as much liars as normal people are.”

[…]

[So you’re still treating this world as a story—as a fictional world, rather than something you’re living within.]

[I see.]

[Ushering a new Protagonist may be easier than I thought.]

“Eh? What’s that supposed to mean?”

[This.]

I heard a roar so loud that it nearly ruptured my eardrums. It came from outside. From the sky our ship was sailing through.

I saw a shadow coming through from the tiny windows on the ship. A moving shadow.

It was an eyeball. An eyeball that stared right back at me.

“Attack! We’re under attack!” I heard Captain Sparrow shouting from above the deck, causing me to look up the stairs. “We need to—ARGH!”

I heard him screaming. When I turned back to where the eyeball was, it was no longer there.

I heard more roars. Monstrous roars, but unlike any monster we had ever heard before. I climbed the ladder as quickly as I could and opened the hatch, resurfacing on the ship’s deck.

I saw blood pooled everywhere. Limbs. Innards.

And Sparrow’s head, decapitated from his body.

I couldn’t believe my eyes.

The others did everything they could to fight the monstrosities aboard the ship. A horde of skeletons encircled us at the center of the ship. How did so many monsters suddenly appear?

I heard Meriel’s voice, but not her words. Kaelor said something, but I couldn’t understand him. Talon was trembling. Aeris was screaming. Reina was on her knees, reaching for Sparrow’s head before one of the skeleton monsters kicked it away, sending it off the ship.

“No!” Reina cried, reaching out. Kaelor held her back.

I looked at the side of the ship, and I saw a sight that would explain the eyeball I had seen earlier.

It was a dragon. A dragon with its bones exposed and its jaw jagged. A dragon that looked like it had been killed and revived over and over again, surviving past dozens of failed resurrections. Yet, flesh and scales remained where it mattered most—its belly and wings were intact.

This was exactly the kind of dragon Meriel had described as causing one of the most tragic events in the history of Arcstar Academy.

But it was not alone.

Standing on top of the dragon’s head was a warrior. From top to bottom, her entire body was covered in thick, draconic armor, except for a tiny gap near her eyes with unmistakable feminine features. The edges of the boots and shoulder armor were sharp enough to act as weapons, but they were nothing compared to the scythe in her hand.

She must’ve been the one responsible for summoning all these skeletons on our ship. Was she a necromancer?

“Why are you doing this?” I asked, looking up at her.

But I already knew why. She was sent by the God of Tragedy. The timing was too convenient.

The half-skeleton dragon let out a roar. As if reacting to it, all the skeletons on the ship began to charge at us. Meriel and Kaelor acted quickly, pushing all of them back with wind magic. Half of them flew off the ship and plummeted through the sky. The other half had shattered bones, unable to stand up straight. They were weak.

Because they weren’t the real threat.

“Kill them,” the necromancer said.

The dragon plummeted through the center of the ship. The six of us dodged, separating into halves. Planks of wood tore apart. The entire ship broke just like that.

One attack from a dragon was all it took to take down our ship.

And now we were plummeting through the sky, but we weren’t going to fall to our deaths, and it wasn’t because most of us could fly.

It was because the dragon and the necromancer chased us through the clouds, trying to kill us before we could even hit the ground.

Wind screamed against my ears as the remains of our ship fell around us.

Sparrow was dead.

Our ship was gone.

Then, another red window appeared before my eyes.

[Your story ends here.]