Status:

[The Elven Tree’s Blessings]

- All spells cast by individuals Meriel recognizes as enemies are weakened

- All spells cast by individuals Meriel recognizes as allies are empowered

- Allies are continuously healed from all damage and negative status effects

- Allies gain vastly increased mana regeneration

- The surrounding area becomes Sacred Ground while the blessing remains active

- Each attack by those with high Narrative weight is followed by an additional strike from the Elven Tree (New)

Narrative weight…

What did that mean?

The roots that had emerged from the mist below our feet continued to chain down Gal’Meth, giving him no chance to escape. He had been staring at Meriel ever since she summoned the Elven Tree.

“So?” he went on. “Does an elf like that sound familiar?”

“Doesn’t ring a bell,” Meriel replied. “If it’s been thousands of years since you last saw her, what makes you think I would know her?”

“Elves live long, don’t they?”

“Not as long as demons who steal lifespans.”

He chuckled. “Perhaps. But even if you don’t know her personally, I’m sure you’ve heard of her anyhow. Among the elves of her era, she was the most renowned for becoming one of the youngest archmages. What was her name again…?”

He took a few seconds to try and remember it.

“Ah,” he said, his face lighting up. “It was… Hm…”

He burst out into laughter before he could finish his sentence.

“The hell’s wrong with you? Have you gone insane from being defeated by us?” Kaelor asked. “Don’t worry—I would too, especially if I was so confident I was going to win.”

The demon glared at him. “Taunting me, are we? If not for Meriel’s spell, the three of you would already be dead. I’m especially disappointed by you, Firstborn. You’re weaker than I thought.”

Kaelor chuckled. “With half the number of arms I once had, I’d better be.”

I flaunted Dawn Sunderer in front of Gal’Meth’s face.

“So now what?” I asked. “We defeated you, right? Give us that soul spell so we can save Camille already.”

“Ah… I can’t do that,” the demon said, shaking his head. “You haven’t defeated me yet. I’m still here. Still alive. Still breathing. If you want to get out of this realm, you’ll have to actually kill me.”

“Fine by me,” I said, raising my sword.

I prepared to jab it straight through him, but before I could, Meriel stopped me.

“Wait,” she said. “We’re not done here.”

“What? Why? We should kill him now—knowing him, he’ll somehow slip out.”

“Not with these roots wrapped around him. They’re made from ancient elven magic, not ordinary wood.”

Meriel stepped in front of Gal’Meth.

“Oh?” he said. “Then I’d like to extend my thanks, elven one.”

“For what?”

“For saving me.”

She gave a confused look. “Saving you? Don’t get me wrong—Allene’s divine sword will go straight through your skull after you answer my questions. You never finished what you said earlier about the elven archmage. Who exactly was she?”

“Ah.”

The demon gave it some thought. He wasn’t going to randomly burst out into laughter again, right?

“Well, I have my answer, but I’m not so sure if you’d be happy to hear it,” he said.

“What do you mean?” Meriel asked.

He looked at us one by one.

“She has no name.”

I sighed, readying Dawn Sunderer and Starcaller. “See? He’s full of sh*t. Oops, sorry for the language.”

Gal’Meth smiled. “I swear upon my own soul that I’m telling the truth. But I believe I know the reason for this.”

“We won’t hesitate to kill you right here and now,” Kaelor said. “So choose your lies carefully.”

“Oh, you don’t have to worry about that. I won’t be lying. Though I can see why you’re so vigilant, given what demons are known for. Anyhow…”

He snapped his fingers. In a blink, he vanished despite being chained down by the roots.

“Where did he—?!” Kaelor flinched.

“See? I told you he’d escape!” I cried.

“Oops,” Meriel said.

Then, Gal’Meth’s voice came from behind.

“Over here.”

The three of us jumped away, readying our weapons. Gal’Meth raised both of his hands, staying completely still.

“Look. I’ve got no magic… no sword. It’s just me and the three of you. Let’s talk.”

“You could’ve done that while you were still in those roots,” Kaelor said.

“It’s easier to talk when there aren’t so many things pressing against my body. I like to be in control of my body, as do most people.”

He began to pace back and forth, occasionally stopping to glance at the emerald Elven Tree covering the entire sky. It continued to glow without end, brightening the entire realm.

“What I believe happened to the archmage,” he began, “was that she erased her existence from this world. No name… no traces… nothing. And yet I remember her. I remember her face, and I remember how she defeated me all those years ago. But, somehow, I don’t know her name.”

“Erased her existence…?” Meriel said. “Is that even possible? And why would she do that?”

“One could only form theories about why she did that. As for how I still remember her despite her existence being erased, I have no doubt it’s because I made a contract with her.”

“What was the contract?” Kaelor asked.

Gal’Meth looked at him. “I removed the limits of her soul. I gave her the means to train for higher mana and to learn as many spells as she desired without anything holding her back. That’s what ultimately led her to become one of the youngest archmages. And in return?”

He laughed once. “In return, she would grant me one request, at any moment of my choosing. A request she could never refuse. Even someone as intelligent as her was so blinded by her love for magic that she would go so far as to take that offer. In her eyes, she was only owing me a favor—a small price to pay to become an archmage. In mine? I had just secured the obedience of one of the greatest mages the world would ever know.”

His tattered wings flapped, still damaged from some of the attacks we had landed on him during our earlier fight.

“Yet she erased her existence. But why? Perhaps she sought to escape our deal. Perhaps she wished to protect the world from whatever I would ask of her. Or perhaps she had an entirely different reason. Whatever the truth was, she failed to realize one thing. Contracts cannot be broken.”

I raised my brows. “You’re saying the spell she cast to erase her existence didn’t erase your contract?”

He nodded. “The contracts I forge are bound to the soul itself. Because she has yet to fulfill the favor she owes me, she cannot simply flee from it—otherwise her soul shall endure eternal torment. That must be why I still remember her. But, as I said, this is merely a theory.”

“So she’s still here?” Kaelor asked. “In this world?”

“I don’t think the spell exactly erased her existence, but rather made the world forget about her,” Gal’Meth said. “I believe she’s still here, but I’m the only one who would be able to recognize her. Though the world is too vast for me to find her. Who knows? Maybe one day, we’ll cross paths again.”

He looked at Meriel. “I was hoping you’d know something about her.”

She frowned. “Why? Because we both know how to cast the Elven Tree? Sorry to disappoint you, but that’s just a coincidence. Our party’s been experiencing plenty of coincidences lately.”

“I see. What a shame.”

I looked at Meriel, tightening my grip on Dawn Sunderer and Starcaller.

“Satisfied?” I asked. “I hope your curiosity is satiated, because I’m not just going to let this demon walk freely like this any longer.”

She nodded. “Now’s a good time to kill him.”

I stepped forward, but Kaelor stopped me.

“It’s too late,” he said. “We gave him too much time.”

“Huh? For what?”

Gal’Meth’s flesh began to glow. “Ah. Your eyes certainly do see well, Firstborn.”

“What are you planning?” Kaelor said through gritted teeth.

“It’s time to put an end to our petty squabbles.”

He began to float in the air. Meriel thrust her hands, causing dozens of the Elven Tree’s roots to sprout from the mist, trying to capture him like they had earlier. But each one that touched his glowing skin recoiled, as if repulsed by it.

Then, his flesh began to fall apart. Cracks spread through his body. Blood didn’t spill out. Instead, they revealed what was truly underneath.

Stars. The cosmos.

Beneath his skin was no flesh. No bone. Nothing that should have existed inside a demon. As pieces of him fell away, they exposed the vast darkness of the cosmos itself. Stars scattered throughout an impossible depth.

Looking into him felt like staring across an endless abyss. And yet, from another angle, nothing had changed. His body was the same size as before.

As the cracks widened, we saw countless translucent souls drifting through the void inside his body. Most gathered within the open cavity in his chest, as though his body had always been a shell that was meant to contain an entire universe of souls.

He still had the horns and wings from his original demonic form, but with his flesh replaced by what looked to be the cosmos itself, he looked nothing like a demon anymore, let alone anything that came from this world.

He opened his mouth, and the screams came. They weren’t from him. They were from the countless souls floating throughout his body.

The entire realm trembled. Leaves from the Elven Tree above us began to fall.

[TROPE COMPLETED: THE BOSS’S TRANSFORMATION]

[REWARD: Pending…]

=== BOSS ENCOUNTER (UPDATED) ===

[GAL’METH, THE SOULBINDER] → [GAL’METH, SOVEREIGN OF SOULS]

Level: 305 → ???

HP: 97% → OVERFLOW

My eyes widened.

Overflow…? And not just that, but we only took off three percent of his health this entire time?

“What the hell am I looking at…?” I muttered.

A cosmic monstrosity had revealed itself before us.