The river’s flow began to quicken, causing the water to crash into my feet instead of brushing alongside them.

“The reason I chose you is because of who you were in the world you came from,” the goddess said. “There could not have been anyone else. You were the only option. The best option.”

I chuckled. “Wow. I’m flattered to hear that. But what exactly makes me more suitable than the others?”

She gave me a solemn look. “I cannot tell you.”

“Why not?”

“Because you’ll suffer. If you hear it, you’ll fall into despair. Into tragedy. I cannot let that happen to the catalyst of Comedy—to you.”

I frowned, trying to remember my past life. My friends… my family… my regrets…

My eyes widened.

I couldn’t remember anything. I didn’t realize it until now, but whenever I thought about them, my thoughts would never finish.

“You…” I muttered. “You took those memories away, didn’t you?”

She didn’t say anything.

I stood from the river, gritting my teeth.

“How could you do that?!” I cried. “That’s—”

“I’m protecting you, Allene. And… that was your wish.”

“What…?”

“When we first met, I had asked you if you were willing to be reincarnated into this world. You said you were, but only under one condition—if your memories from your original world were erased.”

I shook my head. “No… I don’t believe that. Why would I ever say that?”

She looked up at me. “It’s simple. You wanted to protect yourself from the memories that once haunted you. I gave you that liberation. But I can tell you one thing. Among everyone I’ve ever met, you were the brightest despite being drowned in tragedy. I chose you for that very reason.”

She reached for my hand, but I flicked it away.

“How could I trust you?” I asked.

“Because I need you far more than you need me.”

She began to kneel before me, lowering her head. A goddess like her kneeling before someone like me…

She was serious, wasn’t she?

I looked away, contemplating for a moment before reaching out a hand.

“Stand,” I said. “It’s, uh… a bit awkward to see a god lowering themself.”

She smiled, taking my hand and standing. “See? You’re goodhearted, Allene. I don’t regret choosing you.”

We walked back to the bench and took a seat.

“Are you afraid of Tragedy?” I asked.

She thought about it for a moment.

“No,” she replied. “But I’m afraid of what he might do to the people of this world.”

“The people of this world? You care about them that deeply even though you don’t know them? And they don’t know you?”

She looked at me. “It’s the same reason you were willing to fight a demon to save Camille—a woman you hardly know. Someone has to save her. Just like how someone has to save the world. We’re similar in many aspects, Allene. I see myself in you.”

“Well,” I said, puffing out my chest. “I certainly have the beauty of a goddess, if I do say so myself.”

She gave me a blank look.

“Please say something.”

The goddess shrugged. “Well, you’re saying that in a body that isn’t even yours.”

“How’d you even make it anyway?”

“Make?” She tilted her head. “I didn’t make your body. I just found it lying around somewhere and decided it was a good fit for you.”

“Are you serious…?”

“Who knows.”

She waved her hand, changing the scenery again as if it would make me forget about the question.

Well, it worked. Because now we were standing on top of a large cloud. I always wondered how the giant sky creatures like Tuna felt whenever they rested on the clouds. It was as soft as I imagined it to be.

“You’re curious about Meriel, aren’t you?” she asked. “About how she awakened? And why I appeared beside her when she did?”

I turned to her. “Well, now that you mention it…”

The goddess took a breath, staring off into the sky. The clouds moved a lot faster here than they would in the normal world. Did time work differently here?

“Meriel was supposed to die,” she said. “When Aurelius’s dagger went through her chest, it hit a vital part of her body. A lung. You saw it firsthand, Allene. The amount she bled and the way she was breathing… there was no possibility of surviving such a wound. Even your healing magic was ineffective.”

“That’s because I was inexperienced.”

She shook her head. “No. Most others would’ve failed to heal her as well. An injury to an organ is far too severe for ordinary healing.”

“So you’re the one who saved her,” I guessed.

“I had to.”

“Is that even allowed?”

She stared ahead, thinking.

“Normally, no. But our situation is far from normal. The Tragedy God has begun to influence the world far beyond what is normal, so I must do the same. Even then, Meriel only suffered such an injury because of Aurelius—and Aurelius only ever escaped the dungeon because of the Tragedy God sending Gabriel after him.”

“So it’s like fighting fire with fire,” I said. “Only this time, I guess it’s between two gods. What’s stopping you from exerting more influence?”

“Why do you ask? Are you expecting me to give you some kind of god-slaying sword?”

I leaned away. “Whoa. You read my mind perfectly.”

She chuckled, but only briefly. She lifted up a part of her upper garment, showing me her waist.

There was a gash about a finger’s length. Not shallow, but not deep either. It was fully scarred, and I could only guess that it had happened several weeks ago.

Meriel’s awakening was also several weeks ago.

“Her awakening did this to you?” I asked.

The goddess shook her head. “Not her awakening, but the act of saving her. Influencing the world to such an extent comes with a cost.”

I raised my brows. “You don’t control the awakening?”

“No.”

“And here I thought you did this whole time. If not you, then who?”

“It’s a natural force of this world, just as much as gravity and magic are. Do the words ‘Narrative Resonance’ mean anything to you?”

I nodded. “I’ve heard of it before from the System. Whenever a trope is fulfilled whose completion criteria revolve around someone else other than me, it gives me a hidden reward. It was only recently that the reward was revealed to be Narrative Resonance. It’s obvious it has something to do with Meriel’s awakening.”

“That is correct. Once a person’s Narrative Resonance crosses a threshold, they become sanctioned to awaken.”

“They don’t awaken immediately? Then what causes it?”

“When a person reaches a life-defining turning point.”

What an ambiguous definition. Though it checks out, considering Meriel was about to die back then.

I sighed, crossing my legs.

“You know… all of this is a trope, isn’t it?”

“What is?” she asked.

“The fact that I’m talking to a god who’s giving me all sorts of useful information. Some people would call it info dumping.”

“Sure, but would you rather have me hold back all this information for no reason?”

“Absolutely not. I’m just surprised I’m not getting a trope notification from all of this, but I guess it would be pretty strange considering you’re the one who gave me the System in the first place—and such a creative one at that.”

The goddess smiled. “I’m happy to see you’re enjoying the System.”

“Wait a minute, are you the one coming up with those ridiculous trope names and descriptions?”

She stayed silent.

“I knew it.”

She smiled proudly. Too proudly—which only confirmed my suspicion.

“So how does the System actually work?” I asked. “If the Narrative is some natural part of this world, then where does that leave all the tropes and skills?”

“Those are separate from the Narrative. The Narrative existed long before you arrived in this world, and it will continue to exist without your System. The System simply recognizes what occurred within the Narrative and rewards you accordingly.”

“So my System directly rewarded Narrative Resonance to Meriel, which was why she was able to awaken. From what I’ve seen, Meriel has been aware of the Narrative and her place within it ever since. To be my mentor. Then does that mean she was always fated to be my mentor? But how would that even make sense? I’m not even a part of this world.”

“Your instinct is correct,” she said. “I heard the conversation you had with Meriel back then. She felt as if she was meant to be your mentor all along.”

“But she wasn’t?”

“I don’t know.”

I stared at her. “That’s not the answer I was expecting.”

“It’s something even the gods can’t fully explain. Perhaps Meriel was always destined to become your mentor. Or perhaps that role only formed after you became the Protagonist. Or maybe it emerged gradually from the choices that brought the two of you together. Or maybe it was the Narrative’s plan.”

“Then why was she so certain?”

“That’s a mystery. Whatever the truth may be, Meriel perceived that role as though it had always belonged to her. In a way, it makes sense. She’ll embrace that narrative role and stay with you as your mentor.”

I stared off into the endless sky. All the clouds were gone now.

But there was still one thing bothering me.

“You called me the catalyst of Comedy earlier,” I said, “as well as the champion—your champion, to be specific.”

“I did.”

“Then does the God of Tragedy also have one?”

She fell silent.

“No.”

I let out a breath. “Well, that’s certainly some good news.”

She shook her head. “It only means he doesn’t have one yet.”

“You mean…?”

She nodded. “He’s searching for one as we speak.”