—ALLENE—

When I came to, I heard the lullaby of a siren. A melody. A soft-spoken woman. A lovely sound that would lure anyone into its embrace. I had never heard something so soothing before.

But then I remembered what had happened.

Before this, I was fighting Gal’Meth alongside Kaelor and Meriel. But… What happened after that?

…

Ah.

My soul was taken, wasn’t it?

We lost.

I lost.

The siren’s lullaby slowly grew more unsettling. The sound became almost hypnotic rather than soothing. I couldn’t tell where it was even coming from.

Left. Right. Above. Below. It was impossible to tell.

Because my body wasn’t there anymore. My body was gone, yet my consciousness remained.

So I’ve died. Gal’Meth succeeded in the end, huh?

I couldn’t help but laugh at such a thought, though it was more of a metaphor rather than an actual laugh. My body wasn’t even with me. I don’t even know how I was laughing. I couldn’t see anything outside of a black abyss. I couldn’t smell anything either.

And yet, I could still think. How was that possible without a body?

A flash of brilliant, yellow light appeared before me. Despite its overwhelming illuminance, it didn’t blind me. I didn’t have eyes, after all. Yet I was still able to see it.

Yeah, this doesn’t even make sense anymore.

However, I knew exactly what this light was. I saw it once as I was reincarnating into this world, then again after Meriel’s awakening. When the light unveiled a woman, it confirmed exactly what I was thinking.

It was the goddess who had brought me into this world.

Her entire form was perfect, as if it had taken decades for a sculptor to create her. Her features resembled a human’s, and her clothing looked like something even I would wear rather than the typical tropey robes you would see on a goddess.

But something was fundamentally wrong about her. I didn’t know what it was. Her eyes? Hair? Ears?

No matter how closely they resembled the features of a human, it was impossible to mistake her for one. She was, without a doubt, a divine being. I could only wonder why that was.

“Am I dead?” I asked.

Those probably weren’t the best first words I could’ve given her since entering this world, but what else would I ask in a situation like this?

“No,” she replied. “Your soul has merely been separated from your body.”

“Erm… That sure sounds like I’m as good as dead.”

The goddess smiled, floating closer. She waved her hand, and colors washed over the darkness. Grass and flowers sprouted around us. Then trees. Then a butterfly flew past my face, before a white bird passed from above. All of my senses had come back.

The smell of serenity. The feeling of softness beneath my feet.

I touched my face. My body was back.

“Uh… where are my clothes?” I asked. “And I’m pretty sure I’m missing a finger. Two, actually.”

“Ah,” the goddess said. She waved her hand over me, and my clothes and missing fingers appeared right after.

“I didn’t think a god like you would make a mistake like that,” I said.

“It tends to happen when you’re the god of Comedy.”

I raised my brows. “God of… what? Comedy?”

“Sit,” the goddess said right away, opening her palm. “We have a while to talk. I’ve been watching closely over your journey, and I know you have plenty of questions.”

A wooden bench appeared behind me. The two of us sat down.

Despite the scenery depicting a peaceful morning, I couldn’t help but notice that there was no sun above. Yet the sky was as blue as if there was one.

“How has this journey treated you thus far?” she asked.

I leaned back. “It’s been pretty fun, actually. Well… at first. Then all these obstacles kept appearing. My encounters with a huge ice wolf from Glacinus, a mad man who could possess the bodies of others, and a demon who could manipulate souls were definitely things I would describe as anything other than fun.”

The goddess looked into the distance, watching two cubs playfully pouncing on each other. After a slip, the two began to tumble down the hill, landing in a soft patch of grass before continuing their fight.

“You’ve seen it firsthand,” the goddess said. “How all these events coincidentally end up with you.”

I nodded slowly. “Yeah. It’s because I’m the protagonist, isn’t it?”

“It is. But do you know the weight of what it means to be one?”

I looked down at my lap. “Well… It’s exactly as you said. Coincidences happen around me. People naturally come to me. Luck comes to me—though so does bad luck. I learn magic quicker than most, and I have skills people have never seen before because of the System.”

The goddess let out a sigh, disappointment written all over her face as she turned to me.

“No,” she said. “To be the protagonist means that the Narrative has chosen your story above all others.”

My eyes widened. “So the Narrative does exist? Wow… I didn’t think I would learn the truth now of all times.”

The goddess nodded. “But though it exists, it isn’t exactly what you and Meriel had predicted it to be.”

“What do you mean?”

“The two of you mistake the Narrative for a force that controls people, whether nudging them or completely influencing them toward an intended path. You mistake it for a force that controls the world. But it is not a force, and it does not control anything. The Narrative is the living story created by every decision in this world. It isn’t written and it isn’t predetermined. It’s simply the story that exists because of all the ones who breathe.”

She waved her hand, and the scenery before us changed. Instead of grass and flowers like before, the area up ahead was replaced with a gentle river, filled with all sorts of fish. In the distance, two bears drank out of the river. Something tells me those huge bears were the same cubs we had seen before.

“Think of the Narrative as a river,” she continued. “While it flows in one direction, it is easily influenced by outside factors. The terrain can hasten its current, obstacles can slow it, and enough force can even divert it onto an entirely different path. Throw a pebble into a river, and the current hardly changes. Place a boulder in its path, and the water must bend around it. That is what you are, Allene. The Narrative cannot just flow past you. It has to account for you. That is what it means to be the protagonist.”

I frowned. “So you’re calling me fat.”

The goddess facepalmed. “If that’s your takeaway from all of this, I won’t convince you otherwise.”

She stood, offering her hand. I took it, and the two of us walked toward the river. The moment she waved her hand, our shoes disappeared. She dipped her feet in the river. I guess I should probably follow along.

“That’s cold!” I cried as my feet went into it. “Could you wave your hand over it and make it warmer or something?”

“You’ll be fine.”

The bears watched us from across the river. After a moment, they turned around and disappeared into the forest.

“Everything I had just described,” the goddess continued, “is known as Narrative Weight. That sounds familiar, doesn’t it?”

“Oh?” I said. “It does, actually. When Meriel had summoned that Elven Tree, one of the effects was that each of our attacks is followed by additional strikes from the tree—but only if the person has a high Narrative Weight. What does that mean, exactly?”

She nodded, explaining, “Narrative Weight represents an individual’s importance in the eyes of the Narrative. Everyone possesses it, though some are naturally born with more than others. It represents how important someone is to the world’s Narrative.”

I kicked my feet around the water. “I’m assuming my Narrative Weight is high?”

“Yes,” she said. “The highest, even. That’s why you’re the protagonist.”

“Can a person’s Narrative Weight change?”

She nodded again. “It can increase through extraordinary acts. Defeating armies. Slaying mythical monsters. Discovering lost civilizations. Reshaping nations. Creating an incredible invention. There are no rules for what is extraordinary.”

I leaned back, pressing my weight into my hands on the grass. “How were you able to reincarnate me with so much Narrative Weight?”

“By defying the rules set by the gods,” she said, her expression growing dark. “But I had to.”

“Why?”

“Because the God of Tragedy’s influence over the Narrative is increasing—far more than what I thought was even possible.”

God of Tragedy…? She also mentioned that she was the God of Comedy, right?

“So what, are the gods of this world just different genres? Don’t tell me the Gods of Horror and Thriller also exist.”

“They do.”

Who would’ve thought, huh?

“Do you recall the final moments before Aurelius’s death?” she continued. “Do you remember when he told you about how he escaped the dungeon in the first place?”

I nodded. “An angel named Gabriel came to him. Aurelius then took over Gabriel’s body and escaped the dungeon that way.”

“But the strangest part,” she continued, “was that Gabriel had appeared before him to deliver his body. At least, that’s what Aurelius said. And when Aurelius saw Gabriel’s soul, he realized that Gabriel didn’t seem like he was supposed to be in this world.”

“You think those are the workings of the Tragedy God?”

She nodded. “It has to be. He must’ve sent Gabriel to the dungeon to free Aurelius with the intention of him destroying Whale Isles. However, the Narrative forced him to cross paths with you before he could. Still, the act of freeing Aurelius from the dungeon is frightening. I don’t know how the Tragedy God’s influence has become so abnormal, but I know I must stop it.”

I put a hand under my chin. “But that’s strange,” I said. “If I remember correctly, Aurelius had said that the Narrative didn’t permit him to take certain actions. He tried taking the Soul Anchor ring the first time around, but the Narrative didn’t let him do so until he snuck into the dungeon with us. The Narrative controlled him to do that. That makes the Narrative sound like some kind of force, doesn’t it?”

The goddess shook her head. “As I said, the Narrative isn’t a force. It must’ve been the workings of the Tragedy God.”

“It sounded like a System message from how Aurelius described it. Was that from the Tragedy God?”

“That, I do not know.”

I sighed, kicking my feet through the water. “So all of this is why you brought me to this world,” I said. “To stop the Tragedy God.”

She nodded. “And not just that—but I brought you here as my champion. I made sure you became the world’s protagonist before anyone else could. I couldn’t risk the possibility of a protagonist being on the Tragedy God’s side.”

“What are the other gods doing?”

She looked up into the sky. “Romance, Horror, Drama, Mystery—there are countless more of them. However, Tragedy and Comedy are the ones with the most influence over the world. At least for this era. Because of this, it’s difficult for them to stop him.”

The water flowing by our feet had become much warmer. Perhaps it was because I’d gotten used to it.

Just like how I’d gotten used to living in this world.

But with everything the goddess was saying… I couldn’t help but feel afraid. I already knew back then that this world wasn’t what it appeared to be on the surface.

But this?

This was far more than I could’ve ever imagined.

“Why did you choose me?” I asked.