Now that Camille was saved, we were pretty much done with everything we needed to do in Whale Isles. Or at least, that’s what I thought. Talon reminded everybody about the statue of me that had been under construction for the last couple of days, so now we’re heading there. Honestly, I would’ve completely forgotten about it if Talon hadn’t said anything.

I glanced across the ship, noticing Reina and Aeris juggling the magical camera between them as the ship moved through the sky, taking pictures of all sorts of landmarks and giant floating creatures passing by. Since Sparrow and Aeris weren’t in the dungeon, they were shocked to realize that the camera was haunted by a ghost. Talon told them the truth about Camille, which seemed to calm them down.

“So why do you even hate whales in the first place?” Talon asked.

We looked among ourselves.

“Who?” I asked.

“Ah, you talking to me?” Sparrow began. “It all started when—”

“No, not you. I’m talking about Meriel. And you don’t even hate whales anyway.”

“Oh.”

We turned to Meriel, who was sitting against the ship’s railing. She had been learning how to juggle tiny fireballs—a hobby of hers that had only appeared pretty recently. So far, she had been able to juggle three at the same time. Her goal was to do seven, but I wasn’t so sure if that was even possible.

“I don’t hate whales,” Meriel said as the fireballs extinguished after they touched her hands. “At least not anymore. Tuna taught me how to like—or rather, tolerate them.”

“That’s Tuna for ya!” Talon said. “She’s a cute one, isn’t she? She could make absolutely anyone fall in love with her cuteness.”

I chuckled. “I’m not too sure if calling her cute is the right word considering she’s about the size of this ship, but we’ll go along with it.”

“Hey. Giant things can be cute too.” Talon brought his gaze back to Meriel. “But you still didn’t explain why you hated whales in the first place. I was so surprised to hear that when we first met.”

Meriel looked into the distance. “Then I’ll give you the short story. When I was a kid, a giant whale fell out of the sky and crashed near my house. I was traumatized—one, because I was so close to being crushed by it, and two, because the smell was horrible.”

We fell dead silent.

“Is this a joke?” Talon asked.

“Nope.”

“What smell do you mean?” I asked. “Whales don’t really smell too bad though.”

“It’s because the one that fell from the sky was dead and had a deep injury along its side,” Meriel went on. “It was probably in a fight with another giant creature up in the sky before it lost and ended up crashing to the ground.”

Talon frowned. “A fight…? The sky creatures never usually fight each other, though.”

Meriel flipped her hands. “Who knows? Whatever happened had already happened. The moral of the story is that the bad smell and the near-death experience made me associate whales with something traumatizing. That’s all.”

“Hm,” Sparrow said. “Since the sky creatures never fight, maybe the whale was defeated by a dragon?”

Meriel shook her head. “I doubt it. The whale’s injury was severe, but it didn’t look like the doings of a dragon. If a dragon had been responsible for it, I doubt the whale would’ve even landed with its entire body still attached.”

“Are dragons really that scary?” I asked. “I’ve never actually seen one before.”

We looked across the ship. Aeris was still taking a bunch of pictures of the scenery with Reina.

“Okay, Aeris doesn’t count,” I added. “She’s been tamed by a love potion.”

Sparrow’s expression grew dark as he held onto the railing. “They’re a scary bunch, I’ll tell ya that much. And unpredictable, too. They’re rare enough that many people will live and die without ever seeing one—but there are enough of them around the world to suddenly appear when you least expect them to.”

“That sounds pretty scary,” I said.

Meriel stood, wiping the bottom of her robes. “It can be. Or it can also be a blessing, depending on how you see things. Most of them are harmless and simply come and go. When you’re up in the sky, I bet you’ll see one several times throughout your life. But on the ground? That’s likely a once-in-a-lifetime sight. That’s why so many of Whale Isle’s inhabitants were completely fine with seeing Aeris.”

She looked at me. “But a few of them, however, are malevolent and actively seek to hunt and destroy cities.”

I raised a brow. “How come?”

“Same reason we commit acts of evil,” she said. “Some of us are born more inclined toward malevolence than most. Others simply become that way through trauma. The only difference between us and dragons is that they’re the embodiments of magical creatures. An elf like me would never surpass them in anything magic-related.”

Talon nodded repeatedly. “Yup yup! They’re absolutely awesome!” he said, completely ignoring the horrifying descriptions we had been talking about. “That explains why Aeris is so strong.”

Meriel chuckled. “She is, but compared to a natural dragon? She’s like a child to them.”

“Natural dragon?” Sparrow questioned.

“She’s a human soul stuck inside a draconic body. But I don’t think she plans on leaving it anytime soon.”

“What? Seriously?”

Meriel nodded. “Since she was a human before, I can only assume her soul isn’t a perfect fit, though it’s compatible enough for her to live in the dragon’s body without many issues. Still, I do notice mana leaks from her.”

Talon put his hands to his head, and his jaw dropped. “So you’re telling me dragons are even stronger than Aeris?”

She nodded. “Much stronger.”

“Wow,” he went on. “How do you even know this anyway? Books? Studying? Or have you actually seen a dragon before?”

“All of the above. And it all happened at Arcstar Academy.”

“What? A dragon appeared at the academy?” I asked.

She nodded. “Not just appeared. Summoned. A group of students thought it would be a great idea to try and revive a dead dragon. I don’t know how they managed to get a hold of a dragon corpse in the first place, but they did, and they managed to sneak it into the academy with the help of invisible magic alongside tons of scents to cover the smell of a giant corpse.”

She sighed as she recalled the story. “Foolish, they were. They knew the cost of trying such a thing. They knew how inexperienced they were as students, and yet they tried restoring life to one of the most formidable creatures in this world.”

“But they succeeded, didn’t they?” I asked.

“In a way, yes. But they failed just as much as they succeeded. The dragon was revived with missing flesh and organs, showing more bones than anything else. And its eyes were glowing yet hollow.” She looked down. “It was horrifying. I’d never want to experience anything like that again.”

“What exactly happened?” Sparrow asked. “I mean, there had to be tons of mages to stop it, right? Since it was at the academy?”

Meriel nodded. “There were. And we did manage to stop it—but not until after it had already taken the lives of hundreds of students, professors, and staff alike. Because it was born broken, its wings were completely destroyed. A dragon’s instinct is to fly, but because it couldn’t do such a thing, it could only wildly thrash its body around. That alone destroyed several buildings and was the main cause of the high number of fatalities.”

Her expression became dark. “And that’s considering its weakened state. Without its proper body, the dragon still managed to cause such havoc. It just goes to show how dangerous they are once they spiral out of control.”

She tapped me on the shoulder. “But don’t worry about it too much. Tragedies can happen anywhere. The academy has taken considerable measures to ensure events like that don’t occur again, so you should be proud to join the academy.”

I chuckled. “Geez. Way to scare a student that’s about to join it, huh?”

“Just don’t tell Reina. She’ll be a lot more scared than you.”

After the whole conversation, Meriel, Talon, and Sparrow dispersed across the deck. As I looked across the ship, I realized Kaelor had been out of sight for a while now. Where was he?

With nowhere else to look, I decided to head below the deck. I opened the hatch near the center of the ship and climbed down the ladder, entering the darkness. The “windows” were limited along the ship’s lower walls, making the lamp hanging near the hatch I had just climbed through the only real source of light, though it was currently turned off.

“Hey,” Kaelor’s voice came. “Are you here to join me?”

I looked across the lower deck, seeing Kaelor sitting at a table. There was an empty chair beside him.

“What are you up to?” I asked, walking over.

He sighed, leaning back into the chair. “Nothing much. It’s just me and my thoughts down here.”

I sat beside him and pushed my chair in.

Silence washed over us.

“Actually, could you turn the lamp on?” he asked. “Sorry to make you stand again after you had already—”

“Something happened between you and Gal’Meth, didn’t it?” I asked.

He turned to me. “What?”

I rested my arms on the table.

“Are you planning to keep this hidden from all of us?” I asked. “Or are you at least willing to tell me?”

He laughed it off. “I have no idea what you’re talking about.”

I narrowed my eyes. “I’m more perceptive than you think, especially when it comes to my friends.” I turned to him. “So are you willing to tell me? Or do you plan on keeping this a secret?”

His expression was hidden in the shadows. He didn’t say anything.

“Please,” I continued. “Would you be willing to tell me?”

Then, Kaelor slammed his hand onto the table. For a moment, his expression came into view as the sunlight spilled through the open gap from the ship’s windows.

Anger.

For once, Kaelor was angry at one of his allies.

At me.

“How could you demand such a thing when you have far more secrets than I do?” he yelled.