Even in my sleep, the System didn’t leave me alone.

[TROPE COMPLETED: THE REINCARNATED PROTAGONIST FINDS THEIR FIRST TRUE FRIEND]

[ITEM ACQUIRED: MATCHING HAIR TIES]

Description:

A pair of soft black hair ties decorated with small silver star charms. Meant to symbolize friendship.

This item will now appear in your [INVENTORY]

[TROPE COMPLETED: THE EMOTIONALLY DISTRESSED COMPANION RUNS INTO DANGER AND MUST BE RESCUED]

[REWARD: +2 LEVELS]

[LEVEL]

[118 → 120]

I woke up to the sound of someone gasping. I wiped my eyes, dazed. Where was I again?

Ah… that’s right. I found Reina in the middle of the blizzard and took her to a cave. The blanket over us made me so warm that I fell asleep on her shoulder.

When I turned to my side, I saw her staring back at me, her cheeks flushed. Realizing that I had fallen asleep with my arms around her, I quickly pulled away.

How long was I asleep for?

From how much we were sweating, we must’ve stayed like this for a few hours.

I glanced out of the cave. As expected, the blizzard showed no end. At the very least, we seemed to be safe here.

“Are you feeling better?” I asked.

She turned away, her expression gloomy.

“Reina…?”

She nodded softly. “I am, thanks to you. But…”

“But…?”

She pulled me close, crying.

“I’m sorry, Allene! I’m sorry… I caused you so much trouble, and—”

I smiled, patting her head. “It’s okay. It was my fault for saying those things to you.”

If I remembered correctly, she was upset that I had called her feelings for me fake. But they were, weren’t they? If it weren’t for her accidentally tasting some of the love potion, none of this would have happened.

“Meriel could help you,” I said. “She probably has a spell that could dispel the love potion’s effect.”

She froze. “Dispel it…?”

“Yeah. Then everything can go back to normal.”

Her expression stiffened. “Normal…?”

The cave was silent for a moment.

“I…” she muttered. “I don’t know.”

“What do you mean?”

“I don’t know if I want to dispel it.”

I wasn’t sure if I heard that correctly.

“What?” I said, laughing. “You’re just joking around, right?”

She wrapped her arms around her knees, her arms over the blanket. She didn’t reply.

“Reina, but this isn’t you!” I said.

“It is!” she cried. “How is it not? Think about it, Allene. I barely drank any of that potion.”

I shook my head. “That’s true, but—”

“But what?”

I looked away.

“So what are you trying to say? That these feelings are real?” I asked.

I leaned back against the cold, stone wall a little too hard, hitting my head. I did everything I could to hide my pain since the situation clearly did not call for me to say “Ouch”.

I continued, “I get where you’re coming from, but…”

She held my hand, looking me in the eyes.

“You saved me, Allene. I would’ve died out there! And even when we fought that Tree Sentinel, you were the one who protected me from it. I… I…!”

Oh no. Here it is. The confession.

“I want to get closer to you!”

I blinked.

“Huh?”

“I want to be closer friends!”

I scratched my head. That was… unexpected? I totally thought she was going to confess her love to me.

“You… huh? That’s it?”

She nodded enthusiastically.

I felt my face getting red. Was I just misinterpreting this the entire time?

Looks like a super small amount of the love potion only makes people want to get closer to me. That’s good to know.

“So… friends,” I said. “Friends.”

She nodded again.

I let out a sigh of relief. I was the one who was wrong this entire time.

“But if you don’t want to,” Reina continued, turning away, “then I’m sorry for—”

“No! No, I’d love to!” I shouted.

She looked back at me, eyes wide.

“Really…?”

“Yes, I mean it!”

What was this feeling in my heart? This warmth?

For the first time in my entire life, I was happy because of somebody else. I was happy because Reina was right next to me, smiling at me.

I called my [INVENTORY] and pulled out the matching black hair ties that the System gave me. There was a small silver star charm on both of them.

“Here—this is for you,” I said, handing one of them over.

She held it with both of her hands cupped together, like it was something delicate.

“This…? When did you get this?” she asked.

“Don’t worry about it. Why don’t you put it on? Actually, no—let me put it on for you.”

Her eyes bounced between the hair tie and me. Then, she smiled, handing it over to me and turning around.

I tied her hair into a ponytail, a perfect hairstyle for a knight—or I’m sorry, a magic knight—like her. The hairstyle was not only practical since it kept hair out of the way during combat, but it was also—

“Cute,” I said. “You look cute.”

She turned back to me, smiling.

Oops. Did I let my thoughts slip?

“Your turn!”

I handed her my tie and turned around. She played around with my hair for a little bit before letting go.

“There!” she declared proudly.

I touched the back of my head, feeling a tiny clump of hair.

“...You turned my hair into a dumpling,” I said.

“A dumpling?”

Ah. I guess dumplings didn’t exist in this world.

Admittedly—just by touching it alone—it did feel kind of cute. As a matter of fact, I felt cute.

“I think it suits you,” Reina said. “You should keep your hair like this more often.”

I shrugged. “I don’t really like tying up my hair.”

“Why not?”

“It makes my scalp feel weird. Sometimes it gives me a headache.”

At least, it was that way in the other world. For some reason, I didn’t feel any discomfort at all right now.

Then, it happened.

The great explosion.

My hair poofed into every direction, slashing Reina across the face. Blood spilled, and—

Okay, maybe it wasn’t that dramatic, but my hair did go everywhere.

“Whoops. Let me tie it up again,” she said.

I laughed. The sound of it echoed through the entire cave. I had completely forgotten how loud the blizzard was just outside.

…

Strange.

I couldn’t remember the last time I smiled this much around someone.

As soon as Reina finished tying up my hair, we heard a soft crack beside us. There was a light. A light that began as one dot before expanding into a large oval, illuminating the entire cave.

“What the…?” I began.

At the center of that oval was… the cabin? An image of it? A reflection? Or—

“Hey,” Meriel said, poking her head through.

Reina and I flinched, scrambling back. The white-robed mage looked us dead in the eye, her eyebags more prominent with the portal’s lighting.

“Good job. You finished the training. Well, part one, anyway. Come through.”

We stared at the portal, jaws dropped.

“How did you know we were here?” Reina asked.

Meriel shrugged. “It wasn’t too hard. Since we’re the only three people in this entire region, I just cast a spell that searches for non-beastial heat signatures.”

My jaw dropped even more.

“We’re the only ones here? Where the hell did you take us?!”

She blinked, then turned around, heading for the bed on the other side of the portal.

“Portal closes in ten seconds. Countdown begins now. Five, four—”

“At least start from ten if you’re gonna say that!” I cried.

I stood, grabbing Reina’s hand with a smile. The blanket fell off us, but I quickly called [INVENTORY] and stuffed it back in.

We ran through the portal.

Wait a minute—if she knew how to use a portal this entire time, then why didn’t she use that to bring us from the guild to this cabin instead of the teleport spell? That would’ve been a whole lot better than landing on top of each other.

She must’ve had a reason, right…?

…

No, never mind. From everything I’ve seen so far, Meriel was completely crazy in the head.

The moment we touched the cabin’s floor, the portal closed behind us. I was a bit curious what would happen if a portal closed while somebody was in the middle of entering through, but I decided to save that morbid thought for another time.

Meriel yawned.

“You two look closer,” she said, glancing at our matching black hair ties and joined hands. “And judging by how sweaty the two of you are, you must’ve had a great time.”

I quickly let go of Reina’s hand. “Whatever you’re thinking, that’s not what happened.” I stomped over to her. “Anyways! What the hell is wrong with you?! We would’ve died if—”

“No, you wouldn’t have,” Meriel said. “I was watching over the two of you.”

“Huh? Watching us? How?”

She waved her staff around, and a giant eyeball appeared out of thin air. It looked like the Eye of Cthulhu.

She continued, “This eye could see through the blizzard. It was watching over the two of you the moment you left. I could actually make it even bigger, but since we’re in the cabin—”

“No, please don’t do that,” I cut in. The eye stared back at me, completely unmoving.

Absolutely horrifying.

“Oh, but don’t worry. I stopped watching the two of you the moment you entered the cave, so you could have your funtime.”

“I’m telling you, that’s not what happened!” I cried.

I turned to Reina. “Could you please say something?”

She tilted her head, confused. “Funtime? Ah, yes! We did have a lot of fun together!”

Meriel grinned at me.

Damn it, Reina. Did you really not know what the mage was trying to say?

Meriel waved her staff around again, and the eye disappeared, dissipating into countless white particles.

“There’s no time to rest,” she said. “I’m impressed with your performance earlier, so we'll skip gathering the tea leaves for now. Part two of the training will begin.”

“What?!” I cried out. “Reina and I almost froze to death, and you’re not even going to let us rest?!”

Then, I heard it.

That monstrous roar.

That demonic growl.

…

It was Meriel’s stomach.

“Now I’ll be teaching the two of you combat spells,” she said. “It’s time to hunt.”

But I was too upset to listen to her.

“You stupid mage! You’re just making us run errands for y—”

My stomach growled as well. Reina laughed, pointing at me.

Of course, her stomach also growled.

[TROPE COMPLETED: GROWLING STOMACH DURING AN ARGUMENT]

[ITEM ACQUIRED: SUSPICIOUS MEAT]

Description:

It smells surprisingly good.

Effect:

I facepalmed.

Of course. This world always has its way with the worst timing ever.
