They're really bad off, aren't they? Ren thought, repaired the cloth items, and made them a dozen more of different kinds. He made a few pairs of boots, and then looked at their bodies. Ha. That's why they only wear bras and bikinis! Their wings and tails stop them from wearing anything else.

Ren made a special set of pants with a spot for the tail to fit, then a nice fancy blouse and tunic with wing holes. He knew they wouldn't have any way to know how to put them on, so he took out 2 Strong Rings of Storage that had 50 slots each and +40 Strength. He took out a piece of parchment and wrote on them what the rings were, and that they weren't allowed to sell or give them away. He dropped a special outfit into each one and used Double Infusion to make the rings binding, then slipped the rings onto their fingers.

Because he knew they would probably try to sell the rings anyways, Ren took out one of the bags of 1 gold coin diamonds and sprinkled a handful of them inside their clothing chest, closed it, and put the note on top. It made him laugh that they were probably going to wake up and think that he had robbed them instead.

What's the best way out of here? Ren asked his friend as he equipped his armor again.

“Straight up, of course.” Teepo said. “The wall of this cavern is about a hundred feet to the left.”

Right. Ren thought and ran over to the spot. He dug out a good-sized indent to step into, then used his Staff of Earth to pull the dug out dirt back into place and the cavern wall closed behind him. It was as if he hadn't just dug through it, and now that he was closed off from being discovered, he started to dig straight up again.

********

“I did not just see Ren defeat 2 succubus.” Stella said.

“It's succubi.” Elise said and smiled.

“He beat 2 succubi, then.” Stella said. “Shouldn't they have sucked him dry or something?”

Elise chuckled. “Ren's not that weak.”

“He had the drop on them, but he didn't attack them.”

“He's being smart about it.” Elise said. “He could be going through every cavern while he searched for treasure and then killed everything in sight; but, instead he's doing the bare minimum to get by and go up to the next cavern.” She felt proud of him. “He hasn't even checked the loot from that abyssal terror, or looked at the XP he gained when he left the cavern after killing a bunch of others.”

“I'd ask why, but I already know the answer.” Stella smiled and Elise nodded.

“He won't care about it until he gets a few spare minutes to think about it.” Elise said. “When he's not busy, he'll go over everything.”

“I still can't believe what your boss said when you called him.” Stella shook her head. “He doesn't have any restriction on the skills he can gain, as long as he's in the right situation to unlock them.”

“I know! That's just crazy.” Elise said, and then both women laughed. It fit Ren perfectly.

********

“He's such a great warrior.” Verwynn said, and all the maids felt how turned on she was. “To attack an abyssal terror's spawning ground, and then he killed so many!” She closed her eyes and tried to get a hold of her emotions. The other maids loaned her their support and she sighed as her passion was metered out to the others so she wasn't drowning in it.

“He's not out of the woods yet.” Lara, the Sage of Ages said.

“Woods? I thought he was underground?” Frikara asked.

“Um... that's just a figure of speech Adventurer's use.” Lara said. “It means he still has a ways to go before he can leave.”

“Then why not just say that?” Frikara asked. “You can tell us directly, and not use metaphors to describe things.”

Lara nodded. “All right. I'll try to keep my descriptions accurate from now on.” She said and stood up. “I'm going to head over to Ren's shop and let Anabelle know what happened.”

“We can do that.” Frikara said and put a hand on Lara's arm. “You should stay here in case Ren needs you.” She looked at the other maids. “Lusinia, Andrela, and Navruth. Spread the word. Let the others know what's going on and that we will tell them as soon as Ren contacts us or comes back.”

The three women nodded, equipped their protective items and appropriate clothing for travelling outside, and left the bedroom.

“You really care a lot about him, don't you?” Lara asked.

“We do.” Frikara said and pat her arm. “More than any of us thought we would after we met him.”
