“I know you can already climb walls and ceilings, but this lets you walk across webs without being caught in them.” Ren smiled. “If you're going to shoot off that many Web wands, you're going to need it!”

Ruck pat Ren on top of the head, and Ren laughed.

“I'm going to fight the giants that are trying to wipe out the giant refugees I tried so hard to save.” Ren said. “Want to come along?”

Ruck gave him the 'thumbs up' gesture, and Ren left the stable with him close behind.

“By the gods!” Wohrum exclaimed when he saw Ruck. “What happened to him?”

“Massive upgrades, apparently.” Ren explained. “I think every few levels that he goes up, it increases his capacity to hold things.”

“If this keeps up, he'll be the size of a house!” Wohrum said as they passed through the gate. “He won't be able to get through the gate soon.”

“That's okay.” Ren said. “He can just climb over the walls anyways.” He walked over to Princess. “Do you think we should add the cart?”

Princess brayed, and his two dogs, Riley and Stacy came out.

“You want to come, too?” Ren asked, and they barked agreement. “I'm sorry I didn't ask you before.” He knelt in front of Stacy, and asked her to open her mouth. She had the Fireball wand clamped in her jaws; so he took it and the Deed to the Garrison, then put the wand back into the slot at the back of her throat. “I should make you wand arrays, but I'll do that later.”

Ren went back into the courtyard to get the small cart that he'd adapted for Princess, attached it to her, and the dogs jumped into it. He then gave Stacy and Riley an Amulet of the Spider each. Once he told them what it did, they barked happily and licked his face. He pat them both on the head, then ran up to the workshop and went into the forge room. Tee-one was just coming out of the hidden passageway.

“I was just going to look for you.” Ren said, and Tee-one tapped his own temple. Ren chuckled, handed Tee-one the Deed to the Garrison, and asked him to store it. He then gave him an Amulet of the Spider.

“Thank you.” Tee-one said. “This will make working on the Keep so much easier.”

“How is it coming along?”

“I've just about finished the entire outside.” Tee-one said. “I've only got one more section before I break through to the surface.”

“Nice.” Ren said. “When we switch to the inside, these amulets will definitely help us deal with crumbling floors, ceilings, and internal walls.” He smiled. “We'll still need ropes and things in case what we're standing on breaks, but otherwise...”

“...all we need is time.” Tee-one finished for him.

“I'd like to say I'll be back after the attack, but since I don't quite know when it'll start or how long it'll take...”

“You better take these with you.” Tee-one said, and handed over 36 sets of full plate armor.

“Holy crap!” Ren nearly yelled. “When did you make these?”

“I've been making one every night.” Tee-one said. “They're also forged a dozen times.”

Ren put a hand on his shoulder. “Thanks a lot, Tee-one.”

“Now go and have fun.” Tee-one said and smiled. “I'll keep the home fires burning.”

Ren chuckled, pat him on the shoulder, and turned around. “I think I'll take a forge with me, just in case.” He said and stored a forge and smelter, a pile of iron ore, then went out to the main part of the workshop. He stored the crate of wand-sized oval diamonds, and the various molds he'd made. He ran down to Princess and the cart, and told Ruck to climb aboard. Ruck eased himself up and into the cart, and the cart creaked and groaned.

“I'd make a joke about you having to go on a diet; but, I think it's great that you're getting so big and strong.” Ren said.

Ruck knelt down in the back, and was careful of the dogs.

“Okay, Princess. Easy at first.” Ren said. “You've got a lot of extra weight on this time.”

Princess huffed, and started to walk. It pulled the cart, and Ren felt her determination to not let this much weight slow her down.

“We're stopping at a couple of farms.” Ren said. “We need to pick up some food ingredients for the giants.”

Princess huffed again and started to trot. Once she got the mass moving, it became easier to pull and she poured on the speed. They moved at about the same speed as they did when Ren rode Princess by himself, and it only took a couple of minutes to get to the farm. It actually took longer to pick up the supplies of food than it did to get there.

“The mines next.” Ren said as he got in the driver's seat, and Princess took off at a run.
