I reared a fist upwards before slamming it down. My fist hit a barrier of made of mana. I grinned with my armor following suit. It was time to pummel this piece of shit. Swing after swing, I rained down a series of blows. Cracks formed in thin air, right above the creature's face. The mana shield couldn't withstand the onslaught for long.

A cold, lightning sensation shot through my back, but I pushed through the sudden discomfort. The cracks grew before my armor chomped forward. The jagged teeth screeched against the invisible shield before it shattered. A few bites later, and the monster died surrounded in darkness since Althea shot its eyes.

I stood up before Kessiah snapped into existence beside me. She tapped my shoulder and pulled the cold sensation from my back. I turned around, and a scythe was in her hand. I put my hands on my hips,

"How in the fuck did that stab me?"

Kessiah glanced at the scythe and kept her hand away from it as if touching something fowl, "The SoulKeeper used telekinesis and stabbed you with it. I'm surprised you didn't keel over. The scythe attacks your mind instead of that burly body of yours. It means you don't have any resistance to it."

I shrugged, "My armor effects that kind of resistance too."

Kessiah frowned, "Why would armor affect that kind of resistance?"

Althea walked up, "Maybe because it enlarges his soul or something like that?"

I glanced at the corpse of the SoulKeeper. A spike of armor expanded from my palm and pierced it before draining the corpse to nothing. I turned back to them,

"Eh, I think that's probably it. That and maybe it means I have an expanded mind, so there's more to damage or something like that. I used to think the armor was something else, something trying to control me. Now I just think it's a different side of myself that I suppress. I could totally be full of shit though. Who knows."

Althea nodded, "I get that. I feel like that sometimes too. Uh, with my eldritch blood instead though."

Kessiah grabbed both our shoulders, "Enough contemplating stupid stuff." She pointed her finger forward, "Onward into adventure!"

Althea and I rolled our eyes before continuing forward. After passing through another hallway, we met two SoulKeepers standing guard at the lunch room's doorway. I dashed towards them as two bolts from Althea stabbed through their spear holding hands. They both dropped their spears as I reached them.

The one standing on the left side of the door reached out its right hand, the eye opening as it faced me. I stomped my heel, stopping myself just short of the palm. I jerked my left hand, grabbing its upper arm and forcing it up. With my right hand, I turned his arm so that his elbow faced the ground. With a quick jerk, the monster's joint snapped as I pulled the broken limb towards the other monster.

The SoulKeeper on the right side of the door had reached out its left palm towards me during my attack. With another quick pull, I tore off the broken arm of the injured SoulKeeper. Using the jagged side of the broken bone, I stabbed the arm into the open eye of the other SoulKeeper.

Blood burst from the monster's hand, gushing like water out of a broken pipe. I grabbed its arm with my left arm and snapped its joint just like I did the first one’s arm. Pulling back towards the left most SoulKeeper, I jabbed the arm through the face of the creature. I grabbed that monster's neck them tore off its skull with my left hand.

Grabbing the head like a club, I smashed the other creature's face to mush with the skull, bits of bone splintering as both skulls caved. With unnecessary violence, I kept crushing until nothing was left.

The body wilted then lost all animation as the creature died. I stepped one foot backwards, pulling my weight with me. I spun around, letting my arm drag behind me. The force of the blow smashed the last SoulKeeper through the wall they guarded.

A detonation of sound, louder than a gunshot, echoed through the empty hallway. After waiting for the dust to clear, I absorbed the bodies with my armor. The strange part was, the scythes remained. I picked them up.

SoulSlayer(lvl Requirement: 400) - This is a weapon that attacks the will and mind instead of a physical body. As a side effect, willpower and mana act as the health of the enemy. Arcane blood users are unaffected by this, instead taking damage to their health like normal.

This weapon can also carry the souls of slain creatures. This weapon steals the mana of the user, turning it into ambient mana instead. Skill level with normal scythes will carry over to this weapon's effectiveness.

Current containment: 440,425 Ambient mana stored.

I grabbed a hold of the blade and drained the mana stored in the glowing blade. The sheen of the weapon died down until it was dulling after a few seconds. I tossed it onto the ground and picked up the other one, draining it like the first. I turned back, Kessiah holding the spear of the first one we saw.

I raised a hand, and she tossed it towards me. A few seconds later, and the mana was mine. These enemies made the whole escapade much more useful than before. Of course, this once was human mana, but the scythe disintegrated it into ambient mana. That meant the souls had already been torn apart. In a way, I thought I was giving the old souls new life.

Existential rants aside, I crouched low as I walked through the hole in the wall I made. Stepping out of the other side, there was something sinister on the other side.

Imagine a SoulKeeper but gorged on souls until it was twenty feet tall. Instead of thin, wiry limbs, this monster was well muscled. With scythes jutting from its elbows and blades for fingers, the monster turned towards me with an eerie smile.

Its ragged mane of hair reached halfway down its chest, black like a raven. The gray skin of the other SoulKeepers was the same on this creature, though darker in shade. At the center of its chest was an eye with a contracted pupil, as if it was staring at the sun. The eye teared up, causing a sort of irritation in my own eyes.

The monster spread open its hands, revealing eyes at the center of its palms. A set of black raven wings spread wide, like some sort of fallen angel. The shackles on its hands and legs clattered against the ground as it moved. With movements faster than its large frame should allow, it whirled the chains around its hands.

Gorged SoulSwallower, Chained (lvl 600) - A powerful SoulSwallower, this monster has feasted on thousands of souls from its SoulKeeper minions. This has allowed it to gorge on the souls, making it stronger.

The blades on its fingers and elbows can consume mana. The chains around its wrists and ankles suppress its power. Once the SoulSwallower has consumed a certain number of souls, these chains will shatter, revealing its full power.

This foe will be incredibly difficult to kill, regardless if it is unchained or not. Be wary.

With a flick of its wrist, one of the chains around its wrists snapped into one of the tables of the large lunchroom. The table cracked, splintering in half as a crater formed on the ground. The grin on its face lengthened until it was too wide for its eyeless face.

Its words smoldered like hot coals,

"You have...a mighty soul...I will enjoy its flavor as I swallow it, as I swallow you."

The runes on my arms and legs charged, my new red mana replacing the orange. A surge of power and fury filled my limbs as I grinned back at the beast,

"I warn you, I'm hard to chew. You might even choke."
