‘He’s completely rewritten history! He has to be the one who triggered the Mercurial Court’s double halos!’ Esmeralda added in a mental transmission.

Zac suddenly realized something. “Wait, if you saved him, then he never—"

“Grand Dream shouldn’t have existed in the original timeline,” Janos nodded. “Or perhaps he did, in another form. Another Supremacy may have resurrected him after realizing his value. He had a unique ability connected to something called Ancient Arcana. It allowed him to peer into countless futures. It was the foundation of his research.”

“Did you say Ancient Arcana?” Zac exclaimed.

“You know of it?”

“The puppets we unleashed in the Centurion Base were derived from one of the three races of Ancient Arcana, the Stellar Wanderers. They were born in the first Era, and they should have been far more powerful than any Supremacy of today. Their natural state of existence transcended our comprehension,” Zac quickly explained.

“If possible, I’d like to hear what else you’ve gathered about these beings.”

“No problem, when things have calmed down,” Zac agreed. The matters surrounding the Stellar Wanderers weren’t something that needed to be kept secret. “Are you saying that Kadel actually wielded an ability of theirs?”

“Yes, but it had powerful side effects. He was about to go insane by the time I found him. I didn’t expect him to live this long, let alone advance to Supremacy. I figured I’d only bought him some additional time with my intervention.”

“I guess that explains the old man’s shifting faces,” Esmeralda muttered.

“And how does Grand Dream connect to the Imperial Road and the corrupted invaders?” Zac asked.

“Kadel’s research is one of the of the underpinnings of the memories we’ve visited. However, his Omnipresence Chamber is but one piece of the puzzle. The other courts should all have their part to play.”

“And they’ve all been connected by the Imperial Road,” Zac surmised.

“Exactly,” Janos said. “This memory domain is different than the ones I’ve tread before. I think the Limitless Empire was only able to make a true recording of the Left Imperial Expanse from the point where the courts were connected. The history before is merely the shadow of the recorded present.”

Esmeralda sighed. “We broke the status quo when we stepped onto the Left Imperial Expanse. We changed the past and introduced new possibilities to the period recorded in this so-called Omnipresence Chamber. I guess these corrupted mutants are attacking us—"

“—Because the dream is about to end,” Zac concluded. “Whatever the empire is hoping to achieve with all this, the mutants definitely aren’t part of the picture.”

“Countless rivers are being absorbed into one truth wherever we outsiders pass,” Janos said. “Their actions are a desperate attempt at survival. It might be their instinct, or it could be under the order of more powerful beings who have deduced the truth.”

“What a mess,” Zac sighed. “Will all the courts have to deal with an invasion like this?”

“Not necessarily,” Esmeralda said. “I still think this is only possible because of the Peregrine Ocean or the Mercurial Court. There’s no way some Hegemons and Monarchs would be able to shift over to our side without it.”

“I think the… frog—“

“Toad!”

“I apologize. I think the toad is correct. Protecting the Mercurial Court and history from the invasion of corrupted timelines is the final challenge of this outer court. The others will have to face other tribulations.”

“So what should we do?” Zac asked. “We can’t beat up a whole alternative universe.”

“This isn’t a problem that can be solved from here. We need to head to the Mercurial Court.”

“The toad is right again,” Janos nodded, suddenly looking around. His face lost its animation, and his following words came out hollow and monotone. “It’s here. Cut.”

The terse instruction sufficed. Even Zac could sense the existential decay, and his swing effortlessly opened a gash in space. The Transformation Docks’ pier and its neatly arranged line of gondolas waited on the other side. As did a small-scale war between sealbearers and their twisted doppelgangers.
