Rain smiled as he lay in the sculpted depression Ameliah had made for him, amused, considering just how appropriate that title actually was. All of the freshly awakened company members would be getting their daily alarms in a few hours. The entire culture of this world seemed to operate on that schedule, everyone rising well after the sun had risen, awakened and unawakened both.

Carefully, Rain got to his feet, tiptoeing to avoid disturbing Ameliah, who was slumbering nearby. The sleeping chamber they were in was somewhat cramped, the two of them sharing it with Tallheart, Jamus, and Meloni—plus Cloud and Dozer, of course. Dozer’s enforced sleeping arrangement had become a routine in the past few days, and amazingly, Ameliah hadn’t even complained. Instead, she’d even laughed about it, deciding to indulge Dozer, citing the fact that nobody wanted to see a pouty slime.

Said slime shifted as Rain moved away, reacting to his departure. He could feel Dozer’s discontent through the link that connected them. Focusing, Rain gently nudged the slime back to sleep with thoughts of comfort and warmth.

Creeping past the others, Rain moved out into the central area of the camp. There was a line of sleds there, mostly packed and ready to go, dusted by a coating of snow that hadn’t been melted away from the heat of the fires. The sleds were stuffed to bursting with supplies scavenged from frozen root cellars and pantries. Essed hadn’t been affected by the toxic chemical transformation that had gripped Fel Sadanis, fortunately for them.

Had they not been leaving today, Rain would have used the time before the camp woke for his morning exercise routine. His soul hadn’t been healed by the core as he’d hoped, his condition unchanged. He still had to deal with the stiffness, heartburn, headaches, and everything else. His morning training helped loosen him up, but it was tiring, and they’d be marching in a few hours anyway. He could deal with it until then.

Rain walked to one of the sleds, pulling free a huge wooden bowl and a small crock of honey. Then, he walked to the next sled over and retrieved a few more things, chief among them a sack of coarse-ground flour. He brought everything over to one of the earthen ovens that Ameliah had sculpted into the wall, setting down the supplies so he could start a fire. As the flames grew, Rain proceeded to busy himself with the making of bread.

By the time the rest of the camp had risen, he had a neat line of five sad-looking loaves that hadn’t.

Their supply of starter needed a few more days, it seemed. It didn’t matter, though. People still thanked Rain for the “crackers” with enthusiasm, compensating with liberal quantities of butter and good-natured mockery.

The company took their time getting ready, eating richly of the supplies they wouldn’t be able to bring with them and luxuriating in the relative comforts of the camp that they’d built over the past few days. Travel discipline would start tomorrow, Rain decided. This waking-up-at-eight thing simply wouldn’t do if they were going to make it to Vestvall in any reasonable timeframe. As he tried to hurry them along, he considered whether he should ask Tallheart to make him a bugle.

Around ten, Ameliah lowered one of the walls, creating a passage for the sleds to exit. While Vanna worked to get everyone into formation and out and onto the road, Rain lingered atop the remaining fortifications. He stood facing a line of graves in the field beyond their camp, already covered by snow. He held his head low in silent respect for those that hadn’t made it through the shift.

When everything was finally ready, Vanna called to him, and he descended from the wall and spoke with her briefly before moving to the head of the column. Tallheart was there, sitting in the rebuilt forgewagon and chatting with Ameliah and Carten. The smelter in the back shimmered with heat, holding a substantial quantity of molten metal that the smith had yet to cast into ingots. Dozer was somewhere in the middle of the column—playing with Cloud if Rain had to guess from the impression he was getting through the link.

“Are we ready?” Ameliah asked.

Rain nodded. “Yes.” He climbed into the forgewagon, standing atop it and signaling to Vanna, who had taken her position at the first sled.

She nodded to him, then turned. “Ascension!” she yelled. “Prepare to move out!”

Rain smiled. She’s getting good at that. He sat down in the passenger seat, then placed his feet and began to pedal, helping Tallheart bring the flywheel up to speed. Ameliah walked around the forgewagon to stand next to him, and Carten took a defensive position on the other side. Similar groupings were already in place, all down the line, the new awakened spread throughout.

Rain glanced at Ameliah, smiling, then nodded to Tallheart and faced the road ahead. He raised a hand, fingers loose, then gestured forward, speaking in his best Patrick Stewart. “Engage.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled, pulling the levers and bringing the forgewagon into lurching motion. The tracks barely even clattered, the “Muffler” Tallheart had added already showing its worth.

“Who was that voice supposed ta be?” Carten asked, crunching through the snow beside them.

Rain scratched at his chin, considering. “Well, we do have the time,” he said. “Hmm. Where do I even begin?”

Ameliah chuckled. “Uh-oh, Carten. Now you’ve done it.”
