“Which of these do you trust the most?” the cervidian asked, gesturing to Tarny and his companions as he looked at Lord Rain.

“What?” Lord Rain asked. “It doesn’t matter, Tallheart. Any of them.”

“Hmm,” Tallheart said. Tarny froze as he felt the smith’s pale eyes settle on him. “You. Come here.”

Without hesitation, Tarny took a step forward. Tallheart picked up the metal object from the table next to him and held it out. It was a metal spike, like a nail, but fully the length of a man’s leg. It was made of dark iron, flaked with rust.

“Anything that the tip touches will be destroyed,” Tallheart said as he held it out to him sideways with one arm. “Do not make me regret making this.”

Carefully, Tarny accepted the implement with both hands, struggling with the weight as he cradled it to his chest. Tallheart only released it when he was sure that he had a firm grip.

“This is the limit of iron,” Tallheart said, speaking over Tarny’s head as if he didn’t exist. “The point holds enough power to deal…mmm…perhaps five thousand damage. A touch should be all that is needed.”

“Holy fu—” Lord Rain said, cutting himself off.

Tarny’s heart, too, skipped a beat at the number spoken by the smith. He stared at the rusted iron spike held in his hands with a new wariness. There were no runes—nothing to indicate it was anything other than a bit of old iron. Nevertheless, he thought he could feel the raw power of the enchantment trembling within the metal, begging to be released. It suddenly seemed even heavier than it had a moment ago, his arms shaking from the weight.

“Mmm,” the smith rumbled. “It will only last for one strike. The metal is already degrading.” He looked at Tarny, his face like a granite wall. “You should make haste. I will not be able to construct another.” He looked away. “I lack the required materials.”

“Yeah, wow, okay,” Lord Rain said. “Tarny, go. No, wait. Someone help him. Carry it between you. You’ll never make it the whole way with something that heavy. And be careful.”

“No shit, Captain,” Mollo said. He carefully moved beside Tarny, and the two of them maneuvered the spike until they were carrying it between them like the deadliest battering ram in existence. Tarny tried to keep the distaste for the man who’d supposedly been a servant from showing on his face.

“Go on, we’ll follow,” Corrin said.

Tarny nodded, and he and Mollo began carefully guiding the spike toward the lair. They paused while the others helped them bundle up their faces, then passed through. The walk to the core room was cold and nerve-wracking. Tarny feared nothing more than that he’d trip on something buried beneath the snow and land atop that wicked spike.

At last, they reached the core, and the blue light of the gem trapped in the ice washed over them as they entered the room.

“Hold on,” Fredek said, stepping forward, mining pick in hand. “The ice grew back like Rain said it would. Let me clear it. We’ve only got one shot.”

“Be quick about it,” Clubbs said. “Here, let me help. We don’t know how much longer the enchantment will last.”

Tarny waited, arms aching as the pair smashed away the protective pillar of ice. Fredek had made a living of brawling in taverns, if he recalled correctly, and Clubbs had been a farmer. Tarny found himself wondering how their strength compared to his as he watched them work. He was no slouch—he’d been on Vanna’s crew, after all—but the spike was heavy. Tallheart, however, had treated it as if it weighed no more than a slender twig.

Tarny tightened his grip, refusing to let the strain show on his face. My path lies in another direction, but perhaps one day…

Finally, Clubbs and Fredek stepped away, revealing the core hanging free in the air.

“Ready?” Mollo asked, looking at Tarny. The uncouth man was smiling, though his arms seemed to be trembling.

Tarny nodded, smiling back. Whatever he thought about Mollo as a person, he couldn’t deny the camaraderie that he felt in this situation. It was finally time for them to awaken. For ME to awaken. I’ll show you, Lord Rain. I’ll show you what I can do. I am honored to follow in your footsteps.

Carefully, the two of them guided the tip of the weapon toward the naked heart of the lair before them. By unspoken agreement, they both stopped with the point a mere finger’s breadth from the core. Tarny glanced back at the others, cowering near the door, then at Mollo.

“On three?” he asked.

“Fucking, on three, aye,” Mollo said, grinning from ear to ear.

As one, they counted, then stabbed forward. Any doubt Tarny had concerning whether they’d been too slow evaporated as a colossal explosion rocked the chamber. He and Mollo were hurled back, their padded winter gear saving them from injury as they hit the ground.

Spots of light flickered in Tarny’s vision as he rolled himself over, his ears ringing. He looked up to see the aftermath, then blinked. The remains of the pillar were gone, but the core was still there. There was a hole in the far wall as if someone had decided to smash a window through the stones with a sledgehammer.

“…the hells happened!” Fredek’s voice rose over the ringing as he entered Tarny’s field of view.

“It didn’t work!” someone else shouted. It might have been Lago—Tarny was having trouble distinguishing their voices. “Hey, are you okay?”

“Gods, look at the bar,” someone said. Tarny looked, seeing the iron spike lying on the floor amid the flattened shards of the pillar of ice. Before his eyes, the metal flaked away into powder, then vanished into smoke. Slowly, the ringing in his ears began to fade.

“Fucking hot dog shit for breakfast!” Mollo sputtered. The man had gotten to his feet, looking unsteady.

Tarny could forgive him for that one. He accepted a hand from Clubbs, allowing the stocky farmer to pull him to his feet, then shook out his cloak. Powdered ice from the pillar was dusted all across the room, with a larger shard here or there.

“He could have warned us about the explosion,” Telen said from where he was inspecting the hole in the wall. “If one of us had been standing in the wrong spot…”

“Maybe he didn’t know,” Lago said, peering at the core. “Maybe it was, like, a reaction or something.” He rapped the gem with his knuckles. “There’s not a scratch on this thing. Just how tough is it?“

“It isn’t a matter of how tough it is,” Corrin said, shaking his head. “Like I said before, I think you need to be awakened.” He turned his head to Ruce. “Sorry, Ruce, you were wrong. If that didn’t do it, nothing will.”

Ruce shrugged. “Not like I could’ve known an enchanted weapon wouldn’t work. Not like you could’ve, neither.”

“True,” Corrin said with a sigh.

“What now?” Clubbs asked.

“We return to the captain,” Tarny said firmly, resolve hardening in his heart. “He will know what to do.” He walked toward the portal, hiding a grimace of pain with every other step. It appeared he hadn’t landed quite as well as he’d thought.

The group followed him out, finding Lord Rain waiting for them, along with Tallheart and Ameliah. The powerful presence of Rain’s soul washed over Tarny, comforting in its weight.

“Captain!” Tarny said, resisting the urge to bow. “The weapon worked, but the core was not destroyed.”

“Hmm,” Tallheart mumbled. “What do you mean, ‘worked’?”

“We touched the tip to the core after clearing the ice,” Tarny said, looking at him. “There was an explosion that destroyed the pillar and blasted a hole in the far wall. Mollo and I were sent flying by the force.”

“Are you okay?” Lord Rain asked, glancing from Tarny to Mollo and back.

“We are,” Tarny lied, glancing at Ameliah. I could ask her… No. I will not show weakness in front of Lord Rain for mere bruises.

“Damn,” Rain said with a sigh. “Well, it was worth a shot.” He looked from Tallheart to Ameliah, then rubbed at his eyes. From a pouch, he drew a bag, then dumped the contents onto his open palm. Eight small stones, seven black, and one white, each carved with the symbol of the Worker. Ranks pieces.

“I’m going to put these back in the bag,” Rain said. “The eight of you will draw stones, one at a time. The white stone…loses.” He shook his head, tipping the stones into the bag and giving it a shake. “Sorry. We need an awakened to take their place.”

“Understood, Captain,” Tarny said. A fair system. Regrettable, but fair. Should I ask him if I… No. He does not play favorites.

“Here,” Rain said, offering Tarny the bag. “Let everyone draw before you look.” Wordlessly, Tarny reached in and drew a stone, holding it in his closed hand. Fate will not fail me.

One-by-one, they drew, until all eight of them stood with their fists held out in front of them.

“Go ahead,” Rain said.

Tarny looked down at his hand as he flipped it over and opened his fingers. He felt his heart stop as he stared at the white stone resting on his palm.

Rain led the group through the darkness in silence, lost in his own thoughts. He kept putting himself in Tarny’s shoes, thinking about how he might have felt in his place. To come so close to awakening, only to have his chance taken away by a twist of fate.

In the grand scheme of things, Tarny was merely back in the same boat as the others that had lost the drawings, but Rain knew that would be scarce comfort. Losing something always hurt more than never having it in the first place. It was a simple fact of human psychology.

To his credit, Tarny hadn’t argued against the decision. Hadn’t raged. Hadn’t demanded best two out of three. He’d simply stared at the white stone in silence. Eventually, Ameliah had taken him back to the camp at Rain’s request, leaving him to manage the others. He was confident that she would know what to say. He was sure that he didn’t.

Rain looked up, realizing that he’d crossed into the light. He didn’t speak as he led the others inside the stone building, not wanting to break the reverent atmosphere. As he inspected the room, he noted that the pillar of ice had started to reform, growing from both floor and ceiling. It had yet to encapsulate the core, but it was getting there. The hole that Tallheart’s weapon had blasted in the far wall was still there, unchanged, Rain assumed. There was no indication that the lair was attempting to repair the damage to the stone.

Rain shook his head, walking up to the core. He glanced at the others, who were watching him with anticipation in their eyes. They looked excited. Eager. That made him feel slightly better. Seven out of eight was still something.

He held back a sigh. Assuming it works.

Rain looked at the core. He’d long-since prepped everyone on what to expect, telling them of soulspace, accolades, interfaces, and more, though with the disclaimer that not all lairs were the same.

Adventurers used the term ‘accolade’ to refer to any reward for breaking a core, but it wasn’t always something you could keep, like his perception boost. There was always a plate, as he understood it, but sometimes it was nothing more than a glorified coupon. As an example, Ameliah said she’d once received a thousand Tel from a lair. The plate it had given her had dissolved into a mountain of the tiny crystals in her hands.

Inconvenient, that.

A single GranTel would have had the same value and been much more manageable.

In any event, Rain didn’t know if such a single-use accolade would have the same awakening effect as one of the more permanent variety. He also didn’t know if he’d be able to break the core in the first place, nor if his damaged soul would get in the way.

In fact, he was actually hoping that the lair might do something to help him. That was why he’d taken it upon himself to lead the group, rather than sending someone else. Breaking a higher-leveled core wouldn’t raise the cap for someone who was already awakened, that he knew. The only questions were if he was strong enough to break the core and if his soul was intact enough to manage it.

Rain clenched and unclenched his hands, then removed his right gauntlet with a twist. “Here we go.”

The impatient whispers that had started behind him abruptly cut off. Rain wrapped his fingers around the glowing blue gem, finding it slightly too large to grasp completely. It was cool to the touch. Rain waited there, holding the gem gently as he strained with all of his senses. This is your last chance, core. If you’re alive, send me a sign.

There was no response, not so much as a flicker in the steady blue glow. Linksight was as silent as the air in the chamber.

Rain tightened his resolve. So be it. If I’m wrong…I’m sorry.

He squeezed.

The core shattered. It broke easily, as if it had been made from hollow glass. Rather than digging into his flesh, the shards simply evaporated into blue light, which quickly vanished. Rain barely noticed this before he found himself abruptly in the void. There had been no fanfare, just a sudden, instantaneous transition.

Though he’d been expecting it, Rain’s eyes widened. He looked down to see his avatar wearing the same outfit he’d crafted upon his previous excursion to this bizarre not-reality—a simple long-sleeved shirt and jeans, though the texture was lacking.

As before, his body in this place appeared to be a translucent-blue projection—a hologram. Also as before, the damage to his soul quickly made itself apparent. With no warning, a glitch snapped his head back up, wrenching his perspective and leaving him staring straight ahead at the darkness. It swirled like smoke beyond his zone of influence, the absence of light given physical form.

Rain waited for a few breathless moments, grappling with his growing unease. He’d already considered the possibility that his damaged soul might prevent the accolade from appearing, leaving him banished in the shadow realm. He’d discounted this as a needless worry, reasoning that it had only happened before because the Majistraal artifact had been holding him. There’s nothing to do that, this time. Unless the lair…

Just as Rain began to panic in earnest, there was a blue flash in the darkness. The light rushed toward him, ignoring the incongruent geometry of soulspace to hover right in front of his eyes as it condensed into an object. It was a plate, still spun from light like his avatar, though a deeper blue.

Rain sagged with relief. He reached for the plate, then hesitated, looking around at the emptiness. I could…wait. Stay a while and run some experiments…

After a moment, he snorted. This isn’t the time to screw around.

