Reaching out slowly to avoid any glitches, he plucked the plate from the emptiness. As he did, the glow faded, white letters forming as the light transformed itself into deep-blue metal.

Accolade of the Essed Frostbarrows

Grants the ability to use Ice Bolt

With a sickening jerk, Rain was abruptly back in his body. The twisted sense of vertigo that accompanied the transition left him reeling. It and the initial delay in the plate’s appearance were good indicators that his soul damage had caused an issue after all.

“It worked!” shouted Fredek.

“Yeah!” someone else shouted.

“Uh…Captain?” Telen said, pointing toward the door to the void with the torch he was holding.

Coming back to himself, Rain blinked, then looked, his eyes widening as he saw whiteness. Snow. No, a blizzard. The lack of wind belied the torrent of flakes falling from the sky.

“Move, people!” Rain shouted, his thoughts dropping back into gear. “Out through the arch!”

He didn’t need to tell them twice. Everyone had heard the story of what had happened with the Spirit Caller. As they scrambled for the exit, the wind began at last. Snow whipped through the door, blasting them with cold and threatening to blow out their torches. Rain was the last through. He’d forced himself to maintain a brisk walk, rather than resorting to a mad dash as the others had done, worried what would happen if he slipped.

The staging area appeared before Rain’s eyes. Tallheart was still there. He was currently helping Mollo to his feet as the others stared past Rain toward the barrier.

Rain walked forward casually, not interrupting his stride, though his heart was beating furiously in his chest. He had his image to consider. Passing the others, he pivoted smoothly to see the barrier behind him quivering. As he watched, the swirling wind destabilized, growing even more turbulent. Suddenly, the entire thing popped like an enormous soap bubble, exploding into a shower of snow.

As the air slowly cleared, the ruins of Essed were revealed. The real village was considerably smaller than the fake version they’d found within the lair, judging from what little of it Rain could see. It seemed there’d been a fire, and many buildings had collapsed in on themselves.

“Hmm,” Tallheart rumbled. “The village remains.” He paused. “Perhaps…the villagers as well?”

Rain nodded, then used Detection. After waiting for the return, he shook his head. “No.” He pinged a few more times. “There are bodies, but nothing alive. Human or otherwise. Not within range, anyway.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said somberly, turning and walking back toward their camp.

“Where are you going? Don’t you want to know if it worked?” Rain asked as he passed.

Tallheart paused, then glanced over his shoulder. “It is obvious that it did,” he said.

“Oh,” Rain said, watching the others stare into space, interacting with things he couldn’t see. “Yeah, I suppose it is.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said, turning away once more.

“Hey, Tallheart,” Rain said.

“Yes?” Tallheart asked, stopping and tilting his head, but not looking back.

“If you’re going back to camp, tell Vanna to get people ready to search the village. We’ll…collect the bodies. Then have a memorial for them or something.”

“I will do so,” Tallheart said, nodding. He took a few more steps, then jumped, landing atop the earthen wall surrounding the staging area, making the incredible three-meter leap look effortless.

Rain snorted as Tallheart dropped down the other side and out of sight. I suppose if I could jump like that, I wouldn’t bother with stairs either. Wait, I have Velocity. I actually can jump like that, can’t I?

“Is that the accolade?” Corrin asked, startling Rain as he moved next to his elbow.

Rain looked back down at the plate that he only now realized he was still holding. He looked at Corrin, then nodded. “Yeah.” He bit his lip behind his helmet, reading the words once more. He’d been interrupted by the collapse of the lair before he could even process just how rare this kind of accolade was supposed to be. I mean, it’s only a tier-zero skill, but still.

“Wasn’t there supposed to be…” Corrin waved his hands, “…some sort of…soulspace or something? I didn’t see anything like that, just a window in my face.” He swiped at the air a few times. “Huh. That’s funny. It’s using the numbers you taught us, not the ones I’ve known my whole life. It says I’m level zero.”

Rain blinked, coming back to himself. He stared at Corrin, then at the others.

“Did any of you see the void?” he asked. “Or get something like this?” He held up the plate.

Confused looks and various signs of negation greeted him.

“Huh,” Rain said, staring back at the metal rectangle in his hand.

“Maybe it’s either-or?” Clubbs asked.

“No,” Rain replied. “When this happened before, the person we awakened got an accolade, the same as everyone else.”

“Could be this was a different kind of lair, like you said,” mused Telen.

“Maybe…” Rain replied, unsure. What was different? He looked up at the others. Different level. Different number of unawakened… Different number of people in general, actually. We had seven then, not eight. Could there be some…finite amount of essence or whatever? What takes more, an awakening, or creating an accolade? Damn it, I need more data. He shook his head. “Does anyone’s interface tell them what their cap is?”

“Uh, how can I tell?” asked Mollo.

“Look for any numbers that aren’t your stats or your vitals,” Rain said. “Maybe a nine, like the lair was. It won’t be higher than that.” Without bothering to consider whether it would work, he dismissed the accolade, which vanished without complaint into his soul. Only after he’d done it did he realize how effortless it had been. Did…I get healed? Am I fixed? He concentrated on the other accolades beneath his breastplate. Nothing happened. Hmm. Maybe not. Damn.

“I don’t have any numbers,” said Mollo.

Rain blinked as his mind ground to a halt. “Wait, what? Really?”

Mollo nodded.

Rain shook his head in disbelief. “I mean, I’ve heard of that, but how—? What does it say about your stats?”

“Fucking pathetic,” Mollo said with a grin, gesturing as if he was holding something, though there was nothing in his hand. “For all of them. It’s jars with labels on ‘em saying the stat and telling me how shit I am in it. And I’ve got this like, other jar full of bloody magic juice or something.” He held up his empty hand, shaking it in the air as if he was indeed holding a jar and sloshing the contents around. “I think if I pour it in one of the others, that’s how I boost my stats. Makes more sense than your damn windows or whatever it was.”

Rain blinked, then deadpanned, “Ah, yes. Jars. Of course. It makes so much sense. Clearly better.”

“Oh, fuck you,” Mollo said, laughing.

Rain snorted and shook his head. “Anyone else?”

After some discussion, it didn’t seem that anyone had an interface that listed their level cap. Though the format varied, everyone seemed to get more-or-less the same information Rain had gotten when he’d first awakened—stats, vitals, available skills, and so forth. Only Mollo had an interface devoid of numbers. Corrin’s was the closest to Rain’s, using Arabic numerals, but not the metric system. Rain hoped that that would change for everyone as he continued their reeducation.

Eventually, Rain decided that they’d be better off just heading back to the camp. Theorizing about the system at a meta level was a rabbit hole that he could easily get lost in, and it was better done over food, anyway. There’d be plenty of time for him to interrogate the new awakened in the coming days. Right now, he had something he needed to do.

After leaving the others with Vanna, Rain walked through the camp. He greeted people politely as he passed, but didn’t stop to engage in conversation. Upon reaching the center, he pinged with Detection, then frowned, spinning to the left and striding off. He pinged again, then increased his pace, heading for the wall.

Tarny was on his own out there, against his standing orders. From the top of the wall, Rain spotted him sitting under the shadow of a tree a short distance away. Rain quickly dropped down and crossed the snowy ground, scanning for any threats. It was day, and monsters were unlikely to attack with so many people nearby, but it never hurt to be too cautious. There had been incidents, after all.

Tarny turned as Rain approached, and Rain saw that his eyes were red and puffy.

Ah, Rain thought as the man struggled to his feet. It’s even worse than I thought it would be. He automatically controlled his expression before he remembered that he was still wearing his helmet, never having removed it after leaving the lair.

“Captain,” Tarny choked. He sniffed, rubbing at his nose with the sleeve of his gambeson.

“Tarny,” Rain said, pretending he didn’t notice the man’s state out of respect for his dignity. “I recall saying nobody was to leave the camp on their own.” He raised his hand, stopping Tarny, as it looked like he was struggling to find a response. “I understand why you might have wanted to be alone, but it is still reckless. You could have asked Ameliah to make you a private chamber, or—” Rain sighed, stopping and shaking his head. “You know what, forget it. It’s fine. You were close enough to the walls, and I wanted to talk to you alone anyway.”

Tarny looked down and away. Rain frowned, considering his next words carefully.

“Tarny,” he finally said, bringing the man’s attention back to him. “Just so you know, the core-break worked. The others are now awakened, but we don’t know what their caps are yet.”

Tarny looked up, hurt confusion on his face. Rain winced, then hurriedly continued. “There was a complication. We don’t know why, but none of them received an accolade, only me.” He held up his hand, the dark blue plate dropping into it easily. “This one.”

Tarny sniffed again. Rain grimaced. Damn it, this isn’t going well. Better just plow on. “Watch,” he said, raising his other arm, pointing at a nearby rock. Ice Bolt.

With a blast of blue interference, a twisted shard of ice formed. It launched itself from Rain’s hand at an angle, then slewed to the side as it flew before crashing lengthwise into a tree with a crystalline impact. Not bad. Never mind that the tree wasn’t what I was aiming for. He looked back at Tarny, who was staring numbly at the damaged section of bark where the bolt had shattered.

“Ice Bolt, tier-zero,” Rain said as he lowered his arm. “The accolade lets me use it, which is exceedingly rare as I understand it. I’m not sure exactly how much this plate is worth, but a few thousand Tel wouldn’t be a bad estimate. As long as someone has it in their possession, they can cast the spell freely, even rank it up, in theory.” He held out the plate. “Here.”

Tarny’s eyes widened, but he didn’t attempt to take it, even taking a step back. “My Lord, I…” he struggled, his mouth making uncertain shapes as he tried to decide what to say.

For once, Rain decided to let the title slide. “Go on. I want to see what will happen.”

Hesitantly, Tarny stepped forward, extending a hand. He paused, looking at Rain, only taking the accolade after another nod of encouragement.

At once, Tarny stumbled back. At the same time, Rain felt a twinge from linksight as the plate unbound itself from him, presumably binding to Tarny instead.

Rain smiled. “What do you see?” he asked, watching Tarny’s eyes as they moved, clearly reading text.

“I-I see the skill!” Tarny gasped. “It says…provisional interface. What does it mean?”

“Interesting,” Rain said. I wasn’t expecting that. “I suppose it means the system is letting you interact with some small part of it, even though you aren’t awakened. Can you see anything else? A status window, or some stats or something like that?”

“No,” Tarny said after a moment, “but I feel…something. Is this mana? Can I…” He looked at Rain as if asking for permission.

“Go ahead,” Rain said, gesturing toward the tree. “Give it a try.”

“How?” Tarny asked, sounding overwhelmed.

Rain tilted his head, considering. “For me, I used to just focus on the name of the spell, and this little icon would come up on my interface. Then I could sort-of will it to work. Now, it’s become automatic. I barely even have to think about it anymore.”

Reverently clutching the plate to his chest with one hand, Tarny turned to face the tree. He raised his other arm, a look of concentration on his face. He gasped as the shard of ice formed. Rain noted that it looked much sharper than his own deformed version had. Tarny stumbled slightly as the bolt shot away from him, spearing into the tree dead-on, penetrating deep into the wood and staying there.

“Nice shot,” Rain said. “Nailed it, first try.”

“Lord Rain,” Tarny gasped, turning, hints of tears once-more in the corners of his eyes. He shook his head. “Captain. I… I can’t…” He took a deep breath, then seemed to force himself to smile. Looking like a starving man pushing away his dinner, Tarny pried the plate away from his chest and held it back out to Rain.

Rain snorted. “No. Keep it.”

“Really?” Tarny asked, his tear-filled eyes widening as he stared down at the plate.

Rain smiled, then reached up and unscrewed his helmet so Tarny could see his expression. I should have done that to begin with. “Yes, really. Ice Bolt is of little use to me. As you saw, my armor throws off the magic. Therefore, I’m donating the accolade to the company, and I’ve decided that you’ll be its first bearer. You can use it as much as you’d like until you don’t need it anymore. I hope that you’ll then pass it on to someone else.”

“I’m… I mean…” Tarny sputtered, clutching the plate to his chest again. “Thank you, I—”

“This is what Ascension is, Tarny,” Rain said, shifting his helmet so he was holding it under his arm. “I’m not going to hoard power or wealth when someone else needs it more. Not when sharing benefits us all.” He turned away, heading back toward the wall. “Come on. Let’s get you back to the camp.”

Rain smiled to himself as he heard Tarny following.

Two days later, it was snowing lightly as dawn broke over Ascension. The camp was quiet, with only the sentries standing guard atop the wall moving in the stillness. Fires burned there, as well as within the camp in the various divided sleeping areas where people slumbered soundly. It would be a while, yet, before the awakened would rise.

