"The more you practice with processing that hardened mana with your core, the more your core begins to mimic your strength of will. Essentially, the outer layers of your core harden into darkwood, which makes the core itself much harder to compromise. Palewater mages can defensively process and purify any spell or mana attacking the core, but a darkwood mage can often just ignore it."

Syphus seemed to perk up slightly at this. "Could we just practice with hardening intent ahead of time?" it asked. "We can already use intent. Couldn't a mage skip the palewater stage if they wanted?"

Cale nodded. "Good catch, actually. You can and should practice intent hardening early, but you'll want to let go of it before allowing your core to process it. It's possible to skip palewater and focus entirely on intent hardening to build a darkwood core that produces plainroot mana, but part of the rigidity of darkwood is that the core will no longer be able to adapt to produce palewater."

He frowned slightly. "I actually wouldn't be surprised if that's what the Red Hunters do to have their archmage-only force," he said. "It would explain a few things about them...

"Anyway, intent hardening isn't actually that easy to do." Cale chuckled. "It might be easier for you guys, compared to everyone else, but it's still fundamentally a soul exercise. We'll do it as part of practice in that divinity-excluded room you mentioned you found."

Leo stared at him. "I'm starting to feel like it's really convenient that I found that room. Like you planned for me to find it, or something."

"It is, isn't it?" Cale beamed.

"...You aren't going to explain, are you?"

"Nope."

Leo sighed. "I'm just going to assume it's your Thread of Fate thing," he grumbled.

"Or," Cale said, "you found it because you are incredibly smart and I love my apprentices."

"Now I can't decide if I'm proud of myself or worried."

"Ten points for finding the room."

Leo pulled out a notebook and immediately began writing. Cale blinked and leaned over him. "Are you keeping track of your points?"

"Well, you aren't going to do it," Leo said, snapping the book shut before Cale could get a glimpse, then pulled out a different notebook, flipping through it. "You said darkwood mages are harder to counter. Does this have something to do with the hierarchy of magic you mentioned before?"

Cale eyed Leo for a moment. "Yes," he said. "It's the mechanism behind the hierarchy of magic, more or less. A palewater mage can't steal mana from a darkwood mage, even with a mana-stealing spell. They might be able to if they learn intent hardening ahead of time, which is why I intend for you four to practice, as long as you're careful not to process any hardened mana with your core. If you want to experiment, talk to me first."

Leo nodded absently. "What about cloaks?" he asked. "Archmage ranks are divided into cloaks, right?"

"A third-cloak archmage will always beat a second-cloak archmage spell for spell, in terms of intent hardening," Cale agreed. "I had to ask Akkau about that one. It's not that common in the Great Realms. On Utelia, it sounds like you divide the levels of intent hardening into five levels, so a fifth-cloak archmage would be at the peak of the darkwood stage."

"What about wyldfire?" Syphus asked.

Cale pretended to hesitate. "I don't know if I should talk about wyldfire just yet..."

Leo made a low, growling noise in his throat. Cale was impressed; he hadn't even known Leo could do that. "Cale, if you don't tell us about wyldfire now after all of that, I'm going to strangle you."

"No, you won't," Cale said. "You like me too much."

"I will think very hard about strangling you," Leo amended.

"Fine, fine." Cale sighed dramatically, but grinned. "Wyldfire mages are still considered archmages; there isn't a specific term for mages that break the scale like that, since they all do it in their own way. The mechanism for wyldfire is what sets them apart from the rest, though.

"A wyldfire mage takes their carefully cultivated darkwood core," he explained, leaning casually back in his chair, "and burns it for fuel."

Just for effect, he let slip a tiny sliver of undifferentiated mana without attempting to control its shape the way he always did—

—and a pillar of prismatic flame erupted from him.
