He still had his work and practicing the language but as soon as he took a break, he started collecting more rocks. He didn't bother much with checking their quality as that too would require Focus. He figured as soon as he actually shaped things, he could figure out which rocks to use and which to discard. Neither was he under any illusions that the first spear he made would be any better than the pitchfork he had used.

The first goal was to make a weapon he could use for the drills that Ivera had planned for him.

Every hour, he shaped more rocks and slowly joined them together. For now, he was using the pitchfork for reference. At least for the thickness of the shaft. Once more feeling the strain in the new muscle that governed his magic, Veron set down the small pole of stone and smiled. It was a slow process and already, he could tell that this weapon wouldn't hold up long in an actual fight. What excited him, was that he did notice more and more differences between the rocks he had collected and used.

He glanced over at Ian and gave him a nod. The teen had been unusually quiet this afternoon. “How long do you think a spear should be?”

Ian ignored him.

Oh? So I wasn't wrong.

“About as tall as I? Twice as tall? Could make the longest spear in the land.” He saw Ian's eye twitch slightly. “Hey. What's going on?”

Ian gave him a quick glance and then returned to his work. “Nothing.”

Veron raised his eyebrows in a knowing manner. “I can tell, you know? And it bothers me that something is obviously upsetting you. I'd like to help, talk it out, but I can't do that if you don't talk to me.”

Now the teen glared at him. “You're annoying.”

“Exactly. Because I care about you. Feel free to sulk though, really let those feelings fester in your belly. Until you hate me forever!” Veron said with a teasing voice. He continued with a more serious tone. “Take your time, but know that I'm here. And I would love your input on my creations.”

He could see Ian relax a little but he still didn't share anything. Veron got back to work and continued in silence. An hour later, he added another few pieces to the growing pole of rock. I'll have to smooth out some of those links and the entire surface of the spear itself.

He heard a few whispered words from Ian. “What? I didn't hear you.”

Ian seemed annoyed. “I asked her to train me, six times already. She said no every time, even though I promised to work hard.”

Veron gave him a warm smile and stood up from his growing pile of rocks. He walked up to the teen who was now staring at the floor and then he touched his shoulder. “There you are.” He waited for Ian to look up. “And I'm sorry. It sounds frustrating, asking for help and her rejecting you so many times.”

“It is! And it's unfair. I've been working hard on the farm and I've been training on my own as well. I don't know why she's so stubborn. You've only been here for a few months and she immediately agreed to help train you, even though you don't know anything about magic or adventuring!” He blushed slightly. “I didn't mean that.”

“But it's true. Everything you said is true and I understand why you're frustrated. I know you a little by now. But I don't know Ivera at all. What I do know however, is that she's your mom, and I know that she loves you.”

“Then why won't she train me?”

Veron gave him a look. “Adventuring is dangerous. You know that too. People get hurt out there, they die, or vanish without a trace. You've told me plenty of stories. Now tell me, who would you rather become an adventurer, an adventurer that may get injured or may even vanish out there; Some random guy that appeared in the nearby forests with no knowledge of these lands and their magic, or your son, your father, a good friend you've known all your life.”

He could see the gears turning.

“She's out there too, all the time,” he argued.

“Maybe so you and Aren don't have to be,” Veron said.

They were quiet for a long moment.

“You're still annoying,” Ian grumbled.

Veron tapped the teen’s arm with his fist. “Because I care about you. Now tell me, how long should I make this spear?”
