Pausing to levitate a rock back to where it was supposed to be, Rain soon returned his focus to the dialogs, continuing with the next skill to make progress. Anchor Aura was a weird one. It was almost like two separate skills: one for making anchors, and another for using them.

The ‘making them’ side was what seemed to matter for the experience gain, with his three successful crafts resulting in 100 experience each—half the mana spent—and his two failures getting him absolutely nothing. That tracked with what he knew of crafting skills. With a mental flick, he brought up a trio of panels.

Detection Aura Anchor

Bound

ID: anchor_det_t01_0000

LKL: Self

CON: OK

Tier: 1

Quality: 4%

Durability: 8/200

Hardness: 1

Detection Aura Anchor

Bound

ID: anchor_det_t01_0001

LKL: Barstone Harbor Seafloor

CON: FAIL

Tier: 1

Quality: 12%

Durability: 24/200

Hardness: 3

Radiance Aura Anchor

Bound

ID: anchor_rad_t01_0000

LKL: Tarny

CON: OK

Tier: 1

Quality: 8%

Durability: 16/200

Hardness: 2

These weren’t item cards, not really. The panels were generated by the software wrapper he’d slapped atop the default dialog that had come with the skill. Unmodified, his interface had given him a little popup when he’d finished his first anchor, listing its name, tier, quality, durability, and hardness. Quality was simply a metric of how shit a job he’d done making it, affecting both durability and hardness. Mercifully, it didn’t seem to matter for the experience gain. When he’d then tried using the anchor, it had bound itself to him, presenting him with a second popup asking him to enter a unique ID. That was it, though. The default interface didn’t come with any sense of an anchor’s position, and neither could he sense them like he could sense his in-soul avatars.

And so, he’d felt the need to write his own database for tracking anchor info. The information fed to him by the skill was recorded along with a manual note indicating each anchor’s last known location, abbreviated as LKL. CON, meanwhile, was simply his wrapper’s indication of whether the anchor was actually available, or whether the card was just showing its last-known status.

The anchor he’d left in Barstone, for example, had stopped responding, and not because it was out of range. The skill’s range was still infinite as far as he knew. Rather, it seemed he’d lost contact because of the monstrous, probably toothy something that had appeared on Detection’s radar shortly before the connection had dropped.

Righting the armchair he’d decided to make in place of a hammock, Rain returned it to its spot beneath the palm trees, then began sticking his flattened bookcase back together. Dozer had helpfully collected the books already, having piled them in a neat pyramid nearby.

Once the bookshelf was standing on its own, Rain straightened, scratching his beard with one hand as he used his pseudo-telekinesis to direct books into it with the other, feeling particularly wizardly as he did so. It hardly required all of his attention, however, so his thoughts swiftly returned to the subject of his anchors.

Using them to scout the deep sea is a bit of a non-starter, but they should make good bait. Should I look into it? Probably. Now? No, I don’t think so. Priority: not. On the list for later it goes, along with stashing one on land for another range test. Still, I should make more of them soonish, especially with how shitty my first one is. Detection is a gentle spell, but a single point of hardness is just not enough. Priority three, then: make more anchors and learn not to suck at it. Oh, and if I’m doing that, I should change this display from individual cards to a summary table or something. I can do that from in here, so... Priority inside three: anchor table.

Waving the cards away, Rain turned to the rest of the knickknacks and broken experiments that Dozer had piled up for him, then sighed. With the exceptions of a slightly flattened Snek, which he levitated over to place atop the bookshelf, and his multi-armed wooden nemesis, who had weathered the storm completely unscathed, the rest was beyond saving. He gathered it all up into a jagged ball, then squeezed until it was featureless and smooth. Moving it in front of the armchair, he sculpted it into an approximation of an ottoman before depositing it on the sand and heading back down to the beach.

Returning to his patiently-hovering progress report, he glanced at the final skill listed as having gained experience. Prismatic Intent had earned a staggering TWO. That actually was a lot for the skill, relatively speaking, given the time frame, but still.

Rain clicked his tongue, now busy smoothing and sculpting the sand with broad sweeps of his arms.

All I can do is keep practicing. Priority outside four: PI training. Actually, hmm. The mind shapes the soul, and the soul shapes the body, yeah? I’m still not sure where skills come into that, besides being in my core somewhere, but maybe...

He stopped suddenly.

Maybe I can use that. Pull them out somehow so I can see them.

Rain turned, taking a moment to look at the pristine beach behind him. It wasn’t a big island, but that was just because he hadn’t needed it to be.

Lots of free real estate in here, and now that I have a better idea of what my aura patterns are supposed to look like from using them without my armor, maybe I can build 3D models of them. Those might help me nail down the patterns, then refine them. Hmm. Can I get my interface to autocorrect my casting based on something in here? I’ve got it doing math for me, and the system connection is working, so... Holy shit, if this works...

Rain stopped himself before he could get too worked up, glancing out at the essence ocean. The level had risen slightly since his fight with the Incarn, clearly felt from the way the bottom of his island was no longer scraping his core’s shell. His intake fans were working away, wafting fresh chaos down to his core for purification, but the pipe that would send the purified outflow back up was still above the waterline.

He grimaced.

No. No, seeing to my paling is still priority inside one. I want to be able to unlock another skill tree sometime this century, and in service of that, I need to fix the pipeline before anything else. Toying with skill models can be priority inside two. We work before we play, as an alright man once said.

Rain smiled at the reference he was sure only he would get, surprised to find that he was in something approaching a good mood.

Coming to a stop beside the boulder where he’d started, he planted his hands on his hips, then glanced back at his progress report. Acknowledging the tiny bump to his Endurance sync, he dismissed the window. The skill list, though, had one more thing worth thinking about. In all the hustle and bustle, it seemed he’d forgotten about finishing Heat Ward.

I could fix that right now. Ward up, then Self-Immolate, but...

Detection

Ameliah had moved even closer in her sleep, now practically on top of him. Closing his eyes, he stretched his senses along the link to his physical body, feeling the ghostly presence of her arm wrapped around his chest. Wishing he could just return to his body to enjoy the sensation for the rest of the night, he sighed, then slipped fully into his soul once more.

I can’t risk disturbing her. She needs her rest, particularly after what Vatreece told her.

Rain shuddered.

The Fleshsinger is in the Entin Theocracy, working in secret for the queen...

Clenching his jaw and wishing for something to punch, Rain waved all his windows away. Lerith wasn’t a problem he could solve, not least because the Entin Theocracy wasn’t open to foreigners of any description. Even Warden Vatreece—a nigh-unchallengeable mind reader heading a multi-civilization-spanning pseudo-law-enforcement organization—hadn’t heard more than unconfirmed rumors, none of them strong enough to act upon for risk of an international incident. Rain would have been more than willing to cause several of those if Ameliah had asked him to help her put that manipulative, abusive, body-twisting piece of shit six feet underground, but she hadn’t. When she’d told him what the Warden had said, she’d just seemed tired. Distant.

His heart feeling like it was being squeezed in a vice, Rain whirled to face the sitting boulder, then reached out with a claw-like hand and shattered it into dust.

It didn’t help.

Not even a vestige of his fleeting cheer remaining, he turned, then whistled sharply. A small orb that had been buried in the sand in front of him burst upward, zipping obediently to hover behind his shoulder. Lifting himself from the sand in defiance of gravity, he shot forward, skimming over the placid waves with his sub-core trailing after him. It wasn’t a big planet, and he reached the far side in short order, slowing beside a pair of pipes descending from the sky. One of them plunged below the waves, carrying chaos into his core, while the other stopped a few centimeters short of the surface. Imagining that the sub-core was helping—though it wasn’t, really, not yet, and maybe not ever—Rain began sculpting a new pipe segment up from the waves to meet it.

The time for thought was over.

Whatever shoe would drop next, whatever horrible crisis was lurking on the horizon, he needed to be ready. That meant he had work to do.
