“The first step is practice, here and now, and then we move onto living creatures. In order to practice, I will create a wound using [Greater Air Body], instead of aura control, so that you may see the wounding in action.” Ari gestured to the wax sculpture, and the air flexed with intent and power. A laceration crossed the chest of the fake cadaver, two decimeters long, spilling red into the world, exposing muscle and bone. “Aura control is easier to use to Remake Healing Magic than the Elemental Bodies, but your lightform will still serve you well. All you need to do here is press the wax back together as best you can, ‘healing’ the wound back to the original form as best you can.”

It wasn’t a full answer as to how Ezekiel would gain these healing spells himself, and in fact, it seemed like a non-answer, but he understood that there was a flow to learning, and not everything could be answered how Ezekiel wished it to be answered.

So he controlled multiple tendrils of light to reattach red muscles to white bone, smushing ‘muscle’-type wax back into shape with expert precision. Nerves and blood vessels came together, and then skin rolled over the wound. He even shoved most of the scattered ‘blood’ back into the body.

And then he promptly realized that putting exterior blood back into the wound was probably a bad idea.

In twelve seconds he had physically repaired the wound to perfection, though he knew he had made some mistakes.

Ari’s eyes were a little wide. She cast a [Mend] over the sculpture and the little blood still outside the body vanished from the surface to reappear inside. She said, “Don’t put scattered blood back into the body.” And then she slashed halfway through the sculpture’s neck, to the bone. “Again.”

Ezekiel got to work.

Repair the parts deep inside the wound, first, putting that bone chip back where it needed to be, working outward, mushing veins and arteries back together, repairing the throat and the voice box. Layer the muscles back together, back where they needed to be. A place for everything and everything in its place.

The repair took 39 seconds this time.

Ari looked more secure in herself. She said, “The patient died due to lack of blood to the brain. Repair the arteries first, and then the veins. Critical structures before lesser structures, always.”

She [Mend]ed the patient. Scattered blood vanished.

Then she slashed the sculpture through the neck; deeper this time.

“Again.”

Ezekiel went to work.

He healed neck wounds. He reattached arms. Genital injuries. Gut wounds, leg wounds, piercing and slashing. Blunt trauma was the hardest to heal. Bones were easy enough to put back together, but he needed to individually repair burst capillaries to heal that damage, and slice into the body to where his light wasn’t able to reach, in order to repair deeper burst arteries and veins. With his mana sense and with the piercing power of his lightform, he was capable of diagnosing the problems Ari caused right away. A few times, Ari had tried to trick him, with tiny wounds that looked like nothing on the surface, but would be catastrophic for the ‘patient’ if they were a real person. None of her tricks worked; Ezekiel saw through them all.

Ari stepped back from the wax body, saying, “I expected fast results, but this is astounding.”

Ezekiel glanced around the empty room, at the other ‘bodies’. “More?”

“Yes, we shall. You should gain some familiarity with each type of person and organ and otherwise before we move on to the live subjects, which will likely happen tomorrow."

This was as good of a time as any to either find out the world was horrible, or if he was worried over nothing. So Ezekiel asked, “How do you work on the animals? Do you put them to sleep with spells or concoctions?”

“Not a spell.” Ari said, “[Sleep] would be useful, but we don’t employ Mind Mages for that. No; we use potions. The rats and wolves feel nothing, and if we find healers that relish in the causing of pain, we quietly discourage them from learning more, with as much force as necessary. Rarely does this discouragement take the form of a quiet execution, but it does happen sometimes.”

Ezekiel felt several ways about what he had just heard.

One: Good! Don’t teach healing to people who would use it to harm!

Two: So they execute people who step out of line? Eh. Yes. This happens. Terrible, but…

Three: His desires in asking his question were seen through rather thoroughly, weren't they?

Four: He almost offered up his own [Merciful Ether] to live-subject experimentation, to see how it worked as compared to their own alchemical concoctions. He decided not to.

Ezekiel said, “It is disheartening to hear that extreme discouragement needs to be done to secure the safety of all, but I understand the need. Thank you for telling me.”

Ari nodded, pleased for herself but only showing it a little. She gestured to the female incani wax body, asking, “Next?”

“Of course.”

Ezekiel moved with Ari to the female incani sculpture.

Ari slashed at the breasts and Ezekiel repaired breast tissue. Then came more lacerations that spilled blood into the air and more bludgeoning wounds that trapped blood inside, where broken arteries sealed the woman’s ‘death’ even if there were no visible problems.

Ari stopped inflicting wounds when she deemed Ezekiel had healed enough, and she asked, “Now we will deal with spell effects. This is just an oral exam, so answer as best you think. How do you deal with [Blind]?”

“Depends on what has caused it. [Dispel] is the obvious choice for me, but that would have to go up against the enemy caster’s mana, and it could be a trick to get me to waste my time and resources.” Ezekiel said, “Knowing that, I’d have an Odin throw a thousand mana at it, or ignore it entirely, depending.”

Ari smiled, and said, “The first part was enough.” She gestured to the large sculptures of eyes sitting to the other side of the room, saying, “[Blind] is a cheap spell with little use, even if you think it would work wonders; the problem is that [Blind] works based on the Health of the target. Much of Blood Magic is like that.” She started walking. “An enemy can usually Blind a lot easier with Light Altered spells designed to Blind, and there are no easy solutions to this cause of Blindness, but a directed heal at the eyes might help in those situations. Now…”

Ezekiel walked with her. He listened. She asked questions. He gave answers. She gave better answers.

The solution to most Status effects was either [Dispel], [Cleanse], a directed heal to the afflicted area, or to ignore it if you could. [Blind] and other such small spells didn’t last long, but when they were unexpected, they could have disastrous results. Such spells were usually only good when the caster made a better spell with it than the basic tier spell.

The basic tier spells were worthless for multiple reasons, and also because a good mana sense negated almost all of them.

But Decay effects were not useless. They could be extremely dangerous. On the other hand, it was usually quite easy to heal through smaller Decay effects with a [Rejuvenation], unless they were special Decay effects that caused healing spells to go bad (which could mean any number of things), and thus a [Dispel] would be better. Combating Decay effects was a whole school of study, as Decay could do many, many different things.

Ari ended the lesson by picking up a knife and holding it against the purple skin of her forearm. “You have obvious skill, but wax is not flesh, and so, we move on to this next lesson which most people consider the first.” She sliced across her flesh, parting skin and releasing blood. She set the knife down and held two glowing red fingers against the wound. When she took her fingers away, the wound had become a bumpy black scar. A [Cleanse] removed the blood. “You cannot smush together actual wounds on real people as you can with these wax cadavers, which is why we must learn the true art of healing: directed healing. What I just did was apply a [Rejuvenation] directly to the wound.” She held her scar forward for Ezekiel to see, and pulsed more red magic on the spot, saying, “You can even restore scar tissue back to normal tissue, but this requires a careful application of inflicting and restoring at the same time.” Over the course of seconds, her black scar became unmarred purple skin. “If you haven’t Remade [Inflict Wounds] by this point, then you will likely gain that spell in this stretch of your healing education.”

Ezekiel watched. He said, “I have a few questions.”

Ari nodded, and waited.

Since she hadn’t answered his previous question to his satisfaction, Ezekiel asked, “How am I supposed to attain [Treat Wounds] through the application of [Healing Word]? How does that specific Remake Quest happen?”

There were many different ways to Remake spells. Most Remakes required specific shapings and intents imbued into mana. But Ezekiel had not Remade all of his current basic spells, because many of them required more than that. [Duplicate] was different, because that required him to target the history of a specific type of item with [Mend]. [Teleport] was different, too, in that it required a whole different stretch of [Greater Lightwalk] than the usual application. Healing Magic seemed even more different than the rest.

Ari said, “Most healing magics are flexes of other healing magics. Stretches of shape or size. Condensations of intent. Weights applied in specific manners.” She held up her hand, and the air around her hand began to shift and glow red, the glow becoming a controlled spiral, then a spike, then a thin film. “These are all [Healing Word], ready to be deployed, but each in different shapes, for you can do this with healing magic; you can queue it up for release.” She relaxed her [Air Body] and the red glow became a diffuse pattern of static, spreading out in the air like a mist. “This is the standard [Healing Word], meant to heal the Health of a target, and only that.” She dispersed the glow and lowered her hand, saying, “It is possible to attain every single Healing spell through careful application of a single starting spell, but you must treat real injuries on real people.”

Ezekiel went, “Huh.” Then he said, “Ah.” He understood. And then he understood more. An oddity stood out to him. “So a Healer could end up with a great deal more Stats, simply because they don’t have to spend any points on their main suite of spellwork?”

“This is technically correct, though rare in reality.” Ari asked, “Are there any more questions?”

“How do you condense core dust into the blood?”

Ari smiled, then said, “In medicine, a little bit of directed poison is crucial to combating many systemic illnesses, but this particular knowledge can easily become poisoned treasure, and I am not going to be the one to give that to you until you know how to heal yourself, first.”

“Heh.” Ezekiel asked, “You heard about that ‘poisoned treasure’ from last night, eh?”

“Not many did, but yes; I was made aware.” Ari said, “After that event, I was given some specific instructions of my own, and I will choose to follow them. Certain lessons will most definitely come after all the rest.”

Ezekiel nodded. He asked, “Is this how everyone learns?”

“Oh my no!” Ari said, “Directed healing is usually the first lesson. From there, paths vary. The normal way to healing mastery is through hard learning, accidental deaths, and mistakes that will haunt you for the rest of your life, as well as the presence of an overseeing Doctor or Priest who becomes very cross with any student who steps even the slightest bit out of line. There’s also a fair bit of learning about specific magical and mundane diseases which are mainly of the fungoid variety, parasites, and systemic disease that won’t go away with simple healing spells or through [Cleanse].

“Occasionally, someone breaks the mold, and rapidly advances, cutting out years of hard work. The most common variation is when a Healer desires to save a life and everything they know is not good enough. Most of the time, those patients die, but sometimes, the Healer will awaken their aura and thus they are able to stretch their healing spells to accomplish what they normally cannot. If they understand what they have done, and are able to repeat the process, then they go on to Remake the other healing spells.

“And then there are the people who come to this who already have a mana sense and a Greater Elemental Body, and the skill to use them properly. This is where you are at. Eventually, and likely sooner rather than later, you will be Remaking all of the healing spells we have already discussed.” Ari said, “There will be many days of learning ahead of us, but based on what I have seen today, it might take you a week to get through all of this early stuff. Once you gain the appropriate healing spells then we can move onto some of the more nuanced healing spells, such as [Blood Regeneration]. Once that is achieved, we can get to actual Blood Magic, which includes spells such as [Body Modification]. But we are done for today.” She said, “There are others who wish to use this room.”

It had been a few hours, and by now, there were several people as well as a teacher-like person waiting outside of the wax room for their turn at the place. They had been lining up, quietly, for the last fifteen minutes.

But a different person had been there for the last hour and a half. He was a boy of pale skin, maybe seven or eight years old, without horns, wearing fine white robes with black edging. His robes marked him as important, and also odd, for while his garb was of much finer make than the grey-robed inner disciples who also walked down that same hallway, they were also clearly of a specific design that was also not present anywhere else.

And the kid had silent guards next to him that wore black.

Ari had paused in her teachings, briefly, when the kid showed up, but then she resumed like nothing odd had happened. None of the obvious-teachers who also walked the halls seemed to bother the boy, either, even though he was obviously listening in on Ari’s private lesson, with his back to the adjoining wall and his head cocked to the side. He might even be mana sensing, but that seemed crazy.

Now that the lesson was over, though, the boy stood up and walked away.

Ezekiel said, “I thank you for your lesson. Tomorrow, at the same time?”

