People lined both sides of the bridge, in small clusters, most of them with small children. There was no one nearby who Ezekiel recognized, and they didn’t seem to care about him, though a few people did turn to look at veiled Tiffany. The kids all watched the water, eager and excited, as the rain began to pour in earnest and the adults around them began to speak of ‘It’s about to start’ and ‘There! Did you see that one!’.

Down below, the Wanzhi River Delta, stretched out over dozens of kilometers in every direction, its many sandbanks full of grasses and small, winding streams, began to rise. The rains had started far to the north, long before now, and the waters and rains were just now arriving. The river didn’t rise too much, but there was a clear difference compared to a minute before. Some of the sandbanks were now little more than tufts of green that struggled to rise above the rushing waters.

Small ‘oohs’ and ‘ahhs’ escaped from the watching kids.

Ezekiel had slowed his walk, watching, but now he had to see with his own eyes. He went to an open section of the bridge to watch. Tiffany and Paul followed. He could already see what was happening with his Odin, flying high above, and so could Tiffany, with her mana sense, and so could Paul through the two of them and everyone else all around, but none of that was as nice as seeing in person.

Together, the three of them watched as the churning waters came alive with red glints. Here and there, like a beast was waking under a deep, frothing ocean, tiny red flits flashed their red scales in small sections, in sync with their direct neighbors.

The fish were each as large as anchovies and barely visible on their own, but they were plentiful, and a change was taking place in the massive school. The flits had been waiting for a signal, and they had received it. Small flickering red sections became large flashing red sections as the first red flits dashed above the waves, out of the water, rushing north, spurring on their neighbors to jump out of the water with them. Like a wave started in a football stadium, the flits began to cascade their jumps and their flickering of bright red scales in time with those nearby.

The dark waters, almost black without sunlight upon them, became a mix of black and flashing red.

Some critical mass occurred, all at once, and there was no more cascading wave. All the fish jumped and rushed and glittered all over the entire flooded delta, swimming north while rain crashed down from above.

And then they began to do more than glitter red in the dim light of the rainy day. They began to glow.

Crimson. Bright and shining with actual light, a billion billion red flits turned a gloomy day into a red flood that fought against the river, and won.

Ezekiel watched for a full minute.

And then, as fast as it had come, the event was over. The full crimson rush of light vanished back beneath the dark waters, though some fish couldn’t turn it off. They were red glows under the waves, like eyes, that swam north, into the storm.

It was beautiful.

Some of the kids on the bridge had been entranced, though others had opted to be extremely vocal in their surprise and joy. A few kids threw tantrums when it ended, but they had been reassured that the red flood would come again on another rainy day. All Water Season, this happened, whenever the river flooded after the rain.

Ezekiel stepped away from the bridge, happy to have witnessed such a sight. From their expressions, Tiffany and Paul had enjoyed the moment, too.

They continued on to the Alluvial District.

- - - -

Ezekiel arrived at Clan Star Song, to an understated reception that was rather formal, but short. It was not unlike the ceremony of points that Julia had undertaken yesterday, but for Ezekiel, he just had tea in a garden with Elder Arilitilo, who asked if he could call her just ‘Ari’. Ezekiel obliged.

The two of them spoke of the books she had sent him, of what he thought of them, and of the goals he wished to achieve in his pursuit of Blood Magic. This was a simple question, with a simple answer: Denying and Healing were more than good enough for him, for now, but he wanted to learn that enchanting method they talked about. With that answer in hand, Ari informed him that they likely wouldn’t get to any Blood Magic today. This was fine.

Ari gave a small tour of the Lorehouse of the Clan Mountain, where Ezekiel got to see a nice library, and the doors to the offices of Xue and Riri and a few others, but none of them were in, so they moved on, down hallways that initiates and inner disciples used to get to rooms where everything from healing to harming to protecting were taught to those deemed worthy. He saw nothing untoward yet, but there was a lot to see! He’d likely be seeing a lot of everything else at later dates, anyway.

They got to the room that Ari had chosen to start Ezekiel’s education, where they stored the tools that she would be using to teach him. They went inside, to the center, to the main teaching tool.

It was a wax cadaver of a human male. It laid upon a table in the center of the large, currently-private room. It was perhaps the most intricate sculpture of a person Ezekiel had ever seen. It had veins and arteries and goo for blood and well defined organs, muscles, nerves, and bones, each of appropriate physical strength to make them as life-like as possible. There were small simplifications in the construction, of course, as the arteries of a real heart had layers to them, and the skin had more layers than were here, but other than those details, the wax figure was rather impressive.

A similar wax sculpture sat on a different table, not too far away. It was a wax incani female. On smaller tables around the room were other subjects, all done in wax. Several large eyes, all in a corner. The bones of the ear, times two; one labeled ‘humanoid’ and the other labeled ‘avian’. There were bodies of all sorts of people, and even animals, like rats and wolves and birds and frogs, but most of those were either in storage underneath other sculptures, or off to the side. This human male was actively used, all the time, as were the other ones currently sitting out in the open.

Ari stepped to the other side of the ‘cadaver’, and said, “Healing magic is varied by effect and nuance. But [Treat Wounds], and then [Greater Treat Wounds], is little more than the application of skill and understanding alongside an Elemental Body or aura control. I know you read the books I gave you, but very little of what is written down is so easily translated into working knowledge, and very little is adequate for your learning goals, so here we are in the Wax Room. Like most learning, we will start near the beginning.” She pressed the nude sculpture’s stomach and it moved like a person’s would; not a simple indentation, but a pressure in one point that deformed all other nearby places. She removed her hand, and the stomach returned halfway back to where it had been before. She cast a [Mend], and the sculpture reformed completely. “As you can see, this sculpture is one of many that each responds in life-like ways to many external stimuli. This room is used by all, but I have requested some private time for our first lesson.

“We likely won’t come here again.

“When I can see that you know the basics of Healing Magic, then we will move on to the healing of rats and then wolves. You must achieve [Treat Wounds] before you are allowed inside a hospital, whereupon you can further cast your gained spell and perhaps gain [Greater Treat Wounds].

“Along the way, you will likely gain [Inflict Wounds], and perhaps even [Greater Inflict Wounds], as it is much easier to destroy than it is to heal, and you will be learning a great deal about how to destroy, in order to do the opposite.”

Ezekiel nodded. He wanted to ask— Nah.

Ari said, “I can see you have questions. Ask them.”

“This is a basic one that hasn’t really been covered anywhere else, and your book didn’t mention this, exactly. But how do Doctors and Healers Remake these spells, if they don’t have aura control or an Elemental Body? Or a mana sense? The vast majority of people don’t have either, and this includes doctors.”

Ari nodded, then said, “They have to do this the hard way, through practice and understanding and a great deal of bloody work with knives and sutures and directed healing.” She said, “I know this particular answer was not in the books, or in the notes, so I will have to back up a bit and explain what is also not in the books, exactly, as the books deal with education and rarely with overall pictures.

“I will start from the beginning.

“Most Healers and other types, most of whom begin with a wish to repair their own bodies or the bodies of others, begin with a healing spell. Whichever healing spell they begin with is fine; they all go in the same direction. [Healing Word] is popular, as is [Rejuvenation]. [Healing Beacon] is less popular, but it does see use in war parties and clan excursions.

“Through the use of these healing spells, people will usually encounter a small truth.

“Though the use of Health restoratives is not true healing, it is adjacent, and if the body is at high Health, then applying more healing, from any source, will speed up self-healing. Almost all orcols are blessed in that restoring Health is the exact same as true healing, but the rest of us people have to work a great deal to learn how to help the body heal itself, and thus, healers will come to the next small truth.

“Most people who actually want to succeed at being a Healer will come across a situation. They will see that the placement of a [Rejuvenation] at a wound, with the intent to heal the wound, helps to heal that wound, specifically. A thousand instant applications of [Healing Word] cast in a struggle to heal a catastrophically injured friend, might actually work if the caster knows some of what they’re trying to achieve.

“Intent matters a lot in magic, and this truth is still true when it comes to healing.

“Of course, if a person merely throws resources at a problem without attempting to understand or direct their healing, then they achieve nothing. This sort of situation happens almost all the time outside of hospitals and healing-focused instruction.

“It is this realization of the phenomena known as ‘directed healing’ that allows a person to understand enough to gain the Quests for all the other healing spells.

“For all healing spells are Base Tier. You cannot make [Treat Wounds] out of [Healing Word]; none of the generalized healing spells are achievable from making them out of another generalized healing spell. Most people will learn this, and then unlock the Quest for [Treat Wounds] by understanding this directed healing truth of [Healing Word]. And then they will go on to complete that Quest, and gain that basic tier spell.” She said, “There are three routes to these spells, and three routes only. Either the Quest, or an Elemental Body, or aura control. Most people go the first route.”

“Directed healing, eh?” Ezekiel frowned a little, but mostly at himself. “I haven’t experimented with healing spells… At all.”

“Most mages don’t.”

“How do those Quests unlock?”

Ari said, “There are three big healing spells, with many specialist combinations derived from these three, or from an offshoot of these three. They are [Greater Treat Wounds], [Regeneration], and [Restoration].

“You gain the [Treat Wounds] Quest through the understanding of the directed healing spells, meant to repair the damage from a sword strike, for example. [Healing Word] is a good spell to gain this Quest. It is harder to gain this Quest if you use the other spells.

“Starting with [Rejuvenation], one can easily unlock the Quest for [Regeneration], which is focused on the ability to regenerate lost body parts and other assorted missing parts, such as teeth. With [Regeneration] in one hand, and [Treat Wounds] in the other, one can then unlock the Quest for [Greater Treat Wounds].

“The Quest for the [Restoration] spell, which is a touch-up spell used to prolong quality of life, is unlocked when one understands a great deal of the nuance of healing the body, and how it wears down and how it can be repaired.

“In the end, a Healer can work for years in a hospital to finally heal enough people to gain any of these magics, but completing any of the Quests makes subsequent Healing Quests easier to complete.” Ari added, “There are variations to the process, but this is how it usually works.”

“Outside of a hospital setting, and outside of the Big Three healing spells, one can also try for other healing magics which are primarily focused on the simple restoration of Health, which is a different branch of Healing. This branch of healing is focused on combat healing, and usually involves large, large amounts of Health.

“The Quest for [Rejuvenation] is gained by taking a healing spell and trying to stretch it out over longer than a second.

“The Quest for [Healing Word] is gained by casting a healing spell, back to back to back, and the Quest is completed in the same way.

“The Quest for [Heal], which is a spell designed to restore a vast amount of Health to one person, is gained by ignoring all nuance and damaged flesh, and trying to restore the [Personal Ward]-like effect of Health.

“The Quest for [Healing Beacon] is gained when you have too many targets taking area of effect damage and not enough time to heal them all, but you try anyway.

“The Quest for [Soothing Light], which puts a target into Rest and removes a modicum of pain, is gained when you need to put someone to sleep, to make them Rest because there are enemies at the gates and you’re on tight watches, with little time to properly rest.” Ari said, “There are a few more spells out there, but that is most of the Basic Tier healing spells.”

Ezekiel listened, cross checking what he already knew with what Ari had just told him. He found nothing too strange in her words, besides the fact that Julia had gained [Greater Treat Wounds] without going through [Treat Wounds] or any of that other stuff first.

Eh.

The gods saw that his daughter needed help and Atunir’s Champion was in danger and all that other shit was happening…

If anyone could figure out how healing worked and what ‘overhealing’ actually did, it was Julia. But besides that; Ezekiel was 100% certain that Rozeta could fudge things on her end. [Greater Treat Wounds] had served Julia quite well. It was likely serving her well right at this very moment.

Ezekiel asked, “So how do we gain those spells?”

