The day dawned red, with stillness in the air and the promise of storms on the horizon.

Ezekiel had woken early, as usual. Breakfast would be delivered soon by the proprietor’s wife, but the room had supplies enough for a few things, and he had bought more in their time in Darzallia. He made himself a nice pot of some ‘specialty blend’ lime-blossom tea that had caught his eye and his nose, then poured that tea into a cup already filled with just the right amount of crystalline rock sugar. Granulated sugar was a rarity in this part of the world with both commoners and nobles mainly using rock sugar. The sugar Ezekiel had bought was also lime-flavored. Soon enough, shimmering green tea swirled with slowly-dissolving sugar in his cup, while Ezekiel sat by the window, reading, enjoying the quiet hours of the new day.

Soon enough, Paul joined him, and made himself a cup. He deeply inhaled the smell, and said, “I like it.”

Ezekiel refilled his own cup, saying, “I could see orange and lemon blossom tea being a thing here as well.”

Paul nodded, as he grabbed his own book and sat down on the other side of the front room.

Julia and Tiffany woke after breakfast was delivered, and the smells of thick-slice fried bacon filled the room.

Ezekiel spied another ‘delivery’ walking this way, out on the road that ran beside the Sour House. Enforcer Sikali. Her skin was a pale tan color, and she looked human enough, but something about her seemed ‘demi’. She didn’t seem to have any bloodlust in her this time, or if she did, it was low-grade enough to not set off Ezekiel’s gut feeling.

He told Julia, “Your escort will be here soon. Or handler. I’m not sure.”

Julia ignored the rest of her food and rapidly grabbed another bit of bacon. She stuffed it in her mouth as she rushed away from the living room, back to her own, speaking through her full mouth, “A minute!”

Tiffany rapidly proceeded to grab up all the rest of the bacon, saying, “All mine!”

In moments, Julia came out of her room wearing working robes of a cut similar to what a peasant would wear when toiling out in the fields, but hers were a bright blue that shimmered iridescent in the sunlight. Not bad for a tunic and pants! Ezekiel had worked with Julia last night to make them out of her [Prismatic Thread], and they were only one of a dozen new outfits. Everyone got new robes and otherwise. All of the new stuff was solid colored, but shimmered like rainbows when the light caught them at the right angle.

The new clothes weren’t as physically strong as the white-thread Shadow Spider silk, but they were superbly comfortable. Julia had trouble combining her new [Prismatic Thread] with the thick thread from the Shadow Spider, but Ezekiel had confidence that she would figure it out.

They had talked a lot about a lot last night, while they were weaving in the midnight hours.

They had started talking about how they treated each other, which they both agreed was poor, sometimes, but it was only because they both worried for the other. Then the conversation moved on, and they both tried talking as though they were both capable of taking care of themselves. They spoke of threats, and concerns, and smaller things. It was a good conversation.

Ezekiel looked at his daughter, dressed up in her new iridescent blue outfit, and smiled. She would surely get ripped up just as badly as her new clothes, but she had all the tools necessary to repair all of that damage. Soon, Ezekiel would also have all the tools to repair the damage this world could do to a body, and that had made Julia happy, too.

Ezekiel smiled as he said, “You look ready.”

Julia smiled back, and said, “I feel ready. [Perfected Body] makes me feel… Better. In all ways.”

Ezekiel’s eyebrows raised. “You can adjust yourself like that?”

“Come on now, dad.” Julia said, “I can put spinnerets in my forearms; I can put [Perfected Body] in this form, too.”

“I know that, but...” Ezekiel wasn’t quite happy that his daughter called her natural-born ‘Familiar Form’, a ‘form’. But he could deal. In an attempt to meet her halfway, he asked, “How does [Perfected Body] make you feel? Any differences inside that are apparent to you?”

Julia smirked. “You can look, you know. You tell me.”

He had already, to make sure that she was doing okay, but he didn’t like the idea of her replacing parts of herself like that. He asked, “Does it feel different?”

Julia shrugged. “Eh.” She walked to the front door, saying, “It’s hard to tell— Ah. My eyes are perfectly symmetrical. Just noticed that in the mirror, actually. The vascularity in my left arm is now as great as in my right arm, and the veins are the same. It’s a bunch of small things, you know? I’m also feeling great on four hours of sleep. So that’s a little different. Usually there’s some trouble waking up in the morning after days like the one we had yesterday, but there was none this morning.” She stood by the door, saying, “And it was easier to [Polymorph] those spinnerets last night, now that I think about it.”

“I still find it odd that monster abilities just have names, and no blue boxes,” Ezekiel said.

Julia said, “They’re more biological functions than abilities.” She looked away, frowning a little, then said, “Maybe monsters are like living enchantments?” She added, “Eh. No. That's too simple.”

Ezekiel hummed, thinking about it. Living enchantments? “They’re made with [Husbandry]… People can become monsters if they form a core... I don’t know.” He said, “When you go meet Riri for lessons, or something, let me know. I’ll end up there sometime, too.”

Sikali was almost to their door.

Julia said, “Whenever that happens, I’ll let you know.” She smiled, throwing open the door, saying, “But for now, we got monsters to hunt!”

Sikali barely broke stride as she walked into view. She had a mien of professionalism upon her face and a simple, yet elegant, red and black court dress. She spied Ezekiel in the room, past Julia, and said, “Greetings, Scion Ezekiel Phoenix.”

Julia went professional, too, as she recognized a tradition of greeting the one in charge first. She stepped to the side and stood, silent.

Ezekiel stood up from his chair, saying, “Greetings, Enforcer Sikali Star Song. Won’t you come in? I can make some tea for us.” With a thought toward canceling one of the layered [Prismatic Ward]s in the room, he did so, opening a space in the hotel room for Sikali to walk inside.

Sikali bowed her head a fraction, and stepped into the room, saying, “I appreciate the courtesy, but we have a busy schedule. Some other day, perhaps? My husband Xue makes a fantastic sun tea. We would love to host you and your Clan for a meal, if you are willing.”

“I gladly accept your invitation, though I know not when I am available; it seems like something large and new is happening every day.” Ezekiel asked, “And speaking of invitations: I have appointments with the Singers of Void Song during the morning, but my afternoons are free. I’m not too sure when your husband and Elder Arilitilo wish to get together for lessons, but if you know when that will take place, then I am sure we can figure out the rest from there.”

“Star Song has many duties, but we will make time for you.” Sikali said, “Regarding the teaching promised by Elder Arilitilo and my husband Xue, I have been told that it is best to practice Blood Magic a few hours after a hearty meal, so if your mid-morning is occupied, then mid-afternoon will need to be acceptable. If this is agreed upon, then please tell me now, and I will inform them to wait for your arrival in the afternoon.”

“This is a fine timetable.” Ezekiel asked, “Would you be able to speak on the planned lessons with Loremaster Riri, as well?”

“My husband and his Elder will be able to answer this concern, but I cannot.” Sikali said, “One or the other of them will likely guide you to Loremaster Riri’s secondary offices, which are located next to Xue’s in the Lore House.”

“Ah! Good.” Ezekiel asked, “Where should I go to meet them, then? Back to your Clan mountain?”

Sikali bowed her head, saying, “This is correct, Scion Phoenix. Upon arrival, an initiate or inner disciple will be able to guide you further, but I suspect that as soon as you show, an Elder will also show. Do you have any other concerns I may answer?”

“A schedule for my daughter, so that I know when I need to be concerned.” Ezekiel said, “I am not that worried for her, but a father is never not worried.”

Sikali grinned slightly, politely, and said, “I will ensure 12 hour check-ins, but we will be venturing into the Underworld in a few locations, therefore we will not be able to maintain that schedule. You will be notified when this occurs.”

Good enough. Ezekiel gave a low gesture toward his daughter as he stepped out of the conversation, but not away.

Sikali turned to Julia, saying, “I look forward to working with you.”

“And I look forward to working with you, as well,” Julia said, professionally.

Sikali turned to Ezekiel and bowed, then rose and walked out of the room first.

Julia rushed her father and hugged him.

Ezekiel enjoyed the far-too-short embrace.

Julia broke away and rushed after Sikali. She quickly fell in beside the Enforcer, and they started talking in small voices, but soon switched to telepathic conversation. Ezekiel watched them go down the stairs, then out of the Sour House. Far too quickly, Julia and Sikali were walking along the road outside the hotel.

Ezekiel relaxed his mana sense, and the two of them fell out of sight. He turned to his remaining people, and said, “Time to visit Kaffi.”

- - - -

Paul and Tiffany sat across the way, on the other side of the large stone amphitheater.

Ezekiel sat on the same stone bench as Kaffi.

A dozen books and twice as many scrolls sat between them. Some of the scrolls were opened and stacked to the side, along with some of the books; attempted and discarded. Others sat in a halfway pile; attempted and appreciated. The Singer had brought quite a few aura control training manuals to their session. None of them had led to a sudden breakthrough, but…

Kaffi unrolled another scroll, reading it as she said, “This might be a good one for you. It’s a little unorthodox, but it has worked before for many people.”

She had said that about every method.

Kaffi said, “Sit upon your knees, this time. Hold your hands in a triangle shape above your stomach, but do not allow your fingers to touch, or allow your arms to come into contact with any other solid surface, including your legs, or your sides. Sit in such a way that no body part is directly touching another body part. As much as one can, anyway. Relax. Breathe in and out. Relax. Move your hands in and out, gently, attempting to mold your aura into a ball. Breath in and out in time to the molding. Feel the energy flow across the skin of your body. Feel the direction of the flow toward your hands. Gather your aura in your hands, and realize how it works.” Kaffi added, “This one has some demeaning wording, but it works sometimes.”

Ezekiel smirked, as he got into position, sitting on his knees. He had gotten into a lot of different positions over the last hour, but about half of them had him sitting in this way. Laying down was also popular. Cross legged was not popular.

Kaffi went silent. She watched.

Ezekiel tried this latest method for ten minutes, to no result.

Kaffi called it, “Time.” She added, “That one seemed better than some of the others. No obvious results, though. Moving right along.” She picked up one of the books that they had already gone through, and flipped to a different bookmark, saying, “For this one you have to…”

That one didn’t work either.

The next one was a failure.

“Time,” Kaffi said, breaking the silence of the room again.

Ezekiel opened his eyes.

Kaffi asked, “Did any of those seem to work better than any of the other ones?”

“I liked the visualization ones. Especially the one that combined the aura casting and canceling but with continuous attempts at moving around the aura, even when the spell was off.” Ezekiel said, “They seemed like they were working, or that they might work one day.”

“Any idea why you feel that way about those techniques?”

“The goal is to be able to interact with the world with my aura, which pairs well with actually attempting to move the world even if I have no spell effects that allow me to easily do so.”

Kaffi asked, “And you didn’t like the ones where you use lower levels of the Meditation Skill?”

“Nope.”

“You explained already, but I require a larger explanation.” Kaffi explained, “Most people like those ones.”

Ezekiel frowned a little, then said, “Meditation causes the user to vaguely see the mana all around them, which has the side effect of forcing the user to see the hallucinations that life has imbued upon the immaterial. Most of those hallucinations have gone away since I gained Scion of Focus so long ago, but they’re up front and center when I use the lower levels of Meditation; when I drop myself into that dark place. I don’t appreciate that.”

“Hmm. Fair.” Kaffi said, “Well. We’re done for now. I expected this testing to take a lot longer. This is quite a lot easier to do when you can memorize everything as fast as you do.” She said, “I will bring a larger selection of techniques that might work for you tomorrow, based on what I’ve already seen and what you’ve said.” She stood, saying, “But the Grand Elder would like to see you, if you would be amenable. We’ve many options for lunch.”

They’d been at this for three hours. This was a good stopping point. But did he want lunch with a ‘grand elder’? Eh. Sure. Why not!

Ezekiel stretched, then stood, and diplomatically said, “I would be honored.”

Kaffi smiled brightly. “Then please follow me. We shall be heading upstairs, to the fifth floor.”

Up a grand, winding staircase they went, surrounded by white walls that gently echoed with the sound of the Void Song. The Song was a heartburn in process when he listened to it out there in Eralis, but when he was inside the Void Temple, it was nice; like quiet music. He said as much to Kaffi, as they walked upward, past hallways of acolytes in their dorm rooms or classrooms, and other hallways filled with office workers.

Kaffi said, “For all the Void Song has brought prosperity to Eralis, those of us with ears to hear can barely stand it. Thus, we have some tricks in the walls of the Temple.”

