“I can imagine growing up here and never knowing that the world isn’t supposed to sound like that until after Matriculation and wanting to explore the world, or after stepping out of the city for the first time for some other reason.”

Kaffi said, “Most kids are raised to know what the Song is, but if they don’t understand themselves through common knowledge, then they learn through taking a day-trip with a parent or otherwise, outside of Eralis.” She asked, “What brought you to this observation?”

“Ah. I can imagine that, too.” Ezekiel said, “It’s the idea of it that captured me for a moment there. Suddenly, they don’t hear that background sound. It’s like finally realizing that there was more to everything than what they knew possible. It’s the same thing that seems to happen to me in every place I visit, and with every new thing I learn.”

Kaffi smiled, but said nothing more as they reached the fifth floor.

The staircase ended its rise in the center of a half-open floor plan. A wall separated north from south, just a little to the south of the staircase. Beyond those southern walls and doors were industrial-level kitchens, churning out lots of nice meals. The white stone floor to the north was filled with tables, while the walls were large windows that showed the greying skies over Eralis; rain had threatened all day long, but nothing had come of it yet. To the west of the staircase, Ezekiel mana sensed, and saw, as people blipped into a designated Teleport Zone in groups. Those groups were already talking with each other as they moved into the cafeteria.

And all around, people ate food and talked and laughed and lived. Most of them were younger than Julia, but there were a few older faces here and there. Most wore grey robes, but many wore white. Ezekiel understood that grey denoted trainees and acolytes, but white robes were given when one proved themselves as dedicated to High Clan Void Song, or if they were on the path of the Singer. If there were delineations between Singer and not-Singer and otherwise, then Ezekiel did not recognize them.

A few acolytes saw Kaffi and called her over to their table, but she declined, and guided Ezekiel forward, through the room, to a set of double doors on the far end of the cafeteria space. The doors opened at her approach. Ezekiel, Paul, and Tiffany followed her into a more private area.

Several booths lined the walls on either side of the door, each of them with a grand view of the north, through tall, massive windows. Grey clouds loomed all above, ready to unleash their rains. Buildings rose all across the horizon, each of them trying to outdo each other in size or architecture, but none reaching the heights that Ezekiel had seen back on Earth. Like a hidden treasure peeking out between those tall structures, the Void Wall was a sharp white line, while the Void Gate was highly visible. It rose high into the sky, to the left, the top-most arc of ‘Rozeta’s Body’ vanishing into the lower grey clouds, and then coming back down to resume its encirclement of Eralis.

It was a nice place to eat, for sure, but only one other person was in this VIP room.

She sat in a booth to the left. She was a stately older woman of white skin, white hair, and violet eyes, wearing a violet robe which had to be one of the most expensive, and yet understated walking-around robes Ezekiel had ever seen on a person. The second thing he noticed about her was a gentleness that was probably totally false, for you didn’t become a ‘grand elder’ of anything without being the kind of person that actually went for that sort of thing.

Being a Grand Elder certainly wasn’t like being an archmage, where all it took was having a knack for magic and suddenly you had more power than you knew what to do with.

Anyway.

Meeting a Grand Elder.

Kaffi walked the woman’s way, then stepped to the side, gesturing as she said, “Scion Ezekiel Phoenix. Please meet Grand Elder Lingxing Void Song.”

Ezekiel bowed his head, then rose, saying, “A pleasure to meet you, Grand Elder Lingxing.”

Lingxing gestured to the table she sat at, and spoke softly, “Please sit with me, Scion Ezekiel. We have some of the best cuisine here, and quite a lot of it has been recently inspired by the dishes coming out from the Crystal Forest. Your daughter is from there, if I heard correctly.”

Ezekiel felt nothing untoward in Lingxing’s voice or demeanor, but she seemed nice. So either she was the world’s best liar, or she was tied for that position with Kaffi, or she was simply being pleasant.

“Thank you for the invitation.” Ezekiel sat down, saying, “And yes, you heard correctly.”

Lingxing gave a small smile, then said to Kaffi, “Some menus, Kaffi.” She asked Ezekiel, “Or we could order everything on the menu?”

“I’m up for some Blood Magic lessons after this so I have been told I should eat plenty, but maybe not the whole menu.”

Lingxing gave a polite chuckle at the small joke, then said to Kaffi, “Some of the better dishes, and also the more popular ones, if you will, along with enough for Scion Ezekiel’s people. See that we are not unduly disturbed.”

Kaffi bowed, then walked away.

Lingxing asked, “Would you prefer some privacy spells? I can craft some, or I will accept yours, if you wish. I would like to talk plainly, but not about anything too important.”

No horrific alarm bells were going off in his head, so that was an alarm right there, but… Odin was on his shoulder. His defenses were up. He was safe.

He said, “I could accept raising my own.”

Lingxing nodded.

Ezekiel shaped a [Sealed Privacy Ward] across a large portion of the room, covering their booth, a few other adjacent booths, and half of the room. He gestured for his people to take one of the other booths nearby.

Paul and Tiffany took a seat at the adjacent booth.

Lingxing glanced around, and seemed at ease with the spellwork around her, but she wasn’t interested in that. She locked eyes with Ezekiel. The kindly grandmother-type was still there in her visage, but she was serious, now. Ezekiel sat straighter.

Lingxing said, “I’m so glad to meet you, Archmage Flatt. We’ve been waiting a long time for you to show, and I am glad you showed on my watch. I hope Kaffi is treating you well. If she is not, let me know, and I can find you a replacement.”

… Maybe she wasn’t secretly furious with him, or some other untoward emotion? Maybe she wasn’t filled with plots and plans? Of course, the absence of a plot or a plan was automatically both.

But Lingxing didn’t fill Erick with dread. She seemed curious. Hopeful. Happy, even.

“Kaffi, or whoever she is, was a surprise, but she seems fine. I can appreciate someone going incognito, so I have no place to judge that.” Erick said, “And it is a pleasure to finally be here in the Highlands, Grand Elder.”

“Oh! Please call me Lingxing when we’re in private. I have heard you prefer people to call you Erick?”

Erick fought off a smile. “I do. In private.”

“You have avoided many planned events by showing up under a friendly guise, instead of as yourself.”

“Then my own plots and plans were a success.” Erick asked, “But just so I know: What did you have planned?”

“There were to be parties, for one. We have some of the nicest hotel rooms in the world waiting for you, though they do get rented out occasionally; we would have made room. Other than that, there would be a lot of meetings with important people.” Lingxing said, “Half of the powers in the High Clans would have asked for your assistance in locating some murderers and terrorists and ending threats in this part of the world, though I understand your daughter is doing some of that. Thank you for that, by the way.

“The other half would have tried to drown you in excess luxury, while asking you for the favor to be returned in whatever manner they could convince you of.

“Everyone would have wanted to open trade, and to be the ones to teach you of the Songs, and to hopefully learn from you in turn.”

“Sounds like quite a tour.”

And one he did not want to do. Not yet, anyway. Maybe not ever.

“We can still do all of that, if you want, but it is strictly unnecessary.” Lingxing said, “Your ‘Scion Ezekiel’ facade is getting drawn into quite a few whirlpools of desires and plans, but Archmage Flatt would have been a lot worse.” She added, “Just so you know: If you ever need help with any of the problems you find in the Clans of the Songli Highlands, as Scion Ezekiel, you have friends in High Clan Places.”

Erick felt wary at being called ‘friends’ already.

So he asked, “Do I? Have friends?”

Lingxing said, “A premature notion, I am sure. To tell you the truth, Erick, I wanted you to be Scion Ezekiel. The idea of someone of your power and temperament showing up out of nowhere, desiring to be friendly with the Songli Highlands? That is the stuff of dreams. Erick Flatt is tied to Spur, and we wish him well. But Scion Ezekiel! He could have gone far, here, making a strong name for himself and his Clan.” She added, “Alas, Void Song is one of many who will need to content itself with seeing the big fish get away.”

“I hoped to not get involved in any large affairs, but I cannot seem to stick to that plan.”

“Plans and reality rarely mix well.”

Erick smiled at that.

And Lingxing hadn’t mentioned the Worldly Path yet, so maybe she didn’t know? This was good.

Lingxing turned fractionally more serious, “But now I must ask something important.”

Erick lost his smile.

Tentatively, he asked, “… What is it?”

“We have been trying to understand how best to use the new foods you have created, but some of them do not fit with the usual cooking methods common to the Highlands.” Lingxing asked, “I wish to talk about food with you. For starters: these red tomatoes!” With a pleasant, excited voice, she asked, “And the ‘beefsteak’ tomatoes in particular. How do you best use those in your food?”

Uh.

Okay!

This was fine?

“Besides ketchup?” Erick went with it, saying, “Slices of tomato in a sandwich of bacon and lettuce and mayo. I know it doesn’t sound appetizing, but every time my daughter made one for me, I was reminded that I really like those flavors together.”

“You can’t have a sandwich without mayo,” Lingxing said, “It makes everything better. I doubt your tomatoes even have to be red to enjoy that sort of thing.”

Ah. He saw where she was going with this.

Red tomatoes actually were a big deal, but in a Quiet way.

“I got some pushback on the red tomatoes back in Spur, too, but I never intended to touch that cultural nuance of the Quiet War. It seems like someone would have made other colors of tomatoes long before now.”

Lingxing smiled, and bright emotions swelled from the woman, as she said, “I never liked the purple ones either, but these red tomatoes are spreading everywhere, now that the humans of this world can hold up their own version of the ‘tomato’ as ‘human-made’.” She added, “We don’t do the Quiet War here, so I was glad to see that particular food item come from a creator with a Silver Star upon his chest. I love ketchup. I love red sauces. They seem to give a dish a certain vibrancy that you don’t get with purple, and tomatoes being red now has opened a whole new street of options. We usually have to make red sauces out of peppers, and spice is not one of my favorite flavors.”

Oh? Maybe she was actually a foodie? For real?

Food and culture was a big intersection. Talking about one but actually discussing the other was an interesting tact to take. It was easier, for one. Though Erick would be happy with a simpler talk about food, without the extra layer.

“My daughter can’t get enough spice, but I can do without it as well. Have you tried the ranch dressing?” Erick said, “I was particularly proud of that one. Had to invent almost every herb that went into that thing. But now I can cut down almost any spicy food that Jane brings home.”

“I have tried that one, but I feel it was not created properly. Do you have a proper recipe?

“Yes. I’ll get the recipe to you soon. Have you tried lemons yet?”

“Oh yes. I have tried the oranges, too, and those are great! Much better than limes. A dozen varieties of lime and none of them sweet. Why just the other day, I…”

Rapidly, they left behind the political layer to the food talk.

They spoke of foods of all kinds as the first dishes were wheeled into the room by Kaffi, and deposited on the table. There were fries and ketchup. Rice and mayo. Fish and red meats and white meats. Sauces of all kinds. It was a feast, and they spoke of every single dish there, talking about where it came from and how it was made. When Kaffi came back with more dishes, she came back with a pad of paper and pens. They exchanged recipes.

Lingxing was a foodie, for real, and it showed.

Erick left the Void Temple feeling full and fine, with a list of restaurants to try in Eralis and the surrounding cities, and with an open invitation to stay for lunch in the cafeteria whenever he felt like it, after his lessons with Kaffi.

Lingxing was obviously after something, but if that ‘something’ was just... the friendship… of an… archmage. Yeah. She was after that, for sure. But whatever?

There were worse friends to have, and Ezekiel wasn’t about to become some jaded misanthrope who was constantly judging the actions of everyone around him in the most harsh possible light. Everyone needs friends, right? Friendships had to start somewhere, and mutual exchange and interest and proximity was as good of a start as any.

And anyway, it’s not like they were friends after a single lunch.

Ezekiel asked his people, “Did you two like that lunch?”

“It was good.” Tiffany said, “I liked the steak.”

Paul said, “The fish was well seasoned.”

“Did she seem honest?”

Tiffany hummed, non-committal.

Paul said, “About as much as anyone.”

Fair enough.

- - - -

Light rain misted down from the sky as Ezekiel, Paul, and Tiffany stepped out of magenta light, onto the white tiles of the Teleport Square, before the bridge to the Alluvial District. By the time they got halfway across the bridge the sky had begun to rain rather hard. Rain did not touch him, though, or any of the other people on the bridge, for many different [Weather Ward]s had been erected over the bridge.

Maybe the deflecting [Ward]s were always there? Or maybe they were just there for the event of the day, for there was certainly something going on.

