It wasn’t terrible, though. Over the top. Some corny slogans to appeal to his fans. But he did apologize for things. When they got to the part where he told the entire country of Scotland he was sorry about some incident involving a care package Finlay had gotten from home, Alden thought surely the Esh-erdi apology would be next. But the video ended with Winston thanking his fans for understanding that he’d be taking a four-day break from vlogging so that he could recenter himself and heal his bonds with these wonderful people he was in school with.

That’s it? Did I miss it?

He hadn’t.

Sighing and pulling off the headphones, he pushed himself back from the desk.

That’s twenty minutes of my life I’ll never get back. Why the hell did he tag me if he wasn’t going to do the thing? You suck, Winston. You suck so much.

He considered typing the Arfdog jingle under the video, to make his position clear to the world. Then he thought about posting a video of his own, in which he waxed the nonagon slowly while he stared into the camera and counted to the number nine.

Then he went to sleep, because he was sure he’d regret enacting petty revenge fantasies come morning.

******

******

“Stop rolling around in the sand, and tell me what to do with your product.”

“Soft,” breathed a woman’s voice. “So soft.”

“But still… salty.” whispered a man.

“I don’t care,” said Alden. “Just tell me how to spray it on my hair.”

The disembodied voices on the Softly Salty website ignored him, as did the actors and actresses gleefully kicking and throwing sand. And writhing around on the beach like they didn’t understand how to use one in a normal way. There was no option to skip the commercial, so he watched to the end, when all the people in their swimsuits took turns dumping buckets of sand on one another’s heads. The sand baptisms refreshed their hairdos, and they ran toward the waves together hand-in-hand with their miraculously grit-free locks blowing in the wind.

“Is it only soft and salty?” murmured the unseen guy with the hypnotist voice. “Or is it something…magical?”

Finally, Alden was in. He read through the instructions for how to use his new styling spray. He’d already used it according to the more minimal directions on the back of the bottle a couple of times, but he’d pretty much just scrambled it around with his fingers a little and hoped for the best. He thought now was a good time to try to get it right.

Saturday had dawned sunny and warm, and he was actually beating the Keeper of Hot Potatoes at their shared schedule. His homework had been easier to breeze through than expected. And he was going to eat lunch with Natalie, so he had a rare opportunity to wear his new clothes instead of the uniform.

The jeans were a given. He was still trying to decide between the tailored button-up and the Hawaiian shirt.

He squinted at himself in the bathroom mirror and worked on the hair.

[Video call from Twenty-seven Hundred and Sixty-first General Evul-art’h, Artona I. Connection fee waived.]

Stuart?

It was the last day of school for the Artonan week, and he should be at LeafSong. But he seemed like a more likely caller than Evul herself.

Let’s find out.

******

******

“She must be part of my parents’ conspiracy, but I do not understand how her current behavior helps them.”

Stuart had called to make sure Alden wanted to teleport in this evening, but although that could have been covered quickly, they were still talking to each other twenty minutes later. Or Stuart was talking. Alden was back in his room, sitting at his desk and listening.

Instead of being at LeafSong, Stuart was at the siblinghold, outside in the forest in a place Alden hadn’t yet seen. Tables made of different materials stood in a clearing, and he was working at one of them. He had been ordered home from school by his cousin so that he could brew a potion she wanted to give to someone as a gift. Apparently this kind of thing had now happened one too many times, at very inconvenient moments for him, and he’d grown suspicious of Emban-art’h’s intentions.

He’d spent the majority of the call so far expressing his belief that she had joined in on the change-Stu’s-mind plan. Alden was trying to provide a sympathetic ear, even if he didn’t understand how Stuart had arrived at the conclusion.

“You can’t think of any other reason she might have called you away from your favorite class?”

“No,” Stuart said.

Alden had a very clear memory of a bean-shaped tunnel blowing a hole in a goo-filled sackfruit just as Emban-art’h walked past it.

While they talked, Stuart was walloping something that looked like styrofoam packing peanuts, but crunchier, with a mallet. The pieces that flew off were getting caught by a spell he’d cast that wafted them out of view. Alden didn’t know if they were being disposed of or if they were going into a cauldron off-screen.

“It is strange she didn’t just buy the potion,” Alden said. “Instead of having you make it.”

“That’s not strange. It’s going to be gifted to someone as a relationship marker. They have known each other for three years, and she wishes to acknowledge their importance to each other. So it should be made by her.”

And Emban can’t make her own three-year anniversary potion because her free authority has just been bound. Got it.

“What I do as her votary is <<to her credit>>, not mine, so it’s proper that I make this for her. But she has waited to request my assistance until I was enjoying favored learning experiences several times now. Too many times for all of the occurrences to be happenings of chance. She has <<motives>>.”

It had been less than a human week since the two of them had overheard the conversation about how Stuart needed to be persuaded away from the path he wanted and how some of his parents thought Alden might be useful for that cause. Alden was still feeling stung when he thought about it, so it was to be expected that Stuart wasn’t over it. He was probably getting a fresh dose of hurt and anger every time he saw one of his own parents.

But Emban-art’h pestering him when he wanted to be at school seemed more innocent to Alden.

“Don’t votaries become properly educated in many useful subjects?” he asked. “Isn’t learning one of their duties?”

“Yes. Of course.”

“So shouldn’t Emban-art’h be encouraging you to study more, not less, if she’s in agreement with your parents?”

Stuart frowned.

“Have you considered the sackfruit?” Alden asked.

“That?” He looked surprised. “Alden, Emban wouldn’t have made me offer apologies to Instructor Kera-zut over something like that.”

“She wouldn’t?”

“It was only some juice on her clothes! Something more must nest in her thoughts for her to interfere with my school.” He slammed his mallet into some more packing peanuts. “Your hair is all pointing to your right. Why?”

“Does it look good?”

“Is right a significant direction for a human’s hair to point in?”

“I’m going to have to end our call now,” Alden told him. “So that I can make my hair point in more directions. See you soon.”

******

******

Alden picked Natalie up on the roof of her building in Boomtown. She was wearing a peach-colored shirt, white shorts, and a pair of those ombre-dyed canvas tennis shoes that all the girls at Alden’s old school had been into last year.

She smelled like vanilla and fresh bread as she jumped eagerly on the nonagon and said, “We match today!”

Alden blinked and looked down at himself.

“Our sunglasses!” Natalie pulled a pair out of her purse that were similar to the “beachy” green ones Alden was wearing, only yellow.

“Hey, we do!” he said, watching her put them on.

“And you wore a tropical shirt. It’s nice. We’re both pretending it’s a real summer day.”

He watched her step over to the other side of the nonagon and peer down, then she knelt to rub her hands over the green surface. “So cool! This is The Nine-edged Son Whose Own Mother Forsakes Him. What is he made of?”

“I do not know.”

“Who’s his mother?”

“I think it might be the planet. Or the concept of the planet? Or a craftswoman who didn’t like this nonagon. It’s also possible Esh-erdi was just making fun of me when he insisted I call it that. Sky Traffic Control called it a galleta.”

“Nice cookie!” said Natalie, patting the nonagon. “Don’t drop us.”

She looked back at Alden. “Do I have to sit down or can I stand up like you?”

“Either’s fine. I usually sit. Just don’t fall off. If you do fall off, ET right away. I don’t think I’m good enough to catch a falling person.”

She was unconcerned about the warning, judging by the way she immediately sprang back up and walked to the edge again.

“You still want to go to the drudgery chest restaurant, right?” he asked.

“Right! It’s called <<Meal>> Presto.”

“Artonan and Italian—an unlikely combination.”

“And it’s serving Greek food today. And every Saturday there’s a ‘Free Spells’ event on the street in front of it. Lots of people sit around chatting and seeing if anyone wants them to use their talents.”

Their sunglasses met.

“It’s still unreal sometimes, isn’t it?” Alden said. “Living on Anesidora with a bunch of Avowed…or is that just me?”

“I’m still surprised about it all the time.”

Alden nodded.

“You just never know when some Rabbit is going to pick you up off of a roof on an Artonan flying contraption,” Natalie added. “It’s a weird place.”

******
