The sound of the Thunderbows firing was accompanied by massive crossbow bolts punching Draugr in the chests, making even them stumble. When one of the larger ones fired, Pawn saw a Draugr drop, headless. Then Bird loosed his ballista, and Pawn smiled.
The Draugr would not get to the inn. Not this wave.
 
——
 
They were all here, all doing their part. Whether they were on the field or not…even if he was guilty, he had never been a good warrior. Dead gods, he’d never even been a warrior.
Yelroan was not at The Wandering Inn. He…was guilty of it. Guilty, the [Mathematician] suspected, as anyone else who was not there.
Even Ishkr had left, despite going back and forth on it. He might have been the one non-combatant in the entire inn who had almost stayed. His sister hadn’t seen why it was even a question, though Yelroan had a perfect picture of how the [Head Server] could be handing out potions, refilling ammunition or acid jars, or just—being there.
In the end, Ishkr had been ordered to go, thus neither Gnoll was at The Wandering Inn. Both were in Liscor.
He felt guilty, but Erin and Lyonette had told him to go, and when he’d asked, Normen had confirmed it.
If the undead hit the inn, he was dead weight or, worse, a liability. It was why Krshia Silverfang, Selys, Liska, and so many more were not in the inn, but the guilt…he remembered it from the Meeting of Tribes.
Still, the [Mathematician] was not idle. How could he be? A lot of people were just watching the skies light up, watching scrying orbs or asking for updates from Street Runners.
Yelroan had been going to do that, but he’d found a better place.
He did not know how the battle was going as the first wave of undead crashed down on the inn. First wave…he was making notes of casualties and any details he thought would help. Trying to keep track of the inn’s guests. It was macabre, making a list of the living and the dead.
What else should he do?
The battle was one long, endless night, and Yelroan could not have told you how long it lasted; he set up a manual timecounter to track the minutes then hours, but stopped after one hour and fourteen minutes had passed. He became too busy to pay attention.
At first, they didn’t come into the city. Liscor occupied the far western flank, letting the Drake forces use the walls as a shield, but it meant Liscor’s northern and then eastern gates came under attack.
Yelroan was nowhere near the walls when they began to evacuate more parts of the city. Or when the second wave attacked.
Second wave. Dead gods.
At this point, Ishkr was about to run to The Wandering Inn, or rather, teleport in and see if they needed him with a resupply—but again. He didn’t go because they were needed.
“Wounded! Move aside! We need [Healers]!”
Yelroan looked up when the first Drakes began coming through via the south gate, the safest part of the battlefield. Then Humans.
They were covered in blood, and some had bled out on the trip here. He saw gnawed-off limbs, bleeding sores, wounds from weapons and claws—there were [Healers] on the battlefield, but they were being swamped.
The ones in the city were equally unprepared for it.
“They’re out of potions. Someone—do something.”
“Th-thread and needles. Just like the Last Light showed. They’re bleeding so badly—”
The reserves in Liscor were as young as eleven, some of them. Actual [Seamstresses] or [Tailor Apprentices] called on to sew up the wounded.
Yelroan didn’t use thread or needle, either. He just began giving orders when he realized no one else would.
“Everyone not triaging, I need blood types—put those infusions in the arm once you have the blood type right. Not right away!”
Ishkr caught a Drake by the arm, and they looked at him as if he were insane. But the Gnoll was standing outside the one building where it mattered. Where he made a difference.
Liscor’s blood bank. First in the world.
Everyone had forgotten about it. Oh, it ran, and apparently it got donations, and it had a lot of preserved blood thanks to spells, but no one, even Chaldion of Pallass, had really focused on it.
Yelroan did. He had heard out Erin’s explanation about how vital blood transfusions were. Counted how many potions he thought the average [Soldier] would have access to—if any.
The staff was not prepared for this. I should have run them through drills. At least—Yelroan had convinced Selys and Krshia and a number of people of Liscor to give him volunteers and space.
“Move that one to the far wall. In ordered groups, not anywhere.”
He snapped at the [Soldiers], and Ishkr had to remind some of the staff how testing for blood types worked; you mixed blood together. The problem was, there were multiple, multiple blood types per species. So you had to know which species could transfuse blood safely with one another as well as narrow down a blood type per species.
Yelroan could handle it. But each second he had to wait for a blood vial to show clotting or a clean transfusion—[Soldiers] were dying.
“They don’t die. They wouldn’t die—”
Some of them were raving about the horrors they’d faced. If Yelroan looked outside, he could still see the Floodplains lighting up with battle. But the [Mathematician]’s desperate war was in one building, in this one place, with blood and numbers, and he hoped Erin would be proud of it.
Even so, hundreds, thousands might have died as the blood bank overflowed and Yelroan had to demand other buildings be cleared and tarps laid out in the street and they ran out of vials to measure with. Until help came from an unexpected source.
“Yelroan. You asked for us?”
Four people, ostensibly Humans, two female, two male, stopped at the edge of the street. Their eyes were dilated, and at least one wanted to fight—but her parents and old Bamer kept Fierre back.
“I did. I need—help.”
Yelroan had blood on his paws, and they were shaking. He looked up, and the Vampires, the Lischelle-Drakle family, hesitated.
It was a sacred trust they had placed in Erin. She had told no one, but her staff noticed, and Yelroan wasn’t asking them to unveil themselves. Colfa nodded first.
“Do we match it up?”
“If you can. Can you tell if the two fit? Donor and…?”
Yelroan was trying to explain at lightspeed, but to his relief, Colfa stared at a bleeding man and then grabbed one of the jars.
“This one. Try…”
When blood ran down the primitive tube into the arm, the pale cheeks flushed almost before Yelroan’s eyes. That was all the proof he needed—Himilt bent over another [Soldier], and Fierre grabbed as many blood bags as she could and put them on each [Soldier]’s chest for someone to transfuse.
“There are a few more people we can call. But—”
Old Bamer was hesitating as he eyed the staff, who didn’t ask questions, so focused were they on the patients. Ishkr, fast as ever, came to an idea.
“Here. Take this.”
He handed the oldest Vampire one of the staff’s uniforms and grabbed more for the other Vampires. Then the two Gnolls were moving faster, and Yelroan endured that night with blood on his paws—until he heard a cry from the northern gates. Until he looked up and wondered if anyone was alive.
The first wave was quiet. By the time the Lischelle-Drakle family was there, he thought another hour had passed. And the dead?
They kept coming.
 
——
 
Kasigna paid little attention to Erin Solstice at first. Her two aspects were continuing battle in the other two realms, and she only returned to her observation of the mortal planes when she felt Eldavin calling upon her for aid.
Then she looked once more and saw to her displeasure—her Draugr were barely a tenth of their number!
Somehow, though they were pressing closer to the inn, they had been hacked down, stalemated, or simply destroyed. She saw them tearing forwards mindlessly and tsked.
A mighty general she was not. Six had made it to the very hill, but it offended her to see only six.
Even so, she had felt a number of dead coming from this place. She paused a moment, eyes narrowed, watching the mortals heave against their foes. Perhaps enough would reach the inn?
Then she noticed Eldavin struggling to speak her name and fighting with the [Mages] to reassert control of his broadcast.
This was the true blow. If Erin Solstice thought these undead were the battle—it would be nothing if Eldavin did as he must. He was reestablishing his connection, and Kasigna vowed that Roshal would be the first example made after Erin Solstice.
At last, the broadcast restarted, and even Kasigna, who had waited tens of thousands of years for a chance at resurrection, was impatient as she watched Eldavin’s image appear in countless places.
Now.
“I am here today to tell you about the—existence—of two individuals. For context, they are not beings of levels nor mortal. They are not immortal either…”
Roshal tried everything and realized he had actually simply cloned his spell. They overloaded one circle and tried to reach the other. Too late.
Kasigna waited for her name and nature to take root in minds. Even if they did not believe, knowing her name would empower her and her daughter. She reached out, waiting—
…And swore, in the lands of the dead, that she heard laughter.
The Goddess of Death felt little fear in her existence. She acknowledged few mortals or even other deities. But that laughter haunted her. It was loud, for it should be heard, and liltingly sad, like a benediction, like grief—and like a terrible joke.
At first, she thought it was her imagination, for it unnerved her. Then she realized how it could be.
Kasigna stood over all the ghosts who milled about her growing, new realm and found the three at last.
Just three. But she had called them here too, hadn’t she? Even now—somehow—
Zineryr’s smile unnerved her.
The Gnomes were laughing. Kasigna bent over them and saw tears on one face, a laughter without words and another’s head was thrown back, and on Zineryr’s lips, that same sad smile at the end of everything.
“What do you plot?”
She had control over them. They could no more oppose her than any other ghost. Even if, somehow, they kept their secrets…she was tempted to unmake them and simply pry the answers from them, but she valued them too much. Which they surely knew, the clever Laughing Folk. Even now, the Gnomes paused a moment, as if weighing their answer. But Zineryr did give it.
“Nothing new.”
Kasigna’s head rose, and she sensed a trap too late.
 
——
 
Eldavin stood on an open outdoor balcony where he’d drawn his second spell circle, annoyed but victorious. His projection was finally getting to the important part, and Roshal had no way to stop him.
No one did. Oh, there were spellcasters trying, whether they knew what was happening or just wanted to see the battles. Eldavin expected to hear from Kasigna any moment now, and when she spoke, he was ready.
“Kasigna, I would like to plead for—”
“Beware!”
One word, and Eldavin’s paranoia, his instincts from memories of being a Dragon, and the warnings the two had given him crystalized into one action. He leapt away from the spell circle, rolled—
“…but something beyond. Their nature is…”
Nothing happened. Eldavin was in a crouch as the image of him went on, wand aimed around, but the bubble of magic shielding Wistram from the storm of the Bloodtear Pirates in the far distance left everything tranquil.
Temperate, even. There was no hint of snow or winter, just a pleasant, even balmy, day. No clouds, just the stars, unmoving with the frozen Winter Solstice, and the moons.
Blue and green, not like Earth’s off-yellow at all. Beautiful, round, full moons; it was the Solstice after all. Eldavin was looking around him for a traitor in Wistram’s ranks. Feor? It was probably Feor. Or perhaps…
His head rose slowly, and his eye caught something staring at him.
Full moons? Yes, one was blue, a soft gentle glow deeper than the sea, the other green, pale and mysterious and exciting. Like his eyes; even the copy of a Dragon remembered loving them because they were mismatched, like his own gaze.
Full moons signaled power for Raskghar and other species. They were the foundation of some classes, magic—and the Solstice always had two full moons throughout until they would wane and wax like normal.
They had been full. A second ago. But Eldavin looked up, and his skin crawled. Because when the Archmage of Memory raised his head to the very heavens themselves, he heard the laughter of the Gnomes. Bitter, perhaps, laughing for some things should be mocked, for dignity was an illusion, for the world could be a jest—and for the cycle of things.
High in the sky, the two moons shone down on Wistram, Eldavin, and Kasigna’s plans.
Then…the green one winked at him. Eldavin stared as the green glow narrowed and then reopened, like an eye. He stared up—and the moons were normal, serene, beautiful—
He backed up a step. Then another. The Eldavin on the orb was raising his eyes when his image froze—
A single object fell towards the world, shattering Wistram’s bubble, striking the balcony of the Isle of Mages and hitting the spell circle spot on. Just…perfectly, really. Then it tore through the balcony and ripped through every containment and dimensional spell in a moment right in front of Eldavin’s horrified eyes.
Wistram warped—then expanded. Mages were thrown flying as rooms uncompressed; the academy, part of it, entered realspace and tripled in size, growing ungainly, spreading out across Wistram’s western side as the dimensional magics tore. Eldavin felt the entire academy start ringing with alarms.
This…was a disaster beyond anything Wistram had faced since before the Creler Wars. But Eldavin still had his backup spell trying to tell everyone Kasigna and Cauwine’s names.
As a figure caught itself on the balcony and came to rest, bare feet touching the stones, a sling whirling with a stone marked with the old words of magic on it—the Archmage of Memory had cause to regret his preparations.
Gnomes, why do you laugh? Was it just Gnomes? Or was it Elves, too? Elves didn’t laugh so well. But they did prepare. They gave a memory—a soul, really—a weapon and asked them to stand watch until forever reset itself.
He was—smiling. And short. He would have been the second shortest species in this entire world, and had been among the smallest when his race had still existed. Yet he was still larger than a Gnome, and stockier too. Half as high as a man, and thus—Halfling. You see?
A rosy-cheeked warrior wearing armor and whirling a sling, one of the most archaic weapons. He had a shortsword in hand, which to him was a full blade, and the Archmage of Memory stared, and his eyes filled with tears.
