“Who has the best Skill here? Lord Veltras?”
Tyrion shook his head as he swung his horse around. Xitegen glanced over, grunted.
“You, then. Grand Strategist, I will support you.”
“Good.”
Tyrion Veltras wished he had his own Skills and levels. He was racing ahead and knew his people might well die because they thought they were following the older Tyrion with more levels. This younger man felt uncertain, afraid. At least he had the courage to ride.
House Veltras was shouting his name as he passed. Magnolia Reinhart lifted her hand and met his eyes, and they were of one mind. Desinee El, Lady Pryde, Lord Xitegen—united in purpose.
For once, even their counterparts to the south were alike in horror. So. For the first time in his life, Tyrion Veltras lifted his lance in a salute as he saw, in the distance, Chaldion’s command tent light up. And he beheld the sight his father had told him of once in stories.
The Grand Strategist of Pallass was floating into the air. He was distant, but Tyrion’s sharp eyes picked him out perfectly in the night.
The old Drake had stepped out of his tent and into the snow. Throwing back his fur-lined hood. His grey scales and watery eye had beheld the army against him. Pale yellow eyes narrowed—and then his feet had left the ground.
He floated upwards off the ground as the terrified Drakes and Humans turned towards him. A world away, the King of Khelt stood, but even he waited.
Unicorn and Dragon, Winter Fae and Immortal Tyrant. Necromancers and a putrid minion, all paused a moment as the most dangerous mortal on the field flew higher. Levitating as his voice crackled and then boomed in the air.
“I am the Grand Strategist of the Drakes. Vanish, each one of you who would desecrate my cities.”
Chaldion’s eyes were both glowing. He lifted a claw with the same effort Kasigna had lifted her staff, and Tyrion saw the dark night horizon behind Chaldion alight as a distant beacon of light arose incredibly far away. But he still saw it. There was nowhere on Izril safe. The mindless Draugr charged forwards in a wave as Chaldion spoke.
“[By My Unquestioned Authority, Fire Support: The City of Magic, Fissival].”
Tyrion Veltras rode as the Humans around him craned their heads. Across Izril—Fissival’s wall spells began to fire. The City of Magic roared as ancient dynamos of magicore spun to life, and the towers and walls thundered. The magic vanished into the air—and reappeared as Chaldion pointed his finger.
[Valmira’s Comet Storm]. Waves of meteors began pounding the base of the High Passes, and Chaldion drew a finger across the landscape like an artist moving a brush. A line of fire a mile long burned to life, an inferno that charred Draugr caught in the middle. Chaldion pointed, and a vortex opened, sucking Draugr into it.
He was counting, moving spells through the air that only he knew. A flaming phoenix made of magic landed, tearing at Draugr that swarmed it. A pillar of light shot down and vaporized dozens of Draugr who ran into the burning light.
Not enough. But Chaldion left holes in the enemy formations. One volley from the City of Magic—he felt the fury of Fissival in his veins. Chaldion pointed across the front rank of Drakes.
“[Diamond Body].”
Their armor and flesh turned harder than imagination. Chaldion held the rest of the enchantments in his hand. But the Draugr were still coming. Thus—he heard a voice and began to laugh.
This Skill would take weeks to recharge. Long had he sought a way to use it twice. He could have taken parts of the north with it. No [Teacher], [Mentor], or lesser class could reactivate this Skill.
All along…he heard a voice ringing in his ears. And he saw a [Lord] throwing back his coat. Brushing at the snow. Standing amidst Golems and Humans like the boy who had seen the Goblin King’s armies surrounding his keep.
Lord Xitegen.
“[Again, and Again, and Ever Again].”
Chaldion of Pallass was laughing like a child playing with toys. Giggling maniacally. He pointed with sheer delight. That war monster from a different generation and age.
“[Fire Support: The City of War, Manus].”
Now, die. Even the Draugr looked up and beheld their doom. A crimson sky before the first volcanic rain of magma poured down upon them.
 
——
 
Capstones. Chaldion of Pallass was turning the edges of the Floodplains into a rain of fire. He was not the only one.
“[Open the Vaults].”
King Fetohep of Khelt unrolled a scroll from Khelt’s inner sanctums. Magic older than he was flashed out of existence as it was read.
Somewhere in his throne room, his [Mages] were begging him to stop. They were screaming he was warping both the throne room and the air between him and Liscor with the force of the spells he was calling down. The Walled Cities thought they were under attack.
He counted it all, even now. The northern farmsteads were few, but had been growing in number. Yet the evacuated people—
Had no homes. A Draugr smashed through a load-bearing beam, collapsing a farmhouse on the ones behind it. Slate shingles splintered as more bodies tore through stucco and bricks, sending debris flying like confetti with what little wood there was—
Before the spells fell. 
Fetohep saw the air ignite into a rose of shimmering violet as blue flames turned the wood to embers, then sent a spiraling cloud of debris up in a mushroom cloud. What remained of the Draugr was just ash.
A sword dropped through a barn, a glowing razor in the night, and Fetohep wondered if any animals were alive. He aimed another spell that screamed down, an open mouth dragging flailing bodies into the sky where blades minced flesh that rained down upon a hill now, the very foundations spiraling up into the sky.
The wrath of Fissival was comets that punched into the frozen earth and sent fountains of dirt flying up. They blew apart an empty grazing paddock, exploding links of a costly iron fence, and a single teardrop of light fell through yet another home and gently illuminated it from inside, like a child’s toy model, before the building imploded.
I shall repay each and every one if Liscor remains. So Fetohep swore. If he had to destroy every building save for The Wandering Inn on the Floodplains of Liscor?
The King of Khelt did not care. He was trying to crush that army before it reached the living. A tornado howled across the Draugr’s ranks, smashing them against the ground or tossing them through the air like toys. But too many got up even after suffering terrible, terrible damage.
They had to die. Fetohep’s eyes were burning gold. He could hear Erin Solstice speaking slowly, far as he was away from the fighting. A single brave [Spy] who thought he owed Erin Solstice a favor was Fetohep’s eyes and ears.
“…if they break through, let them get to me…”
She was almost lost in the rush of voices announcing their attacks and strategies. Fetohep spoke, though he knew she could not hear him.
“Never.”
 
——
 
“Time. Do you see the magnitude of the threat now, Necromancer?”
Even at the direst moment, Nerrhavia still spoke like a woman taunting, with arrogance that she had been and would always be right. She was waiting for him to teleport her to Liscor.
The Necromancer said nothing. Just looked at the Draugr. He could not control them. He wasn’t even sure if they were Draugr of the like he knew.
Az’kerash looked up slowly.
“You will have fifteen minutes before the loop teleports you back from wherever you are. So long as you are not anchored or in the [Garden of Sanctuary].”
“Ample time. Await my signal.”
She was giving him orders, and for once, the Necromancer didn’t care. So this is one of my new foes.
He turned his head. Four figures were fidgeting, staring at him. He named them.
“Ijvani. Oom. Venitra. Devail. Conceal your presence and strike behind their lines. If you are detected, pretend to be an undead and flee.”
“Yes, Master.”
Ijvani answered for the others. Az’kerash walked between his Chosen, inspecting each one. Was this right? Bea was clinging to Oom.
“Master, I should go with Oom—”
“No. You are not capable of fighting this battle. Oom is.”
The Slime-man trembled, but Az’kerash had selected his four most ready Chosen. Toren was staring at the scrying orb, and Az’kerash met Nerrhavia’s eyes.
“Trigger the spell yourself. I will join the battle momentarily.”
She rolled her eyes, but then gave him a nod. They regarded each other as figures watched.
“Your Majesty, Great Necromancer. We stand ready to do battle as well.”
A voice unfamiliar to Az’kerash spoke, and he felt the memory of hair rising as he met a ghost’s eyes. Well, a ghost in a body. Nerrhavia flicked her fingers.
“Did I give you leave to speak? Be silent. Gnats have no place in this war. You know your role.”
What that was, exactly, Az’kerash didn’t know. Even the Immortal Tyrant was judging her entry. She was waiting for the Draugr to arrive.
Az’kerash took a position in his own spell circle. He was ready. He had sworn to do battle, and he would. But he was…
Golden flames were licking across the battlefield as the Oldbloods breathed. That had to be Teriarch. The Unicorn was doubtless there, too, but less showy.
Az’kerash was waiting for one thing, one person, though. He could not send his own armies against the Draugr, even if he had that many corpses present. He would have to improvise. Though a [Necromancer] was the greatest foe of undead, even if he could not control Kasigna’s minions.
But he was watching for someone else. Nerrhavia had warned him he might have to take on a singular foe, and Az’kerash needed to know.
Where was that half-Elf that called himself Tolveilouka? 
 
——
 
It was already chaos as the Draugr crossed the Floodplains. So many spells were raining down on them of a magnitude few had ever witnessed. Olesm heard shouts of awe and terror around him.
“It’s a rain of burning glass—is Khelt using every scroll they have in their vaults?!”
A gigantic Sand Worm, summoned, was bleeding and screaming on the field. No, not summoned—a real Sand Worm.
“That’s a living monster. And that—those are Manticores!”
Fifty of them were tearing forwards, glowing collars on their necks, but the beasts were real. Olesm was watching the onslaught with awe. They were Chandrarian creatures; he had no idea Khelt had living war monsters.
However, who else had that wealth? The Drake watched as more Draugr broke through the onslaughts, but unlike last time, the hundred thousand undead were being torn apart by the higher-level Skills.
A volley of exploding arrows from Xitegen’s Golems blew apart hundreds. They could do this! They could do this. 
What Olesm didn’t realize was that this time, the battle was different. Magnolia Reinhart was watching Tyrion’s charge and speaking to the other nobles. The [Generals] were readying their Skills—the Dullahan ranks under Duln’s command had grown to twice their height and were set, literal half-Giants forming a vanguard on his side.
But Olesm was still shivering, shivering without stopping as he touched a wristband in his pouch, an emergency weapon he might have to use. Kaalblade at his side.
He sensed it. 
Kasigna was watching.
 
——
 
She refused to show them weakness, so she hid in her lands after summoning the second wave of undead. It—taxed her.
Greatly. Kasigna was no general of armies to give specific orders and fortify and advance. This was how she did battle, but she realized she had erred.
Summoning the dead from the very memory of them or her inviolate will was the act of a god. Yet it took more strength than she wished.
Easier. It would be easier if there were dead bodies to use. But there were so few—instead, she had created each Draugr out of nothingness.
Taxing.
Her plans were going astray. First the negotiations in Rhir. Now Eldavin. Kasigna’s three aspects were all—struggling in one way or another. She refocused on her two disparate selves, who were her and not completely her while they were apart.
Even a god could struggle. Hellste should have been a place for the wretchedly foul. It should have been tamed, still devoid of levels and classes. Yet—
Kasigna walked out of that land, hissing. The crone was injured—even as she retreated, she pulled her arm free as a hand gripped it.
It refused to vanish.
A soul, a mere soul, was defying her, refusing to acknowledge her authority as so few could. So had Laedonius Deviy fallen—Kasigna hissed.
“Begone, you mistaken child! Wretched traitors.”
She tore her arm free with effort, and the snarling crimson eyes refused to vanish. The hand of a Goblin King tore at her again—and Kasigna snapped the boundary between realms closed.
She had forgotten…no. She had not known the rage of Goblin Kings. Kasigna’s eyes rose, and in that moment, she beheld them.
Every Goblin King, staring at her. 
Not so easy to take Hellste. She had expected a land of filth such that the ghosts confined there deserved only oblivion rather than her mercy, though she would grant it to all. Instead, she had found—Goblins.
All of them.
“They were the youngest children. Now they challenge the shadow of the divine.”
Defeat. At least, an unwillingness to return without the fullness of her might. Two aspects of Kasigna pondered entering Diotria’s lost realm. Yet there, too, she was struggling for a different reason. It might have been easier to take since even fewer souls inhabited that realm meant for only the beloved who were worthy. She had never liked the concept, but her belief in the afterlife had been a point of dissent with other, ‘newer’ gods.
Many of them still had bodies. Diotria was meant to be a place of joy and purpose. But that fool, Emerrhain, had hurt her inadvertently. Hellste was without Skills and levels.
Diotria had been given them anew. The consequences she already saw.
The Three-in-One was beyond fury at this point. Defeat, setback—she counted each being who had defied or insulted her and swore vengeance. That was the crone.
The Crone had the malice and rage to survive even the final defeat, to skulk around consuming tiny souls and scrabble for scraps like a beggar. But she was one of three.
Even if she was the face so many knew Kasigna by, the Gnomes and oldest of all knew her other aspects.
The Mother was the one who presided over the afterlife. She was both loving and impartial. Whatever Kasigna’s vengeances, however the Crone raged—whenever her foes lay dead and came into her grasp, the Mother let her grudges lie.
Even for Erin Solstice. Death, as Zineryr had always loved it, was neither punishment nor reward for any rules. Kasigna, the Mother, promised the oldest and most timeless of all things: an end. No more, no less.
