“When I was newly born, with my first breath, I sentenced my mother to death. For she had been the Goddess of Death, and to create new life was anathema. They called my home Theiygiles. My pantheon ruled across lands far stranger than these; I remember floating isles upon the deepest of seas. If mortals dove bravely down beyond depths that would crush their flesh and bones, they would find my home. For we walked with mortals. That was the nature of Gods. Your world is so very different.”
“I see.”
At the dawn of the Winter Solstice, two beings spoke. Both were dead, for only the dead knew what Kasigna planned.
She had not spent the Solstice idle. Yet when the day came, she simply stood in the lands of the dead, Kasignel, and talked a while. The only other person who could hear her, the only person truly welcome, was Drevish.
Even Cauwine was a supplicant to beg her mother’s favor. The other dead gods? If they had been so foolish as to come here in her ancient throne of power—
She, Kasigna, would eat them.
That, too, was the way of her pantheon. Drevish’s voice was soft as he listened to Kasigna. He was working. If he could have sweat, then the ghost’s brow would be dripping. This entire place was…rippling.
Slowly, he was moving the very firmament of reality, adjusting the foundation of this place. Such tricks he had not dreamed of, even as the greatest [Architect] of his time. Yet Kasigna had taught him how it might be done. However, even she had been unable to effect changes so great.
Today—he had the power to do it. The full authority of death herself flowed through him, and he began changing the rules themselves.
Skills off. Magic off. Classes removed.
In this place, Kasigna’s will trumped even Emerrhain’s tricks. On the Solstice, she could manipulate the fate of every ghost taken to her lands. Not every ghost. There were rules; some went to Hellste, or the other land Drevish had only heard of, Diotria.
Kasigna detested both. This, he well understood. For she had—rules. She was telling him her story.
“I was called barbarous by other gods of distant realms.”
“Other gods. So your…pantheon was not the only one?”
A pause.
“It was the only one within our reality. Yet sometimes, realities meet. It is not lightly done, even for we, to cross the boundaries that divide…you have no notion of it. This entire world and the very stars are within one existence. We have the power to cross to places where the very laws of being change. These children come from another place, where magic is just a word.”
“I…see.”
Perhaps his answer displeased her. He had learned when she was angry, vengeful, spiteful, she took on the aspect of the crone. In the rare, rare moments of amusement or excitement, she was the maiden. The mother was the imperious judge, the arbiter, the cold decision-maker at times. And, if she had such qualities left, moments when she would show love.
The Goddess of Death waited for another comment, then went on. She spoke of her fellow gods, of strange vistas that had amused her. Of growing and learning the ways of her pantheon. To eat another god’s flesh was godliness. To make such terrible war as to cause even the stones to cry out for lament was only natural. She had driven her foes to despair. Cursed mortals and deities alike. Crushed every immortal who had challenged her.
She had not always won, of course. Her pantheon had lost a war of gods. And the winners had stripped her world of treasures like locusts descending upon a field. But there was a point to this story, Drevish thought.
They were waiting. Waiting in Kasignel as time ticked onwards.
He could tell it was flowing. Dawn was breaking, that eclipse rising in the living lands. Yet Kasigna just stood here, telling stories. And he realized—she was passing time.
Waiting.
Even gods waited. Two reasons had Kasigna: she spoke, letting her first new servant work. Firstly, because each second the Solstice continued, she gained in power.
These were auspicious times. It was unto a withered flower taking in sunlight for the first time; until now, she and the other five dead gods hadn’t even been able to absorb all the power so frail had they been. Right now? She was gathering herself, reknitting her essence.
If you could see her—if you could understand what she was—it might look like that. Yet the flower had not even been able to collect sunlight. To even get to this point, understand what Kasigna was:
A wasted body, what was unto gods, their skeletons and bones and muscles ruined and rotted. To replace her being, Kasigna had used souls like her very flesh. She was, then, a flower of mortal souls, which desperately consumed the light of the Solstice so that it might grow a true body at last.
Of course, that was reductive. She had no bones in the same way as mortals; part of what she was was simply…ideas. What defined a soul became her weft; concepts made up the warp of the fabric that was her being.
Even Cauwine could not gather a tenth as much authority as Kasigna. The Goddess of Death had the advantage that she had a place. 
Second—she was unquestionably foremost of the six at this point. At the end, she had consumed as many souls as the other five put together.
So she was waiting.
Waiting…to see if Tamaroth, Norechl, Laedonius Deviy—if he even lived—or Emerrhain managed to escape the traps that had snared them.
Because if they did?
She would eat them. Slaughter them and use their bones to build Kasignel anew.
This was the oldest of games.
The greatest of games.
She did not need competitors on her board. Only her daughter she tolerated. And she explained that to Drevish too, that he might understand whom he served. That was one thing she craved, the [Architect] realized.
Understanding.
“You may think me hypocritical, that I one day bore a daughter of my own.”
“…The thought had crossed my mind.”
The old [Architect] stood upon the edge of dry sands, his hands outstretched over the void, encapsulating a new world with only will. The dust of creation itself swirled around his clothing, the travelling gear of a man who had built wonders with his will and his mind.
He looked unto godliness himself, and in some worlds, he might have one day become one of the mortals elevated to the divine. Kasigna approved; nothing less would rebuild her realm.
Kasignel was to be her greatest refuge, weapon, and aid. She had hatched a plan, after all; she was not blind to her ‘enemies’. That obnoxious [Innkeeper], the other dead gods, the last tricks of Gnomes…
Kasigna shuddered. Even now, she could not deny sensing the presence of one of the Faerie King’s champions. Even she could not deny that infamous host had wet their blades in the blood of the divine. But she was very good at this game, though she could not remember being set back this far.
She touched a hand to her head and scowled darkly. She could not sense if Zineryr and his kin had left more traps behind. His soul was in her, but it refused to let her pry it apart and take its secrets. She could unmake it—but she would not. Soon, she would have her answers. So she went on, continuing to retell her story.
“Once. There was only one time I was laid nearly as low as this. Even the defeat of other deities was not so humbling, Architect. My home, Theiygiles, was eventually lost. It was not our battles, nor other gods that did it. This, you may well understand. What came for us comes for many realities. It is the spawn that wriggles between sanity, the old things born of the void and madness. They prey upon reality and gods like scavengers at their meanest, taking only the weakest. But then they fall upon even the mightiest strongholds in a wave. Summoning their profane names and aspects. That is how my world fell.”
Drevish imagined Crelers and shuddered—but it was Seamwalkers she meant. The rot between worlds. They had infested this world, though Kasigna described them as unto gnats compared to the real things.
“What happened then?”
Kasigna sat, her face still dark with rage and loss.
“It was the fate of many of the ones who came here. Laedonius Deviy. Pah. He came from multiple realms that fell to eldritch foes. He survived until he met a great gathering of us.”
“You as well?”
Kasigna’s head rose, and the malice she projected made even Drevish hesitate. She liked him. That was apparent, but he was well aware her fury could pique for the wrong question. In silence, Kasigna stared for a long time, an hour, before she spoke.
“Me, Architect? Not me. I did not ‘flee’ my broken realm. I stayed and fought as my pantheon died, screaming or trying to run. I devoured their bodies. Then I hunted down every one of my foes and destroyed them utterly.”
Her face twisted as she recalled a struggle of eternities. She hunched low—then the Crone became the Mother, armed for war, then the Maiden, each one pitiless, standing taller now, remembering days as glorious as they were terrible.
“They ate away my home. I consumed every mortal soul and the bodies of my kindred gods. They cast me down. How many times? A million? A million million? Yet they could not defeat me, Architect. I refused to die and killed their servants, then each one of them until they were fleeing, trying to open gates I sealed.”
“So nothing can kill you?”
Kasigna’s smile was mirthless, and the Maiden rested on the staff she carried a second, then became the Crone once more. But for a second, youth looked Drevish in the eyes with Erin Solstice’s face.
“Of course it can be done. The mortals of this world accomplished what worlds could not. Yet I always return. Should striving with Death be any less bitter?”
He had no reply, and Kasigna went on.
“An age of hunting and revenge for my deceased homeland. Only then did I rest and behold the shattered realms that had been mine. Naught remained from our struggle. That was when I left.”
Ah.
She truly had come like the oldest of stories. An ancient goddess, even by the standards of her kin. To…here?
Now, Drevish wanted to know. For this dead goddess, the Three-in-One, did have all the answers. If she deigned to give them. She had told him the secret behind Goblin Kings by accident, not even seeing it as a great tale. The knowledge still burned Drevish.
How much time did we waste, the King of Destruction, we Seven, trying to conquer a world? There were greater foes, greater journeys all this time. If only we had known.
Kasigna spoke, husky of voice now, as if wishing to have an ambrosia to sip. She was, Drevish understood, still suffering. She was quite literally dead, and each moment had to be agony. But spite kept her alive. He feared what would happen soon.
“It was invitation. I say it grudgingly, but only to speak truth. I was invited as I wandered the cosmos beyond; other gods came from distant lands. Not just outcasts or wanderers. Some abandoned their realms for what they saw in this. Hah! Entire pantheons left or brought their followers here. This was to become a project beyond us all. With power no one realm could possess, we would forge a great world whose mortals would be able to challenge the champions of other realms. The architect who planned it all, who hatched the idea and laid down so much of the work was called…Isthekenous.”
The greatest architect of them all. The founder of everything, perhaps, in idea. Drevish shuddered.
“To stop worlds from being unmade?”
Kasigna sneered at him.
“Fool. Had this project been realized, the rot between worlds would not have been a threat. This land was meant to be truly glorious. Yet from the moment I stepped here, before I bore Cauwine—ah. It took so long as we argued. Mortal lifetimes passed in moments, and the adherents of some pantheons reproduced, flourished, then passed to nothingness before we came to a modicum of a consensus.”
That—at least—made sense to Drevish.
“Group projects should be eradicated by fire.”
Kasigna said nothing to such an urbane comment, but he had the distinct impression she agreed. She spoke as she prepared for her first strike. Tamaroth and Norechl were the ones she focused on.
They were flying through the void, and the two ghosts that had bested them would not be a match today—but if they tried to return to the world, she would have them.
What would they do? Challenge her? Try to escape? She waited like a stalking beast patiently watching a trap she’d set. Her daughter was here and there, flitting around and using her power lightly. Kasigna watched with disapproval, but her vision was clouded.
Her opponents were tugging at fate’s strings, and they were muddled. This world…the problem was that it had been given authority beyond her. The mortals tapped into power that other worlds would call the impossible. The arbiter had gone astray, and it had the strength to subdue even gods.
Fate itself could be a weapon for mortals. Luck—a Skill. They took it for granted. Kasigna muttered softly.
“Too many hands worked in the creation of this world. It was unpolished. Generic in places in its inception. This was just meant to be a…trial. It worked too well; they all wished to begin at once rather than let more ambitious ideas take root. In those days, even the Faerie King was our friend and ally, a valuable voice I respected. Then came the war that sundered everything. And before levels existed, before this world truly ‘began’, the Elves died. We were destroyed, and the few survivors hid our bones. I was less than a thought, waiting and striving to live over the tens of thousands of years until now. That is the truth of this world, Drevish.”
The Architect was creating a great courtyard of ancient stone and structures foreign even to his aesthetics. The very land of Kasigna’s home; the place all ghosts would first come. It was dwarfed by an ancient stand of stone, so vast even Giants would stare up in awe. When she chose to, Kasigna would loom above her entire realm.
He said nothing at first. Then—
“So you plan to revive yourself. Today?”
She stirred, and a maiden smiled at him, then a mother, then an old woman.
“I am death. There is yet more power here. First ‘Hellste’, that wretched place they made because they thought they needed it and refused to give me control over. Then. Diotria. That foolish ‘Goddess of the Afterlife’s’ creation.”
Her eyes narrowed with spite, and Kasigna’s shadow grew across the world.
“Then the land known as Rhir. It is normally locked to even we; one of my kin, a half-child, sleeps there. One with flesh. A demigod. Last of all and most worthless—Erin Solstice. She will die as my name is heralded once more.”
The fact that she included the [Innkeeper] on that list—Drevish kept working tirelessly, in control of every flagstone and geometry he placed. It was intensive work, and even if he only finished this courtyard, she would be happy.
