A Drake dropped his spear, clawing at his skin as huge boils erupted under his scales. He was spewing blood, and the entire company around him were screaming, using potions that only stopped the curse magic a second before one’s face melted off their body. The soldiers of Vaunt made no sound.
They would have run, but there was a wall of other troops behind Gershal—and the nobles’ Skills. A tiny bit of courage, enough to avoid his flight.
Or they were keeping them in place.
Did it matter? All of Gershal’s brave words—he looked at the sword he held in a shaking grip. A voice was speaking through the stone, and it gave him some nerve. He clung to it.
“This is Laken Godart. Leave the Hag at the back to my [Witches].”
“Acknowledged.”
Though Gershal could not see it, he knew even [Witches] were doing battle. There was a magical war in the skies…
“The skies! Up, up!”
Gershal took cover, thinking it meant arrows—until he raised his head and he saw them.
Screaming, half-skeleton, half-wisp things with huge scythes were flying down. Gershal stared until he realized they were bypassing the front and coming right at his people.
“Brace! Br—”
He ducked a scythe just in time. The woman next to him wasn’t so quick. Gershal got up.
“Aten? At—”
The top of her head was missing. The soldier fell as Gershal stared at her—and a second pass of the reaping wraiths flew down. This time, he flung up his sword, slashing—
The blow rang down his entire arm and sent him stumbling, but the specter twisted—and Vaunt’s soldiers began to stab and slash at it.
Their blades went right through it. It arose—whirled the scythe—and Gershal saw limbs flying like pieces of grain being threshed. Bloody [Soldiers] tried to clamp spurting arteries, shrieking as the specter advanced. Gershal raised his sword.
“Hold the—”
The scythe didn’t slash like any weapon he knew. It hooked out as he dodged right, then tried to pull and bisect him from behind. He frantically blocked it, turning, and saw a dagger appear in the wraith’s other hand. Gershal was blocking the scythe, and the thing was strong! He—
An arrow exploded the thing’s face off in a flash of light, and the scythe dropped. Gershal whirled, and a voice crackled in his ear.
“Spectral undead! Truegold blades to the front! Spells first!”
Lady Buscrei had loosed that very shot. Gershal backed away as he looked around.
“Potions. Get the wounded…”
“Lieutenant, you are about to meet the enemy in forty seconds! Head up!”
Niers Astoragon snapped in his ear. Gershal whirled and saw the Draugr charging. [Soldiers] grabbed at the wounded, some of whom were staring at severed limbs or trying in vain to reattach them. One went scrabbling in the muck and blood, and Gershal almost kicked the man—until he saw the frantic soldier picking up the tip of the burnt Truegold arrow.
If they came back, only Gershal’s sword and the arrow had a chance.
“Brace.”
That was all the man said through pale lips. This time—he saw a dozen men and women turn and run. They froze as a voice spoke coldly in his ear.
“[Replenish Morale].”
For a second, the Titan’s Skill gave Gershal the nerve to think they could hold. He got to his feet, realizing he’d been hiding behind one of the palisades meant to stay the Draugr charge.
“For Vaunt!”
The [Soldiers] rushed back into line. Gershal faced down the Draugr and stared up as the first one came at him. Then—eighteen struck Vaunt’s lines.
They just—plowed through the soldiers to either side of Gershal. Shields and spears just splintered off their bodies. They ran into the [Soldiers], compressing them against each other and then swung their fists, smashing bones flat. Punching until limbs deformed and organs ruptured.
Gershal met one Draugr, who swung a fist, which he ducked. He slashed along its chest, scoring a light wound, saw an arm raise, and lifted his sword to block one-handed.
Dead—
The blow shook the entire world. Then Gershal was staring at the Draugr recoiling, and instinct let him jab and reposition. Again, the monster swung, and again, Gershal blocked—
He barely felt the sword move. The blade enchanted by Erin Solstice held, as if it had all the weight behind it of a shield. The Tidebreaker himself.
Gershal forced the Draugr back a step, and arrows struck it in the face, a repeating salvo—but it kept moving until Gershal leapt.
[Piercing Leap]! His thrust carried the blade through the thing’s neck. Even then, it kept swinging—until he tore sideways and its head was flopping. He didn’t behead it—a [Halberdier] finished the job.
“We can do this! Reform! Ref—”
Gershal felt his breath giving way to excitement. He’d killed one! He’d—
He turned, and Vaunt was a dozen paces behind him, the other Draugr rampaging through their ranks. One picked up a soldier and plucked off his head. Gershal began running as he heard shouts.
“Reinforcements are on the way! 4th Company, strike them—”
Gershal slashed at a Draugr’s legs, hacking at it until it fell to one knee. But even then it kept crawling, dragging people down and tearing them apart as Gershal hacked at the back of its head. It ignored him and killed five more [Soldiers] until it was dead.
Then came the next undead, a tip-toeing thing twice as tall as he was with a gigantic wicker basket on its back. It was snatching dead soldiers up and putting them in the basket, which shook until the body parts came out as lurching horrors. Gershal stared at it until he charged, screaming.
It was smiling at him.
 
——
 
The first ten thousand Draugr had been terrifying. A hundred thousand was the kind of thing you saw when you shat your pants and woke up in the middle of the night from a nightmare.
Entirely new undead? 
What scared Relc Grasstongue was that he had no idea how they fought. He understood Draugr. The terror of not wanting to die—he could do that.
“Steady. No one rush in, got it? Get ready to fall back.”
They looked at him like he was a coward. Relc didn’t have time to clarify.
“Get ready to fall back—”
Liscor’s Watch was on the furthest western wing of the field. Relc should have been with Liscor’s army, but he wasn’t a [Soldier]. Zevara had told the Watch to hold the walls and guard Liscor, but Relc was part of a small team Chaldion used to shore up holes.
He’d killed three Draugr. Dead gods, they went down hard. The [Spearmaster] was sweating. He wondered if Tekshia or Lulv would do better. Probably Lulv. He was used to taking apart formations. Relc was used to foes that died when you stabbed them in the throat.
A headhunter specialist—wasn’t right for this battle. Tekshia was a former adventurer, but even a Gold-rank wasn’t stupid enough to solo a Draugr if they could help it. One of the [Guards] shouted.
“They’re coming!”
Relc bellowed desperately.
“Don’t charge—damn it!”
It was the headless things with elephant trunks that they met. All bone—the Draugr were everywhere, but two of the bone-trunkers came out of the battlefield. Did they have a name? Relc didn’t know, but he grabbed at one of the Watch.
The new [Guards] lost their head in a battle. Some new Drake went swinging in with a Truegold sword, then recoiled from one of the trunk-arms swinging. It came at the Drake like a whip, but the [Guard] screamed.
“[Emergency Dodge]!”
He slashed at the trunk arm and scored a piece of bone off it as the other [Guards] loosed arrows at the Draugr, knowing better than to shoot bone. Another Human stabbed with a long spear and tore a piece off the trunk-undead’s weird, domed ‘head’. They were distinctly softer than Relc expected.
“Got ‘em! Come on—”
Relc was advancing slowly as the Watch began to charge. He shouted.
“Back up! Back it up now!”
[Squad: Unity’s Coordination]. Almost all of the [Guards] listened and sprang back, but the idiots in front—the [Spearmaster] saw the trunks open and stabbed.
His spear knocked one of the trunks down just in time. He’d suspected they would do something, but three pointed at the first two [Guards] exposed. Relc heard a strange, sucking sound—and his ears popped.
Whatever suction effect the two undead produced, it ripped the scales right off the first Drake. The second Human staggered as Relc saw blood and—armor and flesh and blood siphon into the trunks. Then he saw something really horrific.
“Help!”
“Help!”
The Human had collapsed. The Drake was just dead, his Truegold blade had snapped to pieces, and the trunk-undead vacuumed even Truegold up like it was nothing. But the [Guard] was screaming…half screaming.
The other voice was from the screaming man who looked like his body—half dragged out by the pull of the undead. Relc stared as the [Guard]’s ghost flailed, and his body jerked.
Then he stabbed so fast his spear made pinging sounds as the trunk-undead tried to raise their arms again.
“Don’t let them aim at you! Surround ‘em! Someone help Lesner!”
His spear put holes in the first trunker’s head, but something was wrong. Relc realized he didn’t see any of the damage the [Guards] had done. The bone chip on its head…
Great. It heals, we die. And—he saw the trunk rise.
“Dodge!”
Everyone threw themselves out of the way. The vacuum actually pulled so damn hard that forty feet away, a group of [Archers] screamed and stumbled.
Vacuum goes through armor. Relc kept stabbing until he saw the bones break apart, and his first quarry stumbled.
Something red inside its body winked at him, semi-gaseous. Instantly, Relc stopped breathing.
[Triple Thrust]!
He punched three holes in the thing’s body, sprang back, and started shouting.
“Fall back! Fall back and run, damn it! It’s not dead!”
Eighty percent of the upper torso was gone, and he saw red mist in the trunk-thing’s body—but it wasn’t dead. It was raising the trunk again, and Relc sprinted away and felt that suction rip some dead scales off his face. Only when he was dozens of feet away did he dare breathe.
“Sergeant Relc to the Watch! Those trunk-undead don’t die even when you put a hole in their bodies! They’re filled with gas on the inside or something. They suck your soul or something straight out of you—keep anyone in armor away!”
“This is Watch Commander Venim. Relaying…they’re coming straight for the gates. They might be able to rip the steel apart, enchantments or no. Can you stop them?”
Relc raised his head, and his squad looked up. Nine of the things, including the two damaged ones, were heading for the gates with a mass of Draugr. Relc exhaled.
“I’ll try.”
One of the new [Guards] who’d volunteered for the fighting was shaking. She looked at the trunker-undead and at her comrades.
“Sergeant—”
Senior Guardsman Relc, [Trusted Sergeant of the Watch], gave her a huge grin and a thumbs-up. He hefted his enchanted spear across his back, and she didn’t miss the look of fear in his eyes. But when he grinned—she realized why everyone knew his name.
“Just keep those Draugr off me for one minute. Got it? Run to the south gate if things get hairy. That’s an order. On three. One, two…”
Then he was running, outstripping the rest of his squad, and Relc saw the trunker-undead turn from him as they lifted their limbs towards the gates. He wished Klbkch were here.
Maybe it was just as well it was him. Figure out an officer’s enchantments. Find out how their Skills worked. Kill them.
The Gecko sped up, ducking low, as the trunker-undead turned. Draugr ran at him, but he couldn’t think how many there were. Hundreds, damn it.
[Lightning Sprint].
He swerved as they pointed and tore the ground up, ripping even the Draugr apart, but missed him. Relc lifted his spear.
[Pierce Thrust]! [Spear Flurry]!
Nine of them. He tagged each one once, a blow somewhere around their head or midsections. They didn’t even stagger. One raised a trunk, and Relc bared his teeth as he inhaled and held his breath.
Gas center—
His fist punched through the thing’s face, and he felt something burning his scales. But then Relc reached down and found something that hurt like hell when he ripped it out and crushed it.
A heart?
The scream that followed Relc destroying the thing’s core made the entire trunk-thing’s body shake. The bones began to rattle, and the red light of its gaseous center flashed. It shook, wailing, for a good fifteen seconds—then exploded.
The Gecko didn’t watch the first one die. He kept punching and ripped two more hearts out before he felt his lungs filling.
Three—now he had a good idea where the hearts were. Relc lifted his spear.
[Spear Dance: The Fish Leap—]
His right arm was still burning with whatever was in their center. He lost a neck spine as his spear shifted, and the tip impaled the heart in an arc.
The Watch was throwing down arrows, and Relc saw one of the trunkers vanish in an explosion. That was teamwork. He got two more. Had to breathe—
Ahh. His lungs immediately started searing, and the Gecko choked. How many more?
…One? I can do one.
[Continuous Spear Thrusts]. It must have moved the heart, but Relc just put holes in it as it ripped scales off his arms and tore apart his armor. He felt something in him move, and his entire existence seemed to want to flow into the void of its arm.
Spear versus vortex. Relc felt his soul leaving his chest—he saw a faint piece of light in one of the holes of the trunk-thing’s body and stabbed straight through it.
There. The Gecko breathed, and a Draugr tackled him. Relc hit the ground breathless, swung a fist into a face and mashed a nose in, but the Draugr just opened its mouth and bit him. Relc had to hold the jaws away from his throat as he desperately tried to toss the enormous undead off him, but it was too heavy. And another was climbing over him—too heavy to shift.
I hate war. The Drake saw another Draugr lifting up two arms to smash his head in as he stared upwards.
Got your buddies, though. Relc waited for Klbkch to do something, then remembered his partner was on vacation. He looked up and saw something falling towards him like a comet.
 
——
 
Archmage Valeterisa had lost track of Relc when the battle started. Wall Lord Ilvriss had called on her to support Salazsar’s side of the battle. His Gem Regiments were doing well and had vaporized most of the new undead before they got close.
However, the strange undead and their effects were wreaking havoc. A report had just gone through her ears. Someone had figured out the ones with elephant trunks had some kind of suction effect. They were tearing up the fortifications and had been declared a priority target.
Where is Relc? 
Part of Valeterisa’s mind had been told to find him. She was falling through the skies, an entire wing of specters behind her.
