One of her thought processes panicked. The rest noted how they flew. Valeterisa increased speed. Light spells?
[Ray of Dawn]. [Hundredfold Arrows of Light]!
She began splintering them apart with rays of light, and smaller arrows sprayed out, hitting any of the specters getting close. Valeterisa chewed apart the formation following her and noted one of the Hag Queens pointing. The specters broke off, and the Hag Queen produced a needle, gestured up at Valeterisa, and jabbed the needle straight through her hand.
Painful.
Nothing happened. Valeterisa observed three of her anti-curse wards had just been breached. She redoubled the layers as the Hag Queen glared up. Valeterisa pointed.
[Valmira’s Comet]. [Frostbite Wave].
Two spells hit the Hag Queen, but one arm protected the Hag Queen from losing no more than all the flesh on her forearm, down to her bones. The frost crept over her and stopped as her skin regenerated. She replied with an oath, and strange, biting heads appeared, shooting at Valeterisa.
The Archmage of Izril shot each one down with a [Light Arrow] as she curved away from the Hag Queen. She determined the Hag Queen was too difficult to destroy.
Strange.
“Archmage, get clear of the Hags! We cannot support you—”
“Repositioning.”
She noticed someone drawing a bead on her. Archers, simple skeletons, albeit with green, flaming arrows. Anti-magic?
Valeterisa popped out of existence and reappeared as a volley of arrows missed. Strange. She was not used to the battlefield. She did not usually fight, but just like the Meeting of Tribes—she was not dead or injured yet.
She had assumed she might be. Battles were highly unwise—
Flicker. A specter dropped down towards her, shedding its invisibility as another curved up. No time to dodge vertically or horizontally—Valeterisa twisted and activated a spell.
[Localize Spell]. [Enhanced Spell: Mage Armor].
Light magic deflected the scythe, and the frozen blade shattered as Valeterisa zipped over the first one. It had been a split-second guess that determined light magic would deflect their blades as well as wound them.
“Undesignated specter-class undead capable of invisibility. Beware of ambush. Returning to western flank.”
Valeterisa breathed into the speaking stone, realizing her heart rate was elevated and she was out of breath. Yet—a thought occurred to her.
I may be talented at battle. Either that or luck. I must confirm with Relc, later.
Where was he?
The Archmage of Izril was calm. Terrified, but her [Parallel Thoughts] were working as intended. She was circling back towards Ilvriss’ group, where the Wall Lord was throwing all the magic he had into a lightshow like the festivals of Fissival.
Then—Valeterisa saw Relc. He was on the ground by Liscor’s walls. She saw him charging the trunk undead.
But that is exceptionally dangerous. She turned.
“Archmage. We need you—Archmage?”
Valeterisa ignored Ilvriss. She was diving now, redirecting more mana into her [Flight] spell, heedless of the cost—
She saw the first Draugr tackle Relc and opened her mouth as another leapt on him. One was raising its hands.
What spell? What spell? Can’t hit Relc. Resistant to harm—
The Archmage of Izril dove as Relc Grasstongue looked up. He saw her point a finger, and the Draugr brought its arms down.
It missed.
The Draugr’s swing hit only air. It stared down at Relc—then struggled, swinging its arms and legs. But it was floating. Valeterisa pointed, and the Draugr flew.
Up.
The two Draugr on Relc left the ground as she hurled them straight off the Drake. He got up, scrambling for his spear.
“Valeterisa! Watch out!”
She spun as the Draugr group charged towards them. The Archmage of Izril whispered a spell.
“[Valeterisa’s Imperfect Comet].”
Relc’s spear was raised and whirling, but he saw the first Draugr jerk. It glowed with a faint blue nimbus of light—then something flung it into the air. Like a package meant for delivery. Only, there wasn’t any safeguard spell preventing gravity or the pressure of the air from tearing at its flesh.
The Archmage of Izril pointed, and Draugr began launching into the air like blue rockets. The Watch skidded to a stop as Relc stared at the sky.
She was tossing Draugr into the night sky, at the High Passes. He stared up as the first Draugr finally stopped flying up and began to curve down, down…
One of the Hag Queens looked over her shoulder as a Draugr crashed to earth far behind her lines. Then she saw more landing around her.
Valeterisa staggered after throwing her hundred and thirty-first Draugr. She took a step, wondered why she wasn’t flying, and fell forwards. Relc caught her. Ilvriss was shouting through the speaking stone.
“Is the Archmage down?”
“Mana’s out. We’re pulling into Liscor. Cover us!”
The gates were rising, and Relc carried Valeterisa into the city. He turned his head once and snarled as he saw the undead pushing.
Don’t die, Erin. Then the Gecko was running. He looked back one last time as the gates slammed shut and saw the undead were at the inn.
 
——
 
The Knights of Solstice met the enemy at last. The flying undead were in the skies; they were spreading out, actually using formations and trying to flank towards the inn via the other sides.
Only the Free Antinium’s fortifications kept the undead from completely attempting to encircle the defenders; instead, mindless Draugr threw themselves at the walls of stone and dirt, trying to climb up while the stranger undead used them as shields and attacked.
There were zombies and Ghouls, now, rising from the sheer death magic in the air. But Normen’s eyes weren’t on the undead approaching from the air. The specters were coming straight for the inn, scythes bloody. But he saw…
“Liscor. They’re attacking Liscor.”
Jewel tore her vision away from the undead. She had a Truegold blade, and Halrac had downed three so far, but Normen was staring at Draugr attacking the gates. Trying to climb the walls.
At least one of the Hag Queens was leading the attack. He longed to go after one. They had to die—
“Normen, they’re coming!”
“Knights of Solstice—”
There were screams coming from below. Another bolt of lightning roared, but Erin couldn’t fire without fear of hitting her own friends. So…Normen put his helmet on. His skin was still burned, and he still felt like he was just a lad with a hat.
But the Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice had never felt like he was more right in being somewhere. Green flames roared from his armor as the other Knights of Solstice got to their feet.
“I’ll go with you.”
A voice called from behind Normen, and he turned. There was Numbtongue, waiting in the hallway.
Just like last time. Behind him were a few more people. Peggy, some of the inn’s staff.
“No. After us comes you.”
The Hobgoblin [Bard] hesitated—then nodded. He unslung his guitar and began to play. Normen knew it was the ballad of the Horns of Hammerad. He felt his hand grow stronger and gripped the mace covered in acid.
“Knights of Solstice. Ready.”
Vess was trying to light his flames, but there was no mercy. Not here. Halrac’s arrows glowing with blue flame had weight—but the Draugr had nothing left to lose.
Two flames roared the brightest at the head of the Order of Solstice, and the other [Knights] stood behind the bearers.
Embraim, glowing with pink flames. A torch of light that drew Rivel’s eyes and shone brightest in this dark night. It was mixing…with the green fire coming off Normen and Antherr. Green fire that captured the heart as well as the eye. It felt like every straining breath in Normen’s lungs. It was not easy—but it was his.
The two flames comingled and formed an olive-colored flame, at first gentle, then bright beyond belief. The flames grew brighter as the [Innkeeper] looked down at a flame even she had never seen before.
The fire looked like determination. Like unyielding will. The Knights were waiting, and the undead coming up the hill—
Normen tore his gaze away and swung his eyes upwards. He met crimson pupils, an ivory face, a ragged cloak, and two long spindly arms of bone holding a scythe that shimmered with red blood and black metal.
The [Knights] charged, fighting in the inn’s shadow. Vess and Halrac shot from the windows while the other [Knights] tried to keep the specters from entering the inn.
“They can’t get through the walls! Block the door! Block th—”
Normen’s mace hurt them. The acid did not. He struck one specter again and again, but his blows seemed only half-there. Even so, the green fire and Demas Metal finally shattered one’s skull—Normen felt a cold sting in his side. His flesh froze, and he slashed the knife down with his shield.
But for his armor, the blade would have fully run him through. Normen struck another specter until Jewel stabbed it through the side and it exploded. It left some strange residue on her sword and the ground—the whirling specters flew around the [Knights] until a strange whistle filled the air.
Normen saw one of the Hag Queens crook a finger and call off the ghostly assault. The specters fled, two more vanishing as Vess and Halrac took more shots at their backs.
“Anyone hurt?”
“My side—I need a drop of healing potion.”
Normen drank sparingly and felt the wound knitting—but the deathly chill left him feeling weaker. Jewel inspected the armor as Ama tried to mend Sillias, who had been cut up by the scythes.
“We should patch that. Embraim, are you alright?”
The [Pyre-Knight of Glory] had kept the specters back with his flaming abilities, literally blowing flame from the lantern he carried. The pink glow of glory had not faded from him, but he was kneeling. Normen turned, and the Antinium raised his head.
He slowly slid open the visor of a figure in armor. Normen saw a single figure lying on the ground, and all the Knights of Solstice stopped. Embraim stood and spoke quietly.
“Squire Herove is dead.”
The City Runner seemed surprised; a hole from the tip of a scythe had gone straight through his chest. It was the first time he’d fought with them. [Squire], not [Knight].
He’d been so confident he would become a [Knight]. Normen knelt there until someone spoke.
“Move his body to the side.”
Normen’s head rose—and Halrac glared at him. Then the Gold-rank adventurer stared down the hill.
“Move it. Take it into the inn if you remove his head. He might rise. They’re coming for another push.”
The Knights of Solstice began moving. Normen picked up Herove by the legs, and Rivel held the man’s arms. A corpse—the Vampire looked at Normen, and the Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice gently laid down the first Knight of Solstice to fall.
Then Normen wondered who was next.
 
——
 
“Poor damn bastards. It’s always like this. It’s always like this.”
It was always soldiers, mortals, the poorest, commonfolk that died in droves. In every war, but especially when immortals fought.
They were starting to die. The first wave of the Draugr had been nasty, but the mortals had taken it well. Even the second wave, horrific as it was, had been mitigated by everyone using their best Skills.
Now? Now they were dying.
Taletevirion was holding a longsword, Human in form, just…watching. It would get worse. He saw a chanting coven of [Witches] blocking curses from one of the Hags, the Archmage of Izril in the skies fleeing flying undead—
Even that brave idiot of a girl. Ryoka Griffin.
A single pink blade roaring with flames immolated what looked like a flying undead bird of some kind. Burnt it inside out.
“Nice sword.”
She was dodging through the air, protected by the wind. Taletevirion watched her, hoping nothing killed her—until someone touched his elbow.
Where was Teriarch? Where were the other dangerous people he’d been promised would help? In moments like these, Taletevirion didn’t know. He just knew he had a blade, his horn, his shaking body—and that he could run or fight.
He wanted to, but the figure who had been standing there this entire battle finally moved, and Theillige looked at Taletevirion.
Just looked. The warrior had sought the Unicorn out, as if certain only one person deserved their company. The Unicorn didn’t want it.
“Where…”
The finger pointed as the Winter Fae lifted a sword and buckler. They pointed straight into the center of the horde, still running at the front lines.
“You have to be joking.”
The Wild Hunt’s warrior might have laughed, if they ever made a sound. They looked at the Unicorn. Just waited, and still, Taletevirion was sure, if he ran, there would be no judgement. Not from this one.
That made it harder. So the Unicorn began to walk as they leapt softly from the dirt walls protecting the inn. Past the [Soldiers] who were braced. Then trotted, jogged, then ran.
“Forests.”
That was all the Unicorn whispered. He had sworn never again. Never again until he saw something new. Did this count? It didn’t matter.
It was all old again, and then he was galloping, no matter which form, holding a blade aloft, hearing the final charge of his people again and again, and the old cry was on his tongue.
“Forests awake and witness me. We return home.”
The first Draugr were packed together like a wall. Theillige’s first blow was precise, a calm cut towards the arm that wrenched free of the others and swung clumsily. With enough strength to wound either immortal, but the sword severed the arm, and the buckler clipped the Draugr’s head as the Wild Hunt warrior leapt.
Blademaster of winter. The Draugr’s head kept trying to turn as frost covered it; the frozen body crashed to the ground two dozen paces later. In that time, Theillige’s sword severed one head from its shoulders, took a leg off, and stabbed through the dead flesh of a heart. The shield blocked and deflected flailing limbs, and the hoarfrost covered each undead the Winter Fae touched.
Freezing them to ice.
Taletevirion was less artful. He leapt, curving his body, and cut across a dozen heads with one stroke. They were all of a level; Draugr fell, and he landed.
Walk like a cat, feet and back arched—
The cut took a Draugr apart diagonally. The Unicorn took another step and lunged, like a heron diving after its prey. He kicked off the Draugr he had put a hole through, sword scything like a mantis.
He and Theillige found each other in the press of bodies falling apart, ice covering the ground, the wind of a distant forest on Taletevirion’s heels. Now—faster. They moved faster, cutting forwards.
The Hag Queens noticed them and ordered their deaths, chanting foul incantations—but Taletevirion’s horn flashed as the Unicorn resumed his true shape, and the Winter Fae simply grabbed the air.
