Yet Zineryr had warned Erin of one thing. She would likely face the Crone and perhaps the Mother, who would raise armies and scheme great and dire gambits. Yet Kasigna was no general. Nor even a great warrior as gods went.
She was the oldest of all. Death herself, and in that way, her very nature placed her as the most dangerous to mortals. Still, Zineryr had warned Erin. Beware.
Do not beware the Crone’s petty spite.
Do not beware the Mother’s impartial wrath.
Fear the Maiden.
Youngest of all. The Maiden was the face Kasigna wore least. She was the contradiction in the nature of Kasigna herself; a Goddess of Death who symbolized youth and life. She was change. She was reflection.
“When I was newborn, my face was that of a crone. I sentenced my own mother wearing her visage. I knew not how to change. First I was one. Then I became three, and the youngest is the one that has never been and can be. Maiden. I crave you now.”
Kasigna stood in the lands of the dead, and one of her faces was the Crone, seething with rage in Diotria and demanding fealty as she tore souls apart.
The second was the Mother, grimacing, having failed to take Hellste, coldly analyzing the odds and judging her next action.
…The Maiden looked like Erin Solstice. A different Erin, one who wore no hat and who would take each and every soul gently and weep for them. The final guest house at the end of everything.
You see, they did understand each other. This final Kasigna understood love and fear. This one could weep and had learned to care for her subjects as the other two had failed to do. This one—was the one mortals craved and worshiped.
Most importantly, this Kasigna could see defeat. She looked ahead, behind, and at what had passed and saw the fingers of Shaestrel dancing upon the board. This Kasigna did not sneer at her foes, but sat a moment.
Thinking.
“Ah. I see it.”
The Three-in-One regarded the battlefield below. Saw Draugr vanishing—even as they ran like a stampede of the end times towards the mortals. But how brightly mortality shone before the dark candle.
 
——
 
“House Veltras!”
Lord Tyrion was charging. Perorn Fleethoof was on the ground, and a wave of Draugr were following her Centaurs, who kept up a hail of fire.
Now the Draugr were attacking everything they could find—but even so, they were still mindless. Perorn was luring a wing of them away, galloping just out of reach.
Straight into a side-charge from Tyrion’s lancers. Strategy was still wildly in favor of the living. But the Draugr—
Tyrion’s teeth were clenched behind his helmet. But he did not ride alone. A hand was on his shoulder.
He looked back and saw Jericha behind him, sword in hand. Yet it was not she who he felt.
Magnolia Reinhart. She was standing amidst her servants, that woman he had grown up knowing. Clashed with. Admired grudgingly at times. Hated at others.
She had threatened to kill his sons.
She and Salva had fought so bitterly they had nearly driven the two Families to war.
Yet she had also been there as a Goblin King died.
His father had ridden by her side on these fields.
They were allies and enemies. Wary friends. The best of foes. The same could be said of all the other Five Families. In the end…
They stood together in dark times. Tyrion met Magnolia’s eyes as, ahead, the charging Draugr sensed the oncoming Humans and tried to pivot.
Just for this night, Magnolia nodded once, and Tyrion dipped his head. They put aside every grudge and disagreement. And the [Lady]’s aura met the [Lord]’s.
The Humans of the North were some of the finest masters of it in the world. Tyrion Veltras’ aura, when he rarely manifested it, was stubborn will. Like a weathered shield that deflected anything it ran up against. Unyielding and deep as the Vale Forest.
Magnolia’s aura was pink. It was a deft hand, as fast as her carriage, as incisive as a blade in the dark. Adaptive. One of Izril’s own experts rarely displayed her powers.
—The two melded, and Tyrion Veltras swung his lance down. His company of [Riders] jolted a second—then they were engulfed in falling roses that swirled around them like a second armor. They did not obscure the vision, and the roaring Draugr halted—
Huge briar brambles had engulfed their feet. The monsters staggered—and Tyrion Veltras’ lance took the first one through the head. House Veltras struck the Draugr; the roaring undead swung back, but they met gently falling pink flower petals harder than steel, which protected horse and rider alike.
Tyrion sensed Magnolia Reinhart release her aura as he circled for another charge. Now, she and Lord Xitegen exchanged a nod. Tyrion swore he saw the [Lord] laugh ruefully—then they pointed.
Sheer spite and pride. The Draugr continuing to advance never saw the gigantic hand, a copy of Lord Xitegen’s, before it smashed a dozen flat. It swept another group aside, tossing them like toys.
Then the Draugr were on the front lines of Drakes and Humans, and another [Lady] blew a kiss at the undead. A kiss like a razor, and a smile that promised she would hunt them down and kill them herself if she must.
Lady Bethal Walchaís. Her aura exploded over the ranks of Drakes and Humans, shields covered in thorns. When the Draugr hit them, the aura-projections tore flesh and ripped the Draugr apart. They kept going—
Lady Pryde’s Humans met the Draugr in an earthshaking collision. The Draugr slammed into shields and bodies and broke bones—but the Humans didn’t move.
[Pride is Weight]. The Draugr began fighting as her lines barely buckled. Massive undead heaved against smaller men and women who shoved them back, the gigantic Draugr uncomprehending as to why they were equally matched.
Egos like a storm, for once united in purpose, the Flowers of Izril refused to waver.
 
——
 
“This is what Isthekenous dreamed of. Mortals to fight the armies of legend.”
There was a kind of satisfaction even as she beheld the mortals refusing to buckle. Yet everything Kasigna was was still the Maiden.
Erin Solstice would yet die. But the Draugr would never kill her.
The two aspects of Kasigna walked into the void. Now, the Maiden understood what must be done. Power, yes, it would take precious power and attention to do this. But the Gnomes’ chosen champion had indeed prepared for this day.
The area around Liscor and the Floodplains resembled a dark fog to Kasigna, the likes of which she had rarely seen, for even she could not…draw her power directly through it. The annoying trick of the [Innkeeper] mattered little, though. She had bought herself a mere handful of miles as a remove.
This time, Kasigna stopped on the side of a mountain. She used her power—sparingly—for she already had a body.
It had been so long since she tasted the air. She had almost lungs, almost the memory of flesh. Her presence withered the grass around her, killed the soil, and left the ground ashen, pale. Where she walked, her footprints became a spreading stain that transformed the rock forever, and the air that blew past her became the fell winds of another realm.
‘Twas not even close to how she would alter the world in fullness, but she raised one hand a second, capturing the wind on her fingers, and the mountains trembled and fell silent, fearing her gaze. Thus, the Goddess of Death relished one moment, two, before she spoke.
“Arise.”
The ground quaked. The earth heaved, and she saw houses and people scream. They fled, and a great form they had made their homes out of began to rise. It would take time—but Kasigna looked down at the village of Rheirgest as a giant began to move.
She turned and, in a moment, appeared in the peaks of the High Passes. Kasigna approached a great tomb of ice ever-frozen this high up.
“Once more, rise.”
The ice began to crack. The monsters and peoples of this desolate part of the mountain range feared little, but they cowered as Kasigna pointed down towards the lands that lay below the clouds.
Where she stepped, Kasigna left faint footprints in the earth and stone—yet they faded, inch by inch, as she passed. The Goddess of Death drew deep, breathing more deeply. Not for the strain of it reflected in her body.
Air. She was trying to taste…
Last of all, she reappeared on the battlefield and saw the Draugr, greatly battered, beginning to swarm across the Floodplains. Some had already met mortals, but they were directionless. Mindless.
So it had been said thrice: she was no general. Kasigna lifted her hand. This time, the Maiden closed her eyes and called not the simple things this world knew. She delved into her memory.
“A final time I say to you. Arise. Show them my nature.”
Now dead began to rise of a kind no mortal in this world had ever seen.
 
——
 
“…What is that?”
Olesm’s Ring of Sight let him see everything. His claws were shaking as he gripped his Kaalblade. The Draugr hadn’t even gotten past the first lines yet, but they kept coming. Now, the Antinium were bracing—but before they had even been fully hit, that woman had reappeared.
She was summoning more undead. Yet these—Olesm had no idea what these were.
Something crawled out of the ground, hundreds of feet long. It looked like a centipede, only it was made of bone—the ribcage of a snake? It was massive, tall as a house, and each end of its ribs dripped some glowing liquid that splashed to the ground. Olesm saw the droplets squirming and realized—the undead was birthing more horrors. The thing crawled down the slopes, twining past a hundred strange—
They looked like Facestealer. They had no heads. They were humanoid, but uncannily not that tall. Maybe only five feet—but headless, a dome of bone stopping with two slits for eyes at the top. Or nostrils? Whatever they had been in life, their bone-bodies stumbled forwards.
But their arms! Their arms were like the trunks of elephants that Olesm had seen in magic pictures. Black openings seemed to draw in the light.
Just ahead of Kasigna, great undead beetles with skull-faces, undead insects wearing crowns of bone, unburied themselves and fanned rotted wings. They flew past dead corpses sloughing layers of flesh off their body; strange zombies who shed flesh constantly—and regenerated more as Olesm watched.
“Now see my wrath. I shall offer mortality one more chance to serve. But first: my armies require command.”
Kasigna seemed to pause a moment, the young woman resting upon her staff. Olesm hoped that was it—but the worst was yet to come. The girl who wore Erin’s face seemed to him to look like Maviola as well.
And a younger Drake girl he’d had a crush on in Manus. She looked like every moment of youth he recalled. Her eyes lifted, and she looked nostalgic. He wanted to take her by the shoulders and kiss her and spend eternity young.
The [Strategos] refused. He shouted for the horror of it, demanding to be alive and in terror, and the defiance was a wail.
A ululation, a lament. Liscor’s army took it up, and the pained scream for the fallen, for defiance, hardened the nerves of those around them. Even the undead raised their heads and focused on Olesm’s army, as if taking note.
[War Cry: Eleleu].
Kasigna herself paused and looked at him approvingly, as if this were fit and meet to the moment. Then she closed her eyes and spoke:
 
“…When I was young
Eight swore a pact to me
Under blackest sun.
Now, once more
Arise with claw and grudge
Hag Queens of Aklat Vunn.”
 
The dead came back to life. No undead rose or crawled out of Kasigna’s memory. Olesm knew it. There was something different to the way they appeared. Images, ghostly bodies, souls slowly taking shape, then being given flesh by the power of the goddess.
Each one had mottled skin, foul and riddled with warts or gashes. The scepters and regalia they wore were filthy, deliberately mocking. Each one was tall as Tremborag, and they spoke, voices ringing out.
“Hail Kasigna.”
“Hail Death.”
“Hail the Three-in-One.”
“Hail the end of days.”
They knelt to her, then rose, more dead sprouting from the ground as they began casting magic. Then, and only then, did Kasigna look weary. She hunched, the Maiden vanishing into the Crone, who whispered.
“Kill the [Innkeeper] above all. Beware the fae, my old servants. Now—”
Her voice rasped with weariness as a figure stepped out from behind a piece of stone. Kasigna had appeared three times in the same spot. Even a fool could tell where she might reappear. The half-Elf might be a fool, but he was a brave one.
And he had a Dragonslayer’s sword.
Tolveilouka leapt on Kasigna from behind as one of the Hag Queens screeched a warning. The Three-in-One vanished as the undead champion slashed through where her head had been. He whirled—and she picked him up by the throat.
Kasigna inspected the half-Elf. She spoke, idly, as he struggled.
“I shall offer those kith and kin to my nature the first of my boons.”
She vanished—with Tolveilouka. Her new undead raced down to join the others surging towards the inn, but this time in ranks, directed by the eight Hag Queens, who uttered oaths in languages not of this world as they began to work their magic.
They had to die. So, more than one legend made their move at last, finally seeing the scope of their enemy. The time was now.
“To arms! For the Innkeeper of Liscor! Fight to the last!”
A shouting [Duelist] was racing into battle, sword drawn, with four children following him. Magic glittered at his fingertips, and Ijvani, Oom, Venitra, and Devail were staring up at the undead. Their kin—but Ijvani and Venitra were quailing, unable to believe their eyes.
A foe greater than their master? They looked to Az’kerash for guidance as his eyes glittered with a memory of who he had been. The man took another step forwards—
Vanished into the air with a cry of surprise.
Then the undead and the eight Hag Queens descended upon Liscor.
 
——
 
He didn’t know what was going on. But that was fine. A [Lieutenant] like him didn’t have to understand anything.
Gershal of Vaunt just had to hold the line. He was standing with Vaunt’s soldiers a rank deep on the eastern flank of the battle, and when he looked up, his heart quailed.
The men and women were whispering pleas to the Five Families. Pleas, grasping each other for support—they didn’t know how to pray.
The Antinium had taught him how, and Gershal felt the words coming to his lips, as if they had always been here.
“Please, someone. Anyone—”
He knew from the chatter on his speaking stone that there were heroes in the fighting. He’d seen Magnolia Reinhart wielding her aura like a blade, and those horrific Hag-things were already under attack.
“They’re casting spells! They’re—”
A scream from a Drake voice. Gershal turned his head and saw [Soldiers] of Manus hit by a spell.
