Then he tried to cast a spell to finish the recording—escape—and the sling snapped. Eldavin aimed his wand, searching for words to query the stranger, the guardian summoned by the magic, or do battle.
Then he realized he had no arm. The simulacrum granted life stared at the hole that had blown apart his very being. The stone kept going, shattering stone and magic and entire hallways as [Mages] screamed—and then whirled back into the sling.
The Halfling took aim again. He whirled the sling—snapped it and punched a hole straight through the Archmage of Memory’s heart. Then stopped, as if wondering why the man still fled.
A slight frown to replace that smile, and the guardian checked the sky, as if telling the time. It looked around, inspected the broken spell circle, the shaking Isle of Mages, and sighed wistfully as if wishing for another second. It caught the stone—looked up—
And vanished. The moons shone serenely on the world below, letting the world continue to exist.
Kasigna realized she had failed. Then she gripped her staff hard as Gnomes laughed softly, and she checked on her wounded servant.
The Goddess of Death stepped into the Floodplains once more. This time, she addressed the mortals with her offer.
 
——
 
“Reform the lines. House Veltras, your pikes are inadequate against Draugr charges. I am repositioning our spearlines. I want your pikes here, here, here, and here.”
Chaldion was giving orders even as the last Draugr died. A mistake would be to keep trying to destroy them with all forces present and not bracing for the next attack. The interior forces were taking them down, but the Grand Strategist was already moving the army around.
No one objected, even the Humans. They had divided among the left and right flanks due to their animosity—now, Chaldion saw both species rushing about. It still meant the north congregated on the eastern side, but they were shoring up weaknesses.
“Marshrangers will be roving. Comments?”
“None.”
There were things the south needed that the Humans did well—Chaldion hoped his underlings and Shirka and Duln were taking notes. Elements like Lady Buscrei’s independent Marshrangers provided a flexible, dangerous counter to many problems as opposed to Drake rigidity. Those Golems…
We lost ours, damn it.
Strange how you thought of the future and past when you should focus on the battle. This wasn’t just senility; even now, even as a [Strategist], you did have to just wait.
Not for long. The Grand Strategist was looking towards The Wandering Inn. The Draugr hadn’t even made it to the inn’s door. He didn’t like how they’d been able to push in and was drawing the formations closer to prevent a similar push, but Erin Solstice was safe.
In her gardens, even if the doors were open. She was…waiting. Standing there.
That alone told him the foe would be back. When she returned—he almost didn’t notice her at first.
She appeared in the same spot as last time, but so distant she was but a speck. Yet just like last time, his head began to turn. His body, something subconscious, knew her before his conscious mind did.
Just like last time, it was as if the world zoomed in on her face, such that even a whisper from that woman was like she was standing right before him. Enormity, that was it.
She filled the world.
First, Kasigna had come as the figure who delivered that wave of Draugr in a moment; contemptuous, a single word and gesture enough to express her disdain.
Now—she came differently. For it was no crone that Chaldion saw, a withered Human with lines and haggard, drooping flesh, that he found repulsive and alien to his understanding of age.
It was a woman. Her hair might begin to grey, but she still had color in auburn locks. Her shoulders were held high, and she seemed, to Chaldion, to be utterly familiar, though he had never met her in his life.
Ah, there you are. 
He realized she had always been there. With every assassination attempt, every slip upon the stairs, every sword cutting towards his heart in battle. No matter how inconsequential or grand—she was there.
Watching his final moments. Waiting for him to fall in glory or defeat, clawing for breath or exiting gracefully. Then…he would look up and take her hand.
_______ of Death.
Thus she stood there surveying the battlefield. Chaldion heard a sound.
“[Cov—]”
Then silence. Even Lord Xitegen seemed to understand that wasn’t going to work. Chaldion tried to inspect his foe, but then he realized something.
Only half of his vision actually saw her. He knew she was there; even a blind man like Laken Godart was turning her way. Yet one eye saw nothing.
[Appraisal]. Failure.
[True Seeing]. Failure.
[Eye of Mana]. Failure.
The blue gemstone in his eye socket was the most powerful eye he had for sight alone. It detected no mana about her, not even death magic. She had no levels or classes, or if she did…she was invisible.
She was not there, and yet, he felt like a piece of this world had clicked back into place. As if she had been missing so long.
___ess of Death. 
The knowledge of what she was was pressing on his mind. He knew it, but part of him was resisting it. Memetic threat—
The mortal armies had gone silent, the last Draugr crawling forwards as they were finally put to rest, but no one said a word as Kasigna stood there surveying it all. She didn’t look as vengeful as her previous incarnation. She seemed imperious. Like some cold judge.
Yet not without emotion. It glittered in her eyes. A proud self-possession. Even sympathy. Sympathy without empathy. The two were so simple, but empathy meant feeling what the other felt. Sympathy was an attempt to understand.
She was as alien as a Selphid was to a Gnoll. More. So she gazed down, weighing. Admitting, perhaps, that her minions had been insufficient. Then her eyes roamed upwards towards the clouds, which parted a second, as if in deference to her, and Chaldion looked up at the moons.
Regretfully, a second. The Goddess of Death stared up at the sky without a word—until the line of light shot from the inn and touched her.
A bolt of lightning. The thunderclap was quiet, somehow, yet it illuminated Kasigna, and the white shawl around her shoulders rustled.
She did not recoil as the ground around her tore apart, nor react how anything real would. But Chaldion saw her grimace.
She can be hurt. Though he realized—she grimaced as if a bug had bit her. Then her eyes rose, and he saw it once more.
Malevolence, now. The moment of tranquility, grief, introspection, analysis, became rage once more.
The old crone stood there, leaning on her staff, bitter, furious, and when she spoke, it was to them all.
“I am your ___.”
The word censored itself. The moons shone down above her, and Chaldion thought he saw two cones of light illuminating Kasigna. Like a warning. Even the dead goddess paused and stared up balefully. Her voice rasped.
“That mortal girl is mine. You, who stand here. Know your death as she warns you. I am your ___. _______ me.”
What was she saying? No one from Chaldion to Halrac to Lady Bethal to the [Soldiers] could make it out. Yet now, Chaldion saw movement in the audience.
The Goblins were beginning to shake. Their eyes were fixed on Kasigna, and whether they could articulate it or not—her gaze swung across them dismissively. Rags was having to pull back Redscar, and Thunderfur had a hold of his arm.
It was all part of something larger. Chaldion was trying to fit it together with the things only he knew. Piece together a great truth, but there was no time. For Kasigna held out a hand.
“If you understand it not, then hear this: join me. Serve me. I offer you no salvation. I demand no cause save my existence. I am Kasigna. For the first mortals to serve, I shall make them my new heralds of my return.”
She was actually trying to suborn them. Yet even here, Chaldion felt like he was reading a book with half the words removed.
Why would anyone simply follow her? Why did she act as if they would? What…was…she?
Perhaps even Kasigna realized her words were incomprehensible. So she spoke onwards.
“I am death itself. Every spirit who passes through my graven halls is mine. For you who take my hand, know that I offer the rarest of my gifts. Reincarna—”
This time, the bolt of lightning died after it barely left the inn, just splintered into nothingness. It was the third Erin had shot; Chaldion hadn’t even noticed the second. The Goddess of Death wished to speak and refused to let anything gainsay her. But the [Witch of Second Chances] was equal to that.
Even Kasigna’s speech that filled the ears suddenly became less all-consuming. For what jarred Chaldion’s mind, made him cover his earholes and turn, was the laughter.
Erin Solstice was laughing. No, cackling like she was possessed. She stood in her garden, and her laughter was high and wild, like a shriek, then low and insane. A bottle fell from her hands.
Cackle Brew.
She laughed at the goddess like only few mortals could. With insanity, and Kasigna’s eyes darkened, and she stopped speaking.
Laughter.
The Three-in-One did not vie with Erin to be heard. Thusly, the mortal armies woke up, as if breaking free from an enchantment. More than one head nodded at Erin; several pointed hats raised softly among the forces of Riverfarm.
“I see the target. Anyone want me to take a shot? I doubt I can do much if a damn lightning bolt failed.”
Lady Buscrei murmured into the speaking stone. A voice—Lulv—growled back.
“Where’s our irregular?”
He meant the warrior of winter. Now, the armies were bristling once more, preparing to attack.
Kasigna was displeased. Her face contorted into a snarling grimace, her nose furrowing as her face seemed to sink into itself. Becoming more and more the vengeful crone—until she stopped.
Until she went cold and quiet. The mother returned, the impassive judge, locking eyes with the [Innkeeper] laughing hysterically, cackling in her face. Chaldion had a thought.
The more dangerous of the two is that one. The Goddess of Death gazed across the Floodplains and slowly raised her staff, as if carrying a great burden.
“I name you, Erin Solstice. Suffer, as all my foes do. You are worthy of my contempt. Now: die. Witness, mortals, my ire.”
No more speeches. The staff rose, and Chaldion’s sense of danger peaked. At least one arrow sped through the dark night, but the goddess paid no heed to them. She lifted what seemed to be the sky itself over her head—then struck the ground.
Once more, the dead arose.
A snarling Draugr unburied itself again, and Chaldion’s scales prickled. There were no dead bodies over there. We swept the area! Was she creating these Draugr?
He saw, via his gemstone eye, more bodies pulling themselves out of the ground. But they were all…Draugr?
For some reason, that actually surprised him and let him down. Was this woman who claimed to be death herself so limited? Just Draugr? It felt ridiculous to th—
“No.”
The Grand Strategist of Pallass fell silent. His lungs halted a second, and his heart spasmed in his chest. He fell back a bit, stumbling into his map of the battlefield. It was magical and could accurately show the actual positions of troops. Right now, most of the map was blue and green, indicating allies and their own forces.
But while it could not ‘see’ Kasigna, it had noted the Draugr as distinct red blobs. Now—as a [Tactician] reached out to steady Chaldion, the Drake looked down and saw the map slowly changing.
Red was appearing all over the base of the High Passes. The [Tactician] did not have Chaldion’s magical eyes. She looked up, and Chaldion’s lips moved.
“Capstones. They’re—”
He looked across the Floodplains as the defiant cheering and shouting of the defenders stopped. This time—the hills themselves seemed to move.
“Dead gods and Ancestors.”
Who said that? One of the officers? Chaldion looked up and saw the smile on Kasigna’s lips. The mother pointed.
The exact same undead, each one Draugr. The exact same gesture. But this time—
A hundred thousand Draugr pulled themselves out of the earth, more than every [Soldier] around The Wandering Inn. Kasigna’s lips twisted with contempt as she looked at the [Innkeeper].
A great howling wind became a screaming face, a storm of faces that blew across the Floodplains. The stone died and turned to pale crystal around her as Kasigna drew more fully on her power and Kasignel. A hundred thousand Draugr—her hand flickered for a second, though, and she stared at withered skin that rotted away to bone—glared—and it became ancient flesh again.
Kasigna paused a moment, leaning on her staff, and the dying stone stopped changing color, the wind ceased screaming. Yet the hundred thousand Draugr—raised their heads, glowing eyes beholding the living.
Then she pointed, and they charged. Kasigna gave a different order.
“Slaughter everything.”
Once more, she vanished.
 
——
 
It was overwhelming. The roar of the Draugr began shaking the Floodplains themselves. They almost outnumbered the living!
Draugr. Morale began breaking the instant their numbers were visible.
“We must flee the field. Lord Veltras, give the signal to retreat. Lord Veltras? Please—”
One of the Human officers lost his nerve. Tyrion Veltras was just trying to take in how many were coming. He had mustered armies like this before only once. Against the Goblin King, and never led one of this scope.
This army could wipe out every force I have been part of—the field is lost.
He knew it, but he did not respond right away. He could not. They had to fight. The Draugr would overrun Liscor and destroy every city if they went north or south—the dead that would rise in their wake would create a horde to end all of Izril.
“Summon the Five Families! Tell them to rally at Invrisil!”
He whirled and shouted at Jericha. She looked at him with wide eyes, scrambling for a scroll. Tyrion Veltras turned, barking into the speaking stone.
“Hold your ground! Riders, with me! We sortie!”
“Primera, load the Golemslayer volley. On my mark.”
Lord Xitegen’s voice was also deceptively calm. There was a babble of Drake voices requesting withdrawal as well, but Tyrion was busy trying to keep his people from fleeing.
They might have in another moment. He saw [Soldiers] looking back towards the inn where the magic door was, or just south, away from this enormity of death. Then he heard a voice.
“No retreat. We are the guardians of the Walled Cities. Now. I am Chaldion of Pallass. Using my capstone Skill.”
Lord Xitegen glanced up as he looked around. He bared his teeth as Tyrion plotted a course, trying to find a place for his riders where they wouldn’t be encircled and murdered in a moment. The Draugr were spreading out; this time, they would fight back. Xitegen spoke out of the corner of his mouth.
