She did like him. This level of creation and control would have taxed Kasigna’s attention, hence his presence. Yet…Drevish spoke after a long moment.
“Why Erin Solstice? Why one girl? I can tell you she isn’t even close to my level when I died, not yet. She’s no [King]. Even among the living, there are worse foes. If any of them had a chance against you.”
Kasigna didn’t seem displeased by the careful questioning.
“This is true. Yet she offended me. So she dies. I am not some pragmatic god like Tamaroth, who hides his fangs, or a schemer like Emerrhain, Architect. My foes, no matter how great or how few, do not wait for my vengeance.”
He supposed this, too, was unto godliness. But the Architect…
…he did not stop working. He did not stop his labors which strained his very soul. His lips moved slowly, and he spoke as if pondering something.
“I should feel upset or object. I do not, Kasigna. I have known loyalty and admiration so great it is a kind of blinding. I acknowledge it in death. I knew love and respect for a man I would have set upon a throne made of the world. This…is not that.”
Even that loyalty would have ended if he had seen his king, the King of Destruction, commit a heinous act. He would have voiced his complaints or objections loudly, and he had done so a thousand thousand times.
But this? He knew he should object, should ask her to stay her hand. Should shout at her. Drevish had been a fiery man. He had looked the Emperor of Sands in the eye when asked to forswear the King of Destruction and spat at his feet before the blade fell. But the ghost…kept working.
“Loyalty.”
Kasigna mused over the word as she sat there, resting before her labors. She almost sounded amused.
“This is not loyalty, Architect. This is obedience. You are dead. You are mine.”
“Oh. I see.”
She nodded, and Drevish kept working. So that was it. There was nothing more to say. This was what gods were.
 
——
 
So the Winter Solstice passed. Minute by minute, hour by hour. Each moment, Kasigna drew in as much strength as she could hold. Each second advantaged her more. She was waiting. Waiting…
Until she sensed Tamaroth and Norechl flee and hissed. She reached a hand up—but they had timed it too well. She did not have the time to pursue, and they had made a truly mad gambit.
“They opened a door? To where? Fools!”
They might be dead, torn to shreds by another pantheon or…she worried more about what might follow if the door wasn’t sealed. Kasigna rose, putting them out of her mind.
Time.
Now…she lifted her hand, and her very being split. This was one of the powers that defined her. Three-in-One was not just a title.
It was an act.
It was time. The Winter Solstice was waning.
So she reached out and—stopped—time. How she wished she could savor the expressions on the faces of her foes. They thought they understood how to best her. Thought that a day was something you could outlast.
She had done this dance a million million times. She knew countless tricks. Kasigna halted the passage of time with great effort.
It was not easy, even for her at the zenith of all her hoarded power. She did not stop all time. Just a part of it. She halted the passage of seasons, the movement of stars and sun, synced to the moons and the nature of days.
She left the other aspects of time unchanged; even if she wanted to, she doubted she had the strength to hold all of time still for more than a moment.
What annoyed Kasigna was her weakness. This singular act exhausted her greatly. Even now, she was weaker than she had been after any other defeat in her memory.
In the lands of the dead, before taking the last ghosts, she had not even had the power to unmake everything until the end. The more strength each dead god gained, the more of their true natures revealed themselves.
Even Cauwine, the famous warrior, was doubtless far weaker. Limited by her power. Kasigna was panting after her first great act, but she was now holding time still. The irony was not lost on her; she would have to hurry to finish all her great works today.
Three Kasignas split from the first, walking out of her until the original had vanished. A simple trick at the core of her nature; possible now that she had the strength.
Careful. Kasigna was no miserly counter to ration her power; she was unused to it. But even she had calculated that waiting until the end of the Solstice, and thus its zenith, preserved her power and more than made up for stopping time.
She still needed more. Far, far more if she wanted an actual body or wished to empower her servants or…wrest control back from the arbiter of Isthekenous’ system.
Ghosts were not ‘power’ in the same way as food was to mortals. Their souls were reknitting part of Kasigna’s being, but it was not so reductive as that.
Power was places. Power was worshippers. Power was an idea, belief. A name. She had multiple schemes. So, she knew that her one mortal servant, her first one, would sense time had stopped and enact her first stage of the plan.
Eldavin served two gods. In time, he would learn which one to heed.
She had no need to appear before him. Indeed—Kasigna did not bother with an appearance against the least of her foes.
Erin Solstice could wait. In a moment, three Kasignas strode through the world. Two breached gates in the lands of the dead and tore through to other dimensions. Even Kasigna had a hard time ‘seeing’ through the many dimensions in this world. Breaching to the regular mortal plane was hard.
Seeing into the layers of reality over every continent in some way, like the Crossroads of Izril or Baleros’ own mess or another continent’s other aspects—difficult, tedious. Even Wistram was partially veiled to Kasigna, and that was doubtless why Emerrhain had skulked around there so long, ferreting out its secrets.
Worst of all, there were protections mortals could make against even divine intervention, whether they knew it or not. More unwitting consequences of Isthekenous’ system that they would have surely removed…well, maybe. It was useful to have a mortal who could escape even the eyes of gods.
Today, at least, she knew how to breach two such barriers and did. Kasigna was after the source of enough authority to take the board in one move.
So she divided herself and appeared in three places, each of which would win her the war before it even began.
Hellste.
Diotria.
Rhir.
 
——
 
Only one realm was truly and fully ‘mortal’. Kasigna opened her eyes and breathed air, though her body was fake. She stood in the darkness upon the waters, appearing midway across the continent, between the Blighted Kingdom and the Demon’s lands.
Even she hesitated, once. Two other Kasignas beheld lands unkept by gods.
One of the Kasignas grimaced in distaste and spoke: “Kneel, for you know me.”
Another stared across the foreign lands, taking in how they had changed, and said: “Strange.”
The last of them took a step onto Rhir.
 
——
 
“Earthquake. The entire continent is shaking!”
Nereshal burst into the war room seconds behind the Blighted Queen. The Blighted King had already appeared and sat heavily in the chair as the room was secured, panting heavily. Lord Hayvon appeared at a dead run with more [Generals] and officers. Othius sat as the others spoke, clutching at his chest.
Heart fluttering.
“The Deaths?”
“They never hit their own lands. We can see the mountains shaking on their side. It’s even worse where they are. The origin is—”
“The root of Rhir’s corruption!”
Othius spat. He didn’t have to guess. The place monsters spawned from, the lands of the Antinium where even Demons feared to go—
“Monarch’s Pass. Redouble our eyes and active sensor spells on it. If anything comes out of there—we must know.”
Lord Hayvon was ready. Grim and watchful as the Blighted Queen demanded her warriors approach the earthquake’s center to investigate.
What now? I am not prepared. The Earthers are not ready!
The Blighted King hoped whatever it was tore the Demons apart. Yet the quaking just got worse and worse. Most places in the Blighted Kingdom were quake-proof, but he did not know what was going on. That—he feared.
 
——
 
The Demons were experiencing far worse quakes. It was coming from underground, exceptionally near to their feet.
“[Land of Paradise]!”
A single half-Elf calmed eight miles of land with a spell, but the rest of the world kept shaking. The Demons were evacuating the cities and settlements nearest to the quakes.
“[My People, Take Wing]!”
Demons began flying as Serinpotva joined Silvenia, and the two Deaths led more Demons away from the places where shaking was caving in the earth itself.
“It’s coming from the heart of the Antinium Hives! Is it a monster or something else?”
Czautha’qshe had the last of the Giants ready—but even they couldn’t hold a continent together. At least, not for long.
It took too long for the Djinni to find an answer. She dove into the bedrock, towards where she knew the Antinium guarded their Hives.
Normally, the Bard, Mirrex, was always there, even if the Demons appeared unannounced, the only guard they needed. Instead of him—Czautha saw a single worker-form Antinium.
It spoke with the voice of one of their War Queens.
“Final stand. Preparing for a final stand. The foe is waking up.”
It repeated the warning as the Djinni stared through the tunnels. She swore she heard music and wondered if it was Mirrex. She hesitated, about to go and see what the foe was with her own eyes—but her very essence, magic itself, was pulling at her. Telling her to flee. So she rose like a comet and called a warning to the other Deaths.
They might have to evacuate Rhir. Only Silvenia was laughing, and she called out as she readied her spells.
“And here I thought nothing would happen! I thought it was all that inn! To the end of Rhir!”
Then—the trembling abruptly ceased, and the Death of Magic whirled, ready for anything. But what came next was a silence that was too long. For what was happening, though even the Deaths and Blighted Kingdom did not know, was—
Negotiations.
 
——
 
Two Kasignas found themselves in the midst of negotiations. The third saw only endless war, heard only oaths of vengeance.
One Kasigna found herself—disconcerted. Diotria was not what she imagined it to be. Nor what the goddess herself had planned.
The other Kasigna who spoke in good faith was the most confident. For she knew who lay here, or so she thought. Her offer was simple.
“Do not rise for battle, if you even could. Which of the younger ones are you? Come. Take my hand, and let us forge a pact together. I shall lend you the strength to wake fully.”
She whispered into the dreams of the slumbering half-deity. Flesh was power. The quakes that had begun, and the animosity and fear, befit Kasigna; of course this one would fear destruction from a potential rival.
However, they were reasonable beings. Most of them, even Kasigna, could form an alliance. Thus they began to negotiate. It was—difficult—communicating in Rhir.
Everything from the people to the land itself was corrupted, even their levels and classes. Tinged by the body of a deity such that Kasigna had little authority here, and her words were spoken as of one talking from one end of a long tunnel. And her counterpart was sleeping, muddled.
Kasigna did not approach further than the shore, despite the challenges. She patiently spoke. Listened.
Two other Kasignas were encountering—difficulties—of their own.
 
——
 
The one in Hellste paused as she began to battle for dominion of this place. She snarled as she felt pain and wondered if she had underestimated the challenge of subduing this realm. Anger. Fury. Disdain. All of it was broken up by confusion. She stared at something apart from Hellste itself.
“What is…that? Bug men?”
It looked like a new realm growing in the middle of…
 
——
 
Another was growing increasingly wary. She demanded answers, but the new guardians of Diotria…were old and new.
Most belonged here, but they did not recognize or know her. The new guardian…was dangerous. There was something of the divine about him. She realized he had been harboring souls and snarled. Worse—that fool, Emerrhain, had disrupted things here too!
Negotiations began to break down.
 
——
 
In Rhir, the aspect of Kasigna made an ultimatum. She slashed a hand as a single tremor in the earth heralded anger, even indignation.
“No. Serve me.”
She would not treat a half-divine child as an equal. Nor split her power. That, at least, even Drevish could have told Kasigna was her flaw:
She was no charismatic leader, nor did she compromise. She gave nothing. Acceded to no one. Kasigna had assumed the other, slumbering god was desperate.
The Goddess of Death had forgotten they were all prideful.
The negotiations failed. 
The trembling halted abruptly. Kasigna drove her staff into the ground and hissed.
“Then die dreaming, you worthless wretch!”
She poured an ounce of her power into the ground to turn dreams into true death. A blow that killed everything between her and the insolent worm who writhed once and fell silent, unable to even wake.
—The counterblow was swift. Kasigna tried to stride out of Rhir only to realize the very air had locked her in. The land kept this aspect of her, and she hissed and tried to wade into the surf.
The first Elder Creler unburied itself out of a piece of Rhir both Demons and the Blighted Kingdom had missed. It screamed as its lesser kin swarmed towards Kasigna, a single order in its mind. The Goddess of Death looked up, and the ravening mind of Crelers tasted fear.
—Even so. The effort took time and displeased her. By the time the corpses were staining the waters, even their unborn eggs blackened with death, the Goddess of Death was furious.
A waste of energy and time.
And the other two aspects were now fighting as well.
Both of them. Neither Hellste nor Diotria acknowledged their new mistress. Kasigna’s third aspect made her way from Rhir towards her next objective: vengeance. She was too busy about her plots to notice a single presence slip across Rhir as she and the sleeping god fought. Kasigna had might and death and the power to walk the realms.
Cauwine had a warrior’s grace. Subtlety.
 
——
 
“It sleeps, you know. She and my mother struck each other blows; you may have an easier time of it. Though this battle is lost as you stand.”
Mirrex plucked his strange harp, set with a thousand unique threads, and it should have killed her. The Bard saw the woman grimace.
“You fight better than the ‘Slayer’, strange musician.”
Muster for battle. The Antinium were redeploying as this stranger appeared in their Hives. She seemed—cautious. Speaking quickly.
“You are no Demon. You are a second one.”
