“Talking won’t work, Czautha. I’m pretty sure that one’s preparing to strike. Which nation are these two from? I lose track of my enemies.”
Rhisveri was jerking with rage, but he was aiming a killing spell at the Death of Magic’s chest. She has to have magical protections. Can’t use ray spells—have to attack differently here.
“The Great Knight of Ailendamus sends her regards.”
Visophecin was trying to lower Rhisveri’s arm. Silvenia slowly and ostentatiously drew a wand as Czautha tensed. The two groups drew closer, closer—they were on the exact same path. A killing light was in both Wyrm’s and half-Elf’s eyes.
Then—everything stopped. Rhisveri stumbled. Silvenia spat a spell out her mouth, then froze it in midair as Czautha and Visophecin both aimed at each other, sword and finger—and halted.
The [Greater Teleport] spell came to a dead standstill. The four immortals all turned instantly, and Silvenia spoke.
“Well, that was impossible.”
“What did you do?”
Rhisveri kept his wand trained on her face, but she was casting a spell, analyzing things. He hesitated—did the same. Not even she should be able to do this.
Four beings, each one ancient of days, living legends and terrors to their foes—if their foes even knew their true natures. Each one bound for Liscor for their own reasons.
A woman walked out of the frozen world, smiling as she lifted a sword. All four looked at her, and Silvenia narrowed her eyes.
“She has no level, no mana, and she’s not alive.”
“Correct. My name is Cauwine. And you are some of the greatest warriors of this world. I have an offer to make you.”
The Goddess of Last Stands laughed as Rhisveri glanced at the two Demons, at Visophecin, who looked unnerved—and then snarled back.
“Out of my way. Are you with that other one?”
“Yes. And no. Hear me out first. I have an offer for both your nations, or one alone. I offer you victory in exchange for worship. My mother craves no nations. I? I admire both of yours.”
She had to know her audience. Prideful Wyrm. Lucifen. Deaths and bane of the mortal world.
The half-Elf who would burn cities to cinders, and the Djinni who would never be chained again—
They traded one look, and Silvenia flicked her wand up.
“I say let’s kill her. Serinpotva is the one who negotiates, and we left her to guard home. Any objections, Czautha?”
“Be. Careful.”
On Ailendamus’ side, Rhisveri was darting looks of fury at Silvenia, but he was remembering what Erin Solstice had said. One of them? On par with the one called Kasigna?
“Half-Elf. I will refrain from killing you until this one dies for daring to impede me.”
“Agreed.”
All four aimed at Cauwine, who looked…not miffed. More—delighted. She smiled hugely, revealing a canine, like a child with candy.
“Believe me, warriors of the current age. My help is nothing to be scorned. But proof…you have seen my mother’s power, and hers is the more alluring, I admit. Now though: see what I offer. I will try to kill none of you. But I make no promises. I have few souls to me, and my mother has half of all. But I chose carefully.”
What was she talking about? Silvenia yawned—and a flicker of magic passed across the frozen realm of the [Greater Teleport] spell as she pointed a toe. It struck Cauwine—the being grimaced, and Rhisveri copied how Silvenia had done it.
“Argh, if only you knew how to fight my kind, it would be an amusing fight. But then—I lack my great strength and weapons to suit me. Today, of all days, try this part of me. You should know her well.”
She lifted her sword, and Visophecin and Rhisveri struck as well. But before their spells reached Cauwine in this strange dimension, the woman casually swung her sword and cut both spells in half.
She caught herself, flicked her hair back with one hand, and wore the biggest smile of delight. The same being stood there, Rhisveri thought, but wearing someone else’s face. Like Sophridel.
Only, she became the woman with turquoise hair and a smile like a blade itself. Her eyes were cut geometry, and she held the sword, suddenly, as if nothing else mattered in the world.
“Ah. Now that’s interesting.”
The Death of Magic opened her eyes wide as her smile became a grin. She floated back a step, and Czautha grunted as Visophecin stared a moment, then repositioned. Rhisveri swallowed hard as he recognized the woman.
It could not be.
It shouldn’t be. Erin Solstice had said she was dead.
Yet…and yet…
Zeladona, [Blademistress of the Ancients], saluted the four immortals with a look of sheer, rapturous delight. A smile mixed with Cauwine’s.
“Ah. Ahahaha. It was worth dying for this.”
She beamed, and Rhisveri snarled—until he realized she’d already cut him. Cut him with a smile and a laugh. Then she attacked, and the four were fighting betwixt time and space.
 
——
 
Plans and schemes. Kasigna was not blind to her daughter stopping the four in that other dimension. But she accepted the gesture of filial piety.
As the battle raged across the Floodplains, Kasigna enacted one more scheme. Always another one. One aspect of hers drew as many souls as she could touch into neutral ground.
Space not yet made into Kasignel. A kind of aether between any realm. It was not easy, nor should it be possible to do to mortals or else she would have simply snatched up the likes of Erin Solstice and had done with it.
Yet these ones…belonged to her in some small way. Their classes, their natures, drew from her. So it was only right that Kasigna called the greatest of [Necromancers] and their get to her.
She captured almost every one. Even ones who were…sleeping.
They rose out of dark waters as this realm took shape, not quite ghosts, not quite living. Souls whose identities were who they were and saw themselves as.
A snarling half-Elf who landed, sword drawn, then took note of his surroundings and set himself warily.
A mortal man dressed in the robes of an Archmage, rapier also drawn, spells tingling upon his fingertips.
A coffin shedding water from a dark sea, which swung open to reveal a sleeping Gnoll, adorned in ancient raiments.
A bewildered Naga—a Gorgon twisting around and then flinching away from the others.
[Necromancers]. All of them. The greatest or the ones she found most pleasing. Not just ones with classes; Kasigna called all beings to her. Az’kerash and Tolveilouka were staring at each other with recognition and disdain, but wary communication—and the lesser [Necromancers] were confused.
The sleeping Gnoll began to wake, as if puzzled. But Kasigna was whispering.
“All but one I wished. The boy is…”
She frowned, as if brushing cobwebs from her face, but found not the one she wanted. Nor did she take Ama; that one was too weak and sworn against her.
Pisces, for better or worse, was in a place less visible to Kasigna.
Everyone else—less so. Kasigna addressed them all, looking down into deep waters as if waiting for one more.
“I am Death. You, who invoke my authority though you knew it not, I offer you my aegis. Take my hand and be counted as the first of my heralds.”
It was a simple offer. She had more to make this day.
As one aspect of Kasigna entreated the masters of death, another stepped slowly across the world and halted on the borders of a land filled with gold and death. Paradise, some called it.
A silent king awaited her on a throne. Kasigna’s feet trod upon Khelt’s sacred sand, and he shivered.
Perhaps no deal would be struck, but she would attempt them all. For those who scorned her, only wrath remained. Kasigna addressed Tolveilouka, Az’kerash, the other necromancers who asked questions and demanded answers…and looked down.
“Yes. Even you. Know me and take my hand, and I shall elevate even you who call yourself…”
Her lips twisted.
“…‘Mother of Graves’.”
Thus, Az’kerash and Tolveilouka looked down as a final form moved in the dark waters, and even the Necromancer of Terandria hesitated. Kasigna just held out her hand.
Wearily.
Impatiently. Did they think she was blind? Did that single fae or Erin Solstice think to outwit her? She could admit the game had setbacks, admit where she erred and was bested.
Yet the Crone had no end of wrath. She pointed down as she raised her staff one more time, though it wearied her. So long as her deadlands remained—her eyes were black pits.
“I offer wrath. I offer kindness. Choose! To those who have scorned me, know this: my hand shall find you all!”
Then she drove her staff down across the world, and the dead began to rise. Not just in the Floodplains. But wherever she saw those who had refused her hand.
Across the world, Earthers trying to outwait that dark night felt a shiver run down their spines. Then the dead arose, and they beheld Kasigna’s wrath.
All of them.
