The commentary was coming from six men who were watching the Draugr charging, despite the danger. Two were squatting, another had been smoking. They were not part of the Watch. Or the battle.
Credit where it was due: the [Innkeeper] hadn’t asked. Debts had been called and squared. They were quits. The Invrisil lads had made their choice, and see what had happened?
That Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings were in Liscor at all was just business. It was a good place to be. They were putting down roots. Soon, the Watch wouldn’t be so kindly towards them.
“Not a thing for a Brother to fight. Undead. It’s not our job.”
“Too right.”
The others agreed. One fiddled with his cap, then hastily put it back on. They stared at the gigantic mouth of broken teeth roaring as the Draugr slowed.
It must know there were people in the houses. It smashed a hand into a door, and the wood bowed in.
Not a Brother moved. Then one spat.
“There’s little boys n’ girls down this street. Folk pay for protection money.”
“From thieves n’ the lot. Not this.”
“Does it matter?”
Fair point of order. It did not. One of the Brothers tossed off a jacket and adjusted some suspenders. Another put on some brass knuckles. The men tossed down their caps, and one whistled.
The Draugr turned. It noticed the six Brothers. They were not Crimshaw, or Normen, even. The [Innkeeper] of Liscor hadn’t ever met them; only one had ever visited her inn.
They were brawlers. Not a single one had fought a real monster. They’d punched in heads, won fights that had gone to the ground and to the death—but this thing?
It came at them as they spread out. A rushing wall of muscle that ignored the first [Dirty Trip] trying to knock it down. Shards of glass and metal flung at its face struck its eyes, and it didn’t blink.
It didn’t need to see nor—
Three men went flying as one leapt on its neck with a garrote. He got the wire around, and it sliced into the flesh until the thing swung him off, ripping the wire and tearing the Brother’s own flesh.
The Draugr stomped a foot as one of the men rolled away and got [Back on Your Feet] in a second. It ate three punches from spiked knuckles to its ribs, so hard the blows tore away flesh. It didn’t even hesitate—
 
——
 
Flashes. That was what they heard. Screams. Each other’s voices. The knowledge each man was there, tackling the thing by the legs, heaving it off its feet, picking the other fellow up—
Not running.
If a single one of them ran, the others might realize it was lost and take to their heels. They were all waiting for the other fellow to do it first. Flashes, that was the battle.
Draugr on the ground, tearing at one man’s leg as the others tried to stomp and kick its face in. Someone smashing a brick again and again into its mouth until its teeth were half knocked out—and it bit the brick in half.
Punching it from all sides as it held one man up and twisted—the crack—
Beating it with a piece of metal until its neck was sideways. Seeing it still moving—
One of them broke his brass knuckles after eighty punches to the thing’s head. Even then, he kept mashing in the grey flesh and pieces of skull until he was punching brains. It kept jerking until another Brother got up.
“Out of the way—”
He buried two knives in the head and kicked them deep. Only then did it stop moving. Only then did the men still on their feet collapse.
The brawl…no, the battle against the single Draugr had taken twenty-two minutes. Twenty-two minutes for the thing to die. The entire street was ashambles. Two doors broken in from where it had tried to go for other people—flagstones torn up. A metal railing had been ripped out for one of them to use as a club.
One Draugr finally lay dead—no, twitching. The Brother with the brass knuckles staggered over, and another one looked around.
“Hammer. Sledgehammer. One of you…”
He trailed off.
The Brother with the knives had slashed his fingers down to the quick on his own garrote string. He only stared at the dripping blood and his mangled fingers now. The one asking for a sledgehammer had a broken leg. The one with the knuckles had a nose mashed entirely flat.
Three men were lying on the ground. One of them might be alive. The Brother with the broken leg hobbled over to check. Another one had his neck twisted around—the third had been eaten up to the stomach.
They were done. In silence, the men stood there as the Draugr finally stopped twitching as a boot rammed the blades through the remains of its brain.
They had no idea how the battle was going. Their entire world had become this street. By now, anyone alive had fled further into the city.
“Shomot’s dead.”
One of the men spoke curtly, and the other two nodded. One tried to fix his nose.
“Healer. Let’s find…”
They had to carry their friend with a broken leg. They kept staring over their shoulders as they limped down the street, waiting for the Draugr to get back up. As far as they could see—Liscor’s walls were still holding. But there were horns blasting all the way from the east gate. Bad news.
The three men limped down street after street, looking for someone to help them. It occurred to them they might be going the wrong way; the civilians had to have someone who could set a nose and see to the wounds.
Some streets were eerily empty, not touched by the fighting. In a few places, a dead Draugr or the ruins of terrible fighting said it all.
Most of them must still be held at the walls. Yet the battle continued, and the Brothers could only see what their eyes told them.
Hear what desperate [Guards] and the people allied to the armies outside were saying.
One of them found a speaking stone on a dead Gnoll, neck broken, and pocketed it. They listened as they kept searching for anyone.
“—retreating. A second Giant is coming down the High Passes!”
“Kill the Hag. Kill the H—”
“—traitors!”
It was a jumble of voices. The Brothers knew almost none of the people, but the one with the broken nose whispered at the end.
“What’s gone on, do you think?”
“Always a traitor.”
One of the others commented. Whoever was giving orders on the speaking stone was grim, and they thought they actually knew him.
“This is Commander Olesm. We will hold the line till the last, but they will pass us. The inn is in danger. Can anyo—”
Silence. The Brothers looked down, but the speaking stone had gone dead. How had the battle gone? Was anyone winning or losing? 
…It didn’t sound like they were winning. The Brothers walked on, realizing they might not know what happened until the end.
They found some civilians cowering down one street and pointed them towards safety. The poor idiots were all kids; young teens or young adults. Some had swords; they must’ve fancied they could be part of the battle.
“She—she killed a cloud. She killed the sky.”
One of them was babbling. The Brothers tried to make sense of what that meant. Who was ‘she’? But the shell shocked survivors had no answers.
“We’ll find out if anyone’s living tomorrow. Come on.”
By now, they were looting each body they came across. Not for gold or anything but a potion for their friend’s nose. He was having trouble breathing; he might die. A fellow could die of blood running down his throat.
It was urgent, but they finally reached the main thoroughfare leading down to the north gate and stopped.
“Ah. I think we’re losing, boys.”
Dead Flying Antinium littered the ground. The Watch was drawing back, clearly trying to reform lines as undead fought forwards. Most of them were bottlenecked as a second wave of Free Antinium, the Watch, and even civilians threw themselves forwards. The Brothers heard a cry.
“The Hag is coming! Stop them! Stop them or all of Liscor is—”
Once more, the undead came through the gates. The Brothers, the three men, just watched like spectators at one of those plays. A cruel one. They heard a single cry in the night as something huge pushed through the gates. The men looked up at the Hag Queen of Aklat Vunn. A monster no man should have to face. It didn’t even occur to them they could do a thing as she strode forwards, pushing with no regard to her safety to kill. Then they heard a voice.
“—Halfseekers. Charge!”
Four adventurers ran down that street past crumpled Flying Antinium. Like some damn heroes out of a story, one would say later. A giant Raskghar, a Drake—no, a second Selphid with two wands, a Drowned Man, and a half-Giant.
They met the Hag Queen at the gates, and the Brothers backed away. It wasn’t their fight. They wavered as they fell back.
“Can’t garrote that thing—”
“Lost my hat back there.”
They were squaring their shoulders, about to do something stupid, and trying to find the courage. But they were bit players on this dreadful Winter Solstice.
Besides. They saw some undead pass the Watch, smash through a barrier and the Free Antinium—and break for the city center. The Antinium closed the gap; the Watch tried to give chase, but the Hag Queen pointed a finger, and blades cut some brave damn Watchmen to pieces.
Bravest Watch the Brothers had ever seen. Man’s honor on it. But they died, and the undead came on, running now.
Straight for the civilians. The three Brothers halted in the street. They counted.
“Four of ‘em.”
That was all one said. Liscor could fight. Even civvies would fight at the last. There had to be some high-level people in the crowd.
…It’d be a slaughter amongst slaughters. But—the man with the broken nose spat blood and just looked ahead.
Four Draugr were running down the street.
Four.
Someone began humming. It was an empty tune. Another man felt for a hat he’d lost. They could run, but somehow, each man knew the Draugr’d just tear them to pieces if they took to their heels. Might as well make a good show of it.
“I hope they remember us.”
One of them said it. He meant the cityfolk. Maybe they’d remember it. Put up a little sign. Or raise a glass. That was all you could ask for.
Men with no names anyone cared to remember lined up shoulder to shoulder. They began to walk down the street like this was their city. Like they owed anything to it.
Men. Lads. Boys…slowed as someone extended a piece of wood and blocked them. They halted. One almost tipped their cap.
“Three civilians don’t belong here. Get behind me. I’m an adventurer.”
That was all the old Drake said. She was limping, one leg bandaged up and bloody, and leaning on her spear. The tip was burning, and she stared ahead.
Where she’d come from, they didn’t know. The three Brothers looked at the old [Spearmaster], the Guildmistress of Liscor’s Guild, and one tried to move.
The spear held him in place.
“Keep ‘em here. I’ll handle the rest. You’ll get in my way.”
Tekshia Shivertail looked light as a feather. Young; then one of the Brothers actually did feel liquid running from his eyes. He tried to say a word, but the Draugr was roaring, and the old Drake was whirling her spear and stepping forwards.
“Gold-rank threat. For a Gold-rank adventurer.”
She said it calmly as the Winter Solstice ended. For three men, three Brothers, they didn’t know what happened at the end.
Whether the [Innkeeper] lived or died. Whether the battle was won, all good enemies vanquished, or any justice or goodness was left in the world. When it ended for them, it was on a single street where one placed a hat down and laid an adventurer to rest.
Four dead Draugr. And—
Tekshia Shivertail.
 
——
 
The Winter Solstice and the battle around Erin Solstice’s inn was just beginning and the Hag Queens had just appeared when Rhisveri Zessoprical knew it was time to act.
He had already seen the horror of the Draugr, but this? This was unquestionably the time. The Wyrm had only been wavering between joining the battle or going after that woman.
“We’re going to fight.”
There was no question, no excuse this time. Nor any argument from the one person he had picked to join him.
“No one else?”
Visophecin was adjusting his black suit, as if he were going to a ball. The Wyrm snarled.
“No one. Fithea was the third-strongest of us, and the Agelum can’t fight for more than minutes. Ready?”
“Ready. This isn’t our battle.”
“There are a hundred thousand civilians in Liscor. Call it public relations.”
The Wyrm didn’t have time for excuses or justifications. He cast the spell he’d had prepared, and a doorway opened in reality.
[Greater Teleport].
Even for him, it took a lot of power, and he’d calculated their entry near the inn. Rhisveri didn’t slither through; instead, a man cricked his neck, and Duke Rhisveri walked forwards with Visophecin.
“I’ll be weaker like this, but I’ve given him all I can, and I’m linked with mana. Let this body die. Don’t get killed. It’s not like this one’s a simulacrum.”
“Understood. Hag Queens?”
Rhisveri snarled as his Human form adjusted a wand and a sword.
“To start. Let’s go.”
The [Greater Teleport] spell was not instantaneous, as few in this world knew. It carried you through another dimension that was tied to the ‘real’ one. Every step you took, well, you didn’t walk. You were transported in minutes at most across continents.
The two immortals stepped into the portal, and the world distorted. Even to their constitutions and senses, it was bewildering, horrific, and nauseating. Neither one spoke a second. Then Visophecin blinked.
“I see something.”
“What? Impossible.”
Nothing was constant in the realm of a [Greater Teleport]. Everything was distorted by the sheer power and distances they were travelling. Nothing should be visible—
Except another person using the spell at the exact same time. Duke Rhisveri’s head snapped up. He raised his wand without a word.
“Aha. Ahahaha. You see, Czautha? I told you we weren’t fashionably late.”
The Death of Magic, Silvenia, and Czautha’qshe, the Death of Chains, were standing in their own realm, moving across the world. They were headed for Liscor.
“Rhisveri—abort.”
Visophecin was instantly alarmed. But Rhisveri just stared at the grinning half-Elf and wary Djinni, armed for war. He remembered what Ryoka had told him.
“Eclizza was killed by that one. Take the Djinni.”
“They are the Deaths of Demons. We cannot even fight here.”
Visophecin hissed in his ear. Rhisveri’s snarl grew wider until he felt like this form could spit venom as well. He was shaking. Eclizza! His Pale Serpent of Ailendamus—
“I’ve been practicing.”
It was the Djinni who spoke as their paths intersected. Silvenia was just smiling, not even lifting a wand, but her eyes were glowing.
“Hold. This is not the place for battle. We are both going to Liscor’s aid.”
