“Why, Thomast?”
The [Chevalier] was waiting for the Draugr to reach them. And they would—even with Erin’s lightning vaporizing each Draugr she hit. There were so many of them…but the man looked up at Erin standing in her door in the sky, and smiled faintly.
“She didn’t think we were worth killing. Our peers should be so relieved she has no enemies here she wants dead more than whomever that Kaligma person is.”
Lady Bethal glanced at Lord Xitegen.
“For now. They were lucky indeed.”
Thomast smiled at the expression on Lord Xitegen’s face.
“Yes, he was.”
 
——
 
The [Innkeeper]’s attack was not the only surprise as the Draugr neared the actual front lines. Despite all the attacks, probably only a tenth of them were down. Which, put another way—
A thousand Draugr had just been annihilated.
It meant something to Keldrass, a Gold-rank Adventurer, who knew how insane that was. If you put together every single adventurer who had ever gone into Liscor’s dungeon, including the Named-ranks—they wouldn’t be able to do half as much.
“She’s a Named-rank, now. She’s—”
“Yes, she is. Shut up, Ramiss.”
Keldrass barked at one of his teammates. The Oldblood Drakes were watching as Manus, Pallass, and Salazsar unloaded on the Draugr. By now, the closer proximity meant the arrows were felling them—but even so!
“The Draugr are going to hit the front like a wave! Those [Soldiers] are dead!”
“Then get ready to breathe. Ready?”
The Flamewardens were former [Soldiers], and right now, they felt like they were in a war. They were on the left flank, not part of the front lines. They had a role that was unique to Drakes.
Dragonbreath support. Keldrass was breathing in and out, expanding his lungs. It took training to do this—and there were never enough damn Oldbloods.
“Take out…at least fifty…or we’ll have to turn in our badges.”
Fifty. He doubted his team could burn down five, but they had to do something. He had six Oldbloods including himself, all but one of whom breathed fire. Keldrass knew there were about a hundred more Oldbloods with him, and they were all syncing for a mass breath-attack.
Never had Keldrass felt so useless. He was wearing the Heartflame Breastplate, but it was dead. No fire; Selys had told him it had gone out with the wisp attack.
When the moment comes, I’ll hold the line. I’ll hold it or I’m a coward forever. I’m wearing a Relic—don’t run. Don’t run—
Only a fool denied being terrified. Keldrass inhaled, exhaled as General Shirka gave him a slow count.
“Five, four, three! Two—”
The Drakes exhaled a long-range plume of flames, windbreath, even lightning and showers of acid that joined together to form a unified stream of glowing light.
It licked over the Draugr, and Keldrass gasped for air after eight seconds of breath; most of the other Oldbloods had only managed four seconds at most. He looked up…and the wave of Draugr hadn’t even slowed.
“[Tacticians] count six down. Prepare for a breath in thirty seconds!”
Shirka’s voice was deceptively calm. Keldrass saw steam rising from ruined flesh. Any other foe and they would have baked the frontline. Other armies feared charging into Dragonbreath. But this one—
“Hotter this time! Put your tails into it!”
Keldrass gasped, hearing coughing; the power of Oldbloods left them panting, leaving many with lung problems they had to overcome. Keldrass inhaled as Shirka counted down.
Please, Ancestors. Give me a sign.
Someone shouldered one of his Flamewardens aside, and he nearly swung on the idiot fouling the firing line. One glare from a cerulean eye made him hesitate as a Drake with scales red as fire itself took position next to him.
“You’re wearing the Heartflame Breastplate. And you’re not using it?”
“What—who’re you?”
Keldrass saw the glare as the older Drake looked at him—and hesitated.
“It’s not for me to teach—if your people were just a bit more curious—damn the Nagas with it. You idiot, the Heartflame Breastplate is out!”
A claw seized Keldrass’ neck as if he were a little Drake, and the Gold-rank Captain nearly swung on the stranger again, but the voice was urgent.
“Light it back up!”
“How? There’s no passphrase—”
“Passphrase? You idiot, it’s a set designed for your people. It was made for Drakes like you! Drakes who breathe fire or those without! Light it up!”
Keldrass saw his team whirl to him, and the old Drake stared into his eyes. Keldrass hesitated—then for the first time, exhaled his own Dragonbreath over his armor.
This time—it lit up orange. The flame of Keldrass’ own breath ignited it as if it were made of oil.
Every Drake whirled to stare at the armor. Suddenly, Keldrass felt not only warm, but his lungs stopped burning. He inhaled and swore he saw the snow move in front of him. He took in a deeper breath than he had ever imagined could fill him, and Shirka shouted.
“The Heartflame—ten seconds!”
“Now breathe like your life depends on it, and tell them it was you, not me. Come on, youngster.”
The red-scaled Drake took a breath with Keldrass, and this time, Keldrass did see the snow moving, tumbling towards the two. On a hunch, the rest of the Flamewardens moved aside, and Keldrass heard a voice.
“We are preparing to breathe on our side. In five.”
He almost lost focus. Was that Magnolia Reinhart’s voice? Cool as a cucumber. Then Keldrass focused on the Draugr, exhaled—
And for the first time in his life, he saw Dragonfire.
The real thing burst from the maw of the red Drake standing next to him. It was golden and washed over the Draugr, who threw up their arms, halted, and vanished. It mixed with the roaring flames from Keldrass’ own throat, which expanded into a roaring cyclone of flames that made even Erin Solstice’s firestorm seem like warm embers for a second.
Flames engulfed the left wing of the Draugr—and they vanished. Hundreds just—disappeared—and the others came out of the flames still burning, melting as they fell.
Dragonbreath. It made all the Drakes turn—even General Shirka choked.
“Th—that—”
Keldrass couldn’t speak for several seconds. He just inhaled and exhaled, and the armor kept burning. He turned to ask the other Drake who—
He was gone. As Keldrass’ head rose, he saw a second volley of Dragonbreath go out. On the right side.
“How…?”
Ramiss stared right, and a flash of light narrowed to a beam that baked one Draugr’s flesh. It was followed by a cyclone of ice; Frostbreath and Windbreath improperly mixed. It still blew a Draugr off its feet, and then Keldrass swore he saw pitch-black shadows trying to engulf one Draugr that tore out of it.
That’s Shadowbreath. No Drake in Pallass has been born with that for over five hundred years. Everyone said the bloodline is practically extinct. How…?
Then Keldrass saw who was breathing, and his mouth opened wide.
Three hundred [Maids] and [Butlers] were exhaling in a double-line, positioned so they didn’t inadvertently hit each other. They had no technique. They had no stamina or practice or control or even understanding of the synergies. But three hundred—
Only a Walled City could field that many! Magnolia Reinhart’s servants only managed one weaker volley at close-range, but it took down Draugr.
Keldrass’ head followed the mix of every Dragonbreath imaginable, then he felt his head rise.
I have enough breath for at least one more attempt. He began inhaling as the Draugr closed with the front lines. There were still so many, but the Drakes were screaming now, and Keldrass felt it.
Terror enough to piss himself and run but every bit of his determination keeping him here. A flame like the one roaring across his armor in his chest. Wonder and rage against the dark night.
This was being alive. A great adventure. Then he exhaled—and flames erased all his fears. Keldrass breathed until the first Draugr hit the Drakes. Then came the shouting of voices, the sound of blades meeting flesh, the frenzied screams of the undead, and the will forged in battle.
 
——
 
Archmage Eldavin watched the battle as long as he dared. He didn’t want to do what came next, but he had orders.
What he saw was what the world saw.
On a five minute delay, granted. It wasn’t like they were idiots. Especially Drassi. She had set up this broadcast on her Channel 2 without saying a word. If no one else knew to watch—she would.
But Eldavin knew that Nerrhavia Fallen’s Wonders was also broadcasting this battle on request of Fetohep of Khelt. Doubtless, the undead king was watching.
Five minute delay—and the recorders were probably on Liscor’s walls. So they might not have a great view of Erin Solstice’s trick or what had to be Teriarch’s own breath attack.
Eldavin saw it all from closer, of course. His own personal scrying spells revealed the Draugr. Ten thousand in a moment.
No ordinary [Necromancer]…he was trying to guess from his memories what level you’d put Kasigna at for doing that.
Level 80 at least. Possibly even Level 90 if it was purely spontaneous. You could ‘prep’ a field, but if that had been truly one gesture…
And she’d stopped time, so the numbers fell off. Dead gods didn’t need levels. Right now, he was watching ahead of the broadcast as the Draugr met the first line of Drakes.
It was horrific, no matter how many had been wiped out. They were streaking towards the inn, and the Drakes were in the way. Practically ignoring the other groups moving to flank—but someone had to slow the Draugr down.
That group was a ‘Lieutenant Caoraz’, who’d been ordered to the front by Chaldion himself. Eldavin watched the name of the Drake hovering as Caoraz snapped orders—then braced. And the Draugr were running on either side at Drakes and Humans—
They were Draugr. Eldavin knew, intellectually, what was going to happen, but for the half-Elf, it was literally his first time seeing this.
A Draugr charged onto a pike, which impaled it in the stomach—and kept going. The pikes, anchored into the ground, slammed back as more Draugr impaled themselves on House Veltras’ pikes—and kept going.
The unlucky [Pikemen] saw the first Draugr keep running, literally charging down the line of the pike; it had missed bones and torn open the organs.
Killing blow, or at least a deterrent even to monsters. The Draugr just ran down the length of the pike, swung a fist, and—
Eldavin turned his head away as the [Mages] worked overtime behind him. If he was responsible for the broadcast, he’d have told them to censor the gore. It wouldn’t matter in a moment, but his eyes darted back.
The lucky [Pikemen] hit bone, and the men and women fought the Draugr who tried to smash the sturdy pikes, fighting forwards while the infantry tried—and failed—to keep them back. The Draugr who’d massacred the pikemen was smashing around with its fists, both fast as a Ghoul and strong enough to send a grown man flying.
The Drake side had more spears than pikes, shorter, and had fared just as brutally. But Eldavin saw something strange.
“Cascading spear lines! Now!”
Lieutenant Caoraz was still bracing, but the left flank, hit first, was doing something strange. It was no Skill—the Drakes with spears were fighting the impaled Draugr, who were steadily pressing forward with sheer strength—until a second wave of spears charged them.
Drakes ran past their comrades, ramming spears into the Draugr, adding a second layer of spears pressing at the undead. Then a third rank gathered.
They were executing spear-charges within their own formation. That was the famous Drake spearwall for you.
The charge slowed along the left flank, and Eldavin saw Drakes falling on the Draugr from behind—but the undead began fighting on both sides. They were still trying to advance with single-minded idiocy, heedless of losses.
But the center of the wedge was smashing straight towards Erin’s inn. One group of Drakes had to stop the full weight of them.
Eldavin stared at Drakes holding huge shields instead of spears. Pure defense—his eyes narrowed.
Those weren’t tower shields. He’d glanced over them, but these were not one-person shields. They were so large six Drakes were braced behind them, and there were two more ranks leaning into them with all their might.
No less than eighteen Drakes per shield—when the Draugr charged them, the [Lieutenant] and every Drake tensed.
One of the Draugr slammed shoulder-first into the shield, and for the first time this battle, Eldavin saw one bounce and recoil. It dented the hard metal over wood, but the entire structure was more like a movable palisade with armor than a shield. The braced Drakes moved, some falling, but then they were picking themselves up, shoving the Draugr back—pinning them as their comrades attacked the Draugr clawing at the walls.
“Wyvern-class shields.”
Eldavin spoke from memory. The kind of thing Earth had no need for, really; tactics and training you used when you fought monsters who’d ram into you like that.
Still the Draugr kept coming, now trying to climb the trench and spread out, while the armies encircled them. It seemed like they really only had one thought: reach the inn. Only when they were attacked or couldn’t run directly forwards did they try to move right or left.
Now, souls were going to Kasigna, and the fighting was at its zenith. Eldavin glanced left at the ‘official’ broadcast.
“They’re about to hit—is that Dragonbreath!? Dead gods, look! The Heartflame Breastplate—”
Drassi was screaming as she ran coverage. Noass and Sir Relz were doing likewise in their studio, and perhaps every news network in the world save Terandria’s was covering this. Only the fate of the Terandrian Fleet was even close to this level of importance, and only for one continent.
“Time.”
Eldavin whispered. He did not want to do this. For multiple reasons.
He didn’t hate Erin Solstice.
Ryoka Griffin—he touched his throat, but he didn’t regard them fully as enemies. He had every reason to hate the Antinium; he knew what they’d done. Goblin Kings, Az’kerash—
But he had made a deal, and he wanted to live. This was non-negotiable.
He’d also been warned it might be dangerous. But the Archmage of Memory stood in Wistram itself, and he’d told everyone to be alert. Erin Solstice had sent some message asking for mutual support on the Winter Solstice…a warning…he had ignored it.
They were on opposite sides. Time now—the Archmage walked to the spot he had prepared, turned, and noticed the [Mages] running the broadcast look up.
“Archmage? The battle—”
“I am aware. There is a more pressing need for this. Redirect all incoming communications and stall. This…may not take long. Activate…”
