The Draugr was getting back up. Its face had been mangled before it had been attacked, its nose rotted away to reveal the cavity, but it had been mostly preserved by the sheer muscles and unnatural strength of its creation.
Right now, its skin had been burned away, revealing the bones of the jaw, blackened with soot, and gigantic ribs as thick as an ox’s. It looked like a burnt porcupine, but it started to run again.
Is that how strong a Draugr is? Dead gods, I should pay adventurers more.
Xitegen felt his skin crawling. The Draugr was running with a weird gait; it must have been damaged, but it was still coming straight for the inn in a beel—
Xitegen heard a whumph from behind him a good eight seconds before he saw the ballista bolt hit the Draugr just below the neck.
The behemoth went crashing back, and Xitegen trained his spyglass, cursing because the impact had thrown the body out of sight behind the lip of the hill it had been charging over. He heard a cheerful voice in his ear. Cheerful, but intense.
“This is Bird. I saw its head fly. That kills it. Reloading.”
A pause, then Perorn’s terse voice.
“My Skill confirms a clean kill. Draugr down. Aim for the center of the Draugr, not stragglers or wounded, Bird. Sortieing.”
“Yes, sir!”
One down, nine thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine to go. But now that they saw the Draugr could be downed, the lower-level [Soldiers] stirred.
“They’ll be in range soon! Trebuchets—now! We haven’t even hit them yet. Let’s give them an Oswen welcome, boys and girls! Enchanted arrows!”
Lady Buscrei knew how to raise morale. Xitegen spoke out of the corner of his mouth.
“Primera. Load enchanted volley Spiderwalk. Let’s see if that slows them. Hold for my command.”
He watched as a blur raced across the battlefield. Here came Fleethoof and her lot. They raced ahead, circling around the Draugr, and he saw the Centaurs lobbing something from slings as they shot arrows.
Acid jars. Steam began rising from the Draugr they hit—but the damn undead still kept running. They might melt by the time they got to the front lines, though, but Perorn’s exploratory attack revealed something else. She commented with an audible grunt.
“They didn’t even turn. Lord Tyrion, suggesting a lance charge!”
“Agreed.”
The second mobile force, House Veltras’ [Riders], shot across the Floodplains. The Drakes were preparing for a firestorm, but Tyrion’s own wedge of [Riders] shot ahead—then circled wide of the Draugr charge.
Nothing. Xitegen narrowed his eyes and saw Tyrion’s forces almost hesitate. Any other force in the world would see those [Riders] with lances raised and know they were about to be flank-charged.
The Draugr didn’t even blink—even when Tyrion’s riders smashed into them from the side.
 
——
 
It felt like he was hitting a rock. No—a pile of dirt with a lance. 
The impact of ramming into a Draugr was hard. It wasn’t armor. It was flesh and bone, and Tyrion slammed back in his saddle as he rammed the lance tip straight through the ribs, normally a killing strike that destroyed the heart.
The Draugr lost a step, swung at him with a roar, and Tyrion whirled his horse. He heard screams and shouts and saw the charge slow—and a [Rider] who had gone in too deep recoiled as a Draugr snapped the lance in its belly, pulled—
“Let go of the lance!”
It was too late. The figure went forwards, flailing with a sword, and the Draugr swung a fist. Tyrion saw the helmet and face beneath it crumple up. When the Draugr turned and kept running, half the head remained.
The first blood of House Veltras’ own was on the Floodplains—and Tyrion saw a horse screaming, one leg snapped from the impact. He looked around, and barely two Draugr were down, both still moving. The [Riders] were trying to stab them to death, but Tyrion lifted his lance.
“Reform! Vanguard, on me! Break away!”
The other [Riders] swung away as Tyrion winnowed their ranks down to a bare sixty. Only the highest-levelled ones remained, and he saw Perorn matching him on the other side. They were both trying to slow the Draugr—Tyrion saw her holding back as a few Centaurs charged in but ran into the same problem.
The Draugr were too tough. Even when hit perfectly like he had—he hadn’t done anything to it. Tyrion spoke crisply.
“Head strikes. Flanks only. Do not allow yourself to enter into retaliation range.”
He heard a chorus of grunts and turned his horse again. This time, his eyes narrowed as he entered a focus. He was riding down a hill, peeling across the right flank of the Draugr, singling out one lagging behind the others. The Draugr didn’t even look at him.
They’re after the inn. It only turned its head when he was within a dozen feet. And then—Tyrion saw the head moving and shifted his lance.
It still felt like he hit a solid rock. Tyrion’s horse staggered, kept going—and he glanced behind him.
There was a hole in the Draugr’s head. His blow had snapped the body back and gouged out most of its face; the blow had gotten down to the brain, but it stood there, jerking. Tried to step forwards—
An arrow hit it in the gore-filled gap and exploded. The body fell limply, and Tyrion raised his lance. That had to be Buscrei.
The rest of his best [Lancers] were taking the same risky maneuvers, and Draugr were falling from the left and right as the two forces harassed them. Tyrion saw one Draugr slowing, covered in steaming liquid and melting as acid wore it down to the bones. Too many more advancing, but he counted how many his charges were taking.
Twelve on the first pass. Twenty-one—fifteen—and each time, the [Riders] had to slow, check their mounts, discard broken lances and reform and catch up with the Draugr for another charge—each time, Draugr fell to House Veltras’ lances, proof of their skill at arms.
Still, Tyrion wished he didn’t understand how few that really was. He was watching the Draugr advance into the Drakes’ line of fire and heard a snap.
“Trebuchets firing, Lord Tyrion.”
“Break away.”
He pulled his riders back, signaling the lower-level ones to rejoin him. When the Draugr hit the lines…that was when he’d go for a rear charge. That was when he needed to start using his best Skills. He was sure everyone was also calculating the best moment to use their capstones.
Never had Tyrion been so grateful to see the lines of Drakes and their damned spear formations on the hill in the distance. They were cheering, invoking their cities, and magefire and the trebuchets were landing with commendable accuracy.
That Antinium, Bird, was firing his ballista, and Tyrion thought they had a good chance to keep the Draugr from the inn itself. Then he narrowed his eyes.
He’d forgotten all about the [Innkeeper] herself. But as the battle for the Winter Solstice began, Erin Solstice opened a door.
 
——
 
They were coming. Draugr. Erin Solstice’s heart was in her mouth. Her lungs were gasping for air.
She was here.
Kasigna. She could appear anywhere. This was it.
The Solstice was happening.
Time to die—
No.
In her inn, the Knights of Solstice were preparing for the worst. Erin could hear Ulvama shouting spells, and the Draugr were being harassed by Tyrion and Perorn until they fell back.
Chaldion was giving orders through his speaking stone, his voice terse and calm. Niers—she could hear him too, adding occasional comments, but Erin didn’t hear any of it.
She was staring at the sky. Kasigna had vanished. Was she here? Was this it? Ten thousand Draugr? Erin screamed up as she opened a door outside her inn.
The Key of Reprieve was in her hands, and the dark night and cold snows blew into her garden. She had thrown open the door that protected her.
Erin saw the huge channel of dirt, the final killing field that the Free Antinium had dug, giving the undead a clean run up to her inn. They were all headed towards her. Still so far away they were barely noticeable blips being lit up by the magic. In the sky, Archmage Valeterisa was hurling spells down and taking notes.
Bird’s ballista thumped—and Erin swallowed. She shouted.
“You coward! Come on, Three-in-One. Come on, Kasigna! I’ve been waiting for you!”
No more games. No more stupid pranks. This was it, and Erin knew she was watching. This was all she’d brought?
Send it all. She must think this was all it would take. The [Innkeeper] swallowed again, then raised the door as high as it would go in the air. She was standing level with Bird’s tower, and heads were turning, staring at the [Innkeeper] shrouded in the glowing door, her garden behind her.
“I’ve been preparing for this day. You think this is enough? Every ghost in creation could survive this. Come on!”
“Erin! Take cover, damn it!”
Niers roared at her, but he didn’t know what she had planned. She had told no one except Ulvama and Ishkr for practice. Erin took another breath—then felt something filling her from inside. She blinked, and there was light.
[Boon of the Princess].
Just as promised, Lyonette du Marquin used her Skill, and Erin’s eyes widened as the Skill activated. She heard a voice whispering in her ears.
[Temporary Skill – Inn: Expanded Boundaries obtained!]
Perfect. As if the voice had known exactly what Erin needed. The [Innkeeper] began laughing. Then she realized she was covered in motes of golden light. She wondered how it looked—Pawn was staring up at her with hands clasped. But Erin couldn’t take a second away.
Her turn, now. She paused, looking across them all. Rags’ head as the Goblin swung to her, Ryoka Griffin, flying overhead, as Relc lifted a spear near Liscor’s walls. Friends in her inn like Halrac, Jelaqua Ivirith raising her flail.
“I’m sorry.”
Erin whispered to them all. Then she spoke as she stared at the Draugr coming down at her.
“[Boon of the Guest: Teriarch].”
Her inn rattled as Erin felt something go out of her. She did not have the right—yet she gritted her teeth. Teriarch, whom Ryoka said was the champion of flames, forgotten hero—
Survivor. Erin Solstice whispered a name.
“Rabbiteater.”
Then she stopped thinking of him. Put him outside her heart a second because she could do no more.
Now she was ready.
The door rose higher and shot forwards fifty feet, expanding in the air. Now it was large enough to drive Termin and Rhaldon’s wagon through. It appeared over the heads of Liscor’s 2nd Army, and Calruz stared up. He saw a young woman covered in golden lights pointing her hand.
She was holding a winged key in her hand. The Minotaur began to smile.
Then—
The second door opened. The Minotaur blinked as the [Innkeeper] unveiled her second trick.
She had two doors. And the second door emitted a hail of rain onto the [Soldiers] below them. The first door—Calruz’s eyes narrowed.
“That’s not her [Garden of Sanctuary].”
He knew Erin’s garden by heart. Even if it was a copy of all the others—the one she was standing in had…warm sands. Empty villas. Dreams of a fun beach day.
Erin Solstice stood in the Garden of Wistram as her second door opened to the tree of lightning and Garden of Storms. She took a breath, then pointed a hand.
“Firestorm. FIRESTORM.”
In the air above her head, the beach garden, able to move sand and water around and generate magical effects—a training room, really—grew hot. Smoke swirled in the air above her head, and Erin Solstice looked up as Archmage Valeterisa turned.
“Oh my—”
The [Mage] flinched as the first bloom of fire arched out of Erin’s door and into the sky. Bevussa, flying past the inn, did a double-take as an arc of flames burst through the skies, hurtling out like the shot of a cannon, tracing a curve through the skies.
“Dead gods, what the hell is that?”
Someone screamed into the speaking stone as a wave of fire hit the ground over two miles short of the Draugr. Erin cursed—she angled the door upwards and snapped.
“More speed!”
Fire blasted out of the door as she shielded her face and leapt out of the garden—when she appeared in the rain-soaked garden, she saw more flames bathing the Floodplains as every [Soldier] below them ducked out of the way or looked up in horror and awe.
This time—her aim caught the Draugr charge mid-run and began blasting them with flames. They kept running, ignoring the baking heat, but their flesh warmed and began to sizzle. Then smoke.
Erin cooked the front rank, turning the snow to mud, then drying it and catching the grass on fire. Then she took aim.
She had two doors. The Garden of Storms was blasting rain; she forced it to stop. Then she felt all the hair on her head rising. She cast one look behind her, and there it was.
The crystal tree filled with lightning was glowing bright. It hadn’t fired a bolt of lightning all day, and it was ‘filled’ with power. Erin told it that it was time. She pointed her finger, stepped out of the way of the door just in time, and aimed for the flaming Draugr.
“Lightning bolt.”
A real bolt of lightning flashed out the door and hit the target so fast Erin only felt the passage, saw the flash, and heard the thunder afterwards. It blew a dozen Draugr off their feet, and Erin staggered.
She was so close she felt it run by her. But this was her garden—and she had practice from hitting Tolveilouka.
Flame and lightning. Erin took aim with ears ringing and told the garden to loose without speaking this time.
Two more bolts of lightning blew the lead Draugr into the air, and Erin glanced at the tree. It couldn’t do that forever—but it was still glowing like crazy. She realized the flames had started hitting the ground behind the Draugr and knew she had to re-angle the door.
Only then did she hear the voices chattering in her ear.
“Erin Solstice! Stop shooting cat-damned flames, and start throwing chunks of stone, you idiot! We can’t see through the fire, and they’re about to get into range of arrows!”
Niers Astoragon roared in her ear, and Erin blinked. She hadn’t even thought about—
“On it!”
She leapt into her other garden and frantically conjured a boulder of earth. Then launched it, and Niers instantly corrected her.
“Wait for my signal! Stockpile and shoot when you hear it! Chaldion—go!”
“Volley!”
Now, the Drakes’ crossbows and regular bows could fire. Chaldion sent the first hail straight at the Draugr’s legs. And Erin was controlling her garden, sweating, listening as Niers gave rapid orders, reincorporating her into the battle.
An [Innkeeper] with a garden full of wonders. Not so helpless after all. Even Lord Xitegen glanced back at Erin; she pointed her finger, and lightning flashed and melted a Draugr.
 
——
 
“Why didn’t she do that to anyone else earlier?”
Lady Bethal’s hands were over her mouth with genuine astonishment. This was the silly [Innkeeper]? Could Larracel the Haven do this?
“We’re lucky.”
