One of the Hags trying to lay a curse around the Winter Fae jerked; the warrior twisted, and the fingers on the great Hag snapped, and the thing shrieked. Onwards.
Taletevirion did not intend to die just yet. But, the Unicorn thought.
The poor mortals. 
They had not forever to live and learn to fight like this. Death came too quick.
 
——
 
There were skeletons and regular undead on the field. Only, they weren’t right. They were dead, summoned by the Hag Queens, who were necromancers.
But they obeyed a different realm’s rules.
The Goblins realized the danger when one of them slashed the head off a skeleton, turned to the next foe, and the skeleton kept stabbing.
“Dead don’t die! Chieftain!”
Rags spun. She watched as frantic Goblins beat the skeleton down into pieces…and the pieces reassembled and got right back up.
Different rules.
“Taganchiel?”
Her [Shaman] covered the skeleton in mud and flash-baked it. Even then, the bones kept trying to move and break free. Rags’ tribe was one of the last lines of defense around the inn on the western side, behind the inn, actually. They’d been given an elevated vantage point because of their Thunderbows.
Only Redscar’s Redfangs had been sortieing. The undead had reached them at last, though, and no wonder.
The Thunderbows roared, and Rags saw weird, shambling undead covered in moss, unrecognizable due to their advanced decay—but definitely not humanoid; they had four legs, but looked like spiders more than Centaurs—stalked forwards.
Bones and flesh regenerating. 
“Kill and burn.”
Rags snapped, and the Goblins tried just that. One of her Hobs tossed oil on a zombie she hacked down and thrust a flaming sword into the zombie’s body. It immolated…and the Hob backed away as the undead kept coming.
“Hags. Want me to kill one, Chieftain?”
Redscar came to an instantaneous conclusion, and Rags bared her teeth. She fired her black crossbow and watched as it knocked an undead down the ramparts the Goblins were holding—and the undead climbed back up.
“Not yet.”
Her eyes roamed the battlefield, tracing mana, and Rags stopped fighting. She was defending Bird’s ballista, which was thumping behind her. Bird had given up trying to hit the Hags; he’d nailed one, and she’d just slowly pulled herself out of the ballista bolt nailing her to the ground. He was focused on the giant vampire bat-monsters.
One passed overhead, shrieking, and every Goblin caught within its scream covered their ears. Half began stabbing each other until Rags howled.
“Enough!”
The [Great Chieftain] exerted her aura, and the confusion effect from the giant bat-thing stopped. Rags aimed a finger at it, and it dodged the [Fast Fireball] with an elegant twist for something that large.
—Bird’s ballista bolt went straight through its head, and the Antinium waved at Rags. She ignored him. She could not waste time.
“Hold! Hold!”
Calescent was swinging a cleaver around him as he refused to back up, despite the bunched up undead. Poisonbite’s entire wing was faltering; the Goblins who used poison were matched completely wrong against these undead.
A skeleton knight or something knocked the other undead aside. This one was like a centipede; its spine let it reach seven feet in height, and its arms also resembled a centipede’s—albeit bone. Yet the blade it swung was all too familiar in nature.
Calescent blocked with one arm as the blade bit and stopped at his bone. He grunted as the skeleton warrior ripped the blade free.
The [Chef] wished they had eyes—instead, he chopped the head off the skeleton knight and made to kick it down the hill. Too late he realized it wouldn’t stop the second swing—
The chopping sword slashed at the [Cook]’s head as Calescent’s eyes widened. It cut deep…halted as the air turned thick, practically black. The skeleton tried to pull its arm back, but the aura of darkness was like jello.
Calescent kicked the undead off the hill and panted as he splashed a tiny bit of potion on the deep cut in his arm. Now he saw more skeleton archers aiming at him, but the arrows once again slowed in the air.
“Feh. Didn’t do it for you, dumbass.”
The tiny Cave Goblin blew some hair out of her eyes and flipped off the undead. Gothica and her aura of darkness shielded Calescent. He had a moment’s temptation to kick her off the hill, but the [Goth] was doing her best.
A quartet of [Goths] were shielding Goblins around them with their negative auras. Gothica hit one of the skeletons with her parasol filled with razors, then grinned at Calescent.
He shoved her.
“Watch out!”
A green, flaming arrow tore through the Aura of Darkness and struck him in the arm. He ripped it out, snarling.
[Accident: Flameproof]!
He’d seen those flames do worse, and the [Chef] and [Goth] nodded at each other shakily as more undead came up the hill. They just wouldn’t die—
“Take cover! Wyvern run!”
The Goblins looked up as three Frost Wyverns crossed the air and exhaled. The frost was so chilling that Calescent wished he were on fire for a second—he saw the Frost Wyverns do a snap-roll away as the undead froze for a second.
He saluted the Goblins, and Fightipilota, Snapjaw, and a third Goblin [Wyvern Rider] nodded at him before flying away, more flying undead following. Calescent saw the undead start to break out of the ice—but before they could move, someone shouted.
“Cover ears! Bad bad bell!”
Gothica and Calescent instantly slammed hands over their ears as a single Goblin rose to his feet. Badarrow fired the Bell of Pain down, and the ding it made hurt Calescent, ears covered or not. He snarled—and saw every frozen undead shatter.
“Take that!”
Goblins began cheering as ice splintered to the ground…then their voices went silent. Calescent saw the first piece of ice slowly rise upwards and try to reform the skeleton knight that had attacked him.
“Fuck.”
Gothica muttered. Calescent felt the earth rumble…then the ground opened, and a mouth swallowed all the undead trying to reform. He blinked—and a voice snapped.
“That’s how you do it, idiots!”
Calescent grinned as a [Shaman] lifted her staff.
Ulvama. Undead were clawing through the earth, but she bought them time as she pointed at Rags and screamed.
“Find the locus, stupid! Locus!”
Calescent had no idea what that meant, but the [Shaman of the Old Ways] did. And so did the [Great Chieftain]. Rags’ eyes narrowed as she finished surveying the battlefield.
The [Steelflame Strategist] nodded. She’d finally traced the mana flows back to what she had been convinced was there. Maybe the Hags could permanently resurrect the undead, but Rags had doubted it. She pointed, and a single innocuous zombie tried to hide behind some Draugr.
Rags spoke.
“That one’s the general. Kill it, Redscar. [Mark Target].”
Redscar grinned as the undead shimmered. It seemed to realize it was caught—and slowly stood straighter. A nine-foot-tall champion with ancient, blackened plate metal drew a sword as a bodyguard closed around it.
The Hobgoblin began to ride down on it, his Redfang elites whooping, but the undead general jerked.
It raised a huge shield, and Bird’s ballista bolt drove it backwards a dozen paces, dirt showering behind it. Yet the undead general just rocked. It had a toad’s rotted face, a bulging stomach covered by plate mail, and it began to spit something back at Bird.
Badarrow shot it through one eye, and it staggered; Ulvama pointed, and the undead general looked up and dived.
A single flaming meteor knocked the undead around it down, but missed the undead’s leader. It rolled nimbly to its feet, and Redscar pointed at it.
“Redfangs—”
The general parried one of Rags’ [Fireballs]. It pivoted and spun out of the way of a dozen Thunderbows firing.
Theillige stepped out of the ranks of the undead and beheaded the general. The head froze as the torso turned to ice. The Wild Hunt’s warrior smashed a buckler through the body, and the general and every undead around it dropped without a sound. The rest of the undead stopped regenerating.
Redscar glowered, but the Winter Fae was cutting through the battlefield again. Rags grunted.
“More coming. Getting overrun.”
They didn’t even have time to breathe. The Goblins saw another legion of the undead coming, and this time, there were two generals, one holding a bow, the other bearing a trident of all things.
“That one’s mine.”
Redscar snapped. Rags nodded and turned her head.
“Kill the other, Badarrow.”
Her lieutenants moved as Rags’ head turned. They were holding—for now. But with each second…her eyes fixed on The Wandering Inn. Then Liscor.
 
——
 
“Segros’ Swords are gone! Repeat, gone! We need reinforcements—”
Manus was beginning to bleed. Rafaema heard the first report of serious casualties as the undead attacked. She turned her head.
“The entire unit’s gone? How—”
Her answer revealed itself as she saw the spectral centipede-things. They had been attacking a group of Manus’ Drakes—but now they weren’t scuttling half-ghost things.
They were bigger.
In fact, they looked semi-Humanoid now. She realized they were the ghost-versions of some of the skeletons she had been putting down. They were on two feet now, twisting, long and spindly bodies writhing as their bone-chitin ribs twitched, a literal body of blades.
But for Crelers, she hadn’t seen something so unsettling. Wall Lord Aldonss was speaking quickly.
“Truegold unit, flank them. Rafaema, do not engage. They’re growing with each [Soldier] they kill.”
“We do not have enough Truegold blades!”
That was how one of the elite units had gone down; the things were ignoring even enchanted weapons. Lulv’s spear made one flinch, but his was the only one. The first centipede-thing jumped at one of the Gnolls and wrapped itself around the screaming [Soldier], and those limbs and bones dug into the Gnoll…
It was growing. Evolving further, and Rafaema saw flesh covering two huge, bulging eyes of its ‘head’. She exhaled, and lightning blasted that one to pieces; there was no saving the [Soldier] cut to shreds.
“Don’t retreat. Truegold blades, with me.”
“Pull Rafaema back now. I am entering the field—”
Aldonss snapped at Lulv. Rafaema looked around and realized she was hearing more casualty reports coming in. General Duln was the only [General] not engaged in fighting, now. He was keeping Chaldion safe.
We are being overrun. Rafaema caught Lulv’s eyes and saw him hesitate. No one could kill these things but her, him, or Truegold—
“C-charge! For the City of War!”
When she charged into battle, she saw a Drake [Soldier] leap in the way of one of the centipede-ghosts as they threw themselves at her. She cut through one, exhaled again—saw them leap on Drakes, ignoring the Truegold murdering them, tearing them apart.
“Stop. Stop—”
A Lightning Dragon emerged as Rafaema shrieked. She tore right and left as the warriors around her died, bit apart by the ghostly centipedes—
Overrun. Overrunning—there were hundreds of the little ones. Rafaema heard thunder, and Wall Lord Aldonss mounted a charge. The centipede-monsters were all over her, tearing at her more fragile wings, but they couldn’t kill her easily. Her soldiers, though—
Rafaema howled until something ripped one of the centipede-ghosts apart. She saw a strange being pull, rip the ghost-chitin apart, and another hacked through some of the ghosts. A third cried out in pain as they tried to eat her—but the glowing being fought on. Rafaema cried out.
“Djinni?”
Yes, Djinni. Three of them—the magical warriors fought without words or direction as Rafaema, Lulv, and Aldonss finally cleared the wave. By the time the last ghost-horrors were dead, one of the Djinni was fading away, even their magic torn to pieces. Rafaema gazed at them.
So even Djinni would die here. She did not know how long they could continue. As this Solstice wore on—her gaze rose as Kasigna reappeared once more. And then Rafaema tasted a new kind of despair.
 
——
 
The Draugr were attacking Liscor, too. Most of the Hag Queens ignored the city, but one noticed the Golems and spells coming from the walls.
So undead began swarming towards Liscor’s walls, pounding on the gates. And there was a terrible irony to it all:
Erin Solstice’s inn was safer than Liscor. Armies had formed around her inn. Antinium had set the ground, and immortals and the highest-level warriors were all protecting her.
Liscor had so few.
The first Draugr punched through the gates that had held the floodwaters at bay for decades. Even the Necromancer had not taken the gates so quickly. But this one was wearing armor and had a sword that carved the steel like it was paper.
It didn’t get far at first. A wave of flames engulfed it as Watch Captain Zevara and Watch Commander Venim ordered more [Guards] into the battle. The Antinium, Drakes, and Humans on the walls were fighting.
But where one breach occurred…these undead with their commanders were more inventive than the others. The thumping from the walls sounded like someone had fired the trebuchets at Liscor again until it became clear what was happening.
Draugr were throwing each other at the walls. Literally launching each other at the battlements or over them in a bid to enter the city.
Now, the Free Antinium were boiling out of their Hive to defend the city as more undead literally landed within the city, past the embattled gates and walls. More Antinium were emerging into the fighting.
Silent Antinium, who fell on the undead from behind, slashing with their scythe-blades. Flying Antinium, hopping and gliding into the air and tangling with the specters, who slashed through them.
The civilians could only watch and listen to reports from the walls; everyone had been evacuated from the northern and eastern sections of the city. A full third of the city had been told to leave; Shivertail Plaza had been fortified, and the new district of the city was ironically safer. Hexel’s walls might not have the enchantments yet, but the enemy was not coming from that angle.
Yet, it seemed to anyone with keen eyes that the Watch and Antinium could not hold all the Draugr. There were gaps.
One of the Draugr fought past the [Guards]; it was roaring as it raced towards the still-occupied buildings and streets. Screaming civilians who thought they’d wanted to see the battle were trying to break into shuttered homes or running.
The thing was massive. Seven feet tall, bulkier than any fellow had a right to be.
“A real monster, innit. Is this the sort of thing Crimshaw and the other lads were fighting?”
“Madness, so it is. No bloke in his right mind would take that on.”
