Eldavin tapped his foot on the sigil, and the gigantic rune lit up. He saw Drassi’s broadcast, the one showing the Wonders of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, the Terandrian broadcast, even the ones on Rhir, Drath, Baleros, Chandrar—
Every single television network went blank. Not just Wistram’s. They were made by lesser [Mages]. Of course he could take them over. Eldavin didn’t like overplaying his hand. But again—he took a breath.
“…two…three…”
Every scrying orb tuned to a broadcast in the world went black. To the outrage of people watching, to their bewilderment—the Archmage of Memory lifted his eyes.
“I apologize for the interruption. However, I have a critical announcement to make.”
He studied the pair of names he had written and underlined. This, he had been told, was going to be a masterstroke of some kind. He vaguely understood it.
“I am here today to tell you about the—existence—of two individuals. For context, they are not beings of levels nor mortal. They are not immortal either, but something beyond. Their nature is ‘divine’, a concept few will know—”
He’d had to write this himself, and it had been hard to even formulate. There were forces at work against this. Even Eldavin could barely think the word ‘god’, but the more people became aware of the truth, the weaker the effect, or so the two had posited.
“Archmage! What’s going on?”
The [Mages] were shouting at him, receiving, no doubt, thousands of complaints and questions. Eldavin knew this broadcast was on a minute’s delay, just in case. They were probably all staring at the black screen. He didn’t have to do much more. Then he’d have to answer questions, but by then…he cleared his throat.
“They have names, and if you speak them, they may hear you. For they are g—”
He tried again as the word lodged in his throat.
“G—they are the powers that be, the ones who created and founded this world, even the system of Levels. Worship—they answer wishes but are beyond Djinni. All-powerful…”
He was laboring to speak and actually forcing the words out with magic as something tried to hold his throat. Eldavin saw the black orbs flicker and his face appear. Good! He just had to say it. So he forced all his will and the divine aid they had given him into speech.
“Their names are Kasigna and Cauwine. They are your gods.”
There.
He felt like he had burst a dam in his head. The effect stopped. Eldavin sagged and hoped the backlash on hearing the truth would not hurt the people of the world too greatly. Especially children. He staggered, catching himself on the wall as he stumbled out of frame. Let it be. He turned to watch the orb now play out his broadcast.
“Archmage—”
One of the [Mages] was rubbing their ears as if they were ringing. Another was clutching at her head. Eldavin inhaled. His lungs felt like they had blood in them.
“Not long now…”
He wondered if Kasigna would accept a bid for mercy on others’ behalfs. Eldavin saw himself begin to speak.
“I am here today to tell you about the—existence—of two individuals…”
Eldavin watched as his own face stared at him, solemn, the mismatched eyes gleaming. He straightened, coughing—and then blinked.
The Eldavin in the picture being broadcast around the world had…stopped. Then—fuzzed. Then it vanished, and Eldavin sensed something, someones, breaking his magical connection. He swore.
“Someone is interfering with the spell!”
Who had that level of magical acumen? No—this was more like a massive, brute-force attack. Countless [Mages], and it didn’t take long to figure out from where. They were broadcasting like a beacon, not even trying to hide from him. Of all people—
“Roshal?”
Eldavin’s voice cracked. Yes! They were intercepting his spell and trying to destroy it—but he was the superior [Mage], so they had just tried to literally overwhelm the spell and block it from reaching anyone else.
He began snapping links of mana at once and pushing his recording through. The other [Mages] tried to help him as Eldavin snarled at them.
“Activate the bubble spell and cut off their influence! Get me Viltach, Blackwood, or Feor!”
“How—what about the Terandrian Fleet? The other Archmages are defending the—”
Eldavin cursed. His image was frozen, mouth open, and he was wrestling with hundreds of [Mages] now, even if they were weak, pooling their powers together.
Roshal. They must know what he was trying to do. Now, Eldavin was fighting them for superiority as the rest of the world stared at the unflattering image of Grand Magus Eldavin gaping like a fish.
The fate of so much rested on Roshal of all groups. Eldavin ruthlessly began tearing spells apart. He was not going to lose here. With apologies—
It was not really about Erin Solstice at all. Kasigna wasn’t even paying attention to the [Innkeeper]. That was the only reason the girl was even alive.
 
——
 
“They keep coming!”
Ser Normen was listening to the fighting outside. He had a view from the windows, but the Knights of Solstice were standing just inside The Wandering Inn. Draugr were swarming up the killzone, and they’d just reached Liscor’s 2nd Army.
But they did indeed keep coming. They were being hacked apart from behind; the wave of ten thousand had been reduced and hit Drake lines, Human lines; the majority had gone down the center trench.
On the left side, Chaldion’s forces had benefited from the Dragonbreath attack and were using their spear-tactics to stonewall the Draugr while Manus went hunting. Aldonss and Spearmaster Lulv were leading bloody attacks from the Draugr’s rear.
Any normal foe wouldn’t let themselves get boxed in, but these ones were literally focused on Erin. The right had been in danger of getting overrun—until Tyrion Veltras fell upon the Draugr in the rear.
It was called a windmill formation. [Lancers] were moving in a gigantic spiral with multiple wings, like the windmill itself, charging into the Draugr’s rear, then peeling away.
Unlike a normal lance charge, the [Lancers] only struck the outermost Draugr from the rear, then peeled away, letting another rider ride in with their lance and hammer the foe. It was the best tactic against a foe like the Draugr, who didn’t counterattack, and Tyrion was grinding the Draugr against foes stronger, tougher, and even taller than they were:
Golems.
Controller Lectara and Terland’s Golems had met the Draugr in a fight. Normen had never seen someone pilot a Golem before, but he understood Lectara’s title now.
Controller. She was literally standing in a Golem who moved around her, swinging massive blade-hands and shooting magic whenever she activated its powers. Steel Golems were blocking the Draugr, rocking with each punch, but the Humans were holding the undead back well with the attack.
—But down the center, the majority of the Draugr just pushed, and the Humans and Drakes and Antinium could either give way or literally be compressed into paste.
“We can’t hold them all!”
Olesm’s voice was crisp; it wasn’t as if the soldiers were forming a pure line in the trench. There was room to maneuver; thus Draugr would charge past the first rank Caoraz was holding, run into the second rank, and some would get to the third, fourth—
It let the defenders take the Draugr down, take them a few at a time, but it meant there was a risk they’d break through the final rank. Normen looked down the hill and replied.
“I see them. Knights of Solstice? Ready.”
He heard a voice from behind him as Ama swallowed and adjusted her helmet. Vess was wiping his claws on his front; Normen looked to his right, and Jewel was there.
All of them.
Embraim, lighting his sword. Ama and Vess, looking sick and afraid. Jewel, breathing hard as she produced a jar of acid and Normen dipped his mace into it. Halrac Everam, bow in hand, firing arrows down already as the invisible bow caught some falling snow.
And the [Squires]. There was City Runner Herove, who’d volunteered because he was destined. And…the nervous Rivel.
No Lehra. No Ylawes. But even Durene was here, fist-bumping Antherr, whose green flames were a mirror of Normen’s own.
He watched the Draugr meeting Liscor’s army, the final line between him and the inn. Normen was waiting, kneeling, leaning on his mace, saving all his energy for the fighting. Draugr…thousands practically climbing over each other to get to the inn.
But the Antinium and Goblins refused to give ground.
 
——
 
Rafaema was in her Drake form, but her lightning breath was that of a Dragon. She had the strength of one and cut halfway through a Draugr as Manus engaged hard on the left side. Chaldion had left them largely alone. Pallass was in strategic command, but Manus was hunting.
“Four o’clock.”
A voice spoke in her ear, a growl, and Rafaema pivoted. She saw what had to be eighty Draugr on the charge. She hesitated, inhaling for a breath attack, and someone spoke in her ear.
“[Raise the Wall]. Lulv’s Fangs, pincer.”
A wall of stone rose, and the Drakes on it braced easily. The Draugr slammed into the walls, began to climb, but the Drakes just kicked them down from the smooth wall and severed fingers. Gnolls were rushing into the side in a flanking charge led by Spearmaster Lulv.
He grunted as he stabbed—and a trailing cascade of arcing bolts of lightning illuminated the entire group of Draugr.
“Getting used to this spear. Countercharge—”
“I see it. [Postern Door].”
The Draugr saw the Gnolls with spears and hurled themselves at the easier foe to reach. Lulv planted his spear like a pike, and one of his commanders called out.
“[Impaler’s Formation]. Brace—”
Gnolls grunted as the Draugr slammed into their spears. The Gnolls were in danger of the undead reaching them, but they were already moving to fall back as Lulv jabbed in a flurry, putting holes in a Draugr’s knees, and pulling them back. He glanced up, and Rafaema charged out of a hole that had opened in Aldonss’ wall.
She fell on the Draugr from the side, swinging her sword hard. It glanced off bones, but she knocked one Draugr off its feet as a [Soldier] grunted, flicked something into the Draugr—
The Tripvine Bag stymied them as they tried to attack Rafaema’s group, only to realize the [Archers] had a bead on them from the walls, and then Lulv was counterattacking.
Eighty Draugr went down fast. Rafaema was panting, on an adrenaline high, but Lulv just snorted, and Aldonss was speaking.
“Reposition. Pallass’ 4th Army is getting chewed. 3 o’clock.”
Manus switched targets like a Golem, and Rafaema hesitated a beat. Between Lulv and Aldonss, she saw how well they were doing, but she had to interrupt.
“What about Liscor’s army? The Goblins?”
She knew, knew Aldonss and Lulv would hang out parts of the army to dry. They’d go to Tyrion Veltras’ aid before the Antinium or Goblins. She was about to snap at Lulv to peel off with her when she heard a displeased grunt from the Wall Lord.
“They’re holding well.”
Rafaema narrowed her eyes. She sprang into the air as Lulv growled at her not to expose herself, Draugr or not. But then the Lightning Dragon saw Aldonss wasn’t lying. The same Draugr that could survive multiple sword slashes from a Dragon’s strength—she saw a warrior of the Antinium raise a sword and hack straight through one of the Draugr’s bodies.
 
——
 
[Weapon of Faith].
The glowing blade looked like the blue of a summer’s sky. The [Templar], Crusader 341, was as surprised as the other Antinium. But he finished the swing and brought up a shield just in time as a Draugr punched him.
The steel buckler was not as powerful as his blade. The fist bent the metal, and another blow took the Templar across the face.
—Lost a mandible. The Draugr’s mouth was bared in a bellow that hadn’t ended for the last three minutes. An onslaught of sound and fluids—but when it looked in the [Templar]’s eyes and beheld that strange blue light, even the undead hesitated.
The blade pierced its chest, and Crusader 341 swore he heard the Draugr shriek. The bellow changed to a sound, still deep and unnatural, but a sound like pain—
Then the Draugr evaporated. [Crusaders] saw the other Draugr assailing their position—visibly hesitate.
They were having to crawl up compacted earth, throw themselves at the entrenched Antinium of Liscor’s army and the Free Hive. But it seemed to the [Crusaders] that suddenly the Draugr were less numerous around them. Did even they fear that light?
If so, it explained why the Free Antinium, many of them fighting bare-handed, seemed to be getting the least battered by the fighting. Yellow Splatters had thrown a Draugr off its feet and was punching it, a match for a single Draugr’s strength.
Yet the Free Antinium who leapt at the larger Draugr and had their chitin torn open bled green like everyone else…except that Purple Smiles placed a palm on the Draugr’s chest, shoved, and sent the undead flying off the rampart it had climbed, landing a good fifteen feet away.
Levels and faith. A [Priest] knelt by Pink Stripes, who was staring at his chest, torn open, and placed a hand on the wound. Pawn whispered a prayer.
“Not yet.”
—Pink Stripes jerked, and Pawn helped him up. The green blood was still there, but the wound had closed.
“Pawn. Fall back! The Painted Antinium are out of line!”
Olesm snapped in his ear, and the [Priest] saw more undead swarming past the Painted Antinium, who had actually met their charge. He lifted his censer as more Draugr charged him.
Pink Stripes and Purple Smile tackled that one. But another tore past Pawn, going for the inn. Pawn saw its eyes locked on the inn, and the [Priest] grabbed its arm.
“No. [Heal Major Wounds].”
The Draugr whirled, arm raised like a bludgeon, then lit up as its flesh twisted. The undead’s rotted corpse flickered, and for a second, Pawn saw pink flesh, and the Draugr shrieked as it remembered a life—then the healed flesh vaporized.
The Draugr collapsed, smoking, and Pawn saw more Draugr milling against a line of Free Antinium in one of the choke points. They were indeed too far forwards.
“Painted Antinium, fall back. [Holy Hammer].”
The Painted Antinium heard him, looked up, and the Draugr struggling with the front rank gazed up as a carpenter’s hammer, large enough for a Giant to use it, swung down and crushed everything in its path.
Draugr, the choke point—only the Painted Antinium were scrambling back as Olesm swore.
“Pawn! You just destroyed the—repair teams, shore up that spot now! Don’t use your best Skills yet!”
“Olesm. I have no cooldown to my Miracles. We are falling back.”
Pawn returned calmly, and his eyes shone as the Painted Antinium retreated three dozen paces, grudgingly setting themselves into position. Above them, Rags’ Goblins covered their retreat.
Crack. Crack. Crack!
