Despair was not something Mirrex often acknowledged, but the concept of a second—and third by implication—made him understand that the Antinium had no more time to buy.
If they fought. He ordered the War Queens to stand down. They could not take more losses. Not after the last Solstice. This one was just quakes so far—but his music hadn’t even harmed the stranger.
“I am Cauwine. I have not long before I am noticed; I offer you a deal, Antinium of Rhir. My mother had interest only in the one you face. I crave better. A people. You are the first of them I would pick.”
“Incomprehensible.”
One of the other Centenium rumbled. Even Mirrex, sharing his understanding of the other species, was having trouble parsing the statement. Cauwine tilted her head.
“I wish your people to…how shall I say it without violating the last trick of Gnomes and Elves? Not serve me, not exactly. Respect me. Love me if you will. Fear or even scorn me if you wilt it. Worship me. It all becomes the same either way. I am Cauwine.”
She said it again, and this time, Mirrex understood.
Words. Purge the name from memory. Lock the Unitasis Network locally—now.
The Queens instantly cut themselves off and began excising the name from their memory. Mirrex’s observation proved his hypothesis. Cauwine grimaced.
“You see? Ah, you are clever. This is why I want your service. With me at your side, you could kill this foe.”
One foe for another. The thought from the other Antinium was a consensus. Mirrex replied in a soft voice.
“Your offer has little merit. This ‘worship’ is not something the Antinium do.”
Cauwine clapped her hands impatiently together; she bore no blade.
“Come, seek sense, Antinium! This foe you cannot slay, not with weapons that have no concept or true magic to them! She—your creator—clearly made you such that you could never truly kill her. I am in awe of your battle prowess to stand your ground thus far. I am not here for your destruction. We are not alike. Argh, I have inherited my mother’s weaknesses in many ways. Speech be one of them. I have no time to explain—”
She was being noticed. The tremors that Mirrex equated with the creation of monsters or apocalyptic events had begun again. Cauwine shifted.
“Call for me. It need only be one group of you. I shall prove my intentions.”
I volunteer—
One of the Shaper Queens fell silent, ready to sacrifice her Hive. Mirrex just stood there. Considering it all. The Bard of the Antinium spoke.
“We will consider your offer. However, you err, stranger.”
“—How?”
Cauwine grew frustrated as the trembling increased. She took a step backwards, clearly ready to flee. Mirrex answered with a smile in his mind as a song ran through the Antinium’s hearts.
“Your words reveal you crossed blades with Klbkchhezeim. If he sees you as our enemy—so do we. The promise will be kept.”
“Argh.”
The Goddess of Last Stands stood there a second, face contorted with emotion Mirrex saved for later processing. Then she stepped back with a rueful smile.
“Remember my promise. I am not the goddess of one people. And you are not the only ones I have my eye upon.”
Then she leapt, the earth heaved, and Mirrex turned, redirecting once again, and reflected that he had more to speak to the ‘Demons’ about.
Much more. If only they had Queens to spare, or Centenium. But they had lost three entire Hives last Solstice in a moment, and the rate of attrition and creation…
Hurry, Klbkch. That was all Mirrex tried to think at him, a world away.
Hurry.
 
——
 
Setbacks she was used to. Kasigna was displeased as one aspect of hers left Rhir and returned to the deadlands. But that was why her plans around the Winter Solstice were multifaceted.
Even if all else fell through, she had confidence she would exit this day victorious.
As she retreated from Rhir—for now—two of her aspects did battle in the other dead realms.
It was proving more difficult than she anticipated. Unlike Kasignel, there were not six dead gods and a legion of even lesser, fragmented gods to slowly build up strength over the course of all of existence.
True, she had more power, but she was encountering each realm at the zenith of their might—and at least one had been ready for her.
The battling was taking a toll on her aspects. So Kasigna devoted her third aspect to what was necessary.
Bare minutes had passed since she had stopped the Solstice from ending. Now, Kasigna paused a moment to experience pleasure. The crone gained little from this—but she would enjoy it.
She took form in the Floodplains of Izril at the base of the great mountains that resembled the teeth of a beast from her home. 
For a second, Kasigna simply stood there. To her eyes, the inn was wrapped in shadows conjured by the [Innkeeper]’s obnoxious tricks. She felt a fell breeze on the wind and the chill of old enemies. A green spark; the eyes of one of the ladies of the fae, trying to match her gambit for gambit.
And the [Innkeeper], who had waited anxiously so long and who thought she had her chance.
Kasigna, the Goddess of Death, looked down upon them all. She stood as horns blared and the eyes of mortals swung towards her. Then she lifted a staff into the air and thrust it down, bleeding some of her power into the world.
Thus she spoke:
“Arise.”
The ground began to shake. Kasigna leaned heavily on her staff a moment, teeth gritted, for the effort tired her more than she would have liked. There were few dead bodies here—at least, few she controlled.
So she conjured these minions from the sheer aether. A waste of power—perhaps. But it should be done thusly. Then she laughed as she straightened, and her eyes flashed as she pointed. What did she call the first time?
Something she had heard the mortals whisper, as if it were the limit of her power. To begin with—
A hulking undead figure, eight feet fall, head too small for the corded muscles bulging across its grey body, tore out of the earth. Even rot could not touch it easily; the Draugr roared with mindless fury as it pulled itself up—
It was but one. Hands broke the earth, and ten thousand Draugr emerged from the soil, pulling themselves out of stone, dirt, snow, and ice as if it were water. Their eyes glowed in the darkness as clouds shrouded the moon and stars.
There Kasigna stood, beholding the smallest army she had ever raised. But then—she cast her eyes dismissively over the [Soldiers] and mortals beyond.
One finger rose, and she pointed it at the inn. She gave the undead but one order:
“Kill the [Innkeeper].”
Then Kasigna turned and vanished as a wave of Draugr charged down the slopes, howling without end, for they had no need of lungs. Bodies moving despite arrows falling towards them or steel that might pierce their chest or magic burn them, for they had no need for hearts or blood.
Nothing to fear. Nothing to slow them down.
 
——
 
The Three-in-One didn’t even bother watching. That was ultimately how much the [Innkeeper] deserved. Fear, death, and contempt.
Kasigna had greater deeds to perform.
Two aspects warred.
One returned to Kasignel and took a seat. Kasigna sat above her small lands of the dead, watching as Drevish worked. He had finished the courtyard, and now her plan—finally—came to fruition.
It was not the mortals at the Floodplains who appeared first in the lands of the dead. The first ghost who stood before Kasigna looked around slowly as he rose, and for a second—he was headless.
Then Tesy and Bviora looked up with that terrible calm that came upon ghosts as they understood it was over. Yet they had questions, for this place was new-made, and one asked in a strained, small voice:
“Where are we? Where is this?”
Because they were the first, though more were appearing each moment, Kasigna spoke. It was not she, the bitter crone, who said it. Nor the maiden who came in joy and newness.
It was the mother. Now she was remembering who she was, and she smiled at them. Not with the pure kindness of some, but a kind of strictness. Yet there was love.
They were hers.
“This is my realm. I am Kasigna, your god. Here you will rest for eternity until I offer you redemption or rebirth. There shall be no torment. Nor reward, save that which you bring. This is the end of all things. When my world is finished, you shall walk it as equals, from kings to beggars, monsters and heroes alike.”
As it was, as it should be. That perfect justice Zineryr had once praised her for. The mother looked down upon her children and sighed once. Then she added what she needed, her only requirement.
“Here you shall speak my name and worship me.”
Be it gratitude or resentment. Hatred, disdain, love, or joy. The first of the ghosts knelt silently, and Kasigna drew from them. It was a half-power, for they were dead, but Kasignel became the first drops of a fountain from which no other of her kin could sip.
Power.
She waited there, drawing in strength once more, then walked down and became small as they were. A mother offered the white-scaled Drake an arm, and he stared at it before taking it.
“I have so many regrets.”
The woman looked at him without sympathy or judgment. Only a kind of curiosity to hear it all.
“Tell me.”
So the first ghost walked with the Goddess of Death as she opened her gates and let them all in. Then they were walking out of her shadow, all the ghosts she had taken, speaking her name and filling the land as Drevish worked to expand it for the countless billions. In time, she would know them all.
But Kasigna was waiting. Waiting for Erin Solstice.
 
——
 
The first wave of undead appeared miles distant at the very edge of the Floodplains. It wasn’t even that many. But the scream that went up from the eagled-eyed made the blood of mortals crawl.
“Draugr! Thousands of Draugr!”
No undead force like this had been seen on Izril in living memory. Even the Necromancer, Az’kerash, hadn’t animated so many in an instant.
Ten thousand Draugr.
It was supposed to be a joke. Niers Astoragon had meant it as a joke.
They were sprinting down from the mountainside faster than most people could run. Tireless, massive; the ‘shortest’ of them were six feet tall. They ran like Olympic sprinters. They struck with enough strength to break walls.
Gold-rank threats, each one. Horror transfixed some [Soldiers] as their laughter, impatience, skepticism gave way to a reality as unbelievable as the day.
The commanders were already speaking. Perorn Fleethoof’s voice snapped across her linked forces.
“Enchanted arrows—I want an acid shower. Arm the jars, we’re going in for a harassing movement, then prep lances. They’ll smash through the defenses on the way to the inn.”
She switched to the general channel as her officers gave orders and the Centaurs geared up.
“Perorn to all. Draugr won’t fall or even feel mundane projectiles. Concentrate y—”
Too late. She’d known this was going to be a clusterfuck of competing tactics and styles. While the Centaur appraised, she heard Chaldion redirecting his forces into appropriate line-holding tactics. House Veltras was maneuvering, signaling they were going to try and cripple the Draugr by taking out their legs until they heard Perorn’s warning.
Xitegen just shouted as he lifted one hand.
“[Covering Fire]!”
The [Lord] had one move, and he used it without hesitation. Perorn didn’t know where his artillery Golems were—until she saw, via her [Darkvision] spell, streaks of arrows rising from Liscor.
He must have them in the center of the city. That idiot—
The Golems and Xitegen’s Skill allowed for pinpoint volleys of arrows. More than even a battalion of archers could put forth. Golems ‘spat’ arrows out of their bodies in showers, reloading dozens in moments and pumping them up into the air via magic.
It still took minutes for them to travel the distance. Perorn was snapping at Xitegen before they even landed.
“Hold your fire or concentrate it! You won’t even get through their skulls without a Skill!”
The [Lord] of House Terland had not fought many Draugr in his life. He was staring across the distance from the Humans’ position. Even Xitegen Terland, who had survived the Goblin King’s army—
Even he didn’t like what he saw.
Hundreds of arrows rained down across the charging Draugr. They were spreading out, forming a giant wedge, the first rank aiming straight for Erin Solstice’s inn. They surged up and down hills, still roaring when the arrows began showering them.
The lead Draugr was hit—it must have been four dozen times as it kept running, volley after volley slamming into it.
It barely rocked; Xitegen could see the flesh rippling as arrowtips penetrated the grey flesh—barely—and then snapped from the impact. He saw the other Draugr keep running through the first volley, then the second—
A lucky arrow hit one Draugr straight in the eye and gouged the entire eye out. The undead didn’t so much as flinch. It just kept running.
“Focus on the lead Draugr, and let’s see how hard it is to kill! With me—[Long-ranged Fire]!”
Lady Buscrei took lead after seeing Xitegen’s Skill fail. She was one of the few archers with the confidence to aim at such distances, still in the miles. Her two sons and the Marshrangers joined a cluster of the best [Archers], and they began loosing arrows.
Xitegen had heard a skilled bowman could put six or more arrows into the air in a minute without Skills. He guessed each [Archer] only put three up; they chose their shots carefully, not using rapid-fire Skills—for now.
A hail of arrows began hitting the lead Draugr, and this time, the hulking undead did slow. Six arrows made it jerk mid-step, and Buscrei landed all three shots on its forehead—until she cursed.
“Skull’s harder than steel! Hit it—”
“[Beacon Arrow] placed. Someone hit the Draugr already!”
Her eldest son, [Lord] Reneil, had the right idea. Jericha whistled.
“[Flame Arrows]! [Mage] corps, you have clearance for Tier 3 magic!”
The longest-range spells began firing. Now, arrows and magic were blasting the undead. Lower-tier spells, true, but Xitegen saw flaming arrows scorching the Draugr’s skin black, and he was trying to count.
“…seventy-one, seventy-two, seventy-three…”
One Draugr was engulfed in a firestorm of arrows and magic, and now its skin was being burnt away down to bone. It vanished in a cloud of smoke, and the other Draugr stormed over it as it fell. Xitegen exhaled.
Seventy-five seconds to take one down at maximum range. Buscrei lowered her bow a second, and Tyrion spoke.
“Drakes are preparing for volleys at their maximum range when the Draugr come in. Hold fire; Fleethoof is going to sweep them from the side with acid attacks—”
“Dead fucking gods!”
Buscrei interrupted him, and Xitegen raised a spyglass and swiveled it—then stopped.
