The Captain’s superlative swordplay provides a much needed spark to ignite the spirits of the soldiers serving under him, for they have never seen him fight or even practice before. Though you’d have to grade on a curve to call the Captain a mediocre Warrior, his soldiers now see him as the peerless Warrior he pretends to be, and thus are far more willing to fight to keep him safe. No one wants to protect a haughty, stuck-up superior who is also incompetent at his job, but it’s another thing altogether when said superior is willing to do his fair share, and their faith in him shows in their efforts as they drive the Defiled off their section of the wall.

After killing the corpse Demon, the Major continues to run rampant along the Northern beach, smashing his way through multiple Defiled with every swing of his mace and clearing the way for the soldiers behind him, led by his precious grandson who idolizes him so. It doesn’t take long for the Major to grasp how to best utilize his newfangled ability, one that is so similar to Hongji’s Ethereal Palm, yet different at the same time, which allows him to remain unrivalled by anyone under Peak Expert. Much as I would love to indulge my curiosity, my time and Energy is better spent elsewhere, so I simply ignore all the burning questions eating away at me from inside and watch as the Major slaughters Demons and Champions like flies, until finally there are none brave enough to challenge him.

Heartening as all this might be, not every mission ends in success. A soldier on top of the wall ignores my Natal Soul as he plummets to his death, reflecting on his bitter regret instead of learning how to Lighten so that he might survive the fall. A Lieutenant Colonel gives into his fear and launches a near-suicidal assault against three formidable Demons, when instead he should have hunkered down and defended while his allies moved into place. An Irregular rejects the notion of trying to Form his Core, because in his mind, a Martial Warrior is a lofty existence far above his own, a goal not even worth dreaming about, so instead he focuses on his task of loading his catapult so that he can kill as many Defiled as possible before they breach the lines.

And despite all their best efforts and more, the scales of power are still tipping in favour of the Enemy here today.

News of our imminent defeat should disturb me greatly, but I find I’m more bothered by the fact that no one will ever acknowledge my efforts. Even if Prime Me reveals what he’s done here today, my existence will be overlooked alongside the rest of my fellow Natal Souls. Regardless of our ultimate success or failure, none of us will ever make it back to our Natal Palace alive, because we are but temporary vessels created to be used until nothing is left. Thus, I must rationalize their deaths as a necessary and heroic sacrifice, because to do otherwise would leave me overwrought with guilt and anguish, but it doesn’t change the fact that I, and others like me, are paying a high price for victory.

Is this compassion? Empathy? Or extreme narcissism? I don’t know. I only know how it makes me feel, proud of my fellow Natal Souls and melancholic for their unenviable fate.

To keep myself from spiralling into despair, I check in on some of my loved ones and friends and share in their successes, for Li-Li, Yan, and Mila have all emerged unscathed from their respective trials and are that much stronger for it. The details of their efforts flow through my mind as if I’m remembering it all firsthand, information left there by my comrades for Prime Me to grasp. Not sure if he’s already assimilated the information, but it’s not like I stole it and no one else can have it ever again. That’s the beauty of sharing information, because the more eyes you have on a subject matter, the more perspectives you can learn from. Even though every one of us Natal Souls were created at the same time, the events that transpired in the short time since have forever altered our perspectives in a myriad of fresh and unique ways, meaning that I might glean something from this information that Prime Me misses, and vice versa.

Psuedo-Domain, Wind Domain, Blessing of the Sun, I take note of everything I see and reserve judgement for later as I move on to other friends and comrades. Jorani’s injuries are healing nicely, but his broken leg has effectively taken him out of the fight, though that doesn’t keep him from bellowing orders and supporting his soldiers from the back, his Aura billowing out with just a hint of heroic spirit that elevates it beyond what a standard Aura can do. Old Bulat is dog tired and ready to drop where he stands, but he’s never been one to quit while he’s ahead, so he continues to fight the good fight and unleash Domain imbued bullets that Amplify on impact and shatter Runic armour like glass. Though Reinforcement is his weakest skill, Zian leaves it as is and doubles down on Amplification and Reverberation instead, finding Insight in the midst of battle and discovering how to turn the chiming strikes of his twin sabres into a symphony of resonating notes that tear a Demon apart from within. Concealed in plain sight from friend and foe alike, Ravil has become a force unto himself while remaining largely unnoticed as he stabs, shoots, and generally kills anyone standing in his way. Lang Yi needs no help from the Natal Soul on his shoulder save to bolster his base physique, but Lang Er works with his Natal Soul to emulate his older brother’s efforts and become more than One with the Spear, marking yet another future Peak Expert in the making. Wang Bao, Siyar, Chey, Ral, and many others progress along the Martial Path and improve in their respective fields, but the one who benefits most from all this is Dastan by far.

For with the Energy of the Heavens at his disposal, Dastan stabilizes his burgeoning Domain and exerts his Will to Sever anything that stands before him. Demonic Chitin and Runic Armour prove no barrier to his Severing Axe, a Honed Domain affixed to his weapon which cuts clean through the very fabric of reality itself. This is his Path, the path of the vanguard who clears the way, for only then can he ensure the safety of the people behind him. This has always been who he is, a man who fights for the betterment of others, and now he finally has the tools needed to do so.

The knot in his heart has come undone, for he truly doesn’t care about his Oaths anymore, and seeing this, I expend a portion of my limited Will to help him unbind the shackles around his Core which sets his Chi to surging like never before.

This is not the first time I’ve noted the flow of Chi, but I never really understood just how integral it was to a Martial Warrior’s strength. There are a myriad of details I have yet to work out, but thus far, it seems like the faster the current, the stronger the Warrior, which I suppose is why people are so amazed when others display Purity. That’s just drawing the Energy of the Heavens quickly enough so that others can feel the flow, but how it became synonymous with the absence of Spectres is beyond me. I mean, technically, Spectres are a form of Heavenly Energy, so I bet if you gathered enough of them and set them to racing about, a regular commoner would feel it too.

…

Oh yea. Where are all the Spectres? I’ve gotten so used to their absence, I almost didn’t even consider it, but during a battle like this, they should be amassing in droves. Even if Zhen Shi is herding them off to the Void en masse, I should at least be able to notice their presence as they leave, but the only… Spiritual, I guess, presence in Meng Sha is me and my Natal Soul brothers. Comrades? Homies? God, I feel old. No, I shouldn’t be feeling, because feeling is wasting Heavenly Energy.

Still multi-tasking to command my fellow Natal Souls in battle, I devote a few brain cells to uncovering the various mysteries plaguing Meng Sha. We already knew that the Energy of the Heavens responds to emotion, but flow is important too. How is that flow shaped? Through many different vectors. Visualization, Intent, Faith, and Emotion are but a few that I rely on, but as I ruminate over the experiences of the friends, loved ones, and strangers I’ve helped today, I realize there are as many ways to shape the Energy of the Heavens as there are stars in the sky. All of it can be summed up under the umbrella of ‘Will’, yet that’s like saying you’ve stepped in some liquid. You get the gist of what’s happened, but the details matter, because stepping in a puddle of water is a whole different story from stepping in a puddle of piss, blood, or acid.

So if flow is so important, why don’t I try and see the flow of the nefarious working dragging everyone in Meng Sha down into the pits of despair?

No reason why I shouldn’t at least try, right? Passing a message back to Prime Me encapsulating everything I’ve seen, heard, thought, and generally experienced here today, I close my eyes and open my senses to the world at large. ‘Spiritual Sense’ is the working term everyone’s been using, and being something of a Spirit myself, I should be wholly in tune with mine. I know that Spiritual Senses are linked to the Domain, but a Domain is not a requirement to have them, it just makes it easier for your physical senses and hardware to perceive them. My best guess is that the Domain acts as a coupling to help merge the two sets of senses into one, working system, yet another way in which the physical and metaphysical intertwine together, but the why and how doesn’t matter at the moment.

All I want to do is sense the flow of Heavenly Energy, and maybe, just maybe, prove my hunch right. Even though the Spectres are all absent in reality, my gut tells me they have something to do with the ‘Aura-like effect’ pervading throughout all of Meng Sha. Mostly because this pall of desperation and discouragement is pretty much Spectre 101, save for the complete and utter absence of Spectres.

But if it looks like shit and stinks like shit, then chances are Prime Me stepped in a giant pile of it when he settled on Meng Sha for his base of operations.

Time passes as I parse through the mysteries of the Dao, a second, a minute, an hour, all in the blink of an eye. For the sake of my sanity, I check in on reality and find that Bulat’s latest bullet has travelled a fraction of a millimetre since I started, even though it feels like an eternity has passed since. Focusing all of my efforts on the task at hand, I uncover a loose thread in the metaphysical foundation of the world around Meng Sha, a wrongness that sticks out like a sore thumb now that I know to look for it. How I didn’t see it before is a mystery to be sure, but I head over and do what I always do when I find something strange and unfamiliar.

I give the metaphorical thread a metaphorical tug. I mean, it’s just human nature, and though I lack a physical body, I am still human after all.

“Don’t!” Prime Me Sends, a message that comes a split second too late, but a split second might as well be an eternity as the Void opens up before my senses and swallows me whole. The din of battle falls silent as the barren emptiness stretches out in all directions, until it is empty no more.

“And so little worm has set itself upon the hook.” Looming over me like a mountainous giant clad in robes of gold and horror, Zhen Shi sneers down at me from his perch on high. “How kind of you to send coal in the midst of a blizzard, a kindness this Sovereign will not soon forget.”

His wrinkled, gnarled hands reach out to grasp me tight, and soon all I can see is the ring set around his index finger, a horrific amalgamation of a thousand screaming Spectres whose fate I fear I might envy soon enough as they rise up and hold me fast in their cold and bony appendages.

Chapter Meme
