Not all Natal Souls are equal.

Yea, I said it. Not the most pleasant thing to hear, but it’s true.

We are not all equal, because we were not created equally.

Yes, we. I myself am also a Natal Soul, which makes it okay for me to criticize my brothers currently flooding the battle-field, but I’m built different. To understand why, we would first have to examine what a soul really is, a concept Prime Me has struggled with for some time now. In philosophical terms, the Brotherhood would say that a soul is the eternal vessel that houses the essence of our unique being, one which persists throughout our repeated journeys through life and death. In more technical terms, one could argue that a soul is what separates a living creature with thoughts and agency from an inanimate object like dirt or a rock, though I’m sure there are people who believe those have souls as well. Personally, I believe a soul is a core component of life as we know it, one that is imperceptible to the basic human senses, but exists all the same, a quantifiable element of the world we live in which humans and animals cannot do without.

At least, that’s the theory I’m working with, which admittedly could be wrong. If new information comes to light, then I’ll review the facts and revise my theory as needed, because that’s how science works, but otherwise, this is the way things are. As for whether plants, bacteria, or rocks have souls, this is a question best left for Prime Me to muse over, because unlike him, I have precious little time to waste. Sticking to the facts alone, we know that the Core is the medium through which Martial Warriors interact with the Energy of the Heavens, because Shen ZhenWu said so, and it made sense. He also said, ‘Therein lies the key to humanity’s success, as well as what may be our ultimate downfall’, and I’m beginning to think I understand why. If the Core is the medium through which Martial Warriors interact with the Energy of the Heavens, then how is it possible for base vanilla humans to regrow their teeth? That is a definitive example of regular, everyday people interacting with Heavenly Energy, which tells me that it’s possible to do so without a Core.

So if a Core is part and parcel of the soul, then it stands to reason that the soul is the medium through which humans and animals interact with the Energy of the Heavens without a Core. How the interaction is made is still unclear, as there are elements of Will, emotion, necessity, and various other triggers Prime Me has stumbled across during his journey through the Dao, but that’s not important here. If we follow along with the previous line of logic, namely that a soul is the medium through which we interact with the Energy of the Heavens, then a Natal Soul can be defined as an isolated portion of one’s soul, one which is not necessarily a carbon copy of the original, but merely cut from the same cloth, so to speak. While Prime Me created all of us Natal Souls in his own image for the sake of Balance, this isn’t necessary for the creation of a Natal Soul. Dastan’s Natal Soul is a more simple and honest existence, one he crafted to help hold onto his dreams and ideals while he himself suffered through hardships which threatened to break his spirit. Sahb’s Natal Soul is a wooden statue, one devoid of thought and agency which he uses to hone his skills within his Natal Palace while he goes about his day. Ulfsaar’s Natal Soul is a prison for his darkest, most murderous urges, one he sets loose every time there is blood to be shed.

And Baledagh was a puppet I crafted to behave like the person I believed was best suited for this world, a bold, headstrong Warrior who didn’t sweat the small stuff and wasn’t afraid of chasing after his dreams.

No, not ‘I’. I didn’t create Baledagh. Prime Me did, a distinction I must heed lest I develop ambitions of moving beyond my station. Much as I hate to admit it, I am merely a tool, the right tool for the job at hand, but a tool nonetheless, one whose existence will end once my purpose is served. Though I fear death, it is failure which I fear more, because though I am merely a fraction of the whole, I share the same hopes and fears as Prime Me, which is how I am able to appreciate the stakes at hand. If I fail here, then Meng Sha will fall and people I love and care about could die.

And so I must not fail, because I am integral to the success of Prime Me’s plan.

The vast majority of the Natal Souls were willingly severed by Prime Me for the sake of delivering usable Heavenly Energy to his allies. Usable being the operative word here, since most people don’t have any usable Heavenly Energy to dole out, but as past experience has revealed, Prime Me has become a font of Heavenly Energy thanks to his merger with Blobby, the Heavenly Tear. Since they are merely vessels to deliver Heavenly Energy, most of these Natal Souls are… inferior. I say this not to denigrate them, but because it is the truth, a result of circumstances as much as anything else. Prime Me was working with limited resources, so most Natal Souls had to get by with the bare minimum. This isn’t to say they’re mindless puppets, because nothing could be further from the truth. As Lin-Lin pointed out, Natal Souls aren’t good or evil, they’re just reflections of the emotions contained within them. Thus, to ensure his Natal Souls stay the course instead of devolving into imbalanced Spectres, Prime Me made sure his Natal Souls were all Balanced as could be, specifically by ensuring they had the same personality and experiences he himself possessed. Not ideal, since Prime Me is a smart-ass at the best of times and all of us Natal Souls have inherited this same trait, but when push comes to shove, he comes through in a pinch, and the same can be expected from all his Natal Souls.

That being said, even though you’d think that being a font of Heavenly Energy would mean that Prime Me has an infinite amount of Heavenly Energy at his disposal, this is not the case. He’s limited by a number of factors, including how much Heavenly Energy he can store and utilize at any given time. This is likely due to constraints of my Core and/or soul, though there could be a multitude of other reasons as well, like time required to process or what have you. Admittedly, this is a far cry from what he accomplished in JiangHu with his million-strong army of Natal Souls, but circumstances were different then, as he had access to more… well, everything, in a nutshell, the most important of which was guidance from the Heavens above in the form of limited omniscience. Combined with the ability to process an absurd amount of information in what amounted to practically no time at all, and how he was able to draw upon ambient Heavenly Energy from the world itself, this enabled him to do things that even now we still cannot wholly comprehend.

Bereft of the benefits he enjoyed in the Call Centre of the Void, benefits which came at far too steep a cost, there were only so many Natal Souls Prime Me could create. What’s more, each one was armed with the smallest sliver of Heavenly Energy possible, but there’s another problem to consider. During the escapades of Buddy and the Natal Soul, Prime Me discovered that severed Natal Souls lack the ability to generate emotion. They still feel emotions all the same, but it comes at a steep cost, namely consuming some of the usable Heavenly Energy they were provided with. A curious relationship, emotion and Heavenly Energy, but if Heavenly Energy consumes emotion, then I suppose it makes sense if you can get emotion from breaking down Heavenly Energy, yea?

The mechanics aside, this means it is vital that each Natal Soul uses what little Heavenly Energy we have with the utmost efficiency, else all our efforts might be for naught.

This is where I come in. You could say that I’m the number one Natal Soul around, created as a workaround to technical limitations. Just as an army requires a chain of command, so too does this battalion of Natal Souls, else they would be unleashing all manner of chaos and anarchy all across the battlefield by behaving as they please. Prime Me is acting as supreme commander, safely ensconced within our Natal Palace at the back of the fortress. While his ability to multi-task pales in comparison to his attainments in JiangHu, he’s shown some improvements in just this battle alone, as evidenced by how he helped so many of the soldiers on the battlements earlier. With him manning our beefy PC battle station, he’s perfectly poised to oversee his Natal Souls from a macro position, directing them all to where they’re most needed or most effective.

In contrast, I am the general in the field, the Natal Soul in charge of the micro, if you will. There are a handful of Elites, advanced Natal Souls tasked with critical missions, like delivering a bit more Heavenly Energy to Mila, Yan, and Li-Li, because nepotism, or other, more complex tasks that require more Heavenly Energy to complete. They don’t need my direction, because they have their jobs already, and the same could be said of the Natal Souls directed to my friends, comrades, subordinates, and so on, but then there’s the grunts, the rank-and-file boots on the ground who will be doing the bulk of the heavy lifting. Most of them are more than capable of making their own decisions regarding where to go and who to help, but there are only so many people willing to accept my assistance. As Prime Me discovered only seconds ago, not everyone is receptive to his help, because there’s the whole inviolability of the soul to consider when doling out Heavenly Energy in soul-wrapped packages. As such, most of the soldiers on the ground are unable to receive Prime Me’s aid, because they lack sufficient love, trust, or what I assume is faith in their Legate Falling Rain for his usable Heavenly Energy to break through the natural defenses a soul provides.

Meaning usable Heavenly Energy is different from regular Heavenly Energy, but also different enough from Chi to matter. Again, something for Prime Me to consider, while I handle business out here.

So how do I get my fellow Natal Souls around the seemingly impenetrable barrier that is the soul? Why it’s simple. We take a page from the Spectre playbook and trick Imperial soldiers into accepting our help.

Which turns out isn’t all that difficult to do. I’ve always known that Spectres and Zhen Shi are unable to read minds, because otherwise they would’ve long since uncovered all my weaknesses and discovered my deepest, darkest fears and secrets, but now I understand where their limits truly lie. Thoughts remain beyond my reach, but reading emotions is as easy as turning a hand, because when you get right down to it, humans and animals are emotive beings. Whether we’re happy, sad, angry, scared, or otherwise, we almost always convey how we’re feeling in some way or another, with words, actions, body language, or whatever. Even the most closed-mouthed and unreadable individuals are always broadcasting their emotions out loud, but in a way most people are unable to perceive, one in which even I cannot wholly explain. If Blobby is a font of Heavenly Energy, then humans are fonts of emotion which we emanate out into the world around us, like a cloud of charged energy cast off in our wake, a cloud Spectres and Zhen Shi use to gauge the moods of their unwitting victims and drive them ever deeper to despair.

Even without Spectres infesting the skies, Meng Sha is rife with gloom and doom, and not solely because of Zhen Shi’s foul workings, but because even though OuYang Min Jun is an adequate tactician, he is a sub-par leader who does not understand the true power of morale. If Hongji were here, he would deliver a rousing speech calling on the soldiers to stand firm, while Nian Zu would make a public appearance and deliver a crushing blow to the Enemy, but Min Jun is too focused on the raw numbers and calculating the odds to really pay attention to the wavering confidence of his soldiers. Luckily, he has Prime Me and myself to help pick up the slack, so I focus on the task at hand and set to work coordinating the efforts of my fellow Natal Souls, a few hundred at a time.

Thankfully, being the head honcho Natal Soul is not without benefits, including a notably larger package (ha) of Heavenly Energy to power all my add-ons. I also come equipped with extra processing power which enables me to multi-task almost on par with Prime Me, though I find myself less equipped to handle the influx of information which follows. It’s a strange feeling, being able to perceive that I’m doing a whole bunch of stuff at once, but not knowing exactly what it is I’m doing unless I focus on one task in particular. Take this young soldier on the wall whose name I do not know, one of many faces among the crowd that I doubt I’ve ever spoken to before. I don’t know who he serves, where he’s from, what he ate this morning, or even where he sits on the scale of strength, but I can tell he is deeply afraid of dying here today. Not solely because he fears death, but because he got caught up in all the excitement of a crusade and left someone he loves behind, someone he’s thinking about right now. It could be a parent, a sibling, a friend, or childhood sweetheart. I’m not sure who it is he’s so fixated on, because I’m too ‘distanced’ from the emotion to tell, but I can sense he sorely regrets not expressing his love before leaving to retake the West. As he fights for his life, he is overcome with his regret, which the maleficent Aura in Meng Sha magnifies a thousand times over.

