“Survive,” I whisper to the young soldier, words, emotions, and concepts echoed by one of my counterparts ready and waiting to lend him aid. “That is the only way you can ever be rid of your regret. Survive and return to make things right.”

A simple enough concept, but words he needs to hear, and the results are staggering to behold. A bit of encouragement is all it takes for this young soldier to break free from the chains of fear and regret holding him down. Even more astounding is how he accepts my Natal Soul at the same time, for he knows he needs all the help he can get and is none too picky about where it comes from. In his eyes, the Heavens have bestowed upon him the courage he needed, and he holds fast to that connection as he strides forth to do battle. Basic training is all he has, but he practically spent his entire childhood aboard a fishing boat where patience and diligence became second nature, a fact I can tell not just from my connection to the Natal Soul currently merging with his soul, but also his general poise and familiarity with his actions. A dutiful worker, this young soldier paid close attention when his drill sergeants told him what to do, but he always felt uncomfortable holding his spear normally. Like most soldiers fresh out of training, he wields a standard-length steel spear that he finds slightly too heavy for his slender, malnourished frame, but he puts his fishing skills to good use as he hefts it in an overhand fashion. He stabs once, just like he would when spearing a fish, only this time the fish has a spear of its own, a deadly point which punches through his hard-leather armour with laughable ease. Ignoring the pain, the soldier stabs again and again, his weapon glancing off the Mataram Clansman’s Runic armour with a metallic shriek, but his fury is enough to drive his foe back just a single step.

Then everything lines up perfectly and the young soldier sees his chance, casting his spear out and across the meter-long gap to plunge neatly in his foe’s exposed face. Even as gore and viscera spews out from the dead Defiled’s Runic helm, the young soldier retrieves his spear with the practiced reflex of a man who’s done this a thousand times before. This too is a Movement of the Forms, but not any Form I am familiar with, though that does not make it any less legitimate or effective. This is the result of countless hours of practice and repetition, the action engraved not just in his body, but in his mind and soul as well, causing his Chi to flow through him in a distinct pattern as he executes the attack. Chest heaving with excitement, he lines up his next foe and raises his spear once more, all the while heeding the advice of the Natal Soul guiding him through the process of producing Panacea to Heal.

A Captain catches my eye, a bearded, middle-aged, noble-born gentleman who would love nothing more than to throw his sword down and run judging by the thick waves of fear and desperation emanating off of him. He can’t do that though, for various reasons, chief among them being the loss of face. There’s also the fact that the walls are too crowded for him to run very far, not to mention how his commander would likely give the order to strike him down where he stands. Cowards and deserters are universally reviled in the army, not because no one understands why a soldier would flee, but because they become a burden to the others left behind. That being said, he’s close enough to the gate that he’s considering his odds of survival if he jumped off the battlements and braced himself against the corner to slow his decline, but then he’d be trapped in the courtyard. Not much of an improvement, but anything has to be better than standing here and waiting for death.

Or so the maleficent Aura would have him believe, but this is merely his fear betraying him.

“Are you a coward?” I ask, a question which freezes the Captain in his place mere moments before he makes his final decision, the outcome of which I cannot even begin to guess. “Or are you a Warrior? Death comes but once in a lifetime, but there is no cure for regret.”

Not the most inspiring of words, but it’s the kick in the pants this Captain needs, because he is nothing if not prideful. It’s baked into his bones, entwined in the very fibre of his being, but arrogance is a form of faith and conviction in oneself. Even though he is only a middling Martial Warrior already half dead from exhaustion, he believes he was born into greatness, and this alone gives him the courage of a lion and the audacity to advance along the Martial Path. Raising his Spiritual Sword up high, he lets loose with a bellowing roar that is equal parts fear and bravado, but his soldiers only hear the latter as he launches himself at a blue-and-black armoured Mataram Officer. A hedonistic lifestyle and lack of diligence has left him with an inadequate grasp of the Forms, but he’s seen enough Warriors of note to know what a Hero looks like. Fake it till you make it, except this Captain doesn’t even realize he’s faking it, so high on his own supply of conceited narcissism that he truly believes he is a Warrior without peer.

To be fair, he’s not the worst Martial Warrior I’ve met, nor is he entirely without talent. Though he is full of pomp and pretension even on his best days, it serves him well today as he mutters a prayer and rises to the occasion by trying to recreate a sequence of Movements he once saw Ryo Da’in use in a sparring match against Chang Tetsudo. The Natal Soul assigned to him is as flummoxed as I am, because we both sense that the Captain barely understands what Da’in even did, unable to even put name to the Movements themselves. All he knows is the sequence of events that saw her emerge victorious against a spear user, so the Captain thinks it will work for him here. The problem is, he hasn’t taken his opponent’s actions into account, so he begins by parrying a thrust his foe has yet to deliver, leaving him wide open for the attack he already saw coming.

Luckily, he has the Heavens on his side, or the Energy of the Heavens at least, surging into his Core as his appointed Natal Soul fulfills his purpose and dissipates into nothingness. One with the Sword, the Captain wields his weapon with renewed purpose and vigour as he’s struck by a flash of Insight, one which arrives none too soon as the Clansman’s spear hurtles towards his throat. The essence of Da’in’s Movements are simple enough, to use her opponent’s momentum against him, and the Captain follows suit without even needing to think. His sword circles around to parry the thrust, making it look as if the first missed parry was merely an ornamental flourish, and he steps in to trap his foe in his grasp. The sword threads around the spear until it’s wedged between hilt and blade, giving the Captain enough leverage to hold the weapon in place with a single hand while his foe struggles to free it with two. From there, it’s merely a matter of pivoting to one side and taking a step back before allowing the Clansman to believe he’s successfully freed his spear, when all he’s doing is opening up an avenue for the Captain’s thrusts to take him clean through his throat.

Forward step, side step, back step, and thrust. That’s all most will ever see from an outside perspective, making this complex maneuver seem as easy as breathing, but only the Captain understands just how difficult it truly was. It’s not just about strength and accuracy, but timing and rhythm as well, a basic concept he only now grasped, but in spectacular fashion. Much like with the young soldier, the Captain’s Movements synchronized with his Chi flowing through him in yet another pattern, one entirely unique to the Captain himself. There are no glowing lines to follow or shimmering lights to indicate the flow of Chi, but I can feel it all the same, and the flow speaks to me on a level I cannot quite comprehend.

On the Northern beach, a nameless Major fights for his life against his most formidable foe to date, a Demon in the shape of a desiccated corpse wielding two bone scimitars in hand. Though not much to look at, the Demon moves with the grace of a dancer and the speed of a pouncing cat, a poor match for the hulking brute of a Major and his two-handed mace. Made to look the fool by his agile foe, the Major’s mounting anger and frustration leads him to reminisce about the earlier glories of his youth. By the Mother, he was strong then, a young Talent in the prime of life, but so many decades had passed him by with little to no progress since. He feels the rigours of age bearing him down when he once could have fought for hours without rest, but there’s something pushing him to keep fighting in spite of his aches and exhaustion. I see it now, in the eyes and emotions of a soldier behind the Major, one who shares the same nose and jawline. A son perhaps, or more likely a grandson, one who watches his grandfather with the wide-eyed stare of a boy seeing his hero in action. That’s what drives the Major to continue, the unwillingness to disappoint his grandson, so he swallows his pride and chases after the slippery foe dancing before him, but the Demon remains one step ahead and one hair’s breadth out of reach at all time. In his haste to close that tiny, yet insurmountable distance, his movements grow frantic and clumsy as he pursues his nimble foe up and down the battlements without landing a single blow, though he kills a good number of Clansmen along the way. A valiant effort, but a waste of his strength all the same, for the Demon kills just as many Imperial soldiers in passing, if not more.

Contrary to his burly, meatheaded appearance, the Major is no fool and understands what his foe is trying to do, lead him about on a merry chase until it can catch him off-guard and kill him. To this end, he feigns shortness of breath and pretends to be blinded by rage as he recklessly chases the Demon down, but it refuses to take the bait and continues to flee without honour. A Peak Expert could kill the Demon as easily as turning a hand, but the Major is still several steps short of calling himself such, for his skills in Lightening, Guiding, and Deflection are sorely lacking. One tiny burst of speed, that’s all he needs to catch up, but as things stand, he might as well try to pluck the moon from the night’s sky, a surprisingly poetic sentiment from the strapping and imposing Warrior.

“And why not aim for the moon?” I ask, and the Natal Soul assigned to him whispers the same general concept into the Major’s ear. “Even if inevitable failure is what awaits you at the end, you will go far in pursuit of so lofty a goal. Better to chase a fool’s dream than stand idle in pragmatic cynicism.”

A message which resonates with the long-toothed Major, for it reminds him of the delusions of grandeur he enjoyed in his youth. No, not delusions, for he’d come further than he’d ever believed possible, a respected Major and Demon Slayer of the Imperial Army. So what if he wasn’t a Peak Expert? He could still shoulder the Heavens for his loved ones, including his grandson serving at his side. All the Major needs to do is stop the Demon in its tracks for a single moment and it will crumble in a single blow, so that is what he sets out to accomplish.

And in response, the Major’s Chi surges through his body and out into the world as his Domain bends to his Will and Deploys all around him, stretching further than it’s ever stretched before. On a regular day, his Domain might extend just under three centimetres past his skin if he Deployed it without direction, but today, it expands more than twice that. Six centimetres doesn’t seem like much, but once directed and shaped by his Intent, it is more than enough for the task at hand. Neither I, my Natal Soul, nor the Major himself understands the forces at work here as his Domain merges with the Energy of the Heavens to solidify and stretch out, grabbing hold of the Demon like an amoeba grabbing hold of its prey, but the Major doesn’t care one whit about the how. He cares not for the laws of Heaven or even nature, for here within his Domain, his Will is absolute, and the Heavens will just have to forgive him for overstepping his bounds. Letting loose with a roar of victorious fury now that his foe is caught in his grasp, he leaps forward and brings his two-handed mace down to unleash the most powerful blow he’s ever dealt. The weapon hammers home on the immobile corpse Demon and snaps its bones like twigs, leaving it bent double and held together only by its rotted, leathery hide. A micro second later, the dead Demon’s skin bursts open as it breaks in twain, spraying a wave of vile Ichor into a crowd of Defiled who howl as the caustic fluid eats away at their skin and flesh.

Each one of these victories represents a minor shift in the tides of battle, one that is nigh imperceptible from even ten steps back, but no man is an island. Seeing the young soldier’s bravery and success, his comrades are spurred to action and move to support him for various reasons of their own. To some, solidarity and camaraderie drive them forward, and others, it’s a sense of shame at shirking their duty while weaker Warriors hold up the Heavens, and still more move simply due to their training, because that’s what training is for. It’s there to take over when fear and confusion would otherwise stop you in your tracks, and the young soldier reminds them of this fact.

