“On purpose,” Casper sighed. “The faction these are from is supposed to be the Aginian Empire, a totally fictional faction that Minaga did indeed partly name after himself. Once more, I said the name was a bit too obvious, but he kept arguing that the vast majority would not notice. Same as how most don’t notice something is an obvious reference to something else, despite just taking a word or a name and spelling it backwards.”

“Not gonna lie, I may actually have to agree with Minaga there; a lot of people either don’t care or are oblivious,” Jake shook his head. “But if we’re gonna be fighting golems, aren’t you disadvantaged?”

“What kind of chump do you think I am? Naturally, I’ve learned how to handle enemies like that,” Casper shrugged. “Besides, there will be other enemies later, and these are just the weakest construction golems. We’ll encounter live prey further in.”

Jake nodded, choosing to trust Casper’s senses when it came to detecting life. As a Risen with an attunement for death, he could naturally easily detect signs of life in a vast area, and the stronger the living entities were, the easier it was to detect them.

“So, should we just start clearing?” Jake asked. They were still a good distance away, and Jake saw that most of the golems were spread far apart, making it feasible to take them out one at a time.

“Man, with the casualness you said that, I get the feeling these things barely even register as worthwhile targets in your mind,” Casper sighed, shaking his head. “If that’s the case, how about leaving them to me? That way, I can at least get some experience, plus you’ll get a better feel for what I’m capable of. Oh, also, didn’t you say you wanted to take inspiration from my curse skills? This seems like a great opportunity for that.”

Jake took another glance at the golems below, and while he was tempted to see if he could one-shot them, he ultimately shrugged, reckoning he would have plenty of chances to try later anyway. “Sure, let’s see what you got.”
