In a flash of light, Erick, Poi, and Teressa reappeared in the front room of their temporary apartment.

Erick immediately asked Poi, “So what the fuck was that about with Ari?”

Poi looked a bit bluer around the face—

And then he turned and puked out watery bile onto the floor.

Teressa gave a nervous, terrified laugh as she patted Poi’s back, saying, “You’re good, Poi. It was just— Just a person getting torn to shreds.” She cast a [Cleanse] upon them all, dispersing thick air from all of her, and from all of Poi; the results of sweat turning to mana. Only the barest bit escaped from Erick. “It’s okay. You’re okay.”

Poi groaned and spat up more bile. After a moment more, he stood straight, and cast another [Cleanse]. He looked at no one as he said, “Soul magic is terrifying.”

“I didn’t know you could sunder a soul that easily!” Teressa said, “That was the scariest part! Just a fucking—! Just a damned grand rad and a glass diamond! That’s all it takes? HOLY SHIT!”

“Ah,” Erick said, realizing that he had perhaps glossed over some of the abominable acts of magic that they had witnessed. Was he becoming inured to the horror show? Or was he breaking in odd ways? Probably a bit of both. Teressa not having a grip on what she had seen was understandable, though, but Poi reacting like this? That was a bit odd. He said to both of them, “Sorry. I didn’t think it would be like that. I didn’t know that it would affect… any of us like it did.”

Poi breathed out, forcing himself to calm, his eyes half lidded as he looked away, saying, “I knew it would be bad, but not that… At least I managed to hold off my reaction until now.” He fully opened his eyes, and said, “This was unprofessional of me. I apologize. It will not happen again.”

“Well shit!” Teressa said, “If I have to walk into that place again, I might piss myself, and that surely won’t be professional! Gods damn! That place was like walking in a part of the Forest covered in Deathsoul Shrooms!” She exclaimed, “Souls crying out, everywhere! Holy damn.”

Erick decided that he was definitely becoming numb to the horror shows of the world, and to the suffering of others. He hadn’t seen any of what Teressa had seen. He said, “All I saw were souls summoned for one last talk with their surviving relatives, or otherwise. It seemed kinda nice.” To the dismayed look of both Teressa and Poi, Erick rapidly added, “Except for the soul sundering, of course. I could go without seeing that ever again.”

Teressa’s words failed her. She wanted to tell him how he was fucked up, but her words did not seem to work right.

Poi’s words did not fail him. “Summoning souls is like ripping out a hunk of memories from your loved ones in order to talk to them one last time. You saw how Raidu wasn’t all there, right? You wouldn’t want someone doing that to you, would you? You could still have an afterlife in the realm of a god, or with the angels or demons. But if you’re summoned back, then you might not make it to your destination without forgetting who you were before.”

Teressa exclaimed, “Yes! That! I’ve heard it told different, but yeah. That’s the lot of it.” She said, “Watching all of that in there… All I could see was the pure greed in the eyes of those who summoned their fathers or mothers in order to ask where the casks of gold were buried in the Tribulations. Or the men with the lawyers, and the necromancers working on behalf of the living instead of the dead!” Teressa said, “That was immoral. The entire institution.” She added, “No wonder Elder Arilitilo didn’t want to be there! Holy gods.”

Erick frowned, saying, “Ah… Well. All good points.”

Teressa added, “And the pure disdain for the desires of the summoned! Half of those ghosts were writhing in pain while they were trapped on this plane!”

Poi shivered. “They were losing parts of themselves every moment they were here, so yeah; pain.”

Teressa blurted a nonsensical, “Eethaaghuuu,” also giving a shiver. “I have to walk around a bit.” And then she did, walking down the room, and then pacing the hallway, remaining in earshot.

Erick let them get a grip; he could wait.

Poi relaxed, then said to Erick, “Anyway.” He breathed deep, then exhaled, and said, “Arilitilo is under heavy guard right now because she was an unknown Soul Mage working in the government of Eralis for so long. She’s under a lot of scrutiny from the Palace of the Eternal Court, and she wants you to know that she cannot talk openly, for they question her all the time, and she wants to be able to be truthful with them, to be able to say that she has not spoken to anyone outside of approved meetings. Her talk with you last time was meant to be her break from politics, but she was uncomfortable with the heavy questioning she received afterward. She doesn’t want a repeat of that event. In a few years, she might get something of her life back, but for now, she’s content with what is happening to her.”

That was a disappointment.

Erick said, “She told you to say that, but that’s not what she was truly thinking, was it?”

Poi faltered. “Not... totally correct. She only had those thoughts in her head, this is true, but without telepathically sending them out, she could truthfully say that she had no knowing contact with you. Some of her thoughts were along the lines of ‘Ah… How it vexes me that I cannot tell him about this scrutiny of being a Soul Mage in Songli’, and the like. No doubt they will question her about her thoughts around me, as well, but the Palace of the Eternal Court cannot sanction her because they allowed her into the presence of a known Mind Mage.” He added, “She was only there because she was your contact, and they wanted to make you happy to know that she was okay. And she is okay. She says she’s okay, for now. She will let you know if that changes.”

Erick relaxed a little, and then declared, “This is fucked up,” Erick decided. “Well. If she ever wants a rescue, or asylum, and you hear of it, let me know. I’ll take her to Candlepoint, or Spur, or something. I’m sure Silverite would be fine with her around.”

Poi’s lips scrunched.

Teressa stopped her pacing at the mention of ‘Silverite would be fine with her around’, her eyebrows narrowed in thought as she came back into the room.

Erick asked the two of them, “… Would she not be welcome in Spur?”

Poi and Teressa shared a look. Teressa shrugged. Poi hummed.

Poi said, “Maybe. Silverite has killed her fair share of rogue necromancers, and all necromancers in Spur are rogue necromancers. If Silverite were here and had power over this land, this Palace of the Eternal Court would be ash and mud with every necromancer either promised to never summon another soul again, or executed.”

“Yeah. Spur doesn’t allow necromancy.” Teressa said, “But Soul Mages aren’t always Necromancers. Ari ain’t a necromancer either… Eh.”

“Arilitilo would get a pass, though, right?” Erick asked.

Teressa shrugged.

Poi said, “I’ll ask her in case the situation goes that way. Elder Ari did save your life and I can vet that she’s exactly the stabilizing force she appears to be.”

Erick frowned, at himself as much as anything else. He said, “I think my sensibilities are getting eroded. I don’t see what the big deal is with Soul Magic.”

“A lot of Soul Magic seems fine; I agree.” Poi said, “But it’s like Blood Magic. It’s easily abused.”

“More so than [Force Beam]s to the face?” Erick countered.

“Yes.” Poi said, “As a Darker thought: If it weren’t for us knowing who you are as a person, and what to expect from you, Erick, and for my own ability to tell what is actually happening in the minds of all involved… This fascination of yours with helping Arilitilo could easily be attributed to soul mutilation caused by Arilitilo when she went inside of you and fixed you from the soul spear.”

Teressa paled a little as Poi’s dark words were trotted out into the light for all to see. She looked away, then looked back; she had these thoughts on her mind, too. But Poi was the only one to give them a voice.

Erick sighed out, and said, “Okay. I see that. I think… I think I need to go lay down for a while.”

Poi said, “Tyli is coming over soon.”

Erick winced. “… Dammit.”

Teressa asked, “I’ll make some coffee? Strong, too. I know I could use some.”

“Yes, please.” Erick said, “I would like that. Thank you.”

- - - -

Erick welcomed Tyli into his house. She carried with her a large wooden box, filled with vials filled with blood, while another two Elites walked at her side. Erick didn’t know the other two people, though Tyli did introduce them, so Erick welcomed them inside as well, and then set them up in the front room; the one without [Prismatic Ward]. He tried to be personable, and especially with the two new people, but seeing Raidu torn apart into mana had him remembering how he tore apart red soldiers with beams of light for the past week…

And it was getting to him.

Everything was getting to him.

He did ask one question, though, “I’m not searching for any dragons with this lot of blood, am I? I don’t want to be a part of that.”

Tyli assured him, “This is truly blood from the Book Binders. The Headmaster wouldn’t want to be involved with any draconic business outside of what happens at Oceanside. There are no surprises here, Archmage Flatt. I understand your man, Poi, is a Mind Mage. If you want I will subm—”

“No, no. That’s fine.” Erick said, “I just needed you to say the words. I can be mad later if they turn out to be a lie.”

Tyli seemed to take umbrage at his words, but she said nothing.

The four of them got to it.

With the use of the vials of blood, each of which was simply labeled with a number starting at #1, and going to #48, Erick erected [Cascade Imaging]s throughout the nearest 7000 kilometers, searching for wayward Book Binders. Teressa served tea and cookies while maps populated. Over the next few hours, twenty two of the forty eight searches returned matches, most of them in Eralis, in public spaces or in hotels. Some searches that Tyli had expected to find were not found, for some parts of Songli had been destroyed in the fighting. Several searches turned up sites well outside of Eralis and the nearby lands. All of the sites were mapped out by the elites at Tyli’s side, but Erick glanced at each one with an Ophiel.

Aside from the places in Eralis, one target got into Alaralti and the Tribulations. Two people got all the way to the Warlord Clans to the north, along the Wanzhi River.

One person got over to Terror Peaks.

The last one was concerning.

After they searched through all the vials, they went back to the one that had turned up results near the former nation of Terror Peaks. A closer search revealed DNA tracks near Warchanter Farloa’s former research castle. That place had been thoroughly blasted and was little more than rubble and a few scattered towers, but with a [Cascade Imaging] layered over the location, Erick revealed that the target’s DNA survived in some of the less-open spaces. Whoever the target was, they must have been there many times to get their DNA all over the place.

Tyli frowned, her eyes full of red light as she stared through the world, to a distant [Scry]. She came back to herself, saying, “That’s disappointing.” She looked to her people, who nodded, and started packing up. She turned back to Erick, saying, “The Headmaster thanks you for your assistance. I cannot tell you anything about that person right now, as not even I know who the numbers belong to, as I said, but if something untoward should be discovered, the final story will be disseminated through official channels to those who need to know. You count as one such person who needs to know. We might need your assistance for further scanning on the other ones discovered as problematic, such as the one in the pirate coves down south, and the one we found in Holorulo. Can we count on you for further assistance?”

“Of course.” Erick said, “Anytime.”

The other elites each gave their own farewells, with Tyli taking up the rear, leaving Erick’s house last.

When they were gone, he went to bed.

He woke up for an anemic dinner and to check in with Jane to see how everything was going with her. There was light conversation, but nothing too arduous or concerning, so Erick mentally checked out. He knew he was checking out on life at the moment, and he knew it was a sign of bad, unresolved mental stuff; he noticed that shit in other people all the time, so he could certainly see it happening to him, in real time. But, exactly like those people in the charred ruins of their homes in Eralis, or at the gravesites of their loved ones, with their empty eyes staring at nothing and their hearts beating only because that’s what they’ve always done… Erick lived. And that was all, right now.

The sundering of Raidu and the ‘imprisonment’ of Ari had affected him more than he had thought possible. Maybe it was the fact that he couldn’t do anything about either situation.

Whatever.

Erick went back to bed after dinner.

He slept fitfully; without any true rest.

- - - -

Erick woke up and could not get back to sleep. It was past noon.

He needed a distraction.

So he sat in bed for a while, sending his sight to the Ophiel flying around outside, checking out whatever caught their fancy. Some were interested in other birds, copying their form as they flew. Others delighted in the play of wind in the willows. Another Ophiel tracked a bloodied man from high above, as that man walked through a dim street of unremarkable buildings.

Erick sat up and devoted some concern to the bloody man.

