Aunt Yorila nodded, while some people in the crowd scowled at the old woman.

Niyazo declared, “It’s over, for now. The soldiers of Songli will set up nearby, but they will be gone within a day; I have been assured. Aunt Yorila will be calling upon our allies and telling them what has happened here, so that the call may go out wide and far. That is all.”

Other people scowled at that, with more than a few muttering how [Telepathy] was as unnatural as [Polymorph].

One man called out, “What about talks with Alaralti? What about becoming a Clan of Songli?”

The crowd refocused.

Niyazo spoke to the crowd, “We will get a new ambassador. Talks will resume. We will not support incorporating into Songli without an understanding of all that has happened today.”

“It’s only going to get worse!” called out a middle-aged woman, about Niyazo’s age. “It probably wasn’t face stealers at all! This is what they do to each other. They invent reasons to harm, and this is somehow a harm; just you wait! The malice of Songli will show in the end.”

A few people agreed with her, nodding along.

Niyazo glared at the offender, then calmly said, “Ibahka could be correct; we do not know. We do know that the Clans of Songli try to outdo each other all the time. They can afford to do so, since their bounty is so vast. But this is the final race now. Before, this plan of incorporation didn’t look possible. And now it is possible! Now, Terror Peaks is gone; the largest impediment to Songli is no more.” His tone turned darker, saying, “Now, the Face Stealers and the Shadows come out to play in one final bid to prevent Empire; to prevent power from forming in our hands. Gain the Sight to see: Songli is destined to take all of Nelboor and we have a choice to be one of those who rise to the top and take control of our own fates, to be empowered by Empire, or to be crushed under the foot of our fellow grass travelers, as Songli raises them up instead.” As the crowd fell silent, Niyazo belted out, “We will lead our people! Us! We will not give up our rights as Clan. We will not allow others to control our Fate, for make no mistake: the Shadow War is here, so [Ward] your hearts, and let us do what must be done.”

Niyazo finished.

People looked to Ibahka, and the woman nodded; satisfied. She walked off, with several nearby people following her. With her departure, the crowds dispersed.

Erick came back to himself, thinking…

He didn’t need to think for long.

He slapped his leg, declaring, “Nope! No Shadow Wars are gonna happen here! No way; not on my watch.” He turned to Poi, and said, “We’re killing every single Hunter that Alaralti or Songli or whoever has on file. Send out the word to whoever you need to tell. I’m doing here what I did for the Crystal Forest. All of the Hunters are going to die.” As an afterthought, he said, “Or maybe I’ll Bless them. I’m not sure. Have Songli make a decision either way; I won’t do anything without their consent and assistance, and this isn’t going to be some half-assed ‘point me at who they want dead’-thing, either. Verified Hunters. Verified organizations that murder and kill. Any of those types; We’re getting rid of them, one way or the other.”

Erick thought for a moment, going over the words he had just said, and feeling their gravity. He mentally checked himself to make sure that this was what he wanted.

Organizations like the Cinnabar Hand, the Hunters had come after him and Spur at the behest of Caradogh Pogi, needed to not exist. Anyone who ate the brains and hearts of people, and then turned into those people in order to kill more, needed to be put down.

So.

Yes.

Yes; Erick wanted this.

Erick said, “Yes. This is what we’re doing now, if Songli wishes for this assistance. The parameters of my help are narrow, for I will not assist with every little problem, but if this land has a Hunter problem then I will make it vanish, with their help.”

Poi stood strong, his face resolute, as he sent out the message.

He was a little bit happy, too.

“Of course I’m happy.” Poi said, “This is a good thing, Erick; I’m all for the removal of Hunters. Everyone should be. But this is a land of millions. I would be remiss in my duties if I didn’t tell you that this will make us a target.”

Erick nodded, saying, “I am aware, but I’m already a target, and if they come to me, then that makes taking care of them that much easier.” He added, “I plan to create better defenses, though, so we should be rather unassailable if they come here— Ah. Well. We’ll be harder to attack, anyway. An antirhine-missile could still get in anywhere, couldn’t it?”

“No one is ever as safe as they think they are.” Poi said, “But if Songli agrees to this, then they will be charged with keeping you safe, too. And by the way, though the Cinnabar Hand might have been destroyed, Hunter organizations exist all across the world. We’ll surely end up catching more than a few of them if this Purge happens here in Songli.”

Erick nodded, solemnly, and almost said something else, he stopped.

The weight of Poi’s words were upon him, and he saw a certain glee in Poi’s countenance that he had rarely ever seen before. Poi didn’t like Hunters, did he? How had Erick missed that before?

Wasn’t his sister murdered? By unknown, strong people? Or at least people that Poi wasn’t willing to tell Erick about…

… For Erick would have helped him solve whatever problem he had.

And Poi knew that Erick could help him to solve his long-standing hatred.

Thinking back, Poi had a rather strong reaction when the question came up over whether to execute or soul-warp the Hunters who attacked them when they first arrived in Songli. The man had to go out and get drunk afterward, too. It was a strong reaction indeed.

Erick guessed that Poi’s ability to [Mind Control] his problems away was very much like his own ability to [Blessing of Empathy] killers into becoming not-killers. Poi had likely battled with that concern on the daily, or at least every time he recognized a Hunter walking around in someone else’s skin.

Because that had to have happened at least once, right?

Mind Mages didn’t use what they knew against anyone, unless there was imminent personal harm about to be committed. So all a Hunter would have to do was plan their kills outside of imminent harm.

Which was kinda worse, in a deep way.

How many times has Poi subtly stopped a murder by pointing guards at the would-be killer? How many times has he not? But now that Erick was thinking about it, Poi probably hadn’t failed anyone that badly, or at least not in a long time. The guy routinely and subtly made muggers and other sorts of problematic people decide to not be problems when he and Erick were out on the town, shopping or whatever. No; Poi probably hadn’t failed anyone like that in a long time… which likely meant that he failed someone early on, by not preventing a foreseen problem in the correct way. Maybe he decided not to report something once, and found out two days later that someone had died because of his inaction.

… Which was not a fair thought. Just because someone could read a mind did not mean that they had all the answers when they were young.

As soon as he had these thoughts, Erick regretted having them. How awful must it have been for Poi to hear him think these unkind things, because according to the dragonkin man’s face, Erick might not have had all the particulars correct, but he had the broad strokes.

Erick forgot what he was going to say, and instead said, “I’m sorry, Poi.”

Poi went tense as he talked to other people, on the other side of telepathic tendrils. He said nothing. He looked away. He finished relaying the message, and then he turned back to face Erick. He still said nothing, likely because he was having trouble putting his thoughts into words.

And then Poi said, “It wasn’t Hunters, exactly. It was humans— No… That’s not the right place to start. It was the Dragon Stalkers from the Greensoil Republic and— Look. I don’t really want to talk about this, but I can’t have you imagining problems that I have already worked through— That I mostly worked through.” He paused. He said, “They found my mother raising two dragonkin in Kal’Duresh, and it was odd for them, and it was Quiet War shit, and they got her and tried to get me and my sister, but we moved, and then they got her a few years later, and I escaped. All in a bid to get my father.” Poi looked away, saying, “The Dragon Stalkers are a worldwide military and the main killers of dragons out in the open. Don’t get mixed up with them, Erick. They’re bad news, because usually, they’re accepted the world over. A lot of dragonkin know of and help them, too.”

Erick listened to Poi’s pain, and said, “I’m sorry that happened to you. That shouldn’t have happened to your mother, or to your sister, or to you.” He asked, “It’ll likely take days for the High Clan to make some decisions, so do you want to go out to a bar again tonight?”

A moment passed; unreal.

Poi huffed an unexpected laugh, then said, “No. Thank you. There’s not one we could go to anyway without being found out. Besides. Getting drunk that night was me being stupid; I don’t need to be drunk to…” He looked away. “I don’t need to be drunk to get through this problem, and we’ve got a lot more problems coming our way, anyway.” He looked back to Erick, saying, “We’ve got tentative confirmation from Patriarch Hangzi and Matriarch Tipanri, but Matriarch Lingxing wishes for more information as to the truth of your ability to search out people in [Polymorph]s.”

Erick let Poi’s history lay, as he turned his mind back to the new problem that he had made for himself. He said, “Don’t mention any of the finer points of what I’m actually searching for, but tell them that what I am about to tell them is a small bit of magical trivia that I would consider relatively classified, but not overmuch.” Erick explained, “[Cleanse] gets rid of a lot, but it is not enough. [Cascade Imaging] can track the tiny bits of a person that [Cleanse] leaves behind through cross contamination on clothes and traveling through a space and other such movements. But, tracking this way will be a lot harder to do than what we did to search out the terrorists of Terror Peaks. It will require samples of targets in whatever form they actively Hunt people with, otherwise, the search will be fruitless.

“In order to do this, we will need high-ranking people to make decisions about who we find, to see if they’re actually [Polymorph]ed Hunters, or just normal people in the wrong place at the wrong time. I suggest Sin Seekers to suss out guilt of killing, or whoever else you’d prefer to use to make these sorts of calls. I will not go along with this if the ‘commoner killing’ clause of Clan Law is used to solve the problem by simply putting everyone found to the sword.” Erick added, “And I don’t want to get involved with dragons, so if they think this search will head that way, we’re simply going to stop right here.”

Poi relayed Erick’s message through the appropriate channels.

Erick waited.

Poi reported, “They’re in conference, discussing your offer. They’ll get back to you later.”

Erick nodded.

He turned his attention back to the Ophiel overlooking Niyazo’s village and had Ophiel move closer to the temporary stone building that Songli’s forces had created. The suspected Hunters were being interrogated in small, hastily made stone rooms by newcomers that were not a part of the original 25 person platoon.

With a truthstone sitting on the table between her and him, a woman in white asked ‘Ambassador Bai’ about parts of his life that she said that he should know, while ‘Bai’ said nothing. He gave no response, for whatever reason. Others were much less stoic.

One of the for-sure Hunters, the one who had the vial in his leg, was unable to answer any questions because he was in a rage. He screamed and punched at the stone walls, chipping the rock and bloodying his fists in return, as he roared out profanities against Songli. He yelled about how their people would steal the faces of all they sent north, and how they would bring down every High Clan of Songli from the inside. They would finish what Terror Peaks started, erasing Songli from the world before they would ever let them take their hunting grounds.

The interrogator for that guy simply watched from the next room, taking notes, his eyes wide as he listened. He was unprepared to hear the plans pouring out of the raging killer’s mouth, but was good at his job, and he professionally took down notes. Songli would hear about the new threat allied against them.

Erick listened, all the while wondering how deep this Hunter rabbit hole went.
