He had Ophiel look around. The nearby buildings were unadorned, bare stone and wood, meaning that this was a recently fully-rebuilt neighborhood. There weren’t lightpaints on any of the walls, and those lightwards that survived had been shifted out of position from their normal place atop their lightpoles, or their sconces. Turning his sight further afield, Erick saw that the bloody man was somewhere in Alaralti, the central city of the Highlands. Looking from higher, Erick discovered that the man was on the east side of the city, beyond the river, outside of the Void Wall. He was bleeding from a dozen different wounds, as he shuffled toward a guard house far in the distance.

With a twitch of light, Ophiel checked out that guardhouse.

There was no one there.

This particular section of Alaralti must have been fully scoured from the surface of Veird, but the man didn’t know this until he had arrived. Maybe he wasn’t up on the current news? Obviously not.

Tracking the blood he had dropped on the ground took but a moment. The man had come from the Teleport Square a bit further east. No one was in that guard station near that Teleport Square, either. Not finding what he needed to find, the man had come inward, following roads that he must not have known that well, for his blood tracked several steps down two side roads that did not lead to the next guardhouse, which was his obvious destination. The man knew he had almost gone the wrong way several times, though, so he wasn’t fully out of it.

He had probably expected this city to still be standing, but the entire section of Alaralti he had blipped into was gone. He was likely out of mana, too, otherwise he would have moved onto the next location.

Discovering that information had only taken about twenty seconds. The guy wasn’t dying at that specific moment, for he had managed to walk a kilometer already. Erick had also taken the time to figure out what was happening because the guy looked different, aside from the blood all over him painting him as a possible [Luminous Beam] target, which was the main reason why Ophiel was tracking him.

Erick told Ophiel that the guy wasn’t a target; he was a victim of something. And yes, both types of people ‘wore all red’, but not everyone in red was a target. It’s okay, you’ll get it eventually, Ophiel.

Ophiel just twittered in unsure guitar twangs.

Anyway: the bloody man.

The man wore bloody furs and thick leather wrappings around his feet and a skirt of deer skin. Some of his pale violet skin was exposed, but only because his clothes had been shredded. He was demi, maybe, for there were no horns upon his head. He was also skinny, with his clothes hanging off of him as though suffering from too much healing, but he would need a lot more before the day was done.

Erick flickered Ophiel to the man’s front, staying five meters ahead. Ophiel took the form of Erick, except with a bit more feathers than usual, for that was the form that Erick had shown to Nelboor, over the skies of Terror Peaks, before they used that soul spear against him. Ophiel was still in sunform, though; ready to retreat into a marble-sized form and cover himself with [Animadversion] if needed.

The man took a while to recognize that something had appeared before him. Erick stepped back, so that the man did not bump into him. At the shuffle of Ophiel’s ‘feet’, the man’s shuffling gait halted, and he looked. He saw ‘Erick’.

The man whispered, “Are you a monster?”

“No; I am not. This is my [Familiar] standing before you.” Erick asked, “Are you in need of assistance?”

The man’s whole body relaxed, as he tried to report, “I am in need of assistance. Severing Crescent’s delegation to Warlord Niyazo has been replaced with face stealers. I have only been here once before so I don’t know where to…” He started to wobble as his voice faded in and out. “Where to… go...”

He collapsed to the ground.

… It was a risk to help the man.

But it was a risk Erick would always take.

Erick cast a quick [Greater Treat Wounds] and then a [Teleport Other] to plop the dude into a nearby guard house that was occupied. Erick had helped a lot of people in Alaralti, and a lot of people in this land knew what Ophiel looked like, so it wasn’t hard to get them to rally around their new problem in addition to all the other problems they were already having.

Everyone was having problems.

Erick decided there and then to get involved in this bloodied man’s problems, since this appeared to be something that he could actually solve. A guy needing help, collapsed in the center of the road? Solvable!

He could have picked any number of a thousand other distractions to get himself out of his own head, but this was the one that landed in his lap. So he got out of bed, and went to ask Poi about a talk with Matriarch Tipanri of Severing Crescent. She would want to know what this guy was saying.

- - - -

The [Viewing Screen] popped up in front of Erick while he was having a late lunch in the kitchen. He set down his sandwich.

Matriarch Tipanri of Severing Crescent appeared on the other end of the Screen, her white scales and red eyes seeming to shimmer like her green and pink robes. She glanced at the sandwich, and said, “I seem to have caught you at a bad time.”

For whatever reason, Tipanri seemed more proper than the other people Erick had met in positions of power in Songli, but that was fine. Or maybe she was subtly telling him that while she was perfectly poised, he had crumbs on his hands. Which was odd. In the course of working closely with her in order to rain over Alaralti, Erick had thought that they were acquainted enough to get past some of this formality.

Had something changed?

Whatever.

“My daughter insists that I eat more, so I am,” he said, giving himself an excuse for his appearance. “I apologize if I was the one that caught you at a bad time. I know you are busy, but this wounded man showed up out of nowhere, spinning a story about face stealers and a compromised delegation from Severing Crescent to some Warlord Clan up north. I didn’t know what the term ‘face stealer’ meant until minutes ago, when my guard informed me that it is a colloquial term for Hunter-who-[Polymorph]s-into-their-victims, so naturally I thought this might be a concern.”

Tipanri seemed to return to some of her former relaxed self, as she asked, “Could you verify his tracks?”

“Sure.” Erick flicked his senses to the Ophiel furthest north, and moved him to a better position in the direct center of the warlord lands. In the work of a moment, [Cascade Imaging] went up into the air, searching for the guy’s DNA. Erick came back to himself and conjured a tiny lightform map, with a blue dot on it, saying, “The map is here, near this bend in the Wanzhi River.”

Tipanri nodded, regally, then said, “We will take it from here. Thank you for your assistance, archmage.”

She dismissed the Screen.

Erick went back to eating his sandwich, but his eyes were focused on the Ophiels he had go north. While the [Scry] eyes of Severing Crescent appeared around his map, Erick was already poking around in the lands lit blue by his search, seeing if he could find out what was happening with the local ‘Hunter’ population.

He briefly considered offering his services to find and kill every single Hunter in the area.

… And then he considered offering his services to find and Bless every single Hunter all around Songli. Hunters were a systemic problem the world over, after all. People who killed others for Levels did not need to exist, and they had been a personal problem for him in the past, for Hunters were some of the only ones who would think to target him specifically for his levels.

This was a problem that Erick could solve for Songli with a method that Olariz, the overseer at the paddy house, had considered a miracle. According to him, the Blessing of Empathy was a wonderful alternative to the usual methods to contain problematic people, which were exile, killing, or the Antirhine Elixir.

There were other, somewhat productive things he could be doing, though.

Like finding Goldie or Queen and figuring out what the fuck was going on there. Or he could go back to Spur and recast Yggdrasil in the Lake. Or he could continue on to the next destination of the Worldly Path. He could go learn of metals from the renowned smiths in the Near Underworld, under the northern Tribulation Mountains of Nelboor, or he could go to the Deep Underworld, and visit the Core. There were level 90 monsters down there, apparently. If he wanted to gain a level, he could do that.

Ah. But Jane wanted to go down that deep, too, and she wasn’t ready to leave Songli…

Or Erick could go to Rozeta’s Orrery, and learn what makes the Script work, or at least whatever they’re allowed to tell petitioners. Or he could try his hand at the Fractured Citadels of Quintlan, to see what the undead civilization was all about over there, though maybe not before he learned more Soul Magic…

Which brought him back to the current situation in Songli; back to Ari’s predicament.

No… He could not move on from this land quite yet. Besides all the obvious reasons to stay, something was telling him that there was still some major event coming up. Something that he would play a part in, no doubt. Maybe this was that thing?

Hunters were a problem the world over.

A problem that didn’t need to exist.

Erick hummed to himself as he glanced around that blooded man’s usual stomping grounds, with Ophiel in an invisible sunform.

It didn’t take long till he found the site of the battle, and also the village that the man had been from. Both looked like normal villages, but it was easy to tell that something bad had happened at one location, and not the other.

Some of the people at the battle site were probably impostors.

Anyway. What was likely the man’s home village was located next to a small tributary of the Wanzhi River, with large yurts scattered on carts in the flat lands between the riverbanks and the tall grasses of the prairie. The yurts were made of wood and animal skin, while the carts underneath were twice as large as the houses themselves, with much of that extra space serving as a porch. Herds of large, shaggy blond cows munched on the prairie grasses, looking like a breed of animal that was fully capable of pulling those mobile yurts if you lined them up and harnessed them, which they probably did when it was time to move.

There were no roads out here in this vast, untamed land, so as long as there was empty space ahead, these people probably moved as they were wont, tugging their homes across the grass. None of the people here seemed worried about being outside of the walls of a city, either, which was a nice change.

Mothers had their children strapped to their backs in cow-skin baskets while they fished in the river, or magiced vegetables from small plots of land in the center of the village. Children played all about, but far away from the taller grasses where the cows grazed. Warriors on cow-back watched their herd, and watched the land around them, looking for potential monsters. The cows seemed to fill a myriad of functions; milk, meat, fabric, vehicle, and lawnmowers. Those cows ate a lot of grass, and with every meal, they expanded the land for the village to temporarily occupy.

The people here were dressed in the same manner as the bloody man, with thick furs and cloth; almost fully covered. The nights in Songli were already rather chilly, but a bit further north it got a lot colder.

It all looked perfectly normal, with people on guard at the edges, with eyes scanning the grass land around them, while children and elderly worked in the center, reasonably safe from possible monsters attacking from the outskirts. The elderly in the center had some near-invisible defensive spells going all across the village, but Ophiel didn’t trip any of them, and none of the casters noticed Ophiel, or at least they pretended not to.

The other place, the site of the recent battle, was the same sort of village, but different; a bit larger, for sure, but that wasn’t the only distinction.

All of the village yurts were situated around a central firepit in the middle of a vast grass field that looked no different than all the rest, but one of the yurts was twice as large as all the rest, and situated outside of the main ring. This yurt was sort of a meeting place with rising benches that circled a ceremonial central firepit, with lavish metalwork and a fire burning in the center.

The oddity about this place, though, was that the bloody man’s DNA was everywhere, according to the map in the sky not a hundred kilometers away, but there was no blood here, and the people in this space were of two kinds. Those who wore fancy furs, and those who wore white silk robes embroidered with the words ‘Severing Crescent’. A quick check in the past, with a [Witness], revealed that the delegation from Songli had only been in this room for the last ten minutes, while an hour ago, around the time that the blood man showed up in Alaralti, the manasphere had no history; someone had blanked it.

The delegation from Severing Crescent were the people who had been compromised, according to that bloody man. The leader of the fur-clad people, who Erick assumed was Niyazo, was talking to the delegation as though nothing too dangerous had recently happened.

Both sides had greeted each other as per normal customs, but those normal customs were quickly failing. While Ophiel watched from outside of the yurt, tempers rose inside, and Erick listened in, unwilling to show Ophiel yet, or to interrupt what was happening.

