He chewed another dandelion, passed more gas, and walked away. The Goblins eyed his back. Skepticism was heavy in the air—as was a powerful stink. That had been a very convenient fart.
Still, if Pyrite wasn’t going to speak, there was always more to talk about. Rags’ tribe marched fast, propelled by her Skill and the Goblin’s own quick pace. If anything, it was the pack animals who had to struggle to keep up. The tribe had acquired a lot of them, and the plodding beasts were treated with care until they passed on, usually of old age. Then they were eaten as food, but Goblins knew the value of getting someone else to carry stuff for you. Plus, pack animals were a valuable emergency food source, not a primary one.
Soon, the tribe passed out of the forest and around the lake and into wilder territory. Izril was vast, and Humans had yet to settle or intrude into some parts of the continent, despite having lived there for millennia. Oh, perhaps they had built structures here in centuries past, but monster attacks, or disease, or simply bad luck, had erased their presence here.
The Goblins were well aware of the risks of travelling in large numbers in the wild, and Rags had assigned a heavy scouting presence to match the guards keeping pace with the tribe. She received reports of wild animals, monsters, and steered her tribe accordingly. Redscar, as her subordinate in charge of military matters, got the same reports. His warriors attacked lesser monsters and animals where they could, scaring them off, or collecting animals for tonight’s dinner. Only once did the tribe change directions as a whole—in response to seeing an entire colony of skunks.
Soon, the tribe found themselves reaching the first obstacle in their journey. They had entered a humid, wet area. Swampland, or maybe just an area flooded by the spring rains. The Goblins grumbled as they found themselves marching through the muddy ground. That wouldn’t be so bad; it meant few Humans were about, since they hated getting dirty, but the passage of so many bodies stirred a far worse menace into the air.
Insects. A biting, flying swarm of midges and larger mosquitos and other pests descended on the tribe. There were so many that Rags had to actually pull her Carn Wolf out of the way to avoid riding right through a cloud of them. They followed her, and Rags saw several mosquito-things land on her arm. She smacked them angrily, but more landed on her as her hand squished a trio of the offending insects.
“Bugs!”
One of the Goblins moaned as the insects descended on the tribe. There were so many, and they bit and stung! Rags felt her skin swelling and starting to itch. The Goblins in her tribe began to complain loudly, and the scouts rode back with bites all over their bodies, reporting that the swampland stretched for miles ahead.
Rags scowled as she heard the complaints mounting. The animals were going crazy as they felt the insects feasting on them, and the Goblins were no less unhappy. She raised a hand and called an immediate halt. Swiftly, Rags called out, and a group of Goblins descended on her position.
“Swamp! Bugs! How to fix?”
She’d called all the older Goblins, all the ones whose tribes had lived in areas like this, to her location. There were about a hundred of them, and Rags’ question immediately got a lot of head scratching. But one Goblin had an idea, and she was immediately ushered forwards to Rags.
“Keep off skin. Got to keep bother. Swat fast. With flap thing.”
“Flap thing?”
Rags scowled in confusion. The Goblin woman shrugged and poked her husband standing next to her. He muttered with her, found another Goblin to poke, and set off a chain reaction. Within minutes, the Goblin woman found what she was looking for—a bunch of stringy reeds. She shredded them, creating a fine whisk of fibers and bound the lot onto a wooden handle. Then she flapped the whisk, stirring the air and chasing away a cloud of midges around her.
“This, Chieftain.”
It was…Rags stared. What was it? It was like a whip, but made of many small parts. It wasn’t meant to hit things. How could it kill bugs? Then she realized that it wasn’t killing the bugs, it was just scaring them off! The insects sensed the whisk flying through the air and wouldn’t land so long as the Goblin woman kept it flying around her. Rags held out a hand and analyzed the fly whisk the woman gave her. She looked up and nodded.
“Make.”
“How many, Chieftain?”
A Goblin scratched his side as he asked her. Rags pointed to the tribe of Goblins waiting and slapping their arms, chests, legs, and each other’s backs.
“Lots.”
 
—-
 
This was how it worked. Each of the Goblins who’d seen the fly whisk knew what it looked like. They wandered into the tribe, poking, describing what Rags had shown them, and the Goblins they’d poked communicated that idea. All of the Goblins who knew anything about crafting immediately poked back with a general understanding of what was needed. Reeds or long plant fibers, sticks for the whisk, and so on. Goblins began gathering the material from the landscape or their stores and assembling the mosquito whisks rapidly. It was a communal effort, which every Goblin in the tribe took part in.
Within the hour, these mosquito whisks were being used up and down the line of Goblins, and more were being made on the march. Goblins waved them in the air, swatting any bugs stupid enough to land, and the amount of biting insects diminished greatly. This was a great relief, and also a talking point for Rags’ audience. They jabbered to themselves as Noears solved the bug problem around them by creating a charged field of air around his group. The bugs sensed the impending lightning and made themselves scarce as he talked with the others.
Now, how would Garen Redfang have handled a situation like that? Or Tremborag? Or another Chieftain? The other Goblins conferred, assessing Rags’ performance.
Garen would have ordered his Goblins to march through it and ignore the bugs. He probably would have regarded stopping to make anything as a waste of time and told his warriors to ignore the bites and march faster. Not exactly ideal, even Redscar had to admit.
Poisonbite and Quietstab had to admit that their Chieftain wouldn’t have been much better. Tremborag wouldn’t have cared about other Goblins. He’d have made sure he wasn’t being eaten alive, and maybe some of his lieutenants would have proliferated the fly whisk designs, but nothing else.
And another Goblin Chieftain might have left the area rather than have to deal with the bugs. On the whole, Rags had reacted quickly and decisively. She’d seen a problem and solved it. With her head! True, she hadn’t come up with the idea, but asking for and implementing a solution wasn’t a natural Chieftain’s skill. Rags had also attended the suffering pack animal’s needs, and they were being carefully protected by a few whisking Goblins as well.
On the whole, it was a good performance, and the tribe found itself marching onwards without issue. Pyrite, who was suffering the most from the insects coveting his plump form, found himself lagging behind as he tried to make a longer fly whisk that could chase off more insects. He was grumbling and searching for appropriate reeds when he heard a sound.
“Don’t touch me! Don’t touch—”
He straightened instantly and turned his attention towards the source of the noise. Somehow, Welca had veered away from the main group of Goblins and was surrounded by a group of Goblins. Pyrite nearly reached for his axe before he realized it was missing. He began to run.
A group of Goblins and Hobs was surrounding Welca. They were from Tremborag’s mountain. She was shouting and trying to keep them off her—Sir Kerrig was shouting as well, trying to draw the attention of Rags and her tribe. But they were too far away. One of the Hobs caught Welca’s hand and grabbed her other one as she punched at him. He let another Goblin grab at her clothes as he laughed and then felt a hand like a vice grab his head. He turned around, saw Pyrite, and paled.
There were six Hobs and about nine smaller Goblins. They whirled as Pyrite grabbed the first Hob. The former Tremborag Goblin was Pyrite’s height, but a lot thinner. He was muscled and strong and grabbed Pyrite’s arm. Pyrite squeezed the Hob’s head and heard a scream. He squeezed harder, and the Hob punched at him wildly. Pyrite lifted the Hob, smashed his head into the side of the wagon, and turned. The other Goblins stared at him.
One of the Hobs raised his fists. He punched and blinked as Pyrite ducked. He looked down and saw a fist coming up that broke four teeth. And his jaw. Another Hob punched Pyrite from behind, pummeling his body with furious blows. Pyrite turned, swung, and the Hob realized that a lot of Pyrite’s fat concealed muscle. He was bigger than all of the Hobs present, and when he hit, the other Hobs fell down.
“Get back towards the cart!”
Kerrig shouted at Welca as he struck another Hob repeatedly in the face, dodging back as the Hob swung at him. Unarmed or not, the [Knight] was a better fighter than the other Hobs. Pyrite grabbed a third Hob and head-butted him, and then turned to one of the smaller Goblins. He had a knife. Pyrite raised a fist, pointedly. The Goblin considered what might happen if he stabbed Pyrite and threw down his weapon. So did the other Goblins. The two Hobs remaining backed up. Pyrite glared around and raised his voice.
“Chieftain!”
He bellowed across the swamp, making Welca and Kerrig clap their hands to their ears. The sound did what all the shouting could not. Pyrite saw Rags’ head turn, and several Redfang Warriors immediately rode towards them, swearing angrily.
All of this had taken place within the protective circle of Rags’ scouts. Within a minute, Rags was riding towards the Hobs with murder on her face. One of the Redfang Warriors was gesturing with a spear, and the Goblins still conscious were being herded towards Rags for punishment. Some of the Redfang Warriors were already beating the offending Goblins before Rags called them off.
Pyrite had bruises and a cut along one arm from a claw. The Hobs lying on the ground had broken bones, missing teeth, and concussions. He turned towards Welca, who was covering her ripped clothing and staring at him. Sir Kerrig was panting, his knuckles bloody.
“Alright?”
Pyrite looked at Welca. She backed up from him and then slowly got out of the cart.
“You saved me?”
The Hobgoblin shrugged. Welca looked at him, and her eyes flicked to Sir Kerrig and the busy Goblins kicking the offenders. She hesitated and then smiled at Pyrite.
“Thank you. I’m very grateful.”
He grunted, eying her. Pyrite turned his head and then jumped as Welca laid a hand on his arm. She smiled again, looking somewhat pained, and then pointed to the wagon.
“I must lie down. I’m very distressed.”
She waited until Pyrite nodded to walk back to her wagon. Welca eyed the Goblins, watched Rags snap orders at an arguing Redscar, and then slowly backed away from the wagon. Then she turned and ran. All the preoccupied Goblins looked up, surprised. Welca might have managed to run for a few minutes, if Pyrite hadn’t known exactly what she was about to do. He picked up one of the unconscious Hobs and threw the Goblin at Welca.
Pyrite was rewarded with a loud cry of pain and quickly stomped over. Welca looked up just in time to see his fist descend. Pyrite hit the young [Knight] over the head. Gently, which meant that Welca was still conscious enough to regret her escape attempt. The Hob slung her into a wagon as he kicked the groaning Goblins awake. He lifted up the Hob he’d thrown and glared at the befuddled Goblin. The Hob jerked awake, saw Pyrite, and tried to take a swing.
“Don’t.”
Pyrite caught the fist. The Hob stared at him and wilted. Pyrite looked back at Rags. She was watching him and Welca. Sir Kerrig looked at Pyrite as well.
“I take it there are criminals among Goblins as well? What a thought.”
“No criminals. This—wrong.”
Rags spat the words. Sir Kerrig nodded. He looked at Pyrite, and the Hob saw the older man straighten. Sir Kerrig had grey hair mixed with his brown. He was in his forties, for all he had the body of a younger man. He bowed his head slightly to Pyrite.
“My thanks, sir. Your people aren’t at all like what I’d been given to believe.”
Pyrite blinked at him. The older [Knight] looked tired. He gestured.
“Might we speak? We are your captives, and I know our attack on you merits us no sympathy—but I would be in your debt if we might talk honestly. I’d heard Goblins could be peaceful, but I’d scarcely given it credence after Velan the Kind. ”
His words, the way he looked at Pyrite…the Hob stared at him. He rubbed his cut arm and then nodded. He looked around and waved at Rags. Welca sat up blearily in time to see Pyrite offer Sir Kerrig a slightly muddy dandelion. Pyrite smiled as the man stared at it in bemusement.
“Let’s talk.”
