The three metal discs stacked themselves in front of William right before the arrow struck. The first disc was blasted through, but surprisingly, the second one managed to fully stop the Arcane Powershot, with the third one still behind, entirely untouched.

Jake slowly nodded in approval as three metal avatars wielding spears charged toward him, and around William, mana was stirring once more as he prepared to summon another onslaught of magic.

So far, the fight had perhaps seemed relatively equal; however, there was one vast difference between the two of them. William had used a boosting skill from the very beginning of the fight, while Jake hadn’t touched his yet and was far from serious. Sure, William also clearly had more to show, but he still felt the need to boost himself to try to keep up with the stat disparity between the two of them.

This should be good enough, Jake mentally noted as Arcane Awakening stirred and activated at the stable 30%. Instantly, the momentum of the fight turned on its head.

A dozen arrows were released in quick succession, each far more powerful than the one before, as Jake sought to utterly overwhelm William with superior firepower. At the same time, he avoided the attacks the metal mage tried to retaliate with, not giving his opponent any pause as hundreds of arrows were soon loosed.

William tried to defend himself, but at some point, Jake saw that the guy kind of just stopped trying, perhaps realizing he’d have to reveal more cards than he felt comfortable doing.

“I surrender,” the mage said in a calm voice.

Without further ado, the entire simulation came to an end as a system message popped up in front of Jake’s eyes for a split-second.

Congratulations on winning the Challenge. You have gained 1 vote.

Votes available: 2

And then, before Jake could even fully go through it, he was back sitting inside the Seat of the Exalted Prima. He took a moment to fully orient himself before throwing William a look.

“Well, that was anticlimactic.”

“I apologize,” William just muttered, not hiding how much he’d been against the Challenge in the first place. Jake wanted to give him more shit, but decided to just let it rest as he sighed.

He couldn’t say it had been entirely a waste of time. Based on their brief “fight,” William truly was a prodigy when it came to mana control. He could manipulate so many things at once, all without showing any obvious flaws, and he did so with high efficiency.

Was William still a lot weaker than Jake? Yes. He was also much weaker than people such as Carmen, the Sword Saint, Vesperia, and many others considered true geniuses. At least Jake believed he was, but he also knew he hadn’t seen everything William was capable of.

William still had his karmic magic, after all. A concept that was profoundly complicated and difficult to even understand, meaning it could likely also display means that were hard to deal with, even for those significantly stronger than William on paper.

“About two seconds, by the way,” Miranda commented. “That’s how long the Challenge took from our perspective. I assume it was longer on your end? Honestly, it's hard to tell with how the two of you are acting.”

“A tad bit longer,” Jake chuckled, looking at Miranda as he smiled. “Now, how about we find out what this Insight challenge is all about?”
