“Randidly Ghosthound.”

Randidly looked up from the paella in the large iron pan with a scowl already forming on his face. Warm scents of curry and saffron drifted up from the rice and seafood. He didn’t have a large enough cooking surface on hand, so he had been forced to hammer it out himself. With his current physical abilities, mundane materials were rather simple.

Which meant it would also be easy to thoughtlessly squeeze the handle and rip it off on accident, but he was managing without any incidents. All his powers were locked away for tonight— he was a chef and that was enough. Simply cooking was fun, the sort of fun he hadn’t experienced in a long time.

All that good cheer vanished as he locked eyes at the unexpected arrival. He chided himself for letting his guard down to this degree, even while taking a break. Such lax observation would be fatal, back in the Nexus.  “Fatia Cerulean. You survived the explosion.”

The raptor construct chuckled. “A minor inconvenience, nothing more. Certainly very fascinating, but the dangerous elements remained far from touching me. And I hope you don’t have any hard feelings about my attempt to cut into that fascinating dance. Although you made use of the tools available to you… I simply assumed you would prefer if these roles were taken into more reliable hands. No offense was meant to that woman Devick.”

Randidly’s jaw clenched, very much not having discarded his feelings when he saw Cerulean show up with its jagged teeth and threats. Right before Devick had rushed up and used Westrisser’s weapon to strike at Pine, Cerulean had stepped out and confronted her. Had Randidly not handed her the moment he had gathered using Seize powered by Lowanna’s Nether, she would have not been able to overcome this foe. And Randidly knew from experience what sort of remains Fatia Cerulean left in his wake after a victory.

“I heard a rather interesting rumor regarding Westrisser. Do you know that madman is still frantically studying the fallout of the explosion? Trying to gather more data for his next unstable attempt at capturing pure destruction.” The raptor construct clicked its tongue. The blue aura around its body was at an all-time low tide. “You have convinced him that this world is simply a memory, a reflection of the true world. And that soon, the bubble will pop. The only way for the people who live inside the memory to survive… is if you help them. You have maneuvered into an excellent position.”

Randidly straightened and rubbed his chin. This was not a situation he had expected. He had the word being spread through all peoples, so he could get to work tomorrow. But he had expected an unreliable element like Cerulean not to believe in the threat. He prodded once more, to be sure. “And you have discerned the truth of my words?”

“Even if you exaggerate, you are not the type to lie through your teeth regarding this matter. And I am aware of the hierarchy of power between us.  Take me with you and you will have my undying loyalty,” Cerulean bowed his head, just for a moment.

The show of deference is nice, but definitely, you are the type not to mind lying through your needly teeth… Randidly pursed his lips. He spun the wooden spatula in his hand as he considered, then scraped up the bottom of the rice and seafood in the pan, then patted it down into a new flattened shape. “...at the moment, I am not sure how the process will work. Assuming there aren’t tight limitations… I will consider bringing you along.”

“Then I will leave you to your meal.” With those words, the raptor construct flashed its teeth in satisfaction and departed. Even this easy retreat felt like a surprise.

Randidly had a sour feeling in his belly as he wondered what had brought on this change of heart. The Pinnacle event had been wondrous, but deference from the raptor construct? Several complicated trains of thought writhed together in his mind, until a massive knot of uncomfortable constriction remained.

First, compared to the average power of the Alpha Cosmos, Fatia Cerulean was still an apex existence. The Pantheon would be able to restrict his actions, but few other individuals had yet reached that capability. Even if he paid lip service to Randidly, he would have an uncomfortable amount of freedom on Expira.

Contrary to that first thought, Fatia’s presence would provide some benefits. For one, the creature was the individual who invented Fates. Randidly wasn’t exactly sure how it had died in reality, but the raptor construct likely wouldn’t cease its attempts to push the envelope if it joined the Alpha Cosmos. If it could develop other sorts of abilities or special Skills, the Alpha Cosmos would grow in power broadly, no matter what sort of tiny dictator Fatia had become.

Plus, Randidly wanted the Alpha Cosmos to be exposed to some threat to spur growth. He didn’t want to helm a monolithic empire of a universe, but one where different factions were allowed to flourish, within reason. Fatia Cerulean… might actually be the perfect size to spur growth.

Laying across all those concerns was the impending confrontation with Elhume; it could be avoided no longer. Not when he had broken Elhume’s little urn of regrets sitting at the top of the Sonora. So while all those thoughts expressed his genuine feelings regarding Fatia, they had no context. Considering Randidly was about to enter into the fight he had been working toward for almost twenty years, having a powerful free radical like Fatia felt like an extra risk.

If Randidly won, none of his worries would matter. He could simply solve any problems that cropped off with force. The consequences of losing could include the entire collapse of the Alpha Cosmos, but it was the middle losses that were relevant here. Perhaps his Class was wounded and Randidly would need to flee and hide. While he recovered, Fatia Cerulean could have free reign within the Alpha Cosmos.

Perhaps the bastard raptor might even find a way to use his Fatal Predation against the whole of the Alpha Cosmos, slowly hacking away cuts of meat to savor and grow strong eating..

…probably not too good to walk into any situation assuming I will lose. It’s just true that Fatia Cerulean represents a lot of threats. Randidly sighed. However, assuming there isn’t much limit to who I can bring along, didn’t I intend to accept almost anyone? They won’t possess his power, but I won’t know most of these individuals. They could be just as dangerous as Fatia, without the benefit of me being aware of their existence.

Randidly reached up and slapped his cheeks. He returned to his ministrations of the food. “All for tomorrow. Don’t get stressed. Just enjoy the sensations…”

Randidly glanced out the window. His eyebrows twitched as he saw the sun sinking toward the horizon.. “The time is getting pretty close. Devick… you aren’t going to be late, are you?”

*****

“Ah, Lowanna and Tatiana, I just want to remind you…” Devick muttered as she leaned against the far wall of the hair salon. She felt decidedly nervous right now. Three other individuals stood around Lowanna, using metal implements to sheer and shine her hair. “We are supposed to be back by-”

“Devick, I thought you were more fun than this.” Tatiana laughed and winked at her. “Don’t worry so much. Randidly has always needed time to decompress after intense situations. Always alone. A blessing and a curse, at the same time. So its for the best we give him a little time for his brooding to sputter out. Only when he finds his certain will he be able to relax enough to feel joy.”

“I am plenty fun…” Devick flushed and looked around. Half of the walls were mirrors and the other half were posters for ‘boy bands’. Strange, skinny humanoids with metal and writing all across their body posed in various passionate positions. The desks in front of the mirrors were covered in bottles and combs of various sizes and colors. Nearby, a morose other woman sat in a chair and had her nails painted by a Brass Automaton.

All of Kharon had been a sensory overload, but this place felt like it bellowed out its personality constantly.

“To be fair,” Lowanna spoke up from within the press of bodies who put the finishing touches on her hair. Devick had almost forgotten the subject of their efforts lived, not rendered unconscious by the constant application of materials. “Heh, I mean no offense… but it strikes me that Nether King Hungry isn’t exactly a delightful individual. His attention moves solely toward problems.”

“Nope. Most of the partying is left to me. But also all of the paperwork, so it balances out in the end.” Tatiana replied cheerfully. She made shooing motions and the helpers moved to the side. The sea of bodies parted and revealed their prize. The elegant woman moved to stand behind Lowanna and put her hands on the other woman’s shoulders. “Well, what do you think?”

“You live in a strange world. I am myself, emphasized. How strange. All this is achieved with mists and powders?” Lowanna brought her hand up to just next to her cheek. She almost seemed afraid to touch the changes made to her.

“That, as well as generations of reinforced cultural shame that convince us its necessary..” Tatiana reached up and fluffed Lowanna’s hair to add some volume. She tilted her head sideways and chuckled. “Even though I know it’s not exactly the best, it’s still addicting when the result ends up looking this irresistible. You look stunning, Lowanna.”

Devick ran her fingers through her own hair, watching from the side. Her lips twitched as her fingers got caught in a knot she tried to work out as unobtrusively as possible, still pressed against the back wall. But then the group was moving, shifting their location to a changing room in the back so Lowanna could get into the dress they had obtained earlier. A split second later, Devick felt the shift of powerful Nether grasping down toward the group.

With a pop, they returned to the real world. Or the memory, Devick reminded herself.

They stood on a dirt path that led to the quaint little cottage built by Neveah, sitting atop the hill and giving a wide view of the surrounding terrain. The sun sank low in the sky, painting with orange-gold colors and shadow to create an even more lovely vista than usual. Enmya stood outside the cottage door, dressed in a stiff looking robe covered in complex embroidery.

Devick blinked several times as she breathed in; whatever Hungry Eye was making in the house, it smelled good.

“Lowanna, you-” Enmya seemed to lose his breath for a second, looking at Lowanna’s luminous figure, wrapped in a small, black silk dress with bare arms and shoulders. He coughed several times into his hand to regain himself. Devick suspected that was exactly the response Tatiana had been aiming for. “Errr… how about a stroll before we eat?”

Lowanna let out a small laugh. “You wish to walk with me? Just like old times. Yes, Enmya. A walk. Perhaps you can explain what exactly this dinner is about…”

The two drifted down the sloped path, their voices receding. Even with the strange and precarious shoes provided by Tatiana, Lowanna proceeded gracefully. But while the romance seemed to swell around the other two, Hungry Eye poked his head out of the door and waved an impatient hand. “Come on in Devick. Actually, this walk is good for us. I have a bit of work I wanted to finish before those two return…”

Devick entered into the cottage and was surprised by the transformation. All the extraneous furniture had been removed. The bed, the side tables, the dressers, all of it had vanished from their original positions. Only the book and flower shelves remained, emphasizing a small table with two elegant chairs sitting in front of the far window.

Devick frowned. Was the window always that big? How the hell can you just snap your fingers and make a window larger…? Images are one thing, but this is basic construction.

Also, she couldn’t help but notice that the smell of the food was even more intoxicating inside the cottage. She gratefully took another deep breath through her nose and almost sneezed at the intoxicating and foreign spice.

Hungry Eye flitted around, producing candles and placing them in various locations. He put a few on the shelves, snapping his fingers above the wick in order to light them. He rubbed rapidly at the base of a few wax candles with his hand, melting the bottoms slightly so he could stick them to the window ledge and make sure they wouldn’t fall.

As he made minute adjustments to the cutlery and the tablecloth, he looked over his shoulder. “Can you bring out the first course? Ah, it’s the big pot on the stove. There should be bowls on the shelf above the oven.”

Devick wandered into the adjoining kitchen and loosed a loud snort; if the other room had been prepped for an elegant night of dining, the kitchen appeared like the hopeless remnants of a warzone. Useless end pieces of mutilated vegetables lay haphazardly spread around the counter. Pots sat in the soaking sink, ready to be washed.

She spotted the pot he had asked for and the bowls tucked away next to some cookbooks, but Devick was instead drawn to the only pristine item remaining in the kitchen; a silver cart topped with a gleaming covered dish. Unable to restrain her curiosity, she tiptoed up to the dish and removed the top. She breathed deeply, her eyes dancing with just a pinch of gluttony. The rich and spicy scent she had been so intrigued by was the main course for the dinner.

Devick found a random spoon on the counter and moved it toward the golden rice. A smile pried open her mouth. There is so much of it here, surely they won’t notice a little missing-

Hungry Eye materialized by her side, slapping her hand. “Nope, not for you. If you want, I can whip you up something later, but tonight is about those two. Also seriously? I used that spoon to measure out cayenne pepper. Anyway, now-”

“Hungry Eye,” Devick opened her mouth. A part of her watched in horror as she spoke, unable to believe this surge of bravery that filled her body. Perhaps the small twinge of pain on her hand made her angry enough to just force her way through to an issue she usually danced around. She pivoted on her heel. She tried not to think about what she was saying. She tried to channel all the most unreasonable aspects of her personality, the personality that Hungry Eye had said he needed.

Devick said. “Are we ever going to have a night like this? Just for us?”
