“This question is beyond me.” Wiping sweat from his brow with a trembling hand, Min Gyu felt the foundations of his Dao coming apart beneath him, but it would not crumble just yet. At the end of the day, he was a man of faith and conviction, and he knew the Mother Above would never give him more than he could bear. This trial before him was a difficult one, but not impossible, no matter how imposing it might seem. Taking a deep breath, then another, he focused on young Rain once again with wary trepidation, noting concern in the boy’s warm, amber eyes. “Dangerous,” he whispered, patting young Rain’s cheek to reassure him. “I fear you’ve moved beyond what I can help you with.”

Although it was clear he didn’t understand Min Gyu’s trepidation, the boy accepted his statement without question and changed the topic to news from the war front. Having already committed the latest reports to memory, he listened with half a mind while clearing his thoughts and doing his best not to fixate on his earlier revelation. This world was the Mother’s creation, and to seize authority within was an unforgivable sin, or at least that’s how Min Gyu saw it. Regardless if he was right or wrong, his Dao would not allow him to test this line of thought, no matter how tempting it might be, so he resolved to seek out a different Path forward, one more in line with his faith.

In the end, all Paths lead to the Dao, so what young Rain chose to do was entirely up to him. If the Mother saw fit to let another seize control of a part of Her creation, then who was Min Gyu to argue otherwise? All he knew is that he, as a loyal son of the Mother, would never dare do such a thing, and that was the end of that, so there was no need to fixate on materializing his Core and Natal Palace.

The rest of the day’s march passed without incident, and they arrived at their campgrounds under the cover of night, almost eighteen hours after they first set out. The long march left their soldiers and draft animals tired and spent, but rushing now was better than rushing later. Castle JiangHu, where Hongji and his forces were currently holed up and under siege from the Defiled, was two-and-a-half day’s march from the Citadel, or thirty hours total. Having covered more than half the ground in a single day, young Rain’s forces could now afford to take a longer rest, travel at a steady, moderate pace, and still arrive at Castle Jianghu before nightfall the next day, just in time to lend aid to the beleaguered defenders. Defiled preferred attacking at night to take full advantage of their improved dark-vision, a boon the Mother’s children sorely lacked. Now that would be quite the feat to accomplish, if Rain could explain how Martial Warriors might replicate this particular feat, but alas, he had a tendency to focus on more ‘interesting’ problems, rather than practical ones which might actually make a difference.

Such was his way, one of boundless curiosity, and Min Gyu was certain that if given the option, young Rain would pay no mind to the Martial Path and focus wholly on whatever Path of animals and science his heart truly desired.

As the army made camp for the night, Min Gyu kept the boy company more out of habit than anything, playing the part of bodyguard as they made the rounds about camp to chat with officers and soldiers alike. Say what you will about his lacking manners, but young Rain knew how to win the hearts of soldiers, approaching them as congenially as he did when he was a mere unranked soldier, cracking jokes and offering friendly warnings as he passed. It was shocking to see how many names he remembered without the use of a Natal Palace, until Min Gyu realized the boy was cheating by having his clerk Send the names to him instead. MuYang was the man’s name, a deeply hidden Peak Expert who revealed himself as a Martial Warrior only six days ago, during the upheaval with Legate Jixing and the Bristleboar Divinity. On that fateful day, MuYang used his frightening Spiritual Spear to deliver what should have been a killing blow to the crazed Goujian from an astounding range, a blow which struck fear into the hearts of every Martial Warrior who noticed. A shame the shot didn’t kill the Bloody Confessor, and Min Gyu was curious to know how MuYang’s weapon worked, as he’d always been enamored by these sorts of specialty Spiritual Weapons, like his fan which was specially forged to help him control his Blessing of Wind.

Then again, there was something to be said about simplicity. How long had Min Gyu let his trusted saber sit idle, the weapon with which he cut his teeth? Perhaps this time, when the Sanguine Tempest returned to the battlefield, he would do so with both saber and battle-fan in hand…

Less than an hour after breaking for camp, the boy’s jaunt was cut short as he received word of a guest arriving, though who it might be was a mystery until they arrived at his yurt. It was a mistake to keep using this humble, if convenient, travel lodge rather than a properly regal tent, but there was no convincing Rain when his mind was already made up, professing it was too much fuss for a single person, even the Legate of the outer provinces. Outside the unremarkable leather pavilion stood a woman Min Gyu was only passingly familiar with, a bejeweled Peak Expert and Runic Craftsman by the name of OuYang Yuhuan, better known as the Tyrant of the Azure Ascendants. A beautiful woman of perhaps sixty years, she wore her age well and could easily be mistaken for a girl half her age, though her tendency to scowl had left unflattering lines around her eyes. Giving face to young Rain’s rank, she waited until they were all inside the privacy of his yurt before addressing him in a harsh tongue, though she looked plenty awkward doing so while seating herself on the floor. “Don’t think that you can command me to jump and come to you whenever you like, just because you’re Legate now,” Yuhuan began, and Min Gyu could see the boy’s repressed smile as they both inwardly noted that she had done exactly that. “You’re a client, same as any other, and I never guarantee success. I’m giving it my best effort, but you requested a brand new Rune which requires better precision and more efficiency than anything anyone has ever crafted before, so it will take time and coin before I can admit victory or defeat.”

“Oh good.” Defaulting to sarcasm as he so often did, the boy gave a half-smile and said, “And here I was worried you’d just stopped trying and kept billing me regardless.”

Pursing her lips at this pointed insult, the Tyrant swallowed her retort and accepted it without grace, no doubt worried by his new rank and the powers which came with it. Min Gyu was confident he could bring down the woman himself, though he would have to be wary of her many Runic items, as he’d heard tales of her dazzling displays during the Battle for Sanshu. Either way, as the most prominent Runic Craftsman of the North, it was likely her Martial Strength would be lagging behind, since a comprehensive genius like Falling Rain only came around once every ten-thousand years, if that.

“Relax,” the boy said, gesturing at the cup of tea he personally poured her, while Min Gyu left his own cup untouched. Let her wonder if the tea was poisoned and leave her even more unsettled. “I didn’t call you here because I’m angry at the lack of progress. I asked you here to see if I could help.”

Insults, the Tyrant could stomach, but this was a blow to her professional pride, and like any true master, she would not stand for this. “You?” Sneering at young Rain as she drew herself up to full height, Yuhuan scoffed in unmasked derision. “Stick to your games of finance and politics, and leave Runic Crafting to the professionals. Your Teacher, the Medical Saint, might be of use, or perhaps a Craftsman from the Imperial Clan, but you? What help can you offer me?”

“Not much,” Rain replied, unfazed by her obvious disdain. That was one good thing about the boy, he kept his ego in check most of the time, though the few times it shone through showed it to be a sizable one. “Teacher is obsessed with a new pursuit these days, and I have no access to Imperial Clan Craftsmen, else I’d have them working on this project as well. However, I recently learned about the value of differing perspectives, and I figured you might benefit from the same lesson.” Sipping from his own cup, which was poured from the same pot, Rain smiled and asked, “So why aren’t my Runic Cannons working yet?”

Bristling at the direct interrogation, Yuhuan shot young Rain a venomous look. “Runes are not so easily crafted, especially not one such as this.”

“Yea, precision and efficiency and all that. Why?”

“Why?”

“Why the need for precision and efficiency? I just want something to create an explosion powerful enough to send a solid steel ball hurtling through the air several kilometers, or at least one to start.”

Young Rain had previously explained the concept behind his cannons, but Min Gyu didn’t entirely understand it. It was certainly possible for a directed explosion to launch a projectile great distances if it was powerful enough, but if such a Rune were to be created, would it not be more efficient to use the Rune directly in combat? Heaving a familiar sigh, one Min Gyu often used when dealing with Rain’s insistence, Yuhuan grudgingly explained, “The issue is not creating a Rune of such power, but doing so without requiring more Chi than the average Peak Expert can provide, or allowing the Rune to go beyond what the cannon itself can handle. I could have it done today if you didn’t care for limits, but it would require so much Chi, I doubt anyone short of a Divinity could provide it, and he or she might kill themselves in the process.”

“Ah. Gotcha. I forgot to account for the different… propellant.” Pausing all of a second to think, young Rain asked, “Is it possible to draw Chi from multiple subjects? We could drain five Martial Warriors dry per shot and I still think it’d be worth it.”

“Theoretically? Yes, but I’ve no time or patience to explain why such a feat borders on the impossible.” Crossing her arms with a scowl, Yuhuan glared at the boy as if daring him to command her to answer, though it was clear she herself wasn’t sure what would happen if he did. Though old enough to be a grandmother, Yuhuan behaved like the young woman she appeared to be, an impatient, petulant sort who was used to being treated better than royalty. Between her talent, beauty, and frightening reputation, Yuhuan had likely never encountered someone who treated her as brusquely as young Rain did, and Min Gyu would be lying if he said he wasn’t enjoying it.

At least he wasn’t the only one in danger of dying of frustration…

“Chi is bound to the individual and inviolable until it returns to Heavenly Energy,” Min Gyu explained, before young Rain could antagonize the Runic Craftsman any further. “So to gather Chi from multiple individuals to power a single Rune would be… troublesome.”

“Right, right, mixing souls and all that.” What the boy meant by this, even Min Gyu didn’t know, as there was little mention of souls in his Inspired notes, but sadly, young Rain was focused on the task at hand and had no intentions of explaining. “And I take it making a Rune that draws Heavenly Energy directly is not possible?”

“Were I capable of making such a Rune, then I would wield the power of a Divinity,” Yuhuan replied, and judging by her glare, Min Gyu suspected she would immediately use said power to smite the boy.

“Oh, that makes sense.” Cocking his head to one side, Rain sipped his tea and nibbled on a cookie in silence. Finally giving in to temptation, Yuhuan drained her cup in a single gulp before reluctantly pouring herself another cup, no doubt surprised by the lacking quality of the tea. Better leaves were wasted on young Rain, or so he claimed, and he preferred simple flavors without too much pretension. The cookies were a delight though, baked by young Charok, and Min Gyu enjoyed them while he still could. After polishing off several cookies in silence, the boy’s eyes lit up. “What about using a combination of Reverberation and Amplification? Start off with a smaller amount of force and build it up using the above skills. It would take some real precise timing, but since you’re making a Rune, it should be easy enough to automate since the timing won’t change so long as you keep all the variables the same.”

For once, Yuhuan had no haughty retort, and instead simply asked, “What?”

Min Gyu himself didn’t understand either, and it took several tries before the boy finally explained it in a way they both understood, likening it to a person on a swing. Only a minute amount of power was applied at certain times, that being the movement of the feet, yet after several repetitions, the swing would soar high into the air under its own momentum. Pursing her lips, the Tyrant muttered to herself out loud, working through the problem step by step. “So long as I can contain the ‘momentum’ and harness it in an instantaneous explosion, then theoretically…” Holding up a single hand, she slowly waved it from side to side in a curved, sinuous motion, driving her Chi to test young Rain’s theory and see if it would work as he described. Deploying his Domain to probe the Tyrant’s, Min Gyu felt the power gathering in her empty hand, slowly at first, but as each pass almost doubled the accumulated energy, her efforts soon accelerated beyond her control, causing her hand to wave back and forth so quickly it was barely more than a blur.

Then, with a crack of thunder, the Tyrant’s hand exceeded the speed of sound in a deafening retort, and the yurt came alive with Peak Experts.

