“HOLD!” Rain shouted, in the too loud and off-key manner of someone who couldn’t hear. “Hold!” The audible command shot through Min Gyu, and though he could have still acted if he wanted to, if he were faced with this demand in battle, he feared he might hesitate before following through. Even if Rain never recovered full use of his Core, he could still wreak havoc on the battlefield by simply commanding the Defiled to stop, which should have the same effect as using his Honed Aura against Wu Gam. Or perhaps Oration wouldn’t work like that, but Min Gyu still wanted Rain to test it, though he would have to learn to control it first.

Shaken by her loss of control and the blades resting against her throat, OuYang Yuhuan sat in a shocked daze across from them, cradling her limp, bloodied hand and staring in wide-eyed trepidation at young Rain. “You… I… You…” She stammered, but Rain did not let her finish.

“It’s fine.” Waving for the guards to disperse, he said, “I know it was an accident. No harm, no foul. Kuang Biao, could you ask Tokta if he’s in the mood to Heal our guest? And if he isn’t, could you ask him to come anyways?” Pouring another cup of tea for the Tyrant, he gestured at Yuhuan’s hand and asked, “How bad is it?”

It took two cups of tea and three tries before she was able to speak. “B-Broken,” she whispered, eyes darting between Rain and Min Gyu. “How long have you known?”

“...Known what?”

Rain was every bit as confused as Min Gyu, and the Tyrant’s next words only confused them even more. “About the Mountain Collapsing Stomp.” Seeing their baffled expressions, Yuhuan regained a modicum of her haughty self and furrowed her brow in frustration. “Is this not the secret behind it’s power? A careful build up of force through well timed Reverberations and Amplification?”

“Is it?” Even as young Rain asked it, Min Gyu knew the Tyrant’s words to be true, and he almost bolted to his feet in excitement. Wholly unperturbed by this incredible discovery, the boy shrugged and said, “I dunno. I just came up with the idea. If it is Mitsue Juichi’s secret, then it seems like a terribly obvious one. I mean, how hard can it be? You lost control there at the end, but you still pulled it off pretty easily on your first try.”

Only Rain could be so dismissive of a Runic Craftsman’s control of Chi, for if Min Gyu were to try the same, he would undoubtedly fail on his first try, and continue to fail well past the thousandth. Yuhuan’s initial success was no doubt a result of years of Runic Crafting, and while she lost control of her power at the end, she grasped the timing with frightening ease, which made Min Gyu reconsider the threat she presented. A scalpel used correctly could kill just as well as a battleaxe, and required far less effort, and such superlative control of Chi would allow her to do more with less, sometimes to explosive effect.

Even better, Rain’s casual attitude struck a nerve in the Tyrant’s prideful demeanor. “I will continue to study this technique,” she said, before bowing her head ever so slightly out of respect for his genius, “And I will not share this secret with another soul, on pain of death. With the Heavens as my witness, this I so swear.”

With her hand already bleeding, the Oath was set, but young Rain frowned and shook his head in regret. “I wish you hadn’t done that. It wasn’t necessary. If I didn’t trust you, I wouldn’t have funded your projects and waited till now to speak with you.” On the contrary, Min Gyu believed the oath was necessary, for now, they knew the secret behind Mitsue Juichi’s Mountain Collapsing Stomp. Even then, it would take months, if not years of effort to replicate it, and longer to counter it, but there were plenty of Warriors in Rain’s camp who had the time to spare, and Min Gyu even saw potential in this for little Yan and her Blessing of Wind.

Because with the proper preparations and timing, she might one day truly live up to her new title as the Sanguine Storm and raze the battlefield with a tornado of her own devising. Forget Peak Expert, with this, little Yan might possibly wield the power of a half-step Divinity before the age of thirty…

Chapter Meme
