“I agree with the word choice, but not on the lack of benefits.” Rain said, answering so quickly Min Gyu felt like his explanation had been disregarded, but this was merely how the boy was, quick on the draw and stubborn as a mule. “I believe there is a purpose in the manifestation of the Natal Palace, but as to what that purpose might be, I only have suspicions. That’s a discussion for another time though, since it has more to do with Domains and today’s topic is Natal Palaces. As long as you agree that manifestation occurs, then we can move on for now.”

Though Min Gyu did agree, he did not agree with the boy’s approach to the Dao. He’d felt uneasy about it for some days now, but here and now, he finally identified what it was about the boy’s methods which bothered him so. “You do this quite often,” he said, careful to keep his tone neutral to avoid implying fault or criticism. “You break each problem down into verifiable facts without a care for nuance or exceptions. Then, you put those facts together to come up with a working theory, which you test by checking if your theory still holds true in the grand scheme of things. If so, then you proceed forward on the presumption that your theory is correct, only to arrive at yet another unproven theory, and another, and another, all of which is built upon your initial theory.” Seeing the boy nod along as if nothing were out of the ordinary, Min Gyu furrowed his brow and asked, “What if, Heaven’s forbid, one day, your initial theory is proven incorrect?”

Because regardless if young Rain cared to admit it or not, the entire Martial Dao was built upon faith, and his faith simply came in the form of faith in his deductive reasoning. If he were ever to be proven wrong, then it was entirely possible his faith would come crumbling apart, for this was the Dao they were discussing, the foundation of a Martial Warrior’s strength, and few would care to base their foundation on something as flimsy as a theory.

Young Rain however, was made of sterner stuff than even Min Gyu expected. “Then I start over from the beginning,” he replied with a smile, as if the prospect didn’t bother him even in the slightest. “That’s how it is sometimes, but I feel like you’re too hung up on the word, ‘theory’. Yes, I call it a theory, but only because I lack the ability to prove my theory beyond all doubts. However, proof isn’t necessary so long as the facts the theory is established upon remain correct. Let’s take er… baking, for example. I have no idea what yeast is. I have no idea why it’s needed to make bread rise in the oven. I don’t know how yeast does what it does, or why it’s even necessary, but none of that matters. What I do know is that if I take equal parts water and flour and stir it together, eventually, it’ll turn into yeast. I also know that if I add that yeast to my dough, it’ll turn into nice, fluffy bread in the oven. I can’t explain how any of that happens, so I can’t claim that this will always happen when baking bread, because I can’t prove it will under any and all circumstances. Maybe there’s a type of flour out there that’s missing what’s needed to make yeast. Maybe the water contains something vital to the creation of yeast, and a different source of water will cause it to fail. Maybe there’s yeast out there that won’t make bread rise. One could say my method for baking bread is merely a theory, because I cannot put to rest all doubts about yeast and bread, but the important thing is that the theory is a working one. Thus, if my end goal is to bake fluffy bread, then what does it matter if I don’t understand every step along the way, so long as I know enough to make bread?”

So taken aback by this peculiar, but coherent explanation, Min Gyu almost burst into laughter before catching himself at the last moment. All of this only reinforced his belief that young Rain’s Dao was based on science and verifiable fact, for the parts he discarded was just having faith with extra steps. “Very well then, boy,” he said, smiling widely at this clever young man. “We are in agreement, and you may continue on. The Core sits within the Void. The Natal Palace is situated in the Core. When we utilize our Domains, the Core and Natal Palace manifests. What next?”

“Well, we already previously agreed that the Core exists on a different plane of existence.” Waiting for Min Gyu’s nod, Rain continued, “So, if we’re manifesting our Natal Palace, does this mean we’re bringing another plane of existence into this one?”

With no better answer to give, Min Gyu stroked his beard with a smile and said, “Perhaps? I have no facts to disprove your claim, but you have no facts to back it either.”

“True. So it’s flimsy at best, or at worst, grasping at straws.” Disappointed by his lack of progress, the boy fell silent to consider the facts once more, and after a minute or two of pondering, he asked, “So every Martial Warrior has complete control over their Natal Palace, right?”

“To an extent.” Grateful to be back on familiar ground once more, Min Gyu explained, “The key to establishing one’s Natal Palace is to ensure as much of it remains fixed in permanence at all times. While a Martial Warrior can change their Natal Palace at will, without permanence, it is possible to enact change too easily with but a stray thought, making it no different from utilizing your imagination. Once the Natal Palace is fully Formed and entrenched firmly within the Core, the Dao takes root within, brought there by the Energy of the Heavens itself, which allows the Martial Warrior to explore the Dao from within their Natal Palace and practice their skills in an environment no different from the natural world, only with near limitless Chi.”

“So what you’re saying is that my Natal Palace follows the laws of nature because the Dao makes it so?” Blinking frequently as he was wont to do when struggling to grasp a concept, young Rain sat in stark silence for several minutes until he finally came upon a question to ask. “But… the Natal Palace is created through our imagination and willed into permanence through constant focus. If the process of gathering Heavenly Energy into our Core forces the laws of nature onto our Natal Palace, does this mean it’s impossible to have a Natal Palace with different laws? I can’t… I dunno, make a world with lower gravity or easily manipulated Heavenly Energy?”

Surprised by the question, Min Gyu stopped to consider the answer carefully. “I suppose you could,” he reluctantly responded, wondering where young Rain came up with all these silly notions. “But it would require more constant effort from the Martial Warrior to ensure his established laws override those of the Dao, and I cannot imagine why you would want to do so. The purpose of the Natal Palace is to practice your manipulation of Chi, and the practice would not be of use if carried out under different circumstances, so you gain no benefit from changing the strength of gravity, or really, any other fundamental force.”

“Well, at the very least, it would let me test a few theories out, right?” Shrugging, the boy drifted off into thought once again, no doubt imagining the things he would do once his Natal Palace was whole once more. At least his daydreaming was mostly academic; more than one Martial Warrior had used their Natal Palace for more… sordid purposes, Min Gyu among them, but such was the burden of young men and women everywhere, barely able to think straight with their libidos flaring up at all times. Of course, the Natal Palace would eventually lose its appeal for these purposes, since no Martial Warrior in existence had the ability to manifest a fully independent entity capable of autonomous thought, and one could only indulge in masturbatory dreams for so long.

Then again, it’d been years since Min Gyu tried, and as he noted earlier, he was a different man now, with a different perspective on life. Perhaps later tonight, he could pay a visit to his Natal Palace and have an illicit meeting with the White Fox Divinity...

“Hey.” Drawing Min Gyu out of his shameful self-reflection, Rain asked, “Stray thoughts aside, you have full control in your Natal Palace, and your Natal Palace manifests when you utilize your Domain. Now, say you were able to fully materialize your Natal Palace instead of just manifesting it, to the point where it becomes real to others as well. Would this give you complete control over Heavenly Energy in the real world?”

The boy’s words sent a thunderclap reverberating through Min Gyu’s mind, and his thoughts raced to consider the implications. Though they began today’s discussion focusing on Natal Palaces, this question went far above and beyond Min Gyu’s meager comprehension of the Dao. However, there was a hint of truth in the innocent query that he could not shake, an insidious seed of knowledge that took root and grew with startling speed as he considered what he knew. Taking a page from the boy, he voiced his thoughts out loud, in hopes it might help them both arrive at the correct conclusion. “To Develop one’s Domain, it is first vital to become One with the World and be granted authority to wield one’s Chi within their personal sphere of influence. You know this already, but what I’ve never heard you mention is the intrinsic tie between Aura and the expression of Domain, for one might say they are… deployed in the same manner. The generally accepted definition of Aura is a metaphysical expression of courage or intimidation, whereas a Domain was in many ways an extension of Aura in that it is a metaphysical expression of authority bestowed by the Heavens.”

“Really?” For a moment, Min Gyu thought he’d managed to baffle the boy for once, but instead, he just nodded and said, “Yea, that makes sense. Honing my Aura was probably just a rudimentary form of Domain then, though it still doesn’t explain why no one else can do it either.”

Despite having agonized over the issue for several months now, Min Gyu had no useful answers to give. “Since you and the Divine Turtle have demonstrated the ability to express more with your Auras than courage and intimidation, Honed Aura may just be yet another facet of your Aural manipulation abilities.” An ability which quite possibly was the hallmark of a true Divinity’s Aura, if the Divine Turtle was any indication, but Min Gyu was not certain what this meant with regards to the boy.

“Mm. More unfamiliar territory again. Let’s get back on topic. Domains. The expression of authority you spoke of, that’s the authority to maintain possession of Chi outside of the Core, right?”

“Rather than maintain possession, it would be better to say Chi will not disperse into Heavenly Energy within one’s Domain unless it is expended in some way or another.”

“Then how do Martial Warriors without Domains use Chi externally? Like Yan. She doesn’t even have a Natal Palace, but she can use Wind Blades.”

The boy likely already knew the answer himself, and was only asking to ensure Min Gyu’s explanation didn’t deviate too much from his own. Not to catch him out in a mistake, but more so as not to colour his perception. “In Yan’s case, she lacks a Domain and Natal Palace, but she is able to manifest a micro-Domain of sorts, one limited to each unique use of Chi which holds until it has served its purpose.”

“Sort of like packaging it for delivery, or casing on a shell.” Nodding in agreement, the boy went back to his initial question before Min Gyu could ask what he meant by casing. “So a Martial Warrior’s Domain is an area in which they are granted authority by the Heavens. If Heavenly Energy was a river, your Domain would be the watermill built beside it, but what if we were to divert the river in order to build our watermill in a better location? That’s what I mean by materialization. The Domain takes Chi to maintain, so why not just... bring it into being and leave it in place, to make things more efficient?”

As far as Min Gyu could tell, this wasn’t possible, not with the way he understood Domains, but what if his understanding was wrong? If the Domain was a manifestation of the Core, and the Core existed in the Void, which itself was on a different plane of existence, then by bringing the Core out of the Void and into the real world, it was more akin to annexing the world rather than becoming one with it. This was no longer being granted authority, but seizing it, forcing one’s own creation upon reality to exert more control over Chi and perhaps even Heavenly Energy. An act which inherently felt wrong, like a gross violation of the laws of nature and blasphemy to the Mother Above, until Min Gyu remembered the next step, the elusive final milestone before achieving Divinity. Void Shattering. Knowing what he knew now, did this not mean breaking all barriers between the Core and the Heavens? To remove everything separating the self and the Divine, to materialize the Core and everything within in reality, which was exactly what young Rain was hinting at. Was it even possible to bring a personally manufactured plane of existence, into reality?

If so, then the person capable of such a miraculous feat could only be a Divinity…

