In accordance with all the cycles before, the one-eyed ogre Uva knew only as Squinty glared at her and the other captives from outside their cage. With the hushed whispering quelled, the half-blind ogre took a step back, his immense weight causing the rotted floorboards beneath him to crack and splinter. He remained blissfully ignorant of how Uva regarded him. The jingling of a rusted chain bade her to look right. Fingers, the other guard ogre, was turning a wheel at the center of the platform upon which they all stood. With every revolution, the platform descended, bringing them lower and deeper into the cavernous depths of the Great Jaw. Flickering torches festooned to the cavern walls rose by as the platform dropped in awkward intervals.

Looking up, Uva gazed at the fading light of the surface. They were about fifty meters down, but even if she got back up there, it didn't mean freedom. It meant that she had to contend with the Court of Winter’s hidden stalkers hiding in the pale frost. She reflexively rubbed at her right collarbone. She retained instances of memory from the third cycle. Uva remembered the frosted hook that tore into her, that dragged her through the snow as the Wild Hunts galloped ahead. Against a normal piercing attack, she could simply displace the dimensions of her own flesh and let the blow sink into her without piercing anything. The same effect couldn't be achieved against a Wild Hunt or anyone who possessed a Narrative Weapon Proficiency Skill.

When the Wild Hunt’s harpoon greeted her body, she tore, she bled, she shattered. The frost that seeped through her very marrow made everything worse. There was no avoiding them either. The Wild Hunts were ethereal. They chased you across realms of mind, space, and matter. Once they had their eyes on her, their irises glowed a baleful violet beneath their helmets, and they would never give up, not until they dragged her before the Queen of Moons and offered her as a gift to the court.

I have better odds braving the Great Jaw for now, Uva decided. I'm more familiar with all the players and rules down in the subterranean depths. Its environment is more suited to me as well. I dealt considerable damage to the Gnomish Council during the last cycle. This time, maybe I should just focus on completing my escape instead of hunting down Evanescia—whoever she might be self-inserted as.

Though part of her wanted to facilitate another rebellion to see if she could collapse the Gnomish civilization in full, she knew that doing so would incur Evanescia’s wrath. The Usurper-Narrator didn't scare Uva, but the Umbral wasn't stupid either; to invite a penalty when she was trapped within the Fairwoods with no escape in sight was asking to bite off more than she could chew. She didn't even know where Shiv and Adam were—if they were anywhere near her location or even in the same story at all.
