Erick looked at Poi. Poi looked rather normal; he didn’t look suddenly wary. If someone asked a question like that around Erick, it would be setting off all sorts of red flags. Alarms would be blaring.

But. Apparently. Erick was the only one feeling a chill in the air.

Krakina chuckled.

Apogough shook his head.

Valok said, “If someone were to attack you first with the intent to kill, then there might be some Participation awarded, if you won. But…” Valok frowned. “No. People aren’t walking ‘bags of experience’.”

Apogough said, “There’s duels. Those grant 100% experience.” He added, “Dueling is illegal in Spur.”

Poi joined the conversation, “There is another exception to this rule. While Phagar, the God of Death, decides the vast majority of Participation, the Abyssal Legion and the Celestial Choir determine the Participation of any fight between a human and an incani.”

Cold welled inside Erick’s chest.

Krakina added, “You’re a Planar though. No Angelic prod at your back, telling you that killing any incani would give you 100% Participation.” She looked toward Spur. “I hope those humans in town are gonna be okay.”

Apogough said, “Silverite had a lock down on Human/Incani fighting for hundreds of years before the Great Purge. Not sure how she managed to do that, but she knows what she’s doing.”

“It’s an evil thing those angels and demons do to the rest of us.” Valok spat on the ground.

Erick’s voice was a squeak, “No kidding.”

A warm breeze blew, the clouds overhead cleared enough for the sun to peek through.

Apogough said, “He didn’t know.”

Poi and Valok frowned.

Krakina said, “I’m sure Spur will be fine. Not your fault that Angels and Demons are assholes. And people make their own choices! Don’t forget that.”

The rest of them nodded, watching the skies clear. Erick watched too, the final seconds of his spell dissipating into a flowing cloud, drifting to pieces on the desert winds.

Erick tried to relax by changing the subject. “Where’s the expansion? I’d like to level [Call Lightning] to 10 and see about creating that [Grow] spell today.”

Valok said, “Yeah. Sure. Krakina?”

“I’ve got time and mana to step into the forest.” Krakina walked out of the weather [Ward], toward the Crystal Desert. “You might be able to zappy zap a mimic, too! Good fortune, if so!”

Valok said, “And, Erick? You can work on your magic and go home for the day. Don’t worry about the afternoon rain. With as much water as I think you’re going to dump over there, the water table under the farm will be full to bursting.”

“Yes yes!” Krakina said, “Let’s go, Erick.”

Erick put on a happy face, stepping to walk beside Krakina, trying not to think about demons and angels incentivizing murder. But he couldn’t stop thinking about it. As they walked past fields of lush wheat, and farmers scything down the golden stalks, Erick asked, “Are angels different from gods?”

“Oh my yes.” Krakina said, “It’s all exceedingly complicated!”

Erick waited for a better answer.

“And?”

Krakina laughed, “And? And I know next to nothing about all of that! I hear it’s all exceedingly complicated, and that’s as much as I poke my nose into the racial wars of other species. I hear dragons are also complicated; they eat each other!” Krakina shivered, her grey feathers puffing up. “War is understandable; people are dumb and angry. But cannibalism! Creepy!”

Erick almost stopped in his tracks. Dragons eat other dragons? What the fuck?

Erick looked at Poi. Not really for confirmation, but because he had a sudden thought about Poi chowing down on some other unfortunate dragonkin.

Poi nodded, saying, “Dragons are cannibals when they can get away with it, yes. But you never see a dragon in their natural form unless they’re monsterized and eating everyone in sight. They’re always [Polymorph]ed as some other species. One of the very few dragons to live openly is the Headmaster of Oceanside Academy, and he only lives that way because he’s as old as the Script and no one messes with him, if they want to stay alive.”

Not why he was looking at Poi, but okay.

As that was sinking in, Erick thought back to the Quiet War and about angels and demons incentivizing war with Participation values.

It was all pretty fucking fucked up, is what it was!

There was a lot of fucked up shit on Veird!

Erick said, “That’s all pretty fucked up.”

Krakina said, enthusiastically, “Oh yes! I agree! But funny enough, dragonkin aren’t cannibals; I was worried about that when I first heard dragons ate each other when I was a hatchling. But dragonkin are probably the least fucked up people on Veird, so Spur is a pretty great place.” She glanced over at Poi, smirking, “Nice to look at, too.”

Poi smiled at that.

Erick looked at Poi. Really looked. He said, “I gotta say, the scales are really pretty.”

Poi smiled a bit wider, and walked with a bit more bounce in his step.

- - - -

Erick, Poi, and Krakina stood under separate weather [Ward]s well outside of the farms, exactly in the middle of where the expansion would be, if everything worked out as everyone hoped. It was a thirty minute hike to get out this far. Walking back might be easier or harder depending on what a lot of rain did to the land around them, and how an Aurified [Call Lightning] operated.

Erick looked across the Crystal Desert, all around them. The nearest crystal agave was a hundred feet that way; the next nearest 200 feet in the other direction. Glow bugs floated in the air.

Aurify.

[Call Lightning].

Nothing seemed to be happening, but. Yes. There was… something. Something small. Four seconds passed. Erick felt the loss of a single mana flowing away, soaking into the wind. A faint, almost invisible fog hung in the air around him. More seconds passed. More mist joined the air.

Krakina said, “The air feels moist, but it’s barely fog.”

Erick felt more mana leave, as slow as before. He was afraid of billowing lightning, filling the land and spreading like a crazy uncontrolled storm, but this was…

Ah. This was still mentally taxing. Like holding a 1 pound dumbbell above his head, he was not about to do this for however long it took to see a response. If this was the aura, then he’d wait until he made an actual aura to see how it operated. He sealed off Aurify and [Call Lightning]. The fog around him remained like a gentle whisper, before the wind carried it away.

Erick looked up.

[Call Lightning]

125 mana left his body, 500 experience added to [Call Lightning], and the sky above darkened with roiling clouds.

[Call Lightning].

The sky roiled deeper, harder. Flashes of light appeared overhead. Thunder rolled across the Crystal Forest. The agave a hundred feet away began to tinkle and crinkle in the wind.

Krakina asked, “Is that two of them at once?”

“I wasn’t sure what was going to happen, but yeah. It’s two at once.”

Rain fell across the land, splattering sand at first, but then wetting it down, turning dry dirt into a solid wet mass. Streams appeared in the soil as the rain came down harder.

“Yup!” Erick said, over the noise of the rain. “Right to rain! No need to wait.”

The weather [Ward] stopped the rain from hitting from above, and as Erick watched streams form in the wet sand, it appeared the [Ward] also stopped water flowing in from the side.

Meditation.

There were no shadows or eyes out here except up in the sky, and those were all tricks of the light. [Call Lightning] was one cast away from 10, so it was time to experiment a bit more, now that there were clouds above him to control.

Aurify.

[Call Lightning]

The mist was instant this time, spreading across the land like a fog rolling in, filling in the gaps between the rain and blocking sight past 30 feet. Erick pulled with the second aspect of Aurify, trying to choose who or what was affected by his aura, or not.

Mana flowed out of Erick, 6 mana gone in a second, and the storm yawned open above him. Blue sky appeared in a 50 yard circle of clouds, like a sightless god looking down from above. The storm was pushed to the side. Rain fell everywhere but around the three people and their weather [Ward]s.

Krakina stared at the sky in awe. Poi stared with a perfectly poised face.

Erick pushed again with his aura. 6 more mana flowed, and the sky changed again.

The hole above closed. Dimples appeared in the rest of the storm.

Hmm. That’s not what I wanted.

He tossed mana at the sky through his aura, 60 all in one go. The sky moved. Holes appeared everywhere. That seemed to be the wrong move, because the original spell disrupted. The tiny flashes of lightning ceased as wind began to drag the clouds away. Erick had accidentally killed the [Call Lightning] in the sky; all he had left was his foggy aura.

“Were you trying to do that?” Krakina asked.

“Not really.” Erick brushed a hand at the heavy fog around him. “But the spell is still here.”

“Can you make that fog discharge?”

“I don’t know.”

Erick hummed. As the rain eventually stopped, the fog seemed to be more solid. Slowly, mana flowed out of him, into the fog.

A crackle of light appeared in the depths of the fog, near the ground.

Erick exclaimed, “Oh! I get it!”

The fog was the spell brushing against itself, generating charge, but the process was disrupted by the rain. Now that the rain was gone, the charge was coming back. He had kept a close eye on his mana the whole time, too, so that was another clue as to what was happening with the lightning part of his spell.

He said, “I’m going to try a strike, now.”

Poi said, “Okay!”

Krakina said, “FINALLY!”

Erick willed a bolt into the ground a hundred feet over there—

Craacchhthck-BOOM-OOM-OOM!

The land filled with reverberating lightning as a thousand tiny sparks joined into a crash of power that blanketed the air in a thousand foot sphere, a hundred feet away, surrounding Erick’s [Ward] in a wash of white death. The blast cleared, but lingers of lightning skittered across the ground, rushing up and over Erick’s [Ward] like a sudden infestation of lightning spiders.

Krakina cackled with joy. “Do it again!”

“NO!” Poi and Erick yelled.

As Krakina grumbled and Erick thought he might need to [Cleanse] himself, he ended the spell. Erick tried to relax. He tried to breathe. His nose filled with the orange tang of ozone. It was actually a rather nice smell, but it was overpowering in some primal way.

Two blue boxes appeared, confirming Erick’s hypothesis.

Call Lightning X, 1 minute per level, super long range, 500 MP ~{Favored Spell}~

Prepare the sky to strike an area or object of your choice for <damage>. If used in an active lightning storm, Call Lightning’s duration is as long as the natural storm. Every lighting bolt called reduces the duration of Call Lightning by 1 minute, or a natural storm by <undetermined>.

Lightning Aura, 1 MP per second, super long range ~{Favored Spell}~

Prepare the air around you to strike for <damage>. One strike available every 50 MP.

Yup. Just like he thought: He was impatient the first time; he didn’t wait long enough for the spell to charge.

The numbers were roughly close to [Call Lightning], if a bit higher.

Favored Spell carried over to the Aura.

All good things! Terrifying things, but… ‘good’, too, he supposed.

As the fog completely cleared, Erick gazed across the land, and the land was scorched.

Okay. Maybe this wasn’t a good outcome.

Yard and foot long filaments of sandy glass had been blasted out of the ground like iron filings standing up on a magnet. The devastation was larger at the center of the blast, rivaling the size of the nearest crystal agave…

… of which there were none in sight. Erick had fried— Ah! There was one, outside of the blast. Huh. It actually looked just fine. It glowed a bit stronger than usual, though. Hmm.

Poi let out a long, drawn out sigh, audible from over 20 feet away.

“Damn! Look at that!” Krakina shouted, “I’ve never seen anything like that before!”

“Never using that again...” Erick muttered.

The crystal agave sparked.

Erick stared at it. “What’s happening with that?”

Poi said, “It won’t hit us from here.”

Krakina cackled, “I’ve seen those spear people out of the sky! I hope we’re all lucky!”

Uh-oh.

Erick watched as the crystal agave pulsed brighter. Brighter. It was radiant now—

BOOM!

The agave’s crystal spike-leaves flew off in every direction like projectile weapons, as a controlled explosion rocked the plant’s core. A crystal spear shunked into the soil 10 feet from Erick. It still glowed, but that glow faded, and the plant laid still. Erick’s heart beat hard.

“That was close,” Poi said.

“They’re easier to pick up like that,” Krakina said. “Blast the rest of them!”

“NO,” Erick and Poi said at the same time.

“Bahh! No fun!”

“I’m plenty of fun, but all of this…” Erick waved a hand at the spiky, glassed ground all around him. “I’d like my magic to stop making me look like a bad guy, gunning for armageddon.”

Krakina said, “You have no perspective! I might not have seen something like that before, but I have seen impressive acts, and yours doesn’t even punch through a weather [Ward]!”

And I hope it never does.

Erick said, “I’m starting again.”

Krakina shrieked in joy. “Go go go! Do it!”

[Lightning Aura]

Fog returned in sparse drips of mana. Holding his aura open this time was like flipping a switch; the tiny weight on his mind nonexistent. This was much easier than using Aurify.

[Grow].

The land around him did nothing. Erick hummed. Maybe…

[Grow Aura]

