Argat’s Sending sounds in my head, his voice calm, but concerned. “Don’t listen to him. He’s not invincible. Keep doing what you’re doing, and you’ll win.” While it’s good advice, the damage is already done, because it’s all I can think about now. What the fuck is a Domain? Core Creation, Aura Condensation, Natal Palace Formation, and Domain... what? Domain, Domain, Domain. You Have No Domain. Sensing my wavering emotions, the Spectres pick up the chant like an eerie, sing-song mantra, ridiculing me for my lack of skill and intelligence.

You are weak. You are powerless. You cannot win. You are destined to lose.

The minor distraction costs me as Gen latches onto Unity with a two-handed grip and lifts me off my feet. Instead of abandoning the weapon, I cling tight as he howls with glee and slams me into the dirt. Wrenching it out of my hands, Gen tosses Unity aside and charges as I come to my feet. Raising Tranquility to fend off his claw, I draw Peace just in time to block the other hand, its pointed blades plunging towards my soft belly. Face to face with my foe, Gen cackles as he forces me back across the field, my feet digging two furrows through the dirt. Reinforcing for all I’m worth, I lash out with my foot and slam into his knee, but I might as well have kicked an iron board. At least it stopped his advance and wiped the smile off his face, but my relief is short lived as he growls and ramps up the pressure. Though our weapons are locked in place, his hands are far more malleable than my sword and shield, and the fingers on his left hand glimmer and... melt. Three of his blade-fingers shrink and shorten, slowly withering away while his index finger stretches ever so slowly towards my chest, the tip pointed directly at my heart.

Great. The fucking T-1000 remembered he’s got transforming metal hands. Just great.

“After I kill you,” Gen whispers, his eyes burning in delight as his finger inches closer to my heart, “I’ll kill all your friends too. I wanted you to watch them die, but I’ll have to settle for simply telling you beforehand. Their deaths will be slow and painful, but I’ve special plans for a chosen few.” Leaning closer, his prodigious strength forces me to my knees and his face hovers mere centimetres from mine, his broken nose still crooked but no longer bleeding. “You killed my Bei, so it’s only fair if I take your woman to replace her. Du Min Yan was her name, yes? A half-beast, but I’ll still treat her well, burn her skin and delight in her screams. Sumila too. I’ve a score to settle with that bitch, and that pretty little cat-girl too. I hear you – ”

Roaring in rage, I surge to my feet and headbutt him in the face, accepting the pain of his talon piercing through my flesh to shut his vile mouth. Breaking his nose for the second time in this fight, I shove him away and ignore the sickening squelch from his talon sliding free from my flesh or the light-headed rush which accompanies it. Stemming the bleeding with a thought, I activate my Healing Keystone before bringing the fight to Gen once more, doing my best not to worry about my literal bleeding heart. Balance on Windy Leaf, but instead of Pierce the Horizon, I raise Tranquility and perform Traverse the Mountain, diving headfirst at my foe’s exposed face yet again. The flying tackle connects with a satisfying crunch, because whatever’s protecting Gen from my Honed blades doesn’t shield him from blunt impacts. Following up with Twin Horns, Peace’s Honed edge glides across Gen’s Runic breastplate with the shriek of metal just before Tranquility’s dual blades deliver a powerful blow to his ribs, but I am not through yet.

Rush Hour was Baledagh’s invention, but after running face first into Mahakala’s steel belly, I figured it’d be good to have a follow up in case I ever faced another impossibly durable foe.

Borrowing a page from Song, I perform Stalk the Dragon, Swipe the Rushes, Reverse the Flow, into Fanged Clutch, smashing Gen about with a series of Amplified attacks. Head, chest, wrist, knee, I aim at whatever exposed target is convenient and overwhelm him with a deluge of powerful attacks, going off-book and using whatever movements feel right. Spear Hand delivers a thrust to his chest and sends Gen reeling away while Prancing Stride and Rising Steps closes the distance. As he regains his footing, Darting Fang and Uplifts the Sequoia connects with his helmet, and Twisting Snap delivered by my foot sends him crashing to the dirt. Standing over my fallen foe, I unleash Standing Fury and rain a flurry of powerful strikes upon him, smashing his hands out of the way so he cannot defend against my frenzied attacks. The ring of metal on metal is almost soothing as I drum out a rhythm on his armour, the noise drowning out the wailing Spectres as I draw ever closer to victory.

Hurt him. Break him. He is powerless to resist, so savour his despair.

The world spins and I land heavily in the dirt, with quins bounding past as my soldiers charge into the fray. Pulling me to my feet, Argat drags me away from the battle, away from Gen who lies bloodied, battered, and breathing. “No!” The howl rips from my throat before my feet touch the ground, struggling to free myself from his grip as I watch the yellow-armoured Defiled drag my foe away. “Gen needs to die!”

“Then you should’ve killed him when you had the chance.” Argat’s grim tone is unapologetic as he forces me to look at what’s happening around us. “Duel’s over. The Demons are here.”

A flash of lightning and clap of thunder punctuate his point as Lei Gong enters the battle, his stunning attack absorbed by Pudge’s shimmering shield of water. The Tyrant makes her presence known with a prismatic spray of light, radiating from a diamond ring worn on her right index finger which slams into a tentacle-cloaked Demon and sends it crashing back into the crowd. Pandemonium erupts as more Demons join the fray and I lose sight of Gen as my Experts coordinate a fighting retreat while the armoured Defiled do the same, so all I can do is swallow my fury and curse my ego for dragging the battle out as long as I did.

I had him on his knees with Unity at his throat. Why didn’t I kill him? Even if I can’t stab him, a hard enough thrust could’ve broken his neck, and he’s almost as good as dead.

...

The Spectres. They manipulated me, tricked me into letting him live. I could’ve killed him, but they used my anger against me, made me want to prolong his pain and suffering. Win-win for them, since it raises the chances of Gen turning full Demon instead of the weird, quasi-Demon thing he’s got going on right now. I suppose I was a bit premature to throw Balance entirely out the window, especially when I’ve got more Spectres in my belly than I’ve ever had before, but this is the first time they’ve been so... persuasive in a long while.

Burning with anger and self-loathing, I take a deep breath to calm my nerves and watch as the Defiled army makes a coordinated retreat, unwilling to continue fighting without their maddened auxiliaries. Scanning the crowd for Gen, I pray for one last opportunity to slit his throat and worry I might not get another chance. No more tricks and schemes, Spectres. Gen will not escape me again. It doesn’t matter if he has a Domain and or fights alongside his disciplined Defiled soldiers, or even if he has a dozen more Demons waiting in the wings. Then next time I see him, Gen will die, whether it be by my hand or another’s.

No one threatens my beloved wives. No one.

Chapter Meme

All of you right now
