Shiv was capable of shifting himself into a state of orichalcum, but Veronica had flashed red, gold, and silver when he'd struck her before. Whatever the skill was, it was a step above what he had now, and as Solzimort tore through to the other end, they emerged into a tight and narrow chamber staffed by dozens of wardens.

They noticed Solzimort a second too late, because then the Hydra and the others were already upon them, a second ahead in time. Shiv did a quick sweep of the room. There were several pylons here, and he could feel the magic flowing out from them. However, instead of conducting a mixed assortment of mana types, the main lore being channeled through this room was Psychomancy.

This was like a Psychomancy command center, or whatever the wardens called it, and so all the Pathbearers in this room wore focused crystal helmets meant to allow them to serve as better logistical mages. As such, they weren't wearing armor meant for battle, and ultimately a Legendary-Tier Mage—especially if they were a pure mage—was often more fragile than even a Master-Tier warrior.

Shiv blasted out from Solzimort's mouth, but by the time he crashed down upon the Psychomancers, Gone had already torn through them. The goblin was unspeakably fast. She drew all that lightning back into herself, and her claws were a blur of misting blood and violence. There were fifty or so Psychomancers holding the chamber; all fifty were then down on their arms and knees, wailing and screaming as their tendons had been severed. All of their tendons.

The Deathless adapted. Instead of attacking any of the wardens, he slammed through the Psychomantic pylons through which they were channeling their magic. He broke five of them and spared the final one at the center. Truth be told, he didn't know how the whole system for this room worked, but it was still good to keep one at least for a second. Adam and the others would survey and then sabotage as they discussed earlier.”

"Orcs! Out!" Shiv called aloud. "We're in!"

A second later, the grayskins erupted free from his cape, and they swept and cleared the room with methodical efficiency. The wardens were down, and so the orcs focused on securing hostages to interrogate. Those among the orcs with Psychomancy reached out to interface with the minds of the downed wardens. Helix, however, unleashed his magic, and with a wave of overwhelming Biomancy, Shiv felt something flash within the skulls of every single warden. A second later, they had all gone stiff. The silence that followed told him they were unconscious as well. Their organs were still working, their bodies were still alive, but they were truly incapacitated now.

“Alright,” Adam declared. “You know the score. Ten seconds. Grab a few commanders, leave your traps, keep it moving. Scouts on watch! Mortar?”

The large artillery-piece-carrying orc chuckled grimly as he placed a makeshift mana bomb at the center of the room. It resembled an ugly, hollowed-out egg, but seeping motes of Pyromancy leaked out from the horizontal slit lining its center.

"I got a surprise for the reinforcements coming in later," the orc said. He wrapped a large hand on the top of the mana bomb and turned. Immediately, it began to click over and over. "They're gonna need to assign some specialists to make sure this thing doesn't go boom."

Shiv's lip twitched, but he allowed the orc to play his game. The wardens were going to be taxed by the many bombs they were going to plant across these cubes, and ultimately, that was part of Adam's strategy: Force the wardens to split their logistics and resources by flooding the zone with problems.

A loud crack came from right next to Shiv, and the Deathless glared at Tequila as he lifted his foot from one of the warden's necks.

"Godsdamn it," Shiv hissed. He ripped an injury away from the warden and used the crystallized wound to swat Tequila. A burst of red spread through the chamber, and the orc was nearly launched from his feet by the force of the blow.

Despite this, Tequila remained in good cheer. “Nice swing, Insul.”

"Hostages mean their coworkers have to come. Focus on binding the wardens and leaving them here. Adam," Shiv called out. “Pylon?”

“Nothing useful here!” The Gate Lord wrapped a curled limb shaped from water around the final pylon, and slowly he squeezed. The room felt drier as Adam's Hydrokinetic hand grew, and Shiv realized the Gate Lord was drawing from the moisture to empower himself.

I guess that wand really left an imprint on his soul, Shiv mused. As the final pillar burst, a spray of telepathy washed through the room, and Shiv pushed it aside using his shapeless tides.

"Ten seconds," Adam shouted. "Ten seconds, we move again. Solzimort, we're going deeper."
