Ren laughed again. “Yeah, that's a popular opinion.”

The mine foreman led Ren to the kitchen and the tiny table there, and they sat down.

“I hear you might have a job for me.”

“That depends.” Ren said. “Are you still bound to House Lodur?”

“Not a chance.” He laughed. “Once they found out the new production ideas were all yours, I was shoved out the door faster than dirt on a broom.”

“How much was the one year penalty fine?” Ren asked.

He smiled crookedly. “You don't want to know.”

Ren shook his head. “I don't understand how they got away with doing that.” He said. “How in the world did a contract like that get approved?”

“The Council voted on it, of course.”

Ren snorted a laugh. “I bet it wasn't the whole Council.”

The foreman chuckled. “No one objected, because it made people want to stay. If they left, they were required to pay or work the mines; either way, House Lodur got a cut and everyone made money.”

Ren shook his head again. “I don't do things that way.”

“That's good to know.” The mine foreman said. “Running the mines is one thing, working in them is another.”

“Yeah, Dorcot told me you weren't a general laborer.”

The mine foreman snorted a laugh. “I blew my knees out while mining years ago.”

“Oh, no.” Ren's eyes widened. “They healed wrong.”

“You're a smart one.” He said. “I couldn't get to a healer.” The mine foreman shook his head. “At the time I had to crawl nearly half a mile before one of the other miners found me.”

“They made you foreman after that.”

He nodded slightly. “Once I was foreman, I hired a dedicated healer right away, and had the men given regular checks.” He said. “No one goes in the mines alone, either.”

Ren nodded slightly. “I'm glad.” He said. “I own several mountains along the coast.” He took out the land deed, and the attached map to show the mine foreman the mountain range.

“Several mountains, he says.” The mine foreman said. “That's the whole ridge, nearly all the way to the convent.”

“I don't know if you want to join House Neram or not.” Ren said. “If you don't, this is just a job you'll be hired to do.”

“That sounds fine.” The mine foreman said. “I'm kind of sick of House politics.”

Ren smiled. “Me, too.” He pointed to the first mountain in the ridge, right where he had built the little shack. “I've got a feeling about this one.”

“What's the feeling tell you?” The foreman asked, curious.

“Iron.” Ren said. “Lots and lots of iron.”

“Really?” The mine foreman asked. “I've had survey crews out that way. They didn't find anything.”

Ren sat back. “So that's why House Lodur didn't buy them all.” He said. “That's been bugging me for a while.”

“They had all the money, why didn't they buy all the land?”

Ren nodded slightly, and the mine foreman smiled.

“Why would they spend all that money, and pay taxes on all that land, if there wasn't anything on it worth the money?” He asked. “Easy. Less headaches.”

Ren tilted his head slightly, and the foreman snorted another laugh.

“You can't imagine the complaints and problems they've had from having the mines so close to their residents.”

“They should have kept them separate, like I'm going to.” Ren smiled. “I assume you know some people to go out there and scout?”

He nodded slightly. “I even know a few people in the Mining Guild, so we can get the permits needed to start digging.”

“How much is that going to cost?”

“Probably a few platinum.” The mine foreman said. “Not for the permits, though. Those are free.” He said. “It's to pay the Guild Members for letting us mine there without their input on how to do things.”

“If we're paying the money anyways, then get permits for everything.” Ren grinned and ran a finger all along the ridge, right up to the three mountains with the diamond mine in the center. “I want it all nice and legal.”

“You got it.” The mine foreman said and held out a hand. Ren shook it, and handed him 100 platinum.

“I'll leave this in your hands.” Ren said. “Get another building made behind the shed I have there. Use the shed as a guard station, then add a gate. Hire miners to dig a large main tunnel down into the center of the mountain. I'll work on getting rails and carts made as soon as I can.”

The foreman smiled. “You can't have too much of that 8 tons left.”

Ren shook his head. “I'm burning through it pretty fast. When I went to the mines to buy more, that's when I found out you weren't there, and told Dorcot.”

He nodded slightly. “He found me in the tavern down by the docks.” He grinned. “It took me a day to sober up.”

“As long as you keep it casual, or drink on your own time, I won't bother you about it.”

He nodded slightly. “I'm going to be too busy to drink.”

“I hope so.” Ren said. “I need that ore.”

“What if the mountain doesn't have it?”

“It will, but you can check the next mountain.” Ren said. “You never know. We might get lucky.”

The mine foreman chuckled. “It's about time something good happened around here.”

“Wait here.” Ren said. “I'll get you something else you're going to need.”

“It's too late in the day to get things started anyways.” He said. “I'll be here.”

Ren walked out of the house, then ran up to the workshop. He saw the women stop shoveling, and he waited for them to go inside. He followed them and asked how many bags.

“Only 500 today.” Dorathy said. “We ran out of fabric.”

“I'm sorry.” Ren said. “I forgot to order more.”

“That's okay.” She said. “Tomorrow's our day off.”

“I'll have more fabric, or a huge pile of empty sacks by then.” Ren paid them their money, and repaired their clothing and equipment.

“I can't believe you can do that.” One woman said. “I'm tempted to wear something different every day just so you'll repair it for me.”

Ren smiled. “The last time I had a bunch of workers, they brought different shovels every day, too.”

She laughed. “So I wouldn't be abusing your hospitality then?”

Ren shook his head. “I'll fix and repair anything you need me to.” He said. “I'll have to draw the line at a low cut dress and high heeled shoes, though.”

Another woman snorted a laugh. “You look pretty wearing them, but you'd kill yourself trying to shovel!”

Ren laughed. “Exactly.” He said. “There's a few more carts, so it won't take long to get you home.” He bid them a good day, and they filed out of the workshop to head to the stables. Ren went into the forge room, and Tee-one was there.

“How is everything?” Ren asked.

“Boring.” Tee-one said. “There's only so much rebar one can make before they go numb.”

Ren snorted a laugh. “Sorry, I should have asked you to make something else.”

“Like what?”

Ren leaned in close, and whispered. “A Ballista.”

Tee-one's eyes widened, then he smiled. “There might be enough iron ore left for that.”

Ren smiled. “We can't make it solely out of metal.” He said. “Not until the new mine is up and running.”

“We're getting a new mine?” Tee-one asked. “I can't wait!”

Ren laughed. “That was the same thought I had.”

“How long?”

“He didn't say.” Ren said and took out the paving stone he'd made the 100 small square cut outs on. He filled it and absorbed the heat, added the energy to his Mana Pool, and brought it up to three quarters full. Ren concentrated on the Sending Glyph (of 4 Sending Runes) and the House Neram crest design, and touched two of the steel squares with the fingers of the same hand, and enchanted them. It took a tenth of his Mana Pool, but it worked as the design etched itself into the surface of the metal.

“Yes!” Ren exclaimed, then repeated the process six more times, emptying his Mana Pool. He did it 3 more times and emptied his Mana bar as well. He now had 10 sets of Sending Squares with the House Neram crest on them, and stored each pair in their own slot. He took out a piece of wood, and cut out 10 spots to put the Sending Squares in, and stored that, too.

“Tee-one, use some of the gold ore in the smelters, too.” Ren said. “Give it a good mix.” He took out the plans he'd made for the large automatic crossbows he'd made for the walls of House Neram Keep, and enlarged it to 15 feet across. He had a few springy trees left, so he gave them to Tee-one to use as ammo for the Ballista. You could get two 6 foot long bolts from each tree, so there would be enough ammo for a good demonstration. Ren left the bow part metal, as well as the braces and reinforcement; but, the majority of the body was solid wood. He even added cart wheels to the front to make it easier to move around, and for fun added a horse attachment on the back.

“Go ahead and get started making the metal parts for this.” Ren said, and gave the plans to Tee-one. “I've got some Sending Squares to deliver.”

“This is going to be fun!” Tee-one said and tossed some of the gold ore into the smelter. Ren left him there and ran down to Dorcot's house. He gave one of the Sending Squares to the mine foreman, and told him how they worked.

“By the gods, man! Where the hell did you get them?”

“I want to keep that a secret.” Ren said and grinned. “Needless to say, you can contact the Main House whenever you need something.”

He shook his head. “You're going to put the Messenger Guild out of business.”

“That would never happen.” Ren chuckled. “There's too many places to cover to give everyone a Sending Square, then everyone else a Sending Square. You'd need rooms of them to contact everyone.”

He opened his mouth, and smiled. “Yeah, you're right.”

“Don't sound so amazed.” Ren laughed and left the house. He ran down the road and stopped concentrating on his Aura as he approached the Main House's Aura. He went inside the Aura and then inside the Main House, walked to Ereka's office, and knocked on the door.

“Come in.” She said, and he opened the door. She looked up from the book she was reading, and a big smile spread across her face. “Hello, your highness.”

“Hi.” Ren said. “I just came here to fill you in on something, and to drop something off.” He told her about his deal with the mine foreman, and he attached the piece of wood he cut the spots out of, to the wall next to where Ereka sat. He put the Sending Square into the last slot, and wrote 'Mine' under it.

“Who are you giving the other ones to?” Ereka asked.

Ren wrote 'Medical' under the first slot, 'Stables' under the second, and 'Barracks' under the third.

“I'm tempted to give one to each of the businesses we deal with.” Ren said. “I'm going to save them for when more things are built instead.” He slid the pairs of Sending Squares into the slots. “The manager of the stables already left, so we'll have to wait until tomorrow to give her one.” He stepped away, then went back and wrote 'Church' under the second to last one. “I almost forgot that one.”

She looked at the Sending Squares, and wondered what crazy ideas he would think of next.

“You might as well head home yourself.” Ren said. “There's only...”

“About an hour.” Teepo said.

“...about an hour before supper anyways.”

Ereka shook her head. “Croggart hasn't been back since the battle.” She said. “I'm just sitting at home alone.”

Ren put a hand on her shoulder. “When he comes back, offer him one of the Sending Squares.”

“W-what?”

“That way, he can stay in contact with you.” Ren said. “As long as he's not more than 10 hours away by cart.”

“10 hours by cart?” Ereka asked. “That's their range?”

Ren nodded slightly and took his hand back. “Goodnight.”

“Goodnight, your highness....” She said. “...and thank you.”

Ren left her office and walked out of the Main House, then ran for House Neram Keep and back to the workshop. He had an artillery weapon to make.
