Ren stopped in the housing sub-division, and went to Artrude's house. He didn't know which one it was, as all 6 of the houses on that side were 'close' to where the medical building was being built; but since he knew that Wohrum was in the first house, it narrowed the choices down. Ren walked along them and dismissed the popups until he got to the last house and it said Artrude and Malenka lived there. He went to the door and knocked. A minute later, Artrude opened the door.

“Your highness!” She exclaimed, and closed the book she was reading. “Please come in.”

“That's not necess-” Ren started to say, and she stepped forward to put an arm around him.

“You're our very first visitor!” Artrude said, and guided him inside. “I'm sorry that we don't have any furniture to let you sit down.”

Ren looked at her with surprise on his face. “Damn, I knew I was forgetting something.”

“What do you mean?”

“I was supposed to order furniture for the houses.”

It was her turn to look at him in surprise. “You gave us a house, and you want to give us furniture, too?”

“It was supposed to already have furniture in it, before you moved in.” Ren said. “I've just had so much going on that...”

“I know!” Artrude laughed and held up the book. “I'm about halfway through.”

He walked into the main room and Ren looked around. It was nearly completely bare, except for 2 bedrolls on the floor in the bedroom.

“I'm terribly sorry you've had to sleep like that.” Ren said, then took out enough wood to make them a large bed, and sewed up a mattress for them to sleep on. It took about 20 minutes, and Artrude stared at him the whole time.

“You really did make everything in the Main House.”

Ren nodded slightly. “I like making things.”

She rolled up the bedrolls and moved them aside and Ren put the big bed into the bedroom.

“Thank you very much, your highness.” Artrude said and sat down. “Ooo, that's comfy.”

“You can contact Ereka for any furniture you need.” Ren said. “I'll pay for it.”

“Your highness.” Artrude said. “You shouldn't be giving all of this away for free.” She touched the brooch she wore. “It's more than any of us have ever had before.”

“Oh! That reminds me of why I came here.” Ren said. “Don't throw out the wands when they're empty.”

Artrude looked at him like he was crazy. “Even if they were made of wood, I would never throw out something like that.” She said. “Even etched like it is, the diamond is worth a few platinum.”

Ren nodded slightly. “It's worth a lot more than that.” He said. “The wands are rechargeable.”

Artrude dropped the book she held, and it hit the floor with a resounding thud. “What... what did you say?”

“The wands can be recharged.” Ren said. “I think it's because I used expensive diamonds as the focus element.”

Artrude got up from the bed and dug through one of the bedrolls to pull out one of the wands Ren had given her. She used it on herself, and then put her hand on the face of the diamond. She poured Mana into it, and the diamond glowed for a moment, and she gasped.

“By the gods! It works!” She sat back down on the bed and held the wand in her hand. “You... you made a... a rechargeable wand!”

BANG! The front door slammed open and Malenka hopped into the house, twirling around and holding up her brooch.

“I love you!” Malenka said, and did a pirouette. “I looooove yoooou!” She said, came to a stop at the bedroom doorway, and planted a huge kiss on the diamond. She froze with her lips still on the brooch, as she saw Ren standing there. “Ahhhh!” She screamed and tossed the brooch into the air. Ren caught it easily as she fell to the floor onto her behind.

“Malenka.” Artrude said, trying not to laugh. “We have a visitor.”

“That... that wasn't what it looked like!” Malenka said to Ren. He smiled and held a hand out to her. After a moment, she took it and he helped her stand.

“It looked like you were having some fun dancing around.” Ren said. “Wasn't that what I saw?”

She blushed slightly, and nodded. He handed the brooch to her and smiled.

“I'm glad you're enjoying it.”

“I am!” She exclaimed, and held it close. “It's wonderful!”

Artrude chuckled. “The young and impressionable.”

“You're only a year older than me!” Malenka responded, then held the brooch out in front of her face. “It sparkles so much.” Her eyes gleamed in pleasure. “I've never seen anything like it.”

Artrude stood up and went over to her. “I'm wearing one just like it.”

“Yeah, but that's yours.” Malenka said. “This one's mine. Aaaaallll mine!”

“If you're reacting this strongly from the brooch, I don't know if I should give you the wands.” Artrude said with a smile on her face.

“THE WHAT?!?”

“Wands.” She said and held up the Minor Healing wand she had in her hand. The 1 inch wide diamond on the tip shimmered.

“Oooo!” Malenka stared at it. Artrude moved it from side to side, and Malenka's head followed the movements.

“She's just like a crow when something shiny is in front of her.” Artrude said to Ren, then laughed as she handed the wand to Malenka.

“It's a Minor Healing wand! With 50 charges!” She scrambled to hold the wand, and put on the brooch, and dance around, all at the same time.

“Hold on!” Artrude said. “You're going to hurt yourself if you keep going like that.”

“That's okay!” Malenka said. “I've got a MINOR HEALING WAND!”

Artrude took the brooch and attached it to Malenka's white tunic. “There.” She said. “Go have fun.”

“Yay!” Malenka took off out the still open front door and Ren and Artrude laughed as she bounced around outside.

“If I didn't know she was 25, I'd swear she was only 12.”

Ren smiled. “The short red hair and freckles kind of adds to that image.”

“I know.” Artrude grinned. “She's so cute.”

“How long have you been together?” Ren asked.

“Since our training at the convent last year.” Artrude said, then put a hand over her mouth. “By the gods, I did not just tell you that!”

Ren put a hand on her arm. “It's okay.” He said. “I won't tell anyone.”

Artrude shook her head. “It was me who wasn't supposed to tell anyone.” She sighed. “We'll pack our things and go back to the Main Keep's reserve medical staff.”

“Why?”

“What?”

“Why are you leaving?”

She looked at Ren like he was crazy. “We've been kicked out of 2 different Houses when they found out we were...”

“This House isn't like other Houses.” Ren squeezed her arm. “I don't know how the other residents might react; but if anyone says anything bad to you about it, let me know.”

“But...”

“People that love each other, shouldn't have to worry about what other people think.” Ren said. “Sometimes just being together causes so much trouble; you don't need others interfering in your life, too.”

“You sound like you've had experience with that.” Artrude said, and put a hand on his hand that was still on her arm.

Ren nodded slightly. “Yeah. My first real relationship.” He said. “Boy, did it blow up and fall apart fast.” He shook his head. “Despite all the 'help' I got from friends.”

Artrude chuckled. “Yes, well-meaning people can make a big mess even bigger.”

Ren nodded and made a table, and two chairs quickly. “There's a cart reserved for the medical staff at the stables down the road.” He said as he put the table and chairs in the kitchen, then made a couch. “It's white, so you'll know which one to use.”

“Your highness, thank you.” Artrude said. “We thought... well, we thought any place would be better than being stuck in the reserves at the Main Keep.” She said. “If we'd known there was a House like this, we'd have been begging at your door to let us in.”

Ren laughed and finished the couch. “I've been trying to make a place where people can go and work for the enjoyment of it; not because they have to, or need to.” He looked at her. “This and the mattress will have to stay white, until I get the dying station from my workshop.”

“White's just fine, your highness.”

Ren smiled. “Then never mind.”

“You've delivered your messages, and made us some great furniture. Is there anything else you can do for us?” Artrude asked, then laughed.

Ren laughed, too. “I can't help myself sometimes.” He said. “I'm just glad you're not taking all of this as flirting or an engagement proposal.”

“Who said I wasn't?” She asked, and Ren's mouth fell open and his eyes widened.

“By the gods, I have to remember that face.” Artrude grinned. Ren sighed in relief and she snorted a laugh. “Don't worry, your highness. I'm well and truly in love with that little vixen traipsing around in the yard.”

“I'd like to hear the story of how you got together later.” Ren said. “Right now, I've got to get back to work.”

“Of course.” Artrude said. “I've kept you here for much longer than either of us intended.”

Ren chuckled. “It's hard to leave when you enjoy someone's company.”

“It is, isn't it?”

Ren took out a copy of his other 2 books and gave them to her. “Since you seem to enjoy reading, you might want to read these as well.” He said, then bowed slightly to her. “Goodbye Ma'am.”

Artrude snorted a laugh. “You can call me by my name, your highness. You know it won't count.”

“Then you can use mine for the same reason.” Ren said. “But only in private. We can't have anyone else think I'm giving you offense.”

“Of course, your hi... ahem...”

“Have a good day, Artrude.”

“You too, Ren.”

Ren left the house, and was nearly tackled by Malenka as she jumped at him. He caught her in his arms and she hugged him around the neck.

“Thank you, your highness!” She said and kissed him on the lips, then let him go and danced away. He heard laughing from the front door of the house, and he turned around.

“You faced the champion of House Faldihr without batting an eye, and yet when a woman kisses you unexpectedly...”

“That's because I knew how to handle myself in the fight.” Ren grinned. “How am I supposed to handle that?” He waved at Malenka as she continued to dance around.

“The same way I do.” Artrude said, and Ren's face flushed a little red. “Not like that!” She said, and her face flushed red, too. “Take it as the compliment that it is, and move on.”

“Oh.” Ren nodded slightly, and smiled. “Yes, Ma'am. I was definitely complimented.”

Artrude laughed, and Ren waved to her as he ran out of the sub-division and down the road. He went into the stables, and looked at the horses. He saw they were well-fed and watered, and knocked on the office door.

“Come in.” The manager said, and Ren entered. “What can I do for you, your highness?”

“I'm just checking in to see if you've got everything you need.” He said. “If you don't, send someone over to the Main House and they can order anything you need.”

“That's... that's mighty generous of you.” She said.

“You're providing an essential service to the House.” Ren said. “I want you to have everything you need.”

“Thank you, sir.”

Ren left the office and saw that a female worker was dithering. He walked over to her and she looked at him, with surprise on her face.

“Is everything all right?” Ren asked her, and he saw she was shaking slightly. “Relax. Take a deep breath.”

She did as he said and breathed deeply, then let it out.

“Can you tell me what's bothering you?”

“I've... I've been trying to build up the... the courage to... talk to you.” She glanced at his face and then lowered her head.

“Don't do that.” Ren said. “Please, look at me.”

She lifted her head and looked at him.

“What did you want to talk about?” Ren said, as he concentrated on his Camaraderie Aura. “It must be important for you to be acting this way.”

She looked around and saw that the other workers were busy doing their work tending the horses, and weren't paying them any attention.

“Sir, I... I was wondering...”

Ren waited patiently for her to continue.

“I... could I... have an... an... advance on my pay?”

Ren smiled. He had been worried that she was going to confess undying love or something. “How much would you like?”

She looked at him in shock. “You... you're going to give it to me?”

“Of course I'll give it to you.”

“Don't you want to know what it's for?” She asked.

“If I had to take a guess, I'd say you're worried about the taxes next month.” Ren said. “Or some other bills that are due.” He took out a coin pouch. “Do you need a coin pouch?”

She nodded and Ren let her pick one. She took a purple one, as it matched the belt she wore.

“Now. How much do you need?”

“A... about 10 gold, sir.” She said. “That's two weeks pay.” She got a frantic look in her eyes as she continued. “I'll work twice as hard! I'll even stay late and come in early to make it up, sir!”

“There's no need for any extra effort on your part.” Ren chuckled. “It's like I said before. As long as you do a good job, you'll get paid well.” He took out 20 gold and handed it to her. She stared at the pile of coins.

“Sir, I... I can't work for the next month with no income.” She tried to hand some of it back.

“You said you wanted 2 weeks pay. That's two weeks pay.”

“It's WHAT?!?”

“Everyone seems to misunderstand when I tell them that I 'pay well'.” Ren laughed and put a hand on her shoulder. “I hope you can stop worrying about money for a while.”

She stared at him as he stepped away, bowed slightly to her, and watched him as he ran down the road. She hadn't even noticed the Honor gain until she blinked her eyes a few times, and she gasped.

Ren ran down the road and stopped at Dorcot's place, then knocked on the door.

“I'm coming, I'm coming!” A gruff voice said and opened the door. “There you are!” He said and stepped back. “I've been waiting all day.”

Ren smiled and stepped inside. “I've been kind of busy.” He said, and took out the book. “You might want to read this when you get the chance, and you'll have some idea why.”

The mine foreman took the book and read the cover. “Is this what I think it is?”

“Yes. You're in there, too.”

“I'm going to be famous!”

“Not really.” Ren grinned. “I don't know your name, so you're just 'the mine foreman'.”

“Well, crap.” He said. “Fame is so fleeting.”

Ren laughed. “Sorry. I can't have the ten thousand copies reprinted if you do tell me your name.”

“Did you say ten... ten thousand copies?”

Ren nodded slightly. “I gave almost all of them away, too.”

“Geez, you really are crazy.”

