“I’m not judging you in return,” Shiv cut her off, his voice calm. “This isn’t me turning blame around; it’s me saying that if we’re going to take shots at each other, we need to do it accurately and toward a proper purpose. You, the Starhawk, the Ascendants—you all have history, good and bad. I know that I can’t speak on that because that’s between all of you. But we have to be more than someone else’s bad choices, right? Just like we have to be more than someone else’s stolen skill.”

Harbinger of the Tripartite Ruin 357 > 360

Maia couldn’t bring herself to agree. A toxic, ever-present pride festered within her breast, and to bend her back in any way filled her with a reactive anguish that made Shiv think of someone who had been made to question their own memory or sanity far too many—

Kathereine, Shiv realized. This probably wasn’t an original character flaw in her; it likely came about because Kathereine kept trying to hijack her sanity. Godsfuckingdammit.

Deductive Reasoning 39 > 42

“And for what it’s worth, I don’t blame you for being like this,” Shiv said, using his guess to signal sympathy and goodwill toward the Educator.

“What?” she snapped.

“Oh, no,” Hymn whispered in the background with a wince. “He has you. Run away, Educator. Flee for the sake of your heart.”

Shiv shot Hymn a dirty look but kept going. “Felling Songbringer, am I right? Pretty fucked up to try and twist the mind of an artist when they need that to help them process their vision of reality.”

Her eyes fractured, and black flames spilled out from the cracks. The Educator clutched at her face—which went another shade paler. “How…”

“Longinus. Halsur. You. Probably all the other Ascendants.” Shiv shrugged. “Not a hard puzzle to piece together when it comes down to it. She tried it with me; she tries manipulation with everyone. And she probably took a good hard swing at you before you cut yourself off—which might be the best thing you could have done for yourself, to be honest. Would’ve been my choice in the same situation.”

A new silence swept through the room as the Educator struggled to decide between fleeing in horror at being so unveiled by a mere child, or staying and risking the possibility that he actually wasn’t judging her at all.

“If I was judging you, I would have just mocked you for it,” Shiv admitted. “I’m not that good of a guy, Maia. I’ve been a piece of shit just to hurt people before. No need to feel bad. Not about this.”

Continuing his campaign of nonchalance, he clapped her on the back as he passed her and whispered his thanks for confirming his theory about Adam. She remained still as a post even seconds after.

“Hymn,” Shiv called out, gesturing at the mental landscape above. “If the Educator can instill some kind of—whatever she’s doing with the emotions and thoughts, can that accelerate Adam’s reconstruction?”

“Possibly?” Hymn said. “But as none of us are mind-healing specialists, expect—”

“Trial run on Candles first,” Shiv suggested. “His mind is broken too. We know we’re on the right course because of what Maia just proved, but I think we need to see how the reconstruction looks in a less damaged mind and a progression map from Candles might give us something, right?”

The Headmaster opened his mouth and then paused before continuing. “That’s… that’s a better idea than I expected.”

Shiv slapped him over the back as well, knocking the wind out of the Headmaster in revenge for earlier. “I get those sometimes. Uva?”

“Devoting a few stacks of consciousness to Candles right now,” she answered without hesitation.

“This will still take a measure of time,” Valor mused. “For things as delicate as the mind and soul, we cannot rush.”

“We don’t rush,” Shiv agreed. “Not for this. Not anymore. The System’s going to do what the System’s going to do, but we’ll handle the bullshit we don’t see coming better when we cut the branches off all the other problems that have been growing in the meantime. The Gate needs more security and resilience, and that buys Adam safety in return. We’re getting that with everything we survive and everyone we bring in. I think it’s time I get a little more offensive instead of hunkering down.”

“Taking an aggressive stance right now might not be the wisest approach,” the Culturist interjected. “Especially when we stand perched on so many precarious edges, with countless more threats waiting below.”

“That’s why I said ‘I,’ Culturist,” Shiv answered with a grin. “Gate Piety needs to remain guarded and get reinforced, but the Deathless doesn’t need to wait around. Some fights are coming our way, and some mutual enemies are looking to make a bigger mess of the shitshow we already find ourselves in. I intend to bring the problems to them first—while staying here at the same time. See if I can lead a bit of strife off proactively, if that makes sense.”

“And you’re going to use the Republic to help you in some of those fights,” Roland said. A dubious expression lined his face in stress wrinkles, but his tenseness lightened as Shiv shook his head.

“No. I don’t know who is using whom right now, but I can say this: playing a close-up game with Veronica and Yellowstone is better than trading hits right now—especially with what happened to Longinus. It’s ‘religious crusade’ or ‘play a measure of penance.’”

“Indeed,” Hymn said. “Speaking of, I suppose you intend to ‘return’ the evolved Wanderer to her new worshippers.”

That part made Shiv grimace. “Well, if we keep her here or she openly declares that she’s with us… There’s only one road that leads down, and even with everyone at the Gate right now, how do you think that’s going to go? Especially since I can’t really count on you and Jessica if the worst comes.” Both the Giantsbane and the Headmaster went still. “Oh, knock that shit off. Jessica, you’re still Republic loyal—you’ll beat me down right now if it comes down to it. I know, I don’t judge you. Hymn… you’re not the type to fight desperate struggles if you don’t get anything out of it. So. Yeah. Not ideal now, and likely not ideal down the line either. Not with the losses everyone’s going to have to take for nothing.”

“For nothing?” Jessica asked.

A casual laugh left Shiv. “Well, continuing with the whole honesty bit, if the Republic makes the choice to siege us, I’m doing the sensible thing and collapsing the mana core after moving everyone out the Abyss gateway. I’ll take my chance guarding a refugee convoy from the First Blood and Compact, and if that goes to shit, well, I’m not going to let you guys get to my Severed Shadow. And if you don’t get my Revenant, then I got another vision of the future, and no one is going to die happy in that one, if you get what I’m saying.” Shiv caught the answer within her core and grinned harder. “Good. You do. Veronica probably gets that as well—and is playing fuck-fuck games of her own. Can’t say I’ll beat her there immediately, but being up close and personal with her seems better than waiting for her to squeeze the Gate directly. Again, blurs the look of the Ascendancy schisming with the Dreamtaker popping out of Longinus and Cripple fully folding to be with—”

Shiv paused as he frowned at the Starhawk. “Well, with me. Sorry, Matthew: this isn’t really a rebellion forming by your side either. Actually, I’ve been avoiding you for too long. We need to have a proper conversation about all those things you got at the bottom of the castle and what you’re hoping to see happen when you give everyone in the Republic their own little brand of Divinity.”

Those words made the Starhawk’s discomfort grow by a magnitude, and the darkness that billowed out from him drenched part of his incandescence in tar-black fire.

“And before you start defending your idea, no, I’m not judging you. I want to know what you’re doing so that we can avoid stabbing each other in the back and maybe skip straight to stabbing each other up front.” Shiv gave the Starhawk a pleasant nod afterward, as if he wasn’t threatening violence. “Hey, Roland.” The Town Lord blinked. “This isn’t between you and me. You can be there for the conversation, but you stay out of it. I want to hear what the Starhawk wants from him and him alone. And I have the right to this, because I’m dragging Integrated Earth toward an Incursion one way or another, and I’m the reason why everyone here’s burning with favor and getting flooded with levels. This is the best outcome: we need to deal with each other beforehand instead of letting things get worse over time. I’m not an Ascendant; I’m not interested in the Great One—or the fights the System’s planning to set up for me. So. We gotta think a bit ahead.”

When Roland stayed dearly silent, Shiv cleared his throat. “Anyway, Starhawk: you find me when you’re ready. Jessica—capital’s calling you back; we got an Endhound to give back to the Farwalkers and not a lot of time to grab it, so time to give some orders, Giantsbane.”

“I hate you so much right now,” Jessica whispered.

“I’ll continue aiding in Adam’s reconstruction,” Uva said, declaring her priorities as well. “But we will start by seeing if we can stabilize Candles first. I will also part portions of focus to managing the guests coming into the Gate—”

“Just let them all in,” Shiv said. Everyone gawked at him. “What? Come on, there’s no avoiding weird shit and assholes by this point. We deal with them. We house them away from the vulnerable, but frankly, if someone is going to do something stupid, they’re going to need to think carefully, because the collateral damage isn’t going to be affordable.”

“But Adam—” Rose began.

“They’re going to come for him regardless,” Shiv said. “His safety is going to be ensured by all of us—and then himself when he gets better, because he’s staying Gate Lord, and we need someone to start building up this Gate and using that mana core.”

Roland looked away, and after a minute, his mind sparked with an epiphany. “Your strategy… It's exhaustion. You want to inflict constant attrition on all known threats—the same way the System exhausts us. You’re emulating it. You want to take advantage of your nature as favored to spread out the concentrations of strife through your expendable bodies.”

Shiv scoffed. “Of course you’re the one to get it at a glance. Why bring it up? You got a better idea? Because if you do—”

“Do it,” Roland cut Shiv off, his gaze resolute. His confidence in Shiv’s methods made the Culturist do a double-take. And in doing so, the orc betrayed a bit more of his nature—he was not the kind to willingly operate with aggression and start open conflicts when the tools of stealth and subterfuge could be used. “I’ll need more time to consider… But this will give us more time. And it costs us nothing. Do it. Go be the hammer. Go be the problem.”

“Oh, I’m going to be more than that,” Shiv said. “Got a lot more than a few bodies now, so the Sky-Swallowing Carp’s going to be taking its maiden voyage over on the surface at the same time. No reason not to do it all, hm?”

“No reason at all,” Valor agreed, entering the conversation himself. “But when you depart to seek the Tarrasque, I will accompany you. Legend Hawgrave, I request a space within your blade.”

“What?” Shiv said, struck with surprise. “Doesn’t Adam need you for the Delve?”

“Adam needs a whole mind to Delve,” Valor answered. “And right now, there is nothing I can do for him, as he lacks a complete enough sense of self to guide. No. My best purpose is served toward the defense of this Gate like you. It will also spare the Gate the shadows of my misdeeds as well.”

Shiv remembered Marikos, and thought that Valor probably had a point there.

Roland let out an awkward grunt. “I should—”

“Stay right here,” Shiv finished for him. “The Republic will make a go for you if you leave, and you’re the reason why Pathbearers from all across the surface are coming to the Gate at all. Between you and the Perch, taking the Gate will go from difficult to impossible for most. Besides: it’s better if you’re here with your family. You, uh, deserve that and stuff because of everything that happened. Should get to enjoy that—even if Adam’s… You know what I’m saying.”

The Deathless coughed. “So. I’ll go put out some fires by starting a few new ones of my own.”

“I will remain in the Gate as well,” the Culturist said. “If the Dread Horizon will be the enforcement of order in the light, then I will stay close to the dark to see who comes to greet me.” He sniffled. “It will give the Paragon’s family a measure of peace as well.”

With the way Rose kept glaring at the orc, it seemed like a more than rational choice.

“Okay,” Shiv said. “So. One crisis over; new crisis in progress; and more crises from me to everyone who was going to come and trouble us before.” Then, a final thought crept into Shiv, and he eyed Roland once more. “Oh, and Town Lord, don’t think I forgot about our prior arrangement. Our fight’s delayed, not cancelled. After the Tarrasque and Adam, you and I are going to settle a few things for good.”

“Handle the Tarrasque decisively, and I might consider accepting,” Roland replied with a measure of slight mirth. “Consider it your apology.”

“My apology?”

“You escaped from our scheduled duel by Delving. Quite the faux pas, Deathless.”

Shiv just nodded at Roland as he wondered what faux pas meant.

“A faux pas means social slight,” Rose offered.

