“Thanks,” Shiv said dryly. “But I see what you’re doing, Roland. You buy time however you want, because when Adam wakes back up, you better hide your ass from his all-seeing eyes, because the bruises I’ll leave there will be an image of me ripping you open from the cheeks up.”

The air went from electric with excitement to rough and awkward in a narrow instant. “But… why would Adam focus so intently on his father’s rear?” the Culturist asked, confused.

“Jessica,” Rusty grumbled. “Look upon your influence and despair.”

“Hey, shut the fuck up, Rusty, that shit was all him,” Jessica hissed.

“Too much, Shiv,” Uva chided flatly. “The banter has died; we are purely in the strange and disturbing territory now. If the System could take a level from you for what you did, it should.”

The high the Deathless was riding plunged into the nadir, and the full weight of his words slammed into him in retrospect. Harbinger! Why didn’t you stop me from saying that?

The mostly broken skill crackled with incoherent but most certainly unamused annoyance.

Oh, right. Sorry.

“Uh, anyway, I should go,” Shiv said. He promptly entered a half crouch as he tried to leap across time—and failed. Because the Harbinger was still cracked.

Refusing to meet anyone's stare, he slowly stood back up and licked his lip. In the end, he waited for his Severed Shadow to go full Revenant as he slipped out of the walls toward his Court Leviathan, gathering his resolve to make himself forget the very end of that conversation the moment his Harbinger was back to avoid shattering from ever-building embarrassment.

I was doing so well, until the part with Roland’s ass. Hmm… Need to cook. Take the edge off again. Constantly cook with this body—that’s right! I can have a body that never stops cooking! Happiness and peace. Balance. Good balance. That’s what I need now. Good balance. This was just a learning experience. I’ll look back on this and laugh. No one will remember this soon anyway. No one.

Coping 39 > 44

***

A blast of telepathy rippled out from the surface gateway as it reactivated, sweeping on for kilometers—until it crossed even the curve of the horizon. The weakest of the thousands of gathered Pathbearers buckled as an overwhelming act of telepathy—projected forth by a High Heroic Psychomancer at the least—washed over their minds.

“Attention, guests!” a low and dry feminine voice intoned. “The unexpected crisis afflicting Gate Piety has been resolved. Additionally, immigration processing is no longer necessary. All guests may proceed through the gateway at their leisure. However, it is strongly advised that all guests obtain their own means of hydration as the water processing station within the gate remains contaminated, though the perpetrator has been eliminated. The consumption of water within the Gate comes with a risk of unnatural pregnancy if you are biologically male. Keep this matter in mind. That is all.”

Where once there was ceaseless noise and a growing unrest from all the Pathbearers forced to set up encampments and wait, what followed was only crushing silence.

A similar silence consumed the insides of Hero Ranger Morgan Munny’s Terminal Opus.

“Did… Did she just say pregnancy for males?” Sooth stammered next to him. “Do you think—”

“Of course I think!” Morgan snarled, gritting his teeth so tight he chipped his upper incisor. “Male Pregnancy! They got him. They got the sonnabitch! Sooth! Cast the crew—get this Crawler moving.”

“On it, boss.”

“And find me Gunhead!”
