However, you failed to think things through strategically: I do not need to best and capture your territory to achieve my goals. I can force an invasion, see it fail, and watch as everything you hold dear is destroyed as your orcs inevitably turn their cruelty on those you deem weak and helpless.

The kinds of people you would spare.

And I don’t think you will accept that.

There are consequences to showing someone else your heart. It lets them get a measure of where your emotional and moral limits are. That is a mistake you should not make with someone like me—a mistake in general, in my opinion.

But you are young, resilient, and uniquely suited to learn.

I look forward to you continuing to be more man than monster when you come to snarl your vulgar disagreements at me in person, as is your nature. And the amusing thing is that I don’t think you can allow me to have the last word twice.

“I godsdamned hate you so much right now,” Shiv whispered. “So much.”

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Her Psychology must be powerful to grant her such insight—

“FUCK HER PSYCHOLOGY!” Shiv shouted. The air around him boomed. He turned his hateful glare on the Prismatic Guard gathered around the gateway. “AND FUCK ALL OF YOU! GO HOME, DIPSHITS! CHANDLER’S GAMBLING WITH YOUR LIVES!”

A few of the fear-chains thickened, but no one replied to him. Shiv had half a mind to throw himself at them in a blind assault to just get things over with, but butchering random members of the Guard didn’t sit well with him. The Inquisition had its hands stained with uniquely vile deeds, but the Prismatic Guard just seemed like random people doing their jobs. Slaughtering them would be—

Godsdammit, Shiv seethed. That’s probably just another reason why she's using them against me. He swapped his physical form with his Severed Shadow and studied the vitality signatures around him. Godsdammit… I knew it. Most of these shits are just Adepts. She's deliberately trying to make me uncomfortable. Exploiting my morality and other shit. Felling… Why is everyone such a piece of shit?

“That’s called being a politician, Shiv,” Adam answered flatly. “Do you still possess the urge to be a diplomat? Because practically everyone will be trying to socially bait you into an aneurysm.”

“Yes! Because I’m not going to let her be better than me. She’s not gonna twist my mind!”

Uva sighed. “I fear she is already close to succeeding.”

“No, I—” Shiv choked as he realized he wasn’t sure if his current emotions were actually his or not. At some point, his genuine annoyance must have melded with the frustration Veronica was deliberately trying to inject into him. Once more, he realized how disgusting High-Tier Social Skills were. “Alright. I see it. But if I don’t talk with her—”

“You don’t need to speak with her,” Adam cut him off. “She’s trying to lure you closer. For obvious reasons. She has her own schemes and plots that might not entirely follow with the Ascendants and the rest of the Republic wants—and she has your personality mapped out enough that she might be able to groom something of a successor out of you. But you don’t need to be the one that speaks to her about this.”

Shiv frowned. “Adam, I don’t know how to tell you this without sounding arrogant, but I think I’m the more psychologically dangerous one between the two of us. And I don’t think Veronica much cares about speaking to Uva.”

“But she will speak with me, I suspect,” Valor said from right beside Shiv.

Shiv completed half a nod before he flinched and barely caught himself from jumping.

“Oh, hi, Valor,” Shiv breathed, clenching his jaw tight. “Been here all this time, huh?”

“Ah, no. Only for the past few minutes. My return from the Capital took a bit longer than I expected.”

Shiv did a double-take. “You—wait, were you really at the Capitol with me?”

The ancient Pathbearer chuckled. “Someone had to stop Anthony from being foolish. Also, I approve of you not murdering that Adept. Though you could have been far more gentle about your method of incapacitation.”

“Yeah. Didn’t really mean to do that. So, guessing you want to speak with Veronica instead of me?”

“Yes. Though I am still an incomplete soul, it will suffice to play the part of myself convincingly. She knows me. She will be on guard with me. And she will speak to me as a potential threat rather than a child she can manipulate.”

Hearing Valor state his intentions out loud hurt Shiv’s pride. “Yeah. Probably a better idea. I noticed how her words were just… pulling me along. It’s hard to tell which feelings are my own and which come from her. Has me questioning my free will a bit.”

“Do not be ashamed. Instead, be proud that you are capable of even considering that. Most Pathbearers would have likely been consumed by pure irrational fervor. Picking your battles and not wishing to be manipulated is not cowardice, but wisdom.”

“So, I should let you surprise her in my place?”

“Hm. Not exactly.” Valor hummed with amusement. “I think we should both go. You should greet her in person first, and then I will appear next to you and see how she responds. She anticipates you. Few can anticipate me. With her unbalanced, it will be most educational. In fact, I think we should bring your friends along.”

“Friends?” Shiv asked. “You mean, Uva, Adam—”

“Jessica and the Educator.” Valor’s correction was tinged with a hint of puckish glee. “The Culturist too.”

“Using ‘friends’ very loosely there, Valor. Also, won’t she just, I don’t know, teleport away or something if she feels like she’s getting ambushed?”

“Does Veronica Chandler seem like the type to accept that she’s been out-schemed by a child? Especially one she considers to be of her blood?”

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: No… No, she wishes to play her own game. And to offer us an open declaration of weakness will be poison for future negotiations.

That was all it took for Shiv to decide on the next course of action. “Okay. We all go say hi to Veronica. You are sure this won’t cause her to order the Guard to just storm the Gate, right?”

“I am not certain about anything, my young disciple,” Valor said. “And that is the most important thing about going through life: accepting and overcoming uncertainty, and taking calculated risks. Of course, being immune to death means your threshold for what counts as a calculated risk is far more lenient than most others’.”

“So, what does that mean?” Shiv asked.

“It means you should take ridiculous gambles. I do agree with Veronica on one thing: You shouldn’t be so eager to declare yourself before your enemies. A bit of mystique and madness will serve you well. And I think you can be taught to harness both to great effect. Now. Let’s go gather everyone and find Legend Jessica and see what kind of backdoor she has hiding within the depths of her sword.”

“What about the gateway?” Adam asked. “We can’t just do nothing. The Republic will send Shadows and Assassins to probe us. We’ll be crawling with unseen saboteurs and scouts. I might sense a few, but I would not be bold enough to assume that I can detect them all, Valor.”

The lich shook his head. “You underestimate yourself, Adam. Be daring. Fail horrendously. Try again. But beyond your worries, I do agree. They have a few Heroes among them that could trouble even you. Especially a certain automaton. But we no longer need to worry about it.”

“Huh?” Shiv blinked. “Why?”

“Because I kidnapped it already. Along with the Marshal and Commander in charge of the operation, respectively. The Prismatic Guard will soon start searching for their commanding element, but they will not be able to find any trace of them.” Valor held his head high, like a schoolboy proud of a devious prank he'd just pulled rather than a nightmarish Shadow who'd somehow snatched a number of high-ranking commanders from an opposing army without anyone noticing.

Shiv gaped. “How did you… And when? Didn’t you say you just got back?”

“Oh, yes. The Prismatic Guard really needs to improve their collective Awareness. They assume too much about their own safety behind their formations. A terrible thing to take for granted.”

“And… where are the people you kidnapped?” Uva inquired further.

“In the Tutorial. With the Culturist. Where they will stay until the conversation between Veronica and us ends. After which, they will be returned. In one fashion or another.”

For too long, Shiv thought himself the literal incarnation of terror on the battlefield, that fear was his weapon to wield against all others. Now he realized he was wrong. He was little more than a rank amateur, and standing before him was a true author of dread.

“Broken Moon,” Adam squeaked.

“Valor.” Shiv gazed upon his mentor with new eyes, ones filled with admiration. “Teach me everything you know.”

The Undying threw his head back and laughed like a happy grandfather. “In due time, dear boy, in due time.”

***
