Adventure City had a real name long ago, but that name was lost to time, and little more than useless trivia these days, for the city had gone through a good hundred names or more. ‘The Cavern’. ‘Hope’. ‘The Illuminated Land’. Etcetera.

Located roughly a thousand kilometers up from the Core of Veird, and directly below Quintlan, the exact history of the place was as nebulous as the stories surrounding it, because until Erick came along, it was damned dangerous to get here. Level 90 monsters prowled this part of the Underworld regularly, and the [Ward]s of the place could only do so much, and even more problematic is that when the caster who made those defenses died, those defenses died with them. Many people survived those purges, though, but only for one reason. If you lived here, you were a powerhouse, willing to raise other powerhouses to glory, while doing your damnedest to escape death.

It was a journey of months, and sometimes years to get to Adventurer City, where a team of ruffians and ne'erdowells could come into their own, surviving in the Dark and becoming a team worthy of song when they finally made it to this base. And when they got there, they’d be an asset to those who lived there.

Most people just died on the journey.

Sometimes, people pilgrimaging to Adventurer City would get here and find it destroyed, and survivors trying to take it back. Most of the time, people would come here and rest up and make new friends and connections in order to go right back out, into the Dark, or deeper toward the Core. Or they’d work to build roads through the Dark, always looking for the real challenges.

And then there was the prestige of it all; of getting down here, and then surviving to tell others the way. The Adventurer’s Guild, as it exists today, was built upon the actions of people who did all of that, and more. The people who lived here could trace their history to those who had rescued the world from the Dark since the Sundering, and some people could trace even further back than that, to places and powers in the Old Cosmology.

These were people of courage and strength. Of power. Of drive.

Erick took the [Gate] network.

Granted, Erick did have to come down here on his own once before, to set up the Gates. He had even spent a few more hour-long visits beyond that to spend time with Jane. But he hadn’t stuck around at all. This was Jane’s home now, and Erick tried to respect that distance she had put up between them, even though it wasn’t any real distance at all.

But with Erick had come a connection to the Gate Network and a complete obliteration of the entire culture of this land.

It was a welcome change for many. There were only so many times that a starving and desperate adventurer could boil the green muck they find off of cave walls and eat that, before they went mad with the desire for a nice chicken sandwich. Or potatoes. Or fresh bread!

These days, millions of people the world over avoided all of that ‘adventurer nonsense’, as they called it whenever the adventurers weren’t around, to get right to this metropolis in the Underworld; the only place where the wrought were a side attraction, instead of the main defensive force. Or at least that’s what both the rulers of this land and the nearby wrought led people to believe.

According to Silverite, told to Erick in drunken confidence long ago, Adventurer City was kinda like the Sovereign Cities, before Erick came along. Adventurers are all kinda shadeling-shit crazy, after all. Those kinds of people did not make for great governors. But still it was better if this land was occupied than not, so the wrought tried to help from the shadows, when they could, for this land was very, very large, and it needed a lot of people to maintain it, and the nearest Geode was too far away to do it themselves.

In all the ways a society could be measured, Adventurer City was better as it was now, with the Gate Network, than it was before, with the vagaries of broken governance and otherwise that had plagued its existence for the last 1400-ish years.

Like a common tourist, Erick stepped out of a circle of white light, onto a white stone platform, directly into the city, into a land of light and stone under a stony sky, where unassailable [Ward]s marked the land with ultimate defense, and nothing crawled in any of the shadows, and the shadows weren’t real shadows anyway. Erick hadn’t been here in a long time, and the place was looking better than it had before. A lot more civilized. Amazing what some uninterrupted peace could do even for a place like this.

All around Erick lay the central Gatestation of Adventurer City, the central node of the Local Area Gate Network down here, in this part of the Underworld. Four other Gates held open across the square, with illuminated wardlights holding above those passageways into other lands, telling where they were connected. Those wardlights and their connected magitech could turn and show a different destination, while also shifting the other end of the [Gate] into the next land. All of that was under the control of the central waystation, where workers and guards stood watch over it all, shifting the Gates and hurrying people along to their destinations as necessary.

Those people instantly saw Erick, while Erick made a show of looking around, craning his neck as Ophiel flew away, into the [Ward]ed air. There were zones open to flight beyond the city in those [Ward]s out there, looking like open windows among the light, but the nearest open zone was several kilometers away, and highly guarded. So Ophiel just made himself some small [Gate]s to get past the barriers, into the grand cavern beyond.

All of the Underworld had caverns like the one down here, but not all of them were built the same, or uniform. Some places were passageways. Some were holding areas. As for the passages, there were intakes going from Surface to Core, where thick air from [Cleanse] and otherwise sunk down, following paths of least resistance, following alongside water in some cases. There were also places where water and otherwise went up through the tunnels and canyons and empty spaces of the Underworld, up to the Surface; water springs the size of seas. Large open spaces abounded everywhere; from the massive ocean that lay just beneath Candlepoint, to the large open space below Ar’Kendrithyst, where the Living Geode Kendrithyst used to exist, but did no longer.

Adventurer City was an open space and downflow both.

The current iteration of the city was a large sphere, a hundred kilometers across, festooned with buildings and spires and otherwise, rising up from that sphere. The sphere itself floated off to the side of a large gap in the Underworld. To the north of the city was the downflow, where thick mana collected from holes all across the interior of the space, to flow together into a strand of thick air, down, down, down to the Core. Level 90 Domain monsters were located around 500 kilometers down that hole. Up here, by the city itself, the monsters were still level 90, but they didn’t have Domains.

Most of those monsters were inside the dark dungeon entrances scattered everywhere out there in the cavern, though. Not too many wandering around, these days. Not too many dangers out there, preying on people.

The city was protected, anyway. The node network that lit up this land like the Surface at noon had a lot to do with that. Adventurer City even had a dungeon, deep in the core of this 100 kilometer-wide stone sphere, which further protected this city by making sure no dungeon slimes extended their dungeons into this land.

Erick cast his gaze wide, to the edges of the cavern far, far away, to see black portals here and there amid the dark rock, and shadows. He flicked his All-Seeing Eye amulet wide, to pierce stone and [Ward] and all obscuring objects, to see the small hole in the very center of Adventurer City, where the dungeon portal of this city lay, mostly inactive.

He pulled his Absolute Sight back and saw bakeries and theaters and arenas and war halls and mercenary company houses of all kinds. The Adventurer’s Guildhouse down here, located way over there, looked nice. It was sort of like the United Nations, both in size and in effect, for the whole ‘Adventurer’s Guild’ was more like a series of loosely affiliated franchises than any true monolith of power, and meeting here was about as good as meeting anywhere these days. Mostly, there were no meetings. Most adventurers just used their guildhalls as drinking and story spots. When the only threats to the world were the constant, low level ones that always assailed the people of Veird, there wasn’t much to do but business as usual. The only real organization that happened in that place was when real threats came about; the 9, 10, and 11-Star threats.

But Erick and House Benevolence took care of those ones these days. And since there were a lot fewer threats to the world these days, half of the Adventurer’s Guildhouse was empty.

The Dungeon Guild was absolutely packed, though. Looked like they were expanding, too—

And that was all Erick was able to see right now, for people were looking his way, and they were starting to freak out and get excited in unequal measure. Looked like more excitement than fear, but Erick could be wrong about that. He had been here for about 3 seconds so far, which was a decent enough response time. Could have been better, though.

“HOLY shit!” “FUCK is that who I—” “YES, that’s Flatt!” “The Guildmistress?” “No! The father the Wizard, you idiot!” “But isn’t he supposed to not be here?”

Erick smiled a little at that last line, because yes, he wasn’t supposed to be here. There wasn’t any official ruling or request for him to never come here, of course. But Erick had stepped away from this land because this was where Jane had decided to make her home. There had never been any official declaration of his reasoning for staying away, but people were not dumb.

But now that unspoken contract was broken, for Erick was making a public appearance.

That was because it was time to do some fathering.

Jane had been working with Melemizargo without telling him.

And probably for years!

Erick calmly walked toward the waystation filled with guards, smiled gently, and asked, “I haven’t been here in a long time. Got any problems you need a Wizard archmage to solve?” When everyone just stood there gobsmacked instead of answering, which was to be expected, Erick asked again, “Nothing at all? Surely there’s some crisis happening nearby that you’ve all heard about that needs actual solving, and soon?”

One brave traveler spoke up from the side, “They get some ol’ domainies encroaching on the north face!” The speaker was a young man with flour on his white apron, carrying what looked to be a whole bunch of paper-wrapped sandwiches. He had been caught up in his delivery to the waystation when Erick had appeared. The only reason he had spoken up was probably due to him being a Xoatist, what with that characteristic white-feather pin stuck on his chest, above his heart. Enthusiastically, he said, “All the ‘venturers talking ‘bout ‘em! Ain’t no one killin’ ‘em, and they need killin’! … Er… Mister Xoat, sir.”

Erick would have cringed at the ‘Xoat’ comment if he wasn’t making a statement of his own right now. As it was, he pointed north, asking, “That way?”

“Yes sir!”

Erick smiled and nodded, as Ophiels beyond the [Ward]s headed toward the north. “I’ll have those cleared up in a snap, but for now, I must depart.” Illumination crowded around Erick as he turned on his Sun Form. Instantly, the air shook as the entire node network of the city fought against his Domain, but Erick shook right back, tuning himself quieter, toning down his power to just the soles of his feet and boots. There was no need to break any [Ward]s, after all. Erick said, “A pleasure to meet you all. I’m sure to leave some monsters for those who want them, and I won’t stay long.”

And then Erick stepped lively, nodding at the intake zones of the Gatehouse, filled with people who all stared at him, as he bypassed all security by just stepping through another [Gate] of his own, opening directly on the large courtyard outside of the Gatehouse, near the train station. People outside stared. Some screamed. Some shouted for ‘Xoat Reborn!’. Erick nodded professionally, and then bypassed the train station, to step onto the roads leading into the rest of Adventurer City.

There was a fast lane, filled with traffic, most of it with people moving fast, using whatever abilities they used to move fast. And there was a car lane. A few vehicles were on that road; some floating Platform spells, some actual cars. Erick noticed a shiny blue car that sped along under electric power; it was one of the cars from Ooloraptoor Industries, the grass traveler nation to which Erick had bequeathed the electric engine and the differential. Erick was a little surprised to see that car down here, but the grass travelers were doing very well with their electric car production.

Erick smiled as he walked on. The node network was less stringent down here, and so Erick enveloped himself in light, and began walking at a rather relaxed, quick pace, headed toward the Dungeon Guildhouse. He was in no rush, and he was splitting his attention with Ophiel outside the city [Ward]s, to locate and kill monsters here and there. As Erick surprised hundreds of people on the roads, he also surprised guards posted on the north side of the cavern.

Those people readily recognized Ophiel’s [Luminous Beam]s, as Ophiel killed monsters inside the tunnel. There might be lots of dungeons all around, and monsters might take refuge in those places primarily, but there was still a lot of mana in the air out in the tunnel, and the bigger monsters were drawn to drink deep from that well, whenever they could. People noticed when monsters and Ophiel fought.

It would be a matter of moments before Jane was notified of his presence, if Poi didn’t tell her what was happening already.

Erick had brought up the topic of Jane working with Melemizargo over a week ago; eleven days! But she cut communication down to nil after that, and Erick had let her have her space. Surely, she would want to talk on her own time. Surely, she would tell her father about how she was secretly a PALADIN FOR MELEMIZARGO—

Erick calmed himself.

He wished Jane would have talked to him, but she had deflected. And now, since all the gods were on Erick’s case about FINDING THE CAUSE OF THE SUNDERING…

Erick breathed as he lightwalked down the road, keeping his mind even and calm. No need to get upset, Erick! Everything was fine, Erick. Jane was a perfectly responsible adult able to make her own decisions.

Right?

Right.

