“I’m not doing the semi-political stuff, but every physical thing from monster hunting to putting up a [Terraforming] for fresher local food at the farms, is done.” Erick asked, “Care to show me one of your favorite eateries before we head off for a month of Dark delving, or whatever?”

Jane stood, her shoulders tense, as she said, “I would love to do that. I need to swing by the house, too.”

Erick suddenly took Jane into his arms, saying, “I missed you.”

Jane froze again, and then she chuckled lightly onto Erick’s shoulder, her body relaxing. She suddenly held him tight. “I missed you, too. [Telepathy] isn’t enough.”

“Not enough at all,” Erick said, as a few tears fell.

- - - -

The next two hours were exactly what Erick was missing in his life. His daughter, there with him, or rather he with her, both of them eating at a restaurant where Jane ordered food that was way too spicy, but which Erick braved anyway, much to Jane’s gentle laughter. And then they were at Jane’s house, and she showed him around. She had a lot of hunting trophies, like the horn of a unicorn, but smaller than the one Erick had once eaten to get his [Lightwalk], and then there were full sets of Elemental Essence armor in every primary flavor. They kinda reminded Erick of power ranger suits, and Jane laughed, because yes, that’s exactly what she was going for when she made them, just because she could.

She showed off her enchanting workrooms, and her Familiar Form experimental rooms. And then she showed off some Familiar Forms that Erick had not seen before, proud of what she had made out of the hundred separate parts of different creatures and different monster Abilities.

Jane became a large grey spider with metallic everything, including a tank-like turret on her back, where her entire silk production system had been transformed into artillery workings. She was proud of her Form, but her tone was suddenly less than strong, “It’s not [Luminous Beam], of course, but it’s pretty good.”

Erick was smiling the entire time, extremely happy to see Jane be happy, but he had noticed that while she had been ‘the strong guilder’ in her offices, here, as they got ready to actually move on to Dungeon Island, she was a bit lesser, almost like there was a regression happening. Perhaps she was overwhelmed with this Sundering search, handed to them by Melemizargo and the Relevant Entities of the Script. Erick knew that he was feeling pretty weird about the whole thing, too. Or maybe Jane was getting weird about being near her father after all this time away. Jane only ever came home on holiday, and Erick only ever visited her for an hour or two at a time.

That was probably what was happening here. Jane was not regressing, for she had come into her own and was maintaining that power. But she knew who her father was, and so did every single other person she dealt with for her entire adult life.

Erick wanted to raise her up as much as he could, but she would still only ever accept so much help.

Erick said, “Your physical abilities are going to be much more important than my possibly-failing magic when we’re in the Dark. I’m going to be relying on you in a lot of ways, and I want you to rely on me in similar ways, okay?”

Jane stared at Erick with two great big grey eyes, and a lot of smaller ones, and then she transformed back into her human self, her clothes rapidly sliding back onto her body. She smiled softly, saying, “You can count on me, dad.”

“Good! Because I don’t want to go polymorphing unless I can help it.”

Jane laughed. “Don’t go telling me that you don’t prefer being a dragon. I’m calling bullshit on that right now.”

Erick mocked offense. “Do you know many dragons? We’re not all the same.”

“I do, actually. Every single one says that they prefer being a dragon. Even the Benevolence ones.”

“… Well that’s weird of them—”

“Bullshit,” Jane exclaimed.

“Okay fine. Being a dragon is a great experience, but it distorts how one views the world. All that inherent power distances you from other people.” Erick added, “I really do like eating food as a dragon, though. Tastebuds all the way down.”

Jane smiled, highly satisfied that she had successfully called her father on his bullshit. “Spiders get a lot of satisfaction from eating, too, but it’s not very tasty. I do and also do not like being able to taste things with my feet. A blood slime has a lot going for it in that direction. You can make your entire body into tastebuds that only work how you want them to work.”

“A blood slime? Seriously, Jane?”

Jane smiled, asking, “Are we going incognito into Dungeon Island? Like you did with Greensoil and Storm’s Edge?”

“Nope. Not this time. Why? Were you looking forward to doing this that way?”

“Heck no! I was gonna talk you out of it if that’s how you wanted to do this.” Jane asked, “It’s just you and me?”

“Correct.”

“Good. No one else needs to be subject to whatever horrors we’re about to face.”

Erick felt hope kindle in his heart as he heard his daughter’s conviction. She had grown a lot. Both of them had. And now was the time to test themselves against the greatest evil to ever befall Veird; the Sundering. Hopefully that great evil was easily found and contained in the depths of the Dark.

“I would have preferred if everyone would have moved past the trauma of the Sundering,” Erick said, “But I suppose when I’m a thousand years old I’ll have some deep trauma of my own to never get over.”

Jane chuckled at that.

Ophiel twittered brightly.

And Yggdrasil popped into the room, his big [Scry] eye looking rather small, as he said, “I’m not sure I want to be unsealed if it means endangering anyone, father. I rescind my request to be unsealed.”

Erick was a bit stunned by that.

Which is why Jane was able to respond first. “The Relevant Entities have spoken, and more importantly so has the Dark.” As though she was giving a solid speech that she had rehearsed, and only just now needed to use, Jane stated, “This is happening. You need not be unsealed at the end if you don’t desire it, but this is happening, Yggdrasil.”

Erick almost said something—

But Yggdrasil glared at Jane, and spat, “I’m sorry I ever asked!”

And then Yggdrasil vanished.

Erick said to Jane, “I need to talk to him—”

“I know. See you afterward.”

Erick nodded, then stepped through a portal, into Benevolence.
