- - - -

“Fuck fuck fuck fuck,” Jane muttered as she closed her office door, having sent the last of her help away for the day. She couldn’t send everyone home, for the guildhouse had about 1300 workers, but she could certainly send home everyone that worked directly in her offices, who could possibly enable her father to truly know what she had been up to for the last few years. It wasn’t anything bad, but… Jane calmed herself. She squared her shoulders, and she prepared. “I knew this was coming eventually… I have prepared for this.”

And she had—

Jane froze.

Andri Lightwalker, one of the more enthusiastic converts to Xoatism, and the head of the local branch, rushed into her offices, having come from the main guildhouse like a man seeking salvation. Jane liked Andri, but Andri was not someone who she wanted talking to her father right now. In fact, he needed to go.

Jane stepped through the world, to stand right before Andri.

Andri saw Jane, his face lighting up as though he had found his salvation. “Jane! I heard your father is in town and already cleaning up problems! Would you mind terribly giving him this?” He pulled out a packet of paper, and held it forward. “It’s a list of problems that he can fix, if he desires, ranked several ways; in order of importance, in order of ease, in order of minimal disruption to the current political landscape, and otherwise.”

“… You’re not going to try and talk to him yourself?” Jane asked, taking the papers, concern over Andri’s presence rapidly changing into concern over the papers. She began reading.

“Oh my no!” Andri said, “He’s obviously here to see you, and I don’t want to be here for that.”

Jane finished reading the papers. There was a lot there, from the warehouse district problems with embezzlement and missing goods, to the exiled noble’s district with their unfounded claims of thefts from lower ranked adventurers, to the vanishing of people who go down to southside. Jane frowned a little at all of that. All of this was completely out of her jurisdiction, so she couldn’t act on any of it, but… Her father could, if he wanted. More than that, though...

Jane looked up to Andri. “How the fuck did all this stuff pile up so fast?”

Andri smiled wide. “All the world changes when the Wizard is out of his tower.”

Jane kept her face schooled. “Nothing is happening, Andri.”

“Sure sure.” Andri continued, “I’ll be here in Adventurer City for a long time to come, working the good work and fighting the good fight, but I would like to know if there is anything I need to be ready for. Anything at all you might feel the need to tell me, to watch out for, or whatever.”

Andri always knew more than he should, for though he was a human, he had an orcol’s sense for prognostication. He reminded Jane a lot of Teressa in that way, and he had even helped Jane to understand Benevolence a bit more than she would have otherwise.

Jane was no longer that angry girl who had fallen to Veird and become jealous of her father’s rise to power, but she had still needed distance from her father to really understand who ‘Jane’ was, on her own in this world. Andri’s certain brand of irreverence for her father, and also praise, had helped a lot. Other Xoatists saw Erick as a mortal divine, but Andri just saw the good work he had done, and that he continued to do. Jane appreciated that a lot about him.

Living in a land of warriors and archmages had helped a lot, too. There was a lot of magic and power down here in Adventurer City, but there were no kings. No ultimate authorities…

Or at least none that showed themselves.

Jane said, “I’m probably going away for a while. I’ve left instructions with others, but the teams are going to be delving without a leader. Look after them, will you?”

Andri stood strong. “I will do this, and more.” And then he asked, “Are you finally following your own Worldly Path?”

Jane smiled softly. “Not if I can help it.”

“If you can’t help it, then step strongly, Jane.”

Jane chuckled— And then she stopped all of that, and ordered, “You should get out of here, Andri.”

Andri grinned, and then he bowed. “Till I see you again. Good luck.”

Jane watched Andri depart.

And then she went back to her office.

Erick was already there, waiting for her.

When had he shown up? Jane had no fucking clue. The manasphere was devoid of answers, for her father was clearing it away just as fast as he made impressions on it; whatever happened here was under a veil of Privacy that no one would be able to break.

Which was good, Jane supposed.

“Hello, dad,” Jane said, a pit of dread opening up in her stomach, as Ophiels twittered around the room in greeting.

- - - -

Erick smiled, “Hello, Jane. I think I failed to notice how nice Andri is to you. Are you two in a relationship? Should I give him The Talk?”

Jane breathed deep, her father’s words catching her off-guard. “You’re in a fine mood today.”

“I am faking it!” Erick said, “There’s a lot going on right now that I am very worried about. By the way, I’ve finished about half the stuff on Andri’s list; the other stuff is political and I won’t touch that. You can solve it when you get back from our trip.”

Jane almost went to her chair, behind her desk, but then she decided she wanted a drink instead. She went to the decanters, poured herself one, and then poured another. She downed hers in a single gulp, then handed the extra to her father.

Erick took the glass and downed it in a show of solidarity.

Jane was already on-board with fighting whatever threat was coming their way, even though she had no idea of the specifics of that threat… Maybe. How much did she know, exactly? Erick had no idea. She probably knew a lot more of what Melemizargo planned, and Erick was rather eager to hear what those plans involved...

But for right now, they were just father and daughter, sharing a drink in solidarity, both of them occupying rather different places of power in the world, and both of them powerful in their own right.

In that moment —and many more besides— Erick was extremely proud of Jane. She had accomplished a lot. She almost looked the same as she did at 22, when they first fell to Veird together, in that car of hers. At 36 she had a few laugh lines on her face, and a strength in her body and spine that had always been there, but which had become fully developed with another decade of living in this land.

They’d get to the big topics soon. But first...

Erick threw her a softball, “How was your birthday this year?” He glanced over to her shelves, where Erick’s gift sat stacked with the others. “Did you read much of my gift?”

Jane smiled a little, then said, “I had a great party this year. Hizogard and Lyrical showed up. Their teams are doing great. They just headed out to join Ar’Cosmos’s push into the low Underworld, to secure the space under the Forest of Glaquin. Danaro is sick with worry over Hizogard’s absence, but he has the orphanage to worry about. They’ll all be fine.” Jane glanced to her shelves, where the 5-part scientific series ‘Magic of Earth’ sat, waiting for her to read. It was the second printing, done five years after the first, and expanded into two more volumes. Most of it was chemistry but a lot of it was about everything else that Erick and Jane had both brought with them to Veird. Erick had gotten her the most practical set, while his own copies, gifted to him by the author, were big things encrusted with gems and otherwise, and sitting on his own shelves back home. Jane said, “I started on the first one, but it’s way too… It reminds me a lot of when we first got here and I tried everything I knew to make magic, but none of it worked.”

Erick nodded, saying, “All that stuff does work, but not for everyone. Your Truth lay elsewhere.”

Jane smiled, chuckling.

Years ago, if Erick had said that, Jane would have gotten angry with him. But now she laughed instead. Erick loved to see that, his insides tumbling with warmth as he witnessed yet another point of proof that Jane had come into her own. Her Truth was that she could be anything she needed to be in order to overcome whatever she needed to overcome, and that Truth had served her well. But it wasn’t the ‘Truth of Lightsabers’ or all of her other smaller experiments with magic, there in the beginning.

Jane’s Truth didn't lend itself to wide-scale power, either, as Erick’s Truth had done for him.

“My Truth works well, for me,” Jane said. And then she looked at her father. “You want to talk about the search for the Sundering, now?”

“We’ll get to that. You’re on your Worldly Path, too?” Erick said, “I didn’t know that, either. When did you start?”

Jane winced and tried not to show it. “… Years ago. Kinda left that to the wayside, unwilling to take the final steps.”

“Don’t want a little dragon blessing from your father?”

Jane’s face grimaced a little, as Erick had struck the heart of the matter. “Melemizargo has told me that the moment I accept becoming a Benevolence Dragon, I’ll likely make my own Gatespace. So yeah, I left that Path to the side. I still have Draconic Inoculation, anyway, because I don’t want to be a dragon.”

Erick wanted to be angry about that. But instead he withheld all judgment about everything. He liked being actually present with his daughter, in her home space, and that hadn’t happened for over a year. Jane had come up to House Benevolence a few times, of course. But when she was up there she was a different person. Down here she was who she truly wanted to be. Erick didn’t judge her for that, at all.

But her words about not wanting to be a dragon hurt for a bunch of different reasons.

Jane was a Polymage, after all. Shouldn’t she want all of that power, that came from being a dragon, at her base? All of her Forms would benefit. But, no. It was that old problem, yet again. She was denying Erick’s help, in order to become her own person. For a multitude of reasons, some old, many new and heavy on the mind, Erick was mad about that.

He pulled back from his instinctive response, and instead spoke with measured words that he had been holding back for a very long time.

“Jane,” Erick began, “You’re strong enough to avoid many of the pitfalls of this world, and the danger of your own existence. But it pisses me the fuck off that you keep denying my assistance on such a basic, powerful matter. It’s really quite angering, you know. Or perhaps you don’t actually know, because I never tell you exactly how I feel. And so, I’m telling you now—”

“I know how you feel,” Jane said, firmly. “Do you have any idea how many nights I lay awake, thinking about what I could do with the power of a dragon? Every time I lose a team. Every time I have to go out and kill a rogue core. But then I hear stories about how a Benevolence Dragon ended up doing weird shit and ended up making the world a better place for it. Immolating and healing people for hours on end; it seemed like torture, but no, it was putrescent slugs. Shit like that.

“And I can’t do that to myself, dad. I already know what it’s like to lose myself to the monster, and I won’t ever let that happen. So as soon as you can make a dragon-type that doesn’t fugue-out and drop everything to go help a grandma halfway around the world get medical treatment for some soul-problem she didn’t even know she had, then I’m gonna continue fretting about how little power I actually have in this world. I will continue to deny your help in becoming a dragon.”

There was a lot there.

“… Okay. I withdraw my complaint. I don’t want to contribute to your loss of self. I didn’t even know that was a problem.” Erick knew that Jane was keeping stuff from him, but this? A crisis over the loss of self? This seemed like something she should have wanted to talk to him about… But she always kept her biggest problems away from him. Erick felt he had failed as a father at that moment. Of course Jane didn’t want to be a Benevolence Dragon. Maybe not any type of dragon at all. Erick softly asked, “When did you lose yourself to the monster?”

“It was years ago.” Jane looked away, saying, “Seven years ago, by now. I killed a dungeon core that was halfway to becoming Grand, and I had just gotten a spider form that I have since discarded. When I woke up, I was chewing on the leg of one of my teammates who had cut off her leg to escape me. She and I don’t talk much anymore because of that. She grows stuff on a farm, on the other side of the city.”

“I’m sure she must have known you had an issue. People have issues, and people forgive, too. And she’s not dead, right? Of course healing that rift isn’t as simple as an apology, for any act of using power against a friend can lead to disastrous relationship fallout. But did you apologize?”

“I did, at first, but… Never really followed up on that. There was another crisis in another dungeon.” Jane said, “You know how it is.”

“I do know how it is. I’m sorry that happened to you.”

Jane stayed silent, thinking.

Erick waited.

Jane said, “So we’re searching for the cause of the Sundering now.”

“You want to get right to that part of it? Not how you’re a paladin for Melemizargo?”

“I’m not technically his paladin. That would require an investiture of power, which I have not accepted.”

“Ta-may-toh, ta-mah-toh.”

“More like tomato-potato.” Jane said, “One is not like the other.”

Erick leveled his eyes at Jane.

Jane rolled her eyes in response.

“Fine. Moving on.” Erick said, “We’re going after the causes of the Sundering, searching out the Dark for the answers to all that. And it is going to be us, right? Melemizargo has dropped some hints about that, and you knew that blowing me off last time we talked would have caused me to come here, directly. Are the dungeons around here? Or are we going to Dungeon Island? I had plans to go to Dungeon Island long before this mess happened, but I’m not too sure about all that. All I know is I got about 24 visits from various priests of gods in the last 3 days, all wondering about what their gods are telling them. That’s to say nothing of the direct visits from Atunir, Rozeta, Koyabez, and Phagar, all wondering when I’m going to get started on this Benevolent Path.”

Jane took a moment, then she began, “We’re going to Dungeon Island. From there, I think Fallopolis and the other Shades are waiting for us. But we’re not going into any dungeons this time. We’re going into the Dark Itself… And since I have survived that and you have not… I guess I will be your guide.”

