Jane had not wanted to say ‘guide’. She had been going in a very different direction than that, but then she pulled back, and gave Erick some sort of lie about ‘being his guide’. There was more to be worried about than that small lie, though.

Erick tried to contain his voice, saying, “It’s really fucked up that we’re doing this at all. I don’t care if Melemizargo thinks he can contain whatever horrors caused the Sundering. The Sundering shouldn’t be touched.”

“I’ve already seen glimpses of it. There in the Dark.”

Erick felt his heart beat hard. “… Ah.”

Jane said, “All of this dungeon stuff, from the very start… I didn’t know it at first. I did not know that what I was doing was preparing for this...” Jane was reluctant to speak on all that, so she deflected, “A decade ago, all I knew is that I could get real power inside a dungeon, and sometimes dungeons went bad, and those bad dungeons needed to be put down. Everything sort of worked out in that direction for me.” She touched her chest, and a part of her interior unfolded, revealing a transformed heart and lungs, and a network of mana veins running alongside her blood veins. There was no core in that empty center space, but her interior was almost exactly the same as Erick’s. And then, with a flex of her interior, that empty space next to her heart unfurled, like petals of darkness pulling away from light, revealing a spherical core made of prismatic brilliance. “I probably have half a million mana generation these days. It’s not Wizardry, but it’s among the most regeneration in the Dungeon Guild. Only Lyrical has more, and that’s only because she can continually delve into the Dark and destroy cores with song. She doesn’t have to use a sword, or claw, or get close at all.”

Lyrical was the orcol woman who Erick had originally sent out with Jane, over a decade ago, when Jane wanted to go exploring in the Underworld. She had been from Ar’Cosmos, along with Hizogard. Both of them, and also Danaro, a former shadeling, had eventually joined up with Jane, and helped, with House Benevolence’s efforts, to create the Dungeon Guild. Prince Sitnakov of Stratagold had originally been a part of that group, but he just never got back together with them after they all came back from their Underworld trip, just in time for the Dungeon Core fiasco. Ravan, their Mind Mage, had also come back to House Benevolence after that return. Right now, Ravan was probably with some rookie group, helping them to get better at being adventurers; Erick wasn’t sure.

“How is your whole old group?” Erick asked, backing up the discussion to easier topics.

“They’re doing alright. Lyrical and Hizogard are off doing what they need to do. Danaro is at the orphanage. Ravan was here three months ago, where she gathered up some more rookies and took them back out to help them level and learn about themselves. Those guys are on a long track about 2k down from the Surface. They should be back in a year or two.” Jane suddenly remembered something, but it was a minor thing. It was still something to delay the big conversation, though, so she asked, “Do you know if Sitnakov ever got around to visiting Killzone in Ar’Kendrithyst?”

Both Sitnakov and Killzone were adamantium wrought, meaning they were wrought royalty. But though they were both shaped like orcols, they were not both from Stratagold.

Only the royalty from Stratagold was both orcol-shaped and adamantium. Most of the royalty from the other Geodes were human, incani, half-incani/half-human or dragonkin. A full 60% of all royal wrought were human-shaped. But also, wrought would change their shape, if they went through enough trauma.

Killzone always cleared out when any other adamantium wrought came around, even when those other wrought weren’t orcol-shaped.

There was some connection between Killzone and Stratagold, but Erick had never found out that connection.

Erick said, “They perpetually circle each other whenever Sitnakov visits Anhelia’s city. I think they have people who tell them when the other is around, just so they never run into each other. But First Prince Abarnikon and Second Prince Sitnakov still have to visit their neighbor Geode from time to time, and that includes Anhelia’s major neighbors; Spur, Kal’Duresh, New Frontier, New Brightwater.” Erick shrugged. “I know the Stratagolds have met with Silverite several times, but if Killzone was ever a part of those meetings, I haven’t heard of it.”

Jane gave a wan smile, as she said, “Dammit. I was hoping you’d know that secret.”

“I’m rather sure that Killzone is not Third Prince Chernom Stratagold; the one that died.” Erick said, “But as for the rest of it, I have no idea. And I never pried, either.”

Jane frowned a little. “Sitnakov came around here a few times in the last years, but never for long enough.”

… There was something in that little frown that… Was peculiar.

Erick suddenly realized—

Erick’s eyes went wide. “You like Sitnakov?”

Jane froze. And then she opted to speak the truth, “… I do, yeah. We had a short fling one summer, but… Never materialized past that. I think he’s waiting for me to prove myself as immortal before… Well you know how it is.”

Erick let that new bit of information wash over him. And then he said, “Yeah. I do know how it is. A lot of immortals won’t touch anyone who they think might not be around in ten years, or forty. Numbers vary. I’ve had a few conversations with Quilatalap about that.”

“Did you two ever talk about getting married?”

Erick smiled softly. “We did. He’s not the marrying kind of man.”

“Sorry, dad. I know you wanted that.”

Erick shook his head a little, saying, “It’s fine. Thank you, though, Jane.” And then he affected a happy look, saying, “In good news: Kiri got her family out of Greensoil. Took some paying off of rather usurious debts, but Odaali was rather helpful in paving the way between the lending house and Kiri’s family. When her father and mother visited the cloudhouse to meet me in private, Mister Flamecrash actually managed to get half-mad at me for pushing them out of those debts.” Erick smiled at that memory. “Took him a lot of guts to do that. Kinda faltered near the end, though.”

Jane smiled. “They actually took Kiri’s mage name?”

“Oh yes. That happened years ago when Kiri’s power became apparent for all to see. They weren’t nobles at the time, but they got honorary noble status through Cyril’s direct decree. So now they’re the ‘Flamecrashes’.” Erick excitedly added, “And Teressa is expecting, now!”

Jane laughed. “Good for her!”

“All it took was a little [Reincarnation]… Ahh. Speaking of which, I have another one of those days coming up next week. It’s around 3200 people this time. A lot of people are nervous about whatever is coming down the line.” Erick said, “The Prophesized Storm is about 4 or 8 months out; no one can really tell, because the Benevolent Sky is cloudy. A lot of smaller stuff is coming together, though, especially with this Sundering study… Rozeta told me she was worried about Primal Lightning again.”

Jane sat calmly, thinking deeply.

Erick said, “You’ve already seen echoes of this coming threat, haven’t you.”

Jane returned to what she had started, and failed to speak upon. “The first time I killed a dungeon core was like that time I killed the Amalgamation Slime; the Soul Ooze. It was a slime, though. Not an ooze. It had a core. …When I killed it in Melemizargo’s name, I felt the world shift. It was all a part of discovering my Truth. The final step, I guess.

“And killing every dungeon core since then has been yet another step.

“I don’t experience it often, but I see a lot when I’m floating there in the Dark, where phantoms of the past and nightmares hold back absolute death, just long enough for me to flash around my team and keep them safe. And then it’s just me, a small ship in the middle of nothing, holding onto precious cargo to make sure they survive the trip out of the Dark.

“I’ve been in the Actual Dark before, dad.

“Not just the Near Dark.

“I only lived because Melemizargo allowed it.

“When that happens, and the shadows part, I see glimpses of other worlds past dark clouds. I see worlds burning. And worlds growing. Wizards standing on the precipice of armies and then wiping those armies out. And I see Wizards raising armies, to use them as pawns in intergalactic warfare. I see Creation, Destruction, and both at the same time. And I see weird, intangible spaces, a lot. It’s those last spaces that are the most dangerous.

“Almost everyone goes mad when they see those hidden spaces… My first experience with one of those hidden spaces was…

“It was like seeing the Moon Reachers that one time. That first time. I told you about that.

“I was a spider in the dark forest, watching the long-armed creatures walk through the moonlit land, casually plucking unsensing wildlife into their arms, to rip off legs and otherwise, torturing them while also trying to keep them alive, to eat them whole and wiggling. And screaming.

“I didn’t see those empty spaces in the Dark very often. I don’t ever see them alone, though. I only really notice them when a member of my team goes raving mad, and then I’m able to actually notice the hole in the Dark where there should be something, but instead there’s nothing. The others could see those spaces and go mad at them, but I could not.

“No one so far has been able to tell me what they’ve seen in those hollows. They all forget afterwards. Even had Ravan come with me once, to try and understand what was there. Had to go through seven dungeon core busts before she experienced that madness. But when we came back, and she recovered, she said she saw nothing. She was able to [Mind Heal] herself, so it wasn’t that bad.

“I have never gone mad, though. Probably because of my Truth.

“It’s honestly…” Jane paused, and then said, “It’s probably safer if you let me do a real exploration of the Dark. If you stay away, and do nothing at all. I’ll probably get a shadeling or three to follow me into core breaks and then… I’m not sure what else will happen.”

Erick took that in. And he thought.

Jane waited.

Erick ventured, “Based on previous happenings when it comes to Path-like ways, and looking at our timeline to the future… We probably end up seeing one of these hollows in the Dark and I end up going mad for a while, until someone subdues me. This is likely the cause of the Prophesized Storm that will hit Storm’s Edge.”

Jane had no reaction, but to simply nod.

She had seen the coming timeline, and figured the same thing.

Erick asked, “What sort of experience is it, for you, when you see the nothing? Or is it ‘The Nothing’? A proper noun?”

“I’m honestly not sure if it’s a real thing, or not. The Dark has lost more memories of the Old Cosmology than he has retained, causing a lot of holes in those memories. And not everyone has the same sort of freakout when they see those holes in the world. I would not call it a ‘Nothing’, because I don’t think it's a singular thing.”

Erick said, “Explain the different sorts of freakouts.”

“Well… There’s always a freakout for a new person, whenever I take someone new into a core smashing. Raised heart rate and wide eyes and catatonia, in some cases. If they make it out of the first core breaking, then that usually doesn’t happen to them again, and they can make it onto another team. But I always take people on their first break, because I can pull them back from those minor incidents.

“Those minor incidents usually involve them diving headfirst into the Dark, screaming about how they see something they want. In those cases I can see what they’re chasing when they see it, too. Usually it’s an idealized life, or a dead family member. Lotta dead loved ones in the Dark, calling for their living people to join them.

“Beyond those first incidents, people sometimes freakout later. It’s those later freakouts that are usually caused by the nothings.

“When people see the holes in the Dark, some people rip out their eyes and smash their ears. I’m pretty sure that’s seeing something they don’t want to see.

“Then there are the holes in the Dark where people just start screaming in terror.

“Then there’s a pure outpouring of absolute love. Those are among the weirder ones. It’s… Love can be a physical force when it’s in the Dark. It’s like a softness that calms and pulls…

“Then there are the angry nothings. People throw spells into the Dark when they see those nothings.

“Sometimes there’s a disgust-reaction so strong it makes people spew from every orifice.

“Four times now, four different people turned nudist for an entire week. Not sure what that one was about. They couldn’t tell me except that clothes just felt bad on them.

“Unknown zealotry has stuck around for a while, too.” Jane said, “Pretty sure those hollows were about Evil Gods, or something like that.”

Jane sat still, and Erick thought.

Erick said, “I agree that the hollows aren’t all of the same sort of thing.” He added, “And I think you’re physically incapable of seeing what’s down there.” He pulled the All-Seeing Eye from around his neck, saying, “But you could see what’s there. The problem with that, is that if you saw what was there, you would go crazy, too. I highly doubt you’re actually immune to it, Jane. The Dark is just protecting you. If you actually saw the horrors, then you’d go crazy.

“So, to me, and how I see this working out best, is that if I go into the Dark, and you join me as backup and to pull me out of it, because no matter how much I might turn mad or crazy, I highly doubt that I would ever wish to hurt you.” Jane almost objected, but Erick wasn’t finished. “And yet, that’s just my first instinct, and it might end up causing the Prophesized Storm. Truth is, we’re both talking without any true understanding of what searching for the Sundering actually means. All of that is up in the air, and I am sure that Melemizargo has some better words for how he actually wants to do this. And so, since I originally started this whole thing as a way to reseal Yggdrasil, I know where Melemizargo awaits. We continue on with the Path.” Erick stood. “We are going to Dungeon Island.”

“… Just like that?” Jane asked, “Have you finished with the list from Andri?”

