“That’s fine. I’m not even sure if I feel sorry for myself hearing this news.”

“Potential news,” Alden reminded him. “Unconfirmed.”

“Unconfirmed.” Kon swallowed. “Right. Spaceship. Spaceship repairman. Sounds like…a lifelong career. I might be able to negotiate for awesome benefits. ‘Oasis’ is very positive. I can’t…well, I can’t be a superhero if I’m away from Earth for months or years at a time. So that’s out.”

He doesn’t sound as upset about that as I thought he would.

“I should sign up for an Artonan language class or two, but if I do, I’ll have to explain why to Lexi.”

“Are you still not going to tell him?” Alden asked.

“I need more time on my own with this. Before everyone else starts telling me what I should do and how I should feel.”

“I get that. I’ll keep it to myself.”

“Sorry. He’s going to lose his shit at you if he finds out you knew before him.”

“I’ll live.”

“Watch out for Writher.”

“I might not live.”

Kon snorted. “If Ignacio’s right about how the future goes, you've actually just told me I’m one of the luckiest S-ranks on Anesidora.”

“Ignacio?”

“You haven’t heard his theory? It’s more like his whole family’s theory. Basically, they believe that there’s no way peace lasts forever for powerful Avowed. That Earth’s bill for joining the empire has never been paid, and our generation is bound to see it come due. Sooner or later.”

He smiled. “Sooner for me, I guess. But I’ll be making a killing fixing parts on a big space cruise ship. I might be the first person in our friend circle who has to pay the bill, but that’s a sweet posting, isn’t it?”

So quick to be positive.

“The place Artonans consider an oasis in a chaos war zone must have the most ludicrous parties in the universe,” said Alden. “And you’ll be right there for all of them.”

“I hadn’t thought of that, but you’re right.”

“That ship’s going to have knights on it. I bet they eat good.”

“My cup!” Kon said. “I can take my favorite drinks and have as much as I want.”

“You’ll be living it up.”

“What kinds of activities do you think they have on an oasis ship?”

“Every one they could think of, man. They’re not into self-deprivation. And if you suggest one they haven’t thought of they’ll probably decide they need to have that, too.”

They spent the rest of the flight trying to come up with absurd activities to add to the Sdyelis Branch’s hypothetical daily entertainment schedule. Alden knew they were only joking about wizard pogo stick races, but he hoped it was helping Kon swallow the news.

Eventually, they made it to Everly Kim.

She was waiting at a familiar duck pond that had been frozen by another Adjuster who may or may not have had permission to create their own rink in a public location. Everly had found out about it on Trime.

She’d brought skates for Kon and navy blue earmuffs.

“I don’t need earmuffs, though. It’s not cold right now.”

Everly blinked up at him. “But they match mine, and we’ll be cute together. Won’t we, Alden?”

“Say earmuffs are annoying, Alden,” Kon demanded.

“Wear earmuffs at first, then take them off later,” said Alden. “Both of you will be happy.”

Kon groaned, but he took the earmuffs and a peck on the lips from Everly without further complaint. “Where’s Snowball?”

“I didn’t bring my drone,” she said. “I wanted to look cute with you anyway.”

Kon grinned. Everly rose onto her tiptoes for another peck. Neither of them had realized that Kon was standing in poop.

They are cute together, Alden thought as he walked over to the food dispenser to buy treats for the disgruntled ducks. Does it last, or not?

He imagined Konstantin must be thinking the same thing.

******

******

The wind that night was the kind that stung and drowned you in its roar. Alden flew through it under a starless sky toward the cube, and in the darkness, with nothing but the System interface to guide him, he was very much himself.

Not touching Earth, heading toward chaos, unable to see.

Am I all right? he wondered.

If he roared back at the wind, it was just because he needed to. There wasn’t another living soul around to hear him.

******

******

“They’re gingerbread cookies,” he said to Esh-erdi and Lind-otta.

The knights had greeted him at the door of their Matadero suite wearing soft matching robes that made him think they were either preparing for bed or they’d risen from it when they received his message announcing his arrival.

“I was going to give them to you tomorrow, but it’s technically still Christmas right now. And I felt like flying.”

“You look like you felt like flying.” Esh-erdi was taking in Alden’s disheveled hair. Lind-otta was opening the box Alden had brought to look at the pair of gingerbread knights. The cookies had smiles, and their coats had been decorated with fairly accurate symbols in tiny dots of icing.

“Thank you, Alden. They smell very delicious.” She picked up the Esh-erdi cookie.

Esh-erdi glanced over to see what she had. “They’re us! Look, that’s me! Lind, we should keep these and show them to— ”

She bit off his head.

The expression on his face and hers in the following instant would’ve been worth the flight over even if Alden hadn’t had any other business with them tonight.

“…it was me,” said Esh-erdi.

Lind-otta swallowed. “Should I have spit it out?”

“No. I’m glad you enjoyed executing me. But you’ll be sorry if Alden is about to tell us those are rare pieces of art.”

“I’m not going to tell you that,” said Alden. “They’re only food in a fun shape. But I did want to ask you both something. It’s not about getting a tattoo for Matadero. I know we need to do that, but I’m really not in the mood for it at this moment. It’s a question on behalf of a friend of mine. Would you be able to tell me if a specific Avowed is going to be assigned to the Sdyelis Branch?”

Alden took a breath. “Or, if it’s not proper to tell me, could you call him and tell him? Because it seems like he might have been, and he should know about his own future if other people are already making plans for it.”

The wait for their answer felt longer than it was.

“I think I know who you’re speaking of,” Esh-erdi said.

“Oh.” Alden breathed in. “So I’m right.”

Esh-erdi stepped back into the room. "Come in. Sit comfortably.”

******

******

It wasn’t a long conversation. In fact, it was shorter than the flight down to F-city afterward. And barely longer than the time it took for Kon to get the message that Alden was waiting in front of the place where his family was staying and come down to meet him. He’d thrown on a sweater with his pajama pants.

“It’s like one in the morning, Alden,” he said as he approached. The Nine-edged Son was hovering low beside a postdrop. “You didn’t have to come in person.”

“I wanted to. And I thought you’d be awake.”

“I was." Kon took a seat on the edge of the nonagon.

“It’s confirmed now,” Alden said simply. “I don’t have details, but someone will call you tomorrow morning.”

[Alden:  Esh-erdi or Lind-otta will call. I don’t know everything they’ll tell you, but they’re easy to talk to.]

Kon stiffened, then relaxed. “You got all that fast.”

“I thought it would help you to have some certainty. Sorry it’s not more. Or sooner.”

Kon sighed. “You have important people calling me tomorrow morning. That’s plenty. If you weren’t here, I might not know anything for…not sure about timelines with this kind of thing. But what if it was a year or more from now before anyone got around to filling me in? This is better. It’s way better.”

Alden let him sit with the information, wondering if he’d ask any questions.

He never did.

Finally, Alden said, “You’re going to be good at it. The System probably offered this to you instead of someone else because it knew that.”

Kon jerked. “I’m sitting here and not letting you leave! You should’ve said something sooner.”

“I didn’t mind.”

“I know I’ll be fine. I’m just… gahh! You know?” He rubbed a hand through his hair. “Thanks. For finding out all of this for me. And I’m sorry about earlier.”

“What about earlier?”

“I was talking about how I’d be the first person our age to do anything out there…and you were sitting right beside me with your commendation. I must have sounded like an ass.”

“You didn’t.”

“I did.”

“I literally didn’t notice it until you brought it up yourself.”

“I was in my sleeping bag replaying it in my head when you messaged me to say you were down here.”

“Yeah, you should be focused mostly on me tonight. You don’t have much else going on.”

Kon hopped off the nonagon. “Thank you. Seriously.”

“You’re seriously welcome.”

Kon turned to go.

“Hey.” Alden waited for him to turn back around. “You can call me anytime. I’ll answer. Wherever I am in the universe. If I can.”

“You make it sound like you’re the one with the faraway future. I appreciate it. Night, Alden.”

“Goodnight.”

Alden watched him head into the building.

Well, you know, Kon…we’re all Avowed.

******
