Orellico nodded, solemnly. He glanced to Ophiel, on Erick’s shoulder, and said, “It is good you have this method. I have heard young Wayfarers speak almost as you have, without regard for the maths of the Spatial Mage. If they come to their senses and learn the maths, I usually hear that they are doing well. If they are foolhardy and brash, I usually never hear from them again, for they have invariably gone on to join Everlin Etherspray in the Ocean.” He said, “I am sure I don’t have to speak of this to you, archmage, and it would be insulting for me to do so, but untrained Spatial Magic is rather deadly. I told you I lost an arm completing the Quest for [Teleport], yes? I lost that arm because when my body resolved back to flesh, the location where my arm would have been was occupied by a wall, so my arm never resolved.

“The [Teleport] in the Script has many safeguards to prevent such an event. But trying to recreate [Teleport] has no such safeguards.”

Erick smiled softly. He said, “I am aware of the danger of making new magic. Thank you for your concern.” He stood from his chair, saying, “But I am sure you are busy, and I must get back to work, as well. Thank you for your time.”

Orellico stood from his chair, saying, “Anytime, Archmage Flatt.”

Erick said, “We’re going to be working a lot together. Call me ‘Erick’, please.”

“Then I would be honored if you would call me ‘Fork’, Erick,” said Fork.

“Fork, then. See you later.”

- - - -

“He knew about Everlin Etherspray, too!” Erick said, as he diced vegetables on the kitchen counter.

Kiri sat at the kitchen table, drinking a beer, beside a covered ceramic bowl. The dough she had made still needed twenty more minutes to relax, before she could start turning it into pasta noodles. Sunny, her vibrant green couatl-ish [Familiar], lounged around her shoulders.

Kiri said, “That’s not surprising. If anyone has access to whatever legacy Everlin Etherspray left behind, it’s the Wayfarer’s Guild.”

Erick smiled wide. “Yup.” He cut onions, and said, “It’s just so amazing, though. Looking back on it, maybe there was magic back on Earth, and I just never saw it as such. Almost everything he said triggered a memory of something I’d heard of before, though in a very different way than how he spoke.”

“I’m actually more surprised that [Air Body] didn’t create some sort of higher tier magic.” Kiri held out her beer, saying, “You see? That’s what is most concerning for me. Why is [Teleport] still a Basic Spell, since is is clearly derived from another spell.”

“Maybe the Elemental Body skills are representations of natural magic that belonged to the Old Cosmology?” Erick said, “That was the distinct impression I got when reading about Everlin and the elementassi.”

“Oh. Well.” Kiri said, “That makes a lot of sense. I guess I never thought of them that way— But that still doesn’t make sense! [Teleport] should be a tier 2 spell.”

“Eh. I’d imagine that the Elemental Body skills are the secret to many different basic magics.” Erick said, “And that’s another thing I don’t hear about! How do you make a [Force Bolt]? I bet a good, actual archmage, could spend all their points on Stats, and remake everything else from scratch.”

Kiri tilted her head back into a full-throated laugh, her eyes glowing green as she said, “My gods! Maybe! Ha!” She said, “Not many people had those skills back at the Tower, but at Oceanside, almost everyone had one. Air was the most popular, by far, but [Water Body] was a close second, but no one talked of remaking any Basic Tier magic. Maybe this is one of those deeper secrets.” She decided, emphatically, “It has to be!” She asked, “But how to prove this theory? That book where I read about Replication Quests said almost nothing except for the fact that the Quest existed.”

“I still have all those bargains of trade I have yet to collect on. Other archmages would likely know.” As Erick stirred the onions into a large pan full of sizzling ground beef, he said, “Opal offered to teach me [Ward Destruction], anyway.” He asked, “Have you seen Poi? He would know how to contact Opal. Or... Silverite would know. … Or practically anyone in charge, I guess.” He added, “But that’s for another day. There’s too much to do, right now. OH! And I learned what it takes to get Particle Mage.”

Kiri’s eyes became pale green orbs of light, as she focused on Erick with a laser intensity. She played it calm, though, simply saying, “Oooh?”

“Yeah. I’m not going to repeat those requirements out loud, ever, but you should qualify, and if not, then we can work on that.”

Like some great weight released from all of the world, Kiri smiled, her eyes going soft, back to their normal dark green. She chugged her beer in one waterfall moment, then set down the mug and ripped the cloth off of her resting dough, saying, “Let’s make some pasta!”

Erick smiled, asking, “So have you been down to the war room area, lately?”

Kiri tossed flour onto the kitchen table, and slapped the dough down, as she said, “Nope! But let’s go after dinner.” She paused. “Or are you going to try and make [Teleport]?”

“I’m already doing that, right now.”

- - - -

Magic was truly a miracle of multiplicity.

Ophiel rode sulfurous skies over mountains made of fire and ash, twisting and rising and falling on plumes of heat, while he also rode ocean waves far down south, where mimics ate kelp on sandy beaches and monsters of the depths tried to snatch at his [Stoneshape]d surfboard.

Elsewhere, Ophiel watched over a market of people buying fresh produce, while simultaneously spraying spells at mimics all the way over in the Wasteland, just so he could be doing something productive with his use of mana.

Another Ophiel taught a different Ophiel about subjects both of them already knew; this was an orcol, this was a wyrm, this was a Shade, and that dark splotch watching from that shadow to the right was either Melemizargo, or someone who was about to have a very bad day for deigning to interrupt Melemizargo’s spying.

Another Ophiel was looking over plans for an artillery spell. He didn't fully understand what he was looking at, but that was okay. Life was about learning, and failing, and then getting up and trying again. And since Ophiel was more than able to survive almost any possible failure, save for the failures of Erick, Ophiel was happy to try and learn whatever he could, just so that he could save the indispensable from dying his only death.

Bipeds watched as Ophiel’s gentle touch changed the land from black sand to black clay, and deepened the dirt into a depression, fit for the beginnings of a lake. Maybe.

Another Ophiel, flying high over unimportant and unnoticed land to the west, cried tears of [Call Lightning] for those he would never see again. He cried for Valok, and for Krakina, and even for Apogough. He let loose with song and rain that thrummed the sky and cracked the twilight air with bright white lightning. He cried for all the horrible things that had happened to everyone he had ever seen working on the Farms. He remembered singing for them while they were working hard, and now he sang for their souls, praying that they were at peace, wherever they were.

The desert eagerly drank his tears; the land here could only ever thirst for more. Mimics reached up to the rain while agave vibrated in time to the lightning crashing overhead.

Another Ophiel watched from Erick’s shoulder, as dinner was made and served, and the sun dipped down outside.

Another Ophiel watched Spur from above Erick’s Tower, inside the Restful air of the house, bloomed out to his full height and stature, with a hundred eyes that pointed in every direction. He would watch and protect, as he had always done.

And somewhere along the way, each of them began to gently glow, like a perfectly crafted lightward.

And somewhere along the way, and only lasting a brief moment, there had been more than 10 Ophiel; the maximum allowed by the spell.

- - - -

A blue box interrupted dinner.

Special Quest Complete!

You have remade a Basic Spell.

Since you already have Teleport, have this instead:

+1 point!

With his fork stuck in twirling pasta with a cheesy sauce, Erick said, “[Teleport] has been remade.”

Teressa laughed. Poi smiled.

Kiri said, “Holy shit.” She asked, incredulous, “How?!”

Erick teased, “I’m sure you’ll figure it out. You have all the clues I did, and you have Sunny. Now you just need an Elemental Body skill.” He turned to Teressa, smiling, asking, “But we were talking about your day. Sorry to interrupt.”

Teressa seemed to light up, faintly smiling as she said, “Anyway. Long story short: the five stores were getting robbed, and no one knew how, but all the Guardmaster needed me for was ten minutes, and I had the suspect in my sights. Well. Everyone thought it was only one or two people, but it turned out it was actually five guys! And then we got them all.” She added, “Not quite as fulfilling as knocking a wyrm on its rotten arse, but still worthwhile.”

Erick asked, “What happened from there? I still don’t know much about the justice system except that people either get executed or exiled.”

Teressa said, “Well, those five guys are locked up until a judge can pass sentence, but they’ll probably get off easy. Detective Wash, one of the guys in the Guard who I work with, he says that apparently, the five stores they were targeting were responsible for some black market dealing, and those guys were trying to get back what was stolen from them.” She added, “It’s a whole drama, and everyone is probably lying in some way that they believe to be true, but no one killed anyone and nothing truly bad happened, so the black market might get dispersed or let alone. I don’t really know. That’s all out of my hands.”

“Huh. Okay.” Erick asked, “What’s for sale at black markets, anyway?”

“Drugs, mostly,” Teressa said.

Poi added, “There’s also unlawful magical items.”

“Oh yeah.” Teressa said, “Blood Magic items are always popular, but most of them are harmless, so we look the other way. Change the shape of your nose, or the size of your— Uh. Well, you know. Anyway. Oh. And necromancy. Can’t forget the necromancy. You can pay people to call up your dead relatives to have one last chat, but I’ve heard that decays the soul, so you only really do that to people you hate.”

“Hence the illegality,” Poi said.

Teressa said, “Silverite has a very strict mandate against necromancy of any kind, either way, so those kinds of offenses get treated rather harshly. Actually. Did you know that some of the stuff they do is legal in other parts of the world, but not here?” She smiled as she added, “We’re always catching some people doing something that they had no idea they shouldn’t do.”

Erick said, “Sounds like you like it. I’m glad.”

Teressa chuckled a little, and said, “It’s nice, but this here is the primary concern. [Witness]ing for the Guard is just a nice side-gig.”

“Still.” Erick sipped his beer, saying, “I’m happy for you.”

Teressa smiled. “Thanks.”

Kiri just remained silent, in thought, as she ate her pasta.

Erick said, “This is good pasta, Kiri.”

“Hmmm,” she said.

- - - -

With the three moons outside the windows, and wardlights blazing inside, Erick probably should have gone to the war room to see what sort of developments Candlepoint was getting up to, but he had work to do, and experiments to undertake.

He had just finished his newest batch of plus-25 All Stat rings, not half an hour ago, so those went out to the various higher powers around town, through Ophiel. Poi cleared the way, first, of course. Couldn’t have Ophiel just blipping in front of people; that would not go well.

Silverite, Mog, Sirocco, and Liquid, each got a set of ten rings. The average was 25 Stats, but some were stronger, and some were weaker, while some were sized for orcols, and most were sized for everyone else. He didn’t know the archmages of Spur, but he knew of them; he had left word with Silverite that he had rings for them too, if they wanted them, but they would have to come to him, and he had questions.

Everyone was busy, though, so Erick mainly just left the rings in the care of the appropriate people; they’d get to their recipients when they could. Erick didn’t mind. He was busy, too.

He began by standing in front of his blackboard, with a beer in one hand and a piece of chalk in the other, asking, “How best to achieve the destruction of Candlepoint with one spell?”

Kiri, standing in front of her own blackboard, also drinking a beer, said, “I would say fire. But that would not work. The only thing that seems viable is your [Withering Slime], as long as you could keep the city solid, that is.”

“Right… All those idiot adventurers and otherwise inside the city. Can’t go killing people.”

“Well… Uh.” Kiri said, “I meant more that [Withering] is already the perfect anti-monster spell. Though it could be stronger. It couldn’t kill the Grand Ruby Mimics, after all.”

Teressa chuckled to the side, drinking from her keg. She said, “But you gotta destroy it all, Kiri. Killing the monsters doesn’t do shit. They’ll just come back.”

Kiri leveled her gaze at the larger orcol woman, who always said she didn’t like magic. Kiri asked, “Why are you even here?”

“I can be here if I want!” Teressa sloshed her keg at Erick, saying, “He said I could!”

“She is allowed to be here, Kiri.” Erick smiled. He added, “Anywho! Big explosions? Seems kinda fun? But that won’t kill a Shade, will it.”

Teressa said, “Eww. No. You’re trying to kill a Shade? I thought you were going for big boom magic. You can’t kill a Shade with magic.”

“Why do you say that?” Erick asked.

“Killzone ain’t no mage, and he’s the only one I know that can go fist-to-fist with a Shade and not get splattered across a city block.” Teressa added, “Sorry, Boss, but you ain’t a Shade killer.”

Erick said, “Killzone was supposed to show up for a special Stat item, and I’d love to ask him how he kills a Shade, but he’s not here right now. So how does he do it, Teressa?”

Teressa frowned. “I’ve… never actually seen it happen.”

“You want to give him that giant gem, don’t you?” Kiri asked, “What does it give?”

“Yes.” Erick said, “And I have no idea what it actually does. Nothing I put it in actually gives me Stats. I’ve tried a crown and a necklace, but both applications were untenable, even if they had worked.”

