Erick walked up to the main counter of the Wayfarer’s Guild, saying, “Hello. I’m looking for Guildmaster Apogee.”

The young incani man on the other side paled a little, as he said, “Master Apogee has retired. His son, Guildmaster Oreellico, is currently upstairs. Would you like to see him, instead?”

“That’s Apogee’s son, right? Fork Oreellico, I assume?”

“Yes, sir.”

“If he is available, then I will see him, instead.”

- - - -

Erick entered into a very different office than the last time he had been here. Where once were boxes and knickknacks waiting to be put into those boxes, there were now shelves of travel journals and maps and stones of a dozen different varieties. Some of those stones glowed with reds, others with blues. Some were crystals, while others were fossilized seashells.

Fork Oreellico sat behind his desk, with stacks of paper in front of him and a small, glowing globe to the side. Fork was a brownscale dragonkin like his father, but unlike Apogee, he had no horns. He did have small ridges down the sides of his scaled head that were almost horns, but those were rather common among dragonkin. If he had a tail, Erick couldn’t tell. He could barely tell the man’s age. Maybe he was 40? Maybe?

As Erick entered, Oreellico stood from his chair. No tail.

“Hello, Guildmaster Oreellico. Congratulations on your promotion.”

Oreellico smiled, speaking with a deep voice, saying, “Thank you, Archmage Flatt. Apologies if you came here to see my father, but you’ll have to settle for me. Is there something I can help you with? A transportation issue?” He gestured to the chair across his desk, as he sat back down, saying, “Please, sit.”

Erick sat, saying, “I fear I have driven your father off with hints that I wanted to know more of his planar experience, but I suppose I will have to settle for never knowing his story, and that is okay.”

Oreellico looked to want to speak in the middle of Erick’s words, but he just smiled, and nodded.

Erick continued, “So what I’ve actually come here for, is to see if anyone could help me with a Spatial Magic problem.”

“Oh?” Oreellico perked up, then glanced over to Poi, asking, “Please, close the door.”

Poi did so. The noise of the ‘loading docks’ vanished; swallowed by stone and dense, well fitted doors.

Erick said, “I want to try and create a [Teleport Spell] spell, so that I can redirect attacks like the Red Dot away from the city, if such a thing should ever occur again.” He added, “I have completed the ‘Recreate [Blink] Quest’, if that helps, so I know a little bit about what it takes to make a new Spatial spell, but I did that on my own, with some hints from a very, very old book, and the minor insight of another that I had to use an Elemental Body skill. I’d go to the libraries or Oceanside to answer this question of mine, but there is way too much math in all of the modern books I have ever read.”

Oreellico’s eyes gleamed bronze as he said, “I want to help you with this. But. If you do, someday, either far in the future or just around the corner, actually manage to make that [Gate] spell you threatened before, I want to know how you made it, I want your help in making it myself, and I want the chance to properly administrate whatever economic boon comes from recreating a possible [Gate] Network, with percentages and such to be determined later. In the case where I am not able to create the spell myself, I want your help to gain 5 more levels so that I can purchase the Class Ability myself, or complete the Quest for that Ability.” He added, “I do not know what the Quest requires, at this time, but if we work on the problem long enough, I should be able to gain the quest. If we are completely unsuccessful, then there are no requirements for either of us.”

That was a lot, right there. Erick had not expected such a thorough response, or such caveats. Oreellico certainly knew what he wanted, though. Erick wasn’t opposed to any of Oreellico’s plans, but, it would be a good idea to know what he was getting himself into before he began this partnership…

And that’s what it seemed like to him. A ‘partnership’, of some sort, that would likely change a great deal going forward, if everything happened how Erick suddenly wanted it to happen.

Erick said, “I agree, but I need to know some possibly sensitive information, first.”

“Of course.” Oreellico sat back in his chair. “Ask away.”

“What level are you? How hard would it be to gain 5 more?”

“59, and I have been that for 12 years. I have combat skills and defensive skills, but I have tried to kill monsters of a higher level and have only gotten injuries for my time.” Oreellico said, “An escort to any central part of Quintlan would likely gain me the required 5 levels, unless you know of another acceptable way.”

“Have you managed to recreate any of the other Basic Tier Spatial spells?”

“Yes. I have done both [Blink] and [Teleport]. I achieved them through the use of [Air Body], and very little math, though you should know that the math common to Spatial magic is rather necessary to make higher tier spells. [Teleport Object]. [Teleport Other]. I’m sure a [Teleport Spell] magic would be similarly complicated. Or maybe not, if you were to just use a theoretical [Gate] to swallow the target.” He said, “I don’t truly know how that spell works, either, but I have some educated guesses.”

“Educated guesses are fine.”

“I have a question, then, if you’d permit me.”

Erick nodded. “Go ahead.”

“Since you have recreated [Blink], which Elemental Body skill do you have?”

“[Lightwalk]. I made it through my [Familiar], as well. There was no actual risk involved. I just need to know how to work the spell, and with the trick of it all figured out, I brute-forced the solution.” Erick patted Ophiel on his shoulder, saying, “He exploded a few times, but he got better.”

Oreellico’s calm, yet interested face, broke into a huge smile. He laughed, saying, “This is good! I wondered how you managed to not kill yourself. A brute-force solution! Amazing. I have to say, Archmage Flatt, I am very glad you walked through my door today.”

Erick smiled. “I see that I should have come here, sooner.”

“Are we agreed then, with regard to the exchange of services? A mutual exchange of knowledge and technique in exchange for the Wayfarer’s Guild gaining financial control of this theoretical [Gate] spell?”

Erick reworded what Oreellico said, a little, saying, “Provided we can come to an amicable arrangement regarding the division of revenue, I could easily see myself being comfortable working to achieve [Gate] with you and the Wayfarer’s Guild, especially if you and your guild are instrumental in helping me acquire the spells I wish to acquire. I won’t allow financial control over the spell itself, especially with regard to myself using it, but any theoretical [Gate] network would be under your control.”

“Sorry, I misspoke. You are correct. Control over the network, not over your person.”

“Agreed.”

“Excellent. Then we are agreed.” Oreellico chuckled, then smiled, and said in a deep tone, “If you had tried to come to my father with this desire, he would have denied you, for he hates being reminded of his homeland in all ways. His loss is my gain.” He added, “I can draw up the preliminary paperwork by tomorrow, but would you like to get started now? As a show of good faith, I will give to you my understanding of [Teleport], with no need for any recompense until we can finalize the paperwork.”

Erick felt a spark of happy joy. He did not expect this series of events, at all. He said, “I accept. Thank you.”

“I can only give you my own understanding of the spell through my use of [Air Body], mind you.”

“Perfectly fine.”

Oreellico nodded. “The ‘secret’ to [Teleport] is easy enough to explain in minutes, but the execution kills most people, so usually we tell prospective wayfarers to never attempt such a thing, and to keep this secret to themselves. The Script makes magic safe, but this is an attempt to recreate the spells that form the Basic Tier of the Script. This magic is certainly not safe, at all. But, if you can brute-force [Teleport], I have high hopes for our partnership. As a warning: I lost an arm making [Teleport]. It was still considered a rousing success.”

Erick nodded.

Oreellico continued, “By being a breeze through the use of [Air Body], and letting yourself go, you will experience a diffusion of the senses that will enable you to be in many places at once. The secret of [Blink] is shutting off all your senses and feeling your way through that heightened positioning, and then to consciously select the one that you wish to occupy, that was not your original location.” He asked, “Does that sound familiar?”

“Almost exactly what I did, but with a bit different understanding from my own.”

Oreellico nodded, saying, “That is normal. Everyone speaks of the experience slightly differently, but all have a few things in common. The plurality of location. The shutting of senses. The opening of the eyes in a new location, away from the original self.

“[Teleport] is the exact same thing, but spread across hundreds of kilometers.

“But [Air Body] does not allow the user to be in more locations than your own general locality.

“So, we have a conundrum. This is solved by extrapolating the plurality of your location to other theoretical versions of yourself that might have existed, if you had taken a slightly different journey. If you would have gone left down the road, instead of right.

“Now that you are down the right hand road, you just become the breeze that would have been on the left hand road.”

Erick sat there, thinking. Oreellico’s words sounded very, very familiar.

Oreellico said, “It is a very difficult concept for some people to think upon, let alone experience, and that says nothing of the difficulty of actually producing [Teleport]. Achieving [Teleport] is half-trick, half-delusion, since you both are, and are not casting magic at the secondary location.

“This spell recreation is easier for some wayfarers than others, since the idea of wanting to take all roads and see all paths is a natural thought. For others, the way to recreating [Teleport] is through their desire to move forward, to see where the wind takes them, while simultaneously knowing that where they end up, is nowhere near where they would have been if not for any of a hundred different small, daily obstacles, like rocks on the path, shifting their destinations this way or that.

“Succinctly put: [Teleport] is expanding your Elemental Body to where it would have been, if you had been somewhere else.”

Erick smiled, a little.

Oreellico continued, “I achieved this Recreation Quest when I had an epiphany regarding where I wanted to have lunch. At the time, there were two restaurants that I thoroughly enjoyed, but I had trouble deciding which to eat at. I had already been working on this quest for a while, so what I did, was go to a random spot of the Crystal Forest, and flip a coin. I let the coin land on the sand, without looking at whether it was ‘crown’ or ‘rad’. After a nice lunch in Portal, I [Scry]d the coin. It had landed ‘crown’. I should have gone to Outpost.

“And that’s all it took.

“In that moment, I realized I was not where I could have been. It may seem simple in the telling, but for me, it was a timeless moment. Trying to describe that moment is like trying to describe love, or to paint a sunset; millions have tried, but there is always more to say, more to experience. So I will go with the simple version: It was then, that the briefest application of [Air Body] brought me all the way to Outpost, and staring at the ‘Quest Complete!’ notification. I had traveled over 3500 kilometers in a single [Teleport].” Oreellico paused, then said, “After that moment, I was truly a Wayfarer, though I had already possessed the Class for five years.”

Erick smiled, thinking. He said, “Thank you for sharing that with me.” And he meant it. Oreellico’s words sounded deeply personal, but also full of hope.

“Ah!” Oreellico smiled, saying, “But this is transaction, yes? I have seen the good you have done, but this time, the entire Wayfarer Guild, every single branch across all of Glaquin, will come together and make this work. If you can truly recreate [Gate] outside of an impossible Ability Quest, we will change the world.” He spoke with hope in his voice, “We will recreate the backbone of what this world was meant to have, and no one will take that from us.”

Erick felt a happy sort of sadness, at those words.

Oreellico sat back in his chair, and waited.

Erick asked, “I have a tangential question for you: How is it that Spatial Magic involves so much math, but you explaining it like that sounds so much better?”

Orellico laughed. “I worked for years on the maths side of that quest. Forces, distance, the curve of the world and the speed of rotation. The prevailing winds and the threads of intent already saturating the manasphere; all of it plays a heavy role in proper Spatial Magic. I did not attend arcanaeum, but our guild has many tutors. For me, the math was part of how I was able to be in two places at once, but that is hard to explain without the math.” He said, “Now I have a question for you: How did your [Blink] recreation go?”

“For my first attempts I tried using wardlight illusions to copy Ophiel, before placing him upstream in the flow of mana.” Erick said, “That ended in quite a few explosions.”

Oreellico paled for a moment, then laughed in nervousness, and said, “I would imagine so!”

Erick continued, “It wasn’t till I got [Lightwalk] and I used [Hunter’s Instincts] that I realized that everything about the experience of being an ethereal being was subjective. Recreating [Blink] past that was rather easy. I just had to realize what I was doing.”

