Teressa said, “You know what? Let’s get the man on the line! He might be able to come over. Don’t know until you ask, right?” She stood up, walking to the door, calling out, “Poi! Get the General to come over! They’re fiddling with magic to kill Shades!” She frowned as she got to the door, then went out of the room, muttering, “Where is that blasted man. I know he must hear me.”

Kiri ignored Teressa. “I saw that Poisoner from the Wasteland. How about some poison light-based spell? Can you do that? You once warned how ultraviolet light causes cancers, didn’t you? Seems like a logical step, there. Light is, after all, the best way to kill a Shade. I think.”

“Oh. Now there’s an idea.” Erick thought for a moment, then said, “But the appropriate [Ward] would block it. So. Maybe not. I do like the idea, though. It might be useful for when [Withering] doesn’t cut it, like with the mimic infestation. Even if that doesn’t work for Shades… I should make that spell, anyway.”

“If you’re doing a physical spell and not a weather effect, the most you might have to worry over is an [Absorption Ward], and those affect everything, so any Particle Magic interaction would suffer the same negation effect as normal magic interaction.” Kiri said, “So don’t worry about [Ward] blocking a… A [Cloudlight] spell, or whatever.”

“Oh. That’s what you mean. Hmm.” Erick thought. He said, “Still not a Shade killer, though.” He threw an idea out there, “How about... Take a rock, and throw a [Massless Ward] on it, and then accelerate the rock to the speed of light, but pop the [Ward] the exact moment it strikes the target. Or maybe don’t pop the [Ward] at all? Hmm.”

“… That seems like [Rock Bolt] with extra steps.” Kiri said, “You can get that spell up to rather high damage numbers, but the rock ultimately disintegrates due to wind friction.”

Erick frowned a little. “I’d need to keep the wind off of it, too, huh. Oh! I could turn the rock into light!”

“… Can you?”

“With [Lightwalk], sure!” Erick shrugged. “Probably. That would require some more testing.”

Teressa returned to the room with Poi in tow, a refilled keg for herself, and two more mugs of beer for Erick and Kiri. She handed them off, smiling, saying, “And here you go.”

Erick took his beer, saying, “Thanks.”

“Thanks, Teressa,” Kiri said.

Poi said, “Killzone cannot join you tonight, but Silverite thanks you for the rings. Guildmaster Zago and Mog also thank you. All three of them said variations of ‘we will find a way to repay this kind gesture’, with Zago having the longest thank you of all. Hers included mention of the Wasteland.”

Erick shrugged. “Good luck to them, I guess. These rings might be special right now, but they won’t be that way forever.” He turned to the blackboard behind him, and began writing, “In fact, a lot of things seem special right now, but I plan on making them prevalent enough that Candlepoint looks like trapped trash compared to Spur.” He had only gotten to ‘recreate Stat fruits, just after ‘big light beam weapon’, when he paused. He said, “You know… I really should see what’s down there by the war room before I go making plans.” He set down the chalk. “In fact. Let’s do that right now. And where’s the nearest, best ‘town hall’ or whatever, to hear the latest news.”

Poi thought for a moment, before saying, “I don’t think there are any town halls this late at night. We would have to go to the next one, tomorrow, wherever it might be; I’ll find out. Now might be a good time to visit the war rooms, though, when they aren’t so busy.”

Teressa shrugged, saying, “I’m ready,” as she cast a tiny [Cold Ward] on her chair and set her keg inside. “That’ll keep.”

“Me too,” Erick said. With a gesture, and a cast of [Cleanse] over himself, thick air spilled away from his body. He shivered, and frowned, as a tiny headache threatened behind his eyes, but whatever drunkenness he had was gone. He said, “Convenient, but annoying.”

Kiri set her own drink aside with a sigh, as she [Cleanse]d herself. “Just drink some water before we go.”

- - - -

The Mage Guildhouse was open all day, every day, though the people who manned the counters and walked the halls were rather different at night than who Erick was used to seeing. And the security was a lot higher than usual. Guards, in silver armor, stood around the outside of the building, and a few places inside. An orcol man at the receptionist desk confirmed who Erick was, which was rather easy and basically just involved a ‘hello Archmage Flatt, what are you interested in today?’, before directing a young purplescale boy to guide Erick through to the war rooms down below.

Erick, Kiri, Poi, and Teressa passed two checkpoints to get to their destination. The first checkpoint was just a pair of people in silver armor, who nodded as Erick passed. The second security area was down at the bottom of the stairs in front of the war rooms, and involved guards at the entrance to every single room. The purplescaled boy scampered back up the stairs, as Erick and company walked forward.

The guards down here seemed to guard the location, while also popping every single [Scry] eye they saw. And there were a lot of [Scry] eyes. Every single second, more and more eyes popped into the air, before getting popped themselves. There was a measure of security, but Erick felt that they really could have been doing better.

The crowd down here was not overly large, but it almost reminded Erick of an art viewing, only without the tiny cheeses on crackers, or flutes of champagne in everyone’s hands. There were a lot of discussions going on, between smaller parties here and there.

Erick glanced in to the first room on the left. A large wardlight map of Candlepoint had been crafted into the center of the space. Markers pointed at the various structures, listing what they were. Wardlight pictures had been hung on the walls, showing different angles of various positions around the shadowy city. Erick only really read ‘Version 5’, hanging below the map, to know that a map of the place was almost useless; Candlepoint could change its geography at will.

The second room held the same list of monsters that was in Candlepoint’s Adventurer’s Guildhouse. Erick had already seen the list. He did not spend long in that room, but he did check to see if ‘Converter Angel’ was still up there. It was. But when Erick was ready to move on, Teressa stuck by the board, her eyes a little wider than before, her stance a little more full of anger.

Erick turned back, asking, “What do you see?”

Teressa almost said nothing; Erick could see a hatred taking form across her face. But after a moment, she whispered, “Cursed Babbler. Only 2 darkchips. Ha. That’s a lie.” She added, “They only exist inside Ar’Kendrithyst… Until they don’t.” She breathed. She asked, “Why is Candlepoint sending people into the Dead City to kill some of their larger threats?” She pointed up at ‘Crystal Griever’. “4 chips.” She pointed at another. “Changeling Vine, 3 chips.” She said, “All monsters only inside— Oh.”

Poi frowned.

Erick guessed, “They’re not just inside the Dead City anymore, are they?”

Teressa’s demeanor turned dark, as she went silent.

Kiri asked, “So where are they? They’re not here, and they’re not in Frontier or Kal’Duresh… or maybe they are?” There was a woman near the board, with a mage guild badge on her chest, who was slipping new blocks onto the monster kill board. Kiri said, “Excuse me.”

The woman asked, “Yes?”

Kiri pointed at the names in question, asking, “When did these go up?”

The woman glanced at the board. “Sorry. I don’t really know. Most of them have been on here since the beginning— Oh. Cursed Babbler. I know that one. That one has been here since the beginning, I’m sure.” She guessed, “Either the Shades seeded them outside the Dead City, or they want people to venture into the city. We’re all pretty sure it’s the latter.”

“Why do you say that?” Kiri asked.

“Go visit the other rooms.” The woman pointed across the hallway, saying, “That one, in particular. We got news about Umber Street during the morning shift. Apparently the place is almost like Candlepoint but with different offerings.”

Erick immediately went to the room across the hallway. Five other people were there, but only three of them were looking at the boards in front of them. The other two were guards standing near glowing metal runes carved into the walls; anti-[Scry] runes, from the looks of them. As Erick entered, those runes dimmed, as Ophiel squawked on his shoulder.

Whoops! Ophiel was always technically [Scry]ing, wasn’t he? Erick patted the little guy, as he produced a dozen more eyes, trying to keep his eyesight intact.

The guard to the left almost said something to Erick, but the other guard interrupted, “Just fill it with more oil, Faroi.”

Faroi, the first guard, went back to his rune, and picked up a large stone jar from the ground. The two guards began filling the runes with oil, returning a brightness to the metal.

Erick went to the first of five boards.

This first board held all the ‘basic tier’ rewards, such as daggers that cut better or staffs of fireball; basically anything Erick could have made himself, if he were better at enchanting and had the requisite spells himself. All of those items cost between 1 to 15 darkchips, or between a thousand to 15,000 gold. The prices were inflated, for sure, but were mostly normal. Erick briefly looked at the 5% Reduction Pearl, thinking it would be a good idea, but then ignored that board.

The next board held ‘lesser prizes’. Some of these were self explanatory, like the ‘Cloak of Invisibility’, but when the names of the items were not good enough to describe what the item did, there were small descriptions next to the listing. Some of those descriptions were guesses, and labeled ‘guess’. Others were labeled as ‘known’. A small section of those prizes was devoted entirely to boots. Boots of the Juggernaut. Boots of Wall Walking. Boots of Ceaseless Flight. Boots of Radiance.

Several of the boots looked to be derived from the movement skills of the Elemental Body skills. Erick had never seen those sorts of enchantments in any of the magic stores he had ever visited, but maybe that was only because the vast majority of people in the world did not have an Elemental Body skill at the correct level to make the boots. Erick assumed that most people would either continue on to the full Elemental Body skill, and not choose to stop halfway. He would have to try his own hand at the ‘Boots of Radiance’, later.

Teressa scoffed, “Boots of the Juggernaut. As if.”

Erick asked, “Unmovable movement, in boots, eh?”

“Yeah.” Teressa said, “It’s the main reason to choose to be a Juggernaut. But to put that skill in a pair of boots that could fail or be taken from you, while your team depends on you being an unmovable object? That’s asking for trouble.”

Erick agreed, as his eyes lingered on the ‘Staff of Hands’. He needed to try Cooperative Casting with Ophiel, even though every book that had mentioned the subject had said that [Familiar]s didn’t work for Ritual Magic. Whatever! Maybe everyone was wrong. Crazier things had happened.

Erick moved onto the ‘Normal Prizes’ board. Here, were all the Stat fruits.

Strength, Vitality, Willpower, and Focus. Meatdrop, Blooddrop, Oceandrop, and Dewdrop. Each of them cost a hundred darkchips. Each of them raised their associated Stat by 1 permanent point.

And then there were the other ones.

Sundrop, for Dexterity. Rockdrop, for Constitution. Foamdrop, for Charisma. And finally, Stardrop, for Intelligence. Each of them cost a thousand darkchips.

Beside that board, were known effects of some of the Stats, and one large warning, that ‘Only one Stat can be unlocked. Attempting to unlock a second will instantly turn a person into a shadeling.’ Erick lingered on that warning for a moment, before reading more.

Dexterity

Applies a % reduction to all HP costs, after all other reductions.

Constitution

Applies a % damage reduction, after all other reductions. Side effects are being physically more resilient to all outside effects.

Charisma

Applies an unknown, insidious alteration to all social interactions. People are friendlier to you, without any conscious control. The full extent of this Stat is unknown at this time, and can lead to many horrific events.

The Mind Mages are investigating. Beware this Stat.

Intelligence

Unknown. For sale only in Ar’Kendrithyst.

Erick said, “Well that’s fucking ominous.”

Kiri grumbled in agreement.

Erick briefly glanced at the fourth board. It was labeled ‘Greater Rewards’, and was full of unique items and costs. ‘Undertake a trial to become a Shade’ was one of them. That horror only cost a person 100,000 darkchips. ‘Learn the secrets of magic’ was another; also 100,000 chips.

‘A personalized artifact’. Variable cost.

While Erick was still reeling from the fourth board, he moved on. The final board held quests with darkchips as rewards, instead of items for sale. There were only three quests up there, right now.

Hocnihai’s Legacy. The life’s work of one of the greatest Warder Archmages of Veird has been written, and locked away. Deliver this knowledge to Candlepoint and be rewarded.

Trials of the Dark Dragon. Find Melemizargo in the Underworld and engage him in witty conversation. Maybe something good will happen.

To Touch the Sky. Build an airship that can safely leave Veird and survive outside of the manasphere.

Erick erupted, “Ha!” He asked, “They want to leave Veird?!”

Anhelia spoke up beside Erick, “That’s one theory.”

Erick turned. Anhelia was a dark grey wrought incani, with backswept horns, a slick dress formed from her body, and a devilish smile. She was the information broker of Spur, and she was one of the only people of this city, with a modicum of power, that wanted every single Shade dead and gone; just like Erick. According to her, the Dark Dragon killed her grandmother, mother, and too many of her children to think about. Erick had no reason to disbelieve her.

Anhelia smiled.

Erick said, “I’m glad you’re here. I’d like to talk to you about some important matters.”

Anhelia nodded. “I have a room upstairs we can use.”
