Erick walked down the hallways of the embassy, following Otaliya and Tasar as the two wrought had a private conversation. Near-invisible tendrils of thought spilled off of their heads, connecting them together. Otaliya walked strong the whole time, but Tasar flinched and stared and glared, likely in time to silent words which Erick would never know. Eventually, though, some sort of understanding took place.

The telepathic lines broke.

Tasar breathed out, then she said, “My mother has been doing this for hundreds of years. She has an excellent approval record, though she hasn’t done an inquiry in a while. This is fine.”

Otaliya nodded, saying, “109 full approvals. 29 half-step approvals. Only 430 failures. Probably the best record of anyone currently alive today.”

“Ahh.” Erick was instinctively unhappy about those numbers, but he had no basis for comparison. “Uh…”

Otaliya instantly understood Erick’s apprehension. “A 20% win rate is considered rather high because these are inquiries we’re talking about here. A successful inquiry is a business dealing between immortals and mortals, with the possibility for this deal to transfer ownership along agreed-upon mortal lines, lasting into forever. Because of this, Stratagold is very particular about striking any sorts of agreements at all.”

“Oh.” Erick said, “That makes a lot more sense, yes.”

Otaliya glanced backward, smiling briefly before turning back forward. As they walked, she said, “I estimate that you have a 95% chance of passing your inquiry. Tasar is less optimistic at only 50%. I disagree with her statement because, while I might recently have become something of a hermit, I do still talk to people.”

Tasar sighed. “I don’t want anyone to be surprised when this doesn’t work. Archmage’s Rest is already a firm ‘no’. The Church of Rozeta is a likely ‘no’. The Royal Faction is about the same as the Church. No one liked that you went into the Core without proper clearance, Erick, and that fact will be a large impediment toward gaining a good outcome from an inquiry.”

“Tasar is right, of course, but we have options.” Otaliya said to him, “You still have to take Bright Tea, and that can either be a great boon for your future inquiry, or a great detriment, so our goal, for now, is to figure out the geology of the field to prepare you for Bright Tea. Once you are there you can talk and charm and deal with all of these various factors to hopefully turn each ‘no’ into a ‘yes’.”

“Sounds like a plan to me.” Erick asked, “Who else needs to sign off on an inquiry, anyway?”

Otaliya happily said, “That’s why we’re headed toward the inquiry preparatory committee hallway. Wrought society doesn’t change much, but it does shift over long enough time periods and my own information is half out of date. We’ll learn more once we talk to the people currently on the ground.”

- - - -

Down a lavish hallway that split into a dozen different building-sized office spaces, where thirty meetings of various sizes were happening in rooms and in hallways, Erick found the people he had spoken with not ten minutes ago. Otaliya didn’t know these people, specifically, but she knew the parents or owners or the label of the various ‘marketing firms’ that were the inquiry preparatory committees.

Otaliya seemed impressed with the people Erick had chosen out of the eleven possible firms inside the hallway, so there wasn’t much to do but move to a room and start talking politics and goals, and then one of the men on the other side of the table said something that threw Erick for a loop.

“You have a history of vigilantism and moving against established countries, Archmage Flatt. This history is going to be taken into account in the inquiry, and will likely result in a rather unpleasant experience.”

Another one of them agreed.

And then Erick started checking out of the whole experience as his exploits were trotted out and held up to the worst possible lights.

“Heroes often do not achieve a positive inquiry because of their disdain for established powers…”

“The destruction of much of Songli will be a problem because of...”

That went on for a while.

But! Erick was happy that Otaliya seemed to be about as angry with these people as he was. She frowned a little as she jumped in with, “But as the Savior of Light he…”

Ah. But she was on that ‘Savior of Light’ thing. He hoped he wouldn’t disappoint her, but he probably would.

“With all due respect, Misses Otaliya, you haven’t been in an inquiry room in a century and...”

Erick listened. He cared. Yes, he was present. Yes, he answered questions, and he pretended to be enthusiastic about the whole thing, but there was this undercurrent of bullshit and appeasement of the powers-that-be that irked him the wrong way.

Finally, when sitting in a chair with Otaliya sitting to one side and Tasar standing in the back of the room, similarly disgusted by the whole experience, Erick was almost at his limit. The trio of IPC people in front of him, each representing a separate IPC firm, each dressed impeccably and each with a secretary standing behind them, had just asked him what sort of opportunity he was hoping to get out of Stratagold, and then…

One guy asked, “The major question that you are going to be asked, and that you need to answer in the best possible way, is: ‘Are you willing to eradicate the shadelings currently living under your power?’ and ‘To what extent are you willing to enact the will of Stratagold upon the Crystal Forest?’. Will you follow orders handed down by the Heavies?”

They had been dancing around that subject for a while now, but, having gauged that Erick would not erupt at them, one of them decided to just ask the important question in the most unambiguous sort of way.

And yet, Erick almost fucking lost it. He almost started screaming obscenities. But he pulled back. Not fast enough, though. Not before every single person in the room recognized that he had gone from indifferent to explosive.

So Erick took a calming breath, and said, “This is a very good question. My response to this is—” Fuck you I do what I want; try and stop me. “My response is that they should be happy to…” They should be happy that I’m inviting them to participate in the new world I’m creating on the Surface, considering the lack of care they put into the rest of civilization. “My response is that is… Shadelings are people, like any other. I will not allow them to be murdered simply to assuage fears.”

The man on the other side of the table successfully kept his fear-response under control. All of them did. Otaliya looked a bit sad, though.

The man who had asked the question, spoke plainly, “You’re not going to get a successful inquiry if you’re not willing to enact certain Stratagold laws. One of them is the execution of any shadeling or a monster pretending at being a person.” He snapped a finger at his secretary and the secretary stepped to Erick, pulled a piece of paper from a folder, and set down that paper in front of Erick. It was a set of laws. The main guy said, “These are the basic laws that everyone aiming for a successful inquiry must meet if they desire the full support of Stratagold. I have studied all of your works, Archmage Flatt, and while I know you’re going to fail 14 out of these 20 points, I also know that Stratagold is only going to forgive 10 of them.”

Erick read—

Otaliya did not look at the paper as she countered, “On the surface it might appear that this is a failed inquiry but if Erick acquires [Gate] he will literally be too large to ignore. These particular rules won’t matter. What we have here is a case of the entire world changing in light of new events. Stratagold needs to become a part of the foundation or they will become part of the destructible house. Having a World Tree alone makes that entire list of rules dubious at best, and an attempt at dragging down at the worst.” And then it was Otaliya’s turn to speak plainly. “The simple fact is that Stratagold needs Erick more than Erick needs Stratagold, and the problem that we will face going forward is convincing the inquiry board that they need to adjust themselves. This is not a normal inquiry by any stretch of the program. Do not mistake it as such.”

Erick felt his anger sputter and die as he heard Otaliya’s point of view, and found a kindred soul in those words, or at least a very good pretender. If the other people of the preliminary IPCs had followed suit, Erick would have remained less mad. But they did not.

The first guy, who was an incani, said, “Madam Otaliya. You were not here for the great Wasteland Inquiry 35 years ago, ten years after the wars that made the largest incani land in the world reincorporate into what they are today. The litigants came to this embassy, to these preparatory committees, and we prepared them for a whole year. Everything was set for a win. But during the war, 17 years prior, one of the litigants broke rule 6 when they evaded Core Patrols and went for the monsters in the Main Tunnels. Didn’t even threaten the guardians. Just leveled to 97 and then went back to the land that would become the Kingdoms and became a war hero. Saved the nation from total desolation. Millions of lives saved. That bit of information about his trip to the Core came out in the inquiry and ruined everything. We had accounted for it, though. The Wasteland Kingdoms still should have gotten a positive result. But, no. Failure. On its own, it was just one such failure when there should have been success, but there were others.

“We think that Stratagold might be at a saturation point for inquiries. Almost everything that they would have approved 10 years ago is being denied these days.” The man looked to Erick, saying, “I can’t say for sure, but we widely believe that this inquiry will be under Inquisitor Kromolok himself. The inquiry board will be ruthless. They will uncover every hidden thing you have to hide— Anything that could possibly harm Stratagold, and—”

“Let me stop you there.” Erick had ignored many of the smaller problems he had noticed in this meeting, like the fact that this incani worked for the Wasteland Kingdoms, but he couldn’t ignore it any longer. “You’re speaking like you don’t want to be here. So perhaps you should leave and save me the trouble of having to deal with this attitude that this isn’t going to work. By the way: tell the Wasteland that I’m going to accept their offer to visit as soon as I can, but I’ve been busy.”

The incani man sat straighter.

There was some shit going on between him and the human from a different EIPC group sitting on the other side of the table, while the third person, a dragonkin woman, simply ignored whatever was going on between the human and incani.

The incani man surprised Erick, though, when he said, “I do not wish to misrepresent my firm. I merely wish to impart the severity of the 14 failed rules on the 20 point list. It’s getting harder and harder to secure a win these days, with success rates between 2 or 3 percent, depending on how you measure.”

The man wasn’t willing to drop the act…

Or maybe Erick was just being paranoid? It was possible.

Erick… sort of believed him now. Shit. Erick said, “Heard and understood.” He breathed, and sighed, then spoke to everyone. “Look. I’m finding it really hard to believe that with every good thing I’ve done so far, that Stratagold wouldn’t want to ensure that good things kept happening. Like… Should I just go to a different Geode? The wrought aren’t a monolith, are they?”

Tasar stepped away from the wall to stand next to the desk, saying, “Stratagold wants you here, Erick, but we also want to be sure that we haven’t invited danger into our lives.”

“Well that’s just it.” Erick said, “You say ‘danger’ but I say ‘change’ and I think that’s the fundamental problem.”

Tasar frowned a little.

But everyone else agreed with him; from people across the desk, to Otaliya sitting beside him, they all knew the truth. The EIPC people were just focused on the problems, which… was probably helpful. Erick just wasn’t feeling it right now. Thankfully none of them had spoken about how Last Shadow’s Feast was going to be just as much of a problem as a boon…

They were probably saving that discussion for day #10 of this preparation, or something.

Otaliya spoke up, “This perspective of ‘change’ as ‘danger’ is the core of the actual problem.” She spoke to everyone present, saying, “The Heavies and the Church and the Inquisition and the Merchants and the Army, and all the rest. None of them like change. It is a word that has likely been scoured out of the lexicons as the one bad word you should never say in an inquiry. But change is where we must focus this inquiry.” She added, “It would behoove us to still not use that actual word.”

While the human and the incani were stunned, the dragonkin woman leaned forward a little, saying, “If you know of a way to make such a gambit work I am ready to hear it, but there is literally no way to frame the scouring of the Forest of Glaquin or the eradication of the sects of Nelboor or Last Shadow’s Feast as anything but a major change.” Ah. Maybe they would get into Last Shadow’s Feast today? The woman continued, “And that’s not even touching the shadeling thing. This is the kind of change that Stratagold would normally watch for 10 years before making a decision. A hundred years of waiting is probably a better estimate.” The woman said to Erick, “With all the respect you are due, I feel that aiming for a wyrm’s eye is a waste of mana. Of course we should aim for such, but it is easier to hit a larger target. Pick a few goals and focus on them. Aim for a partial-inquiry. Perhaps help with getting the metals for Gates? Perhaps runic web clearance? A connection to the Teleport Station network? A partial win seems possible, but a full win is out of the question.”

Erick… Wasn’t sure how he felt about that. So he listened.

The human man frowned a little and began to list ways in which they could win the whole thing, to which the incani man sided with the dragonkin woman, saying that a partial win was perhaps all that Erick could hope for. Otaliya spoke a bit about how they should focus on a full win, and then pare down if it seemed to be going badly, but she was still very much of the opinion that Erick could, and should, win the full backing of Stratagold.

In a lull in the conversation, Erick asked Tasar, “Do you think it is possible to achieve a full win?”

Everyone turned to Tasar.

