Ophiel descended to the landing at the entrance to the sphere. The guards fired some spells at the strange entity, but [Animadversion] threw those spells wide. Erick’s demands to see someone in charge only made the guards try even more desperate spellwork, while one even tried a [Strike] with their spear.

Erick was a patient man, so he was willing to let people be scared for a little while. It wasn’t like their attacks were doing anything. But…

A separate Ophiel turned on [Physical Domain] and started speaking to the entire facility.

Someone in charge came out pretty fast after Erick started shaking the whole facility.

Erick frowned when he saw who had come out. The guy wore expensive looking robes with hands stained red. Not too unusual, but he was sweating blood, too, which was very suspect. And now, Erick started inspecting all the people around him a lot more closely. While he was doing this, Erick reported on what he had found and demanded access to the facility, for there were a lot more changeling vines than there should have been.

That’s when the red-sweat guy turned into a vine plant and tried attacking him. It was a pretty impressive transformation, if Erick was honest. His robes unfolded along with his arms and his bones and his ribcage, becoming vines and eyes and slashing thorns, filling up the entirety of the entrance platform as it tried to get at Ophiel. One spear guard unfolded into a changeling vine, too, but the other guard was just a normal dragonkin. Erick rescued the normal guard.

Erick studied the scene before him for half a second. These vine monsters were odd, because while there were some oddities among these people, their souls were normal in that they had no rads next to their hearts, where a monstrous soul was usually contained, and their bodies were normal without any vines anywhere. But then, at a shift, they were monsters. Their souls retreated to their cores and they attacked with vines made of controlled plant matter.

Erick killed the monsters that attacked him, of course, but he also demanded that one of them transform back. The monster in charge, possibly sensing the uselessness of further ‘attacking’, complied. Erick noticed something he did not notice before. The guy had no veins. Just arteries.

How strange! Erick hadn’t even considered looking for that. It was such a nuanced difference too, that Erick was sure no one else had noticed it. And then he killed the monster, even though it was pleading with him and promising to be good. These things were obligate… Parasites? Mimics? Erick wasn’t sure. But he wasn’t going to let them infest other lands.

They didn’t have DNA like normal people, either. They were all changeling vines, which was easy enough to Image for. Armed with his new knowledge, Erick set the Imaging to a new target. After checking to ensure that, yes, this was going to work, and it was, Erick went to work.

He spent 20 minutes clearing out the whole place of Changeling Vines, most of which started to abandon the sphere once the future of their infestation became obvious. The other Ophiels stationed around the place caught the fleeing obligate mimics, with the Imaging proving their identities as either vines fleeing for their lives, or people fleeing for their lives. Whatever the case, everyone was fleeing for their lives.

Short bloody story made shorter: It got sorted.

Then Erick moved on to the town on the Main Road and found three vine-people there, as well as an incubation house on the outskirts of town. Baby changeling vines were growing in soil made of bones and rotten flesh.

Simultaneously, Erick spoke to the wrought at the garrison in town, ensuring that everyone knew what he was doing and why he was doing it. By the time reinforcements from Stratagold showed, Erick had already cleared the entire place.

The commanding wrought officer politely thanked Erick, then rapidly went about cleaning up the mess Erick had made.

The baron of the town, who had sent Erick the request for assistance, loudly thanked Erick, but most of his words were reserved for the various people who had failed to realize what was going on under their noses. According to what Erick was seeing, the baron and the commanding wrought had some issues, with the wrought saying that this wouldn’t have happened if they allowed them into the redvine caverns, and the baron saying that they purposefully didn’t help at the alchemy sphere, but none of that was Erick’s problem.

He moved on.
