There were many ways to go about making different [Steadfast Ward]s; about as many ways to do it as there were other spells to add to the base mix. Erick only had the one example [Steadfast Ward] to center his workings on, though, even with all the talk he had had with the other archmages about this particular spell. This example came from Tasar.

Steadfast Ward, instant, self, 5000 mana

Enact a personal ward of absolute defense, preventing 250 damage from all outside sources. Lasts 24 hours.

It had taken Tasar three years to make that one, and it was pretty much perfect. Ryul said his [Steadfast Ward] came in at 310 points of absolute defense, exactly like Tasar claimed, but only because he was a Force Mage working in his field of power. Ryul didn’t share that blue box with him, though, so he could have been lying, but Erick seriously doubted that.

Erick had been warned that his own first attempt at a [Steadfast Personal Ward] would likely hit 50 points of absolute defense. An [Area Ward] would maybe hit 10.

He decided to test those postulations.

Standing on Yggdrasil’s branches, outside of his [Sealed Privacy Ward]s and visible to the rest of the world, Erick held out his two hands. In his left hand he channeled [Ward] and listened to the sounds of mana becoming magic of a particular flavor; protective, delineated, encompassing. In his right hand he channeled [Force Wall]; delineated, barrier, unbreakable. Ophiels gathered in the air around him, the ones on his left focusing on the warble of [Ward], the ones on his right focusing on the force of [Force Wall].

Erick adjusted the melody. He shifted absolute Force to something lighter, airier, and yet no less strong. Unbreakable notes became ethereal. [Ward] took hold of those sounds and twisted itself into something stringed. Erick focused on the body’s natural defenses, on the collagen in the skin in the way bones supported flesh, and how that flesh and bone knitted together in an array to protect everything of importance about a person—

[Ward] seemed to click.

Erick cast. Nearly four thousand mana flowed out of him, not as a [Personal Ward], but as an [Area Ward]. The air in front of him flexed like a visual distortion, and then calmed.

A second later a blue box appeared.

Steadfast Area Ward, instant, close range, 3900 mana

Enact a large ward of absolute defense, preventing 35 damage from all outside sources. Lasts 24 hours.

“ ‘A max of 10 on my first try’.” Erick smiled, then said, “That’s a mite higher than 10.”

35 absolute area defense was lower than the max he should be able to achieve through a simple combination of [Force Wall] and [Ward], which was 50, but 35 was not bad for his first try. His methodologies were properly aligned; he just needed to align them better. For a [Personal Ward] he would need to add something else to the mix, though, since one could only combine the same two spells once.

He was thinking of adding [Lightshape] and [Shadowshape] along with a Mana Altering for Illusion to the mix, to create some sort of [Steadfast Illusionary Ward] that would allow him to brush off all attacks that weren’t properly aimed, or which were so large that he could not possibly avoid them. It was a combination that the other archmages didn’t approve of simply because of the difficulty of living under such a wild spell. Archmage Astria spoke of trying to pick up forks and missing them half the time, while Tasar spoke of having to forgo natural eyesight in favor of mana sense or other senses. Riivo countered that to fix this issue, one just had to do what one had to do with all Illusion spells: make sure the eyes and ears were unencumbered by your illusionary spellwork. Hands were also a good thing to leave unencumbered. Erick appreciated Riivo’s ‘fixes’, but the reason he chose not to go this route was because he wanted something that looked as normal as a normal [Personal Ward], and Illusion was not the way to go.

The next option was Blood Magic, but for all the reasons he had already heard before, all of which boiled down to ‘that’s how you get cancer’, that was a non-starter.

Another option was that Erick could continue to use the base-[Personal Ward], and [Renew] it up to full power/duration and beyond whenever he had some extra mana, which was most of the time. In this way he would never make himself vulnerable in the morning due to casting his daily [Personal Ward] ever again. It was a nice thought. But that was a non-starter, too.

Erick wanted absolute mitigation, less of a morning vulnerability, and he wanted all his Constitution and otherwise to finally be useful.

So therefore, the best option was probably to add Mana Altering for Light to his combination, allowing him to make good use of his constantly running sunform. A [Light Steadfast Ward] was the safe choice, and yet… It would make him look like a glowstick, all the time. There would be no hiding his lit-up self. Something about that irked him in some intangible way. It was the same problem as the Illusion-based spell.

There were other ways to go besides just adding elements to the magic.

He had spoken with Nirzir extensively about spells that made one immune to damage, for the young girl had that as her life goal. She had gotten pretty far, and even showed Erick her current-best effort.

Immaculate Form, instant, self, personal ward, 6450 mana

Your body becomes extraordinarily resistant to damage. Your internal spells become extraordinarily hard to disrupt. Healing effects are heightened. This spell is extraordinarily resistant toward dispelling effects.

Lasts 24 hours.

It was probably a lot better than Tasar’s [Steadfast Ward]. Erick was pretty sure that Tasar’s spellwork wasn’t even what she used, exactly. An archmage would have better defenses than that… But then again, Erick didn’t have anything better than a [Personal Ward] so far, and he was pretty sure Tasar wasn’t lying to him about what she used.

Anyway.

The anti-Dispel effect from Nirzir’s spellwork was attractive.

He would use Tricking Magic to ensure that a [Steadfast Ward] couldn’t be Tricked off of him, anyway. Moving from an effective 230,000 mana [Personal Ward] to a 5000 mana [Steadfast Ward] meant that someone’s normal [Dispel] could probably rip off his [Steadfast Ward], whereas now, a potential attacker would only waste mana trying to rip off his [Personal Ward].

Erick organized his thoughts along those lines, and then he handed off [Dispel], [Personal Ward], and [Force Wall] to his Ophiel. They fluttered around him, dancing in the light and in the breeze, singing of anti-magic and defense and unbreakable strength. Erick gradually tuned them, one by one, to anti-anti magic, personal defense, and ethereal strength. Further tuning brought forth ideas of strengthening bones and ensuring the integrity of muscle and skin. In a moment of inspiration, Erick turned on his aura and shifted every sound through his body, personally aligning what he heard with what it was doing to his flesh, wrangling tangled snakes of Force into ethereal positions.

He held the power open for several seconds, ensuring that it was what he wanted, and deciding that he was ready.

He cast.

Ethereal force faded into his body like cemented Reality.

He… didn’t feel any different. Which was the point. He breathed and flexed an arm and moved his arm—

A blue box appeared.

Steadfast Ward, instant, self, 3700 mana

Enact a personal ward of absolute defense, preventing 110 damage from all outside sources. This spell is extraordinarily resistant toward dispelling effects. Lasts 24 hours.

It… Seemed okay? The spell looked completely invisible upon his skin. It wasn’t till he looked at himself with [Magic Sight] that he saw the Force soaking his body. His new spell didn’t extend a single hair above his skin, though…

Which meant that his hair would get burned off if he ever encountered a whole lot of fire, which, if he was honest with himself, was always a possibility. Eh. He didn’t really care about his hair, but maybe he should try protecting his clothes, if only so he wasn’t naked after a potential fireblast. [Personal Ward]s protected clothing at least a little. Ehh. He’d have to remake this spell, anyway.

Time to test it, though.

Erick began casting some testing spells, separating them from each other by several yards, and ensuring that every piece of them was separate from the rest. The first was [Hermetic Razor].

Hermetic Razor, instant, medium range, 500 mana

25 molecular wires stretch through a medium-sized space, at your command. One wire does a maximum of 100 points of damage before breaking.

The second was [Hermetic Shredder], for 60 mana.

Hermetic Shredder, instant, medium range, 1000 mana + Variable

A Variable number of molecular wires stretch through a Variable space, at your command. One wire does a maximum of Variable points of damage before breaking.

At 60 mana, Erick created 200 wires each of which would be able to take 200 points of damage before breaking.

Erick cast [Hermetic Shredder] again into another part of the air, this time for 100 mana, which, after bonuses, meant that he had 1000 wires each worth 1000 points of damage. If he had made this new [Ward] spell right then his 87% damage reduction from Constitution should reduce the damage per wire down to 130, and the [Steadfast Ward]’s 110 absolute damage reduction should get rid of all but 20.

But since Constitution had some diminishing returns, he’d likely hit himself for more than that.

The wires all hung in the air like faint up and down lines, barely there, even if he was looking for them.

Erick stepped to the first experiment, with each wire worth 100 points of damage, and gently touched the first one with his elbow. It was like touching a strong spider web, and with a bit more pressure the wire snapped. His Health hadn’t gone down at all, and, as he checked his elbow, his shirt was ripped but his skin remained intact. A [Mend] fixed the shirt.

He pressed his palm against the other wires, rapidly breaking all twenty four of the remaining [Hermetic Razor]s in quick succession. With a bloodless palm and not a mark on him, Erick moved on to the 200 point [Hermetic Shredder] wires. Those wires met a similar fate, but they were about twice as hard to break. They didn’t break because of Erick’s strength, though; they had just been expended, trying to damage him.

With a sweep of his hand, Erick cleared away all 200 of the 200 damage wires, breaking them like so many expended [Force Bolt]s breaking upon a solid rock. Such an act would have cost him 40,000 damage from his usual [Personal Ward] worth 130,000 damage, meaning he would have gone through 30% of that spell to do what he had just done. [Steadfast Ward]s were great against small, constant damage, but...

With wary eyes, Erick moved on to the thousand, 1000-damage wires.

He touched the first one with the palm of his hand and his hand gave away first, the wire digging in.

Erick pressed on. When the wire touched his bone the wire broke, snapping away from his flesh. He inspected the damage, both physical and in his Status. A near-imperceptible cut had dipped into the meaty flesh of his palm, going all the way through like a terrible paper cut. Blood welled on three points where the wire had clipped a few veins under the skin, and then the blood started to flow. It wasn’t painful; It was a truly clean cut.

It was certainly not a 20 point cut, though. According to his Status it was a 140 point injury to his Health.

A few things were confirmed at that moment. Most importantly, Erick had made his [Steadfast Ward] properly; It took into account all of his defenses, first, and then it applied the absolute defense against the remaining damage. But also, according to the math, his Constitution was only worth a 75% damage reduction. The diminishing returns carved off hard, apparently.

Erick cast [Defend], dropping his maximum Health by 10%, and touched the next 1000 damage wire.

This time his hand went right through, breaking the molecular wire like it wasn’t even there.

With a swiping hand, Erick wiped away all the other 1000 damage wires.

Apparently [Defend]’s ‘take 50% less damage for 1 minute’ stacked with Constitution. Good to know. But how, exactly, did it stack? Up to a full 100% damage reduction? Absolutely not. So where was the line?

Erick did a few more tests with higher strength [Hermetic Shredder] and discovered the line: 95% damage reduction. Intelligence’s spell cost reductions were capped around 94%-96%, too, even with Clarity’s 50% off spell costs and Favored Spell’s further 25% reduction, so this made some amount of sense.

Both of these Steadfast spells were failures. Erick grabbed both new blue boxes and broke them. Two small parts of his soul crackled and broke, but this was a small soul injury which would heal by tomorrow. And then he could try again.

Perhaps he needed to make some sort of halfway spell, bridging [Personal Ward] and [Steadfast Ward]; a spell of protection that crossed the first’s ability to ‘restore itself to some larger initial number’, with the second’s ability to have a ‘floor’ of damage that it absolutely prevented. If he was a Warder he could just have both spells active at the same time, but as a non-Warder, Erick was only allowed one [Personal Ward], so he had to settle for some half-way spell.

And maybe he could include some Variable-Cost-Variable-Effect spellwork into the thing, anyway. [Hermetic Shredder] was VCVE and it wasn’t Blood Magic. While Kiri had made that one, Erick had Remade it just fine, while also making a few VCVE spells of his own like [True Plasma Bolt] and [Slowing Bolt]. Maybe he could approach this solution to this problem through [Conjure Armor]’s Variable modifier? He hardly ever used conjured armor anyway, and perhaps including a [Steadfast Ward] in some conjured armor was a good idea.

He would try those methods tomorrow. There were so many ways to go with this, it was no wonder that Nirzir had trouble organizing all of it into one good spell. He could solve this problem eventually but right now he needed more time to think, because, with his current thoughts based on the information given to him by Archmage’s Rest, this [Steadfast Ward] seemed like a failure. An all-around failure.

Yggdrasil could certainly use it, but Erick could not.

Erick thought for another second…

