Tasar said, “It is right to try for a full win, but when you entered the Core without proper protocols you removed the possibility of a full win. I can’t help you with that, anyway. I am here to help you on the Worldly Path, and in my opinion, Stratagold’s support is not necessary for that success. You already have Oceanside on your side.” She looked to Otaliya, and said, “If anything, my mother is right. Stratagold needs to throw in with you. Not the other way around.”

Otaliya seemed to brighten as she allowed herself a small smile.

Tasar added, “All of our half-known knowledge of [Gate]s can come from Archmage’s Rest and Oceanside and the Heavy archives, but the only way to get runic web clearance is from Stratagold. The Headmaster might approve of sourcing you metal, but he can do nothing for runic webs. T-station access requires full approval, but since the goal is [Gate], then perhaps you don’t want to settle for a t-station. With these facts in mind, gaining runic web clearance is the bare minimum of what you should hope to achieve. Everything else would be easier with full inquiry approval, but it is not strictly necessary.”

Erick nodded, feeling a bit better about having Tasar at his side at that moment. He turned to the other people, saying, “So that’s how it is. Runic web clearance. That’s the bare minimum goal. Metals are a second priority because I can get those elsewhere. And while I appreciate the thought of asking for t-station clearance, I don’t need that [Force Trap] on my land, because I don’t want to guard it all the time.”

Tasar looked a little bit relieved.

Good. Erick had hoped that she would approve of such a decision.

Erick said, “Everything else Stratagold can offer, from labor to trade routes to help governing and all the rest. All of that is unnecessary.”

While the other people looked unsure—

Otaliya smiled, and said, “Well said. But don’t say that part about governing in the inquiry. With a runic web they are going to demand some oversight protocols. Now, as for actual speaking methods, what you want to say to the Heavy representative is something along the lines of ‘There is opportunity here to carve away the shadows of the surface, producing something more stable’ while telling the representative from the Church something similar. The Merchants will want to know that you can provide security to them, but that shouldn’t be a large issue considering your magics and your proven capability to track down and eliminate threats. The Merchants will likely be your largest supporter.” Otaliya added, “All of this is subject to change depending on who is actually going to be seated upon your inquiry board.” She asked the people on the other side of the table. “Who is usually there this time of year?”

The incani man spoke first.

Talk resumed.

Erick was more invested, this time. He’d go for a result of full support, but his expectations lowered quite a bit. He didn’t care too much about t-station clearance, but he decided to try for it, anyway. He didn’t even need metal support, but he also wasn’t going to be openly using [Duplicate] to solve any metal problems, so he did kinda need metal support. Runic webs were the only thing he truly needed Stratagold to sign off on, and now that he knew that, he had a goal.

Toward that end, Erick had to make sure that Riivo was on board with Erick’s runic web goals. Apparently that old iron man was the main deciding factor on who got runic web clearance or not. Oh, sure, Erick needed the whole inquiry to sign off on him getting runic webs, but he needed Riivo’s support first.

The EIPC talk lasted four hours, with plans to resume discussions in two days once all three of Erick’s various teams and Otaliya had time to better prepare. Today was just the preliminary discussion.

Erick saw the human, Radigo, the dragonkin, Loori, and the incani, Walz, off; thanking them for their time. Otaliya and Tasar had some sort of private conversation with each other near the end of the talks which Erick was not privy to, but that was fine.

On the way out of the EIPC hallways, Otaliya said, “That was a productive first meeting, Erick. I will strive to get you full approval, but perhaps they were right that lesser approvals are a more realistic goal.”

“Oh yeah. I’m fine with partial approval. I want the runic webs first and foremost.” Erick said, “And thanks for helping, Otaliya. You provided a great perspective that would have otherwise been missing.” He smirked. “About the only one in there with a positive attitude, too, and that helped a lot.”

Otaliya probably would have been blushing if she were made of flesh and blood, and not white-green copper.

“A very positive attitude,” Tasar said, smiling a little.

Otaliya gave a small, happy laugh, then said to Erick, “I look forward to the next meeting, but for now, I think it is time for me to run around and find out everything else I have missed these last many years. Do you mind if I take Tasar with me?”

Tasar went from happy, to unsure yet excited.

So Erick said, “Not at all; go ahead. I’m going to head to the world diner’s market, grab something to eat, and then escape back to Yggdrasil to unwind for a while. Sleep, probably. So I’ll see you two later.”

They went their separate ways.

Erick went to the food court, grabbed some food, evaded many other people who wanted to talk about this or that (while telling them to send a letter instead), and escaped back to Yggdrasil where he promptly did some [Renew] work on his Other Self, switched back to his Normal Self and ate real food, and then he did some planning for [Steadfast Ward]. He didn’t get far in his magic planning. He’d make that magic in the morning.

Today had been a very good day.

Also frustrating, enlightening, angering, and a bit wonderful. Erick liked Otaliya and was warming to Tasar, but Tasar remained almost alien in many of her mannerisms. While Tasar seemed keen on standing in place and watching the proceedings in front of her, her mother was much more animated and present.

He kinda wondered what had happened in Tasar’s office before Erick had interrupted them, but whatever. He wasn’t the type to pry. It was hard not to notice that Otaliya was very much a shut-in, though, so he was glad to help her get out of the house and to have her on his team, even if most of her information about inquiries was out of date. The wrought themselves were out of date, for the most part, so Otaliya’s perspective was still invaluable.

He hoped that Tasar and Otaliya were doing well right now, whatever they were doing.

- - - -

The two wrought headed off together to the t-station at the bottom of the embassy, just Otaliya and her daughter, happily walking beside each other. Otaliya was happy to say that Tasar had warmed up a lot throughout the whole meeting, as she watched everyone talk excitedly about opportunity and change. Otaliya had always been one of the most gregarious wrought inside the embassy; she knew every mortal inside the facility in ways that most wrought would never want to know, from what foods they liked to what their family lives were like. That was before The Event, though. Things had changed since then. Otaliya had kept up with the largest news but everything else… Everything else had slipped away.

And now…

Now she was back out of the room. She was surprised she had done it, too! Just… Stepped out. Like it wasn’t a big deal. And now she was here, walking beside her daughter again like she used to, oh so long ago.

It was nice.

So many things were nice.

Otaliya sent, ‘I’m really glad the Worldly Path brought you back to the Embassy. I know I was horrible to you after the… Event, but I’d love to see you more. At least until you leave to help the Savior on his Path.’

‘We don’t know if he’s the Savior of Light.’ Tasar sent, ‘Don’t set yourself up for that much disappointment, Mom.’

‘And don’t you go making enemies where there are none.’ Otaliya sent, ‘I know that it’s wishful thinking to go naming him that at this juncture, but even if it is a ploy of the Dark, he’s done quite a lot for the world and we really should be backing up his desires to do more. Surely you noticed: The man is ready to break the world like any Heavy pushed near the breaking point. He’s vulnerable now, and that means you can be a fantastic ally, or you can be an enemy. It wouldn’t take much to break either way.’

‘My goal is to be neutral.’ Tasar sent, ‘Though with how I’ve been positioned to be near him… I can’t help but feel that they’re setting me up for the slagpit.’

‘Now see? There’s your problem. Neutrality is for gods and monsters, and you are neither. Fall to the right side, Tasar. Don’t…’ Otaliya had so many words to say to Tasar that they all sort of jumbled up together. She wanted her to be safe, to be happy, to be successful, to make good decisions, and right now she was failing all four. Erick was a node upon which the world would turn, and anyone who couldn’t see that was a fool. Otaliya truly did like the man, but like so much in life, ‘doing what you liked’ and ‘doing the smart thing’ were oftentimes at odds with each other. Luckily, this time, this was not the case. The ‘nice thing’ and the ‘correct thing’ were one and the same. ‘Tasar. This is a rare opportunity to do both the nice and the smart thing. The man is terrified of a Forgotten Campaign coming down on his head so we need to be sure that isn’t going to happen.’

Tasar eyed her mother. ‘How?’

‘By doing the same thing I did for hundreds of years before I stopped.’ Otaliya sent, ‘We’re going to go talk to people and make some connections for him, before he ever steps in that inquiry room. Let’s head to the Gold District to talk to the Merchants.’

Tasar grumbled a little as they stepped onto the golden disk of the t-station, sending, ‘I still don’t think you should become involved. You almost… You almost Transformed after…’

Tasar wanted her mother to remain her mother. Otaliya could understand that quite well. Otaliya wanted to remain Tasar’s mother as well. Family was important to her, and to Tasar, especially after the… Event.

But duty called.

Otaliya would answer.

They had reached the t-station.

Otaliya said, ‘Routine was good for me. Centering. But now? Now there’s something to live for again. A calling. A desire. And you know me; I was always at my best when I was [Strike]ing Stratagold to draw riches for the mortals.’ Otaliya happily sent, ‘So fire it up! Let’s get to coordinating on behalf of the Savior of Light!’

Tasar paused. She stared at nothing, then she turned to Otaliya. ‘This could all be a trap, Mom. Erick could be working for the Dark. He might even be a Wizard.’

Otaliya paused. Her mind blanked. Her eyes went wide as she turned and stared at nothing. Moments passed in silence as an invisible, intangible shadow crawled into her chest and squeezed her heart—

No.

No.

Erick wasn’t a Wizard. He was the Savior of Light. He even had an aura of light!

No.

Okay.

Otaliya centered herself and sent, ‘I don’t believe he is a Wizard. He shows none of the signs. Will this come up at the inquiry?’

‘They will ask him directly, under truthstone and through Kromolok.’ Tasar sent, ‘That is all I know. They’re keeping me out of most of it.’

Otaliya paused. A hundred thoughts swirled, and then calmed. Calmly, she sent, ‘I am prepared for this possibility now. Thank you for telling me. Is this what you were trying to tell me earlier?’

‘Most of it, yes.’ Tasar sent, ‘I’m sorry about trying to make you stay in the room.’

Otaliya sent, ‘I’m sorry for breaking the door. So let’s go buy a new one in the Gold District.’

‘… Sure.’

Tasar reluctantly put her hand upon the obelisk.

The world blipped green and black.

- - - -

Erick woke from a nothing dream, feeling rested. A quick check of his surroundings showed that he was still in Yggdrasil’s branches, surrounded by blankets and covers and pillows. He yawned, and stretched, flickering on his usual spells as he got reacquainted with the world around him.

“Hello, Ophiel,” he said to Ophiel, sitting above him on the corner of his headrest. Ophiel chirped in recognition. “Hello, Yggdrasil,” he said to Yggdrasil, looming all around him, like the firmament itself. Erick supposed that one day Yggdrasil would actually be the firmament, and wasn’t that a strange thought.

“Hello, Father,” Yggdrasil said, “Sleep well?”

“I did sleep well. Thank you for looking over me.”

Erick got out of bed, yawned again, then went to make breakfast out of some leftovers. He had squirreled away a fair bit of various foods from his trips to town so he would have samples with which to copy into full meals, and that’s what he did now. One pancake and one piece of perfectly fried chicken, along with a small shot glass of syrup, became a full meal. A bit of tea in a small cup became a full pot of the stuff, warm and steaming, with a bit of cream and some honey to round out the flavor.

[Duplicate] was just such a wonderful spell. Erick used it rather liberally under Privacy spells aplenty so that no one would ever see that he had the spell. The only way someone would know he had it was if they were exceedingly good at spying, or if Erick accidentally told them, but since the second case was likely not ever going to happen, and the first case meant Erick had larger problems, then this was probably fine. He had already talked with Yggdrasil about hiding the magics that he possessed, so it wasn’t a problem to show the big guy what he could do. Eventually, Erick would need to give Yggdrasil [Duplicate], but that day was not today.

… Yet another topic to broach with the Headmaster when Erick finally got back to Oceanside. ‘How best to raise a World Tree?’

But for now, Erick switched over to his Other Self, had another meal of mana and cycling, ticked up to level 18, apparently, then switched back. Cycling his mana was giving him a lot of experience as a monster. He wasn’t quite sure how he felt about leveling so easily as a monster, but whatever.

It was time to make some magic, though, and Erick felt great about that.

[Steadfast Ward] was the base form of a branch of [Ward]s based on Ethereal Force, and nothing else. It had to be Ethereal Force, too; normal Force would result in a low-powered Solid Ward. Erick already had a Solid Ward, and he didn’t want a replacement for his [Prismatic Ward].

