If he wanted to go full power with this sort of spell, just to be truly crazy, perhaps he could add an Undertow effect? Like he had turned a [Force Wall] into [Undertow’s Edge], he could turn a [Steadfast Ward] into a very large Drain which fed into the power of the ethereal Force. Throw in [Renew], too, and some Permanency spellwork and perhaps it could even Drain itself, gradually becoming stronger and stronger. Since Undertow could use some Light spellwork, such a spell would even benefit from Erick’s usual Sunform…

Except such a spell would definitely hit the Propagation Ban.

Something to think about, anyway!

When his mana came back Erick cast a full strength, normal [Personal Ward], like he had every single day for well over a year by now, and then, when his mana came back again, he went for a swim. The cool water felt great against his skin.

Afterward, Erick sat upon a well protected part of Yggdrasil and did some aura work. Transforming his aura to Force was better this time; it was less ‘tentacles under the clothes’ and more a solidness to the air around him. Moving on, Erick tried channeling Elemental Air. Light turned to a breeze which flowed around him, rapidly moving out of his control as his aura fled into the greater breeze all around, leaving him feeling weak, and drained. After a moment of rest, Erick tried again, and this time he kept his Airy aura under better control. He was getting the hang of aura control, even if it was straining in an odd sort of way that left him sweating and panting. It was a new ‘muscle’ so this weakness was to be expected, but Erick expected less weakness than this.

The obvious conclusion as to why he was learning so slow was that the Script truly did support so very much of his magic. He was basically starting from scratch with this aura control, too. At least he had the mana necessary to work his aura like this. If he was doing this as his Other Self he would already have bottomed out at 0 mana and have to stop for the day.

… He’d have to learn how to do this as his Other Self eventually, but that would come later, when he wasn’t in so much danger down here.

Erick moved on.

Channeling Water through his aura was apparently a mistake. He could take the sensation of water crawling over his skin and into his ears and out of his throat and lungs for a good 3 seconds, but he was practically waterboarding himself in the open air. He spit out phantom liquid and turned off his aura. This development was less than great, because this did not bode well for Fire or Lightning, or any of the other dangerous Elements.

… He went back to Force and Air. Those seemed safe, for now.

Later, he’d see about getting a platinum slime from Tasar.

- - - -

Half a day of various aura work was more than enough, for now.

Erick had to do something more productive, and where better to find problems to solve than in the letters he had received from various people at the embassy. Many of those letters were for visitation requests of all types, but a few were for monster killing requests. Erick grabbed the kill requests, which numbered 32, sat down in a comfortable chair he had made, asked Yggdrasil to look over him as he worked, and then he methodically went through each kill request.

He started with the easiest requests first, mainly the ones which included directions and monster signs to watch out for; basically what anyone would post in a quest to the Adventurer’s Guild. Most people hadn’t put this much thought into the letters they sent him, so Erick would need to do some actual research and poking around to find out where those various monster kills required Ophiel to go. But for now, these first few requests were easy enough to find…

Erick just had to learn how to navigate the Underworld, first.

This was probably valuable information in its own right, but Erick simply hadn’t gotten around to it yet. There were only so many hours in the day, after all, even if he was losing track of those hours and those days like water under the bridge.

Anyway.

There were a few things to know about the Underworld that Erick didn’t truly know until he had experienced it himself. Mainly, and broadly, there were two ecosystems. The first and largest ecosystem by far, was in the open tunnels where air or water flowed. The second ecosystem was inside the stone and dirt, where monsters and otherwise (mostly monsters) got around with various stone-moving spells.

The edge of existence between open air and solid stone was where most things lived, though.

The truly dangerous monsters lived in the deep stone, and could move freely, so it came as no surprise to Erick that the main defenses of the occupied land around Stratagold was filled with anti-[Stoneshape] runework; either in the form of pillars drilled deep into the stone to spread their power out over set distances, or in the form of runic webs that were hidden inside the main walls of every settlement, and under the roads. Once the runic webs underground were powered, it seemed like they were meant to remain hidden and untouched. One could still physically dig into the stone, but who would do that? Almost no one, that’s who.

Ophiel lightstepped through the air into the space in front of the embassy, then down one of the tunnel streets, remaining ‘hidden’ in the sky, in the light. Erick was absolutely sure that someone saw him, but that didn’t really matter. No one else was in the ‘sky’, and no one stopped Ophiel’s movements.

Erick did get a good look at the lights at the roof of the kilometers-wide tunnel, though; they were runic web lights, cleverly hidden beyond light sources that were too bright to casually observe. Erick suspected that there was a bit of Light’s Blinding aspect contained in the space surrounding those light fixtures. Perhaps even some Elemental Illusion to hide the fact that the lights were small runic webs. This ‘hiding’ of the webs seemed like a rather normal thing down here. Erick wondered if the people down here actually knew how they were protected by these webs. They had to, right? Maybe.

The town below was of a normal sort, with streets and houses and restaurants and businesses. A creek spilled out of the side of the tunnel to irrigate some crops where some (probably) Classed Farmers were pulling all sorts of food out of the ground, while other Farmers planted foods or watered the crops.

… Erick needed to investigate the water systems now.

Sunform Ophiels shifted their light to ultraviolet and descended into the creek that fed the land, moving near invisibly under the waves. And… Yup! The water source looked like a natural creek on the outside, spilling water out of a break in the rock, but once Ophiel got past that facade the ‘creek’ turned out to be a water main that was purposefully shunted this direction. Following the water source for a little while had Ophiel popping out in Yggdrasil’s cavern, near one of the glowing spire-sized crystals in the water.

Erick briefly wondered if Stratagold expected Yggdrasil to release some [Exalted Rain] into the water supply. Perhaps not? Maybe so? No one had said anything to him, at all. But…

He’d ask around later.

For now, Erick sent his Ophiel all around inside the waterways, and even up the waterfalls at the other side of Yggdrasil’s cavern. The trip past the waterfall lasted 15 minutes, taking him perhaps 300 kilometers, maybe 350, through winding tunnels, some of which were natural but many of which were not, all the way north, to somewhere at the bottom of Vibrant Falls Cavern. Up above lay Archmage’s Rest, somewhere on one of those city-sized dagger-like platforms that stuck out into the cavern.

The water for Yggdrasil’s lake came from the kilometers-wide rush of gently-glowing water in the center of Vibrant Falls. Yggdrasil’s particular river was peeled off of the main flow by many of the nearby dagger-like cliffs. Erick suspected that this cavern had been here long before Yggdrasil came, but it had been expanded and changed in a lot of ways once Erick and his World Tree were planned to come here.

Temptation called Erick to explore Vibrant Falls, fully, but…

He’d have to come back this way, anyway, for some of the other requests.

He recalled Ophiel and went back to the tunnels around the embassy, moving out further and further into the tunnels that surrounded this Stratagold outpost, toward the place outlined in the first of his monster kill requests. There were quite a lot of people down in this city, living their lives. The three main tunnels each held hundreds of homes and businesses.

And then Ophiel reached the Main Roads.

There was no way anyone could mistake the Main Road System for anything natural, though the system apparently, and quite often, did divert through natural caverns in the Underworld in order to make the system easier to manage. Those natural caverns were places like Vibrant Falls, which probably wasn’t all that natural, now that Erick was thinking about it. But this part of the Main Roads was very much not natural at all.

Five kilometers wide, half that tall, with an arching roof from one side to the other, the Main Road was a brightly lit tunnel that led off to the left, and off to the right. And it was absolutely filled with farmland. As far as Ophiel could see, and he could see pretty darn far, there were farms.

From his time in the embassy, Erick knew that the right path arced over the Geode of Stratagold for a hundred kilometers before it sloped back down and went on, continuing across the Underworld for a few hundred kilometers more before it left Stratagold’s influence. The same was true down the left path. Along both ways, various satellite cities and otherwise had carved out land from the side tunnels. Millions upon millions of people lived near Stratagold and all the surrounding lands.

Erick had no idea how that all worked out in practice, which was part of the reason why he was fulfilling these requests. The other reason was that people needed help.

All of Erick’s various requests for help came from people who lived in these lands, but the actual requests were for spaces far, far down the Main Roads, down those Side Roads, into lands which people ‘affectionately’ referred to as the fringe. Some of those Side Roads were like the lands around the embassy; filled with people. But some of those Side Roads led deeper into the Depths, into danger.

Erick experienced the transition from civilization to not, as Ophiel lightstepped past the final small garrison stretched across the edge of Stratagold’s protective sphere, stepping out into a land of desolation. Behind him was light and civilization. In front was darkness. The floor of the Main Road was cracked and pitted with the scars of massive spellwork, likely cast from the garrison below against whatever hordes of monsters had tried attacking. None of those theoretical monsters were there now, but Erick did notice one strong-looking iron wrought standing at the garrison, with his eyes locked on Ophiel's normal sunform. Erick would have switched him to invisible ultraviolet, but that would have alerted the wrought anyway once they started fluorescing.

He had already accidentally made that mistake over in Vibrant Falls, and wasn’t that embarrassing.

Whatever.

Moving right along, the lights of the Main Tunnel were maintained for a good ten kilometers past the final garrison, but past that, one was on their own. Dead lightpoles rose from the center of the tunnel like broken obelisks in the night. Something barked in the shadows, and then barked again. Something else moved in the dark, sending the barking monster into a frenzy of yips and yells. Horrible squelching noises followed. The death wasn’t that loud at all, sounding off with all the force of a [Force Bolt] spacking against a distant target, but Erick’s senses were wide open and he easily heard the gruesomeness.

He heard quite a few more killings in the dark as Ophiel, now transitioned to invisible ultraviolet sunform (even if it risked illuminating someone) slipped ahead, toward the distant targets.

A hundred kilometers later some lights began to reappear in the Main Tunnel. Another garrison was stationed across the 5 kilometer wide passage, where soldiers killed something lizard-like that was trying to crawl over the wall. Erick moved quickly enough that Ophiel’s light hopefully wouldn’t illuminate too many people, for the town beyond was Erick’s turn. Inside that space, a Side Road led off to the left, to a natural space—

Yup. This was the correct area.

A cavern, kilometers across, held a spherical stone building in the center, a kilometer across itself, that was chained by mundane means to the sides of the walls. The spherical building was an alchemy workshop of some baron who had a problem down one of these tunnels… this way...

Erick found the tunnel. It was the same as marked in the instructions; Tunnel Redvine.

Down the ways, to a land of herbs that were apparently some of the best there were for making Health Potions, there was another cavern, which led to another cavern, which—

Erick’s connection to Ophiel got a bit fuzzy so he sent out another Ophiel to bridge the gap between them. He continued.

The monster was a vine monster that Erick already had experience with. Changeling Vines. They were inside Ar’Kendrithyst, too. They were one of the rare intelligent monsters that didn’t always have cores. This one was a worse variant of the Carmine Vine from Treehome; it wasn’t trying and failing to reproduce, it simply replaced people with copies of itself that then went on to repeat the process. This one was a redvine in its base form, though, and since the massive cavern was absolutely filled with redvines, the creature was rather capable of hiding well. The baron couldn’t just torch the place, either, because magical herbs were not like food; you couldn’t [Grow] them, for they had to mature.

Inside the now-sealed-off cavern where the creature was hopefully contained, Erick cast an Imaging, searching for a Changeling Vine, wondering if he would get luck—

He got lucky. There were actually ten changeling vines in the area.

Erick killed them all with precision [Luminous Beam]s. Then, because the problem in the cavern was larger than what the baron thought it was, Erick moved on to the other caverns and did the same, erasing another 23 changeling vines. Then he went to the large spherical keep which housed the processing rooms and other alchemy stuff, as well as the head alchemist, who Erick was supposed to inform if he chose to undertake this quest.

The baron himself was back in the town.

