“Legend Shiv,” she replied, licking her dry lips as her throat bobbed. He didn't rush her, gave her time to formulate her thoughts, and speak properly. She was already overwhelmed, and additional pressure wouldn't help. She and the other plague survivors numbered sixteen at the end. A paltry sixteen. Storm clouds followed as a pall over every success; though the Perch had been saved and thousands of Blackedge’s citizens had survived, tens of thousands of others had been slaughtered—Georges among them.

For once, Shiv yearned for a bloodless victory.

But Isabella’s next words broke through his dourness like a beam of sunlight. “You really are a lot bigger now.” Shiv blinked at her, noting how she clutched her medical gown to stop her hands from constantly shivering. “I remember seeing you the day I arrived in Blackedge and during the attack. You were only a bit taller than Adam back then.”

“Oh, yeah, that. Well, got thrown down the Abyss, and the mushrooms there, they do things to you.” Shiv wiggled his eyebrows at her with all the grim severity he could muster.

He must’ve gotten a lot better at acting, because she tensed up, actually believing his words.

Acting 25 > 26

“I'm messing with you.” Shiv gave a slight laugh. The tightness in her chest dissolved, as did the tension residing in all the other plague victims, most of whom were listening and standing or sitting throughout the room. Though some of the survivors only knew him as the Omenborn, his relaxed demeanor gave them a means of relief, but even so, they were wary—and Shiv couldn't blame them. He would have been wary too if a six-meter-tall juggernaut who engulfed a room with head-sized plague flies was looking right at him. That tension was a knot he needed to work at for some time. “So, you got a favorite fly?” he asked, looking between the men and women.

They all looked at him, slack-jawed, most of them unable to process his words. Their skulls held waves of frozen translucent energy. Unlike Isabella, most of their minds were frozen stone-stiff.

Shiv waved them off, forgiving their reluctance to participate in his goofy joke.

Adam’s fiancée distinguished herself twice over when she pointed at one of the flesh-flies clinging to Shiv’s chest. “I think that's the one that drew the sickness out of me. Actually, flies shouldn't have stingers; these things are more like wasps or mosquitoes. Except that those are all insects, and these are clearly made out of human flesh and have mammalian features. If nothing else, this means they are closer to bats.”

“A valid argument,” Ekkihurst mused, nodding along. “But specifically, I believe the most accurate term for these creatures that were born of the Deathless to be Soul Chimera, since they emerge with the transformation of his skill rather than bio-thurgically constructed Chimera, which are the ones I am most familiar with.” He demonstrated that by turning the right side of his face porous. In an instant, bits of bone and tissue sank inward, revealing several hollows and making his skull become akin to a hive. From within those tunnels emerged pulsating insects, each one resembling Ekkihurst himself—much in the same way Shiv’s plague flies mirrored him.

Jessica gagged at the sight. “Biomancy is so fucking gross!”

Roland, meanwhile, was crouched, huddled in a corner with his body wrapped in a cloak of static embers—some kind of Pyromancy-Dimensionality Skill Fusion for escaping bad situations, perhaps.

“Well, whatever they are, that’s the one I like the most,” Isabella insisted. “It's also the first thing I saw when I woke back up.”

And with that statement, Shiv finally noted how there were faint cords of fear leading back to him as well—which explained why he had a notification bearing levels for his Shape of Monstrosity.

Shape of Monstrosity 170 > 173

An apologetic grimace adorned Shiv’s face. “Sorry for the scare.”

“It’s fine—I thought I was delirious. Or in hell.” Isabella tried to grin, but it was clearly forced. “I mean, why else would a huge, vaguely familiar-looking moth-fly with a wicked stinger be stabbing me in the throat?”

“She got the throat?” a nasally voiced muttered. “Come on, why couldn't I get the throat?” Shiv searched for the commenter and found himself staring at a young goblin woman who was leaning against her bedframe and rubbing at her right eye. The moment she realized that Shiv was staring right at her, her legs began trembling, and the fear chain connecting her to him strengthened, causing his head finally to press directly into the ceiling and fracture it.

Shiv bent over even more to avoid poking a hole through the stone. “Yeah, sorry. Didn't mean to do that. Wasn't exactly conscious. Actually, should any of you even be up right now? Are you guys cured?”

“Treated might be the more accurate term,” Helix said, looking over the survivors. “The plague still exists within them—it is buried so deep and connected to their minds after all, and no matter how much your flies drain, it's not going to reach the point where it hollows the true core of the Vicar’s spell clean. However, the plague has been dramatically weakened—because it seems to be fighting a variation of itself re-infected upon them. As such, it's burning away its mana, trying to out-adapt itself. I suspect it will eventually overwhelm this temporary vaccine, but by that point, a secondary injection from the plague flies might be all the extension you need.”

He let out a breath of astonishment. “You have gained an astonishing skill, Insul—but it is without a doubt more built for beast than man, for while you were besotted, your physical shape twisted at several points, and even your Revenant briefly took on the shape of a Tarrasque, only to revert a moment later.”

Shiv stared at Helix. “So… what does that mean?”

The orc hesitated before answering. “Truthfully? I am uncertain.” His body trembled with shame and discomfort as he looked toward Ekkihurst.

“An ignorance shared,” the elder vampire admitted. Something inside Helix stirred, and he regarded the Legendary Biomancer with narrowed eyes. “For now, however, the treatment is working far better than I could have ever imagined—and it was already working so remarkably. Do you know how rare it is for an individual to gain Heroic-Tier Disease Resistance?”

“Not really,” Shiv said.

“It almost never happens for most species,” Helix answered. “The simple fact is, Disease Resistance is hard to train. If you use your Biomancy to cure a disease before it can kill someone, well, that doesn't technically count as their strain; it is more your demonstration of skill. You've stolen their struggle from them. If you don't steal their struggle from them, usually, when a disease reaches a tipping point, they die or at least suffer permanent harm. And if you sustain permanent damage or simply a body so degraded that you need a High-Tier Biomancy to restore you to peak functionality, well, then you are wasted as a Pathbearer, aren't you?”

“Indeed, indeed, and it is a truly tragic thing.” Ekkihurst sighed. “There are so many useful and wondrous skills that we could delve into, but we never reach the point where they are given enough levels to flourish. Do you know that vampires especially are nearly incapable of gaining the Disease Resistance skill?”

“What? Why?” Shiv asked.

“Because the burden is reflected back to the Progenitor,” for a brief moment, Ekkihurst sneered, “or the Eldest of the Bloodline when it comes to plagues, and usually, their biology is perfected and modular—meaning diseases cannot find purchase inside them—at least purely biological sicknesses cannot. But with enough understanding and a smart enough virus…” He laughed. “Let us say that I am very proud of my Master-Tier Disease Resistance. Yet, in a little more than half a day, you have shamed me so. How wonderful. But Helix’ words remain true: The plague survivors are not cured, and so they must stay quarantined and under close watch. When their ailments worsen once more, I wish to see your flies sting them again—extracting the worst of the plague before injecting it back in to serve as a perfect anti-venom. Hah… A Tarrasque Skill—you must tell me more about this, Hero Helix. Your experience is great indeed; in this matter, I must call you my instructor.”

And with every word of praise, Helix’ spine inflated with pride, until he was practically leaning back physically while his head was metaphorically journeying up his own ass. “Well, when one walks the breadth of worlds beyond, they learn and see many things. I was of a clique with a certain group of orcs before: the Endhunters. We tried to stalk and prey on crumbling worlds besieged by Tarrasques, and though those lives didn’t last long, they were amusing and instructive…”

As the orc began to boast about his exploits to the elder vampire, who simply nodded along politely while his empathic core radiated sage-like patience, Isabella looked on at the two with an uncertain expression on her face. She shuffled closer to Shiv, her slippers sliding across the floor. “Hey, uh,” she whispered, trying to keep her voice low. “Is that really an orc and a… vampire?”

“Yep.” He glanced at her mind and then her heart. “You're thinking why the vampire doesn’t resemble the pictures in the bestiary?”

Her mouth fell open slightly. “How did you know?”

“Had that same problem after getting tossed down into the Abyss.”

She gawked. “Wait, I thought you said you were joking about that part.”

“I was joking about the mushrooms, not anything else. I did get thrown down in the Abyss after that raven bastard threw me.”

Her pupils shrank, and she grasped her gown tighter. “I watched him take Adam. I was… I couldn’t do anything to save him.”

“Well, you don’t need to worry about the raven anymore,” Shiv said, thinking back to how he killed the man back in Weave. I've come a long way since Diamond Shell. “He didn’t do so well in the rematch.”

“Rematch?” she said. “You fought him again? Okay, another question: Weren’t you Pathless?”

“I was. Then I died.”

The Young Lady of House Stormhalt looked at Shiv like he just spat a non-sequitur—which it might as well have been without context.

“I died and got my Path. I’m—it’s a lot to explain.” But then Shiv realized something: for the first time in a long time, he did have time. And he was looking at a miracle of his making. Isabella Van Stormhalt and the other plague victims were saved. He was too late to help Georges, but the others could still go home and see their loved ones—they had another chance at life. And it was thanks to him.

“We desired to be more than a brute,” the Harbinger said, savoring the growing warmth that came with this deed. “This is what it looks like. This is what it feels like. A good deed, made possible by a skill doubtlessly meant to spread pestilence, but turned toward a better purpose.”

And with that thought, Shiv sat down on the ground. “Actually, I got time: You wanna hear the long story?”

Isabella nodded slowly and looked around the room. “Is… is there a chair around here somewhere?”

“I’ll go get one!” Roland barked as he flung himself out the front door.

***

As it turned out, Shiv could shrink back down to his original size—well, at least pre-plague size. It happened on instinct and worked entirely counter to how he anticipated; instead of trying to shed more of his biomass into plague flies, he only reduced his stature when he drew them back into his body.

An hour into telling Isabella about his and Adam's adventures, he got tired of the sensation of cold stone pressing against him. He could feel everything his flies touched as they were extensions of his flesh, and so he commanded them all back. Every single plague fly took flight and speared toward him, while those already settled around his body reared back and plunged in deep. Rather than shredding through his flesh, they dove in with blank pulses of unattuned mana—merging with the depths of his being. Each fly vanished upon contact, and soon Shiv shrank down, reduced from the ceiling-breaking size he once possessed to merely being around two meters and thirty centimeters.

“Okay, okay, sorry to interrupt this really, really, really long fight with the... Recollector,” Isabella said, “but is this as small as you get?”

“Yeah, I think so,” Shiv replied. “Those are all the flies.” He rolled his arms, and underneath the silken layer of drying brain tissue, he could feel a simmering heat inside him. The Vicar’s plague now dwelled in his soul and sang sweet nothings to him from within his bones. Shiv was keenly aware of how potent a weapon such a sickness might be, and how much devastation he could cause if he unleashed it on an enemy.

And this skill also levels the more diseases it absorbs—which makes its synergy with my Biomancy insane. If I can actually make some more plagues to hit myself with, that means more flies too. More cures. More size. I can get into a real enhancement loop with myself here…

“Crazy,” Isabella whispered. “Not you—okay, you’re a bit crazy for the whole Corpse-Shedder Skintaker thing, but all those levels—Legendary-Tier in a few months… That shouldn’t be possible.”

“Have you tried coming back from the dead and getting levels for dying instead of staying a corpse?” Shiv countered.

