“I don’t think that will work for me as well as it did for you, but you know what? I’ll be sure to make the attempt, if only as an experiment.” Isabella chirped those words in complete earnestness, and Shiv couldn’t sense the slightest hint of mockery or judgment in the girl. Even worn down and confused, there was only one concept he could use to describe her: curious. Endlessly curious. She had so many questions, stopped him constantly to ask about specific details, technologies, and spells.

Yeah. She’s a real thinker. I guess I can see why Adam wanted to marry her.

While he spoke to her, Roland arranged for proper food to be brought to the other survivors and for their families to be notified. There was constant movement outside the room, and Shiv could hear the surviving Arrow guards, Umbral Sisters, and survivors chattering with each other. More than a few times, he heard his own name spoken—in terrified whispers by the townsfolk, but with admiration when proclaimed by the Umbrals.

At some point, Shiv realized he didn’t hate the people of Blackedge so much as he felt bad for them. Sure, they'd treated him badly. Sure, his past was shit.

But now things were different. Life was going up for him, and so many of the people who'd treated him badly or ignored his plight would never get to enjoy another day again, never get to hold the ones they cared for again.

A Glimpse of Perspective: The past is real, but we live in a rushing timestream. All one has is thy present eternal, for that which is behind is prologue, and that which is to come is a mist of mystery yet parted…

A Glimpse of Perspective 97 > 100 (Skill Evolution Imminent)

It took a good few hours for Shiv to go over everything that happened, even with leaving out a lot of details, and during that time, Isabella requested a notebook, a pen, finished twenty-eight kettles of tea, and furiously scribbled notes as she tried to stop herself from breaking down as she learned of Adam’s most recent fate. Shiv watched as her face was scrunched tight—and it was while she was lost to deepest strain that she resembled her father at all.

Havel Van Stormhalt’s visage appeared in the back of Shiv’s mind, wreathed in midnight lightning, but while the man was a zealot who was defined by how much he despised Roland, his daughter was just a devourer of knowledge and an endless wellspring of questions. But for another thing, she refused to let him see just how shaken she was—even as her heart quivered and her mind wailed for something stable to latch onto, she forced herself forward, seeking distractions in the form of a long list of questions.

“I… So I wanted to ask…” She looked at the page before her and bit her lip. Shiv looked over her notebook and saw countless lines scribbled over, crossed out, and then rewritten. The topmost was a question titled “Adam DIVINE???”. Her eyes were locked on that, and her insides tremored. Every question that followed had to do with Adam as well.

“But none of them are what she wishes to truly know,” the Harbinger deduced.

Shiv studied the girl for a long moment before he decided to help her. “You want to go see him?”

Isabella went still. “I… We’re not cured. We need to stay here to avoid spreading the plague.”

“We got two very good Biomancers and lots of other mages. Besides, I got my me-flies. I think we can keep one carrier contained.”

“But Adam—”

“Is currently in a whole other dimension. And didn’t catch anything from you the first time he came to see you.”

“He… came to see me?” she asked, lip quivering.

“Dozens of times. So. You wanna return the favor?”

Isabella drew in a sharp breath through her nostrils, puffed up her cheeks, leaned up so she didn’t spring a tear, and nodded to avoid bursting into sobs.

Shiv smiled. “Alright, Lady Stormhalt. Let’s show you to your sleeping prince.”
