This Vessel of Pestilence and Panacea is rated as an early-tier Endhound skill, meant to hold and potentially terraform worlds for future redistribution to new inclusions under the Integrated Union of Chorus. Designated to develop toward biosphere-altering evolutions, This Vessel of Pestilence and Panacea allows the Endhound to grow and spread plague flies as if they are extensions of its body. These plague flies will spread across the land, claiming sips of sickness from surrounding organic life forms, absorbing every style of disease that afflicts them and taking that back into the Endhound itself.

With every disease, virus, prion, or affliction absorbed by the Endhound, its physical attributes will grow more enhanced. Its size will swell dramatically, and the swarm of plague flies it controls will expand until they blanket cities. But from here, the skill’s usage becomes twofold. For the Endhound, the diseases it consumes will be boiled away and forged into strength. However, it also gains a catalog of diseases within itself, ready to be spun up, mixed, matched, and then deployed against potential adversaries who are weak to more subtle forms of biological decay.

At the same time, this also allows it to treat and alleviate anyone suffering from a similar kind of disease, serving as both an elixir of restoration for populations that we wish to preserve and also a means of apocalyptic pacification against worlds that are hard to wear down through direct kinetic strategies.

ATTENTION: A chain of special permissions and conditional requirements needs to be met before the deployment of an Endhound possessing this Skill. As it is a cross-apocalyptic and terraforming skill, special care needs to be taken when directing the Endhound on its rampage. Furthermore, additional units must be in place to observe the damage dealt to the ecosystem and potentially restore a cascading collapse resulting from inadvertent plague mutation before a world is unnecessarily lost.

Should a rogue Endhound possessing such a skill be encountered, pull back beyond the effect radius and engage at a far distance. If this is impossible, ensure that a Mythic-Tier Biomancer is in the sector to fully remedy the dangers posed by this skill in short order…

—Beasts of the End, Second Edition — Farwalker Endhound Deployment Manual

377

Education [II]

The first thing Shiv noticed, aside from Isabella somehow being up and moving, was how much bigger he was than before. His body was a bomb of building strength. His muscles felt like orichalcum cords, growing stronger with every passing second. A rush of delightful electricity flowed through his blood, filling him with a raging momentum that yearned to be set free.

If his prior Skill Evolutions had made him immense in size, now he was borderline titanic, greater than even most orcs could ever dream of being at baseline. His head was almost against the ceiling, and his arms were thicker than Isabella's entire body twice over. He was a giant, a giant that was still growing, nourishing its strength upon the vile brew of mixed diseases churning inside his stomach. A faint buzz still pulsated in the back of his mind, but his plague-drunkenness was diminished, reduced to the point where both pleasure and incoherence were banished.

And then there were the flies. He could feel them as they clung to his back, spreading out in a thick buzzing veil that drifted behind him, flapping to and fro in an immense, pitch-black swarm, as if a parody of the dimensional cape which adorned his Severed Shadow. Each fly was the size of his fist, but disturbingly, they didn't have insectoid heads. Instead, they were things of flesh and robust muscle, their skulls resembling smaller, more shriveled versions of him, while their rears were thick nubs of pulsating tissue. They glistened with sweat and possessed stingers made from bone and enamel—hollow stingers that had organic straws on the inside meant to siphon and digest.

“What the f—” His words trailed off as he noticed pointed vectors flowing through them. Shapeless Tides. With every heartbeat, there came a rush of overflow vectors that spread out through his body, gathering in his limbs, clinging to his torso, rushing across his jaw, and sweeping through his hair. However, as new Shapeless Tides were generated, those along the periphery were pushed outward, were packed tighter and tighter, and some went circulating through his pestilential swarm as well. The flies felt like they were a part of him, and his Legendary Physicality treated them as a portion of his body.

More importantly, whatever they touched, he felt. He felt Isabella. He felt Roland. He felt Jessica. He felt Valor. He even felt himself from a strange outside perspective.

“Ah, Deathless, you are awake!” As Shiv looked up, he found Ekkihurst marching through the doorway, his crimson eyes glowing with glee. Behind him, there was a thin barrier of Biomancy preventing any of Shiv's new plague flies from escaping the room. “Once more, your robustness astounds. Only eight hours of partial incoherence. Eight hours and a Heroic Disease Resistance Skill Evolution.”

As Ekkihurst rushed toward him, Shiv realized the top of his head now barely rose past Shiv's waistline. Even so, he took hold of Shiv's hand without fear, vigorously shaking it as if congratulating a fellow scholar on some important discovery. A few of Shiv's plague flies bounced off Ekkihurst's body, and one landed upon his head, almost as large as his entire skull. And then, almost instinctively, it stung him, sinking its animal straw deep into his tissue and attempting to drain. But Ekkihurst refused to let the fly suck anything away, and with a slight exertion of his will, Shiv quickly commanded that plague fly to release him.

“Sorry,” Shiv grunted. “It just kind of did that. I wasn't even thinking.”

“But you are!” Ekkihurst corrected. “You are aware, subconsciously, that the flies are tied to you. They were born of your body. In the beginning, there were only a few, but as they drained more and more sickness, their numbers flourished. You went from having a few stray fleas to a swarm, and their individual sizes swiftly increased as well. Every single one of them is a carrier but also a potential remedy for a contagion. They drew away the sickness from all the other victims, and allowed you to actively concentrate the plague inside yourself even without the transplantation! This skill is… I have never seen its like! It is a wonder! A majesty!”

“It is a Tarrasque skill,” Helix spat, speaking from the doorway. “And I told you, vampire, to notify me the first moment he got up!”

“Ah, I apologize, Hero Helix. I was simply too excited. I wanted to see how our Deathless was doing!”

“He's not our Deathless. He's my Insul! And I will not see him lying—gah!” One of Shiv's plague flies collided head-on with the orc's nose. Helix stumbled back, clutching at his face as the fly promptly latched onto his forehead. “Oh, Challenger—get off of me!”

With the flick of his Biomancy, he wrenched the fly off of him, and Shiv felt an unnatural tug pull at a portion of his disembodied flesh. The plague fly bounced off a wall before it flapped its skin wings harder, taking to the air once more.

Helix did a double-take as he shuddered in disgust. “I see that those wretched creatures are still there.”

“Hero-Biomancer!” Ekkihurst cried, aghast. “Do not skill-shame!”

“I'm not skill-shaming; I'm just saying it looks wretched, horrific. They look like an artistic rendition of a fly created by an artist who only had Shiv as a reference when it came to organics.”

This caused Ekkihurst to snap his fingers. “You may be a genius here, O Biomancer. I think this is quite accurate. After all, one's skill only has their legend to reference, and so that might be it. His skill only has his organic tissues to go off of, and when it created these flies, it thus based them on him.”

“That's nice and all,” Jessica hissed from a corner of the room, “but can we get this skill to try again? Because looking at these flies is going to make me hurl.” She gagged and flinched every time one of the Shiv-flies droned near her. “I swear, kid, there's something deeply fucking wrong with you and probably fucking wrong with Udraal as well. Every one of your skills seems to be designed to give other people nightmares.”

Roland, meanwhile, stood still as a statue. But not because he was unfazed; if Jessica's heart was cold with primal fear, then Roland's emotional core was practically engulfed by an active blizzard. The plague flies creeped Jessica out, but left the Town Lord utterly petrified.

“Roland might have a phobia of insects,” the Harbinger noted. “How useful to know…”

Harbinger of the Tripartite Ruin 323 > 326

“Don't think I can change the flies, though I do kinda agree with you.” Shiv frowned at a few of the buzzing Shiv-sects. “I'd like it more if they were more bug and less me. Wait, Helix, did you say this was a Tarrasque skill?”

The orc pushed up his new spectacles and hummed. “Yes. This Vessel of Pestilence and Panacea. It allows the great beast to spread its influence across the land, but also to drink in every disease it encounters to form a potent, devastating cocktail which it can use to infest entire cities at once. It spreads the plagues of its own re-engineering, or potentially cures them, for what is a virus but also a double-edged sword that can be wielded against itself after a proper re-forging?”

“Well said, well said,” Ekkihurst praised.

“Why, thank—hmph!” Helix barely caught himself. “Regardless, with every plague you drink in, you will be able to distribute them to your victims through these flies, I believe. It will only make you stronger and increase your size. So long as you concentrate more of that power within yourself, you will grow, and so will that swarm.”

“That's useful and all, but can I still shrink down? Because this is gonna make it really hard for me to fit through certain doorways. Like that one, for example.” He stared at the exit. Even if he angled himself sideways and got down on his knees, he wouldn't be able to squeeze his way out. His torso was wider than the door, both across and from front to back.

“I cannot claim to know this. My direct experience with the skill is limited to being killed by it once in a past life, and testing of its environmental after-effects was impossible due to the Tarrasque destroying the world I was trying to capture.” Helix squinted at one of Shiv’s flies. “Seeing as they are tied to your biomass, though, potentially you can distribute more of your organic matter into them and cause yourself to be reduced down to a more… acceptable mass?”

Shiv tried focusing as he attempted to shed his biomass into more plague flies, but nothing spilled out from him. He remained as he was, closer to the size of a small building than a man. “Yeah, no, Helix. This isn't exactly a shape-shifting skill. Anyone else got any ideas?”

“I must confess that I am altogether unfamiliar with this skill,” Valor admitted. “Which is quite a confession on my part, for I have seen a great many skills, even with my memories partially obscured. I think I would recall something like this.”

“Same goes here,” Jessica added. “I fought someone who had Biomancy and Beekeeping fused together once. He grew some pretty massive mutated bees, but they were, well, bees, and not plague carriers. They didn't look like the guy making them either, and cutting them down wasn't an issue. This, though, is grotesque. Looking at this shit turns my stomach. Congrats, kid. You've outdone yourself. Another nightmare in the works.”

She began clapping sarcastically, and Rusty floated beside her to join Jessica's sarcastic applause using two hands of static mana.

Another plague fly zoomed over Roland's head, and he nearly flung himself through the walls to escape.

“Very promising for our duel to come,” the Harbinger purred. “We can figure out more about how this skill works, but for now—Isabella and the other plague victims: focus on them.”

Adam's fiancée was the ghost of the girl that dwelled in Shiv's memories. She'd never been physically remarkable for a Pathbearer, on the smaller side if anything, but now she was withered, her muscles shrunken, her face gaunt. Her cheekbones protruded from her skin, threatening to breach through flesh. Her eyes were so sunken they were practically pits, and her black hair was almost closer to gray, with her bangs matted to her forehead. She was the very image of someone who'd barely crawled out of death’s embrace, but despite the deprivation that still gnawed at her, there was a light in her brown eyes and a glow to her heart. She was joyous to be alive, in disbelief, rapturous at the second chance she'd been given. All that emotion was flowing towards Shiv. Her thoughts trembled like a sea crashing with raging waves. There was so much she wanted to say, yet none of the words managed to get past each other.

She was at an impasse with herself, but Shiv understood her gratefulness even before a single utterance was offered.

“Adept Isabella,” he said, bowing his head slightly in a grant of courtesy. He looked down at himself and realized he was partially covered by flies and wrapped in brain tissue. The cords were detached from where they once threaded through the walls. Normally, being coated and all that would have felt gross, but considering his new skill and that he would have been naked without such a covering, the flesh-coating was preferred.

