Edmund stepped into a room lit partially by a smokeless torch on either side of the entrance, but overwhelmingly by the pale light of day blasting through the doorless doorway opposite him. He squinted as his eyes struggled to adjust to the bright outside and the comparatively gloomy chamber.

The floor and walls were stone, cut and carved rather than the natural formations of a cave. Edmund thought the construction rather resembled that of the prison on the eighth floor, but so much time had passed since then that he couldn’t say for certain.

The space itself stretched no more than a dozen feet across, curiously absent any defining features other than the floor’s entrance and the way out. Edmund immediately recognized it for the staging area it was, a place for delvers to collect themselves before embarking into the floor proper. That wouldn’t stop him from searching its every inch for hidden compartments or passages, but first the doorway demanded his attention.

A symphony of chaos echoed from without. The clanging of blades harmonized with heroic rallying cries dissonantly clashed with the clattering of arrows and the thundering booms of siege magic. The floor quaked beneath Edmund’s feet for a few tense moments in time with that latter. Dust rained from the ceiling above to coat his black hair in a layer of gray.

“You might want to get a move on.” Liam appeared to Edmund’s left, leaning casually against the wall next to the way ahead. Backlit as he was by the false daylight behind him, his features little more than a silhouette. “Who knows how long this tower’ll hold.”

“You know,” Edmund said pointedly.

“I know lots of things,” Liam countered, his grin, while obscured in shadow, apparent in his voice. “Doesn’t mean I’ll share them with you.”

Edmund crossed his arms and planted his feet. “We need to talk.”

“We don’t need to do anything. You should probably get out of this room.” As if to punctuate his point, the siege weaponry rumbled once more, and again the floor shook. A rock the size of Edmund’s head broke away from the ceiling above, crashing loudly to the floor three feet away.

Edmund squinted at him. “Why are you so eager to get me out there? Is there something in here, or are you just dodging the conversation?”

Liam let out an annoyed sigh. “If I didn’t want to talk to you, do you really think I’d be standing here?” He shook his head. “There aren’t any secrets here, if that’s what you’re thinking. C’mon, we’ll talk outside.”

Edmund stayed put, refusing to trust a word out of Liam’s mouth without a direct statement of fact. Thus far there’d been only one. “You didn’t answer the question.”

Liam’s next sigh came out more aggravated than annoyed. “As satisfying as it would be for you to die from a collapsing roof because you were too stubborn to move faster than a snail, I’d rather not be the reason you stick around.”

In that moment, the pocket guide to the dungeon accords seemed to sink, heavy in Edmund’s satchel. A passage came to mind.

Entrance Safety

The area immediately surrounding the entrance on the first ten floors must be safe. The area immediately surrounding the entrance on the first fifty floors must be safe for a predetermined amount of time. The dungeon may make no attempt to convince a delver the area immediately surrounding an entrance is safe when it is not. See accord 24539.03 for further details.

Edmund, of course, had no access to the full text of the accords, but he didn’t need further details to understand the situation.

“You need me to leave,” he realized aloud. “If the roof collapses on me because I’m still here talking to you, that’ll count as you trying to convince me it was safe. You’ll be in violation of the accords.”

Liam blinked. “That’s an… interesting interpretation. I’ve been very clear that this room isn’t safe.”

“That doesn’t matter. You’re here. I’m only still here because I’m talking to you.”

Again the magic boomed and the building rumbled. Liam pushed away from the wall to stand fully upright. “Edmund, it’s time to go.”

Edmund didn’t move. “What happens if you’re found in violation of the accords? The people stop coming? You starve out?”

“That’s certainly a prediction,” Liam said. “But either way, you’d be dead.”

“And so would you.” The words came slowly from Edmund’s mouth, falling heavily upon the air. “And people would stop dying to feed you.”

For once, Liam remained silent. Edmund stayed put. A piece of stone from the floor broke loose, plummeting to a black abyss below. Soon, more would follow. Still they stared at each other, mortal foes in name, yet perhaps growing into something slightly else as time passed.

Or perhaps not.

Edmund was the first to falter. “Why are you here?”

Liam smiled.

“You know the rules better than anyone,” Edmund continued. “You knew what would happen. Thrax, you showed up explicitly to tell me to leave, knowing damn well I’d never listen to you, which means you either know you won’t get in trouble with the accords if I die here, or you’re extremely confident I’m going to leave anyway. If it’s the former, you’re here trying to get me killed. If it’s the latter…” He trailed off as the realization struck. “You wanted me in this position. You wanted to see what I’d do, if I’d be willing to die for the chance to take you with me.”

Liam’s grin grew only wider.

Edmund stepped forward, his lips curling into a snarl. “I think you know I would. There are two types of people down here, those who are willing to die for what they want, and those that are too stupid to realize they might. I’m not stupid.”

The dungeon’s avatar leaned in, looking up at Edmund’s taller form with a level of smugness it couldn’t have managed without stealing that particular face. Edmund had long known that the dungeon had first stolen Liam’s visage to mess with him, but it was only then, looking deeply into the glimmer of mischief in his eyes and the cocky smirk across his face that he truly understood why the Depths had kept it.

Never had there been such a face for inflaming rage in the hearts of men. Even now, knowing its folly, Edmund bit back the urge to knock that grin off his face. That’s what Liam truly wanted, not to trick Edmund to his death or poke a hole in his convictions, but to get a rise out of him.

Edmund cursed. He’d allowed Liam to do the one thing he’d sworn he’d never allow the Depths’ avatar to do.

He’d let Liam distract him.

Edmund leapt for the doorway as the thunder of siege magic set the air abuzz. He landed in a roll. Behind him, a flaming boulder crashed into the stone structure, raining dust and debris and embers in a storm cloud of destruction.

Edmund jumped to his feet. He’d just charged headfirst into Thrax knew what because he’d let Liam distract him from surveying the path ahead. He had to move.

The dust cloud dispersed around him just as his torso peeked up over the parapet to his right. He caught barely a glimpse of the battlefield below before the arrow struck his chest.

Edmund allowed the force of the blow to knock him backwards, buckling his knees to fall to the floor and back behind the cover of the parapet. He yanked the arrow from where it’d stuck in the right side of his breastplate, his crystal cuirass’s major protection against piercing damage keeping it from reaching his flesh. He let out a breath.

It was a siege alright. He hadn’t caught much of the battlefield below, but he’d seen organized rows of slender men and women adorned in greens and browns engaging hulking warriors in black plate that seemed to drink in the sunlight.

Black plate just like the helmet on Edmund’s own head—ebonsteel.

Edmund turned left to look over the inside of the wall, hoping the castle’s defenders wouldn’t consider him an invader. They hadn’t shot at him.

He found some two dozen eight-foot-humanoids in a disorganized cluster, each adorned head to toe in ebonsteel plate, the same plate worn by the boss Edmund had already slain: Warden Urliel, The Crimson Hand.

Edmund furrowed his brow as he parsed the realization. He was in the same castle, or some simulacrum of it, this time under siege. A dozen ways that didn’t matter flashed through his head, defeated, in turn, by the one in which it did.

The Crimson Hand was his by right of title. This floor had to contain either it or some clue as to its location. He only had to find it.

He started with the warriors on his left, wondering, as he confirmed they all wore the same pair of ebonsteel gauntlets, why they’d abandoned the wall. Surely they’d have been more effective raining devastation down upon the attackers from above.

Edmund got his answer when the slightest adjustment in his posture peeked the tip of his helmet over the top of the parapet. Within seconds an arrow skidded off it.

Edmund nodded. The attackers were stronger at range, so the defenders kept off the wall to force the attackers to them. That explanation made sense in a vacuum, but raised a number of concerns of its own. Why weren’t the attackers just launching volleys of arrows over the wall? Why had the defenders built such small, useless parapets? Why wasn’t the wall already swarming with enemies?

Edmund supposed every one of those questions hinged on the assumption this entire siege existed for some reason other than as scenery for the dungeon. The Eternal Depths needed the wall clear of defenders to allow the delver through, so the defenders stayed off the wall. Edmund didn’t particularly like that explanation.

He ultimately decided it didn’t matter. Maybe the parapets were too small for the bulky defenders because they hadn’t been the ones to build the castle. Maybe they had some defense against ranged attacks shot past the wall. Maybe the attackers weren’t climbing the wall because…

Edmund’s train of thought came to an abrupt end as the top of a siege ladder clinked against the stone some twenty yards ahead. He got his first good look at the attackers as they seemed to glide up it.

They stood tall, not quite as tall as the monstrous defenders, but certainly taller than Edmund. They wore plate armor crafted of what looked like polished wood woven seamlessly with an earthen green metal Edmund didn’t recognize. They wielded all manner of melee weapons, from swords to knives to maces and clubs, but to a man they wore longbows strapped to their backs. Most distinctively, long, pointed ears protruded from four holes upon the tops of their helmets.

Edmund recognized elves when he saw them.

He didn’t see them for long.

The moment the first of the elvish assaulters placed a foot over the parapet, a veritable wave of inky black tendrils rocketed from the gauntleted hands of the defenders. They struck at once, sending first their target flying off the wall, then the ladder falling back. Edmund peeked over the parapet to watch both plummet to the battlefield, where the first elf struck lay still and those on the ladder walked away unharmed, somehow surviving the fall. He didn’t get a chance to watch them retreat before another arrow homed in on his helmet, and he had to duck behind the parapet once more.

Edmund swallowed, his mind constructing a more complete picture of the floor as a whole.

The main challenge seemed simple enough—dodge the arrows and the tendrils and the siege magic to cross from one side of the wall to the other. He could already see the tower that would no doubt contain the floor’s exit. He figured he’d probably have to fight off some of the attackers at some point, but the deluge of ranged attacks meant the melee combat would probably skew to the easier side, at least before his challenger’s mark factored in.

Clearing the floor would be one thing, challenging, sure, yet simple enough, but Edmund had a second goal.

If the defenders had nothing on the Crimson Hand, that meant the attackers did.

It made sense, in Edmund’s mind, that the elves would have it. Urliel hadn’t, and it seemed more likely his enemies had stolen it from him than his allies. Whether it was here on this particular battlefield remained to be seen, but Edmund could only assume the similarities to the eighth floor meant there was at least a clue here somewhere.

The low bass of rumbling siege magic shook the air once more, and Edmund risked a look over the parapet to watch its source. It came from a wooden device, one constructed not of planks and nails, but of branches and roots. A long arm spun in a circle, swinging around faster and faster as its rumble grew. At last with a boom the canvas cloth on one end released, and a flaming boulder slung through the air.

It hit the wall some dozen yards ahead of Edmund, carving a semicircular chunk some thirty feet wide and as many deep in the top of the structure. The gap was yet too high for the elves to clamber through, but it would pose an obstacle to Edmund’s crossing.

The deep hum returned as another sling readied its payload. The longer he waited, the harder this would get.

Edmund had to move.

He kept low at first, crawling hastily along the top of the wall, his right side hugging the parapet. Twice did arrows graze him as he moved, but on all fours and with his head down, only his back ever found itself exposed. His blooddrinker’s crystal cuirass held up brilliantly.

He first came to a stop not because his sharp ears noticed something over the din of the battle around him, nor because he caught a glimpse of the oncoming threat through the corner of his eye, but because a particular spot on his upper arm began to tingle.

His challenger’s mark had activated.

Edmund stopped short and pushed himself back onto his knees, swinging his spear up with the movement. An arrow whizzed by, but he paid it little heed. He had bigger problems.

As he sat upright, something hard and fast clanged into the shaft of his spear, deflecting off the segmented weapon and failing to find Edmund’s head.

He had his opening.

In the same motion, he leapt to his feet, swung the tip of his spear for the elf that’d struck at him, and summoned a Smoke Lash to his right hand. As the elf parried his blow, Edmund got a look at his challenger’s mark’s work.

Two extra arms sprouted from the top of the elf’s shoulders, one bearing a shield and the other a mace. In conjunction with the sword and shield pair the elf’s normal arms carried, the thing bore at once twice the threat and twice the defense. Edmund didn’t let that distract him.

