Keeping his spear raised with his left hand, he swung his right in a swift arc, cracking the whip of his Smoke Lash against the tip of the siege ladder. His blow knocked the ladder back, sending its occupants plummeting to the battlefield below. Edmund didn’t get a chance to watch them fall.

He dove left, deflecting a backhand swipe with his spear and dodging an overhead strike at the same time. He backpedaled, hoping to build some distance between him and the remaining elf.

The castle’s defenders did nothing, holding back their dark magic for a reason unbeknownst to Edmund. Either they didn’t want to hit him—someone who’d just knocked a siege ladder off—or the dungeon didn’t let them take out Edmund’s opponents for him. Edmund hoped it was the former. If it was, he just needed to build enough distance between him and the elf and the defenders would take care of the rest.

He made it three steps away before realizing the fault in his plan.

Well before a single defender raised an ebonsteel gauntlet to come to his aid, an arrow slammed into Edmund’s right arm, bouncing off his serpentinite rerebrace. Edmund didn’t manage to think a single thought in appreciation for his collection of piercing-resistant gear before another arrow struck his forearm, penetrating his shadowhide vambrace, skin, muscle, skin, and vambrace again on the other side. His right hand went slack as pain shot up his arm.

It seemed he’d found the difference between major protection and regular protection.

Edmund ceased his retreat, allowing the four-armed elf back into striking range for the relative safety his proximity offered. The arrows ceased. Edmund dropped his spear, letting it clatter to the ground as he drew his short sword with his left hand. With his right hand injured, he wouldn’t be able to wield his spear effectively even if he could afford to maintain distance.

He fell into a left-handed stance, pulling his weak right side back and away from his foe as he looked up to meet the elf’s gaze. Black irises stared through the brown and green helmet.

The elf moved first, sharp and brutal and lethally quick. It swung its mace in a wide, sweeping arc in the same moment as it swept its sword for Edmund’s midsection. With no way to parry both of the blows, Edmund had no choice but to step back. The elf followed.

Again and again the elf struck out, again and again forcing Edmund to move back. He kept his strides short and controlled, carefully dodging each attack without allowing himself to leave the elf’s range entirely. He couldn’t afford an arrow through the gaps in his armor. Already the one wound he had had begun to bleed dangerously much.

Further and further the elf forced him back, putting Edmund on a tight clock to come up with an idea before he ran out of wall along which to retreat. The elf’s shields concerned him. He knew he could reasonably slip past the warrior’s weapons, even if it meant taking a hit in the process, and slipping a blow past a shield seemed feasible enough, but the damn elf had two of them. Maybe if Edmund had a second weapon, he could maneuver around one shield and distract the other with his sword while he went in for the killing blow, but without his right arm he couldn’t—

Edmund flexed the muscles in his right hand. His fingers refused to join. A fresh wave of blood gushed from his wound, Perseverance unable to heal it while the arrow remained inside. He grimaced.

Magma Fissure came to mind as a last ditch option to get past the elf’s guard, but he’d already seen the elves survive a fall from the top of the wall. They were nimble enough not to step into his magma.

The elf swiped at him once more, and Edmund found his back foot placed awkwardly atop the rubble of the fallen tower where once had stood the floor’s entrance. He was out of time.

On instinct more than any real semblance of a plan, Edmund darted in. He ducked his head right as he charged, the overhead swing of the elf’s mace deflecting harmlessly down his left rerebrace. The attacker’s sword sliced sharply across his chest plate, carving a gash in the crystal but failing to reach skin.

Edmund had his opening.

He brought his sword up and around in a backhand swing, forcing the elf to bring its upper shield to bear. Thinking Edmund out of threats and with both its weapons out of place from their failed attacks, the elf brought its lower shield up, slamming its edge into Edmund’s face.

His helmet crumpled under the blunt force of the shield, biting hard into Edmund’s jaw with a sickening crunch. Agony flared up as bone broke and blood spilled, but Edmund didn’t care. His plan had worked.

He swept his wounded right arm up under the opening in the elf’s guard, bringing the tip of the arrow that protruded from it right to the gap between his helmet and cuirass. Without a breath of air or a wince at the pain it cost, Edmund brought his attack to its completion.

He activated Rend.

The elf’s head parted from his shoulders.

Both Edmund and the elf collapsed behind the parapet as once, one dead, the other victorious. At the moment, Edmund didn’t feel particularly victorious. He started by yanking the arrow from his arm, pulling from the head to drag the fletching through the wound rather than face the barbed tip. It hurt like hell, but he’d grown accustomed to doing what had to be done.

His helmet was worse. Caved in as the ebonsteel was, he first had to pry the metal away from his broken jaw before he could remove the damaged helm. The strength of his Obsession made the task possible, but not easy. Nothing could ever be easy.

At first he thought to slip the helmet into his satchel until he could find the time to properly repair it, but Edmund knew he needed it now more than ever. Leaving his head exposed to the deluge of arrows from the elves would be suicide.

As Perseverance patched him up, Edmund got to work on the dented ebonsteel. He placed it against the stone floor and reached his left hand through the neck hole, pounding the metal with the side of his fist. It didn’t have to be perfect—it’d likely never be without a proper craftsman taking a look at it—but he needed it on his head.

It didn’t sit comfortably. It pressed painfully against his still-swollen jaw as he slid the helm back over his head. It would have to do.

With a few flexes of his right hand to confirm he’d regained his use of the limb, Edmund sheathed his sword, picked up his fallen spear, and set his sights on the path ahead.

While he’d fought and recovered, two more blasts from the siege slings had struck the wall, carving yet more gaps into his walkway. Luckily, none of the ladders had landed near him, and the defenders had managed to contain the flow of elves onto the wall, at least for the time being.

Edmund had two worries. The first was for the wall itself—if it took enough hits, his path to the exit might close to him. The second, more pressing yet perhaps less concerning, was for the tower itself. He wondered if the structure around the exit could collapse as that around the entrance had. If so, every moment he spent on this floor bore the risk of trapping him there, at least until he could dig through the rubble to find the exit. Edmund doubted the accords would allow for that, but his pocket guide didn’t contain enough detail on exit availability to say for sure.

So off he set.

He continued at the crawl with which he’d begun, trading speed for the cover of the parapets. He kept a careful eye for siege ladders as he progressed, refusing to trust his ears in the chaotic din of the battle below. Twice did wooden beams collide with the top of the wall, and twice Edmund knocked them loose before a single elf could climb over. If he could avoid fighting any more of those four-armed monstrosities, he would.

The first gap in the wall presented a problem. The siege ladders seemed to be avoiding it for some reason, but the lack of parapet would leave Edmund exposed to the elvish arrows as he crossed. He ruled out climbing down and back up the U-shaped gap right away. It’d be too slow, too exposed. He’d have to jump.

Of course, for most human beings, jumping a thirty-foot-gap while an army of elves shot arrows at you would’ve been impossible. It was a good thing, then, that Edmund was not most human beings.

He gave himself five feet of run-up, enough space to build up speed without over-exposing himself. He took a breath, in and out.

Edmund ran.

He made it two steps before the arrows started, most bouncing off or planting themselves harmlessly within his crystal cuirass. One skimmed his right forearm, slicing a shallow gash in his vambrace and the skin below it. Another embedded itself in his rerebrace, taking a chunk of the stone with it. Two more slammed into his rockjaw pauldron, burrowing deep but aimed too high to find flesh.

Edmund jumped, the force of his legs carrying him high over the gap in the wall. At the peak of his arc, he willed the air beneath his foot to solidify, expending his windstep to elongate his leap.

He landed in a slide on the far side, skidding along the stone on his back as he slipped behind the parapet’s cover once more. He took a few breaths, planted his feet to allow his windstep to recharge, and pulled free the dozen arrows that’d planted themselves in his armor. He didn’t wait for his limited wounds to heal.

Edmund progressed slowly along the wall, alternating between crawling and leaping as the terrain required. He picked up a few minor injuries in his various leaps across the damaged sections, but nothing his Perseverance couldn’t handle. Mostly, he worried about his shadowhide vambraces, both of which had already neared the end of their lifespan before he’d even entered this floor. His right vambrace in particular seemed no more than another arrow or two away from falling off completely.

Still he crawled. Still he leapt. Still he knocked the siege ladders free. The flaming boulders left him be for the most part, seemingly focusing their fire on the sections they’d already hit. As long as he didn’t attempt a crossing with the hum of siege magic in the air, they weren’t a threat, at least until they breached the wall entirely. Thrax knew what would happen then.

Edmund’s fourth and final great leap sent him stumbling into the tower on the far side, safe, at last, from the elven onslaught. A chime rang out as his eyes adjusted to the darker space, and a golden chest arose from the floor next to an open passage absolutely dripping with the darkness between levels. Edmund took a moment to remove the last of the arrows sticking out of him before making for the chest.

Ironwood Shield

Provides major protection against all damage types.

Edmund blinked away the letters of smoke as he pulled the three-foot-wide circular shield from the chest. It was made of the same polished wood as the elven armor, including a pointed dome at the center crafted of the same green metal. Edmund didn’t have a name for it, though he was certain one existed.

It wasn’t the first piece of gear he’d seen without weaknesses—that title went to his rerebraces—but it was the first that worked against all damage types. Given its wooden nature he would’ve thought it weak to fire or rot as his barkbreeches had been, but the elven craftsmanship apparently resisted both. He wondered if that was a fact of ironwood or an added boon thanks to his challenger’s mark.

Edmund didn’t hesitate to strap it to his arm.

His loot collected, Edmund shut his eyes and brought up his constellation, focusing in on the two Aspects he’d already decided on combining. With a thought they merged, and Madness and War joined together into something new.

Tier 2 Aspect: Fervor - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Empowers the effects of Madness and War for each consecutive second spent in battle.

Edmund felt his mood improve as he spotted the specs of prismatic light glimmering within the golden star of his newest Aspect. It was exactly as he’d hoped.

The scholar he’d spoken with on the tenth floor had given him a list of common confluences with Madness, of which Fervor had been his first aim. He deeply appreciated a skill that made him more powerful as battle went on, hopefully helping to counteract the weakening effects of mana and stamina loss. Better still, any Aspect that made his Madness more powerful would always be an efficient choice, if only because Edmund’s Madness was already more powerful than any other Aspect had a right to be.

He nodded and blinked his constellation away, happy with his selection.

Edmund paused for a moment in the tight quarters of the tower, letting his thoughts drift as he decided his next course of action. The exit beckoned to him, but even though he felt happy with the rewards he’d earned, he didn’t feel satisfied. Something remained, something important. There was no way the dungeon had given him a floor to match the eighth floor without some way to progress on his quest for the Dread Gauntlet of Koa’Ilinesh—his by right according to his title. Since the defenders hadn’t had it, that left a single option.

Edmund slammed the butt of his spear into the wall, chipping away at the mortar between the stones until a peephole came to be. He pressed his eye to it to survey the elves below.

They poured in from a set of portals in the far wall, the first real reminder that this all occurred within the confines of a dungeon. From there, the majority of them pressed forward to assault the castle, but some hung back to defend a single elf that stood taller than the rest. As Edmund squinted, Madness gave him a name.

Commander Liaol

His name shone angrily red and bore the ethereal crown of a rare boss, though was notably absent both the skull of a titled enemy and the crossed swords of the challenger’s mark. Edmund decided then and there he had no intention of activating that latter.

Liaol wielded a massive double-edged axe with his left hand, while his right remained strangely vacant. Just as Edmund began to wonder why, one of the portals began to flicker, and Liaol lurched forward to wrap his empty hand around the neck of the elf in front of him. In a matter of moments all semblance of life drained away from the poor foot soldier flowing first into Liaol, and then into the portal. As the commander released his grip and the dead elf slumped to the ground, Edmund thought he saw a flash of red upon his middle finger. He let out a breath as he realized what he had to do.

By some amalgamation of providence, luck, and Liam meddling with things, the siege slings roared to life once more, and a barrage of magically-launched boulders rained down upon the wall. Edmund held on to the doorframe at the tower’s edge, ready to dive to safety should the ceiling collapse upon him, but the chamber held fast.

The wall didn’t.