

In two spots along its great length, the boulders managed to deepen the preexisting gaps enough to allow free passage through them. The defenders didn’t wait for the elves to come.

Black-armored behemoths poured into the field, bringing their swords and axes and great maces to bear along with their dark tendrils against the elven army. The attackers surged forth to meet them, vastly outnumbering their bulky foes yet failing to overcome them.

For the first several moments, Edmund watched it all unfold. He watched as the giants cut down huge swaths of elves only for yet more to spill from the portals and charge directly into battle. Commander Liaol hastened his work, draining the lifeblood from more and more of his own men to fuel his seemingly endless supply of reinforcements.

In the chaos, Edmund saw his opportunity.

He dashed from the tower, unhindered by elven arrows now that their archers had bigger worries. He skidded to a halt at the first gap he reached, one that hadn’t managed to deepen enough to allow passage. It was exactly what Edmund needed.

Ignored, thus far, by both sides, he scampered down the sloped gap, balancing celerity with the need to test every handhold for stability. When he reached the base of the gap, he allowed himself to fall the remaining few yards, landing confidently on his feet.

Edmund raised his shield, and he ran.

He deflected the various strikes as they came, blocking arrows, sliding under backhands, knocking swords offtrack, but not once did Edmund employ an attack of his own. He needed his foes to keep their focus on each other, and as long as he didn’t draw attention or present too easy a target, that’s exactly what they did.

His shoulder practically burned with activity as he ran, spare arms sprouting from each elf and unnatural shadows falling off of each defender he passed. The extra arms didn’t help the former survive the latter, not when faced with a dozen ethereal limbs that whipped and choked and grasped. Bit by bit, the elves lost ground. Bit by bit, the commander grew more frenzied in his sacrifices. Bit by bit, the area around the portals grew more chaotic, more barren.

Edmund made right for it.

He struck with a Smoke Lash first, his own ethereal whip cracking hard against Liaol’s right forearm. The elf commander didn’t recoil. He didn’t retaliate. He didn’t even look away from his sacrifice.

Edmund would punish him for that mistake.

He darted in, stepping over a pile of unnaturally desiccated corpses, ducking under the thrust of a spear, leaping past the deadly wake of one of the giant defenders. It was only once Edmund planted the tip of his spear in the commander's arm that Liaol finally turned away from his work.

By then it was too late.

Edmund cast Rend the moment his spear touched the weak spot in Liaol’s armor at the elbow. The limb fell clean off.

The elvish commander bellowed in agony and rage as his arm fell mid sacrifice.

Edmund was ready for the retaliatory strike. He wasn’t ready for it to happen so fast.

Liaol surged forward, all semblance of pain gone from his face as he bore down upon the pitiful weakling that had dared strike him.

Unable to fully dodge, Edmund caught the great axe on his shield, fully expecting the weight of the blow to send him stumbling backwards. It didn’t.

The axe’s edge struck squarely on the shield’s center, clanging loudly against the metal dome. It didn’t bounce off. It didn’t skid to the side.

It bit through, digging terrible inches into the green metal even as Edmund frantically backpedaled to escape the commander’s attack. A hideous snap resounded through the air as fresh agony flowed up his arm.

At last the axe came to a halt, an inch short of cleaving straight through Edmund’s shield. He yanked at it with all his might, broken arm protesting angrily as he tugged at the shield’s straps. It refused to separate itself from Lioal’s axe.

Then came Lioal’s turn to pull.

The four-eared elven commander pulled at the axe but once, and even stuck as it was in Edmund’s shield, it moved where he willed it. It just brought Edmund along for the ride.

A scream came unbidden from Edmund’s lips as both sides of his broken arm yanked him into the air, flying wildly up and around Lioal’s lithe frame. He didn’t let it distract him for long.

The Smoke Lash had already begun to coil around Edmund’s uninjured right arm as he’d left the ground. Midair it began its arc, lashing once around Liaol’s neck before whipping tightly around itself. Edmund tugged once more through the agony of his broken arm, this time not against his shield, but parallel with it. His left arm slipped free of the leather straps with a sickeningly liquid sound.

With his right hand, Edmund tugged.

The tension of his Smoke Lash sent him away from Liaol’s axe and spinning wildly around the tall commander. He landed hard on the chewed-up earth behind his foe, stepping twice upon the soft mud before leaping once more.

This time, directly for Liaol’s exposed back.

With his axe too far out of position to bring to bear, Liaol instinctively moved to whirl around and meet Edmund’s pounce with the magic he had at his disposal, but instead of an open palm and the business end of whatever dark magic he’d once wielded, the commander presented only a stump, dripping with blood where Edmund had rent it.

Edmund’s spear slipped right through the left eyehole in Liaol’s helmet.

Edmund and Liaol hit the ground together, the former landing atop the latter’s twitching corpse. Edmund rolled forward, pulling free his spear in the motion, before rising to his feet.

The elves still fought on, oblivious to their commander’s death. The flickering portals would put an end to that soon enough. For the time being, both sides of this war seemed content to leave Edmund alone as they focused on killing each other, though Edmund wanted to be well clear by the time the elvish reinforcements dried up. He had no hope of surviving the concerted efforts of the blackclad defenders.

He ran first to his shield, finding it gleefully free now that the dungeon had reclaimed Liaol’s axe. For a moment he feared it’d also reclaimed his prize, until he noticed a pile of corpses shifting unnaturally. Gold glimmered beneath them.

Edmund darted over, knocking the dead elves away to reveal the loot chest beneath. Inside he found a single finger’s worth of plate armor, shining red as blood in the false sunlight.

Finger of The Crimson Hand

The first of three minor pieces broken away from the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh and meted out as rewards by the Elven Queen Cyritha. Belongs to Edmund Montgomery Ahab. Provides major protection against all damage types. Can be used to drain the life force from a target in direct contact to replenish the wearer’s health, stamina, or mana.

Joy and disappointment clashed in Edmund’s mind as he slipped the piece over his middle finger—the only one it fit. He’d hoped for more than just a minor piece of the gauntlet, though even this single finger practically oozed with power. It’d been how Liaol’d paid for the portals, a magic that seemed to Edmund’s uneducated mind to be outrageously expensive. If he could drain that kind of power from his enemies, he’d be a force to be reckoned with. Having a way to replenish his physical and mental energy mid-fight was worth it on its own, even without the healing effects or protection against all damage.

Edmund could only imagine how powerful the full gauntlet would be.

With a quick glance to confirm he’d fully emptied the gold chest, Edmund set his sights on the one tower that still stood, and took off at a run.

The elves, growing increasingly chaotic with the death of their leader, left him be entirely. He couldn’t say the same for the keep’s defenders.

Emboldened by the portals’ fall, the ebonsteel-clad behemoths waded further into the fray, lashing out with their swords and their magic at anything in their way. Edmund gave them as wide a berth as he could manage, but that didn’t stop the odd blade or dark tendril from cutting scores into his cuirass or ricocheting off his shield. Still he ran, refusing to further engage. It was only a matter of time before the elves routed completely, and Edmund needed to get back on the wall before that happened.

He scrambled up the rubble at the structure’s base one-handed and at a reckless pace, fleeing both the battle and the attention of the defenders with every ounce of speed he could muster. A loose rock tumbled from the pile and Edmund’s ankle rolled. He caught himself on his palm, his bare skin remaining unhurt thanks to his oldest remaining piece of loot—his barkskin ring.

Edmund leapt without even looking, knowing he could build enough height to make it back up into gap from which he’d descended. At the peak of his jump he used his windstep for a further burst of height, stretching his arm as far above his head as he could reach, and then yet further still. Up and up he reached, his heart sinking as he found only sheer wall.

Until he didn’t.

A sharp angle found his fingers, and they curled over it without hesitation. It wasn’t until Edmund began to pull himself up that he realized he’d been a few inches short.

A ledge of smoke extruded from the stone, ethereal and gray yet at once solid.

Edmund tugged on it with all his might, and it held fast, as real to him as the very stone on which it sat. With its aid he dragged himself up and over the ledge, into the trough of the gap in the damaged wall. He didn’t stop to breathe.

Unwilling to wait any further for the battle to end and the defenders to hunt him, Edmund scrambled back up the wall, taking full advantage of the handholds he knew to be stable from his prior descent. At the top he didn’t wait. He didn’t pause behind the parapet. He didn’t gaze over the battlefield to survey the wreckage. He didn’t rest.

He set his sights on the still-standing tower, on the open doorway within, and ran for it.

Without looking back, without waiting for another arrow to plant itself in him or another opportunity to risk his life for questionable reasons, Edmund reached the floor’s exit and stepped into the darkness.

Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 14

Tier 1 Aspect: War - Gray+ Resonance

Level 2 - Provides a severely limited increase to all damage dealt. Provides a severely limited decrease to all damage taken.

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 5 - Provides access to the Firebolt spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 6 - Gain increased constitution while fighting alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 6 - Gain health regeneration.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 9 - See beyond reality. Touch the unreal.

Tier 2 Aspect: Fervor - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Empowers the effects of Madness and War for each consecutive second spent in battle.Tier 2 Aspect: Sorcery - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Smoke Lash spell.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession. Gain mana for each consecutive month spent pursuing  your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone. Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island - Gray Resonance

Level 3 - Grants resistance to over-time effects while in groups of two or fewer.

Tier 3 Aspect: Focus - Silver Resonance

Level 1 - Doubles spell damage when attacking a single target.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Ponder the nature of reality.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Rend active ability.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Fissure - Silver Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Magma Fissure spell.

Delver’s Mark of the Challenger

Empowers nearby dungeon monsters. Significantly increases the value of loot chests you open. Slightly increases the resonance of Aspects you unlock.

The Crimson Hand

Grants minor resistance to piercing damage. Bestows ownership of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Apprentice

The third step on the Path of the Azure Fox. Increases agility. Grants a single windstep. Increases positional awareness.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Rootmother

Non-intelligent Strethian lifeforms will treat you as an ally. Gain the ability to draw water and nutrients from fertile soil.

Trailblazer bonus: draw water and nutrients from all soil.

Cloudkith Sigil

Cloud-based lifeforms will treat you as an ally. Gain enhanced perception through vision-reducing effects.
