Of course, none of this had anything to do with Song at all, aside from her concern for her friends and family. There was a little more to it than that, as Rain was undoubtedly Song’s benefactor, not only treating her well when he had the power to do otherwise, but also helping guide her to reform her shattered Core as soon as he was able to and freeing her from the unending deluge of torment and agony she suffered for what felt like an eternity, but in reality turned out to be less than half an hour. Her gratitude aside, given her newfound freedom and inability to decide what to do with it, Song found herself idly wondering what she would do if Rain asked her to marry him and how her life would change if she said yes. It wouldn’t, not by much, or at least that’s how she saw it, as they already lived in the same manor and spent most of their time together when not busy with anything else. Even in the days before he set out to ambush the Bandit King, Rain was never far from Song’s side, not out of any real desire for her company, but because she always stayed close to Sister Mila and the animals, which meant Rain was never too far away. It wouldn’t be a terrible life, one no different from her life now, save for the fact that she would be obligated to lay with him every now and then, if only to sate his lust.

Having lain with other men before, Song had no idea what was so enjoyable about the process that would make her sister and Yan go moon-eyed every time Rain showed his face, and none of them cared to say. All they did was look at her with pity in their eyes and hug her close when she asked, which Song didn’t object to, but still didn’t understand.

With a muted splash of water and a relaxed sigh, Yan made her presence known as she emerged from her herbal bath, hidden behind the opaque curtains Mama thoughtfully arranged. Drawn by the sound, Rakshasa came to his feet with Mafu still draped across his back, the burly quin proving no obstacle to the hulking, horse-sized tiger. Padding over to the outdoor bath, the massive feline chuffed as he stuck his head through the curtains and elicited a throaty laugh from Yan hidden within. “Silly Rakky,” she said, as she tried and failed to stop the tiger’s forward advance. “You tried this already, and it didn’t work. You’re too big and heavy, understand?”

Obviously not, as Rakshasa was determined to soak himself inside the heated bronze bathtub, even if only his two front paws would fit. Grumbling in adorable protest, he lifted a single back paw in a futile effort to get his rear end into the tub, wobbling precariously as the water-filled receptacle threatened to tip over and fall. Chittering in delight, Mafu didn’t help matters any by stretching his neck out for a pat, parting the curtains to reveal Yan’s pale, unblemished skin as she stood there naked as the day she was born and laughing up a storm. Not that the bold and confident woman cared, even though the Medical Saint was only a few steps away, as well as a multitude of Sentinels, Death Corps Guards, and Royal Guardians standing a few meters further out. While the Medical Saint seemed beyond such earthly temptations and the others had their view blocked by the bamboo grove, Song shuddered at the thought of how she herself would soon be in a similar position, as Lin-Lin and Sister Mila were already done with their respective baths.

Were it up to her, Song would much rather do all this at the bath-house back at the manor, where they had a beautiful stone basin large enough for ten people and a tiger to fit. Not that she would want to bathe with that many people around, but at least the bath-house had stone walls and a roof to cover her, instead of silk curtains and open air. Alas, Mama and the Medical Saint both thought it best to carry out their business here, away from watchful eyes looking for more than a glimpse of bared flesh. Not without good reason either, as these were no normal baths, but ones laden with Spiritual Herbs meant to infuse their bodies with the Energy of the Heavens and temper their physiques. Having already undergone the process herself, Mama was adamant the younger generation take advantage of this innovative process, because she believed youths were more able to reap the lion’s share of the benefits. According to her, too much of the Heavenly Energy was wasted repairing the ravages of time, and thus Mama saw only minor gains from the process overall. The same lacklustre results were seen with Colonel General Nian Zu and Teacher Du, both emerging from their medicinal baths refreshed and reinvigorated, but lacking even the minor increase in durability Mama received, as both men went in in poorer condition than she had, despite the vast discrepancies in their ages.

How strange to know that Mama was almost four times Teacher Du’s age while retaining enough of her youthful good looks to pass for under forty...

After several seniors of the older generation were treated to the baths, it now came time for the younger generation, and Song was next on the list to receive hers. A bath was most welcome after the long ride from Central, but this would be anything but relaxing. While Lin-Lin and the Medical Saint set to emptying the tub and scrubbing it clean with help from the veiled guards, Mama called Teacher Du in and sat down with Yan to discuss her experience. “It was... interesting,” Yan began, wrapped in a cotton bathrobe and eyes unfocused as she sat with arms wrapped around Jimjam’s neck and basked in the afterglow of her medicinal bath. “I felt a heat that had nothing to do with the temperature of the water, one that emanated from within me and billowed out to cover my entire being. Then everything went... tingly, like when I’ve been sitting too long and my leg falls asleep, only it was both pleasant and painful at the same time.”

“What of your progress along the Martial Path?” Excited and over-eager, Teacher Du pressed Yan for direct answers, hoping his theory proved correct. “Were you able to Form your Natal Palace?”

“No...” Yan replied, her tone hesitant and unsure as she reflected on her hazy memories. “I... I could feel the Energy of the Heavens imbuing me with strength, but it wasn’t the same as Insight or meditation. It was different, not better, not worse, just... not the same, more neutral and impersonal, if I had to describe it. It was just... there, flowing into my body because it had nowhere else to go, and I gained nothing from it on a mental or spiritual level.”

Which made sense to Song, as this body refinement process was not the result of personal effort or Heavenly fortune, but rather using natural resources to make up for personal deficiencies. Even though Rain managed to do the impossible and Refine his body into a Spiritual Heart, he claimed it would not have been possible without first improving his physique through these medicinal baths. Though he went on to say the baths were high-cost effort for minimal gains, he also believed there was no harm in partaking in the fruit of Taiyi Zhushen’s lifetime of efforts, so the Medical Saint was working day and night to procure enough ingredients for them all.

“Difficult to say if the baths are lacking or if little Yan is still not yet ready,” Mama mused, a comment which set Teacher Du to bristling.

“Have you not seen firsthand what the girl can do?” Waving dismissively as if to sweep away Mama’s unfounded criticism of his beloved grand-daughter, Teacher Du huffed and said, “If she is not yet ready to Form her Natal Palace, then no one ever will be. Her foundation is already more stable than most of her peers, even those who already possess a Natal Palace of their own. The girl is simply lacking Insight and opportunity, but this is merely the first of many baths to come.” Patting Yan’s still wet hair, Teacher Du smiled and said, “No need to worry. All will come in good time, and you still have much to take pride in even without a Natal Palace of your own.”

“Thank you grandpa,” Yan replied, beaming all the while, “But Mother-in-Law Akanai is not wrong, since according to Rain and Monk Happy, it should be theoretically possible to use these baths to enlarge my Core and Form my Natal Palace. Any failure to do so is likely because I still don’t entirely have a concept in mind for my Natal Palace, and thus am unable to maintain permanence in anything I envision.”

A failing Song feared she would soon share, because even though she’d already Formed her Natal Palace once before, she worried that the concept she’d used would no longer fit. Before, her Natal Palace was comprised of the Void being held back by the chains representing her Oaths, and her throne was none other than the emerald set into the chain itself. While the physical item itself had long since been destroyed, lost in the fires which almost took Rain’s life in Sinuji, it still represented her Oaths in her mind, because that was the chain’s purpose for so many years. The Oaths confined and restricted her during every second of every day, and as such, allowed her to easily keep her Natal Palace in perpetuity since the chain was never far from mind. Add in Mama’s dulcet tones reciting the Classics of Poetry without end and Song’s Natal Palace had been formed.

Except her Natal Palace had been destroyed alongside her Core, and now that she was no longer bound by her Oaths, she feared she could not use the same trick again.

Song had already shared her reservations with Mama, but there was precious little advice to be had. “Keeping your Natal Palace in memory is only one facet of the milestone,” Mama Sent, reassuring Song as they prepared for her turn in the bath. “It is not kept only affixed in memory, but also in your heart, your soul, your very being, for only then can your creation become a permanent fixture within your Core. Your sister took this bamboo grove to heart after finding beauty and Insight within it, whereas little Rain used the village he so loves and yearns to return to. Comrade Du picked the mountaintop upon which he Awakened to the Blessing of Wind, while I myself used the orphanage I grew up in. What is something you cherish deeply, dear girl? Do not think on the question, simply feel it out, and the answer will come naturally in time.”

Slipping out of her clothes and into the bath, Song sank into the warm waters and winced at the unexpected bite, one that pierced through skin and muscle down to her very blood vessels themselves, a minor irritation that spread fast and wide without warning. Patting her head, Lin-Lin said nothing to distract her, but smiled reassuringly all the same while monitoring the temperature and other such signs for an adverse reaction. Every person required a different ratio of Spiritual Plants, because each person’s body could withstand different amounts of Heavenly Energy. To date, Teacher Du used the most, while Nian Zu and Sister-in-Law Sarnai came in second, but Sister Mila required the least overall, supposedly on account of how she’d already naturally refined her physique without even knowing it, thanks to her Esoteric Blessing of the Sun.

Idly wondering how she herself would rank in terms of Spiritual Plants used, Song was struck by an errant thought and turned to Lin-Lin to ask, “Do I need to submerge myself entirely underwater? So as not to miss out on refining my face and head?”

“Nope.” Stifling a giggle before looking up from her notes, Lin-Lin explained, “We only call it a bath because it sounds nicer than saying we’re stewing you, ya? The heat helps open your pores so the medicine can steep in through your skin, and more surface area makes the process go faster, but once in, the medicine will move throughout your entire body to affect the parts of you that aren’t touching the water directly.” Patting her on the forehead again, Lin-Lin added, “You don’t need to think about it too too much. Just sit there and meditate like normal, and I’ll handle the rest, so don’t you worry about a thing. I won’t let anything go wrong, promise.”

Truth be told, it hadn’t occurred to Song that anything could go wrong until just now, but she trusted sweet Lin-Lin with her work. Even though the half-hare appeared flighty and capricious even in the best of times, Song knew Lin-Lin was even more knowledgeable than Sister Mila on topics outside of the Martial Path, and almost a match for Luo-Luo in matters of mathematics and economics. While Lin-Lin had little experience in putting those skills to use, as Medical Saint Taduk’s daughter and student, there was no way she was lacking in the medical experience. What’s more, Lin-Lin had helped with Sister Mila and Yan’s baths already, and nothing had gone awry, so Song silenced her trifling doubts, placed her trust in the sweet half-hare, and focused on the task at hand.

