Freedom was a wonderful affair, one Song made sure to exercise and take advantage of with each passing day.

It was one thing to be told she was free to do whatever she desired, and another altogether to actually possess the ability to do so. A difference without a distinction to most, yet for Song, it was as if night had turned to day now that she was wholly and truly free to do as she pleased. Nothing else changed as she went about her days much like she had before, but everything was different from her liberating new perspective. No longer was her every action coloured with the intent to curry favour, an inescapable motive which had always been present in some way, shape, or form while she was still bound by Oath, for now she was truly free to act as she pleased and no longer had to consider her status. She was Li Song, Daughter of Akanai and Husolt, Sister to Mila and Baatar, and Sentinel of the People in truth, no longer a lowly slave pretending to be something more, but a free person with goals and aspirations like any other.

The weight of her Oaths had finally been lifted, and Song was free, though her new status raised some difficult questions.

Hopping onto her lap to demand her attentions, Buster pawed at her hand until she lifted him up to kiss his chubby grey cheeks and nuzzle his beautiful white head. So calm and relaxed despite the nearby presence of Rakshasa the tiger, Buster cared not for the change of location and behaved the same no matter where they were, whether it be the Central Citadel ruins or here in Medical Saint Taduk’s herb garden. His brother, Bugs, who shared the same coat pattern only with the colours reversed, possessed an entirely different personality as he hopped about the garden with a mission in mind. The bravest and most destructive bunny of the lot, Bugs was never happy to simply sit still and relax, a curious explorer and adventurous digger who caused the Medical Saint no small amount of heartache as the bold and daring bunny tried time and again to dig his way under the wooden garden plots to nibble on the roots of some precious Spiritual Plant.

Until recently, Song herself was just like these rabbits, wholly beholden to Rain’s whims. Though he never abused his power over her or the bunnies, he still held ultimate authority over them. Neither rabbit had the luxury of true freedom, but they still had their quirks and foibles, whereas Song had only just come into her freedom and was now trying to discover her own personal identity. Was she like Buster, happy no matter where she might be so long as she was with her loved ones? Or was she more like Bugs, who wanted to see the world and explore the great unknown, even if it meant leaving safety, comfort, and family behind? Those weren’t her only options either, for she could be like Flopsy who loved to make new friends, dining on bamboo with Tai Shan and Guai-Guai in the centre of the garden, or like sweet, stupid George napping under Rakshasa’s paw after failing to entice the massive feline to play, utterly oblivious to the danger he put himself in by seeing every living creature as a possible friend. Now that she was no longer a slave, she had options available to her which she’d never even considered before, and she was at a loss on how to exercise her newfangled rights.

This predicament only revealed itself to Song after Rain left with Brother Baatar to do battle with the pirate Huanhuzi, a battle she’d been privy to planning and had assumed she would take part in right up until one morning when she sat down for breakfast and learned they’d already set off the night before. In retrospect, leaving her behind was obviously the right choice as she would only be a burden to the Cloud-Stepping party, but Song had gotten so used to following Rain around that she’d had a minor panic attack when she realized he’d left her behind. Not because she had any great desire for his company, but because she forgot she was no longer bound by her Oaths and thus freed from her obligation to stay within five kilometres of his person. For the first time in her life, Song was free to go wherever her heart desired, but she herself had no idea what it is she might want, a question she spent the last few days mulling over without making any progress whatsoever.

What was it she wanted out of life? Mama once gave her a new purpose in life, to live and be happy, but to this day, Song was not sure how to go about fulfilling those wishes. Tending to Rain’s menagerie made her happy, as did watching the sweet quin pups amble about, every bit as brave and bold as the bunnies as they tried to entice Rakshasa to play, but was this all she wanted from life? Then again, was it so bad to aspire to ‘only’ this much? She loved seeing the antics these animals got themselves into and discovering their unique personalities along the way. For some reason, the tiger’s aloof nature proved irresistible to the sweetest, most innocent of animals, as if his indifference to their adorable antics was a challenge to be overcome, but thus far, Rakshasa’s stoic disinterest had remained wholly unshaken. Perhaps proud papa Mafu’s overbearing presence had something to do with it, his fat, voluminous body laid out over top the striped predator with fearsome fangs well within reach of the feline’s neck, the sweet, friendly quin taking no risks when it came to the safety of his newly hatched pups. Not to say Rakshasa was intimidated by the quin’s presence either, but he tolerated it unlike his violent response to Niece Alsantset’s attempt to exert dominance over him, which was odd to say the least. According to Brother Baatar, the quins quickly accepted the tiger into their pack with almost no fuss whatsoever, albeit only after swimming with the ferocious feline for the better part of a day in the pond outside Rain’s manor.

Beautiful and graceful though the tiger might be on land, it was difficult to be intimidated by Rakshasa after seeing his goofy expression while paddling awkwardly about in the water, a rare cat who enjoyed swimming unlike most of his species.

Alas, the wildcats were not so accommodating when it came to Rakshasa, all three of whom were curled up around Rain and Tai Shan alongside the cowardly bears. Having grown bold after a short year of marriage, Sister Mila was also fast asleep in her husband’s embrace where anyone could see them and wholly unaware of the comings and goings all around her. Ping Ping and Mama Bun bounded between the two groups, with the former aggressively cuddling tiger, panda, and quin pups alike while the latter bullied them all without mercy to make sure they all knew who the true queen of the herb garden was. Every now and then however, the sweet rabbit would return to hop on Rain’s chest and stare him in the eyes, checking to see if he was awake yet and possibly even asking for an invitation into his Natal Palace, though Song was unsure how that actually worked. As for Rain himself, he was still dead to the world while recovering from the rigours of his momentous battle, one Song would have loved to see firsthand, but alas, instead she was left with her current dilemma regarding how she should exercise her newfangled freedom.

Mama, Papa, Sister Mila, and everyone else still treated Song the exact same way as they did before, and aside from a joyous reaction to the happy news, nothing else had changed after she returned to them a free woman. A fact which was comforting in many ways, as it meant her family had always treated her as if she were not a slave, but now Song bore the heavy onus of discovering who she really was and what she aspired to, two questions which had plagued her for the last few days. Being stuck in a carriage with nothing else to do didn’t help matters much, as Sister Mila, Yan, and Lin-Lin had set out for the Northern Citadel as soon as they received word from Brother Baatar that Rain had fallen into another coma after overexerting himself in his victorious battle against Huanhuzi. As impressive as it all must have been, Song was fast growing numb to surprise when it came to matters of Rain’s strength. While Brother Baatar was unsure if the grand finale had been delivered by Rain or Pong Pong, everything short of the destruction of the Demonic Army was still impressive to say the least. At only twenty-two years of age, Rain was on par with most Peak Experts when it came to offensive capability, though his defences left much to be desired even with the reinforced durability of his Spiritual Heart, which sadly fell woefully short of the offensive capabilities of any Honed Spiritual Weapon.

All in all, the journey over gave Song plenty of time to mull on her new status, accompanied by Niece Alsantset and a bevy of Sentinels, Death Corps Guards, and Royal Guardians, but Sister-in-Law Sarnai stayed behind at the Central Citadel to assist poor Luo-Luo and keep her safe now that she’d been officially saddled with all of Rain’s responsibilities. The poor Imperial Servant was running herself ragged butting heads with Marshals and Colonel Generals, but Luo-Luo was more than capable of running the outer provinces even without Sister-in-Law Sarnai looming over her shoulder. Doubly so now that word of Rain’s exploits had spread like wildfire across the Empire proper, of how one Water-Blessed Warrior single-handedly turned the tides of battle even after the Enemy revealed their never before seen capability to transform hundreds of Defiled into Demons on the spot. There were fanciful tales of how he called upon the Mother Above to right this gross imbalance and She responded with a tidal wave that sank the pirate fleet and dragged Defiled and Demon alike down to their watery graves. All nonsense, of course, most of which stemmed from BoShui’s lyrical retelling of an event he only heard about third-hand, already working on his next instalment in ‘The Saga of Falling Rain’.

Much as she enjoyed reading BoShui’s fanciful renditions of reality, Song thought it silly that Rain refused to say anything to his friend about how those widespread tales were detrimental to his own mental health. An ardent and devoted son of the Mother Above, BoShui’s religious beliefs were featured prominently in his writings, painting Rain as the Mother’s Chosen Son and now the saviour of all mankind, but while the common people loved this portrayal of their Legate, it was clear Rain found it troubling to the extreme. There had never been a less pious and devout man than Falling Rain, someone who doubted the very existence of the Mother who blessed him so, and it was obvious he found BoShui’s portrayal discomforting to say the least, especially now that he was being painted as some pivotal force meant to address an Imbalance introduced by the Father’s foul meddling. Though he had yet to wake and learn of this new take on his existence, Song knew Rain well enough to know that he would hate it with every fibre of his being, but she also knew he wouldn’t say anything because he didn’t want to disabuse anyone of their faith. A strange man, Rain was, so flippant and irreverent when it came to matters of personal faith, yet had somehow worked his way into becoming an icon of the very beliefs he derided.

There was more to it than just his irreverence too. Rain was not a man who did well under pressure, and raising him up as the Mother’s Chosen Son was yet another source of stress he did not need. Though he’d taken steps to distance himself from the Legate’s office and the myriad of responsibilities it represented, he still did his due diligence and kept up to date with Luo-Luo’s efforts, or at least he had until he passed out yet again. However, there was nothing he could do to get away from his unwanted mantle as the Mother’s Chosen Son, nor could he escape from the Abbot and his insistence on making Rain a Wisdom of the Brotherhood. With so many hopes riding on his shoulders, he might soon crumble under the stress and snap, an outcome which seemed more and more likely with each passing day despite his Martial strength progressing by leaps and bounds. Even Brother Baatar was worried for his son’s mental state, and if one read his after-action report with care, they would see that he wanted Rain to take a period of real rest to adjust and acclimate to his new status as the most formidable rising Dragon of the Empire.

It was disturbing to read of Rain’s battlefield antics and realize just how close to breaking he truly was, spewing nonsensical statements after giving into his desire for bloodshed and battle rather than dealing with his fears and concerns in a normal manner. Thus far, he had yet to do anything too reckless or foolhardy, but if he continued down this path of unmitigated aggression, then it was only a matter of time before he kicked a steel board. Even before the battle, there were signs to be wary of, such as how he indulged himself in lust without inhibition with Sister Mila and Yan. Mama and Teacher Du had long since discussed the matter with them, but they were all unrepentant about their behaviour, claiming they were ‘just making up for lost time’ and ‘still in their honeymoon phase’. Oddly enough, these excuses were accepted without any argument, but Song knew this discussion would not have any effect on Rain’s behaviour, nor would his impending marriage to Lin-Lin help matters much.

