Closing her eyes, she reached for Balance and submersed herself in the familiar darkness of the Void. The warm embrace of the Mother above wrapped around her like a protective cloak, affording her the opportunity to study her surroundings in peace. There was power all around her, surging in and around her both here and in the real world, acting autonomously to improve her physique in whatever way it could, but that was about as far as her understanding went. According to Rain’s redacted retelling of events which was eventually shared by Mama, Song was currently seeing things from the perspective of her soul, which in turn was residing within her Core, or as a part of it. It felt different from before, even though her view was still the same as always, with vast, unending darkness in all directions, yet that darkness felt more open and expansive, as if she had more room to breathe and be herself. Before, when she Formed her Natal Palace, she theorized that the chains represented the extent of her boundaries, ones that shifted every time she looked away. Only now did she understand how that was indicative of the unstable foundation upon which she Formed her Natal Palace, the constant reminder of her Oaths too precarious an anchor for this vital milestone along the Martial Path. Not because her Oaths were not firmly affixed in her memory, but because she resented having her limits so clearly defined at all times and yearned to be rid of them, even if she didn’t dare to ever dream it.

She hated her Oaths, wanted to die so that she might finally be free of them, so how could she bear to include them in something so precious to her? Her attainments along the Martial Path were not due to her Oaths, but in spite of them, a truth she’d known all along. Since it’s inception, she’d always known that her Natal Palace would not have remained intact if not for the inclusion of Mama’s continuous recital of poetry, a soothing chant which served as a reminder that life was not so terrible now that Song had a family who loved and cherished her. This was why the bounds of her Natal Palace often shifted and shrank, for it changed based on her ability to overlook the heavy restrictions placed upon her and overcome her seething contempt for her lamentable lot in life.

But now, she was free and bound no longer, and she would not have those hateful Oaths or the chain that represented them be a part of her Dao. Not now, and not ever, for she would sooner die than accept such restraints ever again.

Gratifying as it was to have closure about her past actions, this did little to help her with Forming her Natal Palace anew, and she eventually emerged from the bath when Lin-Lin prodded her cheek to let her know she was done. Though Mama showed no sign of disappointment upon hearing the news, Song still felt like she’d let her down, as these Spiritual Baths were priceless not just because of the ingredients, which were impossible to source without a steady supply of shrimp and access to a Divine Beast’s waste, but also because the process was the culmination of Taiyi Zhushen’s life’s work, completed with the help of his first Disciple Li TieGuai and Medical Saint Taduk. Any one of those individuals was a lofty existence far beyond Song’s meagre status, even after taking into account her elevated status now that she truly wasn’t a slave. While the process was originally designed to help refine one’s physical body, that was a waste of good Spiritual Plants considering the lacklustre benefits obtained, so it would be best if Song could eke out every benefit she could to Condense her Aura, Form her Natal Palace, and possibly even Develop her Domain for the first time ever.

Unfortunately, all this would remain merely a dream for today at least, as she had failed in her first attempt. With nothing else to do for the rest of the day, Song played with the animals and idled her time away until they returned home to the Citadel. Strange that she would call it home without thinking, especially considering this home was a shared manor which belonged to Rain, but Song had spent more time living here than almost anywhere else, save for Teacher Du’s compound which was less of a home and more of a prison. A home was more than that, though Song knew not how to describe it, and it soothed her heart to be back here again, in the courtyard with the couch swings and fountains aplenty. Nephew-in-Law Charok cooked up a wondrous feast to welcome everyone back to the Citadel, though he’d been living there for some time now and helping Rain manage the property in his absence. After dinner, they all sat in the courtyard and conversed with one another, and while they were lacking Luo-Luo’s melodic strumming and Sister-in-Law Sarnai’s presence to complete the scene, it was still a joyous family reunion to behold. Sitting with the twins until they fell fast asleep, Song helped Niece Alsantset bring them away to bed before retiring to her own room for the night with Sarankho, Bugs, and Buster, but rather than change into her nightclothes, she opened her window and sat on the sill with the sweet animals to stare out into the Citadel proper.

It felt like a lifetime ago when she last did this, only from the fifth-story window of her old room, one which overlooked the Western gate and the plains beyond. Back then, as she stared out at the sea of frost-dusted grass and watched the sun rise, she remembered thinking about the fiery inferno which almost claimed Rain’s life and destroyed her Oath chain, a calamitous event which left her bound as his unwilling slave until the day he drew his last breath. Then, she had the audacity to wish that day would come sooner rather than later, an errant thought which left her in tears and gasping for breath as the Heavens punished her for defying her Oaths.

Silly to think how dramatic she’d been, sent spiralling into a pit of depression over so minor an event. So what if she was bound to Rain who’d been crippled in battle? He was a good man who would never abuse her the way others had, a fact she now knew beyond the shadow of a doubt because he’d opened himself to her in a way no one else ever could and showed her the truth of his emotions. What’s more, even if he’d remained crippled for decades and left her with no chances to prove her worth in battle, Song’s family would still have loved her no matter what, a truth they repeated time and time again, yet one she was too foolish to really accept. What better proof than her life now, which remained unchanged even after casting off her Oaths? She was no longer a slave, yet still daughter of Akanai and Husolt, still Sister to Mila and Baatar, still a Sentinel of the People, so what difference did it make if she was bound by her Oaths or not? None whatsoever, save for the freedom to travel more than five kilometres from Rain’s side, a restriction which rarely came up anyways given how often they travelled together. In fact, this was the first time he’d ever left her behind and she felt aggrieved over being abandoned, and while she understood why he’d done it, he could have at least told her so himself instead of leaving her to find out after the fact.

So knowing all this, what was something Song cherished deeply? Well the answer was simple enough: she cherished her life, this life with her family, friends, floofs, and more. She wanted things to be like this forever, to spend her mornings training with Yan, Dastan, Mister Rustram, and others on the sparring fields before sneaking out to the market for a quick jaunt. She wanted to spend her afternoons playing and brushing the animals, and her evenings having dinner with the entire family and hearing all about their days. The where didn’t matter, whether it be here in the Citadel, back north in the village, or even out in the field on campaign. All that mattered was that they were together, and that nothing could ever tear them apart.

Nothing save for death, for life is suffering.

Repressing a shudder at the macabre thought, Song said a small prayer asking the Mother to watch over her beloved family, but trials and tribulations abound. As such, it was vital she improve her strength as quickly as possible, but she... didn’t know...

Of course. The answer was there before her eyes all this time, she was only too foolish to see it.

Moving away from the windowsill, Song took a seat on the floor after making certain there was nothing for the rabbits to get into. Closing her eyes, she focused her mind and brought her will to bear as she found Balance and drew upon the Energy of the Heavens. Radiant silver light burst into existence, reminiscent of her slave chain, because no matter how much she might wish otherwise, her past experiences as a slave were an inseparable part of her Dao. However, she was a slave no longer, and thus would not allow her past to shackle her any longer as she moved forward in life. The past was fixed, the present in flux, but the future... the future was limitless. So long as she had the drive and ambition, Song could accomplish anything she set her mind to, because though she had been shaped by them, she was no longer limited by her Oaths.

But even without those Oaths to restrict her, one truth remained forever constant: Li Song was a Warrior through and through, a woman wholly enamoured by the Martial Path who intended to press forward until she arrived at the Peak, or died trying.

The silver light spread throughout the Void and illuminated the darkness of her inner Core, revealing a cobblestone floor underneath her floating feet. Laid out in a checker-board pattern of lighter and darker stones, the area was naturally divided into even squares measuring eight by eight metres in size, just enough room for two Warriors to spar without getting too out of hand. If more room was needed, then the combatants could simply commandeer four squares instead of one, or sixteen if the participants were Peak Experts seeking to exchange notes. These were the training grounds upon which Song spent many a morning, similar to ones found here in the Northern Citadel, far off in the Central Citadel, back home in the Northern Wall, and various other military facilities the Empire over. There were no secrets of the Dao hidden within her Natal Palace, not like Sister Mila’s or Rain’s, for Song’s strengths had never lain in her comprehension of the Dao, but in her wholehearted devotion to the Forms, and what better place to practice them than here?

A Throne was still needed, a simple area to stand at outside the training grounds where Song had stopped by many a time to see if a suitable partner had yet to arrive. From here, she could see her entire Natal Palace, the temple at which she worshipped, for though the Mother Above loved Her children dearly, Song could only count on herself to protect those she loved, and it was here where she would find the strength needed to do so.

Upright stands the bamboo amid green mountains steep...

Mama’s soothing rendition of the Classics of Poetry wasn’t entirely necessary, but hearing her voice set Song’s mind at ease, and she left it in place just because. There was more to be discovered, but not standing idle like this. Stepping out onto the sparring ground, she summoned a sabre to hand, her sabre which she lost to the Demonified Gen, made whole here in her Natal Palace once more. With little more than a thought, she summoned a shadowy foe whose outline matched that of her hateful Demonic foe, and immediately closed in to trade blows with the apparition, honing her martial skills for the dark days to come. Ten exchanges turned into a hundred, then a thousand until Song lost count of how many blows she dealt and was dealt in return, her skills progressing by leaps and bounds as she digested the fruits of her own labours. Soon enough, without any effort on her part, her Aura Condensed and spindled out into the Void, bearing her heartfelt determination to protect those she loved and signalling to them all that she was back. Off in the distance, she felt other Auras respond in kind, one to start, then more as they realized what her message entailed. Unable to defeat her foe just yet, she dismissed its shadowy form back to the Void and returned to the waking world where she found the sun rising in the distance as her family stood over her seated form with joy and pride in their eyes. Mama, Papa, Sister Mila, Brother Baatar, Niece Alsantset, Nephew-in-Law Charok, Yan, Kyung, and Teacher Du, they were all here and present to share in Song’s success, and she wouldn’t want it any other way.

This was her family, the people who came into her life uninvited and made it worth living, and for this, she would forever be grateful.

“Love you,” she whispered, bursting into tears of joy as her Aura billowed out to convey what mere words failed to. “Love you all.”

A sentiment her family needed no Aura to respond in kind, for Rain was right. There was power in love, power enough to change the world, and Song meant to prove it, in whatever way she could. Grateful to have met him, she used her Aura to bare the depths of her soul to him, show him how she loved and appreciated him in ways that even she didn’t wholly understand, a conflicting tangle of emotions that she was scared to even consider just yet.

Joy, love, and understanding was his response, one given out of instinct as he stirred from his sleep, and Song’s smile stretched until her cheeks ached with the strain. “He’s awake,” she said, and everyone instantly knew who she was talking about, their eyes turning to his bedroom even as Brother Baatar disappeared to his side. “Rain’s awake.”

Which for some reason, made Song feel that much better, because now she could share her joy and accomplishment with him as well.

Chapter Meme
