“—There’s been fighting here, Titan. I just found a bunch of dead bodies. Something’s wrong. Too many defenders—we’re going undercover.”
“In. Theilo. I want those defenders down or surrendering. Charge.”
The Titan was sweating. He’d called the Minds’ bluff. If he was wrong, he’d just started a war with the Selphids.
He didn’t think he was wrong. He adjusted his helmet as the Death-Commander reported, breathless.
“Soldiers taking casualties. Selphids are retreating to second line defenses. The Minds are striking us down.”
“Give them something to think about. Unleash our special unit.”
The [Soldiers] fell back as the Death-Commander turned. The Minds were wiping out [Soldiers], hurling them into walls—turning off minds. But they wavered as a new wave rose and advanced ahead of the [Soldiers]. The Selphids looked up—and the first Ghoul bounded at them.
“Draugr Guard, charge!”
The Rustängmarder had two special abilities. And undead neither feared the Minds—they had no brains to control—nor were they so easy for Minds to deal with. The Titan narrowed his eyes. Eirnos was swearing a blue streak at him, but all his tricks…
Would they make it? He feared they were already too late. The Minds had months. Months—and the [Doctor] had been here all along. If he found her—
Who would he find?
 
——
 
[Surgeon Level 36!]
[Skill — Advanced Organ Transplant obtained!]
 
She’d forgotten she had changed classes. Forgotten her reservations. Geneva Scala saw herself standing before the First Mind, showing it the galas-muscle she’d extracted.
 
The First Mind was growing excited as Geneva began thinking in a dozen different ways. One of the Selphids in its mental image tapped Geneva on the shoulder.
“Medical practices, yes. Getting a Selphid to secrete a vial of the substances you require…done. We require a living subject. You will not injure yourself; perhaps a squirrel? What are you thinking about, ethics?”
“Ew. That sounds like a lot of work. A vial?”
Idis complained, but the other Selphids were shushing her. Yet the First Mind’s inquiry was focused on something else Geneva had thought about.
“…What do you mean, transplant?”
Geneva Scala focused, and a few thoughts flew together. Well, surely it made sense. She looked down at the galas-muscle in front of her.
“Transplant galas-muscle into new bodies? First Mind, Inconsolable would surely be able to make use of soldiers with that kind of strength, even if it was just one in ten thousand!”
One of the Selphids was growing excited. Calectus himself was stepping forwards—he had a Lizardfolk body today.
“The [Doctor] could try transplanting the muscle into my body.”
(This suggestion is good. Geneva Scala, will you attempt the procedure?)
The First Mind, Continuum, was warming to the many ideas this presented. And Geneva agreed. She looked up with a huge frown on her face.
“…I’ll try it. But only if Calectus agrees to show me how he melds the tendon and muscle to bone.”
(Naturally.)
The [Surgeon] bent over the Selphid as he lay down and cut open his flesh. She saw a writhing Selphid retreat as she pinned the muscle into place and touched the two places where she thought they needed the primary connection. She watched as the Selphid oozed over the spot and the muscle was reattached almost instantaneously.
“Amazing.”
(Splendid. This opens up new possibilities. Every body with galas-muscles is now a resource. You have done well, [Doctor]—)
The First Mind was congratulating her as it sent notes to the others. But Geneva stopped Calectus before he could sit up and before she closed the wound.
“There, Calectus. Can you secrete whatever substance it was? Idis. Vial.”
The Selphid hesitantly oozed some of whatever it was into a vial, and Geneva stoppered it up. The First Mind eagerly shoved the Gorgon’s body over to her.
(Transplant the rest of the galas-muscle into Calectus. This Gorgon should have enough—adapt it to the legs and other regions. Do not forget the abdomen.)
The [Surgeon] looked up. She put the vial in a rack and labeled it carefully. She would need to ask Idis and the other Selphids to recognize the substance and see if they could secrete the exact same liquid or if it was different from Selphid to Selphid, like blood-type, before she began tests.
“No.”
Calectus’ head rose slightly from the operating table. The First Mind hesitated.
(…No?)
Geneva Scala turned to face it. The [Surgeon] nodded to Calectus.
“That was the first and last time I will ever transplant galas-muscle in a dead body unless I need practice. And if I do—I will render the body unusable by Selphids. It is my belief that transplanting organs like this will lead to unethical behavior. With that, First Mind, I believe I will begin researching the compound Calectus used. It may enable me to repair damage to nerves or reattach muscles. That could save lives or reverse limb paralysis.”
The First Mind hovered there for a second as Calectus sat up, but Geneva was already stitching up his arm.
(The ability to transplant galas-muscle—)
“Makes super-soldiers. I understand what you’re about to say, First Mind. Respectfully—I will not be party to it.”
Geneva Scala looked up, and the First Mind grew angry. Continuum lifted the vial dismissively.
(This is only a benefit to non-Selphids. You are on the verge of aiding Selphid-kind.)
“That vial could replace healing potions. Transplanting muscles may create new or sustain bodies for Selphids, but not galas-muscle.”
(I order you to continue transplanting muscle into Calectus.)
The [Doctor] looked up at the First Mind and folded her arms.
“I refuse. Now, if you will excuse me—”
She turned, and the First Mind touched her thoughts. Geneva stumbled—and Calectus and Idis caught her. She got up after a second and rubbed at her head.
“—What were we talking about, First Mind?”
“Transplanting muscle into Calectus. You were going to research that.”
Geneva Scala looked up blankly, and then she raised a finger.
“I would like to speak to you first, First Mind. About historical precedent. And Frankenstein’s monster—”
The First Mind hovered there, confused, and then with growing chagrin as the [Doctor] spoke.
 
——
 
…What was that memory? Geneva Scala felt the memory go by in a flash. It was familiar to her—but the last part hadn’t been.
The last part felt—different. Like a memory she’d forgotten, like that false dream. Only this one felt true. 
She was bleeding out. Dissolving as the Minds and the other Geneva took her apart. But another memory flickered in front of her head.
 
——
 
—Even so—getting down to the cellular level was tough, and Egress soon realized that the slightest imperfections or misadjustments meant Geneva ‘missed’ what she was trying to focus on by miles. Metaphorically speaking.
(Can this not work?)
It grumpily cast [Eagle’s Eye] on a circle of wood for her, and Geneva could see the very pores on her skin. She looked up as it tried to adjust the lenses it needed to have perfectly aligned and tried to figure out a system so it could be manually adjusted. It had no eyes, so it needed a volunteer to help it.
“Unfortunately, this is far, far below what I need to see.”
(Then Egress shall ponder. Go, go, go. You shall be summoned when Egress is finished.)
It went back to trying to focus the lenses, but before Egress could turn back to its labors, Geneva Scala cleared her throat.
“Egress—may I ask you to add that to a list of projects? These are the other tools I would like you to work on. I have blueprints.”
She was no [Engineer] like Paige, but she could illustrate how they should move and act with her memories or imagination. The Sixth Mind sorted through the notes. It grew confused despite understanding what she wanted.
(Simpler than microscopes, but confusing. What purpose is this?)
It waved the drawing of a strange leg at her. Not a leg like Geneva’s, but what resembled a bent piece of metal, almost like a bent hook of metal. There was another version that resembled a kind of shoe attached to a rod, but Geneva thought that the bent metal version would be simpler.
“A prosthetic foot and leg replacement. It is far less adaptive than the magical prosthesis or Golem limbs I’ve heard of, but this would be a fraction of the cost. Can you prototype one with spring-steel?”
Only a Mind like the Sixth Mind could expedite something like that. Egress certainly thought it was possible, but it hesitated.
(This does not benefit Selphids. A replaceable limb in a body that rots is not useful.)
“On the contrary—it would extend the longevity of some bodies. And it would be a net boon to countless people if you could create a cheap, simple way to manufacture such limbs. Something a [Smith] could make as easily as possible? Non-magical steels and such.”
Geneva Scala hinted as the Sixth Mind floated there. She also had a primitive hearing aid. The Sixth Mind consulted the list.
(Hearing aid. Cheap magical spell. Please experiment with the following and rank hearing aids by cost and efficacy. But the microscope—)
“This matters as much as the microscope. Please prioritize the limbs at least. There are Selphids who have bodies with damaged limbs. I would like to try fitting them for how well they work.”
Egress hesitated, but Geneva was pestering it. Pestering it—every single time it wanted her to focus on the microscope, to at least try making a leg.
 
——
 
The 4th Mind, Inconsolable, was preparing a force for the Dyed Lands. It would take time, cooperation with other Minds, and countless amounts of personnel and resources.
“And blankets.”
(And blankets. This Mind has accounted for basic necessities.)
“What about water purification? Body warmth, access to fresh water—and non-perishable supplies that can be digested by all species.”
(…Yellats. They dry well. This is a good point in case the Dyed Lands are completely inhospitable. As for purification, [Mages] can perform the correct spells if specialized. Or [Druids].)
“Can [Alchemists] mix up something? Also, in addition, take baby powder and formula. Something that infants can ingest. This is critical.”
The Fourth Mind turned from scribing a list of required supplies to Geneva.
(…Why baby powder?)
The [Doctor] gestured to its map. And she pointed at the villages and cities in the path of the Dyed Lands’ expedition.
“There are thousands, hundreds of thousands of people who will be displaced. Whatever soldiers you were taking, you will need more. More, to build camps that don’t fall to infection or chaos. Look at my thoughts—”
She had seen how poorly a lot of humanitarian aid went. If the Fourth Mind went, it needed to take a force ten times what it was planning.
(…The expedition should be investigating the causes of the Wasting. This is a civilian effort.)
The Fourth Mind tried to reprimand her. But the [Doctor]’s eyes flashed.
“There is a crisis going on in the Dyed Lands that few mercenary companies seem to be aware of. If the Minds act now, they can win a war and stop a loss of life and calamity that will become a hundred times worse—before it even begins! Baby formula.”
She pointed at the list, and the Fourth Mind ignored her. 
“I will not cooperate in investigating the Wasting unless you add that to the list.”
The Fourth Mind glanced at Geneva Scala, and she felt a pulse and put a hand to her head. Her mind blanked as the Fourth Mind picked her up and placed her at the entrance to her chambers. She looked around, blinking, and it put a thought into her head.
(You are completely cooperative with our goals, Doctor Scala. Go back to your investigations.)
It suggested, and the [Doctor] glanced up and smiled. The Fourth Mind relaxed and went back to writing as she began to walk off. Until the [Doctor] turned and replied.
“Of course, Fourth Mind. But before I go—if you are going to the Dyed Lands, have you thought about water purification tablets—”
 
——
 
The gaps in her memory.
The [Doctor] saw Geneva Scala obeying the Minds, even beginning to act like a Selphid, joking with Idis, relaxing—
But the holes in her memory?
They filled with something else.
 
——
 
(Geneva Scala, you will not tell anyone about this—correlation between Seamwalkers and Selphids.)
Sympathy was worried. It was having other Selphids see the connection between the Selphid and A’ctelios Salash cross-section. Geneva Scala was nodding obediently.
“I would never do anything to jeopardize the Minds.”
(Good, good.)
“However, may I have permission to investigate the link further? If there is any more of a common cause—I would like to approach A’ctelios Salash’s denizens for cooperation. Or the Hundredfriends Courier.”
(What? No. Why would this be necessary? This does not serve the Minds.)
The [Doctor] blinked as it reinforced the thought in her head, and she bowed—but her head came up.
“Yet the discovery—if there is a common link between the flesh of Tombhome and the addiction it causes, something not even magic can solve—it must be genetic. If the very cells are that foreign, no wonder no one has come up with a cure. The dependency on A’ctelios Salash can be cured—”
(Enough!)
The Fifth Mind’s outburst was worried and angry. Geneva Scala fell back as the other Selphids went silent.
(You are supposed to be working for our goals. Focus on that, not the city of Chandrar’s abominations. They are a single city.)
“Yes, Sympathy. But—”
Geneva Scala looked up at the Fifth Mind as the Selphids glanced at her. She spread her arms helplessly.
“—I am a [Doctor].”
 
——
 
The memories were connecting.
Geneva Scala was dying.
The other her was slowly extracting a screaming Okasha into another jar, watching as the [Doctor] bled out.
Now—Geneva Scala understood. She focused on the blood falling without end, and she saw it.
That was why they’d copied her. Because…
Because even when they changed her, she annoyed them. Then she saw it. Her head fell back, and her breathing grew softer. She remembered arguing with the Fifth Mind, the Third Mind going back and forth with her about galas-muscle.
And one last thing.
 
——
 
The Second Mind could juggle. 
All Minds were probably capable of it, but the Second Mind had fifty balls, and it was performing loops with the balls. Importantly—it wasn’t manipulating them through telekinesis, but actually tossing them.
(Much harder, see?)
Geneva Scala didn’t see the point if it could do the same by just floating the balls around. The Second Mind was put out.
(It’s because it’s hard. See—oops.)
It dropped a ball, and a few colorful orbs rolled past Geneva. She shook her head.
“I don’t know if I find it that amusing, Second Mind.”
