It was just Geneva Scala, the real Geneva, watching a false figment of her slowly changing as the Minds willed it. She had moments of lucidity and wondered if this were how someone under a degenerative mental condition felt.
She had heard some coma patients were trapped in their own bodies. Unable to tell the outside world they were aware of everything they saw and touched and felt and heard, but she had only understood that horror in an abstract way.
This was far worse than anything she could have imagined.
She could now see the conclusion, and the Titan’s promise seemed less and less like salvation, if it had ever been that. Now it looked like a day of awakening. But it would be from nightmare into horrific reality.
“You’ve always been prisoner of the Minds. You knew it. You knew it, and the lie was ever thinking you’d leave. Did you think you’d make it? You shouldn’t have survived that first battlefield, Geneva. The Minds are far, far cleverer than a mere war and [Soldiers]. This time, you won’t make it.”
The second Geneva spoke to her, like some kind of dark other consciousness. She stood in Geneva’s head, growing larger every day. A figure wading in bloody waters in her vision of the Minacien Wall.
A [Doctor], hands covered in gore as she stood at an operating table in the middle of a warzone, watching patients die and die without potions or hope.
A blank-faced woman, working by candle-light into the night, the Last Light, scarred and numb to her friends.
Geneva Scala, sitting on her bed as Idis tried to cheer her up. Contemplating her end.
Her mistakes were coming back to haunt her again. If the other Geneva was what the Minds wanted her to be, a growing stain in her head—all the moments she didn’t remember, her dark suspicions—the Geneva who still was remembered her follies.
They assailed her from the start. Why had she ever joined a mercenary group? She had volunteered by telling them she was a [Doctor]. She had known—even the moment she appeared on Baleros—what would happen.
It was pure arrogance that led a surgical resident in her third year to think she could replace industry, veterans, and all the tools and things that made medicine in the modern era. She should have died with Sergeant Thriss killing her for insubordination.
Or in a hundred other moments where [Soldiers] should have run her through. And after—staying and wandering from battlefields, trying to bring some kind of decency and hope to a war?
All she’d done was make it worse. She’d fueled the bloodbath that occurred between the Razorshard Armor and Roving Arrow companies. More than once, Geneva had wondered if her bringing back soldiers for them to die fighting had driven them to escalation.
If those were her two mistakes, she could have said that at least she walked away from the warzones and tried to make a difference elsewhere—but even there, her failures compounded. Her clinic…it had helped stop the Yellow Rivers epidemic. In part. In some small way, perhaps.
But she’d forgotten about Okasha. The Selphid had endured half a year without appreciation until she’d snapped. It might have been her fault in many ways, but in this self-reflection, Geneva saw how all the warnings were there. The irony was that if Okasha had been her patient, Geneva would never have taken her for granted like that.
Lastly and finally—the Minds. She should have known. She should have been more careful. She should never have given them what they wanted so plainly.
I am a [Doctor]. But I should know how even medicine and knowledge is twisted and used. 
She should have done so many things. Instead…Geneva was drowning, and there was no way out. The waters were closing in around her head, and the blank spots were growing.
 
——
 
When she could think, when she felt fully in control of her faculties, Geneva Scala thought of a way out. She wondered if the Titan would bring an army. If she managed to escape the Minds or he forced them to leave, what then?
She already felt…certain that the Minds would be done before he arrived. But even if she reached him like this, she didn’t want this.
She couldn’t remember the morning. Each Mind saw her, day by day, and the Second Mind last and shortest of them all. But Geneva felt like the moments blurred together. She would catch herself walking back from meeting the 5th Mind or think she was about to meet the 3rd Mind—and not remember what she’d done.
Time and reality stabilized around the Second Mind’s visits. It might have been trying to undo what was going on or—halting it temporarily. But it had agreed to think alike.
“What have I done? Second Mind? Do you know?”
She sat in front of it, and the Second Mind floated there in the air. Its ‘voice’ was oh so quiet.
(I do not know. I fear.)
“So do I. May I see Okasha again? One last time?”
Silently, the Second Mind took out the jar. Okasha always cried out when she sensed someone there.
“Hello? Is that you, Geneva? It’s been so long.”
It had only been a day. But to a Selphid, senseless, it must feel like solitary confinement. Geneva held the jar.
“Okasha. I’m sorry.”
“Stop—stop apologizing. Not for this. I know what I did. The Second Mind is kind. Kinder than Calectus or…I deserve. It’s been showing me what I’ve done wrong. How you felt. I—I don’t want to ever do that again. Geneva, I’m the one who was wrong.”
The Selphid squirmed in the jar. Geneva Scala shook her head.
“I ignored you.”
(The hand that swings the sword is still larger to blame.)
Contradiction whispered, and the two fell silent for a moment. Okasha agreed, and Geneva sensed her desperate, confined thoughts slow. Perhaps she too was learning to become a [Telepath]—but Okasha’s class was red.
“Geneva. I’m glad someone else is helping you walk. I…I should be punished. I should have to join the Bodies of Fellden as a [Conscript]. I will. I’ll make amends, and they can watch me and make sure I never get near another person again. But please? Please ask them to give me a body? There’s nothing here. I’m going crazy. It feels like years have passed. I can’t remember what things feel like.”
She pleaded with Geneva, and the [Doctor] hugged the jar to her chest as Idis hissed silently in her mind. She had no sympathy for Okasha, who had endangered her people and violated the great law of Selphids.
But Geneva still did.
“I’ll try, Okasha. But I don’t know if I’ll be able to. The Second Mind might…”
She looked up, and the Second Mind whispered.
(I will try.)
“I’ll ask the other Minds as well, Okasha.”
“Thank you. Thank you, Geneva. I’m…”
 
——
 
Sorry. Idis was striding away from the Second Mind’s rooms angrily. She was angry, and Geneva felt the emotion in her veins as the Selphid provoked her biology.
“You shouldn’t forgive her, Geneva. Not after what she did. She violated the Minacien Wall. I know she did it to save your life, but she started becoming a controller. She—deserves that jar.”
There was something so ironic about Idis’ claim that Geneva laughed despite herself.
“She’s the only one who should be punished, Idis? Really?”
The laughter was so strong that the Selphid had to work to keep Geneva from guffawing as Selphids passed by. So many were moving, some bearing weapons, others bringing supplies down.
Down…Geneva’s mind wrenched away from that.
“The Minds are—doing what they know is best. I’m here because we’re doing what Selphids need. Curing the Wasting. I know some things are off—”
“Like the Second Mind?”
A passing [Psychic Guardian], Ressk, turned his head as Geneva and Idis argued. Hurriedly, Idis bowed to him and moved them onwards. She whispered mentally instead.
(That—that wasn’t right. I know there might be things that aren’t fully right. But they promised to give you to the Titan.)
(Do you know what they’re doing to me?)
The Selphid missed a step, and Geneva stumbled. She fell, and Calectus, walking down the corridor, grabbed her. Geneva looked up as the [Honor Guard] steadied her.
“Doctor Scala. Idis, be more careful of her.”
“Sorry, sir.”
Idis began to salute with Geneva’s hand, and Calectus gave her a reproving look. Idis guiltily snatched the hand down, and Geneva, in control, gave Calectus a waxy smile.
“What about you? Have none of you violated the Minacien Wall?”
The other Selphids passing by her, Ressk, Calectus, Idis—all of them fell silent. Each one different. Ressk, the loyal servant of the Third Mind, was silent to his master’s will. Idis tried to say something.
“We’re—the Minds are intelligent—”
And Calectus? Geneva Scala looked up into his face. A female Dullahan adjusted her head, but the Selphid inside stared down at Geneva coldly. She had misjudged other people, the Minds included, but never more than him.
[Honor Guard]. He looked down at her and shook his head.
“You should rest, Doctor Scala. Sleep on your worries. The Minacien Wall is stronger than you think. We have not even cracked it.”
He meant the words for Idis, and the Selphid fixed on him with Geneva’s eyes, but her uncertainty radiated through Geneva’s body. Yet the [Doctor] just chuckled, and even the Selphids shivered at her voice. She spoke to him and saw an escape. But a terrible one.
“We’re on the wrong side of it, Calectus. And we’re sinking.”
Even the [Honor Guard] froze a moment, but he continued on walking. And Geneva…came upon her plan to end this bad dream.
 
——
 
They could not have her mind. It might be arrogance to think that she mattered that much, but she had already seen how the Minds wanted her to build their Selphids better bodies.
She…remembered the basement. Vaguely. The First Mind’s revelation escaped her direct understanding, but she remembered how she’d felt.
And that was only what she remembered. No, she would not be party to more violations of the Minacien Wall. They might want her to cure the Wasting—but would a day come when they asked her to operate on a living person, to change someone against their will, implant galas-muscle into them?
Worse, was there a day when she would agree without a second thought?
Her dreams were getting worse. Now, the nineteen year-old Geneva Scala hummed as she brought a body out for a Selphid to infest. She flirted with the coroner, and her best friend smiled at her, and he stared at her as a glowing orange line wriggled through his flesh.
When will I be comingled with a Selphid? Two, becoming better together? A symbiosis of two species?
Then she woke. And she saw how the Minds wished all species viewed them. Only Contradiction, the Second Mind, understood the horror of its own species.
It must…be so hard to accept that you could be the monster. That there were reasons to fear you.
No more. No more, and not me.
Geneva Scala hatched a plan so deep within her own head not even the other Minds could see it. She had thought this when Okasha began taking control.
How did you beat someone in your body? Now—she was both a prisoner in her head as well as a prisoner of her own consciousness. How did you resist the Minds? Even if she beat them—how did she stop Idis?
Idis was in her. She, even when sleeping, could lock down Geneva so fast the [Doctor] would be helpless. She’d done it before—reacted before Geneva could cut her hand, stopped her from falling or making mistakes.
Even if Geneva reached for a blade or tried to run, Idis would be there. The Minds were worse, but Geneva realized that she had an opening. One way out that no one would expect.
That night, Geneva Scala had a hard time getting to sleep. Her changing dream and that other self waited for her. She tossed and turned, and Idis grew tired as she tried to soothe Geneva.
“I’m gonna throw more…what did you call it? Melatonin in the body. Geneva…”
“Sorry. Just try to get some sleep, Idis.”
The Selphid needed rest just like Geneva. But the [Doctor] was tossing and turning so much that Idis stayed up well, well past when she wanted. To Geneva’s amusement, she realized that was the first drawback Idis had ever suffered for being in Geneva.
Well, it suited her plans. Geneva Scala slept, but unlike Idis, she put something in her head. A reminder to wake.
 
——
 
“What are you doing?”
The Other Geneva knew what this Geneva wanted, but she couldn’t stop her. Soon, she might—but the [Doctor] just dreamed for a bit.
And what her new self showed her was a dream.
It had no basis in reality—just Geneva’s imagination. It was based purely off what she’d been told and her own horror movies and sense of the unnatural and what she found horrific.
Unfortunately, she was a doctor. So her images of dripping sclera of eyes mixing with cilia waving in a mass, like the inside of some foul stomach, were all too real. She looked into a cavern of veins, some massive, hollowed out structure.
A body with too many eyes. A creature long-dead, but still growing in the sands of Chandrar. A reminder of the truth of this world.
Tombhome. The Selphid-Geneva pointed to it, eyes darting with her own fear.
“You think this is a terrible fate? You will be prisoner there, and if you think this is bad—”
She tried to pull Geneva away, but the [Telepath] floated towards that vision. She turned, almost amused, to her enemy.
“If this is bad, is what’s happening to me any better? All I know is that even the Minds fear it.”
“You don’t know what you’ll become. You will regret it.”
That might be true. Geneva felt a true fear in her marrow as she stared at the open corpse’s mouth. It was welcoming her in. But she clung to one person who stood at those gates, waving to her.
“Perhaps. But it won’t be a tool of the Minds. I know only the Second Mind as the one Selphid I trust. And I have seen how it must think alike. But…at least I know one person of A’ctelios Salash I admire.”
Seve-Alrelious smiled at her, and Geneva slowly began walking towards him. The other Geneva called out.
“Stop! Minds! Idis. She’s—”
 
——
 
Then she woke up, just as her thought told her to. Geneva sat up in the darkness, and Idis woke.
“Geneva? Is something wrong?”
“No, Idis. I’m just—restless. Go back to sleep.”
Geneva Scala slowly got up. The Selphid sleepily protested.
“Can we lie down? Your body’s tired.”
She didn’t feel Geneva’s heart beating a bit faster or notice the chemicals moving through her body. It was a quiet dread. Geneva slowly crossed her room and found the pantry and her things, scattered on the table, as messy as her lab was not.
“In a second. I’ll just have a bite to eat before I sleep.”
“Good idea.”
