Death-Commander Theilo looked down as Calectus reached up for him. A voice spoke through the speaking stone.
“We see it too. Barriers. Don’t let it touch you. Survivors, Theilo? Do they know what this is?”
The Rustängmarder looked down at the [Honor Guard]. He raised the crossbow and calmly reloaded it. The Selphid looked up, but those eyes searched for his honor…
Theilo shot Calectus through the chest. The Selphid began to melt from within as the Rustängmarder clicked another bolt into place.
“None worth mentioning, Titan. Soldiers, advance.”
 
——
 
“…I can’t sense the Minds.”
Deep in the basement of the Gathering Citadel, the Selphid-Geneva looked up, and her composure slipped. She stepped forwards—then felt the Gathering Citadel rise. She stumbled and put a hand on one of the gurneys where a body shifted. A Lizardwoman blinked up at the ceiling as the Alternate Geneva’s head rose.
“The Titan? I have to—”
She still had time, but she went hurrying for the door. Okasha was weeping, bottled again, and the other Geneva began to run—until a voice spoke.
“I can’t let you do that.”
The Selphid spun, and her eyes widened.
Geneva Scala was still alive? The [Doctor] was staring at her, immobilized by the straps. She should have bled out minutes ago with four arteries severed. Only…
The [Telepathic Healer] focused on the woman, and her smile twisted.
“Clever. [Hemostatic Pause].”
Geneva had halted her own blood loss with a Skill. She was as pale as a sheet, but—the other Geneva raised the scalpel.
“I don’t have time for this. What has the Second Mind done? You must have colluded.”
“I don’t know. I fear…people are dying. But I can’t let you go. Not you.”
Weakly, the [Doctor] tried to free her body. One of the leather straps jerked and twisted as her mind fumbled with the clasp. It was so funny that the other Geneva almost laughed.
“You—what are you trying to do?”
“Stop you. I swore never to hurt someone. But you—the Minds have imprisoned me. Made me their captive. Stolen my thoughts and twisted them into you. They can’t have my soul. Not you.”
One of the leather straps loosened, and Geneva actually pulled an arm free. The Selphid realized that Geneva was using her mind—and she was trying to lock down the other Geneva’s limbs.
Geneva’s mental strength was nothing compared to the Selphid’s. Contemptuously, the other Geneva walked over and lifted a scalpel. She cut Geneva Scala’s throat, and this time, the blood began pouring as the [Doctor] began choking.
“They already have you, Geneva. They already know you. Every memory, every embarrassing mistake and all you are. I’m proof of that.”
(I know.)
The Last Light grabbed the scalpel before it could go straight through her chest, into her heart. A blade was digging into her chest, but she kept it from sinking deeper. Her hand was already shaking—she was choking, her lungs filling with blood.
But—her eyes were staring at her clone, and Geneva clung to one thought. Even when they’d taken her memory of her father away. Even when they’d begun making her the [Doctor] they wanted. Someone who loved Selphids—
Even if it was one memory or a hundred—they couldn’t change her entirely. She was still the doctor. Everything she had lived and done made up Geneva Scala. 
One memory altered her. But the [Doctor] stared her frustrated clone in the eyes. Her lips moved, trying to sound out the words.
“You can move my body and alter my mind.”
The tip of the scalpel was juddering with her heartbeat. Okasha’s jar was shaking. Geneva’s lips whispered as her mind strained against her opponent’s.
“I can’t defeat you. But I can still hold my beliefs.”
Her voice was soft and broken by defeats. Sorrows. Even so…the Selphid’s eyes focused on Geneva’s bloody lips.
“No matter what, I’ve still chosen this. It was my choice.”
Geneva Scala’s voice spoke in the Selphid’s ears. Geneva’s throat bled, a stain of red leaking down into her clothes. How was she speaking?
“And I have always chosen…”
The scalpel was plunging down with all the strength of galas-muscle, but it stopped, and the straining arm began to rise. Incredulous, the Selphid-Geneva put all her strength and weight into the arm, but suddenly, Selphid-Geneva was forcing it back. And she felt that the [Doctor]’s strength doubled, tripled—multiplied in strength. Almost like—
Then the Selphid heard a sound, and her arm weakened. She looked up, and a body moved. It whispered as a Lizardwoman raised her head. The voice was different. The body was different.
But the doctor’s head rose—and the Selphid heard a dozen voices whispering the same words. From a dozen different lips and perspectives, each one changed. But the same.
“…to be a doctor.”
The bodies sat up. The waiting vessels moved, and the Minds’ chosen basis for their army of clones was bleeding, choking on her own blood. The Selphid tried to plunge the scalpel down again, but a hand caught hers.
She looked into the gaze of an unsteady Beastkin, fur matted, body stiff from lying there—disoriented, but snarling.
“What are you—”
The other Geneva hurled the Selphid-Geneva back, and the Selphid stumbled. A clumsy paw went to close the bleeding, but it slipped.
So a Lizardwoman seized a needle and thread, then dropped it for a healing potion. The Beastkin tore off one of the straps, and another one snapped the scalpel.
“What have you done?”
The Selphid turned and saw more people getting to their feet. Geneva Scala, the one with the original body, looked up and saw.
“Everything you wanted.”
Geneva stared down at her hands, and they were a Lizardfolk’s. Then she looked up—and even sight was different. She gazed at what she remembered to be her face—and stumbled as she replied. Or some other version of herself did.
“We’re leaving. But you’re not.”
The Selphid searched for another scalpel, but a dozen telepaths tore it away. She had control of a body filled with galas-muscle—and she leapt at the first Geneva. The others grabbed her, trying to tear her hand away as she snapped a Drake’s neck.
The thrashing Selphid sent them flying. She was screaming.
“You can’t kill me. You’re not capable of it, even if you copied yourself a hundred times.”
They threw her down, but she kicked hard enough to shatter the ribs of another Human. The Gathering Citadel was shaking, and now they could all hear the mental screaming in the air.
They were struggling to hold the Selphid down as she rampaged. She rose and grabbed the original Geneva by the neck—she was lying where she had been freed, unable to move without help. A dozen hands grabbed the Selphid, but she knew she was right.
“You’re still the doctor. But I’m not. I am the Minds and Geneva Scala comingled.”
“Yes. You’re the only one who doesn’t deserve a body.”
Someone whispered in her ear. ‘Geneva Scala’ froze—and then she felt pain. She cried out and swung around, scattering Genevas, but it wasn’t them who was hurting her.
“[Sneak Attack].”
Okasha was in her veins. The Selphid was attacking her within her body—and Selphid-Geneva’s host body began to spasm. Until one of the Genevas called out.
“Okasha. Leave her. Help…me…up.”
“But she’ll—”
Okasha slithered out as they brought her over to the original doctor’s body. She helped Geneva rise, and the [Doctor] flinched when she saw the other Geneva’s head come up.
…But her body just flailed around wildly when it tried to rise. One of the Genevas, a Dullahan, adjusted her head. She held a bloody scalpel and a hammer.
She’d cut the tendons and broken the bones. The other Genevas stared at her. She raised the hammer to bring it down on the other Geneva’s face, but a hand caught hers.
“No. I will take no lives. ‘The health of my patient will be my first consideration. I will not use my medical knowledge to violate human rights and civil liberties, even under threat’.”
A Geneva half-fish and half-Human whispered the same words that the others knew by heart. Yet the Dullahan simply tore her arm away.
“We serve more than humanity. The Minds were right.”
The other Genevas stirred, but the Dullahan tossed the hammer down.
“The bodies of the dead are already defiled by undeath. The dead I could cut apart and reassemble. Not the living.”
She looked around, and the first [Doctor] was shaking her head. Another felt at her face and jerked—a Drake coughed and stared blankly at the liquid dripping from her mouth. The Oldblood Geneva whispered.
“I should have never left the battlefield. Things were simpler there.”
Another Geneva disagreed. A Gnoll bent down, lifting a fallen Geneva to her feet.
“We have grown arrogant. We should have been a better person, first.”
“…The mysteries of this world. Find them. This entire planet is ailing. The Eir Gel. A scalpel cannot cut away the next pandemic.”
Pale as a wisp, another Geneva with feathers breathed within another body’s flesh. The [Doctors] looked at each other. Each one was different.
Each one was a different perspective. But they were all—the Selphid-Geneva made of the Minds stared up at them. In silence, they surrounded her until one broke the silence. The Dullahan looked up sharply.
“Something is wrong. The citadel is screaming. Run if you want to live.”
Geneva snapped at the others. They began to run for the stairs, but one of the Genevas bent down, reaching for the fallen Selphid.
“Wait, she’s—”
She looked up for help, but the others were running. A second Geneva stopped, closed her eyes, and ran back to help her carry the Selphid-Geneva up. But the rest were running up the stairs.
How many were there? They ran up the stairs and stopped when they saw the Sixth Floor. It was a sea of black shapes, wriggling around. The first Geneva Scala stopped and bent down.
“A Selphid?”
It latched to her hand and began trying to consume her. She tore the Selphid off her with a cry, and a mass of Selphids rose.
“Run higher!”
“No, this way!”
The doctors shouted at each other. They weren’t alike. One went pounding back to the basement—another group began running up the stairs, and more ran straight through the sixth floor.
The group heading up the stairs vanished as a torrent of Selphids fell, a wave of them eating everything in their path. The rest began to run as screaming Selphids fought crazed members of their kind. They looked up as the doctors ran, some stopping to drag Selphids to safety, others helping each other flee.
 
——
 
The entire damn Gathering Citadel had gone insane.
Niers Astoragon didn’t know what had happened. One second he was bracing for the Mind’s counterattack, the next, he was in the citadel, taking the Selphids by storm as they entered through the new entrances.
The next—a new foe had come out of the tunnels and begun attacking Selphids and his forces alike.
Selphids, forming some kind of living creature that ate everything it could see. They were screaming, and the Titan was calling his strike groups back.
“Form up! Form up and burn everything in the tunnels! I want walls of flame! Flood the openings with magma—”
“Titan, what about the [Doctor]?”
“Strike groups, delve and find her. Blockade every door you get to.”
He sent them into that hell, and they went. It always surprised him. Fraerlings riding Tallfolk were shooting wildly into the dark as Selphids lunged at them, bodies and masses.
If anything—it was easier than fighting the Minds. This crazed sea of Selphids could be blocked off. Yet it wasn’t like fighting monsters either. The screaming was mental, and Niers felt it even with his helmet on.
His soldiers were bleeding from their noses and eyes, and he saw a [Forcewall] implode. An avalanche of bodies covered a screaming Dullahan, but Fraerlings hit the armored [Soldier] with flame spells.
Burning, they yanked him out and tore Selphid bodies off his flesh as they dumped potions on the [Soldier].
“What are you doing? Pour mana into those [Forcewalls] or I’ll execute you here.”
Niers screamed at the [Mage], but the [Barrier Magus] protested.
“They destroyed my spell! They’re using telepathy!”
This crazed group of Selphids was still acting as a Mind? Niers whirled.
“Solid barricades—I want solid barricades and acid spells. No—fire and electricity. Strike groups, move faster! We are in danger of being overrun! Push forwards and secure that staircase!”
Eirnos and Gindal were sniping Selphids with bodies as they came charging towards them, but Gindal yanked down another Selphid’s arm.
“Some aren’t mad, Titan!”
Put them down! Niers almost shouted that, but he choked on the words.
“Contain them! Don’t let them near our soldiers, but don’t shoot them—or our strike teams! Treat them like they’re infected! [Volley Fire]!”
He was listening to the strike groups. One had already taken casualties. Another was silent.
“—found the [Doctor], Titan. Bringing her up—refuses to go without saving as many Selphids as—”
“Grab her and run. Strike groups, fall back! Target is acq—”
“Strike Group 4 has found the [Doctor]. She’s got a damn Selphid in her.”
“…What? Strike Group 2, confirm you have the [Doctor]? Nevermind that, get up here! At least one of the Minds is alive!”
 
——
 
Redemption could feel the Combined Mind dying. But it was slaughtering everything it came across, and it was gaining…cohesion.
The Second Mind hadn’t expected that. Yet it felt the Combined Mind reforming, scattered though it was. No longer a collective, but a kind of consciousness.
What was it becoming? A thought echoed up, and Redemption shuddered as it heard the thoughts.
A ravening hunger without end. A vision of a body lying imprisoned in the sands. Deep—stilled hearts. A prophecy.
The Combined Mind spoke. Whispers in the flesh, killing the Forgotten Wing Company’s [Mages], flooding the Titan’s forces as he screamed at his strike groups to get the doctor and evacuate through whatever door they could find.
 
(…the sleeper shall wake.
it shall devour the mind of Baleros and the blood of Izril
it shall eat the goodness of Terandria and the flesh of cloth
so that it might devour god itself)
 
(Madness.)
Redemption tried to process the words and that certainty. A prophecy? It didn’t understand—but it copied down the words and the knowledge of this place.
None of what had been done, just the warnings. All of it. The despair, the folly of the Third Mind, and all this tragedy. Then Redemption reached out.
The backlash of lifting a fortress out of the ground was killing it. But it still had enough force left in its being to do what must be done.
(Descend into us.)
