The Combined Mind was beginning to kill everything. It had all the powers of a Mind. This—this was the Second Mind’s mistake, thinking it could kill the Minds without creating something worse.
Ah, well. At least the Second Mind had assumed it could be wrong.
Redemption reached out as it sensed the last living beings who could conceivably flee heading for the exits. It felt for every other one of them and tried to open a gap.
…But it was time. It reached up and out. And the Mind screamed to the heavens at last.
 
(I am formerly the Second Mind of Baleros. Hear me, Minds of Baleros. Hear me, Emperor of Drath, King of Rhir, Demons, Ruler of Khelt, and Mages of Wistram. You, who pledged to watch us—we have breached the Minacien Wall. Great sins have been committed here, and A’ctelios Salash’s madness runs rampant through this Gathering Citadel. No more. Nevermore. Wake us from this dark dream.)
 
It reached out, and on his throne, the Blighted King sat up, heart pounding. The [Emperor] of Drath sat up from his meditations.
The leaders of Maelstrom’s Howling, the Iron Vanguard, the King of Khelt—the Keyholder of Samal—
They didn’t wait.
A Centauress, Gwelin Fellstrider, galloped to her armory and found the coordinates. She began activating a contingency as an Archmage opened a scroll with hands that shook. They had preparations for this day. Old spells stored away in vaults…
And they had used so many. The King of Khelt stared at the dissolving spell scrolls and wondered how many contingencies they had left.
Yet he still activated them. Redemption felt the spells focus on it, like a beacon. Below, the Combined Mind was still gathering its power. But even it should not withstand what was coming.
Good.
The last Mind in this place floated higher, and at last, exited the Gathering Citadel for the first time ever since it had been created.
A hostile wind blew over it and all the contaminants and dangers of a world beyond. No place for a Mind—and it wished it had eyes to see.
It looked out of the eyes of the other species, instead, and saw an orange glow. The night had not yet turned to dawn.
…Yet the sky was alight. A flaming sword burned through the skies from ancient Drath, and more spells flew in its wake. Burning meteors, and the sky crisscrossed with light as the rulers of nations, Demons and paradise alike, answered the Mind’s call.
Redemption hovered there, watching until the first spell touched the Gathering Citadel. Then—it felt able to rest.
 
——
 
“Not yet! Damn you idiots! Not yet!”
Niers Astoragon howled at the sky. He saw a flaming sword meant for a giant descend. Drath’s wrath lit up the Gathering Citadel like a torch. But Redemption—
It did not intend for a single part of the twisted Mind to escape. It was willing to damn its fortress to hell.
“Open a line to Drath and the Blighted Kingdom and—tell them to hold their fire!”
A bolt of lightning struck down, and Niers was thrown off Theilo’s arm. He got up and saw something coming through the sky. The Titan cursed and pulled something out of his pocket.
[No Magic, No Luck, No Skills, Only Strategy].
The Arrows of Razzimir winked out of existence—but more spells began to overload his Skill. Some of the incoming attacks didn’t even flicker.
He looked up—and a thousand arrows were raining down around him, turning whatever they touched to ash or stone. The Blighted Kingdom. Niers coldly pointed up.
“The Blighted Kingdom is beginning to attack. They are ignoring our hails!”
Eirnos screamed at the Titan. He spat blood from his mouth.
“Activate our Tier 7 scroll. [Superior Counter Fire]. Tell them to hold.”
The air filled with thunder as a volley shot back through the skies. The rain of death stopped—or rather, slowed. Eirnos had unrolled a scroll, and it activated as the Titan swore.
[Zone of Slow Time].
They had minutes. The Titan looked into the tunnels and saw dead Selphids. The undead—were fleeing. One ran, a Draugr, turning away from the fortress, and a mass of Selphids reached out—and crushed it into the wall.
“Titan?”
Even Death-Commander Theilo stared into the dark mass as it slowly gathered. But the Titan, the Named-rank Adventurer, just spoke out of the corner of his mouth.
“Where’s the [Doctor]?”
“Two floors down.”
“Then we’re opening a path for her. Form up. An Old One’s coming.”
Eirnos slowly looked at him, and then half the soldiers fell to their knees, screaming. A twisting blade pierced through even Niers’ mind as his Selrite helmet cracked.
An orb floated through the corridors, gathering from the Selphids. A voice spoke in the dark.
(…shall consume.)
“Or be buried here. Then, in a thousand years, someone digs you up and finds you. Minds, undead—Crelers—you all don’t tend to die with time.”
The Titan spoke loudly as the Combined Mind halted—one part of it. Even the slow time spell wasn’t affecting it much. He raised his crossbow and nodded to Gindal. The Fraerling leapt into the hands of a [Rogue] who vanished along one side of the corridor.
The Titan was bleeding from his eyes, but the Combined Mind halted. Slowly, Niers Astoragon saw Theilo moving his soldiers left. He reached into his bag of holding, and pulled out an object he’d taken from his armory from his days as a Named Adventurer. He loaded the bolt into his crossbow as he spoke.
“I’ve killed your kind before. Eirnos—[Redirect Spell] on my position.”
The Fraerling Iuncuta’s eye glittered. She removed her eyepatch, and an eye focused. The burning hail of Arrows of Razzimir overhead winked out—
A shining constellation of them shone in her gemstone eye, growing larger—then bursting out as the Combined Mind shielded itself. The Titan fired his crossbow and spoke.
“[Raise the Banner]. [Mark Target].”
 
——
 
…The hail of spells slowed for only a moment. For ten minutes, they halted, then resumed. A pillar of gold shone down and turned the very earth into pyrite. Flame, lightning, and other spells began to disintegrate even the Gathering Citadel.
Even the other Minds of Baleros joined in the wrath—but the armageddon touched down only after the last soldier left the citadel.
The Titan’s forces were falling back. They were burning the ground around the Gathering Citadel, trying to stop the Combined Mind from leaving—but they began fleeing in earnest now. They leapt onto carpets and teleported away. The Titan of Baleros himself emerged, half-supported by Gindal, wiping blood away from his eyes, nose, and ears. He stood there, speaking.
“I’ll have a report on what I saw later, Your Majesties. Later. Be kind to the Selphids. This was one group of Minds. One group…I am positive they were acting independently. No, I don’t know if it’s all…[Detect Life] spells on my position if you can. We got one part—a crater. Melt whatever you can, and I’ll make sure there’s no possibility there was another level beneath.”
He turned to look at the crater of liquified rock and soil as the spells channeled the hole in the earth deeper. Making sure there was no possibility anything could hide in the deeps. No dungeon.
No Old Ones. As for the Titan—he glanced at other figures in the distance, running away from the burning spectacle. But his eyes…were on only one group stumbling his way.
 
——
 
Geneva Scala emerged from the burning hellscape as the entire region began to disappear in the kind of destruction that Niers Astoragon had only seen a few times in his life. His promised wrath had come to the Minds of Baleros.
He’d left Fraerlings and soldiers alike there. The Titan looked up as he counted the gaps in his ranks, and his eyes fixed on someone being supported by several [Soldiers]. Eirnos looked up as she tallied the Fraerling dead.
“Is that her?”
Niers didn’t know. His strike teams had vanished below. Babbling about visions and multiple [Doctors].
“There are Selphids and other survivors fleeing into the forests. I’m either minded to round them up and kill them all—but there are local companies converging on the scene, and all four Great Companies are moving. Are there other survivors? You—are you Geneva Scala, the Last Light of Baleros?”
“Yes. It’s just me.”
“Was anyone held hostage in the citadel or were there just Selphids?”
Niers stared at a Human woman, burnt and wounded across multiple spots on her body. She walked oddly, and one of the Fraerlings had said she was infested. He was nodding to a Fraerling specialist, but the [Doctor] spoke.
“Just me. Me—I have a Selphid in me. Don’t kill her. She helped me escape. I couldn’t move without her.”
Eirnos made a sound. Niers’ eyes lifted, and a weary [Doctor] met his gaze. The Titan held up a hand towards his troops, and he turned.
The Gathering Citadel was burning behind her, and she looked so tired. So this was the Last Light of Baleros. He looked her up and down, and she stared at the small man who led one of the Great Companies of Baleros.
At last, Niers Astoragon nodded to her.
“It’s good to meet you, Doctor Scala. I’m sorry I didn’t get here sooner. Tell me—what would you like to do first?”
The [Doctor] looked at him, and her lips twitched, but she didn’t quite smile. She looked back and then at Niers, and then, she began to giggle. And laugh.
The Fraerling was polite and waved his people to get her a healing potion—he must have thought she was mad or lost for words at what she’d endured. But the truth was that Geneva Scala looked back at all the madness and her last prison, and despite it all, despite the madness of Minds—she stared at the burning fortress. Then at the Forgotten Wing Company and knew there would never be enough of her to find her friends, to make sense of this world and try to do something, thankless as it was.
But—she laughed with hysteria and mad relief until she wept—
She was no longer alone.
 
[Prisoner of the Minds class removed.]
[Condition: Haze of Delirium removed.]
[Condition: Corruption’s Accomplice removed.]
 
[Conditions Met: Surgeon → Psychic Surgeon Class!]
[Class Consolidation: Telepath removed.]
 
[Psychic Surgeon Level 37!]
[Skill — Greater Resistance: Mental obtained!]
[Skill — Enhanced Telekinesis obtained!]
[Skill — Dexterity of Thought obtained!]
[Skill — Enhanced Telepathy obtained!]
[Skill — My Oath Binds You Like My Conviction obtained!]
