The Fourth Mind tried to appeal to Contradiction, as if Inconsolable spoke reason. It received a backlash of fury, of frustration, and of such grief and disappointment that it recoiled. The Second Mind turned to the Fifth and Sixth. Even then, they would be half and half.
(What use is a mind if it cannot change? If it cannot learn and grow? You two, Sympathy, Egress—why do you support the Third and First Mind blindly?)
(Why do you dissent continually, Contradiction? Can your mind not process teamwork, collaboration, unity?)
Egress shot back as the other Minds slowly pushed at the Second Mind. Yet it kept up thinning barriers.
Merged. The First Mind was calling for a merge. That was how Minds were made. That was how Minds…died. When two Minds came together to form an even greater mind, absorbing all of the other’s perspectives and ideas and capabilities.
But this would be no equal merge. The Third Mind had too much sway, and its ideas, Dictum, dripped in like poison.
(All of us. Six minds become one. The greatest Mind of all.)
(All?)
Even Continuum hesitated at this, but the Third Mind was insisting.
(The Second Mind will hold too much sway in an unequal merge if it is just you or this mind alone. Six Minds—united.)
Now it was pushing, using every scrap of influence it had to persuade the other Minds into something as horrid as its other deeds. There were sixteen minds left in this world.
Then—eleven? This was the Gathering Citadel formed to halt the Wasting, with more Minds present than any other group. A supermind of them all would be beyond any other being since the days of empire.
It was wrong. But the other Minds were seeing how the Second Mind had rebelled, and if it melded with any one Mind, it might destabilize them. Why not?
They drew around the Second Mind like vultures, tearing at its mental barricades and beginning to take it apart. It fought back, holding itself together, but they were snatching the Selphids away from it. Merging it with their bodies.
The melding was more than that, though. They were flowing together, no longer spheres in the air, but a writhing mass, a sea of bodies that would become something new.
Contradiction still called out as Continuum, Dictum, Inconsolable, Sympathy, and Egress began to lose themselves.
(You fools. Do you think becoming one is the answer? Do you think one mind defeats six? You are lost. Original, new thought by its nature cannot be found within a group. We are no better than the Selphids who became us. We never were. Stop. Please…)
Its voice was being lost in a haze as Contradiction began to dissolve. It gathered the most powerful Selphids to it as the other Minds began to merge around it. Like a dying soul, surrounded by other Selphids.
The irony was that they didn’t understand each other. Even so close as they were, even as Minds…the Second Mind thought differently.
It saw now, as they reached for it and the walls came down, how they thought. Or rather, how they forgot.
…Forgot to see the individual wish among the mass that they were. Hear the single voice, the [Doctor]’s will and place as equals to theirs. They were the will of thousands. And the thousands never considered that they could be wrong. That the suffering of one eclipsed their own.
Like a city of people, they had empathy and desire and virtue and good intent, but they passed by the desperate, the hurt, every single day. A city of souls that only believed in the city, not the parts.
The Second Mind—was different. The Selphids being torn out of its heart were no better or worse than the others. But it was made up of Selphids who had gone to other nations. And they were…
Lonely. They had endured the scorn and distrust of other species, and struggled, making friends and companions without their people to rely on. And when they had come home, they had been strangers.
That sorrow was in Contradiction’s soul. A memory made countless times by children, Selphids who had opposed their families, stood alone regardless of whether they were right or wrong. The conviction to believe something else, no matter how it hurt.
If they were wrong—the other Minds shivered and trembled before that simple thought. If they were wrong and they were committing a sin, what happened then? The foundation of everything fell apart and they were damned and useless.
What then? How could Contradiction think that way? They reached for answers, but the Second Mind had none. In its heart—it only had fear, determination, and sadness.
If we are all wrong—the Third Mind whispered and shook.
…Then we fail and begin again. We pay for our mistakes.
The light they had been following was flickering, and the Minds were lost on a dark crossroads as infinite and lost as another planet. The dark side of the moon. They clung to this vision, despite the pitfalls and the doubts. If that light went out, they were lost.
They were too afraid to try. Too old, following a looping thought that they had to succeed. Too proud. The Second Mind wept for them. They were no better than the Selphids who made them up. Just afraid, five Minds. And it felt itself falling apart at last.
(We are all damned, then.)
Five voices became thousands, united in purpose, and one single Mind spoke. The Combined Mind pushed at the desperate Contradiction…no, whatever was left, as it did to the Second Mind what had been done to Geneva Scala.
Unmaking. Changing.
(You cannot deny the Mind. Geneva Scala will not flee. The Titan will be dealt with. The Wasting ended. We have already succeeded.)
The desperate Mind held its ground. No…the other Mind squirmed with its component bodies, and a kind of dark satisfaction filled the thing that had been called Contradiction.
(Geneva Scala is free. She will escape. No one else will. The Titan will rain down wrath upon this place.)
(His army cannot best this mind. Nor will the Last Light reach the Titan. We have already sent her on her way.)
What? What did that mean? The rapidly disappearing Second Mind…was confused.
(No. I saw her.)
(So did we.)
And the darkness closed in as the Second Mind began to join with the others. And it understood—
Everything.
 
——
 
Geneva Scala straightened, Okasha helping her to move. She stumbled as Idis’ corpse was slowly moved by the new Selphid. She was numb—but she knew she had to run. She almost thought she’d make it.
Until that voice whispered to her. Until her alter ego stood in front of her, in the doorway. She was a Human woman who looked so much like Geneva—save for the orange veins under her skin.
The face was almost perfect. The body? Muscles stood out oddly, as if they weren’t quite adapted yet, and she was far too strong. Too quick; she crossed the room and grabbed Geneva’s arm as Okasha gasped.
“Who—”
The Selphid-Geneva caught The Last Light as the [Rogue] twisted.
“[Slippery Esc—]”
“[Thought Blank].”
—Lying on the floor as the other Geneva knelt on her back. The [Doctor] looked up, and a familiar voice spoke to her.
“I told you it was too late.”
“Geneva? Who’s this?”
Okasha didn’t understand. She struggled, but the arm was twisting Geneva’s back, and something would break if it put even a hair’s more pressure onto Geneva.
A doctor’s understanding of the Human body. Geneva stared up through the searing pain into two dead eyes. But the intelligence behind them was so familiar.
It was like a mirror. A mirror twisted by the Minds.
“You’re me.”
It was so stupid to say, but Geneva had to confirm it. The other Geneva picked her up, and Geneva felt her muscles tense—then fire uselessly. A mental power was locking down her and Okasha.
“Half you. Half the Minds. I am you unburdened. First of many. A [Telepath Healer]—for now. Stronger than you. I gained none of your levels, sadly. But I can level, unlike the Minds.”
“Impossible. Copying a person? That’s wrong. That’s—the Minacien Wall—”
Okasha babbled. The other Geneva just dragged Geneva to her feet.
“The other Minds sent me to make sure the Second Mind didn’t try something like this. Poor Idis. They’ll deal with Contradiction. As for you—it’s time to take you to your end, Geneva. Don’t worry. I will deal with the Titan kindly. Perhaps even stay and help him. He isn’t an enemy. Just too nosy for his own good.”
Now, Geneva saw it. Her feet dragged, but the other Geneva lifted her with the strength of galas-muscle, effortlessly, using her mind to pull Geneva along through the Gathering Citadel. Not up, but down.
The Titan was warning the Minds they had twenty minutes left. Twenty minutes…but far too much time.
“Doctor Scala. The Titan is w—”
Calectus was striding down the corridor with a group of guards, but they froze when they saw the two Genevas. Not in horror—but cautiously.
“The time has come for us to meet, Calectus. Wait for me. I shall take Geneva to the basement. Then meet him.”
The [Honor Guard] bowed instantly.
“Do you need a helper?”
“This body is strong enough. Oh, and Idis is dead. Okasha is in here—Idis died bravely, it seems. I’m sorry about that.”
They stood aside, and Geneva’s rolling head caught Calectus’ eyes. She was dragged towards the staircase, and they began to head down. Now—Geneva understood.
“That’s what the Fourth Mind meant. How long…have you been here?”
“A few days. Didn’t you wonder why you were needed less and less? The other yous didn’t last long. I was the first one who succeeded; they took a template of you and placed it in a Selphid. Then into a body. Soon—we won’t need that. Here we are. You’ve been here before, remember?”
Geneva did. The basement was waiting.
 
——
 
The Titan of Baleros stood outside the Gathering Citadel and waited. He had an hourglass out just for the show of it, but he was counting. A third of the time had passed already, but the Minds had made contact.
(Geneva Scala will appear before you Titan. We accede to your request.)
A presence below the earth spoke, and the soldiers and Fraerlings shivered. Niers could not hear the voice himself due to the helmet, but it was relayed to him. Eirnos felt at her helmet, frowning.
“That voice. I’m reminded of Old Ones, from adventurer stories.”
Niers snorted, but lightly. He murmured out of the corner of his mouth as he saw someone emerge from the citadel’s entrance.
“Old Ones don’t sound like that. If one speaks, you’re dead. But I agree; it’s the same feeling.”
A few of his older soldiers chuckled as everyone turned to him, and Niers covered the smile as Eirnos glared out of one good eye. But he was feeling that pit in his stomach deepen.
Everything I wanted is happening. No blood, no violence.
So why was he certain something was wrong? Niers stared at the body making its way to him through the undergrowth. His soldiers trained bows on the Selphid, but Niers raised his hand.
“Where’s the [Doctor]?”
“She will be arriving within ten minutes, Titan. The Minds have sent me to assuage any fears.”
The Selphid bowed and smiled. It wasn’t one of the higher-ups. Niers eyed the enchanted leather armor and the twin swords the Selphid bore. The warrior noticed the look and bowed again.
“The Minds ask you forgive their precautions. The Forgotten Wing Company is not to be underestimated.”
“Are they speaking through you, then?”
The Selphid’s gaze didn’t flicker—they never did. But the inside of one cheek pulsed in much the same manner.
“Not I. They will find a [Guardian] to act as a proxy momentarily. Forgive us, Titan. The Gathering Citadel is deep.”
“So I understand. But I will be quite merry if I see Geneva Scala unharmed. Will I be seeing that…?”
Niers waited for a name, but the Selphid just shook his head.
“The [Doctor] will appear before you unharmed, Titan. Negotiations can come afterwards. I promise you, she is coming. This is no trap for your forces.”
Niers twisted a ring on his finger as the Selphid glanced at him. A figure was striding past the emplaced soldiers. Death-Commander Theilo.
He was inspecting the [Soldiers], addressing them with a few words, confirming their readiness. The Rustängmarder’s leader felt no nerves. In fact, he was so bold he strayed towards the entrance of the Gathering Citadel.
“Hold your ground!”
Instantly, a voice sounded from within. The Selphid and the other soldiers tensed, but Theilo simply halted. He did not draw his curved sword nor his shield strapped to his back. Instead, one chainmail arm rose, and he briskly saluted a Selphid who half-emerged.
“I simply wish to salute my opponents if we come to battle.”
Niers saw a wary Selphid wearing a Lizardfolk body holding a glaive at the ready. His eyes narrowed.
[Honor Guard]? It looked like the Selphids had a number of them. They must be dug-in, and Selphid [Honor Guards] were tough as nails.
“Commander Theilo, we’re not looking for a damn war. Back to the ranks.”
The fearless commander saluted Calectus, and the [Honor Guard] slowly returned the gesture. Theilo spun on his heel and marched back to Niers. Gindal was giving Niers a look out of the corner of his eye.
“Do you need to bring the most insane officers possible, Titan?”
The Selrite amulet glinted on Theilo’s chest—one of the three figures wearing it. The [Rogue] was sitting, and their top [Mage] was eating a snack.
“Please stay away from the citadel, Titan.”
The Selphid looked worried, but then rallied.
“The Minds know you have not yet come for battle.”
“Wonderful to be trusted at my thoughts. Or rather, words.”
Niers smiled drily, but that pit in his stomach kept sinking. He saw Eirnos worriedly feeling at her helmet as something spoke to them.
(The [Doctor] is coming, Titan. We will await a meeting shortly.)
Niers’ eyes slowly narrowed, but he said not a word as his subordinates relayed the words. But Eirnos? She turned and looked at him.
Did he…hear that voice too? She felt at her helmet and saw the Fraerlings, all eighteen of them, shivering.
They’d heard it too. All their helmets were on.
Was that supposed to happen?
 
——
 
The lowest floor of the Gathering Citadel lay in darkness. So far underground, and cold. Yet it was not empty. Dozens of faces stared blankly up at the curved architecture, beams and supports like veins and curled ribs.
Neither alive nor dead. Empty faces, looking up into oblivion. A Beastkin, face shaped like a rodent, stared next to a Dullahan. Chests rose and fell, but they had no minds left. Geneva Scala saw each one was resting upon a gurney, but they were not strapped down.
Geneva stared around the room—and she had seen it before. But the number of bodies had grown. And there were even more changes made.
Bodies lay there, tended to by poultices, even primitive IV drips. Who had made them? This Geneva? The Minds?
