Ren felt her body jerk slightly, and he smiled. “That's my cue.” He said and moved down to her waist. When he slid a hand under her skirt, he felt what she had on. He lifted up the loose skirt and saw with his own eyes what his fingers had found. “You really are like a dream come true.”

“So are you-OHHH!” Elise gasped when Ren started to do his favorite thing and kissed her special place.

It was almost 20 minutes later before Elise started to beg him to stop.

“R-R-Ren, please... hold... hold off... I... AHHH!” Elise yelled as she finished again.

“But... I'm not done.” Ren said. “You want me to be happy, right?”

“I... yes, but... Ren, I...” Elise took several deep breaths, and Ren moved away and crawled up to lay beside her. He saw her visibly relax when he did, and he gave her a kiss with the taste of her on his lips.

“I want you to be happy, too.” Ren said and smiled. “So, I'll stop... for now.”

Elise chuckled, and her chest jiggled a lot. “Ren, god...” She sighed. “I don't know what to do with you!”

Ren chuckled, too. “I have a few ideas about what you can do.”

“Then... tell me.” Elise said and hugged him close. “I'll do... anything... for you, sweetheart.” She said and kissed him like she'd been thinking about doing to him all day.

*

The taxi brought Lisa home and she paid him, then went into her house.

“I'm home.” Lisa said.

“There you are, young lady!” Her mother said and stormed out of the living room to confront her daughter. “Do you know how worried I've been all day?”

“Yes.” Lisa said.

“Of course you don't!” Her mother said, because she had ignored what Lisa said. “You know your psychiatrist recommended only venturing out occasionally! You can't disappear for this long!”

“I didn't disappear. I told you where I was going.”

“Yes, your boyfriend's place.” Her mother said. “Do I even have to ask what you've been doing all day?!?”

“For your information, I had a game of bowling, had a good lunch of chicken strips and fries, swam in a pool for a few hours, read a chapter in a good book, had 3 pieces of pizza and garlic fingers for supper, then watched some television.” Lisa said. “Does knowing that make you happy?”

Lisa's mother was surprised her daughter had done so many different things in one day, and didn't know what to say to continue her argument. If Lisa had said she'd done one thing, she could have argued it was a waste of a day; but, since she did so many things, her mother couldn't come up with a reasonable objection.

Lisa smiled slightly at her mother's surprised expression, and was tempted to tell her that Ren had asked her to sleep over; but, she was pretty sure that would make her mother blow up at her.

“I'm going up to my room to take a nap.” Lisa said instead. Her mother didn't respond, so she smiled and took out the bag of candy and candy bars. “Ren said to give you these.”

Her mother took the bag with wide eyes and stared at it.

I should take a picture. Lisa thought in amusement, then went up the stairs with a huge smile on her face.
