Jennifer rocked her hips forward a little and looked down at herself. She eased herself down onto him, and her body gripped him tightly after the tip went in. She stopped moving and let her body try to adjust to him, and Ren pulled on his arms and broke both posts that the shackles were attached to, grabbed her hips and shoved her down onto himself.

“FUCK!” Jennifer yelled and finished. She gushed out onto his abdomen, and she dropped the leather strap to try and pull Ren's hands off of her. “Wait... you... you broke my shackles!”

“Fuck the shackles!” Ren said and picked her up and shoved her back down again. He felt her bursts of pleasure, but he didn't know if it was the physical stimulation or the mental one with him cursing. “If you're not going to hurry up and fuck me, then I'm going to fuck you!”

Jennifer froze solid at his tone and his words, and Ren felt a wave of anticipation from her.

“That's right!” Ren said and rolled her over and got on top. “You're such a bitch! Strutting across the stage and teasing all those men!” He said and pulled almost all the way out. “Fulfilling all their fantasies and never getting anything for yourself!” He jammed himself into her, and she gasped as he reached all the way inside. “You do so much for them and don't take anything except money!”

Jennifer gasped again when he pulled almost all the way back out.

“Well, I'm not gonna stand for it! I'm gonna fuck you so hard that you'll have no choice but to enjoy it!” Ren said and jammed himself back into her. Jennifer's body started to respond, and then she wrapped her arms around him.

“R-R-Ren!” Jennifer gasped as he started to pound her over and over again.

“Take it!” Ren said. “Open up and take the pleasure you fucking deserve!”

“I AM!” Jennifer yelled, and Ren felt her emotions open up. All of her sexual frustrations, her anxiety over having a weird fetish that people didn't understand, and her worry that she wasn't good enough for someone to love; it all came out for him. Ren's ability took everything she gave him and absorbed it. Her enjoyment and pleasure he left alone, though. It welled up inside of her, and he could feel her getting close.

“Ren! I'm gonna... oh, FUCK!” Jennifer yelled and had an orgasm. She dug her fingernails into his back and he didn't feel it at all. He only concentrated on making her feel good, and his Improved Toughness wouldn't let her nails penetrate his skin. He kept having sex with her, and she went two more times.

“P-p-please... Ren... give... give it to me!” Jennifer said. “Oh, god... please...”

“You asked for this, YOU BITCH!” Ren yelled in her face, and she kissed him hard. He had been building it up for a while, and when he felt her insides tense up, he let himself go and finished. Jennifer screamed into his mouth as he filled her up; then she went, and went, and went again. Her legs had clamped around him and wouldn't let him go as he poured himself into her.

Jennifer convulsed several times after that from the overload of pleasure, and then the moment passed. She let her grip on his back go and pulled her hands up to cup the sides of his face. She unwrapped her legs from around him and let them fall to the bed as she broke the kiss.

“Who... who are you?” Jennifer asked.

“Prince Charming for a day, at your service.” Ren said, and then chuckled. “Well, was at your service.”

Jennifer smiled, and gave him a nice soft kiss. “Thank you, Prince Charming.” She said and moved her hands down and along his neck. She rubbed his chest where she had hit him so many times that it had tired her out, and there wasn't a mark on him at all. “You're amazing.”

“You're just saying that because you saw me naked.” Ren said, and she laughed.

“Yes, I am.” Jennifer said.

“Ren, there's about 10 minutes left to the hour.” Teepo said.

Thanks, Teepo. Ren thought. “We better get changed and clean up.”

Jennifer nodded and got up off the bed. Ren did as well, and they looked at it.

“Oh, wow.” Jennifer said. The entire bed was soaked from the headboard to the foot of it. “That's quite the mess we made.”

“Allow me.” Ren said and stored the bed and put it back. It was all clean, but the posts were still damaged. “I'll fix these, too.” He said and held out his hands. Jennifer undid the simple lock and he took the chains to the top of the bed. He replaced the posts and attached the shackles in the same place they were before, then equipped his red suit. He walked over to Jennifer and offered her an elbow.

“Ma'am, may I escort you to work?”

“Please do, kind sir.” Jennifer equipped the metal piece to cover her private area, and then equipped one of the classy business suit and skirt outfits. She took his arm and they left Jennifer's work room.
