“Go! Spare the innocent! Eradicate any who stand in your way, but clear a path from here to the north! I do not care how many cities you must burn—slaughter that [High King] on his throne and put his puppet on the walls to open the gates if you must! Any nation that stands against Khelt—turn to dust, but hurry.”
Then he tossed Hecrelunn aside. The Vizir caught himself and flew forwards. Fetohep had no weapon, and he waited for a spell or words as he rode, slowing just enough to let the other catch up. All the [Vizir] did, though, was nod.
“You have never sounded more like a ruler of Khelt.”
Then he vanished. And Fetohep rode faster. He pushed the undead horse, cursing it. It was racing at full-tilt, but it was still just dead bones and magic.
Fifty minutes since he had been warned by the rulers of Khelt, Fetohep passed by the border of Germina and Hellios, mostly unoccupied border-land. The Dragonward Bells were still tolling. But the [Greater Haste] spell was wearing out already…and something worse was happening.
 
——
 
[Horsefriend] Aret was very proud of his small stable of horses.
‘Stable’ being a charitable word, because they were wild horses he’d befriended, and even some younger ones who’d been born into his care.
He was of the semi-nomadic groups and had big plans to go to the city and win some races.
Never sell his friends. He couldn’t bear to give them to someone to be used poorly and be meat one day, or be whipped, or have other unjust acts done to them.
Perhaps that was why he was so high-leveled. He was no [Hostler] or [Breeder], but friend. He was riding Yellie, the mount who could yell and incidentally liked Yellats, a double-plus since that was some of the only food Aret had to offer, when the boy looked up.
He was scavenging for treats for Touse, the new stallion old enough to ride. He was the one who would win Aret the races, but he wasn’t broken in and was frisky. It was Yellie who snorted and tossed his head, and Aret turned across the huge flatlands and few canyons not erased by sand and time and saw…
The undead.
At first, of course, the figure was so small that Aret didn’t know what he was seeing. But it was growing larger with such speed and it was moving so fast that Aret thought it was a trick of the mind at first. Then he realized—no. He was seeing it correctly.
What he saw was an undead being, eyes glowing gold, a crown of gold sitting on his head, deep purple robes glowing with magic—riding a skeletal horse.
Blue light burned in the horse’s eye sockets, and Aret went pale with fear as he saw Fetohep of Khelt. He knew it was either a powerful undead—or one of the dead of Khelt. Had he not heard of Khelt’s march—even seen a Jaw of Zeikhal as it headed north?
So he was not out of his mind with terror, but he was still afraid and looked for somewhere to hide and watch the being’s passing. Then someone else caught his eye.
Aret had such a powerful view of the flatlands that he could see some of Germina’s settlements far, far to the south. A hundred miles of flatland—a true barren place, but still more fruitful than Zeikhal—bordered the Great Desert itself. Because of that, seeing anyone wasn’t hard—but that figure was approaching so fast that Aret couldn’t believe it.
No horse, flying carpet, or even Courier could match that speed. In fact, that was why Aret just sat there on Yellie and stared. Because…the undead horse had a problem.
Its hooves were on fire.
The flaming hooves were igniting, going out as they struck the ground—but the sheer friction and speed of its travel had somehow set fire to the lower half of the horse. It didn’t stop, being undead, but the [Greater Haste] spell on it and Fetohep was having an unexpected effect. Unlike a living body—the horse’s sheer durability and necromantic spells were failing.
And the rider knew it. He was cursing, urging the horse to keep going as both its magic and the [Greater Haste] spell failed. But the flaming hooves were a bad sign.
Fetohep of Khelt galloped across Chandrar like an omen of the end. Flaming horse leaving footprints of its own body as it wore down. They were maybe eight thousand feet away and far more visible when Aret saw the undead horse’s magic give out. It collapsed into a pile of bones, and the impact threw Fetohep through the air.
Aret watched the undead king right himself, arms flailing, brace—and then hit the ground. He had to have flown a thousand feet, and Yellie snorted in awe. But the king just lay there a second, in a pile of robes, and then got up.
Then he started running. Aret saw the undead man just charge across the flat ground so fast that, as Aret galloped towards him in awe, he had to race with all his Skills just to catch up.
“Excuse me! Excuse—”
The emaciated head turned to him, and Aret squeaked in fear. But the echoing voice had no breathless quality—just regal authority.
“You. Give me that horse.”
Aret froze. Fetohep of Khelt slowed slightly.
“I will pay for it. I have need of a horse. I am Fetohep of Khelt. Give it to me.”
“I—no! I am Aret, [Horsefriend]! You—you’re the ruler of Khelt?”
Fetohep patently didn’t have time for celebrity recognition. He just turned and kept running—then he spotted Aret’s stable.
Touse was grazing on some weeds, but at the sight of an undead Revenant racing towards him and Aret and Yellie, he froze and snorted.
“That one. I will pay for that one.”
He skidded to a stop, and Aret whistled before Touse could run off.
“[Hear Me]—Touse! Don’t run! Don’t kick! Friendly! I—I can’t sell him!”
Fetohep was grabbing for something he didn’t have—a bag of holding? He snapped his fingers impatiently.
“[Open the Vault]. Gold!”
A shower of it rained down, and he grabbed a double-fistful and offered it to Aret. The boy stared as two hundred coins rained into the dirt.
“I—I—”
More gold than he’d dreamed of having continued to fall out of the air as Fetohep pointed.
“It is all yours. Give me that horse.”
“No! You’ll kill him!”
Aret had just seen the undead ride another horse literally until it exploded. He rode in front of Touse, and Yellie anxiously blocked his son. Fetohep was losing patience.
“I do not have time for this—then lease me that horse.”
“Not if you kill him!”
The undead looked around, but there was no horse or settlement for miles, and he couldn’t summon magical horses from Khelt’s vaults—there were none. Of all the things Serept had not made—
“Very well! Then ride with me. Until you are certain your horse is not dead or I find one. Satisfied? This will be your payment!”
He pointed down at the gold. The Horsefriend wondered how many horses he could feed with that—he nodded and jumped off his horse to pick up the coins, but Fetohep tossed the gold down.
“No. We ride!”
“But—”
Fetohep leapt onto Touse’s back, and the horse reared. Aret had to mount up. He began to soothe the stallion. This was the first time Touse had a rider besides Aret and an undead? Not to mention Fetohep was riding bareback—but to his amazement, the horse reared once, then dropped. The horse stared back at Fetohep in amazement, but the Revenant just nodded.
“Ride with me, Aret.”
He took off. And Aret knew he had a problem.
He had seen Touse run before, and he was way faster than Yellie, his older sire. But whoever Fetohep of Khelt was or had been—he’d been a high-level [Rider].
Aret couldn’t keep up. Fetohep looked back and saw the young man was two hundred paces behind. He sighed, whirled his horse, and rode back.
“Very well—[Follow My Back]. Ride, Aret! Ride in the name of Khelt as if the lives of all you hold dear depend on it!”
“My horses? Wh—aaaaaaaaaah—”
Then Aret began screaming because they accelerated. 
He had seen professional horse racers, and some could hit speeds for a short while that made him dizzy to imagine. To go that fast?
Fetohep of Khelt swept Aret up in a Skill that made him as fast as the Revenant. And even without [Greater Haste]—Fetohep could make Touse charge like a bolt of lightning as if he were on the battlefield.
Then he produced a Potion of Haste and fed it to Touse. The living had one advantage over the dead, and that was a stomach.
“We’re going to die! We’re going to—”
Aret nearly bit his tongue as the landscape flashed past. He was farther than he’d ever ridden in twenty minutes, and they thundered past a village he knew where he traded for gruel and other necessities. The people looked up and screamed as Fetohep rode past.
“Not yet. Fear not death, Aret.”
That was all the King of Khelt said to him. Then it hit Aret.
He was riding with a living legend. Or…undead legend. The King of Khelt himself, riding on some terrible purpose. Aret felt it.
It was the presence of a monarch. A King. The air hummed. That was why Yellie had sensed Fetohep—even if you were standing, minding your own business, you’d turn and spot him. Like a sixth sense.
Everyone in the region felt Fetohep riding. But the sheer speed of his progress was not the only thing that made Fetohep noticeable. He was talking, Aret realized after the panic wore off slightly. Giving orders and communicating nonstop. Floating stones and even a crystal orb hovered around Fetohep, flashing with magic.
“Unseal the Revenants! I gave you that order—I do not have to be there! Unseal them, and I will give orders as they awake! Send Emrist’s Revenants to me—and Dolenm’s first to Herdmistress Geraeri!”
He switched speaking stones at once, and a scrying orb lit up. A babble of voices—
“Your Majesty, the Quarass wishes to speak to—”
“—politest inquiries from the Emir Yazdil—”
“—Qualvekkaras is seeking answers—”
Famous names. Each one! The Quarass of Ger was the one Aret knew most. She could answer any question, could change your class, give you great knowledge if you went to her. Sometimes she asked a price, but he had heard she died. Then came back.
Yet Fetohep just snapped.
“I have no time for any one ruler! Prepare to send a mass [Message] to—”
Then the orb flickered, and someone appeared. Fetohep, Aret, and Yellie all stared at the Naga.
“Apologies, Great Fetohep. I am Emir Yazdil, and I have been inf—”
Fetohep raised the scrying orb and hurled it down. It exploded in a plume of magic, and Touse raced faster as Fetohep conjured another one from his vaults.
“Send a [Message] spell as follows.”
“To whom, Your Majesty?”
“Everyone. Hang the cost. Send it to every [Mage]’s Guild—but hold. Hold on my timing! Where are my Revenants!?”
For twenty minutes, Aret rode with Fetohep, listening to the king speak in stupefied awe. Yellie, Touse, didn’t seem to feel the speed at which they galloped. At first.
Yellie was boosted by Fetohep’s Skill, but Touse had to actually run, and he was growing tired.
“Is there any city nearby? I must have a horse—how far north are we? Only past Hellios?”
He had crossed a nation in little over an hour—a nation and a half since he had come from Khelt. Aret stuttered.
“Th—there’s a large city past the Blademaster’s Cut. It should be—”
He trailed off. He was about to say, ‘it should be three days’ ride north’, but then he realized—they were coming up on it.
A tremendous cut in the ground had created a canyon filled with a river and bountiful life that let a city to the north prosper. Whether or not a [Blademaster] had cut it—it was a huge landmark and impassable, save for one bridge. Fetohep saw it coming up, and Aret pointed.
“The bridge is that way! Left! Left!”
“I know. I do not have time for bridges. Prepare to jump.”
“Prepare to—you cannot jump it, Your Majesty! It’s impossible!”
This was not a jumping gap. It wasn’t ten feet or twenty—there was a river and entire valley between both sides! Aret began screaming at Fetohep, but the Revenant just sped up.
“Leave if you wish. [Open the Vaults]. Scroll of Jumping.”
“Even with it you’ll never make it! You’ll—”
Then Aret saw the ground vanish and open space beyond. He almost turned, but Touse was there, and he saw Fetohep casting the spell. The Revenant urged the horse into a full sprint, and then he leapt. Yellie followed his son with a scream, and Aret screamed his last. He wished he had some fighting final words like—‘I should have never followed the King of Khelt’.
All he had was a scream. Wild, panicked as the horses leapt, and he looked down and saw the Blademaster’s Valley.
A thin river of red under the sun, like blood thanks to the soil, and sparse trees and vegetation—but Swordtrees too, tough and sharp. A flock of birds rising in alarm, a few strange, loping ape-animals. And high above them, an undead and young man, the latter screaming.
“Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah! Aaaaaaaaaaaaaah! Aaaaaah—”
Aret took a breath.
“Aaaaaah! Aaaaaaah…dead gods.”
He looked down as the horses freaked out, feeling nothing below them, and galloped fruitlessly in the air. Aret gulped—
Then they hit the ground. Fetohep kept galloping as Yellie excreted all the food he had ever eaten—then followed. Aret just looked back. His mouth stayed open until something hit him like a punch to the face. He reeled—and then felt at what it was.
He’d hit a fly, and it had splattered across his head.
 
——
 
For one hour, Touse rode like lightning—then even stamina potions couldn’t help. The horse was suffering, and Aret and Fetohep noticed.
By then they had gotten closer to the north, riding along Belchan’s border, and more cities and tiny nations dotted the region.
Past the Blademaster’s Cut, where the descendants of that great warrior still trained themselves to become [Swordswomen] and [Blademasters]—they looked to the walls and saw a living young man and a great undead riding together.
Two horses, one a fine steed, the other a young colt running itself to the edge of injury. Yet they blazed, the living. Pushing themselves beyond every step, hooves kicking up clouds of dust. Following in the wake of two blazing golden eyes, and a mouth open in a shout of desperation. A call to war.
Fetohep leapt from his horse as he and Aret stormed through the gates of the city of Kalcuraz, so fast that they couldn’t be lowered. He landed on the ground, the robes of an ancient ruler swirling around him. Thusly, he turned, lifting a hand, his voice without a trace of breathlessness. Just hurried.
“Here we part, Aret. If you find no gold on your return, Khelt shall pay your price. You have raised your horses well. Level well.”
