So many beautiful things, but the heartbreak and loss and despair ground it all down into nothingness. Meaninglessness. It was one thing to resolve yourself to end it well. Almost impossible to see a way to believe anything could overturn that force.
Yet the Void Dragon’s deep gaze asked her to try. Erin hesitated. She reached out and tried to capture that…how had it gone? She tried to pull it out of nowhere, that horn. But it was hard. She couldn’t reach for it.
Blow the horn to sally forth? Why? She needed something that even Nerrhavia couldn’t give. Helplessly, Erin turned to Xarkouth.
“…But even if we fight together, is there really a chance? I need a chance. I need—hope.”
The Void Dragonlord looked at Erin as she ran a hand through her hair in frustration. She tried again, but it was like grasping for smoke. She looked at Xarkouth.
“I can’t do it. Not without a—an idea of what to call for. Tell me there’s even a…a one in a million chance and I’ll take it. I’m not afraid of that. I’m just tired of playing a game where the other side has cards under the table. And a crossbow. And the deck is stacked, and they’re doing some other card-stuff.”
“We all are.”
Queen Merindue of Nerrhavia’s Fallen murmured. The Sage of a Hundred Thousands Secrets, Velzimri, shook his head.
“It seems to me they…invented the rules. We are all chess pieces, standing upon the board of ages. We should have known an age ago.”
Xarkouth looked around.
“Some did. This game is not as badly weighted as you think, Sage.”
Erin looked from Dragon to [Sage]. She squinted.
“…I didn’t know I taught either of you to play chess.”
Both Velzimri and Xarkouth frowned at her. The Void Dragonlord huffed.
“I did not need to be taught by a mortal. I am the Grandmaster of Scales, one of three in Izril. The foremost among my species! In life, that is.”
Velzimri closed his mouth, and Erin blinked several times.
“G-grandmaster of…? Wait, what’s your ranking in death?”
The Void Dragon turned his head. He refused to answer until Erin poked his side a few times.
“…Number four thousand twenty-three from the best. There are more dead than living can dream of. Some are truly great minds and souls. Even to me. Sound the horn, Erin Solstice. If this is the end of all, it deserves no less.”
He looked down at her, and Erin smiled. She reached out, trying to remember what it was she needed.
Ghosts gathered around her, despairing, resolved, the [Witches] still talking of one last design. Some were already fleeing, like Roshal, while others clung to Khelt, hoping their own plans would succeed.
Erin’s friends stood around her: Elucina, Velzi, Cawe, Gerial, Abel, even Drevish, grumbling as he looked at the Kheltian architecture he would never get a chance to work on. And there…Erin saw a group of eighteen figures standing in a line. On each side of a King, their descendant, the one who would remain as he stared at the same throne that each had rested upon.
Except Khelta, of course. She hadn’t commissioned a throne in her lifetime. They arranged themselves youngest to oldest.
So Xierca was the first and Khelta the last. They were smiling, with pride and the dignity of their ages. Humans, Stitch-folk, Serept the half-Giant, a Garuda…united by their duty.
“Come, Fetohep of Khelt. Hear our last words. Each of us must entrust you with our will and blessing.”
Erin Solstice turned and saw Fetohep standing there. She had not known the Revenant long…or had she? She had spent so long in Khelt, now, that she had grown used to Fetohep’s mercurial ways.
She had witnessed him flustered, embarrassed, annoyed…but never so afraid. Not so lost and stricken as now. He faced his forebearers.
“Can I offer you no weapons? Can nothing be done?”
Serept’s huge head bowed as he towered above all.
“Not in the lands of the dead, Fetohep. Make ready for a storm. Warn the living. Return Erin to her body. I have a great favor to ask of you for my people…but keep Khelt’s people safe. That has always been our task. Now, keep them alive as long as you can. Even forever. Let the strength of Khelt be in life, not death.”
Khelta closed her eyes briefly. The greatest [Necromancer] of Khelt took a tired breath.
“Did I choose wisely or poorly? I feel helpless. I, who thought I mastered death itself.”
Queen Heris the Second turned to her predecessor and reached out to touch her arm.
“You have carried us to this day where other nations were consumed. Even now, it was our will that protected the many ghosts of Chandrar.”
Khelta smiled at her. Then, both turned back to Fetohep.
“Come, Fetohep of Khelt. For a last time, listen. You have borne our interference and nagging quite well. It was not meant that more than one head should bear the weight of our duty. We will cease bothering you very shortly. Just one more selfish request from all.”
King His-Xe threw back his head and laughed, but he nodded.
“Keep my greatest friend, my beloved champion, Salui, safe. But I forget myself. Come, son of Khelt.”
He extended a hand grandly, and Xierca simply offered her hand as if they were walking along one of Khelt’s garden paths. Erin saw Fetohep, standing there. Shaking.
He was watching his kingdom vanish. The ghosts of Khelt, citizens, his mentors and guides and inspiration…
“No, no. No…not now. Such petty wars. I have not delivered Erin Solstice to her body. I have…failed to protect even a single one of her beloved ones. Even a child.”
“Mrsha?”
Erin turned, and Fetohep’s head rotated towards her. She didn’t know about what was occurring on Izril.
King Izimire the 17th bowed his head.
“You have guarded Khelt’s borders, Fetohep. Sometimes we fail by standing too zealously apart. I gave my people everything, but ignored the rest of the world. However, even we cannot salve every wound. Khelt is a selfish kingdom.”
“It was not always. Some of us made war.”
Thekheldan’s head was bent low, and Khelta and Heris looked at him with calm understanding. The 3rd King of Khelt looked at Fetohep.
“Simply endure. And choose your successor to be better than you.”
He turned to the next man, Tkayl, who bowed to him like Fetohep to Xierca. Regrets and stories. Erin Solstice saw Fetohep gazing at each one. Eighteen periods of Khelt ascendant or struggling. Soon to be lost.
“No. No, no, no…”
He stumbled backwards. Half-turned, nearly trod on the hem of his robes. Then he looked at Erin Solstice. The [Innkeeper] saw only golden flames, an emaciated mummy’s face. She wondered, if he were here, what his true face would look like.
Six hundred years of service to Khelt. Centuries without friends or any purpose but his people. She knew how he felt.
It was all crashing down. Erin reached for him, but Fetohep just looked at her. And those dying flames of despair grew a tad bit brighter.
“It cannot be. It will not be. No.”
“Fetohep. I am sorry to leave you with such a burden. Come.”
Xierca spread her arms, like a mother’s embrace, but Fetohep turned away from her.
“No. This is not happening. This is not…going to occur. Erin Solstice? Walk with me.”
“Huh?”
He turned and began striding away from the rulers of Khelt. They exchanged quick glances, then floated away from the dais after him.
“Fetohep. What are you doing?”
But the Revenant was just walking away, almost stumbling, still. Erin floated after him.
“Uh—Fetohep? Buddy, you’re going the wrong way. I think this is sort of important.”
“No. Thieves. Thieves and wretched fools. I will not have it. No, no—”
He was truly stuck on that word. Erin saw the rulers of Khelt float a bit faster, and now they began whispering.
King Dolenm turned to the others.
“He’s in denial. This…this does not bode well for the future. You said he was unshakable, Xierca.”
“I did…Fetohep!”
King Razzimir stopped Xierca’s anguished call. The 15th King of Khelt, who had ruled during the Creler Wars, looked knowing.
“Panic attacks. My living advisors had them. Fetohep? Breathe. Or rather, imagine yourself breathing. Stop—collect yourself. I didn’t know undead could have panic attacks.”
Khelta floated along, miffed.
“I didn’t design mine to do that, even Revenants. Are you certain you did the rituals correctly? Fetohep! Attend us!”
But the Revenant strode onwards. He was heading towards the balcony. For a breath of fresh air into dead lungs? Now, the rulers of Khelt surrounded him.
“Fetohep, all will be well—we must tell you about the undead.”
“Vizir Hecrelunn is difficult, but he means well. Fetohep, stop—you must hear us.”
“I command you to stop by the will of the 7th ruler of Khelt! Fetohep, remember your duties!”
They were losing patience with him fast. Gracious rulers or not…Erin saw Fetohep’s shoulders hunching. Serept even went to block Fetohep’s path.
The Revenant walked through him. It was the first time he’d done such a thing and such an affront that Khelta lost her patience.
“Turn and gather your nerve, Fetohep of Khelt! Now!”
The other ghosts voiced their agreement, and at last, Fetohep did stop. He turned around swiftly and suddenly—shouted.
“Silence, you wretched cowards!”
Khelta, Xierca, Serept, His-Xe, and all the other rulers stopped in place. Erin’s mouth fell open in delight. Gerial looked from the rulers to the spot where Fetohep was. He could neither hear nor see Fetohep, but he could see the shocked expressions on the others’ faces.
“…What’s going on?”
Fetohep pointed a shaking finger at the eighteen ghosts. His golden flame eyes flared brighter now. Not with anxiety or panic attacks—a ludicrous thought in the undead. No—Erin saw it was anger. Passion.
“The end of Khelt? Last words and will? Do I hear despair from the rulers of Khelt when the last hour is upon us? Have you forgotten who you are? Who I am?”
“We have forgotten nothing, Fetohep. We see the odds arrayed against us. The end of the world is at hand!”
Queen Heris snapped back, startled. Fetohep stared at her. His ethereal voice trembled.
“The end of the world? I refuse. I refuse to allow it.”
Erin exchanged a glance with Serept, but Khelta’s eyes brightened. Queen Xierca gazed at her successor, mouth slightly open. Fetohep whirled. He stared out at the balcony.
The sun was just rising over his city. Early morning. Good. He looked back.
“The world ending? Not this day or any day I rule Khelt. I am Fetohep, 19th Ruler of Eternal Khelt! Eternal Khelt. I did not inherit this glorious throne and millenia of effort to watch it end today. Let the world try to end. When the sea rises, I will order it to turn back on itself. When the mountains crumble, I will build them anew in gold and jewels.”
“Ooh.”
Erin Solstice saw him whirl. He pointed at the eighteen rulers.
“Fight like you are the meanest warriors of Khelt and speak not of defeat to me. I will return Erin Solstice’s body no matter who has stolen it. Erin Solstice?”
He looked at her, and she jumped.
“Yes, Fetohep, sir?”
“Leave the living world to me. Go. Do not let yourself perish. Leave your friends and family to me. I will deal with this petty civil war between Gnolls and the idiocy of Drakes.”
He strode to the balcony. The stunned rulers of Khelt followed.
“Fetohep? Where are you going? You cannot hear us outside of Khelt’s borders. Fetohep—”
The King of Khelt looked back once.
“That was my false body, Queen Xierca. Come with me. I will never lose your voice. I am Khelt.”
Then he too ran. Erin Solstice saw the rulers of Khelt chasing after Fetohep as the Revenant King began to walk, then stride, then jog, then run.
In the mortal realm, his servants, coming to see what their ruler was shouting about, saw Fetohep of Khelt running. He dashed across the throne-room, into the balcony overlooking his city. Erin Solstice saw Fetohep look back at her. His golden eyes flashed—
Then he leapt off the balcony.
 
——
 
It was a quiet day in Khelt’s capital city. The name of it was, strictly, Koirezune. However, everyone simply referred to it as the capital.
Koirezune was actually a name that Khelta the First had given it—after a small city that she had grown up in, lost to time. A tribute to her first home, rebuilt in splendor and upgraded into a true wonder of the world by nineteen rulers and countless generations.
Each building was a work of art; from above you could see the workings of Khelt’s citizens, who wanted for nothing but great purpose. Even the paving stones had been known to be custom-cut, and there were streets where each stone was a work of art; some had poems etched onto the stone.
And that was the street. Why did Alked Fellbow know all this?
Well…the Named-rank Adventurer thought it was a smart move to know facts about his new employer’s city. Not that Fetohep had demanded he ingratiate himself, but this might be his home. Forever.
It was such a surreal experience to be in Koirezune. For one thing—there was no coin. There were other faux currencies, and social standing was a world unto itself, but the open café they were frequenting didn’t take money in the sense of gold. The latest fad-currency were these delicate rings, some as plain as polished sandstone, others made of platinum.
They were worth something in pure metal, but it was just…fun. However, you tipped each other with them. Alked was a master archer, tracker, and more, so he could see some people exchanging them from his seat or creating loops to hold the rings. That was the latest fad in Khelt—and practicing fighting. He had already seen three impromptu duels break out, and one of the combatants had been an old man!
But then—they weren’t sharp blades, as Fetohep of Khelt had outlawed it so his citizens wouldn’t kill each other. Some were trying to learn how to be [Blademasters], and others shot arrows—all because they had seen their King’s great rampage north.
Fetohep of Khelt. Alked mused on the strange ruler who had met him face-to-face, unlike Queen Yisame, whom he had never actually heard address him personally and only seen at court functions. He was interrupted by a nervous, female voice.
“Are you sure we can eat here, Alked? You said you don’t have the local coin.”
The Named Adventurer stopped his musings. He turned as his mother, his sister and her husband, and his youngest brother all stared at him over the delicate foods of Khelt.
“It’s fine, Mother.”
“Are you sure? Because I remember you saying that when we were celebrating you becoming a Silver-rank adventurer, and then you couldn’t pay—”
