Only when a figure stopped in front of him and Raelt felt the touch of death’s aura itself, death laced with the purity of purpose and the grace of the King of Khelt, did he wonder if Perric could ever fake that. He looked up, and a figure leaned over his horse.
“Raelt of Jecrass. Has High King Perric harmed you?”
“Not…with blades. Are you really Fetohep?”
“I am, Your Majesty of Jecrass. Jecaina. Take this blade and free him. Hecrelunn—cease loading the ships. Come here and inspect the King of Jecrass. If you find him harmed unduly—magically or otherwise—hang High King Perric from the tallest tower in Medain.”
Raelt smiled. It had to be the Djinni, Hauste Fyeiz, who was doing this. He liked this dream. But then Jecaina was cutting the enchanted chains free, and Raelt shuddered as he raised his arms.
His people raced around him, tossing themselves from the saddles, but Fetohep just called out.
“To the docks! Salui—break these gates down.”
If it were a dream, why did a screaming giant of an undead race past him and smash through the gate? Why…Raelt began to believe as Jecaina hugged him so hard it hurt. As he saw the undead streaming through Medain’s gate, and that horncall still echoed in his soul. When he saw that gigantic, floating ship coming north and Orthenon himself riding pell-mell towards the King of Bandages standing on the prow…Raelt inhaled.
“Am I saved? What’s happening? What about the war?”
Fetohep rode back to them as ships looted from Medain’s harbor began to set sail. He pointed towards Sand at Sea as a walkway was lowered.
“Raelt of Jecrass, Queen Jecaina. You have been done a great injustice, both, but I have no time to punish High King Perric. Later—perhaps. But I have great need of your strength. Will you join me?”
Raelt looked up, and Jecaina gasped as she saw the fried King of Destruction. Raelt stumbled aboard, and someone handed him ale nearly ten thousand years old. It still tasted good.
That was how four rulers, three [Kings], a [Queen], and one [Vizir] took to sea. It could have been five rulers with High King Perric, but not even in this hour did Fetohep want him.
 
——
 
This was it. All the drama, all the strife, led to a single moment in time. Each had made their own choices. Did he regret some decisions?
Oh, of course. Orjin, Strongest of Pomle, wondered what would have come of things if he had just held himself back and not freed a few [Slaves].
The dry Chandrarian air whipped across the lands surrounding the single oasis of Pomle. It had changed markedly this year. Magical construction had begun, and the practically barren canyon had developed housing, even pastures and the beginnings of a town.
However, it had all been abandoned, repurposed into the walls of dirt and stone—wood being too costly to waste—that shielded people with bows holding each entrance to the canyon. [Martial Artists] stood next to [Soldiers], silently watching an army approach.
Waiting for Nerrhavia’s Fallen. When they had come, they stretched from one end of the flat horizon to another, and they heralded their arrival with drums and horns. The riotous sound had lasted all morning and most of the day, yet the thrumming of their footsteps, the sight of thousands of chariots riding forth was the true threat.
Orjin saw one of the Stitch-folk [Martial Artists] uncross his arms uncertainly. He had surely trained to fight outnumbered, but he would be lost in that sea of bodies. Yet Pomle held its ground. As it had when it had been founded.
So much death. More to come. Yet Orjin had done everything that he had felt was right. It just seemed to him that what was right for a man was not the same as what was right for someone responsible for a nation.
Even Pomle.
Salii laughed at him when he said that. She was waddling around in armor, but she held up her clipboard like a shield as she passed behind the barricades she’d bought or had made up. Well behind the [Martial Artists] waiting amidst the few fighters holding the pass.
The enemy would come over the cliffs in time, and there were fighters like Salthorn and her grappling experts and Xil and his spear-fighters who needed space and had volunteered to fight up there.
But the heaviest fighting would be at these two choke-points. Ideal with the [Martial Artists].
Ah, but they were few in number. And the army that had come against them at last? It was not a garrison force. Orjin looked across more people than he had ever seen in his life, and it seemed like the glittering army of faces, chariots, and warriors was without end.
The hordes of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. A Grand Army. Orjin almost smiled.
Almost…if it were just him alone, he would have resigned himself to his fate and seen how far he could go. But behind him were people who would die and had not asked for this.
“Did I make a mistake being so selfish, Salii? I should have acted more like a leader.”
In reply, the Drake just laughed and slapped him on the butt with a clipboard. Orjin looked at her, and the Drake shook her head.
“Orjin, I come from the Walled Cities where all they do, from Pallass to Fissival, is pursue their petty ends. Power, appearance—very few thought of the world in terms of right and wrong. Perhaps it isn’t the most advantageous way of doing things. But I like it. Pomle can still win.”
“Hm. If each [Martial Artist] brings down a thousand foes…yes.”
The Drake shook her head. She’d purchased plate armor from somewhere. She slid down the visor and spoke in a muffled voice.
“They don’t have your resolve. Inflict too many casualties and they will retreat. Although—this army’s come for Tiqr. The Empress of Beasts is their target.”
Orjin considered this. He glanced over his shoulder.
“Ah. Then should I not have offered her the Peace of Pomle?”
Salii shrugged.
“That might have been a wise strategic move, but I’m not a [Strategist].”
They were beginning to chant. A trumpeting elephant heralded the arrival of the Empress of Beasts, Nsiia.
She wasn’t much changed from the last time Orjin had seen her; she had lost her spear, and her bodyguard was different. And she had an army.
But the woman herself rode upon a Grand Elephant’s back, if not as large as the other one, a hissing housecat with Golem-legs on her shoulder. The Empress of Beasts was followed by her Wild General, Vasraf, on another elephant, and Tiqr’s army stood with the [Martial Artists] of Pomle, who parted to let her pass.
That was vaguely interesting to Orjin, and her army had been welcome reinforcements—until the Grand Army came calling. But the ones who really attracted his attention were the Empress of Beasts’ companions.
The Monks of Sottheim and the Loquea Dree, servants of the King of Destruction, had challenged the [Martial Artists] of Pomle and traded techniques for a week. Some had lost—many of their best had won.
Orjin himself had sparred with the [Abbot], Shurein, and found the old [Monk] impressive—if different in ethos to Pomle’s folk. He was quick; Orjin still had a bruise from yesterday on the back of his head.
“The largest battle in living memory and you had to punch each other all night long. I suppose that’s a good sign. You didn’t level up, did you?”
“No.”
The Strongest pushed aside the potion Salii offered him. The Drake sighed—then shuffled behind Orjin as the most interesting duo appeared.
Domehead’s armor was battered from fighting [Martial Artists], but he came through the fighters like he was a prize-fighter, still shadowboxing and practicing the punches he had observed. And behind him…
Ksmvr of Chandrar, the heir to the [Silver Illusionist] sword school, had the twin blades he had stolen from another Gold-rank adventurer in his hands and a crossbow in his third grip. Nsiia still carried the magic sword that glowed with such intensity.
A Gold-rank adventurer. A strange one. He stopped next to Orjin.
“Strongest.”
“Ksmvr.”
“H-hello.”
Salii poked her head around Orjin and nodded at the Antinium, great enemy to her people. Ksmvr raised his mandibles, and Salii hid around Orjin’s right. The Golem halted, lights shining in its head.
Here they were. Orjin calmly watched the horde of Nerrhavia’s Fallen advance. Ksmvr clacked his mandibles.
“I regret to say, this might be my fault. I may have offered war too many times.”
“I offered it once.”
The two exchanged a look and nodded at each other. Orjin rather liked Ksmvr. It was a shame…they would not have longer to talk. He had been curious how a four-armed species fought.
Poorly, as it transpired. No one had made a martial art for Ksmvr—or if there was, he didn’t know one. An Antinium [Martial Artist]. Now there was a dream to excite Orjin.
One week since Tiqr had rode towards them, fleeing Nerrhavia’s advance with the Monks of Sottheim and Loquea Drea, and proposed an alliance. One week of watching Ksmvr spar with the greatest [Martial Artists] and those who used blades who wanted to learn his sword school.
One week of petting the strange cat as she lay on his head while he stood on piles of stones and perfected his balance-striking. Consumed mostly by preparations for war in Nsiia, Vasraf, and Salii’s case.
Orjin had spent most of that time practicing and keeping company with Domehead and Ksmvr. The Golem had learned how to move—the foundations of it at least.
Antinium [Martial Artists] and a Golem who learned from sparring. They were welcome guests to Pomle’s warriors, who were equally dismayed and enthralled by the idea of an opponent who might one day learn all they had and best them. If they had come in peace, they could have stayed months. But there was no time, and they might all be dead.
This? This was so wasteful. Orjin watched Nerrhavia approaching. Salii was making notes.
“Just like the [Scouts] confirmed. General Vasraf? General Vasraf? You’re right—they only levied general troops from most cities. It’s quantity. A lot of quantity, and I’m afraid to say that is General Thelican. Other officers of note…I have the same list, but I am adding a Prince Zenol to the register and his bodyguard. A Gold-rank team.”
“Oh no.”
“You know him?‘
Orjin saw Domehead fold his arms, copying the Strongest. Ksmvr searched the chariots that were leading the advance.
“I do. He is a good adventurer. I do not wish to battle him.”
“This is not your war, Antinium Ksmvr. You do not have to join the Empress of Beasts.”
Orjin pointed out quietly. Ksmvr glanced over his shoulder. Some of the people who had fled Tiqr had joined Pomle’s fighters, having trained to defend themselves. Many more were waiting inside Pomle—but over half had joined the fighting, young and old, when their Empress found them.
“…I would be too ashamed to face my team if I did not fight, Strongest of Pomle.”
“Then we fight.”
Ksmvr nodded, and Domehead clenched one hand. He did something that the strange Humans from ‘Earth’ had taught him and held out a huge fist. Without looking, Orjin and Ksmvr both extended an arm and tapped their knuckles against the chunk of steel.
“Tiqr stands! With me! We will meet Nerrhavia in a great charge and smash them against Pomle’s cliffs!”
The Empress of Beasts had a complicated strategy that involved exploiting Nerrhavia’s arrogance and their love of chariot charges against Pomle’s rock walls with the Monks of Sottheim. Orjin had told her she was welcome to it; Pomle would be here and advance if they saw an opening.
Nerrhavia was already chanting and blowing a panoply of horns. They hurt Orjin’s ears, especially because it was evening. Salii was hurrying around, cursing her heavy armor; she’d been agitated all day. She ran back to him, panting from only walking about fifty feet.
“Orjin! Orjin! More news!”
“If it is about Khelt, I do not care, Salii. Khelt is far from here, and we are about to do battle.”
“No! It’s not Khelt! Although that’s bad enough. I thought he’d get Nerrhavia to back down with his warning but—there’s more armies coming our way!”
That made Orjin turn. So did Vasraf, who slid off his elephant with some urgency.
“Don’t tell me—Illivere?”
Salii groaned as everyone turned to look at Domehead. The Golem swiveled slowly.
 
——
 
“—only too happy to discuss Nerrhavia’s wishes, General Thelican. However, I must respectfully insist that we hold our ground. Domehead—the Golem of Dellva, is a national treasure. It must not be destroyed.”
Femithain was trying to reason with the [General] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen—to little avail. He had a choice—to either join the fighting at Pomle, or withdraw. No commander wanted a foreign army nearby.
However, Femithain was not willing to participate in another Tiqr. Especially not against Pomle. He thought it was foolhardy; even if Nerrhavia won, and they had the forces to do that, they’d have to fight their way into Pomle, and the entire oasis was a chokepoint and the [Martial Artists] were the greatest experts in the world at hand-to-hand fighting.
Worse, the Loquea Dree were in the air, and no Garuda that Nerrhavia’s Fallen or Illivere employed would take to the skies against them. Add in the Monks of Sottheim and Tiqr’s own army seasoned by countless battles and Femithain was not half as confident as Thelican.
“Armsmaster Dellic, pull back our ranks another five hundred feet. Make it clear—very clear that our approach is aimed at Pomle, not threatening Nerrhavia’s flanks.”
That was a difficult order as Dellic’s expression made clear; Nerrhavia’s army was disciplined, but it was so large and spread out that it was all flanks. Femithain was sweating despite the fading sun as Thelican remonstrated with him.
 
——
 
“I insist you withdraw or pledge your army to the attack! Crafter-Magus, I have had a deep respect for your forces. Your Golems would be invaluable in capturing the chokepoints into the oasis.”
General Thelican of Nerrhavia’s Fallen was a blustery man who alternated between orders and a bluff wheedling that never quite went to actual requests, but half-hearted courtesy and vague promises he thought would work.
He was a jovial Stitch-man of the Silk, confident in his nation’s superiority in every sense of the word. It did not mean he was a terrible man or leader; he certainly could move a vast army, larger than any Yvlon Byres had ever seen in Izril, with fair ease. Even with underlings, Thelican’s ego had led them here.
To Pomle. Across from her was Tiqr’s army. And perhaps…Ksmvr.
“Do you see him, Zenol?”
“Not yet. But I am certain he will spot us once Thelican orders the chariots forwards. I doubt he’d be foolish enough to fight in a war.”
