They called it Norechl. God of the Forgotten. Dead God of Lost Things. It had been named before all of this, in a time when it had first arrived. Not even the others quite knew all of what Norechl was.
Tamaroth. God of Rulers and Leaders. First of his pantheon, first among all.
Kasigna. Three-in-One. Goddess of Death and the Afterlife. Strongest in this place.
Emerrhain. God of Scholars, of Magic. And God of Secrets. A title stolen from the corpse of the last god to hold it.
Laedonius Deviy. God of Dance and Love. Almost as foreign as Norechl, a traveler.
Cauwine. Goddess of War, of Youth. Youngest of all and older than anything else in this world.
Six dead gods. Six beings who had known death and yet refused to fully vanish. Their return had taken an aeon. They had rotted. Corpses without true form. Grasping at anything to live again.
Here in the Deadlands, the afterlife, they had preyed on the smallest of souls like wretched scavengers, waiting for their moment. At last, it had come.
Izril was gone. The continent was stripped of all souls save those who had fled, or hid, or found safe harbor in the last strongholds of ghosts with means to hold off the six.
Relics whose existence transcended mere magic in some way. Objects bound to the souls of those who had held them. Power conferred on rulers even in death.
Dragonfire. Memory of objects so powerful even gods acknowledged them; a sword, an umbrella. Possessions of dead gods and their ilk.
Oberon, the Faerie King. Now that one—the six feared in truth. It would mean His death in surety, of course. And theirs.
Stymied. Hungry, held off by the resilience of mortal souls, the six had been frustrated. For all their strength, even Kasigna, who had shaped this place, who ruled it, had not the strength to harvest the last souls. Not yet.
So they all made plans or found suitable ways to influence the living world. Some did both, like that schemer, Emerrhain. Others waited or scavenged; they had long to wait. A little longer…a little longer would not be so hard. They were ravenous, still. But they could wait a little longer for the oldest plans and failsafes to continue working.
Then, Norechl had hatched its plan. It had gone to the edge of the world, which even ghosts feared, and cast itself into the depths. It had fallen a long time, and even the other five gods had naught but trepidation.
Norechl was not like the others. It was not even the same…as the others. Laedonius Deviy came from distant pantheons, an exile, a survivor, a refugee—he had never given reason. But Norechl…was different.
It was kin to A’ctelios Salash. Kin to…things. Things which even gods had no answer for. Which crept into orderly universes like a plague or gazed into mortal realms and tore holes in reality. Norechl fell into the hole blasted in the world, and not even the other five gods dared follow or look long.
If that were the end of it, it would have been enough. Yet Norechl survived. And it called its kin, the things that the living called Seamwalkers, who sometimes rose over The Last Tide, upwards. Not one. Nor two.
Thousands. Tens of thousands. Hundreds of thousands of its kind. Weaker by far, but they did not rise in the lands of the living. They followed Norechl into a plane they had never known was there. They were not…intelligent in the same way as the ghosts of the dead, but it knew them. Weaker kin though they may be, they were still of Norechl’s get.
All they needed was a change of perspective.
It took them a long time to climb. They grew hungry. They fought each other. Many fell, too weak. More still stayed below, immune to Norechl’s lures, tracing their own strange thoughts. Some…got lost. But the rest followed.
When the first reached the top of their long journey, all the ghosts of the Deadlands felt it. They turned and flocked to the borders of their world and saw something that defied distance. The first…head…rising.
It took them a month to climb. A month to finally drag themselves upwards. To rest, but for a moment. The ghosts, the living soul among them, Erin Solstice, watched. They couldn’t help it.
They watched the end of their world.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice watched them climb for a month. She did not know how long it was until she could tear her eyes from that sight—but she was transfixed. Like a moth ensnared in a web of the mind.
Time, attention, sanity, reality, all blurred away as she looked at them. Seamwalkers. Something spawned past the end of the world. It was not just that they were horrible. It was that they were so alien she couldn’t comprehend what she was seeing. They did not exist like she did. Erin had witnessed strange animals from her world and even stranger monsters and creatures and modalities of life, but they were still understandable.
Norechl’s kin were not. Even looking upon them hurt. Even looking upon the least of them…stole something from Erin. Her eyes were windows to the soul, and they leaked, tiny dribbles of being slowly sucked towards voids of everything she was.
So many. Giants…some as tall as the actual Giants. Others ‘shorter’, but there were so many. Erin Solstice gazed at Norechl, truly a being of nothing—then at them. She had a long time to see.
One of the first to rise wearied, for it was still flesh. It drooped forwards, a scabbed, slumping finger of being. Erin looked up and saw that fulsome flesh, pallid from a land that did not dream of light, shake and part to reveal dilapidated eyes. Blind vessels from which roiling filaments searched, little tendrils of squirming malevolence within the sclera, peeking left and right. The jaws folded morbidly together like the most emaciated arms opened wide, revealing a nostrous mouth which joined stomach and cilium-threads that begged, drooling, for sustenance. A ravenous coffin-carnivore trapped within morbid layers of rotting skin turned, a gesture of open embrace as a centipede might offer. Then it fell forwards and scuttled, blind and loathsome, keening a half-song, half-wail of sucked sounds. Digestion given voice, a craving of malevolent intent.
That was as long as Erin could stand to see it before she looked past it. It was…worse than a Creler. The thing heaved itself onto ‘land’, the Deadlands itself, and lay there, resting. Another being had climbed overlong too and lay, so thin as to be ghastly, mouths gibbering upwards.
Was it speaking? It was truly as tall as a Giant, but with far less mass. Some kind of diseased bone made up its shell-body, a stalk concealing interior flesh.
They were the first of thousands. If it were just those two, the ghosts might have overwhelmed them, even a single nation. Any Giant of Chandrar would have done terrible battle, even without weapons or flesh or magic or Skills to erase them.
But it was not two, but hundreds of thousands. And while every ghost in existence might eradicate them, they were more than simply horrific in and of themselves. Norechl had brought more than doom.
It had brought life.
The stalk-beast was infested. Erin saw tiny shapes scuttling, devouring, squabbling with mindless starvation as they gestated and fell from the giant thing. At this, Gerial moaned.
“It’s a nest.”
He, an adventurer, recognized what it was, and the ghosts shuddered as they realized new life was propagating across some of the beasts. Clones or children or simply more of their kind. They scuttled, were trodden upon, and left stains on the fabric of death, but they followed their giant cousins, prey and servants…colonizers to the world above.
“It was the sacred duty of Khelt and every land to fight against Seamwalkers. To eradicate…what they brought. A’ctelios Salash was one of the few we could not destroy, and it was a rot that corrupted the people of Tombhome. It is one among legions. This is the end if they cross into the Chandrar of now.”
Khelta spoke, and Erin wrenched her eyes from another figure, slowly vomiting the contents of its being onto a new land, the swarm devouring the old vessel and spreading out.
And still, they were so far away that the greatest sea lay between them, along with islands and much of Chandrar. Yet the ghosts saw the Seamwalkers, saw Norechl’s advance, because they drew on the fabric of reality, and everything was tearing as they began advancing.
That was when the spell broke. That was when the ghosts finally were able to move and fled backwards towards Khelt. Nerrhavia herself lifted her head and spoke.
“I have been called the Immortal Tyrant—but I have never stained my soul as badly as some I knew. Even they I would lie abed with and hold close to wipe away that nightmare. All is lost. I would rather one of those six take me than that.”
Eldritch carrion had come for the souls of the dead. Erin Solstice looked back and saw one thing amidst the doom walking forwards now, each step taking forever, but inexorable as fate.
A smile. The God of the Lost smiled…at her. With gleeful malice. It had learned malice and hate and vindictiveness and vengeance and was thus more than any of its lesser kin. It had brought them here to destroy the last safe havens of the dead. To bring an end to all, no matter the cost.
Erin Solstice fled towards Khelt as Norechl smiled. It was well and truly mad—and even the other five were horrified.
 
——
 
“Norechl! Norechl! What have you done?”
It was Laedonius Deviy who cried out first. In horror. And yes—in fright. In true fear, because he had not condoned Norechl’s plan, not been advised—and if he had known, he would have done battle with Norechl to stop this.
He was alone and bitterly cursing a race lost when he saw Norechl’s madness. Though sometimes the six gathered, it was only to break down the dead’s defenses. After that, they fought and went their own ways. Even now, they did not work well together at most times.
They had always been fair-weather friends and enemies, and this…this was the final game, a struggle for survival. To be first was to crush the others. There was emotion in it, schemes and plans and alliances and, of course, desperation.
This, though, was madness even to the other five. Emerrhain was the only one of the five to respond to Laedonius’ message at first. Then Kasigna.
“Where are Cauwine and Tamaroth?”
“One is gone. The other? I do not know. Watching Norechl’s folly. It has brought them. We are all in danger.”
Emerrhain, that smug one, turned his head to Laedonius Deviy, but the God of Secrets had missed the greatest opportunity for once, occupied with his own plans around Wistram. Kasigna must not have known either, and in any other time the God of Dance and Love would also have been God of Laughter.
Not now. Emerrhain’s gaze was wide with a similar fear.
“They can harm us.”
“Not I. I will destroy this infestation of my lands and Norechl next.”
The three-in-one vowed, with the least fear of all, because it was her place. Even so…she did not exactly hasten to do battle. She was one. They were legion.
Emerrhain was muttering to himself as he looked beyond.
“They’ll ruin everything. Fools. I am surrounded by madness. It won’t stop here. They will tear their way through to the mortal realm. Devour the ghosts—my plans! I see only a few of true…”
He gazed, counting, and Laedonius did likewise.
The same horrors that Erin Solstice had witnessed were terrible in nature to mortals, but the gods feared only…he counted.
“…Eleven. Eleven of truest threat. I will make a pact to slay all eleven.”
“In time. They cannot harm me, not in my domain. Do what you wish with the others. Norechl may well destroy itself.”
Kasigna turned, and Laedonius nearly reached for her, but he was too proud to beg. Nor would she have done anything other than laugh at him if he had.
Besides—it was true. Norechl was leading its kin, but it was also fleeing them. Most could not devour it—but eleven might if it were unguarded. It had thrown itself down to teach them how to find this place, like a bright lure cast into the deepest ocean.
“Kasigna is right. Damn Tamaroth or Cauwine. I will find my way and cross over if I must. When the dark hour comes that this horde ravages the known world, they will call to me, and I will be there.”
Laedonius spoke and strode off as well. It was Emerrhain who called out, nerves betraying him. He had always been cowardly in the face of true might—and he had not changed over eternity.
“Laedonius! Kasigna! We must stand together! Do you not fear that?”
The two turned and laughed at him. Laughed and laughed…and Laedonius answered.
“Work together? To slay those, I will. But now no safe haven remains. Mad it is, but Norechl has given us the last souls. So we will take them and fight for the greatest. Abandon your plans, Emerrhain. You will have to learn how to step lively.”
He sneered at the God of Magic and went to find his place. Yes…devour as much as he could. Which continent? Which place? Kasigna turned, and a young woman who looked like Erin Solstice gazed towards Chandrar.
“Vengeance can wait. I will outlast all, here.”
She too left, and Emerrhain stood, cursing with terror. They could tear bits of him away, but they were still not complete like Norechl. Still…he looked up and then turned.
Where were the other two? He did not know, because while he had been at his plans, while Norechl’s army rose, a month had passed in the land of the living. One month…too short and too long. And as the dead streamed back to Khelt, a single undead ruler heard the final toll, the final warning.
Too late.
 
——
 
Fetohep of Khelt, the 19th Ruler of Eternal Khelt, Revenant and ruler of Khelt—now Protectorate of Jecrass—sat upon his throne and watched the news. What he saw was terrible. Yet the Revenant had perfect posture, dark, regal robes of perfect indigo writ with simple silver listing the names and lineages of everyone he had ever known and loved or hated and respected in his life hanging upon his thin, emaciated form.
Some bandages too, wrapping his fragile, six hundred year-old flesh to preserve it. A single crown sat upon his head, but no jewelry or other marks of frivolous, overcompensating royalty. The golden flames of his eye-sockets, his simple presence was authority without question in Khelt.
He sat and watched the news. It was reflected in the crystal hovering in front of him, each facet showing a different news station, and multiple other scrying orbs, which also gave him access to more points of view. He had a [Message] scroll filled with desperate communiques and a quill ready to scribe any dictation, but Fetohep of Khelt was silent.
Khelt was a nation that had lain quiet for millenia. It was, like the Shield Kingdoms, prepared to wait. A paradise that was a paradise because it zealously guarded its borders and took little role in the world.
