He left anyone not on horseback to keep moving and link up with the army. Fetohep sent someone else on carpet as the Courier panted for air.
Leapfrogging. An old tactic like a horse supply chain—the only limit was how many teleport spells you had.
Fetohep had a lot. And he was casting [Speed], giving out Potions of Haste—and casting spells with so much raw mana that some of the cities which he passed…
A [Detect Magic] artifact exploded as Fetohep and his people passed through the air and took out an [Artifact Seller]. Another city was burning in more riots.
By the end of the fourth hour of Fetohep’s ride north, over two thousand people had perished. More still looked up, saw his approach…and made their choice.
 
——
 
They had been waiting for him for just over an hour, but they saw Fetohep of Khelt for only eight minutes as he crossed the land like a blur.
Every house and village was surely out of their homes, looking to see that terrible omen. When they did see him—was it a monster they saw?
Or that desperate look, even on a long-rotted face? The way he rode, low to his horse, as if each second were a life being lost?
That familiar…terrible need?
A man with a bared sword stood on the flat ground outside of a farmstead, so remote that few passed by save for today. He watched as Fetohep rode towards them, aiming to pass by the simple road that led up to their home. It could have been coincidence he came this way. Or not. The man turned to a few people peeking down at him from the home he had built, once he learned how. He called out to them, repeating himself one last time. As fathers did.
“Stay here.”
He faced the rider coming towards him, outracing his escort to the south. The man motioned, and the door to his home shut. His family. He locked gazes with the burning gold and stepped forwards as Fetohep of Khelt moved to ride past him.
Yet the man stepped quickly to block his way. The mortal horse reared, and Fetohep looked down at the bared blade.
“I have no quarrel with you. Stand aside.”
“I can’t do that, King of Khelt.”
Fetohep focused on a man he had never met before—with a strange blade. It looked too good to be in his hands—enchanted, not at all fit for the worn [Homesteader]’s face and the humble place.
Yet it was his. The stranger had a too-blank face, like someone who had practiced impartiality, failing the ability to fake a laugh or a smile. His hands looked weathered from work. His arms were covered by plain cotton, but that which had never known stitching.
Plain cotton? But the thread was so fine that it was a fraction of the weight of regular cotton. Gossamer-thin that a spider would consider light. Yet enchanted so it would not break, and woven delicately into cloth that had never known atrophy or age. Taken for granted, then prized once the owner realized how much of a gift it had been.
The man looked neither tall nor short, deliberately average—until you realized how he stooped slightly. Until you saw that blank look reveal a bitter stubbornness that neither stone nor weather could defeat. Greater foes had tried.
His hair was charcoal black, and only the very roots showed a lighter color, almost pure white. He could not hide his eyes. They had three dots of bright brown among faintly pink irises, and they glittered, shot a hundred thousand times with radiating lines from his pupils.
The sword rose slightly, and it seemed as though if he swung it, nothing could have stopped that blade. That was the measure the undead ruler took of him in one moment, and he halted and reached out for a blade of his own.
Fetohep had no weapon, but he readied his halberd from the armory. He could have defeated most foes with his hands…but not this one.
“I do not intend to despoil your lands. Let me pass.”
“I can’t. You are Fetohep of Khelt, aren’t you?”
So they truly didn’t know each other. The undead ruler nodded shortly.
“Yes. And? Has Khelt done great harm to your people? Your relatives? Your homeland?”
Perhaps he was of Medain or the Claiven Earth. But…the man shook his head.
“No, no, and no. I just know Khelt. I heard that bell toll. Something terrible is happening, isn’t it?”
Fetohep saw someone hurrying out from the farm. A young boy, who was holding the reins of…a horse. The man walked to the saddle and swung himself onto it.
“Something is happening. But you cannot fight it with a sword.”
Fetohep told the stranger. The man just reached down and clasped his son’s hand. Then he looked at Fetohep.
“Then why are you riding north so fast?”
“Because I have a single soul to liberate, a war to end. Promises to uphold. Because I must.”
The man nodded.
“Then let me ride with you.”
The ruler of Khelt hesitated only a second—then he nodded at his escort who were charging, blades drawn. He held up a hand.
“Who are you, stranger? Give me your name if we will ride together.”
The man had a crooked grin on his face. He looked at his family and then at Fetohep.
“They called me a [Hero]. Once. Do you remember the days when the King of Destruction fought against one?”
Fetohep’s gaze flickered.
“The Hero of Zethe? Well met. Ride with me.”
They took off without a word.
 
——
 
He was the first. Another town opened its gates, and two hundred [Riders] spilled out of it. Fetohep slowed, and they raised their blades.
“Let us fight with Khelt! To Khelt! Where is the foe?”
“Everywhere! Return to your city! This is not your war. I can promise only death where I ride. Make ready your walls and wait. The foe will be everywhere or nowhere.”
They conferred, and then fourteen rode towards Fetohep.
“Let us go with you, King of Khelt!”
Fetohep did not object. He rode with the living and the dead now. Faster. Onwards.
Five hours. Now…now they all knew. The messages that streaked through the sky woke every ruler, from the King of Destruction to the Blighted King to the Walled Cities.
At first, they thought it would be on the news. If it could overshadow a Gnollish civil war, Ailendamus, and all the rest…then they heard the reports.
“The King of Khelt has rung the Dragonward Bell. He is…sending a [Message].”
“To who?”
The erudite ones asked a different question.
“To whom?”
The answer was—everyone. Every Mage’s Guild listed. To Wistram, to every nation under the sun. In fact, it was individual [Message] spells, blanket spells—it was so chaotic at first that it was hard to communicate back—only receive a simple message. It read:
 
I am Fetohep of Khelt. By Eternal Khelt, I give warning—doom is coming from beyond The Last Tide. It already walks among us! Prepare for rifts and Seamwalkers. I call upon every nation to halt your fruitless, pointless wars, from Terandria to Izril.
An end is coming. We must stand together or die apart. Khelt marches to quiet A’ctelios Salash. It is waking. It must end. I head north. To the Walled Cities—withdraw your armies. To the warring nations of Terandria, lay down your arms.
 
These were not words couched in soft language or address. They were…alarming. There was no estimating how much coin Fetohep had spent to send it across the world. And it was so vague…because he had no more answers.
In fact, it was Wistram who decided to issue a statement following Fetohep’s.
 
Wistram Academy refutes any claim of a massive invasion. While the Academy of Mages looks into the issue, we advise all nations to be calm. We have not detected any Seamwalkers.
 
Of course, they issued that as a blanket [Message] spell to all the Mage’s Guilds because there really wasn’t a cost to a mass-[Message] spell—it was what Wistram charged for the service of interpreting it and printing it out.
That announcement only added to the questions and demands being put to the overwhelmed Mage’s Guild in Khelt and Wistram itself. A response was quick on the wings. Not from Fetohep at first. Rather, it came from an unexpected source.
 
The Iron Vanguard ratifies Khelt’s warning. Tulm the Mithril and the Seer of Steel caution all nations to take up arms. Seamwalkers are moving unseen. Destination and purpose unknown. Khelt must advise if battle can be given. Take caution.
 
Wistram once again issues a caution against inflammatory and alarmist statements. Our [Mages] are scanning sky, sea, and land. There is no need for alarm.
 
The Empire of Drath confirms Khelt’s alarm. Make ready.
 
That was when they really got nervous. Two world powers plus Khelt…what was the alarm? Where? Wistram must have really been thinking hard, because the next [Message] was far less certain.
 
Wistram is contacting the Iron Vanguard and the Empire of Drath as well as Fetohep of Khelt about possible threats. Please remain calm and refrain from [Messaging] our [Mages] while we investigate.
 
The Iron Vanguard is aware there is a threat. There is no other possibility. Drath, what can be done?
 
Drath: Make whatever sacrificial offerings you have. Empower your ancestors. Nothing else can be done. Two Border Fleets burn. The [Emperor] of Drath swears that Drath will fight to the end. He offers the Iron Vanguard and those who fight his respect.
Wistram: We maintain that no threat has been detected…can the Iron Vanguard and Drath explain where this threat is coming fr—
Fetohep: Damn your worthless academy.
Wistram: Fetohep of Khelt, please conf—
Fetohep: Damn your fraudulent [Mages]. Damn your so-called Archmages without the whit of intelligence to see the doom of ages as it approaches. Damn your uselessness when the world has the greatest need of magic. If you cannot see the threat, then stand aside and be silent while better souls than yours bleed and perish. Be silent, Academy of Mages, and tell Archmage Eldavin to look to doom. I ride to end these pointless wars. Make way for Khelt, or I will end all who stand in my way. 
Wistram: We—
Drath: Spoken truly, if indelicately. So speaks the Emperor of Drath.
Tulm: Fetohep of Khelt. Your Excellency of Drath. How can this threat be found and faced?
Fetohep: It cannot. Not yet. A’ctelios Salash wakes to its kin. Any nation must render it sleeping. Khelt will do so if none other. To every other nation—wait. Wait! What we will see are gateways tearing open. In any location, at any time. They must be closed. But Khelt is fighting already. Hope that we triumph.
 
That was as far as the Blighted King got before his hands began shaking so hard he had to fold them or reveal it to the court.
He let his [Queen] read the missive—although the contents had been read to the court. Somehow, seeing the writing not couched in diplomatic language made it worse. One of the nobles in the room looked ill with fright.
“What…what does Khelt know? It has rung the Dragonward Bells. And it has unleashed armies without number.”
“There is always a number. Quantify it.”
One of the people in the room, Bastion-General Quietel, snapped. A [Mage] counted.
“…A million plus undead soldiers are heading north. More holding the borders. I count four Jaws of Zeikhal. One Giant—the corpse of one—heading to A’ctelios Salash. Multiple carpet riders, and their two high-level Revenants and the half-Giant force have begun an advance in the north.”
The court of the Blighted Kingdom was silent. That…
They were one of the most powerful nations ever. Empowered by forces around the world and made stronger by their strife with the Demons. But that…was something.
The Blighted King, Othius the Fourth, licked at dry lips. Could this have anything to do with the ritual? Seamwalkers in an unseen location…no. No. Surely not.
But maybe—
“N-Nereshal. Where is Nereshal? Summon him at once.”
His most trusted mage, the [Chronomancer] who also dictated many affairs of the kingdom, was absent. He should have been here already—but the time-mage was absent. He was a servant of Rhir. Where was…?
When he appeared, Nereshal’s appearance said most of why he hadn’t come to the war meeting. He was as pale as death.
“Your Majesty—I am unwell. I believe…something is terribly wrong. I beg leave to investigate it.”
He looked sick. No, not just sick…the [Healers] had tested him, so the sweat pouring down his face, his skin as pale as a corpse—the shaking was all psychological.
Or a product of his class. The Blighted Queen stood. She was an imposing woman, a [General] from the front that Othius had taken when he remarried.
“Nereshal! What is this threat? Can you sense it?”
“Threat?”
The [Chronomancer] hadn’t even seen the [Messages]. When he read them, he turned paler still, and everyone around him backed away since it seemed he might vomit.
“So that’s what…I must investigate. Your Majesties.”
He turned and began hobbling away without even explaining. Of course, the Blighted Queen just strode down and grabbed him.
“What is wrong with you, Nereshal? I have seen more spine in a new [Soldier]—get ahold of yourself! Who is doing this? The Demons? The Death of Magic?”
She slapped him a few times across the face briskly, and Nereshal shuddered. It did seem to work, though, and Othius saw him focus.
“It—I apologize, Your Majesty. I do not know. The Death of Magic could not do this. Not alone. It may just be Seamwalkers but—I do not know. I have felt ill at ease since the death of the Great General, Dionamella.”
Othius twitched. The Great General that even Rhir had only vaguely known about, who had surpassed Nereshal. The [Chronomancer] had not taken that well, but he had been rather silent about the issue. Now? Othius understood why.
Nereshal was sick. He was shaking.
“I feel…I feel…I beg your pardon, Your Majesties, but I feel as though someone is walking over my grave. Yet that is no expression. I must investigate it.”
He tore away and stumbled out of the courtroom. Faced with one of his greatest [Mages] looking ready to throw up—the news from two major powers and Khelt, who was famously reclusive and guarded itself…Othius made one decision.
“Put all the walls on high-alert. Bastion-General—to 4th Wall. Send a [Message] worldwide ratifying the nature of this threat. Ignore Wistram.”
It seemed obvious that they had no idea what was going on. And just as obvious…something was.
But what? And where? All they could do was wait.
And watch Fetohep ride.
 
——
 
Jecaina of Jecrass met Fetohep after ten hours. Ten hours, and he had crossed most of Chandrar. Fetohep could not count how many spells he had used. Nor did he care.
“Fetohep! What’s happening? Is it my father?”
“No. We ride for Medain! Use your Skills, Jecaina! I will explain more as we ride! Move!”
The [Riders] of Jecrass fell into line, and Fetohep was grateful for it. He felt his company accelerate as the [Hero], Doubte, shifted in his saddle to regard the Arbiter Queen.
