Alked Fellbow was a Hemp-caste Stitch-folk man. His skin was made of the very beasts he hunted in part and magical hemp. But it still made him look…rough. He had survived a Manticore savaging him without armor, but he was still considered Hemp-caste by Stitch-folk.
By contrast, his family were all Cotton. They had traces of Hemp—their heads especially, but they had been elevated thanks to his deeds in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Not to Silk…but they had certainly profited from his career.
Still, family was family. Alked shook his head.
“Mother, we are in Khelt. This is not a trial period; we have been granted citizenship forever. For ourselves, our family—until we leave. The café owner was only too happy to let us eat here.”
“For an autograph. And they don’t take coin. How will we work? How will we survive?”
Alked sighed.
“We don’t have to work. I told you—we will receive food. A bounty of it, from the fields and harvests by the undead, every week. Even if you tossed it all away to rot and lay on the ground, you would be fed. You can walk to any of the places where food is given out and ask for more.”
Of course, there were limits. Someone who kept taking food and just tossing it on the ground might have some of Khelt’s officials inquire as to the situation, but you really couldn’t starve.
“From undead.”
His sister’s husband muttered uneasily. Alked’s sister sipped from an expensive tea into which someone had added…a kind of dumpling? Apparently it had come from Fetohep’s chefs themselves. One…Teresa had requested it.
Teresa Atwood? Alked thought he remembered her as a guest. Or was it a Trey? He sighed and rubbed at his forehead.
“They’re safe, Meriede. We all are.”
“But what if you fail one of His Majesty’s requests? We should find work. What do they pay for decent weaving?”
The Named Adventurer looked up.
“Mother…they don’t need basic textiles. I keep telling you—they can get silk clothing practically for free! You should find a hobby—they value art, passion projects.”
“Silk? Truly? They let anyone buy it, not just the Silk-folk? Could we get some? Is that permissible? How much would some of that cost?”
Alked wished Fetohep did have a monster to slay. Instantly, his family was diverted. Only his younger brother seemed to understand just how lucky they were. The rest had grown up in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, but his youngest brother was still fifteen.
“Alked. Do you think I could practice magic? Or…or just go exploring Khelt by myself?”
He was a city-born kid who had not known the bad days of living in the poorest districts, but he was still Hemp.
“…Why not, Ereid? Go ahead. Pack some provisions. You can find how much a wand ‘costs’ later; I think they’d probably trade you for a good weapon. That’s all the rage, so a practice wand might not be as sought after if it’s just [Light]. Spellbooks are hard, but I can buy one. If you want to go—I hear there are any number of interesting sights in Khelt. Just be mindful of others’ property.”
The young man beamed, but his mother threw a fit.
“Absolutely not! He’ll fall prey to monsters!”
Alked clutched at his head.
“There are none, Mother. If he finds one, he just has to shout and a skeleton will literally rise up to protect him. Do whatever you want! We have found a paradise, and you keep expecting it to be snatched away! Run naked in the streets if you want!”
“Really?”
His sister looked interested, and her husband frowned at her. Alked hesitated.
“…No. Not these streets. That is against the law, but there is a town where that’s accepted.”
“We should move there.”
“Dear.”
Every desire, inclination, and habit was catered to in Khelt—within reason. Alked himself had taken one look at the mansion he’d been assigned and given it to his mother and relatives.
That had been a mistake. His mother expected this all to vanish, and fair—she had lived in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, where entire districts had been evicted of their people so new landowners could build what they wanted there.
But not Khelt.
“It’s safe, Mother. I was given citizenship for being a Named Adventurer. The same as Frieke of Medain—Frieke of Khelt and the Herdmistress Geraeri. In fact…there she is. Frieke!”
Someone jumped, and a magical falcon nearly took off as a Dullahan woman, looking just as amazed as Alked, turned.
“Oh. Fellbow.”
She hurried away from browsing a stall of hand-cut gemstones that the owner had left unattended with some relief. She had much the same look as his family, but the Named Adventurers were clearly glad to see each other.
“Alked, is this your family? I’m honored to meet you. Frieke of M—Khelt.”
The rest of Alked’s family were in awe at the famed [Falconer]. With Alked right next to them, they rose and instantly began fawning over her. Alked wished he had some of that. Not that he wanted to lose his connection with his family, but just a smidgen.
“You brought your entire family to Khelt, Alked?”
He nodded.
“It was part of what His Majesty offered me. Not you, Frieke?”
She looked around.
“…No. No, I didn’t think that was too necessary. Half of them would be stealing everything in sight—I have a few I’ll ask about. Have you, uh—gotten any requests from His Majesty yet?”
“None.”
Alked had been exercising, and he’d gone hunting past Khelt’s borders just to stay in shape. Frieke looked like she’d put on weight, and she patted her stomach.
“This is too amazing. I have a magical bathtub that fills itself, and I’ve been eating without paying at every restaurant in…truly, a bounty. I honestly don’t know if I’m even a Named Adventurer anymore. Of course, I’ll fight in defense of Khelt! Just—”
Alked’s mother looked anxiously at Frieke. She hadn’t even gone out on the town until Alked took her.
“You truly think this is safe, Adventurer Frieke?”
That was it. Alked rounded on her in exasperation.
“Mother, please! I’ve told you again and again. This is better than Nerrhavia’s Fallen by far. Better than Medain—any nation in the world! This is a paradise nation. One of less than ten! No one will ever harm you. No one will knock you down for being Hemp—it is against the law to discriminate, and Fetohep of Khelt himself has issued our family citizenship for our children and children’s children. I know you’re expecting some Silk official to do something, my status as Named Adventurer or not, but we did it. I did it for us. We’re finally s…”
Alked trailed off. He turned his head at the same time as the embarrassed Frieke, who’d been looking around during this family argument.
Both Named Adventurers picked up on the commotion faster than the others. There was a cadence to some shouts and exclamations that you could pick up on as potential trouble. Alked heard it now. Gasps, screams—but the figure that came sprinting down the road was so fast that the sound only followed in his wake.
Fetohep of Khelt, 19th Ruler of Khelt, went running past the outdoor café that the Fellbow family were sitting at. Frieke of Khelt and every citizen stopped, turned their heads, and saw a blur blast past them.
So fast he left a wind current in his wake. Most barely knew what they saw—if you blinked you missed him.
As a [Ranger of the Great Desert], Alked got the best glimpse besides anyone but perhaps Frieke’s hawk. He saw Fetohep, wearing his regal robes, crown shining on his head, dead, mummified flesh—running down the street.
Something Alked noted in that shocked moment was how good Fetohep’s form was. He ran like the warrior he’d been, back straight, arms and legs pumping. Not lazily or in some pretentious way, with his arms spread behind him in a ‘v’ shape like some [Assassins].
He just booked it. At the speed of one of the greatest warriors of his era. Maybe with magic too.
Everyone was silent as the ruler of Khelt passed by. Frieke looked at Alked, and he nodded.
Yep. I just saw that too.
After a second, someone galloped after Fetohep. One of the few officers, shouting.
“Your Majesty! Your M—”
Alked rose from his table. His mother turned from the already-distant ruler to Alked.
“My son. Was that the ruler of Khelt who just ran past us now? Does he…do that for his health?”
Her voice was hopeful. For a second, Alked entertained the notion that this was some civic health program led by the ruler of Khelt. Then he swore, vaulted the table, and took off after Fetohep.
“Go back to your mansion! Frieke!”
“I’m coming! I’m—”
 
——
 
The King of Khelt was already three streets down by the time Alked began to give chase. His citizens turned and saw the blur race past them. At first, they wondered if they were seeing this or had heatstroke. Then they began to panic.
Fetohep of Khelt never ran.
Never. He had moved swiftly at times, to stop an imminent accident in his presence. On the battlefield, he galloped and fought swiftly on foot—
Yet a King did not run.
Fetohep of Khelt despised Flos Reimarch for the King of Destruction’s lack of decorum. Yet here he was, running. His feet struck the paved ground so hard that he thought he damaged the paint on some unenchanted streets.
A few citizens were walking in a group, fearless of wagons, which were a rare sight in—Fetohep dodged around them and saw them whirl and drop their gelato cones. He nearly ran into a little girl crossing the street and, rather than knock her flat, picked her up.
For eight steps, the girl of about eight and Fetohep stared at each other—then he deposited her next to her mother. The Revenant never broke from the dead run.
“—jesty! Your—”
They were chasing him. An officer who happened to be on horseback, two Named Adventurers—and all the servants and most of the people who’d seen Fetohep— gave chase.
None of them caught up. Not even the woman at full-gallop. Alked and Frieke actually overtook the rider, but Alked Fellbow at full-tilt realized—
Fetohep was faster than he was. They were both high-level [Warriors], and unlike Alked, Fetohep had run across the battlefield in armor.
So the Named Adventurer grabbed a potion from his belt and popped a Potion of Speed into his mouth. He accelerated and finally managed to catch Fetohep after fifteen seconds of dodging past stunned citizens.
“Your Majesty! What’s going on?”
The Named Adventurer knew his voice was condensed thanks to the Potion of Speed, but Fetohep of Khelt heard him. The Revenant turned his head, and Alked realized—he was shouting.
“Follow me you wretched—Fellbow!”
“Sire?”
The Named Adventurer’s heart was pounding hard from the chase alone and the sudden panic. Fetohep made it worse.
“Go to the Yasian fields and find Herdmistress Geraeri! Rally with her and tell her to take her greatest warriors and find me! Now! Arm yourself for war!”
“Who? Against who—what? Where?”
Alked had to know. For answer, Fetohep just cursed, spotted someone, and skidded to a stop.
Alked had to stop, turn, and run back because the Ruler of Khelt was staring at a group of friends clearly having fun with one of the many recreational activities in Khelt’s capital. Not swordplay.
Pottery. They were all making crude pots at an outdoor lesson being led by a young [Potter], a young woman that Alked recognized.
Wasn’t he supposed to guard her with his life? She looked fairly unremarkable with a potter’s apron—aside from a deep scar across her shoulder that ran just up to the neck of her high-collared shirt. Alked thought it was a sword-wound.
“Pewerthe of Khelt.”
“Your Majesty?”
The [Potter] gasped as Fetohep turned to her. He looked at his named successor in case the worst should happen. The gaggle of friends all froze and looked up.
“Y-y-your…?”
They were stunned, but Fetohep just looked at Pewerthe, his heir apparent, and spoke. To her, to Fellbow, and Frieke, who sprinted up just in time to hear him, clutching at her chest.
“Pewerthe, go to the palace. You and my trusted servants must keep order while I am gone. Sound the alarm. Ring the Dragonward Bell. Ask a servant where it is if you must. Go.”
“What? The—”
Pewerthe looked up, but Fetohep just turned and ran. Alked Fellbow saw him turn his head and snap.
“Find the Herdmistress! Now! Frieke! Go with Fellbow!”
The group of innocent would-be potters saw Fetohep continue sprinting through the capital. They looked at Pewerthe as she turned pale—
Then they began screaming. It was an acceptable reaction. But perhaps premature. As the [Potter] tore the apron from her front and began running—the King of Khelt truly began alarming people.
 
——
 
There were almost no [Farmers] in Khelt. There was little need; the skeletons might lack for Skills, but they could perform most tasks perfectly.
Even so, Fetohep hired [Farmers] with each generation to keep an eye on the crop-yield, and it was actually a fairly prestigious position.
An easy one too; all Colovt had to do was tell the skeletons what their orders were.
Colovt of Reim. He still felt that he was of Reim, even though the King of Destruction had been asleep for three years when he decided to go to Khelt. There was no future in Reim, or so he had believed.
When Flos Reimarch had awoken, Colovt had felt the pull…but only faintly. This was safety. While he could have marched to the King of Destruction’s banner, he had a family to think of, and he didn’t doubt Fetohep would keep them safe even if Colovt asked to leave. He was not that petty a man. However, Colovt would never return.
So he stayed. Today had seemed like another day of adding to the sugarcane yields and finding an entire hundred acre section to begin planting. Climate control was also no issue. If something needed growing out-of-season or in different weather, it would be done.
It sounded noisy near the capital today. The farm that Colovt was working on was quite far away, but he had a home near to the capital so he could occasionally meet with Fetohep himself. There was such noise that even the [Farmer] taking one of the skeletal wagons to his destination looked up from eating.
There was no driver, of course. He just told the horse where he wanted to go and had breakfast on the go. That meant Colovt could admire the scenery, chat…
And he had a perfect vantage point to see the ground ripple and one of his cornfields vanish. The [Farmer]’s jaw dropped open. Then he saw something push itself out of the ground. For a moment, it blinded him; the pale ivory reflected the sun perfectly.
Then he saw a massive, domed head. It shook itself off as if it were alive—then more ground bulged, and three more fields vanished. In horror, the [Farmer] saw it wasn’t hundreds of feet long. It was at least a thousand—it was so large—
