He had no idea what was going on either.
 
——
 
No one could see the threat. Or at least—not nations. Not Chaldion of Pallass. Not actual Cyclopes.
However.
Some of them could sense it. Some simply knew Khelt and rode with the King of Khelt.
Others were just…
Ullsinoi. Galei stormed into the communications center of Wistram with three dozen [Mages]. More of his faction than had ever been seen.
“Magus Galei—”
“Stop getting in Khelt’s way. When they say there’s an alarm—when Drath gets nervous, you panic.”
He emphasized his point by aiming a glowing wand between the [High Mage]’s scaly brows. The Centaur wasn’t smiling.
He couldn’t see anything.
But he believed. And but for the Golems blocking the way to the higher floors…he was certain that they would have known.
 
——
 
Some people had no more insight than Galei, but they had seen…things. Ulva Terland read the messages from Khelt, and she remembered one particular event.
Shadows at a grand party during the Summer Solstice. Five strangers. And…strange visitors from afar. She had left those memories as part dream. Part omen. Now?
When she heard Fetohep of Khelt’s warning, she listened. She believed.
 
Wistram: The academy is now sending [Message] spells free of charge for the duration of the crisis. Signed, Ullsinoi.
Terland: House Terland and the Five Families second the crisis. Let all [Lords] and [Ladies] of Izril return to weather the storm.
 
——
 
What worried other nations with neither eyes nor context was how many great powers were raising that alarm. How did they know?
The answer was that most did not. Only a few beings could even tell something was wrong.
Like the Death of Magic. Silvenia floated uncertainly up, high in the sky. So high up she was at risk of attack—but she had to see.
“Silvenia! What do you see?”
The Death of Chains, Czautha, had her shield at the ready. Yet the half-Elf just turned left and right.
“…It’s not here. I have to leave Rhir, Czautha.”
The Djinni flew higher, grimly watching the Blighted Kingdom’s lands to the east.
“You cannot. The Blighted Kingdom is on high alert. You will not survive if they corner you. Can’t you see…whatever’s happening? Seamwalkers?”
The half-Elf shook her head, her internal organs shifting as the translucent magical skin and replacement limbs shone across her damaged form.
“No. The Antinium may be fighting below—but they are not here.”
She stared, squinting at something, then looked around. She had always seen ghosts anywhere but Rhir. Now she understood.
“They are avoiding Rhir. It’s not here.”
One of the few people who could witness what was happening was in the wrong spot. However—Silvenia heard a chime as another [Message] appeared.
Some nations could tell something was going on. Just not what.
 
Avel: The Kingdom of Bows agrees. Something is wrong. Stand to arms, Terandria.
Noelictus: The Tombs are stirring.
Isle of Heiste: This is Heiste. The Archmage’s Isle. We are experiencing issues. Please contact us, Wistram, immediately. Something has activated.
Wistram: We are reaching out. Please clarify in private spells, Heiste.
 
The Archmage’s Isle? That paradise? Then Silvenia saw another…bad omen.
 
Avenclus: The City of Avenclus is requesting any, any companies to send forces at once. Forgotten Wing, Jungle Tails, anyone.
Wistram: Is this related to the emergency or a private affair, Avenclus?
Avenclus: Yes. The Labyrinth of Souls is activating again. Send Named Adventurers. Send the Titan.
 
Few things in this world could give Silvenia that feeling of unease. That…she closed her eyes.
That wonderful trepidation. She began giggling to herself, and Czautha just flew downwards as the Deaths of Rhir went to prepare.
 
——
 
Fetohep of Khelt saw the sea as his forces rallied with the advance army led by Hecrelunn, Salui, and the first of Serept’s half-Giants.
“Fetohep. Fetohep…where is His-Xe? Who is attacking him? Tell me so I can kill them.”
The greatest champion of His-Xe’s rule, the berserk warrior Salui, was vibrating in place. Tendons stood out as he gripped the giant axe in two hands. Fetohep halted and turned to Salui.
“He is fighting. We have another battlefield. Trust to His-Xe.”
“Still fighting. Without me?”
For a second, the Revenant calmed down. Then his head rose, and twin lights, like silver beacons, shone from his eye sockets.
“Then they will all die.”
He looked to the one force he could vent his fury upon. Mortals.
[Knights]. They stood alone in front of their grounded ships, teams desperately trying to unearth them or shift the stone and sand encasing the hulls. The [Vizir] pointed as one was on the verge of being unbeached, and it sank another ten feet.
“They have the ships you wanted. As does Medain. They refuse to surrender. Should I drop meteors on them?”
Fetohep looked at the army. He checked the fading sun, then spoke curtly.
“I will give them one chance. If they fail to surrender—Khelt will activate Razzimir’s Arrows.”
Hecrelunn, Salui, and Thitern—the leader of Serept’s warriors—all looked at each other.
“What is that?”
They all predated the 15th King of Khelt, King Razzimir. Fetohep answered curtly.
“A Tier 6 spell bounded to long-range magical fire. It can strike the coastline.”
Hecrelunn’s expression changed to one of deep interest—and disbelief.
“Our enemies allowed us to build such a weapon?”
“Our enemies were Crelers. Other nations petitioned Khelt to build it before Razzimir decided to send his armies alongside magical fire. Pewerthe—”
Fetohep lifted a speaking stone.
“Strike the coordinates Vizir Hecrelunn gives you with three Arrows of Razzimir. It should be as simple as having a [Mage] enter them. Oh—and warn every Garuda in the air to land.”
He rode forwards as Jecaina of Jecrass looked upon the gathering of Revenants. Salui turned to her.
“You—you—you—”
Thitern nodded to Jecaina and moved to shield her slightly with his own sword and shield. Jecaina gulped and bowed to the shaking Revenant.
“Are you Great Salui? I am Jecaina of Jecrass, [Queen]. Ally to Khelt. Practically a vassal nation. Protected by His Majesty, Fetohep himself. We are on the same side.”
She felt the need to emphasize that. The [Champion of War] made the Jecrass forces clutch at their weapons uneasily. He pointed at Jecaina with a shaking finger as Orthenon rode left and right, staring southwards.
“You—you—is that a rapier? Are you Terandrian? Are you…real?”
When the startled [Queen] offered him the rapier to inspect, Salui just turned away.
“Not real. Not that one…you. You’re real.”
The [Ruinbringer Steward] turned in his saddle just in time to see Salui charge him with axe raised. Orthenon swung his spear to meet him—dodged backwards. His horse screamed, and Orthenon rode backwards, staring at the rift Salui had just made in the ground. He aimed the spear, but Salui had calmed down. He stared at Orthenon.
“Yes. You’re real. That makes three.”
He looked around at Hecrelunn, at Orthenon, and included himself in the count. Salui abruptly sat down.
“Three will do. Tell me when His-Xe’s enemies are in front of me. I have killed the plague beyond The Last Tide before.”
It was that kind of army that the brave [Knights] of Terandria’s Crusade against Khelt beheld. They didn’t even look at the ranks of armored Humans.
An undead Revenant halted on horseback for the first time that day. He lifted a hand.
“[Knights] of Terandria—surrender your vessels and you will not be harmed. Resist and I will use your bones to crew the ships. I do not intend war against Terandria today.”
Fetohep of Khelt, the true Ruler of Khelt, pointed down at them. Now they sensed his aura. The real body was incomparable to that…fake he had used.
In the distance, Jaws of Zeikhal were on the march. You could see them on the horizon, and behind Fetohep was that terrible warrior who had slain dozens of [Knights] in hand-to-hand combat before growing bored and leaving the battlefield.
Half-Giants. Not a single one had fallen thus far. And…that wretched Revenant, the [Vizir], hovering behind Fetohep, eyes glowing crimson, the very color of his hateful soul.
Undead. Monsters. The Arbiter Queen rode with Khelt, which just showed her naiveté. And yes, the [Knights] had heard Khelt’s warning.
They also didn’t want to die. But honor and chivalry warred with their practicality. Their commander was riding forwards to tell Fetohep that when the evening sky grew bright as day. Everyone but Fetohep looked up—and saw an [Arrow of Light].
One of those basic spells that every [Mage] could cast. Infinitely adaptable. Why, a dedicated spellcaster could make one damage steel armor. [Archmages] could cast thousands as chaff spells.
You could also make one as large as a ship and throw it across a thousand miles. It slowly curved down—and hit the ground. Then two more blasted down, to the left and right of the panicking Humans and screaming horses.
Blinding. The undead watched without moving, though some winced from the sheer power of the light magic, which was anathema to most of their kind. Jecaina’s people shielded their eyes and cried out.
When they looked again—they saw glass. Razzimir’s Arrows had left charred, cooling pits of glass on the sand beach. The Terandrians looked at Fetohep as he lifted his hand.
“You have five minutes. My patience of six centuries is not unlimited. I have no time to waste on you.”
He turned as the [Knights] slowly abandoned their positions. They began mounting up, trading their swords, maces, and axes for lances. They had intended to defy Khelt while they tried to dig out the ships.
Khelt could erase them without losing a single zombie. Then—there was only the charge. 
Half the [Knights] were split. They really didn’t want to die. Some, like the Order of Seasons, didn’t even have the confidence that this was where their blades were best used. Each kingdom was calling them home, but they could not surrender to Khelt and let them steal a fleet.
Surely. Surely…there was some hope?
 
——
 
Erin Solstice caught up with Fetohep at last. He had outrun the ghosts of Chandrar. Yet she saw him still, riding a horse. She saw no armies, nor great magic streaking through the air, but she had heard his orders.
So had the Rulers of Khelt, and the ghosts of Chandrar followed their path north. Listening to the one champion of the dead.
“I died in Khelt. I remember that I left my body to your people. Ask Fetohep how it looks.”
One of the Giants confessed to Serept, who stared up at his cousin. The half-Giant was rewarded with a huge laugh from above and a smile like fire.
The Ash Giantess had no weapon, but she still made fists.
“For a single club or blade! Come, kin! We shall wade among the small one last time. Never has there been a more worthy foe.”
She pointed at the largest Seamwalkers, who gazed upon the only things large enough to challenge them.
Fearlessly. Six Giants came to stand with her. Yet the Void Dragon, Xarkouth, flapped around them. He was the size of the largest airplanes on Earth—yet he seemed like a winged cat shouting at the Giants.
“Not yet! Hold, I said! Hold for your kin! More stand to on Baleros and Terandria!”
He looked down at Erin Solstice, and the [Innkeeper] gazed up at him. Then at Fetohep. The King of Khelt turned his head and nodded to her. Then he turned to address someone.
“Salui. His-Xe is watching.”
The 9th King of Khelt gasped and stepped forwards, but he could not see his dear friend. Only relay his words across the gap.
The world felt thin. As if reality were a balloon, not the immutable stuff of the cosmos. A balloon, being stretched thinner by the presence of Norechl’s kin, a weight upon it. Until it…snapped?
Erin Solstice didn’t know. She still saw them advancing. Across that dark sea, she knew, the six were coming. She saw the first walking through the distance, the only being with true power here. The one who had kept Erin in a false prison of Earth.
Young, middling, old. Decrepit, dignified in age, or almost untouched. Youthful, sickly, naive, overwearied too early. Still radiant, fading, deepening with beauty.
An everchanging woman. Three-in-one. One-in-three.
Kasigna, God of Death.
Then came that man who danced across the world, laughing, smiling. The Dancing Man, God of Love. He could have held a cup, joined any party or gathering in the world and shaped it around him. His smile seemed to be the smile of every friend you had ever known and would ever make.
Almost—almost, Erin felt a kinship with him, but he looked at the world like a lover waiting for his embrace. And his smile was rotten. His soul carrion. A hungry leech stripped of his finery and flesh.
The last was unsmiling. A man in robes, whose eyes seemed to hold libraries of knowledge lost to all. Vaults of secrets tucked away for when they would be used. He should have held a book and consorted with the greatest secret-keepers. The Wise Man. God of Secrets. God of Magic and Studies.
“Three. With that one, that makes four.”
Khelta muttered, and Erin turned her head to the distant nothing. How could you describe the God of the Forgotten, God of Lost Things?
You didn’t. It had no substance or form and even the lack was more unsettling than a shadow in the air. It had no eyes, no mouth, yet it saw. Yet it could speak.
It had no face, but it smiled. With gleeful malice.
Four of the six, the other two nowhere to be seen. The fierce huntress and the bearded man. Erin did not know the names of all but three, and she refused to name them.
They waited, like starving vultures. Waiting, watching the monsters from the end of the world coming to shatter Chandrar so it could be devoured.
Erin knew it. Even now, she looked at the hundred thousand horrors, and her soul felt weak and untethered. Helpless.
But Califor stood next to her, tugging on her hat. Gerial muttered with Cawe about taking out one of the tiny spawn-Seamwalkers, and the Rebel of String and Sage of a Hundred Thousand Secrets stood like bodyguards. Nerrhavia strode about self-importantly, ordering about rulers and heroes more ancient than she.
Heroes and villains.
And Drevish. The Architect just looked at the only light in the world. An umbrella, held aloft by a tireless Garuda, casting a light even the six feared.
And that shining memory of a sword, held aloft by a bearded man with grey and red in his hair. The King of Destruction’s grandfather—until someone tried to take it from him.
Now was the time. Erin Solstice met Fetohep’s gaze and smiled. She laughed and bowed to him. Not yet. The end of the world waited upon Fetohep’s will.
Trust. She had learned to trust she was not alone. So the ghost of the [Innkeeper] reached out and finally felt what she had been searching for.
