The [Horsefriend] just fell off the saddle and onto his back as both horses lay down, wheezing. Fetohep strode past the guards and citizens. Someone raised a spear and aimed it at him, but he brushed it aside. The King of Khelt looked around as people gazed at the boy who had ridden by his side. Fetohep looked about and called to them, riding through their city like the stories they had been founded on.
“Get me a horse.”
Within six minutes—six minutes—he was riding again. The people of the city asked questions and panicked, even when they realized who he was. Fetohep solved the problem by tossing gold and gemstones down.
He had no time. An hour and a half after he had begun his ride, finally, the Revenants woke up. The last Revenants from the age of Queen Emrist and King Dolenm. Fetohep sent one to Herdmistress Geraeri then onto another destination.
The second group actually caught up with him as he rode.
Only five Revenant tombs had ever been made across nineteen generations. The later rulers had been lower-level and guarded Khelt’s strength. But it was also the cost.
What great warriors would stay to guard Khelt forevermore?
One was Salui, the warrior of His-Xe without peer.
Another was Hecrelunn, the first and only [Vizir] of Khelt.
The third were the half-Giants who had fought by Serept’s side, each one over Level 30 and tall as the Nomads of the Sky’s largest.
Two more Revenants and weapons of previous rulers had been entombed. Even Fetohep had not unleashed the others, because there was no need.
He did so now. It was Emrist’s Revenants who caught up with him. Fetohep looked up and saw them coming, matching his speed. But of course…they were the fastest beings on Chandrar.
He saw flying carpets. Sixty of them. Their riders were dead, ghostly eyes burning with a fearlessness of people who had already died once. What was crashing to them?
Emrist’s Scourgeriders of the Sky.
“Hail, King of Khelt. What doom befalls Khelt?”
Each one was a Revenant. They flew more than just carpets. Some rode alone, others together, as they had when they had been feared across Chandrar’s skies by even Garuda. In fact—one was a [Witch], riding an actual broom. Another rider simply had two passengers, one a [War Alchemist], the other a [Mage], ready to throw down spells and explosives.
Their leader carried a lance and rode a spectral horse rather than a carpet through the sky. Fetohep raised his hand—then frowned.
“…Why are you here? Queen Emrist thought you dead. Djinni.”
He pointed at someone who was trying to hide in the back. One Revenant among many, looking innocently around. The emaciated half-skeleton man grinned at Fetohep with an undead’s yellowed teeth.
“Who, me?”
Fetohep’s magical gaze narrowed.
“Do not lie. I can sense my people, and you live. You must be the Djinni Coutei-Dinai. Emrist thought you perished.”
The Djinni laughed and turned into a cross-legged man sitting on the carpet as the other Revenants chuckled or sighed.
“I snuck in, of course. I slept well and free for thousands of years. I did not trust the next ruler to give me Emrist’s goodwill.”
Fetohep eyed the Djinni and saw a beaming, mischievous face. A pair of long-daggers and bow on the Djinni’s back. Even a necklace and bag of holding.
What he did not see were shackles.
Emrist truly was unconventional. Fetohep spoke curtly as the riders flew about him.
“I ride north to great war. But you—I fear your task is difficult still. And it likely means your deaths.”
“For Emrist, we promised to die twice.”
Their leader sat calmly, lance at the ready as he faced Fetohep. The ruler nodded.
“It is Emrist who still exists in the lands of the dead whom you fight for.”
“She does?”
They reacted much like the others, but Fetohep could give them no time. He pointed.
“I require three to fly south. The rest of you—join the Giant and two Jaws of Zeikhal. It will be your ends. Therefore—Coutei-Dinai.”
“Your Majesty. I am of Khelt—will you order me to battle?”
The Djinni bowed, eyes watchful. Fetohep simply gazed at him and made a quick decision.
“…No. I will order you to take two of your number and carry my will to the south. Then? Join the rest at A’ctelios Salash. It is waking up. You will render it sleeping if you must slay every single being in Tombhome.”
A’ctelios Salash sensed its kin. When they heard this, the Scourgeriders sighed. Their leader leaned over his carpet.
“Ah, now there is a fitting end. To fight Chandrar’s old doom—we obey, Fetohep. And thank you for a fitting battle. But Coutei—he is an innocent soul whom we counted amongst our number. I beg you release him, as you seem to intend?”
The Djinni watched Fetohep, and the King spoke curtly.
“Render me my last service, Coutei. Then go. You will be hunted by your kind if you are seen in battle unchained.”
“As always. Thank you. You understand Emrist’s will.”
The Djinni looked sadly at Fetohep, but the King stopped him as the Djinni moved about his final duty.
“…When you leave, fly carefully, but seek Rhir. Not the kingdom upon its eastern edge, the Blighted Kingdom, but the Demons of Rhir.”
“Who? And why would I seek…Demons?”
The Djinni looked interested as Fetohep gazed at him. The ruler nodded his head.
“Because one of your kind, known as the Death of Chains, Czautha, has freed many Djinni. If you go—you are not of Khelt, nor were you save for a Djinni freed accidentally.”
The Djinni’s eyes widened, then he threw back his head and laughed.
“Death of Chains!? I will do this! I shall fulfill your last wish with joy, Fetohep of Khelt. My friends…put that monstrosity to sleep.”
He turned with tears in his eyes, and Fetohep looked at the riders. One offered her carpet to him, but he declined.
“You will all be needed. Go. Keep it asleep a millenia longer.”
They flew, and Fetohep looked back south. He saw faint shapes on the horizon. Following him. Undead legions, the Jaw of Zeikhal he had summoned, another standing on the border. But so far. Fetohep of Khelt knew it. So he spread his arms.
“I am Khelt. To me, my armies! Forwards, the legions!”
In the distance—the Jaw of Zeikhal slowly began to speed up.
 
——
 
One Jaw of Zeikhal had been equipped with a magical palanquin to carry its riders into glorious battle. Another had been given a strange object.
A…shrine. Or was it a beacon? It was made of bone, of course, and it held a kind of sloshing liquid within. The essence of death. This one had been built by Khelta herself. And it had a simple task.
Every undead surrounding it turned [Invisible]. However, the terrified living people who’d climbed onto it finally began to configure it and changed the effect. The invisible undead reappeared, and the Jaw of Zeikhal suddenly began to speed up as the entire magical aura changed from [Invisibility] to [Speed].
Khelt’s hordes marched, and Nerrhavia’s Fallen gazed upon a true foe without end. They were not just all heading north—though the lion’s share did—but spreading out. Holding the borders.
Armies of the undead. By now, Chandrar had heard the Dragonward Bells tolling. Many had seen the Giant and the Jaws of Zeikhal rise.
It was his ride, though, that finally did it. The King of Khelt—not some simulacrum, not a fake double—but Fetohep himself who rode north.
He was not the King of Destruction. He had been far less famous than the Titan, or even someone like Chaldion of Pallass.
But…to everyone on Chandrar who knew Khelt, Fetohep’s ride was most terrifying still. Because he was not some great warmonger. He was Khelt’s guardian.
And he was sounding the alarm.
Did you feel his presence? Coming your way? Did you look up and see the giant undead?
Cities in Fetohep’s path, all the way from Khelt to the north, woke up and felt the air grow heavy. Death magic. They went to their windows and saw the undead. They woke to tolling in the air and saw an army to put any other to shame marching north.
Then the undead began to rise.
So many powerful undead and Fetohep himself saturated graveyards not perfectly warded. It touched the bones of animals.
Skeletons and zombies rose, and mortals fled in fear. But these ones did not strike at the living. They walked past the walls, dug themselves out of the ground—
And knelt. As the Jaw of Zeikhal and soldiers of Khelt wearing armor passed. As the ruler of Khelt passed.
What did it mean? What war was he riding to? Cities in Fetohep’s path—panicked. Before they knew what was going on, they only knew that an army was coming their way.
Some began to evacuate or simply closed their gates and prayed he had nothing he wanted from them. But in some…oddities appeared.
One man saw the Jaw of Zeikhal appear on the horizon, heard the Dragonward Bell toll, fainted, and gained a class. The [Doomsday Shouter] took to the streets of the city of Thorica.
“We have been fools. Fools! Don’t you see? The King of Destruction? The Empire of Sands? We have been blind to the true rulers!”
People turned to him, and the man pointed a trembling finger into the distance. At the aura of the undead king, at the distant bone-white figure moving.
“We have grown small and worthless in the face of our true legacy! Blinded to the one great kingdom that remains on Chandrar! He is coming to end our misery, to take us into the last great nation! Kneel! Kneel before death itself! Swear yourselves to Khelt or be added to their ranks!”
The [Guards] were alerted to the growing commotion and tried to stamp it out when they realized how many people were listening. The [Doomsday Shouter] was already gathering a following, and…several of the [Guard] joined him.
How not? When you saw Khelt coming—were you going to trust to walls? The Jaw of Zeikhal could eat this city. You had seen him. Believe and…
There were riots within an hour. Rebellion in two. The [Mayor] tried to quell the growing movement with force, but found that the force he sent against the believer of New Khelt decided to switch sides instead.
 
——
 
The dry earth of Chandrar had given way to beautiful clay. It swirled in vast colors from a land where water had once run. Deep greens baked brown by sand and dirt. Pale white and other colors that the people of this land dug through.
He raced through the colors, a dead man racing ahead of an army. Monsters fled his presence or cowered. The bravest roared challenges and then saw his head turn. A Manticore taking wing gazed at Fetohep and fled silently as he passed a den it had built in the sands.
Then he came to the Potter’s City of Thorica, built upon this place, and Fetohep slowed for a second when he saw a quarter of the population prostrating themselves in front of him. The gates were open, and there was smoke from fighting.
A man bowed as Fetohep slowed.
“What has happened here?”
“Your Majesty! We swear allegiance to Khelt! Spare us and take us into your wondrous protection!”
The [Doomsday Leader] looked up as the Revenant gazed at the city, mystified. The people gazed up in awe and fear, and Fetohep hesitated.
“I have no time for this. Mage’s Guild—send the [Message] spells. It is past time, it seems.”
He galloped off. The people watched him go, then turned to the [Doomsday Leader].
It was remarkable how fast the man switched.
“Do you see? He has conquered a city without raising a hand! Rejoice!”
The sweating man waited, and then cheers broke out. But Fetohep was far too far away to hear them.
 
——
 
Faster. Fetohep of Khelt demanded speed.
Past Thorica, across one of the rarest sights in Chandrar. Fetohep himself looked down as, for a second, the world grew less arid. The blazing heat faded a bit—and his mount looked down in wild bewilderment at the grass it ran across.
Even now, the grass bloomed across Chandrar. Not green, though. This was lush and yellow, not wizened stalks, but capable of keeping water and living in the driest months.
“The Eternal Grasslands.”
The horse tried to slow, wanting a taste—just one mouthful of that bounty. Fetohep himself looked down and realized he had found what some searched for their entire lives. He could bring a cutting back to Khelt.
He would never find it again if he rode past it. The Eternal Grasslands bloomed only for a short part of the day to devour the sun; the patches that remained would hide the rest of the day. Adapted for Chandrar.
Fetohep hesitated just once, then he urged the horse onwards, racing through the memory of one of Chandrar’s greatest [Archmages]. A Gnoll. He rode in her name. Rode in the name of all that had ever died.
“Faster. Ride for the greatest cause you or I will ever know. Ride, great daughter of Chandrar!”
So the mare raced onwards, and the King of Khelt continued. He passed a thousand feet of grass in seconds. He never looked back.
At last—a group reached him. They only stopped because they found the King of Khelt standing over a horse. And a trail of blood.
She had snapped a foreleg. He was pouring something on her as the horse screamed. It went quiet, and the soldiers saw the terrible damage done to the horse fading. It lay there, and Fetohep looked up as they skidded to a halt.
“[At His Majesty’s Side]! Sire!”
A panting Kheltian appeared with a small force of a few hundred troops. Fetohep strode towards them.
“At last. I require a mount. Someone tend to this one. Bring it back to Khelt and ensure it wants for nothing. What of the final Revenant?”
The lamed mare looked up as Fetohep glanced back just once. Then he was facing the soldiers. One leapt from his steed at once and bowed.
“On its way. Herdmistress Geraeri is moving to reach it—it will head north. Your Majesty…where are we going?”
The ruler of Khelt pulled himself up into the saddle. He saluted the horse, then pointed with one hand.
“Medain. Then further still.”
The soldiers looked at him, but the undead were already marching. So slow…Fetohep snapped.
“We must increase our speed! Vaults—carpet! Find me any Courier to the north and tell them to meet me—now.”
He could move fast—but Fetohep desired more speed. So he began to race with the Kheltian detachment following—and hired Couriers and sent carpet-riders shooting forwards.
“Your Majesty? What…?”
A Garuda landed, panting, and Fetohep handed her three objects.
“Here. Here. And here. [Haste] scroll. Teleportation marking stone. [Message] scroll attuned to me. Fly. Inform me when the scroll ends, and we will teleport to you. Go. Go!”
She hesitated—then flew. Fetohep slowed briefly to communicate. But he kept moving forwards. Each foot of space between her and them meant that [Teleportation] took more mana. It took the Courier thirty minutes to call in that she was in-place, and another ten for Fetohep to get in range.
“[Mass Teleport]!”
