The Jaw of Zeikhal clawed itself out of the soil and cast a shadow over everything. The city, Colovt—he gaped upwards as dirt and debris fell from a city-devourer. One of Zeikhal’s greatest threats.
Undead. Bone. The [Farmer] felt even the horse freeze as the Jaw uncovered itself. He was speechless, flat on his back. Staring up at it as ghostly green flames appeared in its eye sockets—all sixteen of them.
What is happening? Was it the war in the north? An emergency? The [Farmer] didn’t know, but then he heard a sound. A…rumble beneath his feet. The horse abruptly began galloping again, taking him out of the radius. Colovt realized what was happening and leapt into the driver’s seat to urge the undead horse to race—but the undead very politely waited until he was clear before the second Jaw of Zeikhal began unearthing itself.
Two. Two—the [Farmer] looked back, petrified, as an eye socket larger than he was rose, flickering with red malice. Not at him—he knew the undead were safe. He knew it—
What terrified him was the third behemoth coming out of the ground. That was when Colovt began screaming. He shouted at the horse.
“Take me home! Take me home!”
The undead steed began turning, instantly obeying. Jaws of Zeikhal were rising from the ground. Colovt knew what they were.
The last defenders of the capital. The largest undead—if they were coming out? He raced back home as four dug themselves out.
Four. Counting the one that had died in the north, that was every Jaw of Zeikhal that Khelt had ever bought or acquired the dead bodies of.
They were not the only undead rising. As he rode, the [Farmer] passed by another section of flat earth breaking apart. He saw the ground cave in, revealing a hollow pocket—and out marched a legion of Kheltian warriors.
These ones were no ordinary skeleton laborers that Colovt bossed around. They were soldiers armed in gold.
Gold, or some other alloy that didn’t rust or tarnish with time. They came out of their resting place in ranks of fifty. They halted only a second to let the wagon gallop past—and Colovt felt the horse slow.
“Keep going! Keep—”
Then he saw the ruler of Khelt. Fetohep of Khelt had found a horse. He galloped past Colovt, his voice like thunder, riding an undead horse, shining bone armored by warplate.
“Rise! Rise in defense of Khelt!”
A thousand undead skeletons on horseback followed him, weapons raised. They streamed past the living man, eyes burning with fire, riding undead mounts—but even they couldn’t keep up with Fetohep on horseback.
He was heading straight north. The [Farmer] watched the cavalcade pass, then saw people streaming out of the city. They halted when they saw the Jaws lumbering forwards. The dead rising.
Not just one legion. Not just two—the dead outnumbered the living as they poured forth. Ten thousand in the first minute. Then twenty…
Colovt left his wagon. He stumbled for his home—then fell to his knees. He looked up. A Jaw of Zeikhal slowly began to walk past him. This one was modified. It had some kind of…shrine? Some kind of altar on its back, like the one with the golden palanquin. Undead streamed around it, following the King of Khelt.
The [Farmer] did not know why they were rising. He did not know where Fetohep was going. But he pushed himself up and ran to find his family. It was…
The end of the world. The Creler Wars had begun again. Something—he didn’t know. He looked up from his panic only when he saw the Giant.
 
——
 
Serept’s kind had ruled Khelt, once. Half-Giants. Smaller than their kin. Even Khelt had known no true Giant citizens. It had only ever sheltered one. She had come here to rest the last three decades of her life. For food, companionship—
She had bequeathed her body to Khelt.
A shadow across the world. The first earthquakes began as the undead Giant unearthed herself. Unlike the others—there was still enough flesh on her body to make her more like a zombie.
Even her flesh refused to rot thousands of years later. Fetohep pointed.
“Go! Rise in defense of Khelt!”
They were all rising. Not just the border’s guard, but the last dead buried at the capital. Emergency weapons—the treasury?
He was racing north, but he knew that Pewerthe would be heading to the palace. He had given orders to let her be admitted—but he had no time.
Fetohep raced forwards. The horse carried him faster than he could run on foot by far. He had been a [Rider]—now the sheer acceleration left a dust cloud in his wake.
Dry Khelt was shaking. Every citizen, from the borders to the capital, could see the giant undead rising. As far as Reim—Hellios? Farther.
A dot on the horizon. A dust cloud billowing into the sky.
The Giant stood and began to walk. And each step was a minor tremor. The damage to the capital—Fetohep didn’t care.
“Your Majesty! What’s going—”
At last, the speaking spells reached him. The intelligent servants of Khelt had realized they’d never catch him. So they questioned him via speaking stones.
“Admit Pewerthe and direct her to the Dragonward Bell. Calm the citizens.”
Fetohep checked himself.
“—Keep them from panicking over duly. The legions of Khelt march! Arm the living! Open the vaults, and arm each soldier and officer with the finest weapons save for the innermost vaults! Send for my principle [Ritual Magi].”
“Yes, Your Majesty! But what is going on?”
“War.”
It was the most succinct answer Fetohep could give. He didn’t know where the Seamwalkers would be—not yet. He didn’t know…but he knew what must be done.
He had waited for this day all six hundred years of his reign. At last…he gave the orders.
“By my will—[Open the Vaults]. Scroll of Greater Haste!”
The world distorted, and Fetohep snatched the scroll that was written on the air itself. He used a Skill bequeathed to him by his nature. Not one he had gained in life—but in death. But he held it, for one second.
“Get me [Message] scrolls, scrying spells—alert each nation from the Mage’s Guild and summon every [Mage] and [Scribe] to stand ready! Fellbow, Herdmistress Geraeri, Frieke will all follow me. Collect them and follow me at all speed!”
The Giant was turning, and two of the Jaws of Zeikhal were following it with their curious, loping pace. The last was moving to the west.
“Two Jaws and the Giant Zirconia will head southwest. One will stand guard at the border. The last follows me. Vizir Hecrelunn! Report to me, now!”
No response from the damned [Vizir]. So Fetohep spoke to his servants.
“Your Majesty, we cannot catch you—how—?”
“Unseal the last two Revenant Tombs. I will direct them once awoken. Do it now. And tell the [Mages] who are working on the Great Project—I require them to finish their work. No matter the cost. Have them burn through every artifact in Khelt as fuel if they must.”
All Fetohep heard was stunned silence, a faint choking sound. He cared not. The ruler unraveled the Scroll of Greater Haste, and the mount under him sped up as if a slight [Speed] spell were affecting it already.
The world slowed as the words flashed on it. Fetohep looked back once at the ghosts laboring to catch up. The rulers of Khelt, Erin Solstice—
“Follow me, great Khelta. I ride.”
Then the spell activated.
[Greater Haste].
It was the same spell that had once worked on Ryoka Griffin, only in a scroll rather than a potion. But Ryoka Griffin had been unprepared for it. Fetohep was ready, and his horse…
…Vanished.
People of Khelt left their homes and turned to see the giant undead rising. They fell to their knees—and heard him. They barely saw him, only heard thunder—and then the flash as Fetohep rode.
He passed Khelt’s border in ten minutes. But he never lost sight of the ghosts, nor they of him.
He was Khelt.
 
——
 
The first thirty minutes of Fetohep’s ride were naught but panic and the dead unveiling themselves. In fact, the Vizir Hecrelunn did not condescend to even pay attention to Fetohep’s summons. He was reading history books and could not be bothered to hear another inane request like attack the Empire of Scaied, Khelta’s will or not.
It took nearly twenty-five minutes for Pewerthe to get to the palace. Not just because the citizens were in full panic—there were so many undead marching through the streets they were literal walls of armor.
She realized that they would part for her and ran through them to get to the palace in the end, but it still took another fifteen minutes to get to the bell.
The servants had been expecting her, but even running after them, the bell took the exhausted young woman twelve more minutes to get to. She stopped before the great bell etched with the downfall of Dragons and looked up at it. It was eight times as large as she and hung in a tower built in the 4th King’s rule—bequeathed to Khelt from the surviving Shield Kingdoms.
Pewerthe hesitated long as she took up the long hammer made of a single bone of ivory. She could barely lift it—so two servants had to help her swing the mallet of Dragonbone.
The ground already shook from the passing of Giants and so many undead marching. When Pewerthe hit the bell—the tolling was deafening.
But it was not a physical sound. It was like a [Dangersense] alarm, but deeper, sonorous, echoing for minutes within the soul itself.
Everyone in a hundred miles of the bell heard it. Babes woke up from their sleep and began to wail. Those sleeping in during the morning jolted out of their bed, shouting in alarm.
A hundred miles. Not very far in Chandrar. But the bells alerted everyone in Reim, Germina, even parts of Nerrhavia’s Fallen and other countries around.
They looked up—and saw the undead rising from Khelt, if they hadn’t already. However, the Dragonward Bell was more than just one toll. When Pewerthe struck it—
They all began ringing.
In Germina, a bell in the capital city of Ger began to toll. In the Shield Kingdom of Merreid, the Bazaar of Fables, Djinni slowed and looked up as a bell at the city’s heart sounded. They laughed as the mortals stared up and screamed in horror.
From Qualvekkaras’ heights, Garuda took to the air, and their [Queen] stared as the bell set onto the top of one of the mountain summits began to sound.
“Who has rung the bell? What is happening? Dragons? Find out!”
She took to the air herself as her bodyguard spread out. All three Shield Kingdoms heard the alarm. Only in A’ctelios Salash, where no Dragonward Bell had ever been given, was there silence.
Some things were better not woken, even if Dragons returned.
Yet the bells rang. Not just in those four kingdoms. They tolled in Roshal too, and the Emir Yazdil stopped dining on breakfast and looked up in alarm.
They rang in the south, in the domain of the Empire of Sands. In Zeikhal itself, buried deep.
They rang in the Iron Vanguard, as Tulm the Mithril came to a halt, and the Seer of Steel whirled. A bell bequeathed to the Iron Vanguard was chiming in the center of Invictel.
That was when the rest of the world began to listen. And that was when the Vizir Hecrelunn realized…he closed the book, rose, and spoke.
“[Long-Range Teleport]. What is that fool…?”
He was a user of magics from the era of Khelta herself, Khelta and Heris, both of whom he had known and served. He could lock onto the amateur [Message] spells and derive coordinates from there. Distance was no object to him.
The [Vizir] popped out of the world and re-emerged into the air over Fetohep’s head. He snapped.
“You fool! What is—”
Hecrelunn looked around, and the red light in his eye sockets winked once. Where was…?
“[Teleport]. You—”
This time Hecrelunn barely caught sight of Fetohep before the Revenant blasted past him. Hecrelunn did a double-take then flew after him.
“[Haste]. Fetohep of Khelt! What are—”
He failed to catch Fetohep. Hecrelunn’s crimson ‘eyes’ became pinholes as he realized the King was using a [Greater Haste] spell.
“That is a relic of Khelt—what is going—”
Then he noticed the Giant and the Jaws. Hecrelunn nearly slammed into a rock spire—Fetohep was outside of Khelt! He blasted it into pieces, then turned.
“The Giant is…? One, two, three—you had five? How did you get—Fetohep of Khelt! Heed me! [Teleport]—”
He failed to catch Fetohep six times. The ruler didn’t even notice Hecrelunn, such was his velocity, until the enraged [Vizir] began throwing lightning spells. Then Fetohep slowed.
“Hecrelunn. There you are.”
The undead had to fly at top-speed just to catch Fetohep, and his voice shook with fury.
“The Vizir deigned to answer your…what is going on? Dragons? When did Khelt receive a Dragonward Bell? What is happening?”
“The end. The ghosts of Khelt are in danger. An army of Seamwalkers. I require you to act—now! I am unveiling the tombs. Khelta herself and Heris fear they will be destroyed.”
Fetohep relayed the information in the most succinct way possible. Too late—he forgot something.
Hecrelunn understood Fetohep was in communication with the dead ghosts, but he was loyal only to them. The Vizir’s red gaze was twin pinpricks, then he spoke.
“An army of…? I—this Vizir will communicate with them. Relay my words! Ask them how it is I shall fight for them!”
“There is no time. They are with me—”
Or they’d catch up. Since there were no physics or Skills in the Deadlands, they moved at the same pace except for the ‘six’, whomever they were. Normally, that could outstrip all but the fastest mortals, but Fetohep had left them behind for the moment.
They would follow him. Yet Hecrelunn was…panicking. Just like Fetohep.
“Do not play games with me. I am the Vizir that has served both rulers of Khelt! I shall speak to them—”
“Vizir Hecrelunn. Silence.”
Fetohep slowed further, and the [Vizir] raised two hands brimming with hostile magic.
“You do not order me, petty little—”
Fetohep’s undead stallion jumped sideways, and the ruler of Khelt, enhanced by [Greater Haste] and his Skills, grabbed Vizir Hecrelunn by the throat. The other Revenant felt a vice grip close on his throat. Fetohep was still riding, but he lifted Hecrelunn and bellowed.
“Now is not the time for your petty pride. I have not a second to waste on you, Hecrelunn! Khelta and Heris are in danger! Are you a servant of Khelt or a rabid dog? Fly north! Teleport as fast as you can—Khelt follows! Find Salui and the half-Giants of Serept and break the Terandrian Crusade, the Claiven Earth, and Medain! Go to the capital city and liberate the King of Jecrass!”
“But—”
Fetohep had no lungs—and thus no limit to his volume. His voice echoed for over a mile as he roared in Hecrelunn’s face.
