Fading memory turned golden, like the fire Erin had once conjured. Like the light in Fetohep’s gaze. Erin Solstice reached back in her mind. To a strange meeting with three strangers on a cold day.
When she had been offered that horn, Erin had been told that it would sound in the ears of every friend in the world.
 
“I hold a horn made of ancient bone. A thing to protect both hearth and home.”
 
Erin Solstice felt something in her hands. She reached for that little gift and pulled out a tiny, cute little horn made from a bit of ivory and edged with bronze. Someone had hammered a little loop into it and attached a bit of rope.
It was tiny, meant for a child. Cawe eyed it in disbelief—then wavered as she opened her beak. Erin stared down at the horn that Ceria had given Mrsha as a present.
Then she raised a golden horn and felt how heavy it was, written with the lines of Khelt’s glories and failings. Queen Xierca gasped as Erin lifted it higher.
She saw a brass horn, like a [Trumpeteer] would use, a bloodied warhorn which had seen a thousand battles. And shining in the center of it all…
The oldest instrument of all. It had been cut from the horn of something ancient that the Dancing Man had once met. Shaped by his kin, immortal smiths, and decorated to honor a place that no longer was.
Erin Solstice ran one hand down the finery and saw men and women of species that neither Earth nor this world had ever known. Each one following a little figure with gemstones for eyes, a dancing man blowing a horn.
A promise. She did not know who had made it, nor when. It was just a memory. Her memory.
So the [Innkeeper] raised it to her lips. The four saw it and hesitated. Like the umbrella, it was too real. Even a memory…a horn call to rouse every ally. To summon friends and warn all whom you loved.
There was nothing more fitting. Erin Solstice took a deep breath and put her lips to the horn. She blew—awkwardly at first, and the gathered ghosts heard a rushing sound of air passing through a horn and nothing more.
Because Erin had never blown a horn before, and she had no idea how to do it. Then, as an exasperated Razzimir reached for the horn, Erin figured out how to do it. And the first music in an age sounded through the lands of the dead.
The ghosts of Chandrar, even those catching up or fleeing the continent, were not people Erin knew or had ever met. Almost all had been dead far before she had ever come to this world.
Yet they heard it. It sounded like a warbling blare at first, uncertain, unpracticed, about to go out. Then the sound deepened, the hesitation faded, and the call grew louder. It seemed that tremulous call should have stopped at any moment, but it did not. It grew and grew without end because Erin had no need of breath, and then the sound was so vast that it began to reverberate in your bones, deepening to the edge of hearing.
Then you felt it in your very marrow—your soul. Louder the sound came, but not deafening, not intrusive. It was a hand on your shoulder, a call from afar.
Look. Here we stand. A horn, the gift of gods, calling out at the most dire hour. Even the Dancing Man stopped, and his eyes fixed on Erin with a terrible remorse and longing.
The dancing man, Laedonius Deviy, the God of Dance and Love, who had given it to her had meant it as a temptation. A useful relic, but he had not known how to tempt Erin properly.
He had never dreamed she might steal the memory of it and use it here. Here—in the deadlands. Every friend of the [Innkeeper] could hear its call, living or dead.
The question was—was there any ghost here who Erin did not count as a friend in this moment? Yes—the Slavers of Roshal heard nothing. Nor did the six, though they sensed it.
But everyone else did. The sound echoed around the world, and the dead gods felt it and raised their heads in annoyance and fear as they beheld Norechl’s madness. The advance of the monsters from beyond the end of the world hesitated—just one moment of hesitation between steps.
They were not the targets of the call, though. The horn blew, and the dead of Terandria raised their heads. Queen Marquin of Calanfer looked up, and her eyes grew wide.
“Horn call. Someone has sounded battle. It is time for a stand. To arms! To arms, Terandria!”
She flew up, knowing it could only be that. She turned southwards. To Izril? No…Izril had fallen. Chandrar.
They stood.
The dead of Drath looked out from their ruined homeland, bordering the tear in the world, and knew it was time.
The horn reached the final gathering of ghosts, and it was the signal. They began to sally forth from the deeps of Baleros, some laughing, others resolved. Dragons took wing.
The dead heard the horn.
And so did the living.
 
——
 
“[Knight-Commander]. I hear something. Don’t you?”
It was out-of-place for a junior [Spring Knight] to address the leader of the Crusade—but Spring Knight Caled had already voiced his objections in no uncertain terms. At first, it seemed like the Knight of Keys who had replaced the Keybearer would explode from fury as they prepared to defy Khelt to the last and charge.
Then—the enraged expression on the face of the helmetless [Knight] changed to one of perplexed confusion. He turned his body, and his armor, covered with locks in symbol of his kingdom, caught the fading light.
[Knights] up and down the lines raised their heads. Some warily clapped a hand to protective amulets, but the sound…it came from everywhere.
“What glorious music is that? Does it come from your Order, Dame Areushi?”
Someone turned to the only logical Knight-Order—some Skill or blessing activating from the Order of Chords, who rode alongside [Bards]. But the [Symphony Knight] simply tore a helmet from her head.
“It is not my order. Who…who is sounding it?”
The undead of Khelt, the legion of them arrayed in the distance, had heard it too. They gazed upwards in such clear confusion that it was obvious that they had no idea what was going on.
Even the zombies and skeletons. That was what Caled noticed—as well as how one figure reacted.
Fetohep of Khelt simply raised his head and stared at…something. Not at any person, but just a patch of air. The [Knights] of Terandria shifted. One pumped his fist into the air and drew a mace.
“It is a sign! This is the hour to work great miracles! In the name of Taimaguros! Charge!”
“Hold! Hold! This is no call to petty battle! Listen!”
Another [Knight] looked around wildly and tore the helmet from his head. He turned to the others.
“This is an omen. I feel the call in my bones! I will not die on distant Chandrar to no purpose. I will yield to honor and discretion.”
So saying, he tossed down his lance and raised his hands overhead. Another [Knight] raised a hand to smite the disgraceful conduct—then hesitated.
The call kept ringing in their ears. Louder and louder. Another [Knight] tossed down her lance.
“I will not die here. I have rode with Noelictus and seen their honor. Better to fight alongside death. Nay—I will ride with Khelt wherever their King goes! To Rhir or the end of the world!”
“Have you taken leave of your honor?”
The [Knight-Commander] was aghast. Someone else grabbed him. One of Desonis’ [Knights] supported the Order of the Hydra’s champion as the man calmly looked at the [Knight of Keys].
“Can you not hear it calling to you? Yield! Yield!”
The call was going up across the forces of Terandria. Even before the [Knights] were done tossing their blades down and their [Squires] and fellow [Soldiers] doing likewise, the King of Khelt was riding towards them, fearless of the danger.
“To the ships! I sail for Izril to end this war! Hero of Zethe, to me! We ride on Medain. Jecaina—likewise. Load the living and dead upon the ships and do not wait for us to follow! Set sail and go! Aim for Zeres!”
The [Knights] stirred. Izril? Was Fetohep going to enmesh himself in the war between Gnolls and Drakes? Yet just as they promised, [Knights] rode towards him.
“King of Khelt! Let us ride with you! What battle are we headed towards? Seamwalkers? Demons?”
“Folly. We ride to save the life of one child and an entire people. And to reclaim a single soul. If you wish to fight, I will not stop you. To Medain!”
Fetohep whirled his horse and stormed eastwards. The [Knights] were left speechless as the undead advanced, heading towards the ships. When you put it like that—and between surrender or a battle under those terms?
Which would you choose?
 
——
 
A single soul. The Necromancer, Az’kerash, finally got in touch with Fetohep at the worst moment. However—given the nature of what was occuring, he looked away from the scrying orb.
“Your Majesty. What is occurring at Eternal Khelt? You have raised…all your greatest undead.”
“Necromancer. I make for Izril.”
Fetohep’s voice was harried, and he had none of his usual regal formality. Az’kerash’s dead heart began to stir in his chest.
“To…take part of Izril?”
To support me? He wasn’t ready. The Necromancer of a year ago would have rejoiced to hear of it, wrapped in death, and unleashed all his worst nightmares upon the Walled Cities, Antinium, and Gnolls.
Not Archmage Chandler. Not now. So he was relieved and alarmed at Fetohep’s reply.
“No. Khelt must go to Izril, if only to stop this madness of war. But my task is far greater than that. A foe kith and kin to the Seamwalkers has emerged. It is vulnerable. I will slay it—or damn Khelt in the doing. I have need of your aid.”
Who could be doing something like that? Where? Az’kerash’s mind raced.
“Naturally, Your Majesty. I am hidden, but my servants are well able to help…”
“I do not need that. The might of Khelt joins me. If we cannot prevail, no force can.”
That was…harsh but true. The flying [Vizir] and that Revenant Draugr were potentially stronger than Kerash, Venitra, Ijvani, and all of Az’kerash’s Chosen. For now. The Necromancer tapped a finger urgently on the desk he sat on.
“Then what?”
“I have dire need of the greatest [Necromancer] living. Can you…not see what comes?”
Fetohep sounded surprised, and Az’kerash felt an unexpected moment of uncertainty.
“I see nothing, Great Fetohep. Do you mean the dead? There are spells…but I seldom employ them. Nor do I see…ghosts.”
Presumably some might hang around his castle? If only the Drakes he’d slain and travelers. But none were to be found. There were things to be done with spirits, but it was an aspect of necromancy even his class had abandoned because of the difficulty. Yet Fetohep’s voice was urgent.
“You will see none on Izril. Not anymore. Yet master every spell you can, Necromancer. I have great need of an object, and you must build it within days, ere I land on Izril.”
“An artifact? For what?”
There was a hole in his castle from the distortions, and Belavierr was nowhere to be seen. This was not the time to take on projects, and Az’kerash was weighing how to refuse when Fetohep really got his attention.
“This is a matter beyond vengeance or my nation or your goals, Archmage Chandler. I require you to build this relic at all costs, and I will reward you with whatever you desire. But it must be done. Create for me a Soulprison—the likes of which even Great Khelta would admire. And make it as strong as you can. Strong enough to hold something greater than a Dragon’s soul.”
Az’kerash sat straighter, and he had already been in excellent posture.
“A Soulprison? For what? What is this foe? Name it and I will try to slay it myself, Fetohep.”
The Revenant hesitated.
“It—you must take exceeding care not to damage the vessel. I go to slay an [Innkeeper]. Erin Solstice. And capture what lies within.”
Az’kerash was glancing at a scrying orb, but when he heard that, he rubbed at one ear.
“…Excuse me?”
 
——
 
It did seem like the world was ending. Khelt’s march into the north had shattered the plans of everyone, from the King of Destruction to the High King of Medain.
He hid in his palace as a man in chains was led out of the dungeon into the light and deposited outside the gates of Medain’s capital.
Raelt of Jecrass looked around in bewilderment. His captors had suddenly pulled him out of his cell, dressed him with the same clothing—even armor and his sword that they had taken from him the day he was captured.
He suspected this was some other dark ploy of Perric, but he couldn’t understand how. He even saw they had tossed the key to his shackles down and hesitated.
If he picked it up…then the [King] of Jecrass turned and saw something unusual.
The…drawbridge was rising slowly. Then with increasing urgency. So were the other gates to the capital. But far from garrisoning the walls—Raelt saw the guards and soldiers fleeing into the city.
“This has to be a trick. He’s…he’s doing something.”
The [King] refused to pick up the key. He was in another hazy dream of captivity, and he’d wake to incense or see them chanting spells over him. Another way for Perric to…
The shuddering man, far thinner than he’d been, looked ahead and saw something bearing for the city gates. So convinced was he that this was another false memory or vision Perric was trying to trick him with that he didn’t believe it at first.
It was a ludicrous sight, anyways. Why would Jecaina, his beloved daughter, be riding for him? She was shouting as she urged her horse to ride faster.
No, this was a blatant…Raelt began laughing. If it were real, there would be no explaining what followed her. Perric’s magicians had to be getting desperate. The Djinni was far better than they were at making illusions when they forced her to it.
If this were real, and the painful, too-tight shackles and sensation of swaying in the sea breeze were real…Raelt stared at the fading light.
If it were real, why was Fetohep of Khelt riding behind Jecaina and an army of the dead following them? Jecrass’ [Riders] galloping with shouts, riding for all they were worth? [Knights]? All bearing down on Medain.
“Father! Father!”
Jecaina was shouting his name, and Raelt refused to look at her. No—he took it back. The illusion was too good. He didn’t want this.
The young woman threw herself from the saddle and nearly broke her neck as she landed. She saw the key, the worn man swaying as the wind nearly pushed him over. The only thing that was the same was his eyes, and they looked at her then jerked away.
“Jecaina? No—you’re not real.”
“Father! It’s me! I’m sorry it took so—”
She threw her arms around him, then, and Raelt refused to believe. He struggled with the hope, the strange way his captors had begun ramping up their efforts, and the horn call that had terrified all of them out of their wits.
