Crossing a nation was no easy task. The [Trick Riders] of Jecrass managed to cross vast spaces with Raelt once by swapping horses, using stamina potions, and the sheer need to catch Jecaina.
This time—they employed it for Fetohep.
“[Company: Lightning Hooves]. [Willowind Charge]! Wind spells at your back!”
The first leader shouted the Skills and began counting down. As soon as the effects of both Skills ended, someone else began.
“[Harried Gallop]—watch the horse’s hooves, loose gravel—[All-Terrain Riders]! Stamina replenishing Skills—thirty minutes! Send word we need more speed Skills—”
They were an arrow heading north, but Fetohep knew his entire army was far, far behind them. Still…the last Revenant was coming, and they had army enough. But what he needed was tens of thousands.
“I do not have a mass-teleportation spell. Vizir Hecrelunn. Come in. Ferry the best soldiers to Medain. I do not care how you do it. Draw from the vaults—but do it. Herdmistress Geraeri is capable of moving vast armies at speed, but I will be in Medain by nightfall. I want the ships loaded and sailing before midnight. Every warship or larger.”
“You want what? How am I supposed to move—that’s seventy thousand—”
The Vizir squawked in his ear, and Fetohep snapped back.
“Do it! Accelerate the Jaw of Zeikhal if you must! It can carry most forces in its wake!”
Jecaina twisted to look at Fetohep; the Jaw of Zeikhal, this one, was able to teleport forces to it. It was Khelta’s creation; all others were weaker, but this one she had defeated nations with. Oh—and it was coming straight for the north.
The Terandrian Crusade? The Claiven Earth? Medain?
They woke up this morning to Salui, Serept’s half-Giants, and all of Khelt charging across the battle lines they’d drawn. Followed by Vizir Hecrelunn, who had one goal. Not to decimate the Terandrian [Knights], the half-Elves, and Medain. That was only the byproduct.
They wanted the warships.
Of course—it might look to the Humans, half-Elves, and more Humans like Vizir Hecrelunn commandeering their way off the continent. Just as Fetohep of Khelt, the genuine article with an aura of death, charged north with all the fury of Khelt behind him.
Look up and see the Jaws of Zeikhal on the march. A Giant’s corpse and a million undead headed your way.
Jecaina saw Fetohep was furiously writing invectives against Wistram, communicating to dozens of people at once. However, some of his targets were ignoring him.
Ailendamus did not respond to his demands to end their war—nor Baleros. The Drakes had one curt reply.
 
Zeres: We do not take orders from undead.
Fetohep: Then I will see your city shortly.
 
Jecaina looked at Fetohep, but then an actual scroll popped into the air. She recoiled, and someone drew a blade, but Fetohep just swatted it, and it went flying into the middle-distance.
“Fetohep. What was—”
“Ignore it.”
Jecaina saw him furiously writing to the Gnolls—and then another scroll popped into place. This time Jecaina caught it. Fetohep didn’t stop her as she unrolled it.
 
To his Eternal Majesty of Khelt, Protectorate of Jecrass, 19th Sovereign in service to Great Khelta…
 
The address was quite long, and it looked like it was a hurried missive. However, it was the same one as the scroll Fetohep had swatted—and the next one that popped into the air that he ignored. Jecaina’s lips moved as she found the sender and the contents.
 
…Claiven Earth offer you a ceasefire to this war with generous reparations to be dictated at your leisure…
 
She looked at Fetohep, then tossed the scroll over her shoulder and hit one of her people in the face. They kept riding towards the border. Vizir Hecrelunn, cursing Fetohep’s name, flew overhead.
“[Summon Allies: Extreme Range]!”
A thousand shining soldiers of Khelt materialized, and the Vizir crashed into the ground with the magical effort. Fetohep tossed a Perfect Mana potion at him.
“Sixty-nine thousand more. Where is that last Revenant!?”
The Jaw of Zeikhal was now…charging across the ground in huge bounds that caused minor earthquakes behind them. The Claiven Earth were not aware of the other two Revenants until the Scourgeriders were seen pouring southwards and the final one began heading north after picking up two Named Adventurers and the famous Centaur, Herdmistress Geraeri. Jecaina saw another scroll appear and unfurled it out of curiosity.
This time the address was mostly the same, but the wording was changed.
 
…our full surrender pending certain guarantees…
 
Then Fetohep of Khelt began pulling artifacts out of his vault. He reached up—and the sky split. A bolt of lightning fell to earth, struck his hand, and when the horses stopped screaming and Jecaina could see, she saw a rapier with a jagged tip, filled with electricity.
Or was it a bolt of lightning that just looked like a sword?
Fetohep regarded it and then handed it to her.
“Kill High King Perric with this.”
“If he gets in our way? Are you giving this to—to me?”
“If he gets in the way, I suppose, yes. Name me your four best warriors. I will give them arms and weapons. Ah, there’s our backup. You there. We must move faster!”
Fetohep turned, and Jecaina saw something catching up to Jecrass and Khelt’s lightning advance. She nearly aimed her sword at the [Rider], who actually turned slightly to avoid it. But Orthenon, the King’s Steward, joined their ranks, and Fetohep looked at him.
“Spear or sword?”
“Spear.”
Fetohep reached out and called.
“[Open the Vaults]. The Diamond Serpent’s Spear of Serept.”
He pulled out a glittering blade made of gemstones, a sickly green, that seemed to writhe as Orthenon took it. The [Ruinbringer Steward] hefted it and handed it back.
“Too temperamental.”
Fetohep sighed and tossed it to one of his people. He reached into his vaults again, and Jecaina saw another scroll appear. She caught it, read it, and handed it to Fetohep who read it with a sigh.
 
The Claiven Earth offer our unconditional surrender to Khelt.
 
Medain’s was hot on its heels—albeit via [Message] spell since they couldn’t teleport scrolls. Fetohep ignored both. He only looked up from his ride when he heard that the last great force of Khelt was following them.
 
——
 
When Alked Fellbow found Herdmistress Geraeri, the Centauress was galloping around in a panic.
“W-why are the Jaws of Zeikhal rising? Who’s he angry at? The Claiven Earth? We haven’t done anything! I’m at His Majesty’s disposal!”
She looked exceptionally worried, as anyone who saw a Jaw of Zeikhal was. Alked didn’t know.
“He told me to link up with you and for you to take your best warriors and make ready to join him.”
“For war? He told me he wanted my help—but not for war!”
Alked didn’t know.
“He promised me the same thing, but this is larger than a simple war. We are to join His Majesty at greatest speed.”
Easier said than done. Geraeri was famous for her People of Zair being fast…but Fetohep had just used a [Greater Haste] spell. Geraeri wasn’t a fool, though.
“I’ll bring twenty-four of my finest. I think that will serve. The rest will—stay here. Where are we going?”
“To meet the fifth Revenant. Or rather—it should find us. We’re heading south.”
“South. Not north?”
Frieke frowned. She was riding with Alked, and the two fell into line as Herdmistress Geraeri whistled.
“On me!”
They moved fast with the Centaurs. Geraeri could not only feed her people, but move them without fear of wind-shear and give them a significant boost to how fast they moved.
And that was Centaurs, who were already as fast as horses. Okay, a tiny bit slower since they had a bit more mass. But faster with Skills! She was asking what Fellbow knew, and Alked was relaying all of what he’d heard and seen when they looked up.
The last Revenant from the reign of King Dolenm had taken the longest to ‘wake’. For obvious reasons. Alked’s mouth opened, and Herdmistress Geraeri stared up.
“That’s the fifth Revenant? How…? My Skills work on people. Not boats!”
The warship cutting over the dry ground was floating. And the [Captain] of the ship, slowing to lower the ramp, glared at Geraeri with two magical eyes.
“King Dolenm’s flagship sets sail! Sand At Sea is bound where next?”
The Named Adventurers and Centaurs boarded in awe.
King Dolenm of Khelt was the 7th King of Khelt. He had been an odd one and the ruler who had solved Khelt’s water-crises by creating the deep reservoirs and hoarding water-producing artifacts. He had acquired much of it by being a successful [Pirate].
Sand at Sea was a ship that had been enchanted to sail land and sea, and it hovered.
Hovered. The sails inflated as the warship took off, and the Centaurs trotted up and down the decks, promptly getting landsick. The crew and captain were all Revenants. Like his predecessors, the last ruler to entomb a protection for the future had sacrificed his most trusted weapon.
But it spoke to Dolenm’s nature that he’d buried an entire damn ship in a tomb. It was half-made of ancient, enchanted wood and had magical war-weapons built into the hull. But along with the wood were…
Bones. Alked Fellbow looked over the side and saw hundreds of grasping arms that would literally latch onto a foe during boarding and hold tight. And the prow was a giant skull of some sea-monster, the holes in the eye burning with undead light.
It cut across the land as the [Captain] laughed like a madman, passing by screaming mortals. But not immediately north.
Fetohep of Khelt had sworn to right all wrongs. By eleven hours of galloping, he was closing in on Medain, and the [Knights] had gathered for a last stand around their warships trying to escape. Hecrelunn had stopped their escape the easiest way he knew how; he’d sunk all the warships into the earth, grounding them, and the Humans were unable to dig them out.
A fleet. Eleven ships; seven from the crusade, four from Medain that Hecrelunn had stopped from fleeing. Sand at Sea was the largest by far, but Fetohep had an army he needed to take at sea.
…His million undead were not going to fit. Indeed, Hecrelunn had told him he’d only be able to transport so many directly from Khelt itself. So Fetohep had requested Jecrass’ forces with Jecaina, and he had told Sand at Sea to load up with as many undead as it could, pack the hold full if it had to.
How many did a modern warship hold? Ten thousand at most? He’d have…a hundred and ten thousand, plus Sand At Sea’s complements and sailors.
However, some warships might only hold as few as two thousand. Serept’s half-Giants would have to go one or two per vessel. Fetohep could call on every Jaw of Zeikhal he wanted and send them north…
But the Jaws of Zeikhal didn’t float. Even their bones were too heavy, and he could march his undead into the sea, millions of them, and watch about five wash back up on shore.
He had a plan. But part of that plan accepted that his army would not be able to cross the sea in its entirety. So part of the plan was to take Herdmistress Geraeri, the [Hero] of Zethe, and those who followed him on-board. Named Adventurers.
Oh—and one more stop for Sand at Sea before it headed north. The warship’s triumphant crossing from Khelt’s borders lit up the morning. Glowing sails and that screaming skull’s prow.
Real magic. It feared nothing and scattered Nerrhavia’s armies as they fell back. [Soldiers] ran, shrieking, and the warship didn’t stop.
It didn’t stop even when it saw the jagged, semi-broken crown of towers and walls. The capital of Reim, still stained in blood from its victorious siege, watched the warship coming. The towers juddered with lightning magic…but they didn’t fire. The defenders called on the Revenant Warship to halt—then began calling in alarm.
Too late. Sand at Sea flew at the walls of Reim…then flew over them. The same walls that had thrown back Nerrhavia’s glorious hordes fell under shadow for a brief moment, then the ship was flying towards the palace.
Alked Fellbow’s bow was sweaty in his grip as he saw soldiers racing towards the palace. No. No—Geraeri and Frieke were trying to hide behind each other, but he saw the incredulous, bandaged figure stepping onto the balcony.
“Whgh?”
The King of Destruction, still covered in more bandages than Fetohep, was nothing like Alked’s image of the man. But the wild-eyed teenager who tore out of the room pointed a finger at the floating warship.
“What’s happening? What is that?”
The [Captain] ignored Teresa Atwood and saluted Flos Reimarch.
“Your Majesty of Reim?”
He pronounced the name of the kingdom Re-Im, rather than ‘rhyme’, and looked at Flos with clear interest and not a hint of recognition. He had no idea who this was. Only Fetohep’s orders.
“Thgh’s me.”
The [Captain] nodded, and someone extended a boarding plank.
“King Fetohep of Khelt bids you board. He’s got need of your help. I’m to promise you a Potion of Regeneration. We also need your [Steward]. Coming aboard?”
The King of Destruction stared at the ship and the casual [Captain], picking at his rotted teeth, incredulously.
“Me.”
The Revenant shrugged.
“Fetohep—His Majesty said you’d be wary. His exact words to you are, ‘hurry up and follow me, you worthless child. We have battles to win. Unless you are too cowardly to join me.’ Begging your pardon. He might have said brat.”
Alked Fellbow held his breath as the King of Destruction made several incoherent sounds. The young woman was hesitating. She was calling for Venith, and Alked had no doubt that the King of Destruction’s vassals had a definite view on this.
But Fetohep understood something about Flos Reimarch’s invitation. Insults aside…a magical, floating warship, a promised Potion of Regeneration, and Fetohep calling him a coward?
There was only one response Flos would have given. He stepped onto the ship, and the young woman did a flying leap after him. The [Captain] pointed.
“Not you. Specific orders. Teres of Atwood?”
“Teresa Atwood. But I’m his—”
“[Get Off My Ship]. To the north.”
The [Captain] spun the wheel as Teres went flying back into the balcony just as Venith stormed out.
“Flos!”
Too late. The [Captain] shouted as he merrily kidnapped the King of Destruction.
“All hands, brace! We’re going quick, and wind-shear’ll knock you off the decks! Someone break out the casks for the living! It’s only a few thousands years old! We might be getting a few more visitors. To Khelt and the end of the world!”
He laughed as the ship took off. The King of Destruction looked around and saw Alked Fellbow. Only his eyes were visible between the layers of bandages. But the interest, anger, delight…all warring with each other were eclipsed by one emotion.
Confusion.
