There was a lot of water holding Revine up, better than any mortal servants. It was the weapon she could draw from for ammunition, a shield, drown her foes…water was adaptable. Perfectly suited to almost any climate and temperature if you brought enough.
It was just…water. The same amount.
But frozen. And indeed, the Siren was staring out of a frosted bubble of ice, almost invisible. Her look of surprise and shock was slowly, slowly turning to fury.
The half-Elf winked at Omusc as she touched the magical circlet that could cast different spells. She jumped off her horse as the giant [Ice Wall] she’d frozen Revine in exploded and the Siren began screaming.
But it was too late. Ceria went running past the surprised [Bandits], past Omusc and the others in one of the greatest double-crosses in Savere’s history. She leapt forwards—and a floor of ice spread across the battlefield.
“[Slippery Ice]—whoa—whoaaaaaa—”
She windmilled her arms and shot past the fighting soldiers, ducking the first lance of water. The [Cryomancer] skated into the battlefield.
The Nerrhavian [Charioteers] were reforming for another charge, and their deadly rampage ran straight across Ceria’s path. They targeted the half-Elf, rightly connecting her with the dangerous ice-rain. One chariot shot towards her, engulfed in magical flames—and hit the ice ramp she summoned.
It vaulted over the half-Elf, caught eight seconds of air-time, and crashed to the ground. Another chariot swerved as another wall of ice ran it in front of the others.
A third just slammed into an [Ice Wall]. A laughing half-Elf raced past the others as their wheels skidded on the ice. She was heading straight for a magical chariot being dragged along by two skeleton horses. And the three riders saw her.
 
——
 
“There she is! Turn left! Turn left!”
Pisces tried to steer left, and they ran over a row of [Bandits]. Or—almost did. The [Bandits] ran screaming, and the chariot did a U-turn.
“Is that Captain Ceria? What a happy coincid—arrow!”
Ksmvr deflected an arrow out of the air. Yvlon raised both her arms, and a giant shield appeared, the metal of both arms fusing together. Pisces and Ksmvr stared at it.
“How did you do that?”
“I learned how! I’m a [Gladiator]!”
“That thing tore your arms off!”
Pisces pointed at Yvlon’s other arm. She screamed back.
“It healed! Where have you been?”
“What? I’ve been a [Slave]—Ceria!”
The half-Elf slid up a ramp, into the air—and missed the chariot. They did another U-turn, and Ceria grabbed Ksmvr’s hand.
“You’re alive! What are you doing, you idiots?”
“Ceria?”
She was laughing as Yvlon hauled her into place. Pisces whirled the chariot.
“Where’s Eloque? Merr?”
“Who?”
Ksmvr pointed.
“There! Empress Nsiia! She has Yvlon’s sword!”
“My what? Ceria, what are you wearing?”
Both Pisces and Ksmvr turned to stare at the glowing circlet on Ceria’s head. Was that…? Ceria grinned.
“It’s a relic! Wait! Watch out for the—”
They hit one of her ice ramps and went flying. Yvlon and Pisces hung on, as did Ksmvr, but Ceria nearly went flying. But Ksmvr kicked off and tossed her back into the chariot.
He landed in a whirlwind of blades, surrounded by soldiers.
“Ksmvr!”
The Horns turned back to look at him, but the flash of silver was blinding. Ksmvr was holding off six, eight—
“[Impact Punch]!”
Yvlon’s fist shot out and floored a [Vanguard] charging Ksmvr as he leapt up and landed in the wagon. Ceria gaped at Ksmvr.
“How did you—you leveled up!”
Ksmvr nodded proudly.
“I am now a credit to the team. I would like to report my new class is only [Brave Skirmisher], but I have inherited the [Silver Illusion] sword school and—”
“Would you two catch up later!? We’re surrounded!”
Pisces screamed at the others. He turned to Ceria; they were deep in Nerrhavia’s lines, and Yvlon or not—the soldiers were definitely not on their side. They were trying to board the chariot, and Ksmvr began defending their rear. Pisces reached out.
“Ceria! Link!”
“Got it! [Animate Frostmarrow Behemoth]!”
The half-Elf raised her hands, and Yvlon, Pisces, and Ksmvr turned to look at her. Her circlet shone like a lighthouse for a second—
Then the first paw of a Frostmarrow Behemoth punched out of the earth. Ceria wiped sweat from her brow as Pisces froze.
“I’m out of the circlet’s mana. Let’s do another! Pisces!”
She grabbed his hand. The [Necromancer] stuttered at her.
“How did—wh—-”
But then he focused. And pointed.
“There! Not here! There—”
Ceria’s eyes narrowed, and Yvlon did a double-take as her arm extended, grabbed someone by the throat, and retracted so she could punch them with her other hand.
“What is that? Did you make a Skeleton Lord?”
She recognized the superior undead fighting around a group of strange people. A Lizardwoman, a half-Elf, a few Stitch-people, a Dullahan…
Then a second Frostmarrow Behemoth emerged from the ground.
 
——
 
Femithain couldn’t believe his eyes. Savere was attacking Nerrhavia! Was that linked magic he was sensing? Had the Siren lost her mind?
Then he saw the two Frostmarrow Behemoths attacking Nerrhavia’s Fallen. And in the middle of it all—there was Domehead.
He was being charged by chariots, fighting Nerrhavia as they scored his armor with dozens of blades. Following Nsiia.
Someone fired one of the ballistae Nerrhavia had brought, and Domehead blocked it to a cheer from Illivere’s forces.
The glowing comet from one of the magic-throwers hit him and knocked him down. Femithain didn’t remember what happened after that. One second he was watching—the next?
“Protect Domehead!”
Illivere was attacking Nerrhavia’s other flank. They passed by terrified freed [Slaves]—and the Crafter-Magus found himself face-to-face with a furious woman on a palanquin. The Siren aimed her wand at his two bodyguard Golems and froze.
“Crafter-Magus? Get out of my way!”
“Siren?”
He lifted his own staff defensively, but a trumpeting call broke through the fighting. Both turned, and someone on an elephant called out.
“Siren of Savere. I hear you’ve been looking for me.”
“Oh f—”
Revine whirled, and Nsiia, the Empress of Beasts, charged her. The first impact tossed Revine from her palanquin into the chaos. Nsiia and Femithain locked gazes, and the Crafter-Magus raised his staff.
“Empress of Beasts!”
Ah, and here came the last one. General Thelican had a backup chariot and was riding at her. The Empress turned, cursing, as the [General] rode at her with his escort. He and his bodyguard were clashing with Vasraf, and Thelican roared around.
“Take them all down! All of them! Move, you idiots!”
He whirled to his [Strategist], but the giant fool with dark skin didn’t even move. He was the most impressive [Strategist] that Thelican had ever seen, mind you. A worthy backup since Zenol and Yvlon Byres had…wait a second.
“Who are you?”
General Thelican stared at the stranger, who had neither weapons nor actual armor. And where had his bodyguard gone? His chariot was empty. For answer, Orjin adjusted his posture as the [General] turned pale.
“The Strongest of Pomle.”
 
——
 
Eloque was galloping towards Pomle’s lines in a mortal terror. It was a battle between armies, and she didn’t know where Pisces had gone. Was that him on the chariot being pulled by bears? Was that…his team?
“Please! We’re not [Soldiers]! Don’t attack!”
The ex-[Slaves] were heading for the armored warriors, who raised their weapons at the sight of them. Merr hesitated as a line of strange fighters appeared.
“Oh shit—back it up! Back it up!”
But the Monks of Sottheim didn’t attack. They took one look at the desperate children, civilians, and the [Abbot], Shurein, lifted a hand.
“Let them through. Advance and support the Empress of Beasts.”
[Monks] made two lines and marched past the [Slaves] into the fighting. Eloque almost fainted in relief. Qshom actually did, lying on his back, his head rolling off his shoulders.
Bearig was following them, a gash on his shoulder and armor, but Merr had gotten him and Rophir here. That just left—
“Pisces! Merr, where is he?”
For answer, the [Bandit Lady] just pointed.
“With his team.”
She was smiling. Everyone looked at a single chariot screaming around the battlefield. Literally screaming as four figures clung to it. Two giant Frostmarrow Behemoths were rampaging around them, and the chariot was hurtling around, dodging enemy chariots, running through the ranks of one of Chandrar’s greatest nations.
Occupying the entire battlefield.
 
——
 
“Ceria Springwalker! You treacherous—!”
Pisces ducked the spray of water. It nearly blasted Yvlon off the chariot. Only her armor saved her. Ksmvr dragged her up.
“Who is that, Ceria?”
“The Siren of Savere! Go, go—she’ll drown us! I may have double-crossed her!”
“You what?”
Ksmvr lifted his head, spotted something, and waved his hands.
“Ah, there is Nsiia. Nsiia! I need the sword back! I have found Yvlon—Nsiia?”
The Empress whirled, having leapt off her elephant to chase the Siren. Yvlon, Pisces, and Ceria locked onto the blade she held.
“That’s ours!”
They chorused as one. But then a howling [General] fleeing a [Martial Artist] pointed at her.
“Yvlon Byres! Is this how you repay the generosity of Queen Y—argh!”
Orjin kicked him into a line of Savere’s [Bandits]. Everyone turned to Yvlon. Ksmvr’s mandibles opened as wide as they’d go.
“Queen Yvlon?”
“Queen Yisame. Where’s Zenol? He’s somewhere around here!”
She whirled around, and Pisces found the [Prince] fighting with his team.
“There! Is he on our side?”
“No!”
“Yes!”
“Whose side are we on?”
The four Gold-rank adventurers looked at each other. Ceria lifted a finger.
“Probably not Savere, but we can patch things up.”
“Nerrhavia’s Fallen?”
“No. Tiqr is on our side. And Pomle.”
Ksmvr and Yvlon looked at each other, but Pisces pointed.
“There! Merr is leading the freed [Slaves]! We’re fighting with them! To Pomle!”
That put them against…Nerrhavia. Everyone turned to Yvlon, and she hesitated only a second.
“Go, go!”
She grabbed the reins as Ksmvr began cutting arrows out of the air. Pisces took the left side, firing [Deathbolts], Ceria the right, with [Ice Spikes].
And then…in the middle of screaming at each other, calling out danger—they looked back. The Horns of Hammerad gazed at the others, wide-eyed, in the middle of a crisis—but there they were.
Same as ever.
Changed.
We found each other. Even so.
Then they were facing the waving [Bandit Lady], the desperate battle around Pomle as Nerrhavia’s Fallen struggled to withdraw and Savere and Illivere began to fall back, one with a Golem in tow. Pisces was waving at Merr.
“We have to protect them from Roshal! We have to defeat Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
He turned to the others, and Yvlon shook her head.
“No—I need to talk to Yisame. We might be able to get them to withdraw.”
She wasn’t sure how likely that was, but Ceria took one look at the screaming [Siren] and hesitated.
“I, uh—I don’t think Revine’s going to forgive me.”
Ksmvr lifted all three arms.
“And I would like my sword back! I wish to clarify, I only loaned it to Empress Nsiia. I believe we are owed interest.”
Every eye was on them, from the horrified courts of Nerrhavia’s Fallen to secret fans of the team to the enraged Roshal [Slavers] to Pisces’ comrades. Even Savere had to admire Ceria as they shot towards the waiting [Martial Artists].
“Now there’s a Gold-rank team. Crazy as loons.”
Salii muttered as the stolen chariot screamed towards their lines. Then she looked up.
“Ancestors.”
 
——
 
“Yvlon! Stop! Don’t do this!”
Prince Zenol was racing after Yvlon. She could not take up arms with Tiqr! Everything else could be excused, no matter how angry Thelican was, but for her sake—Queen Yisame’s—
He had only one shot. The [Prince] raced clear of the fighting, ignoring Tiqr’s soldiers coming for him. He tensed—
And [Like a Lion, He Leapt]. Scimitar blazing with magic.
The four adventurers saw him. One of them turned and saw the [Prince] coming in what could only be described as a hostile maneuver. The Antinium whirled with two shining blades—and jumped.
His team turned to follow him, and every head craned up as Zenol and Ksmvr locked gazes. The [Prince] hesitated in that moment.
Was he going to…? Ksmvr had joined Tiqr. The Antinium was staring at him. They were on different sides.
But they had fought together. Zenol’s blade felt like it was wavering in his hands. The Antinium’s swords flashed uncertainly. They were on a collision course, and Zenol uttered the only prayer he knew.
“Nerrhavia’s bones guide me…”
He raised the sword as Ksmvr’s blades flashed. A boot kicked Zenol out of the air.
“What—”
The [Prince] fell, shouting, as Ksmvr twisted too late. He tried to cut at the figure on the carpet, but the masked rider just laughed and caught the blade. The other Revenant piloting the flying carpet watched Zenol fall.
“Got one. Coutei—where are our targets?”
“Below! Strike whatever armies they are! In the name of Khelt!”
Ksmvr, struggling in the impossibly strong grip, stared as undead Revenants, three, each on a flying carpet, dove through the air. The last, a passenger, casually put Ksmvr in a headlock.
“Don’t fight, strange whatever-you-are! By Eternal Khelt—stand aside or die!”
Of course, the bewildered forces had no idea who the undead were. Indeed, the sight of undead on carpets? Every bow went up in Nerrhavia’s army below.
That was their mistake. One rider peeled off instantly. The Scourgeriders of Emrist swept down. One targeted the chariot and three adventurers. The other two blasted over the [Soldiers]. One raised a bag.
“[Create Cloud: Paralysis Dust]!”
A cloud of yellow particles swept behind the undead in its wake. The other was less merciful.
“[Fireball]. [Fireball]. [Fireball]. [Fireball]. [Fireball]. [Fireball]. [Fireball]—”
The carpet-riding [Mage] saw a Loquea Dree Garuda coming at her, and the undead tilted the carpet, clinging to it as it went vertical, and dodged Leka Thri as the Garuda whirled his scythe. Then they whirled, and the Horns of Hammerad looked up.
“Ksm—”
Yvlon was first. Coutei clotheslined the armored woman with one arm, a maneuver that would break any arm but his, and he was holding both Yvlon and Ksmvr. Pisces tried to dodge—he flashed—then froze as the [Mage] caught him.
“[Suppression Field]. Three!”
“Uh—”
Ceria looked at her team, then did a hop—and the last carpet caught her, and the rider nodded in approval. The four adventurers realized a few things.
Firstly, undead were kidnapping them on flying carpets.
