Secondly, they weren’t dead. The undead were shouting about Khelt and Fetohep of Khelt.
Thirdly? They were heading away from the battlefield.
“No! Ksmvr!”
Nsiia howled upwards, and Ksmvr struggled in the grip of the impossibly strong ‘undead’.
“My sword! Give me—put me down, please!”
“Revenants! They’re Revenants!”
Yvlon stared in horror at the other undead. Ceria just looked around and wiped at her brow.
“Whew. What a strange—”
“Eloque! Merr! Bearig! Qshom!”
Pisces nearly threw himself off his carpet, and the rider had to wrestle with him. The [Necromancer] was shouting.
“Put me down! Put me—”
“He’s going to crash the carpet!”
“I have him.”
Coutei leapt from carpet to carpet and restrained Pisces, but the [Necromancer] fought. He tried to cast magic, and the Djinni wrenched his finger away.
“Northwards, cousins! The Scourgeriders are assaulting A’ctelios Salash! We have a ship to catch!”
He roared, but Pisces was still fighting. They were passing over Pomle, and he was screaming down.
“Eloque! Put me down!”
“Fetohep of Khelt has summoned you! We are taking you to Izril!”
“No—what? Take them!”
Pisces pointed down, but the Scourgeriders saw only chaos below. The Revenants shook their heads. Pisces caught sight of a Lizardwoman staring up at him.
“Pisces!”
Ceria thought she heard his name being called. She saw Pisces fighting helplessly against…she narrowed her eyes. That wasn’t an undead.
“Why are we being taken? Put us down, please. We are a team. I have left a Relic-class weapon behind.”
Ksmvr tapped the other Revenant’s shoulder, and Yvlon balled a fist. But the [Mage] just aimed a wand at her, and the Horns hesitated. Only Pisces refused to stop.
“I promised to protect them! Let me go!”
“Pisces!”
Merr the Storm was racing after them on the ground, but she couldn’t keep up. Still—the riders looked at each other and flew lower.
“Merr! I’m going to—leave me behind!”
“Pisces? Hey, we’ll all stay! I don’t know why you want us, but—”
Ceria looked at him, but the Revenants were adamant. And Merr? She shouted.
“Pisces! Just go! Get out of here before Roshal fucking eats you, gold-boy! Go!”
“Not without you.”
Pisces was ready to jump off the carpet; he could easily damn all the riders if he kept fighting. Coutei had him restrained, but the [Necromancer] was firing off increasingly dangerous spells. At last, the Djinni snapped.
“Mighty Fetohep—desires you! We are taking you to Izril, you fools! He needs you to rescue Erin Solstice! Or protect her! Do not make me knock you all out!”
The Horns of Hammerad stopped. Merr the Storm just blinked as she saw Pisces’ eyes go wide. He looked at the Djinni, and Coutei grinned.
“A friend, eh?”
“Merr—”
Pisces looked back at her, but the fight had gone out of him. The Bandit Lady shouted.
“I’ll keep—safe! Just—when you—luck!”
Pisces looked down at her, but then he gazed around. He hesitated and then collapsed.
“Erin?”
Away they flew from the battlefield. Leaving friends, enemies, all behind in a sudden flight. Up, up—Ceria turned green and began throwing up until they leveled out. Ksmvr’s mandibles opened wide with delight as they flew up towards the clouds—then a stricken look crossed his face.
“Wait. My sword! My sword! I have left it behind! And Spitty. Wait, we can leave him. Maybe. But not Yinah! Or Domehead!”
He turned, but they were already far, far away. Pisces sat, pale-faced. Yet he had a hand to something—a scar around his neck—and he kept hesitating.
“Ivery! Eloque and Bearig, Rophir, Merr, Qshom…”
Yvlon looked down.
“Prince Zenol.”
Ceria wiped at her mouth. She looked around.
“Uh…Omusc, I guess. I’m pretty good.”
They wavered there. They were leaving so much behind—and heading a continent away. They could turn back. Try, at least. The Revenants and the strange one, Coutei, watched them, and the Horns looked at each other.
Then, as night fell…they heard it. Each adventurer suddenly looked up, and the Revenants themselves turned their heads. Coutei’s voice boomed.
“Wait. Do you hear that?”
“I hear it.”
A horn began to echo across the sky. Ceria’s head turned, and her ears perked up. Yvlon felt at her own ears, and Pisces raised his head and gazed northwards. Ksmvr murmured.
“This is…not possible. But I believe—”
“Erin?”
Ceria breathed. Her eyes stung, and the Horns of Hammerad looked at each other. Then, as one, they stopped. They sat on the carpets as they flew northwards.
“The end of Emrist’s Scourgeriders. The end of Khelt, perhaps. My friends—I will leave you after this.”
Coutei the Djinni looked up, and he did weep. For the horn. For reawakening.
For the end of things.
 
——
 
That was how the Horns of Hammerad caught up with Sand at Sea. They landed as Herdmistress Geraeri pointed them out, and Alked Fellbow and Frieke of Khelt…just accepted this as another layer of the mystery.
“Who are they?”
A [Knight] standing aboard the ship as it left the sand and headed into waters looked suspiciously at the adventurers. Another nearly drew their blade when they saw Ksmvr. Pisces walked onto the deck, and Jecaina and her father turned when they saw the rapier and the walk.
“Gold-rank adventurers. I thought they were on Izril.”
Alked murmured. He saw a half-Elf totter to a railing and immediately begin throwing up again. It turned out Ceria got carpet-sick. Especially when a Revenant demonstrated how to do a loop-de-loop on a carpet with no seatbelts. Or anything to hold onto but the carpet.
“Where…what is this ship? It’s almost as grand as the Reinhart’s capital ship, the Velistrane. ”
Yvlon looked around in awe as Pisces sat down hard on the decking, staring at all the powerful undead. He gazed up at a floating [Vizir] and flinched as Hecrelunn snorted.
“More chaff.”
“You mean the Velistrane? Is that damn ship still kicking?”
The [Captain] of Sand at Sea scowled at Yvlon, and she stared at the Revenant. Ceria, wiping her mouth, looked at someone who had been splattered a bit by her puke and was glaring at her. She eyed a man covered in bandages.
“Who’s bandages over there? What is going on?”
“Mfh fa rng f dthtion.”
The bandaged figure informed her. Ceria looked blankly at him and then at Orthenon as the [Steward] offered him a handkerchief.
It was King Fetohep himself who met the Horns of Hammerad. Each of them gazed at him in surprise. They had never met him, but Pisces bowed to him unexpectedly.
“Your Majesty of Khelt?”
“Yes. It seems the Scourgeriders of Emrist executed my will too well. For that, you have my apologies. However—no matter what you have left behind, my oath to Erin Solstice was such that I had to collect you. We go to Izril to aid her. And to fight to protect another child I think you know.”
Fetohep of Khelt stood there as the Horns exchanged looks. Ceria wiped her mouth and eyed the King of Destruction as Raelt of Jecrass limped over. Pisces did a double-take as he saw the golden bell and heard it chime. Herdmistress Geraeri nearly backed off the deck from Ksmvr of Chandrar, who was staring at Alked Fellbow. Yvlon Byres saw one of the undead sailors give her a wink.
“Nice arms.”
All of them looked back at the sands of Chandrar and realized they were speeding north, leading a fleet of the undead. Khelt’s warriors. Heading north.
Straight to Izril.
 
——
 
As the last strains of that glorious call faded, Erin Solstice saw Fetohep sail north. She even saw the ship he was standing on faintly, but no one else.
“The Horns? Ceria? Ksmvr? Pisces? Yvlon?”
She didn’t see them, but she was smiling. Then she looked at the four of the six and the army coming towards her. Erin waved her pan at them.
“Okay. Okay. Come and get it. Especially the ugly ones. Like you. And you.”
She pointed at the wise man and the forgotten thing. Emerrhain gazed at the horrors from beyond and then at Erin Solstice. The ghosts of Chandrar stood ready. But Erin Solstice just waited. She knew it now.
They were not alone. Then she saw it. As if someone had suddenly turned on a light switch, as if she had suddenly noticed something that had been there all along but never been important until now, Erin Solstice looked up and beheld…ghosts.
Across Chandrar’s lands, across sea, as if her gaze had suddenly zoomed across that vast distance and rendered it meaningless, she saw Baleros. The continent consumed by war. One of the last refuges of ghosts.
Erin saw the Drathian empire standing, closest to the old foes they had warded so long against, rising to arms. Terandrian [Kings] and [Queens] hearing the sound and rallying for a last stand. Answering the call to arms.
But Baleros? Erin Solstice watched as the ghost of every Dragon, young and old, took wing. Only a few like Yderigrisel had refused to join their kin where they gathered in death, even before the six had begun preying on them.
Erin had never asked why. Nor, in hindsight, had she seen many ghosts, from Fraerlings to the ones who had surely existed long ago. She assumed Baleros was a subjective, random decision. Now, Erin Solstice saw a ghost, many ghosts, rising and following the Dragons as they swept up in a huge spiral, abandoning Baleros to fight the enemy.
Many ghosts, but one led them all. One that made Erin squint…but she had no eyes to be deceived, and there was nothing else to confuse her. So Erin just murmured as the [Witches], rulers of Chandrar, Djinni, Giants, Wyrm, mortals and immortals alike, gasped in shock and disbelief.
“Oh. So that’s where they were.”
The ghost of the Elf pointed a finger at Erin Solstice and then turned. She led the last charge of Baleros as more Elves followed her. Elves and Halflings and Giants, the Naga and Lizardfolk of Baleros and more. Even Norechl hesitated as the army of Baleros swept outwards—but Erin saw a small group detach itself and slowly head her way.
They were dead too, and an entire species. Erin had never met even their descendants, nor did she have much reference to guess what they should look like. But one look and she saw eighteen, an entire species, walking towards her and laughing.
Gnomes.
