Prince Zenol was riding with Yvlon in no less than Thelican’s personal chariot. It was certainly large enough; the war-chariots of Nerrhavia’s Fallen were more like mobile…mobile super-wagons. The only thing close to them in Yvlon’s experience was Magnolia’s carriage.
They were then the second-most dangerous vehicles she’d ever encountered. If not as fast or as enchanted, they could be deadly sledgehammers that ran into poor infantry with nasty tricks like literal scythe-blades that popped out of the sides.
And the most dangerous switchblade of all was standing right next to Thelican. Yvlon felt responsible for this army, never mind that Yisame had assured her it would kill two birds with one stone. She did not want to attack Pomle, whose worst deed was apparently freeing some [Slaves].
But she needed to find Ksmvr. Yvlon turned to Zenol.
“I hope so, Prince Zenol, but he has a bad influence. Pisces and Ceria rub off on him sometimes.”
“Well, just so long as he didn’t learn too much from you, eh, Silver Killer? Or else he’ll be charging us alone with a piece of rusty metal.”
Both adventurers turned as the cheerful voice interrupted them. On another war chariot stood three of Yvlon’s friends. Thexca, Mectail, and Relladen.
Vitte was notably absent, and Relladen, who was steering the chariot, hadn’t spoken, but the Stitch-woman from the Empire of Scaied was applying a poison to her daggers. Mectail was just staring at his home of Pomle in silence, arms folded.
Thelican eyed the [Gladiators] who had come with Yvlon—Mectail most of all. He had been pleased by their presence; they were famous, and he enjoyed their company.
However, Mectail was from Pomle. But the man was surrounded by Nerrhavia’s Silk warriors, and he had volunteered to fight his people—if Thelican agreed to spare all he captured. The Great General had graciously agreed.
Yvlon Byres scowled at Thexca.
“I’m not a bad influence.”
“Whatever you say, Silver Killer. Whoa, don’t bite my fingers off.”
“I didn’t bite anyone’s—”
The Silver Killer of the Coliseum of Monarchs, standing with Prince Zenol of House Isphel and the Great General of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, was a well-known face in Nerrhavia’s Army by now. Friend to Queen Yisame. The bloody butcher of the arena. The Human who had eaten more fingers than any Creler—and slain an Adult Creler! With arms that could change shape!
Even the Silk warriors watched her carefully. But Thexca just grinned at Yvlon.
“We’ll get your little friend out, Yvlon. Don’t you worry. Time to show these bastards from Tiqr what Nerrhavia’s [Gladiators] can do, eh? If I’m lucky, I’ll have vengeance for Scaied!”
She had been angry since hearing about how her people had been beaten in two running battles. Yvlon just shook her head as she looked anxiously at the lines of warriors.
“Ksmvr takes risks. He thinks he needs to do that or we’ll stop accepting him as a teammate. It wouldn’t be out of the question for him to enter the battlefield and put himself at risk.”
“So…he’s exactly like you.”
Relladen muttered, and even Mectail smiled. Yvlon opened her mouth, and all three [Gladiators] stared pointedly at her. Zenol turned his head to hide a smile, and Yvlon looked around, then flushed crimson and muttered.
“Just—help me pull him out if he gets in danger?”
Thexca just smiled as she tossed her head back, tying her hair into a ponytail.
“If we have to Knight with half of Tiqr and Pomle, we will. Don’t worry—surviving is what we do best. And if Vitte were brave enough to come with—ah, well. We’ll save your Antinium, Yvlon.”
Thelican heard that and finally broke off from arguing with Femithain. He turned, and the [Great General] beamed at Yvlon and slapped her on the shoulder. He winced; her metal flesh was as tough as steel.
“Not to worry, Adventurer Yvlon! As Her Majesty wills it—we will have your friend, this, er, Antinium, in Nerrhavia’s great embrace within the hour. Even if I must personally capture the Empress of Beasts—then we shall see what Khelt is about!”
Everyone had heard about what was happening this morning. Yvlon, Zenol, the [Gladiators], even many of the chariot drivers looked north. They were a bit too far away, but if you were further north, you could see—
“You don’t intend to heed the warning, General?”
Prince Zenol and Thelican exchanged wary glances; Yvlon didn’t know what Zenol’s ranking was, but she was fairly certain he had been elevated by Yisame to an uncertain position, and Thelican, a very important man, was wary of him. Thelican traced a curt bow.
“Your Highness, I have been given an order by Queen Yisame herself. Should I then listen to anyone, even a foreign ruler?”
“Of course not. However, the capital has given no further orders—”
Thelican interrupted impatiently, but even he had glanced north and then at the scrying orb showing what was happening.
“—And thus it is my war to lead. I am well aware of the risks, but I am told Her Majesty has ordered two more great armies begin mustering. Well and so; if need be, she will have three, and no enemies to fear on this front. Even if we must follow Khelt…”
Here Thelican’s bravado faded slightly. He looked at Yvlon, and she saw a trace of fear in his eyes, covered a second by bravado as he raised a hand and made a fist.
“…And face whatever comes next. I will do it without hyenas at my flanks. Since Illivere is not joining us, I have every intention of not letting this be a night battle. Signal the chariots to advance! I hope you will stay with me, Adventurer Yvlon? ‘Tis a glorious sight, to command from chariot-back.”
“I…”
Yvlon was spared from making a decision as someone rode up to Thelican.
“General! General! The army you sent to confront Savere is retreating towards our lines.”
“What?”
Thelican roared in outrage. He whirled on the [Strategist].
“Why? Has Savere attacked? If so, we will crush them after Pomle!”
Zenol and Yvlon looked up in alarm. Savere had been pursuing the Empress of Beasts as well, but Thelican had sent a mere thousand to head off Savere and warn them that Nsiia was going to Nerrhavia. He outnumbered Savere by far, and while insulting, the thousand warriors were representative of Nerrhavia.
Even the piratical, criminal Siren of Savere that Yvlon had heard about had to know this was an act of war. However, Thelican’s fury became confusion as the [Messenger] responded.
“No! No, General—they never reached Savere! The Siren is still advancing and it seems our forces ran into…undead. Undead and escaped slaves! It must be those bandits! The ones who have been raiding the trade routes for the last month!”
Yvlon’s head turned. She hadn’t heard of this—well, the raiders, yes, but undead?
“Uh…what?”
Thelican was pulling at his epaulets while Yvlon and Zenol exchanged a quick glance.
It couldn’t be…
 
——
 
“Ride! Ride!”
Merr the Storm screamed as a sandstorm kicked over the Nerrhavian [Soldiers]. She pointed at the disant oasis, and the freed [Slaves] rode. Behind them, zombies, ghouls, skeletons, and even more advanced undead like Bone Horrors were still fighting with the terrified Stitch-folk.
Of all the times to run into Nerrhavia’s Fallen! They were so close! Her [Bandits] were fighting alongside freed [Slaves], and Merr turned to see one of them raising a butcher’s cleaver. A little half-Elf boy was refusing to go with Qshom, the Dullahan, and throwing knives as a [Rebel] roared.
“Never chained! Not again! Fight for Pomle!”
Bearig lashed around with the cleaver as the [Cook] rode at some scattering [Soldiers]. One raised a spear to stab at Bearig as Eloque shouted.
“Bearig! Your left!”
Rophir threw a dagger, and it bounced off the helmet. Bearig turned, but before the spear could stab, a bolt of black magic passed through the [Soldier]. Someone raced past the [Rebel Cook], brandishing a flaming rapier.
Pisces flicked his wrist, and a [Shatterbolt] made another breastplate explode. He pointed, and three more [Deathbolts] lanced his opponents.
The air was thick with death magic. The undead [Slavers] and Roshal’s guards from the caravans that Merr had raided with Pisces’ help were fighting Nerrhavia—but they were not nearly enough to stop that giant army.
Their only hope was Pomle. Pomle, which was under siege.
No help for it. They could only pray the [Martial Artists] took them in and that they survived. Merr could have used those strange Prophet’s folk or whatever they were called, but they’d gone their own way.
At least she had an enchanted sword. Merr the Storm roared as she pointed.
“To Pomle!”
There was…one other safe haven she could have taken. She glanced over her shoulder and saw a second army to their south. But she didn’t trust it. The huge gold palanquin supported by a giant wave of water lazily rolling forwards contained a single woman whose gaze pierced Merr’s back.
However, the [Bandit Lady of Storms] rode for Pomle. No—until she had a good bargaining chip, she didn’t feel like taking the one-million gold boy, Pisces, anywhere near the Siren of Savere. She just hoped Revine wasn’t going to start lancing their back with water spells.
 
——
 
“That’s Merr. What in the name of Kraken’s tits is she doing? Tell Nerrhavia’s Fallen that’s not our force. Where’d she get all those undead?”
Revine was cursing a blue streak as she watched two disasters unfold. Not only was Nerrhavia skirmishing with a bunch of freed [Slaves] and undead—they’d gotten to Pomle first.
“General Thelican is refusing any direct communication spells, Siren—”
Revine pounded a hand on her armrest.
“Tell them Nsiia is mine! And why is Femithain there?”
She pointed at the army of Illivere, watching the [Slaves] make a break for Pomle. Thelican had seen it too, and Nerrhavia was swinging an entire wing of soldiers out to try and catch them. The sandstorm was slowing them, but it was a race.
So that was…Pomle, Tiqr, Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Illivere, and Savere. Five armies! At least it was fairly obvious that they were all arrayed against Pomle’s fools and Tiqr. The Siren relaxed and pursed her lips.
“Keep advancing. Get me Thelican or Merr and have one of those idiots explain what is going on. Don’t advance too far—but get close. If we have to, we’ll grab the Empress of Beasts and that Ant in the chaos.”
Her people did what she commanded, reluctantly hurrying forwards, but the [Rogues] and [Bandits] of Savere did not like being outnumbered or the thought of fighting [Martial Artists], who, as they were well aware, lived to beat people’s faces in. They had a healthy respect for that.
As Revine gave orders, the rest of her army woke up or stretched with a great lack of discipline. Some were still riding wagons and snoozing before the fight. In fact, one dirty blonde head—literally dirty—popped up. A glowing ivory circle was the only notable thing about the half-Elf—that and her hand of bone.
Oh, and the fact that she was currently trying to swallow about a pound of iskender kebap and trying not to choke to death as she chewed.
“Dish Revne shay shomething about undead?”
She turned to one of her passengers, who covered her face. Omusc, the Mollusc Drowned Woman [Pillager], spat back.
“Stop talking and swallow!”
Ceria did and jumped off the wagon to find Revine as the Siren of Savere stood up.
“Revine! What’s happening? Do you see Ksmvr? What about the undead?”
“Shut up! I’m checking…this is a precarious situation.”
The Siren’s army slowed as all the pieces fell into place. Five armies, all watching each other as the evening fell. Ceria shaded her eyes, trying to cast [Hawkeye] with the circlet completely untrained as she looked at the various armies camped about.
Undead?
 
——
 
“Soldiers attacking! Undead too! They’re coming for us, Empress!”
Ksmvr’s head rotated as Nsiia and Vasraf spotted an unexpected first wave. The Empress shaded her eyes.
“That is not Nerrhavia’s fallen. They’re fighting against Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Odd sandstorm—that’s a Skill. They’re no [Soldiers], either. There’s women and children there. Refugees?”
“Did someone say undead? Excuse me—”
No one listened as Ksmvr did a few hops with his Ring of Jumping. He was trying to see the undead, but even when he soared overhead—he didn’t see more than a dust cloud and fighting. Nsiia hesitated.
“If those are refugees—they might be Tiqr’s. Vasraf—let them through!”
“Empress, they might be saboteurs! This might be Savere’s doing or—or someone has given Thelican an idea!”
Vasraf protested, and Nsiia hesitated. Salii interrupted the two.
“They’ll never make it unless you go out there. Again—not a [Strategist], but that looks like a bad idea. Nerrhavia’s closing in.”
Indeed, a wing of chariots were racing to intercept the desperate people and undead. Nsiia hesitated. All they had to do was nothing, and she didn’t sense they were her people. If she rescued them, they’d be caught out in the open. Ksmvr kept hopping.
“Excuse me. What undead? What undead? Hello? Domehead, give me a boost. What undead?”
 
——
 
“Who are they, Thelican?”
Yvlon was allowed to use the [General]’s name, and Thelican actually broke off insulting the Siren via proxy as the two leaders growled at each other.
“Ah—no matter, Adventurer Byres. I gather they’re mostly [Bandits]. They’ve been raiding Roshal’s caravans on their way here. Merr the Storm, a [Bandit Lady] who escaped—we just arrested her! Damn the woman—I will post her head on a pike before the day is done. On my honor! Somehow she’s gotten undead too. Typical [Bandit] tricks…”
Yvlon moved to one side with Zenol. Undead?
“There is no way that is a coincidence, Yvlon.”
“There is no way that can be true, Zenol! He was so far west—”
The [Prince] looked at Yvlon. He hefted his scimitar.
“You wish to talk coincidence when I found you in my homeland, a continent away from the Village of the Dead?”
That was a good point. Zenol whirled. Mectail, Thexca, and Relladen were tensing. Exchanging looks. Thexca was crouched, dagger hilts in her hand, ready to draw.
Mectail was just watching Yvlon. She glanced at him and made a sign they’d worked out in their brief stint as a team. Thexca groaned as Mectail nodded at Yvlon.
“The plan’s changing. I hate improv—”
The [Gladiator] watched as Zenol seized the [General]’s arm.
“General Thelican, we may have found Yvlon’s comrade. Abort the chariot charge!”
“What? I can’t do that! They’re about to hit—”
Yvlon turned to the [Slaves], eyes growing wide. She stared into the dust cloud.
 
——
 
