“So that’s the Empress of Beasts you want to kidnap to…what? Torture? Add to your servants and humiliate? And an independent nation about to be wiped out. And that’s Illivere. Why are they here?”
“I don’t know.”
Revine watched Ceria’s expression, but the half-Elf was supremely unconcerned with the war—just watching. She was eying the place where the undead were fighting.
“What is Savere doing?”
“We’re going to get my prisoner and find your Antinium—and avoid making war with Nerrhavia’s Fallen. I have no idea why Illivere is here. Probably their precious Golem, in which case we ignore each other.”
“Ah. So you don’t want to attack Nerrhavia’s Fallen?”
The [Cryomancer] glanced at the Siren, and Revine bared her teeth. Her water magic spells were ready to go, but she shook her head.
“I…do not wish to make them an outright enemy. I would sorely love to.”
Ceria glanced over her shoulder. The army of Savere was just as ready to fight Nerrhavia as Pomle; they were eying the flank of Nerrhavia with a hatred that the Stitch-folk were matching. Bad blood. Ceria felt at the circlet she had on her head. She scratched a few times at her scalp; it got itchy. Then she put the relic on as the Siren looked at her.
“I see. Could I persuade you to attack Nerrhavia’s Fallen?”
“Attack…why?”
The Siren broke off from her calculations and turned to Ceria. The [Cryomancer]’s pale eyes were glowing as she stared into the dust cloud.
“Because I’m fairly certain I’m going to insist.”
Then both she and the Siren saw it. The two [Mages] needed little actual vision to detect magic. Both saw the bloom of death magic, and the Siren focused on Ceria. For the first time in a while—she saw Ceria smile, broadly, genuinely.
“That’s my teammate.”
 
——
 
He had no idea about the other armies. Unlike the rest of his team, the young man had neither gotten near a [Message] spell nor communicated any other way.
He was too understandably wary of Roshal tracing his position. And all he had done, he’d done for his friends.
Eloque the Lizardwoman, Qshom the Dullahan. Bearig the freed [Cook]. Rophir the half-Elf, and the dead like Cawe.
Merr the Storm saw her Skill clearing up and then a wall of chariots coming their way. She turned.
“Stormbandits! Fight! Hold them off! Get to Pomle, Eloque!”
She tried to rally her people as she turned her mount, but her people were still…[Bandits]. They looked at Nerrhavia’s famous chariots and just kept running. Merr shouted at them desperately, searching for Bearig and Rophir. Then she saw the biggest fool on the battlefield emerge from the fighting and undead.
“No—nonono—Pisces! Necro boy, come back!”
He didn’t answer her. The [Necromancer] burst out of the sand with one goal in mind. And that was to defy Roshal to the last and all those who would help them.
Buy time. He was the only one who could. And though he didn’t have access to ice-magic and couldn’t summon a Frostmarrow Behemoth—
The Nerrhavian [Charioteers] saw something strange coming at them and pointed. They turned on Pisces as he rode out of the sandstorm, in outrage and because he was heading towards them.
In a chariot. 
It was far smaller than their war-chariots, and it was more of a bad oval made out of bones attached to some wheels—also bone. Oh—and it had two skeletal horses pulling it.
The Horns of Hammerad’s wild and dangerous method of entering the fray, minus the ice and customary bone bears. The [Necromancer]’s brown hair was whipping in the wind as he waved his flaming rapier, shooting [Deathbolts] at the swerving chariots. They were all racing towards him.
Buy them time. He looked back at Merr as she shouted in horror.
“Pisces!”
She saw him facing ahead, eyes blazing. Alone. Like a foolish Gold-rank adventurer. Merr tried to turn her horse through the galloping [Slaves] heading for Pomle. Then she saw something—a ripple in Nerrhavia Fallen’s lines.
“Dead gods. They’re attacking. Go—go!”
Merr screamed, but she was wrong. The chariots were racing forwards, but no one had ordered the attack.
It was just that…the largest and grandest one was shooting across the battlefield. The problem was? There was no General Thelican.
 
——
 
“What the—”
Yvlon Byres kicked Thelican off the chariot. She missed Zenol as he jumped backwards, but the [Prince] saw her looking at the bone chariot racing over the battlefield. And that rider. The [Prince] saw Yvlon look at him and—tripped.
He landed on Thelican as the [General], confused, tried to push himself up. Thelican and Zenol tangled.
“Ambush! Enemy attack! Adventurer Byres—wait. What’s happening?”
Thelican got up, red-faced, sword drawn. Just in time to see Yvlon driving away with his chariot. She shouted, and the warhorses began to gallop forwards.
“For the glory of Nerrhavia’s Fallen! Charge! Charge! Wait. Where’s General…?”
The [Charioteers] just saw Thelican’s chariot move and assumed someone had given the order. They followed Yvlon with whoops and horns, but she was curving her path, forcing other chariots to halt. She was heading straight for the [Necromancer].
“Stop her! Stop the attack! We’re not in position yet—”
Thelican roared, but it was too late. His personal, customized chariot was faster than any other, and it caught up to the rest of Nerrhavia’s chariots on the western wing with ease. The surprised [Charioteers] saw Yvlon riding next to them. Then—they realized something was off.
But before they could move, the [Armsmistress] released the reins. She pointed her metal arm at the wheels of the chariot racing next to her. The disbelieving Silk Warrior saw her metal arm elongate—and a spike of silversteel shot out, snapped the wheel—
The chariot flipped. Yvlon whirled, and the other chariot swerved away—then her arm severed the wheels, and it spun out. A chariot racing behind it slammed into it with a roar of wood.
“Stop her!”
She was surrounded by chariots, and they were trying to ride into her, slow her or halt the horses. However, one of the drivers looked up as a cursing Stitch-woman and a second chariot screened Yvlon’s right. Relladen blocked Yvlon’s right flank, and Thexca tossed a handful of powder into the air.
“Time for my villainous arc!”
The sand mixed with stun dust and hot peppers hit the face of the first driver, who screamed, clawed at his eyes, and crashed his chariot. Mectail leapt past Yvlon, vaulted her chariot, and kicked another driver out of his seat. Then he was fighting, surrounded by surprised Silk warriors.
“Mectail! Thexca! Relladen—”
“Go!”
They fell behind her as Yvlon saw the [Gladiators] buying her time. Killing no one, throwing up their hands—Mectail looked back at her and raised one fist. Thexca, cursing as she was knocked flat, looked up. She met Yvlon’s eyes and grinned as the Human woman looked back. Mouthing.
“Go for it, Silver Killer—”
Then Yvlon was racing ahead of the others.
Straight at the howling [Necromancer], who was bracing himself for the fight. Pisces conjured a [Fireball] in one hand, aiming it at the lead chariot. He looked up—and he and Yvlon passed each other. Both turned their heads, faces incredulous.
“Yvlon?”
“Pisces—!”
They frantically tried to spin around as chariots rode at both of them. One of Nerrhavia’s chariots ran into Pisces’ skeletons and erased a dozen in the first clash of bones—and kept going, scything straight through their lines. It hit a Bone Horror, and the chariot stopped—and so did the Bone Horror for good as it practically exploded.
The [Charioteers] saw a furious pair of glowing flames emerge out of the dust storm. Then Ivery threw a rock into the face of the first [Charioteer] and cut the other down. The Skeleton Lord was riding an undead bear and charged into battle. A chariot ran him over and knocked him and his steed into pieces, but the furious Skeleton Lord just put himself back together.
“Pisces!”
Yvlon turned her head. It was him! She’d known—but she just stared at him. He looked like he’d seen a ghost.
“Yv—”
Someone slashed as a chariot passed, and he ducked. A chariot hit his, and the explosion of bone made Yvlon shout as she whirled her chariot around. She saw his chariot overturned and Pisces on his hands and knees, shaking his head. He looked up and threw himself backwards with a [Duelist]’s reflexes, dodging a spear—but the net caught him.
Tangled, Pisces fell to the ground, thrashing and screaming like a madman. Yvlon rode towards him, but a chariot slammed into hers, and she was nearly thrown flat. A horse went screaming into the chaos as someone severed the lead reins.
“Get off—Pisces!”
Yvlon locked blades with a Stitch-woman and shoved, but someone else passed by and kicked her so hard she slammed against the lip of the chariot. They were trying not to kill her, but Pisces—!
Then the chariots turned as horns began to blow. They were tangled in a confusing melee, a mess of a charge as Nerrhavia’s Fallen followed Yvlon. And into that gap came Tiqr.
“Tiqr! Tiqr, to me!”
The Empress of Beasts and her Grand Elephants led the way as the tangled charioteers saw her army coming straight at them. One charged at her—and ran straight into Domehead.
The enchanted wood splintered across the Golem’s front, and Domehead stumbled. He caught a flying Stitch-man before he became paste against Domehead’s armor and tossed him down. Around him, the [Martial Artists] were joining the fighting too.
“[Flying Kick]!”
A Dullahan knocked a [Charioteer] off their ride and found herself amidst several surprised soldiers of Nerrhavia. They drew their blades—she punched them off the chariot.
“To the Empress of Beasts! Sottheim! Hold the line!”
Vasraf roared and looked around for the Loquea Dree. They were in the air, but half of them were following a figure as he ran through the battlefield. Vasraf did a double-take.
“Ksmvr! Ksmvr! What are you doing?”
The [Skirmisher] was running towards the chariots, not Tiqr’s push. His silver blades were raised. The chariots were coming at him—until someone launched himself into the air.
“[Aeriform Punch].”
Orjin blew the first chariot off-course. He saw a Garuda dive, and Xil speared a chariot from above. The explosion of bodies and wood was matched only by a final expert.
Salthorn. The Selphid waited until the horses were almost on top of her—then she dodged around them and grabbed the front of the chariot.
Orjin didn’t see what she did, but he did see the chariot…flip. The passengers landed on the ground, then were dragged behind the panicked horses a dozen paces underneath the overturned chariot.
But where was Ksmvr going?
 
——
 
“Pisces!”
Yvlon found him on the ground, slashing at the enchanted net. She grabbed it and hauled him into the chariot.
“Go! Go!”
She had only one horse, but it kept racing forwards. Pisces fought clear of the net, and he and Yvlon looked at each other.
“How are you here?”
“Duck!”
Someone passed over them with an actual scythe slashing overhead, and both looked up.
“Was that a Garuda? What was what?”
It swept overhead and took out eight chariots just by holding its scythe at head-height. Yvlon saw more doing the same trick as the [Charioteers] ducked or died.
“Dead gods! Loquea Dree!”
“What? Who? Yvlon—your arm!”
He was staring at her other arm, which was regrown. Yvlon flexed her arm. Then she looked at Pisces.
“What happened to—”
They hit a final chariot, and both went flying. Neither had a Skill, and Thelican’s enchanted chariot took the force of the blow, but they were knocked off it again.
A dozen [Soldiers] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen were on top of them at once. One pointed a spear down at Yvlon.
“General Thelican has placed you under arrest, Adventurer Byres.”
“Don’t—”
Pisces was snarling and raising a finger, but neither he nor Yvlon had to move. Someone leapt into the [Soldiers], and Yvlon saw a flash of…silver?
The [Soldiers] were veterans and swung their weapons up to impale the leaping fool in the air. Half a dozen Skills lanced the Antinium—who vanished. The [Soldiers] wavered, and Ksmvr’s real body dashed low under their guards.
“[Silver Illusion: Whirlwind of Blades].”
It was just as well they were Stitch-folk. Ksmvr delimbed half of them, and the screaming Stitch-warriors fell back. One raised a throwing dagger to toss at the Antinium, and Yvlon punched him off his feet.
“Ksmvr?”
“Reporting for duty, Yvlon, Comrade Pisces! Oh. Your arm is regrown. I didn’t know Humans could do that.”
Ksmvr did a double-take and stared at Yvlon’s arm. He looked around wildly.
“Wait. I have a sword for you, but Empress Nsiia has it. We must get to safety—this way!”
“Ksmvr?”
Both were staring at him, but then the first attack spells began raining down around them. Yvlon, Pisces, and Ksmvr took cover in the safest place—Thelican’s overturned chariot as Pisces saw both mounts were gone. Ksmvr raised a blade to shield his face—then frowned as everyone took cover.
“Hm? Frost magic?”
Needles of ice were raining down across the battlefield. Pisces stopped gazing at Ksmvr and turned his head. A little floating butterfly made of magic and light appeared and landed on his shoulder. He slowly reached for it.
“Springwalker?”
 
——
 
Omusc was watching the chaos with the appreciation of someone not in that mix. Tiqr and Pomle had charged Nerrhavia when they launched their mistake of an offensive. Now it was chaos—undead and those [Bandits] with Merr fighting for Pomle.
It all looked good to her, in short—right until someone rode down their lines.
“Hey! We’re attacking Nerrhavia’s Fallen! Get ready!”
The [Bandits] looked at each other. Then at the messenger.
“We’re doing what?”
“They’re unguarded! Let’s go! Sneak attack, you bastards! Go, go!”
The [Bandits] hesitated, but they looked up at the half-Elf riding down the line and then at the Siren. She was the Siren’s ally. Then they saw Revine’s spell, the shower of icy needles falling across the battlefield.
The other half of the army was already moving towards Nerrhavia as the Stitch-folk army turned on them. Omusc squinted at Revine. The Siren hadn’t moved, but she wouldn’t exactly charge into battle herself. She sat on her palanquin of water and…Omusc hesitated. Then turned dead pale on her Human half and looked at Ceria.
Savere charged Nerrhavia from the rear and side as the Siren’s palanquin stood there. Only the ones close to it noticed something was…off. They did a double-take and stopped as they realized something.
