Only after she’d taken in his enormity did she see the obscuring magics deeply woven through the bakery, explaining why she hadn’t seen this before. Moreover, it explained why the man wasn’t a beacon to anyone or anything that could see into the dimensions of magic.

Importantly, just stoneward, she could see a massively powerful interweaving of such magics, currently distorted by uncountable hands.

Tala swallowed, once again feeling off-balance. Twice in barely an hour. There really are monsters who remain well beyond us, here.

-Indeed… We shouldn’t let hubris cause us to run afoul of such.-

Indeed…

Yamanther smiled. “Little Eskau, you return, hopefully to make voluntary purchases this time?”

Tala gave a slow nod, unable to make her mouth work, and unwilling to attempt enforcing her will in this place to create her voice.

He nodded in return, and the stoneward hands released the spellform, causing the fourth-dimension of the being to simply vanish from her sight, utterly imperceptible to Tala once again. “I am glad to hear it.”

Rane and Lea were giving Tala odd looks, and she realized that she had basically frozen in place, just inside the door. Tala cleared her throat, recovering herself. She glanced at her family, finding Terry regarding the baker with narrowed eyes. Still, she addressed her husband and daughter first. “Sorry about that. Come on. The baked goods here are the best in the city.”

She remembered being forced to buy out their entire stock when she’d caused a disruption before, scaring away his customers.

Those had been incredible, even if they’d been tainted by her enslavement and the manner of acquisition.

Still, she was here with her family now, and they were excitedly picking out various delicacies. The other customers had seemingly been handled while she was distracted, as they were nowhere to be seen any longer.

Yamanther seemed utterly stoic as he added their selections to various to-go containers, building out quite the order.

Throughout, Terry’s gaze was locked on the man, and the baker only occasionally returned the look. Each time, there was a spark of something that vanished as soon as he looked away.

Finally, when Tala had made her own selections, and Rane had produced the gold—yes, gold—for their sizable order, it was time to go.

As they turned to go, something crossed the man-puppet’s face. “The bird.”

Tala turned back to the baker. “Yes?”

Terry trilled questioning.

“The bird can stay for a time… if he wishes.”

Tala blinked a few times before joining her husband and daughter in looking toward Terry.

Terry, for his part, was looking toward Yamanther inquisitively. Finally, he let out a little squawk and flickered to a seat behind the counter.

Tala felt a moment’s hesitation before dismissing it. She trusted Terry, and she had no doubt that he could take care of himself. “Let me know if you need anything, Terry. See you when you get done?”

He squawked again, turning to regard Yamanther once more.

Tala shook her head, turning back toward the door.

At that moment, a group of arcanes came in, hesitating as they saw Tala’s family, or, more specifically, Lea. The seeming leader of the group sneered. “This place serves whites? Disgusting. She and her slaves should be banned from anywhere civilized.”

Tala bristled, and she saw Lea and Rane blinking in surprise. There was a bit of humor in the situation in Tala’s estimation, given the blue-skinned group had obviously assumed that Lea was a hue-folk woman. She, herself, had never really seen the enmity between various arcane species, but she’d heard about it. She’d just quite effectively kicked the teeth in of the most powerful white-hue-folk House in the city, and she had no love for that specific species. Truthfully, though, she had nothing against them either. Nor did she dislike blue-hue-folk… except these had just insulted her daughter, even if it was a misunderstanding.

Yamanther’s voice floated from behind her, cutting through the momentary stillness. “Take it outside, little Eskau. Your interesting bird will not increase my forbearance should you harm my place of business.”

Tala nodded without looking back before stepping toward the arcanes and addressing them. “We were just leaving. If you have a problem with me or mine, we can settle it outside.”
