the sinew of a dragon! Old wives tales say that increases a man's vitality when he-"Isanella ran off, hands clamped over her ears.---Omp'ne watched her little snowcloud vanish inside the nearby inn. Her smile faded until she was left with a serious gaze."Take the chance, Issy," she whispered. Then Omp'ne touched a hand to her chest, feeling her core pulse with intense energy."Before Winter no longer lets you go," she pleaded.She ran a hand down her stomach where the shattered core of a dead Dungeon was implanted into her skin. She knew Isanella had accepted the winter core to handle her…Curse.Just like Ghulana used it to stop going mad.Just like how Brilda used it to regulate her uncontrollable power.Not Omp'ne. Omp'ne was just an idiot.A foolish idiot who took any chance to be someone else.She tapped her face a few times, psyching herself up."Cheer up! The Fall Maiden is not too hot or cold. She's just perfect. A smile for all is how I work!" she grinned to herself."That's how Omp'ne Brawndo stays a hero!" she proclaimed.---Present DayDirector Ripdoy looked over his desk, frowning."It's premature," he admitted."I'm ready," the young woman argued as she stood up, her form striking as her once brown hair began to turn golden with hues of red. Just peeking out from her casual shirt, three amber shards poked out her skin."Tu'mn, I understand you've been waiting for this day," he began and she looked tense. Like her predecessor, she too was of giant origins. The Golden Core resonated best with those with giant's blood for some reason."But given what happened-" he said and she growled, looking annoyed."I'm not my mother," she snapped. Ripdoy stopped looking so polite and his aura shifted to being strict."We know. She was our greatest, our brightest… and when she gave birth to you? You took everything. Her core, her strength, her purpose. I know very well who you are and aren't. I don't blame you as you seem to," he responded firmly.Simmering with anger, Tu'mn stared at the ground."You can still see her," he said finally and Tu'mn looked up with heat."No thank you… sir," she responded."I don't want to see a Dungeon Slave. She can stay in the Craven Keep for all I care," she announced and turned on her heel to leave. Shouting after Tu'mn would accomplish nothing and Ripdoy did not even entertain the idea of physically restraining her.It was barbaric to resort to strength to make a point.It was also incorrect to call contracts 'slaves.' Perhaps foolish to connect oneself to an alien mind, but in the case of Brilda and Omp'ne?It was needed.Omp'ne for her sudden collapsing soul after the birth of her beloved daughter and Brilda because not even one core was enough to drain her of her explosive power.Trying to tell Tu'mn this? It was an exercise in patience. The girl didn't even want to use her actual name.Resorting to the giant language to make one of her own.Honestly, there was nothing wrong with Issy Sume.Omp'ne wasn't the best with names. If it was a boy she had? She wanted to call it Brilly Ghul. He leaned back in his chair.She never told Ripdoy who the father was.'A hunk up north… or was it his brother?' she would often joke.Still, it would be good to have a functioning Maiden again. Since Ripdoy had put in extra steps to protect Dungeon's from being leeched or shattered along with the King's law? Dead Dungeon cores were a lot rarer these days.New Maidens could not be made on a dime and the missing cores of Winter and Spring were… officially missing.Unofficially given away.He couldn't bear to shatter Isanella's happiness nor Ghulana's sacrifice.Brilda's core kept her alive and Ripdoy would sooner cut off his own hand than demand that core back. This was a problem for some on the board of directors. Caline, the uprising 'star,' insisted the Maidens were paramount to their company.The man was a sop and Ripdoy found him as charming as a door stopper and as emotionally engaging as one.If there was one thing Ripdoy did resent Omp'ne for?It was for discovering the art of Seed Weapons all those years ago up north.That was when Ripdoy's dream shattered like a damaged Dungeon Core.The 'Craven Keep'? What a foolish name.The Smith's Forge was correct, in all its meaning."Fuck you for taking Omp'ne away from us… and thank you for keeping her alive," Director Ripdoy of Fairplay toasted empty air with a glass to the northern direction of his building.It was thanks to Omp'ne sneaking new designs out of the Smith's Forge that gave Fairplay a leg up. She wanted all the chances for her daughter to survive any dungeon to be important.The company's symbol was even based on her. Working together with the power of Dungeon to keep their dream alive.Caline and his ilk had tainted even that.Frowning, he felt a strange tug as if a string was being pulled and he jerked out of his chair in surprise. He looked up at a nearby mirror and instead of his reflection…Ripdoy saw silver streams of light flowing into the air.Director Ripdoy of the Fairplay company bent the knee before the mirror."Send the Maiden. This Dungeon proves to be… promising."The command was said and Ripdoy blinked, a light in his eyes fading.He stood up slowly."What was I doing?" he asked aloud and eyed his reflection, noticing he was a bit pale looking.He thought about Tu'mn.Perhaps a little Dungeon to break her in would ease off some of her built up tension? Despite her temper, it would reassure him that a Maiden was in the same town as his boy.It was protection without saying it was.But… why did the entire situation make him feel uneasy despite his heart being set on the idea?Ripdoy didn't know.Was it really his heart?Was his core reacting to something after so many years of being utterly dead?Questions upon questions.Alas… no answers to be had.
