“I do not trust my father, Captain Blackwing. There is no one I can be certain of. No one besides you, Zel Shivertail, and the young woman named Ryoka Griffin. And by now she may have been compromised herself. I don’t believe you understand just how dangerous Az’kerash is.”
“I saw him wipe out an army—”
The Oldblood Drake protested hotly. Ilvriss held up a claw.
“I am not talking about his military abilities. I am talking about his ability to make puppets out of corpses as real as if they were alive. He has done so in the past. In Terandria, a [General] might be leading an army against Az’kerash only to make disastrous move after move. He would lose the battle, damning his troops and then return back in disgrace. And then lead a second army again and fail. And then, as he stood before his [King] in disgrace, reveal himself as an undead and assassinate the ruler and everyone else in the room.”
Osthia paled. Ilvriss went on.
“That has happened twice. In another case, the Necromancer replaced a sitting monarch and her family with puppets. And he manipulated one of his puppets into ousting the fake [Queen] as undead simply to continue the ruse. If we go to war, we may find our allies committing blunders, sabotaging our ranks. We cannot allow that.”
Ilvriss stood up and paced back and forth, restlessly.
“Az’kerash is a difficult enemy to face openly. We have no idea what his grand plan is. We may extrapolate, but the Necromancer’s motives—besides the obvious—are unknown to us. We know where he is vaguely, but we cannot move on him without alerting him that we are aware of him. We cannot alert the Drake cities without risking the same. And if it comes to war, we may well lose even without interference by traitors.”
Osthia gulped.
“You mean…the Antinium?”
Ilvriss nodded.
“The Antinium are the second threat. The Humans, third. If it were just Az’kerash, I would call on the Walled Cities to eradicate him and his plague once and for all. But should we try it with the Antinium at our backs, we might fight a war on two fronts, or even three if those damned Humans decide to take advantage of the situation. And we nearly lost a war against the Antinium the first time. No. We do not take that risk.”
“Then what can we do? We need to fight the [Necromancer] covertly? Or—no, create a force that can ambush him, take him by surprise. That’s what must be done. But who? Who can be trusted?”
The Oldblood [Captain] felt sick. How could they be certain their ranks wouldn’t be infiltrated? The task was daunting. Too much! But she saw Ilvriss smile grimly.
“Captain Blackwing. You have a Lord of the Wall on your side. I am not without my means. I’ve merely educated you on the reality of the issue as I see it. Now, here are some of my solutions.”
He returned to the desk and pulled out an object. Osthia stared at it. It was a hand mirror, inlaid with pearl and silver. Ilvriss regarded it and shook his head.
“During the investigation of a murder of a Gnoll in Liscor, Regrika Blackpaw was asked, under truth spell, whether she had committed the murder. Somehow, she fooled the spell.”
He waved the mirror at Osthia.
“This is a dreadfully gauche Mirror of True Seeing. See how many pearls are inlaid in..? Never mind. [True Seeing] is a Tier 6 spell capable of seeing through all but Tier 8 magics, and even they begin to fail in its presence. Az’kerash may be able to fool its power, but if he can, he should have been able to break Liscor in half rather than waste time assailing its walls. He is a [Necromancer]; he is not specialized in magics outside of his field. So we can regard this mirror as accurate.”
He held it up and Osthia saw it flash as he lifted a claw. Any number of complex auras were surrounding the magical rings on his fingers and she saw he was wearing an amulet or something in his clothing. His sword was enchanted too—by contrast, Osthia only had a faint aura about her. Ilvriss nodded.
The next item he pulled out he regarded with almost as much distaste. Osthia recognized it as similar to a crown, only lacking the rigid structure in parts.
“This is a Diadem of Inner Thoughts. Note the hanging jewels? It is the precursor to modern truth stones. They only reflect duplicity. Each stone on this diadem reflects a different state of mind.”
“Inner Thoughts? But what’s the point of wearing something that reveals how you yourself are thinking?”
Osthia was confused. Ilvriss looked a bit embarrassed.
“In times past, it was considered to be an essential tool of monarchs. Such that nobility wore it as well; to prove their actions were beyond repute. That fad went about as well as one might expect. Now, this is how we will test people. Put it on and hold the mirror up.”
He held out the diadem to Osthia. She dutifully put it on and saw the jewels lighting up. She couldn’t see all of them, but then she picked up the mirror and saw the enchantment around the diadem. And herself.
“That aura. Is it…?”
“Ah. That represents your natural aura. It seems legitimate. Oldblood Drakes have more magic about them. But the real test is if a spell activates when you try to lie, as well as the diadem’s reaction. Captain Osthia. Please state that you are not under the Necromancer’s control or working for him or anyone else in any way.”
Bemused, Osthia turned her head.
“Anyone else? But—”
She heard the sound of metal rasping in its sheath. She twisted—and held very still as a bitingly cold blade’s edge lay against the side of her neck. Ilvriss stared at her, quite calmly.
“Say it.”
Osthia did. Ilvriss waited, stared at the diadem, and lowered his sword.
“Good.”
“You were serious about that. What if I’d been an agent of someone else?”
Osthia felt at the cold cut along her neck. Ilvriss shrugged fractionally as he sheathed his blade.
“I told you. I trust no one.”
The [Captain] thought about this. Then she offered the diadem and mirror to Ilvriss.
“Well then. Your turn.”
He blinked. But then he put on the diadem and raised the mirror. Osthia walked around him so she could see it and see the gems glow as he replied. They were the same colors, more or less, that had glowed when she’d spoken.
Both she and Ilvriss relaxed. They’d been sure, but the test made both feel better. Ilvriss went back to sitting down at the table. Osthia picked up the mirror and played with it.
“So, what’s the next step? Test everyone in your employ, and then the city? One by one?”
Ilvriss looked amused.
“If it were that easy…tell me, what do you think would happen if we discovered they were the Necromancer’s allies?”
“Kill them? Or interrogate them, keep them captive I suppose.”
Osthia didn’t blink. Ilvriss raised one brow.
“And then? What would Az’kerash do? When his minion failed to report in or suffered an ‘accident’?”
“Ah. Then what’s our next move? Wait…we…only test who we can.”
Osthia was getting the hang of this. Ilvriss nodded, smiling.
“And we adopt his strategy unto them. A few accidents would not rouse the Necromancer’s suspicion if it seems innocuous. Our goal is to reveal his minions and create a group we are certain of while avoiding alerting him.”
“But how can it be done?”
The complexity of the task was maddening Osthia. She was no [Infiltrator], no [Spy]! Ilvriss sighed.
“Simple. We engineer scenarios where the people we want to test are in the same room as us for reasons the Necromancer would believe are completely genuine. And there will be a reason for us to approach such people completely overtly. A reason that Az’kerash will accept as completely legitimate. This is for you. I intend to circulate it among my peers first; if there are any spies for other Walled Cities or Az’kerash, he will surely see it.”
Ilvriss passed a document to Osthia. She stared down at the neat handwriting, and his personal seal. And then she understood. She looked up and Ilvriss smiled at her. The Wall Lord tapped the copy in front of him.
“This is the secret force you and I are going to begin building, Captain Blackwing. I’m appointing you as its head. We’ll be securing allies, making deals with other Walled Cities—it will require travel, secrecy, and diplomacy. It may incur danger of its own. And any number of Drakes and Gnolls are going to learn of its existence. And its purpose will be…”
Osthia read from the page.
“A private army designed to destroy the Antinium. High-level [Soldiers], magical artifacts on par with a Gold-rank adventurer’s gear or better. Special forces from every Walled City…”
She looked up and inhaled. Ilvriss sat back.
“Exactly. This is how we fool Az’kerash, Captain Blackwing. A plan within a plan. Both are needed. The Antinium are a threat. Az’kerash is a threat. This way, we create a group capable of fighting both. People in my position, who are capable of fighting, leading, or financing actions as needed. High-level individuals. An elite strike force.”
“The same tactics that General Sserys used to fight the Antinium during the first Antinium War.”
“Undead are similar to Antinium. And an individual like Az’kerash will slaughter regular [Soldiers]. What do you think? If you have any objections, Captain Blackwing, I would like you to voice them now.”
Ilvriss waited. Osthia mulled over the document. Her wings fluttered and her breath was tinged with a hint of acrid acid. She looked up and her eyes were burning.
“I’m in. Where do I start?”
The Wall Lord bared his teeth.
“Firstly, I will put this proposition forwards within the week. Carefully. I’ll start with close friends. Gather support. In the meantime, I want you to headhunt Salaszar’s standing forces. I also have a list of individuals you and I are going to approach. But before that? We may be the targets of covert action ourselves. Other factions may see this as me grabbing power. Forming an army. Which I am, of course. So you will be my [Bodyguard] in fiction as well as reality. To that end…let’s pay a visit to my personal armory. I will need to acquire more artifacts, but right now I can equip you at something better than the average Gold-rank standard.”
Osthia inhaled sharply and got up. She was still daunted by the task ahead, but she felt better when she saw the racks of gleaming weapons. And the armor. And magical rings…she walked past them. Ilvriss sighed.
“Not one heirloom-class weapon like the Heartflame Breastplate. We’ll need to acquire that before the final assault. But I have a modest arsenal.”
“Beyond modest, Wall Lord! Do you have a spear with anything anti-magic? Naq-Alrama steel, maybe?”
Osthia looked up hopefully. Ilvriss pursed his lips.
“I could only but wish. I have an Adamantine-tipped spear enchanted with a [Piercing] spell. Will that do?”
“I think so.”
 
——
 
Ilvriss left Osthia to pick out as much gear as she wanted from his armory. He had no fear of her overloading the magical enchantments and causing a reaction; she knew to check for how much magical interference she was generating. But she would be as well-equipped as, well, he was.
The Wall Lord didn’t know Osthia’s complete capabilities, but he estimated that a [Captain] wearing magical items was around the rank of a Gold-rank adventurer. Decent, in short. She’d be a capable [Bodyguard] at least, and Ilvriss would find the best warriors to oppose the Necromancer.
Oh, the very best. Ilvriss returned to his study. He sat down in the familiar chair and leaned back. The first thing he’d do was reach out to one of the names on his list of potential recruits. Pallass had a named Adventurer, and Ilvriss had considered adding Saliss of Lights to his list, but the Drake was, by all accounts, extremely difficult to work with and Ilvriss had no need for anyone who couldn’t be trusted.
Besides, that was Pallass and he was their sole Named Adventurer. One, for an entire Walled City. Salazsar, in its wealth and opulence, had two. Two Named Adventurers, one an individual, one a Named team, which was more than Manus could boast of; there was little work in the City of War for adventurers. And that was different from the the transient groups that came in and out of Zeres’ ports with regularity.
The lone Named Adventurer would join Ilvriss. That wasn’t even a problem; money dictated who Shriekblade worked for. The real issue would be passing Ilvriss’ proposal among his fellow Wall Lords and Ladies. Many would oppose him forming a force to fight the Antinium. They’d see it as needlessly provocative, or even, as he’d told Osthia, a power grab.
But it had to be done. And Ilvriss would gather true allies he could tell about the Necromancer. The Drake stared at the list of names he’d come up with. So few! Even if they formed an army. It would be desperate work, keeping it all secret. Keeping up the charade.
The enormity of the task before him hit him only now. The scale of the opponent he had set himself against. Az’kerash. An immortal monster.
“No, not immortal. He’s only two hundred years old. Only. Hah!”
Ilvriss rubbed at his face, despairing.
“Two hundred years. Half-Elves can live longer. There are some beings in this world far older. Salazsar’s walls are ancient.”
But Az’kerash had been a man. That was what people forgot. He had lived in this world, not apart. Half-Elves in their villages could pass decades unchanging. But a man?
He had lived two and a half times as long as Ilvriss’ father. What level must he be? How could Ilvriss truly fight him? He’d seen how Osthia had paled, despite her own thirst for vengeance. Ilvriss couldn’t help but feel her doubt now. He’d had to reassure her. But he was…afraid.
Ilvriss was afraid of the future. The task ahead. He was tired. As tired as Zail. He thought of how, just a few weeks ago, he had sat in an inn, amid noise, crowds, the rudest Human he’d ever met. And he’d been annoyed there, or amused. Entertained. But it hadn’t been like this.
He wished he had never left that inn. But duty pulled him onwards. Duty. Vengeance. Terribly heavy things.
“A Lord of the Wall is loyal to his city unto death. He does not waver.”
But he was just a Drake. And he did not feel like a Lord of the Wall in that moment. Ilvriss bowed his head. And he sat at his desk and remembered how this had all started.
“Periss.”
He was alone.
 
——
 
One last visitor stopped by Ilvriss’ home before he left it. And she changed where he went. Ilvriss had been intending to stop by his office, lower down, and talk to Alrric, his [Administrator]. He’d have to leave the work in Alrric’s hands, and the Gnoll would have to divert funds towards Ilvriss’ project. Alrric wouldn’t be happy, but he could be privy to the lesser secret about the Antinium task force.
