Erin Solstice’s inn was now an establishment. Not just a curio, an attraction, or simply a locus of unusual events. It was a home, a gathering spot. A place that people had made their habit to visit, for food, entertainment, and in that way, it became part of their lives. Like a local diner, or a library, or park, The Wandering Inn’s worth had taken on a value you couldn’t sum up in an arbitrary number.
Well, you could if you were paying taxes. Erin sat in her inn the next morning, feeling a bit grouchy. She’d paid the taxes. Since it wasn’t a small amount, the friendly tax-Drake, Geillsten, had even arranged for two ordinary [Guards] to pick the gold up in a bag of holding. And how polite they’d been, too!
She’d paid. But Erin had not had a good yesterday resolving the issue. First, Lyonette had scolded her for ten minutes and then gone off to see if she could renegotiate the terms. After all, it wasn’t fair! You couldn’t tax someone for before they were a citizen, right?
Well, the [Princess] had found out that you could and Liscor would do just that. Geillsten had referred her to the Council’s notes, which had pointed out that Erin had received the City Watch’s help on numerous occasions—an officer had even died protecting Erin’s inn. Klbkch.
Never mind the fact he had come back or that he and Relc had been helping her as friends. The fact was that Erin’s inn had benefited from the City Watch patrolling around Liscor to remove the majority of monster threats, the healing potion Klbkch had given her that was City Watch equipment, and the numerous occasions the City Watch had helped resolve crises threatening Erin’s inn.
“And to be clear, Miss Lyonette, the Council’s position on this is that a tax should be paid. And they have allowed Miss Solstice to claim a number of discounts, including a sizable one for aiding in the negotiations with Esthelm.”
And that was that. Lyonette had glumly returned to the inn empty-handed. Because, when you got down to it, Liscor’s new democracy only extended to electing the Council. In their seat of authority, the Council could enact whichever laws they pleased.
“It’s like a monarchy. Only, [Kings] are often balanced by a lot of forces. Their advisors, the nobility, public unrest—but some of them can simply order someone to be jailed or someone to pay more taxes. It’s all about having the right kind of power, Mrsha. Knowing how to use it and incur the least amount of pushback or mitigating it.”
Lyonette had balanced Mrsha on one knee as she explained why Erin was counting gold coins. The [Innkeeper] wasn’t sure that was a suitable lesson for Mrsha, but she didn’t have much to say. So she’d paid up the next day and now she glumly regarded the contents of her safe.
It was still quite a bit. But Lyonette’s not-quite-a-glare as she put out today’s breakfast for the inn’s morning crowd told Erin it wasn’t good.
“We’ve still got enough to pay the staff and buy food and stuff! Plenty! We could go for like, a month on this alone!”
Erin weakly pointed at the coins with a smile. Lyonette pursed her lips. As she passed by with a huge, fluffy roll of bread and a bread knife, she pointedly looked at four table’s worth of Antinium Soldiers and Workers.
“That money was supposed to be used for refurbishing the inn, Erin. I’ll have to talk with Klbkch about delaying the first payments. And I’ll need you to make more ice cream. That’s one of our best sellers. In those…”
“Cones. They’re good, right?”
Lyonette sighed. But she nodded. Erin’s latest little innovation had been recreating the hard-batter cones that made ice cream a thousand times better than eating them in bowls. Plus you could walk around with them!
“I’ll need as much as you can make. Ishkr will buy the ingredients if you need more. No buts! You’re in the kitchen at least for three hours! Then you can go to Pallass.”
“But—”
Lyonette glared. Erin weakly smiled.
“But Lyonette, I have to go to Esthelm today! You know, to negotiate and stuff?”
The [Princess]’s brows crossed.
“Today?”
“Yup. For the discount?”
The [Innkeeper] watched as Lyonette tossed the fresh loaf of the bread on the table in disgust. Lyonette ground her teeth, and then nodded.
“Fine, I’ll get Ishkr to make the ice cream and have—how long will you be?”
“Um…”
At another table, the Horns of Hammerad were eating. Pisces, Ceria, Ksmvr, and Yvlon were having a rather nice meal of cereal grains flavored with a bit of sugar. Just a bit; the days of cheap honey were gone with the Ashfire Bee nest, which Ceria deeply regretted. Still—the food was really good. She noticed Ksmvr bouncing in his seat and watching Erin and Lyonette.
“What’s wrong, Ksmvr?”
“I am waiting for my sustenance, Captain Ceria.”
The half-Elf eyed Ksmvr. He alone wasn’t eating cereal.
“What, the bread? Is that all you’re eating for breakfast?”
The Antinium paused.
“Is that a bad thing?”
“Um…”
Ceria had no idea. She suspected it was, but Ksmvr couldn’t get enough of gluten after discovering the Amulet of Food Poison Resistance or whatever it was. It turned out lots of Antinium liked gluten—they were just hugely intolerant to it.
“Just eat your bugs for dinner or something.”
The [Ice Mage] finished lamely. She heard a snort, but Yvlon and Pisces’ faces were completely neutral when she looked over. After a moment, Yvlon glanced over.
“You might have to go and get the bread yourself, Ksmvr. Lyonette’s not looking too happy.”
“I will acquire my breakfast now, then, Yvlon. I must not be the weakest link. Miss Erin has informed me of the perils of being one.”
Ksmvr got up. Ceria blinked for a few seconds, and then decided it wasn’t worth commenting on. She looked at the rest of her team, then at the diners the next table over.
“Hey, Bevussa, what’s your team doing today? You interested in the new missions being offered by Liscor’s Council?”
The Garuda sitting at the next table with her team looked up. She was having breakfast at the inn. Some of her team looked a bit annoyed at the question; Ceria was still Silver-rank. But Bevussa just smiled and shrugged.
“It’s interesting. They want to chew a regular trade route towards Pallass? It’s been tried before.”
“Really?”
Ceria frowned. Among the latest developments in Liscor, the decision to build a trade route to Pallass had been of most interest to her team. Bevussa nodded.
“Liscor had one, I think. Before the second Antinium War. Then—you know, the Necromancer—the city lost a lot of outlying villages in the Floodplains and trade stopped with the Antinium Hive. Not that it was doing well after the First Antinium War…”
“Wars tend to do that.”
One of the other Oldblood Drakes offered helpfully. Bevussa stared at him.
“Yeah. I guess they do, Zassil. Imagine that?”
“I’m just saying. Wars. Bad for the economy.”
“We get it, Zassil. That was Bevussa being sarcastic. This is me being mad.”
Issa, another Drake, snapped. Zassil looked hurt. Ceria bit her lip to keep from laughing.
“I’m just trying to contribute to the conversation.”
“How? What does that statement have to offer? Why would you even say that? Wars are bad for trade? Hey, you know what? When I flap my wings, I sometimes fly.”
“Not for much longer with how much you’re eating.”
Bevussa ignored her squabbling teammates. She turned back to Ceria and shook her head in response to the first question.
“Interesting, yeah. But not for us. We’re sticking with the dungeon. That’s where the real gold is.”
Her last teammate, the silent Kin, looked up and nodded, brushing crumbs off his—her?—scales as Zassil and Issa threw bread pieces at each other. Ceria made a face. The bounties on monster parts were now being made into a very attractive list in the Adventurer’s Guild. You could get two gold coins for an adult Blankipillar’s venom sac, intact.
It was going to drive even more interest to Liscor as adventurers came in looking for safe monster-hunting work as opposed to dungeon exploration which was far riskier and didn’t guarantee pay. But…she shook her head and nodded to her team.
“We have a thing about the dungeon. The Bloodfields sounds like good work until the door gets to Invrisil. Safer than the dungeon, too.”
Bevussa nodded understandingly. Then she frowned.
“Just remember, the Bloodfields aren’t much safer than the dungeon. If it was winter, well, that’s different. But the summer? Just stay clear of it, got it? Even the border! And watch out—even regular monsters might steer clear of the Bloodfields, but nasty types sometimes still hang about the area.”
The Horns of Hammerad nodded seriously. Ksmvr was trying to figure out how to eat his half of the loaf. Ceria bit her lip, and nodded.
“Hopefully we never get close. It’s to make a safe route around; but we’ll be careful.”
“So when’s the work start?”
Ceria had no idea. She looked at Yvlon, who’d signed them up at the Adventurer’s Guild. The [Wounded Warrior] raised her shoulders.
“In a day or two. It’s still being organized. We’re just recruiting teams today. The Council’s offering us a headhunter fee for every team in Celum we can get to work on the request. So we’re going to reach out to some teams we know. Hopefully they’ll listen.”
“Huh, what’s the fee?”
“Just a few silver—”
Everyone winced as someone dropped a plate with a crash of pottery. Ceria looked over and saw a white shape on the ground and a broken plate full of eggs. Mrsha got up and stared at the plate of breakfast she’d been trying to bring to Numbtongue’s table. She stared at it and her eyes filled up.
“Oh, Mrsha! Are you alright? Come here. It’s okay, it’s okay! Are you cut? Let me see.”
Erin, Lyonette, and several others immediately converged on the Gnoll. So did Numbtongue. He squatted down and investigated the plate of eggs mixed with shards. Mrsha wasn’t hurt; she’d just tripped. But she was staring at the broken plate and food and crying. Numbtongue watched as Lyonette and Erin cuddled Mrsha and tried to reassure her. He reached for the eggs and began to munch on them.
“Numbtongue! Stop that! You could swallow some shards! It’s all right, Mrsha. Eggs are cheap. I used to find them all the time. Those Dino Birds lay them in the ground. Here. Ishkr! Broom! And we’ll get new eggs…”
This was morning in The Wandering Inn. Everyone watched out of the corner of their eyes as Mrsha went into the kitchen with Erin and Lyonette and came back with another plate of eggs in a moment. She put it on the table in front of Numbtongue. He nodded, smiled, and began to eat. And Mrsha sat with him, wagging her tail as Erin and Lyonette helped Ishkr and the two Gnolls on morning duty pass out the rest of the food.
“Erin! Hey, Erin! Is my thing ready?”
A pale, scaly hand and unfamiliar voice waved at Erin as she passed by Numbtongue’s table. She looked over and recognized Jelaqua. Different body, same grin. Erin blinked.
“Not yet! Give them like, five minutes, Jelaqua?”
“Got it. Hey! All these adventurers in the inn, huh? Feels like a second Adventurer’s Guild!”
The Selphid grinned at the other teams eating around her. Bevussa called over to the Selphid.
“Jelaqua, is your team interested in the Bloodfields mission? I thought you were still going to Invrisil.”
“Yeah, well, the thing is…we’re getting there! A few miles a day. Sometimes more. I’m uh, on vacation. You know. With Maughin?”
Jelaqua grinned a bit nervously. Ceria exchanged glances with her team. Bevussa nodded slowly.
“Right.”
“Now that’s news. Wonder what it’s like in Pallass. A Dullahan and a Selphid? I wish I could hear the gossip.”
Zassil commented under his breath. Issa kicked him.
“Don’t be a lizard. It’s sweet!”
“I’m just saying. Maughin? Master Maughin? And…”
“It takes all kinds, Zassil.”
“Yeah, but how many kinds? And how many bodies? I mean, that’s a nice one. Objectively, right? If it was just that one, awesome, but what if—stop kicking me!”
Jelaqua was talking, oblivious to the side conversation.
“So I’m out. And my uh, team, is sort of on vacation too. At least, they’re either doing that or moving the door. I gotta make it up to them a bit.”
She grinned a bit wanly. Bevussa looked around, although Moore’s absence was conspicuous.
“Right. Where are they today?”
“Seborn and Moore? They’re in Pallass. Moore’s been getting depressed lately. Female company, you know? A lack of it. So Seborn finally got him to…er…”
Jelaqua caught Mrsha’s eye. She and Lyonette were both giving the Selphid expectant looks at the next table. So was Erin. Numbtongue, frowning and listening as he ate breakfast, paused, and then his expression cleared as Pyrite told him the answer.
Jelaqua coughed.
“Well, they’re just going to look.”
“Look at what?”
“Well—hey, Erin! Are those cookies done?”
“Let me check. Uh…yep! One sec! Hey, is there a bag anywhere?”
“I’ve got one! Bag of holding. Right here!”
The Selphid hurried into the kitchen. Ceria saw her coming out, patting a bag. Erin had a smaller platter of the rest of the cookies.
“And I made a double batch! Who wants—”
Half the hands in the inn shot up. Lyonette cleared her throat.
“That’s extra, not breakfast.”
Only three hands went down. Mrsha waved hers eagerly. Pisces, who had hitherto been preoccupied with his cereal and reading a book at the table, flicked a finger. Erin yelped as a cookie tried to float off her plate. Then another.
“Hey! Whoever’s doing that, stop!”
Pisces, Ceria, and Kin all paused guiltily. Erin snatched the floating cookies back and counted.
“There’s enough for all of you! Now, Lyonette, here’s the cookies. You can make them pay. Jelaqua, that good?”
The Selphid was counting her custom-ordered cookies. She patted the bag again, and then looked at Erin. She smiled.
“I think so. Thanks for doing this, Erin. Really.”
“No problem! You could actually make them yourself, you know. Gonna share them with a certain, uh…Maughin?”
The Selphid blushed in an interesting way. Her cheeks stayed pale, but a lattice of what Ceria took to be her actual form appeared under the pale scales, faintly orange. It was even more distinctive when she wore a Human’s body. She waved a claw awkwardly.
“I don’t want to mess it up. Besides, I don’t even have [Basic Cooking]. I mean, I know I don’t need it, but I can’t make everything perfectly. And—dead hands, you know? Well, claws today.”
