Ilvriss left the sitting room and found one of his family’s staff waiting for him in the hall. The old Drake looked expectantly at him.
“I’m in need of some water. And a stamina potion.”
“I’ll have it to you at once, Wall Lord.”
Salisa nodded. The Wall Lord nodded and retired to the study. After a minute, a Drake returned with some water and a shot of a strong stamina potion in a glass. He took both and let them begin cleaning the room. The water and potion cleared his mind and Ilvriss sat back.
He felt guilty about drinking. But it had served its purpose and now he was back to non-alcoholic beverages again, just like in Liscor after…
Lost in thought, Ilvriss glanced up and saw Salisa returning. He looked up and she nodded towards the door. She wasn’t a servant, was she? But what else could you call her? She’d been employed by his family just like her father and mother for generations. But she wasn’t a ‘servant’. But that was just splitting hairs.
He hated thinking like this. But he couldn’t stop it. Ilvriss stood up and Salisa paused. She didn’t bow or curtsy or whatever Human servants did, but the rest of it was the same.
“Wall Lord. Wardmistress Geyasa awaits you in the dawn study.”
“I’ll see her at once. Thank you, Salisa.”
Ilvriss nodded. And then he strode towards the study facing the northeast. It was already illuminated by the rising sun, and Ilvriss saw that the waiting [Mage] was well attended to. She rose from a small meal and dabbed at her mouth.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss. Thank you for making time for me. I hope I’m not intruding?”
“Not at all, Wardmistress Geyasa. I just saw the last of my guests off today. May I ask how your work has gone?”
The Drake inclined her head.
“My team and I have swept your mansion and your properties, Wall Lord. We did uncover a few minor spells, but nothing of note. Nothing in your estate—your wards held.”
Ilvriss sighed, affecting relief. Internally he was skeptical, but the Drake standing in front of him was one of the best in all of Izril at her job. He nodded.
“Thank you for your understanding, Wardmistress, as well as the need for discretion and haste.”
The [Wardmistress] bowed her head slightly.
“Of course, Wall Lord. Rest assured, my team was thorough. Your friend’s impetuousness has thankfully not cost the security of your estate as far as we can discern. Nevertheless, we have updated all the wards and installed a more powerful enchantment at your request. Even an Archmage of Wistram would have great difficulty cracking these wards, and the enchantments I have installed will alert me the moment they are broken.”
She looked somewhat disapproving. Not at Ilvriss, but at his friend, the one who had been behind the drastic need for her arrival to begin with. She glanced at Ilvriss.
“Do you by any chance still have the offending object, Wall Lord? I could attempt to trace who placed the spying spell, or my colleagues at Fissival could undertake the task.”
Ilvriss smiled ruefully.
“I regret to say I disposed of it as soon as I was aware that it was at fault. Rest assured, I’ve informed Wall Lord Brilm of his mistake. It will not happen again.”
“Only prudent, Wall Lord.”
Wardmistress Geyasa nodded understandingly. Ilvriss felt a pang of guilt as she flashed a glare out of his study window, as if trying to find the culprit.
My apologies, Brilm.
His friend’s indiscretions were well known. No one who heard the tale would doubt that Brilm had inadvertently brought an object enchanted with some spying spell into Ilvriss’ home after being duped. And if Brilm himself heard the tale, he might well believe it himself. It had happened before. Thinking of that, Ilvriss went to his bag of holding and pulled out an apple-sized object and held it out to Geyasa.
“Would you check this bauble? A recording spell on quartz unless I miss my guess. Simple, but I would like to be certain.”
“It would be no issue. One moment.”
The Drake took the quartz sound recording and turned it over. Ilvriss waited, and she nodded after half a minute.
“It seems perfectly fine. The complexity of the sound contained within is somewhat above average, but for a conversation in numerous parts or music, I would expect it to be. Will there be anything else?”
“Nothing. You have my sincerest gratitude.”
Ilvriss nodded and Geyasa bowed.
“Our pleasure, Wall Lord. On behalf of Fissival’s Scholarium, we thank you for choosing our institution above all others.”
She smiled a bit smugly. Ilvriss smiled too, nodded, and forbore mentioning that she was the second [Mage] he’d hired to inspect his home.
“Only naturally. Drakes must work with other Drakes. Please tender my regards to Fissival’s Three when you return. May I offer you an escort…?”
“I will politely decline, Wall Lord. If you would be so good, though? My team’s equipment is somewhat cumbersome and affects our bags of holding as well as teleportation…”
“I will have it returned to Fissival at all haste.”
Ilvriss reassured the [Mage]. She nodded and excused herself. He made a note to send a gratuity fee; she had travelled through the night and it must have been a chore to transport the magical objects via wagon and not the customary methods.
Geyasa was of the nearest Walled City to Salazsar, the City of Magic, Fissival. It was known for its [Mage] presence, and the academy that had once rivaled Wistram in power. The City of Magic possessed its own unique traits as well, among them, well, teleportation.
There had been a reason why Ilvriss hadn’t been dying to get his hands on Erin Solstice’s door. It was valuable, but hardly unique. The world over, [Mages] could teleport small objects long-distance. It was larger objects across increasingly distant spans that posed the real problem. But some magical artifacts and technologies still existed.
Fissival’s teleportation network exceeded the magical door in Erin’s inn by several magnitudes. And yet, it was incredibly limited at the same time. They could move a thousand ton’s worth of goods in a day if need be, and regularly did between the cities linked to Fissival.
On the other hand, no one dared use the grid for transporting people anymore. There had been…incidents. And one in forty thousand deliveries went astray. Sometimes in a minor or amusing way. Sometimes never to be seen again. There was a reason only cheap, expendable goods were ever risked these days.
The past glories weighed on Ilvriss whenever he walked the towers of Salazsar and saw what had passed before. And when he strode through his own home. He stood in the dawn study when Geyasa had left. It was only then that he realized she hadn’t finished the meal she’d been brought. Absently, he left the study and told Salisa it was there.
“Inquire if Wardmistress Geyasa or her team require refreshments before they leave. I will be in my personal study.”
It was a mark of how rich Ilvriss was that he had a personal study, as well as multiple other ones in case he wanted a change of pace. He retired to his room and sat in the chair, its rich fabric worn from years of use. But the wood was still beautiful. And there the Wall Lord reached into his pocket and pulled out the piece of quartz. The contained music. And he put it on the desk and tapped it once.
There was music. Ilvriss listened to a young woman singing. The first song made him frown. But he listened to it. There wasn’t an option to skip. The second song made him pause. Ilvriss listened, frowning. Because the music struck him more than the first time he had heard it. This time, he focused on one part of the song and realized something.
“That instrument. What is it?”
He had never heard a piano before. And he had no idea what it was. But then, the third song contained on the crystal began to play. And Ilvriss settled back, listening to it.
The music was by the ‘Queen of Pop’, the Singer of Terandria. The rising sensation of the continent, apparently. Ilvriss wasn’t sure who she was, but Brilm had bought a number of these…recordings of her music. And he had gifted one to Ilvriss after realizing how fond the Wall Lord was of this particular song.
Now Ilvriss listened. It was a song he’d played countless times already. He understood the author was…what was the name, again? Definitely Human. Ah, yes.
Frank Sinatra. And the song was called ‘My Way’. Ilvriss, listening to it, was sure of one thing at last. It was no song that had ever been made in this era. Perhaps in one long past, now rediscovered. Or…
Part of Ilvriss just wanted to listen. But hearing it again, he couldn’t help but wonder. That was the thing. Ilvriss was a Wall Lord. He had been educated in swordplay, tactics, knowledge of economy, warfare—a hundred different aspects of life. And one of those things he had picked up was music.
He understood music, even if certain styles didn’t appeal to him. And the composition of the music, the style, it was all unique in a way that shook him.
The song could not exist, in a way. That wasn’t how music worked. Yes, a culture could produce something like this. But Ilvriss would expect to see experimental pieces that began the process of understanding the medium before such a polished piece appeared. But this was finished. Perfect.
The young woman’s voice that echoed in his sitting room understood the song she was covering. She understood the emotion. It was impossible that he, let alone Brilm, had not heard this kind of music before.
So where had it come from? Not Terandria’s halls. And not any other continent Ilvriss could name. A magical experimenter, a [Songwriter] or [Singer] of surpassing talent? This Sinatra…but no.
Ilvriss thought of Erin Solstice. And he felt certain there was a connection. But it slipped away from him. Some…leap of logic that Ilvriss couldn’t make.
He didn’t have wings. It didn’t matter. The Drake leaned back and listened. He still had time before he had to work. And the music flowed on. Ilvriss listened, in the privacy of his room. And when the music was done, he tapped the crystal again and it replayed the music obligingly. A song he didn’t care for, one he didn’t mind. And the song that spoke to him.
The fourth time he was playing the music, the door opened. Ilvriss sat up, opening his mouth furiously. But then he saw who was slowly walking in and sat back. And the old Drake, his scales grey, his steps slow, walked forwards. As if the music had summoned him. He looked around, and then focused on the music crystal. And when the music had stopped, he looked at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord stood up.
“Father. Is something wrong?”
Wall Lord Zail looked at his son for a moment. And then he saw the chair that Ilvriss was placing in front of his desk. Zail sat down slowly.
“No. No. Ilvriss. I was wondering—what was that song?”
“Music, father. From Terandria.”
“Really? It’s changed a lot since I was younger. Better. Not all those flutes and…better.”
Zail sat back, murmuring to himself. He was very old. Drakes didn’t live past seventy or eighty years on average. Well, most who lived near or battled monsters died far earlier. But most Drakes wouldn’t reach past those years. Still, with magic, one could live far longer. As long as a hundred and twenty years. Ilvriss had heard of Drakes reaching a hundred and forty, albeit by consuming numerous potions and using artifacts. But his father was simply eighty-three. And tired. He sat in the chair, looking aimless. Blank.
“Father. Is something wrong? Have you lost something? Salisa can help you find it. Are you hungry?”
“I’m not hungry. I’m bored. There’s nothing for me to do. That damn Gnoll is managing everything and since I retired, there’s nothing to…do. Just read, pay social calls—and visit my son. When he returns from his jaunts abroad.”
The old Drake snapped back. Ilvriss sighed. So it was a social call. Zail must have slipped his attendants. They were probably worried, but an old Drake still kept all his levels and Skills.
It wasn’t too hard for his father to manage either. His quarters were right above Ilvriss’. The peak of the tower, as they always had been. Now he looked, well, confused.
“Where did you go this time? There was a mess with the Trisstal Alliance. Was that it? Someone mentioned…a Goblin?”
He looked worried for a moment. Ilvriss delicately avoided the subject.
“My duties take me far from home, father. I was in Liscor among other places. I visited Pallass—”
“Whatever brought you there?”
Zail looked affronted. Ilvriss sighed again. But he explained.
“It was unavoidable. I had to return by way of Liscor.”
“Oh. It’s summer, isn’t it?”
“Yes. It is.”
Zail nodded a few times. He looked at Ilvriss and paused.
“There’s little for me to do these days. Boredom is worse than taking a lightning bolt to the chest. Your mother, now, she keeps herself busy. I should have done that. Never should have quit managing the mines. They’re in good shape?”
“Yes, father. As well as they ever have been. Would you like to see the reports…?”
Better than they ever had been, actually. Zail shook his head. He looked at Ilvriss. And then he was lost again.
“Ilvriss?”
“Yes?”
His son waited. He could see the scar on Zail’s chest, past his loose robes where he had been struck by lightning. And—a slight indentation along the Drake’s skull. The scales were almost gone there. Wall Lord Zail had sacrificed much for the city he loved. At last, Zail looked around.
“I came to ask you something. What was it? My…my tower. Is it finished?”
Ilvriss exhaled slowly.
“Yes. A decade past—”
He caught himself. Nodded slowly.
“Yes, father. Would you like to see it?”
The old Drake nodded. Slowly, he got up. Ilvriss escorted him out of the study. Back to the room he had spoken to Geyasa in. He waved away Salisa and the anxious Drakes who hurried towards him. Zail caught his breath as he stepped towards the window. He looked at the newest tower, one that Gemscale funds had helped build. Ilvriss watched, his eyes on Zail’s face. Once, the Drake had been taller. A towering presence. Zail murmured softly.
“Oh. Oh, it is beautiful. When I die, my ashes should be scattered from the tower. That’s the way of it, you know.”
“I know.”
Zail paused. Then he turned his head. Ilvriss was expecting him to ask for his promise again. But the old Drake frowned. His eyes focused on Ilvriss’ hand.
“I heard you gave your ring away. You did. Who are you marrying?”
Ilvriss jumped. Reflexively, he covered his claw, but Zail had seen its absence. The old Drake straightened, looking more awake suddenly.
