“I do hear about it. The ring’s gone. So. Who is it? Some Gnoll? That’s what my people tell me. Or a Human? Some…Pallass? Dullahan? Garuda? Tell me if it’s going to happen. I might as well know now.”
“None of those! I’m not marrying, father!”
Ilvriss snapped. This was the last thing he’d expected his father to pester him about! His sister, perhaps! But those damn rumors—it didn’t help that he’d spread this one himself! He growled.
“It’s not a sign of marriage. You know that.”
“I know exactly what that ring means. I gave it to you. Trust. Who do you trust enough to give that ring away?”
Wall Lord Zail snapped back. Ilvriss sighed. He felt the ring’s absence. But he didn’t need it. And he had…he paused.
“I gave it to someone who did me a great service. Who…is unique. In her own way. Who may need it more than I. It was a gesture of respect.”
“Aha! Her?”
“Father! It’s none of your concern.”
Ilvriss glared at the old Drake. Zail walked around him. He looked at Ilvriss, looking him up and down as he had a thousand times before.
“They say you left your duty to play in a border city for months. Or that you lost your head. Chased someone and lost your ring. Tell me that’s not true.”
“It’s not true.”
Ilvriss held his gaze. Zail’s eyes narrowed.
“So you didn’t flee the Goblin Lord out of cowardice? You haven’t lost your way? General Shivertail died. You were there. Where were you?”
“I didn’t think he would die. I thought he would live.”
Ilvriss gritted his teeth. Zail shook his head.
“I don’t believe you. Tell me. Say it. Swear it.”
He twisted a ring. Truth spell. Ilvriss gritted his teeth. He was angry. Zail could rally that emotion in him. The two Drakes stalked each other in a slow circle, tails lashing the carpet. Ilvriss’ voice was low.
“I am a Lord of the Wall and a son of Salazsar. The walls of my city be my oath; my loyalty has never wavered! For Salazsar, I would bleed every drop of my blood dry! The walls stand!”
The stone glowed blue. Zail saw its light. Slowly, he relaxed. His voice echoed Ilvriss’, a shout.
“The walls stand! Forevermore.”
Then it was done. He slowly relaxed and looked around. He noticed the platter and wandered over to it.
“Breakfast. Hm. Looks good. Proper meat, not what they feed me up there. Damn [Healers] and their prescribed nonsense.”
He began plucking bits of meat off the tray. Ilvriss sighed. Wall Lord Zail loved testing him.
“Father. The [Healers] recommend their diet for your health.”
“Hah! They want me to live forever.”
“Yes. And?”
Zail glanced back at his son and shook his head. He chewed as Ilvriss rubbed at his temples. He was going to be late for his meeting. He was looking at the door when Zail spoke up.
“Ilvriss. When will you bring a wife worthy of our line? There must be one, in all the cities.”
Ilvriss froze. He turned, his hand on the door to the study. And he wavered. But the truth stone was still shining on Zail’s claw. So he turned. And his back was straight. He looked past Zail, at the rising sun.
“There was, father. But I couldn’t even bury her.”
Wall Lord Zail stopped chewing. His head rose. He looked back at Ilvriss. And his expression changed.
“Did you avenge her?”
“Not yet.”
Ilvriss strode out of the room. He nodded to Salisa, waved away the apologies of Zail’s minders.
“Get me Captain Shieldscale.”
He strode towards his personal study, leaving his father behind. The sound stone went into Ilvriss’ bag of holding. He had work to do.
 
——
 
“Captain Asrira Shieldscale reporting, Wall Lord Ilvriss!”
The Drake with bright, almost unnaturally blue scales stopped in the center of Ilvriss’ study and saluted. The Wall Lord glanced up from the piece of paper he was writing on.
“Salisa, we’re not to be disturbed. Even by my father.”
“Yes, Wall Lord.”
The Drake [Housekeeper] nodded and shut the door. Ilvriss stood up.
“Lock it, Captain Shieldscale. Magical lock on the top.”
The Drake did so. She was an Oldblood Drake, a True Oldblood. That meant she could fly and spit acid. She locked the door, turning the key in the lock. And then the second key in the glowing lock. She heard a faint buzz of sound, just below the level of hearing.
“We’re secure, sir.”
“Good. Take a seat, Captain Blackwing.”
The Drake turned. And Asrira Shieldscale was suddenly Osthia Blackwing, [Captain] in service to Pallass’ army. Niece of the late Thrissiam Blackwing, famed [General] of Pallass. She had yellow scales underneath the dye Ilvriss had provided her. And she had been captive of the Goblin Lord, Reiss, before escaping during the hour of his death. She sat down in the chair and Wall Lord Ilvriss sat opposite her.
“I trust you’ve acclimated to Salazsar, Captain Osthia?”
“Yes, Wall Lord. It’s been exceedingly pleasant. I have nothing to want for here. I’m equally gratified for the lodgings in your personal estate.”
Osthia replied awkwardly. She was still in awe of Ilvriss. He was a Wall Lord, the nobility of the Drakes! Normally he’d command an army or huge division and she’d be far below his rank. But circumstances had thrown them together. For one thing, he and she both knew one thing that put them both in danger.
Az’kerash, the Necromancer, was alive. Osthia had seen him take over his minion, the Goblin Lord, Reiss. Ilvriss had learned from Zel Shivertail and Ryoka Griffin that Az’kerash was alive. The Necromancer had killed his soldiers, including his love, Periss, during a battle thanks to the inadvertent interference of Ryoka Griffin.
Ilvriss had found Osthia as she escaped the Goblin Lord, caught her before she could warn the Walled Cities. He had persuaded her to stay silent, to adopt a disguise and return with him to Salazsar. Osthia still wasn’t sure if she should have refused and spread word Az’kerash was alive. But here she was.
“It’s the least I can do. You are being awarded the lesser guest quarters, as befits my bodyguard. If it’s uncomfortable in any way…”
“Not at all, Wall Lord. The staff and Miss Salisa are exceedingly polite. But with respect, that isn’t a high concern of mine. The…”
Osthia glanced towards the doors. Ilvriss waved a claw.
“We’re clear. The wards have been reinforced and checked. Twice. Speak freely.”
Osthia nodded and relaxed.
“The Necromancer is my only worry, Wall Lord. I could sleep on rocks so long as it meant doing something. With respect, I’d like to know your plan of action. It’s been weeks.”
“It has. And I appreciate your forbearance, Captain Blackwing. But as I stated, I had to be sure. I’ve completed my deception as well as I can. As far as the city knows, I’ve finally returned home and embraced my former lifestyle. Banquets, socialization—and so forth. In that time, I’ve also ensured my home is not under any surveillance, physical or otherwise. That includes you.”
The [Captain] nodded, appreciatively. She’d been terrified to even say the word ‘necromancer’ lest Az’kerash catch on that she was alive. Ilvriss hadn’t even used her real name until this moment.
“We’re secure, then. But what is the plan, sir? Alert the ruling bodies of the Walled Cities? Rally an army and march on the Necromancer?”
Osthia was practically vibrating with the desire for vengeance. She remembered the Necromancer’s voice, the moment before he had conjured an army of undead to slay her uncle’s army to the last Drake and Gnoll. All but for her. She would personally lead the charge on his lair, even if it meant her death.
But Wall Lord Ilvriss just shook his head. He sat back in his chair and tapped his claws together.
“I’ve given the matter much thought, Captain Blackwing. And I’ve come to three conclusions. Hear me out before you reply.”
He raised one claw. Osthia sat back, listening. He was a Wall Lord, but she’d had poor [Commanders]. What had convinced her to listen was the fact that Ilvriss had a reputation for sharpness, even if he had been traditionally opposed to Pallass back when they’d both been part of their Walled Cities.
“Firstly, I am certain of this: Az’kerash, the Necromancer, the foe who brought war to Liscor and sent his armies ravaging the south of Izril. That monster who plagued us during the Second Antinium War until he was brought death by Zel Shivertail. Is. Alive.”
Osthia nodded and clenched her claws into fists. There was no doubting it. He had made a puppet of the Goblin Lord, Reiss. He had turned a Goblin into a Goblin Lord as an experiment. She shuddered. Ilvriss went on.
“The second thing I know is this. He is as great a threat in his own way as the Antinium.”
This time, Osthia blinked.
“Sir?”
Ilvriss stood up and walked over to a set of books on a shelf at the far side of the room. Few people could own a library, but Ilvriss had that, and extra copies for his study. He plucked a book from the shelves and tossed it at Osthia. She caught it and read the title: The Antinium Wars (Pt. 2), by Krsysl Wordsmith. She didn’t open it; it was standard reading in the academy. Ilvriss nodded at it.
“If one reads the history of Az’kerash only as it pertains to his end during the Second Antinium War, he was a lesser force. Between the Antinium and the Goblins, his presence was most keenly felt around Liscor. While his undead hordes did strike into the heart of Izril, they were but one of the plagues that assailed us. By that standard, he might be seen as weak. However, the opposite is true.”
Another book. This one—Necromancy, Its Rise and Fall, by Sir Hilten, [Autumn Knight] of the Order of Seasons. She hadn’t read it. Ilvriss went on.
“The history Drakes aren’t taught is Az’kerash’s legacy before he fell. Once, he was an Archmage of Terandria, a contemporary of Archmage Zelkyr, even. After he was deemed a monster and hunted, he turned on his homeland. For over a century he plagued Terandria and despite the best efforts of the [Knights], kingdoms, and other forces present on the continent, he escaped them every time. One could argue that he in fact won each conflict because no matter how many times his undead minions were slain and he was forced to flee, he himself was always alive, and came back stronger after biding his time.”
“I see.”
Osthia had found some books on Az’kerash, but she resolved to read this one as soon as possible. Ilvriss nodded and sat back down.
“So, my conclusion. Where the Antinium and even Goblins had their King and Goblin Lords, and the Antinium their Prognugators and Hives, Az’kerash is a force of one. And in that sense, he is most certainly far above the level of most beings on this planet. He may be the highest-level threat to Izril at this moment. And a handful of people know that he still lives.”
Osthia felt a chill. She got what Ilvriss was saying at. They had no idea about Az’kerash’s levels. In fact, he might have leveled up since the Second Antinium Wars. No—he surely had.
He’d killed Zel Shivertail, the same Drake who’d killed him during the first war. Who would stop him now? Osthia? Ilvriss? The Wall Lord saw Osthia’s pale face and nodded.
“We could stop him. But it would take an army. And the third thing I know is that Az’kerash is not alone. He has minions. Thinking, capable beings that can use magic to disguise themselves and walk among us. Worse still, there are traitors within Drake ranks. Highly-placed traitors at that.”
That was even more chilling than Ilvriss’ last statement. Osthia looked up, her claws sweaty.
“You’re sure?”
Ilvriss nodded darkly. He reached for the papers on the desk and pulled a file out. It wasn’t large, but it was…Osthia blinked. A report on a Named Adventurer? She read as Ilvriss talked.
“Regrika Blackpaw. A Named Adventurer who was a minion of Az’kerash. I fought her and her escort. I did not witness…what…she was, but I put together the clues afterwards. Zel Shivertail informed me that she was sent after the runner, Ryoka Griffin, to silence her after she met the Necromancer.”
“I can’t believe it.”
Osthia stared at the hand-drawn illustration of the Gnoll. She glanced up.
“Was it an undead?”
“That, or some other puppet. The very fact she was able to use that cover means someone falsified documents certifying her rank, created the illusion of her accomplishments or at the very least, her origin. It may be a Guildmaster of the Adventurer’s Guild aided the Necromancer. Or someone of higher rank.”
Ilvriss drummed his claws on the table. He went on. He had another piece of paper, a list. He was so…organized. And the fact that he could find the information? Terrifying. The Wall Lord pointed down at the next list. Names. Dates. Levels.
“In many cities that Regrika visited, high-profile Drakes met with accidents, before or after their visit. [Mages]. Retired adventurers. [Scholars]. More. How many Drakes have been killed and their deaths disguised as accidents by his minions? How many of them are there? How many traitors does he command?”
Osthia could only shake her head. This was far deeper than she’d thought. Now she understood why Ilvriss had held her back.
“So we might be sabotaged by our own ranks? By fellow Drakes? It’s unbelievable. But if—Wall Lord, if we assail him, we’ll see who they are, surely. If we reveal Az’kerash lives, we can assail him; no one would deny that!”
Ilvriss was just shaking his head.
“I considered that, Captain. But I believe that it would be too dangerous to risk.”
“How?”
Ilvriss sighed. He placed two lists of names in front of Osthia. One was short. It held her name, his, and a handful of others. All of them were Ilvriss’ personal staff, the ones that had accompanied him back from Liscor. Ilvriss tapped it with one claw.
“This is a list of people I regard as trustworthy beyond doubt. They alone are not puppets of Az’kerash, willingly or unwillingly. I hope to add to it from this list.”
The second list had names Osthia knew. Big names. Like the Dragonspeaker of Manus, Luciva Skybreath. Ilvriss nodded.
“This is a list of people I wish to alert by any means necessary if we can be sure they are true. I would have their aid in defeating the Necromancer because they possess some means of opposing him. But until I am sure, sure that they are not under the Necromancer’s control or one of his puppets in disguise, I will treat all of the names on this list as possible enemies that might turn on us if the Necromancer’s hand is forced.”
“But you don’t have anyone on the first list. Not even your fellow Wall Lords? Your family?”
Osthia was shocked. Ilvriss just looked at her.
