She was still a bit orange. Erin nodded, noticing how nervous the normally-cheerful Selphid was. She edged over with Jelaqua towards the magic door. It was currently open to Celum and you could see Octavia’s shop inside. Octavia too; the [Alchemist] had had a quick breakfast but she was working on something. She still glanced occasionally back towards Erin’s inn every now and then.
“So, what’re the cookies for? A date today?”
Erin teased Jelaqua, smiling. The Selphid hesitated.
“Well, nothing grand. But Maughin’s not working, so he invited me to visit some of Pallass’ attractions. They have this amazing display of these…interlockers is what they call them, I think. The things they use to make the elevators? Maughin’s made some parts, so the [Engineers] invited him for a new display.”
“Ooh! Sounds cool. I should visit Pallass more often myself. There’s so much I haven’t seen! I bet you’ve got lots to do, right? Have you visited Pallass before?”
“Oh, yeah. Nine years back? When the Halfseekers worked in the south. But…well, there’s not as much for a Selphid to do. Massages, bathhouses—no real good. I can adjust my body myself, and I need a really fresh one to enjoy a massage. And it creeps out anyone who’s not used to Selphids. And bathhouses? I’m just glad there’s other stuff to do.”
Jelaqua shook her head. Erin studied her.
“You’ve gone on a lotta dates. I think you’re serious about this.”
The Selphid squirmed.
“I am. At least, it’s been the first time in, like, eight years since I met anyone I hit it off with this well. Hey, Erin. Between us. Maughin and I. Do you…think it’s a good fit?”
Erin took the question seriously. She nodded.
“I think he likes you. Maybe even more than hitting things with a hammer. And I think you’ll be fine. He likes you. And you like him. And you know that he likes you. And he knows that you like him. And you know that he knows that you know that…well, it’s good! Don’t worry! I’m sure he’ll like the cookies.”
The Selphid smiled at Erin, relieved.
“Thanks, Erin. You’re the best! Okay, I’m off! Mind changing the door…?”
“Oh, sure. Octavia! Just letting Jelaqua through to Pallass! Say, are you on the list? Hey guys! Jelaqua’s not on the list! Sorry!”
The door opened and closed after Erin argued with the Drakes on the other side for a bit. The rest of the inn’s breakfasters began finishing up. Ceria got up with a sigh.
“Time to head to Celum. Let’s talk to Crossbow Stan first. He’ll listen to us most. Yvlon and I will do the talking, Ksmvr. No asserting dominance.”
“I shall be meekly subordinate, Captain.”
“And I will study. I have been far too remiss as it is in keeping up my magical practice.”
The [Necromancer] sitting at the table didn’t move as Yvlon got up. Ceria snapped at him.
“Pisces!”
He just looked up and raised his brows sardonically.
“My presence is surely not needed negotiating with Celum’s adventuring teams, is it? In fact, I would consider it a hindrance. Wouldn’t you, oh glorious Captain?”
That was a good point. Pisces’ absence would be helpful. But—Ceria hesitated. Yvlon took over and slapped Pisces on the back. He winced and she frowned at him.
“You really have to stop making all your good points as obnoxiously as possible, Pisces. Fine. Stay. Right, Ceria?”
She looked at Ceria and the half-Elf reluctantly nodded.
“I suppose it’s for the best. But you’re not weaseling out of work, Pisces!”
“Perish the thought. I’m preparing myself for that very moment.”
Pisces looked up and nodded. He even seemed serious. Then he turned back to his breakfast, flipping open his personal spellbook and checking his notes. He reminded Ceria of his days as a student, in fact. She paused, and then gave up and went towards the door.
“Mind if you send us to Liscor, Erin? I’d fly, but my stomach’s first.”
Bevussa was first in line. Erin shut the door, obligingly changed it, and sent the teams out to Liscor, and then the Horns to Celum.
The visitor arrived just after the flow of traffic ended. And he came through the actual, ordinary door which was a surprise. Erin turned as a Drake with black scales spotted with yellow swept into the room. Teliv Witherscale looked around warily, and then put a beaming smile on his face as soon as he saw Erin.
“Hello, hello! Are you by any chance the Erin Solstice? Teliv Witherscale, at your service! I’m the [Negotiator] in charge of the Esthelm diplomatic trip. We’re all ready to depart; the wagons are just rolling north with their escort! But we can catch up to them in an hour without issue if you need to wait!”
He strode over to Erin and she found herself shaking his claw. And it was the perfect handshake—firm, but not too strong—the kind that made you feel like you weren’t failing at the opening greeting. She liked Teliv instantly, and wasn’t sure if it was a Skill or just the Drake’s personality.
“Hi! I’m Erin! Sorry, did you say the wagons are going now? Am I late? That tax guy just said someone would pick me up!”
“Not late at all, not at all! The main convoy’s just moving at a different pace. There’s a Watch escort and not all the [Wagon Drivers] have movement Skills. I have one ready to go that can easily catch up—or, if you can ride, we can take horses! But where are my manners?”
So saying, he produced a bright green flower and offered it to Erin. She was tickled pink.
“Flowers?”
Teliv winked at her.
“I know it’s antiquated. Although they do teach us to give flowers at the academy! But it is a delight to meet the iconic, no, legendary owner of The Wandering Inn! Olesm has told me such tales—when he deigns to visit me. I’ll admit, we run in different circles these days, but I envy his company!”
“You know Olesm?”
Erin blinked. Teliv smiled.
“Why, of course I do! He’s never mentioned me? Not once? His handsome, charming friend?”
“Maybe—but why have I never seen you with Olesm, then? Or at my inn?”
Erin propped her hands on her hips. Teliv smiled apologetically.
“My dear Miss Solstice, I’m afraid that’s because I have a healthy regard for my life. I’m positively allergic to death or situations that cause it. Or trouble, for that matter. Hence my reluctant aversion to your inn!”
The Drake sighed. He turned, spreading the smile to Lyonette and Mrsha, who’d both come to stare at him. Erin was impressed; when Teliv saw Numbtongue he only froze up for a microsecond. Then he just smiled at the Hobgoblin. He was pretty good.
“I also spend altogether too much time in such establishments as it is. I work at Wishdrinks, if you didn’t know. I also work as a [Host] and if you’d like to offer me competitive rates at your inn…”
“Uh—[Host]? And [Negotiator]? I didn’t know Liscor had either. Well, we can talk about it. I mean, we’ll be travelling for a day, right? Hey, we can take the magic door to Esthelm in back! We could even let the other people take it there! Lyonette, where are the extra mana stones? Or maybe I should go with you. To set it up properly.”
And to avoid making ice cream for four hours. Teliv blinked, but he let Erin lead him to the door and explain how it worked.
“I’d heard about this, Miss Solstice. Teleportation magic. Er, it’s completely safe?”
“Yeah, probably. Why?”
“No reason, no reason! It’s just that I’m familiar with Fissival’s network and ah, well, I suppose it would help. Not to mention, a door would definitely improve our negotiations! Bring it or those little stones, by all means! But please, Miss Solstice, the Council has asked me to tell you that this is a sensitive mission. Your presence is necessary due to the goodwill Esthelm’s people feel towards you, but I would appreciate it if you left the bargaining to me.”
Teliv eyed Erin. She put her hands on her hips, a bit miffed.
“So I’m just there as, what, entertainment? Goodwill? Krshia’s got a lotta nerve telling me to do this and do that! All the power’s gotten to her head! Or Lism has! Power corrupts! Anyways, if I’m so unpredictable and you’re so afraid of death, why are you going with me to Esthelm?”
The Drake sighed again.
“Duty calls, Miss Solstice. And to be fair, being paid to stick my tail into danger is quite different from seeking it out. Now, I’m sure we’ll have plenty of time to debate the Council and all manner of interesting topics on the road! But let’s keep things in order. I’d like to be on the road in twenty minutes just so we can stay with the wagons.”
He was brisk, for all he laid on the likeability! Erin nodded, waving at Lyonette who was bringing the extra mana stones over.
“Okay. I guess we can make a door at Esthelm to get back. So…I’ve got my knife, um—I’ll get a healing potion or two? Anything else I should bring?”
“Not much to defend yourself, I should think. It’s not far and we won’t be passing through any unpredictable wilderness. But if you have anything that would smooth our introduction to Esthelm—well, I was saving this for the road, but let me brief you on the mission.”
Teliv walked with Erin as she went into the kitchen, and then he was speaking rapidly, in a business-like tone that did remind Erin of Olesm a bit.
“Esthelm’s hit a poor patch of late. Of course, you helped repair their walls, but the city’s population was decimated. They’re poor, to put it frankly, and not a little traumatized from the Goblin Lord’s attack. A delicate touch is needed, hence our gift of dried fish from the spring’s harvest and your presence. Even so, I would appreciate it if you didn’t…do anything too extreme. Unless it helps the cause. And refraining from mentioning that Liscor is positively swimming with Gold-rank adventurers and so on might help. We are just two cities on the border trying to help each other, not a rich city looking down on a poor one.”
“Got it.”
Erin nodded as she rummaged through her cupboards. She thought for a second and then found her special wing of the pantry marked ‘NOT FOR COOKING’ in huge letters.
“In that case, maybe I should bring some acid jars along. To give to them. And some chess sets? Everyone likes chess! And I should have made a third batch of cookies! Oh well. Here’s the jars…darn, I really should have a bag of holding for stuff like this! But it’s expensive, or so Selys says! What if I borrowed hers? Hey, Teliv, hold these?”
The Drake found himself holding two glass jars of green liquid. He stared at them and then recalled one of his notes on Erin Solstice. Gingerly, he backed out of the kitchen and put the jars on a table. He caught Lyonette pulling Mrsha well clear of the jars.
“Don’t let her drop those anywhere near you.”
The [Princess] pointed at the acid jars. Teliv shuddered as Erin came out with two more. To her credit, she was holding them very carefully herself.
“Maybe refrain from displays of wealth, Miss Solstice? We’ll stow your jars on the wagons without the bag of holding. Far from us.”
Erin nodded. She placed the jars on the table and looked around. Anything else? Nothing off the top of her head. Besides, she was just helping out. Then she studied her dress. She took her apron off after a second’s thought and regarded her attire.
“Huh. Okay. I’m not dressed too badly. But—oh! Should I take my ring off?”
“What ring?”
Lyonette, keeping Mrsha back from the acid jars, looked up. Teliv, Pisces, still at his table, and even Mrsha and Numbtongue looked around. Erin waved her right hand.
“This—”
Erin went to point to the ring on her finger. The golden ring that Ilvriss had given her. Then she realized what she was doing and hesitated, but it was too late.
“—ring. I wear it sometimes. It’s cool, huh?”
Lamely, she twisted it a bit so the golden letters weren’t visible. Lyonette frowned as she walked over. She stared at the ring on Erin’s finger, mystified.
“I have never seen you wear that ring in my life, Erin.”
“What? No, I wore it yesterday.”
Erin protested, blinking at Lyonette. The [Princess] raised her brows.
“Oh? Well, maybe. I must have forgotten it. Where’d you get it? You could buy something far nicer at the marketplace. That’s sort of…”
She looked around, hesitating, then went for it.
“Plain?”
Erin frowned, hurt. And then she really frowned as she stared at the ring on her finger.
“What? I mean, it’s not full of jewels, but it is gold, right?”
Lyonette stared at the ring.
“That’s not gold, Erin.”
This time the [Innkeeper] really hesitated. She frowned at Lyonette, expecting a joke, but Lyonette didn’t do jokes that much. Slowly, Erin regarded the ring that bore the single word, ‘Salazsar’, on it. And on a hunch, she interjected a bit of incredulity into her voice.
“It’s not golden to you?”
Lyonette raised her eyebrows, surprised. She looked at the ring and shook her head. Mrsha did the same. Erin showed the ring to Teliv, and he shrugged.
“Doesn’t look like gold to me, but I’m no expert.”
“I am. Show me.”
Pisces leaned over and narrowed his eyes as Erin took the ring off her finger. He stared at Ilvriss’ ring in Erin’s palm dismissively for a second and shook his head.
“Copper.”
Lyonette nodded, agreeing with a sigh.
“Polished well. Erin, you know what gold coins look like. You didn’t pay for it as if it were gold, did you? Never mind, I don’t want to know. If you like it, that’s great.”
Erin looked at her. Then at the plain, copper ring on her hand. She put it on and stared again. Then she looked up with a guileless smile that was in fact, full of guile. But well-hidden.
“Oh. Well, right. I wear it sometimes. Don’t be jerks about it! I like copper.”
She put the ring back on her finger before anyone could see the faint indentation of flesh. And she looked at the ring thoughtfully for another second. But then Teliv was politely urging her towards the waiting wagon, and Erin had an adventure to attend to in Esthelm! Not a huge one if Teliv had his way, but Erin wanted to see how the city had fared since she’d helped it. So, it turned out, did Numbtongue.
Of course, that was a bad idea, at least, according to Teliv. But soon Erin was on the road and busy. She was always busy, but sometimes she remembered how quiet her inn had been. And all the old guests who had left or…gone.
Her old Antinium chess players. Halrac and his team. The original Horns of Hammerad. Once, Brunkr. Ryoka. And…Erin sat on the wagon, and looked at the ring on her finger. Sometimes she forgot it was there. It was comfortable; if she didn’t think of it, it felt like part of her finger. And no one remembered her wearing it? Come to that—Erin narrowed her eyes and then fished out a gold coin. She stared at it and at the ring.
“Huh.”
