However, the Drake with purple scales and long pants and a fairly casual tunic reminiscent of Human fashion—even if it had been tailored with high-quality material—stopped Ilvriss. He blinked at her.
“Navine. I didn’t expect to see you today. To what do I owe this pleasure.”
Wall Lady Navine Gemscale pointedly glared at Ilvriss. She wasn’t smiling, nor did she seem pleased to greet her sibling. They were nearly of age, although he was the eldest by three years.
“Ilvriss. I’m not here on a social call. I heard you lost your ring.”
“Half the city knows. And I gave it away, not lost it.”
Ilvriss snapped, regretting spreading that rumor. Navine raised her brows.
“Really? You didn’t leave it on Periss’ grave?”
The Wall Lord stopped. He stared at Navine and felt a familiar headache coming on. She looked at him.
“Or was it Shivertail’s? You can’t do that, Ilvriss. Those rings need to stay with the family.”
She raised her own. He bit his tongue.
“I left it on no one’s grave.”
Her brows rose even higher.
“Really? Then you gave it to someone. Female?”
“Does it matter? It was my decision.”
He tried to step around her. Navine stepped over to block him.
“It matters because if you gave it away to some Drake, Gnoll, Human, or whomever you just met because you were trying to forget Periss, I’ll throw you off the tower myself. To stop father from doing it and straining his back. She deserved better.”
Ilvriss’ head jerked around. He stepped towards Navine and poked a claw at her chest.
“Don’t you dare insinuate that I would do that—”
“You didn’t care enough to marry her. Or keep her from getting killed! It was a skirmish between armies, Ilvriss! Who got her? Shivertail? I can’t believe he’d kill her in battle. She’d surrender! The Goblin Lord?”
“Yes. It was an accident. It has nothing—I gave the ring to someone I met. Someone worthy of trust. Not marriage.”
The Drake bristled at his sister. Navine stared at him. There was an accusatory look she always wore around him. And a familiar glower on his face. He tried to force it away.
“Mother would like to see you. I know father wanders in from time to time, but mother would like you to call instead of having to do it herself. You should visit her. You stopped by once when you came back.”
Abruptly, Navine changed the subject. Ilvriss blinked and growled, but she was right. She loved being right.
“I have to visit Alrric today—”
“Then do it after you visit Mother. Business can wait.”
Navine pointed to the door. Ilvriss ground his teeth, but he followed her with bad grace.
The reason why it was harder for him to visit his mother at least, not as simple as walking upstairs—was that Helessia Gemscale lived in another tower. It saved her from constantly running into Zail, and that was for the best these days. Navine lived in the same home with her staff, and the two nobles made their way through the entrance in dire silence.
“Mother, Ilvriss has finally decided to come calling. Do you have time to see him?”
Navine called out as she pushed the door open to Helessia’s room. Ilvriss waited until Navine beckoned, and entered the room.
Helessia was sitting upright in her bed, tended to by a Gnoll [Healer]. The old Drake’s bed was a thing of magic—and that wasn’t just hyperbole. To reduce the aches on her bones, it had been fashioned of the softest materials available and could perform any number of functions. Including float. Ilvriss paused as the curtains were moved back by Navine.
“Mother.”
He nodded to the old Drake peering up at him. Not without fondness. But he was prepared for a scolding and got it.
“Ilvriss. Where is your ring?”
“He says he gave it to someone trustworthy. Female.”
Navine interjected. Ilvriss glared at her.
“I think this is a private conversation, don’t you?”
“Not at all. But go on.”
Grinding his teeth, Ilvriss leaned forwards. Helessia caught him and kissed him. And he brushed his lips against her cheek.
“You do make me worry, Ilvriss. All that time in Liscor with the Goblin Lord. And then Shivertail’s death. And the Human army. It was a wretched mess.”
“I know, Mother. But as I told you, some of it was unavoidable. But for Shivertail…the rest went as well as I could have hoped.”
His sister snorted softly behind him. Helessia gave her a warning look.
“Tell me about the ring.”
“I gave it to someone I could trust, mother. I don’t wish to say more. You know the rings aren’t crucial.”
Helessia smiled quietly. Sickness had left her thin and pale, despite the [Healer]’s best efforts, but she was still the beauty Ilvriss remembered.
“No. Not crucial. But I would have never thought you would have given it to anyone but Periss. We didn’t discuss it when you visited.”
“I would prefer not to.”
Ilvriss avoided her gaze. Helessia sighed.
“If you insist. But then, tell me what else you are up to? You’ve been enjoying yourself. But I know that look.”
“What look?”
“Ilvriss…”
The Wall Lord sighed. He didn’t want to bring this up now. But Helessia would find out through Navine if Ilvriss had his way, and it would distract her from…Periss. So he told her.
“I’m planning to create a force to oppose the Antinium. A proper organization. Arms, equipment, individuals—Named Adventurers and notable figures from all the cities—”
“What?”
Navine exclaimed. Helessia just frowned.
“Is that necessary? It’s been quiet, Ilvriss. We’ve made so many precautions.”
“I have been to Liscor, mother. They live with the Antinium. I saw Klbkch the Slayer myself. And Xrn. They are plotting something.”
It was the truth. Helessia inhaled and Ilvriss wished he hadn’t said it. He went on, choosing his words carefully, framing an argument anyone could accept.
“The force is necessary. Zel Shivertail’s death has left a hole in our ranks. It’s not enough to trust to our best individuals to rise up in times of crisis. Look at Thrissiam Blackwing, Garusa Weatherfur. Fine [Generals]. If they’d had a few more elite units supporting them, or one or two notable figures, they might have defeated the Goblin Lord themselves. We need organization. Not just against the Antinium. The Humans’ aggression as well.”
“So a private army. You want to make one that can beat Humans and Antinium? That sounds like you’re preparing for an attack.”
Navine’s voice was sharp. Ilvriss looked up and glared at her.
“I’m prepared to be attacked. Unless you think the Humans weren’t prepared to take Liscor, Navine?”
“Some of them. Some of them didn’t.”
“And the ones who did are the ones I’m concerned about. I’m not here to argue with you, Navine. I’ll put it before our peers. I’m worried about the Antinium in any case.”
Ilvriss turned back to Helessia. His mother sighed.
“Schemes. Always schemes. You are your father’s son, Ilvriss. You’ve been back not one week. Tell me. Have you visited Periss’ grave?”
Ilvriss paused.
“I didn’t know one was made. I—we never recovered her body.”
“We held a funeral. You may find her cenotaph in the Gemscale mausoleum.”
The Wall Lord paused.
“You buried her there?”
“Privately. Yes. Do you disagree?”
“No. I…I will try to find the time to visit. But I am busy.”
The Wall Lord half-rose, distracted. Navine’s voice was bitter.
“Did you even shed a tear for her?”
“Navine!”
Helessia turned her head. Navine looked away. But both Drakes were looking at Ilvriss. If he was like his father…Ilvriss was dry-eyed now. He paused, and then straightened.
“A Wall Lord weeps not for himself, but holds the walls first. Mother, I do have to go. I will stop by later this week. Perhaps later, when Navine is happily occupied elsewhere.”
He looked pointedly at Navine. She glared at him.
“Let the damn walls crumble to dust. They’re not the most important thing in this world, Ilvriss!”
Helessia saw Ilvriss pause as he bent to give her a farewell kiss. The Wall Lord looked up. But then he slowly bent down and kissed Helessia on the cheek again and stood up.
Ilvriss slowly left the room, not bothering to reply to Navine. Half a year ago he would have stormed away furiously or confronted her. This time? He felt a bit melancholy. What would Navine have done if she’d met Erin? They would have been a better match. Worse, still. It was hard to admit she might have been right about Humans.
“Mother. You saw that too, right?”
Navine turned to Helessia after Ilvriss had left. Her mother sighed and sat up in her bed. She gestured, and the bed slowly sank downwards. Then she sat up.
“I think I will walk, Gersa.”
The Gnoll [Healer] hrmed, but then gently helped Helessia up. The Drake struggled up after a moment and Gersa found her the pillow with the rings on it. Helessia put on one ring, and then another, and straightened. Strength-enhancing rings. Navine watched her mother slowly walk past her, and Helessia’s voice was focused, sharper than her husband’s.
“I saw. He’s changed. Whether it was Periss or this mysterious person he gave the ring to, Ilvriss is much different. Find out who it was, if you can. Someone in Liscor, most likely.”
Navine grimaced.
“It’ll be hard. You know the rings are enchanted not to be noticed.”
“I know. But I want to know just what made Ilvriss change so. He was the spitting image of Zail when he left.”
“Do you think he’s actually concerned about the Antinium? Or is this about the Humans? My truth spells said he was lying about how Periss died, mother. But when he said he wasn’t as worried about the Humans, he was telling the truth. Mostly.”
Helessia paused. She shook her head.
“I don’t know. Either way, it’s still too risky to take him to the meeting in Oteslia. Let’s just hope this Magnolia Reinhart is everything they say she is.”
Navine nodded. She accompanied her mother to the dining room. Some things were secret. And there were Drakes who saw potential in an alliance with the Humans. And Drakes who did not. Even families sometimes were at odds with each other.
Ilvriss knew that. And it had been his life. The complicated web of politics, influence, working to advance his city at the cost of others. That was what he had known. It was why he had gone to war against other Drakes, fought Zel Shivertail. And now he was changed. The Wall Lord didn’t go to visit Alrric. Navine was right, damn her. There were more important things to do.
He descended. Through Salazsar’s towers, down walkways, travelling slowly, greeting people, accepting their welcomes back to the city. Down and down. Salazsar wasn’t all vertical. It had an underground component. Storehouses. The ever-reaching mines.
Cemeteries, or rather, mausoleums. But Ilvriss didn’t go down that far. He stopped, a good two-thirds up the social echelons of Salazsar. And he walked a street hundreds of feet over the actual ground, past neat homes that were far smaller than his grand tower. It occurred to him he was empty-handed. But he hadn’t gone before. And if he turned back now, he wouldn’t come back.
So, the Drake paused at a door like any other. Like no other. He had never been here; what a scandal. What an outrage. He wished for all of it now. He wished he’d been here with her before. But it was too late. All he knew was the location. He’d memorized it when Perris had told him.
Sometimes he forgot what her voice sounded like. Other nights he thought he could hear it. Ilvriss raised a claw, paused, and knocked softly. He waited there, ignoring the looks on the street.
After a while, a Gnoll opened the door. She stared at Ilvriss and gasped. Ilvriss bowed to her. He had expected a Gnoll. Or a Drake. But he knew there would be one of each.
“Excuse me. Miss Solicia Veldant? Mother of…Periss Veldant? I am—”
“Wall Lord Ilvriss?”
A stunned voice behind him. Ilvriss turned. A shorter Drake was standing behind him, looking dumbfounded. Ilvriss stepped to one side, looking between husband and wife.
“Mister Elkill Veldant? Miss Solicia Veldant? I hope I am not intruding. I—I have been away from Salazsar for quite some time. And on my return…I was hoping to speak to you two.”
The Gnoll looked at her husband. And then at Ilvriss.
“I see. Periss spoke of you. You were leading the army, weren’t you?”
Ilvriss bowed his head.
“I was. I—I regret that I could not bear news of her passing myself. If you would allow me, I would like to speak to you of the events that led to her…death. I am deeply sorry.”
Solicia looked at him. And Elkill cleared his throat, looking at his neighbors staring at the Wall Lord.
“Perhaps inside? Come in, Wall Lord.”
“Of course. Come in, yes?”
Solicia moved out of the doorway. Ilvriss paused as Elkill headed inside, murmuring urgently with his wife. He didn’t know if coming here had been correct. But something—maybe the thought of what a certain Human would have said, or Periss herself—had impelled him. He stared at the open door. And he recalled an old conversation.
“Did you know, Ilvriss? One of your [Lieutenants]—Periss, yes, that’s the one. Her parents are mixed. Gnoll and Drake. What? Of course it doesn’t have anything to do with how she does in the military. But you’re asking how Rhelika and I work? Ask her. She’d know…”
Tasilt.
Ilvriss entered the home. And he sat at a small, comfortable couch as he was served some tea. And then into silence he spoke. He forgot the words almost as soon as he said them. But the feeling, the moment, it lasted forever. The faces of the two parents, tearing open a wound so it might heal a bit better. Listening to a confession.
Truth about a relationship. Lies about a death. But truth about pain. About loss. Promises—offers of wealth. Meaningless words mixed in with guilt. Ilvriss didn’t know when he ran out of words. But it was Solicia’s stare, the way Elkill leaned against her that made him just sit there. Waiting.
And all Elkill did in the end was put down his cup, untouched. He looked at his wife. And then at Ilvriss. And he looked at a painting on the far wall. And Ilvriss turned his head and saw her.
“She was special, wasn’t she?”
The quiet question shook Ilvriss. It cracked something. And he bowed his head.
Wall Lords wept not for themselves. So a Drake sat and shed the tears the Wall Lord could not. He wept. But he was not alone in his grief. For a while, Ilvriss put aside the vengeance in his chest. That could come later. He just sat there and remembered who he had loved. The way she laughed.
He missed her.
