Every flickering sensation of my energy bodies being constantly destroyed and regrown opens up more pathways for the ambient collection of energies compressed into fields to seep into my being.

While my understanding of this energy form increases with every bit I devour, the glimpses of the past I absorb also rush into my pool of consciousness. It opens up a vast new perspective of understanding. Not only am I tearing it apart and dissecting its secrets, but I also get the intuitive feeling that I'm about to witness exactly how it came to be.

Flashes of memories hit me all at once, and I begin to see through the advanced senses of this Demon.

I no longer limit my thoughts to only physical space and the movement of individual energy sources. Instead, I feel the perception of the eternal darkness that surrounds us.

There are long stretches of time where nothing at all happens.

This Demon sits alone in the darkness of the void, not allowing any of his perception to flow out of the white bubble.

It is an extremely strange assortment of memories, because the majority of them are depictions of this Demon in a completely dormant state. It shuts off all mental functions, because even thinking to himself expends energy, releasing small wisps of purple essence into the void.

The emotion of fear and loss comes over this Demon every time it uses essence, and never once does it manage to grasp the energy that leaves its bubble.

Half my mind scans and understands all of the memories that flow into me at once. However, the half of my mind that is still partially tethered to the linear plane sorts them and watches every one of them in reverse.

Starting from now, in this Demon's weakened state, I watch as over the last few billion years it sporadically expended energy to converse with the construct that holds the galaxy below.

Every time it did, wisps of its energy completely vanished, but in return it managed to keep an eye on the passage of time while the Demonic forces consolidated their empire and drained the galaxy of all its remaining ether.

Every time Noctus sends out tendrils of energy into the void to connect with the origin plane, vast amounts of time pass. Sometimes it is just 100 years, other times millions of years pass.

Occasionally, he sends a larger-than-average pulse of his energy down into the construct, and the timelines perfectly coincide with Realm Waves I've witnessed in my past memories.

In fact, this Demon's perception is so vast, that every time it even thinks of the origin plane, a wisp of its energy is enough to see the entirety of the Upper and Lower Realm down to their last mana particle.

It aligns perfectly with every single memory of every demon and monster's memories I've devoured in the past. In fact, it fills in many holes of memories where the perception of the memory holder was not strong enough to see the energy signatures of grand events.

I start to see them in a much broader perspective with every single possible energy fluctuation laid bare.

Every time I absorb more of this aura in the void, I feel myself become more rigid, and the silver threads holding my being together become easier and easier to manipulate.

Maria and I start to move through this stain of space in the void, thrusting ourselves deeper into its potent depths, even closer to the Demonic force that ejected it.

This makes the strength of the memories I absorb even harsher.

Strong fluctuations of its past come flowing in. Many of which I can feel the Demon's disdain, like it is still trying to hold on and not allow me to see these wisps of consciousness.

I begin seeing many past lives of Ember in the Lower and Upper Realm.

For the first few hundred million years that Noctus spent in this Void, he expelled massive amounts of energy to keep a close watch on the rebirths of this Dragon. Mental fluctuations into the Origin plane expended his energy every few decades in order to produce tools for the remaining Demonic Forces to use remnants of his silver threads to thrive.

I watch Noctus implement the use of thrones, and trials to weed out the existence of Ember whenever there would be new worlds connecting to the system. It also served with a secondary purpose to bring stronger forces to the Upper Realm in order for the newly established Family Heads to finish their plans before the seal.

Many strange holes in understanding of the past begin to have their gaps filled in my mind, especially Ember's reluctance to use large amounts of silver or golden threads without the presence of shielding arrays activated.

There are many instances in the past where the large-scale use of these threads, from Ember, or any of the other returning Overseers that I see. Each time, these releases of energy do not seem to affect high-quality ether arrays in the Upper Realm, or the presence of mana densities in the Lower Realm. However, a large enough use of this power sends fluctuations out of the galaxy's energy construct, and makes ripples in this void.

Seeing and feeling these ripples awake Noctus from his dormant slumber thousands of times over in the passing memories clicks everything into place.

It is always followed by the full forces of the Demon Race converging on areas of the Origin plane to exterminate the threats.

It is not only what kept Ember suppressed in the Lower Realm repeatedly for so long, but also caused the demise of the other Overseers, as slowly they became less and less fortunate every rebirth until their immortal cores burned out.

There is one sensation that is extremely strange.

Even though I watch over a billion years pass, the active mind of this Demon does not seem to age.

He appears to be exactly the same. Not a single additional epiphany or measure of growth has been infused into his mind this entire time.

It even begins to make the conversations I had with it very eerie, and almost mechanical. I can't help but feel like they are just regurgitated reruns of the conversations it has had in the past.

His raw power is formidable, but there is something extremely lacking, like this Demon's soul is hollowed out.

As my own active mind digests these memories, I finally sift back in time, back to the point where this Demon sealed itself in this abyss.

I've already watched this memory of Ember burning apart their soul tie from other angles, but now I finally get to see exactly what this Demon did, coming from its own eyes.
