The next hour or so went by in a blur. Arwin’s body moved on more instinct than any actual intent. He, along with the hundreds of people that had arrived to help, cleared out the Menagerie’s street. They dragged all the debris off the street and organized it into piles that could be removed at a later date.

All the fallen men and women from the battle — both those from Milten and the Guild’s forces — were taken out of the main street and piled on wagons that Raen and Melissa’s men brought to carry the bodies away and deal with them properly.

Arwin somehow found himself standing in the Devil’s Den alongside Lillia. He didn’t exactly remember when they’d entered it. Everything had just been passing in a haze. But he was unsurprised to find the inside of the tavern was still completely wrecked. Even with all the damaged furniture and shattered glass cleared out, it looked like a very angry tornado had swung through it.

All that remained was the counter and a few tables who stood crookedly, somehow staying together in defiance of the damage that had been wrought. It struck Arwin that none of the adventurers on the outside street had remained within the building.

They were still there, of course. There was more to be done. Many of them milled about in the street, easily visible through the huge holes in the wall. But, perhaps out of respect, none of them had remained within the Devil’s Den.

None except the Menagerie.

It took Arwin several long seconds to realize what he was seeing.

His people were all here.

Esmerelda sat, looking completely exhausted, on top of her pack of potions. A faint smile lingered on her wrinkled lips even in spite of the weariness clearly dragging her down. Madiv sat on the edge of the pack beside her, a hand on her shoulder.

Thane was just above them, perched on the counter with his legs dangling over it and his black sword in his lap. Beside them were Reya and Olive, both leaning against the counter, their hands overlapped on top of each other. Anna and Rodrick sat on the floor next to them, as did Vix and Art.

Kien and Koyu stood together with Vanessa — and all three of them seemed to be engrossed in examining a few small dents in Koyu’s body that were in the process of healing themselves. Elias and Monica were there too, quietly standing near one of the huge holes in the wall and staring out into the street.

Opposite to them was Uriel. Her huge body leaned against the one good wall the Den still had, her arms braced over knees. The Beast sat upon her leg like a child, a wide grin splitting his features and his hands crossed behind his back.

Even Raen and Melissa were there, standing alongside Monica as they examined the damage to the floors and the demon tree beneath. Raen had a small clipboard in one hand and a quill in the other. It seemed like he was in the process of cataloguing the damage.

An immense wave of relief rolled over Arwin.

They were all here.

“I told you,” Eleven said, her voice coming from behind Arwin. She walked up to stand alongside him and Lillia. “They made it.”

“I know,” Arwin said. A faint smile pulled across his lips as he looked out at the members of the Menagerie. “But seeing and hearing are two entirely different things.”

“As do I,” Eleven said quietly. “Which is why I brought someone to meet you. One would have wanted them to. And I imagine you won’t be too opposed, either. Unless you’d prefer to wait?”

“Hm?” Arwin glanced back. Lillia did the same.

Both of them froze.

Standing awkwardly at the entrance of the tavern were two people. The first was a man clad in beautiful silver armor, studded with gemstones and covered in intricate designs that weren’t anywhere near as effective as they seemed. He had his helm tucked under one arm, leaving his bright orange hair and freckled face exposed to the air. The man was young, no more than seventeen, but his eyes held a weight and confusion that no amount of years could ever simulate.

And standing at his side was a red-skinned demon. She was no older than the teenager at her side. Two reddish wings were tucked in at her back and she had a pair of twin scimitars at her sides. The demon’s armor was made of obsidian. It wasn’t all too dissimilar from that of her companion in make, now that Arwin saw the two of them together. Even though the patterns and external appearance was vastly different… the techniques that had gone into making both pieces weren’t all too far from each other at all.

The man and the demon didn’t seem comfortable with each other in the slightest. They stood with a foot of extra space between them, their gaze flicking from their surroundings to each other, confusion and disbelief and exhaustion battling for superiority within their eyes.

Someone unfamiliar with the situation might have assumed that they hated each other from the way they stood. But Arwin saw more than that. He saw the faint comfort they took in seeing the only thing that they still recognized from their old lives — each other.

“Our replacements,” Arwin breathed.

“One did everything he could to make sure the cycle ended tonight,” Eleven said. “He can’t be here for the last of it. But… I think he would have wanted you to speak with them. They wish to speak with you as well. If you’re willing to.”

“Of course we are,” Lillia said. She raised her voice slightly. “Come in. It’s not like the walls are hiding anything anymore.”

The new Hero and Demon Queen exchanged a glance. Then the stepped into the tavern. Arwin could feel their gazes boring into him and Lillia as the two slowly walked up.

There was a long second of silence.

“You’re… smaller than I thought you would be,” the hero said. “The drawings of the old hero made him — you — seem huge.”

“I’m Arwin. Not the hero. Not anymore,” Arwin replied. He extended his hand. “And neither are you.”

The young man stared at it for a moment. Then, slowly he reached out to grasp it. “Dale. I… saw all your memories.”

“We all did,” the Demon Queen said. She reached out to Lillia. “Ruby. And you’re… Lillia?”

“I am,” Lillia said. A small smile flitted across her lips. “And I can assure you that you didn’t see all of Arwin’s memories. Just the important ones. I got the Quest, too.”

Ruby’s red skin somehow managed to redden a shade darker. “So… that was real? You’re actually—”

“Yes,” Lillia said. “It works better than one would think.”

Dale coughed, glancing away.

Arwin let out a small chuckle. “Be nice, Lillia. Don’t you remember what it was like right when we woke up? I don’t think I’ve ever been more lost in my life. Finding out that everything was a lie… it wasn’t fun.”

“I’d take the truth over any lie, no matter how sweet,” Lillia replied. “And they’re grown-ups. After what we both know they’ve seen… they can take it.”

“It was real, then. You’re really the old Demon Queen,” Ruby said, looking to Lillia. “Then the throne is still yours. We were told you were killed. But if you still live—”

“Absolutely not,” Lillia said. “I don’t want that shit. I’m more than happy right here. And the horde doesn’t need a Queen anymore. The only reason it existed was at the Guild’s whims. We’d all be better off thinking and living for ourselves. If people want a ruler, then let them elect one.”

“Seriously?” Dale asked. He glanced around. Then he swallowed. “I don’t mean to cause offense. But I thought demons wanted power. You can just… turn it away?”

“I’m afraid that was just more bullshit from the guild,” Arwin said with a shake of his head. “They’re just people, Dale. Some are good. Some aren’t. It’ll take a while for that to really make itself clear. But you saw my memories. Lillia isn’t the only monster in my guild. Madiv is a Vampire. Maeve is a Siren. That kid over there has a devil in his sword, and Koyu is the ghost of a lich.”

They all fell silent. Dale and Ruby glanced at each other once more, but differently this time.

“It was all a lie?” Ruby asked. Her tone made it clear that she already knew the answer to her question. “Literally all of it?”

“All of it,” Lillia said.

Another silence followed her words.

Then Dale’s hands clenched at his sides.

“Those fucking bastards,” he whispered. “If you hadn’t already killed them…”

“But I did,” Arwin said. His hand fell on Dale’s shoulder. “It’s done. And it falls to us all to make sure it never happens again.”

“But… what do we do?” Ruby asked, gesturing to herself and Dale. “I’m the Demon Queen!”

“Not anymore,” Dale said, a small grin flitting across his lips.

Ruby let out a huff. “Not anymore. But that’s all I’ve ever been! And you’ve always been the Hero! Or are you saying you know what else to do?”

Dale hesitated. Then he shook his head. “No. I don’t have the faintest damn idea. What do we do?”

“That’s the fun part,” Arwin replied with a smile. “You’re free. You do whatever the hell you damn well please.”

Dale frowned. He looked to Ruby. She shook her head.

“I don’t want to do anything,” Ruby said. “I don’t know what to want to do.”

“Me neither,” Dale muttered. “I thought this was the point.”

“This?” Arwin gestured to the destruction around them. “There was no point to this. It was the dying throes of a wretched organization that never should have existed. You’ve got time, now. That’s the beauty of it. You don’t need to do anything at all.”

“What, we’re just supposed to sit around and do nothing?” Ruby asked. “That sounds horrible. Life needs to have a purpose.”

Dale nodded in agreement.

It was Arwin and Lillia’s turn to exchange a glance.

“I think living is purpose enough,” Arwin said.

“How can we do that?” Dale exclaimed. He gestured empathetically to the damage all around them. “This is what we lived for! I’ve done nothing but kill! The Guild turned us into weapons! How do you become… more?”

“Finding something to live for certainly helps,” Lillia said.

Arwin nodded. A faint grin tugged at his lips.

Or someone.

“Do you both always talk in vague mysteries?” Ruby asked. “Give me—”

“An actionable list, please,” Dale finished.

The two of them glanced at each other. Then they looked back to Arwin and Lillia.

Arwin let out a small chuckle. “Can’t do that, I’m afraid. It’s something you’ll have to figure out on your own.”

“But,” Lillia added, raising a finger. “We do have quite a bit of clean-up to do here. The street is in shambles, and Milten will need help rebuilding.”

“The whole kingdom will,” Arwin said.

“So,” Lillia continued, dragging the word out for a moment. “If you need somewhere to stay while you get things worked out and don’t mind lending your hands to the cause, I’m sure I can spare a room or two. It won’t quite suit anyone high class. We’re a ways away from that. But for an adventurer or two… I think it would be more than enough.”

Dale and Ruby looked at each other one more time. Then they turned back to Lillia.

And, as one, the former Hero and Demon Queen nodded.