I didn’t hesitate and took advantage of their ignorance to attack them. Since there was no water to speak of in the thing’s mouth, I did attempt a failed use of Paralyzing Screech, which didn’t go far at all.

However, the Myriad Qi Needles…

When I’d launched them, they didn’t attack the giant beast’s spirit, not that I thought it would do anything.

Instead, using my Divine Sense, I guided the needles toward the five lower-ranked sea serpents.

Controlling twenty-four needles was no easy feat, and my mind was about to explode, but considering my increased stats, I’d endured.

Although I would be the first to admit that maybe I overdid it. Not that these sea serpents were incredibly powerful, but…

Were they supposed to be that weak?

The first one’s defenses melted after my fifth needle, and the sixth and eight needle did the job in less than a second. It died without even knowing why.

[You have slain [Sea Serpent], Lvl 25]

[XP Acquired!]

Well, that was easy.

Once the first one fell, the other ones immediately panicked, and the large, dying one let out a sorrowful scream.

Unfortunately for the rest of them, my needles were far too quick, and the water didn’t slow them down in the slightest.

Three more fell, only leaving the first, higher-level one alive to watch with despair as its brethren fell for seemingly no reason.

It would be a little more difficult to slay it, but not impossible.

So far, the others were too weak, so the effects of the lightning weren’t obvious.

But with the last one being a far higher level, I could also study what this skill did.

The sea serpent’s defenses were quite high, and now that it saw its people die, its guard was also up.

But each time a needle struck its mental shield, it would spread lightning all over, weakening it slightly.

One could imagine that with twenty-four needles, it wouldn’t take long to destroy those defenses, but in actuality…

I was getting tired too. Controlling twenty-four all at once while also keeping grip on the thing’s mouth was difficult.

In the end, I could only shake my head and take a break. Not like there was any rush. The poor sea serpent was already traumatised.

They kept walking, though there didn’t seem like any help would come. That was just sad…

But better for me, honestly.

When I felt that my mind was refreshed after a period of meditation, I summoned another twenty-four needles and imbued them with lightning, and began my attack on the sea serpent once again.

The Spirit Beast was resilient, but I was relentless.

Using the familiar strategy of striking the same spot again and again, I wore the creature down. It must not have figured out that it was me that killed the others, since neither the large Golden Core serpent nor the small one did anything to stop me, or even attempted to stop me.

And now, with my needles striking over and over again, I managed to destroy the sea serpent’s mental defenses, and all of them immediately attacked its head.

The creature stood no chance, and just like its comrades before, it died without knowing why.

[You have slain [Sea Serpent] Lvl.35]

[XP Acquired]

[Congratulations!]

[Elemental Phoenix Heir Level 32 has become Elemental Phoenix Heir Level 33!]

Holy shit, a level up!

It felt like ages since I’d last gotten one, unbelievable!

It was only one level, though, but finally, some progress!

How long has it been since I last gained a level? It sure felt refreshing!

There was a sudden shake as the serpent stopped right in front of its dead comrade. I didn’t know what relationship they had, but it seemed pretty sad…

Not sad enough for me to care; it was the one that wanted to eat me first… And the one that did eat me, and possibly wanted to eat Mother too.

So no, I was not going to feel any pity.

That’s what you get!

So what if I baited it? I would not have been greedy for its core had it not shown up!

Ah well.

Now the only other issue was killing it. I thought it would die faster from the Reaper Sect Qi, but I was wrong. In the end, I had to take matters into my own two wings!

I was considering if Myriad Qi Needles would still work, but considering just how far apart our cultivation levels were… It didn’t seem like it.

That didn’t give me that many more skills left to try though. When dealing with such an opponent, fighting was pretty difficult anyway.

However, I did have one idea, which may work, or may not.

There was no wind in its mouth… Not any to speak of, but maybe Burning Wind could work just fine.

If I were to dry off its insides, then it would die, or maybe if the water was too hot, it would boil to death.

No matter what, it was worth a try!

I didn’t hesitate to activate Burning Wind at its maximum power, immediately creating an incredibly warm air inside the creature’s mouth. It started squirming about five minutes after, as the water outside also got hot.

When it started moving, I threw caution to the wind and created thirty needles, imbuing all of them with fire and sending them at the belly? Wriggling organs? It was a snake, so… walking apparatus?

It took all of them in a triple cycle to finally break through the sturdy mental shield, but it was so weak it could do little to defend against my attack.

It did take another two cycles just to kill off one of its legs, but that damage was enough to make it unable to move for the foreseeable future.

If I could sweat, I would have long since done so. The amount of mental toll those thirty needles had on me was absolutely insane. I could barely do anything but stare forward, slowly recovering.

The Burning Wind skill was still active, but there was nothing else I could do.

Don’t use these many again in a real fight. I reminded myself, since it was far too dangerous.

And just then, a heavy, ancient sigh resounded in my head.

So it was you all along who killed my kin.

The giant fucking sea serpent finally decided to speak, which was… late? It probably thought there was nothing to talk about either.

“Yeah, so what? You attacked me too!”

Yeah, I did. He admitted.

“Pretty aggressively. Hell, you swallowed me!”

I did that too, but could you blame me? You were too enticing.

Its tone was strangely… calm? There was no anger or anything of the sort, which was weird, admittedly.

“Fair enough. That’s why I took this risk.”

He chuckled. Is it paying off?

“I don’t know yet. How long until you die?”

Haha, at this rate… Probably five years, give or take.

Excuse me, what? FIVE YEARS? But I thought I was doing some good damage to it, and the Qi from the Reaper Sect had to have been pretty devastating.

“You’re bluffing.”

I could be. He admitted, his voice steady. I could not be. You are but a mere child compared to me, not having even formed a proper core yet…

“That doesn’t matter; I am far stronger than I look.”

I can see that. No mere Dormant Core beast could do so much damage to me, and there is a strange feeling around you. Regardless, it would still take a long time for you to kill me.

“I don’t buy it. Peng Long did a good number on you with his Qi.”

Ah… So Peng Long was his name… Not fitting at all.

“Right? He’s not even half a dragon!”

Or a Peng…

Now that he mentioned it… He wasn’t at all related to either a dragon or a Peng! What a scam.

“Pretty on point. So you’re not angry at me?”

I could tell he did a sort of shrug, though it wasn’t obvious; he had no arms.

I tried to kill; you tried to kill me, although it doesn’t seem like either of us will make it out alive.

Ah, so he was bluffing… Even now I could see the reaper Qi do some serious damage to its body.

“You sound so sure of yourself.”

I don’t see what you can use to harm me… So yes. Even if your human friends knew any techniques, I doubted you could use them.

Well, my human ‘friends’ probably did know some techniques, but they didn’t give me any!

Maybe I should have asked for some…

No matter, I still had some techniques, and I could wait. It wasn’t like it could survive without any air, and I was cooking it up from the inside and outside.

There was no way it would survive for as long as it had said it would.

“A bird has many tricks up her sleeve!”

You don’t have sleeves… It seems these humans rubbed off on you way too much.

“Oh piss off.’

Hehe…

If the situation wasn’t so weird, maybe the sea serpent would have been a good chatting partner.

But the anxiety of feeling the aircraft get farther and farther away from me made it so I wanted to hurry up the killing process.

A single skill popped up in my mind when I’d thought about how to best deal a lot of damage.

A skill I hadn’t had the opportunity to use yet…

[Bloodline Skill: Flaming Rebirth]

[Absorb all the fire energy within an area and a controlled amount from your body and surround yourself with it. The energy will become a protective shell that will protect you for a certain amount of time. At the end of the protection phase, regenerate yourself to the maximum amount of health, and create a giant explosion that deals damage to everything in your surroundings. The effectiveness of the skill depends on the user’s fire affinity and intelligence.]

The explosion part was what interested me the most in that moment. If I could somehow make it so the thing exploded, then I could kill the thing faster.

However, the amount of surrounding fire energy in the area was… low. We were underwater, after all.

But Burning Wind was heating the place, and it was pretty damned dry at that point.

The sea serpent opened its mouth and allowed some water to flood in, but it didn’t stay like that for long.

Unfortunately, that only made its mouth more humid, and not straight up flammable…

I did have some wood in my bag of holding though…

When the level of water decreased again, I hastily threw out as much of it as I could and quickly used Pyro Breath to light it on fire.

Not only that, but I also shot out fire on the roof of the thing’s mouth and everywhere else.

With the wood having caught on fire, it was time to test out this skill.

If it didn’t work, I could cut off its neck with the scary sword and pray that nothing else would happen…

So this better work!

What are you doing?!

“Killing you!” I replied hastily before activating Flaming Rebirth.

The surrounding flames immediately shot toward me, rotating, and my body involuntarily went into a fetal position. I had little control of what was happening, but I could also feel a significant amount of my inner flames getting pulled outward and toward the ball of fire surrounding me.

Nirvanic Flames and Phoenix Fire combined in a dangerous mix, and since my health was already at maximum, the exploding part had triggered faster than anticipated.

This power… how?!

He didn’t have time to say much else, though, as the flames began spinning at an incredibly fast speed, the heat in the Spirit Beasts’ mouth rising.

Finally, after what felt like an eternity, the flames around me burst forth and smashed against the sea serpent’s inner mouth!

The already dry skin began to crack, and through those cracks, blood flowed like rivers.

Agh!

It let out a scream as the explosions rebounded due to the enclosed space, hitting back and forth.

I did remember what the blood did when it touched someone, though, so I stood as far away from it as possible.

As the flames rebounded over and over again, more and more of it flowed out, though, and even when it opened its mouth to try and extinguish them, that did nothing except create instant boiling water!

You… this is… rather impressive…

It said in a weakening voice, though I got a feeling that wouldn’t quite be the end of it.

Suddenly, I sensed the Reaper Qi activate, though, and things took a drastic turn for the worse.

My kill!