After seeing the danger it was exposed to, the Night Tusker turned tail and fled. However, it was already too late. Between me and the Cicadas, it didn't matter who got to it first, it would die.

Of course, I would much rather be the one to get the experience. Sadly, the epic fight I was waiting for wasn't meant to be.

In its current state, the boar's mental defenses, if it had any to begin with, were gone. Jumping into action, I ordered my needless to kill it. They shot toward its head with incredible precision, and a few moments later it fell, dead.

[You have slain Heaven-Striped Night-Tusker, Lvl 31]

[XP Acquired]

[Skill: Assassination(Novice) has become Assassination(Beginner)]

Tsk

I clicked my tongue at the lack of level ups, but oh well. One would have thought that having the passive effect from the Favored Title would give me more experience.

Assassination levelling up was pretty nice, though.

After the Night-Tusker died, the Cicadas stopped flying about, and looked at it with confusion. Comically, they also looked at one another, seemingly asking if either of them did that.

In almost perfect unison, they all denied the claim. Either way, the Night-Tusker's death pleased them, so they turned away. Some of the other Cicadas were already tending to the wounded giant Hairy Cicada, and it was already feeling better.

That was the power of a swarm, I supposed.

Still, I wasn't going to let such large quantities of experience and cores run away from me so easily.

Activating Burning Wind at the maximum setting, I began my attack. The weaker Cicadas dropped dead after a few seconds, while the rest of the swarm began panciking.

They dispersed and flew about, looking for the attacker, but I didn't feel like taking a bunch of ugly, disgusting insects head on.

With Burning Wind turned to the maximum, I also created an Elemental Wave powered by my dear Nirvanic Flames and subsequentely created two dragons.

One was of course made out of the Phoenix Fire, while the other by the Nirvanic Flames. They both let out a bestial roar and rushed the army of Cicadas. With their mouths opened wide and supported by the other fire skills, they tore through the weaker Cicadas like riping through paper.

[You have slain Hairy Cicada Soldier, Lvl 20]

[You have slain Hairy Cicada Soldier, Lvl 22]

[You have slain Hairy Cicada Guard, Lvl 21]

[You have slain Hairy Cicada Soldier, Lvl 19]

[XP Acquired]

Unforttuantely, even that didn't seem to be enough to give me a level, and I was more than fed up with those circumstances. I was going to get at least a level!

With a wave of my wing, I created two Nirvanic Flame tornadoes that sped toward the panicking Cicadas. The dragons joined in, creating a sort of double dragon tornado, which was really cool looking.

Their offensive power multiplied due to the rotational force, and any Cicada that wanted to escape was getting pulled intot heir ravaging force. Those that were further away, I took care of using my needles.

[You have slain Hairy Cicada Guard, Lvl 26]

[You have slain Hairy Cicada Guard Captain, Lvl 32]

[You have slain Hairy Cicada Soldier, Lvl 20]

[You have slain Hairy Cicada Guard, Lvl 22]

[You have slain Hairy Cicada Guard, Lvl 27]

[You have slain Hairy Cicada...]

[XP Acquired] x 34

[You have Leveled Up!]

[Elemental Phoenix Heir Level 25 has become Elemental Phoenix Heir Level 26!]

Finally!

I hadn't gotten any skill from that level up, but at the very least I leveled up. My two dragons made quick work of the rest of the Cicadas, but they didn't give me any level.

Eventually, the only one that remained was the large, level thirty three Hairy Cicada, but something told me it wouldn't last long.

That something were my two dragons approaching it alongside the tornado, with Burning Wind eating away at its vitality.

The world will be a better place without you.

I gave out my prayers before recieving the inevitable notification.

[You have slain Hairy Cicada, Lvl 33]

[XP Acquired!]

Damn, no levels...

Ah well, I couldn't complain too much. It was an easy skill, which left a bitter taste in my mouth, admitedly. Was I third partying a hunt? Yes.

But I did not expect it to be so... easy. It was almost infuriating.

I undid all the techniques, unsummoned the dragons and ran down. There were a lot of cores to take, and a lot of meat to eat.

***

After stuffing my face with the boar meat, and with some crispy, well-seasoned Cicadas, I collected all the cores I could get my wings on.

The total tally was one Hairy Cicada Core, One Night-Tusker Core, and about fifteen various Cicada cores. All in all, it was a disappointing haul for the amount of insects I killed.

It seemed that not all weak Spirit Beasts had cores, and neither did all the Strong Spirit Bests. Honestly, it may have been because they were in a similar situation to me— A dormant core.

That was something I had to experiment with eventualy.

I stashed them away in my trusty bag of holding and took off, looking for a better challange.

Thanks to Overeater, I had quite a good amount of energy left to spare.

It looks like Spirit Beasts at my own level were not strong enough for me to take on.

I thought while flying above the forest, carefully heading away from the village, deeper in, looking for a worthy foe.

At that rate I was never going to get enough experience. I wasn't sure what sort of opponents I would have in a few day's time, and  would rather be safe than sorry.

Level thirty seemed like a good enough level to stop at, and consolidate my earnings.

Not to mention all the Beast Cores I would have to absorb after returning.

As I flew around, I felt a call of sorts. It was a strong one, something that attracted the very core of my being. Literally, as my Dormant Core was yearning for whatever that.

And if I wasn't wrong, it was something that was going to aid me greatly.

I kept flying and noticed that the fire Qi in the area had grown considerably. Not only did it feel more comfortable to me than the neutral Qi, but it seemed that my core was actually absorbing the fire energy.

I supposed it made sense, since... I was a Phoenix and all. The amount of Fire Qi I was absorbing was almost negligible though.

However, I the closer I got to the source of the call, the Qi got more potent, and somehow I'd gotten a little bit stronger. The change was minuscule, but it was something worth noting.

As I approached, the calling got louder, more intense. My core resonated with whatever was calling me.

Finally, I saw something in the distance. It was a little blurry, as there was a thick cloud of something around it, but I could immediately tell that it was the source of the call.

At first, it looked like a mountain, but after squinting it became quickly apparent that it was a volcano. A dormant one, by the looks of things, but a powerful one.

It made sense then that the fire Qi in the area was so potent, since it was coming off of it like a storm.

As a result, it was not a surprise to see the plants in the area be more fire-oriented, getting more potent the closer I flew. The beasts were the same as well. Clearly the volcano was something very influental in the area, and one could only wonder if it had an owner.

I wasn't going to think myself better than Spirit Beasts who'd lived there for years, and whatever the thing calling to me was must have called to others as well.

That meant strong beasts, and strong opponents, which meant experience, which meant levels, which meant... power!

Then again, if the overlords of the area were far stronger than me, I wasn't going to pick a fight with them. However, the beasts living around the volcano should be fairly strong as well, right?

With that in mind, I flew lower, just above the canopy of the trees, and scouted the area with my Divine Sense. There were lots of plants I would have loved to eat, but there were also more Spirit Beasts that looked even more apetizing.

Scouting their levels, I saw that most of them were in the low thirties and high forties. It was then safe to assume that the level fifty and higher beasts were residing inside that volcano.

I landed on a tree branch and inspected my surroundings. I wasn't sure how much time I'd flown for, or how far away from the village I was, but I figured nobody important could see me if I were to cause a mess in the area.

With that, I scoped out my potential targets. Considering the fire Qi rich environement, there were lots of fire beasts. I was excited to see what sort of benefits they would give me.

Back when I'd killed the Tusky Fire Boar or whatever its name was, its core gave me quite a nice boost to my own core.

Now an entire forest filled with the stuff? It was hard not to salivate at the thought. Not to mention its meat was also tasty. Maybe those things would be tasty too.

Without further ado...

[Scaled Volcanic Centipede, Lvl 35]

[Ashy Boar, Lvl 31]

[Great Fire Cicada, Lvl 36]

[Volcanic Hawk, Lvl 34]

[Scarlet Tiger, Lvl 40]

Alright... There were quite a few strong beasts I could take on. They were all alone, with quite a good amount of space in between. However, if a fight were to take place, some of them, like I did, would definetely take the chance to kill the both of us.

I wasn't really keen on getting attacked from another angle, so  I had to becareful about who to pick a fight with.

At the same time, I didn't believe my current title would beneift me that much. Since I equipped it solely to deal with the assassins.

That did only leave me with two viable titles, and I wasn't sure which one was better.

[Title: Weaponised Chaos]

[You have become a wild piece in the bigger game of chess. Due to your ability to increase your strength and cause chaos by not playing by the rules, you have been awarded! When Equipped:]

[+100 to all stats; +50% Chance of random events occurring, for better or for worse.]

[Title: Favored]

[Your unprompted joining in the game has made The Great One notice you. Your particular abilities have intrigued The Great One, and your perseverance and most importantly, strange nature, has made The Great One look favorably upon you. When not equipped: This title will grant you a 20% boost in experience gain, and will make you slightly aware of other contestants in the vicinity. When equipped:]

[+120 to all stats; Active Skill: Locate will be temporarily granted; Immunity to Locate will be temporarily granted but other contestants will be periodically informed of your location.]

On one hand, the one that gave me fewer stats didn't put a target on my back, on the other hand... It was twenty whole stat points in each stat more than the other.

Difficult choices... Very difficult choices indeed. I had to think about the consequences of having a target on my back, but from the wording, didn't I already have one?

It did say that it would hide me from that skill called Locate or whatever, so didn't that mean that I was screwed either way?

If they had that skill, then they knew where I was anyway, and if they  didn't, then, well they would know I supposed.

It was a real gamble...

On one hand, getting chased by potential candidates that could already know who I was.

On the other hand, a fifty percent chance of something bad happening even though it shouldn't have... Yeah, the choice was pretty easy.

[Would you like to equip the title Favored?]

[Titles can only be changed 24 hours after equiping them.]

Yes.

As I did that, I felt an immediate and substantial increase in, well, everything. My body felt lighter, but sturdier, stronger, and I could see farther away than before. One hundred and twenty stat points was no joke.

At the same time-

[You have temporarily acquired the skill Locate.]

[The Skill will disappear once the title is unequipped.]

[While the title is equipped, user will not be able to be detected via the 'Locate' Skill. Instead, the other contestants will get an update on user's location once a day.]

Naturally, I had to thse the skill. Upon activating it, I got a vague sense of something. I wasn't sure what it was exactly, but I'd suddenly become of nine other beings, all far away from me. The closest one was at least thousands of miles away, and I wasn't even sure if that was accurate. It felt like they were much farther away.

At the same time, I felt them all become aware of me. That didn't last long, as the skill deactivated, and everything returned to normal.

Well, that puts me at ease, at least.

Since the other contenstants were so far away from me, then I didn't have anything to fer immediatly, and I could keep the Title equiipped to profit from the increase in stats.

And with that done, it was time to hunt.

***

Long Yaotian, as the humans called him, raised his head and looked toward a far corner of the world.

He was a large serpent, long enough to coil around giant trees, and his beuatiful green scales shone under the light of the sun. Currently, he was meditating and absorbing the natural Qi into his flesh, while the large carcass of a now unidentifiable Spirit Beast lay next to him.

Squinting, his tongue tasted the air, and strangely enough, he found himself smiling.

"A Phoenixx... Iss that sso?" He chuckled as he felt the faint link between them begin to fade. "Sso sshe's the tenth heir. I wass curiouss about it. Heh."

Long Yaotian closed his eyes and went back to meditating peacefully. "Let the gamess begin, then."

He was about to forget all about her, when a notification appeared before him. "Hoh... The Forefather wantss me to take care of her? Hmm, I wonder what sshe did to have him take interesst in her. Hehehe... Thiss will be interessting."

With that, he ignored the notification and returned to his meditation session. He was really close to his next evolution, and he wanted to make sure he did everything right to get the ability he'd always wanted.

To cultivate Qi like humans did, and pave his own path to immortality. However, such a special evolution was very rare, and only earned after certain criterias have been met.

One of them was reaching level one hundred, and Long Yaotian was only five levels away from reaching it.
