“What the hell is that?!” The sea serpent asked, its voice weak and failing. Even its thoughts were weakened by the Reaper Qi.

Nothing you should worry about.

Whatever else it said afterward was no concern of mine. I took a deep breath and absorbed the dragon within my dantian. It wasn’t dispersed, but knowing the entities floating around in there, it wasn’t going to stay that way for long.

I did the same combination again, and at some point I’d decided that I needed to pick a name for this strange element, and started my attack on the sea serpent.

My plan was simple, if a bit reckless.

With Elemental Mixture active, I ran around and summoned as many Elemental Waves as I could, stacking them inside its mouth and trying to get as many as deep down its neck as I could.

The area was filled with a mixture of black and white, which was beautiful to behold.

A grunt of pain reminded me that I had to hurry, as upon closer inspection of the sea serpent’s outside, the Reaper Qi had begun eating away at its bones.

How brutal…

It was beginning to look like I was the more merciful killer in this story. Peng Long’s devious Qi was extremely dangerous to face, though. I would rather never have to be his enemy, even if I didn’t like him much.

Dealing with baby Reaper Qi was doable, but against someone like that…

I shuddered at the thought. I would die before I would even be able to cure myself.

It was better if we never interacted again, honestly.

Anyway, with my setup done, it was time for my attack.

I spat out the dragon I’d created earlier and allowed it to run rampant. It immediately got to work and started charring away the inside of the mouth before it had the genius idea to send it down its body.

The smell of burnt flesh and bubbling sounds echoing from deep within the giant sea serpent’s body filled the area for a little while before the mixture dragon disappeared.

“What are you doing?” The sea serpent sounded a little panicked now.

“Stop this madness!”

Clearly, its flimsy statement from before held no water now. Devious thoughts brewed inside my mind as I activated Precise Flame Control and used Elemental Mixture in tandem with Pyro Breath to spew out mixed flames.

The more powerful, more directed attack caused the sea serpent to start squealing, but my claws were firmly planted in its flesh.

Everywhere my breath passed, only charred flesh remained, and even its teeth and fangs turned black from the attack.

I felt the dragon deep inside also cause chaos, and I’d summoned three more, telling them to do the same and destroy any internal organs it could. To dig through the flesh until they found the place where the Golden Core would form after its death.

At the same time, I thought up of an ultimate attack that would deal incredible amounts of damage for the very last minute, when I would want to have the killing blow.

“Phoenix! Stop this and allow me to heal!”

Its pleas were… weak, and not all that scary. I was the one killing you. Would it have listened to my pleas if the situation were reversed? Of course not!

Screw off. I thought you weren’t afraid of death! It was funny to see his bluff get revealed. Of course he didn’t want to die; who wanted to? He was simply arrogant before because he didn’t believe I posed any danger to him.

Oh, how wrong he was. It was too late for him to regret it, though.

The most difficult part of this ordeal was trying to guess when his life was about to end, though. Since a creature like this had a lot of vitality, even though it looked like it was on the brink of death, it could still have tens of thousands of health points left.

I wished there was a way to see that… Inspect was good, but it didn’t show me a lot of things at all!

Damn it!

[You need to find more appraisal stones if you want the appraisal skill to rank up.]

The system was useful, as always. Thank you, but how was I supposed to find more of these? It was you who told me to grab it the last time around!

I was going to deal with that later. Finding more appraisal stones was indeed very tempting, but that didn’t help in the moment.

Is there any other way to figure out how many health points an enemy had left? And I thought you said you couldn’t read my thoughts anymore!

[That…. Well… I-. No, you cannot see other people’s or creatures’ stats without an upgraded appraisal skill.]

For some reason, I had the feeling that System was beating around the bush.

But since I was a little pressed for time, I couldn’t deal with that right then.

I would just need to go by feel and use my super special attack afterward.

Activating Pyro Breath again and taking note of my resources, I started bombarding its mouth again. I didn’t want to use too much Qi, since I never knew what could happen.

The serpent squirmed and tried to open its maw, but it failed. It was so weak now that any sort of movement was too difficult.

Looking outside, I’d noticed that the corrosive Reaper Qi spread throughout its entire surface. It was an ugly sight to behold; that technique was so violent, and the Qi itself was awful. It was probably worse than the Death Qi.

I would never want to be on the bad side of the Reaper Sect if a few well-timed attacks could do that. Realistically, this sea serpent had no chance of winning from the get-go.

That was unless it dodged all the attacks, but that just wasn’t possible. Peng Long was terrifying. I should have taken him more seriously.

I hadn’t noticed it when the young ones hit me with their Qi, but it looked like the attack fed itself on the target’s Qi. The more Qi they used, the more fuel it would have.

Since Spirit Beasts circulated their Qi through their body, that meant that every single time the Sea Serpent did anything, the Qi would flare.

It must have tried to do something the last time around, and the Reaper Qi stopped that real quick.

Truly a bone-chilling attack.

But it worked out in my favor at the very least.

After a few minutes of blasting its mouth with the new mixture with Pyro Breath, I stopped. I was feeling that its demise was near, and the dragons damaging its internal organs were already doing a pretty good job of making it so it couldn’t regenerate.

Truth be told, the bulk of the damage was dealt by the Reaper Qi while I was playing a supportive role.

However, that didn’t matter. At the end of the day, I was going to be the one to get the final blow.

“I suggest you stop these foolish thoughts.” It spoke to me, and I was just about to ignore him again, but what he said next intrigued me.

“If you take credit for my kill, my clan will know. I’m not saying this because I don’t want to die, but for your own good. If you kill me, you will be marked, and wherever you go, you will be hunted. There will be no place under Heaven that you will go and not get found.’

Oh no… I’m scared…

I was, of course, not scared. If I’d backed out each time someone said something like that to me, then I would have never become as strong as I did.

Suffice to say, I did not care even if his words were true.

I’m a Phoenix; I’d like to see your clan fight against Father and his people.

That’s right, two could play at this game!

The sea serpent went quiet for a moment, then asked, “Who’s your father?”

That was a really good question, and I had no answer. Mother never told me, but I was on my way to him… somewhat. I didn’t know exactly where he was, but I was hoping to find out about some Phoenix gatherings from the other Spirit Beast groups.

Like I’d tell you. Your clan will need to find out if they dare chase me!

The giant sea serpent grumbled, its body barely moving despite its best efforts to do so. Its spirit still hadn’t recovered, and from the looks of things, it wouldn’t either.

It was destined to die here.

“Very well… Heed not my warning, but don’t say I wished ill for you.”

Motherfucker you wanted to eat me!

“… Fair enough.”

He went quiet after that exchange, perhaps finally accepting its fate. It couldn’t use Qi, or the Reaper Qi would spread faster; it couldn’t move because I damaged its spirit, and it couldn’t convince me to not kill him, so in the end, death was its only choice.

Sorry not sorry. I thought to myself and bided my time until the moment came for me to claim my prize.

◈◈◈

The airfact sped away from the place where Fa Xiaolan had been swallowed by the Sea Serpent. Peng Long frowned as he looked around, feeling that something wasn’t right.

The technique he’d used, ‘Reaper’s Incendio ’, should have already killed the Sea Serpent.

It was a vicious technique that used a lot of his own Qi. If they weren’t on a ship and the sea serpent hadn’t been so stupid, then he wouldn’t have dared to use it.

But with that technique, the thing should have died quicker than that; he was sure of it. It used a special sort of Reaper Qi that activated when the one inflicted used Qi. While Spirit Beasts couldn’t cultivate, Peng Long was aware of how they functioned, so he knew that such a technique was twice as effective against them.

Yet, for some reason, it seemed like the sea serpent had stopped using Qi. Something told him that the woman had a hand in that, and finally, he flicked his wrist and grabbed an elder from the crowd.

It was Elder Su.

She fell to one knee and bowed, waiting for her orders.

Peng Long waved two fingers and created a symbol that then shot toward the woman’s forehead.

“Go fetch the girl; those are the coordinates of the sea serpent. She should be inside its stomach.”

“Yes, Patriarch.” Elder Su didn’t question how Peng Long knew about the location of the sea serpent, or why he had chosen her. She wasn’t the strongest, and also not the fastest.

One other thing she didn’t question was how he knew that the girl was alive. She didn’t dare, and even if she did ask, it didn’t matter.

Peng Long was strong, too strong, and he had his own ways of doing impossible things.

With her orders received, she bowed and left the aircraft, flying back faster than they’d originally travelled.

One way or another, she was going to find the girl and get her part of the deal.

◈◈◈

I was beginning to grow bored waiting for the Reaper Qi to finish the thing. How much vitality did the sea serpent have, for it to cling to life despite having half its body exposed to the water?

It was… something. I’d seen many grotesque things in my life, but this had to take the cherry on top. The ribcage was exposed, as was the disintegrating flesh, skin, and scales. Not to mention the barely functioning organs that were still working.

My dragons were still frying them as well, but the difference between the two of us was just too great.

Thankfully, the Reaper Qi destroying the sea serpent was part of my plan; otherwise I would have been truly foolish.

The sea serpent let out another groan, its body shaking, but nothing else happened.

It was about to die.

The Reaper Qi had reached its heart, deep in its stomach where I didn’t dare go unless it was dead.

The timing was tight, but I had to try.

For the first time since it’d swallowed me, my claws lost their grip, and I walked deeper inside its mouth, toward the vertebrae.

The spine was huge, more than twice my size, and it looked to be just as sturdy.

However, I could feel that it was currently the weakest part of its body, and that the foreign Qi had gotten to it.

It wouldn’t be long now.

With another sudden groan, I leapt up, spreading my wings and flying straight toward the vertebra that held together its brain to the rest of its body and activated Blade Wing at the same time as Elemental Mixture, wrapping my attack with the new element. At the same time, Strengthened Constitution buffed my body, and two regular Dragon Flames pushed me forward, increasing my momentum.

I spun, my wings at the ready, and aimed at a weak spot of the spine, slicing and severing it from the rest of the sea serpent’s body just as its heart… exploded!

[You have slain Sea Serpent Gu Rao Lu!]

[XP Acquired]

[Congratulations!]

[Elemental Phoenix Heir Lvl 33 has become Elemental Phoenix Heir Lvl 34!]

[Congratulations!]

[Elemental Phoenix Heir Lvl 34 has become Elemental Phoenix Heir Lvl 35!]

[Congratulations…]

[Elemental Phoenix Heir Lvl 37 has become Elemental Phoenix Heir Lvl 38!]

[Achievement: [Oh baby a triple!] Unlocked]

[Achievement: [Aiming for the skies!] Unlocked.]