Adventurers, pressed back into the canyon all the way to the threshold of the Gate, cheered as banshees and ghosts vaporized under the intensity of the flames. Gobs of still-burning ectoplasm fell as holy rain. The horde of undead poured onward, heedless of the flames of consecration and the affinity aura that set their ethereal undead bodies alight, but Ali’s champion was not done yet, unleashing more and more fireballs into the fray in a continuous stream of explosive holy fire. For the first time since she had provoked the dungeon, Ali saw the horde falter as her magic began to break them.

“Buff the mages!” someone cried.

Good idea, Ali thought, agreeing with the perceptive adventurer. With a flick of her wand, she gave her kobold clones a four-way dose of Winter’s Desolate Celerity, accelerating the destruction of the relentless undead. All four of them lit up with a dozen spontaneously cast buffs as the raiders recognized the shift in strategy immediately.

“Try not to shoot Cuddles,” Seth grumbled. “He doesn’t like Holy. I’ll go take care of the rest of the zombies.” Then, the giant undead Sandwyrm vanished beneath the ground, only to burst up amid the ground-based undead with a familiar gargantuan open maw.

Her bow did not falter, nor did she ease up on her magical enchantments as she unleashed her fire-and-lightning-enchanted arrows into the horde of undead, but the overwhelming urgency of the situation had vanished like the morning mists under the rising sun.

Still, she imbued every single volley with her most potent explosive area enchantments, detonating fire and lightning to great effect among the rapidly thinning ranks of zombies and banshees, feeling the heady rush of leeched mana and health overflowing her pool, causing cascades of harmless sparks to fall to the ground below her wings. Of course, she was emptying her mana pool every few seconds by using even her most inefficient mana-dump skills and abilities, pushing her damage to the ultimate peak to avoid Mana Saturation.

“That was close.”

Lyeneru looked down to see the Guildmaster, Vivian Ross, staring out over the thinning horde, her flame-enchanted swords resting gently in her hands and a distant, but focused look in her eyes.

“Yes,” she answered, still unleashing arrows unabated, but she slowly drifted downward, alighting upon the ridge beside her.

“Summoners…” Vivian said, still studying the battle intently.

“Indeed.” Lyeneru forced down the wrongness that twisted in her heart. A lifetime of experience was hard to ignore; experience that insisted necromancers and dungeons were the bane of the living. And yet, Vivian’s comment did not even capture the core of what had just unfolded. In moments, the necromancer and the dungeon had turned the tide of an utter rout, creating two monsters that were capable of standing unbowed against the unimaginable horde of undead that had threatened to break them. Many of them, second-tier undead. A feat that was nothing short of miraculous, even considering the power of their summoner classes.

Her eyes settled upon the terrifying undead Sandwyrm. Terrifying even for one such as herself, if she allowed herself to be honest. Even though she outleveled him, and by quite a bit, she could at least admit to herself that she would have stood no chance of winning against Seth and his minion. Not even with a raid group.

He summoned a World Boss. The thought stirred the unease within her heart, and she was forced to push it down yet again, reminding herself that the quiet, reticent boy was on their side, regardless of his class. The sheer amount of mana he had spent raising the Sandwyrm had shocked her. She could count on one hand the number of mages she had met that had enough mana to cast that, and all of them were of a significantly higher level than he was. And one is a dungeon, she thought, her gaze flickering to the other anomaly in their group, Aliandra.

He had to have built his power with an extremely inventive choice of skills, exceptional gearing, and expensive elixirs and other consumables. She would need to chat with him later to find out how he had achieved that feat. Regardless of how she despised his class, a mind like that was a resource that she couldn’t afford to squander.

And then there was Aliandra.

“It’s unlike Aliandra to make a mistake like that,” Vivian said, her eyes drawn to the Fae dungeon class at the same time as hers.

“She couldn’t have anticipated this,” Lyeneru admitted.

“So, this is not a dungeon break then?”

“Yes, all these monsters are still under the dungeon’s control.” The implications, she left unsaid, knowing that Vivian would understand them in an instant. They had been operating on Aliandra’s assessment of a dungeon’s capacity to reserve mana for minions, and the conclusion they had reached was that the horde spawned by Nathaniel Sunstrider’s dungeon had to be a dungeon break – monsters severed from the dungeon’s control and left to their wildest instincts. But, the Betrayer had instigated something far more ominous – every single monster remained under the dungeon’s control, joining the Blind Lich’s armies as a controlled force. Something far more deadly for the beleaguered defenders at Southport.

The only way such a thing was even remotely achievable was the way they had harnessed the Well of Souls into some kind of eldritch mana battery to power the endless spawns of undead. It was an achievement that dwarfed what Seth had managed. Always full of surprises, she reminded herself – a simple, oft-overlooked fact that made dungeons so deadly.

“The dungeon is still spawning,” Vivian said. “What happens when that mage runs out of mana?”

Lyeneru glanced back at the simply ludicrous monster Aliandra had summoned. Kobolds, everyone knew, were universally weak monsters – widely considered vermin. Pests that fed the lowest-level adventurers in the guild some much-needed experience until they moved on to bigger and more important things.

The kobold Aliandra had summoned broke every preconceived notion she had ever had about the wily reptilians. With a class gained from the dragon-god, Azryet, and the power of a champion dungeon boss, the kobold and her clones were unleashing a literal firestorm of offensive holy flame into the full output of a higher-level, mystic-artifact-empowered, archmage-controlled, corrupt dungeon, and the kobold was winning.

“It won’t run out of mana,” Lyeneru said, answering Vivian’s concern directly. The only response was a raised eyebrow, so she elaborated. “Coria has a rare mana-leech curse she can apply with her arrows. And Seth’s pet has curse proliferation. As long as the fireballs hit, that mage will never run out of mana.”

“So… this situation is stable?”

“It would seem so,” she said, instantly recognizing where Vivian’s thoughts led. The vast horde of undead would take a while to thin out, but once they had cleared it away, the continuous spawning would be easily kept controlled by the combination of the kobold and the sandwyrm. And judicious reapplication of raid-supplied buffs and curses, of course, but that was relatively trivial to ensure. Which meant their raid groups would be free to take on the dungeon itself.

Finally, Lyeneru let a grim smile touch her face. As much as her instincts hated relying on necromancy and dungeon magic, the two of them had created a window through which she could reach Nathaniel Sunstrider – and she fully intended to use it. His betrayal of his people, the death of Nendir, and the corruption of the Blind Lich were an affront to every living being, and she fully intended to purge their evil from the land she had chosen as her home.

“Raid groups, form up,” Lyeneru shouted. “As soon as these zombies are dealt with, we’re going to move out.”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
