Janice laughed. “Oh, that's bad!”

“What happened when the cat ate a clown?” Ren grinned. “It felt funny.”

“S-s-stop!” Janice said and kept laughing.

“Why was the cat afraid of the tree?” Ren asked.

“I don't wanna know!” Janice said and turned away.

“It was because of it's bark!” Ren said and laughed.

Janice shook her head and put a hand over her mouth.

“How do you know when a cat smells good?” Ren asked her, and she wouldn't say anything. “When it's wearing purr-fume.”

Janice gave a long snort of laughter and covered her ears. Ren put a hand on her shoulder, and she looked at him.

“Janice. What do you call a cat that can't stop licking itself?”

Janice opened her mouth to respond then shook her head.

“Purr-verted.”

“Bahahaha!” Janice laughed and laughed.

Notice!

Trouble Recipe ingredient: The Pink Pearl has been completed.

Ren blinked his eyes at the popup. What the...? He thought. He hadn't done anything but fight the last little while, then he thought about it. Clint and the guys! He smiled and wondered what had happened.

*

Clint was glad that a couple of the girls had their own horses and one even had an old cart. With his cart and Izabeal to ride, they loaded everyone up into the different modes of transport and headed down the road away from the now closed Pink Pearl.

“Tommy, send Ren ah message.” Clint said. “Let 'im know we're goin' back ta tha ranch.”

“You got it.” Tommy said and opened the messaging system. “Do you want me to ask about what happened to him?”

Clint nodded. “Ah'm shore he'll tell us evenchually, bu' it's bettah ta ask.”

*

Ren received the message from Tommy, and looked at the remnants of the Sabertooth Rock Golem. He smiled and moved Princess' head off of his lap, walked over to the pile of rocks, and looted it.

Notice!

You have defeated the rare creature, Sabertooth Rock Golem. It's ferocity and toughness was almost too much for you to handle. If it wasn't for your cunning and the last minute intervention by a teammate, you would not have survived.

Rewards: 25,000 XP; 2,500 Fame

Fame Bonus: +75% (100% - 25% from Slow and Steady) = 18,750 XP

Loot gained: Lump of Meteor Ore (small), 3 platinum coins, Pet Rock, Rending Claws (Wondrous Item Recipe)

Total XP: 43,750

Notice!

Excess Fame converted to XP.

2,500 Fame x 10 XP = 25,000 XP

Notice!

You have gained a level! You are now Level 73 and 10 stat points have been automatically allocated.

You have unlocked: Mana Shield (Skill), Widen Effect (Spell)

“Holy crap.” Ren said out loud. I wonder what the guys are gonna think about having me in their party now.

*

Clint got a Party Notice about Ren killing a Sabertooth Rock Golem, and it gained the party a copy of his XP award of 43,750 XP. It was divided up among Clint and the other members of the party; so, since there was 5 of them, not counting Ren, they each got 8,750 XP. If Clint hadn't been an expert cart driver, he would have driven off the road at the appearance of the popup.

“Holy shit!” Billy exclaimed. “What the hell did he kill?”

“Accordin' to tha popup, somethin' called a Sabertooth Rock Golem.” Clint said. “Ah ain' nevah heard of it before.”

“I don't think anyone has.” Tommy said. “Ren said it's a rare creature, and that he'll meet up with us soon.”

Clint nodded. “Ah hope he can explain wha' happened.”

“He'd better explain!” Hank said. “What was he thinking, stirring things up without us?”

“Ah don' think he was thinkin' at'all.” Clint chuckled. “Not wit his brain, anyways.”

The other guys laughed and Clint went back to concentrating on driving the cart, because his attempt to distract the others had worked.

Ah shoulda gone an' tried ta find 'im. Clint thought. Wha' else is he gonna find?

*

Ren went over to Princess to see how she was. After a good meal mixed with a Health potion, Princess was all set to take Ren back home. He hooked the cart up to her, and helped Janice climb into the front passenger seat. He thought about putting her in the back, but then she'd be all alone for the ride and he didn't know if she would like that.

“We're a lot lighter Princess; but, try not to overdo it.” Ren said.

Princess huffed and dug her hooves into the dirt. Please caste Haste on me, My Lord. She asked him. I will pass the nag before she gets to that damnable ranch!

“You better hold on tightly.” Ren said to Janice and took out a Level 5 wand with Haste charges. “She can go twice as fast with this spell.”

“For how long?” Janice asked and wrapped one hand around the available handhold, and the other around Ren's arm.

“Normally, it's only 5 minutes.” Ren said and smiled. “This is a Master Level wand, though. It lasts for 20 minutes.”

“Oh, god!” Janice exclaimed as Ren cast it on Princess. Her golden armor glowed for a moment, and Ren felt her joy at his indulging her pettiness over Clint's mount, Izabeal. Princess waited for only a moment more, then she ran for all she was worth.
