After leaving Maria's embrace, Abby runs across the simple cultivation chamber to hug me tight next.

"We watched every moment of your duel outside. It may have been just a moment for you, but it has been an eternity for me. I thank you for your sacrifice for the lives of the Origin Plane, and hope I have achieved even a fraction of what you have."

The strength in her body is far stronger than expected. It instantly makes me re-evaluate the laws flowing through the Upper Realm.

There has been a significant shift that took place during the years of Realm Waves and the solidification of the construct. It is not only because of the shift in the membrane. It is the fact that she, as one entity, holds the Upper and Lower Realms together with such ancient glyphs and flawless-grade ether. She has played a role in slowly changing the fabric of space within all zones.

Abby is at least a thousand times stronger than Marcellus, the Chaos Demon that managed to break his demonic body from his soul after a billion years of accumulated strength. This is her ability without pulling any borrowed stats from the citizens of this galaxy.

If she were to possess this much strength before we left, holes in the Upper Realm would have been torn apart from the pressure. The system has grown more robust, and the construct has altered the laws of nature and potentials of power in every realm.

When she finally loosens her grip, I smile and channel a wisp of silver threads into her eyes, then point down at the enormous, thriving civilization she has built.

"You've achieved far more than enough. We were your shield, but you allowed life to continue to thrive."

The enhanced vision I share with her for a moment peers down into the zone below, catching Seraphel yawn as he wakes from a long nap.

In an instant, the three of us are tethered together as I void step into another cultivation chamber deep within a black tower hidden from the rest of the zone by thousands of arrays capable of holding back a peak purple-cored lord.

This tower is not marked and does not stand out from any of the other millions of fortresses built throughout the combined cyan and blue zone from the outside.

Yet, it is the main control tower for an extremely profound array separating the densities of divine threads in the center of the zone.

When using fast travel orbs, there is no distinction or difference in cost. One can fly between zones without any worry.

There are even towers owned by Cyan Cored families that have filled their entire fortress from top to bottom with the density of the lesser zone. They only enter from the bottom, yet do business in the higher zone at the top of their towers.

Many Dark Blue Cored businesses act the same way, entering from the top of the combined zones and never venturing outside their towers.

As we appear in the center of the most essential tower in the zone, an enormous Blue Wyvern rests within a special chamber filled with purple threads, unique flawless-grade glyphs of an ancient wyvern legacy, and advanced primordial aura just like Abby.

Unlike the shocked, almost childish reaction of the green-haired woman who still holds only my arm unconsciously, Seraphel's eyes do not change much at the sight of us.

He too lowers his head and glows with white and blue light before shrinking down into his elegant human form.

A thud sounds throughout his cultivation chamber as he falls to a knee. "The Immortals have returned. A new Overseer has claimed this system. I am grateful to have lived to see this day. The Fallen One has not led us astray, and I shall serve you until the day I die."

Another burst of silver and mirror-like threads pours out from Maria's and my hands as I smile and nod.

"Very well, your vow has been heard. There is no need for such reverence in private."

The threads that raise him to his feet flow through his muscles and nerves, even into the depths of his soul, to the point where it feels as though he is standing without any assistance.

The mere nap of a few centuries is nothing compared to the tens of thousands of years he slept below the Green Zone. Our return is not a surprise, yet I start to see the fluctuations of awe and confusion wash over him as he tries to figure out how these strands of energy work.

Abby chuckles as she realizes how she must have looked moments ago, and I walk forward out of her grasp to greet this Ancient Wyvern.

As we shake hands, my perception deep dives into every single tower standing within this dual-zone territory. My smile widens as I see another shift in the laws that has taken place on a personal level within every single link of loyalty.
