Ducal flying islands were designed around that limit, and as such, carried very little permanent spatial compression.

Even the best tethers had a limit, and most higher-Tier immortals carried around too much space with their various storage items to travel safely with a teleporter. They could shed their extra spatial items, but most would rather take a ship and save the hassle.

As such, they were severely limited on space, and to that end, all twelve of them had condensed their personal belongings to a single small ring, leaving everything else in the ship.

Once they were inside the breach, Allie wasn’t confident she could easily teleport back inside without a full waypoint. So even their group would be mostly limited to what they could bring in themselves, even if they had an unbeatable escape route should the need arise.

Following the script of the other leaders, Matt floated down to the world's surface, where the most important Tier 35 groups were surrounding what Matt knew had been a picturesque lake only a few decades prior. Not that it was ruined, but it was well-trodden and the masses had set up temporary varying types of shelters around its shores.

Most prominently on display, was a Sects-style pavilion that drifted upon the lake itself with a gentle breeze. He could also feel a lot of people inside, signifying it as the most important building.

Their initial target.

Sadly, the image of the pavilion was ruined for Matt as he could feel someone deliberately preventing the heavy winds the area wanted to have. He’d have hung up banners and anchored the pavilion if he had been in control of the building. Embracing nature, not subduing it.

Letting his spiritual sense wrap around the planet, Matt inspected the other groups. He was careful not to push any harder than he needed to in order to identify everyone, but he didn’t try to hide his actions at all.

No matter where his attention landed, news was already spreading about Allie being able to teleport them here without their ship and the resulting speculation.

They had anticipated that and accounted for it in their plans. Anyone with half a brain could tell they were about to do something big, so they decided to lean into it.

Mentally, Matt tallied everyone by their Great Power affiliation and tsked at the Sects having ten percent more cultivators of all Tiers scattered through the planet than any of the other Great Powers.

It wasn’t an overwhelming lead, but it was there.

The Sect leader must have realized both things as they tried to hide their numbers by scattering their people far and wide, but ultimately, it was impossible. Anyone could get a hard count as he had done and come to the same conclusion.

The combination of arrogant and deceitful felt at odds with each other, but Matt didn’t bother pondering the machinations any further beyond knowing it meant the Sect’s weren’t in total control of the breach point.

A ten percent advantage wasn’t going to give the Sects a decisive lead, but it explained why everyone was meeting on the Sects compound instead of somewhere more neutral.

The people Matt mentally pegged as the most politically powerful from each Great Power, their representatives had been probing the twelve of them the whole time they descended from space.

Matt was starting to probe them back when Allie did something that caught him off guard. He was used to her doing strange things, but blowing a kiss wasn’t one of their prepared moves.

When he scanned in the direction of where she had made the gesture, he audibly laughed.

Normally, he would have kept it internal and congratulated Allie for making him laugh privately, but he had no love lost for Remi and Patrica. The two had fought so hard to push them off this world, and for all of their efforts, they were relegated to the outskirts. Matt hoped they would stick together for the exploration, but he felt it unlikely they’d stay allied too long. Even now, the two teams had a distance between their camps unlike the more unified alliances.

Not the literal outskirts, the teams still in space were much lower on the relative social ladders, but Matt didn’t mind seeing the team who had pushed them off this world unable to secure any additional benefits for their power.

If they had been Tier 32s, with something approaching Tier 35 combat power, combined with their pinnacle elite status, both teams probably would have been in their respective Great Powers’ inner circles. Instead, they were in a clear secondary status.

From their expressions, he could see they were fuming. He hoped they considered themselves the rightful governors of this breachpoint, having been in control of the world before events overtook them and were bitter at the outcome.

That made their glares to Allie’s taunt far more enjoyable.

It wasn’t often he saw behavior be repaid in kind so quickly.

Continuing on to the central building, Matt was bemused to feel a familiar spiritual presence reach back out to him, as if to double check his identity. He’d been about to do the same thing after the brief encounter.

Evander Vidal stood with an Empire-based Tier 35 exploration group. He wasn’t in charge of the group, that much was obvious, but he was there, and that made Matt look further. Evander stood with a few other lower-Tier but notable Empire exploration groups.

His casual scan made it clear the other ‘super groups’, the loose organizations banding together because of Great Power affiliation to counter the unified Sects presence, had been arguing only moments earlier, but paused upon their arrival.

The exact details of why they were arguing was easily taken care of thanks to the data dump Evander forwarded to them.

Matt almost laughed browsing it.

Instead of his amusement being petty and about the misfortune of others… well.

As he expected, everyone was here to argue with the Sects’ overall leader, the one put in charge by Yun Me herself, Gan Le.

Matt corrected himself. His amusement was still about others suffering, but this time he at least mildly liked the person in question.

Clad in ornate robes from his new higher-Tier sect, Gan Le was surrounded by sycophants and hangers on. He had fought against the tank enough times Matt could tell the ‘Expedition Leader’ wanted to rip out his hair. Instead, he stood around putting on just enough airs to be left mostly alone as everyone else argued with various sect leaders.

From everything Matt could see, the Sect’s had shoved all of their younger immortal generation into the breach, as everyone in charge was clearly new to negotiating with the other groups.

Gan Le’s expression froze as everyone heard one of the Tier 25’s attempts to curry more favor by blatantly putting down Matt, unlike his peers who managed to do so indirectly.

“Ascender Titan’s might is merely a fly buzzing in senior brother Gan Le’s face. To be brushed away at his will.”

By any definition outside of the Sects, it was a blatant provocation. Even the man's fellow ass kissers shifted away from him, realizing he had gone too far with that comment.

Gan Le recovered before Matt could move to diffuse the situation himself. “Boast of your own accomplishments, to leverage the might of others in an attempt to disparage a foe only brings you shame, Junior Brother Su."

The Tier 25 was pale as he bowed to both Matt and Gan Le, but Matt was more impressed by his… acquaintance.

It was clear Yun Me had not only beaten the near peak Tier 28 Gan Le into a better fighter, she also managed to force some tact into the normally blunt man.

After nodding and giving the younger man a way out, Matt took the moment to inspect Gan Le more thoroughly.

The other man's spirit felt solid and refined, like good steel, but despite the best healing, Gan Le’s hands were littered with nearly imperceptible scars that hadn’t yet faded. The contrast was even more apparent when his poised and composed look was shattered as Aster sauntered over, her exuberance cranked up to a surprisingly high amount for such a public place.

Despite her efforts to suppress it, Matt felt Aster's emotions bleeding through. She was like a kid hiding under a box trying to scare someone, but unable to stop giggling about the clever ploy she was going to pull off.

While she perfectly controlled her body, not letting any of that excitement show, she barely bothered with their bond, letting him sense it.

Aster’s question confused everyone further as she asked something that seemed better suited to a private conversation. “Long time no see Gan Le. How has Yun Me been treating you? How has your breach been? Ours has been pretty good.”

Gan Le’s lip twitched a single time, but he perfectly controlled his reaction beyond that to nod as he replied.

“I have been doing well. Through our unparalleled might, the Sects reign supreme in this breach. That is why we will be going into the third layer bubble first.”

Gan Le was clearly using Aster’s comments to try and solidify his position, but Aster didn’t try to stop him, only nodding along.

In a brazen move Matt didn’t expect given their plans, Aster clapped and asked everyone gathered, “So what does everyone know about the worlds inside the bubble? We pay very well.”

Several groups whispered between each other, nearly as confused as Matt was. Checking their private team chat, he saw a comment from Aster indicating she knew what she was doing and for Rah to get ready for his pre-planned part.

Seeing the reply message from Rah indicating that everything felt good on his end, Matt decided to watch the show Aster was putting on.

Pushing his support for her through their bond, Matt waited to be needed and instead started feeling around for what Rah told them to look for.

Matt thought he could feel the thumping like a heartbeat, slowly getting stronger, but he would not be surprised if it was entirely in his head it was that subtle.

Liz leaned into him as Aster finally got someone to speak, and together they watched, knowing they would be busy in a few minutes.

Originally, they intended to scout things out more but Matt didn’t mind the change of plan.

One of the Tier 35 Empire-based exploration groups had a member step forward and speak after they bowed slightly. “Let me start with some common knowledge, Ascender Wraith. Please, anyone correct me if I say something obviously wrong. Currently, we don’t know a ton about the composition of the worlds inside, but we estimate anywhere between a hundred to a thousand planets ranging from Tier 4 to Tier 35.”

Acknowledging one of the few groups higher than Tier 35, he nodded to them respectfully. “Currently, there are several rumors about higher-Tier worlds and several higher-Tier friends have to investigate. They have agreed to stay out of everyone's way except on worlds higher than Tier 35. But in return, we have agreed not to interfere.”

There was an unspoken, ‘so long as the planet wasn’t too valuable’. The three groups obviously over Tier 35 were only average. They were the groups not willing to risk heading to one of the deeper bubbles. They weren't dredges, but they weren't threats to the Tier 35s either.

Once everyone brought their attention back to the man, he gestured around. “Everyone here is vying for who can go through the tether first in a year or two when the connection fully stabilizes. We then expect anywhere from one to three years before the bubble detonates and the worlds are blasted apart from each other.”

When no one moved to correct the man, he bowed slightly before stepping back into his group and Matt nodded to him in return.

Aster was grinning as she stared at Gan Le. “Good. We intend to enter first.”

Gan Le met her blatant challenge with a flat look that seemed almost lifeless given his eye modifications that removed his pupils.

Having spent a few years with the pinnacle elite, Matt could tell he was more confused by Aster’s actions instead of being angry, and his reply was anything but domineering.

“May we speak privately Lady Wraith?”

Outwardly, Aster simply nodded in acceptance, but Matt could feel her gleeful joy through the bond and it was all he could do to resist the older brother’s desire to interrupt her plans out of pure pettiness.

Instead, Matt joined Liz as she stepped forward replacing Aster as his bond took Gan Le to the spot indicated by Rah as to where the bridge would form.

Liz smiled, putting the effort in to making it feel like a friendly gesture as she looked at the gathered Tier 35s from all eight Great Powers.

“What other information do you all have? We were here for about a decade at the start of this and have the chaotic space recordings. We’ll trade them one for one with anyone whose Seekers can speculate about Tiers of the first few worlds inside.”

Being on the border of the bubble for so long, their scanners were able to pick up trace amounts of detail that built a rough chaotic space map. The stronger energies of the third layer of chaotic space were contracting instead of weakening, and as such, were too difficult for their sensors to penetrate with any accuracy.

At least a few of the higher-Tier, more self-sufficient exploration groups had the ability to get some amount of information out of such recordings. Anything was better than nothing.

Originally, they intended to trade a worse version of Rah’s method to stabilize sky bridges earlier via formations for that information, but Liz rolled with Aster’s change of plans easily.

Not a single person accepted outwardly, but over a dozen people reached out silently to accept the offer via [AI].

Liz happily gave the information out to the other groups, the other groups never realizing their asking at all was to cover up the more advanced methods of feeling the Tier of connected worlds Rah brought from his Realm.

