The seven of them didn’t care if the groups stiffed them, but Matt was pleasantly surprised when nine out of fourteen groups who took the information immediately sent what little data they did have.

As groups went back to grumbling with Liz’s offer being mulled over, everyone outwardly waited for Gan Le to return so they could go back to debating.

Seeing several of the Seekers returning to their ships, Matt signaled to Aster to delay around that timeframe, and she eagerly accepted.

If Aster was going to do what he believed she intended to do, they might as well go even bigger in their opening move.

Matt usually didn’t love flaunting his status, but he was going to enjoy it this time.

Ultimately, the gathered groups should be thanking them. Or at least thanking Rah.

Instead of saying any of that, he stepped over to Evander Vidal and his group of people.

To his credit, his group was one of the few who had sent seemingly all of their information over without hesitation. That bought enough of Matt’s goodwill that he was willing to help Evander as well.

Clasping hands with the older explorer, Matt sent a brief message using the contact to help ensure not too many people noticed, and fewer yet would be able to intercept.

The famous explorer smiled as he gestured at Matt while looking at the rest of the group he was in. “Let me get ready to return to my ship. Ascender Titan has been kind enough to agree and say hello to everyone. Donnie, Anela, go inform the rest of the crew we will be arriving shortly. Don’t let yourself be stopped by any of the other groups on the way.”

Matt was a little surprised the experienced explorer hadn’t asked him any follow up questions, but he was pleased with the show of trust.

Seeing only Evander’s core delving group flying down, the people he would take into the bubble with him, Matt felt a pulse of excitement amplify off Aster’s still roiling emotions.

Hanging out with some of the other groups and doing his job as a distraction, Matt burned time as the groups who took their information ran their own tests. Most were dawdling, but some were still obviously running divinations if the pulses of mana were any indicator.

The six that finally sent them any information were added to the list of people to get the second best version of Rah's method for free when they left.

With Evander’s team following them outside, they initially moved away from Aster before Matt turned from the group as if he had almost forgotten his bond. He only wanted to get her before resuming his travel to space.

Or, that was how Matt hoped people read his actions, because Aster was standing on their goal and her bringing Gan Le there had served two purposes.

While chatting, Aster had layered illusions and wards as carefully as she could. Nothing too strong because that would have been obvious, but it was enough to keep casual observers from overhearing her conversation with Gan Le while hiding her real efforts.

Most of the watchers would hopefully think they were negotiating an alliance, but Matt knew there would be no such happy ending.

Joining Aster, Allie and Susanne, who had been following up the rear, ensured Evander’s people and their own support staff made it inside the protective barrier that rose behind them. Those crew members would be their best way to secure valuables in the upcoming on foot exploration, and couldn’t afford to be left behind.

Seeing their arrival, Aster’s eyes widened in apparent panic as she pointed behind Gan Le.

Turning, he spun prepared to block a sneak attack, but there was no one there and his prepared energy had nowhere to go.

Instead, Aster's hand, which had been pointing, became covered in lights as she reached out and grabbed Gan Le’s head, yanking him back.

Seemingly caught off guard, the Sects leader vanished in a puff of ice. Kidnapped in front of everyone.

Being so close, Matt questioned Gan Le’s willingness in this ploy, but stopped caring as everyone freaked out.

Zack and Matt moved to lay out their prepared formation as the countdown started.

Several of the Tier 35s from the Sects looked like they wanted to move and apprehend them, but their hesitation to cross two Ascenders caused them to resort to their words instead of their fists.

Everyone else followed suit and those precious seconds were all the time they needed.

Formation laid out, Rah started speaking and the mana stones glowed with power as they were drained rapidly.

“My name is Ra'thala, for those that don’t know, I come from a lower Realm. Some of you may know of me, but let me say a few things while I have your attention. My people are less advanced than you. That is simply a fact, but we are not without our own specialties. One of our differences is that my people rely on these natural tethers to traverse between worlds. I reached the peak of my Realm, Tier 25, but I never heard of anyone speak of chaotic space as you all know it. So with sky bridges, let me bring a little of my Realm to you. I will freely share a method to help stabilize them. This method will allow people to force a tether to form about three months early. The one I’m about to use, however, is far more powerful and can force a connection to form years early.”

Rah stopped speaking to begin humming.

It began low and quiet, yet grew in both pitch and intensity until the world itself began reverberating like a tuning fork around them. Then out of what felt like nowhere, the hum began to crumble and fall apart. The sound itself didn’t change, yet the sound of reality around them turned to dust, motes of existence swirling back and forth as what had always been solid revealed itself as nothing but an enormous dune of reality now caught in a hurricane as the connection between worlds was forced open early.

The sensation was wholly unfamiliar yet completely understandable.

If Rah’s method was a matter of moving a sand dune to create a bridge across a river, the tethers Matt was used to were more akin to taking that sand dune, processing it into concrete, and building a bridge over that same river. It was stronger and more enduring for that refinement, but that layer of processing and abstraction obscured the deeper reality.

Once that artificial veil had been torn away, Matt could see it how he was supposed to.

When the connection fully formed, he nearly missed as a small burst of Tier 12 essence flowed out of the sky bridge before it vanished among the ambient essence, as if it had never been there. That told him the opposite had probably happened as well. A Tier 30 world, the small amount of Tier 12 essence did nothing for this world, but for the Tier 12 world, that essence would undoubtedly let it speed up its advancement as it made its way to its core or was converted into more usable energies.

He couldn’t spend too long studying it, as Rah continued. “I’ll sell the two better methods after the breach to anyone in good standing with the seven of us.”

Matt didn’t allow his confusion regarding Rah’s change of who their backing was. Originally they intended to use Lila’s guild. Instead of gaming the repercussions of that change out he played his own part by helping to activate the formation.

Above them, the sky bridge formed fully stabilized, the sand dune of existence collapsed in on itself. The space vanished to his everything except his spiritual sense, which could feel the spot where the two worlds flowed into one another as small amounts of essence and matter began to freely mingle and migrate.

Evander looked like he wanted to be upset, but as he and his group were already present, they didn’t hesitate to take advantage of the head start offered to them. It was fortunate too, as Rah destroyed the formation as they entered the spatial anomaly. A bit risky, perhaps, but they had no intention of allowing anyone else the benefits of their hard work.

The sky bridge turned from a safe channel into a dangerous field of blades made out of the very fabric of reality. Each and every grain of ‘sand’ was ready to take their lives with a single touch, but none of them hesitated to start running.

A trick Rah had told them, running despite being slower most of the time, was faster when crossing a sky bridge. It was all about resistance and the right speed was more important than the fastest.

They would have a few months head start now that they had spread the lesser stabilizers, but that was all they needed. The bubble was still shrinking, and they had managed to keep most of their competitors a step behind.
