Frankly, it had been a while since Shiv had had any downtime at all. Not actually particularly long, actually, but a lot had happened since they moved out of Gate Piety to intercept the Inquisition and everything went to shit thereafter.

He still wouldn't consider this much of an actual break, but with no one killing him, no one hunting him, and with no other matters demanding his immediate attention, he could finally have a moment to just sit down and catch his breath alongside the rest of his fellow fugitives.

Across the room, the two rogue professors tossed another mana core into the mercury puddle and continued channeling their own magic in the process. It was the fifth time they repeated this—citing significant mana and item damage. They also argued incessantly as they worked, hissing at each other in harsh tones as they debated on how best to restore the Mask of False Paths.

Every now and again, they would cast a nervous glance at Shiv and the orcs. They also whined about how the Neath’s liaison hadn’t arrived yet, leaving them to deal with this themselves. Shiv was curious about that as well, but it wasn't too surprising, with the city under lockdown and Harlock running around.

For a while, things in their impromptu safe house were quiet. There was plenty to talk about, but everyone was spent, and even with Adam's Shattered Star, some took longer to recover from their wounds fully. Information and business could wait for a while. Candles spent his time lying on a crate and looking at flickering lights on the ceiling, lazily waving his arms at them and giggling every now and then. Five picked at damaged cybernetic implants in his arms with his claws, trying to reattach some severed wires, while Gone paced around the room, seeming happy to be able to move around in a space larger than a jail cell for the first time in ages. Irons, Adam, and Kura seemed content to stand and watch the professors work.

For a few hours, Shiv just flipped his new pan in his hand and nursed his mind on jumping thoughts about Blackedge and their immediate situation, trying his best to keep his mind from wandering toward Udraal and his history.

The moment, however, didn’t last, as Shiv was also aware that the Educator spent the entire time glaring daggers at him, and if he didn't address that, he would try to throw his pan through her face at some point.

Fuck this, Shiv grumbled internally. I’m tired of this overdramatic tension bullshit. We’re getting this dealt with right now.

“Educator,” Shiv grunted. The Forgotten Ascendant kept staring at him without ever bothering to offer him a response. "We need to talk about Udraal. Actually, we need to talk about all your former friends too. Let's get a few things straight. Or, let's skip straight to the violence if we can't decide on that. I’m tired of wasting time.”
