Thankfully, my inability to upgrade my Domain Exo-Suit into Domain Augmentation isn’t the worst thing in the world, as it’ll get easier with time and practice, but those are luxuries I cannot afford here and now in Shi Bei. This is merely scratching the surface of what I’ve learned in the last few minutes however, for more and more Peak Experts take to the battlefield giving me more examples to draw and learn from. I suspect Domain Augmentation is the bare minimum requirement alongside a display of mastery of the eight basic Chi Skills in order to call oneself a Peak Expert, though there still might be more to it that I am missing. Augmentation is fascinating too, because it’s clearly similar to Domain Plating and Manifestation, but a localized effect that doesn’t go beyond the limit of the Martial Warrior’s physical self, which is where most Peak Experts currently sit on the scale of comprehension. I, on the other hand, was able to Manifest my Domain into reality in two different ways. In Meng Sha, I Manifested my Domain to fortify the physical world and prevent the Demon Divinity’s Anathematic Energies from literally nuking the harbour and killing everyone inside it, a feat I accomplished by applying all eight basic Chi skills upon the fabric of reality itself. This is another form of Domain Plating, similar to creating Domain Armour, except this was a specific use case in which I ‘armoured’ reality to prevent the Energy of the Heavens from unmaking it. I’m sure there are other applications for this skill, but what I’m more interested in is the level of Domain Manifestation I pulled off with Blobby’s help.

At first glance, the two methods seem similar, but they work on different levels. Rather than meld with reality, Blobby and I manifested my Domain to push reality aside and create an area wherein my Authority superseded the authority of Heaven. In more practical terms, I essentially brought my Natal Palace out into the real world, a feat I first accomplished all the way back in Sinuji, during my ill-fated clash with Half-Demon Gen. I remember it like it happened just yesterday. There I was, memeing on the battlefield with a broken Core and laughing about the glory of Bobby B when I decided I’d had enough of Gen Shi’s bullshit. There was pain and agony aplenty, but first and foremost in my heart was rage, for I’d worked so hard and suffered so much to get where I was, but now, the Heavens wanted it all back. Without a Core, I would no longer be a Martial Warrior, for I no longer had a means to separate Chi from Heavenly Energy, years of effort just stolen away as the Spiritual System I built up became part and parcel of the Heavens once more.

And in my fury and desperation to keep what I still had, I rejected the world just as it rejected me and severed myself from the reality around me. There within my Domain was my realm and territory, a space which was mine and mine alone wherein I would rule supreme.

Overhead, the carved wooden roof of my pristine bedroom took shape to define the limits of my Authority, and I strode forth to do battle with my foe. No longer burdened by the weight of the world, I Honed my Domain and summoned power beyond anything I’d ever seen before, able to not only survive a point blank pillar of fire emerging from under my feet, but contest with the Half-Demon long enough for Taddy to gather his power and unleash a storm that would send the Defiled army fleeing for the hills. All this was only possible thanks to Blobby’s assistance and guidance, a fact which is true now as it was true back then, only this time, I think I understand why. In merging with Blobby, I am able to make use of his innate understanding of the physical and metaphysical world and meet the necessary requirements for Domain Manifestation. Not just for Domain Plating or Augmentation, which are lesser forms of Manifestation in and of themselves, but full-on, reality replacing, law overriding, Authority Seizing Manifestation, the sort of absolute power all Martial Warriors enjoy within their Natal Palaces, only out here in reality instead.

In short? The literal powers of a god made manifest, albeit in a localized, temporary, and severely limited manner.

I believe this sort of Domain Manifestation is what happens when Demons are birthed, and that the unsettling feeling most call the ‘Father’s Gaze’ is the result of thousands upon thousands of twisted Spectral Intents merging together into one. This also explains why we can’t injure Demons while they’re being birthed, because they’ve generated a pocket reality in which their Will reigns supreme. Unless your Will is powerful enough to crush theirs completely, there’s no contest once you move outside of Heaven’s reach and into the Demon’s own personal demesne.

Hence why I am able to do the same with Blobby’s help. He’s pretty much an anti-Spectre, so it stands to reason he can do whatever Spectres can, not merely elevating my innate understanding and familiarity of the Dao, but perhaps even enabling me to mould my physical body into a brand-new form, one which I likely will only have partial control over designing considering what I’ve seen from Demons. Luckily, his abilities are limited by the fact that I have never wholly given myself over to him, offering neither struggle nor surrender in the face of his desires. Even now, I can feel his hunger stirring from deep within, because merging with him earlier to deal with the obstructions preventing me from Healing Alsantset only served to whet his appetite like the aroma of a home cooked meal. I suspect it’s my life force he’s after, that and my physical existence maybe, as Blobby yearns to become more than just a metaphysical droplet, but with my Will restricting him, he was unable to do anything but watch as I transferred my life-force to Alsantset.

So now we have Domain Plating, which is using your Domain to create a separate and distinct surface in reality, as well as Domain Augmentation, which is wholly merging with your Domain to enhance your abilities. We also have Domain Manifestation which is bringing your Natal Palace out into reality, which I assume requires life-force in some way since I can only do so with the help of an Elemental Spirit that desires said life-force, even though I’m still not entirely sure that life force is a real thing. Shit’s complicated, and there’s still so much more I have yet to discover, a prospect which is both exciting and frustrating at the same time.

Old me would’ve kept agonizing about this problem and maybe derided myself for not being able to figure it all out, but new and improved me knows when to put something aside for later. I’ve already concluded that Domain Manifestation is possible to accomplish with Blobby’s assistance, so there’s no sense banging my head against the wall in an effort to figure out how to do it on my own. As for elevating my skills to match those of a Peak Expert, that will come with time and practice, meaning I can stop agonizing about my personal strength for now. I’ve yet to wholly test my earlier revelation regarding creating a Keystone that is not a Keystone inside my Core that is not a Core, but not only am I confident that I’m on the right track, I’ve also been benched by Akanai for the meantime and in no position to test my theories out. This means the best use of my time now is to observe what other Martial Warriors are doing to elevate my understanding of the Dao, and hopefully devise a method to help the Imperial Peak Experts defeat their foes besides hoping I get lucky with a flying sword or shield and catch the Enemy unawares.

That’s the key to an Imperial victory here in Shi Bei, winning at the highest level of strength under Divinity. At first, I considered enlisting my strongest allied Divinities to launch a coordinated strike against an Enemy Divinity in hopes of taking one off the board. So long as we don’t inadvertently nuke anyone, then it should be fair game, but I quickly realized that was not the way to go. Under threat of death, the Enemy Divinities aren’t going to give a shit about the Treaty, and it’s not like I can stand idly by and allow them to nuke Shi Bei, meaning that if I target a Divinity without good reason, the Enemy might well break the Treaty in full. Even if I can maintain reality in the face of thirty-odd Divinities duking it out, what’s to stop them from moving outside my sphere of influence and bringing their fight to the Citadels or even other provinces?

No, I cannot risk escalating this war any further, meaning I must bide my time for now. So I approached the problem from a different direction and arrived at the aforementioned conditions for victory. As Akanai pointed out herself, so long as I’m around, the Enemy Demons are stuck on corpse clean-up duty, which is disconcerting to watch happen as the bodies of friend and foe alike melt away into nothingness leaving only a bloodstain behind, but a far better alternative than having to contest with the power of a Demon legion. This leaves the Enemy with only their Chieftains, Chosen, and Half Demons to contest against Imperial Peak Experts, which as I already noted is a more even match than most would think. If we’re able to defeat their leaders in overwhelming fashion, this would leave Zhen Shi with one of two choices: either he breaks the Treaty and escalates this into a war of Divinities, or he orders a withdrawal and the Imperial cavalry can run the Enemy down as they retreat.

Or you know, he throws his Demons at me and I Devour them all, but I doubt he’ll be dumb enough to be so accommodating. That’s how I see things at least, which is why I’m so eager to dangle myself out as bait. I’m still standing here in plain sight, but Bai Qi is one of the greatest tacticians currently alive and none too eager to send his Peak Experts into the dragon’s den once more, not after losing so many Mataram Clan Half-Demons in their first ill-fated ambush against me. Instead, he’s doing the smart thing and leaving me untouched while spreading his Peak Experts all across Shi Bei, which has a two-fold effect. First, it limits my ability to affect the matches between Peak Experts, and secondly renders all my powerful guardians essentially useless, since they can hardly leave me to go fight elsewhere. So long as the Enemy keeps their distance from me, their Peak Experts should have plenty of time to react to any flying swords or shields I send their way, while my Spiritual Rifle requires line of sight to have any effect, and is actually quite easily blocked by Domain Plated defenses.

Probably because it’s just Chi or whatever. An actual iron bullet might be more effective, but I have always had terrible aim, so no point even trying.

Of course, Hongji and Liu Xuande are not just going to let Bai Qi have his way. Between their two brilliant minds, they’ve come up with a suitable distribution of strength that should enable our Peak Experts to support one another wherever necessary, and worst comes to worst I could always Cloud Step around to have more of an impact on the battlefield. That’s not in the cards just yet, as Akanai has made it clear that I am more valuable as a deterrent even if I don’t kill anyone for the rest of the battle, though I myself am tempted to Cloud-Step behind Enemy lines to go Demon hunting and restore my reserves of useable Heavenly Energy, because that shit is super useful.

It’s all good and well to harness the Energy of the Heavens by maintaining Balance. I neither struggle nor surrender to the metaphysical weight of its flow, but instead take advantage of it, harness and utilize it for my own purposes. This is my Dao, my Path to power, but as we’ve seen several times today, my ability to use said power is limited by my own understanding and perspective, among other things. Given a few seconds to prepare, I am capable of using the Energy of the Heavens to Hone my glaive and cleave clean through the Domain Plated defenses of a veritable Divinity, but only because I know how to Hone and swing my weapon in the first place. I can also Heal using a Keystone Fountain of Healing, maintain the integrity of reality in the face of a Divinity’s Destructive Intent, and a few other party tricks I picked up along the way, but that’s more or less the extent of my abilities. What I can’t do is use the raw Energy of the Heavens to replicate Mila’s Blessing of the Sun and blind all my foes as they approach, nor can I replicate Yan’s Blessing of Air to cut down hordes of Chosen before they even set foot on the battlements. I don’t know how to create Honed shards of Domain-Plated Claws like Alsantset, or utilize the Ethereal Palm like Hongji, or infuse musical notes with the power to stoke the flames of courage and determination in our allies like Luo-Luo, because I lack their unique perspectives of the Dao. Even though I can harness the raw Energies of the Heavens, I can only use it in ways I understand, ways that are compatible with my Dao, which, as the Abbot so loves to point out, is mostly limited to how to hit other people really, really, hard.

