As the battle for Shi Bei rages on, I stand firm on the battlements and watch it all unfold while simultaneously waging a war with my own emotions.

Despite my light-hearted response to the whole, “I am your father,” thing, there’s no denying the fact that it’s left me with a whole host of uncomfortable emotions I’d really rather not deal with, but in the absence of anything else I can do, I’ve no choice but to face the facts. After transmigrating into the body of a twelve-year-old child, my first memory of this world is opening my eyes to find myself on stage at a slave auction, meaning I have more than a decade of life unaccounted for, provided I didn’t just spring into existence as a twelve-year-old child. Which you know, could’ve been possible, because… I dunno. Magic.

While I myself have never cared too much about my host body’s personal history, when my Half-Demon progenitor revealed his face, the surge of contempt and antipathy roiling within my chest was too raw and real to be ignored. I recognized his face even before he removed his helmet and knew that everything he said was more or less true, because if it wasn’t, I wouldn’t hate and fear him as much as I do. I still have no memories of who he is or what time we spent together, no specific events or abuses to conjure up as reason for my enmity, but those emotions are there all the same. There’s a bitter, seething constriction in my chest as thoughts of violence play out every time I picture his face, and despite my best efforts to stop thinking about him, my hands are still clenched in fury and lips twisted in a snarl from just knowing he still breathes. It’s taken every scrap of willpower I have to stand firm on the battlements instead of striding out into battle to bait him into attacking, but I still find myself eagerly hoping he’ll show himself again so I can plant my rifle in his face and render his cold, arrogant features into a bloody, unrecognizable pulp.

So suffice it to say that I have some hang-ups about my birth father that I was previously unaware of, and I am not pleased to know they exist.

That’s the worst of it, knowing he’s who he claims to be without question and hating him without understanding why. I just know it to be true even though I can’t remember his name or the name I supposedly cast away in favour of ‘Falling Rain’, which in and of itself was a mistake more than anything else. Don’t get me wrong, I kinda like the name I have now, even if it is a little unwieldy at times, and it’s a nice added bonus having an extra brother and grandfather in the family. Granted, they’re both hella surly and generally unpleasant to be around, but they’re good people and family is family after all. That’s the real kicker, because as much as I love my new family, I now have no choice but to accept the truth I’ve tried to deny for so long, that I was unwanted by my mother and father who cast me out to die like an unwanted pest. Much as I try to pretend like I don’t care, I do care because deep down, I am still affected by the memories and emotions of the person whose body I am inhabiting, a child who so desperately wanted his parents to love him. I am Rayne, Falling Rain, and Baledagh all at once, but I am also whoever I was before I transmigrated to this world. Even though I don’t remember a damn thing from before I opened my eyes on that slave auction stage, I am still affected by it all the same.

Maybe there’s still a sliver of the original soul still left behind, or maybe those memories aren’t memories, but leftover emotions ingrained into my soul. Who knows.

Worst of all? Now I get to wrestle with a mountain of sorrow and resentment as I mourn a mother whose face I can’t remember despite knowing she loathed me enough to sell me as a slave. This I also know to be true, because it pains me in a way that is all too real. This is the betrayal the Abbot was asking about, the traumatic event in my early childhood that led to my massive trust issues and the underlying reason why I never asked about my birth parents in this life despite my boundless curiosity. I knew it would be unpleasant, and now it has come time to deal with this truth I’ve been avoiding for so long.

My birth mother didn’t love me and cast me away because I was unable to fill the void in her heart left by the absence of her precious little light.

That would be Gerel, whose name literally means ‘light’ in the language of the People. I knew I didn’t like him the second I laid eyes on him, but I never really understood why until now. He’s my brother, the person I failed to live up to in my mother’s eyes, so it’s no wonder why I admire and yearn to surpass him. Not only is he everything I want to be, but more than that, he’s the person I was supposed to replace in my mother’s heart, a role I failed to live up to and a truth I feel so keenly it pains me in ways I cannot even describe. When that hateful bastard of a Half-Demon started telling us about her dismal fate, I told Gerel to ignore him because I knew he only wanted to see our pain, but that advice was also for me because I was ready to throw myself at our progenitor to rend him limb from limb for what he did to my mother, someone whose face I cannot even remember but still love all the same.

A good thing I didn’t move however, because in all likelihood I would’ve been the one rent from limb to limb, since it is now painfully clear that I am no match for a Peak Expert in single combat.

Something I’ve known all along, but still not a pleasant truth to face, especially in light of Dad’s high expectations. Forget the stupid Half-Demon progenitor whose name I refuse to ask for, because the only father in my life is Baatar, and it stings to know I’ve let him down. Not that he would ever say as much, or even care too much about it, and I can feel his love and pride emanating from somewhere nearby, but it still hurts to know I couldn’t live up to the hype after riding in on a massive tidal wave of Water Chi. Dad wanted me to show off my skills and raise morale for the soldiers of Shi Bei, but all I managed to do was compromise my sister’s safety and almost get both of us killed.

That’s why Dad and Naaran both quailed before Akanai’s gaze, because they’d overestimated my abilities and showed everyone that I’m not as strong as they thought. That’s not to say I’m weak either, as I’m strong enough to kill a Peak Expert, but not strong enough to go toe to toe in a fair fight. I’ve collected all the ingredients necessary to bake me into a Peak Expert, but I messed around with the recipe and came out as something… not better or worse exactly, just… different. In more helpful terms, I have all tools necessary to punch above my weight class, and even take a hit here and there if I need to, but the competence with which I use said tools is sorely lacking. For example, if I were a real Peak Expert, Mataram YuGan’s surprise attack wouldn’t have blown me off my feet. I know how to parry attacks with Deflection, mitigate impacts through Reverberation, and maintain my poise through Stability, but despite sensing the attack before it arrived, I was only able to Deflect YuGan’s attack, which was why Alsantset felt it necessary to come to my rescue in the first place.

This might sound like I’m being overly harsh on myself, but I set the bar pretty high when I made my big entrance on this battlefield, to say nothing of how I cut down a Divinity with a single blow. Me failing to even meet the basic standards of a Peak Expert is like finding out your role model thinks the earth is flat and that lizard people are in control of the government. Really takes away the shine of his or her accomplishments, and the shame and embarrassment are almost more than I can bear. Especially in light of everything else that’s happened in the last twenty-four hours, so rather than push my luck and go back into battle once more, I stand on the battlements and try to get a handle on my emotions.

Which goes about as well as it usually does, meaning not at all. Stewing in my discontent, I comfort myself by comforting my scared doggo in the vast emptiness of my Natal Palace, cuddling him close and patting his chest while leaving the bulk of the outside world to my Natal Souls. Peace and Tranquility are a sight to behold as they float around and defend me like sentient weapons, but even as cool as they are, they’re not all that effective against a guarded foe. Even the average Chosen has the power, speed, and coordination needed to knock my flying weapons out of the air, with the caveat being that they see them coming. More than once, my sword and shield have been sent hurtling away by Joe Chosen batting for the Defiled, and it takes a not insignificant amount of effort and willpower to rein them back in. Granted, it doesn’t really feel like I’m doing anything at all, what with my Natal Souls handling all the minutia, but that doesn’t mean it doesn’t tire me out. I can feel my Chi flowing through my Spiritual system as my weapons fly about, guided by my senses both physical and Spiritual to hunt down any and all Concealed assailants converging around me.

Which I gotta admit, is pretty damned handy. Even if I fail to kill every last Wraith or Half-Demon, they’re forced to reveal themselves in order to defend against my flying weapons, leaving them easy prey for Dad, Naaran, and the rest of my hidden protectors waiting in the wings. Still doesn’t make up for the loss of face, given how I came in looking like I could call the winds and summon the rains but ended up not being able to carry my own weight in a battle between Peak Experts. I set expectations at an unfathomable height and let everyone watch as I failed to even reach the bar, which hurts me all the more because now I’ve made a short joke at my own expense.

Seriously, this might be the most infuriating part of all. Where is the justice in this world? Do genetics not matter anymore? Gerel, Naaran, and that stupid smug Half-Demon aren’t the tallest Warriors around, but no one would ever call them short, so why am I a pint-sized manlet instead of a towering hero on the battlefield? Stupid Gerel and his former baldness, looking oh so majestic with his long, flowing hair and shimmering black and silver Runic Armour, the very picture of a valiant Warrior as he trades blows with the Crimson Reaper in a furious exchange. That should be me, looking all awesome and inspiring like a hero out of fable, but noooo. I have to stand here trying not to pout because pouting makes me look like a petulant child.

But I can’t help it. I have to pout. I just remembered that my parents never loved me and it hurts more than I care to admit.

To take my mind off my enigmatic past and plethora of personal issues, I turn my mind towards unravelling the mysteries of the Dao instead, and boy there are a lot of them. The more I learn about the Dao, the more questions I uncover, something that is neither new nor unexpected, but a concept that is truly hammered home now that I am skilled enough to perceive the intricacies of what constitutes a Peak Expert. Take Alsantset for example, who pushed past her limits to become comparable to a Peak Expert in offensive ability, a feat which I can envision and explain as many times as I want yet still never replicate through my own efforts. The what is easy, as she merged with her Domain to essentially Domain Plate her physical and mental self, which resulted in an Augmentation of her abilities. This allowed her to not only move faster and hit harder than ever before, but also react with inhuman reflexes and ingrained instinct born from countless hours spent Demonstrating the Forms. As for the how? No idea. Not a single clue. It makes sense, but also doesn’t make sense, and I have no idea why it works much less how to follow suit. Even though I can create a Domain Exo-Suit to help empower me in battle, it’s not the same as Domain Plating every fibre of my physical existence, which is just as complex as it sounds.

That isn’t to say it’s impossible either, as I suspect that I unintentionally pulled off this Domain Augmentation when I struck down Vyakhya, but as already stated before, that was a special case in which my opponent stood still and waited for me to hit him. Not exactly useable in a real fight, and won’t be until I can manage it effortlessly and call myself a Peak Expert. Even my sure-fire method of making Natal Souls handle all the heavy lifting failed me here, which makes sense once you think about it. Domain Augmentation requires you to Manifest your Domain within your body, mind, and I would assume soul as well, linking them all together to become more than just flesh, blood, and whatever else it is that powers your brain and soul, something I can hardly accomplish while divested from myself in the form of a Natal Soul and require Blobby’s help to achieve at no small cost. Prime Me needs to be the one doing the heavy lifting here, which is annoying because I’m also the one who needs to handle everything else like moving and breathing and what not.

Seriously, how do people even function most of the time? It’s a fascinating subject to delve into, all the seemingly autonomous processes we keep track of in the back of our heads, but now hardly seems like the time to get into it.

