But… if I had more useable Heavenly Energy, then I could share it with the Warriors of Shi Bei without any cost to my soul or life-force or whatever, and they too can utilize the Energy of the Heavens in their own unique way. With enough usable Heavenly Energy, I could empower my allies to defeat my enemies while I stand around looking handsome and dignified. Or surly and exhausted more like, but it doesn’t matter what I look like so long as we come out on top, which we definitely would if I had more useable Heavenly Energy at my disposal. Zhen Shi got all his panties in a twist because I was able to transcend the limits of the Martial Path without ascending to Divinity, but right now, I am sorely limited by my lacking experience, comprehension, and familiarity. You know who doesn’t have those same limits? Any one of the Peak Experts here in Shi Bei, so assuming I could supply them with usable Heavenly Energy, they should theoretically be able to surpass their limits as well to hit harder than a Peak Expert without succumbing to the pitfalls of Divinity, the same way I did in Meng Sha.

All of which is a pipe dream for now, since the Demons are keeping well-hidden and well out of reach as they consume corpses as quickly as these two armies can produce them. Much as I would love to stop this desecration from happening, there’s not much I can really do besides ignore it and focus on elevating my own personal understanding of the Dao.

The first match I am drawn to is the closest one, a gripping battle between my newfound older brother Gerel and the Mataram Brigadier who I only know as the Crimson Reaper. Despite being maybe half his opponent’s age, Gerel is doing more than holding his own in their exchange of glaive against spear, their movements so smooth and fast I doubt most soldiers can even follow it. Though it appears as if they’re evenly matched at first glance, I sense that Gerel has the upper hand, for hidden within his powerful, domineering, and almost berserk style of offense is a hint of soft tenderness that tempers his strength from within. Though it appears as if he is holding nothing back and giving this battle his all, he is wholly in control of his actions and not yet reaching beyond his abilities while his foe is clearly already going all out. Regardless of what Movements they use or cunning tricks they have in hand, Gerel should win this match maybe seven times out of ten, because he is able to hold back that tiny little bit which offers him so much more freedom and versatility to work with.

When you strike with all your might, you have no margin for error, but if you swing with ninety percent instead, you can exert 100% to alter course if need be. There’s more to it than that, but even this much is enough to show the difference between them, one that will only grow as their match stretches into hundreds, if not thousands of exchanges made.

They’re close enough that I could probably send a flying sword their way, but I doubt Gerel would be pleased to know that I’d helped. If anything, he’d probably shoot me an angry glare for ruining his chance to progress along the Martial Dao mid-combat, so I’ll leave a Natal Soul to monitor him for now and help only if necessary.

The next match to catch my attention is one between Situ Chi Gan, the aged guardian of the Situ Clan and Mataram Minzhe, the Whirling Dervish. Fascinating as it is to watch Chi Gan fend off a flurry of attacks with every wave of his sword, this is a battle too far beyond my meagre comprehension to benefit from. The same goes for Jeong Hyo-Lynn’s match against a Half-Demon Bristleboar, whose chitinous hide appears impervious to the Sword Saint’s triumvirate of weapons as she weaves in and out of combat to avoid his devastating flurry of twin hammer blows. Marshal Quyen Huong’s battle is much easier to understand as he holds multiple Peak Experts at bay using his massive, oversized halberd, a weapon maybe three and half times longer than he is tall which he wields like a conductor’s cane in one hand.

Grandpa Du, Exarch Gam, Lei Gong, OuYang Yuhuan, none of these matches and more spark any sort of Insight or Enlightenment, which is really what I’m after here and now. Each of those Warriors stand at the Peak of the Martial Path and arrived there through means entirely their own, so I would be better served studying someone who took a more orthodox route. One name immediately springs to mind and I turn my attention to Hongji, where I find him still deeply immersed in Insight even after four, long hours of fighting. With a wave of his arm, he delivers an Ethereal Backhand Pimp Slap that is nothing like the Palm of old, one which sweeps clear the battlements before him and knocks a Mataram Half-Demon off his feet. One of Hongji’s subordinates deals the fallen Defiled a lethal blow, for the good Commander has no time to spare as he fends off three more Peak Experts who’ve come to take his head.

An Ethereal Fist shoots out and slams home into the first Half-Demon, cracking his armour and sending him flying off the battlements. Following up his punch with another wave of his hand, Hongji delivers what appears to be another Ethereal Palm only for his foes to brace themselves to resist it. The cunning tactician knows better than to use the same move twice however, which is why this seemingly broad Palm is actually a concentrated Slap instead, one which hammers into his closest foe. Blood and teeth spray out in all directions as the unfortunate Half-Demon spins in place, but he won’t suffer the pain of regrowing teeth as the slap was so powerful and directed that it snapped his neck. Still waiting for a palm that will never come, the third Half-Demon doesn’t even have time to scream as Hongji’s Ethereal Finger plunges into his eye and exits out the back of his skull, spewing brain-matter across the concrete battlements that is soon absorbed as well.

Four Peak Experts killed in less time than it takes to blink. Should he survive today, this singular exchange proves Chen Hongji is more than deserving of the title ‘Living Legend of the Empire’, and I intend to see that he receives his due consideration.

Seeing these Ethereal attacks makes the pieces fall into place in my mind, for I see in them the sheer versatility of the eight basic Chi Skills. Not just in how they’re used individually, but also how they’re combined in various ways. I’ve already accepted that the four Primal Blessings each represent a subset of the myriad of unique forces in the universe, ones that are intrinsically linked with the eight basic Chi Skills, but now, Hongji has shown that you don’t need a Blessing or Talent to meld those Chi skills together. Seems like a fairly obvious statement, given how everyone and their mother knows how to use Reinforcement and Amplification to magnify the power of their attacks, but that’s merely using the two skills in tandem, or one overlaid the other. What I’m talking is more than that, not just a combination of two skills but a merger of them to create a new skill that is greater than the sum of its parts, something which is far more difficult and complex than it sounds.

And yet, the results are well worth the effort. Just look at Hongji’s Ethereal Palm, which is more than just Domain Plating, but also a combination of Reinforcement, Deflection, and Guiding to unleash a physical attack using Chi. Add in a dash of Amplification on impact and he has his Palm, but a piercing Ethereal Finger requires no small amount of Honing added to the mix, while an Ethereal Fist requires Stability to bind all the forces tighter together, and a Slap requires Reverberation on top of that as well to differentiate it from the solid force of the Fist and pushing force of the Palm. Hongji doesn’t just layer these skills overtop his plated Domain either, but merges them within it, creating a unique combination of skills that forms a completely new force which is wholly unlike any of the base forces it is comprised of. Palm Force, Fist Force… Finger Force? Ew. Slap Force? Ha.

Okay, the naming scheme needs work, I admit that much. Even though the Abbot would say I am taking the simple and making it complex, I can’t help but feel as if each of those new and unique forces deserves their own name, because they’re clearly different. Yes, at the base level, it’s just using a combination of the eight Chi skills in different varying mixes, but names have meaning. Cake and bread use the same basic ingredients, but they’re still different enough to deserve distinction. In this same vein, this opens up the possibilities to a myriad of different forces in the world, like Sword Force, Sabre Force, Spear Force, Hammer Force, and more, for there are an infinite myriad of Dao’s in the world and each one is unique in its own way. A sword is different from a sabre, no one would argue this, the same way everyone understands that a thrust from a spear is very different from getting stabbed by a knife. What’s more, even though I say that these forces are a melding of the basic forces, it's not so simple to accomplish using Chi skills alone. Similar to how two Martial Warriors will find it difficult to merge their strengths together due to differences in style, mindset, and ability, merging two Chi skills together is like trying to put together a puzzle wherein the pieces are constantly changing in shape and orientation like… like…

Like electrons in a chemical compound. Sort of? Kinda? Maybe?

“Boy.” Jolted out of my thoughts by Akanai’s Sending, it takes me a moment to decipher the rest of her message in a way that makes sense to my distracted brain. “If you wait any longer to act, we might well lose the city and battle altogether.” It’s cute that she thinks I can do something to change the outcome without breaking the Treaty, but then it occurs to me that she’s much smarter than I am and probably knows something I’ve overlooked. Once again exhibiting her mind-reading skills, Akanai’s tone tells me she’s rolling her eyes as she Sends, “Your Aura boy. Hone it to distract the Enemy Peak Experts. Start with the Mataram Patriarch who is about to skewer Han BoHai.”

…

……

Seriously?

All this time, I’ve been wracking my brain for ways to help out, and I just jumped straight to “Devour Demons and hand out Heavenly Energy like presents on Christmas” without even considering Honed Aura?

God damnit. I hope everyone is wrong and there really is a cure for stupidity, because I sure as hell could use one.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
