Nick’s insights into the fundamental nature of abilities, superhuman mental attributes, and growing proficiency in manipulating vital energy streamlined his development. He cleared the understanding requirements to advance Force Armor, Force Riposte, and Enhance Physical Senses the very next day.

Through use, you have improved the following skills:

Vital Energy Manipulation has increased from [23] to [24].

Congratulations. You have deepened your understanding of Force Armor and cleared the requirements to advance this ability to Rank 1.

Congratulations. You have deepened your understanding of Force Riposte and cleared the requirements to advance this ability to Rank 1.

To say this was welcome news would be an understatement. Nick would accept the prompts in just a few minutes, but the next update was so exciting that he wanted to deal with it first.

Congratulations. You have deepened your understanding of Enhance Physical Senses and cleared the requirements to advance this ability to Rank 2.

Would you like to look at the upgrade options for Rank 2 now?

“As a matter of fact, I would. Show me what’s on the menu, if you would be so kind.”

You can alter the ability in one of the following ways:

Those options are pretty straightforward, but which one do I want? He wasn’t using his token this time, so Nick considered each upgrade in turn.

While the pros and cons were simple right now, each choice would take the ability down a different developmental path. He strongly suspected that Enhance Senses’ Rank 4 upgrades would focus on the organs he chose, enhancing them in ways he couldn’t even begin to imagine.

Boosting my eyes and ears would be useful in almost any situation. It will help me scan my surroundings and detect stealthy enemies. It’s also a great fit for Size Up, since the skill can only analyze threats that I can perceive to at least some degree.

The vision and hearing path would synergize with his Trailblazer Profession, making it easier to advance skills like Tracking and Pathfinding. On the future upgrades side of the equation, he would eventually be offered some type of super vision, maybe even the ability to peer through solid matter. Better hearing would be welcome too, although he wasn’t as interested in specializing in it later.

The tongue and nose path would let him track by scent, navigating the hidden world of odors beasts used all the time. Some animals had olfactory senses that were orders of magnitude sharper than his own, and boosting his sniffer was bound to come in handy from time to time. An enhanced sense of taste would be rewarding in and of itself, making food even more enjoyable. It would also help him detect drugs and poisons in his environment and synergize with his Foraging skill.

The benefits of upgrading his tactile perception were harder to analyze. It should make it easier to feel subtle changes in his environment, like the movement of air or alterations in temperature. It would help him find hidden switches and the like when probing with his fingertips and would be useful if he ever took up a crafting Profession. It might even make him more aware of his own body, which could assist him in improving his combat techniques.

He refused to let the possibility of the path magnifying his physical pleasures influence his decision. Although, if it made his quality time with Liz feel even better than it already did… Down boy. He nipped that train of thought in the bud. There will be plenty of time for that when we finish this quest.

In the end, he went with the first option. While the other paths hinted at some tantalizing possibilities, he would be crazy to pass up the opportunity to improve the two senses he relied on in battle, exploring, and navigating his daily world.

When Nick confirmed the prompt, he was drawn into his brain, watching while the System upgraded the ability’s neural pathway.

He memorized everything he witnessed, taking him one step closer to understanding the structural changes involved in the process. Since he had experienced quite a few of these visions by now and could divide his attention without losing focus, he decided to try something new. With an effort of will, he shifted part of his focus away from his brain and toward the pulsating wellspring of vitality that was the source of his stamina.

While a fraction of his mind studied the System’s efforts as it added conduits running from his energetic core to his sensory organs, the lion’s share of Nick’s concentration was centered on the changes occurring to his stamina well, which only happened when he was advancing a combat art or hybrid ability.

The connections between his core and his brain felt like tiny tubes carrying mana to and fro, but the pathways for his stamina were altered through a different process.

Instead of starting from scratch, it felt like lanes were being added to a stamina highway that ran in one big loop from his well to his head and back again. Smaller roads extended into each of his limbs, which circled back around to join the main flow.

Widening these pathways let more stamina suffuse his sensory organs without creating a traffic jam that impeded the efficiency of the loop. It was fascinating, and his observations planted the seeds for several ideas. He would water them and see what grew when he wasn’t travelling through a life-draining dungeon populated by creatures capable of destroying entire planets if left unchecked.

Soon, the process was complete. Before the vision faded away, Nick tried to take in the changes as a whole, examining the balance between his stamina highway, energetic network, and the neural pathways connected to both circuits. It only lasted for an instant, but the insight provided fertilizer for the inspiration he was cultivating, taking him one step closer to understanding the rules governing the vital energy empowering his abilities.

Then the altered state faded away, and he stepped back into his body. He was pleased by his progress and thrilled to have given Enhance Senses a timely boost, since he was sure that he would be relying on it sooner rather than later.

With that out of the way, all that was left was to take his new-and-improved ability its maiden voyage and find out what it could do.

When Nick switched on Enhances Senses, he could tell right away that more vital energy was flowing into his eyes and ears compared to his other sensory organs, which seemed about the same as before. As stamina and mana infused his eyeballs, suffused his optic nerves, and imbued his ear drums, his jaw dropped in astonishment.

At Rank 1, the ability had provided sight and hearing superior to the peak of what humans could achieve prior to the System’s arrival. The enhancements he was experiencing now blew that out of the water. It was overwhelming to focus on everything at once, so he began by concentrating on his improved visual acuity, shutting out his other senses with an effort of will.

It was hard to put what he was seeing into words, since this went beyond anything his species had experienced before. Everything was impossibly sharp, to the point that even the objects he wasn’t focusing on were crisper than his natural vision. He could count the hairs on Bandit’s body from five hundred feet away, make out every bare branch jutting against the distant horizon. At the same time, he could perceive minute details on nearby objects. Even the tiniest features leapt out at him.

“This is incredible,” he reported. “This upgrade will make it much easier to detect threats in my environment, and the world is so fucking beautiful. Even this ravaged terrain is stunning. I can’t wait to see what Earth looks like when we return.”

The weird thing was that his vision wasn’t telescoping or microscoping to make his field of view zoom in, which meant he could take in all the extra details at the same time. That brought him to the second reason why this experience was so unique. The pre-System human brain simply couldn’t process that much stimulus and make meaning from it. But Nick’s brain was something new, the product of his insanely high Creativity and Mind, learning to perceive several new types of energy, and his growing psychic powers.

In short, he was able to integrate a great deal of what he was seeing. His boosted vision didn’t just let him observe the world in greater detail; it let him perceive the complex interactions between every object he could see. He could sense a breeze coming by watching the world sway, make out the movement of creeping creatures against the backdrop like they were lit up in neon lights.

Using his superhuman sensory organs and mage sight together let him analyze his environment in entirely new ways, although it was going to take years of trial and error to truly master this new form of computational analysis. For now, all that mattered was he could perceive threats in his environment like never before, and his enemies would have a harder time evading his notice.

Marveling at what the future might hold as humanity continued to evolve at an unprecedented rate, Nick turned his attention to his ears. He closed his eyes to enhance his focus and drank deep from the soundscape around him.

He could hear the beating hearts inside his friends’ chests—their rhythms as unique as a fingerprint. He could make out their breathing just as clearly, along with the tiny noises that living bodies constantly made, along with the minute articulations of their clothes, fur, and gear. He could visualize exactly how they were moving, even with his eyes closed.

In fact, when Nick activated his Theater of the Mind’s Eye technique, which he had used to navigate Blackmist Bog when the sight-reaving mist engulfed him, he could not only create a flawless mental map of his surroundings but update it in real-time based on what he was hearing. The next enemy that thinks I’m helpless just because I can’t see is in for one hell of a surprise.

Next, he switched on his mage sight while keeping his eyes closed. While he interpreted the mana in his environment visually most of the time, he wasn’t actually seeing it with his eyeballs, which meant his eyelids weren’t a barrier to his energetic senses.

Perceiving mana added another layer of depth to his mental world, supplementing the soundscape to create a living model of his surroundings. He could see Lurk bending down to scratch her tail, Kenji draining a flask of water, and Bandit relieving himself behind a tree.

To test the limits of his combined technique, Nick opened his eyes and tried to feel the minds around him too, taking in the totality of his environment with all seven senses and his mental map at the same time. Even with his current attributes, it was so much information that his head felt like it might split apart, although it offered a tantalizing glimpse into what might one day be possible.

Nick needed to adjust to his upgraded eyes and ears, so he shut down his mage sight and psychic senses, and deactivated Theater of the Mind’s Eye. Over time, his brain began to adapt, letting him use more of the information, although he still had a long way to go. The last thing he wanted to try was combining Enhance Senses with Size Up to see how well the skill could incorporate the extra data.

The results were impressive.

Size Up was having a field day, drawing on an enhanced dataset to scan the world for threats and uncover clues regarding their nature. With Enhance Senses, mage sight, psychic powers, and Sense Hostility, Size Up had a wealth of information to draw from, and he was eager to try it in battle.

After bringing his experiment to a close, Nick accepted the prompt and took Force Armor to Rank 1. The vision was brief, since he had obtained the ability recently, but it helped him realize just how much his mage sight and free casting had improved since entering the Labyrinth. Going forward, I should be able to clear the first two ranks for any new ability within a few weeks.

He advanced Force Riposte too, using the vision to discern the optimal moments to use Riposte in combat. With any luck, he could take Riposte and Heavy Blow to Rank 2 while he was in the dungeon. He already had all the essence he needed and was eager to upgrade both powers.

If we’re going to battle the dreadbeast monarchs and come out ahead, we need all the help we can get.
