She had learned several important lessons during her first boss fight. The importance of healing – there was absolutely no way she would have made it through the fight with health potions alone. Theon had grudgingly agreed to heal whenever she asked, and she had deliberately waited till she was below half before she asked him, relying on a heavily defensive strategy. She didn’t want to annoy him, but she wasn’t certain if it was the smartest approach, but at least it took advantage of her Tenacious aptitude to boost each of the heals he had given her.

Her second lesson was the importance of the guild, and proper information and resources. She had used all of Basil’s antidote potions in the fight, but they had made such a crucial difference, that they had defeated the boss on the first try.

I gained two levels, she thought, but she would look at that later.

“Malise, can you help me gather some of these mushrooms? I promised Basil I would collect them so he can make poisons.”

“Poisons, you say?” Malise’s head cocked to the side, a strangely intense, covetous expression on her face, and a low sound like a purr coming from her throat. “This Basil, he is a guild herbalist?”

“Yes,” Sabri said, shaking off her teammate’s creepiness and pointing out the red-and-white toadstools. Malise had Herb Gathering, and that would be needed if she wanted to harvest them effectively.

“Too bad this thing has no loot,” Theon said, kicking the spider.

“Brena said there’s a quest on the jobs board for monstrous spider silk. It pays quite well,” Sabri said, pointing up at the roof. She had memorized all the jobs that she thought she might have a shot at or paid well. And there was more web than she could carry in her ring.

“Oh!” Theon exclaimed. “Now you’re talking!”

Brena gave her a grateful look, and she was somehow certain it was for more than just the reminder of the job. They had all succeeded as a group, and everyone had leveled up – next time the fight would be easier.

After she had filled her storage enchantment with poisonous mushrooms and web, they all turned to head back to the guild.

I just hope that repairing my armor and shield won’t cost too much…

They knocked on the door to Pretty Powerful Potions, but their only answer was a series of muffled thumps from somewhere inside. Mato turned the handle and pushed the door open. As soon as Ali entered, she was assaulted by a shockwave of sound as a series of explosions ripped through a table full of apparatus over by the far wall, filling half the room with a cloud of dense white smoke and sending shards of glass and debris flying everywhere. A long and inventive series of curses could be heard as the explosions ceased. Ali waited, but after a few moments even she was becoming impressed with just how creative the invective was. By the time Morwynne emerged from the smoke, covered in soot, she still hadn’t repeated herself even once.

“Oh, hi!” she called out in a bright voice that seemed to completely ignore the damage and swearing from just a few seconds ago. She walked over to greet them, hopping up on a chair so she could be on the same level as Malika and Ali sitting on her barrier.

“We were wondering if you could help us with some research,” Malika said, reaching out and healing the Gnome. “This thing seems to be an alchemical reagent, but we were wondering if you knew what it could be used for, or how to use it?” She pulled out one of the Essence of Living Flame, holding it in her hand and showing it to the pink-haired gnome.

Sitting there on the palm of her hand, the deep blue undying flame was certainly an eye-catching sight.

“Oh!” Morwynne said, following the exclamation with some elvish swearwords spoken in an awestruck voice. She peered closer, pulling her goggles down over her eyes. She rummaged around in a pouch and extracted several other lenses, putting one of them over her left eye. It glowed orange as she channeled some skill into it while examining the reagent.

“That’s quite a find,” she answered finally. “I can use that for quite a few elemental constructs and potions, typically more powerful versions of the regular potions, or more esoteric ones. I would buy it from you just to experiment if you’re looking to sell. You didn’t, by any chance, find more of them?”

“I have about ten,” Malika answered.

“I doubt I could afford all of them,” Morwynne answered, pursing her lips.

“There was something we wanted to ask for your expert opinion on,” Ali said, coming to the crux of the problem. “Down in the dungeon, we found a Rune of Living Flame which is barring our passage through a doorway. We’re sure it has something to do with this essence, but we are stumped.” Morwynne certainly seemed knowledgeable about the essence – at least more so than they were.

“You don’t say?” Morwynne answered, her face lighting up. “I would love to see that! It sounds like a fun little puzzle to solve, doesn’t it?”

“I can teleport us down there right away if you don’t mind me inscribing the runes on your floor,” Ali said. Just talking with Morwynne was easing her frustration – at least it felt like they were doing something productive instead of staring at the rune for ages.

“Go ahead, let me gather some things quickly,” Morwynne said, and Ali began inscribing the runes for her Static Teleport, adjusted to target the temporary locus she had inscribed deep underground in the Landing.

It took only a few minutes before she was ready, and they all stepped through the teleport circle and appeared back in the Landing. Morwynne immediately let off a string of dwarven swearwords as she hopped up and down in obvious pain.

“Oh, sorry,” Ali said and hastily directed her nearest Acolyte to heal her. The dungeon’s mana must have been quite a painful shock coming into it unprepared and she had simply forgotten to warn Morwynne what to expect, but the healing seemed to substantially ease the pain as her stream of invective swapped over to Elvish and she quaffed a protective potion.

Ali was beginning to get the hang of her patterns. It seemed she used dwarven swearwords when she was upset, or something needed to be told off. Elvish swearwords were for emphasis and for sounding sophisticated. Swearwords in the common language served more as punctuation than meaning. Examining the Landing, the construction of the giant doors and the magic of the runes laid out before them seemed to be impressive enough to the Gnome to warrant a long string of Elvish.

Morwynne examined each of them at length, using different tools and goggles that buzzed and clicked and shot tiny bursts of mana. She applied several different skills, and even burnt herself twice, which caused her to let off a long series of dwarven profanity even though Ali’s Kobolds healed her quickly.

Eventually, Morwynne returned to where they were waiting.

“Can I see that essence again?” she asked Malika, her expression fully focused.

Wordlessly, Malika simply retrieved it and handed it to the Gnome. She examined it carefully and finally handed it back.

“I have good news and bad news,” she said, looking surprisingly serious for a change. “I have a recipe for a quenching potion that could take care of one of the runes.” She was pointing at the Rune of Living Flame. “As far as I can tell, once the flame is doused, it should unlock the rune.” She took a deep breath. “That’s the good news.”

“The bad news is, it will require one of those essences you have, and it will also require an essence of cold, a lot of mana-purified water, and a relatively high-level water mage. I can hire Serendipity Puddlecrash from your guild for the water mage, but the cold essence will need to be hunted. They come from the corpse of an ice elemental or similar monster, and I’m certain nobody in Myrin’s Keep has anything like that in stock. Or a relatively high-level cold enchantment on something you don’t mind destroying, but I have no idea where to find those.”

Ali’s hope had risen on the good news, and immediately sunk once again, but before it could drop too far, Calen spoke up.

“Will this work?”

With a great clatter, he dumped a heavy blue-and-black plate armor on the ground and added a greatsword. Both items emitted a powerful freezing aura, overcoming the heat from the ambient fire mana around them and leaving a broad patch of frost on the ground.

Ali recognized the Death Knight’s gear instantly, feeling the sympathetic chill running right through her at the sight.

“Where did you get that?” Morwynne exclaimed, following it with a singular Elvish word that had no translation in Common.

“Lyeneru gave me this to sell as a reward for helping her kill the Death Knight,” Calen answered, his face flushing instantly at the sudden attention he was getting. “Will it work?”

“You have a Death Knight’s sword and armor!” Morwynne swore colorfully while dancing up and down in time to the rhythm of her words.

Despite the terrible source for the items, Ali couldn’t help but grin at the antics of the progressively more and more eccentric Gnome.

“Hell yes! That’s perfect! I will need about a day to find someone high enough level to cast dismantle on that and find Serendipity. Come find me tomorrow and I’ll have something for you to try.”

“Are you sure about this, Calen?” Malika asked. “That was your reward for an insane fight, and those items are worth a fortune.”

“If it helps us get through the door, then I’m happy to spend them,” Calen said.

“Just as long as you know that sword alone is worth more mana potions than you can drink in a lifetime,” Malika said.

Poor Calen, Ali thought. She had never seen a half-elf turn that shade of green before – not even if they had a Wood Elf parent. But he was adamant, and they sent Morwynne back home with the Death Knight gear, an Essence of Living Flame, and a stone pitcher full of mana-purified water from the lake.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
