Ren took out the expensive anvil he had bought at the Convent in the dwarf lands, and used his blacksmith hammer and one of the 1 foot square copper pieces he had, to make thin copper foil to use as a wrap around the stained glass pieces. It really didn't take any time at all, since his skills combined so well. When he had enough to wrap everything, he equipped his armor to essentially double his stats, which increased his dexterity to the point that he didn't even have to look at what he was doing and could still wrap the edges of the glass pieces in copper foil perfectly.

Ren chuckled at that thought, but he didn't test his theory. He started the forge beside the glass furnace and tossed some ore in the smelter, then finished wrapping the pieces for both pictures. He skimmed off some impurities in the smelter, used his fingers to solder the stained glass together, then flipped the picture and did the back, too. He did the second one and then took out the wood to make the frames for them to sit in.

*

Patty had been sitting in her office for about 10 minutes before her curiosity got the better of her and she left her office and slowly walked up the stairs.

I just have to see him working. Patty thought and peeked onto the second floor with her eyes just above the level of the floor. She held in her gasp and stared in shock as Ren dipped his hand into molten metal and spread it over something on the workbench. A moment later, he picked it up and Patty saw the giant flaming figure in the middle of the picture, then he dipped his hand in the smelter again. It took him only seconds to finish it, then he took out wood and made frames for the stained glass.

He's working so fast. Patty thought as Ren put the two finished pictures aside and took out another pane of glass and dyed it. He scored it in less than a minute with a weird tool, then used some other kind of tool to break it apart. I can't really make sense of what he's doing.

Patty hadn't noticed Russell had come up the stairs and stood right next to her.

“What's he doing?” Russell asked, and Patty screamed.

*

“AAHHH!” Patty screamed and jumped away, bounced from the railing when she hit it with her arm, then she started to fall backwards down the stairs. Everything seemed to slow down, and her only thought was that she was definitely going to be hurt this time. She watched in fascination as Ren ran the short distance to the stairs and down them past her; then she felt a hand under her back and one under her legs. She blinked her eyes and looked up at Ren's happy face.

“Are you all right?” Ren asked a very startled Patty.

“I... I don't know.” Patty said. “You were there... and now you're here.”

Ren chuckled. “I can move pretty fast when I want to.”

“But...”

“My armor gives me massive stat boosts.” Ren said. “Not as much as it could, though.”

Patty just stared at him, and didn't comprehend what he meant.

“I've got to take it apart and absorb the enchantments from it, then have Tee-one enchant everything so I can Double Infuse it.”

Patty kept staring at him because she still didn't know what he meant, and he chuckled as he carried her up the stairs and sat her on the couch in the meeting area.

“Just sit there and relax.” Ren said and looked at Russell. “Scaring her once or twice by accident is okay; but, if you ever endanger her like that again, I'm taking the boots back.”

“I'm sorry.” Russell said. “These boots don't make noise...”

“You can knock on the door, bang the wall, or even speak long before you come near her.” Ren said. “There's no need to Sneak when she's standing on the stairs like that.”

Russell's face burned red and he nodded, because Ren had found out his secret.

“Good.” Ren said. “Now, what did you want?”

“I came to say that my mother loves the idea of a real bakery.” Russell said. “So does Gemma and her sister.”

Ren nodded. “I need you to head over to Nick Pasternack's place and see what their feed and hay stocks are like.” He said. “I've got 60 horses coming next week and they need a regular source.”

“Right away.” Russell said and looked at Patty. “I won't scare you anymore, Miss Patty. I promise.”

“A wise person once told me that you shouldn't make promises you can't keep.” Patty said and looked at Ren.

“I'll try my best, Miss Patty.” Russell said, and left at a run.

“He really is a good boy.” Patty said. “He's just...”

“Testing the limits.” Ren said and sighed. “Next time, if you want to see what I'm doing, just come up and watch. You don't have to hide.”

“I... I wasn't...”

“Was I too much of a spectacle for you to make it the rest of the way up the stairs?”

“Well, it... it was fascinating.” Patty said and her face flushed a little red.

Ren chuckled. “Then please, sit back and enjoy the show.” He said and went back to work.
