These free attributes are determined by the legendary skill's needs. If your legendary skill needs willpower and perception to operate, leveling it will grant willpower and perception.

For every 100 points in Apotheosis, +10% increase in range and power of Crafting, Generation, and Aura abilities from these skills. Mana cost for any skill within Apotheosis is reduced by 2% as well - this particular benefit is halved for every 1,000 points in the skill.

Current Effects:

I raised a fist, "When it rains, it pours."

"What happened?"

"I gained another legendary skill, Apotheosis."

Torix shrugged, "I'm done being surprised. It's too emotionally draining."

I laughed a bit as we pressed on. After landing near Helios's office, I paced up with my mana shifting to quintessence. We walked through the metal hallways and administrative offices. Once outside Helios's office, Torix and I stepped up. As I knocked, Helios waved us in.

Helios still glanced at his orange screens, Eva assisting him with various tasks. After moving through the process, he closed them and walked up to us. He glanced down at Torix, a look of disdain on his face. Torix averted his gaze. That pissed me off a lot more than I expected.

I swallowed that frustration, but I swore to make Helios regret his dismissal of Torix. After that, Helios glanced at me, "Hm...you seem taller now. Sharper as well. You've been a rollercoaster of body types as of late. It's unusual.

"Comes with the territory."

"Was the compendium fruitful?"

There was an edge of annoyance in Helio's voice. It was like my time in the compendium bothered him. I didn't know why, and I didn't have time to ask.

I said, "Can you send us to-"

Helios raised a hand, "You are an acquaintance, and I am no chauffeur. Stop asking me to warp you where you need to go. Find your own solution on your own terms."

I narrowed my eyes at Helios for a moment, thinking of forcing him with Event Horizon. It was a bad idea. It would ruin our relationship, and after thinking about it for a bit, Helios was right. Torix's unknown status wasn't something he should have to fix. I sighed,

"Yeah, alright. I get that. Thanks for letting us in."

I turned to leave, but before I did, Helios raised a palm to me,

"Despite my misgivings with transporting you and your allies further, I want you to understand something. I have every intention of assisting you in your next bout with Lehesion."

As he finished speaking, a dark hatred leaked into his voice. Man, he hated that golden frog dragon.

Helios struggled a bit with his next words, "I, I could hardly say that my performance in facing Lehesion constitutes a proper favor. Especially one as important as saving Caprika. When you need my assistance against that corrupted mongrel, you need only ask."

I waved a hand, "Pff, don't worry about it. There's only so much one person can do anyways. I hope you didn't think too hard about it."

Helios froze up for a moment before grabbing the collar of his cape and adjusting it,

"Of course not. I'm far too busy for brooding."

"Good. See you later."

"You as well."

I gave Helios a nod before we left. Torix and I passed the city skyline, gravity hovering us over the horizon. We found a lovely park with a pleasant pond before sitting down. We chose the biggest bench we could find. A necromancer and living multiverse sitting on a park bench. It was strange and kind of surreal, to say the least. After about a minute of thinking, Torix spoke up first,

"How will either of us leave this place in time?"

I pointed above my head, "I can leave anytime. I got rid of it after killing Emagrotha. If you'd have seen her, I think you would've have killed her too. She was a mess, and that's putting it nicely."

Torix raised his hands, "While the morality of your decision is no doubt interesting, I'm more interested in the teleporters between worlds. You can use them now, can't you?"

I knew what Torix was suggesting, so I raised a palm to him,

"No. We're fixing your body situation asap. That's a given." I rubbed the edges of my temples, "Let's brainstorm some different solutions outside of me leaving you behind. How long would it take you to make one of those illegal warps?"

"Three weeks give or take. I can't carve into stone quickly, so I'd need to instruct you on the ritual."

"Shit. By then, Giess is glassed."

We waited for a moment before drifting into an awkward silence. While we waited, I brushed up on my status. I smacked my forehead as I realized I had enough tree points for the first rank up of the Sovereign skill tree. I poured over two thousand points into it, most of it from creating Apotheosis and leveling the skill.

To be sovereign is to hold supreme power and authority. You do so not over others, but over your mastery of self. Your potential to withstand torment, tedium, and torture to further your mastery is unrivaled. You stand as the foremost authority over the domain of skills you've chosen, rising above all those that come before you, and likely, those that will come after.

Multiplicatively doubles attribute gained from your Sovereign skill.

Multiplicatively doubles attribute gains from your Legendary skills.

Doubles Sovereign learning speed, ease of creation, and assimilation strength.

Doubles Legendary skill learning speed, ease of creation, and assimilation strength.

Doubles Unknown skill learning speed, ease of creation, and assimilation strength.

Class unlock status: 25% completed.

A slight increase to my stats flew through my system, mainly from Force of Nature. The depth of my understanding of both my legendary skills also deepened, a strange intuition about them growing in the back of my mind. I glanced at my hands, expecting a bit more out of the tree, but that was it. It wasn't horrible per se, but I expected quite a bit more from the tree.

However, that would all change if the class it unlocked was truly magnificent. Only time would tell.

I closed out my status, going back to thinking. I practiced the formation of various elements in my palm out of habit. Torix stared at the shifting elemental structure,

"So that's the legendary skill?"

I nodded, "Yeah. There's quite a bit more to it, but this here is the gist of it."

"It appears to be some sort of matter manipulation. Interesting. It suits you."

"Yeah," I said with resignment lingering.

"Torix leaned back on the bench, "It must be an utter chore to handle all the matter you've created. One can only imagine."

I nodded, "Yeah. My personalized AI, an asshat I called Transient, ended up making me put a few tons of sand in my storage." An idea popped into my head, so I stood up,

"Might as well clean that up right now. You think this park could use a beach?"

"I don't see why not," Torix said while dusting himself off. "Perhaps it shall help us think up a solution, the vacation air and all that."

I rolled my eyes while we walked over towards a beautiful lake, the creatures within singing and frolicking. I opened my dimensional storage, the space-ey portal rippling above my hand. I remembered all the items in it as I did so, and I willed the sand and water to spill out. Walking along the edge of the pond, I converted it into a summerset paradise.

We got a few unusual stares, but zero fucks were given by either of us at this point. As I reached the last bit of sand, a couple coconut crabs crawled out of the portal. They darted around in the water, and I leaned back from it, remembering the plague of crabs. I shivered a bit before Torix tapped my shoulder. I turned to him,

"What's up?"

"Was that...a living creature?"

I nodded, "Yeah. Crabs...They came from my first few experiments with origin mana. I must have missed them when I cleared the area with Event Horizon."

Torix pointed at my storage portal, "Normal storages can't hold life forms. They are killed within the pocket dimension Schema uses for his storage rings. On the other hand, your personal storage related to your dimensional nature, it can store organisms. It could theoretically hold people as well, couldn't it?"

My eyes widened as what Torix was saying dawned on me. I rubbed my hands together,

"You're a genius Torix. I think you just found our way back to Giess."
