Maia smiled softly, remaining where she was, as she said, “It’s getting late. Thank you, though. I just need to know your answer.”

“Yes. Soon. The answer is yes, I want to attend.” Erick read the first paper again, looking for a date. “When am I expected?”

Maia smiled. “Whenever you decide to arrive. Though classes for the semester have just started.”

Erick laughed. “Okay. That works for me. I'll be along shortly, then.”

“Good night, archmage.”

“Good night, Maia.”

Maia walked away, back into the night, then turned right to walk across the flat land of the Human District, to her house. She waved. Erick waved back. She continued. Erick revoked her [Crystalline Air] permission again, then Handy Aura’d the Toxic Hydra’s grand-rads into the house.

Now that the plan was approved from the Headmaster’s side, it was time to really discuss a trip to Oceanside with everyone else.

- - - -

The air bit at Erick’s exposed fingers; cold one moment, freezing the next. White layered the ground. Flakes of snow drifted across the path, gently swirling on the chill wind.

Erick crunched forward, one heavy footfall, then the next—

He paused. He looked around. The trees were there, but also not. Snow layered the ground, but also… not. He had arms and legs, but they were wispy, insubstantial, dreamy things.

This was a dream. This was not a Rozeta dream. But it was something similar.

“Hello!” He called out, to the pale white land. “Who’s there?”

No response. The wind did not change. Snow continued to fall, uninterrupted, from an unseen sky.

Erick mumbled, “How the hell did I get here?” He looked around. “This is a dream, isn’t it?”

With nothing better to do, and nothing behind him except for trees and snow, Erick walked forward, down the path. He didn’t walk far. Five more steps took him to a different part of the forest, and a split in the path.

To the left, was a land of green. To the right, the forest became golden, with sparks and lights among the trees.

Erick said sarcastically, “This is a difficult decision.”

He looked left. The forest was vibrant and wild. Eyes hid among the trees, but they weren’t watching him; they were watching each other. Savagery and death prowled through the darker places, and in the light. A snake ate a bird. A badger ate a spider. A wolf ate a lion.

Erick looked right. The forest was gold and bright, with a rainbow fractured and scattered among the canopy. At this second look, Erick realized that this gold forest was perfectly ordered. Trees laid on lines. Leaves grew in patterns.

And none of it made any sense.

Erick spoke to whoever was doing this, “I feel that we are at a cultural misunderstanding. I have the vaguest idea of what options you’re giving me, but we lack a common language, here.” Erick sat down on the path, between where he came from, and where he could go. He said, “Obviously, I could hack down the forest between the paths, and create my own way through this world.” Snow flurried around him, piling up against his legs, against his back. “Or I could stay here and let the snow bury me.”

He grabbed a wooden ladder next to him, saying, “Or I could seek a different path, all together.” He looked up, and saw a platform above the ladder; a space to look out over the whole of creation, and see what lay ahead of all his possible choices. He let go of the ladder, and the platform; it vanished as soon as his hand left the hidden structure. “But that’s just a variation of path number 3.”

Erick sighed. He stood. Snow dusted from his insubstantial body.

He said, “So you want me to make this [Scan] spell, right, Messalina?” He added, “Or is this some deity? If you’re some deity, you’re not one that I know.” He postulated, “Or maybe this is the Headmaster? It’s all very peculiar.” He slapped his hands together, saying, “Ah! Either way. This is a trap. Well then—”

[Telepathy].

Several wrong things happened, all at once. Erick felt an emptiness where his mana lay. The Script was gone. Meditation revealed no manasphere. Status brought up no blue boxes.

“Huh.” Erick said, “Well that’s... ominous.”

Snow tickled his left ear, as cold bit his face and his extremities. Erick stared out at the falling white snow, and at the two paths in front of him; Green, or Gold.

He looked to where the ladder had been. It reappeared out of the corner of his eye, then turned solid as he looked directly at the wooden rungs, leading up. He turned away from the ladder, and considered his path.

Then he opened the door at his feet, and stepped out of the dream.

Laughter followed him out.

- - - -

Rats yelled, “He’s fine!” Rats amended, “Physically. The parasite is gone, but the connection was made, Poi. This is on you. Not me.”

Poi said, “Gods damn it! We have to take him to—”

Jane interrupted, “He’s back.”

“Oh thank the gods!” said Poi.

As Rats gutted out, “Fucking shit. Thank the gods.”

Erick opened his eyes and groaned out, “Hello?”

He was on the couch, in the sunroom. Sweat drenched his body. Everything felt sticky. He looked around. Poi and Rats stood where the coffee table had been, while Jane sat at the other end of the couch, sitting on the armrest. Erick sat up, and almost collapsed back down, but Jane slid off the armrest, to sit beside him. She held him upright, holding his arm, blinking out moisture. Not tears; not yet. But it had been close.

Everything felt blurry, indistinct, but as Erick returned to himself, in the moment, he realized: something bad had happened.

Jane held his hand, her fingers firm against his own, saying, “Hey, Dad.”

Erick blinked hard, asking, “What happened?”

Jane said, “You were parasitized.”

“We caught it, though,” Rats said.

“The corruption has been purged, too,” Poi added.

“Oh? Okay?” Erick felt woozy at that, but Jane’s hand glowed, and he felt better. “Okay?”

Rats said, “A Dream Worm. We’re still trying to figure out how, and who.” He asked, “What did you see? It’s very important to know what you saw, because you’re going to forget it all very fast.”

Jane pulled Erick’s hand into her own, asking, “What happened? In your dream? Don’t think too hard; it’ll go away as soon as you focus on it.”

Erick brought up his Status, to see if he was connected to the Script again. The blue box came up, and all the numbers were correct. The Toxic Hydra and all of those wyrms had barely put a dent in that level.

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 63, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 461,871,911,414,091/1,061,020,985,772,300

Class: 6/6

Points: 17

HP

51/1020

1020 per day

MP

4440/4440

17,760 per day

Strength

20

+14

[34]

Vitality

20

+14

[34]

Willpower

60

+14

[74]

Focus

60

+14

[74]

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Ah? That HP was rather low. Very low, in fact.

Jane pulled him back to the moment, squeezing his hand and his shoulder, saying, “Dad.”

Erick looked away from his Status, dismissing the box, saying, “I was in the woods. Snow. One path led to green where animals hunted and ate each other. The other path led to a forest of gold and rainbow lights. I think I made a ladder appear… And...” He frowned. “I did not take the ladder. I exited… some other way.”

Erick felt his memories of the dream fade into waking, like rain disappearing on an ocean’s surface.

“I’m not sure how I got out.” Erick looked to the darkened window; to the darkened garden just outside. He asked, “What happened?”

Rats frowned.

Poi said, “A Dream Worm. We’re not sure how it got to you, but we’ll find out.”

Erick said, “I didn’t do whatever they wanted. It seemed… Like a test?”

Poi said, “Dream Worms are meant to screw with you. They’re a… a vector for easy mental magic.” He quickly added, “It got implanted just today— I’m sure I would have found the worm if it had been implanted sooner. It must have happened in the last—” He asked, “What was the last thing you remember?”

Erick thought back. He said, “I got the acceptance letters from the Headmaster, from Maia.” He smiled, changing the subject by asking, “By the way: do you all want to go to Oceanside?”

Jane’s face dropped. She said, “You already asked us. Before you turned in early.”

Erick froze. He thawed, saying, “Oh. Okay. So I lost some time there… Fun.” He felt some kind of nervousness, but he forced a smile anyway, and asked, “What were the answers?”

Jane said, “You really should be more upset at this invasion, Dad.”

Erick said, “I am. But Poi is already freaking out enough for all of us, I think.” Erick looked to the man, whose face had been sky-blue this whole time; he was usually sapphire. “What’s your verdict?”

Poi breathed deep. He paused. He stood straight, and said, “My verdict is that I have failed you.” He looked straight ahead, standing at attention, saying, “I am sorry. I am unqualifi—”

“You stop that right now.” Erick said, “We are attacked. We defend. This is how it works, right?” He added, “This is what life is, isn’t it?” He stated, “I am not going to become a hermit. Neither are you. No one failed. We were tricked… or something.”

Poi frowned, staunch in his stature, color returning to his face. Rats grumbled, while Jane… Jane just held Erick’s hand, and his shoulder, her eyes downcast.

Erick asked, “Right?”

Poi kept frowning, silently.

Erick said, “Someone say something.” He looked to Poi, asking, “You’re not leaving, okay?” Halfway begging, “Please?”

Poi blinked slow, then breathed out, saying, “I apologize for missing this Dream Worm.” He added, “And for my outburst just now. I will not abandon my post.”

Erick smiled wide, saying, “Good! Don’t worry about it. Where was the worm anyway? How was it… Placed?” He winced, and because he didn’t really want to know whatever operations he had to go through, he changed the subject. “Where’s Kiri and Teressa? Are they okay?”

Rats said, “They’re out getting help.”

Poi said, “They’re back.”

Erick listened, trying out [Perfect Hearing]. Equilibrium vanished. He could have crashed left, if Jane hadn’t been holding him. Sound vanished from his left ear, while his right ear heard the telltale ‘blip’ of someone [Teleport]ing in, just outside of the sunroom.

“We’re back! With a surprise!” Kiri called out, from outside the room. Footsteps came down the hallway. Kiri appeared in the doorway. She instantly saw that Erick was awake. “Ah! Good! You got him back.”

Kiri walked into the room, along with Teressa, and an old silverscale woman; the High Priestess of the Interfaith Church, Darenka. The old woman followed the other two into the room, her white dress swishing around her legs. She eyed Erick, as Erick’s own eyes went wide. Erick almost asked what she was doing here, but that answer was pretty damn obvious; he was obviously not at a hundred percent. Darenka started off looking at him with a frown on her face, but she quickly turned that into a smile.

Rats stared at Darenka, but whispered to Kiri, “You got Darenka?”

Darenka said, “I got myself, young man. Atunir and a few others yelled at me. You know how it goes.” She strode over to Erick, her eyes suddenly squinting, as she half bent over and stared him straight in the eyes. Her own silvery eyes glowed with a faint divine fire. She stopped a meter from him, still staring. “Hmm.”

“Hello. Uh. Darenka.” Erick, still seated, and getting a bit nervous at her stare, said, “I think we have some lemon cake, if you’d like some.”

Darenka stopped squinting, and returned to a casual smile. “Yes; but later.” She stood up straight. “He’s fine!” She looked up at the ceiling, saying, “He’s fine.”

Erick looked to the ceiling, too.

She spoke to the ceiling, “Well of course he did!”

Rats, pointedly, did not look up. But Jane, Kiri, and Teressa, did. Erick did, too. The ceiling was orange stone, exactly the same as before. Poi glanced up, but did not stare like most of the rest of them.

Darenka dropped her gaze back to Erick, saying, “Someone would like you to know that it was Messalina who did this to you.”

Poi gritted his teeth, anger briefly showing.

Erick frowned. “As if I didn’t have enough reasons to get away from Spur for a little while.”

Darenka nodded. “Make me one of those lemon cakes before you go to Oceanside.” She held her hand out to Kiri. “Back to the Church, please. [Teleport], go go.”

Kiri instantly took her hand, then looked to Erick, full of relief, saying, “Be right back.” With a blip of green, both of them left.

Rats said, “I can’t believe Darenka— Whatever.” He clapped his hands together, saying, “Well! So we’re all off to Oceanside, then?”

“You changed your mind, Rats?” Jane asked.

“Changed his mind?” Erick asked.

Teressa looked down at him, asking, “You don’t remember, eh?”

“Of course he doesn’t.” Poi said, “It wasn’t really him that said any of those things.”

“Uh!” Erick asked, “What happened? While I was out?”

Teressa, Jane, Rats, and Poi, simultaneously said, “Nothing.”

Erick frowned, deeper. And then he looked around. “Where’s Ophiel?” Erick sent a tendril of thought out, and found Ophiel nowhere. “I dismissed him? What the fuck!”

Erick instantly summoned a tiny Ophiel. The little guy popped into the air, a hundred small eyes open all across his tiny, tiny body. Cellos and flutes filled the air, along with something darker, deeper, and stranger. And then, he shifted. The deeper song stopped. A quiet violin played.

Erick smiled at his feathered [Familiar], saying, “Hey there, little guy.”

Ophiel leapt at Erick, his small wings folding around Erick’s chest, hugging him, tickling his nose and his neck. Erick hugged back, giggling.

Erick looked up from the mess of feathers and eyes, asking, “Did I give a reason for dismissing him?”

Jane’s eyes were slightly narrowed. Rats scrunched his face.

Poi said, “You said he was bothering you.”

“Well that’s obviously some mind control there, Poi.” Erick asked, “So? What happened while I wasn’t me?”

A silence descended.

In a flash of green, Kiri blipped back into the room. She almost said something, but she saw the silence all around her, and joined in.

Erick asked, “Kiri? What did I do? Earlier?”

