One of the Ophiel in the group of four, peeled off, casting a [Personal Special Ward], masking out all light except cyan. The Ophiel turned from white, to a bright Focus-Cyan, and with a blip of cyan light, appeared far behind the Toxic Hydra, but close enough to hover over the Hydra’s glowing green sea.

Ophiel did not disintegrate, at all. The maskward had successfully blocked out the most damaging wavelengths of the Toxic Hydra’s radiation. Ophiel trilled in happiness, mirroring Erick’s.

And then a hydra head turned around and blasted Ophiel with its radiation breath. The [Familiar] survived long enough to blip away, back to the group, but Decay glows clung to gaps in his [Personal Special Ward], like pockets of poison. The other [Familiar]s screeched, flying away from the toxic Ophiel.

- - - -

Erick dismissed that one, as soon as he realized what had happened, saying, “Ah. So it clings.”

Eduard frowned a little.

Maia said, “Yes, it clings! But our [Familiar]s always die before it even gets a chance to cling. Your [Familiar] lasted through a blast.” She demanded, “What was that weird cyan [Ward]?”

Eduard watched Erick, but said nothing.

Ramizi said, “Just blast it with lightning.”

Erick looked away from Maia, saying, “No more experimenting. Kill the monster. Right.”

- - - -

Cyan [Ward] masks covered each of four hovering Ophiel. In the distance, glowed a sea of green, under a dark monster. The monster roared out into the sky with five heads. It was racing back and forth in its own glowing filth, while thick air clawed into its body, pulling out green blood. Two heads greedily drank from the pool as it searched, futilely, for its attacker.

Erick felt a profound stab of sadness for the creature. The Toxic Hydra had been a person, placed into a beast’s body by a necromancer of the highest order, but then left to its own devices. This former person fell to the magic, to insanity, to becoming a monster, for whatever reason. Maybe it was made improperly, and it couldn’t expel the naturally condensing rads in its body. Maybe Messalina made it this way, desiring a true monster, to hunt down the monsters that had killed her village. Erick didn’t know, and he didn’t want to ask the Life Binder about her choices; he just needed this monster dead.

The Flare Couatl had it right; the Toxic Hydra was a Scion of Destruction, irradiating the land, killing everything in sight. It needed to die.

The actual process of killing took little more than Erick deciding to end its life. After Erick made peace with himself for needing to put down a person, four Cyan maskwarded Ophiel blipped around the green sea, each approaching the hydra from a different direction. [Call Lightning] went up, blanketing the sky in actual, non-poisonous clouds. The radiation of the green sea heavily damaged the spell; crackling clouds were more like crackling wisps. But it was enough, for a start.

Lightning ripped across a green sea, tearing through bleeding black scales. The hydra retaliated, roaring beams of green light across the offending lightning clouds, disintegrating the spell.

The Ophiel simply recast the magic, multiple times, evading blasts from the hydra as needed; with their cyan maskwards, collateral radiation was not enough to harm them. Soon, rain fell, heavy and wet, pushing down poisonous green mist, dimming the green sea, diluting whatever power laid there.

Lightning blasted through and across the roaring hydra. One head and neck laid limp, half gone, while five heads tried to drink from the sea. The seventh head, still standing up, still roaring out green light, was the tallest object in the area. Lighting struck that tower of flesh, exploding the head and crashing through the body, killing three more heads and buckling the hydra’s legs. The monster crashed to the green sea, twitching.

Each Ophiel surrounded itself with a white orb, pulling thick air from the sky and the land, as they moved in, closer.

In bloody, quiet moments, under the power of four domains, the Toxic Hydra dried out, among a sea of its own making, gently roaring a plaintive gasp. The murmurs went quiet. The beast lay still. And then every single remaining head looked to the sky, all at once, and spoke a string of foreign words.

A forty meter [Cleanse] pulsed from the creature, ripping across the dim green sea. Turning green light into thick air, and the night back to dark.

- - - -

Erick came back to himself. His face was wet. He sniffled, asking, “It spoke?”

Maia’s voice was a heavy thing, “It… He. He said, he was sorry.”

Erick sighed a stuttering breath.

Ramizi spoke up, “They do that, sometimes. At the end. The last flare of a soul, clawing to the surface as the body and rads that trapped it are dying.” He added, “It happens a lot when you’re purifying the demonic taint from undead.”

Erick wiped his face, and put on a stronger persona. He said, “Thank you for coming over, and assisting in the location and destruction of the Hydra. Feel free to scour the body for whatever clues you need.” He added, “But while the Toxic Hydra has killed people and destroyed the land, the Flare Couatl has killed killers, and saved adventurers. Now that the balance is toward the Couatl, I cannot participate in hunting down Messalina.”

Ramizi just nodded, while Maia frowned, but quickly wiped away her visible displeasure.

Eduard kept his voice level, as he said, “If this is the extent of her actions here… If she doesn’t start assaulting towns and cities herself… I can see why you would choose this stance. I’m not happy about it, and I think you are being shortsighted. But...” He spoke without rancor, “But we have a duty toward the dead, and to the greater good. The last time the Life Binder left her jungle she left for smaller reasons, and ended up destroying twelve arcanaeums and two nations before the Headmaster pushed her back to her jungle. We cannot allow this pattern to repeat in any shape or form.”

“Thank you for putting the hydra to rest, Archmage.” Ramizi stood, saying, “We have clues to gather, as you say.”

Eduard said, “Quite true.”

Everyone stood up from their chairs.

Erick said, “Before you go...” He said, “The thing is, I was thinking of taking the Headmaster up on his offer of schooling, or whatever it was he offered.”

The three mages each switched from cold acceptance of the facts of the day, to sudden interest.

Erick continued, “I’m not sure what he offered, or the terms of any of it, but I have been informed that, as an archmage, I should have seen those hunters well before they attacked, and I should have been able to… I don’t want to say ‘kill’, but I would have preferred to subdue them, somehow, before they could have attacked.” Erick turned to Ramizi, and said, “And I would like to know, from someone who is in the know, if this is good. Perhaps you and I can trade for something, like how I traded with Eduard and Maia.”

Erick took out the box for [Pure Force Beam Bolt], and handed it over to the suddenly interested Force Mage. Ramizi’s eyebrows went up as he read the box. Maia peeked over his shoulders, while Eduard looked on from outside of the pair. The Ice Mage was obviously happy, but he was unwilling to show it beyond a tiny smile, for whatever reason.

Ramizi said, “Thi—” His voice cracked. He soldiered on, “This is a very good base! Uh.” He asked, “How? Uh. How did you? Uh. So?”

Erick said, “Take your mana and push it through your spell, like this. This is [Force Bolt].” An even, tiny hum of energy and white light surrounded Erick’s right hand. “And this is [Force Beam].” A similar hum, but brighter and sharper, focused into the air in front of his fingers. “Find the harmony between the two, and push that harmony high as you combine them.”

Ramizi’s face went blank, looking at the blue box for [Pure Force Beam Bolt]. Maia and Eduard each frowned, in their own unique way. Eduard was vastly more disbelieving, while Maia seemed more self-reflective in her expression.

Erick said, “I wanted to show you this, because Maia and Eduard got their spells and it felt rude to leave you out.” Erick decided, right then, to go contrary to what he had planned, “Actually. I changed my mind. I don’t want anything in exchange, but I want things to be balanced.” He nodded. “Yes. This is better. Balance.”

Ramizi instantly shook his head, saying, “Nonsense! Uh! Archmage, sir. Uh.” He said, “What sort of high tier force magic are you interested in? I can. Uh. Trade?”

The man seemed to stumble over himself, trying to find an answer that wasn’t there.

“I have no idea what any Force Magic leads to.” Erick added, “Or what it is, really.”

Ramizi smiled wide, saying, “Force is the basis of all magic! It is the canvas upon which everything is painted. The ground below the ground. The sky above the sky. The medium through which all intent touches all else.” Ramizi said, “You know what? If you’re going to Oceanside, I have contacts— I was already thinking of pointing you toward them, but some of them are right assholes who wouldn’t give Rozeta the time of day. But if you come at them with this, and demand a trade from them, they will open their libraries to you.” He amended, “Well. Some of their libraries.” He added, “They’ll still be assholes, though. So. You know.”

Erick almost begged Ramizi off, to ask him to forget the whole thing. But this was better. Erick smiled. “I can guess.”

Eduard said, “You’re going to need to have certain spells and Stats and Skills before you go to Oceanside. Uh. You probably already have most of them.” He looked to the air, and then back, saying, “I forget the whole list.”

Erick said, “I’m not going right now, anyway.” He added, “Still a lot to get done here, and then we all have to prepare. And I still need to know exactly what the Headmaster wants from me for such an opportunity.”

Eduard smiled, saying, “I’ll get you the requirements list and talk to the Headmaster about what he is expecting; he’s indisposed right now but he should be able to talk soon enough.”

Maia asked, “Are you actually wanting to take classes? If not, then the enrollment requirements aren’t that important.”

“I’d like to take a few classes. Yes. Depending on how this plays out.”

Ramizi said, “You’ll definitely want to fulfill those requirements, either way. Some of the professors would love to call on an archmage in their midst. If not for an answer to a question, then to make you look foolish and them better.” He took one final look at the blue box for [Pure Force Beam Bolt], then dismissed it, saying, “But we have to harvest that corpse before it rots too much. I’ll get that list of contacts for you by tomorrow. Thank you, Archmage.”

Erick saw them out of the house, revoking their entrance permission as soon as they passed through the [Crystalline Air] across the front of the front door.

- - - -

An hour later, Maia showed up at Erick’s front door with eight green grand-rads floating on a [Force Platform], seven of them a foot across, while the eighth was almost a meter wide.

Erick looked at the rads, then turned on his [Cleanse Aura], saying, “You should keep the rads.”

Maia laughed as thick air spilled around her, and over the rads, doing nothing. “Nope.” She said, “You’re going to need them where you’re going. The main currency of Oceanside is grand-rads. You’re also going to need these.” She pulled out two envelopes, one thick, one thin, and handed them to Erick.

Erick took the envelopes and opened the thinner one, first. He pulled out a single sheet of Script-blue paper, with immaculate writing in white ink.

Dear Archmage Erick Flatt, Planar Human of Earth, Resident of Spur, of the Crystal Forest of continental Glaquin,

Thank you for your interest in Oceanside.

You have been approved for provisional enrollment of this Summer of 1436, meaning that you will not be allowed to attend classes for graduation credit, but you may audit classes at your leisure.

For the duration of your residency, the Guest House of Windy Manor has been opened for you. This premier location has room for 10 people, and will be completely yours for the duration of your stay. Windy Manor is the primary location for visiting heads of state, and other such dignitaries.

For these allowances, it is hoped that you will give 1 lecture shortly after you arrive, regarding your Particle Magic, to 10 of our interested professors. These professors will be coming from around the world, whenever you decide to give this lecture.

In exchange for this boon, these 10 professors have each promised favors for you, to be determined then, or later, or however you wish to enact such a process.

- Headmaster Kirginatharp of Oceanside Arcanaeum, Overseer of the Arcanaeum Consortium, Second to Rozeta

“Favors from professors, for a lecture. Okay.” Erick said, “That seems ominous.”

Maia’s eyes went a little wide. “That’s what that says?” She added, “Good luck. Those people are ruthless. Usually not violent, but I wouldn’t discount the possibility.”

Erick chuckled as he opened the second, thicker letter. He pulled out five sheets of folded up paper, and read the first one. He flipped through the other four. He lost his good humor.

… It was a good thing he saved up 17 points. It wouldn’t be enough, though.

But the fifth page detailed a way to make at least a dozen extra points, by throwing trash spells together to unlock the accomplishments, and the accompanying points, for breaking into the higher tiers of magic. There was also a heavy warning to not do this with any spell he thought he would want to use later. Recommendations included [Force Bolt] and Mana Alterings, or [Force Wall] and alterings. Erick didn’t want to do any of that, but there were points just sitting there, waiting for him to take, as soon as he actually created higher tier magic. Erick had yet to break into tier 4 or above. Which meant… 3, 4, 5… 12 extra points, just waiting for—

Maia cleared her throat.

Erick looked up from the paper. She had set down her [Force Platform] and dismissed it, depositing the Toxic Hydra’s grand-rads on the ground…

The ground outside of Erick’s front door. In the dark of the night. With only the lights outside of the house to see by. Where she stood, outside of the [Solid Ward] of [Crystalline Air] layered over the doorway, separating her from coming inside. Erick suddenly felt very rude.

Erick immediately said, “Sorry!” He moved aside, granting Maia permission to enter through the [Crystalline Air]. “Would you like to come inside? I think I have some lemon cake left, unless Jane has eaten it all. You guys got away without getting any.”

