An Ophiel let his [Physical Domain] loose, letting it expand to the full distance of nearly five kilometers in every direction. And then that Ophiel took a hundred meter sphere of that space and shifted it into both Harmonize and Amplify, while other Ophiel set up completely normal [Force Wall]s, each worth 500 points of defensive power, in a curve distribution that arced away from the vibrating space. Each Wall would be exposed to the radiation coming from the [Physical Domain], but each one would be further from that vibrating space by one more meter than the one before.

The setup was complete.

It took thirty more seconds for the experimental space in the center of the [Force Wall]s to begin to be visible to the naked eye.

It started like seeing the pressure wave from an explosion. And then, small white waves of power bounced around inside the sphere, like ripples on a 3D pond surface.

A minute later, the white waves flickered magenta; a threshold was crossed. Magenta power crashed from the edges of the space, into the center, and then out again, like the beating of a massive heart. Glows built upon glows. Power grew. Soon, the magenta space was as bright as the sun.

Radiation began to break away from the pulsing sphere.

The [Force Wall]s had been barely visible glass-like monoliths, floating in the night air. But now, they began to glitter as ionizing radiation showered upon them like invisible, sideways rain.

The nearest Wall was all of a meter from the vibrating sphere. It lasted ten seconds. Then it burst away from the magenta light like cotton candy dissolving in water. In that time, the pulsing sphere pulsed larger, but a surrounding application of Normalize kept the sphere from further expansion.

Walls two through ten, each positioned about that many meters from the sphere, lasted from ten seconds for the nearest wall, to 14 seconds at wall number 10, while the wall at 50 meters away lasted nearly 40 seconds.

Erick smiled, even before he did the math. Force spells needed [Dispel]s based on the power of the underlying [Force], not on the mana needed to cast that Force. Each one of those Walls should have taken 500 mana to [Dispel]. Force was good like that.

But just like how Tricking Magic was good at breaking Force without adhering to the [Dispel] parity cost rule, [Physical Domain] and true ‘extreme light’ could do the same. [Physical Domain] only cost 5 mana per second. Erick was spending a handful of mana to erase thousands of points worth of Force. It was his own Force sitting out there, unattended, but that didn’t matter for this sort of experiment.

Erick flooded the experiment’s beating magenta heart with Normalize, instantly shutting down the spell, harmlessly. And then he got out some paper and a pen, and did some math based on surface areas of a sphere and how distant the Walls were from the beating heart. Calculating by surface areas might not be correct, but that was Erick’s first instinct on how to calculate what he was seeing, based on the time it took to dissolve the [Force Wall]s.

If a Wall is worth 500 points, and it took 10 seconds for it to dissolve at one meter away…

Erick smiled as he sat back. “Yup! That’s correct.”

At a 50 meter radius magenta heart, the ionizing radiation dealt close to 50 points of damage per second at its surface. Calculating out the surface to a larger space —where all the Walls had been staggered— gave a drop off in power that perfectly matched the 50 meter sphere’s power as it was mapped out to 60, or 80, or 100 meters large.

Of course, that was just for the 50 meter radius beating heart. A smaller heart would likely do a lot less than 50 damage per second, while a larger heart might do a lot more. Erick could experiment with that later, though. For now, though, Erick knew that he could not use [Physical Domain], or even its component pieces, in the spell he had planned to make around midnight.

He needed some smaller radiation spell.

Much smaller than the other radiation spell he had, too. [Luminous Beam] was great, but he would not be putting that spell into the one he was planning on making.

So Erick sat back in his chair and sent a hundred mana to the manasphere, to Phagar.

Divine fire flexed through the air, along with a simple message, ‘Go for it.’

So Erick did as he wanted. He made a small spell. And it was going to be a small spell, for sure. There would be no fallout from this one. In fact! That would be a part of the working, right there. ‘No extraneous damage’. Could he put that into a Basic Spell? He’d find out!

Erick stepped upstairs, into the room without any dense air, and cast a small [Force Wall] a few meters away. He pointed with a hand, and all his fingers splayed.

He rhymed,

“To erase some magic; to make it mana

“Here’s a light that won’t affect fauna

“A strong one for sure

“But it won’t leave a spoor

“That box remains closed; thank Pandora.”

A sharp white brilliance shot from his palm, spreading outward, striking the [Force Wall] like Erick was aiming a flashlight. The light remained for five seconds. And then it shut off. A faint trail of glimmers held in the air where the light had erupted from his hand.

The only thing remaining of the [Force Wall] were the edges where the light had not touched, but those soon broke apart and faded away, like any spent spellwork tended to do.

He had done it again.

Erick blinked red, and sniffled a drip from his nose; blood. The Ophiel on his shoulder tapped him with a [Greater Treat Wounds], chirping in violins as he did so, while a different Ophiel cast a [Cleanse]. The red vanished from Erick’s eyes, and he smiled.

A trio of blue boxes appeared.

Congratulations!

You have created a new Basic Spell. Your spell has been added to your skills for free!

The spell you have created will appear in the Script after a year and a day.

Your spell is the alpha version, and will shift with time and use.

The spell that appears in the Script might be different.

Here is your spell:

Luminosity 1, instant, close range, 15 mana

A spreading cone of extreme light deals 100 + WIL damage per second to magical effects, for 5 seconds. Does minimal damage against non-magical items. This spell is completely stopped by Health.

Rozeta thanks you for enriching the Script

+ 1 point.

Erick smiled—

A fourth box appeared.

This one is probably going to go in the Restricted Script for Particle Mages. It might reach the Open Script one day. Either way, this one will not be getting a Quest line to link it to Luminous Beam, but any mage who is paying attention to history will likely make that connection on their own.

~Rozeta

Erick smirked. “I was wondering if something was going to happen, there.”

Erick went back to his library and played around with the spell, through Ophiel, over in the craters he had made past the borders of Songli. He discovered a few things about [Luminosity] that weren’t listed in the blue box, but were exactly what he expected out of the spell.

When one Ophiel trained [Luminosity] at another Ophiel, the gamma radiation of the spell prevented the second Ophiel from casting small spells. [Force Bolt]s fizzled as they left wingtips. [Force Beam]s died when they passed into the brighter parts of [Luminosity], generally getting only a meter into the light, or shallower. With [Luminosity] trained on a [Greater Lightwalk], it forced the lightform Ophiel out of their lightform, and rather painfully, too.

… Erick suspected he had just created a true antimagic spell.

Uh.

Well.

That was his goal, wasn’t it?

Er.

This could be bad. Someone could use this spell against him… Or against anyone, really. Oh.

He had not thought this through. How bad was this spell?

He rapidly tested [Lodestar] and [Greater Lightwalk], and Ophiel maintained his Sunform! Okay! Good. Erick was worried there for half a second. [Luminosity] couldn’t get through a Light Domain, apparently.

And… Wait.

Ophiel only had Mana, it had no Health. So maybe Ophiel was uniquely vulnerable to this new spell? He probably was.

And wait a second. This spell… if it was basic tier and open to everyone, then anyone could shut down any mage. That… Was actually fine, perhaps? With this spell, anyone could shut down a Shade, or, more likely, any other horrific monster that used magic.

This was good, kinda?

A person using [Greater Lightwalk] might not be affected by [Luminosity]. This would require more testing. Human testing? Testing on himself, then.

In the course of testing, Erick rapidly leveled his new spell to X in the process.

Luminosity X, instant, medium range, 25 mana

A spreading cone of extreme light deals 250 + WIL damage per second to magical effects, for 5 seconds. Does minimal damage against non-magical items. This spell is completely stopped by Health.

[Luminosity] had some strong limitations. It had no effect on any interior-based magics. Anything self-cast on oneself was not stripped away by the Extreme Light of Erick’s new spell. Any magics that transformed a person into another form, were similarly unaffected by [Luminosity]; Erick found this out when he had an Ophiel test [Luminosity] directly on him, while he was in lightform. He could still use [Lightwalk] just fine underneath the new spell’s gamma radiation.

But, [Luminosity] worked really well against any magic that took place outside of the body.

[Personal Ward]s were technically both on the outside of the body, and the inside, and [Luminosity] ripped through the part that was on the outside; It dealt a lot of damage to [Personal Ward]s. It even broke through [Animadversion], eventually, which was a bit surprising. Sure, it took ten casts and almost a full minute to break that thorny shield, but [Luminosity] broke Erick’s best reflective magics. [Luminosity] was particularly good against auras, too, readily stripping the magic out of the space where the light touched, which meant that if a target was fully enveloped by a [Luminosity] beam, they could not put up any auras at all.

In a lot of ways, [Luminosity] was a very minor version of [Luminous Beam].

Which was exactly what Erick was going for.

He had a reason to make this magic, after all!

- - - -

Midnight rolled around soon enough, but because Erick was still having fun with magic, he let people sleep a bit longer.

Around 2:00 am, Erick went to wake Poi, but the man was already awake and sitting on the edge of his bed. Teressa was up after a small knock on her door. Nirzir was practically dead to the world, and Erick had to smack her door hard to wake her up, but she woke up. Eventually. And because of that commotion, Jane had woken, too.

Bleary eyed and mumbling about the time, Jane plodded out of her room, her shadows going wide to see what all the fuss was about.

Her shadows reached an unknown, and she froze.

In full armor, but without the sword, Jane entered the kitchen where everyone except for Erick was having coffee. Erick only refrained from coffee because he was going back to bed after he made his (second) new magic.

Jane eyed the anomaly in the room; Nirzir. “Sooo…. Who is thiiiiis?”

Nirzir looked excited to meet Jane, but then Jane spoke in that tone, and Nirzir’s hope fell straight through the ground.

Before there was much more of that, Erick said, “Jane, this is Nirzir Void Song. She’s a princess of Songli who makes magic like I make magic. She’s 17, and almost an archmage. Lingxing wished for her to accompany me as we went a bit down the Worldly Path, or at least for the Nelboor part, and I have chosen to accept this arrangement.” Erick said, “Nirzir, this is my daughter, Jane.”

Jane paused, withholding her ire. And then she surprised Erick by frowning only a little bit, dismissing her conjured armor, and then saying to Nirzir, “Welcome to the party. I guess. Are you Young Master Keziro’s sister?”

“Yes! I am.” Nirzir cheerfully said, “It is nice to meet you, Miss Flatt.”

“No no.” Jane said, “We’re not doing honorifics if we’re in the same party. ‘Jane’ is fine, Nirzir.”

“Oh! Yes. Of course.” Nirzir tipped her head a fraction. “Jane.”

Well now! Wasn’t that a pleasant surprise! He wasn’t the only one surprised, though. Teressa was eyeing Jane like she didn’t know her, while Poi was… Well Poi was unflappable, apparently.

“Who is Keziro?” Erick asked.

Jane said, “A Reformist who wants the peasantry to go out and kill monsters and support their own lives here on the Highlands. I’ve crossed paths with him twice now, and both times it has been him saying good things about me in front of other troops.”

Nirzir nodded. “That is my brother, for sure. He is a big proponent for certain reforms like the one Jane has mentioned. He wishes that everyone would take their child out to the Tribulations after Matriculation and help them to kill a monster and shoot up to at least level 30, to better be productive members of Songli.” Nirzir added, “The detractors for that stance bring up the fact that no amount of levels or Stats would save a person who doesn’t know how to fight, and that commoners are not allowed to learn the arts of war outside of a Clan, so what’s the point of levels.”

Jane gave a half nod.

Erick could tell that Jane wasn’t happy with Nirzir being here, but she was willing to tolerate it. Erick decided to switch the subject, saying, “I decided on the next step of the Path. We’re going to head toward Ooloraptoor to speak to the grass travelers about dragons.”

“Still got four days left in your obligation?” Jane asked.

“Three days, now, but there’s still time to hunt monsters and make magic.” Erick said, “I’m going to go out and make one more spell tonight. Want to come?”

“Yup; I’ll come.”

- - - -

