She looked past Magnolia, at something. Of all the people, Lyonette thought of Ishkr. Loyal, hardworking Ishkr.
“I prefer people who are honest, and whose word I can trust at face-value. I would rather not make connections with those with power and false pretense.”
Magnolia Reinhart sighed.
“Lyonette, I quite understand that point of view. I even feel so myself, but I will tell you this: such honest people make the world better, by and large. They do well, and some rise to deserving stations. Then they run into the people whose influence you must cultivate. Because they eat honest people. Honesty is a dangerous weakness when the stakes rise so high. It makes you a target.”
“I would just prefer not to live like that.”
Lyonette knew Magnolia was right, but she disliked this lesson. She shifted her gaze to the steps leading to the second floor and saw the Thronebearers bowing to one of the [Maids], at a remove from the conversation. Her expression turned further maudlin.
“I can see…these are difficult truths to swallow.”
Magnolia Reinhart tapped her lips, looking a bit vexed, but sympathetic. She glanced towards the window and saw the sun was rising. She sighed.
“I must continue my appeal for support for my project, Miss Lyonette. But I must warn you—I entirely understand the allure of your current course, but it cannot give you what you need.”
She stressed that last bit. Lyonette frowned.
“Can’t it? I stayed at an inn, Lady Reinhart, whose entire way of life ran opposite to what you espouse. When she called for help, Erin Solstice, it came, from her friends, from people who came and gave everything they could. Every time. That—to me—is far better than a network of fairweather friends and enemies.”
Magnolia Reinhart pursed her lips as Ressa glanced at her. She sat there, then put her cup down and stood with a long sigh.
“…It is a beautiful idea. Yet—Lyonette. The problem with that glorious dream is that the brave and good people you call on? They will not last to old age. They will die there, because they come whenever they are called. Far better to have wider acquaintances and let them bleed in the face of those you love. You are not wrong, but be very careful, especially should you return home. Honesty that breaks from every mold is dangerous. [Princesses] have suffered for it. Calanfer is no stranger to stepping on those that rise the wrong way, any more than Izril.”
Lyonette frowned. Her brows snapped together.
“Do you mean it has happened…? Wait, who? Shardele? It can’t be—M-Menisi? Seraphel? which…?”
Magnolia’s face was colorful. She had clearly not meant to let that slip. She lifted a hand.
“That—is a conversation for later, and a delicate one, Miss Marquin. Perhaps we shall let it lie until later?”
Lyonette couldn’t force her, so she rose and curtsied quite elegantly. Magnolia Reinhart thanked her, smiling, and Lyonette nodded.
“I do so appreciate your help, Lady Reinhart.”
“I hope it can be of some small use, Lyonette. Tomorrow then? Say, brunch?”
“Absolutely.”
The two women smiled at each other. Lyonette had the distinct impression Magnolia somewhat disliked her, and she knew that Magnolia knew the exact same feeling in her.
It was a relief, all things considered, to let the Thronebearers escort her back to Mivifa’s estates where everyone else was. Mind you, it was still different.
“Your carriage, milady? Permit us one moment.”
Dame Ushar stopped Lyonette as Ser Sest and Dalimont searched it. A small crowd watched Lyonette as she walked towards it and a little stair was lowered so she could avoid making a big step into the carriage. Ser Lormel held the door open.
Dame Ushar held a parasol over Lyonette’s head to protect her from the terrible sunlight. Lyonette’s bright smile which she had given Magnolia turned up a notch.
Yes, this was familiar.
“I do apologize, Your Highness.”
Dalimont sat in the coach itself, a security precaution. Lyonette deliberately looked out the window…just in time to see the curtains close. She glared at Dame Ushar, who gave her an apologetic look.
“Back to the estate, Your Highness?”
“Yes. You needn’t coddle me, Ser Lormel. Nor am I some wilting flower, Ser Dalimont.”
“It never crossed my mind, Your Highness. But we must insist on doing our jobs.”
“Protecting me from sunlight?”
Dalimont paused. He glanced towards the driver’s seat. Lormel had hired a [Driver] and Ser Sest rode next to her. Ushar and Lormel were mounted and riding with them.
“…From arrows, Your Highness. It is an enchanted umbrella. Do you have your tiara? It may be wise to wear it at all times. I note you have your Ring of Conflagration on—may I ask if you intend to use your Cloak of Balshadow or have it on you at any given moment?”
Lyonette blinked. She looked at Dalimont and half-reached for her bag of holding.
“I—the tiara is quite too flagrant, Ser Dalimont.”
“It does have a protection spell we cannot match, Your Highness. As to our behavior, I regret that as your life is under threat, we must take certain precautions. Lady Reinhart’s staff is immensely adept. Elsewhere?”
Lyonette frowned as she felt the carriage turn abruptly.
“Where are we going? Why are we going up? The estate is downhill.”
Dalimont glanced out the window.
“I believe we are now deviating from our route that we posted at the Carriage Driver’s Guild, Princess. We asked for traffic to be cleared for our fast travel so I believe others took note of it. Oteslia’s Watch will be observing our correct route, and any would-be attackers on the false route, but we cannot rely on them completely.”
Lyonette blinked. She kept forgetting—the Thronebearers were good at their job. Some of their peacockness wasn’t feigned, but Dalimont was more realistic than the others. She sat back with a deep sigh.
“You have orders to take me to Calanfer, don’t you?”
Dalimont didn’t blink. He inclined his head.
“They come from the Eternal Throne itself, Your Highness. But we are realistic; we know full well we cannot spirit you off, much less in a siege. I suggest you consider us an asset and I hope you will at least inform us of your plans geographically so we can protect you. As for myself—I have sworn to serve Princess Seraphel, and she bade me protect you.”
He stressed that. Lyonette looked at Dalimont thoughtfully. She exhaled.
“Well then…I will use you all as best I can. I only wish I could do more, Ser Dalimont. I must…”
She trailed off. She had to leave Oteslia and find Mrsha. Even if she was ‘safe’, as her last letter indicated. Lyonette knew Magnolia’s grand plan for peace mattered. That Ilvriss’ hunt for…dead gods, that mattered. It all mattered, including the Faerie Flowers and Erin’s cure.
But she felt so helpless. She knew one step was to start making pacts and forging alliances. Lyonette exhaled, hard.
“…Can you procure a list of people who might be interested in meeting with me, Ser Dalimont? I should imagine there are a few.”
“Quite a number, Princess. Should I make arrangements to meet with the most important at their convenience today?”
Lyonette imagined herself sitting with a cup of tea and cake in front of her, lecturing a younger woman—Mrsha?—in the arts of making deals with that world-weary air. She pulled an appalled face, but then mumbled.
“…Yes.”
 
——
 
It seemed the others had had a terrible day as well. All but Onieva, who was smiling, Wilovan and Ratici, who had a rather dapper outfit and a green rose for Onieva from Ratici, and…
No, that was it. Even the extra guests looked miserable. Ilvriss was rubbing at his back, Cirediel was muttering about Crelers, and Xif had half a dozen cuts and a black eye.
“I am so sorry. I didn’t think anyone was outside—”
Onieva was laughing so hard she was holding onto Mirn. A familiar-looking Oldblood Drake was apologizing to Xif, her sky-blue scales turned purple with embarrassment. Rafaema of Manus watched as Makhir wrote a note for the Merchant’s Guild.
“What happened?”
“An accident involving marigolds.”
Lyonette gave Mirn the blankest look in existence. Xif elaborated.
“I was just coming back with all my alchemy supplies when I ran into these flowers—those damned slopes. Someone should install handrails!”
“I think you hit one. With your face.”
Onieva wheezed. Xif glared at her. Rafaema turned even redder as Cire whistled.
“You mean Raef got you and you rolled down the hill, hit a handrail—and what happened to the glass? It broke all over you? That’s a totally Archmage wipeout. I wish I saw it!”
Rafaema glared at Cire. He pretended not to notice, saw Lyonette, and bounded over.
“Lyonette! I mean, Princess Lyonette. Hey—”
Dame Ushar nearly checked him with an arm. Cire recoiled and Oteslia’s [Pegasus Riders] stiffened. Dame Ushar bowed to Cire, and the guards.
“I beg your pardon, Lord Cirediel, but Her Highness is in imminent danger. I hope you understand.”
“Dame Ushar, please. Cirediel is a friend.”
The Drake brightened up as Lyonette brushed past Ushar. He swiped at his neck spines, grinning at her and looking her over.
“I knew you were important the moment I met you. I said that, didn’t I, Raef? You know Rafaema, right Lyonette?”
The nickname was…familiar. Lyonette frowned and Rafaema broke away from apologizing to glare at Cire.
“I believe we met. At Lady Reinhart’s party. Excuse me, Your Highness.”
She bowed quite politely, and Lyonette nodded. What a group. Ilvriss was studying Rafaema and Cire casually from the side, but nodded to her.
“Miss Marquin. How are you today?”
“Quite well, Ilvriss. Thank you.”
“You know…?”
Cire eyed Lyonette, Ilvriss, then the plain copper ring on her finger. Lyonette crossed her arms to hide it and smiled. Ilvriss ignored the look every person in the room gave him. Then he hesitated, stood there, looked around, and…
Wilovan and Ratici were standing far clear of all the bodyguards, but they’d dropped by for lunch—and to see if Lyonette needed anything. She was clearly busy, so they were debating stepping out.
In the same vein, Ilvriss wanted to speak to Lyonette, privately, about Magnolia or other issues. Rafaema would have dearly loved to speak to Lyonette candidly were it not for the danger, or talk to Cire about things they could not bring up here. Presumably, Onieva just wanted lunch.
The awkward silence was broken by Cire turning to Wilovan, recognizing him, and pointing.
“You’re that Gnoll with the club! That was totally Archmage. You beat, like, fifty people down!”
Wilovan started as everyone turned to look at him. He touched his hat.
“Er, thank you, sir. Just doing a bit of fighting as it needed to be done.”
He smiled unconvincingly, and it didn’t escape anyone’s notice that Ser Sest and the Oteslian Watch were both in between their charges and Wilovan. Lyonette glanced at Wilovan, deliberately pushed past Ser Sest, and clapped her hands.
“There are a number of people I know and am acquainted with. Why don’t we have lunch? Do we have any food…?”
“I bought pancakes, but I didn’t know if we were eating here. Sorry. We do have food in the pantries.”
Mirn raised a claw and tried to hide something behind his back. Everyone stared at the sandwich he’d made. Xif rubbed at his forehead.
“I could eat something. Perhaps a restaurant?”
“We can reserve one privately, Your Highness. In, say, thirty minutes?”
Ser Lormel vouched at once. Cire made a face.
“Thirty minutes? Why do we have to monk around that long? I can find us a spot at a pub I know in three minutes from here.”
“I believe they mean securely, Cire. To prevent attacks?”
Rafaema coughed, nodding at the Thronebearers. Cire frowned.
“That’s so…”
“It’s only monking about to no purpose, Cire. It’s more wave-surfin’ to hop over to a restaurant and pull an order. Sometimes the food might be Crelered over, but we can check. Know of any football places nearby where we can order for a group?”
Lyonette’s head turned. Her mouth opened, and so did Cire’s, because, finally, someone spoke the language. But it wasn’t one of Cire’s friends. The two finger-guns he’d somehow picked up, the hip-hopping talk came from Ser Sest. Cire blinked.
“Wow. You’re pretty up to date for a [Knight].”
Social chameleons. Rafaema edged away from Ser Sest in case it was catching, and Makhir rubbed his ears. Lyonette raised a hand.
“We don’t need food, Ser Sest, and I will not take a poison taste tester. We have ingredients? I’ll just make something.”
“Make something? Your Highness!”
Dame Ushar was scandalized. Everyone turned to see Lyonette march into the kitchens, open a pantry, and begin pulling out preserved foods.
“There’s quite enough food to make something simple for everyone. Um…”
Lyonette poked her head out of the kitchen, saw the Oteslian guards, Thronebearers, Ilvriss’ own group, and made a quick decision.
“A wrap.”
“A what? Your Highness, we can send for a [Chef]—we’ve been vetting them, but—”
“Dame Ushar, stand over there please. Be silent. Thank you.”
Lyonette began assembling ingredients. Oteslia had a multitude of plants, so even a casual pantry had a stronger variety than Liscor. A healthy, tasty wrap with—she could fry some meat, she supposed. Add a few dipping sauces, some snacks…the [Princess] realized Ushar looked horrified and glanced around.
“Cooking? I employ some servants. I could ask one of them to…”
Ilvriss watched Lyonette, but he was least-shocked of the rest. Rafaema was staring at Lyonette, Onieva looked amused, and even Cire was nonplussed. Lyonette looked at their clear surprise—and smiled.
Despite herself.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss. You know full well I worked at an inn. I may not be—be Erin, but I know my way around a meal. We’ll have wraps.”
“What’s a wrap?”
“It’s very simple. I just take this flatbread, wrap it around a meal. I think—chickpeas, beans, sliced tomatoes, other elements. We have chicken here, and we can dip it. It’s very tasty.”
She thought Imani had actually introduced it one time. It was the kind of thing Erin didn’t think of, but knew full well. Lyonette frowned at the bread on hand.
They could even make a basic dough and just put it on a pan without leavening it. She rolled up the sleeves of her dress as Dame Ushar looked appalled.
“Your Highness, please! We can do this. There is no need to—”
“Dame Ushar, I know how to cook. Excuse me? I’ll take requests. If anyone has an allergy, speak up. Hmm…Xif, you first. You liked meat-dishes, didn’t you, the last time you came to the inn? But I recall you liking parsley.”
The Gnoll glanced up in surprise, and lowered the healing potion he was using a dropper to put on his bruised eye.
