Ilvriss nearly died. In many ways, he was like Tyrion Veltras. He wasn’t that old, he was a prominent member of aristocracy, and he was good in a fight. He was not as martially famous as Tyrion, but he had artifacts and training and he nearly died.
Wilovan and Ratici went in like fire and fury and, Ilvriss had to admit, they were better fighters than he was, at least in the close-quarters fighting down another hideaway. This one was all corridors; an actual house turned into a base. Wilovan’s club and Ratici’s blades were perfect for these close conditions, but Ilvriss was still trained by the best.
Not only his old [Weapons Trainer], but Tessa and experience. He was adept at fighting, even without room to fully swing his sword. What he was not prepared for was how they fought.
The gangs. He took down three Drakes and Gnolls in quick succession, feeling like he was on a battlefield. The blood. Yet he didn’t waver. He turned as a Drake, a huge Drake with scars all over his scales, charged down the corridor.
Idiot. Ilvriss went to run him through and his strike bounced off the other’s scales. No—the enchanted blade clearly cut and drained the Drake, but he’d used a Skill! Ilvriss backed up, ready for a strike and—
The Drake grabbed his sword-arm. Ilvriss cursed, striking him with a fist, but the scarred Drake just grabbed him and refused to let go.
“You—”
It wasn’t even an arm-breaking grip, just implacable. Ilvriss could not wrest his arm free! He bashed the other over the face, drew a dagger, and stabbed at him, and it bounced off the other Drake’s scales as the Skill deflected it—then Ilvriss began stabbing the arm. The Drake grunted, but did not let go.
And then his buddy tried to stab Ilvriss. One-handed, the Wall Lord fought back, striking with his other hand. He survived only because one of his rings activated and formed a barrier over his scales. He remembered the ruby ring on his sword-arm and twisted it—the other Drake just held on—and his scales were set ablaze.
Still, the [Lockdown Grappler] didn’t budge. Ilvriss kept the other one off him with [Flurry Strikes], burning his Skills away, and then felt a cut that went through his enchanted cloth armor and glanced off a rib. He stared at his death—a Level 21 [Rogue] with a single, low-grade, enchanted dagger—
And Wilovan seized the Drake and smashed him into a wall, one-handed. The [Grappler] finally let go of Ilvriss, backing up—and Wilovan hit him. Three times, before the [Grappler] fell.
Ilvriss, panting, shaken, realized the fighting was over. He gasped for air.
“What was—what was—”
“Grabber. He gets you and his buddies run you through. You’re lucky he didn’t get both arms behind you.”
Wilovan commented succinctly. He looked around. There was a cry, and he raised his club, but a Gnoll came stumbling towards him. Gamith? The [Bruiser] was cut deep across his belly. Wilovan stared at him and then snatched a potion and threw it at him.
“That’s not—I have never seen that before. It’s suicidal.”
Ilvriss stared at what remained of the [Lockdown Grappler]. Wilovan nodded.
“See his scars? It’s not a class most fellows take long. Takes a big man who isn’t afraid of getting cut. But his Skills…I’ve seen Gold-ranks go down to that.”
“And that’s how you fight?”
Ilvriss looked at Wilovan. The Gnoll turned to face him, exasperation written over his face.
“Yes, sir. That’s how we fight and kill Wall Lords and even adventurers. The street isn’t fair. You mean well, but they know better than you what they’re getting into. We won’t stop you from dying.”
He jerked his head at Gamith and the Furfangs. The young Gnolls and Drakes stared as Ratici emerged, wiping his blades. Ilvriss just stood there.
Skills like that. Fighting that—he was a Wall Lord armed with Gold-rank grade artifacts, and he’d nearly died to two people ten levels lower than he was. He looked at Wilovan and Ratici and came to a realization.
High-level experts in fighting he’d never dreamed of. And…he looked around.
“You’re right. I’m only getting in your way, aren’t I?”
“You’re handling yourself well. We might have perished in that fight before, frankly, sir. But, I won’t lie, that it’s a risk.”
Ilvriss nodded, meeting Wilovan’s gaze.
“They nearly got you the same way, didn’t they?”
The Gnoll never blinked.
“It’s a good trick. The fellows die for certain if it fails, but they don’t lack for courage when they think they’ll win. Two more places vanish? They’ll think twice. They have to, or they’ll attack until we’re all dead. That’s how it works. The other Faces have to think twice. They’re afraid of dying, that’s the ticket, sir. None of us are death or glory.”
“Except you are. You…Brothers.”
Wilovan smiled. He reached up for his hat that wasn’t there, and nodded. Ratici did too.
“There are rules, sir. The Brothers don’t fight more than other gangs. We fight less, actually. Because when we fight…there are rules in the north, and that’s how we survive. Down here? We’ll teach them.”
Ilvriss looked from face to face. He shook his head, sheathed his blade, and reached for his claws.
“I won’t get in your way. Here.”
He tossed something at Wilovan. The Gnoll blinked and caught it.
“What’s this?”
A huge ruby set in a ring winked at him. Ilvriss gestured at it.
“Flamecoat Ring. Touch it when it’s twisted down—never twist it down unless you want it primed. Perhaps it will help. And…”
He bit his tongue, but handed Ratici the other ring, a dark onyx one.
“Invisibility.”
He could always replace them from his armory. The Gentlemen Callers blinked at him. Ilvriss nodded.
“Keep yourselves alive. I’ll put someone on Miss Marquin with her Thronebearers. A…face.”
“Er…thank you, Wall Lord. Will you be wanting these back?”
Ilvriss turned, briefly.
“I’ll consider them…a favor. We’ll talk later, I hope.”
The Gentlemen Callers exchanged a glance. Their opinion of the odd Wall Lord changed somewhat. He might not know, but he was learning. Wilovan grinned.
As the Wall Lord left, the two Gentlemen Callers took stock. They put their hats on, counted their injuries, and Wilovan went for another set of clothing. The Gnoll was buttoning up another coat when he looked sideways.
“You lads have a grudge against the Earthtenders or something?”
“Earthtenders? No one likes ‘em. You…you from another city?”
Gamith spat. He touched at his stomach, gingerly, but he’d seen fighting before, if not this. He stared at Wilovan. The Gnoll considered the question.
“Something like that. We’re not replacing them. This isn’t a feud. This is to the death. Hats off. You get me?”
Gamith nodded slowly. He gulped.
“Wh-why? What did they do?”
“They tried to kill someone who wasn’t part of it.”
The [Bruiser] waited. The other Furfangs looked at each other.
“And…how far is it going?”
Wilovan finished buttoning his coat.
“Until it ends. If you want to come with us, help yourself.”
He looked sideways, pointedly. His new ring was on his finger, but he quite clearly saw why the Furfangs had followed the Brothers on their deadly battles. Not just the fascination of the two men. Not just seeing the sheer violence and death.
They’d armed themselves with the goods of the dead Earthtenders. Money, weapons—more than they could earn in months. Gamith himself had picked up the enchanted dagger. He stared at it. He could sell this and feed himself and his family for…
All you had to do was look death straight in the eye. The two Gentlemen Callers began to walk off. The Furfangs had all the money they could want from two battles—three including the aborted one at the club—in the streets.
Sure enough, the Furfangs gang remained to loot the place and then run and tell everyone what they’d seen. Ratici nodded to Wilovan and they walked on. That was what Wall Lord Ilvriss would never understand. The sheer money in a jacket, even bloodstained, a bag of coins.
They turned as they heard pounding footsteps behind them. Gamith, the [Bruiser], and a pair of Drakes and three other Gnolls had caught up. They stared at the Gentlemen Callers in silence.
Something…Wilovan felt blood drying on his fur. He reached for his scent-killing potion. And wondered if he would level again. He would. And his next Skill would be…
[He Scratched Only Thread].
Yet in the now, in the moment, he looked at Gamith, right at the uncertain young man. Ratici glanced at Wilovan, then he snapped. The younger men jumped as Ratici gestured.
“Keep up, then. Listen and don’t move until we say so. And—find yourselves some damn hats.”
They had to at least look the part, if they wanted to walk with the Gentlemen Callers.
 
——
 
It was completely, eminently difficult. Because the problem was that you never had one problem at a time. When it rained, it poured. When it rained, it poured, and you discovered there were Crelers in the water and the Krakens were waking up.
At the moment of her greatest ambition, possible triumph or failure, there was unexpected war with the Gnolls. Erin Solstice, that dear girl, was dead, and she truly believed it was only a dream she could return.
Perhaps, though. Perhaps. She was equal to that—even to the news Tyrion Veltras was making war on Ailendamus for reasons only his addled brain could conceive. A younger woman might have struggled to hold it all. That poor little child, Mrsha…
Yet she could handle it all. Gangs and scandal and intrigue, because it was not the first time Magnolia Reinhart had been here. Cruel as it might be to say, not all of it was her true affair, and if she failed…
She could balance it all, do it all. Because there was a truth that Magnolia Reinhart knew in her heart of hearts.
In the end, come triumph or tragedy, she would do her best. She would do all she could to leave this world better, to build that which lasted.
In the end, she would die. But that would not be the end. While her name was yet spoken or even remembered, she would live. And…he would live.
This was the truth of the world. A foundation.
It shook. Ryoka Griffin had told Magnolia Reinhart to…she listened. The voice was incredibly clear; as if he stood in the room with her. Ressa was frozen. Implaccable Ressa…
“My dear girl, you were right. Don’t rub it in; we don’t have time for it. You were right. I have been abed, metaphorically speaking, far too long. I blame the condition of my people.”
His people. Magnolia whispered.
“Indeed?”
“Half-Elves and their patterns. You know, the Archmage of Izril was in the exact same predicament. That is the fundamental quality of—of those seeking the core of magic, I suspect. Well, enough. Wistram is ashambles. There is no time, but I am preparing it for the future. As for Ryoka…leave her to me.”
He sounded right. In intonation, in some aspects, and completely the stranger. Magnolia held the stone away from her ear.
“Old man?”
He chuckled. Fondly. He remembered that. He remembered everything.
“Such a girl, even now. I will see you soon, Magnolia. Just trust in your old mentor. Tell that ghost to watch himself. We have been quiet too long—no, I have. Even my lifespan is not infinite. We have this one chance. So…so wait. Don’t get caught up in the Drakes’ damned pettiness. I have had enough of it with Zelkyr—but I will see you sooner if need be. For now? Watch the news, dear girl.”
He ended the call. Magnolia lowered the stone, sat down, and nearly fell over. Ressa reached out and poured herself a cup of tea. She took a deep drink, looked at the cup, and muttered.
“Someone get me a cup of wine or something. That wasn’t him.”
“No. Ressa. Did you hear him talk about—”
Magnolia Reinhart was as white as a sheet, but she collected herself and began counting.
“His lifespan? He never plays coy about being—never. You know that. He wouldn’t even suggest it. As for the Drakes—he knows them. Everything he is doing. What happened?”
Ressa paced around—then went to sit where Lyonette had been. It had been a longer conversation, but she was used to standing forever. Right now? She put her head back as someone ran a wine bottle over.
“Something’s wrong for certain. Magic. He’s said things can take even him out.”
“Then we must check on him.”
“Yes? I can do it. Drop me off at Liscor or Celum and I’ll head there myself.”
Ressa sat up, inhaling hard. Magnolia hesitated.
“He warned us he trapped his ‘laboratory’. That’s still him, Ressa.”
“I know. Who else could you send, though? I have a shot.”
“Not one in a thousand. Not if he truly prepared any spells.”
Ressa nodded.
“…But this is beyond dangerous. If he’s truly arming Wistram with what he knows? Either he’s gone mad or his mind—”
“Do not continue that thought. That is an order.”
Magnolia Reinhart saw her [Maid] raise her head to snap, but Ressa hesitated. Magnolia sat there. She could suffer the skies opening up and flooding everything, but she hadn’t been ready for the ground to vanish beneath her feet.
The two looked at each other. And into that moment came a crash, a shout, and a commotion. Ressa was on her feet. Magnolia sat there, staring ahead, until Ressa came back.
“We have an intruder. Someone went through the second floor window.”
“Just once, I would like it to be a bat or bird that flies into the glass, Ressa. I take it this is more important than your average [Assassin]?”
Ressa pursed her lips. She looked upwards as Reynold and five [Butlers] and [Maids] marched a figure forwards who hadn’t been prepared for an ambush.
“…You could say that. What timing.”
Magnolia Reinhart looked up and saw Rafaema of Manus coming down the stairs. She closed her eyes.
“Of course.”
 
——
 
Rafaema had known it was risky, but Makhir couldn’t follow her and—after nearly vaporizing him, she had to take a risk.
She’d known it was dangerous, but the instant she went through the enchanted glass someone had kicked her into a wall. That [Butler]—
Then a [Maid] with two wands had appeared, and Rafaema had surrendered. She was getting tired of being beaten up! She probably could have taken both of them…but Magnolia Reinhart had a mansion full of servants and…
Onieva. So many questions, so many things to ask.
But she only cared about one thing. Rafaema looked up as she was halted in front of Magnolia Reinhart.
“Lady Reinhart, I’m sorry for the abrupt entry, but I needed to speak with you in secret.”
“Wall Lady Rafaema, you have either terrible timing or excellent, and I truly cannot tell which.”
