Magnolia Reinhart looked…tired. Unusually wan, and Rafaema didn’t know why. She sagged in her chair, but sat up a bit as she eyed Rafaema. The Dragon opened her mouth, and saw a figure sitting opposite Magnolia fill a cup.
…Was that [Maid], Ressa, drinking wine? Well, Rafaema had heard Ressa was more than just a [Maid], but still.
“I’m sorry to be blunt, Lady Reinhart. But I have questions and you have answers.”
She didn’t know what she was doing. But that was the thing—no one did. Makhir, Luciva, no one in Manus had anything more than books and old legends to help them, and there were precious few of those. Yet Magnolia had spotted Rafaema about to explode and told her exactly what to do.
Either it was pure coincidence or…no, Rafaema knew there was one more. She knew. And perhaps that meant Magnolia knew too.
Rafaema inhaled, heart beating fast.
“I would like to speak with you. Privately.”
Magnolia Reinhart glanced around.
“There is hardly more of a private setting than this, my staff aside, and they are all trustworthy. But…speak? Let me think.”
She put her fingers together as she eyed Rafaema.
“Speak to a Wall Lady of Manus…hm. No, I do not believe that is wise. Reynold?”
“Lady Reinhart?”
“Escort Lady Rafaema back up to her window of entry, please. And toss her back out.”
The [Butler] bowed. Rafaema began to protest as they dragged her back.
“You can’t do that! I need to speak to you! I am a Wall Lady of Manus!”
“I know, my dear. And I am [Lady] Reinhart. Chalk it up to Human incivility, mm? But now is not appropriate.”
Ressa was eying Magnolia, more unsure, but she didn’t object. Rafaema struggled, but five servants had a hold on her—they struggled to keep her moving. They were strong!
“You know something, don’t you? You know about me!”
She shouted and Magnolia Reinhart looked up. Instantly Rafaema’s heart froze in her chest. She had been told every day since being small never, ever—and the Reinharts were one of the gravest enemies in her nightmares!
And yet—something prompted Rafaema. She dug her claws into the carpet and the five servants lurched. Reynold eyed Rafaema as she dragged all five, pulling herself forwards.
“You…you know…”
Magnolia Reinhart looked up as Rafaema slowed, panting. Reynold carefully lifted a cosh, and Magnolia lifted a hand.
“One moment, Reynold.”
They faced each other. Magnolia Reinhart peered at Rafaema, almost as unsure—no, more unsure than Rafaema. The Dragon drew a little closer and saw Ressa shift.
But she didn’t want to hurt Magnolia. Rafaema inhaled again. Yes…yes. It was faint, but she had never been this close to Magnolia before. Far fainter for some reason. Because of perfume? But she was attuned to it now, because of Lyonette.
It was the same smell. Rafaema’s eyes went round and Magnolia gave her a blank look.
“Ressa. Why is she sniffing m—”
Her brows drew together. Ressa sat up. Slowly, Rafaema breathed.
“You know…you knew I was in danger. You spoke to me. You knew. You know—”
“Reynold, the kosh to the back of the head, thank you. Toss her out.”
“No!”
Suddenly, Rafaema threw all five servants off her. She pointed at Magnolia and Ressa was there, wine cup in hand, sipping it. Not with dagger in hand, but even so!
And she smelled like…and it was even on the butler! How hadn’t she noticed? Well, simple. One didn’t get close to any of them that much.
“You—you know…”
Magnolia Reinhart looked at Rafaema’s stunned face. She sighed, then looked about.
“I suspect the Hunt Commander is on his way, and I will not have it said that I accosted Lady Rafaema. Reynold? Intercept him and explain the situation should he arrive too early.”
“At once, Lady Reinhart.”
The [Butler] strode away, his artificial legs moving rapidly across the carpet. Rafaema sat down.
Since no one put a chair behind her, she sat on the carpet. Magnolia Reinhart pursed her lips. She looked like she was thinking hard.
“Where are they? How many? How do you know? You knew about me. Do you know…?”
The word danced on Rafaema’s lips, unspoken, but Magnolia Reinhart read words that weren’t there. They didn’t need to say it. Perhaps it was dangerous, even here.
Certainly, the other five servants were instantly ordered away. Ressa poured a deep cup of wine and began sipping. After a second, she produced a snack and began crunching in the background as she watched.
“I’m afraid I have no idea as to what you’re speaking of, Wall Lady Rafaema. And I suggest, for the benefit of all, we leave it there after this is said and done.”
“Leave it—are you insane?”
Magnolia Reinhart’s eyes narrowed slightly.
“Are you?”
The Lightning Dragon looked at her. Magnolia Reinhart pointed a finger at Rafaema’s chest.
“Whatever you may suspect, my dear, and I deeply regret not knowing that part of biology—it must be magical. Ressa?”
“Already on it. Magical skunks, the lot of ‘em.”
Rafaema jerked. They were so casual about it.
“So it’s true?”
Magnolia Reinhart rolled her eyes skywards.
“My dear, I know it is an earth shattering revelation and no doubt greatly joyous and hopeful and all of the following, but keep up. And understand—this will do you no good.”
“But—!”
“You are Lady Rafaema, ward of Manus. I am Magnolia Reinhart. I trust Manus as far as I can throw the entire city, and Manus trusts me as much as they can throw all of Izril. You will, regretfully, keep whatever you suspect to yourself or it will be complicated for all of us.”
Magnolia sighed, rubbing at her forehead.
“…Besides. It will do you little good. So consider this meeting a moment of hope, nothing more. Hope…but my dear. I know. You know. It will not be more than that.”
“Why not? You could take me to him—her?”
For some reason, him was Rafaema’s instinct. Magnolia smiled at Rafaema as Ressa shifted, eyes widening. Magnolia saw it, but shook her head at both of them.
“My dear Rafaema. I cannot imagine a world in which that does not include your…guardians. Your minders. And believe me, that is unacceptable.”
Makhir. Rafaema heard a bang from the door and a loud voice followed by muffled conversation. He’d already followed her? Well, she had flown into the window—Ressa stood up.
“I’ll talk to them. Reynold—let him see her.”
A fighting Gnoll at the gates—Makhir. He saw Rafaema, then was pulled back.
“Wall Lady!”
“I’m fine, Makhir! Leave me be!”
She shouted back, furious. Then turned to Magnolia.
“You see.”
“Who is it? Are they—are they young? Did they send you here to meet me? Could I send a message? How is it possible? Why doesn’t Manus know?”
Magnolia Reinhart’s face looked more and more pained as Rafaema begged for answers. She folded her hands in her lap.
“Not young. Wall Lady, truly. The more you know, the more painful it will be. Leave it be. Our meeting was not by design, I assure you. As for how I know? It is completely my news sources, which, I must say, have elements even Manus cannot safeguard against. He…may know. I suspect he does. But you will not meet with him, I think.”
“Why?”
Magnolia searched for some tea. But there was none, so she reached for the wine bottle, and sighed as she put it back.
“…Because he has no interest in you.”
“Not me? We are the last ones in the world! Unless—there are more?”
Magnolia Reinhart’s face wasn’t blank, it was just nothing. No clue to Rafaema. The Lightning Dragon focused.
“Why not? I have so many questions. We could be—you know about…?”
Cire? She was afraid she was giving something away, but Magnolia just sighed.
“My dear. The reason he does not care—no, let me put it another way. He may genuinely not know. I suspected he did, but sometimes I overestimate his intelligence. Either way—if he did not seek you out, even if he did not know, I do not think he would meet with you. And, to be clear, he would find you. You could never find him.”
“Why wouldn’t he?”
Magnolia gave her a long look. A sad look. She glanced towards the door.
“Rafaema of Manus. What would you have to offer him? Nothing. Nothing but youth and, I think, grief. What could you do but entangle him in petty affairs? He may wish to meet one of his kin. That is true. That has always been true. But one of his kin. Not a child surrounded by minders. He has met too many of you, I think. Too many of us. Too many children.”
Rafaema sat there, vibrating. She felt something rising in her chest—she was hyperventilating and Magnolia saw it. The [Lady] reached out.
“Control your breathing. Calm. Calm yourself, Rafaema.”
Her aura was like an added link of chain in a wall. Rafaema stabilized. Then she cried out.
“I don’t know what is happening. I can’t control myself!”
“You are growing up. That’s all. It is never pleasant, Humans, Drakes, or otherwise. Find someone with aura training. Or go sit cross-legged and meditate for a year. [Monks] and whatnot.”
Magnolia sat back, sighing. Rafaema saw Makhir arguing his way forwards. She leaned towards Magnolia, desperately.
“Tell me. Tell me and…I’ll seek him out.”
“No.”
Magnolia Reinhart decided to pour herself a cup of wine. Rafaema’s fists clenched.
“Tell me! Or it will be a matter for Manus!”
“That is exactly why I will not. I know something. Manus does. If you are unwise enough to bring it to your Dragonspeaker, I trust it will be just her and we shall understand we both have much to lose. Her arguably more than I. I will advise you to go with your Hunt Commander, Rafaema.”
Magnolia waved as the Gnoll advanced. She looked at Rafaema. The Lightning Dragon sat there, vibrating with—Magnolia Reinhart murmured.
“It won’t be forever, Rafaema. Wait until you are an adult and I will make a provision to tell you. He will be there, waiting.”
Rafaema stared at her. The [Lady] rose to greet Makhir. She looked at Rafaema again.
“Either that—or prove to me that when you find him, it will not be Rafaema of Manus, but Rafaema alone. That is my promise.”
 
——
 
Grow up. Grow up, but it was so difficult. How were you supposed to do that, exactly? Most people were lucky. All they had to do was grow older.
“Cire! There you are!”
The Earth Dragon looked up. Mivifa, the Oldblood of Feathers, dove out of the sky with Feathi, her pegasus. Unlike normally, she wasn’t ‘Mivi’, but the Named Adventurer.
She looked old. She hesitated, but she called down to Cire.
“It’s been nearly eight hours! Oteslia’s in a panic! The First Gardener thought you’d flown over the walls and Zeres got you—where have you been?”
She’d found Cire on the ground, walking the streets of Oteslia. It was amazing she’d found him, really. He’d tossed his tracking spells, and in a city of millions, it was nigh impossible to find Cire, even with all the people in-the-know searching for him.
Especially since he wasn’t at any one of his customary hangouts, not even the place where he had hatched. Cirediel had his hands in his pockets. Mivifa swooped lower.
“I—I’ll call the Watch. Wait here.”
“So you’re not going to hang out anymore, huh?”
Mivifa stopped. Her wings were feathered. Feathers. Not snow-white, but a subtler blonde-grey, bordering silver with speckled dots, like Feathi’s own hide.
“I…”
She floated downwards. Cire stared up at her. How had she…? They must have used a substitute when he met ‘Mivifa’.
This was right. This was who Mivi was. Named Adventurer. Now he looked at her, he felt stupid. Of course she wore makeup. He felt like a fool and turned away.
“Get lost, Mivi. You found me. Congratulations. I’m not dead—you can get someone and go back to doing important things instead of having to follow me around. It must’ve really sucked, huh? Listening to me, having to pretend to be Silver-rank. Mom’s got a Named Adventurer to guard me because I’m that good at Crelering things up, huh?”
“It’s not like that at all, Cire. You don’t Creler much—it’s just—”
He spun back, shouting.
“Don’t pretend, Mivifa! You—how many of them are there? Do I have any friends?”
Cire had tears in his eyes, which he hated. He wiped at them, and furiously swung at her, but it went wide. Mivifa watched him, anguished.
“Cire—I wanted to be your friend. I was. All the time, growing up. I just…”
Her lips moved. Cire was preparing to run away from her, when Mivifa whispered.
“I got old, Cire. I tried, but I couldn’t stay young forever.”
He looked back at her and saw she had grown up. She had always been…he remembered a short Drake girl, running about. Then she got taller, but slowly. Slowly. Then he realized she was grown and then…
“How old are you?”
She looked at him. And Cire realized he didn’t want to know. He was the boy who was young forever. He shook his head.
“Don’t—don’t tell me. I—”
He looked around. He had been walking down the street, to a playground. It was an old haunt, so old only Mivifa had found it from earlier routes. Cire muttered.
“Everyone else is doing important things. I’m the one who…”
“What were you doing, Cire?”
He stared about. The street was empty, more worn than he remembered it.
“It feels like yesterday. I feel like you two knew each other, but he’s older’n even you, Mivifa. Poruniv. Porun. Do you remember…?”
She stiffened. Cire looked at her. He saw a young Drake, sometimes with cuts from scuffles, grinning at him.
“He runs a gang, doesn’t he? That was him. Just like you. I met a guy—we were friends and he was old. He was dying. Do you have to keep lying?”
“I…Cire. I didn’t want to at first. First it was just me hiding a few years. Then—we know how it hurts you.”
Cire’s voice rose.
“Yeah, well, it hurts more when I feel like the biggest idiot in the world! Every time! Mom—”
He stopped and gulped.
“I know Shaerrha isn’t my…I know the other First Gardeners retired. I know they have to be…”
He couldn’t say it. Cire looked away.
“I know they get old. I know that! I can handle it. It’s just—you can’t run around with people who’re thirty. That’s uncool.”
“I know. I wanted to hang out with you, Cire.”
“Did you even enjoy it?”
The Dragon scuffed along, heading towards the playground of swings and balance-beams built into the trees planted there. Ah, they were overgrown. When had that happened? Trees grew so fast.
Mivifa and Cire sat on swings there as evening set. Mivifa tried to smile.
“I did. Really.”
“Liar. I know I’m a child when you get older. Everyone tells me that.”
The Named-rank adventurer’s smile flickered.
“Who does?”
Cire avoided her gaze.
“People. I can’t help it. I can’t be old. Rafaema tries—but she’s miserable. Just look at her and that Makhir guy.”
