Mivifa nodded. Manus sounded like military training camp to Cire.
“We don’t want to hurt you, Cire. It’s just—”
“Then let me leave. Just let me leave and—and go exploring!”
“We can’t do that. Cire, you’re the hope of Oteslia.”
The Dragon stared at the ground. He kicked at it savagely, unearthing a colony of actual ants. They began to swarm at him—then decided to go rebuild their colony instead. Uncool kick, guy, but what are you gonna do? Bite him? Nah.
“Yeah. The hope of the Walled Cities and the biggest joke. I can’t even wipe my butt without someone holding my hand.”
“That’s not true—”
“Is it?”
Cire leapt to his feet, carefully avoiding the anthill. He pointed at Mivifa, suddenly furious again.
“It always happens! You—you and Mom and everyone tell me it’s the last time, but I’m not stupid! You keep doing it! You told me I was going to Zeres and put me on a lake! I thought it was the ocean for three decades! And that wasn’t enough—you know what they did to Rafaema? When she blew up half of Manus?”
Mivifa bit her tongue and avoided his gaze. Cire threw his hands up.
“Her boyfriend was an agent of Manus! She can’t even date someone without them being, like, a super-secret [Soldier] or officer! And—and I know you put tracking spells on us. And that you read our letters! Want to know why we don’t write any? Because I don’t want to write to Dragonspeaker Luciva!”
He stomped his feet and cracked the earth. Mivifa couldn’t meet his eyes.
“I’m sorry, Cire. I’ve tried to give you more space. But everyone worries about you. Everyone does love you, and you two are the last ones ever. You’re the hope of Oteslia. Look.”
Cire looked down. A vast ant colony stretched under his feet, unearthed by his stomping. But rather than swarm over him, the ants bustled around him. Jeez, look at this guy.
They refused to attack. Plants grew faster when Cire planted them. Animals did love him. Feathi was a friend.
The last. It wasn’t true, but Cire refused to tell Mivifa. He might have, a month ago. Now? He looked at Mivifa, the Oldblood of Feathers, and knew they would never be friends again. That was how it worked. He turned away.
“Loved? That’s what everyone tells me. I don’t feel loved. I feel…needed.”
Mivifa stirred. She tried to speak, but Cire held up a claw.
“Just leave me alone, Mivifa. Go do important things. I won’t run away. I’ll just be here. Everyone tells me they’re doing things for my sake. You, the First Gardener, even Poruniv said that. You all sound the same.”
He turned. His wings opened wide, and the Earth Dragon’s scales, brown and green and purple, shimmered in the fading light. He looked up—then hesitated, and raised a claw.
The earth moved together, and the ant colony vanished as it melded. Cire stared down at the ground. One day—Mivifa looked at him. One day, he would guide them all like that. Kindly.
If he didn’t break of sadness before that. Cire spread his wings and flew.
He wanted to be alone. No—he was alone. He saw a streak of blue in the air and flew towards it. He saw Rafaema, fleeing as well. And there were tears in her eyes.
Cire flew at her and caught her arm. He embraced her, and hated the way they watched and celebrated it. The certainty grew in his chest, the little secret he had never told anyone, not even Rafaema.
One day, I will run away from this place and never return.
 
——
 
He wanted to run. But the Second Gardener, the nickname for the Earthtenders’ boss, Poruniv, had orders.
Multiple safe houses and havens. Labs, somehow. Workshops—vanished.
Earthtenders was indeed a massive gang, but the amount of damage done in a single day? There were two Faces smashing places up street-to-street, reports of places being found with dead gang members with no wounds—and [Maids].
Maids. It was like some kind of sick joke. But Poruniv was furious. The gloves were off and there would be a reckoning.
So he sent Faces. On the attack. Neverwhine, Zanzeil, and nearly a dozen more were called in. Favors pulled, arms twisted. Threats made.
“Ecleeif. You’re on killing those damn Callers. I want them dead.”
Poruniv’s face was still puffy from nearly getting sucked into a void. He pointed at the [Sorcerer] and the Drake gulped.
“M-me? Why me? Send Zanzeil and Neverwhine!”
The Gnoll with the Creler-poison on claws and the huge, double-headed dog [Beast Master] both glared at him. Poruniv shouted.
“Don’t argue! You’re a [Mage]—they’re warriors. Blast them! I’m sending you with a full combat group. Just hang back, hit them, and if you somehow miss—”
There were threats laden with his orders, but Poruniv just had to wound them or keep them from attacking. The [Sorcerer] knew he could do it. His [Airless Box] spell hadn’t killed either Caller, but it was swords versus sorcery.
But if they get me, I’m dead. I’m dead! Ecleeif was under no illusions. There were Faces and Faces. Some qualified because they were famous more than deadly. He’d even heard a child was a Face in Invrisil, which went to say something something something.
But those two? They were death walking. They had walked into the Earthtenders’ hideout, nearly done in Poruniv but for sheer luck, and killed dozens of the main crew before getting away. Even a broad-daylight attack had failed.
They scared Ecleeif shitless, and he stopped in a public outhouse to lose a few pounds. The [Sorcerer] hurried to get to his meeting place, sweating as he washed his claws with a quick [Flame Jet] spell. He stepped outside, cutting through a park, and a gold coin was lying on the ground.
Ecleeif stopped and looked around. Now here was a find! He reached down for it, and heard a voice.
“Want to bet on it?”
The [Sorcerer] spun. He pointed a finger, hesitated, as the young man threw his hands up.
“Ancestors. Rickel? Do you want to die?”
The [Gambler] grinned.
“Hey, Ecleeif. Sorry, but I thought you’d do something if I didn’t get your attention. Mind not blasting me?”
The [Sorcerer] thought about it.
“You’re in over your head, Rickel. Poruniv wants you dead. First the mistake with the flowers, now this…you’d better find a way to make it up.”
Rickel put his hands in his pockets.
“I didn’t make a mistake with the flowers. They’re worth everything, right? Not my fault.”
Ecleeif chewed his lip. He knew he was late, judging by the position of the sun, but he lingered…glancing at a sun-dial.
“Yeah, well. That’s not what the boss thinks. What, you want me to put in a good word?”
He vaguely liked Rickel. The young man was a mediocre [Gambler], but he knew his way around places, and Ecleeif would have sworn he was smart…until his stunt the other day. Rickel shrugged.
“I don’t think it matters. Listen, Ecleeif, let’s be honest. The Earthtenders are going to war, right? Against the Gentlemen Callers?”
“Those two? Yeah. Two Faces from up north. Crazy bastards.”
Ecleeif shuddered. Rickel smiled crookedly.
“They’re old-school.”
“School? We don’t go to school. They’re insane. Either they die or…no, we’ll get them. But I don’t want to be one of the ones who dies taking ‘em out, you understand? If you hadn’t saved them—hey, that’s right!”
Ecleeif was getting angry. He pointed a finger at Rickel.
“Give me one reason I shouldn’t drag you back to the boss!”
“Because I wouldn’t appear in front of you without a backup plan, Ecleeif. For all you know, the Gentlemen Callers are waiting around that tree.”
Rickel nodded, looking calm as could be. Ecleeif’s scales prickled. He lowered his finger, glancing around.
“Hold on. Why are you here?”
Rickel shrugged.
“It’s been a weird day, Ecleeif. First I meet a room full of real people. Like, genuine movers and shakers. The Gentlemen Callers—it’s all connected. Oteslia’s moving. Can’t you feel it? And Poruniv’s making bad plays if he wants to get in front of them.”
His eyes glittered. He grinned. Ecleeif gave him a nervous laugh.
“That all sounds…terrible for business.”
Rickel nodded reasonably. He gestured, and the [Sorcerer] walked slowly with him.
“Doesn’t it? I know you’re like me, Ecleeif.”
“In what way? We both appreciate a good chest over a tail?”
They had bonded over similar tastes. Rickel nearly tripped. He laughed.
“No! We’re sensible. You don’t think fighting the Gentlemen Callers is smart, do you?”
Ecleeif bit his tongue. He did not, but even saying that was a bad idea. Just let the two do what they wanted! Ancestors, why was it all personal? They had so little to gain from making Magnolia Reinhart an enemy, but Poruniv was a patriot.
“I bet a lot of people, even Faces, see it that way. Tell me—are Neverwhine and Zanzeil really that dedicated? I don’t think Zanzeil is, but Poruniv pays him well.”
“More than me.”
The [Sorcerer] scowled. Rickel eyed him, smiling again.
“And now he’s sent you to go after…who? Wilovan and Ratici?”
“I can’t say. Look, Rickel, whatever you’re trying to do, I’m an Earthtender. You have no idea how dangerous Poruniv is.”
Ecleeif turned away. Rickel called out.
“He’s only dangerous until he starts losing power, Ecleeif. And there’s a [Princess], two top Faces, and Magnolia Reinhart on the other side. And me. What if I told you it was a safer bet not to go and get killed?”
The [Sorcerer] turned. He saw Rickel produce something, swear, and drop it.
“I nearly broke my hand! That’s heavy!”
A thunk. It should have been a clink, but that much metal in one place was more like a solid object. Rickel had pulled something out of his bag of holding. Ecleeif stared at it. He approached, opened it, then closed it fast and stared up at Rickel.
“Where did you get that? You’re not that rich! Did those two give you…?”
He stared down at the huge, simple bag filled with…gold coins. Ecleeif’s tail began to wag, but then he wondered why Rickel had pulled it out. The young man squatted down.
“Believe it or not, that’s not even a thousand gold coins. You can’t even lug around a thousand gold coins. My bag of holding feels lighter. Whew!”
He wiped his brow. Ecleeif eyed it. That was a lot of weight to just…Rickel grinned at him.
“So. What if we said…six thousand gold coins. All together. You never show up. I know there are independent safe houses; I even have a few rented.”
“Six thousand…?”
“To begin with. I know you earn a lot. How about earning more? And if you can find people who think the same way—”
Rickel squatted there. Ecleeif stared at him. The [Sorcerer]’s lips moved.
“What’s stopping me from blasting you and taking the rest?”
Rickel laughed.
“Ecleeif! What kind of an idiot would I be if I didn’t have plans for that? And I can’t carry how much money I have. Stick with me, Ecleeif, and let’s not do dangerous things. How about it?”
He held out a hand, grinning. The [Sorcerer] stared at the bag of gold, and Rickel.
“Who…you’re not a [Gambler], are you? Who are you?”
The young man winked at him.
“I don’t gamble about important things. Call me Mr. Opportunity. I see it, I go. I think it’s time to play for keeps, don’t you?”
He waited. Slowly, Ecleeif made up his mind. The [Sorcerer] reached out and took Rickel’s hand, and the young man beamed. The two stood up as Ecleeif levitated the bag of gold up. He was still uncertain.
“You think we can actually take out Earthtenders, Rickel? Or replace Poruniv?”
The young man walked forwards. He turned to Ecleeif and spread his arms.
“Ecleeif, I can do anything.”
He stood there, radiating confidence. The gold he promised Ecleeif was there. No [Gambler], not Rickel, if that was even his real name. He was on the trail of something huge, and coffee was the sideshow act compared to this. It was going to be tough, but the Gentlemen Callers and Lyonette had an ace in the hole, and Rickel didn’t gamble.
He was an orchestrator, a planner, a trickster. He had been a [Con Man]. But that was before the Golden Triangle. If he had to buy the Earthtenders? Earth’s [Trickster of Fortunes] grinned. Time to make a play for his side.
 
——
 
Two children held hands.
Weren’t they all children, in the end? Did they ever grow up?
Yes. There was a day when you were probably older. It had nothing to do with age. Age was just the correlation, not the causation.
Older was something else. It was in a smile or a sigh. It was in what you did—or how you had lived. A little girl could be older than an elderly man in some ways.
It was in her. In her smile. A pure age that Maviola El had never achieved. In some ways, never needed. Had she wanted it?
Lyonette du Marquin grew older in a second and a moment. Older—yet she smiled. She smiled and relaxed, despite the news and short lines of text doing the opposite for her minders.
Ser Lormel broke out into a cold sweat. Dame Ushar and Ser Sest watched Lyonette like hawks. Dalimont? He just looked thoughtfully at her and saw the 6th Princess of Calanfer change.
It came after a day of introducing herself once more to Oteslia’s great and powerful. Meaningless, meaningful. A chance stop at the Mage’s Guild to see if there was any news.
There was, for Erin’s cure. There was news from abroad and home. And a lot of spam mail.
Among it, one letter. Just a short letter, three sentences so short you could write them on a single slip. That was why she had noticed it.
It said everything.
 
I’m here. Find me with everyone, Mother. I miss you.
 
Lyonette du Marquin smiled. Despite knowing what it meant. She was able to understand where it had to surely come from. She understood the danger, both heightened and lessened.
How had she gotten there? Why? What was happening? She didn’t know. And—that last line.
 
I miss you.
 
It spoke to a silent cry. She was needed and she was not there. She had been helpless when her daughter went missing, and she still was.
Even now, Lyonette knew, Zeres’ army was moving. Portions turning on the Meeting of Tribes. Drake armies were crossing the water line. The hunters were out there.
Yet she smiled. It was not a happy smile. Relieved? It was a bit that, but it was not any of those words at the heart of it. Determined—perhaps.
Something stronger. It was the smile of someone who had waited in uncertainty and grief. Despair and fear. Waited, lost, adrift, helpless, unable to do everything that she had to do.
This was the relief: the call had come. A location, a place. Now—she could throw everything towards that goal. Neither hell nor high water nor Thronebearers nor armies would stop her.
“Your Highness. You have a visitor.”
