“Spell. Where’s…?”
Ilvriss turned just in time for Ratici to point at a fleeing Gnoll woman.
“Marked.”
Wilovan grunted. He looked around, saw a Gnoll struggling with another Earthtender, and charged over. The last Earthtender fell dead and Ilvriss and the others on the street stared at the Gentlemen Callers.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
Wilovan recognized Ilvriss after a moment. The Wall Lord nodded, but he didn’t sheathe his sword. He appraised Wilovan; the Gnoll was panting. After a few gulps of air, his breathing slowed. He stared at Ilvriss—then abruptly reached for his side. He put on his cap, and his air of calm returned.
“Good of you to intervene, sir. But I hope you won’t make a habit of it. It’s a nasty business we’re about, I’m afraid. No hats.”
“I…can see that. What are you doing?”
“Best not said outright, sir.”
Wilovan returned. Ilvriss looked at him. He was under no illusions what had gone down in the safehouse; nor were the other young men in the gang. They stared at the Gentlemen Callers, wide-eyed.
Violence like he had never seen. In war? Yes, of course! But there was something else to this. This was no [Fireball] or area of attack spell hitting an enemy formation, or Oldblood Drakes exacting terrible deaths. The two Gentlemen Callers with club and daggers…
Ilvriss’ scales prickled, but Wilovan and Ratici just glanced at each other, then began walking on.
“Where are you going?”
“To find where they went. Rats fleeing a nest leave a trail if you know how to follow it. I’d say not follow, sir, but it’s a free city, or so I’m told. I can’t promise you won’t fall afoul of blade or Watch, though.”
Wilovan answered curtly. He and Ratici moved into a striding stroll as Ilvriss hesitated. Half the group who’d seen the bloodbath was done and just ran; they’d been swept into the fighting, but not to kill. The other half—stared at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord hesitated, then sheathed his sword and followed.
 
——
 
Cirediel had been following Onieva, mainly because Rafaema had been glaring daggers at her but refused to say why. For her part, the Drake had been having a grand time with genuinely no attention paid towards Rafaema—which stung the most.
The Dragon knew he should probably talk to Rafaema about what would happen next since Lyonette was a [Princess]. Did that mean there was a Dragon in Terandria? What should they do next?
He flew up a bit, frowning, and cast about. Left, right…now where had she gone? She was quick! That Mirn person had stayed behind, but Onieva was just a Drake. And, no offense, but Cire was a Dragon, not even an Oldblood Drake. He was fast, strong…
And he had lost her. Cire flew about, then dove as he saw [Pegasus Riders] taking to the skies after him. So he lost Onieva, and his minders lost him.
Shriekblade, no, Tessa, no, Shriekblade didn’t lose Onieva. No one had seen her. No one had given her a wrap.
She was hungry. Still, Ilvriss had given her targets, and Cire, Rafaema, and Onieva were all highly suspicious—Onieva arguably the most since she was the cousin of two famous Drakes…and had a lot of holes in her personal life.
So who was she? Shriekblade kept silent. Her heartbeat was muffled. For once, she felt good. Clear.
The flowers. The glorious [Princess] had a cure! Tessa smiled—but she didn’t privately even whoop or whisper.
That was how hard it was. Onieva was…as good as Saliss? Even with artifacts and Skills, Shriekblade felt like she’d be spotted if she was unwary. So she watched. She would have rather watched the [Princess]. Asked her about the flowers. A cure, a cure!
But she had to admit—this was not boring either.
 
——
 
A safehouse had vanished. News was already spreading—do not open the damn door, and keep low.
The Watch was angry, and they had an enemy gang in the city. Not good times, but there was a truism, which was that you had to find your opponents to get them.
This apartment was completely innocuous. You’d have to know there were Earthtenders inside, carefully letting an [Alchemist] prepare Selphid’s Dust and Dreamleaf and other marketable items. There was no way for anyone to find them unless they had some kind of information or they were a high-level Watch officer, and the Watch and Earthtenders generally stayed away from each other.
Otherwise? There was no way any Gentlemen Caller would find out; even one of Reinhart’s famous [Maids] would need to trace clues to get here. You’d have to have supernatural hearing, eyes that saw through walls, or a nose like a scent-dog, and the know-how of an expert in alchemy to put together the clues to identify this as a narcotics workshop.
A scaled hand knocked on the front door. The [Rogue Leader], who had just heard about a safehouse going down, froze. He motioned to the duo nearest the doors, and they grabbed for crossbows and wands, swearing.
“Excuse me! Is this den run by the Earthtenders, or just a random gang? You know what? It really doesn’t matter.”
A female voice spoke up from outside the door. The [Rogue Leader] swore. He was brighter than the [Marauder] in the safehouse. He swung his own enchanted crossbow up and pulled the trigger.
Two bolts and a ray of light blasted through the door as the rest of the gang shot to their feet. The [Rogue Leader] backed up, unconvinced he’d killed anyone. He was indeed smart, and waited for the door to bow inwards. He reached for some Selphid’s Dust. It would mess you up, perhaps forever, but…these idiots coming to pick a fight were about to see what happened when a Drake rampaged.
The door never opened.
 
——
 
Onieva had a specialty-made jar with a curious curved opening on one end stoppered by a simple cork—like a vase. But unlike a vase, it had a wax seal on the back, which kept the sloshing liquid inside contained. The reason why was obvious for an [Alchemist].
She held the jar of nearly-colorless liquid at an angle as she leaned against the door. The crossbow bolts and ray spell had missed her, and no more were coming. She only needed a second.
She jammed the fluted opening of the first container into one of the holes made by the crossbow bolts after rapidly uncorking it. The liquid inside…began to expand rapidly, turning into a gas.
“What is—”
Onieva ignored the surprise. She had something in her other hand. A minor artifact. It was called, in colloquial terms by adventurers, a Jar of Air. A catchall term for the equivalent of a bag of holding but for air. You could dive with it, survive poison—but there were variations.
For instance, this one didn’t just supply air, but emitted a whoosh of it when opened. A nice blast; more like a kids’ toy. Even most adventurers didn’t use it.
Onieva had a use. Which was to jab the jar of air into the first jar, breaking the wax seal. The air blasted out, hit the liquid, which shot through the funnel into the room and underwent a fast metamorphosis from liquid to gas as it left the contained environment.
She held the jar in place as she heard shouts, a scream—then grimaced.
“Damn!”
She kept the jar steady as she tried to block the other two holes made by the second crossbow bolt and ray with her other arm. It was cumbersome, but you didn’t want what was inside leaking out.
She heard coughing, cries of pain—someone discharged a crossbow again. Onieva waited, counting.
Ten seconds…twenty…thirty…a minute passed. She listened, and heard a rasping voice.
Someone was alive in there. Someone with a high-level poison resistance Skill. It was already neutralizing itself, and she heard coughing. A weak voice.
“Hey. H—”
A cough.
“I surrender. Let’s talk this out. Please. I surrender. You hear me?”
The [Alchemist] put both objects away in her bag of holding. She reached for her side. She’d bought a sword. Saliss was still low on potions. One minute…she kicked the door open and walked inside, not that the poison would have bothered her.
“You hear me?”
She didn’t answer. Outside, Shriekblade—or was it Tessa?—watched in silent admiration. That was exactly like how Saliss fought. Who was she?
 
——
 
The Earthtenders were under siege. A lab and safehouse vanished, and that was only the beginning. Two Faces were on a rampage.
Two Faces and a Wall Lord, but Ilvriss didn’t count. At first, he felt he should have, but he didn’t.
“You might want to stow that, sir. This is really not a good business for you.”
“I am as invested in Lyonette’s safety as you are, Mister Ratici.”
The Drake walked along, slowly removing his cap. He glanced meaningfully at a group loitering outside some kind of club building. They were agitated; their friends had just run in, talking about a bloodbath.
“Suit yourself, sir. But don’t say I didn’t warn you.”
Ilvriss frowned—and then saw Wilovan and Ratici accelerate. Hats off again. They were the most economical fighters he’d ever seen. No warmup—they went from calm to violence in seconds, and Ilvriss felt it jarring himself.
Still, he followed them in as they began fighting. He was no stranger to combat, at least. He swung a sword up, slashing at an opponent with a knife and was rewarded with a deep cut. Few of the Earthtenders had anything nearly as long as a shortsword, much less Ilvriss’ longsword. He was fighting, driving them back to their base, when someone screamed.
“Ancestors! Help! Help! Murder on the streets! Call the Watch!”
Ilvriss whirled. He saw a distant figure pointing, and Ratici cursed, breaking off from the door. Wilovan turned to Ilvriss.
“Away!”
The Wall Lord followed Ratici and Wilovan—and a number of young men—as someone blew a whistle, and the Watch on foot and a [Pegasus Rider] flew overhead towards the scene of the crime. Ilvriss stopped after two streets, panting, and thanking his stars he’d worn something less visible.
Purple-scaled Drakes were one thing, but if he was caught…he decided he needed a disguise. Just a hood or something.
“Hold on. I’m with you. I just need to buy a piece of cloth to hide my face. Or is there a Skill for that? Scale-dye?”
Ratici and Wilovan looked at each other as Ilvriss cast around. Ratici shook his head and raised his brows. Wilovan held his paws out, helplessly.
“Wall Lord, sir. This really isn’t your forte.”
“Isn’t it? Don’t you need another claw?”
Ratici frowned. Ilvriss seemed genuine, but…Wilovan was replacing his torn clothes again. With a sigh, he offered Ilvriss something.
“Try this scarf, sir.”
Ilvriss blinked at the embroidered scarf with rather fine green and grey woven together with a little message on the end—‘thinking of you’. He gingerly took it and wound it around his face.
“Er, I don’t look too noticeable, do I?”
Wilovan and Ratici exchanged colorful glances as they eyed the Drake with a scarf around his face so only his eyes showed, like some child-bandit. Wilovan coughed.
“Maybe only wear that when we’re in the thick of it, sir. The problem isn’t that.”
“Really?”
The two Gentlemen Callers realized they had to spell it out for him.
“It’s your sword.”
Ilvriss blinked at his sword. Ratici tried to explain as they continued to make tracks.
“You can’t pull out a full sword on the streets and expect no one to notice, Wall Lord. Daggers’re one thing. Clubs, knuckles, spiked or not, garroting wire, stilettos, all fair game, even blowpipes, a cosh with poisoned needles—”
“Ancestors.”
Ratici grinned briefly.
“Them too, if we had any around. Swords and bows are too noticeable. Folks’ll watch someone with a club fight and hope it’s just a toss-up or fists, at least where they’re used to it, but a sword? That’s blood and death, and they’ll call the Watch no matter where you are.”
Ilvriss blinked.
“I would have thought they’d call the Watch regardless. This is a Walled City, even if it’s poorer—”
He saw the two men smile and stopped because he had the feeling he was making a fool of himself. Wilovan leaned against a wall as Ratici consulted a notepad.
“There’s a place that looks unsecured—we’ll hit it next. As you say, Wall Lord. As you say. I don’t know Drake cities well myself, being a fellow from the north. Perhaps it’s different here.”
Ilvriss jogged after them. He glanced over his shoulder as he heard a puffing sound; several young men were tagging along. Ratici and Wilovan glanced at them, but they forbade comment. They didn’t seem to care.
“You’re implying I’m wrong about that. Salazsar has no organized crime like this, to my knowledge. Oh, there’s corporate theft all the time, and gem trading blackmarkets, I suppose—”
“Just as you say, sir.”
“I would know. Surely. I’m amazed there are so many Earthtenders in the city. That’s the gang, isn’t it? You must have wiped out a hundredth of them alone in…”
Ratici and Wilovan started laughing. They tried not to, but Ilvriss felt his scales grow crimson. He’d thought he was exaggerating. A hundredth? He couldn’t imagine the scope of a gang.
“Sir, there are probably thousands of safe houses like that in the entire Walled City. Maybe over ten thousand easy that the Earthtenders might have. We’re hitting them—but they’ll hit back. And soon the Faces will be back for blood. Then it’ll be a real fight. You know Faces?”
Ilvriss bit his tongue.
“High-level fighters in gangs?”
Wilovan nodded.
“Just like me and Ratici. Just so you know—of our level. Which means over Level 40, some of ‘em. And there won’t be one, or three—we know the Earthtenders have three at their headquarters alone. We might have to fight…what, for a Walled City, Ratici?”
“Dozens. Not all of the same level. Take them on one at a time. Hit and away. So long as they’re on us, Miss Lyonette’s safe. They won’t try her if they think we’re at their backs.”
This was a strategy, Ilvriss realized. A strategy that was actually thought-out, but he was the fool who couldn’t even see the battlefield. He slowed as they approached their next location.
“You’re telling me there are dozens of high-level members of gangs in Oteslia and every city? Including my own?”
Wilovan smiled at him, politely. It was like his mother patting his hand and telling him he’d done a ‘good job’. It wounded Ilvriss to the quick.
“There’s worlds beyond the one you know, sir. A fellow or lady has to level a bit faster if things are tough. Fair warning. Let us go in first this time.”
“Absolutely not. I am still a Wall Lord, and I have artifacts and the levels to match.”
Ratici sighed.
“Just as you like, sir.”
 
——
 
