Ser Dalimont spoke as Lyonette retired to her rooms. She looked up. It was not Wilovan and Ratici, nor Ilvriss, nor even Xif or Rickel. This was a time of action. And time…time was running out.
Even for people who had forever. They could not wait any more.
“Wall Lady Rafaema. And…Cire. Lord Cirediel.”
The two stopped in the room as Ser Dalimont stood to attention. Lyonette addressed him.
“Ser Dalimont, you may leave us.”
He eyed the two. Rafaema offered him her sword. The Thronebearer hesitated.
“As you will, Princess.”
He shut the door, despite the argument with Dame Ushar. Lyonette did not fear danger. And perhaps Dalimont had seen their expressions.
“How can I help you, Wall Lady Rafaema? ‘Raef’?”
Her eyes narrowed. Rafaema started and glared at Cire, whose face said it all in extra-large type. Lyonette nodded to herself.
“I—apologize, Your Highness. I—was hoping to speak with you privately, and I thank you for making the time. I have a delicate issue I would like to bring up, but the matter is touchy. Exceedingly touchy.”
Lyonette raised her brows. Cire looked vaguely alarmed.
“Raef, are you sure?”
“Absolutely. This is highly confidential, Your Highness. I don’t believe I need to spell things out. I would like to ask some questions, if I may. And if we understand each other, perhaps we can elucidate.”
The [Princess] saw the cautious way Rafaema eyed her. She wondered what Rafaema saw, because she was drawing a blank. So she smiled.
My daughter is in the Meeting of Tribes.
“My daughter is in the Meeting of Tribes, Wall Lady Rafaema. I would appreciate if you can spit out what you want. I will answer you candidly, you have my word.”
The Lightning Dragon blinked. She looked at Lyonette. Cire blinked.
“You…you do have a daughter?”
Lyonette shifted her gaze to him and he flinched, though she was still smiling politely.
“Yes. I did not give birth to her, but she is mine. If that is what you are asking. What do you want?”
“It—is a matter of great secrecy. I can’t divulge it unless you were as informed as…someone who knows.”
Rafaema grimaced. She was dancing with a secret and unsure of how to do it. Just blurt it out? Not to a [Princess], not to Calanfer’s heir, Terandrian might.
A continent of [Knights]. Owners of a Dragonthrone. Why was it so hard? Rafaema hesitated and saw Lyonette narrow her eyes. The [Princess] tapped her lips, then half-rose and fetched a tea set. She offered some cold tea around and only Cire took it. She sipped from a cup, eyed Rafaema, then spoke.
“So? Which is it? It’s not coffee or my identity. Then…are you two some species in disguise? Do I have some kind of object in my possession you need? Wait—are you V—”
She hesitated. Rafaema and Cire jumped and gaped at her. Lyonette stared at them.
“Are you Goblins in disguise?”
“…What?”
The two goggled at Lyonette. She searched their faces.
“You are! You’re something. Not Goblins?”
“We’re not—you don’t know! That’s totally whacked in the head, that’s Lizard-brain thinking.”
Cire blustered. Lyonette looked at him. She looked at him in a way Rafaema had seldom seen, even in over a century of life.
“Yes. I do.”
“How?”
Rafaema put a claw out. It was shaking. No, Lyonette didn’t know or she would have guessed. But she looked at them and…the [Princess] breathed.
“It’s so obvious. I was distracted, but it’s obvious. You. Onieva. Even that Nerul and Xesci are for something. I don’t care. I wish I did but—yes, I know. I know you’re special, or on some kind of mission.”
“How? A Skill?”
Lyonette du Marquin laughed. She threw her head back and laughed, not like a [Princess], because they were taught not to laugh like that. Like a [Barmaid] at an inn. She laughed, giggling at the mirth and their uncomprehending faces and burst out.
“Because I have known people like you! I serve them drinks and food! I met the greatest [General] in Izril—the world! He stayed at my inn! I knew people who became Gold-rank adventurers. I know a Courier and—”
Her face stopped shining bright and fell sad.
“I know. So tell me. Ask me, and I’ll answer. I must leave Oteslia.”
“You cannot. Not through a siege. Zeres may be slouches in some ways, but they’ve been tweaked twice. To where, the Meeting of Tribes to find your daughter? You will never make it without an army.”
“Or a magical carriage.”
Lyonette nodded to Rafaema. She was so calm. She studied their wings, scales, mismatched eyes, and frowned. As if she recognized something.
The scent was fading. The trail grew colder. And could they trust her? Cire burst out.
“We’re looking for someone. You might not even know who it is. I bet you don’t, not really. But they were at your inn or crossed paths with you. And we want to find—”
He hesitated.
“It’s secret. But we need your help. But we can’t trust you. So, uh—checkmate.”
Rafaema and Lyonette stared at him. Had he just checkmated himself? Erin Solstice he was not. Yet Lyonette looked at Rafaema.
“Trust is a difficult thing, especially when you have something truly valuable to hide. I know that full well. I was a [Princess] in hiding. I have other secrets.”
“Mine are like that, Princess Lyonette. But they involve more than just me.”
Rafaema looked at Cire and Lyonette. She seemed tired and old in her own way.
“I cannot give them lightly.”
“I know that.”
Lyonette studied her, then Cire. Then she had an idea.
“We can do nothing without trust, though. Am I right in thinking that you two are more than you look? [Hunt Commander] Makhir seems to guard you, Rafaema, and I have seen no less than Mivifa, a Named-Rank adventurer, protecting you, Cire. This—this involves your Walled Cities. Doesn’t it?”
The two Dragons glanced uneasily at each other. This young woman was a bit too smart. This was exactly what they had been taught to fear. Yet Lyonette looked to them, then went to a drawer for something she had just been gifted. She sorted through it, pulling out a stick of something. Wax? She unveiled a scroll, and then turned to them.
“I…think there’s a simple way to go around the problem. If you don’t mind making a deal.”
“A deal?”
Rafaema stared warily at the scroll Lyonette offered. The [Princess] shook it out.
“We could write something more official. But since you do know I am a [Princess], I have a Skill. [Royal Contract]. I am assured it is as powerful as my class, but we could use magic and binding as well.”
“To swear…what?”
“Secrecy. Whatever you want to keep secret, swear me to secrecy. We can bind it with magic and Skills—that is the very foundation of trust. To some people’s minds.”
Little pacts and connections. But Lyonette did not want a little pact or connection. No deal about trade amnesties and so on. Lyonette took a deep breath.
“Tell me what you want and who you’re looking for. Someone like you? If it is a guest—I know all the important ones. I was there in the inn—I surely would know their faces.”
Rafaema licked her lips. Someone who both Magnolia Reinhart and Lyonette knew.
“Tell me.”
The [Princess] urged them. Her eyes flickered as she looked from one to the other. She couldn’t imagine what it was, but the way they jumped at the mention of other species was distinctly…Fierre-ish. Yet they weren’t Vampires; she was almost certain since she’d seen Cire positively bathing in sunlight.
Nor Goblins. Not enough poking. Her eyes narrowed. What else did that leave? Drakes. Guarded by two very powerful cities…
With very powerful, anxious bodyguards…
…Drakes who had Oldblood wings and scales…
Somehow connected to The Wandering Inn. Someone she had met.
Or someone else had met? Lyonette recalled a rumor. One of the most outlandish ones, and that went hand-in-hand with the [Innkeeper] who could spit blood and slew armies with frying pans and acid.
But then, that [Innkeeper] herself kept bringing it up, no matter how people laughed at her. Which was one thing. She wasn’t exactly the most reliable source.
Klbkch the Slayer now…
A Christmas party. Lyonette du Marquin stared at the eyes. The eyes…which were somehow familiar. Not in color, but the way they didn’t match. That was a rare, rare thing, even in this world.
Her own eyes widened. Her brain—no. It refused the answer. Cire and Rafaema looked at each other. Rafaema spoke, slowly.
“If we tell you, Princess Lyonette. I would have you swear never to reveal it, in a way that cannot be broken. I would have you find…the person we are looking for. We would be beyond grateful.”
“No, that’s not enough.”
Rafaema and Cire looked at Lyonette. Not again. The [Princess] was rising. She turned her head from one to the other.
“I need something.”
“We can’t give you anything. Money? A few artifacts, maybe—”
“No, no. What I need is…help. My daughter is in the Meeting of Tribes. She is in danger. Idiotic Drake armies are attacking there. I need—I must claim her and get her to safety. I cannot do it alone. I need to protect her and get to her. Both things I cannot do, trapped here. But…”
Lyonette looked at Cire. Cirediel, who was beloved and protected by no less than Mivifa of Feathers, Named-rank Adventurer.
With a flying pegasus. And Rafaema, who thought of the surprisingly capable [Infiltrator] of Manus. Ferris.
The two sides looked at each other. Lyonette took a deep breath.
“I could help you both. Find whoever you’re looking for. Track them down, perhaps. If you helped me. I would keep your secret and tell no one, if you swore to help me by the same oath. By Calanfer, the Eternal Throne, House Marquin, and my daughter Mrsha, I objure you to aid me as I keep your secrets, and render you all aid I can to locate the one you seek. In return, you must help me reach and protect my daughter at the Meeting of Tribes.”
She blinked. Something was tracing itself on the back of her hand. It looked like…Calanfer’s sigil. A glowing tattoo of light, radiating outwards and forming a longer design up her arm. Rafaema eyed it.
A Royal Skill. She was uncertain.
“Help you find your daughter. Find and protect her. What are we swearing by?”
Lyonette looked at the two. Magnolia Reinhart had so many deals. Lyonette cared little for them, with people she could not trust. Someone you could trust? Who would be there?
That. That was everything. So she smiled, not entirely carefree, but relaxed. She offered the hand to the two.
“You will help me get my daughter back. Or die trying. And if she dies first, so will we. I shall perish before I reveal your secret.”
The sigil was tracing itself up her arm. The two Dragons hesitated, staring at that clear, blue gaze. Rafaema’s claw twitched. Yet that pact. She saw Lyonette, desperate, smiling, and couldn’t take her hand. She lowered her claw, and turned away.
Cirediel of Oteslia reached out and took Lyonette’s hand. Rafaema spun back. She saw the light trace up his arm and he yelped, but he didn’t let go.
“Cire!”
He looked at her, trying to grin.
“Let’s find the last of us together, Rafaema. And if we don’t save Lyonette’s kid—you can find them. How’s that?”
The [Princess]’ eyes opened wide. The light grew, and she looked at him.
“Who…are you?”
She was leveling. Cire grinned, and whispered in her ear.
“A Dragon.”
