“I do like the stuff. Lots of meat for me. Do you have pork?”
“Pork sausage and chicken, parsley, and…will you take beans?”
“Beans make me fart. Er, I mean, Your Highness—”
Xif floundered as Onieva collapsed with giggles. Cire started laughing too, until Rafaema kicked him. Lyonette coolly amended the order.
“Tomato, perhaps. Let me check sauces…can someone run to get us more sauces? Anything in the market. And something for the table.”
“I can do that. Some kind of snack? Silkap?”
Mirn got up. Lyonette nodded, smiling.
“Thank you. Now, Wall Lord?”
He blinked at her, but then shrugged.
“I hate chickpeas, but I will take something standard. Chicken over pork for me, but if there’s any beef…”
“I’ll grab some.”
Lyonette began taking orders like the [Server] she was. Bemused, the other guests watched as she marched about. Dame Ushar kept looking horrified, but Dalimont and Sest were pointed to the table to clear it of breakfast while Lormel kept watch. Even the Oteslian Watch got an order, and Lyonette was giving people cups of things to drink and—enjoying herself.
It was a measure of control. No—she enjoyed the looks the Thronebearers gave her. She gave Ushar a glance as she passed.
You see? It wasn’t what Magnolia Reinhart would have her do. This did nothing but fill someone’s stomach, and you could pay for that. But it was a practical skill.
“Alright. I need to make a flatdough for a proper wrap and, Ser Lormel, the ingredients are not poisoned! Begone!”
The Thronebearer jumped. He had traded with Ushar to enter the kitchen. He turned as Lyonette marched over to him; he was slicing up some of the vegetables to look for, what, hidden needles? Attack Fraerlings? There weren’t even any on Izril!
“Your Highness, I wasn’t simply checking for poison…it is quite unbecoming for a [Princess] to cook! Please, allow us to at least handle the menial tasks!”
“You? I’d trust you to cook as much as I’d trust Relc to—”
Lyonette paused as she stared at the tomato that Ser Lormel had been handling. She eyed it, then gingerly poked it—
And it fell sideways into perfectly symmetrical slices. Lyonette blinked. Then she saw Lormel had diced the washed vegetables into small bits for adding into a wrap. She looked sideways and saw a deboned chicken.
“How did you…?”
“A Thronebearer is skilled at all arts. Isn’t that so, Ser Dalimont?”
The man looked up from pulling flour out of the cupboards.
“Some more than others, Ser Lormel. He has [Advanced Cooking], Princess. I believe you even made snacks in the night for Princess Ellet.”
“When necessary.”
Lormel stroked his thin beard modestly. Lyonette, who had never been impressed by the martial prowess of the Thronebearers…felt no need to change her appraisal on that account. But their other abilities? She hesitated.
“Well…you can chop up the vegetables. I need to make the dough properly, and I don’t quite remember how. So—it will be a [Flawless Attempt].”
Lormel blinked as he saw Lyonette march over with perfect confidence and begin rapidly mixing the dough. He turned to Dalimont, and then the doorway. Half of those in the rapidly-filling estate stared inside the kitchen. A larger Drake with purple scales who wasn’t Ilvriss rubbed his claws together.
“She can cook too? First the Winebreath Blaster, now the art of cooking your guests a meal. You, Your Highness, would be an excellent [Diplomat].”
Nerul Gemscale smiled as Lyonette du Marquin turned, greatly surprised. He waved a claw.
“I don’t suppose I could put in an order for something filled with pork? My companion, Miss Xesci, is partial to beans. If you need a hand in the kitchen, I have been known to impress when called upon.”
 
——
 
What a strange, familiar sight. And only like this could you get meetings that would never have occurred naturally. For instance, Wilovan stopped as he was handed the first wrap and offered it very politely to Hunt Commander Makhir.
“For you, sir? Unless you’re waiting on one special.”
“Ah—not for me, thank you. I’m just esc—”
Makhir caught himself as Rafaema turned and glared. He hesitated, then took the wrap and eyed it. He sniffed, found it smelled quite good, and then looked at Wilovan.
“Er, a pleasure. Makhir of Manus.”
“Wilovan. A pleasure it is, sir.”
The two Gnolls cautiously shook hands, Makhir recognized a northern accent and Wilovan cautiously identified a commander of a foreign city. He tipped his hat, Makhir threw a salute.
“So…you’re acquainted with Miss—Her Highness?”
“In a sort of escort role, yes. And you’re escorting…”
“Er, I’m a fellow officer of Manus. Wall Lady Rafaema was visiting Oteslia when the siege occurred.”
Makhir nodded to Rafaema. She was cautiously speaking to Nerul and Xesci; the [Diplomat] was boisterously leading her around, doing introductions. Wilovan nodded.
“Strange business, but I’m not one for the south.”
“Really? A northern Gnoll? Our people are rarer up there, or so I’m told.”
“There are a few Gnolls, sir.”
Makhir paused. There was a clear distinction between ‘our people’ and the way Wilovan spoke, but the Gentlemen Caller wasn’t hostile in the way he said it. The two stood there a second, as Wilovan accepted another wrap being passed out by Ser Sest…on a platter, as if it were a high-class restaurant. He took a cautious bite and Makhir did the same.
“Mm. Hot. Quite good.”
“Yes indeed.”
A second. Wilovan glanced towards Ratici, who was speaking with Onieva, and decided not to trouble his friend. Makhir stared at Cire, who was slowly following the blue Drake bodyguard of Wall Lord Ilvriss about. It could have ended there, but Wilovan was in Lyonette’s company. And, after a second, Makhir spoke.
“You’re a mace-fighter? Or just club? You could give lessons on it. Economical form.”
Wilovan glanced up. Makhir indicated the longbow on his back.
“Bows for me.”
“I see. Not for me, sir. A bit cumbersome in close quarters as it were. A fellow gets within arms-reach and a bow’s a danger.”
Makhir smiled.
“It is a problem in a scrum, but have you ever heard about close-quarter bow techniques? It requires an enchanted bow, but you whip someone across the face or use the string to garrote them like…”
Lyonette found the two in deep discussion as she passed by Xif, talking with Ilvriss and, of all people, Rafaema as Nerul moved onto the others.
“…rising prices on Sage’s Grass for a long time until that [Farmer] came long. But you know what I’m talking about. Adamantium is sky-high for nothing until that vein in Salazsar opened up. The Gemscale family must be celebrating nightly.”
Ilvriss grimaced.
“As a matter of fact—not so much. There was an, ah, issue with the mining rights.”
“Oh dear me, I’m sorry.”
The Wall Lord shook his head.
“Not at all. House Gemscale will not want for funds. But on that note, there’s always a shortage of some goods, even if we hit a surplus. I can’t imagine Adamantium will go that much lower. You know, opals are the rarest gems; your ordinary rubies, even diamonds to some degree, are common given Salazsar’s gem deposits. Opals? Never a problem selling even during a boom.”
“You know, Eir Gel’s the exact same. Always a bit costly, given how you need it in healing potions. But I’m glad it’s steady.”
Rafaema glanced from Xif to Ilvriss.
“…What do you mean? It’s fluctuated hard.”
Xif gave Rafaema a blank look.
“Not recently, Miss Rafaema. Er—Wall Lady?”
“Rafaema is fine, Alchemist. Eir Gel’s completely dependent on one island, by and large. Hesheit, I think it’s called, and whenever there’s a shipping delay or problem the supply runs dry in months at most. There was a huge shortage and panic—don’t you remember?”
Ilvriss and Xif exchanged a look, then Xif snapped his paws together.
“That’s right! That must have been, Ancestors, fifty years back! I was barely an apprentice but I remember how much the potions went for. You’re quite up-to-date on alchemy history, Rafaema.”
She hesitated.
“I—study the economics of Walled Cities.”
Ilvriss gave her an approving look.
“Commendable. You should meet my [Administrator]. He’s as well-read. Then do you all think this new bicycle craze and the door in Liscor will change the trading dynamic? I already know that Salazsar’s goods are making a huge profit in the north, but we haven’t established formal trade routes, so it’s all independent.”
Xif snorted.
“All I know is that everything I have is selling faster, and I can get Sage’s Grass marginally cheaper from that literal [Pirate]…and other goods too! The only ones complaining are the Runner’s Guilds and Merchant’s Guilds—and the runners stopped once they realized they could head north and south for new jobs.”
“Wrap for anyone? Lady Rafaema?”
“Thank you, Your Highness…?”
Rafaema turned to Lyonette and blinked. With her hair tied up, an apron on, and changed out of her formal dress, Lyonette looked like, well, a [Barmaid], albeit with striking features. Ilvriss smiled at her and Xif sighed.
“Ah. It feels like we’re back at…the inn.”
Rafaema was confused, but Ilvriss just nodded. Lyonette smiled sadly. But before she could wallow, she moved on.
It was engineered and spontaneous. Just a moment for lunch, but it was moments like these Lyonette cared for. Not a grand pact. She was handing out wraps to the Oteslian Watch when there was a commotion. Instantly, one of the Gnoll [Pegasus Riders] grabbed his spear.
Ilvriss put a hand on his sword but found nowhere to draw it. Wilovan and Ratici were already sliding forwards, but they stopped as the door opened.
“Really! I know Wilovan and Ratici! I’m just—”
“What’s the matter?”
“Someone was attempting to climb in through one of the windows, Your Highness.”
Dame Ushar had caught the perpetrator, although his approach hadn’t exactly been stealthy. Lyonette du Marquin blinked as she saw a young man, hands held halfway up, with a curiously well-made hoodie, nondescript pants, and a cautious smile as he turned to face her. Wilovan blinked.
“Is that you, Mister Rickel?”
“Hey! It’s the Callers! I know them. I’d just like to say something. I promise I’m just here for a social call…”
He kept glancing over his shoulder, clearly nervous. Ushar eyed the street, which had curious watchers along with…Ratici saw two tails duck back—they might not have been from the Earthtenders, but they were there. The better tails didn’t even move and pretended to be ordinary passersby.
Lyonette saw Wilovan look at Rickel and remembered—they had said they had help. And hadn’t they said…?
She frowned at Rickel. Something about him instantly rang a few bells, but Lyonette was distracted. However, he was looking at her.
A [Princess]. So…not the person he wanted. Rickel sighed, but smiled.
“Hi, I’m—”
Ushar’s gauntleted arm blocked him, but Lyonette lifted a hand.
“Let him by, Ushar. Search him if you must, but he did help Wilovan and Ratici. I am Lyonette. You must be Rickel.”
He sketched a bow.
“Yes, Your Highness. I’m honored to meet you.”
Lyonette frowned. She eyed his hoodie.
“…Yes. Where are you from, Rickel? Not Oteslia. Perhaps you’re from other lands?”
His eyes flickered as she held out a hand. Rickel took it and stared at Lyonette.
“Uh—I’m from another continent, yes.”
“Ah, of course. I think I recognize your accent—but we should talk later. I think I know someone from the same clime, or thereabouts. Joseph? But won’t you come in and have a…wrap?”
Rickel nearly tripped as she indicated. He stared at Lyonette, then a huge smile appeared and vanished from his face. He saw Lyonette eye him.
Well now! Rickel saw Ratici smile briefly, and reached into his jacket. Ushar eyed him, but she had already checked him. The young man followed Lyonette in and blinked at the crowd and food.
“Wraps? Burrito wraps?”
“Won’t you have one? Ser Lormel! One more!”
Lyonette called out with a ringing voice, like someone in an inn. Rickel looked at her. He looked at Wilovan, and then Ilvriss, Cire, Rafaema—he exhaled hard.
“Wow. Talk about upping the ante.”
The [Gambler] paused, then drew something out of his jacket. He looked quite carefully at Lyonette, then proffered it as she turned.
“Looks like an amazing lunch. Mind if I add something to drink? I’m not sure if you’ve ever heard of…coffee?”
Lyonette stopped dead in her tracks. Just as Rickel had hoped. She looked back and recalled the ravings of the desperate, the withdrawn. The likes of Rose, Galina, Kevin, and even Ryoka, now and then. A list of things Erin Solstice had named once, and while they’d found chocolate…she blinked at Rickel.
“What did you say?”
He grinned. It was definitely worth the risk.
 
——
 
“A [Princess] served me a sandwich. I mean, a wrap. This…this is strange. Is she on the list? I feel as though that qualifies. I know I excluded her, but…”
Xesci needed to sit down. Osthia clearly felt the same way, but Ilvriss didn’t even blink.
“Lyonette is a special case and she is trustworthy, Xesci. Nerul, what about the rest?”
“I didn’t get much. Other than that Cire has more bodyguards than I do, even visiting hostile cities. Oh, and Rafaema had a [Hunt Commander] obviously on bodyguard. And who’s that lad?”
Nerul was munching on his third wrap, watching as Rickel and Lyonette conferred in the kitchen. Ilvriss glanced out the window.
“We should be going. Didn’t you want to catch Magnolia Reinhart?”
Nerul asked pointedly, but Ilvriss lifted a claw.
“Uncle, that is important. But I have to tell you—wait. On instinct.”
“Instinct?”
The [Diplomat] eyed his nephew. Ilvriss nodded, almost smiling. He looked into the kitchen where Lyonette was studying some odd beans that Makhir and Wilovan could smell.
“It’s…familiar.”
And yet, not. It was so familiar that Lyonette instantly dropped everything she was doing, and Ilvriss postponed leaving. Xif had sidled into the kitchen and been ejected hard, and Onieva was pointing it out to Mirn. They knew.
And yet—
Lyonette du Marquin looked at the beans. Which were actually the inner extract from a red cherry-like fruit like grapes that grew from a plant that did not resemble these shrivelled husks at all.
No wonder Erin had never found them. She kept describing beans, forgetting they had to be removed of flesh and dried. She would have gotten there, of course, once she found a plant or the beans. Then she’d have to organize getting a source, experimenting with drying them, grinding, finding the right mixture…
