It would have been an adventure. A small one, but a worthy entry into The Wandering Inn’s hall of fame in fiscal inventions. However…the journey was already at an end. And that was strange because Lyonette hadn’t even taken one step in the process.
This young man, Rickel, had jogged down the journey of finding the plant, paying someone to cultivate more, and figuring out the rest. He had come here with the end result. Because he was from Earth.
“So, uh, you know Joseph of Pallass?”
“Mm. By acquaintance. I would love to introduce you.”
Rickel smiled, but both had an eye on Ser Lormel, boiling hot water.
“I’d…love to meet him. Okay, you filter hot water through the grounds. Slowly…there’s a better contraption, but…”
It was messy, but he knew what to do. Lyonette stared at the end result, which had a bit of grounds Rickel carefully scooped out. She knew better than to judge a book by its cover, especially around stuff like this, but she had to admit.
Wonderful. We’ve made mud water.
That was her first instinct, as Rickel offered her a cup.
“It’s pretty bitter, and a lot of people like sugar or milk for taste.”
“Let me try it, ah, raw? Do I need anything else?”
“Nope. The real benefit is the caffeine, though. The…stuff that makes you wake up?”
“Oh, like tea.”
“Yeah. But stronger. Way stronger.”
Rickel grinned as Lyonette took an experimental sip. She didn’t make a face or retch—but Mrsha would. It was certainly bitter, and did have what she would have called an earthy component. But it wasn’t poor.
“Sugar and milk would help. Lormel? More hot water. Sugar, milk.”
“Yes, Your Highness.”
He watched, curiously, as Rickel ground up more beans. It wasn’t poisoned, but it was new. Lyonette didn’t see the point at first. Then, as she was helping make more, she blinked.
“Huh.”
She hadn’t had much sleep last night, what with being revealed to be the [Princess] of Calanfer and everything else. Of course, Lyonette had learned to adapt, and she had even taken a sip of stamina potion, but that wasn’t the same as a cup of tea. This? She turned to Rickel and he raised his brows.
“So, I’m Rickel. You’re in a bit of trouble with the Earthtenders? I’d like to help if I can, but I’m only a [Gambler]. Not a [Fighter]. But I’d love to…meet people from home. Consider that my contribution to whatever’s going on. But I haven’t been able to convince many people to try it.”
“I think…I might know a few people who would be interested.”
Lyonette glanced towards the door and saw Xif, Onieva, and Ilvriss all glancing her way. She looked at the cups of coffee, then loaded a tray up for Ser Sest with sugar and milk. She had a project for the day, and smiled at Rickel. She saw him smile back, then blink at something.
“Is that…?”
Lyonette turned. She had planted something and put it by the windowsill where the light could strike a few little, yellow flowers. She looked at Rickel and smiled at his dumbstruck expression.
“You’ve heard of Faerie Flowers? That would be our contribution.”
She winked and was rewarded with his jaw dropping. He had come with something amazing, but there was more than one fish in the pond. Even if one of them was currently on ice.
Most of the audience for the first mass-trial of coffee didn’t see the point. Nerul did, as soon as he put in enough sugar and milk.
“Ah—that’s not bad. And it’s like a stamina potion or tea, you said? But stronger? Every person in my field drinks stamina shots with their morning tea, and it’s appalling, disgusting behavior. I’m glad there’s a substitute that’s a tiny bit more socially acceptable.”
“I just like the taste.”
Cire commented. Ilvriss raised his brows.
“So do I. I’ve never been for tea in the morning…huh.”
He felt something kick him even halfway through the cup after only about ten minutes of sipping and asking questions. Lyonette had felt it too, and it was completely normal to her since she had never experienced coffee before.
Rickel, on the other hand?
“I asked someone to use growing Skills on it. I paid a bit—and this is better than any other batch.”
“Coffee. Hm. So…could you grow more from those beans? How much for a handful?”
Xif looked keenly at the bag Rickel had produced, but his face fell when he learned those seeds were dead. Lyonette, on the other hand, scented commerce, and so did Rickel.
“I’ll pay you for a handful. What do the berries look like?”
“I’m sorry, but they’re not for sale. Unless there was a market. Then I’d want to corner it, right?”
Xif nodded agreeably as Rickel peeked at Lyonette. Wilovan was hmming over the coffee. He leaned towards Ratici.
“An interesting young man, like Miss Erin, I’ll say, Ratici. Quite a bit of fortune.”
The Drake nodded.
“Indeed, Wilovan. How do you like this coffee stuff?”
The Gnoll frowned.
“It’s fine, but I prefer a refined cup of tea to start my day, and I can’t say as I’d let this replace it.”
Ratici blinked.
“You astonish me, Wilovan. This is more the stuff I’d take. I even like the taste.”
The two Gentlemen Callers gave each other a long look of mutual confusion. They turned—and saw Cire down his fourth cup.
A vibrating Dragon began to speak rapidly, much to their handler’s concern.
“Wowthisisgreat. ThisiseverythingIeverwantedinlifegivememorewherecanIbuyit?”
Cirediel paused, and looked sideways at Rafaema. He took another gulp of coffee.
“Whoa, you’re all over the place, Rafaema. What’s wrong with you?”
The Lightning Dragon, who was on only two cups, was practically bouncing off the walls as Makhir watched. The Gnoll looked at Cire, who calmly finished his fourth cup.
“I like it! Tea’s good too, though, but will it sell?”
He looked around vaguely, with no appreciation for being the top competitor in an emerging market that might be as profitable as tea. Xif could see it, though, and he was beaming at Rickel.
“No worries. I’ll, ah, just step out, then. Coffee, you said?”
Lyonette glared at him. This was his worst trait he somehow shared with Octavia, only he was more successful than she was. Rickel smiled blandly.
“Yep.”
Xif headed for the door. Rickel called out at his back.
“I mean, that’s what I call it.”
Xif slowed.
“…Does it have another name?”
The young man put his hands in his pockets.
“I might have used a pseudonym. But it’s definitely growing somewhere in Oteslia.”
Oteslia, the City of Growth. Home to probably over a million individual plots of garden space. Lyonette whistled. Instantly, she placed Rickel over Erin for ‘common-sense cunning’. Xif came back.
“Er, you wouldn’t happen to want to strike a deal?”
“You’d need investment money. [Merchants] to sell it, advertise it, and a backer.”
“Yep. It’s not something I can figure out—I don’t know how these things work.”
Rickel spread his hands with a bit of frustration. He scratched at his head.
“…It’s about being known and knowing the right people. Influence, as much as having the right idea. Hecking frustrating, you get me?”
He looked at Lyonette, and she thought she heard Magnolia’s words echo for a second. Then she nodded.
“As it happens…I do know someone who might be interested in backing a project like this.”
“Me! Xif the [Alchemist]. I’m actually quite well known in Pallass, and, if it wakes you up, every [Alchemist] would love to buy. I’d be happy to vouch for it and put in—”
“Wall Lord Ilvriss? Can I introduce you to someone? Rickel, this is Ilvriss.”
“A Wall Lord?”
Rickel blinked as Ilvriss walked over, cup in hand. The Drake shook Rickel’s hand.
“Are you thinking of something akin to The Wandering Inn, Miss Lyonette?”
She smiled.
“A bit, but with actual planning rather than spontaneity and half the city stealing it instantly.”
Ilvriss chuckled.
“I think that sounds acceptable. I could contact my [Administrator]—and my uncle here knows [Merchants] he could drop by with today.”
“It wasn’t in my books—now it is. I walk in, talk them up, they feed me, and we have a liquid lunch—coffee and drinks. Does this pair with anything alcoholic, young man?”
Nerul brightened up when Rickel explained that, yes, some people did consider it a way of life. Rafaema vibrated over.
“Can you get more of this? I’ll invest.”
“And me as well! Xif…I’ve got money!”
Rickel was a bit overwhelmed, blinking around, but he shook hands, and agreed to give the location of the plot of land to someone willing to organize mass-replanting and collect more for processing so it could be trialed.
Which turned out to be Xif, who realized he had to put his paws where his mouth was. The [Alchemist] didn’t seem to mind, rubbing his paws together.
“This time I’m on the top floor of it. Top floor!”
Which made no sense until you remembered Pallass valued the higher floors more. At any rate, there it was. Low-key drama, something new.
The Gentlemen Callers watched it all with faint smiles. But it only reminded them—it wasn’t the inn. It was a bit off. So they excused themselves. Wall Lord Ilvriss broke off from Rickel handing over four entire bags of coffee beans to Nerul. The young man was remarkably prepared. Ilvriss frowned.
The Gentlemen Callers. Amazingly high-level for a simple duo. He hesitated, and set his cup down. Xesci hadn’t marked them as unusual, so that wasn’t the issue. They were just—quite high-level.
As for Lyonette, she was called to her first meeting by Ser Dalimont, who reminded her she’d asked for that. She cursed, but had to speak to Rickel.
“I need to head out. I am so sorry, but…”
“No, it’s fine. Great to meet you. Let’s talk again, yeah? There’s a lot…a lot to think about.”
He gave her a huge grin, eying Wilovan and Ratici as a few people began to leave the lunch session. Lyonette smiled gratefully and hurried upstairs to change. It was then that one of the Oteslian Watch did a count of the room, looked around, trotted over to check the restroom, and cursed.
“Cirediel is gone!”
The Watch looked about, realized the young Dragon had given them the slip as some of the other guests made their exodus, and went for the doors.
Amateurs. The Thronebearers and Makhir knew where their charges were. As Lyonette left, Hunt Commander Makhir shook his head at Oteslia’s security—and then eyed his charge.
“Rafaema, don’t you think you’ve had too much coffee?”
“I’m fine, Makhir. This is great. This is amazing! I need this in my life!”
Rafaema turned to him, eyes bright, smiling. She felt wonderful. She reached for another coffee cup, knocked it over, and grabbed for the drink.
“Oop—”
She snatched as the cup tumbled. Her reflexes were good, but she was on the first caffeine rush of her life. Jittering, she missed the coffee, cursed.
“Damn! Damn, damn, d—”
Her mouth opened and Makhir saw a streak of blue energy crackle. His eyes widened.
“Rafae—”
The only other people left in Lyonette’s temporary home were Xif and Mirn, one taking a nap, the other preparing to head out and get coffee into the world. Xif, humming, heard a crackle turn into a roar of thunder and then something kicked him into a wall.
Lightly. He came stumbling out of the bedroom to see Rafaema staring at a smoking hole in the wall. Crumbling masonry fell around her as Makhir picked himself up, every hair on his body standing up on end from the static charge. Rafaema stared in horror at the opening.
“I didn’t mean to! I didn’t—”
She covered her mouth, eyes wide. Xif took one look at her and ran for it. Rafaema swallowed the lightning building in her. Then her cheeks bulged and she ran over to a bucket and threw up. Coughing, she stared up as Makhir looked at her.
“I—something’s wrong. What’s happening to me?”
He didn’t know. The Hunt Commander stood there, unsure of what to say. What was wrong? Rafaema didn’t know. And the one person who could tell her—she looked around for Lyonette du Marquin. But how…?
Only one person. She was older than Cire and only one person could…Rafaema hesitated.
One?
 
——
 
There was anger on the streets. No, a fury. Why?
Not for the siege. Sieges were a part of life, and this was a bloodless siege—at least on their side. Not for the attack of a gang on a Human [Princess] in the city or her revelation or Magnolia Reinhart.
The Meeting of Tribes. Magic stolen across half a continent. Gnolls were angry. They were furious, and it was not just Plains Gnolls.
However, many did not act on it. Some were, like Makhir, part of a Drake city. Or simply not willing to shout and lose their jobs.
The gangs had no such problems. Angry Gnolls took to the streets. However, as it happened, they were not actually united but disparate. And, because they were the most vocal and ready to fight, they began quarreling not over whether the Drakes had done it, but whether or not the tribes were idiots for trusting them at all and it should be war or conflict, or whether it was just Fissival.
Two groups with larger Gnoll memberships were facing each other down over that very issue, while the majority Drake gangs decided not to go out for the next week and let their rivals hit each other.
There was a commentary there, although it might have been ‘when you’re angry, you tend to hit people’.
This particular fight was going south. Two gangs of mostly young men, not [Thugs], but [Street Brawlers], [Toughs], and even, rarely, ordinary [City Folk], were watching two fighters beat each other until one was unconscious or gave up. And since giving up wasn’t really an option, it was until one was unconscious or it turned into a full-on melee.
…It was going one way. They had a [Bruiser] in one corner who outweighed all his opponents by about thirty pounds. As much fat as muscle, and there was blood on the ground as his opponent tried to shield his face. He was about to bring both fists down over his opponent’s head as the other, smaller gang watched with that kind of terrible certainty of what would come next.
“Pardon me, gents. I think that poor fellow’s had enough.”
The [Bruiser] stopped, and the Gnolls and Drakes turned to see…a Gnoll and a Drake. But a dapper pair. Especially the Gnoll. They looked around for the Watch, but seeing no one, the [Bruiser] shouted.
“Clear off!”
The Gnoll with the top hat looked disapprovingly at the blood on the other’s fur. He looked at the other fellow who was collapsing over—and the Drake stepped forwards and caught him. He transferred the fighter to his friends, and suddenly the larger gang—nicknamed Furfangs, perhaps unwisely—eyed the unexpected intruders.
