If you didn’t know that sad story, you were hardly to be blamed. It did not matter to most people. It just was one personal life that affected a family—a bit more given their station. It was a simple tale too, and old history.
[Like a Lion, He Leapt]. The [Prince] of Isphel, Ziwar Isphel fought during the succession wars for Nerrhavia Fallen’s throne.
He died alone. With pride and little else.
With pride and no allies. Yes, like a lion. They told stories of that last minute.
Perhaps it would be a story remembered more often, now. However, what fewer people remembered was that Ziwar Isphel was succeeded by his son, who would one day inherit the very Skill of his father. Prince Zenol grew up alone. Now, the King of Destruction awoke. A companion from a single raid was prisoner of his very nation, and, for a single friendship made in combat over three short days, he put the name of Isphel against mighty Quarein.
It would have been easier, if someone had been able to teach him. All the rest of his life? If he had a true mentor besides [Tutors] and teachers—someone to guide him. But the time in the hour glass was out. These were dramatic days, and running faster.
From Nerrhavia’s Fallen to the Meeting of Tribes, they roamed about, entering the limelight for the first time. Sometimes they were completely alone. But what if someone could teach them? Even if it was just one thing?
 
——
 
“Yes, Your Majesty. We have found her. It is most certainly Her Highness, Princess Lyonette du Marquin. She is hale of heart and body, and, I feel, grown since last I laid eyes on her.”
Ser Lormel of the Order of the Thronebearers of Calanfer spoke cautiously—but rapidly—into the speaking stone. He kept checking it every two seconds, holding another artifact near it, which remained clear, but he was prepared to snatch the little stone away in a moment.
Dame Ushar was doing that with both hands, albeit with different artifacts, as Ser Sest and Dalimont kept watch. All of them could hear Lormel—although Ushar only faintly. The [Knight] paused.
“…No, Your Majesty. My Queen, if I may be so bold, it was, ah, not mete to inquire about that at the, er—the moment. I am sure Dame Ushar could…yes, Your Majesty. Quite for later.”
He wiped a bead of sweat off his face.
“Yes, sire? Her Hi—Princess du Marquin could speak w—she is quite, ah, composed, Your Majesty. If you would care to…”
He hesitated. Listened for nearly three minutes. The other [Knights] heard him reply now and then.
“…Yes, Your Majesty…if I may suggest, there are extenuating—of course not. I merely mention Her Highness has expressed to us on the authority of—naturally. By the Eternal Throne itself? …Yes. Yes. Securing safe passage will be—with utmost discretion and safety towards her—I will light a candle for success, Your Majesty. Glory to Calanfer and victory in battle against Ailendamus! We shall faithf—”
He hesitated, checked the speaking stone, and lowered it. Dame Ushar saw Lormel wipe at the sweat that had been growing on his brow with a handkerchief. Without a word, he put the speaking stone down, reached for a cup of water, and took a drink.
“What did their Majesties say, Ser Lormel? It was both of them?”
“Yes—yes, Ushar. Sest! Dalimont, you’d better come in. We have orders.”
The two Thronebearers entered at once. Sest closed the door as Dalimont eyed Lormel’s face. The man had served the crown faithfully, rather than one of the [Princesses] or the Order as a whole, but he appeared troubled by his conversation.
“And?”
“We have orders to take Her Highness to Calanfer immediately, without risking her capture or revealing our route.”
Lormel carefully spoke, dabbing at his brow. The Thronebearers exchanged a glance. Dalimont bit his lip, and even Ser Sest looked dismayed.
“…That would seem to be a rather difficult task, Lormel.”
“Yes, well…I did try to explain to His Majesty Princess Lyonette’s particular—but His Majesty was quite busy. The war is not going well.”
Lormel said it so quietly and plainly that Dalimont knew it was truly dire. Thronebearers could put a good face on a pig covered in muck.
“Surely if it is not well, then perhaps Her Highness is placed to affect some measure of aid? We have seen her capability.”
Dame Ushar ventured. Ser Lormel exhaled.
“His Majesty was—unable to hear my comments, Dame Ushar. I gather that it was a stressful moment. It seems a Great General of Ailendamus has just put three of the [Princesses] under siege. No less than Princess Aielef’s own fortress is now in the face of a tremendous force moving faster than anyone could credit. This is breaking news and not to leave this room.”
The Thronebearers paled. Instantly, though, all three other [Knights] demanded to know which [Princesses]. Each was pledged to one, and Dalimont…he saw Lormel look at him.
“Princess Seraphel is one of them. Princesses Aielef, Seraphel, and Vernoue…I am sorry to tender the news so poorly, Dalimont.”
The Thronebearer stood there in silence for a moment. He raised his head slowly, exhaling.
“It—it is not the first time she has survived a siege, Ser Lormel. I daresay she has practice by now, and Ailendamus honors the conduct of war. Mostly. I will do what I can here to protect her sister, as she bade.”
The other [Knights] nodded solemnly. Ser Sest looked from Dalimont to Lormel, then burst out.
“But Her Highness is not about to leave. And I don’t feel enough of a blackguard to knock her about the head and drag her off—even if that were an option! And to be clear, Ser Lormel, that is the only situation I feel as though we could convey Her Highness out of Oteslia. She will not leave without her self-declared daughter, Mrsha.”
“No, Ser Sest. I am aware, but His Majesty entrusted us with the task, and the particulars were not necessary for him at that time.”
Lormel sighed. He stroked at the tip of his chin and the thin beard there, frustrated. He hesitated, and then looked sideways at Dame Ushar. Lormel licked his lips and his forehead grew shiny again.
“That…would not be the only reason their Majesties are so keen Princess Lyonette return. I—I believe I shall leave the next conversation to you, Dame Ushar. Her Majesty expressed a, ah, realization that—well, it was quite—”
Dame Ushar raised her brows. Lormel looked at Sest and Dalimont, and leaned over to whisper something. Her eyes widened.
“Her Majesty could tell? That—”
“I say, Lormel! This is all pressing business. Don’t hold anything back.”
Ser Sest blustered. Dalimont eyed Lormel’s clamped lips and the look Ushar gave Sest, and came to the conclusion fast. Ser Sest hesitated and his eyes rapidly moved left and right. He was a fool in some ways to Dalimont, but a Thronebearer and politics? He bit his lip, then turned bright red.
“—unless that information were to somehow be of a nature unbefitting our ears?”
“I believe the latter, Ser Sest. Her Majesty expressed a…conviction which I will not bring up to Her Highness. Dame Ushar may.”
“Thank you, Ser Lormel. I look forwards to that conversation. How did Her Majesty know, pray? I am aware of many Skills in this world. That one seems like a [Mother]’s Skill…? I did not know Her Majesty had that class.”
Dalimont raised his brows. [Mother] could be a class? Lormel was in danger of severe dehydration. He patted furiously with his handkerchief.
“All I will say. All I will say is this: Princess Lyonette’s bridal price—her estimated dowry? It, ah, seems to have undergone rapid changes in value, and Her Majesty took particular note of the reasons why. Now, I would like to drop the line of conversation, please. Where is Her Highness right now?”
Under guard, or else they would have never let all four stay away from her. Dalimont didn’t envy the coming conversation. Nor…he sighed.
“With Lady Magnolia Reinhart. Downstairs. Did their Majesties say anything about that…?”
Lormel nodded.
“Yes. I believe it was, ‘get her away from Magnolia Reinhart as quickly as possible’. Ah…adjusting for language.”
Of the many things that could happen to a [Princess], from ransoming to kidnapping via enemies of the crown, Magnolia Reinhart apparently ranked up there with those threats. Dalimont glanced towards the doors and stairs of the mansion in which they had conducted their rapid report.
Bring Lyonette home. With a city under siege, in a continent of Drakes and Gnolls, and with Ailendamus at war. Oh—and the [Princess] being completely unwilling to do so and having bodyguards and allies that included Magnolia Reinhart, a Named Adventurer, and two men with hats.
Ser Sest’s lips moved as he calculated all that.
“So, at best speed, Ser Lormel?”
“As fast as can be managed safely and securely.”
Ser Sest nodded. He looked around, surprisingly calmly given the other Thronebearers’ expressions. Dalimont raised his brows in inquiry, and Ser Sest shrugged.
“I believe I shall rent a lot in one of the public gardens tomorrow. We may have time for a few harvests at best speed.”
 
——
 
Ser Sest was a funny man in the end. You had to appreciate wit like that.
“Ressa, are you alright?”
The [Maid] stopped stifling laughter. She coughed, stood straight, and her face returned to something like her usual implacable demeanor.
“Simply a coughing fit, milady.”
Magnolia Reinhart eyed Ressa over her brunch, fork resting against the delicate slice of cake. Lyonette du Marquin took that moment to lower her fork for good. She sat with Magnolia Reinhart, [Lady] to [Princess].
“I see. Well then…Lyonette, will you not have any more cake? Do forgive me, it’s Your Highness now, isn’t it? The Creler is out of the bag.”
“So it seems. Please, Lyonette or Miss Marquin is eminently preferable, Lady Reinhart.”
The [Lady] nodded, then sighed delicately. She took another bite of cake.
“Yet you don’t call me ‘Magnolia’. Quite distressing—but excellent manners. I can see you are well-equipped for high society in any nation you would find yourself in. Do you know more than Terandrian protocol, by any chance? Do help yourself to more cake. Such lovely cake. It was one of the few things I insisted the young people teach my [Cooks] before they left, well, that powder that makes it happen. So useful.”
Lyonette hesitated. She eyed the cake, and Magnolia Reinhart’s customary cup of tea.
“Baking powder? It is, quite, Lady Magnolia…although, I am quite fine, thank you. Yes, I do know other nations’ customs. I believe I could pass fairly well in most Chandrarian courts, and I know Centaur, Lizardfolk, and Dullahan customs. Minos is more difficult—”
“Isn’t it, though?”
“—And Drath I could manage a single greeting.”
Magnolia Reinhart tapped her lips.
“You are fairly well-schooled. Some [Princesses] retain nothing at all, you know.”
Lyonette grimaced.
“I…lost much. But my [Tutors] and mother drilled it into me, and I’ve actually begun practicing some of my addresses. So they aren’t lost.”
“Self-practice! You have changed! Are you sure you’re not hungry? You’ve barely touched your cake.”
Lyonette looked at her generous, frosted slice.
“Ah…to that, Lady Magnolia? I must ask—do you eat only sweets and drink your tea? I have seen you eat no food that is not sugary.”
Magnolia paused, fork in her mouth. She thought about it as she chewed delicately.
“I eat a rather complete meal, Lyonette. Ressa, tell her.”
“She does not.”
The [Head Maid] informed Lyonette. The [Lady]’s brows snapped together.
“Ressa, you wound me. Just the other day, I had a delightful salad.”
“Yes. You did.”
“And my credit?”
Ressa looked over Magnolia’s head as she replied. Lyonette glanced around at the servants, one of whom would now and then pass by, sweeping, carrying something on an urgent task, re-arming a trap…
“I will give you credit for healthy eating if you can last a day without something sugary in at least one meal. It was a fruit salad.”
“You see? Tyranny. But excellent help. Which is something you may need to cultivate, along with the many problems now facing you…”
Magnolia sighed delicately, but motioned to Ressa.
“Please bring Miss Marquin something more savory and allegedly ‘healthy’, Ressa. I could eat cake every day of the year.”
“You have been, almost.”
Lyonette watched the interplay. Ressa did not move herself, but briefly spoke into the speaking stone she held. Magnolia Reinhart took another bite of cake before going on.
“…And so, I gather your Thronebearers have orders to bring you to Calanfer. Was that the conversation, Ressa, or something else? And I shall be very surprised if they received anything like nuance from His Majesty, Reclis. Ielane is more subtle, but neither likes playing abroad.”
Lyonette blinked. Magnolia casually mentioned her father, King Reclis du Marquin, and Queen Ielane in the same moment as—Ressa glanced up as a [Maid] strode over with a small selection of vegetable cuts and a dip that Lyonette smiled at.
“Exactly so, Lady Reinhart.”
“You listened in on the Thronebearers?”
“They did make the mistake of requesting a room here. I suppose they thought, correctly, that the odds of it being warded were low.”
“Yes, but…how?”
Lyonette was impressed and a bit appalled. Thronebearers were nigh impossible to spy on, and they were quite good at being bodyguards. Ressa smirked in a self-satisfied manner.
“They’re good. No listening Skills, no magic, of course, no observers, even at remote distance, no lip-reading or standing near windows, and I’m fairly certain they deployed two eavesdropping counter-Skills.”
“And you heard them?”
Ressa nodded. She didn’t elaborate how—Lyonette shot Magnolia Reinhart a quick glance. The lady tapped her lips.
“Hm…I don’t think counterintelligence is something to teach, but do tell Miss Lyonette or she’ll die of impatience, Ressa. We must get to the meat of the conversation soon.”
Ressa sighed and shot Magnolia a glare, but turned and bowed slightly to Lyonette.
“Their room was infiltrated. The Thronebearers are quite adept, but they made a simple mistake. There is no hole in the walls or they’d sense it, or any false-partition, but there is a thread tap in one of the carpets. The right Skill can pick up the vibrations if it is pulled taut.”
Lyonette blinked. Someone listened through a thread? That was a level of spycraft beyond her. Yet…she looked at the duo.
That famous duo. Magnolia Reinhart, who apparently knew Lyonette’s own parents well enough to guess how they’d order their [Knights]. Deadly Flower of the North. And Ressa, one of the most dangerous [Maids] and bodyguards in existence.
