They were strangely calm for a duo that looked like easy…Wilovan smiled, and his tight-fitting shirt flexed—somewhat easy targets. There were only two, and the Furfangs alone numbered nearly thirty.
“You, sir, seem to have been winning quite a lot.”
The [Bruiser] grunted as Wilovan addressed him. He’d beaten down six people in a row. Wilovan looked at them—some were back up thanks to low-grade healing potions, but the other gang was on the wrong foot.
“Enough’s enough. When a fellow’s winning, he doesn’t need to push it. Mercy, as it were, is a fine thing when it’s all lighthearted.”
“I don’t need to hear that from some rich…get lost unless you want to be next.”
Wilovan raised his brows.
“If you insist, sir. But I warn you, that would be a mistake.”
The Furfangs hesitated. Their competitors, who were sometimes their friends until today, Streetrage, also watched Wilovan. The [Bruiser] eyed Wilovan and hesitated.
Wilovan was as tall as he was and despite being older…he had a sudden sinking feeling that wasn’t [Dangersense] but pure street intuition. He looked around and spotted Ratici, strolling back to square up with Wilovan. The far-shorter and slimmer Drake blinked once as the [Bruiser] pointed at him.
“Ah, and what about him? One’s all muscle? I’ll take him on.”
He blustered. Ratici and Wilovan exchanged a look. The Drake shrugged. Wilovan nodded.
“Just as you like, sir. Fair rules? Fists only? No knives, no low blows?”
Now it was a circus. Even the badly-beaten Gnoll who came to stared blearily as Ratici rolled up his sleeves, adjusted his vest, and squared up with a Gnoll a foot taller and arguably at least fifty…maybe it was a hundred pounds difference. The [Bruiser] raised his fists.
“Go ahead and dodge as long as you can.”
Ratici glanced at Wilovan. The [Gentleman Thug] was tapping an hourglass he’d pulled out of his vest. Ratici nodded. He turned to the younger Gnoll and smiled purely politely.
“I don’t think I need to, sir.”
“On your marks…now!”
The first punch the [Bruiser] threw was a [Heavyweight Punch] that was far faster than anyone who saw him usually credited. It had put a [Guardsman] down with a single punch. Ratici saw it coming—
And punched the Gnoll in the stomach. Which was a perfectly above-belt blow under the rules described, a textbook punch to the gut. It had all of Ratici’s weight and muscle behind it.
It did not exactly throw the Gnoll down. He grunted in pain mid-punch and would have clocked Ratici across the street if that were it. Until he felt three more punches land in the span of a heartbeat.
He never connected with Ratici. His arm jerked and the [Bruiser] staggered back. The jeering Furfangs and Streetrage gangs stared as Ratici hit the [Bruiser] with an uppercut to the solar plexus, then watched as his opponent staggered back, clutching at his gut.
“What was—fucking Skill?”
“Ready, sir?”
Ratici saw the [Bruiser] look up, a bit of spittle hanging from his mouth. The younger Gnoll realized he’d made a mistake. Wilovan was huge, strong as an elephant, and an expert in fighting. But he traded punches. Ratici was too fast to trade; he gave you everything first.
[Tough’s Duel]! [It Hurts Less]! [Hook Punch]!
The [Bruiser]’s best three Skills came out as he went in, swinging hard, hoping to tag Ratici. And he did.
Twice. The Drake didn’t dodge and he ate a punch twice, but once on the shoulder and once on the cheek, and not the full-force blows that would have knocked him flat. He could have dodged.
He didn’t need to. Ratici was too short to hit his opponent in the face, so he started hitting the [Bruiser] in the stomach. Even when the young man tried to guard, he threw hooks, hitting him in the sides.
“Gamith, he’s a runt! Get him! Stop shielding and punch him!”
One of the Gnolls shouted in frustration. He didn’t understand why the [Bruiser] was folding up and retreating. He was used to height and weight winning most fights and he had no idea how hard Ratici was hitting him. Until he saw Gamith’s body begin to move with each punch.
The two gangs went abruptly quiet as Ratici’s pace changed. He started hitting the [Bruiser] methodically, and the heavy impacts were suddenly very loud in the street. Wilovan watched, checking the hourglass. About…one minute.
The [Bruiser]’s head came down as he doubled over. Now—there was that feeling again, when you saw someone take a punch that not only shattered bone, but went far further. The Drake had his opponent at head-to-fist height and he was going to break every…
Ratici eyed Gamith’s face, checked his next punch, and stepped back. He adjusted his cap.
“I think he’s had enough. Unless you want to go on, sir?”
The [Bruiser] didn’t respond. He staggered, swung his fists a few times, reflexively still fighting—then saw Ratici and backed up into his friends. They stared at Ratici and Wilovan. The Drake adjusted his cap; it hadn’t even moved during the fight.
“It’s a young man’s game, sirs. I can’t say I haven’t done the same, growing up. But there’s no sport in beating another fellow’s face in. Not over pride alone.”
Wilovan remarked calmly. He looked around.
“What say we leave it there? Unless anyone else would like to stand up? Ratici and I would make it a point to take you on.”
There were no volunteers. Ratici nodded, dabbed a bit of potion on his shoulder and cheek, and the two Gentlemen Callers walked on. The gangs stood wide as Gamith stared at Ratici.
It wasn’t even a fight. The Drake hadn’t dodged, thrown any kicks—the [Bruiser] stared as Ratici tipped his hat at him.
“Better put some potion on that stomach, sir.”
Gamith backed up again. If he ever ran into a short Drake with a cap in a street brawl—he’d run the other way. He had the distinct impression he’d survived something.
 
——
 
In truth, he’d never been in danger. The hats were on.
Wall Lord Ilvriss had watched the entire thing. He didn’t know the Gentlemen Callers or their gang, these ‘Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings’, but Xesci and Nerul did, and they’d clued him in to the basic facts.
Honorable thugs. Well, that Drake had been able to take that young man apart and he hadn’t. If he had…Ilvriss might have stepped in.
Why was he shadowing the two? Curiosity. Wariness. They had left Lyonette’s place to do…what? Just walk about the streets and buy fancy clothing?
No. The two gangs broke up in the wake of the duo, and Ilvriss slipped around a corner, jogging to intercept them and see them turn into one of the more maze-like warrens in Oteslia. Not the lower city so much as the poorer city. Places less occupied, less well-patrolled.
He did not have to follow them long. They clearly knew where they were going. Wilovan paused by a brick wall running into an alleyway with no exit—between two buildings, both closed and boarded up. Odd, in a huge city like Oteslia, but even in Salazsar businesses failed.
Wilovan leaned against the wall for a second. Ratici whispered to him, and Ilvriss stared as the Gnoll nodded. Then…Ratici removed his cap. Wilovan did likewise, and tucked it into his bag of holding.
Ilvriss watched, his adrenaline beginning to pump in his veins.
“What are they doing?”
The Wall Lord jumped. He hadn’t said that! Who had—Ilvriss turned and saw the Furfangs, Gamith, and the Streetrage gang all staring at the Gentlemen Callers from various hiding places.
 
——
 
The safe house was, by definition, safe. Even if the Watch came calling, there were bolt-holes even if they could break down the door, which they wouldn’t, because it was a waste of time and energy. Also, if there was huge trouble, you could rally the forces—if you were in a good gang.
Well, the Earthtenders were the biggest gang and so this safehouse was doubly safe. But it relied on one thing. And that was simply that you didn’t open the door.
“Hey, open up! Open up!”
The ratatattat of furious knocking made the group inside look up. It was definitely not a code knock.
“Passcode? Who sent you?”
There was a panicked breath.
“I don’t—I don’t have one! Listen, I just got—they’re right behind me! It’s a huge score, I’ll give you half!”
The leader of the group hanging around inside, playing cards and eating while they patched themselves up from the disastrous attack, peered through the spyhole as one of the others motioned him over. He saw someone run back to the alleyway, then come running back. A panicked Drake with a huge scar over his face. He sounded young—and he was holding something.
“Clear off! This is Earthtender’s property.”
“They’re after me! Please!”
The [Marauder] eyed something that flashed in the light from the spyhole. Wait a second. Was that a bag of holding? Yes, it was!
A [Pickpocket] who’d just nabbed a bag of holding. And—from the looks of it—with the Watch or bodyguards in hot pursuit. The [Marauder] licked his lips. He made a quick decision.
“Let him in.”
“But the Second Gardener said—”
“Let him in. He’s got a bag of holding.”
The other members of the gang perked up. Free income? There was only a moment of hesitation, then one of them called out.
“Alright, one second. How fast are they on your tail?”
“I don’t—I think I lost them, but one of them has a sword! An enchanted—hurry the hell up!”
“We’re going, we’re going…there. Come on in and—”
The door opened and the [Marauder] stepped back, smiling happily at the free bag of holding delivery. They’d let the Drake have something—once they extracted a tax for the emergency use of the safehouse.
What he got, instead of a terrified Drake, was an empty doorway. The [Marauder] hesitated. The other members of the Earthtenders gang looked up.
“My [Dangersense] just went off.”
A Drake whispered. Her scales went white. The [Marauder] whirled.
“Close the—”
The thing about [Dangersense] is that it often went off when you were in danger. Of course, sometimes it was very helpful and said ‘do not open that door’. But the right fellows knew how to beat that Skill. After all, you could get it as low as before Level 10. It, like truth spells, was not infallible.
The room exploded into chaos as people surged to their feet. Hands reached for the door to push it shut.
A figure rammed into the closing door, throwing three bodies back. A huge Gnoll in an expensive suit, with a plain, wooden club in hand. Huge. With a face like—
He brought the club down and the [Marauder] stopped thinking forever. The wet thud and snap of a neck echoed in the room. The [Thug] pivoted and slammed the club left. Then he shoulder-rushed another Drake into the table and raised the club again.
There was no art there. It rose and fell. Behind him, a Drake with the fake scar now peeled off leapt into the room. He threw a dagger straight into an open mouth, then his two claws were moving. All he did was stab, so fast that a slow-moving arm failed to block it. Neck, side—
“Help! Help! We’re—”
That was the only thing that came through the speaking stone. It went dead a second later, the other end smashed.
A Gnoll stood in a room amid bodies and people. The people kept vanishing, the bodies kept growing as they touched the floor. He turned, dodging a jet of fire shot from a wand. A Drake leapt into the wand-holder, daggers stabbing, and there was one less person in the world. The Gnoll brought down a club through a guard.
Someone tried to run him through the back, but they cut only cloth. A slash against his coat. He turned, and the club came back.
Never did they say a word. Nor did their opponents. They fought in near-silence. A scream, a cry. A shout of rage…
Growing silent. You could hear them, then. And the rest were trying to get out the door, fleeing. They didn’t waste time begging. The Gnoll’s club rose and fell and as the silence grew, it was a bit louder.
He was humming. A nursery rhyme.
It took fifteen minutes. Not for the fighting, but for the aftermath. The Drake policed bodies, checking them not so much for coin but clues, artifacts—the Gnoll calmly poured something on the walls, smashed the other artifacts he didn’t decide to pocket. Blood hung in the air, so he dabbed a scent-killer on his fur as the Drake did likewise. Then he reached for something.
“Curio. Let me.”
Ratici backed up. Wilovan concentrated, lifted a small piece of wood—and struck a match. It lit satisfactorily, and he tossed it on the alchemist’s oil. The two watched the flames catch across the far wall. Then—Ratici closed the door, leaving only a crack for air.
They walked into the street, blood on their clothing, into a second fight. The backup skidded to a halt as Ratici and Wilovan looked at them. The Gentlemen Callers took a breath.
“You—”
The Earthtenders were not prepared for the Gnoll to charge. This was not an ambush; there were thirty on the street, experienced members of the gang. But they were not prepared. This was a gang from the north and they did things a different way.
When the hats came off, everyone died. Everyone. Brothers and foes. That was why the hats never, ever came off. Even the biggest Oteslian gang had never seen the—
Madness.
Two men fought to the death in a nowhere street. Two versus thirty, and it was a deadly fight for them despite their levels. They could have run. They did not run.
That magnificent shirt was in tatters. The Gnoll was in the thick of it and he began to bleed. The Drake tore an arrow out of the air, but took a splintering hail of needles that embedded themselves in his scales. He said not a word but threw a dagger back. Now, he was humming…
Someone was bearing Wilovan down. A [Rogue] had grabbed onto his back and was stabbing. The first two daggers struck cloth—the rest flesh. He tried to throw the figure off, but more were clinging to his arms to halt that lethal club. The dagger went for his neck—
“Salazsar!”
Wilovan felt the kiss of metal. He jerked—and the figure slid off him. He threw an arm off, swung the club, and broke an arm. There was a scream—then more.
A Drake charged into the fight, sword drawn and slashing. He had only hesitated a moment then angled himself for the best entry—that was how fast it was. Ilvriss swung his sword, lopping off a sword-arm and then running his opponent through in the same motion. Ratici paused in his own dagger throw—not because of Ilvriss, but the others.
“Get them!”
The Earthtenders turned as dozens of young men charged from the sides into the melee. The [Rogues] began to retreat instantly. With more bodies in the fight, Wilovan and Ratici were no longer in danger—
“Run, run—”
This time, the Gentlemen Callers didn’t pursue. Wilovan grabbed a potion and downed it; Ratici tore needles out of his scales, cursing.
“Antidote?”
