Rafaema and Makhir stared at the flowers, puffy and vibrantly yellow, not quite in their full orange bloom. The Lightning Dragon slowly moved the flowers away from Ferris. Do you see? Do you see how I hurt my people with every move I make?
How would she ever lead her people? Woe! Woe and failure and marigolds! Rafaema tossed them out the window and heard a scream and a crash of breaking glass. She covered her face.
 
——
 
Children were allowed to make mistakes. Well, actually, no, they weren’t. There were plenty of mistakes even a child got to make only once. Like walking in front of a wagon. Adults did their best, but they could not save children from everything.
It shouldn’t be that way. No one liked to think of it. Sometimes—you saw too much. So he drew a distinction. A line in the sand.
Lyonette was still in the land of children. It didn’t matter that she was past her majority, as every species but half-Elves counted it, and she had gone through quite a lot. There was a difference.
Saliss of Lights had seen everything. Yet, as he calmly regarded the vial sitting on the table in front of him, he had to admit it.
“This is a joke I haven’t seen before. This—this is old stuff. Erin Solstice got these flowers from the grave of an Old One. That’s what’s down in Liscor’s dungeon. That—or there’s something more that even the old man doesn’t know.”
Mirn hesitated, a claw on a morning cup of tea. His scales prickled faintly.
“Old One? I thought those were just legends.”
Saliss glanced up. He didn’t smile; nor was he his normal, ebullient to the point of incredibly annoying self. Those were fake selves.
“They exist.”
“You’ve never told me about meeting one.”
Saliss snorted.
“Meet one? I’d never get the chance to tell you about it. People ‘meet’ Old Ones. A decade later, a nation vanishes. Old monsters, down there…that’s the only thing I can think to explain this, though.”
He flicked the vial with a claw and it chimed once.
“It makes no sense, Mirn. You understand that, don’t you?”
“The flowers are worth more than they should be.”
“For something that grows from the ground like they do? Sage’s Grass is about as potent as a dandelion compared to this. Still. Every effect is twisted a bit. Pranks. Everything still has a cost. And that’s what scares me. Do you know, ‘Old Ones’ is a generic term for all kinds of things we find buried deep?”
“Mm. Now that you say it—and?”
Mirn sat back. The light coming through the window made the vial of Saliss’ potion glow faintly. The [Alchemist] studied it.
“If we’re lucky, they’re already dead. If we’re lucky, all we have to deal with is what they leave behind. That’s how I know they exist. I cleared a nest one time. Do you get it? Monsters, scavengers drawn to their corpse or what they left behind. I was Level 46. I jumped two levels and nearly lost both legs.”
Mirn shook his head. That was Saliss of Lights. A Named-rank adventurer. He shuddered, imagining what it could be, and was glad this was a conversation for early morning.
“So you think Erin Solstice got it from…? How would she even do that? Pure luck?”
“Not with her. But I’m telling you, Mirn. There’s something about these flowers that unsettles me. They’re not just magic. Or at least—not magic I understand. It reminds me of something we do. The most idiotic thing. The thing that pushes alchemy into the stuff of legends. Sometimes, the Old Ones die and we find their corpse or something comes over The Last Tide. Like A’ctelios Salash. Do you know…what we do to those things?”
Mirn waited. Saliss raised his head.
“That’s right. We use them as alchemical ingredients. There was a chapter of alchemy I once read in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, of [Alchemists] that used A’ctelios Salash’s flesh. Completely banned. They burned every single [Alchemist] involved they could find afterwards, and I can’t blame them. Some people still remember it, though. Some people still do it and they’re the monsters of alchemy. I know one exists.”
“How are they even alive? And what does this have to do with the flowers, Saliss?”
The Drake gave his friend a mirthless smile.
“Power. He can make things I can’t even dream of, at great cost. With the kind of morality that means he has a bounty of over hundred thousand gold on his head. Shifthold. If you ever hear of that ship, get out of the port. I’m just wondering if I’m headed down that path. Because this?”
He lifted the vial and stared at it. So longingly. So…nervously. Fear. Fear and desire.
“I couldn’t remember Saliss. I had my levels. I had my past, but I didn’t think hard on it. I was happy. Everything was right, but I forgot Saliss ever had been.”
Mirn stared at Saliss and remembered how carefree Onieva had seemed. He hesitated. The [Protector] of Turnscales, one of the only friends of Saliss and Onieva both, hesitated. Because Onieva was the truth, but Saliss was the one everyone knew. This was almost everything Saliss had ever worked for. A cheap, more potent reflection of the shape-shifting potion he had created.
Yet.
“So you remember her? Everything that happened?”
Saliss turned a blank face towards Mirn.
“Everything. Perfect detail; we’ve cross-referenced it. She can’t remember. I can once I’m here. And what I remember was: everything was like I wanted it to be. Now that’s cruelty.”
He tossed the vial down with a laugh. Mirn and Saliss stared at it for a long time. At last, the Named Adventurer spoke.
“It’s such a wonderful gift. If it lasted longer—we could give it to the few who…”
“Yes. But what about you?”
The [Alchemist] sat there.
“Some days I wonder if the world needs Saliss of Lights. If Onieva could replace him—no. Never replace. There’s no room in Izril for her, just because she’s her. I almost like it. Saliss is the Named Adventurer. Onieva can be Onieva.”
Mirn reached out.
“Saliss…it’s not your job to hold up the Walled Cities on your own.”
The Named Adventurer looked up, startled. He laughed in surprise.
“Hold them up? Mirn. Mirn, Mirn. Haven’t you been watching the news? Saliss isn’t holding them up. He has to hold them back. But Onieva…these idiots going after Lyonette? And this. This twisted gift.”
He lifted it up. Breathed. Mirn watched nervously as Saliss removed the cork with a single flick of the thumb.
“Yes. Onieva will not do the things that belong to Saliss. But Saliss? Saliss can’t be seen doing the truly ‘evil’ things. Depraved things like going to a bar or…that’s a good excuse.”
“Saliss…”
The Drake smiled. He took a single draft of the vial, and rasped as he sat back.
“These are better days, Mirn. Better than they were. Remind Onieva to search for those damned ethereal reagents. And…Saliss.”
He sat there. Mirn waited.
“How do I explain it?”
The [Alchemist] shrugged.
“Just tell her. How could she understand it? It’s good she won’t be able to. Just tell her. I’ll remember when I wake up.”
The smile lingered as Mirn looked away. The [Protector] took a deep breath, heart pounding, scales tingling. It was too painful to think of, his friend’s decisions and sacrifices. Many stories were like that. Yet—he turned as a Drake, an [Alchemist], stretched and laughed. That smile was so different, for all it had many of the same qualities.
Better days.
 
——
 
Wilovan and Ratici woke up at dawn. It was reflex, though they might sleep into evening. The Gnoll checked himself, reaching for his side. Ratici felt a pain that refused to go away. They started—Ratici half-rolled, a dagger in his claw.
Memories from yesterday faded. Wilovan opened one eye. He looked around the room in Mivifa’s estate. Ratici gave him a slow nod. Wilovan touched his tender healed flesh. He lay back—and went back to sleep. Ratici did the same, after a circumspect check of the room.
They had work to do. But later. They slept the sleep of goodfellows with another day, and that was a reward of its own. Pure and simple.
We are alive.
When they stood, life was simple and uncomplicated. Ratici rolled out of bed and found Wilovan already dressing himself. Or rather, trying to. He ruefully brushed at what looked like a bunch of rags.
“That was my best suit.”
“Indeed it was, Wilovan. I always thought it was rather too fine for you given how much you paid for it.”
The Gnoll looked askance at Ratici, who was selecting his own wardrobe from his bag of holding. He sighed long.
“I will admit, it was a special arrangement with the [Tailor]. A fine woman. Magnificent, really. Yet but for it—”
He felt at his side, his chest, perplexed. He should be dead. He was not. In fact, Wilovan felt better than he had been in…a long time. It still lingered on him, like a haze of goodwill. A distant light he could reach for in the dark hours he walked. A…blessing. A boon.
[Boon of the Princess]. And with it, the Skill that glowed with that same light in his head.
[He Scratched Only Thread].
Wilovan smiled. Ratici watched him standing there, only wearing his undergarments. The Drake [Thief] coughed.
“I must admit, Wilovan, unseemly as it is—I am beyond jealous of you.”
Wilovan turned. The [Gentleman Thug] nodded, going to tip his hat before he remembered it was sitting on the table. He went to fetch it.
“Ratici, I daresay your jealousy is beyond warranted. I could toss a hundred winning rolls on the feeling alone. The feeling of being…”
He paused, inhaling as Ratici went to the window. The Drake checked his corners, opened it. No poisoned dart sped through towards him, so it was a fine day. Morning air, fresh. He turned to Wilovan as the Gnoll finished his sentence.
“…a fine fellow.”
The two Gentlemen Callers stood there. Ratici nodded slowly.
“A fine fellow. That’s a feeling and a half, Wilovan.”
“Indeed it is, Ratici. And I think—we should repay the feeling. Too many close calls. Too much slow business. Miss Lyonette’s well attended with those [Knights], fine looking fellows, and that lady. It’s a bit of a relief, Ratici. I don’t think we’ll take another bodyguard job, do you?”
“Not at all, Wilovan. Us sorts are more direct. We forgot that—the Tall Man meant well, but it was a rare misplay.”
Wilovan pulled out a plain vest and breeches.
“Indeed it was, Ratici. To work?”
“To work.”
They nodded at each other. The two men adjusted their clothing in the handy full-length wall mirror, with pocket mirrors to check their backs and sides. Wilovan pointed out a ruffled sleeve; Ratici brushed Wilovan’s shoulder free of a bit of lint. Clothes straightened, they strolled out the door, smiling.
It was a fine day. There was a certain air to it. The day after you nearly died helped, but it was a smell in the air, a lovely lady to look at—
“Good morning, Miss Onieva. You are a dashing sight, if I may be so bold.”
“Well, well. Look who it is! Come on over—Xif, stop sleeping in breakfast. The heroes of yesterday are here.”
Onieva waved, a huge smile on her face as Mirn turned and Xif raised his head from a fat stack of various…pancakes? Ratici tipped his hat and sat down with alacrity as Wilovan smiled and shook his head.
“A wonderful morning to you too, Alchemist Xif, sir. Mister Mirn. Is Miss Lyonette already out?”
“Headed to visit Magnolia Reinhart, I think. You two are up fast. Did you heal all up?”
“Nothing worth mentioning, sir. What have we here? A sight for sore eyes.”
Xif stared at Wilovan as the Gnoll rubbed his paws together.
“You were stabbed two dozen times! Even the best healing potion doesn’t just put you together.”
Wilovan gave a huge wink to the [Alchemist].
“Ah, nothing a night’s rest won’t solve, Alchemist Xif. A fellow knows how to roll with a few punches and any day you don’t lose a digit is a net positive, eh?”
“Er…yes? That’s a very [Alchemist] concept too. Even so. Please, help yourself! Someone bought breakfast and—we have pancakes.”
“Pancakes? Are they that, sir? I’ve never seen them so…colorful.”
Ratici eyed the various colors. Onieva laughed.
“Mirn ran out to get them. He’s good at finding food to buy—not that any of us are good [Cooks]. You’d think an [Alchemist] would know how, but Xif is completely incapable.”
The Gnoll grumbled as she nudged him.
“I’m not as bad as Saliss. I just have no patience for it. Kneading and taste being the objective. No proper safety measures either. Flour explodes, you know.”
Onieva rolled her eyes. She began pointing as Wilovan began loading his plate high and Ratici did the same.
“Different pancakes. Yellat-pancake, obviously. Potato, carrot, wheats—I think there’s four different kinds of flour. The black one’s made of Ashwheat. Some kind of meat pancake, flower pancake. I mean…flower. As in the bright little things bees like, not wheat-based. Four vegetable-pancakes—and we’ve got honey, syrups, jam…”
The Gentlemen Callers sighed. Now there was a filling breakfast. Enough butter to stop a heart, a slathering of syrup, and each pancake was a different bite. They began putting away a tremendous amount of food as Mirn eyed the dapper pair with clear appreciation. Excellent table-manners. Onieva and Xif were completely unrepentant slobs anywhere but the alchemy station.
“So what’s your plan for the day? Onieva and I might be going for a walk. Xif?”
“Someone has to keep working at the Faerie Flowers now we know what’s up. Saliss is off doing Saliss things, damn him—I’m going to make a run for two more sets of alchemy-ware. Not enough test tubes. Fortunately, I know a good [Glassblower].”
“Mm. Unless Miss Lyonette said she’d need us, we may also head out on the town.”
Xif looked from Mirn and Onieva to the two casual Gentlemen Callers.
“Aren’t you worried about an attack? Those criminals attacked Lyonette in broad daylight. I’m safe…I think, but I’ll be sticking to the main streets until the Watch sorts it all out.”
Onieva snorted and the two Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings smiled politely. Wilovan nodded at Xif.
“I believe we’ll be just fine, sir. We know how to keep our noses out of trouble, as it were. Miss Onieva, we must have a meal at some point.”
“Oh, you. I might take you up on it.”
Onieva grinned with all her teeth. Mirn rolled his eyes. She had all the luck. Wilovan and Ratici stood, fortified and ready to face the world. They strolled out the door. Yes, life was good.
“Not even a watcher. I suspect they’re all on Miss Lyonette—oh, no. I see one.”
Ratici eyed the small figure lurking in the crowd. Wilovan brushed at his hair with a comb.
“No older fellows or ladies? Sensible.”
