When two tons of fury in the form of a Bristletusk Boar is charging you down, you want to be wearing the finest in solid steel fashion. The heavier the better! None of this namby-pamby cloth or leather shit.- Baldin Steelshaper, Free advice offered to a novice adventurer browsing armor in his smithy.

“What do you think? Will this work for your rogues?” Calen asked, hauling out several compact leather jackets with sturdy steel studs covering the shoulders and sides. They were heavy enough to thump as he laid them out on the table.

Studded Jacket – level 20Evasion: 192Resistance: 42+20 VitalityRequirements: Dexterity 56, Intelligence 14Created by Madriendil Autumnbow.Body – Leather/Steel

Ali reached out and ran her fingertips over the closest jacket, studying the threading and the texture of the studs carefully. It seemed well-made, at least by her decidedly non-professional assessment. She was no crafter, but these must be better than anything she had ever given her rogues. The base structure of the jacket had been fashioned from a very dark brown leather that she couldn’t immediately identify, but it seemed to be fairly pliable to her touch, and yet durable. The inside of the jacket had been fitted with cloth and padding to make it sit better on the body.

“It has an unusual distribution of requirements and defenses.” The back had even been notched with a v-shaped cutout so it would sit well on a kobold without restricting the freedom of its tail.

“That’s why it took so long,” Calen said. “I had to find a leatherworker capable of doing some non-standard customization. I had them reduce the intelligence requirement to what your rogues can wear, but that took the resistance down substantially. I just hope it’s enough for the mines.” Calen’s habit of noting every detail down in his book had come in handy yet again – the rogues that were high enough level to wear the armor, and had fifteen or sixteen intelligence, just barely made the requirement that had been custom crafted.

“I think they’re fantastic,” Ali said, chuckling to herself at the memory of the first outfit he had asked his mother to make for her, and how badly he had messed up the measurements. He definitely learned that lesson. It didn’t take a Tailor to tell that these jackets would fit her kobolds perfectly. Pulsing her mana through her fingers, she deconstructed each one carefully. Ever since she had caused Lydia’s class to level up by learning one of her items, Ali had ceased to feel guilty about destroying a crafter’s signed work to commit it to her Grimoire.

Variant: Studded Jacket added to Imprint: Armor.

Thank you, Madriendil Autumnbow. Whoever the elven leatherworker was, she hoped the sudden influx of experience gained from her learning to make the Studded Jacket helped them grow.

“Is yours the same?” Ali asked, noticing that Calen was wearing a new jacket of a very similar design.

“Yup. I needed less customization to the resistance and evasion because I have high enough intelligence and dexterity to wear conventional hybrid gear. It results in a more efficient defensive stat spread. See for yourself,” he answered, showing her his jacket by striking a hilariously exaggerated pose.

Studded Jacket – level 40Evasion: 336Resistance: 336+30 Vitality+24 StrengthRequirements: Dexterity 80, Intelligence 80.Created by Madriendil Autumnbow.Body – Leather/Steel

“That’s decent! Did you keep this leatherworker’s details?” Ali asked, chuckling at his antics. “I might want this variant if I can find some higher-level rogues.”

“Yes, she has a shop in the second tree, twelfth level in Ciradyl,” Calen offered, giving more detail than strictly necessary.

“Sweet. Maybe when Mato comes back, we can go see if Thuli is done with his plate armor and then we can try fighting those Shards of Flame again?” It would be nice to finally push the Emberforge Mines domain back just a little so she could stop having to worry about dungeon-rage striking at random times. Ali couldn’t wait to see what effect some decent fire resistance gear had on their survivability in the scorching domain fighting against a fire elemental – it was proving to be a real chore to craft all the pieces.

“That sounds good,” Malika called out from her cross-legged meditation pose in the middle of the poison cloud runic circle.

“What is she doing?” Calen whispered.

“Training,” Ali said, matching his conspiratorial tone. “I’m not sure if Rezan was messing with her or if it’s a real training technique, but she said she wanted to study magical damage.”

“You know I can hear you guys whispering over there?” Malika said.

“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” Calen said.

Ali had been happy to help Malika learn to read the Nine Paths and to make the runic circle, but it had made her a little sad that all her friends had formal mentorship enchantments with very powerful and accomplished people, and she did not.

Who would mentor a dungeon anyway?

The fundamental magical enchantment for mentorship was based on the patron-tithe system, similar to mana signatures, which meant that both people were influenced by the relationship. Most people would probably be terrified about being contaminated with her mana and traits. Even the idea of finding a benevolent dungeon to mentor her was just plain crazy.

I’ll just have to do it the hard way.

***

Ali sat with Malika on the couch in the guild hall, waiting for Calen to organize his class schedule with Mieriel when Mato and Basil returned. The guild hall was much quieter than she remembered, and Mato and Basil’s excited chatter caught the attention of almost everyone.

“We found something cool!” Mato declared, coming up to join them on the couch.

“More like the opposite of cool. Hot. Very hot! Here, take a look at this,” Basil said, excitedly producing a clump of bright red grass that was literally on fire. There was a sizzling sound and the sudden smell of burnt skin and he snatched his fingers away, dropping his prize.

“Oi, we don’t need to burn the guild hall down! Take it into the workshop,” Mieriel yelled. “I had to clean zombie guts off the carpet once already this week. I don’t want to have to replace it because you burnt it.” Everyone froze at the outburst. With the usually calm Mieriel laying down the law, they all hopped up off the couches and fled to the workshop.

As soon as they entered the stark, empty room, Basil and Mato proceeded to lay out their haul on the stone floor where nothing would be damaged.

“What is that?” Ali stared at the strange pile of jumbled reddish-brown vines and broken petals, along with what looked like bloodstains and something that might even be thorns.

Or teeth?

“It very nearly ate Basil,” Mato chuckled, his jovial light tone clashing with the horrifying content of his statement.

“Ate?” Ali was aghast. She hurriedly examined Basil, but all the usual parts seemed to still be attached.

“Yup,” Basil confirmed, nodding his head vigorously. “It’s a carnivorous vine or creeper that tried to eat me! It managed to dunk me in the lava. How cool is that?”

“Not cool,” Mato said. “Hot, remember.”

“Mato! You were supposed to look after him!”

“He’s alive, isn’t he?” Mato said, cocking an eyebrow at her. Both he and Basil burst into raucous hoots of laughter.

“Boys,” Ali muttered, rolling her eyes and giving an exasperated sigh before turning to the mess lying on the floor. “Hmm. Let’s see what we have here.”

Flame Lasher – Vine – level 32 (Fire)

“It’s very rare. It grows gorgeous hand-sized flowers of the purest fire-affinity mana,” Basil explained, his tone turning more serious, but his eyes still sparkled with excitement. “They’re seriously beautiful, but we could only find these four. I really hope that you can grow them because we can make some amazing stuff with those flowers.”

“I can’t promise anything, but I’ll try,” she said. Basil was certainly quite animated describing the vine that had almost eaten him, so she decided to forgive him for being a boy and deconstructed each of the vine plants. Her forgiveness wasn’t in any way influenced by his description of how pretty the flowers were. Not at all.

When the third plant did not give any notification, she concluded that her Grimoire had, in its rather arbitrary categorization, decided to make them an entirely new chapter, but as soon as the fourth one dispersed to her magic, she felt the familiar pressure and the notification as her Grimoire began to inscribe the imprint.

Variant: Flame Lasher added to Imprint: Creeper.

“I got it!”

“It probably needs to be planted near some fire mana,” Basil said. “They’re quite impossible to cultivate because they’re very sensitive to their environment.”

“Also, they try to eat anyone who comes close,” Mato observed.

Malika snickered, “Like you and anything that comes in a pot, right?”

“I have my beautiful figure to preserve.”

“You two bicker like an old married couple,” Calen observed slyly.

“How about we plant these down in the mine, after we take over some of the space?” Ali asked, wondering how she might achieve the right growing conditions. “It will be hard for Basil to survive down there, though,” she mused, wondering how he had survived a lava bath before realizing that Mato must have saved him from being fried. “We would need to escort him past the jungle monsters, and I don’t know if he can survive that fire mana.”

“Basil taught me the Herb Gathering general skill,” Mato said.

“Oh, that’s handy,” Ali said. It certainly solved the problem for now – and perhaps Basil could take care of it after he leveled up a bit more.

“You could also try growing a big patch of this Fire Grass and plant the vines beside it,” Basil suggested, pointing to the clumps of still-burning grass.

“Huh, would that work?” Mato grunted.

“That’s a good idea,” Ali said. Her domain plants emitted their mana affinity into the area around them, so she could – at least in theory – create a compact fire-affinity zone that might be ideal for these plants. She quickly deconstructed the grass clumps until she heard the notification and let Basil collect the rest to give to Eliyen.

Variant: Fire Grass added to Imprint: Grass.

“Let’s go see if Thuli is done and then go down and try the mines,” Ali said, even more excited to explore now that she had two new imprint variants and the new leather jackets Calen had commissioned for her rogues.

“Oh, Aliandra,” Mieriel called out, catching her attention as they headed for the door. “If you’re off to the blacksmith, could you take Sabri and introduce her to Thuli? Vivian said she needs some equipment.”

“Of course,” Ali said, beckoning for the shy Ahn Khen girl to join them. Sabri shot over as if she had been released from a catapult. Ali frowned. Did she need permission to join in? Was that cultural? She might have a word with Malika about that.

Kavé stood quietly behind the counter, listening carefully as Thuli conducted business with Aliandra and her group. She counted them as some of her only friends in this town, but she wasn’t about to interrupt Thuli’s business. Besides, he had asked her to watch and learn, and so she did.

“Who’s the new lass?” Thuli asked, pointing to the unfamiliar girl wholly absorbed with the wall display of her master’s finest shields. He refused to let her call him master, so she didn’t – out loud – but he was the master, and she was the apprentice, as was proper. She had been remarkably fortunate to have run into Ali and Thuli, without whom she would have likely been begging for scraps on the streets with an undeveloped class. Especially with how most humans viewed Dragonkin.

“That’s Sabri. She’s a new member of the Adventurers Guild – uh, and of the Ahn Khen people like Malika. She got her class yesterday and needs some armor. She doesn’t have much money yet and she hates handouts. Is there anything you can do for her?” Aliandra said, coloring as she realized her prattling had revealed several truths Sabri might have preferred to keep private.

Kavé’s ears perked up, curious to see how Thuli would choose to handle this situation, knowing he would ask her about it later. He always expected her to have an opinion.

“Hmm, I admire that spirit,” he said, running his hand over his large beard as he did when he was thinking. She had no idea how he had never burned it off working the forge, but he was quite proud of it. “I have an idea.” And then to her surprise, he turned to her and said, “Kavé, yer first job. Go get her!”

First job? What… Aah! Before her brain even caught up with her, she scrambled off to invite the novice, who was only a level three warrior, to join them.

“Let me give you a few tips on reading customers,” Thuli said, when she returned with the girl in tow, addressing her as if the others weren’t listening in. “What do you think her role is in the adventurer team?”

“This one hasn’t asked,” Kavé answered, not quite understanding what he was getting at.

“What kind of class comes into the blacksmith shop and swoons over the big shields?” Thuli rumbled, a broad grin cracking his face at the blatant hint.

“Oh. She is a tank?” Kavé glanced at the girl once again, taking in the leather armor with the perfectly concentric hole right through the center of her chest and a matching one out the back. She didn’t exactly look like a tank, but she had definitely been smitten by Thuli’s best shields.

“As a blacksmith, yer bread and butter will be swords and daggers,” Thuli continued. “Everyone wants a sword or a dagger. Yer chores will be making arrows or chainmail because they’re a lot of work. But yer best work and materials should always be reserved for the tank.”

“May this one know why?”

“The tank gets hit a lot. It may be educational to watch a serious fight,” Thuli said. “Adventurer groups are organized around having all the monsters hit the tank and everyone else shoots or stabs the monsters. This means that the armor sets worn by any other class will only occasionally be needed ta keep them alive, usually when things are going poorly. Mostly they will care about the enchantments buffing their attributes. But the tank will try to take every hit, only surviving because of excellent equipment and the skills ta use it. The rest of the team relies on that ta survive. When ya make a good tank breastplate or shield, yer skills are not just protecting the tank – every member of the team is effectively hiding behind those pieces.”

