“I wish.” Ereka said, as she slowly entered the kitchen. She rubbed her eyes, then ran her hands through her hair. She was only wearing her dress slip, so the movement highlighted her chest wonderfully. Ren was normally good at ignoring things like that; even though he still saw it, he didn't react to it.

“Good morning!” Ren said, and grinned at her. “Feel like some breakfast?” He asked her, and held up the plate filled with pancakes.

“What in the world is that?!?” Ereka asked, surprised.

Ren and Nathalia laughed, and Ereka decided that caution was better choice. She took a plate of pancakes from Nathalia instead; but added syrup, whipped cream and berries to it because Ren's version did look delicious that way. They enjoyed eating breakfast together, and discussed what to do with the restaurant. It wasn't long before Teepo reminded Ren that he needed to go to work.

“I'll be back this evening.” Ren said, and kissed Nathalia goodbye. He waved to Ereka, and left the house.

*

“So, how did you enjoy sharing your feelings with Ren?” Nathalia asked, once Ren was out of the house.

Ereka looked at her in surprise. “I... um...”

“Yes, he told me.” Nathalia said. “He doesn't keep anything from me.”

“I wouldn't want him to.” Ereka said, honestly. “It's just... I... I didn't want to intrude on you sharing your feelings with him.”

“Oh.” Nathalia said. “So... you were awake for some of it.”

Ereka nodded slightly. “When I realized what you were doing, I...” She swallowed. “...I waited.”

Nathalia looked at her with her head tilted slightly to the side, and Ereka blushed a little.

“I didn't know what I was doing, actually.” Ereka said, and blushed a bright red. “When I... I...” She took in a deep breath. “I didn't realize...” She looked at Nathalia in surprise. “Is it always like that? My mind went completely blank!” She said excitedly, then sighed. “I was completely relaxed afterwards, then I fell asleep again.”

Nathalia nodded slightly. “Most times it is like that.” She said. “All you care about is the feeling.”

“Yes, that's it!” Ereka said. “Just the sensation was... by the gods, Nathalia! How do you ever let him leave the house, if he can make you feel like that?”

Nathalia laughed. “It wouldn't be as good if you have it all the time.” She said. “The anticipation is part of the fun.”

Ereka nodded slightly. “I... I think... I should sign up for my training early.”

“I don't think you should right now.” Nathalia said. “I just explained to Ren that part of the training is sleeping with one of the training men.”

“Wh-what?!?” Ereka exclaimed. “R-really?”

Nathalia nodded slightly. “It's the only way to learn how to please a man.”

“By pleasing a man.” Ereka said. “That you don't know, care about, or love.”

Nathalia smiled. “Your future husband will be in the same boat. You won't know him, care about him, or love him. That's what the contract is for. So you can get to know him, care about him, and love him. Eventually.”

Ereka sighed. “I never thought about it like that.”

“No one does.” Nathalia said. “You've got a few more years before you have to worry about any of that, Ereka. So, take my advice; don't worry about it.”

*

Ren fed Princess a stack of pancakes, syrup, and whipped cream; and she inhaled it faster than he thought was possible.

...More, please...

“Of course, Princess.” Ren said, and dropped another plateful in front of her.

...Thank you, My Lord...

“You're welcome.” He said, then pat Riley and Stacy, the two dogs guarding her, and he left the stable. He ran out through the gate, acknowledged the guards, and ran up to the workshop. No one was there yet, so he went into the forge room to see Tee-one. He asked Tee-one to make tables and chairs for the restaurant, and Tee-one handed him the suits of armor, swords, and shields that he had made the night before. Ren smiled and thanked him for the work, then left the workshop and ran into the city, then out to his mines.

The guard bid him a good morning, opened the gate for Ren to pass through, and Ren nodded to him and ran to the medical tent next to the entrance to the mine. He stepped inside, and didn't see the healer, Deresdra.

“Hello?” Ren asked, but there was no answer. He frowned, and checked the curtained-off area, but she wasn't there either. He shrugged, and went outside and around the medical tent to the house he had built for her.

Teepo. Ren thought, and Teepo slid under the door and searched.

“Yeah, she's in here.” Teepo said, then stayed in the living room. Ren knocked on the front door and waited. There was no answer, so he knocked a little harder.

“She's getting out of bed now.” Teepo said.

“I'm coming, I'm coming!” Deresdra said as she walked to the front door, and opened it. The bright sunlight hit her in the face. “Ugh!” She said, and put a hand up to cover her eyes. “Dammit! What do you want?!?”

Deresdra only wore a small pair of underwear, and a loose thin top. Both were practically see through, and surprisingly enough, Ren was more turned on now because of what she wore, than he had been when he'd seen her nude. He stopped himself from staring at her, and ignored her disheveled state.

Teepo said she'd just gotten out of bed. Ren thought. “I'm sorry for bothering you.” He said. “I'd like to get inspected for the day's work, if that's okay.”

“Of course.” Deresdra said, and stepped back. “Come in.” She turned around and walked away a few feet. Her underwear was just as small in the back, and barely covered anything at all on her backside.

“I can wait in the medical tent.” Ren said, and she shook her head.

“By the gods, get in here and shut the damn door!” Deresdra said vehemently, and Ren blinked his eyes a few times, then went inside and shut the door.

“I'm off today.” She said as she dropped her hand from covering her eyes. “I thought you were, too.”

“I'm taking tomorrow off instead.” Ren said. “I'll be going to Aurora to deal with a few things.”

Deresdra nodded slightly. “Clothes off, then.”

Ren looked around. “But, we're in your living room.”

“Yes, right.” She said, and took his hand to lead him to the bedroom and shut the door. “Is that better?”

“Not... not really.” Ren said. “It will be, though.” He whipped out some fabric, and tacked it to the ceiling, to make an impromptu curtained-off area.

“That was handy.” Deresdra said, and looked around. It was the same size as the one in the medical tent. “Okay, now take off your clothes.”

Ren sighed, stored his clothing, and left himself in just his underwear; which clearly showed his arousal. He had thought about delaying to let it go away, but he knew it would take a lot longer than a few minutes for it to dissipate enough to make any difference.

Well, well. Deresdra thought as she started his examination. Perhaps I was a little too hasty in thinking that he didn't like me.

What Deresdra didn't realize was that, if any woman was so scantily clad in front of a man, they will react in pretty much the same way. Most times, it didn't matter how they personally felt about the woman they were looking at.

I think Stella is right. Ren thought. It really is a body's normal reaction to stimulation.

Deresdra checked his back and his chest, massaged his abdomen muscles, then checked his arms. When she knelt and bent over slightly to check his legs, her top billowed out and gave Ren a very clear view of her chest. His arousal became quite pronounced at that point, pointing almost straight out because it was caught in the underwear's fabric. Looking down at her, it really was quite a view, and he saw that she was aroused as well. Of course, Deresdra noticed the change in his physical condition, and she smiled mentally.

Yes! Deresdra thought. He's not immune to my charms after all. She stood up, oh so slowly, making sure her top stayed billowed out, until she stood up straight and looked him in the eyes. Ren's face was flushed red, since he couldn't stop himself from staring at her this time.

“Am... am I cleared for work?” Ren asked.

“In a moment.” Deresdra said. “There's just one more thing I need to check.”

“Wh-what's that?” Ren held his breath, because he thought he knew what it was that she wanted to check next. Deresdra grinned, as she thought about what he thought she might want to check next.

“This.” She said, and ran her fingers through his beard. It hadn't grown out past the 2 inches it had been yesterday, but Deresdra didn't care at this point.

Oh, my! She thought. I've never felt a beard like it before. She closed her eyes and lost herself in the feeling. It's not rough or coarse, but soft and fluffy!

“Ma'am?” Ren asked, and hoped she was distracted enough to get an honest answer. “Where did you get that cream?”

“I'm not going to tell you that.” Deresdra said as she opened her eyes. “You told me to buy myself something nice that would make me happy; so, I did.” She smiled seductively, as she let his beard go. “I won't let you get rid of it.”

Ren swallowed loudly, and she had to fight to keep her laughter contained.

“I... ah... actually, I want to keep it.” He said. “I wanted more cream, in case it wore off.”

“Really?” Deresdra asked. “Well, it won't wear off.” She smiled. “That was guaranteed. I still won't tell you where I got it, though; but, if you want more creme...” She left the curtained-off area and Ren heard her rummaging through something, then she came back and handed him a small jar of the creme. “Here you go.”

Ren looked at her in surprise. “You had more?”

Deresdra chuckled. “I wasn't sure how much to use, or what it would cover.” She explained. “It really is a small jar. I had to get another one, just in case.”

“Thank you.” Ren said, and stored it. “What do I owe you?”

“Since you gave me the money in the first place, not much.” Deresdra said and smiled. “Just a hug will do.”

Ren nodded slightly. Since he always liked both giving and receiving hugs, he didn't think twice about it. He took her into a hug right away, much to her surprise and delight. She put her head on his shoulder and wrapped her arms around his neck, since they were so close to the same height, and she pulled him in tightly.

-S

Since they had been talking so calmly for a few minutes, Ren had completely forgotten that he wore only his underwear; and that Deresdra was barely wearing only a little more than that. His eyes widened as her breasts pressed into his chest and the tips poked him hard through the thin fabric top she wore. Because his underwear was bulged practically straight out, he was now firmly pressed into the space between her legs. He was still shrouded in his underwear, but when they had moved together and Deresdra had pulled him in tight, her thin underwear had moved slightly to the side, and he rubbed across her opening to end laying underneath it.

She gasped at the sensation of him sliding between her legs, and she stood up on her toes and arched her back to try and reduce it; but she soon realized that she wasn't tall enough to accomplish that. She relaxed and brought her hips forward, and that small movement rubbed her across his expanse. They both gasped when she did that, and froze as neither of them wanted to embarrass themselves further.

“I'm sorry. I didn't mean to...” They said at the same time. Deresdra took her head off his shoulder and leaned back, which moved her hips, and she caught her breath as she rubbed against him again. She clamped her legs together involuntarily, and squeezed him even tighter than she did before.

“Don't... don't move.” Ren said. “By the gods, don't move.” He breathed, and tried to control himself. They stared at each other, faces barely an inch apart, and he didn't know what to do.

“I may not have much choice but to move.” Deresdra said. “I'm standing up on my toes, and my legs are starting to get sore.”

Ren moved his hands down to her hips and held her still. “Okay, I've got you.” He said. “Relax your feet.”

Deresdra did so, and was surprised she didn't move at all as her feet were now completely off of the floor.

“How long can you hold me like this?” She asked.

“For as long as I have to.” Ren said. “Just... just give me a few minutes to calm down, then I'll get you to move.”

Her eyes widened as he didn't seem to struggle at all to hold her so still. Ren waited nearly 10 minutes before asking her to slowly open her legs.

“I can't.” Deresdra said. “I'm pressed up against you, and I can't move them forward.”

“Bend your knees first.” Ren said. “Then slide your thighs out to the sides.”

“Okay.” She bent her knees like he said, then when she started to slide her thighs out, her entire weight went into his hands. Since Ren was trying to move her away at the same time, and was holding her carefully; he wasn't holding her as securely as he thought he was. His grip started to slip as her thighs slid out to the sides, and he almost dropped her. Deresdra grabbed onto his shoulders and lifted to stop herself from falling; and then Ren recovered his grip on her and pulled her down and in close. This combination of maneuvers, on both of their parts, turned an innocent mistake into an almost perfect upthrust. Ren's underwear clad member slipped about 4 inches inside of her. Deresdra gasped, and stared in shock at Ren, who stared back at her with just as much shock on his face.

“M-M-Ma'am!” Ren stammered. “I'm so sorry!” He tried to move her off, and she winced. “By the gods, I've hurt you!” He said and stopped his efforts.

Deresdra shook her head. “No... no, it's all right.” She said. “It was... a surprise is all.”

“Ma'am.” Ren said. “I have to move you.”

“You're inside of me now.” Deresdra said. “You might as well use my name.”

“It was an accident.” Ren said. “By the gods, how do I get into these situations?”

“Maybe they want you to?” Deresdra asked. “It seems to happen to us a lot, doesn't it?”

Ren didn't know what to say to that, and she smiled as she let his shoulders go. She slid even further down him, and winced as his underwear pressed harder against her.

“Ma'am, don't!” He said, and tried to move her off, and she cringed.

“I'm caught on the fabric, Ren.” She said, and a tear came to her eye. Ren had no choice but to store the underwear, so he would stop hurting her; and her body slid down him the rest of the way. He was completely sheathed inside of her, and she gasped as more tears came to her eyes.

“I've hurt you again.” Ren said, sadly.

