Alinar Keacaryn, the leader of the High Elves Raiding Party, stormed into the opulent room and fumed his frustration.

“I can't believe we let them get away!” He yelled, picked up an expensive jewel-covered dish, and threw it across the room. It shattered into pieces against the wall. Jewels that had been freed from their ceramic prison, jumped to freedom; only to have their escape thwarted by gravity and the floor.

“Get someone in here to clean that up!” He bellowed to the elf behind him, who turned and called for a servant. A stunningly beautiful raven-haired half-elf ran into the room as fast as her legs could carry her, and had cleaned up the mess in mere moments using both speed and magic. She was gone before Alinar could scowl at her, or comment about how much he hated her half-ling height. He would never admit it to himself; but most of that hate was because the half-elf was even more eye-catching than his own wife, who he loved dearly.

“Please calm down, Alinar.” Yelnan said. “It's not our fault.”

Alinar turned to him with a scowl on his face. “Are you saying it's all my fault?”

“Of course not.” Yelnan laughed. “Even if it were true, I wouldn't be uncouth enough to state it openly.”

Alinar clenched his fist. “So you are saying...”

“Are you teasing my husband again, dear brother?” Elmyra said as she came into the room.

“No, dear sister.” Yelnan said as he turned his head to present a cheek for his sister to kiss.

“I certainly hope not.” She said, kissed the offered cheek, and went to her husband. “Old friends shouldn't antagonize each other so much.”

Alinar's disposition changed for the better, the exact moment his wife had entered the room. He relaxed as she gave him a hug, and then a kiss on the lips.

“What has you so riled up, my husband?”

“Dark Elves.” Alinar said. “We found another scout party in our territory.”

“Oh, them.” Elmyra dismissed his concerns with a wave. “Of course they are in our territory.” She smiled. “They have to go through it to get to the rest of the realm, don't they?”

Alinar opened his mouth to say that the Dark Elves should know their place, and stay there; but his wife's angelic smile stopped his argument before he made it.

“Dear sister, you should come along on the raid next time.” Yelnan said, amused. “Your effectiveness for calming your husband is reaching legendary status.”

Elmyra laughed, and the sounds of wind and rustling leaves could be heard. “Only because you are spreading that story, dear brother. I'd be more of a burden on you than a herd of half-lings.”

Yelnan laughed, and his sister grinned at him.

“Don't let them hear you say they come in herds, dear sister.” Yelnan said. “The High Court will never hear the end of it.”

“I am only jesting.” Elmyra said. “I meant no disrespect to the half-people.”

Alinar laughed and hugged his wife again. “You are a vision of loveliness, and the epitome of compassion, my wife.”

“Only because we are married.” She said. “You wouldn't look at me twice, otherwise.”

Alinar looked stricken, as if she had wounded him deeply.

“How... how can you say such things?” Alinar asked. “I've only ever had eyes for you!”

Elmyra smiled demurely and gave him another kiss on the lips. Alinar's face lit up, because he'd never had two kisses from his wife on the same day before.

“You bless me, my wife.” Alinar said, and took her hand. He bent over it, and kissed her fingers. Elmyra blushed from the intimate contact, and she glanced at her brother. Fortunately, Yelnan had turned his head away before the act had been committed, and was intentionally not looking at them. Elmyra sighed in relief as she looked back at her husband.

“Such things should be saved for a more... private time.” She said, and Alinar looked at her with surprise on his face.

“My apologies, my wife.” He said and ducked his head. “I forgot myself, and my manners.”

“That's quite alright, my husband.” She said and stroked the side of his hand with an index finger. “You succeeded in driving off an incursion last night.” She puckered her lips slightly, and leaned in close to whisper. “You will come to see me later.”

“Y-y-yes, my wife.” Alinar said, a little shaky. “As you wish.”

Elmyra leaned back. “I do.” She said silkily, then turned away from him and walked towards the door. As she passed her brother, she looked at him through the corner of her eye. Yelnan kept his gaze firmly facing away, and she stopped.

“Thank you for bringing him back alive, dear brother.” Elmyra said.

“It is both my duty, and my honor, to keep my promise to you.” Yelnan said, then smiled as he looked at her. “Keeping you happy is also my fondest wish, dear sister.”

She reached out and put a hand on his arm, squeezed lightly, then left the room without another word. Both men watched the door close behind her, then looked at each other.

“What do you want to do about the stray that slipped away during the fight?” Yelnan asked.

“The same thing we do to all of the strays.” Alinar said. “We capture, contain, then send them back where they belong.” He smiled. “Send the tracker team out to the site of the skirmish battle. Have them look for her scent.”

*

Ren had slept the rest of the night peacefully, and woke up early on his own the next morning. Since he was at home, he automatically concentrated on the House Neram pendant and merged with the house's artificial Aura.

Good morning, Teepo. Ren thought, as he rubbed Nathalia's hip absently. I assume everything is all clear.

“Morning, Ren.” Teepo said. “Yeah, nothing happened, either here or outside.”

Thanks for always keeping a lookout.

“What else am I going to do?” Teepo chittered in laughter. “Sing and dance?”

Not while I'm trying to sleep! Ren chuckled, and Nathalia moved her head to look at him. “Good morning, My Love.”

Nathalia gave him a gentle kiss, and he tapped his House Neram pendant with his free hand. She smiled at him, and her Aura merged with the house's artificial Aura as well. She turned her body to face his.

-S

Since Ren's hand was rubbing her hip at the time, when Nathalia moved, his hand slid along her skin; and he discovered she was quite ready and willing for his attention. His eyes widened at her lascivious smile, and the feelings she was giving him. She took him into a hug and made out with him, as he played with her between her legs.

“A little more to the... oh, yeah... mmm...” Nathalia said between kisses. “Yes, My Love... by the gods, yes... OH!”

She grabbed his beard with both of her hands, and held on as she orgasmed. Her arms shook from the effort, and Ren marveled at how quickly she had finished.

This beard must really be magic. He thought, as she pulled him on top of her, and she kept a hold of his beard as he pleased her over and over again.

*

Ereka was quite refreshed when she woke up, because she had just had the best sleep of her life. She concentrated on her House Neram pendant, and gasped loudly when her Aura merged with that of the house and was flooded with the tumultuous feelings flowing through it. Her body froze solid as she felt both Ren and Nathalia as they pleased each other. After about 10 minutes of immobility, she relaxed because they were so caught up in each other's feelings, they didn't notice her at all.

She fought to not please herself, because if she did that while their Auras were merged, they would definitely notice someone else's pleasure besides their own. She grit her teeth and rode along the ocean of feelings with them.

-E

Over an hour and a half later, Ren lay beside Nathalia, and she stared at him. She was well and truly satisfied, and she pet his beard where she had held on so tightly.

I wonder if that's what it's for? Ren thought. Now that I think about it, Nathalia did seem to flail around with her hands most of the time before. He grinned at her. Maybe... maybe having a beard isn't so bad after all.

Nathalia grinned back at him, because she could feel Ren's wonderment. She started to get a headache, though; and had to disengage from the shared Aura.

“Thank you.” Ren said. “You held it a lot longer this time.”

Nathalia nodded. “I've been practicing.” She said. “It still hurts after a while, but I'm getting better at it.”

Ren slid his arm behind her head, and they laid together, then stared up at the ceiling.

-S

*

Ereka felt the emotions wind down, then Nathalia's brief moment of pain, then felt her leave the Aura. Now that she was alone with Ren in the shared Aura, she touched the very tender area between her legs. After over an hour of feeling Ren and Nathalia's pleasure, the space between her legs had soaked her underwear and a good portion of the blanket. Ereka wasn't sure what she was doing, since she hadn't had her training yet; but, she knew enough to try a couple of things.

*

Ren's eyes widened as he felt a huge spike of denied pleasure from the other bedroom, and then he felt a more intense feeling of actual pleasure. He couldn't help reacting to it and grew hard again; then Nathalia, being the conscientious woman that she was, noticed the change and moved down to his abdomen. She slid him into her mouth, and Ren caught his breath as she pleased him yet again.

*

Ereka felt Ren's reaction to her, and it made her more vigorous in her efforts. She teased herself, and wasn't sure what else to do while she rubbed herself; then a small spasm went through her, and one of her fingers slipped inside her opening.

“Oh...OHHH!” She exclaimed, and she felt her very first little orgasm.

*

“Oh...OHHH!” Ren repeated as he felt Ereka go, then went himself. By this time, Nathalia had had enough experience that she didn't let a single drop escape. After a minute, Nathalia cleaned him off with her tongue, and he throbbed for her again.

*

Ereka floated on a cloud of pleasure; with an even mixture of her and Ren. She closed her eyes in contentment, then drifted back to sleep. Her connection to the shared Aura lapsed, and Ren was alone in his feelings once again.

*

-E

“Wow.” Ren said.

“I'm always surprised that you can keep going.” Nathalia said. “Even though I've seen it countless times.”

Ren chuckled. “You're not the only one that's surprised.” He said, then told her what had just happened.

“Really?” Nathalia said. “I didn't feel her before.”

“Me, either.” Ren said. “She must have just woken up.” He shook his head. “I... I think it was her first time feeling that way.”

“That's understandable.” Nathalia said. “I mean, I didn't feel anything like that, until you came along.”

“Me?”

Nathalia nodded. “I haven't gone for my training either, remember?”

Ren nodded as he looked at her. “After everything we've been through, I sometimes forget that you haven't done it.” He said. “So, now I have to ask... do you want to?”

“Want to what?”

“Go for your training.”

Nathalia shook her head. “No.”

“Why not?”

“I've talked to Narhilda about it.” Nathalia said. “One of the rituals is... how do I put this delicately...” She sighed. “It's... practice with a specially-trained man.”

Ren looked at her in surprise. “You're kidding.”

Nathalia shook her head. “The only way to learn how to please a man properly is to... please a man until you get it right.”

“Wow.” Ren said. “Every woman that's ever been trained, has slept with someone else.”

Nathalia nodded slightly.

“I thought I didn't understand your culture before.” Ren said, then chuckled. “That specially trained man either has the best job in the world, or the most monotonous.”

It was Nathalia's turn to look at Ren in surprise.

“What do you mean?” She asked.

“I think having sex all the time might be fun.” Ren smiled for a moment, then frowned. “But, the exact same sex, all the time, over and over? No matter how many different women he was with, he'd have to treat them all exactly the same, every single time?” He shook his head. “I think it would get boring after a while.”

Nathalia smiled. “I think so, too.” She said, then asked him to turn his head. Ren did so, and she sucked on his ear. He fought hard to not react to the sensations, and after 10 minutes of it, it was Nathalia's turn. He kissed, teased, and sucked on Nathalia's neck. She didn't even giggle this time, and he smiled.

“We're definitely getting better at not reacting to our vulnerabilities.” Ren hugged her. “I think it's doubly hard, because we love each other so much.”

Nathalia nodded and hugged him back. “Yes, not reacting to you kissing me is pure torture.”

Ren laughed. “I was going to say the same thing.” He said and kissed her. “The feeling of your mouth anywhere on me is a pleasure in and of itself; but what you do with it...”

Nathalia rubbed his chest. “You, too.”

“Breakfast.” Teepo said. “I thought you ought to know.”

Ren chuckled. “Teepo says it's time for breakfast.”

Nathalia nodded. “I'll have something ready in a few minutes.”

“I'll help.” Ren said. They got out of bed, and made breakfast together. It was pancakes this morning; so Ren, being the over-achiever that he was, made plate-sized ones. He looked in the icebox for whipped cream, and saw a large jug of dark liquid. He took it out and asked Nathalia what it was.

“It's sugar syrup.” She said. “You remember the farmer, Nonyar?”

Ren nodded slightly.

“His wife Magdhal brought that over yesterday. She said one of her sons found weird looking trees last year, and when he cut it open, this stuff came out.” Nathalia said. “It was bitter, but tasty, so he brought it home and they added sugar until it was like this.” She smiled. “Now once a year, they have a few barrels of it made. It was nice of her to give us a jug of it this time.”

“Sweet!” Ren said.

“Exactly.” Nathalia said, and Ren grinned. He covered the stacks of pancakes with the sugar syrup, and grabbed the whipped cream. He dropped a spoonful on top, added a couple of berries, and it was done. Nathalia had been making her own normal-sized pancakes, and when she turned around and saw the 7 inch high stack of 1 foot wide pancakes covered in syrup, whipped cream and berries, she laughed.

“What in the world is that?!?” Nathalia asked.

“Breakfast.” Ren said. “Do you think we should wake Ereka?”

Nathalia shook her head. “I think we should let her sleep in for once.”

