Deresdra shook her head and gave him a quick kiss. “They're tears of relief.” She said, and touched the top of her opening. It was rubbed red and raw, and Ren took out a Minor Healing wand.

“Don't!” She said, and grabbed his hand. “You know better than anyone that if you heal me now, it will stay that way.”

Ren's eyes widened as he imagined her opening staying open all the time, and he put the wand away.

“What do I do?”

“Make me feel better.” Deresdra said, as she pulled off her top. “Help me forget the pain.”

Driven by guilt for what he had done, Ren did make her forget all about the pain he had caused her. For the next half an hour, he worked her over so well, that she could barely move afterwards. He equipped his clothes and looked at her expectantly.

-E

“You're cleared for work.” Deresdra said.

“Thank you, Ma'am.” Ren said, and left her little house, with Teepo flying close beside him. Ren ran into the mines, and saw that no one else was there; even though the shift should have started already.

Maybe everyone took today off. Ren thought, and got to work. He mined and mined, and didn't even stop for lunch. When 7 hours were up, Teepo let him know, and he went to the blacksmith shop to do any repairs that were needed. Ren fixed all of the picks that were there, and then two mining carts. He was tempted to enchant them all with Antidark runes to make the carts and their contents lighter; but, that would have to wait until he came back. Teepo told Ren when the last hour expired, and Ren got the same feelings of relief and happiness. He checked the baby fire elemental, gave it enough food for several days, and left the mines. He waved to the guard and ran all the way back to House Neram.

*

Ereka felt Ren run by the Main House, and gasped at the guilt she was bombarded with.

By the gods, what did he do?!? She thought. The guilt is crushing him!

*

Ren went through the gate to House Neram Keep, and didn't even pause to gather his thoughts before opening the door to talk to Nathalia. He was full of guilt and trepidation, because he had some explaining to do to the woman he loved. He had to explain, somehow, why he had slept with yet another woman.
