Attalaya stood beside Erin, also looking out of place, but mostly confused, rather than nervous, and her confusion only grew when she saw Elise and Jessie. The one beside her was another giant, this one a full head taller, and for some reason, not wearing a shirt. He looked relatively young, but had a streak of gray in his bushy beard that belied his age. He stood unflinching with his arms crossed over his chest, barely acknowledging Elise’s arrival. She could only assume that person was Attalaya’s mysterious master.

The last two were people that Elise had never met before. One she recognized from the newspapers as the Immortal Empress Wei Lan. Oddly enough, Wei Lan seemed to recognize Elise too. The final person was a complete stranger to Elise, but at the same time, he looked oddly familiar. It was a young eastern man dressed in rags and chains with unkempt hair and a lazy smile. He smiled and winked at Elise and Jessie, but just like the rest, he didn’t say a word.

“I hope you all weren’t waiting long,” said Samantha, stepping forward.

“Not at all,” said Wei Lan. “Are these the other two?”

“Yes,” said Samantha. “Elise Burrow and Jessica Lux. Elise, Jessie, meet Wei Lan and Feng Yan, two other Fated. Or aetherborn. Whichever you prefer.”

“Nice to meet you,” said Elise, with Jessie echoing her.

“It is an honor,” said Wei Lan, bowing her head slightly. “I have actually seen you before. In my dreams. But you looked different. You were disguised as a drow.”

“Oh, that was you?” Elise asked, recalling the feeling of being watched from when she was in the drow caverns. “I think I noticed you. And I’ve seen you as well in my dreams.”

“Me too,” said Jessie. “It’s an honor to finally see you in person, Empress.”

“The honor is mine, Saintess. And please ignore this one.” Wei Lan gestured toward Feng Yan. “There is a reason he is in chains.”

“A few, actually,” said Feng Yan with a smirk.

Wei Lan glanced at him with an expression of utter revulsion, then looked back toward Samantha.

“I presume you want us to open these?”

“Yes,” said Samantha. “But first, a few more introductions. All you in here are holders of the world’s greatest secret. Perhaps you cannot trust each other, but you have a certain bond that you’ll find is both strong and dangerous. It is best that you know at least a little about each other.”

Samantha proceeded to go around the room, introducing each person in turn. Quel’Khulan and Quel’Tyral were, of course, the Paladin and the Hunter, two of the most powerful warriors of the past. Charlotte was Charlotte, and also Quel’Tyral’s protege. Maggie was the last remaining Paladin of Light, and apparently instrumental in getting the gathering set up, having sought out Samantha herself. Attalaya and her master, Atlas, were the legacy of the Warrior, who was sealed in one of the boxes before them. Wei Lan was the empress in the east, and her nickname was not just for show, as she could recover from any injury with her {Rune of Fate}.

And finally, Feng Yan was the younger brother of a previous emperor in the east, and one of the most heinous criminals to ever live. Countless innocents had died at his hands in his quest for divine power, and the only reason he had not been executed was due to his bloodline, and the fact that in the end, he had been crippled, and rendered unable to harm anyone ever again. Why he had been returned to his youth was anyone’s guess, but the youthening had thankfully not uncrippled him, and he was, for the present, as weak as an Unawakened child.

Samantha introduced herself simply as the Spy, and did not share her true name before moving on.

“In the very near future, the world is going to change, and all of your lives will be affected,” she said. “How, exactly, I cannot say, but you may find yourselves the enemy of the world, and through no fault of your own.”

“Well, for the rest of you, maybe,” said Feng Yan, ignoring the glare this earned him from Samantha.

“For now, there is still a chance you escape retaliation,” she continued. “Which is why I will not reveal too much. But if not, we will do our utmost to aid you and keep you safe. Myself, Khulan, Tyral, and the others that are still sealed. Should that happen, we will be able to tell you the full truth, both about ourselves, and the world you live in. For now, it is enough that you simply meet, and witness what is about to happen.

“I know that many of us, myself included, have other matters to attend to, so I will not keep you much longer. Elise. Jessie. Lan. Yan. Choose a box and stand beside it.”

The four of them stepped forward, somewhat nervously on Elise and Jessie’s side, then glanced toward Samantha for further instructions.

“Now… touch the boxes. It’s time to meet the rest of our comrades.”
