“I think it's like his shared Aura with the maids.” Lisa said. “When there's enough of them, the Auras combine and expand.”

“...and he's going to shoot himself right into the middle of them.” Stella said, and the three of them watched as Ren took careful aim.

********

“A little to the left.” Teepo said. “A little more... there! That's right between two groups.”

I hope they don't treat me as hostile. Ren thought.

Teepo chittered in laughter. “We're about to dive into the place they spawn. We're going to be hostile no matter what.”

Good point.

“Just jump as hard as you can when you fire.” Teepo said. “You need to get your momentum going or the bolt won't take us far.”

Ren crouched down and prepared to jump. He activated his two Ultimate Terror enchanted rings to funnel through his Fear Aura, pulled the trigger on the Automatic Ballista, and jumped at the same time. With almost no weight to slow him down, he took off like a bolt from a crossbow; then the actual bolt sped ahead and dragged him and his burden of an abyssal terror's corpse along. He stored the Automatic Ballista and activated the hammerpick tied to the bolt, and it burst into blue flame. Travelling at such high speed changed the blue flame almost instantly to white, and every single abyssal terror in the spawning grounds above him noticed.

“Oh, CRAAAAAAAPPP!” Ren yelled as they all took flight straight towards him. He aimed with his raised platform Lightning ring and shot one. It died, but there were hundreds more. He thought about one of the spells he had never used before. Chain Lightning! The spell activated and his single large bolt of Lightning shot out to the next, then the next, and then the next abyssal terror. Wh-what?

Notice!

You have unlocked the skill: Spell Caster Level 1 (Beginner 0%). This allows you to cast spells that you know. These can combine with enchantments for enhanced bonuses. Higher levels allow more powerful spells to be cast.

Widen Effect! Ren immediately thought, and the bolt doubled in size and hit 8 more abyssal terrors that couldn't dodge it.

Notice!

You have unlocked the skill: Proficiency. This allows you to maximize the amount of damage given from using magic, and reduces the time needed to cast spells.

Ren didn't even have to think about what to do next. Fireball. Widen Effect. Fireball. Widen Effect. Fireball. Widen Effect. Fireball. Widen Effect.

Four giant fireballs went out instantly and he used his Fire Manipulation skill to keep them slightly out to the sides and in front of him. The abyssal terrors attacked him anyway, despite his defenses, and their claws tore at the carcass on his back. He took out his Wall of Fire wand and thought Widen Effect as he cast them and pushed them away with his Fire Manipulation ability. Giant fire walls impacted the abyssal terrors and kept them at bay.

“Now, Ren!” Teepo said as they quickly approached the ceiling, and Ren looted the dead abyssal terror on his back. It disappeared as several things dropped into his inventory, and he dismissed the popup about gaining XP. He also dismissed all the various fire spells he had cast to clear the way. The impenetrable rock of the ceiling dissolved before the hammerpick could touch it or break it, and Ren was dragged through the opening and into a tunnel an instant later.

The tunnel was exactly 5 feet in diameter and a perfect circle. Ren thought about why it could be in just the right spot for him to enter, and then his ascent started to slow down. Without the gravity cancellation ability of the abyssal terrors, his weight was going to bring him to a stop. He cast Wall of Earth below himself just as his momentum was cancelled out, and landed in a slight crouch as he caught the hammerpick with one hand at the same time.

“That was the scariest and coolest thing I've ever seen!” Teepo said and chittered in delight.
