“It was for that reason.” Ren said, and her eyes widened. “You see, if it was just a person and they said something like that... well, in some circumstances it can be taken as a kind of joke.”

“Wh-what? How?”

“If you annoy someone and they turn and say, 'I'm going to kill you for that!', it's not a real threat of intent to commit murder.” Ren explained. “However, if talking to other people, and saying in a serious tone of voice that you want to kill someone, that's considered uttering a threat and the intent to kill is implied.”

“So... so you...”

“With the way ferrets act against bunnies, plus the way Rimsoh said he wanted to kill you, added together and became a serious situation.”

“Then you... all you said was to be careful.” Dilseffa said. “You didn't warn me...”

“I did warn you.” Ren said. “If I had just accused him of it right away, you would have laughed in my face and ignored me.”

Dilseffa opened her mouth to deny that she would do that, then she remembered what she had said to Rimsoh at the time. She had told him that she would have believed his explanation instead of Ren's, if Rimsoh hadn't admitted to actually saying it. Tears sprang to her eyes and she started to cry.

“I could have... still been... with him.” Dilseffa said between sobs. “I could have... been so stupid...”

“Hey, now.” Ren used his Water Absorption ability to dry her tears. “Don't think like that.”

“But... but... I would have...”

“No, you didn't.” Ren said. “I gave you a warning and I asked Artemis to keep a close eye on the two of you. There would be no chance for him to try anything at all with her watching.”

“But...”

“You don't know how glad I was that you saw through his manipulations that day.” Ren said. “I didn't hear any of your conversation with him, not until you were close enough to the tower and then made your declaration.”

“You... you didn't?” Dilseffa asked, surprised. “I... I thought...”

“No.” Ren shook his head. “Teepo didn't tell me, either.”

“Nope, I didn't.” Teepo said. “If it doesn't affect Ren directly or indirectly, he doesn't want to know about it.”

“But...”

“Teepo would be talking constantly if he had to tell me about every single conversation that happens inside my Aura.” Ren chuckled. “Without adding in the new Aura boosts, it's about 2,000 feet now.”

“Oh, my god.” Dilseffa whispered as she started to calm down. “The... the whole caravan is easily within that distance.”

“It is, and I have no clue what's going on around me or in the other carriages.” Ren said. “Not only don't I know, I don't want to know.”

“You are being a little short sighted about that.” Yuwen said. “Kenkoth would give his left arm to hear everything that's going on in the caravan.”

Ren smiled. “I'm sure he would.”

“You're not going to tell him what Teepo can do, are you?” Yuwen asked.

“I will if it comes up in conversation, or if he asks about it.” Ren shrugged. “Other than that, no.”

“Why not?” Dilseffa asked.

“It's like spilling secrets. Other people's secrets.” Ren said. “What would any good information officer do if he knew something like Teepo could be used like that?”

They didn't answer, and Ren suspected it was because they knew what would happen.

“Teepo would be confiscated, or they would try to confiscate him, then they would try to use him for themselves.” Ren said and didn't feel any surprise or outrage from them. “It'll never happen, though.”

“Why not?” Tiyaphi asked.

“Teepo is my best friend.” Ren said. “I can't sell, trade, loan, or give away my best friend.”

“On that note, we should be stopping for lunch in a few minutes.” Teepo said.

“What? How do you know that?” Yuwen asked.

“Teepo's my time counter and the best scout that anyone could ever have.” Ren said.

“Hey, you didn't do the 'he is my best scout, I'm your only scout' joke.” Artemis chuckled.

“That's because Teepo is no joke.” Ren said and grinned, and Teepo chittered in laughter.
