“You have an admirer,” Basir observed from where he sat. “Sabri is always watching the bouts in the ring, but I’ve never seen her interact with anyone like that before.”

“She has a really powerful energy,” Malika said. “I think she would make a great fighter.” She couldn’t help but notice the complex emotions that flickered across Rezan’s face at her words.

“Your energy has changed; did you earn an advancement?” Rezan asked, conspicuously changing the subject.

Malika decided not to pursue it, instead sharing the advances she had earned from her day of sparring and studying.

Healing Mantra has reached level 24.Martial Artist has reached level 23 (+3).Enlightened Evasion has reached level 25 (+3).Clarity has reached level 10.Soul Sight has reached level 6 (+4).

Oh, he was right… and then, as if the mere act of reading her advances was the trigger, a new notification popped up. She sucked in her lips. And…

Requirements met for skill advancement.Mentor: Rezan Jin.Enlightened Evasion has reached level 25.Dexterity has surpassed 250.Wisdom has surpassed 180.Tanked multiple monsters in the death magic aura of a raid-level threat.Tanked a higher-level foe in a blight aura.Successfully healed your tank while perfectly avoiding multiple consecutive fireballs. Enlightened Evasion gains Magical Evasion.Enlightened Evasion – level 25Requires: No body armor or shield equipped.Your ability to dodge is supernatural, you are even able to dodge area, magical, and explosion damage.Stamina: Your martial arts grants insight into avoiding attacks. While unencumbered by armor, your Evasion is increased by +685 [skill x 7 + dexterity x 2]. Reserve: 10%Physical, Melee, Defense, DexterityAccept this advancement?

Coming out of her brief introspection, she realized Rezan was waiting patiently for her. Malika immediately shared her potential advancement.

“That is strong, I recommend taking it,” Rezan said, offering his opinion after taking a little time to reflect upon it. “You did well today.”

After all the harsh critique and lost bouts, the advancement and his praise felt well earned. She nodded briefly. “Thank you.”

“However, your unlock requirements seem rather extreme, perhaps we should talk about what you did to earn those,” he added.

Malika grimaced at his tone. “Ali has a habit of continuously shooting fireballs at our tank to get rid of monster hordes,” she replied. In fact, it seemed to be her favorite strategy now.

“Hmm. Tell me more?”

As she described their evolving strategy to the stoic monk, she realized that the rest of her achievements contributing to unlocking the skill advancement were rather telling. Both Alexander Gray’s blight aura and the Death Wight’s aura had been critical to the skill advancing, and in both cases, she had spent significant time immersed in the continuous damage they emitted.

She assumed Rezan’s mentorship enchantment, and the strenuous training today had played a large part in earning the advancement too, and it was curious that he hadn’t mentioned it. She knew he wanted her as a student, and she still had a decision to make. But he seemed to be sincere about not pushing her.

Suddenly, she noticed the second change to her skill, and she stared, scarcely believing her eyes. In addition to dodging area and magic damage, her skill also now provided two points of evasion per point of dexterity.

That’s more than double! Blade sharpens blade – thanks Basir. Hope you’re getting something out of this, too.

She accepted the advancement, growing excited for the opportunity to test it out against Basir’s storm of stones, and maybe even have another go at Hala’s lightning.

It was late afternoon when Mato arrived at Sigurd’s farm. He stopped and surveyed the blackened, dead fields with a grimace – the damage was far more extensive than he had expected or imagined. No crops were growing, and most of the trees seemed to be dead or dying – the damage to the natural ecosystem was clearly extensive. In fact, could he see a single fresh green shoot or bud anywhere?

No wonder the town was desperate to grow food. If all the farms were like this, there was no way they would be able to grow enough for everyone.

When he knocked on the door, Sigurd answered quickly.

“Oh, I’m so glad you came!” he said, and quickly showed him around, pointing out the most important areas and fields where the blight was the worst. It was clear that the man was frustrated and at his wits end and there was evidence of many different attempts to circumvent the magical plague and get his farm back into some semblance of shape.

“So, I saw your battle with that bloody Necromancer,” he said, hope laid out plainly on his face. “They told me your tree pushed back the blight – do you think it can work on my fields? I’ve tried everything.”

“I’m fairly certain I can clean up the blight,” he said, estimating the size of the farm and his aura. “It will probably take all night, though.”

Sigurd’s face shone at the news. “That’s fantastic!”

“I’ll get started then.” Mato found a spot where his aura would cover most of the blight and began his transformation. Left unchecked, the undead blight had the potential to expand indefinitely, consuming everything that lived. He extended his roots down into the tilled earth and the rotting decay of the blight and stretched his branches towards the sky. He immediately connected with the calm serenity of the tree as his vision faded and he was left with just his senses of plants and animals, his sanctuary, and his survival instinct. His awareness stretched outward expanding across the fields, connecting with the seeds waiting underground, the plants struggling near the blight, and even the earth itself. The wrongness of the blight gnawed at him as it destroyed life across the farm.

With a rush, his aura expanded to the full extent of his now 845-foot range. His regeneration took hold, and his mana and life energy surged through his trunk and branches, spilling over into the farmland. His sanctuary began to dismantle the deep hold that the blight had on the land, as his life energy attacked it through his aura. There was a sense of rightness to his labors – as the blight dissolved, nature would be restored to balance, and it would be able to recover.

He reached out with his Rampant Growth to the few seeds that were near the slowly receding edge of the blight and delicately encouraged them to grow. He watched with joy as the wheat plants began to sprout under the careful influence of his mana.

Once the blight was eradicated here, he would relocate to the other side of the farm and repeat the process there. As he mused and laid plans in the slow-paced heart of his Tree Form, a notification caught him by surprise.

Arboreal Sanctuary has reached level 28.

Now, if I can just get a couple of zombies or skeletons to show up, I can test out Rampant Growth as an attack skill!

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
