Spectators, Rezan, and even the surrounding town faded from her mind as Malika sized up her opponent. He studied her with alert and honest eyes. His skin was dark, and he sported white tattoos on his cleanly shaven head. Some of the Ahn Khen villages further to the east had traditions around tattoos, so she was familiar with the custom, however, they had been too remote and uncommon for Malika to have learned their meaning during her youth. His squat body was heavy with dense muscle and his movement betrayed more mass and power than she would have expected.

“Begin,” Rezan announced.

The white energy flickered within Basir’s muscles as his body projected alertness, a sudden readiness for imminent action. Even though Soul Sight was a passive skill, she still needed to learn how to use it in the heat of battle – the white energy shimmered within him, overlaying her vision, as if it was filling his legs with power.

Strike first. Her father had always counseled action – no fight, he always said, was won by handing your opponent the initiative. Accelerating her speed using Divine Step, she burst into action, sprinting directly for him with the rapid punches of the first form already flying.

Energy suddenly condensed within him, and right as her fist struck his ribs, his skin darkened to the color of obsidian. With a crack and a burst of pain, Malika’s fist struck rock. Ouch! She pulsed her Healing Mantra to repair her bleeding knuckles.

A defensive skill?

As Malika backed off, several loose pebbles and stones floated up from the ground to lazily circle Basir’s head and shoulders. A rock suddenly blurred, firing towards her at extreme velocity. Gasping in surprise, Malika arched her back, barely dodging the missile. Behind her, she caught a flicker in her Soul Sight and she realized Hala had caught the rock before it hit the wide-eyed girl who was spectating their fight. Malika hadn’t even seen her move.

Basir’s expression changed to one of focused concentration and the rest of the rocks blurred into a rapid sequence of shots, whistling through the air as he tried to pin her down. Burning stamina in a rush, Malika dodged using the maximum speed of her Divine Step skill. The last rock hit her in the ribs as her opponent anticipated her dodge correctly and adjusted his aim. She coughed in pain and healed her broken rib.

He broke a rib through my Soul Armor. I’m vulnerable at range, I cannot hit from out here.

I also can’t see it. While she could see his physical movement as flickers in his energy, it was all stamina according to the description of Soul Sight. His manipulation of the rocks was invisible to her new skill. It must be a mana ability. That’s a major drawback.

Quickly, she closed the distance using the unique and powerful footwork of Bakahn, catching a flicker of surprise in Basir’s eyes, and attacked, mixing up punches and kicks to throw off his rhythm. But he remained calm, blocking each strike with reinforced shoulders or forearms. Is that rock? She recalled Rezan mentioning that Basir had an earth affinity. It certainly felt like rock. She healed herself against the damage while she studied his defenses using her new Soul Sight skill.

Every time a punch landed, she could see the energy projected from Soul Strike penetrating his armored skin by just a little. I am doing some damage. It just doesn’t seem to bother him much.

White energy pulsed from the right side of his torso, flickering out through his shoulder and into the right arm as he lashed out with a punch. His dense body maintained an impressively solid foundation on the ground and despite the relative slowness of his attacks, Malika was forced to dodge and block frantically as he pressured her with a powerful command of his arts. Each strike was so powerful that she had to completely dodge it or risk broken bones.

However, I can see him move – no, his readiness to move. Right before each strike, energy collected within his muscles and released to create the attack. If I can just figure out how to understand this, I can get ahead of his strikes.

There! The release of his energy flashed across his body, an elegant pattern of muscle engagement, and Malika dodged the flurry of punches by stepping twice off the air with her Divine Step. Turning it into an aerial spin kick, she slammed her heel into his back and knocked him stumbling forward.

No rock? She landed nimbly on her feet. Her kick had struck his body, and even though he recovered quickly, she had actually hit flesh that time, instead of his impenetrable obsidian rock armor. Well, flesh that felt like a sack of hard potatoes. As she dodged and blocked his counterattack, she reviewed the few seconds before her successful strike.

The only difference is that I was airborne. Why?

She filled her stamina with Second Wind and immediately went on the offensive. Using her skills to briefly run through the air, she rained a flurry of punches down on his head and shoulders from above. Crack! Crack! Thud. The first two punches connected with rock, while the last slammed into his dense muscle, delivering her powerful Soul Strike to his left shoulder.

Basir backed away, guarding conservatively and rolling his shoulder in evident pain. He nodded to her, and several rocks levitated into the air while his entire body rippled as his skin turned into dense overlapping obsidian plates.

Uh oh! New tricks. She found herself grinning. Must have woken him up.

Malika suddenly found herself in a storm of flying rocks that whistled and whirled around the fighting ring like a maelstrom of stones. As she pushed her skills to the limit to dodge his new attack, an intense light from her Soul Sight informed her that he was not content to stand back. His powerful, reinforced body rushed through the rock storm, and he unleashed the continuous attack sequence of the fifth form which, in combination with the flying rocks, served to overwhelm her ability to dodge.

What followed was fifteen minutes of pure hell, while she dodged five out of every six attacks and was forced to heal whatever bone he broke with the one that got through. All her counterstrikes slammed into his rock armor, serving to build up more damage that she had to heal. She could see him unleashing his attacks, and while each was individually slow, the combination with the flying rocks proved overwhelming. She poured her stamina into her Soul Strikes and Healing Mantra, replenishing it constantly from her Second Wind and Clarity, but in the end, it wasn’t nearly enough.

“I yield,” she said, and he instantaneously halted his onslaught, flying stones instantly falling to the ground. Gingerly Malika got up from the sand, her arm hanging loosely at her side – she no longer had enough stamina or mana to heal it.

“Thank you, Malika,” Basir said, offering the same bow of respect from the beginning of the match.

“What did you learn from that fight?” Rezan asked as he led them back to their seats on the sidelines while fresh fighters entered the ring. There were significantly more faces than at the beginning of the fight, and a few even nodded respectfully to her.

“Basir is too fast for me,” she ground out. “I couldn’t get through his armor.”

“I despise lies and excuses,” Rezan chided. “What did you learn?”

Arg! It was frustrating to be overwhelmed by someone so much slower than her, but Malika focused her thoughts on the fight. “I can’t see his rock abilities; they must be mana.” She considered her struggles for a few more moments, “I can see the energy of his punches and I was able to hit him if I attacked from the air.”

“Good,” Rezan said. “At least you were paying attention. Basir’s sight works through the earth. It is both a strength and a weakness. The fact that you were able to figure it out and test it in battle is the only good thing about your fight.”

Malika’s eyes dropped to the floor at his harsh feedback. Am I that bad? But Basir’s so powerful.

“Malika,” Rezan said, taking an annoyingly sagely tone. “One of the most important lessons for a warrior who cares about getting stronger is to objectively assess one’s own skill. Basir is not faster than you. Nor did you lose because he is more powerful. He is simply better than you. He has had more training and he’s a lot more experienced. He uses his skills better. Once you accept the truth of this, you can step forward and become stronger.”

Malika looked up at Rezan but found no contempt in his gaze. It was a brutal assessment, but one which had been honestly given. She nodded, not really trusting herself to speak.

“Basir, what is your assessment?” Rezan asked.

He paused in thought for a moment before answering, “I spent too much time evaluating her at the start. She is much stronger than I expected. She takes an enormous amount of damage and just keeps coming back. I almost ran out of mana and stamina.” He looked at Malika, “How do you have so much mana to keep healing and fighting?”

He was close to running out? Malika had no idea the fight had been close. Basir had seemed such an unstoppable force, that she had never considered she might outlast him. The white wisps appeared dimmer toward the end… I wonder if that’s it? Can I learn to measure that?

Seeing no reason to hide her abilities from the Elder and his disciple, she explained, “I have a Relentless aptitude that improves stamina regeneration and lets me spend stamina instead of mana for any skill. Also, Clarity lets me meditate in combat. Oh, and I can exchange mana for stamina with my Second Wind skill.”

“Relentless is a good word for what that was,” Basir told her.

Rezan nodded sagely. “Clarity will serve you well. From now on, Malika, you will concede any bout that lasts longer than ten minutes. That will be your handicap.”

“Why do I get a handicap?” Malika asked. This is so unfair. That was my only advantage.

“You rely on your skills too much,” Rezan said. “You need training in how to use your skills more effectively, and strategically. If your only strategy is punching and dodging until your opponent runs out of mana or stamina, you will always lose to smarter or better-trained opponents. Learning to be a more intelligent fighter will help you more than a few thousand points of extra stamina or some skill levels.”

Ugh, that’s exactly what Dad used to say. Malika realized Rezan’s intentions were far from the superficial pettiness that she had childishly assumed. He actually seems to care a lot. She had noticed that both Basir and Hala’s respect for him did not seem in any way forced. “I understand, Elder,” she said.

“When you both recover your stamina, you will fight again,” Rezan said. “I expect you to learn something new.”

“Against Basir again?” Malika asked.

“Yes, you are not ready to face Hala yet,” Rezan said. “She is faster and more powerful than you.”

“She’s stronger than Basir?” Malika asked, looking at the slender, quiet girl.

“Stronger than you,” Rezan repeated. “Basir has learned to win two out of five bouts with Hala, through strategy, training, and hard work. His rock storm and accuracy with his rock armor are the result of training regularly with a faster opponent.”

“I see,” Malika said, her eyes taking in Hala with new curiosity. I can’t wait to see what she can do.

“While we wait, Malika, you will study this chapter,” Rezan told her, retrieving one of the books of Ahn Khen. “Get a pen and paper, I will translate it for you. This book is called ‘The Path of the Fist’. It and ‘The Path of the Soul’ will be the most useful for you.”

The rest of the day was spent studying under Rezan’s tutelage, punctuated by brutal sparring matches against Basir. Rezan allowed her to try one match against Hala, but Malika had found herself on her back staring at the clouds before she had even seen Hala move.

Rezan expected her to apply the material from the book immediately to her matches, but when she struggled, he was quick to demonstrate the proper technique and application. She felt her understanding of her skills and their application to combat growing in leaps and bounds, and even her actual skill levels grew significantly. But in one way, she had made frustratingly little progress.

“Why can I not get through Basir’s armor?” she asked, letting some of her frustration creep into her voice. “Nothing in the book is helping with that.”

“You are simply too weak, Malika,” Rezan said patiently. He must have noticed the frustration because he elaborated. “Your strength attribute is very low.”

“But my class and skills use dexterity?”

“Dexterity is speed and accuracy,” Rezan said. “Your class rewards you for investing heavily in dexterity, but what good is a high-speed, perfectly placed attack if you’re hitting with a feather? Think of your dexterity directing your power to the most effective spot. Your power is multiplied by your accuracy. You won’t need a lot, but do not neglect strength, it’s the other side of the power equation.”

Great, now I need to invest in all the attributes. Strength for my attacks, and Soul Sight will need more perception.

As she sat and waited for her mana and stamina to regenerate, she considered all she had learned in one day. She could already tell Soul Sight would become an incredible combat tool, allowing her to predict the movement of her opponents once she became proficient with it – it would simply be a matter of practice and training.

Off to the side, near the edge of her range, she suddenly saw the energy of a small person, hovering there, as if uncertain. She turned her head to see the girl who had been watching her bouts. She’s still here? The sun was sinking low in the sky and the day, fading to the chill of the evening in the mountains. Beneath the grime, torn dress, and gauntness of frame that bordered on unhealthy, Malika saw a surprisingly intense energy and intelligence behind curious blue eyes.

“Thank you for showing your skills,” the girl said, stepping forward shyly to offer a small ring of peacebloom flowers. The thanks were traditionally offered for friendship or sharing, but Malika got the distinct impression that it was more personal for her.

“I’m Malika,” she said, taking the offered peacebloom necklace and putting it on.

“I’m Sabri,” she replied. “You’re strong – I wish I could fight like you.”

Malika chuckled wryly. “I lost every match today.”

“Nobody lasts more than a minute against Basir, that’s not very exciting,” Sabri answered. “You were fun to watch, and you made him use all his abilities.” And then she bowed and sprinted off.

Malika wasn’t sure what that was all about, other than the girl seemed shy. But her gesture was sweet, and it made her smile.

