“You destroyed everything!” said a woman.

“Yup,” Erick said, “And then I rebuilt most of it.”

“You took away my family!”

“Yup,” Erick said. “Want to try and follow them?”

“Who are you to decide what happens to us!”

Erick raised an eyebrow at that, asking, “Like the Wraithborne Tower ever gave you more choice over your life?” When that was an unsatisfactory answer, Erick decided, “Okay fine. Hold on. It’s time to wake up Eldawae, because he needs to hear this, too.”

The resurrected people and the two dragons, Kylychbech and Vondria, watched as Erick pulled back the spellwork containing the sleeping body of Eldawae. With a bit of [Cleanse] to splash out white mist from the sleeping winged-elf, Eldawae woke up in parts, and then all at once. He did not rise, yet. But he did open his eyes and lean up to look at Erick.

Eldawae sat up and flexed his bone-white wings. He stared at Erick. “It appears you have won.”

“A battle. Not the war. Not by far. Anyway. Welcome back to the world of the living. Take a look around.” Erick said, “I was just about to talk about why I get to decide what happens to you.”

Eldawae was already looking around at the tall white buildings and at the waterways and at the obelisk in the center of this town square, here at the top of the city. A fountain burbled all around the obelisk, clear waters splashing down onto white eternal stonewood. He was having a moment he did not want to have. He was terrified. He was hopeful.

He was terrified of that hope.

Erick began, “Look. All 27 of you here, the four spying with magics, and all the people further out there looking down at us. Also, hello Morbion. Anyway. You all know that most of the people here, just like all of the people enslaved by the Tower, were all put through cultures that produced these Evils in the first place in order to make people who were both Evil and willing to put themselves into situations where they could ruthlessly be exploited by the bigger Evils out there.

“None of the evils that the people here committed out there in the rest of the universe were really their fault, and most of the prisoners of this land were put here under false pretenses anyway. Everyone who fell here was made worse by the prison itself. This was by design.

“Everyone here was being used, including Eldawae.

“And so yes. I ruined it. I would commit such ruin again.

“I do not care that I ‘ruined what you had going here’. It needed to be ruined. You deserved to be ruined. Now, you get to live in your ruin, and you don’t have any inmates to torture, and you’d probably feel bad about doing that torture anymore anyway if I [Reincarnation]ed you back correctly, which I feel that I did. So now, you get to build better.

“I’m sure that you’ll try to reconnect with the Tower once I am gone, which is fine. If the system that sends prisoners down here isn’t a connection to Wraithborne, then perhaps you can not reconnect with the Tower? Just a thought.

“If you do get more prisoners down here then perhaps you can do something else. Try for rehabilitation this time instead of cycling people through your slavery-prison-complex so you can turn more bucks or live in privilege while slaves support your lives. You now have near-endless resources and now you can accrete better power than the average person, because Benevolence can do everything.” Erick handed out copied books about accreting Benevolence, holding them in front of every single person with his aura. Some people did not take them. Some people swatted them out of the air. Eldawae looked at the book, and took it. So did the dragons, though they had trouble with that because of giant talons. Good enough for now. Erick continued, “You’re all Benevolence-aligned now. These books will help you learn some magic and grow your Darkness and then how to accrete well. You can even try altering the manaminer of this land to help. Remember, everyone’s mana is different. You can only accrete your own. The book goes over all of that.

“You can do everything with Benevolence.” Erick asked, “So? More questions?”

Eldawae half-asked, half-threatened, “What did you do to me, exactly?”

Erick looked to the winged-elf. He was shorter than Erick right now. That would likely change with time and with him reaching for lichdom again. His 6 wings were bone-white now; no longer black. Erick asked, “Where do you want to begin, and do you want all of that said out here?”

Eldawae frowned… But he did not rage. He controlled himself away from that emotion. And then he considered that he could experience such emotion at all was a good sign; Erick hadn’t soul controlled him that much. He looked to Erick, saying, “I would return to the grand dome. Vondria, Kylychbech. With me—” He stopped. He looked up at the two dragons. The two dragons were completely surprised, but intrigued and kinda delighted on Vondria’s part. Kylychbech seemed weirded out. Eldawae was weirded out, too. He asked Erick, “Why did I want to involve them?”

Erick smiled. “Because you want to ask others for help now. Everyone here does. Who you picked was not up to me, though. I didn’t actually put any controls on your soul at all. I just made you more personable and vulnerable and cooperative. You picked Vondria and Kylychbech yourself, and probably because they’re the two most powerful people here, aside from me and you. They’re also naturally immortal now, which you will be soon enough, as soon as you get your lichdom back. So yeah. There’s your new Da'luwe council.”

Vondria and Kylychbech wisely remained silent, which was pretty normal for both of them. Which was good. Eldawae was not pleased.

Eldawae fumed as he strode toward the rebuilt grand dome. He glared at Erick, saying, “You’ve reburdened me with more than my elfinity.”

Erick walked with the man into the grand dome of Da'luwe, saying, “Yes, I have.”

Vondria and Kylychbech followed.

In the courtyard, people started talking and arguing again.

- - - -

Behind closed doors, Erick stood on one side of a rebuilt platform, while Eldawae stood on the other side with his dragons flanking him.

Erick began, “To start, I changed—”

“I know what you changed.” Eldawae said, “I can already tell everything you did. I said that in order to get you away from spying eyes. Every single grey pillar out there can’t see directly down at us, but those that are on the other side of Margleknot space can look down at us from the other side of the sky. And they do. That’s how Morbion took over the Evil forces of Margleknot; through extensive, open spying and being just shy of bad enough to demand to be overthrown.

“Everything you’ve done is already known, and known well. And what’s worse is that you didn’t kill the time worm as well as you should have. If you would have killed it properly then we might have had a different sort of conversation when you came back to Da'luwe—” Eldawae paused as he frowned, then he calmed himself and said, “Most of what I do is an act, but it was a whole lot easier to be ambivalent when I had some Evil in my soul. You erased that… But you also erased a great deal of the problems of this land while giving us a whole lot more.

“I digress.

“The time worm is still the main weapon of Da'luwe. That’s where the majority of my original soul is located. That’s where I keep my main phylactery, which is also tied down with all the Contracts from Wraithborne. Did you go digging deep into the ground, to pull the whole thing up? No. You stopped after a mere ten-or-whatever kilometers below the surface.”

Erick rapidly realized a few things. He let Eldawae say them all, though, as he simply answered the man, “I dug up the worm far enough to know that there was no end to him. The body was sand and dirt past a certain length and depth.”

“Following the track of that beast is not easy. I would have thought you would have tried, anyway.” Eldawae said, “The time worm’s heart was located at the bottom of Da'luwe. When you killed me, that heart was shifted out into the Endless about five days low-spireward— You don’t know— That’s the direction the Fae Enclave points down.” He pointed. “That way.”

Erick shrugged. “I would have said ‘southeast’, but that doesn’t matter here, I guess.”

Eldawae scrunched his eyebrows together, as if debating if Erick was an idiot or not. “… The heart is that way. My most precious memories are that way. Those would be my conquering and city-building soul fragments. You seem to have restored some of that to me, here, but not my entirety. That Eldawae will crash into this city like the wrath of the Wraithborne Tower itself, with the time worm at his command, unless you go kill him and the time worm directly. Any other talk beyond the death of that executioner’s axe does not matter.”

Erick waved a hand, saying, “I’m not going away that easily. How about we discuss changing the manaminer of this land into something better for everyone? We could also discuss your future plans for this land. How about you put up a giant white pillar?” Erick smiled. “Do the Benevolence-thing full force?”

Okay.

Why was Erick smiling?

He was happy. Honestly, though. Erick was probably being a bit too mirthful about this, but everything happening here was good, even if it wasn’t Good. Everyone here would be fine, even if there was an adjustment period full of hard emotions and anger.

Eldawae noticed Erick’s mirth, too. He scowled, “And what is so delightful?”

“First off: Anyone who wants to ascend can probably make it back here in a century or even just a decade. You all need to stop thinking that I killed everyone. Your sister is still alive out there, Eldawae, and there’s a lot of her, too. She went out to a lot of people to try and help them ascend. Secondly: You have an overabundance of resources and a bunch of high-powered people to use them. Build a good foundation for whatever sorts of life you want to come next. Thirdly: I don’t think Wraithborne is coming after you. I spoke with some of them before I got dropped here, and they said that the cost of doing business with me was probably going to be the eradication of a few towns. You got what appears, to you, to be the short end of the stick, but there are depths here for you to use, if you should grasp them. I’m not even telling you to fight against Wraithborne.” Erick said, “So! How would one kill the time worm, for real?”

Eldawae sighed.

Violet Vondria and grey Kylychbech both looked down at Eldawae.

Eldawae said nothing. He just stared at Erick. Thinking.

So Vondria asked Erick, “How do I turn orc again?”

“Honestly, you will figure it out. It’s pretty instinctual.” Erick said, “But in a more directed-help sort of way: Polymorph is about changing who you are on the inside to become who you want to be on the outside. Most of the time I’m human-shaped because I like connecting to others as human. You’re still a dragon shape because you now consider ‘dragon’ to be your baseline; ‘dragon’ is comfortable. Hang out with enough small people and you’ll simply want to be able to fit through doors, so you’ll turn small in order to do that.”

Vondria frowned a little bit as she thought—

Kylychbech suddenly changed into a 4-meter tall elven man with 10 brilliantly-grey wings floating behind him. He stood there, looking at his hands. Erick mostly wondered how the hell he had wings floating behind him, unattached, but that was some quirk of magic and power, no doubt. Perhaps they were aura-based physical manifestations of power, too. That seemed pretty reasonable to Erick as an explanation… And yet… Hmm.

Eldawae looked at Kylychbech too. “… How are you supporting 10 wings? That’s a supernatural power of our kind, and you are not us.”

“Ah! Good! I was wondering that, too,” Erick said. “But dragons are inherently magical. That’s likely most of the explanation. What is your species called, anyway?”

Eldawae said, “Winged Astraelif. Void-fliers, in common parlance.”

Kylychbech looked at his wings, fluffing them out and controlling them as part of himself. He rotated the order of pairs, and then pushed them out far and then drew them in. “This is… not who I was— Ah.” And then he transformed back into the man he had been, but with grey horns. He touched his head. “Horns?”

Eldawae frowned. “Also a lack of concern for nudity and an overabundance of desire for hedonism.”

Erick laughed. And then he said, “Let’s talk about killing your time-worm-self, and then I can leave and do that and come back later, after you’ve all had time to adjust somewhat, and probably to speak to Wraithborne. You were only making 50k resons per day, anyway, right? So just go low power for a while.”

Vondria said to Eldawae, “We’re likely not in that much trouble, sir.”

“… Perhaps this time will be different from the five other times I have tried to rebel from Wraithborne.” Eldawae said, disbelieving his own words.

Vondria and Kylychbech stared openly, disbelieving the entire implication.

Eldawae noticed. “Oh yes. We’ve tried rebelling before. Didn’t work, for several specific reasons, all of which thoroughly enjoy putting down rebellions. Their names are Jeron the Folder, Wright the Hallow, and Ravaughn the Black. All three are still active, and all three… That’s not even counting his Primes, or his Witches. Those are just the walking disasters; Morbion’s Adjusters.” Eldawae looked to Erick, and said, “We used to have connections to the Good lands out there, most specifically Paradise Rises. We lost that connection when Morbion shattered that part of Margleknot. Eventually, Wraithborne and Emperor Morbion came for us, just like he came for all the smaller places like ours out there. Honestly, we’ll go back to Wraithborne if they will let us. There are no Good lands out there to support us anymore, and the Celestial Observatory is overrun with Wraithborne anyway.”

Erick nodded. “Heard and understood. So about that time worm…”

- - - -

Erick held a tiny glowstone in his claws that had recently started pulsing light.

