Erick hit him with a normal [Reincarnation] while he was down, transforming him into himself, but without any Evil to him. It was a challenge to find a version of the old lich that had anything approaching a good future; much more challenging than the other Eldawae inside the city. This new version of Eldawae was geared toward accounting, and maybe possibly fatherhood. In a pure power sort of sense it was technically a step down from the many, many, many versions of him that were conquering kings and slave masters and Evil incarnate, but accounting was nice and safe and Erick approved. He also had some subtly-gold wings, but more off-white than anything. Not really gold at all. All the better to tell them apart.

Carrying this Eldawae back to Da’luwe in his claws made the Eldawae-search beacon useless, but Erick knew his way forward well enough.

- - - -

When Eldawae regained consciousness after an hour of flight he said nothing. A few hours later he asked for some nice seating, or something, because claws were terrible for a ride. Erick conjured up a nice bird-cage like palanquin for the man that Erick held in his front claws easily enough.

And then Eldawae went silent in thought.

On day 2 of the flight, Eldawae asked, “I… Need some water.”

“Ah! Right!” Erick said, “Let me just…” He did some fast spellwork. “Here.”

He handed a glass bottle to the man.

“… That was no reson-empowered spellwork at all. You really can create water from nothing.”

“Technically, no. That was actually a complicated act of magic. Pure water is bad for biology… or at least I assume as much, since everyone in this universe seems to have the same-ish kind of biology for whatever reason, but that’s where I started. That’s some moisture from my breath and then copied a bunch and purified with [Cleanse]. The glass comes from sand dust in the air, similarly copied and then molded. But pure water is bad, so I took some salts, calcium, and magnesium from various sources and added them in. It should taste like normal water.”

“It does,” Eldawae said, already halfway through his first bottle.

Erick set down four extra bottles of water into the carriage.

Eldawae sighed as he leaned back. He looked up at Erick, at his wings, at his neck, at his claws, and then he sighed, and asked, “What did you do to my city while I was gone?”

“A lot.” Erick added, “And you’re still there, you know.”

Eldawae frowned. “I wish you would have taken my offer of simply leaving Da’luwe. I hinted at it enough.”

“Why would I ever leave behind a disaster and possible enemies? I’m trying to make friends here.” Erick gazed out at the stretched desert all around, the landscape blurring due to how fast they were moving in this bubble of Benevolence. “I think I made a friend out of the time worm. Or at least something better than what came before. It might not bother anyone who is respectful toward it, and it’ll probably expand the stormlands. Not sure about that, though. Whatever the case, you’ll get a lot more water, now.”

“… Is that what you did to it?”

“I’m not sure what I did to it, exactly. It was more of a bargaining. I gave it the power to make life where before all it could do was eat, and in exchange it will allow respectful people to steal from it.”

Eldawae sighed, “I suppose that’s as good as my solution… For now.” He asked, “Do you know why the price tag for 1 person to escape this land is 1,000,000 resons?”

“Not really. I assume this land is the furthest away from Margleknot that one can get, which is why I was dropped here. ‘Furthest’, in this context, means at the ‘bottom of possible return’.”

“Adequate enough.” Eldawae said, “Conscious life generates resons. The overall lack of conscious life in this land is what makes it difficult to return to Margleknot from here. Planting a wide swath of ever-giving-storms onto this land won’t change much right now, but when Da’luwe’s population expands, and when people start simply living out here, many things will happen. It’ll probably take 10,000 years, but we’ll rise closer to the Layer 0, and if the time worm’s new existence proves truly amenable to life, then we might crest high enough to get a natural portal to Layer 0 in our lands.”

Eldawae said all that in a disappointed sort of way.

He would miss his desert.

Erick said, “That sounds like a positive thing, though.”

“… And I am weirdly agreeing with you.” Eldawae said, “Benevolence is truly accomplished at Soul Magic, isn’t it. Usually I would be hating you for trying to disrupt my Endless. I like the desert… But I do not find the idea of green land unappealing… Somewhat.”

Erick smiled. “Unless they’ve destroyed Da'luwe while I was gone you might like what that place looks like now, too.”

- - - -

It took 3 more days with Erick speaking to Eldawae about this and that, before Erick found Da’luwe.

The obsidian spires that formed a knife wall were no more. They had been capped in white stone and had doubled in height. The illusions of the city were completely down, too.

Eldawae gasped. “He put it back!?”

Erick smiled to himself and continued to fly past the white-knife wall, but slower. Slow enough to let Eldawae see this blast from the past, and also to see the land himself. Erick looked down at one of his Benevolence towers and saw people living beside it. Eldawae saw it, too. Someone had built ditches to divert the extra water into fields. Orchards and grains were already growing in those fields.

Erick smiled. “Not bad for only 10 days of being gone.”

And then the main city started to come into view. White spires, wide roads. Green trees growing by cultivated rivers. Sparkling white domes dotted the lands. It looked like a ghost town but it held no ghosts except for old memories.

Eldawae gripped the side of his palanquin, half his body out of the carrying case, his off-white wings flexing out from his body, filling the space behind him as he whispered, “It’s impossible. I would never have put it back… Not even the smallest bit.”

Erick said, “And that is correct. I told you I sent your sister away. I saw this in her memories. I did this, but only about half. Looks like they’ve been busy since I’ve been away. Maybe all it took was someone giving you some real hope for the future for you to go and do the rest yourself?”

Eldawae was speechless.

Erick smiled and transformed into a person. He held aloft Eldawae’s carriage with some aura work, saying, “Care to see it from ground level?”

Eldawae rolled out of the carriage to fall down, wings spreading wide. Erick held the carriage behind him and followed the man forward. He set the thing down behind him once he got close enough to the ground.

Vondria and Kylychbech and the other Eldawae stood there in the fountain-courtyard of the central city, waiting. The Eldawae Erick had brought landed in front of them. Erick smiled, listening, as the four new leaders of Da’luwe rapidly spoke of large and small events, the city-Eldawae flexing his bone-white wings, while the war-Eldawae flexed his off-white wings. Vondria and Kylychbech were reluctant to talk with the new Eldawae, but then the first Eldawae introduced them, and they started talking like a town council. They were also avoiding the main topic, in Erick’s mind.

So Erick asked them of the manaminer of the city, and if they were positive flow yet, and if Wraithborne was coming to call.

Vondria frowned.

Kylychbech declared, “Damn Wraithborne! We’re free now. I don’t want to go back.”

“It’s not that simple,” First Eldawae said—

As Second Eldawae said, “We have to go back.”

Vondria spoke more openly, with actionable words, “We’re tentatively establishing payment contracts with Wraithborne and trying to get terms that don’t put us under actual Contracts, but Wraithborne wants actual Contracts, as always. They’re holding off on legal action for now—”

“Legal! Bah!” Kylychbech said. “The only legality they have is one of power!”

“— but they want us to resume production as soon as possible in order to avoid delinquency.” Vondria stressed, “We want to avoid delinquency. They’ll send Adjusters if we fall into delinquency.”

“How much?” Erick asked.

“45,000 resons per day from now until eternity,” First Eldawae said.

“And how much are you making through mana production gathered from the manaminer?” Erick said, “Literally all life makes mana, and there’s a lot more life out there than before, even with the loss of people.”

The three residents of Da’luwe looked a little ashamed.

The new Eldawae said, “They don’t have the codes to work the manaminer, which is why I was amazed that you got the white-capped wall up and active again.”

First Eldawae said, “I have some of the codes.”

Second Eldawae said, “Let’s go fix the miner; open it up to more sources.” And then he looked to Erick, saying, “And then I would appreciate you gone.”

The other three people were less solid about any desire to get Erick gone, but they didn’t say anything. Second Eldawae noticed this, too, but all he did was arch an eyebrow at them. They’d be talking in private later, for sure.

Erick smiled. “I’ll move on shortly enough. There are people who want reincarnations, though, and I’m going to give those to them.” Erick stepped into the air, saying, “See you soon.”

- - - -

Erick felt the change in the air about an hour into his reincarnations. He was currently at the highspireward side of Da’luwe, transforming a rough-looking bull man into a much better looking man, because he asked for that, when the air flickered. It didn’t interrupt his magic, but Erick’s attention was split for a moment. Erick got back on track, finished up, and inspected the air.

It felt…

Nicer, somehow

He felt something try to connect to him. He denied it, but it kept trying to connect, so Erick kept denying it. He knew what it was, but the bull-man’s wife, who wanted to be right there with her husband, got a notification that surprised her. She shared that notification. It was just simple words in the air; no blue box at all.

Welcome to Da’luwe

Power tithe is active

And that was it.

Erick let the husband wake, the two of them looked at each other in amazement and wonder, and then Erick fixed up the wife. Two new bull-people now lived in Da’luwe, and they were thrilled about that. They were not ‘minotaurs’, though. They didn’t know that word and Erick got the impression that they were lying, but also that what they called themselves was something cultural that he didn’t need to step into. So he let it go.

Other people got reson-[Reincarnation]ed and sent off far, far away from Da’luwe.

Eventually, Erick made it back to the main city.

As soon as they saw the new numbers on power production and reson conversion they had all been worried in different ways. They weren’t anywhere near making the daily payment.

The 45k reson bill per day from Wraithborne was due, and if they didn’t pay then they went to collections. Erick’s little Benevolence Towers were doing work, but not enough. Slimes were already spawning out there, but the estimated 15,000 slimes only made 10,000 mana per day, and that was 1,000 resons per day at Margleknot 10-to-1 conversion rates.

Erick tried to give them a [Reson Gathering], but Eldawae and Eldawae both demanded he dissolve that spellwork and never use it in their presence ever again. Such a thing would make them a target. So instead, Erick spent the next several days making some basic Benevolence slime dungeons. It was a much cleaner solution than the [Reson Gathering].

Erick ended up spending another week there in Da’luwe before he decided that this was more than enough help to get them settled. The 4 council members of the city were more than capable of doing everything on their own.

And then an Adjuster showed up.

Jeron the Folder was a person made of paper, and he had dropped out of the sky directly over Da’luwe and come down to land in the central courtyard. Erick had noticed him right away, since he had been eating an apple and sitting beside the fountain when the man had shown up. Erick hadn’t known who he was at first; all he had known was that the best thing for him to do for that particular hour of the day had been to sit by the fountain. And so, Erick followed his Lightning Path because he was running out of things to do anyway. All the paper-guy did was look around and send out pulses of magic. Erick did wave at him, though. The paper guy nodded to Erick, and then continued to work his book magic.

45-ish minutes later, the council of Da’luwe showed up to prostrate themselves before Jeron the Folder.

Jeron declared, “Do not bother me. I am seeking truth.”

Erick bothered him, speaking up, “What kinda truth?”

With a much nicer tone, Jeron said, “Just some paperwork, Ascended Flatt. Everything looked in good order the first time I checked, but I am quintuple checking.”

Erick nodded.

And then Jeron the Folder handed out some decrees of non-Contract contracts, a re-establishing of inmate dumping, and some trade agreements, and then he pulled himself inside-out and vanished.

The party that night was as grand as the 17 residents of the main city could make it. They told Erick to do nothing, for they wanted to treat him. Erick appreciated the thought, and he got some more of those wonderful little tri-berry tarts.

Erick stayed for 3 more days.

They asked him to stay longer.

But Erick could not.

Tomorrow he would use 1,000,000 resons to get back to Layer 0.

But there was a delay.

One final voice appeared to say something.

- - - -

Erick flew out from Da’luwe knowing he would not be back. He had already said his goodbyes. The city was intact and well-functioning. The light in the sky was back, and perhaps it was a lighter shade of grey than before, but only the most well-trained eye could tell such a thing. Da’luwe was still tied to Wraithborne, and that was the smart move for them. For now.

With wings spread wide, Erick flew to a storm on the horizon.

The time worm floated in the air and in the ground. It was shorter than before, but its eyes that ringed its maw were clearer, and gold. The minor god of the Endless was a lot more than what it had been before, and it looked good on them.

Erick hovered before the non-monster’s maw, saying, “Greetings. What brings you out here?”

“THANKS.”

