Four days of flying low-spireward at maybe 80% of the speed of light had gotten Erick here, to this otherwise uninteresting stretch of the Endless. Tan sands stretched as far as Erick’s dragon eyes could see, for while the atmosphere in the sky overhead was nonexistent, and thus able to be seen through, the atmosphere here at the surface of the Endless was dense enough to occlude vision. Erick guesstimated that he could only see about 450 kilometers out because of that. That was also why the grey light at Da'luwe had been visible, even though the actual city had been way, way too far to see; the light had risen above the atmosphere.

That light was gone now, but Erick knew the way back easily enough.

Kinda funny that he was still following a light source from Da’luwe.

The trinket in his claws pulsed a bit faster. Erick was getting to the time worm’s heart, and also a copy of Eldawae; the ‘Evil Eldawae’. ‘Not-so-Evil Eldawae’ had given him this bauble because it was tuned to the resonance of its creator, and that resonance transferred over all copies of the man. If Erick needed to he could find his way back to Da’luwe using this thing.

And as he flew, he thought of Good and Evil.

Erick hated the entire idea of Good and Evil as mana Elements. He was glad that Veird did not have these hated things.

Could evil be redeemed? Sure. Could Evil be redeemed? Not so sure. Was a good person good? Yes, absolutely. Was a Good person good, or were they following instincts, and did that matter that they were following basic instincts to be good and that they had no real control over their own actions? Erick wasn’t sure.

Apparently there was Elemental Justice out there, too, and whoa boy did Erick have a problem with that.

Erick wasn’t so sure about a lot of things when it came to Good and Evil. Were Evil people actually evil? Or were they just selfish assholes in the extreme? Well… The Wraithborne Tower’s overall example of Evil was more the ‘softly selfish’ type.

Erick was absolutely sure that the ‘absolute selfish’ type of Evil present in the slavery-parts of Wraithborne and the various Slaver-locations in Margleknot were the worst types of evil. Erick was glad he had not seen much of that yet. Just casual sapient cruelty and smaller Contract evils, so far. He still wasn’t quite sure what he would do if he saw some kings or whatever, like, cut off a person’s fingers and toes and then work their way inward. He had only seen that four times, but even once was too much. He had stopped every single one of those instances that he could, but—

The world ahead was different. The ground had rocks.

And then Erick flew past the rocks, and it was just more sand.

His thoughts turned back to the nature of Good and Evil.

- -

A month or so ago, Lionshard had spoken on the Elements of Good and Evil while he had been at Erick’s house.

“Good and Evil are what they’re called, but those are perhaps misnomers,” Lionshard had said. “I only say ‘perhaps’ because there is very real power in using them as they were intended. A Good person empowers themselves when they are good in whichever way they desire. An Evil person is the same. And what is perhaps worse, is that the battle between Good and Evil is a source of fantastic power on both sides… But I can see you dislike this topic, so let us move on.”

Erick had chuckled, saying, “You can tell that much, eh?”

Lionshard had grinned. “I can tell a lot about a lot!”

- -

Erick was still mulling over the topic of Good and Evil and how they were situated against each other and how they were ‘sources of fantastic power’ when they went to war with each other. It reminded him of the time that Rozeta had told him to think about ending the Forever War between the demons and the angels of Veird by Establishing some Big Important Casus Belli, and then finding out a way to work that Casus Belli into something that could be ‘fixed’ through friendly competition, or something, instead of the Forever War.

Erick wondered if Rozeta had known about Good and Evil back then. Had she been asking Erick to Establish the angels or demons as Good and Evil, or the other way around? Maybe she had been addled to forget Good and Evil in the Painted Cosmology and this Fractured Cosmology, and she was merely dredging up thoughts from a whole universe ago that weren’t fully formed. Erick wanted to believe the second possibility. He did not believe that Rozeta would want to bring Good and Evil to Veird. If that was true, then she could have done that herself through the Script…

Or maybe her hands were tied in that way, because of the God Pact.

Erick thought, and he flew.

- - - -

The world ahead was different. Rocks, yes, but soon after that Erick’s glowstone bauble started to strobe and Erick saw the lip of a smoking crater kilometers wide. He dropped the bauble in the sand next to an arrangement of rocks so he could find it easily later, and then he proceeded forward, flying over the crater, shrinking down into a person once again as he zeroed in on Eldawae down below.

Or at least the being he assumed was Eldawae.

A great core of golden crystal lay at the bottom of the crater. The light of Margleknot’s unseen suns beat down relentlessly upon that stone, and the stone beat in turn. Gold light pulsed outward, and Eldawae stood atop the stone like a dark spot standing on an entire grand hoard of treasure, pulling in that golden light in streamers, turning gold to black before it reached his black wings and his skin. Gold crystals grew from his joints, but it didn’t remain gold. That crystal flashed to black now and then, only to be overwhelmed with gold, to ebb and flow between the two extremes as Eldawae pulled in more and more power.

His eyes were closed, and he was focused.

He was converting the power of the crystal into Evil within himself. He was cultivating.

… Or maybe accreting. Probably both and then a few other things besides.

Erick lowered down into the crater to float 25-ish meters away from Eldawae. And then he waited.

Eldawae cracked open an eye. And then he closed his eye again. “… You cannot win this war. You are aware of this, and yet you persist. It is vexing.”

“I do persist; correct.” Erick asked, “What makes you so sure I can’t win this war?”

“Because Evil is larger than you, and we’ve had bigger enemies than you for our entire existence. The War is Neverending.”

“Ah. You think I’m going to war with Evil. This is incorrect thinking. You are correlating causations instead of seeing it how it is. Redemption is a core tenet of Benevolence, and everyone is in need of redemption sometimes, including Good people. After I’m done with you and Da’luwe I hope to go back to the Celestial Observatory and knock some heads around to clean them up, too.”

Without opening his eyes, Eldawae said, “Your plans sound Good in their effect and thus you sound deluded in multiple ways. You are Good, and you won’t admit that.”

“I’m perfectly fine with you being a selfish asshole, Eldawae. You want to have an empire of degeneracy and good times, while people fight for your amusement out there on the field? Do that. But you will see that everyone consents of their own free will and that they have the absolute best health care that magic can make, and that those sorts of things are only small parts of the overall society you control. What I’m not fine with is you letting your charges and those below you know pain because of your negligence.” Erick said, “And so, you need to die, since we’ve already got the semi-decent version of you back there and we don’t need this evil version of you, here.” Erick continued, “But, if I kill you here and now, I assume that your soul will fly to the Eldawae in the city and connect with him to make yourself whole, and this one here will overtake that one there.” Erick said, “It’s really quite ingenious of yourself, to make that one back there the ‘good’ one and this one the Evil one. The good one is very good at getting people into a working system. He has probably gotten Da'luwe back in working order a few times in the past, only to have you come in and kill him and take over completely.” Erick Looked at him. “I didn’t see it back there, but I definitely see the shape of it all right now.”

Eldawae frowned, and then he stopped cultivating/accreting. He opened his eyes and flared his 6 wings before dropping his wings back behind him, and saying, “It is also rather vexing that you have such a well-crafted insight into others and their internal magics. I suppose I should have expected nothing less from a Father of Margleknot. So what are you going to do now?”

“Do you want to be redeemed?”

“No thank you.”

“Would you fight your forced redemption?”

“Yes.”

Erick breathed in, then out, and spoke, “You will lose.”

His voice vibrated the sands, echoing out in a wave of power that crashed into a golden/black shield surrounding Eldawae and the heart of the time worm, passing them by without touching them at all. They were already deep in the philosophical Wizard War of the moment, but that had been Erick’s first real attack.

Eldawae responded by blackening the sky and turning the entire crater into the insides of the time worm, massive white teeth layering down the dark insides of the monster all around. They were like tusks undulating backward, downward, turning the world below into a continual tunnel of swallowing death, and the sky into the death of hope. The sky was a dot of white, and then the sky closed off as the time worm’s mouth shut. The only light was the gold from Eldawae’s now-floating crystal. That light glinted on the teeth overhead as those teeth crashed closed as the beast swallowed, a wave of teeth coming for Erick as the walls closed in.

Erick lit up the darkness with his [Lodestar] form, and then lit up the time worm with a reson-empowered [Reincarnation].

A lightning bolt came crashing—

- - - -

Erick sat on the ledge of a sandbox with red wood walls and dunes the size of mountains out there in the dirt, and yet, they weren’t the size of mountains at all. They were just small dunes, no larger than Erick’s ankles.

The sand moved a little.

Erick picked up the worm under the dunes and held it up to the light. “Hello, little time worm.”

The time worm looked at Erick with its maw-like face, its million eyes blinking around its body as it looked down at Erick’s palm. And then it seemed to frown—

The moment flickered.

Suddenly the time worm was ten meters long and staring down at Erick, its maw open a meter wide, power flowing out of the beast like desiccating desert wind as it boomed, “I’m bigger than you.”

Erick easily asked, “Do you want to be? It’s easier to be full if you’re smaller. Lots more food for small things than for large things.”

“Small things prey. I not prey. Bad bargain.”

The spell flickered again.

The time worm was a kilometer long and staring down at Erick with a maw 10 meters wide.

… Erick seemed to be losing control of the spell.

Not the first time that this had ever happened. That time he [Reincarnation]ed Oozy was the first instance Erick had ever experienced a [Reincarnation] differently than expected, but then again, using resons to empower this magic was already a different experience altogether, with this weird sort of talking space. The time worm was throwing everything off, though. It was making this here a Wizard fight.

Probably because the time worm was a small god.

Erick asked, “What do you want in your next life?”

The worm said, “I reject your call for a next life. I am the god of these sands. This is my land and no others shall have it.” The worm grew to be as Endless as the desert in which it lived. Its maw could consume mountains. It stared down at Erick with contempt, saying, “There is no winning against me. There are only those who I allow to live until they get big enough to eat, and those who manage to run faster than the slowest of them.”

“Ah. So you’ve been corrupted to eat mindlessly.”

The time worm looked down at Erick.

And then it shrunk a fraction.

Erick said, “I’ve seen how you eat. I killed you once by drowning you, and you liked it. You have been broken in some way, and I am here to fix you, because you haven’t allowed anyone to escape you at all. Not in a long time. You have eaten and eaten and eaten, without care for the habitat you have created. All you produce is death without hope for life. An end, without any restart of any new beginnings.”

The worm shrunk some more. It was merely a kilometer long now, and its maw was merely 10 meters wide.

“I’ve already put up some weather out there that will run permanently, unless someone disrupts it. That weather will create new life in these Endless sands. Do you want to be the guardian of that weather? I put a bunch of little frogs out there that serve smaller, similar functions of recreating that grand storm of life if it should fail. But if you want to have the power to bring life as well as death to all, I can give that to you. Wouldn’t that be a better balance for your gluttonous needs?”

The worm listened.

The worm shrunk back down to Erick’s hand.

With a voice that filled the world, the time worm asked, “And what do you want in return?”

“Allow for intruders to steal from you. Not all of them. I would never ask that of you. But some of them. The respectful ones. Leave alone the hearts of their civilizations, that live beyond the absolute bounty of your absolute territory. Leave the respectful ones to grow and thrive, and to bring more bounty into your lands for you to feast upon.”

The time worm seemed to smile in Erick’s hand.

Golden light crackled all around.

“I accept this bargain.”

- - - -

—a lightning bolt tore through the flesh of the time worm to strike Eldawae off of the golden crystal core of the monster. That bolt of Benevolence aimed for Erick, and Erick was ready. Golden power flowed through him like the desert wind and Erick sent off spell impressions in that passage. The gold crystal began to fragment and flow in the lightning and then suddenly it was gone, taken by the lightning.

All of the swallowing throat of the time worm simply vanished. The sky returned. Light returned.

The crystal was gone. The lightning vanished, too, headed toward the storm lands.

And Eldawae’s groaning body lay on the sands of the crater to the side.

