And then the time worm turned away and traveled through the raining sky and the green-growing ground like it was all ground. It passed over lakes it had created, it jumped down into the ground, and when the final trail of its body passed, that which lay above the ground turned to storm and that which lay below the ground turned to rock. Great big glowing mushrooms grew upon that rock.

Gradually, the time worm passed into the far, far distance, taking its storms with it, and the sun came back out. The mushrooms dried in the sun and sent spores into the air. The grasses dried and turned to dust, to eventually become soil. The little lakes dried out, but they left behind silt laden with the possibility of life.

The passing of the worm brought terrible devastation and bounty, and left behind something that would one day hold the seeds to flourish in the next storm.

Erick watched it all for a while.

And then he turned inward, concentrating on a gathering of a million resons, which was only an estimate of how much it would take, feeling something ephemeral and solid begin to encase him. In accordance with how Eldawae had explained it, Erick concentrated, and all too soon Erick felt it. The rut of Layer 1. The deep hole that he existed within right now.

He also looked around himself and saw something that reminded him of his meetings with Phagar.

Erick was in a very dark part of a fractal splash. Here he was, at the bottom of a well, looking up at the Margleknot sky high, high overhead, where so very many different slices of Layer 0 existed all next to each other. Down here in Layer 1 is where people fought and died and thrived. Up there is where people fought and lived and grew. Only one thing really separated Layer 1 from Layer 0, the possibility of real violence. That was a large division. It took a lot to overcome that, and here, at the bottom of the well, was where the most violence was to be had.

Erick reached upward, toward lands that were too far away, climbing nonetheless. He flew, he moved, he ran up a hill that was steeper than physically possible, vibrating until he climbed up the walls of the very fabric of the universe, reaching the lip overhead—

- - - -

And Erick popped into a deep-blue sort of darkness, high, high above green lands that sat in valleys between crystal-spire mountains, under a star-filled sky. There was no sun here. Instead, illuminated clouds lay in collected banks here and there, bringing light to the green land and to the crystal spaces above.

Erick was back on Layer 0, in the Celestial Observatory.

He checked his Status, looking at how much his Darkness had grown in those various acts in Da’luwe, and how high his resources had grown in the break.

Erick Flatt, [60-ish] [Current Year: 1453 (Veird, layer 789), ??? (Margleknot)] [CURRENT REALITY=Layer 0, Margleknot]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 31%, 30%, 30%

Reson allocation rate: 9%

Soul: 80.82m per day / 935.51 per second , [Darkness Level = 5.51x Ascension baseline]

Body: 479

Mind: 571

Overall Stability: ↑↑ [+851, -3] Basic upkeep

Mp: 761.21m/∞, ↑ [+290, -1] Basic upkeep

Hp: 744.81m/∞, ↑ [+280, -1] Basic upkeep

Pp: 743.27m/∞, ↑ [+280, -1] Basic upkeep

Resons: 23.79m [+84.19 = +9.35]

He would probably need a lot more than what he had in his tank if he ended up using [Grand Reincarnation] in such a large way again. But Veird wasn’t in any trouble right now, as far as Erick knew, so he could take it a bit slow. That’s why he had spent so much time helping out at Da’luwe, aside from the fact he needed the break, too.

Erick spread his black wings wide and went exploring this tarnished land of Good.

Someone around here probably had news about Veird, and if not, then Yggdrasil was here, so—

A message appeared.

Welcome back, Father.

Erick smiled. “Hello, Yggdrasil. I was just thinking about you.”

Want a portal home?

“Not yet. I believe I have business here. Thanks, though.”

Good luck! Love you.

Erick smiled, saying, “Love you, too.”

And then he flew on.
