“What does the Dao mean to you?”

A simple enough question, but one Hideo struggled to answer. According to his daft old Mentor Juichi, the Martial Path was the means through which Martial Warriors utilized the Energy of the Heavens against the Enemy, but Monk Eyebrows who voiced the question was not asking about the Martial Path, but rather the Dao itself. It was a topic covered early on in every Martial Warrior’s life, but children were expected to simply accept the explanation for truth without questioning it. As far as Hideo understood it, the Dao was found in anything and everything, for it was the underlying essence which made up reality as everyone knew it, and study of the Dao would reveal the Path to Divinity, but again, this textbook answer was not what Monk Eyebrows was asking for. The gangly, thick-browed teacher was specifically asking what the Dao personally meant to Hideo, and for the life of him, he could not come up with a suitable reply.

The Dao simply was, and that was the end of that. It existed, but only as an abstract concept, not something he pondered or deliberated on. Though the Martial Path was written ‘Wu Dao (武道)’, he never paid much thought to the etymology, the same way he didn’t wonder why tea was called tea or why a house could also be called a manor, dwelling, residence, or so many other different terms. They were simply words used to describe a thing, and for Hideo, the Martial Path was merely the term he attributed to his pursuit of Martial strength, the principles of combat and Chi manipulation which he used to rise above his peers and step into the ranks of the Hwarang. Beyond that? Why did it matter?

Such was the mindset of Mitsue Hideo, the Imperial Warrior and Disciple of Mitsue Juichi, but that person no longer existed. The Hideo of today was a different being altogether, an enlightened man who’d seen past the lies spread by the Imperial Clan and embarked upon a new Path, which made this a question worth pondering. What did the Dao mean to him? “I do not know,” Hideo sheepishly answered, head hung low in embarrassment.

Were it Juichi across from him, the old fool would have sighed and made some pithy comment about how his time was valuable and Hideo’s comprehension lacking, but Monk Eyebrows merely nodded in approval. “Good, good. There is no shame in ignorance, Junior Brother, for there is so much to learn, how can any one person know everything? However, to admit ignorance and do nothing to correct it is to embrace wilful ignorance, so this monk will endeavour to help you arrive at an informed conclusion.”

This was how they spent most evenings, discussing anything and everything which came to mind in search of the Truth. Much of it tied back to theological doctrines such as the Three Desires, Four Noble Truths, Noble Eight-fold Path, and so on, but Eyebrow’s arguments were always grounded in truth and logic, with his religious musings thrown in at the end. Today, however, Monk Eyebrows surprised Hideo by beginning with the theological portion instead. “Let us first do away with the idea of the Mother and Father,” he intoned, and for the life of him, Hideo couldn’t understand why. What sort of monk began an argument by doing away with his religious figureheads? Smiling at Hideo’s surprise, Monk Eyebrows explained, “We humans are a prideful lot, so we tend to view everything through our uniquely human perspectives, but who is to say the Mother and Father were ever human? Even if they were, who is to say with certainty that they are the creators of this world? The tale is one told throughout every corner of the Empire, of how the Mother gave birth to the four Elements, Earth, Fire, Wind, and Water, and worked with these primal forces to create the world as we know it. She began with Fire in the core, Earth for the land, Wind for the air, and Water for the oceans, and from there, through the melding of all four elements, She gifted the world with life. This is the tale you were taught, correct?”

Hideo nodded, but then he was struck by a glaring discrepancy, one Monk Eyebrows no doubt was leading up to. “If the Mother created the World and gifted it with life, then how could She have been human like us? She could not have ascended from this world and created it as well, only one or the other.”

“Indeed.” Beaming as he nodded in approval, Monk Eyebrows scratched at the newly grown stubble covering his chin, and for a moment, Hideo marvelled at how young this wise monk appeared. Most of the monks who defected from the Brotherhood were aged at best, while their leader and figurehead was positively decrepit, but Monk Eyebrows could be mistaken for a man in his early thirties, young enough to be Hideo’s older brother rather than his Teacher and possible Mentor. Despite his youthful appearance, Monk Eyebrow’s eyes revealed the depths of his experience, as did the respect he commanded from his fellow brothers, so Hideo suspected his youthful looks were just that, and that the Monk was far older than he appeared. “As you say, it does not make sense for the Mother to be both Creator and ascended Divinity, for if She made the world, from where did she first ascend? There have been arguments made that the Mother Above is the Creator, and that she ascended from another plane of existence or created a new world out of nothingness, the reasons for which vary. Some say our reality exists within the Mother’s Natal Palace, and we are each but a figment of Her hallowed imagination. Others claim this world to be a prison for damned souls to redeem themselves, or even a training ground for Martial Warriors in which the end goal is to ascend to Divinity and aid the Mother in Heavenly battle against the Father’s foul minions, but for our discussion today, the origins and purpose of our world has no bearing on the subject, so let us set it aside for another time. All that matters is that there are the Heavens above, the earth below, and we are but mere mortals who seek to ascend.”

Though he nodded in agreement, Hideo tucked away everything Monk Eyebrows just mentioned so he could peruse at his leisure later, for he found it all fascinating to the extreme. Knowing or not knowing would have no impact on his Martial Strength, but Monk Eyebrows encouraged Hideo to indulge his curiosity and said he should experience everything that life had to offer, which was a strange thing for an ascetic to say. While he was only an initiate, Hideo intended to join the ranks of the Brotherhood in time, so he did his best to live by their precepts, but apparently this was not the way. He wholeheartedly believed in the Brotherhood’s teaching, and had individually concluded what Monk Eyebrows, Gen, and several others had shared with him, that the Path to Divinity was not in divesting oneself of emotion, but in understanding and experience the full breadth of the human experience without losing control of one’s self. The Razor’s edge as Gen and his mysterious Mentor called it, logic and emotion in perfect harmony and indulgence balanced by restraint, this was his new Martial Path, one he would see to completion.

Thus, when questioned as to why he would encourage Hideo to ignore the precepts and indulge his curiosity, Monk Eyebrows gave Hideo a knowing look and explained, “This monk lives the life of an ascetic for two reasons. The first reason is the fifth facet of the Noble Eight-Fold Path, Right Livelihood, which itself is an extension of the First facet, the Right View. The Right View is that our actions have consequences, so we must endeavour to do no harm. The Right Livelihood means to live a life in which no harm is brought about by our decisions, whether it be through direct actions or inadvertent consequences. Among other things, this means to abstain from eating meat, forging weapons, and partaking in any product produced by slavery or some other means of coercion, for all these can give rise to harm, whether it be the weapon used to kill or the slave beaten to work. As such, this does not apply to you, someone who has yet to take the vows of the Brotherhood and set forth on the Noble Eight-Fold Path, so you need not concern yourself with this just yet, as you must first learn to walk before you can run. Secondly, and more pertinent to your situation, this monk abstains from worldly pleasures because it falls under one of the Three Poisons, Raga, or greed and sensual attachment. However, this monk encourages you, Junior Brother, to go forth and experience the red dust of the mortal world in order to better prepare you to leave it all behind, for how can one let go of that which they have never held? How can one know the true burden of sacrifice without ever knowing what they have given up? Only then will your suffering have meaning, and drive you along the Path to Divinity.”

All of which fit perfectly with Hideo’s new Martial Path, so he set out to do as instructed, indulging his curiosity wherever he may before repenting alongside his fellow brothers every morning, chanting the Sutras as they collectively whipped and beat their own flesh while reflecting upon past experiences. Biting into a thick, juicy morsel and feeling the warm juices stream over his tongue, charging into battle with the heady rush of excitement coursing through his veins, resting in the arms of a lover and listening to her beating heart race, then slow, then still, Hideo relived these moments each and every day, until he grew numb to those experiences which once overwhelmed him beyond all measure. Some days he focused on other, darker emotions, the humiliation he suffered at the hands of Dastan Zhandos or the betrayal he felt when his father Hiroshi revealed his true strength, and during those moments, as he ruminated upon the highs and lows of his life whilst embroiled in physical suffering, Hideo found a new Balance, a superior Balance, and while he had yet to unlock any secrets of Heaven, he knew it would only be a matter of time.

If a mere upstart farm boy like Gen or a tribal slave like Falling Rain could do it, then why not Mitsue Hideo?

“Very well,” Hideo said, bringing his thoughts back to the matter at hand, what the Dao meant to him. “If we do away with the concept of the Mother, then what are we left with?”

“The Dao.” Flashing a knowing half smile, Monk Eyebrow gestured at the ground below, the sky above, and everything else in between. “The Dao is in everything, in every blade of grass and gust of wind, every mote of dust and speck of light. Think of Fire, Earth, Wind, and Water not as you know them, but rather as a representation of all the fundamental forces of the universe, all moving as dictated by the Dao to create everything beneath Heaven. The Dao is within you, within me, within all living things and without, for without the Dao, there is nothing but the Void.”

Seeing his frown, Monk Eyebrows paused his sermon and waited for Hideo to put his question into words, one which he struggled to voice. Eventually, he found what was bothering him and asked, “If the Dao is everything, then why is it so important to know what the Dao means to me, specifically? Is that not your answer?”

“It is an answer,” Monk Eyebrows replied, still wearing that same half-smile, “But it is not your answer, nor is it mine, because your interpretation of ‘everything’ is not the same as mine, the same way my Dao differs from yours. This is not a criticism, but a fact of life. Earlier, this monk said that we humans have uniquely human perspectives, but each of us in turn have our own unique experiences which further colours our personal perception. I have seen more and lived longer than you have, but I will never know what it is like to be born into the Mitsue Family, just as you will never know the childhood of a Defiled tribesman.”

Rocking back at the unexpected proclamation, Hideo almost leapt to his feet and drew his weapons, but he stilled himself at the last moment. “Apologies, Senior Brother,” he said, offering Monk Eyebrows an embarrassed seated bow. “It’s just…”

“Imperial Indoctrination?” Wearing a grin which made him look even younger, Monk Eyebrows waved aside Hideo’s apology and continued, “You expected me to look differently, I suppose? Mangled skin, protruding brow, giant fangs and such, a monstrous, twisted sort of human, or at least one physically discernible from the people of the Empire, no doubt, but alas, our peoples are more closely linked than your Emperor would ever care to admit. Yes, I was born outside the borders of the Azure Empire, and I say this without pride or disdain, but your sins pale in comparison to mine, Junior Brother. I found my way into the Empire by sheer happenstance, and once here, I raided, plundered, and pillaged my way through the Western Province until my entire tribe was hunted into extinction and I was forced to flee into the Arid Wastes to escape certain death. It was there the Wisdom found me, caught in a race to die of thirst, starvation, or exposure. He took me in, helped me master my impulses, showed me the ways of the Brotherhood, and convinced me to take up the Noble Eight-Fold Path.” Reaching over to pat Hideo’s shoulder in a warm, familiar gesture, Monk Eyebrows added, “And now, this monk hopes to do for you what the Wisdom did for me, so I thank you for offering me this opportunity.”

For Monk Eyebrows to thank Hideo for the opportunity to teach him warmed his heart in ways he never expected. This was what a Mentor was supposed to be like, helpful and nurturing rather than haughty and hurtful like Juichi, or absent like Hiroshi. Saving all these feelings to parse through later, Hideo choked back his tears and silently nodded back, unable to speak for fear of being overwhelmed. It was a curious feeling, a mixture of friendship, camaraderie, and almost paternal affection, so by all rights, he should indulge and experience it, but he couldn’t bring himself to do it because… well, he wasn’t sure why. There was simply a sense of foreboding lurking behind all these warm, happy sensations, and a voice warning him to turn away and never look back.

So he did, because he feared what further introspection might expose, and he did not wish to risk the happiness he had now.

Pushing aside all his disquieting thoughts, Hideo thought on the message Monk Eyebrows was trying to convey. It was merely a different way of saying ‘each Warrior must forge their own path’, except it applied to everyone rather than just Martial Warriors and actually explained why, rather than hand-waving the reasoning aside by saying, “Such is the way of the Martial Dao”, as Juichi was so fond of doing. The Dao was different for everyone, because they all perceived it differently. It was as simple as that. “This is why you’re always going on tangents about other possible theories,” Hideo exclaimed, having picked up on this just now. “To tell me there are other possibilities so as not to colour my perception.”

Chortling as he waggled his bushy namesake, Monk Eyebrows replied, “Of course. One must always be open to other possibilities, Junior Brother, because what is True for one may not be True for another, and it is up to you to discover your own personal Truth. That is why we are Cultivators, because we pursue the Truth, and through this, seek to understand all Daos under Heaven and ascend to Divinity.”

“All Daos under Heaven.” This was the first time Hideo had ever heard it framed in this manner. Essentially, Monk Eyebrows was saying that in order to progress along the Path to Divinity, one must study all Daos under Heaven, or quite simply, the Dao as a whole. This explained why the Brotherhood trained in so many different subjects, not just the Martial Dao which they put to good use by Healing, but also the Dao of Art, Poetry, Calligraphy, Music, Cooking, Woodworking, Astronomy, and so much more. There were only some thirty monks who’d seceded from the Brotherhood alongside Monk Eyebrows, but collectively, they’d mastered almost every craft and pursuit under Heaven, or at least were making an effort to. Eyes widening at the sheer scope of their ambitions, Hideo asked, “How is it even possible for one man to understand all Daos under Heaven?”

“Even an entire lifetime of study is not enough.” His smile melting away, Monk Eyebrows took on a melancholic expression. “This is why the cycle of reincarnation exists as it does, to afford our eternal souls the time required to learn and grow. Though our memories are wiped clean during each pass of the wheel, our souls, the core facet of our very existence, remain untouched and unchanged save for those changes we bring upon ourselves. This is the source of our Insights, Inspirations, Awakenings, and more, the fruits of labour from past lives returned to us anew. Through these gradual efforts, it is Heaven’s plan for us mere mortals to study the Dao in its entirety over countless lifetimes, and eventually, master them all and ascend to True Divinity and Nirvana beyond.”

It struck Hideo as odd how Monk Eyebrows explained such a grand working, the purpose of life and reincarnation itself, in so subdued a manner, and Hideo couldn’t help but ask, “Is there something wrong? You seem… disheartened.”

“Because he sees the task before him as a futile one, and mourns his wasted efforts.” Appearing at his side without warning, the aged Wisdom who led them patted Monk Eyebrows’ shoulder before taking a seat beside them. Though he moved in the careful, deliberate manner of an aged senior, Hideo knew that the Wisdom Vyakhya, or ‘Clarity of Thought’ as he was so fond of stating, was far more powerful than he appeared. On the fields of Sinuji, Hideo had trembled at the sight of six Divinities readying to do battle, and Wisdom Vyakhya had stood among them, though he looked more tired and frail now than he did before. No doubt he paid a great price in that battle to kill Guan Suo and bring two other Divinities low, but since then, the Wisdom had done little besides guide them in their daily penance. Why he chose to eschew the Brotherhood’s tradition of never sharing names, Hideo couldn’t say, but the other monks, Eyebrows included, seemed scandalized by his decision.

That said, Wisdom Vyakhya was still their leader, and Monk Eyebrows didn’t contradict his statement, leaving Hideo to wonder why. Settling into his cross-legged posture, the aged Wisdom massaged his knee with thin, knobbly fingers and studied Hideo with approving eyes. “Good, good,” the elder monk intoned, and Monk Eyebrows positively glowed at the slight praise. “My Disciple has taught you well these past months, as I knew he would, but I fear he has yet to find his passion again. No matter, we will work on this together, but before this, I must point out how he has failed to explain why we parted ways with the Brotherhood and adapt his lessons accordingly. Such is the Right View, Disciple, to approach everything with the correct mindset and adapt to changing circumstances as new Truths reveal themselves.”

“Disciple understands and acknowledges his failings.”

Favouring Monk Eyebrows with a fatherly smile, the Wisdom said, “My Disciple has revealed his past and origins, so you understand how far he has come since, yes? From tribal outlander to educated ascetic, few can claim to have made a similar journey. Despite this monk’s many efforts, my Disciple is the only outlander to take up our ways, for the sole reason that he is the only one I’ve met who wanted to change.”

“You’ve tried with other Defiled?”

Frowning, the Wisdom shook his head in stern reproach. “Defiled. Bah. You see the difficulties we face in our quest for the Truth? Even now, after all you’ve seen and done, still you believe this Imperial lie, your perspective unchanged despite the evidence before you. Defiled? No, they are merely outlanders who by and large follow a different Path, but even then, there is some overlap. Your comrade, the Chieftain Vithar, he is one such example, an outlander who retains control over his thoughts and actions even after surrendering to base emotion. In fact, this monk has observed that most Chieftains and Peak Experts are similar to Vithar, in that they exhibit more control than any of their clansmen, but it is difficult to say if this is because it is the superior Path or because their role as leaders require it. It could also be confirmation bias, in that Path of Surrender has a much steeper learning curve, where failure is punished harshly with death or Demonization, and thus there are not many who survive long enough to reach the pinnacle.”

Taking a cue from Monk Eyebrows, Hideo swallowed his pride and bowed his head. “Initiate understands and acknowledges his failings.”

“Good, good. A difficult thing to do, to admit one’s wrongs, and even more difficult to do without resentment.” Chuckling as he gestured for Hideo to raise his head, the Wisdom added, “Though it seems you still have yet to master the latter. Pride is such a fragile thing, a fascinatingly complex emotion, but in time, you will learn to put it aside, the same with all other emotions.” Waving at the castle walls standing off in the distance, the Wisdom snorted and muttered, “It’s a wonder any of us can get anything done with all this ruckus about. All this pointless posturing, made all the more redundant when our ally could simply end it all with a wave of his hand, such sin, such suffering.”

Almost as if on cue, Hideo spotted movement from the castle walls as a single catapult rocked in place and launched its payload high into the air. Reflectively flinching at the imagined sound, he double checked to be sure he was well out of range, but even this wasn’t enough to calm his nerves. Who knew if the canny slave had come up with some modification to improve his catapults, whether it be longer beams, lighter ammunition, or whatnot. As he traced the single projectile arc through the air, he noticed it tumbling through the air in an odd, uneven manner, and realized something was off, but it wasn’t until Monk Eyebrows dropped the Sound Barrier and Hideo heard the screams that he realized it was not a stone projectile after all, but a living, breathing person who’d been launched from the castle walls.

Well, not breathing for much longer, as the unfortunate bastard’s body splattered across the grassy plains, and for long seconds, the oppressive calm of shocked silence weighed heavily upon their shoulders, until a good number of Defiled tribesmen and Chosen Warriors burst into laughter.

The Defiled, Hideo could understand, but the Chosen were supposed to be better than the Defiled, those who’d seen the Truth and were destined to rise above Imperial lies and Defiled flaws. For both groups to burst into laughter at the sight of their comrade’s grisly death however, showed Hideo two things: the Defiled and the Chosen were both cut from the same cloth, and he was a fool for not seeing this sooner. As the second human projectile shot through the air, his screams magnified by whatever Chi working Gen’s Demons had set up, Hideo realized that this was Falling Rain’s intent, to show Castle JiangHu’s defenders and the Defiled prisoners that the Chosen, most of whom were enjoying this grand spectacle immensely, were no different from the Defiled. Much as he hated to admit it, whoever was pulling the slave’s strings was no less adept than the Uniter behind Gen, for this was a lesson the Imperial Warriors and prisoners sorely needed. So many prisoners had been turned to the Chosen because they seemed a more palatable alternative to the Defiled, but now it was clear to everyone present that they were both one and the same.

“Disgraceful,” the Wisdom proclaimed, utterly incensed by the scene unfolding before him. “This, from a man the Abbot ordained into the Brotherhood himself, one raised to the rank of first of Five Wisdoms sight unseen. If only our former Brothers could see this for themselves, then they too would know the Abbot for a fool.”

The Brotherhood’s split also had much to do with Falling Rain, and Hideo wondered how one man could be the source of so much discord and strife. Less than a week past, the runt almost brought the Empire to ruin with his ill-timed rebellion, and despite having his intentions and status revealed for all to know, the sheep of the Empire still kowtowed before his demands. The Empire was beyond saving now, a sick, crippled beast still struggling to survive, so the least Hideo could do was play a part in putting it out of its mercy.

Putting up a new Sound Barrier with a wave of his hand, the Wisdom gestured for Hideo to turn away from the distraction so they could resume their discussion. “Time is precious, so it must not be wasted on frivolous suffering.” Running a hand over his bald head, the Wisdom sighed and explained, “You see? This one had no choice but to part ways with the Brotherhood, for the Abbot would have inevitably brought us into this futile conflict.”

This wasn’t the first time the Wisdom made mention of the futility of this struggle, and Hideo couldn’t help but ask, “What did you mean earlier, when you said our ally could end things with a wave of his hand?”

“The Uniter has discovered… a tool of sorts, a means to end all suffering as we know it.” Taking on a wistful expression, the Wisdom’s voice dropped to a whisper. “Anathema. That is the solution to that which plagues us, the incessant cycle of needless suffering. Wipe the slate clean and begin anew, for the chains of karma bind us all too tight, with no one able to free themselves save through mastery the Dao. However, if there is no Dao, then there are no chains of karma and no barrier to Divinity, so our eternal souls would then be free to escape this meaningless cycle of suffering and ascend to Nirvana.”

With that declaration, the Wisdom fell silent, and soon after faded away in Concealment. Confused as to what he meant, Hideo looked to Monk Eyebrows for an explanation, but the youthful monk merely pursed his lips in thought. After long minutes of quiet deliberation, Monk Eyebrows sighed and said, “Mentor would not have mentioned it unless he believed you ready. We spoke of the cycle of reincarnation earlier, and of how it would take many lifetimes to master the Dao in its entirety.” Hideo nodded, though it was hardly needed as Monk Eyebrows continued, “However, this is predicated upon we mortals actively pursuing the Dao in every one of our lifetimes. Look at the Brotherhood, and how we devote our entire lives to study of the Dao, and yet even the Abbot or my esteemed Mentor cannot claim to have mastered a single facet of the Dao. All told, there are over 108,000 lesser Daos which we of the Brotherhood have identified, and if one lifetime of dedication is not enough to master one, then how many lifetimes will it take to master them all? How many millennia must pass before even a single soul is offered absolution? What’s more, who is to say every lifetime will be spent immersed in study, or worse, even as a human, much less a Martial Warrior? Animals have their own Dao, which means it too must be mastered before our souls can move on, but since time immemorial, we have only evidence of a single Animal Divinity, a True Divinity mind you, that being the recently ascended Divine Turtle. If we assume the Mother and the Father existed and were once mortal themselves, then this means only two mortals have ever succeeded, and now, perhaps a turtle is poised to follow in their footsteps, assuming she succeeds.”

There was no longer any need to explain, for Hideo understood why Monk Eyebrows was disheartened. “Two Ascensions, with a possible third in the making,” he said, furrowing his brow in thought. “The odds of success seems greatly stacked against us.”

“But now the Uniter has the means to change those odds for the better.” Leaning in close despite the Sound Barrier around them, Monk Eyebrows whispered, “My Mentor is too fixated on Anathema and wiping the slate clean that he fails to see the benefits of allowing our eternal struggle to continue. Young Gen spoke of improving the Martial Path, perfecting it even, and removing all the flaws we’ve become so deeply dependent on and making this knowledge known to all. Take, for example, how we plunder natural treasures to forge Spiritual Weapons, which creates a dichotomy in our efforts to become One with the Weapon, and in turn, One with the World. Young Gen also pointed out the fallacy in the Brotherhood’s ways, in how we seek to become One with the Heavens, yet flagellate and mutilate our bodies to suppress our natural desires. The words make sense, but the precepts still hold true, and this monk is unsure which Truth suits him best, just as Junior Brother struggles to define his Dao. Do I seek out a new Path, a superior Martial Path suited for every human under Heaven, thereby drastically increasing the odds of eventually reaching Divinity in another lifetime, or should I trust my Mentor’s judgment and follow him wherever he might lead us?” Offering an apologetic smile, Monk Eyebrows shrugged and said, “You see now why I thanked Junior Brother for this opportunity? In teaching you, this monk seeks an answer to his own doubts, for his perception can no longer be trusted. My fellow brothers envy me this opportunity, for they are unable to find willing initiates of their own with whom they can discuss the Eight-Fold Path with and reaffirm their convictions.” Gesturing at the Defiled tribesmen in the distance, Monk Eyebrows sneered at his fellow outlanders and shook his head. “As Mentor said, most lack the desire to change, haunted as they are by the sins of their past. Unlike you, they refuse to acknowledge their actions in favour of indulging every whim and instinct, until they are no better than the mindless beasts they tend to. That is the difference between us and them, Junior Brother, and you would do well to remember it.”

For some reason, this last statement seemed particularly important to Hideo, but he quickly brushed it aside to ponder on his dilemma. All this time, he believed the Brotherhood’s teachings would guide him towards the Truth, but now Monk Eyebrows was telling him that this may not be the case, for he himself had his doubts and was open to other options. Then again, this fit well with the Eight-Fold Path, as both Monk Eyebrows and Wisdom Vyakhya had only just stated. Keep an open mind and adapt to changing circumstances, for even though the Truth in its entirety was immutable, human perception was limited and ever changing.

So where to go from here? Continue blindly following the Brotherhood’s precepts, or forge his own Path? The answer was simple, or so Hideo thought, but just to be sure, he asked, “What is the purpose of the Eight-Fold Path?”

Taken aback by the question, Monk Eyebrows carefully deliberated his answer before replying. “According to the Fourth Noble Truth, the way to Nirvana lies in living one’s life according to the Eight-Fold Path.”

“Which is?”

“A higher plane of existence.”

“And why do you seek Nirvana?”

“To break free from the chains of mortality and escape the cycle of reincarnation by ascending to Divinity.”

They’d already covered all this, but now that Hideo had confirmed it, he asked one more question. “Knowing what you know now, if you were nearing the end of your life and still had yet to come close to ascension, which would you prefer? To enter the cycle of reincarnation and continue forward in a new life, or to wipe the slate clean and begin anew, free of the karma which binds you?”

Understanding dawned on Monk Eyebrows face and he fell into silent contemplation. “A clever initiate you are,” he murmured, glancing at where they last saw the Wisdom. “To think, this monk failed to consider his Mentor’s perspective.” Indeed, for as Hideo had seen with Juichi, the older one was, the more they feared death, for they had that much more to lose. “I must think on this more,” Monk Eyebrows said, offering an apologetic smile, “But for now, this monk would choose to wipe the slate clean.” His eyes took on a haunted expression as he ruminated on his past, and Hideo truly believed that the monk’s sins outstripped his own. “My earliest lessons were not in language or numbers, but on how to make use of every part of a human body. I rendered fat into an unguent to protect us from the harsh sun, smoked meat into jerky to fill our bellies, harvested bones to fashion into killing tools, and tanned flayed skin to fashion headwraps for our faces, oftentimes while my victims still drew breath. This was all before I learned to fight, and I learned so much more in years to come, but I would forget it all in a heartbeat if given the opportunity. When I came to the Empire, I thought it was paradise on earth, a land of plenty where all could prosper and thrive, but how wrong I was, for here, there is only suffering in a different form. Now, I seek Nirvana in hopes it will provide what the lands of the Empire could not, but knowing my goal has never been within reach…” Stopping to cast his gaze to the sky, Hideo saw the glint of tears streaming down Monk Eyebrow’s cheeks. “Having been a slave to my instincts stained in the blood of my sins, and having suffered through the years to keep from sinning again, I believe oblivion would be preferable to another lifetime like mine. It is cruel of the Heavens to expect so much of us, burdened as we are. Perhaps I committed some heinous sin in a past life, for which I was punished for by being born Defiled and subjected to all my trials, but if that is Heaven’s Will, then perhaps it would be better if there is no Heaven at all.”

This was also how Hideo felt, for despite reliving and suffering through the experience each and every day, he still yearned to taste Eri-Hime’s flesh once more and feel her beating heart still against his cheek. The memory haunted him yes, but it tempted him too, and he feared he would live like this for the rest of his years. So too would he be haunted by the aching disappointment and boundless love in his father’s eyes, and the knowledge that his actions led to Mitsue Hiroshi’s death. Things could have gone differently, with Hiroshi and Hideo working as father and son to prop up the Mitsue Family after Juichi’s death, but that was no longer possible, all because of a single mistake.

Falling Rain should have lived and died as a slave, but by rejecting his fate, he ruined Hideo’s in turn. The Heavens were cruel and unjust, for Hideo had done no wrong and now suffered for the sins of another, and he refused to suffer under them for any longer than necessary. “Tell me about Anathema,” he demanded, hungry for more knowledge. “What is it? How will it wipe the slate clean?”

“It is as it sounds,” Monk Eyebrows whispered, still crying silently to the sky. “A… substance, for lack of a better word, which consumes the Dao wherever it might be found, and renders that which is left behind to nothingness. It is the antithesis to Heaven, the Destroyer and Unmaker, and the Uniter holds the secret to its... creation. Why he does not use it against the Empire and render reality into nihility, this monk cannot say, only that the Uniter sees some value in prolonging this meaningless suffering.”

After pressing the weeping monk for more details, Hideo stopped to comfort Monk Eyebrows while considering what he’d just learned. Already, Hideo could think of several reasons why the Uniter wouldn’t use Anathema to defeat the Empire, the most obvious one being that he didn’t have enough yet. Anathema was inert until activated by sunlight, but quickly died out if left without enough to consume, which meant in order to utilize such a weapon effectively, it would be best to stockpile enough to end the Empire in one fell swoop. Given that the Bristleboar Divinity had a part in its creation, Hideo pieced together that it required some amount of death or suffering to create Anathema, judging by the rumours of tortured, tormented slaves left at his properties who had to be put down following Zhu Chanzhu’s defection from the Empire.

Knowing this, Hideo set forth with a new goal in mind, though on the surface, it seemed no different from the old one. He would fight alongside the Uniter and help him conquer the Empire, at which point, the Defiled and Chosen would tear themselves apart and leave almost nothing behind. If at this point, the Uniter had yet to deploy Anathema, then Hideo would steal the secret for himself and render the world to the Void, with the help of his brothers and the Wisdom.

Not solely for himself, but for the world and all souls suffering within, for it was nigh time to put an end to the endless trials and tribulations.

Striding through camp in search of Gen, Hideo found him hard at work persuading Imperial prisoners to turncoat against the Empire, but from the looks of things, he wasn’t very successful. There was a time when Gen would Orate to an entire City filled with Imperial Citizens, and by the end of his speech, the audience would turn out in droves to join the Chosen, but alas, those days were long past. Now, Gen would be considered lucky if he could convince a horse to drink, much less sway an Imperial soldier over to the side of the Enemy. According to the Wisdom Vyakhya, it took passion to Orate, genuine belief in one’s cause, but even the most passionate zealot would grow jaded with time, and it seemed Gen’s passion was fading. There was a time when Hideo considered Gen a rival, but since then, the farm-boy’s control had slipped and he was beginning to come apart at the seams. “What?” he snapped, only just noticing Hideo’s presence despite having been standing in striking distance for some time.

Not that he would have attacked, considering the twin-forms of armoured Demon’s standing at Gen’s side. “Chieftain Vithar,” Hideo stated, wondering what anyone saw in this empty shell of a man, one filled with rage, loathing, and little else. “Where was he deployed? I seek to join him on the battlefield, alongside a retinue of my own.” For Hideo would need more allies than just the fractured remnants of the Brotherhood to overthrow the Uniter, and Vithar was as good a place to start as any.

“Oh?” Appearing out of the shadows with Chosen guards flanking him, the commander of the army regarded Hideo with some curiosity, his gentle voice and kindly eyes entirely at odds with his vicious reputation. “So the wayward son of Central thinks he can command troops in my army? What do you know of tactics, boy?”

Were it anyone else, Hideo would have cursed him for a fool, but this honey-skinned man here was a Living Legend in his own right, and therefore worthy of respect. What’s more, he sensed a kindred spirit in this wise commander, an aged hero who could no longer stomach the Empire’s atrocities and struck out on his own. There was no sign of surrender in this man’s eyes, no loss of control or change in demeanour despite his new allegiance, and though Hideo had only ridden in his army for a handful of weeks, it was clear the commander was no Defiled Imperial.

No, he was much like Hideo and Eyebrows, a man who sinned and corrected course before it was too late. Now, he was burdened with regrets, but strong enough to resist temptation once more as he set out with a new goal in mind. Were Hideo more familiar with the man, he would have sought a place at the commander’s side rather than Vithar’s, but now, Hideo had a chance to prove himself to this most famed of Western Generals. “Next to the Lord of Martial Peace, this one knows nothing, but he is eager to learn and begs only for the chance to prove himself.”

“Humility and ambition will serve a man well, no matter the occupation.” Clapping Hideo on the shoulder, Colonel General Gongsun Qi smiled and said, “Then come, Mitsue Hideo, and let us speak of your esteemed Mentor. I will come to blows with him soon enough, and would care to study him beforehand. Answer my questions to my satisfaction, and I will bestow you command of five-thousand Chosen, and together, we will bring everlasting peace to the Empire.”

Hideo’s instincts were right. This man would make for a formidable ally once the Empire was dealt with, for their goals were firmly aligned, and who better to usher in a new age of nihility than the Lord Of Martial Peace himself?

Chapter Meme
