“I'm still going to see her and she will know I'm here and watching over her.” Dwarf Ren said. “The last thing I want... the very last thing I want... is for us to expose her to any animosity between us.”

“H-how?” Narhilda asked. “After everything that's happened...”

“I'll only be a visiting presence and I'll try to help raise her when I can.” Dwarf Ren said. “I won't come here and cause fights, say bad things about you, or even try to take her away from you.”

Everyone took in deep breaths as they realized that he could have taken her without any resistance whatsoever, and Narhilda's eyes filled with tears.

“You're her mother, and she's second in line for the throne.” Dwarf Ren said and moved his hand back to the top of his daughter's head. “I may be her father; but, I don't have any right to deny her rightful heritage.”

“R-Ren...” Narhilda started to say something, then caught her breath as he leaned in.

Dwarf Ren smiled at her spike of desire, then shifted his movement to give her a kiss on the cheek. “Congratulations on making such beautiful babies.” He said and stood up straight. “Please accept these gifts in celebration of their birth.” He said and took out several bracelets, necklaces, and rings with different magical abilities like Protection, Regeneration, Strength, Speed, and Healing in various combinations. “They should keep you spry and healthy, so you can have as much enjoyment raising your children as the dwarf people will enjoy seeing the future rulers grow up.”

“R-Ren, I... you can't just...” Narhilda's tears kept coming.

“Shh. It's okay. Just equip them and you'll keep feeling better.” Dwarf Ren said.

Narhilda did so and took several breaths, then she smiled when she did feel better.

“You're going to need them if you want to keep up with the little darlings.” Dwarf Ren said and stepped back through the air, and Artrude finished her work and stepped back as well. “When they are old enough, I'll give them everything they will ever need for the rest of their lives.”

“Th-them?” Narhilda couldn't wipe her eyes, so Dwarf Ren took out a cloth and wiped them for her.

“I can't spoil one child and not spoil the other, can I?” Dwarf Ren smiled.

“Even though...”

“I won't cause resentment or envy between siblings.” Dwarf Ren said. “You know how much I hate pointless fighting.”

Narhilda was about to comment on that, then closed her mouth and nodded. Dwarf Ren dismissed the Honor popup, since it was negated and his stat was locked. He turned towards Barnar and felt both dismay and sorrow.

“You better do a good job raising them or I won't be happy.” Dwarf Ren said to him, and he felt Barnar focus on him and not Narhilda or the child that wasn't his.

“I know how to raise a kid properly.” Barnar said, almost angrily.

“You mean kids, don't you?” Dwarf Ren asked. “There are two of them. You better treat them equally, since they are both Narhilda's children.”

“You don't have to tell me how to be a parent.” Barnar almost spat.

“Good, because this isn't your fault.” Dwarf Ren said, and he felt surprise from him, and then felt it from everyone else. “It's not Narhilda's fault, either.”

“Are you claiming it, then?” Barnar asked, as if Ren thought he was more manly.

“I don't have to, since no one is at fault.” Dwarf Ren said. “If it makes you feel any better about this whole mess, your son will be king.” He said. “Your son. King of the Dwarves.”

Barnar took in a deep breath and let it out, then did it again. “Yes, it does make me feel better.”

Dwarf Ren motioned for Artrude to follow. “Now that the immediate crisis is over, I need to go.”

“W-wait.” Narhilda said as a portal appeared. “Don't... don't you want to name her?”

“I won't take that honor away from you.” Ren said. “Nathalia named Renardos.”

“Sh-she did?” Narhilda asked, surprised. The other healers in the room and Barnar were also surprised by this.

“If you would honor a humble request, I would like her middle name to be Barbara.” Dwarf Ren said. “That way, she's named after the mother that raised me.”

Narhilda looked at Barnar, and he nodded slightly. “It will be so.”

“Thank you very much.” Dwarf Ren said and his Aura pulsed as it was filled with happiness. Everyone shivered as they felt it, because even though none of them shared his Aura, it was so strong they couldn't help but react. He gave Narhilda a regal bow, ushered Artrude through the portal and stepped through himself, then it disappeared.
