“Good idea.” Ren said. “Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll wait right here, my friends and I will have accommodations ready for you soon.”

“Ren what do you want me to do?” Elerlyth asked.

“Elerlyth! We're in public!” Ren exclaimed, and he felt her embarrassment and a bit of anger. He gave her a big smile and took her hand. “All I want you to do is relax.” He said. “Oh, and stay sexy. That's a must.”

Elerlyth snorted a laugh.

“We'll be done soon.” Ren said, and then whispered. “I have an unused apartment upstairs in the Main House.”

Elerlyth nodded, and Ren walked up the road a short way with Tee-one and Ruck, and they built a large Refugee Center in only half an hour. They also made 40 beds and various things for the inside less than 20 minutes later and came back out. Ren went to the exotic dancers and told them they wouldn't be staying in the center.

“Everyone else? You can head on over and pick out where you want to sleep.” Ren said, and the 30 people he had taken from the quest town gathered up their things and walked up the road.

“Why can't we sleep in a nice bed?” The woman who liked being ordered around asked.

Ren chuckled. “You will be.” He said. “Tee-one? I had an idea while I played around with the Instant Tower recipe.”

Tee-one nodded. “That is a good idea, but can you stack that much onto your Craft Wondrous Item platform?”

“I'm sure it will let me add it in stages, just like the Mana.” Ren said and opened the Instant Tower recipe. Tee-one could see it, and they started altering it to fit what they wanted.

“We can cut the thickness of the wall, since it's not a defensive structure.” Tee-one said.

“We can also add extra metal to reinforce the second floor.” Ren said and added it. “We can keep the battlement walls on top...”

“...and we can modify the middle so that it's at a normal room height, and then add individual rooms for the dancers in the back with wood.” Tee-one said. “If we do that...”

“...then we can add the single booths on the first floor under them, also out of wood.” Ren said and added them, along with a large dancing stage in the main room with 12 smaller ones around it. “With those easily accessible but separate from where they live...”

“...they can go to work and not have it interfere with where they sleep.” Tee-one said.

“They'll need a separate stairway and entrance for the living space.” Ren said and added them.

“You were going to add that anyway.” Tee-one said, and Ren saved the recipe and called it 'Pleasure Palace'. “You better take out the Major Healing wand. We're both going to need a lot of Mana for this.”

Ren nodded and handed it over, then took out a step ladder for Tee-one to climb up on.

“What are you doing?” One of the dancers asked.

“Using a ton of resources to make something for you instantly, rather than take hours to build it.” Ren said. “Here goes.”

Ren activated his Craft Wondrous Item ability and choose the 'Pleasure Palace' recipe. It asked for 200 iron ingots; 250 wood planks; 500 stone bricks; 40,000 Mana; A pile of cotton batting; 2 bolts of fabric; and 5 platinum coins. Ren and Tee-one stacked the iron ingots carefully onto the 1 foot by 1 foot square golden platform, and cross-hatched them so they wouldn't slip. The iron ingots disappeared when the last one was placed on the stack, and then they started on the stone bricks.

They stacked 100 stone bricks and they disappeared, and Ren was glad that it was taking them like he had hoped. They did 4 more stacks, added the wood and fabric items, then added 10,000 Mana each. Tee-one used the Major Healing wand to heal them, which refilled their Mana. They added 10,000 more Mana each, making a total of 40,000 Mana; and Tee-one used the wand again while Ren put the 5 platinum coins onto the platform.

The coins disappeared and Ren spoke the command word while concentrating on the dancers, and the platformed glowed for 5 full minutes. Both Ren and Tee-one were surprised when a 1 foot by 1 foot metal, stone, and wood cube appeared.

Ren laughed. “I think we just discovered the maximum size of anything I can make with this recipe.”

“What... what is it?” The dancers asked and gathered around him.

“This is your new business.”

“WHAT?!?” They all said together.

“I know it doesn't look like much now.” Ren said and stored it as the glowing platform disappeared. “Follow me, please.”

The women followed Ren as he walked down the road, and they talked animatedly about how crazy he was. One woman spoke up in his defense, though.

“He's not crazy.” She said. “He's rich. That means he's eccentric.”

The other dancers thought about it quietly for several minutes, and then Ren came to a stop.

“This spot is only temporary, unless you like it here.” Ren said. “I'll move you out to the edge of the county later if you want.”

“We'll try it here and see how business goes.” One of them said while Ren took out the 1 foot wide cube. “I don't know how we're going to work on that thing.”

Ren chuckled. “You'll see.” He said and took out the Staff of Earth, then used it to flatten out a space for a parking lot and the business. He walked over to the middle of the cleared space and put the cube down. He walked back to the waiting women and watched their faces as he spoke a short stream of gurgles. The Pleasure Palace popped into existence before their eyes, and they all gasped.

“That... that's not possible.” One of them said and stared at it.

“IEEE!” Jennifer, who had Billy as a regular customer, squealed. “It's a castle!”

There were 4 towers, one on each corner, with windows instead of arrow slits. It was 80 feet wide, 80 feet long, and 30 feet high; with 2 floors in both the towers and the main building. Ren felt their shock and Jennifer's happiness.

“Tell me there's a dungeon!” Jennifer jumped up and down. “Tell me! Tell me!”

Ren chuckled. “I'm not going to tell you what to put in your own private work spaces.” He felt a strong ripple of surprise and need pass through them. “You... ah... have living quarters upstairs, and a corresponding private work room below it.”

“I... I think he's serious.” One of the women said and looked at her friend beside her. “We won't have to trade off, or have to wait to use a private area!”

A couple of the girls were quite happy about that, but he felt one dissenter. Ren turned to her and spoke.

“Can I ask what you don't like about it?”

She looked at him with wide eyes, and then sighed. “I... I don't want to do the private rooms anymore.”

“Good.” Ren said, and she looked at him. “The girls need a manager that knows the business inside and out. The private room below your bedroom will be your office.”

“Wh-what?”

“Congratulations, Manager.” Ren said. “Do the girls proud.”

“But... but I still want to dance...”

Ren smiled at her. “You can do whatever you want, remember? I'm giving this place to you.” He looked at the other girls. “I'm giving it to all of you.”

The new manager stared at him. “You really meant that?”

“Look around you. Do you think I can run all of this stuff by myself?” Ren chuckled. “I'm having a hard enough time just having everything built!”

The woman reached out and put a hand on his shoulder. “Thank you.”

“You're still competing for the first dance, right?” Ren asked her, and she nodded. “Then that's all the thanks I need.” He stepped away from her and waved to the door. “The door opens at your command, and I'll add the draw bridge tomorrow.”

“Does that mean we don't have to let people in if we don't want to?” One of them asked.

“That's right. It won't open without your say so. I'll set up the business part tomorrow, too.” Ren said and yawned. “I really need to get some sleep.”

“What about beds?” One of them asked.

“They're already in there.” Ren said and started to walk away. “Sleep well.”

“We will!” Jennifer said and waved, and then the door to the Pleasure Palace opened at one of the dancer's command and the 12 dancers went inside to marvel at what Ren had made just for them.
