Malika sprang to her feet at once and charged to his aid, leaping over a rogue with the help of a foot planted against his upturned nose, delivering a passing taste of Soul Strike to his face. She alighted on Mato’s back, pulsing her Healing Mantra into him through her feet before springing off and landing a kick on the side of the dazed priest’s head. To her left, one of the mages vanished, clearly using a potent escape skill. Mato swiped, striking everything in the path of his claws, filling the air with a chorus of screams and sprays of blood. Malika remained trained on their priest, unleashing every attack at him.

Somewhere far above Malika, radiant light shone out over the Grove like a noon sun. Calen’s precision glowing arrows rained down from the sky, most of them agreeing with her choice of most important target. The priest collapsed to an almost unheard chime and Malika pumped more of her healing into Mato before unleashing a flurry of attacks.

We must find Ali. How did the damned Town Watch find her? We’ve been so stupid! That thought drove her to a recklessness in battle that she seldom indulged. She pummeled the Fire Mage before her, ignoring the flame shield he was projecting, allowing it to simply burn her hands and feet as she slammed more and more punches into him, sapping his mana with Soul Strike. He squealed, trying desperately to back away, earning another devastating retaliatory Swipe from Mato for his efforts.

I don’t see her. The possibility that they had arrived too late gnawed at her gut. Malika grabbed the stunned mage by the back of his neck, spinning him around to give Calen a clear shot, and then she released him, executing a single powerful follow-up kick that rammed the arrow right through the man’s back, till it emerged from his chest. She dropped him into the path of Mato’s devastating Swipe, ignoring both the gruesome crunch of the man’s ribcage shattering and the inevitable chime as she looked around.

Where is she? She searched the battlefield, but there was no sign of Ali – dead or alive. Only Mato, in the thick of battle tearing through the Town Watch casters like they were paper, ignoring the warriors and rogues, content to rely on his thick hide. Malika pulsed more healing magic into him, making sure he could keep up with the enormously unfavorable numbers. Every time someone tried to flee, Mato’s retaliation punished them brutally.

A mage vanished from her root prison in a shower of sparks, appearing above the battlefield, and immediately beginning to cast something that caused arcing electricity to spray from her arms and shoulders. Malika leaped into the air, stepping off Mato’s back, and then twice stepping off the air itself using Divine Step before she executed a forward flip ending with her heel striking the back of the lightning mage’s neck. With an enormous detonation and blinding flash, her spell went off prematurely, enveloping both of them in an giant ball of lightning. Malika healed herself twice, warding off the damage while her body twitched and jerked uncontrollably in the throes of the offensive lightning magic.

She took a deep, ragged breath and kicked low and round, knocking the still-stunned lightning mage back down into Mato’s range. With her nerves still jangling from the lightning, Malika followed, diving back into the fray with a whirlwind of punches and kicks as she unleashed her magic, flickering and flashing at close range, pausing only when Mato needed her healing.

***

“Did you guys find any sign of Ali?” Malika asked, breathless and frantic. Most of the intruders lay dead on the moss, soon to be consumed by fire, or had fled the cavern. She had seen nothing of their friend, and if the Town Watch was anything to go by, Ali would not be able to stand up against them alone.

“She’s alive, and over that way,” Calen said, pointing off to the side, and at a steep angle downward.

“How do you…” Oh. In her haste, she had forgotten that Calen had unlocked an advanced tracking skill. The fact that he could sense the direction to Ali, probably meant she had to be alive… against all odds. While relieved, Malika also felt stupid. She could have been a lot more efficient if she had waited for them before charging off on her own. Calen probably had to track her down and help save her before they hunted for Ali.

“She’s in the library, and she hasn’t moved in a while,” he said. Mercifully, Calen did not criticize her for her mistake. “Probably wounded.”

“We can’t go through the front entrance,” Malika said, pointing to the rockfall caused by the massive explosion earlier.

“Ventilation shaft, then,” Calen suggested, and the three of them took off in the direction of the small cave where they had faced the four-armed skeleton boss for the first time, and she and Calen had been captured by Kieran Mori.

It didn’t take long, but what they found sent fresh worry coursing through her mind. A dead Forest Guardian lay among the ripped and torn corpses of several Town Watch, most of which were still bound by roots and vines. One of them, Malika even recognized as a former guildmate who had abandoned the guild for the lucrative Town Watch paychecks. Behind the Guardian there was a circle of frozen forest about thirty yards in diameter, slowly defrosting, along with an alarmingly fresh pool of frozen blood – both amber and red.

“She was here,” Calen confirmed, quickly following a trail that was visible only to him into the dark cave. He summoned his mote of light for their benefit as soon as they joined him.

“Where’s the hole?” she asked, her eyes refusing to believe what they saw. There was no sign of the ventilation shaft. The only thing Malika could see was a smooth, shiny black surface made from a dense hard stone where the shaft had once been.

“That’s Ali’s work,” Calen said.

“But now we can’t get down to help her,” Malika added, letting her frustration fill her voice.

“The Kobolds had other ways out of the ruins. It may take a while to find, but I think that’s our best option.”

“Ok, let’s do that,” Mato said. His throat worked. “They… know, don’t they?”

“Yes, they do,” Calen said softly.

“She’s going to know – we knew. Right?”

Shutting out their soft, pained conversation, Malika exited the cave and glanced around. The giant forest cavern was quiet now, none of the shouts and explosions could be heard. Only the fires raged on, filling the air with acrid smoke and ash as everything burned.

We killed them. She was looking at the mangled corpses surrounding the Forest Guardian, but she was thinking of the Town Watch they had wiped out at the Grove. While they were the Town Watch, and dealing them such a heavy blow would be a great win for Myrin’s Keep, Malika still felt sick to the stomach for having had to kill strangers. And now we’re probably outlaws in town, she thought grimly. Some of the Town Watch members had most definitely escaped using their magic to flee. They would most certainly not remain silent. Friends with a fucking dungeon. If we’ll ever be friends after she realizes…

“Here,” Malika said, stooping to pick up a bow and tossing it to Calen. “You need to upgrade that junk you’re using.” She proceeded to busy herself collecting all the usable gear. Not sure when we’ll be able to visit a store, she thought, worried that they would no longer be welcome back in town.

“Thanks,” Calen said. “Spend your points, and then let’s get to tracking.”

“What… oh,” Malika said, realizing that the fight with the Town Watch had been enough to kick her up a level.

Soul Monk has reached level 36.+10 attribute points.

She immediately spent five points on dexterity and three on wisdom, dropping her last two into endurance for more stamina.

Martial Artist has reached level 19.Soul Strike has reached level 22.Healing Mantra has reached level 22.Enlightened Evasion has reached level 21.Divine Step has reached level 22 (+2).Second Wind has reached level 10.Clarity has reached level 7.Dancing has reached level 6.Appraise has reached level 13.

“Ok, let’s go,” she said. Ali, hold on, we’re coming. I’ll find you… somehow. I didn’t earn Street Rat by giving up when shit got rough.
