“Hi, Weldin,” Malika called out as she strode confidently into the elegantly dressed Gnome’s store area, knowing she was going to make his day.

“Malika! How are you, my dear?” he declared, greeting her with an enormous smile. The flirting was an act, obviously, but she knew he had to play the part of buttering her up because she was very likely his most lucrative source of merchandise. He knew, she knew, and he knew she knew. But it was both amusing and, she had to admit, felt pretty nice.

“I have something that might be of… oh… moderate interest to you,” she announced, downplaying it with equally comical exaggeration. She leaned forward, placing an elbow on the countertop, automatically appraising some of the newer items on display that caught her eye.

“Oh?” he answered, raising the eyebrow of his good eye. He pulled out an expensive-looking pocket watch, making a show of examining it, while also making sure she got a good look too. “I guess I have a little time for you. But… only because you have such a radiant smile.”

Malika chuckled; it was over the top even for him. Without much fuss, she simply retrieved the chunks of magicite Ali had given her to sell, placing them on the counter before him with studied nonchalance.

“Think you can get anything for these shiny rocks?” she asked. Malika had the intense satisfaction of watching his jaw drop in shock before he carefully collected himself.

“Oh, maybe a few coppers,” he managed, his voice cracking a little as he reached out to examine one of the chunks of raw magicite.

“Mm?” Malika responded.

“Seriously, I have no idea how much I can get for this, but I’m sure it’s a lot,” Weldin said, dropping the act. “Would you be willing to leave it with me without upfront payment? Fifteen percent seller fee for whatever I can get from the Novaspark Academy and the rest of the profit deposited in your account?”

“Ten percent seems fairer,” Malika countered.

“I still need to pay Vivian. How about ten for me, three for the guild cut, and you get the rest?”

“Deal,” Malika answered. As usual, she wasn’t about to tell him that Ali could make as much of it as she wanted, but long term that would probably just serve him as a steady source of income anyway. His offer was generous – most resale merchants in town would probably try to take twenty to twenty-five percent. He’s such a fantastic addition to the guild.

After her business with Weldin was concluded, Malika strolled over to the common area and found a seat, joining the surprisingly small group of adventurers waiting for Vivian’s daily briefing. It had been a fantastic day so far, and the highlight for her had been Ali treating her to an extended spa session at the hot baths. It had been pure bliss, and she was certain she had fallen asleep several times. She rolled her shoulders, relishing the sensation of relaxed muscles.

“Ok, let’s get started,” Vivian announced, joining them with Mieriel following behind her with a stack of papers to tack up on the noticeboard. “Where is everyone?” she asked, surveying the tiny gathering.

“Calen and Mato are doing family stuff, and Ali is busy. I will catch them up later,” Malika offered. She eyed Mieriel suspiciously, but she seemed demure, busy pinning up the notices and new quests. Malika wasn’t about to admit that Ali had seemed scared of her and that was the real reason she had stayed away today.

“Aiden’s group was killing slimes in the sewer; they should be along in a bit,” Serendipity said.

“Ok, well, we should get started,” Vivian said, obviously unhappy with the poor showing but not enough to make a big deal out of it. “There have been some disturbing reports from the scouts, and enough of them to take it seriously. There is some unknown blight consuming all the farmland to the south of the town, and there have been credible reports of undead roaming at night. Expect some jobs killing undead and helping with the farmers.”

Undead? Blight? Vivian Ross’s words immediately captured her attention. A blight would explain the rising food prices, but undead implied something far more serious than she had expected.

“Furthermore, it seems the Torian army has noticed, and begun to move a large number of troops toward the border. Commander Gerald Brand wants to beef up the security, so you will find several supply requests on the jobs board. Those of you who were here for the Goblin siege should be familiar with the drill – the garrison will be in charge of the walls, and we will back them up–”

“Help! Healer!”

The shout rang through the guild hall, blending with the crash of the door slamming open, and cutting Vivian off mid-sentence.

Malika’s head snapped to the doorway as she stared at the intruders for a moment before she recognized them. Aiden stepped across the threshold, flanked by the rest of his team. Everyone was limping or bleeding, and, cradled in his arms, was a small, limp bundle that seemed more red than green.

Havok! Malika was across the room in a shot, burning stamina to accelerate herself as she recognized the little Goblin in Aiden’s arms. He’s not… dead? The tiny body was horrifyingly still, and there was so much blood that it was already pooling on the floor. She pulsed Healing Mantra, and to her intense relief, her magic surged through the Goblin’s body, repairing severe wounds as it went – but he only seemed to quiver slightly, remaining unconscious. He was in bad shape.

A moment later, a beam of green nature magic lanced out across the room to the other members of the badly injured group as Teagan added her magic to help.

“What happened?” Vivian asked, instantly at the door with both swords drawn.

“The Town Watch attacked us in the sewers,” Aiden said, his voice steadying as the healing magic began to restore his strength. “Roderik and some of his underlings did this. He was convinced Aliandra is a dungeon or something, and he insisted we tell him where she was.”

Oh no! Ali? She didn’t know how the Watch had figured out Ali’s secret, but she was in immediate danger. Everyone else seemed shocked and surprised, but Malika didn’t miss the significant glance Vivian exchanged with Mieriel. But the question of how they knew fled from her mind as Aiden continued.

“Havok refused, and Roderik almost killed him. It was Aliandra that saved his life, but they all chased her. He’s really going to kill her.”

Fuck!

Malika didn’t wait to hear any more, Roderik was a high-level Ice Mage – and an uncaring monster with a penchant for murder. Ali’s life was in immediate danger. She pumped stamina into her Divine Step skill and shot out of the guild at top speed, literally leaping down the sewer entrance in the adjacent alleyway. She tore through the sewer tunnels, sprinting as fast as she could until she reached the chamber leading down into the forest cavern.

She coughed harshly, surprised to find herself surrounded by smoke and the strong smell of fire but she didn’t slow, leaping down the hole without a thought. Ali’s barrier stairway was gone, but she controlled her fall using Divine Step and landed softly on the rocks below. She finally paused, staring out in shock.

Half of the gigantic cavern was aflame. The beautiful blue lake no longer glowed, filled now with charred tree trunks and ash. Ali’s bright stand of larch trees she had learned from the jungle was gone – consumed by a towering inferno of flame and black smoke. Figures scurried about among the trees or flew overhead, shouting to one another, occasionally casting magic to set some new part of the forest on fire.

At the far end of the cavern, a red ball of fire blossomed in the bamboo forest. She saw the explosion before she heard it as the powerful magic spell flattened the bamboo stalks and triggered an enormous rockfall that buried the northwestern corner of the cavern and the passage out to the ruins.

Ali! Malika had no idea if she would find her there, but her first thought was the invaders had caught her at their camp beside the shrine. She shot off like a bolt from a crossbow, tearing through the trees, leaping over walls of flame and burnt branches, burning stamina in her urgency to find Ali before they killed her. She coughed and hacked again, healing her lungs to keep them working efficiently in the dense smoke and heat as she cut straight through an intense fire to save time.

Malika burst out into the Grove, slapping the flames that had caught her shirt on fire. The trees all around the Grove were burning and their camp had been looted. Mercifully, they were in the habit of packing anything truly valuable in their storage rings.

“Ali! Where are you!” she yelled, not seeing her anywhere.

“Hey! She’s with the dungeon!” The voice yelled loudly from behind and above, immediately firing arrows down on her.

Malika dodged even as the twanging bowstrings sounded, rolling across the moss, but a second figure appeared, alighting on the mossy ground and immediately shooting a Firebolt which hit her on the shoulder. Malika healed the damage and sprinted directly at the mage.

Halfway there, an accelerated figure wearing assorted burnished plate armor pieces shot out of the forest, smashing into her side, and sending her sprawling. Malika turned the collision into a graceful roll, springing to her feet in a balanced stance. But by the time she rose, more figures had appeared, some flying in, some leaping across the trees, and yet others ran with accelerated skills.

Shit. Suddenly, Malika found herself dodging swords, daggers, and a huge mace as four melee fighters came at her in a loose skirmish line. In the distance, now out of reach, several mages and archers gathered, taking potshots at her with their weapons and spells. She flew through her defensive stances, blocking the overwhelming number of empowered strikes that sought her blood while healing the spells and cuts that she was unable to avoid.

“What did you do with Ali?” Malika yelled, dodging a firebolt while blocking an overhead sword strike.

“Shut up, dungeon-lover!”

“Just die, Torian scum!”

She punched the tall redhead wearing the burnished breastplate in the mouth, feeling the satisfactory crunch of a few broken teeth and a yelp of pain. It seemed the Town Watch flunkies were not going to give her any room. Where is she? She scanned the Grove for any signs of Ali, but all she got was a dagger to the ribs for her lack of attentiveness. She healed it even while the trail of her blood followed the dagger as it was pulled from her body. She blocked three more strikes before an arrow struck her in the back, causing her to stumble into another sword strike.

“Fuck, she’s a healer!”

Malika recovered, leaping into the air and over the head of one of her attackers, pulling the arrow free, healing the puncture wound, and kicking him in the back of the head before she landed. But the strikes kept coming, and not even her high speed was enough to handle one against ten.

Eleven, she corrected herself, seeing the priest show up huffing and coughing in the smoky air, and begin casting his healing magic on her enemies. She leapt over another warrior, kicking him on the way, and sprinted for the priest. But two of the rogues were just as fast as she was, closing the gap and forcing her to spin around and block. As soon as she had blocked them, the warriors were charging her, and the priest had backed up again. Ugh!

She pressed their line again and again, but each time she was cornered, intercepted, or cut off, forced to fight the heavily armored warriors or the dexterous rogues. She was easily able to resist their shouts and taunts with her high wisdom, but their positioning and teamwork still forced her into accepting unfavorable opponents.

I can’t get to him, she thought, eyeing the priest behind their lines.

And she was losing. Her stamina may be relentless, but it wasn’t infinite. Malika was taking a lot of strikes, forced to heal constantly against so many enemies. She had been so concerned about Ali dying that she hadn’t thought to wait for support and had run straight into the enemy where they were strongest.

“Buff now!” one of the warriors commanded, and in response, an archer cast some magic. Instantly, every one of the melee fighters and the archers accelerated as their haste buff took effect.

Malika’s mind was calm, but she knew this was it. She switched to pure defense, saving all her energy and effort for blocking and dodging, but the strikes kept landing, a dagger to her knee, a sword slash to her ribs, an arrow in the chest. And she still hadn’t learned anything of Ali’s fate.

A loud crack split the air, and a Lightning Bolt struck from the sky. Malika gritted her teeth and dove sideways, healing the heavy damage that left her muscles trembling and weakened. Only to meet a heavy mace to her ribs. Bones cracked as she was flung to the ground. She winced, healing herself and rolling out of the way of the follow-up attack.

A massive four-legged furred form shot past her, claws tearing up great clods of dirt and moss. A roar reverberated through the Grove, but the beast tore past the warriors and rogues and continued on toward the group of mages and archers instead.

Mato, you missed! She was, of course, relieved that he had come, but he had left her on the ground facing all the warriors and rogues. But to her surprise, they all turned as one and charged after the bear.

Huh? Oh, Taunt. She rarely worried about taunt abilities herself because her wisdom was high enough that her mind was unlikely to be affected by the challenge. These warriors and rogues she was facing obviously didn’t have nearly enough because they were all tearing after Mato as he crashed into the ranged fighters.

All of them scattered, desperate to flee from the huge bear, but in a flurry of power too fast for even Malika’s own accelerated perceptions to grasp, Mato retaliated, striking all of them with a devastating blow, and pinning them to the ground in range of his strikes with his Grasping Roots.

Holy shit! With a single Charge, a well-timed Challenging Roar, and some virtuoso positioning with his retaliatory strike, Mato had managed to take control of the entire battlefield in an instant, turning every single fighter to himself. The mages, archers, and the priest trapped in the grip of his roots were definitely struggling.

