“So. Apparently, there's a big dungeon below Anvakar. It's the whole reason why the town was built in the first place. A big hole, a webbing of tunnels and layers, full of all manner of monstrosities. They are the main reason adventurers go down there.”

“For essence,” Veron said.

“Yeah, probably. Sometimes, new openings appear, new caverns in the forest are suddenly occupied by chaos or blood beasts that stalk out in the night. That’s what they think might have happened here.”

“So a branch, as they call it, connected to the dungeon in Anvakar?”

“I’m not sure it’s the same one. There are others too but newly found entrances have often led to other sections or dungeons that were already known. That’s why they call them branches. Like a tree, spreading out.”

“Do you think there’s a center? A trunk?”

“I don’t know. Just that people explore and fight there. And that it’s dangerous, even for strong adventurers.”

“Do we know where the beasts come from?”

Ian shook his head. “Mom didn’t say. But I think she doesn’t know either. She also said that it would be better to just collapse all the tunnels and leave them in the depths.”

“Wouldn't they just find another way out? Maybe that's how new branches are created?”

“Maybe.”

“I'll try to find out in the future.”

“You will? So you do want to be an adventurer?” Ian said with an excited voice and then his face fell. “You will leave.”

Veron was quiet for a moment.

“Probably.”

They were quiet.

“Can mom not help you get stronger here?”

“Ivera has shown me the basics but I can tell she doesn't want to drag me around all the time. Even less with everything that happened recently.”

“What if I come with you?”

Veron smiled and stood up. “You don't have your Path yet, and we both know Ivera will want to prepare you herself when you are ready, and if you still want to go down that path.” He raised his hand. “But. If I get strong enough in the future, and rich of course, I'll come back and maybe I can show you the ropes myself. Or I can take you to that academy in Leiveen.”

Ian didn't seem convinced, arms crossed in front of him.

“I could also die horribly in a dungeon and you’ll never hear from me again.”

Ian narrowed his eyes. “You’re not being funny.”

“I know. Sorry.” Veron said and hefted up the stone chest piece. “Either way, you'll have a set of armor to start your journey with. Come on, get it on, I can do a few more adjustments before I finish it.”

“I won't even be able to repair it.”

“Then you better be careful when you use it.”

Ian didn't complain more and was quiet until he left.

Veron wondered if he had said the right things but he decided that being honest and upfront was the best path here.

And even while Veron jokingly promised to come back and show him the ropes or find a way for him to join the academy, he intended to do just that.

He had no idea how feasible it really was, but it gave him something to work towards.

He found that he’d come to care for Eyra, and the people that lived here.

First things first however, he had to make a full recovery.
