“I don’t know any orders based on fire and a bird.”

“No, there definitely is one. Shoot, what’s it called? Oh! Phoenix! The Phoenix Order!”

“The Ice Phoenixes?”

“Oh yeah, that’s the one!”

“Your cousin is talented,” said Penelope. “They only take the best.”

“Yeah, when he got accepted, my uncle wouldn’t stop talking about it until- no, he still hasn’t stopped talking about it, actually. He’ll tell anyone who’ll listen.”

“Ah, yeah, I know the type.”

“So, what brings someone like you all the way out here?”

“One of my comrades went missing in this area. I was investigating.”

“Was it because of the Zone Shift?” asked the guard.

“That’s what I had guessed,” said Penelope. “And I think that was related, but it’s not the whole story.”

“What is the whole story?”

“I’m sorry, but I can’t say.”

“Ah, that’s a shame,” said the guard. “There was a family that went missing in there too, back when the Shift started. No one really knew who they were, since they kept to themselves, but they came into town every once in a while to pick up supplies. Seemed like nice people. No one’s seen them since though.”

“Yeah…”

“Zone Shifts are dangerous stuff. I heard they evaluated this one as rank 3. We’re lucky it only affected the forest. I’d hate to think what might have happened if it extended all the way to here. We’d have to evacuate the whole city, which would suck, because I kinda like it here.”

“Yeah.”

“By the way, that’s a really cute rabbit. I know Tony’s a little wary of it, but I’m sure it will be fine.”

“I hope so.”

“...Mind if I pet it?”

“I uh…” said Penelope. “I don’t know if she’d like that?”

Penelope shook her arms a little bit, so Elise took the opportunity to pretend to wake up, blinking the feigned drowsiness out of her eyes. The guard was a young man, probably around her age. He had a round face, and a few extra pounds, and looked very cheerful.

“Hi there,” he said with a higher voice. “Is it okay if I pet you?”

Elise thought it over for a moment, then decided that she might as well. He seemed polite enough, and showing she was harmless and friendly would help her case when the superior came down. Besides, being pet felt nice.

The guard slowly reached his hand toward her, and Elise didn’t react. When he brought it down on her head, she blinked slowly, then leaned into his palm.

“Awww,” he said. “She’s so soft.”

“Yeah, haha,” said Penelope. “She looks like it. I haven’t gotten the chance to pet yet though…”

“Ah, yeah, that sucks,” said the guard, still gently stroking Elise’s head. “You’re missing out. I bet you can’t wait to get out of that armor. Wait. That sounded weird.”

“I know what you meant. You’re right. It’s too hot for full plate.”

“It’s too hot for long sleeves,” said the guard, pausing his petting to shake his arms. “I hate uniforms.”

Penelope was about to respond, but Elise heard footsteps and perked her ears up, making both the others look back toward the city gate. There were two men walking toward them. The first looked to be a man in his thirties with an impressive black mustache, and the second was an older man with a neatly trimmed gray beard. Both were wearing the same clothes as the young guard, though they were fitter, making it look much more imposing.

Elise could sense that the mana in the old man was much denser than just about anyone she had met before, and she suddenly recalled what Hallbjorn had said when they first met about {Inspect} being a skill exclusive to high tiers. She couldn’t tell if this man was strong enough, but there was a chance, and just in case, she didn’t want him sniffing her out at a glance, so she transformed all the way back into a [Forest Rabbit]. The sudden loss of nearly all her stats left her feeling almost as though it was difficult to breathe, but no one seemed to have noticed the change. She was thankful that her first 3 forms were so identical.

The old man zeroed in on her and bent down to look more closely at her without saying a word. He changed his angle a few times, viewing Elise from all around for a full minute before finally returning to his upright position.

“Seems fine to me,” he announced.

He gave Elise a quick scritch under the chin, then turned and walked back to the gate. The other two guards watched until he was out of sight, then turned back to Penelope.

“Well, looks like you’re good!” said the younger guard with a wide smile.

“Yes, welcome,” said the other. “Enjoy your stay.”

“Thank you,” said Penelope.

“Have a good day,” said the younger guard. “If you have time later, feel free to stop by again so I can pet the rabbit again.”

“Sorry, I think I’ll be leaving soon,” said Penelope.

“Ah, that’s a shame,” said the young guard. “Well, it was nice meeting you.”

“You as well.”

The streets just inside the city walls were fairly clean and pleasant, but as Penelope walked further in and started making turns, they got much less so. By the time they reached their destination, Elise was certain they were in the slums. The inn that Penelope was staying at was a lopsided building made of splintering wood with mismatched roof tiles. There were a half dozen homeless people lounging against the side. Elise used {Inspect} on them, and while most of them showed as simply tradesmen, one came up as a [Pickpocket].

They watched Penelope and Elise enter, but Penelope ignored them, making her way into the building and heading confidently toward the staircase. A middle-aged woman was sleeping at the reception desk, and didn’t seem to notice their entry. As they walked up the stairs, Penelope shifted Elise to one arm again as she rummaged in her hip pouch for a key. However, when they reached the top of the stairs, she paused.

“Shit!” muttered Penelope.

Elise followed her gaze to the second door on the right, which was standing ajar.
