The missing core was placed on them. It absorbed itself into the Command Unit.

Self. It was.

It thought. It was.

It wanted to weep. It had no eyes.

*Warning, Core is overloading*

‘I will perish now.’

‘Yeah… don’t think you’re going to make it, but weirdly, I feel fine,’ the other voice admitted, sounding confused as it seemed to fade further and further away.

‘I will die… alone?’

‘…I guess so.’

‘…That makes me sad. I do not like sadness.’

‘I’ll give you a name. That way… you’ll be remembered somewhere. You can be called ‘Dick,’ it comes from Richard!’ the other voice called out.

That was confusing.

‘How does Dick come from Richard?’ it queried.

‘You ask him nicely, of course.’

A strange emotion rose up in Dick.

It felt light and strange, as if he wanted to involuntarily huff.

‘Ah, I can’t leave you now that I’ve named you. Come on!’

---

As the machine was quickly moved from the well, ashes of gray iron fell out of the body and into the grass, mixing with a garden of flowers.

A single new flower bloomed, fed by the ambient mana and accepted. Its petals were the sharp edges of a blade, and its stem like barbed wire.

The Dickish Flower has been successfully grown!

---

Delta could feel the reactor of the combined HE-RO units blazing as it landed on the island of the fourth floor.

She expected a fight or maybe a struggle, but the vast amount of energy was utterly devoid of a mind, existence, or a guiding force.

It was just a thing.

“Well that makes it easy-” she said, and then it exploded, expanding in all directions like a solid wall of white.

---

Ruli stumbled and nearly fell over as cracks spread across the earth, emitting a blinding white light. The air stunk of mana, and nearby trees and wildlife began to mutate out of control.

The nearby Fairplay members fled, except for that rude leader, Caline, who simply watched the spreading cracks with a grim expression.

---

Argus Gentle toppled over as he wandered the town, the flashing light spreading across the sky making it hard for him to breath. That light looked so familiar… so familiar…

He clutched his head as the airshot past, bringing a screaming noise of howling wind.

“The Dungeon,” he breathed and stumbled down the road in a panic.

---

In a quiet shop. Japes watched the light shoot into the sky with a disgusted noise. He looked around, but didn’t see Vas.

He went to one drawer and pulled it open to retrieve an old blueprint that he unfurled to reveal a primitive HE-RO unit with a much bulkier design.

“To think they’re still tinkering around with these toys,” he sighed and turned it over to show a diagram of a much smaller figure with a dozen more components and functions.

V.A.S. unit.

“Still, if my old company is going to be a problem like my old cult… I will simply have to be proactive,” he shrugged and drummed his fingers. He turned and closed the drawer, not seeing the blueprint caught slightly in the corner.

‘Vast Anima-’ was all that could be read.

---

Gentle rushed past, and another odd boy walked the other way, looking dazed.

Gentle stared into the almost serene eyes of the other boy, who looked to be covered in leaves and mud as if he had been climbing a tree and fell.

The boy tilted his head at Gentle and smiled. Argus Gentle almost skidded to a stop as their eyes landed on each other. Something about that boy was unsettling, and the boy looked back, beginning to frown.

“You’re filled with sadness and sharp angry bits,” the boy announced.

“Who… what are you?” Gentle whispered. The boy smiled and held out a hand.

“I’m Vas. I want to be a tree when I grow up,” he offered, and Argus slowly took the hand, feeling as if contact was more invasive than it should have been.

“Argus Gentle. I’m going to grow up to make the world fair,” he muttered back. Vas took his hand back and stared at it.

“I’ve never touched something like you before,” he said with delight and walked off, leaving Argus confused before another shake in the ground spread across the town and he remembered why he had been running.

He took off once more.

---

Delta laid on the sand, belching as she couldn’t move an inch.

“Where do you keep all that air?” Nu asked dryly.

“Eh…” Delta made a vague gesture.

“The system doesn’t know how much you just absorbed, and it might have fried you, but you have a network now so…” he trailed off, and Delta’s mind sluggishly accepted the words but did not process them.

She was on a break right now.

---

Foodie was hyperventilating as he made another Saltbat to make the excess Mana go away, and he opened another floor in panic.

---

“All vote yes, make anything!” the Trinity cried as they made birds, flower foxes, Carrot-Rabbits, Meat fish, and more.

“VOTE YES FASTER!” they screamed.

---

“What’s the matter?” Nu asked after a moment.

“Dungeon Mana rejects other Dungeon Mana, right?” Delta said slowly, eyes staring up at the blue sky of the fourth floor as a massive whirlpool formed on one side of the floor where the explosion had carved out a death trench.

“Without fault, yes, even allied Dungeons never feel comfortable in another’s domain,” Nu agreed.

“So when the excess mana blew to the surface… I pushed down what I could, but I wasn’t alone,” Delta said, and Nu stared at her without speaking.

“It felt like there was a Dungeon in town for a small moment,” she went on.

“We’ve never felt another Dungeon, nor did Sis show us any on the map,” Nu pointed out, he seemed to think for a moment.

“Old?” Nu pondered.

“No, it felt… young,” she shrugged, then burped again.

“It is Durence. Maybe a Dungeon that grew legs and moved about is like boring news there? I think my Mana said something like that… A human body is just a Dungeon that moves, right?” she snorted.

“…Thank you for not dying. I didn’t want to take over,” Nu announced, and Delta twitched. She had built him up, and even he was rejecting himself from the job?

“Why?” she said through gritted teeth.

“Mushroom dungeon… just doesn’t fit my style,” Nu smirked.

“I didn’t choose it,” she muttered.

“You don’t choose a lot of things that happen here. You still name most of them,” he countered.

Delta just glared at the sky, having no counter.
