“Fools!”
The instant Garen Redfang heard about the failed attack on Lady Rie’s mansion, he stormed into the feasting hall where Tremborag sat. The self-styled Great Chieftain of Goblins looked up as he clutched an entire roast sheep in his claws. Garen snarled as he strode down the length of the messy hall towards him.
“Garen Redfang. What has you so angry this time?”
Tremborag’s voice was huge and surprisingly intellectual, but tinged with the same irritation Garen had been feeling lately. The few Hobs and other Goblins accompanying him at this moment—many of them female—eyed the Goblins behind Garen.
The Redfang Tribe had largely abandoned Garen when Rags had fled the mountain. But many was not all, and already more Hobs and competent warriors had joined Garen Redfang’s faction within the mountain. He was the pinnacle of martial ability to aspire to, and if his new ‘tribe’ was not as well-trained as his old one, they were a fighting force Garen had led on many raids.
And it was the raids that were the issue. Garen glared at Tremborag and spat.
“The Goblins who went to attack the [Lady] are dead.”
The huge Hobgoblin paused. A bit of grease dripped from his hands. The Goblins around him froze.
“All?”
Over twenty Hobs had been chosen to assault the mansion, as well as one of the [Shamans]. It had been considered overkill for such a small town and even a [Lady]’s personal residence. Unlike the Five Families, most of the minor nobility lacked huge arsenals of magical defenses.
And yet, the attackers had been destroyed. Garen spoke sharply.
“They were slaughtered by a Human alliance! They are gathering as I said! And you provoke them with more raids. No more. No Goblins will go to that place; none return anymore. I forbid it.”
His command of the common tongue had increased markedly since he had stayed in the mountain. Or rather, he was having to speak more often. As he had in the past with his friends. Garen pushed the memory back. Tremborag dropped the sheep and stood.
“You forbid? I am Great Chieftain under the mountain.”
“And I am Garen Redfang, who knows raiding and Humans ways. Continue to send more raids and they will die. Fool.”
The hall had gone silent. The Goblins around Tremborag had retreated and Garen’s Redfang warriors were eying Tremborag uneasily. The Great Chieftain’s crimson eyes flared with fury. He and Garen growled at each other, drawing closer.
The air was hot with bloodlust. Garen felt his hand tightening on the hilt of his famous red sword and Tremborag suddenly looked taller, less fat and more like the monster he could become. But both Goblins forced themselves back. They were allies.
“Hah! You have not dulled your fangs since coming here.”
Tremborag broke the stalemate first. He sat and picked up the sheep and ripped into it with one hand. Breathing hard, Garen sat at a table, facing him.
There was a reason for the irritation between them, and not just because of Rags’ escape. What had she taken? Some of the magical items? Most of the truly powerful artifacts had been spread across the Hob lieutenants and other warriors in Tremborag’s tribe. Goblins didn’t hoard practical treasures. And food? Again, not an issue. The Human women—
No. Garen ground his teeth together. There was only one true reason for their anger.
“The Goblin Lord comes.”
“Yes.”
Tremborag ate savagely, crunching bones in his mouth. He spat a fragment onto the ground.
“I feel him coming. He comes for you and I, Redfang. We are the only ones who could oppose him. But there are others he calls.”
“Others?”
Garen was surprised. Tremborag laughed.
“You think you are the only famous Chieftain, Redfang? Far to the north there are other tribes who make Humans tremble, just as there are ones to the south and on other continents. Two I think of. A pyromaniac witch and a brute who loves combat.”
“Would they join us? Or would they join the Goblin Lord?”
Again the Great Chieftain laughed.
“I have asked, and they have refused me. They would refuse him too, I think. The witch, she refused the Goblin King as I did. As for the brute, he accepts no one as his master. No, they will wait, I think. The Goblin Lord comes for only us.”
“Unless the Humans come first. You provoke them.”
The Hob crossed his arms. Tremborag nodded.
“They have forgotten why they fear us. Let them come to the mountain. We will break them in the tunnels, lure them in and crush them. And in their fury, they will hunt that wretch, that thief, the Goblin who takes a Human name!”
Rags. Angry as he was, Tremborag still refused to speak her name. Garen stared at him and turned.
“And when the Goblin Lord comes? Then what? Will you sit and eat until he comes to your doorstep with a host far vaster than yours?”
“Let him. I am the Great Chieftain of the mountain. I will bow to no Lord, no King. And one last thing.”
Tremborag’s voice boomed as Garen strode out of the hall. The Hob turned. Now Tremborag was serious.
“Go to the mansion and destroy it, Redfang. If the [Lady] remains, slaughter her people and bring her back to the mountain.”
Garen stared at him. Vengeance, retribution. An eye for an eye. Tremborag was very Human in that regard.
“And if they are not there? If they are under the protection of the one who builds those wooden markers, who calls himself an [Emperor]?”
The whispers had reached the Goblin ears as they skulked around the edges of that strange land. Tremborag grinned and his eyes were fury.
“In that case, we will destroy every village, town, and city in that place until all is gore and ash. After the Goblin Lord or perhaps—before? Go.”
For the moment he was Garen’s Chieftain, so Garen went. He took a massive force of Hobs and Goblins to the home of the Valerund House and found the mansion deserted. He burned the mansion and determined that there was no point riding after the lady.
Garen had Skills from the [Raider] class that allowed him to appraise targets. And so he destroyed a town many miles to the north instead, robbing it of many lumps of gold recently acquired from a mine. And as he rode back to the mountain Garen wondered what Rags was doing. The Humans would not suffer the Goblins much longer.
Already, they had begun to counterattack.
 
—-
 
The Goblins in the Flooded Waters tribe weren’t restless. At least, most of them weren’t. They raided roads on a daily basis and clashed with monsters and small bands of Humans regularly. Moreover, they were secure in their semi-permanent home in the forest of tall trees around the lake. Already, the Goblins were beginning to think of it as their base. But more importantly, they were filling their bellies from their raids and they were not in danger, not in want. They were content.
But the Goblins who thought of the future, those who were leaders like Noears, Poisonbite, Redscar, the Rockfall Chieftain, and other Hobs of Tremborag’s mountain, thought otherwise. They could tell what their Chieftain wished because they were connected. They were part of the same tribe. And what those Goblins understood was that Rags was…aimless.
“She does not know what to do.”
Poisonbite declared this as she sat with her unit of female Goblins around a fire. She had a few guests. Two Hobs from Tremborag’s faction, Noears, the Rockfall Chieftain, and Redscar. They were just guests. But that they were here, listening, was significant.
Each one had their own agendas. Noears, who was very intelligent and dangerous because of it, played with a spark of electricity, letting it crawl over his hands. The other Goblins looked around surreptitiously.
They were looking for Rags. Or Pyrite. The Goldstone Chieftain was staunchly loyal to her, which might be troublesome if he heard anything. Not that they were doing anything; they were just talking. But in Tremborag’s mountain, talk was dangerous enough.
Here it was…a sign of wariness. Noears flicked the spark into the fire, making it jump, and looked up.
“She is aimless, but not, I think, lost.”
The others nodded at that. Noears continued.
“She does not know whether to stay or go. This is a good place. But not what she wants. She wants to go south. But the Goblin Lord is there.”
“Dangerous.”
Redscar grunted. He wasn’t talkative. He flicked a dagger up and caught the blade between two fingers.
“Should go.”
He wanted to return to the High Passes. Noears scratched at the ragged holes where his ears had been and shrugged.
“Perhaps. But she is—”
He broke off as a Goblin that was known to be too talkative for his own good passed by the fire. The other Goblins stared blankly at him and looked around the camp. No Rags. She was snoozing by her fire. And Pyrite? Sitting under one of the gargantuan trees by the lakeside.
Safe. Noears stuck a finger in his earhole and came out with some sticky earwax as he went on.
“Chieftain wants to go back. Goblin Lord is dangerous. So she waits. Not lost, but waiting. For right chance. Smart. I agree, which is why I follow her.”
The Rockfall Chieftain nodded at once. She was a supporter of Rags, which is why her listening here was good. All opinions mattered. But Poisonbite was restless. She was no Hob, but it was the opinion of those around the fire that she had the same rank as one. Just like Noears was the strongest [Mage] in the tribe by far—being small didn’t mean weak. Rags was an example of that.
“Still should do more. Build base here. Raid harder.”
She disliked only robbing travelers on the road, especially since they were growing fewer as of late. Redscar nodded his approval as did two of the Hobs. Noears frowned and looked around.
Rags? No sign of her. Pyrite was on his feet, breaking up a fight between a few Goblins. He grunted, but it was another Hob who spoke.
“Chieftain. Needs fight. Goblin Lord.”
A simple sentence, but one with nuance, as his jiggling leg indicated. The idea of fighting a Goblin Lord was, of course, wrong, but if he was like what Garen Redfang had claimed, what other choice was there? He used dead Goblins, raised the dead. And he slaughtered Goblins who did not obey him.
“Should talk first.”
Noears was the first to dissent. Redscar glared, and the argument descended into infighting. It was just talk. They kept glancing over towards Rags, just to reassure themselves she was asleep. And now Pyrite was tending to a fire, sniffing hopefully at a stick of mushrooms roasting by it.
“Chieftain is young.”
“Yes. Needs help.”
Scoffing from other Goblins.
“Help? Like Garen Redfang? Another Chieftain? Two?”
Hand wave, claw clenched into fist. Subtlety, of course, not the first interpretation, but a more nuanced answer.
“Not Redfang. But advisor. Someone strong.”
“She is not strong?”
“Not strong.”
All heads turned. Rags didn’t appear to stab them. Pyrite was lifting a Goblin child up, grunting as he peered at a rash. All turned back to the talk.
“Smart, though.”
“Yes.”
Waggled finger. More nuance. Smart is not enough necessarily. Goblins need a daring leader and a cautious one is not as good. However, the raised eyebrow indicated skepticism of this very idea. The Rockfall Chieftain surprisingly spoke up next.
“Good to have mate.”
All stared at her. There, it was said, and by one of Rags’ own at that! Mate. Yes. Have sex. Or rather, have someone who could guide your opinions, a capable lieutenant. Only—
“Pyrite is good.”
Poisonbite said that and all agreed. Pyrite was. He was capable, solid, a good fighter. And he was calm, a perfect second-in-command. What he wasn’t, though, was aggressive. Noears chewed on his lip and frowned.
“Good, but simple. Has odd companion. Old. Greybeard.”
That was true too. Every head turned as Pyrite bent to talk to a Goblin sitting by a fire next to theirs. Greybeard grinned as he slurped at some soup and chattered to the big Hob. Poisonbite scowled and Redscar looked at her.
“Old Goblin. You know?”
“My unit. Good at running away, better at not be cut.”
She flicked her fingers dismissively and Redscar nodded.
“Never met Goblin with beard.”
“Hah! No point. But if not Pyrite, who?”
Who indeed. All eyes shifted to Noears and Redscar, the most probable choices. Noears shifted and Redscar growled. Neither one was particularly into the idea. It was common knowledge that Noears liked big Hob females, and Redscar liked Goblins who had certain body parts that Rags lacked. Added to that, no one wanted to imagine Rags being swayed by one side more than the other.
And yet—aimlessness. The other Goblins hesitated. Noears grimaced.
“Chieftain must do something.”
“Why?”
Poisonbite rolled her eyes as someone asked that. Her voice was laced with open scorn.
“Because aimlessness is bad, stupid.”
“Really?”
She growled.
“Yes! Why we talking if not?”
She turned angrily to the speaker and her green face went white. Pyrite stood over the fire, crunching on a giant Barkeater Beetle. He waved at the group calmly.
Where had he come from? The other Goblins stared in shock. Pyrite had appeared without them really paying attention from across the camp. He’d snuck up on them like—like a mountain, always in plain sight, but never really noticed. He sat and all the Goblins edged away from him. All save for Redscar, who just looked wary.
“Chieftain is aimless.”
Pyrite’s voice hushed the other Goblins. He nodded and offered the giant beetle with huge mandibles around. No one wanted a bite. He went back to crunching as the beetle’s guts oozed out the back.
“Aimless. Young. No sex. Not Hob. Not warrior. Not going to war and not building base.”
He paused, having summarized the complaints of the others. They waited. Pyrite fished a wiggling leg out from between his teeth and crunched at it for a second.
“So what?”
Every eye was on him. Pyrite shook his head. A voice cackled—they realized Greybeard had appeared at their fire. The elderly Hob was sipping from his bowl and glancing at Pyrite. The former Goldstone Chieftain nodded.
“So what? Young is young. Aimless is temporary. Chieftain is Chieftain. Will grow.”
“So he says!”
Greybeard laughed into the thoughtful silence Pyrite’s words had caused. He clapped Pyrite on the back and the Hob grunted. The old Hob sighed.
“Wait and see? Is good plan if nothing coming!”
“But is?”
Poisonbite had been alarmed at Pyrite being here, but the Hob was clearly as affable as ever despite the…talk. Greybeard on the other hand was a nuisance. She wouldn’t have suffered him if Pyrite clearly didn’t favor him. Come to that, he was always hanging around the old Hob. Poisonbite didn’t see the point. But then, Greybeard only really talked to Pyrite.
Noears wondered what he said as he stared at the Hob. Greybeard looked up, beard soaked with soup, and his eyes flashed.
