“You’re real strong,” Ral said, smiling his goofy smile while panting with exertion. “You want my armour? I think it’d be better if you wore it.”

“Thanks big guy,” she said, matching his smile without trying as Jorani’s Spiritual Rope thundered down beside them. “But I’m afraid it wouldn’t fit me. You keep it, and watch my back, got it?” Seeing his confusion, Yan corrected herself and said, “Follow and kill any Defiled I miss.”

“Got it.” Fumbling with his staff as he threw an awkward salute, Yan waited for Jorani’s second strike to finish before following along in its wake. A half-dozen paces of empty space was all she got before the Defiled were upon her once more, undaunted by the formidable show of force and unwilling to back down from a challenge. Many believed the Defiled were fearless, but Yan knew this to be false; they scared like any other wild beast, it just took more than the prospect of death to do it. They lived for bloodshed and didn’t mind dying in service to it, which meant she had to show them the futility of standing in her way.

Grandpa Du did so by using his Wind Chakrams, giant rings of razor-sharp wind which cut clean through flesh and bone without dissipating. Yan couldn’t do the same, because she lacked his Talent to keep Chi constructs from crumbling away upon contact with a living being. It had something to do with internal Domains and how every living being had one, even the lowliest peasant or weakest chicken, and those Domains were utterly inviolable. There was a lot of theological debate about it, with people claiming that Domains were an extension of the Spiritual form made manifest in the physical world, or that internal Domains were a property of the soul, but regardless of the reasons, Yan couldn’t do what Grandpa Du could.

But she could do something similar.

With Ral and Jorani there to support her, Yan was free to hold back a bit and fight with horn and shield alone, leaving her Battle-Fan free to sow the seeds of victory. Twirling it between her fingers, she drew in a vortex of air which she used to feed and cultivate her killing blade. Round and round her Battle-Fan spun, consuming all the Chi she could spare it, until finally, she felt control slipping away and she had no choice left but to release it. A tricky thing, pointing her spinning fan towards the Defiled without angling it the wrong way, but as soon as she was reasonably certain she probably wouldn’t kill any of her allies, she unleashed the whirlwind gathered about her Battle-Fan.

Well, not exactly a whirlwind, but more like five or six dozen Wind Blades, each one large enough to sever clean through an arm or neck.

The results were more spectacular than she expected as heads and limbs flew about the battlefield spewing fountains of crimson blood. The idea was that the leading Wind Blades would clear the path for the subsequent ones, but somehow, the turbulence from each impact was causing the subsequent Wind Blades to veer out of the way, scattering across the battlefield at more or less neck height. While it didn’t quite clear a line through the Enemy like she’d envisioned, it left the area before her only sparsely defended as maybe one of every three Defiled remained untouched by her attack. The others were dead or grievously wounded, and for a short, breath-taking second, both Imperial and Defiled alike stopped to gape at Yan’s ultimate attack.

Grandpa Du was the Sanguine Tempest, and now Yan was the Sanguine Whirlwind, a name she encouraged and was shortly being chanted by the soldiers under her command. It came from something Rain once said, about sowing the wind and reaping the whirlwind, and Yan had been enamoured with the saying ever since.

“Forward!” Yan commanded, and she even took a step in the right direction, but then her strength faded and Kyung was there to hold her up. Her soldiers didn’t disappoint though, as Ral led the way to their beleaguered allies, who as it turns out, weren’t so beleaguered after all. Arriving in the thick of things thanks to Kyung gently Cloud-Stepping them over, Yan found Ulfsaar’s wife, Neera, hard at work Healing cattle alongside other similarly talented companions. Leaving the formidable woman to her delicate work, Yan looked around for someone of authority to speak to, but Rain’s people had never been big on banners and regalia. It didn’t matter though, because she soon found all the answers she needed as Huu led his Sentinels around the side and herding a group of unfortunate Defiled into the path of Ulfsaar’s lumbering chariot. The whirling scythes attached to each wheel made short work of those poor bastards, and Yan saw the same tactic repeated more times by various groups around her position.

Clever. Grossly outnumbered by their foes, Ulfsaar’s cattle division would have been overrun in a matter of minutes if they tried to stand and fight, so they didn’t even try. Instead, they held their ground by driving endless circles around it. To keep the Defiled on their toes, Huu’s Sentinels wove between the deadly patrols of whirling death, allowing them to surge out and attack before retreating to the safety of the inner circle, so long as they timed things right. It wasn’t too difficult since cattle were not the fastest creatures in the world, but the Defiled were too timid to push into the circle, since the cattle cavalry were there waiting to receive them. Judging by the wheel marks on the ground, the circle had been shrinking for some time now as the chariots and quins churned the dirt and viscera into impassable mud, but now that Yan’s forces were here, Ulfsaar and Huu could rest easy.

Or so she thought, but once Kyung passed the orders along, both men replied in the negative. Two Warriors cut from the same cloth, though worded differently, their message was the same: point us where you wish to go, and we will deliver you there. Worried they might be pushing their own soldiers too hard, but unwilling to flat out refuse their offer of assistance like she had with XinYue, Yan inwardly shrugged and conveyed her new orders: move out of her way and follow her lead. This way, she could force them to rest and have them on hand if she needed their help to break through, but after a few minutes of bloody work, she discovered she’d been overly cautious. The Defiled horde thinned out and Kyung confirmed they’d broken through, but there was no time for celebration. Their work was only half done as she split her forces with Mister Rustram, sending Ulfsaar with him and keeping Huu with her as they circled around the Defiled flanks. There, they transformed from prey to predator and tore into the bisected Defiled horde with unrestrained ferocity, her troops infected by the sheer zeal and bloodlust of the quins fighting alongside them.

It warmed Yan’s heart to see Huu wholly in his element, his ferocious smile wide and spirit unshackled as he carved in and out of the Defiled lines. Though bleeding from a handful of not-so minor wounds, there was no fear in him anymore, not even disguised as anger or self-loathing. This was the wild, headstrong, dependable Huu she knew and grew up with, a kind, quiet man with a thunderous temper, the Ravenous Wolf of the Bekhai.

Unused to fighting whilst surrounded, the Defiled lines crumbled in short order, but the whole ordeal still took longer than Yan would have liked. Thrice she almost fell over from sheer exhaustion, her Chi and stamina all but spent, and after the third time, Kyung would no longer allow her to rejoin the fight. By then, the battle was all but over so Yan simply directed the clean up, allowing her division to rest up while the freshest divisions cleared a path for the wagons trailing behind them.

Filled with contentment from a job well done, Yan turned to see how her allies fared and found good news waiting for her. Mila and Alsantset had driven off the garo riders, and the rear guard was making steady progress behind them, but Hongji had yet to Send new orders and Yan was at an impasse. Alsantset and Major Sun Qiang were busy guarding the flanks, so neither one could be spared to take overall control of the army. Glancing at Kang Bing, she noted how he was favouring his left and staring distractedly at the ground, which told her he was in no shape to command either. While Yan had busied herself clearing out the chaff, Kang Bing and Kyung had borne the unpleasant task of killing every Champion and Chieftain she came across, which were plenty since they relished the challenge of fighting a Wind-Blessed Warrior. Even Kyung looked tired, though a stranger wouldn’t be able to tell, and while he had the knowledge needed to command, she was fairly certain he would freeze up in fright if she asked him to take over. He just wasn’t equipped for such a heavy responsibility, having never had to worry about anything besides the well-being of one or two people.

As much as she wanted Kyung’s skills to be recognized for what they were, it would be a long time before her adopted brother was ready to come out of his shell. Perhaps longer than Grandpa Du had left in this world, but such is life...

Not wanting to distract Hongji with a Sending while he was busy battling Demons, Yan organized the withdrawal with relative ease. Grandpa Du’s lessons had prepared her well for this, and if she missed anything, Kyung, Kang Bing, and Mister Rustram were quick to point it out. Rather than stand around and wait, she set the soldiers to marching once more and organized a water-skin collection and distribution chain while they moved, and soon, the trampled battlefield was far behind them and every soldier’s thirst was quenched. Unsure if there were any other traps or tricks ahead, Yan simply stayed the course and led her soldiers east, and would continue to do so until they either came across a friendly force or arrived at the second line, and that was that.

As the minutes ticked by in weary silence, the thrill of victory drained from Yan’s veins and left her tired and scared, especially since once Hongji finally made contact, it was only to request for more Demon Slayers. The requests came more frequently over the next hour, and Yan sent everyone she knew, including XinYue, Kyung, Kang Bing, Alsantset, Tenjin, and Tursinai, as Ghurda, Naaran, and the other Experts of the People had long since left to join the rearguard. She even sent Dastan out there, who’d killed a Demon before, albeit a newly spawned one, and Sahb and Ulfsaar who requested to go too. Soon, Yan was all but begging any remaining hidden Experts to go help Hongji, and even vowed that anyone found holding back would be held in the deepest contempt and she would do everything in her power to have them charged with treason. That did the trick as almost a dozen Experts set out for the rearguard, and for a time, the requests stopped. Never one to stand idle, Yan arranged all her remaining Aura Capable warriors to the rear, as a last line of defence if any Demons should break through Hongji’s valiant rear guards.

A pitiful last line it was, filled with all too familiar faces. Mila, Huu, Mister Rustram, Jorani, Ral, and Chey, they were the strongest of her remaining Experts, with lesser known talents like the Society’s Xue Biqian and Jin Zhilan here to bolster their numbers. There was not a single Domain-capable warrior left to them, marking Yan as their one and only Warrior who might possibly have strength enough to break through a Demon’s innate defences, since any use of External Chi was technically an expression of a weak Domain.

Hardly the most reassuring thought, but perhaps Hongji had enough Demon Slayers to hold...

Their luck held for another hour, until another Sending from Hongji arrived. “Four – now nine Demons have slipped past my defences,” Hongji Sent, sounding so tired his tone lacked any and all urgency. “Incoming Demon attack.” Yan’s blood chilled at the statement, but his next words terrified her to the core. “Can spare no Experts. If unable to hold, order a full retreat.”

To stand and fight or turn tail and run? The decision was left to Yan, but it was an easy decision to make. Either she would win here and secure her future, or she would die and be forever regaled as a failure who bungled her first command. “Infantry, double time,” she said, praying to the Mother for strength. “There are nine demons headed towards us, with possibly more to follow. I, Du Min Yan will hold them here for as long as I am able, but the rest of you may do as you please.”

With that, her path was set, and she immediately regretted this decision as Mila strode forth to stand at her side, flashing her feral smile and flourishing that fearsome weapon. Yan should’ve ordered her away so at least one of them might make it back to Rain’s side, but then the first Demon emerged from the darkness and it was already too late for regrets. On the bright side, Yan had already secured herself the title of ‘Sanguine Whirlwind’ tonight, so with a little luck, she might also claim the title of ‘Demon Slayer’ as well and make this truly a night to remember…

Yan's Battle Formation

How the battle went

Chapter Meme
