All across the battlefield, tens of thousands of soldiers slowed to heed her orders, and it filled Yan with more excitement than she ever thought possible. Oh how she had laughed at Grandpa’s war-games room, with his little miniatures of soldiers and horsemen sat neatly upon tables sculpted with grassy hills, riverbeds, and other such terrain. It seemed so silly then, to move those little miniatures and pretend like they were whole armies of warriors, but now she understood the allure. These were not the best circumstances to fight it, but they weren’t the worst either, so she would just have to make do with what she had, which when she thought about it, wasn’t exactly much. Some Sentinel training which she technically never finished and the beginnings of a Central-born noble’s military education, as well as the lessons she’d picked up as an orphan brawler.

And Mother willing, it would have to be enough.

Despite the battle unfolding before her and all her instincts screaming to charge into the fray, Yan forced herself to match Kyung’s pace, which would undoubtedly be exactly half march speed. What that value might be, she couldn’t say, but she knew her soldiers would appreciate having these quiet minutes to catch their breath without letting their bodies grow cold. The long march was just a warm up, which was good because win or lose, this battle would be over quickly, so best to throw everything they had into one initial, overwhelming charge.

At about one kilometre away from the battle lines, Yan ordered, “Signal Major XinYue to withdraw.” Almost immediately, she saw the heavy cavalry turn towards her as Kyung or Kang Bing relayed her orders, and again, she felt the heady rush of power and excitement, doubly so because she’d already deviated from the plan Kang Bing had so subtly laid out for her. “Marching speed.” The steady cadence of boots rose to drown out the scattered plodding of hooves riding by, and offered a salute to the tired, bloodied horsemen riding back towards the wagons. It was awe-inspiring to see these Northern Warriors returning after charging more than ten times their number, and to her surprise, they’d emerged relatively unscathed. As far as she could tell, at least two-thirds of Chu XinYue’s forces had survived, and while it was all but impossible to tell with the Defiled chasing in hot pursuit, they must have done significant damage to the Enemy forces to enrage them so.

Hongji had known exactly what he was doing when he ordered XinYue’s cavalry to charge ahead with little to no support. The intercepting horde was formidable at first glance, but in order to get ahead of Hongji’s forces, the Defiled would have had to keep up a punishing pace for hours without stopping. If not for XinYue’s charge, they would have had precious minutes to rest while the Imperial army moved in to meet them, and this battle would have been that much harder. Now, XinYue had bloodied their noses and gotten the Defiled worked up into a frenzy, which meant they weren’t thinking straight and simply charging ahead instead of reforming their battle lines, which suited Yan just fine.

“Warrant Officer Yan,” XinYue Sent, looking formidable as he rode up on his exhausted warhorse. For good reason too, as even the largest horse looked tiny when sat beneath this behemoth of a man, and this poor beast had carried him for hours before engaging in strenuous battle. “A number of chariots broke down and Ulfsaar refused to leave them behind. The Ravenous Wolf is supporting them, but they will not last long.” Damn it. A rather gentle man for a former bandit, Ulfsaar likely wouldn’t leave because the cattle couldn’t get free, and Huu was probably mad with battle rage. To his credit, XinYue Sent, “Permission to advance alongside and rescue our comrades?”

“Denied.” Yan didn’t even need to think about it, and since Hongji had given her command of the battlefield, she temporarily outranked the burly Major. “Water and rest your horses, then await further orders.” Seeing his scowl, she added, “You’ve secured glory enough with your valiant charge. Leave some for the rest of us.”

The Major cracked a smile as he rode off to see to his people, and once the last rider moved past, Yan ordered her people to link up with Mister Rustram’s. One spear-tip was better than two, given the circumstances, and while Hongji might disagree, she had command here. All the while, she kept a close eye on the Defiled advance, because timing was key here. One kilometre wasn’t too far to run, but these Defiled were being fuelled by bloodlust and little else. Let them waste what little strength they had, because the closer they came, the less her soldiers had to run. The Defiled crossed five-hundred metres in the blink of an eye, but then their lines stretched as the forerunners kept coming and others slowed or stopped to kill or desecrate fallen Imperial riders, and still Yan waited. At two-hundred and fifty metres, she almost gave the order, but then she waited a few seconds more until the Defiled lines were only a hundred metres away.

Then she lifted her battle-fan, infused her breath with Chi, and howled, “Charge!”

With the wind at her back, Yan surged into the lead as she ran headlong at the Defiled, and as guttural howls sounded out behind her, she almost thought she’d somehow gotten turned around. Far from it though, for it was not the Defiled screaming in challenge, but Wang Bao’s cutthroats unleashing all their pent up rage and bloodlust. The howls were picked up by other Imperials and Yan saw firsthand how the clamour shook the Defiled. The tired front-runners slowed their steps and faltered in place, wondering if they should turn tail and flee, but it was already too late. She claimed the first kill, punching her bladed shield into the throat of an exhausted foe, but Wang Bao’s axe collected the next three, impaling his first foe on the pointed head before cleaving through two others. Though not particularly large, tall, or imposing, there was something about the man’s unbridled ferocity which struck fear in friend and foe alike. A born killer with a rough-hewn Spiritual Battle Axe, Wang Bao set to the Defiled with unmatched brutality, lopping off heads and disembowelling bellies without a care in the world, while his first kill sat impaled upon his axe-head.

And when this was all done, Wang Bao would shoulder his battle-axe, run his fingers through his bloody beard, and go back to being the stuffy, uptight model soldier he usually appeared to be. That was the most terrifying part, in Yan’s eyes, how normal and boring he seemed outside of battle, just like Mister Rustram...

Now was not the time for distraction though, since she had a battle to lead. “Forward!” she called, slashing the throat of a Defiled tribesman about to stab one of Wang Bao’s ruffians. “Forward, heroes of the Empire, into the teeth of the Enemy!” The thrill of battle sang in her veins, but she reined in her excitement before it took full control, throwing out Wind Blades with every pass of her Battle-Fan and advancing deeper into the Enemy lines. Kyung and Kang Bing were at her sides, but she couldn’t let them exhaust themselves pushing forward on their own, so she raised her voice and shouted, “Put your backs into it, you sorry, spineless rejects! Are you motherless bastards? Or are you Children of the Empire?! FORWARD!”

That did the trick, as her soldiers redoubled their efforts and drove themselves deep into the Defiled horde. The Imperial charge faltered as they struck the mass of stragglers following behind the forerunners, but the chaos and confusion served her well. The Imperial advance had arrived faster than they anticipated, and they mistook the howls still emanating from Wang Bao’s cutthroats as a sign that their Defiled brethren were winning. Far from it as Yan’s unstoppable advance crushed them underfoot, her Wind Blades clearing the way down the centre while Kyung and Kang Bing aided the soldiers on her flanks. While it didn’t seem like much, this set off a series of events in which each soldier down the line was free to aid their comrade beside them, then go on to help the next soldier over, turning their one-to-one charge into a series of increasingly uneven exchanges.

All thanks to her Wind Blades clearing the way forward.

Well, it wasn’t all thanks to her, as Wang Bao, Rustram, and a few others were also serving the same purpose, if to a lesser extent. Pran and Saluk were tireless pushing forward with massive sweeps of their hammers, while the quiet Lang Yi and Lang Er set to the Defiled with unmatched enthusiasm. Then there was Mister Rustram, dancing about the battlefield and waving his flimsy rapier about, killing any who stood in his path. Other Northern talents made their skills known, including Xue Biqian and Jin Zhilan from the Society, as well as the young Magistrate of Ping Yao whose name Yan never bothered to learn. Most impressive of all was the armoured giant Ral, who Yan almost didn’t notice because he was more than a dozen metres ahead of her position. There he stood, a man alone, smashing aside everything in front of him with his monstrous staff while twirling and spinning about like a massive man of a windmill. Impressive as this might be, even his full set of Runic Plate Armour wouldn’t keep the half-dog safe for long, not surrounded like he was, but even as Yan adjusted her heading to support Ral, someone else rendered her efforts worthless.

The Spiritual Rope almost seemed laughable as it shot up into the air, hitting nothing as it stretched out to its maximum length, but then it descended upon the Defiled with the crack of thunder and left nothing but death in its wake. At least a dozen Defiled were killed and an entire section of the battlefield was cleared out in one single attack, but Jorani was not yet done. Similarly clad in full-Runic Plate, the Hangman stood alone on the battlefield as he flicked his Spiritual Rope high once more and brought it down like a massive cane, leaving only corpses on either side of Ral until Imperial soldiers surged forward to fill the void.

“Hangman Jorani!” someone called, and the chant was picked up by others, including Yan herself, because damned her if that wasn’t some impressive work, and from the looks of things, Ral was pushing on ahead for a repeat performance. “Hangman Jorani!”

Throwing herself back into the fray, Yan redoubled her efforts to cut through the Defiled. Not because she didn’t want to be outdone by the likes of Ral and Jorani, but also because Huu and Ulfsaar were still in the thick of things. Though a good number of Defiled had chased after XinYue and their cavalry as they withdrew from the battle, Yan imagined a whole lot more stayed behind to finish off Huu and Ulfsaar, so she fought down her growing panic and forged ahead as quickly as she dared. The Northerners formed the spear point, but without support from the tailing Central and Southern soldiers, the Defiled could easily encircle the Northerners and drag them all down in a battle of bloody attrition. Seconds went by in uneasy apprehension, with Yan’s spirits faltering even as she slaughtered her way through the horde, for she should have come across a friendly face by now. Step by bloody step, she drove her soldiers forward, but the Enemy shook off their surprise all too quickly and slowed her progress greatly. These were no predators, but opportunistic scavengers, and they sensed her desperation as clear as day. The Defiled only needed to endure this assault for half an hour or less before their comrades caught up, and then, they would feast upon fresh Imperial corpses.

Unless Yan saved Ulfsaar and Huu, broke through the Defiled lines, manoeuvred her soldiers to surround the Enemy, and then slaughtered them until the crazed, bloodthirsty berserkers decided they’d had enough death for one day. It seemed like such a neat and simple plan when Grandpa moved his miniatures around on his sculpted tables, but it was far more difficult to carry out in real life.

Throwing Wind Blades out as fast as she could swing her sword, Yan sorely wished she could do the same with her shield. Unfortunately, despite Divine Blacksmith Husolt’s claim of it being some of his best work, Yan never did figure out why, and she lacked skin thick enough to ask him. Even Mila couldn’t figure it out, besides noting that it was exceedingly well balanced, to the point where Yan barely felt its weight while holding it tight. Still, it made for a decent close combat weapon as the Defiled wised up to her ways, seeking to close in on her during the pause between successive Wind Blades, only to be greeted by the Honed spikes of her shield.

Between Jorani’s impressive, sweeping strikes and Ral’s unstoppable advance, Yan’s division speedily progressed through the Enemy lines. It didn’t take long before she felt surrounded on all sides, but a quick glance back showed her the truth of that matter, that her back was clear thanks to the ever widening line of Central and Southern soldiers guarding the flanks, spread out like wings on a bird to hold back the burgeoning press of Defiled.

“There,” Kyung Sent, pointing ahead and to Yan’s left, and she immediately spotted what he meant. A break in the fighting, but not because of her, and she angled her people towards it. Realizing time was of the essence, she gave up on conserving her strength and went all out, no longer standing back to throw Wind Blades into the fray and instead closing in to fight the Defiled face to face. Killing from ten-paces away was impressive and all, but Yan was so much better at killing from point blank range, her sword and shield carving a bloody path through the Defiled so quickly, she soon found herself standing side by side with Ral.

