Thomas read through the scroll and then scanned it again, just to make sure. The hair on his arms rose, and he felt the buzz of pure anticipation under his skin. This was what he had asked for.

Sort of.

Kill or drive the influence of the Light elves from this dungeon and see this ground returned to the native population of your planet.

That was going to be a problem for him. His Gift wasn't exactly the smiting type, and the burden of Healing mana meant he would receive soul-damaging backlash if he killed a sapient being.

But he had gotten this far under those restrictions. There had to be a way to complete this quest without killing. The Light elves had laid hands on Jo, seriously hurt Zach, and had sent him and his nephews into hiding. Thomas would find a way to bring the pain to their doorstep. In the meantime, there was always loot.

Should he be upset about not getting official champion status? He might have been at least a little miffed, except that the scroll specifically outlined that it came with a Burden. Thomas already had more than enough burdens to deal with, thank you very much.

No, this was giving him both permission and some ability to do exactly what he'd wanted to do anyway. He could work with that.

Rolling up the scroll, he looked around at the others. Everyone else had finished reading theirs as well. Zach had rerolled his but still stared down at it in thought. Jo was looking away to the other side of the room, a frown on her face. Twitch... well, he had actually gone still for once.

Courtney didn't receive a scroll, and neither had Antonin. Not that Antonin looked like he cared very much. He was standing off to the side, humming quietly to himself. It looked like he was very much used to being ignored, and probably preferred it that way.

"Well?" Courtney asked, impatient, and giving the air she'd been waiting politely long enough. "What is it?"

Twitch spoke up before Thomas could tell her that it was none of her business.

"System wants us to—"

Zach cut him off. "You guys, she can't hear this."

"Excuse me?" Courtney demanded, and seriously, the nerve.

Ignoring her, Zach exchanged looks with Thomas, Jo, and finally Twitch. No one said it, but they were all on the same page, even though Twitch looked reluctant. He had a whole flirtation thing going on with her, and they'd been watching each other's backs through this fight, but he wasn't gullible.

Each of them basically held a decree from the System, and that wasn't something to be taken lightly.

The problem had come to a head: What were they supposed to do with Courtney?

Courtney must have sensed the change in the room. Her expression darkened, and she focused on Zach. "It's fine, I can guess what's in that scroll. You're really going to go against the family, aren't you? Do you have any idea what you're doing?"

"I left that world a long time ago," he said.

She shook her head quickly, dismissive, and plowed on. "Nobody cares that you took a sabbatical or whatever and then raided one of your own dungeons. You're a main family member. You can do whatever you want, and they'll welcome you back and give you access to Power. You know that, right?"

Thomas could practically hear the capital lettering in how she said "Power." She wasn't talking about power; she meant Power. As in, a mana type.

The situation became clearer: Branch members, and maybe those who were demoted to branch member status, were forced to take Corruption mana. The favored main family got Power.

That was so screwed up.

Zach's jaw tightened. "Why would you ever think I wanted that? Look what they're doing with all that Power. Look what happened to Antonin, and now they're feeding innocent people into the dungeon? It's wrong, and I won't condone it."

Courtney didn't back off. In fact, she leaned toward him. "This planet is going downhill, and by the end, the family will be one of the few human institutions still standing. So, what? You don't care anymore? Just like you didn't care about Ambre when you left either."

Thomas had never heard that name, but Zach sure did, judging by the flash of pain that crossed his face.

"Whoa, time out." Stepping between them, Thomas made the baseball T sign. "This soap opera stuff is fun and all, but we don't have time—"

"No!" Courtney rounded on him, her eyes alight with the passion of a zealot. "None of you get it. The Light elves are helping. They've seen planet integrations go wrong before because planetary governments tried to reject change, keep their power, and no one stepped up to lead the population. Then it all fell apart."

Thomas had been trying to stop the drama before it started, but this was too much. "That's what you call this? Helping? By feeding prisoners into the dungeon and reaping the loot?"

"By making sure as many people go into a dungeon as possible," she said. "You're only seeing part of the plan. We need strong people and enough Light mana to pay off the elves while uplifting talented divers with Nature and Electric. Yeah, people die. That's dungeon diving." She flicked her hand as if brushing away a tiny point. "But do you know what happens to all the people who don't dive before the System Integration timer runs out?"

Thomas did, in fact, know. He was curious how Courtney spun it. "Tell me."

"They get taken into a forced tutorial where they're given a weak little Support Gift and expected to serve others for the rest of their lives, like Antonin." She glanced at the man. However, the expression in her eyes wasn't pity for his situation. They were bright with anger. "Except he's got it easy compared to what's coming for the rest. He's not himself anymore, but the people who'll go through the forced tutorial will still have their minds at the end. They'll just be too weak to fight and be at the mercy of those who got in early."

That wasn't so different from what the Dark elves had told them.

"Well, shit," Twitch said. "That's news to me, but none of you look surprised."

"Dark elves told us the same story," Jo said bluntly. "Only most of their people went through the forced tutorial and came out as servants. The way they tell it, it's been centuries, and they still haven't been able to regain a foothold in their own society."

Courtney nodded rapidly, looking relieved. She probably thought she was winning them over. "That's one of the best-case scenarios if a lot more people don't get a move on and get into the dungeons."

"I'm still waiting to hear about the Light elves' solution," Thomas said. "They're going to get the government to send out PSAs, or what?"

"It's not like you can take over TV, internet, and whatever without any power behind you," Courtney said. "But the Light elves are restricted by the System on what they can do and how they can directly help. We're building up a foundation here: People aren't going to go into dungeons quietly, so we're leveling up people here to force them if we need to. Even the prisoners," she added with a glance to Jo.

"You don't think the family has gathered enough power from the last seventy-five years they've known about dungeons?" Zach asked.

Meanwhile, Thomas had other concerns. Courtney believed they were preparing the foundation for Light elves to have the power to help. To him, it seemed like they were prepping the entire area to make it easy for the Light elves to take that power and conquer. The System seemed to know they didn't have people's best intentions in mind.

Even taking her word for it meant that people would be leveled with a foundation of Nature and Electric mana. Maybe even Light, unless that all went to the elves as "payment." Those were all fairly uncommon, if not esoteric, mana types. Anyone who took it in as their foundation would either need more to continue to level, or a mana type within the close family to transition to something else. Both would be a high bar... unless they continued working the Light elves for more.

Jo must have been thinking along the same lines. "Seems to me you're just gathering power."

Courtney made an angry noise, a little like a cat, and glanced at Twitch for backup. He stayed silent. With a scowl, Courtney turned to Jo. "You're just assuming the worst intentions, but what is our government doing right now? Nothing. Twitch said you're working with the Dark elves. Tell me what they're doing to help."

Jo stayed silent. That was an uncomfortable point.

Twitch spoke up. His tone was neutral, but critically he had moved a few steps away from Courtney, distancing himself from her. "It seems like everyone who has just a little bit of power is taking prisoners for themselves; even the National Guard's selling theirs off. I didn't know where to, but after seeing this place... I can guess. There's probably a lot of people like this: little wannabe warlords building forts and shit."

"That isn't what we're doing," Courtney insisted. No one was listening. She wasn't on their side... or even the side of the human race. She was all in prepping the area for future takeover.

Zach sighed. "If we're going along with this," he held up the scroll meaningfully, "we're going to have to leave her behind in the dungeon."

Courtney rounded on him. "Excuse me?"

Jo flicked her wrist and a blade thumped right between Courtney's boots. Courtney froze and stared down at it.

"I'd suggest you shut up if you know what's good for you," Jo said in a tone as sweet and dangerous as Thomas had ever heard from her.

Courtney looked like she wanted to spit venom back at the other woman, but kept her mouth shut.

"I could Purge her," Thomas offered, though he winced a little inside. It felt messed up to use it as an offensive weapon instead of self-defense or actual healing, but it certainly was effective. "That'll stop her for thirty minutes, probably longer."

"She'll come out stronger on the other end," Jo said. "No. Just tie her up."

"What about leaving her in the boss room?" Zach said. "It's not like they'll respawn."

"And if she can't ever get free after we leave?" Twitch asked quietly, "Or another monster comes in there?"

"Dude, she is a lot more capable than she's making you think."

Apparently, this was too much for Courtney. "I'm not letting anyone tie me up!"

"Well, we sure as shit aren't letting you run off to the Light elves or Zach's family, either," Jo said, then added a low grumbling, "We shoulda just gone with Tiny's solution."

"She'll run for the exit door, first chance she'll get," Zach agreed.

Twitch held up a hand. "Hold up, no she won't because we got something she wants." He looked at Thomas. "You still got that skill shard on you, right?"

Thomas raised his eyebrows. He was talking about the Bring Light into the Darkness skill, and yes he did. He pulled the shard out of his pack and held it up between two fingers.

"What are you saying?" Courtney asked. "You're going to give that to me?"

"No, baby, we're going to buy you off," Twitch said with a smile. "You don't have to help us, just don't rat us out. Play dumb and you get a skill at the end of it. How many skills do you have?"

Obviously not enough, because Courtney's eyes were hungry for the skill. Thomas almost wanted to tuck it back in his pack. This was his loot.

"They'll never believe it," Courtney said after a moment.

"They will if you tell them about the ankle monitor," Twitch said.

"Doesn't matter. Tiny had the remote."

"They don't have to know that."

Courtney bit her lip, then looked from one to another, and Thomas knew they had her cooperation. Twitch had read her well: She was exactly the type of person who would betray her own family, or at least step aside and play dumb, if the price was right.

"You promise?" she asked in a small voice.

"Guys, that is not good enough," Zach cut in, then looked hard at Courtney. "The skill's for your good behavior, but you're still getting tied up in the Boss room while we talk it out. I know all about your Gift of Rubber, so I'll do it. We'll come and get you as soon as we've got things sorted between us, but I don't trust you."

Thomas felt that was overkill, but trusted Zach's read on her. Plus, time was ticking. Tiny was still in the middle of his Purge, but afterward, they'd have to worry about him exiting back through the entrance door and causing them problems.

Jo obviously agreed with tying her up, looking like she'd rather pin Courtney down with blades to ensure she went nowhere. Twitch didn't seem happy, but he was outvoted.

Courtney gave a final look around as if seeking another angle of help. "What about him?" She pointed to Antonin, who had sat down quietly in the corner. "You're going to tie him up too?"

What little pity Thomas had fled.

"He stays with us," Zach said firmly, and no one argued.

The process itself was fast. The boss room was still clear, and Courtney allowed herself to be restrained with her own shoelaces, with wrists behind her back and ankles tied. Zach did the duty himself. Meanwhile, Thomas glanced around with his Health Sight and found Tiny outside the boss room but not too far away. Sure enough, he was still purging himself clean. Holton and Sue were standing guard.

Finally, he, Jo, Zach, Twitch, and a still humming Antonin went back to the exit room. Now they were finally free to speak, the atmosphere felt awkward. Thomas wasn't sure how to begin.

Twitch was the first to speak, "All right, anyone else think the System is playing 'fuck around and find out' games?"

"What do you mean?" Thomas asked.

Twitch shook the scroll in his hand. "Look, if I got this straight, these Light Elf guys are using Courtney's family as middlemen so they don't cross the System and have... exactly this happen to them, right? So what's the System do?" He didn't wait for an answer. "It does almost the exact same thing. It even says it's not giving us the mantle of champion. It's a classic FAFO proportional response."

He might actually have a point there. The System was giving back exactly what it had been given: The elves were using the family as their middlemen, and the System was using them.

Also, Thomas had to remember that Twitch was smarter than he looked.

He shook his head. "All right, I'll give you that. So does everyone's scroll say the same thing about their boon enhancing Gifts?" He got nods in reply from everyone. Thomas let out a breath and reminded himself that while Twitch had come down on their side with the Courtney issue, he wasn't a true team member yet. "I don't know how my Gift of senses is going to be helpful, even enhanced. Though even if it added nothing, I still want to do this. I can't just stand by and let what I've seen go. But..." Thomas glanced at Zach. He didn't want to say it, but having his Gift enhanced was a huge risk.

Zach shrugged and sort of smiled. "Not gonna lie, my fire manipulation Gift," he gave the exact same emphasis Thomas had given to his, "is going to be a real pain if it gets juiced up. But you brought me back from full pineapple mode before, man. I'm sure you can do it again, and it'll be a kick in the teeth to anyone who gets in my way."

Twitch looked between them. "I don't get it."

"I'm pretty sure I'll go full fire with this enhancement, dude," Zach explained. "If that happens, just point me in the direction of who needs to burn."

"Nah, man, you'll be good." Twitch flicked his own scroll. "It says right there it's a boon. I ain't got no dictionary, but boons are good things. The System's not going to hand you something bad when it wants something outta you."

He might have half a point. Or maybe it was more copium.

"Well, I don't see we have a choice either way." Jo was staring down at her own unrolled scroll, but didn't seem to be reading it. She was just firming up her conclusion. "I'm the same as Thomas: No matter what, I'd try to shut this place down anyway. This is just a good excuse."

Zach and Twitch nodded.

Thomas had to add, "Also, I still want to see about that inventory room if we can."

Zach shot him a grin, and Jo rolled her eyes fondly.

"But how do we do this, though?" Twitch asked. "We're supposed to reclaim this dungeon 'for the people,' but... how? Plant a flag and call it ours?"

"We burn out the nest," Zach said. "Free the prisoners, chase out anyone who doesn't stand and fight us. Those that do, we put down. It's not going to be easy. This branch of the family runs on Corruption mana, and obviously, that corrupts like you wouldn't believe. Thomas, we're going to be relying on you to keep us healthy."

Thomas nodded. He couldn't do the actual killing, of course, but he could help run people out and keep his team uncorrupted. Also, yes, his Gift wasn't senses, but one of his Abilities was, and no one would be able to hide from him.

"The guards use a portal for supplies in and out," Jo said. "Courtney may know how to use it and shut it down."

"We tell her the bare minimum," Zach said, "and guys, seriously, don't turn your back on her. She's been trained by a branch family since she was a kid, and they all want to be part of the main family. I'm kind of surprised she went after the shard at all, but there's a chance she also wants power. She's dangerous."

"I'll talk to her," Twitch said, "and no, I won't be stupid about it. Anyways," he reached into his pack, which was a normal one and not one of the magically expanded. That's why Thomas was surprised when he pulled out a massive A-grade electric mana crystal. He'd obviously lifted it off Tiny.

Grinning, Twitch held it up. "I don't think it's enough to get me to level three, but it'll get me close."

"Oh, that reminds me," Thomas said brightly. He couldn't believe he'd forgotten, but he had been kind of distracted. He pulled out the two bags of holding he'd gotten from the dead guards, then upended them on the floor, finally able to get a good look at the loot.

There was a lot.