Leaning on her long-handled axe, Sai Chou spit and nodded, but otherwise remained silent. Though undoubtedly handsome as all Martial Warriors were, the layers of caked dirt and filth made it difficult to tell her age, not to mention ruined any appeal she might possibly have. While it might seem presumptuous to criticize her appearance, Rustram couldn’t help it as he was getting sick of hearing about Ravil’s conquests or how perfect Dei An was, though where he might find the time for romance in his busy schedule was a complete mystery.

“Thank you,” The boss said. “Oh, and tell everyone to keep an eye out for herds of horses, cattle, goats, and whatnot. I know what you’re all thinking, and no, I’m not looking for more pets. This whole area is prime grazing land and a lot of civilians abandoned their animals in their rush to head east.” Glancing at what little remained of Sinuji, the boss shook his head and added, “I can’t say I blame them either. Regardless, we’ll be paid an appropriate bounty on anything we bring back, but more importantly it’ll mean less food for Defiled bellies and more for ours.”

The news was met with good cheer, and the boss turned to Rustram. “Arrange a round the clock schedule, three hours a shift. I want quins scouting three to five kilometres ahead, while the Protectorate form a loose perimeter around us. I want both groups fresh and alert as possible while on duty. We don’t know how many Defiled are out there or where they’re gathering in numbers, so I’d rather not trip over a massive army of cannibals or worse. Have I missed anything?”

“Deployment formation,” Rustram supplied, a moment before Daxian’s Sending informed him of the same.

While Rustram revelled in his minor victory, the boss pursed his lips and sighed. “Right. I’ll be honest, I have no idea how we should deploy. Suggestions?”

“Well, Wang Bao already volunteered for the vanguard, so I say put the Death Corps in the centre, Ulfsaar, Lang Yi, and Dastan as the rear guard, with the resting quins and Protectorate on either flank. The Death Corps hold the line or advance to support Wang Bao, Ulfsaar and Lang Yi wait in reserve, and both types of cavalry are free to move where they’re needed.”

And woe to any Defiled who came across the Protectorate.

“Alternatively,” Daxian interjected, using the same condescending tone one used to correct a child, “The smart thing to do is to use one unit of Death Corps as your vanguard and place the other two on the flanks. They’re the most heavily armoured troops you have, which makes them the best equipped to handle any... unexpected situations.”

“Won’t be no unexpected situations. Yer second’s plan will suit us just fine.” Surprisingly enough, Sai Chou spoke up in Rustram’s defence, though in retrospect, he realized it was because Daxian had subtly insinuated the two lines of scouts might miss something.

“My second, and your superior.” Unfazed by the boss’s stern glare, Sai Chou spit once more before grudgingly accepting the reprimand with an apologetic shrug. In recent days, the boss had become something of a stickler for protocol, a change Rustram wholeheartedly embraced. It was high time the boss put his foot down and stopped letting his soldiers do as they pleased, especially now that they were entering a war-zone. Discipline and training were their greatest weapons against the Defiled, and without them, the Empire would have been lost millennia ago. Also, Rustram needed all the help he could get and he’d long had his mind set on promoting Silva as his aide, a move the boss was reluctant to force on the lazy but literate bastard.

Until now.

“We’ll go with Mister Rustram’s deployment,” the boss declared. “Li Song, I’m handing you command of all three hundred Death Corps, but I’ll send Viyan and Birca to help. Let me know if you need more able bodies, and I’ll do what I can.” Her ears a flutter, the stony-faced cat-girl nodded and the boss continued. “Anything else? No? Okay then. Get your people in order, we leave within the hour. Dismissed.” Staying in place, the boss signalled for Rustram to remain behind and predictably, Daxian stayed as well. “Sorry I couldn’t give you more warning. I didn’t expect Colonel Hongji to say no.”

“We all serve at the Emperor’s pleasure,” was all Rustram could come up with.

“Seems like it. Thing is, I don’t mind the lack of rest. We’re tough, we can handle it. It’s this whole asinine plan we’re supposed to follow. It is, hands down, the stupidest way to fight a war I have ever seen.”

“Scared?” Though his handsome face remained impassive, Daxian’s voice did all the sneering for him.

“No. Actually, I’m looking forward to killing some Defiled.” A true gentleman, the boss didn’t let his irritation show. “Problem is, we’re facing an Enemy who outnumbers us ten to one, so riding out in piecemeal groups to face them on an open field hardly seems productive. We can hardly kill them ten to one while taking a defensive position. How bad will it be out there in the wild?”

“Fool.” Dismissive as ever, Daxian explained, “We must ride out to meet the Defiled to show the world we are not afraid. Our victories will be spoken of on every tongue in every bar and brothel in the Empire, raising morale and providing hope to those in need. The warriors left behind to guard, the farmers working the fields, the merchants hiding in their homes, all still have a part to play and without them, we are truly lost. The Defiled are a threat, but it is the Enemy who will be our undoing.”

“Still stupid. If you want to raise morale, then lie.”

“And what happens if those lies are proven false?” As much as he hated to admit it, Rustram agreed with Daxian on this count. If the Empire loses the trust of the people, then the consequences would be dire indeed.

Closing his eyes, the boss asked, “Then what happens when some idiot makes a mistake and loses a thousand soldiers?”

Despite all his accomplishments, it seemed like the boss would forever be a worrier, which Rustram found oddly endearing.

With a shrug, Daxian replied, “Then the loss will fuel the Empire’s desire for justice and vengeance. As Mister Rustram said, we all serve. In life or in death, the Emperor cares not.”

“How... uplifting. If this soldier turned bandit turned mercenary thing doesn’t work out, I foresee a lucrative career writing greeting cards in your future.” Clutching his rabbit a little closer, the boss sighed and said, “I need you to speak with the quartermaster and make sure we have enough supplies for the entire trip. I want us operating on the assumption that we won’t be able to hunt or resupply until we’re back in Sinuji. I doubt the Defiled will think to taint the water supply or scare away the wildlife, but better safe than sorry.”

“Yes boss.”

“Also, send word back to Luo-Luo and tell her stop production on the repeating crossbows and focus her efforts elsewhere. They’re too inefficient for the cost, in both coin and manpower.”

This was his chance. “Why not adjust the crossbows for a heavier draw? We can easily do it here in the field and while it will take more effort to load each quarrel, even at half the rate of fire, they’ll still have their use.”

“...See, this is why you’re my second in command. Daxian, you best keep him safe, because I can’t survive without him.” Clapping Rustram on the shoulder, the boss grinned and said, “I was too focused on the repeating part, but I suppose normal crossbows will work too. Write a letter anyways and tell her we’ll be unreachable for the next little while so she won’t panic when I don’t return her messages.”

“Er... Are you sure you don’t want to write the message instead, boss? And maybe say something to the rest of your wives?”

“Tch. Right again. How are you still single? Now stop making me look bad and get to work, before I send a letter telling my mom her Disciple is a slacker.” With a playful wink, the boss dismissed Rustram, who strode off with head held high and Daxian in tow, ready to butt heads with the quartermaster over every gram of grain and millilitre of water. While history might not remember Rustram’s name, he was content in the knowledge that Imperial Consort Falling Rain considered him ‘indispensable’.

Granted, he rather have a loving wife and children to call his own, but until such a time, this would have to do.

Chapter Meme
