Heart pounding and head light, Song wavered between anxiety and excitement as she hid in the dark, cramped confines of the cabin to evade detection from watchful eyes.

Difficult to do with so many boots marching about, both outside on the ship proper and below under the decks, not to mention how she had yet to learn how to Conceal. At least the animals were inclined to huddle in around her, thinking this all a great game thanks to Lin-Lin’s phenomenal training. Song only had to give the command ‘hide’ alongside the appropriate gesture and most of the pets tucked themselves away, though generally in terrible hiding spots because they didn’t understand they were trying to avoid being seen. They only knew that the command meant it was time to lay still and be quiet, which was still more than Song could’ve accomplished, and she envied Lin-Lin for her natural aptitude in connecting with the animals. The half-hare had this way of making all their pets willingly dance to her tune, treating their lessons like games and giving it their all to earn their prizes. A simple concept in theory, to reward the desired behaviour with food and attention while repeatedly giving the same command, but it was hardly as easy as Lin-Lin made it look. Patience, consistency, and a firm will were all required in order to find success, as it was all too easy to give in to the animals’ pleading looks or disgruntled frustration, which would only reward them for the wrong behaviours and set them back even further from whence they began.

A transgression Song was most guilty of, for she could hardly hold firm before their pleading gazes...

Aside from the laughing birds who were all too smart and independent to submit to Lin-Lin’s lessons, Mama Bun was the best at avoiding her education, for her anger was utterly adorable to behold. It didn’t take much to set the rabbit off either, whereupon she’d spin around in circles and thump her feet while gently headbutting everyone and everything in her path. Then, if she still didn’t get her way, she would either react with more anger and aggression or give up entirely and go find someone else to play with, depending on the value of the reward. In this case, it was the latter as mere fresh berries were not enough to drive her into a fury, but thankfully, the silly bunny was a simple creature who equated darkness with bedtime. Even though she had yet to learn the command to hide and only wanted to eat, she was more than happy to fall asleep cuddled in Song’s embrace. The other rabbits were much the same, burrowing under the bears and wildcats or in George’s case, under Rakky’s paw, while the rest of the animals lay still and watched Song with wide, expectant eyes, knowing they would be given a treat once the game was up.

Except it wasn’t a game, and it was vital they all remain still and quiet for at least an hour, possibly longer depending on the speed of Rain’s retinue.

How did matters even come to this? It was all because Song took it upon herself to ignore Rain’s... not command, but request, out of her own selfish desires. Her accomplice Lin-Lin was nowhere to be found, and they had yet to convince Rakky to Conceal anyone other than himself, and he wouldn’t even do that on command. The diffident tiger all too happy to be groomed, bathed, and spoiled like a prince, but unwilling to heed any commands whatsoever unless they suited his mood. In Song’s eyes, Rakky had long since learned all of Lin-Lin’s verbal and somatic commands, but simply enjoyed doing the opposite for the sake of being contrary. How else to explain his refusal to lie down like the rest of the animals? Instead, Rakky sat like the proud and regal feline he was, albeit in a somewhat tilted fashion as he kept all his weight off of his front left paw to avoid squashing sweet George underneath. It was clear the tiger was fond of the rabbit, else he’d simply move his paw, though it could just be that Rakky was tired of George’s stubborn persistence and found it easier to give in than to keep shifting about.

The fact that Rakky had yet to eat any of the pets was a miracle to be sure, though Rain was adamant Pong Pong kept the tiger firmly in check, preventing the tiger from hunting anything besides sea creatures Pong Pong considered food. Oh how Song wished the tiny Divine Turtle was more comfortable in her presence, but aside from Rain, Lin-Lin, and the Medical Saint, he rarely showed himself to anyone else. A damn shame too, because if Song could convince Pong Pong to hide them all, that would all but ensure success in this most nerve-wracking of endeavours. Kukky was another option, but the silkie rooster was too scared of Rakky to ever stay in a room with him, even with Pong Pong’s admittedly unreliable guarantee of safety. If only Ping Ping could learn how to Conceal, then that would be the best solution, as the sweet girl barely needed any training at all since she was always happy to help.

Minutes passed in stifling silence as boredom replaced tension as her most pressing emotion, so she settled in against Banjo’s warm flank and cuddled with Mama Bun and Sarankho to pass the time, unable to resist kissing Mama Bun’s twitching nose every now and then just to see her open her eyes and stretch her neck to give a little bunny kiss back. Rain had long since trained the bears and wildcats not to give kisses, the former because they were too wet and slobbery, and the latter because their barbed tongues were wholly capable of abrading unprotected flesh and leaving wide, bloody gouges behind. Thankfully not a trait Song inherited from her Ancestral Beast mother, as she imagined it would make eating and speaking difficult to say the least, but it showed that Rain was more than capable of teaching his pets obedience, but simply chose not to for some reason or another.

Likely because he enjoyed their mischievous antics, as no one laughed louder than he when Blackjack snuck into the pantry and devoured an entire smoked duck Charok set aside for dinner the next day. He also giggled when the groundhogs or rabbits got into the Medical Saint’s herbal garden but he respected his teacher too much to laugh directly at his face. That didn’t stop Lin-Lin from laughing out loud though, which only made the Medical Saint stomp around and exaggerate his anger more just to keep hearing her laughter, a family dynamic which warmed Song’s heart to see.

And also took her completely by surprise, for there was nothing about the Medical Saint that even hinted at the fact that he was an Ancestral Cloud Chaser Hare. It wasn’t just her either, as Sister Mila, Yan, and Rain were similarly astonished and bore no suspicions beforehand. Putting aside all else, was there ever an Ancestral Beast who raised their daughter with so much love and affection? According to Guan Suo’s last will and testimony, he’d himself entertained the notion of keeping Sister Mila as a child, but he’d been utterly incapable of repressing the urge to grant the mercy of death to his ‘weakened’ progeny, and thus indirectly gave her up to Mama and Papa. It was clear there were other Ancestral Beasts trying to raise their children as well, such as GangShu, Lady Gam, and to some extent, the People’s Old Wolf who refused to answer to any other name, but none of them had a relationship as warm and genuine as the one Lin-Lin shared with her beloved daddy. In fact, it was difficult to find a fully human relationship so earnest and saccharine, though perhaps the Medical Saint was simply the exception to the rule when it came to not only Ancestral Beast behaviour, but human as well. He was... eccentric to say the least, and he loved Rain and the rest of the family almost as much as he loved Lin-Lin, so it was difficult to say if the Medical Saint was a paragon of virtue or simply an outstanding individual in more ways than one. Perhaps both, though that didn’t make it any easier for Sister Mila, who’d been visibly saddened upon learning the news and stayed away from Guai Guai for a day or two, but then she overcame her melancholy all on her own and went back to loving the grumpy red panda, who seemingly failed to notice her absence now that he had Tai-Tai to keep him company.

In fact, Guai Guai seemed rather discontent having to play these ‘games’, though he expressed it in the most helpful way possible, hiding himself under the cot where he glared at anyone and everyone who dared make eye-contact.

Alas, Song’s efforts to keep them hidden were all for naught as she heard the tell-tale cries of Lin-Lin’s best efforts at keeping their foe distracted, but he would not be swayed. Marching down the corridor as quickly as he dared, Rain burst through the door with a scowl etched across his face as he took in the sight of Song hiding with all of the pets he so callously intended to leave behind. “No,” he declared, more statement than rejection, and Song fought the habitual urge to obey his every command. Instead, she hugged Mama Bun close as the sweet bunny woke with a start, only to discover that her favourite person was nearby and might well give her the treat Song denied her earlier. Rain wasn’t having any of it though, standing in the doorway with arms crossed in petulant refusal, though Ping Ping spoiled the mood by rushing in to bury her face in Rakky’s soft belly fur. “No, no, no! You aren’t coming with us Lin-Lin, and neither are the pets.”

“Yes I am and so are they.” A woman as stubborn as the man she married, Lin-Lin engaged Rain in a daring contest of agility, flexibility, and acrobatics as she endeavoured to push her way past him, and after a few seconds of amusing struggle, she gave up and simply clung to him instead, her arms wrapping around his midsection while locking both legs around one of his. “You’re my hubby now, we’re married and everything, so I go where you go.”

“Absolutely not. I forbid it.”

“I forbid you from forbidding me, so nyeh.”

“You can’t forbid me from forbidding you. I forbid that.”

“Not allowed.”

“Says who?”

“Me!”

Their adorable bickering continued for a little longer as Song doled out the rewards, a necessity now that it was no longer possible for the animals to keep hiding. Even the rabbits got a treat, though Song worried this would only reinforce their spoiled behaviour, but they were likely too far gone to train properly anymore. Rakky also demanded his fair share of dried meat, which was amusing since there was never any need for him to hide in the first place seeing how Rain always intended to bring the tiger with him on the expedition West. No matter though, as Song was more than happy to feed him since it meant Rakky was eating. The tiger was a picky creature and preferred to catch his own meals, which was fine while they were staying on the coast of the Azure Sea where there were fish aplenty, but there was precious little game in the Citadels themselves or the fields surrounding them. For a time, Rakky’s meals consisted of whatever pests he could catch before Pong Pong put an end to the cat’s murderous mornings, for much like his larger counterpart, the tiny Divine Turtle was fond of all creatures floofy, whether they be large or small.

A real problem when it came to rats and other vermin, but at least Pong Pong wasn’t hoarding all his furry friends like Rain and dissuaded them from visiting the manor instead.

Song could hardly blame Pong Pong for his caring ways and wished she could see him indulge his fondness for floofs, but alas, the only clue to the Divine Turtle’s arrival was a slight tensing in Rakky’s shoulders followed by a resigned huff as Pong Pong made his presence known to him and him alone. Stifling a sigh, Song crawled over to the cot and reached under to pull Guai Guai out, but the temperamental red panda yowled and gave her a love tap to let her know he was in no mood to come out, so she had to resort to softer tactics. Any berries she put down were stolen away by Mama Bun, while apple, mango, and various other slices of dried fruit failed to catch Guai Guai’s fancy, so Song had to bring out the higher value Spiritual Plant snacks she kept hidden away inside the footlocker, one which was latched shut to keep the rabbits from breaking in. The mere sound of the latch moving was enough to have Guai-Guai scamper out of hiding, and for a moment, Song wasn’t sure if she was training the animals or if they were training her.

Scooping the clever red panda into her arms, Song handed him a stalk of some plant or the other and smiled as he accepted it in his paw, grasping at the treat like a person would which made him all the more endearing. The rabbits got some too, as Song had packed more than enough to feed them for weeks if needed, as these stems and cuttings would only go to waste if they went uneaten. If there was one thing the Medical Saint did not lack, it was scraps of Spiritual Plants, as he recently concluded that despite containing Heavenly Energy within them, turning these otherwise useless scraps into mulch was not enough to turn the seedlings sustained by said compost into a second crop of Spiritual Plants. A shame that, as it could’ve meant an exponential growth in the Medical Saint’s horticultural efforts without having to offer mountains of shrimp for Pong Pong to ‘process’. Then again, having heard how much power the Divine Turtle possessed, Song wasn’t sure they should ever stop feeding him shrimp, not if they wanted to leave with their lives and minds intact.

For this was a creature who overpowered not one, not two, but three Ancestral Beasts when he first came across them hunting him out in the Azure Sea, and if Rain was to be believed, knocking them all comatose with his Aura of Despair had merely been a warning.

