Welcome as the smooth sailing might be, this meant tensions were at an all time high as the harbour finally came into view, and Song’s lip curled in disdain at the sight of the makeshift fortifications. To call it a fortress was stretching it, as the walls were already crumbling apart, the stones simply stacked one atop the other without any mortar to hold them in place. Forget the cannons, a good, strong breeze might be enough to bring those ‘walls’ down, and Song could not see how the Enemy meant to defend them.

Nor could she see any Defiled who intended to, which only made her that much more nervous. Easy to prepare for the Enemy in plain sight, but difficult to guard against the unseen dagger, a concept which many Martial Warriors learned far too late as said metaphorical dagger buried itself in their back.

The ship groaned, the sails flapped, and the waves crashed, an ever-present symphony of sound Song had grown accustomed to over the last few days, but otherwise, the entire fleet sat silent as they settled into position around the harbour following the Admiral’s orders. Rain had gone and found one Major General Zhang He to be his admiral, a Western native who’d been absent on official duty when the province fell. Few could argue with giving a Westerner command of the fleet meant to retake his province, and doubly so considering Zhang He spent his entire military career as a sailor and hunted pirates and smugglers on the Azure Sea for nigh on fifty years and knew these waters like few others. This was the Admiral’s ship Rain was on, while the other General Officers rode elsewhere to preserve the chain of command should the worst come to pass. That being said, even though he no doubt burned for vengeance against the Enemy who killed so many of his fellow countrymen, Admiral Zhang He seemed in no rush to assault LuZhuo harbour and take unnecessary risks, and instead seemed more than happy to take the time to arrange his ships into a neat encircling formation.

All the while, Song saw no sign of the Enemy from within the crumbling fortress, nor did any of Rain’s scouts Scrying on it from above. All of them reported the same thing, that the walls lacked any positions for defenders to stand upon, and encircled a large, canvas tent that no one could Scry past. This meant someone was present, either a pack of Domain-capable Defiled working in concert to block Imperial Scryers from moving past the tent and avoiding detection at the same time, or a single Divinity fending off so many intrusions all on his own.

Likely the latter, which was far from ideal considering this was but the first hurdle along their path. If the Enemy dispatched a Territory Lord to ‘claim’ these lands, they might well be ready to break the Treaty in its entirety just to send this massive fleet down into the depths of the Azure Sea. Of course, given the forces Rain had brought along with them, the Enemy Divinity would not survive the attempt, but that would prove no solace to the hundreds of thousands of dead Warriors, or any hapless survivors lucky enough to avoid death from the initial blow, only to likely die in the aftermath as the Imperial Divinities responded in kind.

Or the millions of innocents that would be caught up in an all out war between Divinities, one which would lay waste to the Azure Empire and the lands beyond.

Standing on deck in full regalia, Rain stood tall and proud as he gazed upon LuZhuo harbour, eschewing Concealment in naked contempt of his formidable foe. After a lengthy period of silent deliberation, Rain rattled off his orders for all to hear. “Fleet, standby ready to engage while I negotiate terms with the occupying force.”

So Rain himself intended to play the part of sacrificial goat, a decision that would not sit well with Brother Baatar, but logically, he was the best choice. Not only was he the youngest and least experienced representative of the highest echelons of command, he also had the best chances of survival should he come up against a suicidal Divinity. Not only would he have Pong Pong to protect him, but there was also the Azure Sea sitting nearby, which he’d bound to his Core through the Heavenly Tear, Blobby. While his chances of surviving an all-out attack from a Divinity were still slim to none, it was better than anyone else short of a Divinity, and sending him meant keeping their greatest strengths in reserve and out of danger for a little while longer.

With that said, Rain Cloud-Stepped away with an escort of Sentinels, Aspirants, Imperial soldiers, and Death Corps Guards, though only the latter were visible to the naked eye. Song knew about the rest because she’d been present when they were planning their guard rotations, ensuring that there would always be a representative from each of the four groups to ensure Rain’s safety was never wholly in one faction’s hands. The sad truth was that even Mama’s Sentinels could be bought or turned, to say nothing of the Aspirants or soldiers, as even religious fanatics and members of the Famed Fifty were not immune to greed or blackmail, a threat Rain seemed wholly unprepared for. Luckily, he had MuYang to watch over him, as well as Mama and Colonel General Nian Zu, all of whom had seen much in their years of service and knew how to best keep their Legate safe.

Except there was little they could do when Falling Rain charged headlong into danger, just as he did now.

Seconds turned into minutes as Song stood ready to fight, even knowing what meagre resistance she could muster would be swept away by the overwhelming might of a Divinity. Then, just as she had to remind herself to breathe, Rain’s scream tore through the air and stole her breath away. It wasn’t a scream of pain or torment, nor one of fear or courage, but a scream filled with anguish and heartache laid over top a burning pyre of fury and rage. A scream so overwhelming, it reached deep into Song’s past and dredged up all manner of dark memories, ones she’d long since buried deep and tried her best to forget about. No longer was she Li Song, Free Sentinel of the People, and instead, she went back to being Li Song, slave and plaything as she relived her worst moments again and again as Rain’s scream continued to play out.

The beatings. The rapes. The crying. The shame. It all came back to her unprompted and unwanted, pushing her back into the memories and she could do nothing to stop it, the same way she could do nothing to stop them.

And then the scream came to an end, without warning or even trailing off, but her memories remained to haunt her. She was stronger than before though, strong enough to push past her pain and return to the moment, where a part of her panicked mind realized that someone must have thrown up a Sound Barrier to cut Rain off, and that was enough to keep him from Orating his emotions. That was one downside to Rain’s uncontrollable Aura, as it meant he shared the good and the bad, and at the moment, it was clear he was stuck in a dark and foreboding place. A quick glance around showed that everyone else was similarly rocked by the wave of emotions, one that set jaded Warriors to sobbing with empathy and compassion and others to trembling with barely restrained fury. All in all, most maintained discipline though many whispered consolations could be heard as they supported one another through this trying tribulation, but alas, Song could not do the same for Rain from all the way out here. Others would have to help him, for even though she failed to spot any individuals making their way over to him, Song knew Mama and Brother Baatar would not sit idle after hearing him cry out in such a manner, so she focused on finding Balance herself and reminded the sailors around her to do the same. “STEADY YOUR EMOTIONS,” Song said, her Chi-enhanced voice booming out over the empty harbour with a volume that surprised even her, a sign that she herself was still shaken. “Reach for Balance. Seek the warm embrace of the Mother, for Her love shall shield us from the Father’s foul minions.”

The once silent fleet muttered among themselves as they set out to follow Song’s advice, though she’d overstepped in giving it. Glancing over at Admiral Zhang He, she unexpectedly met his gaze as he’d already been looking at her, and the honey-skinned man offered her a nod of thanks as he took a deep and shaky breath, before affecting the long-eyed stare of one adrift in the throes of Balance. Allowing herself a small sigh of relief, Song allowed the warm embrace of Balance to ease the trauma Rain’s emotions left behind, but she refused to scour it all away, for only then could she inure herself to this pain. Not all suffering could be avoided, so best to prepare for the worst when she could, and a good thing too, as Mama appeared next to Song and said, “Come. We need your help, and little Mei-Lin’s help as well.”

It didn’t take long to find the half-hare, as she was hiding in Concealment nearby with Guard Leader Hua Lie, and Mama gathered Song up in her arms before Cloud-Stepping off the ship, though this time, there was no thrill or delight to be had. As soon as they arrived inside the fortress, Song understood why Rain reacted as he did, for there was no canvas tent in sight, and instead, only a horde of corpses in its place.

Not a single cadaver had been thrown haphazardly into the pile, and instead each one had been meticulously placed and posed, propped up and held in place by makeshift wooden posts and piles of stone to portray a gruesome and grisly sight indeed. Erect Defiled tribesmen loomed over naked Imperials of all ages and genders, many transfixed in the violent act of sexual assault, while others watched on with their dead features frozen in a mixture of glee, fascination, repulsion, and horror. Other were posed in different acts of gratification, and Song saw kneeling Imperials feasting on one of their own in the streets, while children dug knives into the tender belly of other children, with their child-like expressions frozen in murderous glee or sorrowful agony, sometimes both on the same face. Others worked over tables and ovens to prepare a feast for their fellow Imperials made up of the same, the unfortunate souls chosen to be devoured posed in a manner that left no question as to whether they were still alive when the preparation began. Some had been chopped and portioned like pork on a butcher’s table, and others boiled alive until their skin burst and flesh came apart at the seams, and still more had been butchered in ways Song could not even fathom.

All this was merely scratching the surface of the horrors the Enemy wrought here in LuZhuo, ones they unveiled to Rain in their full entirety and left him heaving with rage and sorrow, but the worst was yet to be said, for every last body present here in this gory spectacle of death and depravity was still fresh and bleeding, dead for less than a single day.

“He said they’d all be like this,” Rain uttered, his voice hoarse from screaming so loud. “That every harbour and city we visit, death is all we will find. That he can’t fight me on the sea, so he’ll just kill every last Imperial and Defiled who he has to leave behind, all just to deny me the satisfaction of victory.”

A daunting prospect considering one such discovery almost broke Rain and the army behind him, but Song just had to ask. “Who said this?”

“Him.” Curling his lip in a snarl, Rain spat out the name with a hatred and vitriol she’d only seen from him once before. “Zhen Shi.”

Anger, wrath, guilt, and shame, all these emotions and more rolled off of Rain in near unbearable waves, and only now did Song realize why Mama and Brother Baatar had not come. Instead, Mila and Yan were here, alongside Lin-Lin, all of whom had already made their way over to Rain’s side and wrapped him in their embrace, but their quivering bodies betrayed their inner fear and aversion. This was a place of death and suffering, one tainted by the Father’s minions most foul, and Song could not stand to see it stand. “Oil,” she said, holding firm as Rain’s gaze snapped over to her, his amber eyes burning with hate and blame as she stared into them to avoid seeing anything else. “We will need more oil if this is what our Enemy has planned, oil and tinder to set it all ablaze.” Unable to draw a deep breath for fear of the stench, Song stopped fighting her emotions and instead shared them with Rain instead. Much like him, she was scared and furious, but underneath it all lay a foundation of control, one she would not have survived without. A foundation laid by the Oaths she swore, but one that remained even though she was bound by them no more, and it was this she shared with him, not an emotion exactly, but the ability to move past without allowing the darkness to consume her. “There should be enough on the ships to lay these poor souls to rest, but we will have to send for more.”

And then, without meaning to, Song’s Aura pulsed to something else, an emotion that was once unfamiliar to her at best, but one she knew well enough from her time spent among the People. It was love, pure and simple, warm, accepting, supportive love, because she loved him like family and it pained her to see him suffer so, a sentiment which she felt needed to be shared. Though his eyes were still wide and wet with tears of rage, his gaze softened ever so slightly as he nodded in thanks, though he was unable to respond in kind. Love was the furthest thing from his mind at the moment, which was a shame, because in trying times like these, love could help ease one’s passage through, but Rain would realize it soon enough.

