Out of pure politeness more than anything else, Song carried Guai-Guai over to Rakky and offered the Concealed turtle a handful of fresh berries, which the tiger merely sniffed before lying back down on his side. To Song’s surprise, Pong Pong almost immediately revealed himself to her as he perched on her hand, munching on the offering while emanating an Aura of grateful delight. Responding in kind, Song knelt in place and watched the turtle eat with a silly little smile, enjoying his animated motions as he snapped up the berries one by one and chewed them with great relish until his tiny turtle face was covered in juice.

“And you, Li-Li,” Rain said, snapping Song out of her reverie as he turned his attentions to her, and her ears fluttered in delight at the sound of her whimsical appellation. “I expected something like this from Lin-Lin, but you should know better. This will be a dangerous campaign where anything can happen, so why would you help smuggle the pets onboard? What if the ship sinks while we’re fighting out at sea? Or if we get cut off while marching and run out of food?”

“Whatever will be, will be,” Song replied, one she prepared beforehand with help from Mama and Sister Mila. Then again, the game wasn’t as fun and exciting anymore now that she saw how distraught Rain truly was, his concern for his pets overriding his plain old common sense, so she tried to explain herself better. “I helped Lin-Lin because I know the pets are always miserable when you go anywhere without them, and that both you and they will be much happier together. Better to die together than leave them wondering if you’ll ever return, or if all goes well, then you will have made all the more memories to cherish. Also, Nephew-in-Law Charok cannot possibly look after his children and all your pets as well, not without anyone there to help him, nor will they fare well should you fall in battle.”

“...Okay, fine, so you made one or two decent arguments.” Grudgingly patting Aurie’s head and smiling as the wildcat rumbled with delight, Rain failed miserably at maintaining his indignant demeanour. “But I’d rather they be miserable for a bit at home than risking losing them forever.”

“Lin-Lin made arrangements to ensure their safety. Significant ones.” Seeing Rain’s disbelief, Song glanced at the half-hare who simply stuck her tongue out in a mischievous fashion, likely having kept quiet about it just to make Rain sweat some more. “She convinced Guard Leader to set aside a dozen formidable Warriors to ensure the pets remain safe and sound at all times, on top of the ones guarding her.” Offering him Guai Guai to hopefully sway his decision, Song added, “They are far safer than the quins and cattle you brought along for your retinue, not to mention all the other beasts of war travelling with the army.”

“Yea, but they’re trained animals who serve a purpose.” Glancing askew at Lin-Lin in hopes she wouldn’t notice, Rain continued, “Whereas these floofs...”

Are a burden in war, Lin-Lin included. Unfortunately, the clever half-hare caught onto Rain’s meaning and stamped her foot, one that barely made a sound on the water-treated wood. “Stupid hubby, I don’t need you to protect me. I came to protect you, like when I helped Nai-Nai by shooting that stupid, stinky Bai Qi.” Taking no pride in the accomplishment, Lin-Lin snatched Guai Guai away from Rain and added, “Besides, these darlings do serve a purpose. They’re good for hubby’s morale, and you always say morale is one of the most important factors in warfare. That’s why you spent so much time writing your stupid speech, ya?”

One that would’ve fallen flat if not for his ability to express his faith and determination through Aura and Oration. Truth be told, Rain should find someone else to write his speeches for him, though definitely not BoShui like so many others suggested. The last thing anyone needed was to hear Rain wax on about how the Mother Above ordained him to be their Champion from on high, or about the juxtaposition of light and shadow representing the Mother and Father in conflict. Though the big man had been writing about Rain’s exploits for over a year now, his ambling prose had only gotten more flowery and euphemistic as time went on, and Song could no longer stomach his idiomatic turn of phrases.

Rain and Lin-Lin continued to bicker back and forth, but Song could tell the decision had already been made, only he refused to accept it. It wasn’t that he made the wrong decision in leaving his pets and wife behind, nor was it as simple as saying Lin-Lin made the right decision to sneak herself and the animals on board his ship, but more of a matter of intent. Rain didn’t want to leave the pets behind any more than he wanted to leave Lin-Lin, but he feared losing them and thus let his fear make his decisions for him. This was a flaw he’d carried for as long as Song had known him, one that hampered his steps along life and the Martial Path, but fixing his issue was not as easy as simply pointing it out. Rain knew many of his actions were guided by fear, to the point where his cautious nature seemed ingrained rather than acquired, but at least he was learning to control his fear of the worst and was beginning to push past his comfort zone.

Granted, he’d been forced to do so when Shen ZhenWu made him Legate of the outer provinces, but Rain always was a stubborn one, and it took him this long to finally accept the heavy responsibilities placed upon him.

In contrast, Lin-Lin’s actions were more in line with her desires, which was why Song helped her in this regard, though she’d be lying if she said she didn’t want to bring the animals along with them as well. Life just felt empty without a furry companion to care for, and while Song still would’ve had her sweet quin Erdene to love and spoil, the quin was not as affectionate as the rabbits, wildcats, and bears. Oddly enough, Mama had been more than happy to help Song with her caper and instructed her Sentinels to look the other way and distract anyone who might inform Rain otherwise. Song never thought Mama would be the mischievous type, or that she would encourage Song to carry out more acts of mischief in the future. Strange that, as most parents would want their children to be obedient and dutiful, but Mama had all but danced a ditty when Song first brought the matter up.

It wasn’t until the ship was ready to weigh anchor that Rain and Lin-Lin stopped arguing, and only because he said he couldn’t keep the whole fleet waiting just to remove Lin-Lin and the animals from the ship. A flimsy excuse, one he used to justify allowing them on board to himself, but Song refrained from pointing this out to him and merely traded a triumphant smile with Lin-Lin. The half-hare knew her husband well, having predicted his reaction all in advance, which was another reason why Song was happy to help, and now she would have sweet Sarankho to keep her company at night. Giggling as she watched the animals acclimate to the swaying ship, Song led them out of the cabin and brought them out onto the upper decks to bear witness to the launching of the greatest nautical fleet the Empire had ever seen.

An endless line of sails and masts stretched as far as the eye could see, a veritable forest casting shadows over the clear blue waters of the Azure sea. Rain’s ship lurched as it headed out into deeper waters, leaving behind most of the fleet which stayed closer to shore. They didn’t sail too far out before turning to run parallel to the coast, not even a kilometre away from dry land, but Song saw many a sailor blanch in fear and mutter a prayer to the Mother Above. Little did they know that Rain wasn’t just tempting fate, as he had not one, but two Divine Turtles at his beck and call, one of whom was a seasoned survivor. A stray glance made her do a double take as she saw Pong Pong’s colourful shell poking out from in between Rakky’s floofy ears, the darling little turtle having finally accepted Song as someone he need not be wary of. This seemingly tiny gesture meant the world to her, and she shared her emotions with him through Aura, to which he turned his adorable little head and positively glowed with delight.

It was a fine discovery to be accepted by the paranoid Divine Turtle, a beast whose disposition mirrored Rain’s so well, but alas, Song could only share this discovery with Lin-Lin and Rain for now. Mama, Papa, Sister Mila, Brother Baatar, Yan, Kyung, and Teacher Du were all on different ships, riding with their retinues as protocol demanded. Thankfully, once she learned her ailment could be countered using Chi, Sister Mila went to great efforts to learn how to replicate Rain’s skil, riding on ships day and night with her husband to try and get a feel for how it worked. Though she was unable to explain it, she quickly picked it up with Papa there to help her along, and now they both rode the waves like seasoned sailors, without all the unpleasant vomiting.

As for why Song was here on Rain’s ship, it wasn’t just because of the animals. She’d initially considered joining Sister Mila’s retinue, but they were primarily a ranged mounted fighting force which was far from ideal given Song’s lacking familiarity with bows and cavalry combat. She could have joined Yan’s retinue which was comprised solely of heavy and light infantry, but somehow, it just felt more natural to fight alongside Rain, whose retinue was the least specialized, yet most flexible, a pivotal force on the battlefield which could be wielded as hammer, anvil, arrow, or any other tool one might have need of in war. What’s more, Rain’s retinue was where she spent the bulk of her time out in the field, and she’d grown fond of the Death Corps soldiers Rain often placed under her command, so it would be best for everyone involved if she simply joined him once more. When she first asked permission to enlist in his retinue, he initially balked and asked if she wanted her own command instead, but Song refused as she knew she was not meant to lead. She was a Warrior plain and simple, not a formidable duellist like Mama, cunning tactician like Liu Xuande, formations expert like Mister Rustram, or even an inspirational force of personality like Rain. She was Li Song, Sentinel of the People, and she would serve to the best of her ability, which meant fighting on foot in the thick of things with her allies beside her.

There would be no fighting today though, not unless the Defiled had an ambush waiting up ahead, which was unlikely given how the fleet was still three days out from the closest Western harbour of LuZhuo. According to reports, the Enemy spent the last two months fortifying the once unremarkable harbour, but given how they lacked the secrets of concrete, they could only cannibalize the nearby towns of stone and wood in order to build up their defences. The end result was a shaky, ramshackle affair that might hold up to head on assault from a dozen or so medium sized ships, but Rain’s conquering fleet held considerably more vessels than twelve. Rain, Mama, and Brother Baatar all agreed that they wouldn’t even need the Runic Cannons to overrun the Defiled defences, as crossbows, bolt-throwers, and catapults alone would be enough to batter down the haphazardly stacked walls, not to mention the most glaring weakness of all. Much like how Song was less effective fighting on quin back, the Enemy temperament was not conducive to defensive engagements, especially considering the modest fortress at LuZhuo could only hold thirty-thousand troops at most. A pittance in the grand scheme of things, and Song expected the fleet to barrel through LuZhuo’s defences with ease and set this campaign off on the right foot.

That being said, Rain aside, everyone at the top echelons of command had decades of experience under their belt, centuries in Mama’s case, and Rain was smart enough to defer to his Generals’ wisdom when it came to the specifics of their campaign. The fleet pressed forward without ever stopping to berth, mostly to avoid being ambushed by a Defiled army in the dead of night. They moved at a snails pace after the sunset, but it was enough to keep the Enemy at bay, assuming they were lying in wait just out of sight of shore, or worse, Concealed right along the coastline and ready to pounce at a moment’s notice. The Imperial fleet had scouts and cutters dispatched in all directions, as they had yet to uncover how Huanhuzi’s pirate ships managed to evade destruction out in the depths of the Azure Sea. Despite or perhaps thanks to all these precautions and more, the days passed peacefully and uneventfully by as they steadily made their way towards LuZhuo. Song meditated on Insights, practised the Forms in her Natal Palace, and went to Rain whenever she has questions which needed answering, but his advice had grown far too complex for her to follow of late, as he saw far more possibilities than she could even account for. What’s more, from what she’d seen of his Movements when Demonstrating the Forms, he’d abandoned the structured practise of the Sentinels for a more free-formed approach, which made his actions all the more natural and responsive, yet wholly unpredictable.

No longer could Song call herself his peer, for Rain had risen too far above the rest of them, except perhaps for Sister Mila who was still able to keep up, insofar as the Movements went, at least.

