The Floodplains of Liscor. So named because of the valley that had been formed between the High Passes, one of the two routes between northern Izril and southern Izril. At least, for most of the year. For two months out of the twelve, the floodplains would fill up with water as the spring rains poured down. All but the highest hills would be engulfed in water until the rains stopped and the water drained. It was an annual process, a well-known feature of Liscor.
“I had no idea. I mean, I know they’re called the Floodplains, but I guess I just assumed it was a weird name. I didn’t know that this happened, you know?”
Erin was still in a state of shock. She stared hopefully at the young woman across the counter. Octavia looked up as she painstakingly made a bunch of matches. She was leaning over a bowl filled with red liquid, dipping wooden sticks into the bowl and attaching the wet matches to a small device she was rotating with her other hand.
“I knew that. Even I know what happens in Liscor.”
“Even you?”
Erin stared in shock at Octavia. The dark-skinned Stitch-Girl shrugged.
“Yeah, it’s common knowledge. It rains in Liscor, and trade ceases for two months out of the year. Big deal. So what?”
Erin was speechless. It seemed like a big deal to her, but then, Octavia had lived here her entire life.
“You don’t think that’s cool or weird or—I dunno, special?”
“Eh, it’s water, Erin. I never planned on going to Liscor in my life. Maybe past it, but—look, would you move back? This mixture is flammable, and I don’t feel safe with you hovering about.”
The [Alchemist] shooed Erin back a step or two as she continued dipping the set of match sticks into the bowl. Erin watched, keeping a respectful distance, although she resented the implication that she could make the matches catch fire by breathing on them. For a few minutes she just watched Octavia make matches.
It was a fascinating process. Octavia had created a red liquid she was dipping a series of uniform sticks into. This was the liquid form of the match heads, and the [Alchemist] had to rotate the matches to prevent the matches from dripping. She’d managed to create a turnable ‘wheel’ of sorts that she used to dry the match heads, but as she’d explained to Erin, it was an involved process.
“I’m trying to figure out how to air-dry them without the match heads dripping. That way I’ll be able to triple my output if I don’t have to manage them. I can get up to fifty boxes done each day if I work at it with my other projects, but I’d like to be able to do up to three hundred without any effort eventually.”
“Wow. That’s a lot of work.”
Erin stared at the neat little wooden boxes that Octavia had filled with the matches. She’d wrapped each bundle of matches in wax paper to avoid the heads rubbing against each other or the box and igniting. Octavia nodded proudly, showing Erin a line of boxes ready to be sold.
“I’m making money hand over stitch thanks to these things! True, anyone with a fire spell can light something, but how many people don’t know fire magic? And this is so much easier to carry about than a flint and steel—and a lot more fun, too! I’ve got [Traders] and [Merchants] asking how many I can make.”
She paused and pursed her lips.
“A lot of [Alchemists] want to know my recipe as well. I’ve tried to make sure they can’t get their hands on my formula, but it’s only a matter of time before someone figures out my secrets! I want to flood the market before that. And of course I have a lot of potions I’m making with all the gold! Take a look at this!”
She showed Erin a crate of bottles, each one labeled and filled to the brim with glowing or sparkling liquids. Erin whistled.
“Ooh. That’s so cool.”
“And don’t touch! Some of those are dangerous!”
Octavia slapped Erin’s hand away. She protectively edged in front of Erin, guarding her precious wares. It wasn’t often that Erin hung out in Octavia’s shop these days, but the [Alchemist] clearly didn’t trust her any more than she had when Erin was experimenting with her magical cooking.
“I have to deliver this to that scary Gnoll [Shopkeeper] of yours, and I don’t want my first delivery to be delayed! Thanks for telling me about the rain, though. I’ll have to cover my matches so they don’t get wet.”
Erin blinked at the crate and the bag that Octavia was busy stuffing her wares into.
“Wait, are you going to Liscor? You never leave your shop!”
The Stitch-Girl snorted.
“I leave sometimes. For food and ingredients and…stuff. And I’m not going into Liscor, what, do you think I’m crazy? I’m not ducking those giant Crab Rocks or whatever you call them. No, I’ll leave my potions and matches in your inn. That Gnoll lady said she’ll send a Street Runner to pick them up. Just show them where it is, okay? And no touching!”
She waved a match stick at Erin. The [Innkeeper] frowned as she studied Octavia.
“Wait, so you’re going to bring your goods to Liscor through my inn.”
Octavia didn’t look up as she dipped more matches.
“That’s right.”
“And you’re going to sell them through Krshia, who I introduced you to.”
“Yep. She gets a cut and I get a cut. Apparently Liscor imports most of its potions from Pallass. Hah! I can beat the [Alchemists] with my prices since I don’t have to ship them a few hundred miles! Plus, my matches haven’t been seen in Liscor yet. Even with that damned Gnoll’s cut, I bet I’ll turn more of a profit this week!”
“Uh huh. And the matches were my idea. Mine and Ryoka’s, since she told you how they were made.”
“Well yeah, but I had to figure out the exact formula. Phosphorus? Heh, that’s not nearly as combustive as powdered Corusdeer Horns and some Fire Beetle shells…”
Octavia smiled to herself as she plucked a dried match from her drying wheel and poked at the head. Satisfied, she transferred it to a box of completed matches. Erin nodded, watching the [Alchemist] work. Then she dropped her bomb.
“Shouldn’t I get paid for all this then?”
The Stitch-Girl dropped one of the matches into her bowl. Cursing, she grabbed at it, tossed it into a bin at her feet, and then gave Erin the fish-eye. Erin smiled sweetly as she leaned over Octavia’s counter. The [Alchemist] stared at her and then gave her a big and not-entirely-genuine smile.
“Erin, Erin, we’re friends, aren’t we?”
“I guess.”
The [Alchemist] sidled up to Erin, putting her arm around Erin’s shoulder. She squeezed tightly, smiling like a used car salesman selling her most corroded piece of junk.
“Of course we are! You and me, we go way back. We’re practically sisters! Well, I think of you that way. You’re an [Innkeeper], I’m an [Alchemist]—but we do the same things! Remember when you made all those magical dishes in my shop? Great times! And remember how I was encouraging you the entire time?”
“Nope.”
“Erin, it’s all in the past now. I know we had our differences, but I am so grateful—did I mention how grateful I am?—so grateful that you are helping me grow my business. And I know it’s a small imposition that you let me work through your magical door—which I’ve installed in my shop by the way, just because you asked. I still haven’t fixed my front wall, you know. It gets drafty at night…”
“I paid for that.”
“And so you did! But Erin, business is one thing, and I’m a small-time [Alchemist]—I hardly have my head above water most days. Hah, water, it’s a heck of a thing isn’t it? Imagine Liscor flooding all the time? Well, I’m sure you see my predicament, but I want you to know that I care, and so I can give you, uh, these potions as a sign of friendship.”
Octavia eyed her shelves and grabbed a few bottles. She pushed them into Erin’s hands.
“I insist, a token of our friendship!”
She was smiling desperately, and a slight sheen of sweat covered her forehead. Erin, smiling as well, looked at the bottles.
“As much as I’d like a stamina potion, hair-regrowth tonic, and…ooh, one of Ryoka’s stink potions, I think I want an actual deal, Octavia.”
“Okay? Okay…we can deal.”
Octavia looked wary, but she immediately grabbed a seat and dusted it off for Erin. She gave the young woman another big smile.
“What were you thinking? A monthly convenience fee? How about we talk about it over dinner? My treat? We could go for a, uh, a deal where I give you six—no, twelve match boxes each week? And a potion?”
Erin declined to sit. Instead, she loomed—just a tiny bit—and gave Octavia one of the scary grins she’d seen Ryoka give other people.
“That’s one idea. But how about this? A non-negotiable surcharge on every match box made and a copyright fee as well as a fee for using my door and a finder’s charge for introducing you to Krshia and storing your goods in my inn, which also adds a protection fee, a delivery fee, a storage fee, and city taxes, since Liscor is importing the goods from Celum.”
Erin was no businessperson, and she had no idea what she’d actually said, just that it sounded complicated and expensive. Anyways, it didn’t matter. Erin could say something entirely stupid so long as she delivered her lines with the right attitude. And the result was impressive; Octavia went dead white. She gaped at Erin for a moment and began speaking rapidly.
“Look, Erin, let’s not be hasty! I mean, you’re a businesswoman and I—we don’t have to do this! We’re friends! Why, I’m sure we can strike a deal that’s not this harsh! Did I insult you with the potions? Let me take them back! Forgotten! Let’s try again, and why don’t I buy you a drink and dinner? Five drinks? Come on Erin, don’t throw me under the wagon, have a heart—”
She looked so desperate that Erin couldn’t help but laugh. She spread her arms as Octavia stared at her.
“Kidding! I’m not that much of a jerk.”
The [Alchemist] sagged against her counter, weak-kneed with relief.
“Dead gods, Erin, don’t do that! Do you know how worried I was?”
“Well, now you know how I feel every time you try to con me. Besides, I have a point, which is why you got nervous.”
Erin smiled triumphantly. Octavia grumbled and kicked at an empty bottle lying on the floor. It sailed across the shop and shattered loudly. The [Alchemist] winced.
“Okay, point. I guess I owe you something. But Erin, this is my livelihood!”
“Which is doing better thanks to me. I’m not asking for much, Octavia. And remember, I’ve got all kinds of cool ideas. But my inn needs money since I have Goblins in it and apparently that’s a bad thing. We can deal, but equally, okay?”
Octavia sighed.
“Goblins. I forgot about them. No wonder no one’s asked to go to your inn for a week now. I did wonder, but they must have slipped my mind. Fine, we can talk gold.”
“I don’t need much. And I won’t charge you for doing business, but some money for my ideas each week would be nice. Say two coppers for every gold coin?”
Erin saw Octavia brighten and waggled a finger.
“But I do want some matches for myself! For free, Octavia. I’ll give you new ideas, too. That’s worth all the gold you can bargain for. When you finally figure out that penicillin stuff, you’ll be really rich, trust me!”
“That will take a while. Those molds are hard to figure out. And Erin, some of your ideas are good, but there is no way I can make an anti-gravity potion because you thought it would be ‘cool’. I need ideas that are real, not imaginary.”
Octavia grumbled as she went behind her counter. For all she moaned about coin, she was surprisingly good-natured, and Erin pocketed a handful of gold and silver coins and came away with several matchboxes and two potions. She let the [Alchemist] complain about unfair business practices as she lugged her crate of potions and matches into her inn and then opened the door to Octavia’s shop.
“I’m going into the city, Octavia! Don’t be scared if you see Goblins, and tell Lyonette to keep Mrsha away from your stuff!”
“Wait, they’re wandering about? Where are—aaah!”
The Stitch-Girl spotted one of the Redfang Goblins heading down the stairs and ran screaming for the doorway. Erin shook her head as Rabbiteater stared at Octavia brandishing a potion at him. It would be fine—Lyonette could sort it out, Erin was sure. Probably.
She turned and strode out the doorway, confident that Octavia would either bargain for her life or start selling matches to Goblins. Octavia was all very well, but a deal with her was small potatoes compared to what Erin had in mind. The [Innkeeper] walked through Celum, staring at the Humans walking past her.
“It’s not raining! Huh, I guess the storm’s only around Liscor.”
It really was amazing. If Erin turned her head, she could see dark clouds on the horizon to the south, right where Liscor was. But she’d come a hundred miles north to Celum in a single bound. And she could go to Pallass, which was four hundred miles south of here, from her inn! The possibilities of her door were endless. As were the dangers. But that wasn’t what mattered now. What mattered was…
“Goblins.”
Erin sighed as she walked down the street. Several of the people around her gave her strange looks. Celum had heard about Erin’s Hobgoblin population, and they had likewise boycotted her inn. Erin hadn’t cared about that as much as Liscor, but now she did. Her Goblins were a problem? Well, they’d be an even bigger problem after this! She was nearly at the Runner’s Guild when she heard a voice shouting angrily behind her.
“Turn, hellhound, turn!”
The voice was male, authoritative, and echoed down the street. Erin whirled around, grinning. She saw a man dressed in bright clothing pointing at her as all the pedestrians on the street turned to see who had shouted.
The man lowered his hand and strode down the street towards her, a broad smile set on his face. Wesle had changed markedly since Erin had first met him. Where he had once been a competent, if slightly resigned, low-level [Guardsman] in service to Celum, he was now a confident [Actor]. He now led the troupe of actors in Celum, the first of their kind, with his leading co-star, Jasi.
“Wesle! Just the guy I was looking for!”
Erin walked over and hugged Wesle. He smiled down at her, and his voice was deeper and more resonant than she remembered when he replied.
“It seems I have impeccable timing, then! I was just walking down the street for a bite to eat when I saw you leaving Miss Octavia’s shop! What brings you into Celum? And do you have time to talk with a humble [Actor] such as myself?”
