“The Redfang Goblins. Members are Headscratcher, Badarrow, Rabbiteater, Numbtongue, and Shorthilt. Exact levels unknown. Classes unknown. Four [Warriors] and an [Archer]. Species: Hobgoblin.”
The old Drake stared at the form. She stared at the doorway and listened to the sound of Selys’ running feet. Then she took a deep breath.
“Selys!”
 
——
 
And then it was night. The [Actors] left in good spirits. The Antinium, who had given them a standing ovation for five minutes straight, had gone happily, if somewhat bloated, on the popcorn they couldn’t quite digest. Erin understood it was a special snack given the Hive’s recent lack of conflict.
Lyonette was asleep. Mrsha was already passed out. Bird was upstairs…probably not asleep but happily sitting in the rain. The Redfang Goblins were in their rooms, pondering their new state of existence.
And Erin was happy. She knew she had caused a lot of trouble, not least for Zevara, but she felt it was worth it. Her inn had been filled tonight, and the Goblins were walking about in the open. It was a first step. An important step. It was what she could do, so she lay in her mess of blankets and pillows in the corner of the kitchen and smiled to herself.
“I don’t need you to protect me, Zevara. The Goblins will do that.”
Her eyes closed. Erin listened to the drumming of the rain overhead. It was still raining, pouring, rather. She wondered if the Floodplains would fill up tomorrow or the day after. Or maybe…?
Her breathing slowed. Erin’s mind drifted off. She felt darkness, warm and soothing engulf her—
 
[Magical Innkeeper Level 34!]
[Skill – Inn: Grand Theatre obtained!]
 
“Gah!”
Erin shot out of bed. She banged her head on the kitchen counter, stumbled out of the kitchen, swearing loudly, and stopped. The common room of her inn was in front of her, empty, deserted as it should be. But it was not as it had been.
The common room. It had been large before, capable of holding a crowd. Now it stretched out in front of Erin, impossibly large for the dimensions of the inn. It was twice—no, perhaps three times as large as it had been? Erin couldn’t tell in the darkness. But it was vast, and at one end she could see the stage that the Players of Celum had set up. Erin stared around the common room, at the theatre hall ready for crowds. She blinked, raised her hands into the air, and screamed.
“Whoo! Alright!”
She danced about, shouting, until she heard a thump from overhead. Jelaqua shouted through the floorboards.
“Hey, we’re trying to sleep!”
It was the first time Erin had ever heard the Selphid in a bad mood. Erin lay down in the middle of her common room, feeling small in the vast chamber. She grinned at the ceiling and listened to the rain fall for a while before she fell asleep.
 
——
 
Drip.
There was one last thing. The rain fell across Liscor in unending droves, but it did not patter down in all places. In some locations, there was simply no space for the rain to fall, and so it trickled down as water from above, landing on an invisible barrier overhead.
Drip.
The sound was loud. The water fell, splashing down and filling the underground chambers with sound. It was not nearly as loud as the screams or shrieks or sounds of combat that sometimes filled this place, but it had its own insistent, persistent ability to get in the head.
Drip, drip.
It was just noise, and it should have bothered very few people in this hour when almost all were asleep. And yet, it did bother one person. One being sat up, unable to ignore the sound. He could not sleep. And as the sound repeated itself, two purple flames brightened with annoyance in the empty chambers of his skull.
Drip.
Toren the skeleton looked up as he sat below the chasm leading up and out of Liscor’s dungeon. He stared at the invisible barrier keeping the water from crashing down over his head and gnashed his jaw furiously. He was getting really tired of hearing that sound. Yet the rain continued to fall, and the skeleton moved.
Drip, drip, drip.
He reached down and picked up a mask lying next to him, regarded it once. Toren hesitated and then put it over his face. As she lowered her hand, Toren turned and drew her sword. The water dripped but didn’t bother her any longer. She grinned behind her mask.
It was her turn now.
