“Of course! You’re one of the reasons why I’m here! I want your help, and I have a cool offer for you and Jasi and all the other [Actors]—I was going to the Runner’s Guild first, but now that I think of it, you’re better. Let’s get to one side and chat, okay?”
They were in the middle of the street, and Erin was wary of rogue wagons, especially after what had happened to Ryoka on these same streets months ago. Wesle stroked at his clean-shaved lips and chin.
“We can certainly do that, but it, ah, might be better to step inside somewhere. I think we’ll attract a crowd if we linger outside.”
“Oh? Why’s that?”
Erin turned and saw to her amazement that a crowd of onlookers had already gathered around Wesle. She saw a young woman push forwards, a [Baker] or a baker’s apprentice by the looks of her. She had eyes only for Wesle.
“Mister Salkis, I’m such a huge fan. I know you must be busy, but could you possibly spare the time to…?”
She blushed and pushed back her sleeve. Wesle gave Erin an apologetic glance and then gave her and the crowd a huge smile.
“Of course! What is your name, mistress?”
“Colina, sir.”
The young woman blushed again. Wesle pulled something out of his pocket with a flourish, and Erin blinked as she saw a piece of black chalk or—was it charcoal? The tip looked almost wet as Wesle unwrapped it from some waxy paper. He gently pressed it to the young [Baker]’s arm, and to Erin’s astonishment, began to sign his name!
“Well then, Miss Colina, I am delighted to meet you. What play do you enjoy the most, pray tell?”
“Oh, Hamlet, sir! When I saw you on stage, calling your uncle a false [King], well, I—it was incredible. And that line you delivered just now! I know Sir Macduff always performs it and it’s Mister Pralcem who plays the part, but I would so love to see you play his role as well!”
“An intriguing idea! Perhaps we’ll mix up the roles next time. Thank you for your support, Miss Colina.”
Wesle smiled, and the young woman nearly fainted with embarrassment and pleasure. He turned, the charcoal in his hands.
“Anyone else?”
There was a chorus of voices. Erin saw the people line up, and Wesle went from person to person, signing arms, hands, and a cheek! The people beamed as he spoke with them. When it was done, Wesle walked towards Erin, looking pleased and slightly apologetic.
“Let’s hurry inside somewhere before another group finds us. It’s not always I get stopped, but once someone asks…the Runner’s Guild will keep them away.”
He hurried with Erin towards the Runner’s Guild. There, too, Wesle’s face instantly drew attention. A [Receptionist] hurried forwards, beaming at him, and when Wesle requested a private room, he immediately got it—despite not being a Runner—and much faster than Ryoka had when she’d asked.
There was even the cheese platter. Erin sat across from Wesle as he signed the [Receptionist]’s palm. He smiled at her, embarrassed, and she shook her head when they were alone.
“Wesle, you’re a star! When did this happen?”
Wesle flushed and stroked his lips where his mustache used to be.
“I don’t know about a star, Miss Erin. I feel like I’m a [King] in his court sometimes, but it’s all flash and show, it really is. As for when it started happening, well, it began about a month ago. We’d been putting on plays each night when we started getting requests to go to other cities and put on a performance for the [Mayor], and, well, people started coming up to us on the streets after that and saying how moving they thought our acting was.”
He looked happy, red-faced, and excited all at the same time. Erin just grinned at him.
“Wow. Look at you! I knew the plays were cool, but—just wow!”
“We owe it all to you.”
Wesle bowed his head slightly. Erin waved it away, feeling embarrassed herself. She had been the one to come up with the idea and then teach Wesle and the others a play, but she could never have dreamed it would turn into something like this! He was an actual celebrity, and somehow, without her involvement, he had already begun signing autographs and having groupies follow him around.
Some things were the same across worlds. Erin sat forwards in her seat and talked around a piece of gooey brie cheese on a cracker.
“Okay, tell me. What’s with the charcoal? You sign your name with that? On people’s bodies, not paper?”
“Paper? Most folk can’t afford paper. Although I have signed parchment for some of them. They keep it as mementoes. And we can’t walk around with a quill and inkpot, so one of the [Alchemists] in the city made this up for us. It’s sticky and makes a mess, but it shows up well.”
Wesle offered the bit of charcoal to Erin. She touched it and found it was more like an oil-based marker than actual charcoal. She drew a smiley face on her arm, and Wesle raised his eyebrows.
“What’s that?”
“A smiley. You should draw one on the next person! I bet it’s easier than a signature. And you could have your own special symbol, you know?”
Erin showed Wesle a few more symbols from her world, and he was stunned.
“Once again you have new ideas, Miss Erin, that…well, it’s always something wondrous with you. We—the Players of Celum we’re calling ourselves for now—owe you a huge debt. Jasi and Grev talk of you all the time, and if you could spare the time, we’d love to have you meet our troupe. We’ve taken on a lot of new [Actors] since we started, and we now have our own warehouse to practice in. Hah, we’ve had to hire [Guards] and [Mercenaries] to keep people from watching us practice! It would mean the world if you visited.”
It was amazing to hear that the [Actors] had already become this successful. Erin shook her head again.
“Of course I’ll come! But I’m just a humble [Innkeeper]—”
“Nonsense!”
Wesle’s ringing denial was far grander than the acoustics of the room should have allowed. His pose was equally impressive—his body radiated a fierce refutation of Erin’s modesty. Was it one of his new Skills? He leaned over, giving Erin a look that was both genuine and serious.
“You, Miss Erin, are our patron and muse! We would never have started this without you, and, as I say, we owe you a great debt. We’ve put on plays in Ocre, Remendia, and Wales because of you, and we’re thinking of travelling further abroad once we have enough [Actors] for two groups to perform at once. Not to mention, we’d love to know if you have more plays you could teach us.”
He coughed and winked at Erin. It was such a theatrical move that she burst out laughing.
“Not that there’s any shortage of [Writers] clamoring to have us perform plays they’ve come up with. Not just [Writers]—we’ve gotten submissions from countless members of the public already! None of it holds a candle to the stuff you’ve given us, mind, but we’ve been paid good coin to put on some performances other people want to see.”
“Amazing. And you’ll probably get more. I bet [Lords] and [Ladies] will want you to perform. Oh, Wesle, I’m so glad this is working out for you!”
Erin rose and hugged the man. He smiled at her.
“And to think it all started with a [Washer] and a [Guardsman] in an inn. That’s a play in itself, and we may have to perform it sometime. But I talk too much now, don’t I? Why did you want to see me, Miss Erin? Anything we can do, anything at all…”
“Well, I was actually hoping you’d say that! I’m in a bit of a pickle, you see. I haven’t been in Celum for a long time because I’ve had so much to do. Have you heard about it?”
Wesle grew serious and once again reached for his shaved mustache. That habit hadn’t changed at least.
“I did, Miss Erin. I saw some of it, or pieces at least. That business with the false Named Adventurer, the tragic death of that Gold-rank adventurer and Gnoll…Zel Shivertail himself coming north and falling in battle…and now I hear your inn is hosting Goblins.”
Erin shook her head, her joy fading as she recalled all the trials of the last few months.
“It’s always hosted Goblins, Wesle. Only now people are scared, and my inn’s suffering. I’m actually in a bad spot financially. So I was going to ask—this is really difficult, but—”
“Say no more.”
A finger raised towards Erin’s lips. Wesle shook his head as he leaned across the table.
“We’d be the most wretched of ingrates if we didn’t offer you what we’ve earned, Miss Erin. You never asked for a cut of our profits, and you deserve it for teaching us the plays, let alone giving us our classes! We can offer you quite a lot of gold—I’d have to ask Jasi how much we earn per week, but we could give you at least—”
“Wesle, I don’t need donations!”
Erin cut him off, laughing with relief. Wesle blinked.
“You don’t? But see here, Miss Erin—”
“If you want to give me some money, that’s great and I’ll accept. I’m not going to say I can’t use it. But I don’t need you to give me money for nothing. Actually, I wanted something a bit more from you that I really hope you’ll agree to. Listen—”
The young woman sat forwards on the edge of her seat, and Wesle did likewise. His eyes widened as Erin explained her idea, and he frowned, but within minutes he was nodding and pacing around the room excitedly.
“That can work! Of course it can! Just the other day, Kilkran—he’s one of our new [Actors], a man you haven’t met. A former [Blacksmith], but a voice that could shake the rafters of a barn, I’ll swear! He was saying that we needed to think about the long-term. And this idea is perfect!”
“You don’t think it’ll drive away business? It’s a risk, Wesle.”
Erin warned the man, wanting him to be clear on what he was agreeing to. Wesle dismissed her concerns with one shake of the head.
“Business? We could divide our troupe and still earn enough for all of us to live on. Besides, this is better. This is right. And if you think this will stop people from watching us—hah! The power of the stage will draw them in, Miss Erin. Just you wait! I don’t want to speak for everyone, of course, but I can’t think that any of the original cast will say no, and the new [Actors] will come round once they know all you’ve done for us!”
“Well, I’m relieved. If you want to tell them, I can settle things in the Runner’s Guild. Or maybe you can help me? I think they’d believe it if you said it.”
“Of course. And we must have a drink at your inn as well, Erin. That is to say Miss—”
“Erin!”
She laughed, and Wesle laughed too.
“You kept telling me that before, as well. All this business about your magical door and the Goblins sounds incredibly difficult. I wish you’d come to us months ago, or that we’d known you needed help!”
Erin shook her head.
“You guys had to do your own thing! You’re stars, and I didn’t have as much trouble until Zel and…well, and Pallass. Those jerks are making stuff difficult, but I’ll win in the end! And think of this, Wesle! With my door, you guys don’t have to just go to Human cities! You could put on a show in Liscor or even Pallass!”
His eyes widened.
“A Walled City? But that would be—dead gods, could we do it?”
“First Liscor, then the world! I bet the Drakes and Gnolls would love you! But let’s do this first. Okay?”
Erin headed down the stairs with Wesle, and the [Receptionists] and Runners in the Guild looked up.
“Mister Salkis!”
One of the [Receptionists] hurried forwards, and Erin smiled. Wesle’s last name was Salkis apparently, and it seemed like everyone was too shy to call him by his first name. Wesle greeted the woman and explained Erin’s idea. The [Receptionist]’s eyes went wide, and she took a step back.
“But—well, of course we can spread the word, Mister Salkis. But you’re sure? You’re going to—I mean, there are rumors—”
She stared at Erin, who folded her arms.
“Hey! I’m standing right here, you know!”
The older woman blushed, and Wesle bowed slightly. His voice could be heard at the back of the room as he replied.
“Miss Bellia, I can assure you we will be perfectly safe. Safer, in fact, which is the point of this little announcement. Now, I have to get to my troupe, but please send the bill to us. And if Miss Erin has anything else she needs done…”
He looked at Erin expectantly. She hesitated.
“Is Fals here? Or Garia? Has anyone seen Ryoka?”
The [Receptionist] shook her head, her brow creasing when Erin mentioned Ryoka’s name. The Runner’s Guild in Celum still hadn’t forgotten the incident with the Frost Faeries.
“They’re all out on deliveries in other cities, Miss Solstice. Well, I can’t speak for Miss Griffin. Shall I ask them to call on you when they arrive in Celum next?”
“Please. I haven’t seen them in a while.”
The woman nodded, and Erin strolled out of the front door with Wesle. He was smiling at her. She peered at him suspiciously.
“What?”
“Oh, nothing. It’s just that life is never dull when you’re around, Erin. I think I’ve had enough excitement and then you turn up.”
“Well, I do like interesting stuff. I’ll go back to the inn, Wesle. Meet you later?”
His eyes twinkled. Wesle took a step back in the street and swept Erin a dramatic bow that drew all eyes to him once again.
“I wouldn’t miss it for the world. We’ll be there.”
He strode off. Erin watched him go, shaking her head and smiling.
“What a showoff.”
She thought it suited him perfectly. Humming, Erin walked back to Octavia’s shop, a spring in her step. Everything was going according to plan! Now, there was just one last step.
 
——
 
“It’s perfect.”
Erin breathed the words that night. She stared around her inn, stared at the Humans crowding around one side of it where the tables had been shoved aside, stared at the Redfang Goblins, and stared at the bit of cloth she’d been writing on all day. Lyonette peered at Headscratcher.
“It’s insane, Erin. Even for you, this idea is crazy. It’ll never work!”
“It’ll totally work! It has to work! It’s already working! It’s the most amazing idea I’ve come up with yet! Lyonette, this is going to blow people’s minds!”
Erin waved her hands over her head excitedly. Lyonette shook her head, but she couldn’t help smiling in amazement.
“It’s something, alright. But do you really think Watch Captain Zevara and that guy from Pallass will like it?”
The [Innkeeper] didn’t hear her. Erin looked around her inn and strode over to the group of Humans at the far wall. The Players of Celum turned to greet her. They were all dressed up, some wearing face paint or other cosmetics, others dressed as [Guards], the nobility, wearing swords on their belts, or practicing fencing with dulled blades. Two, a Drake and a young boy, turned as Erin approached and exclaimed.
