“Erin!”
“Jasi! Grev!”
Erin hugged first the young Drake woman and then the boy. Jasi and Grev had both changed as well. Gone was the young timid Drake that Erin had met in Liscor. Jasi had been bit by the acting bug, and if she wasn’t as flamboyant as Wesle, she had an inner poise of her own. She dominated space despite her small frame.
Grev looked better too. His thin frame had filled out, and he was wearing good, new clothes. He was also helping set up props at the far wall.
“Erin, it’s been so long! I’m so glad to see you again! When Wesle ran in and told us you want us to perform here, I was overjoyed!”
Jasi gushed as she held up her arms to let one of the other actors attach shimmering crystal bracelets around her. They were magical and radiated a chill, but Jasi seemed used to the cold. Erin smiled at her.
“Thanks for doing this, really.”
“We should be thanking you! This is the least we can do. And we’ll be happy to perform here as many nights as you want! It’s so obvious I can’t believe I didn’t think of it—here we are trying to find the best place to perform and you have your own inn! After we left Miss Agnes’ inn on bad terms, we kept bouncing from place to place without remembering you!”
Jasi gestured around The Wandering Inn, her bracelets catching the light and glittering. Erin laughed.
“I didn’t either! But isn’t this a good idea?”
“The best.”
Wesle strode up to them, dressed in a woodcutter’s outfit. He looked entirely like a rustic outdoorsman, sinking into his role with ease. He gestured around Erin’s inn, at the tables she’d pushed to one side to give the actors room.
“This is a big inn as well. We need all the space we can get—I wager we’ll fill this inn every night after this first one. My word on it!”
Erin nodded, hoping that would be the case. She looked at the other actors as they bustled about. This was her big plan. Her inn was starved for coin and company, so why not bring the most successful and popular show in Celum here? She hadn’t known if Wesle and the others would agree, despite his promises, but they had shown up, enthusiastic and early. Now the stage manager, a heavy, short woman, bustled up.
“Miss Solstice? We’d like to attach some [Light] spells to the rafters. They’ll fade away soon, but for the snow it’s all about lighting, you see.”
“Oh, go ahead! Just watch out when you cast the spells—my inn’s charged with mana, so things will get really bright! Other spells too—they get bigger, apparently.”
“Really? That’s—wonderful!”
The woman brightened. She turned and shouted at a [Mage] and two [Actors] fussing in one corner of the room. As she hurried to them, waving her arms and explaining, Wesle leaned over.
“That’s Emme, our stage manager. She loves the stage, though there’s fewer parts for someone of her height. She’s often the lower half of an animal or a moving prop—she likes this play because she can have a leading role. She’s got a bit of Dwarf blood in her.”
“Oh.”
Erin watched Emme gesturing at the ceiling and saw a bright ball of light appear. It shone, illuminating the entire stage, and the [Actors] cried out in surprise. Grev shook his head as he popped up next to her.
“Magic inn, good food, and you know more plays. If Wesle weren’t in makeup, he’d kiss you, Miss Erin.”
Wesle turned red, and Erin laughed as the man raised a mock-threatening fist and Grev skipped around Jasi. He turned back to Erin.
“We’ll bring you coin, have no fear, Erin! But that’s only half of your plan, isn’t it?”
“That’s right.”
Erin smiled slyly and looked back to where Headscratcher was standing awkwardly with Lyonette. Business and coin for her inn was one thing, but the real masterstroke of Erin’s plan was actually in the Redfang Warriors, or rather, the fact that they were standing in her inn with Humans about.
The Players of Celum walked warily around the five Hobs but were too consumed by their tasks to stare. Much. They looked nervous, but Wesle, Erin, and Jasi had reassured them again and again that the Hobgoblins were no threat. But perhaps it was the special addition Erin had given each of the Hobgoblins that helped.
Each Hob was wearing an armband, nothing more than a white bit of cloth tied around their arm. It was nothing special, save for the single word emblazoned on each one. ‘Security’ had been written on each armband in big black letters. The Redfang Goblins poked at their armbands and stood around trying to look menacing, which wasn’t very hard given their natural aptitude in the field.
“Goblin bouncers. Or rather, Goblin guards for an inn. Break my legs, I never thought I’d see the like.”
Wesle shook his head as he saw Badarrow standing next to the door. The Hob looked grumpy, but also interested as he followed the Humans around with his eyes. He was clearly trying not to show it. Erin smiled.
“I offered them the job, and you know what? They took it! I think they’re bored, and I need more protection. And this way no one can say the Goblins are a threat because they’ll deal with any threats!”
It was the perfect plan. Erin had hit on it when Venim had suggested paying the Halfseekers to guard her inn. The Redfang Warriors would be out in the open, allowed to walk around as proud employees of her inn! And if people didn’t like it, they could sit on five pins, because Erin was doing this. She turned back to Wesle.
“Are you sure you want to perform every night over here?”
He nodded.
“Absolutely. We had an ongoing contract with the inns in Celum to perform in each one night to night, but having a permanent place to perform is just as good. Better. We can store some of our props in the basement and this way half of our members won’t walk to the wrong inn on the other side of the city!”
“Not to mention, you have [Advanced Cooking]. Your inn serves better food than most of the ones in Celum, and we do like good food, after we perform.”
Jasi interjected. Grev was nodding as well.
“You have a big enough inn for us to perform in, and no one’s gonna interrupt the stage with them scary Goblins hanging out.”
He pointed to the Hobgoblins, clearly more at ease with them than the adults. Grev turned as a small white shape moved in the corner of his eye. He saw Mrsha staring at him until the Gnoll fled upstairs.
“And even if people don’t come right away, I have an audience for you. That way you’ll earn money, guaranteed.”
Erin was speaking to Wesle and Jasi. She’d actually made tonight’s show private, despite the news going up around Celum and Liscor at the moment. Despite this, the inn was packed. Erin pointed to the audience of black and brown bodies. The Painted Soldiers and Workers sat quietly around their tables, eating from bowls and eying the popcorn in the middle of the tables. The Antinium had readily agreed to send enough guests to fill Erin’s inn. All the pieces had lined up as Erin had gone about her day.
Her only fear had been the Players of Celum balking about either the Hobs or the Antinium. It had seemed like they might, at first, but Wesle had reassured them. However, they were eying the mass of silent watchers nervously. An older man or, rather, an [Actor] dressed up as an older man wearing a [Lord]’s costume sidled up to Wesle and Jasi.
“We’re nearly ready to go, Wesle. But are you sure—?”
His eyes flicked to the Antinium. Wesle didn’t glance at Erin. He put his arm around the other [Actor] and gestured dismissively at the Antinium watching them. Erin resolved to buy some curtains tomorrow as soon as she could. For now they were using bed sheets for the scene changes.
“Relax, Esbell. They’re an audience, same as any other! They might not clap or gasp, but Erin tells me that’s normal. We do our show—our best performance! If you don’t have the guts to stand on stage in front of the Antinium, what will you do when you have a crowd of folk booing you and demanding their coin back?”
“Exactly. We’ll give them a show, and we’ll all level. There’s nothing like a new audience for that. Cheer up Esbell, you might get that [Loud Voice] Skill you wanted, tonight!”
Jasi stepped forwards, her dress radiant. The [Actor] nodded and squared his shoulders. Erin saw the Players of Celum congregating around the backstage they’d set up, and then the bright [Light] spell dimmed overhead.
The play was beginning. Erin rubbed her hands, looking at the Antinium, the [Actors], at Lyonette and Ishkr serving tables, at Mrsha, stealing popcorn from a bowl, at the Redfang Warriors keeping an eye out but watching with interest, and at Octavia, sitting at a table at the front of the room and looking very confused.
It was all so wonderful Erin wanted to cry. This was it! This was it. She muttered to herself as she watched Wesle stride out on stage.
“You can stay away from the inn if you want, but if you want to see an amazing play every night, you’d better get over yourselves and come here! And I have the best security! Hobgoblins! You make trouble and they’ll toss you out, even if you’re a Silver-rank team! I, uh, think I’ll let Gold-rank teams cause trouble.”
She saw Wesle raise his hands and went silent. The man looked around the room, pausing a second for dramatic effect. Then he spoke.
“Ladies and Gentlemen! Antinium! Gnolls and Drakes, please, allow me to introduce the performance for tonight. We are the Players of Celum, here to bring you all a performance of the play Frozen. What follows is a tale of family and loss, magic and secrets, love and betrayal. We ask that you remain seated and do not speak during the performance. All that passes on this stage is an act—please do not attempt to interfere with the play. At this time, please put away any wands or magical artifacts that may interrupt the viewing experience for other watchers—”
Wesle stood on stage, his voice ringing, the lights shining on him, larger than life. Erin smiled as she saw Emme, the part-Dwarf woman, waddling around in what was meant to be an Olaf costume. Only, in this world, the people’s idea of a Snow Golem was a lot less friendly looking!
It would be a great play. And the first of many. Erin turned her head and saw Bird peeking down the stairs.
“Bird, you don’t want to watch?”
“I will watch. But I like high places, so I will sit here, Miss Erin.”
Bird perched on a higher step as the curtains drew back and a young girl appeared on stage. Not all of the Players of Celum were old, and the children took to acting with as much, if not more, passion than the adults. Erin took a seat next to Bird.
“You’re not mad at me for hiring more guards?”
“Should I be? They are guards. That is important. They can guard the ground. I will guard us against birds and other threats from above.”
Bird replied calmly. Erin smiled at him. Jealousy didn’t seem to be an Antinium trait. She looked around, got up, and came back with a bowl of popcorn. She offered it to Bird.
“Popcorn?”
“Ah, bird bait. Yes, I will have some.”
The Antinium took a handful and crunched it down. Erin laughed as the play began, and a model of a ship appeared on a blue background meant to be the sea. She wondered if Jasi’s magical bracelets actually shot snow or would just do magic tricks. And she wondered if her inn’s magical supply would make the effects more spectacular. Bird looked appreciatively at the play.
“I quite enjoy this. Is it over, now that everyone has died at sea?”
Erin grinned.
“Oh, Bird. You’re so sweet. No, you haven’t seen anything yet. This is just the opening act. There’s more to come, I promise you. Lots more.”
Bird paused. He turned and looked at Erin. Then he smiled.
“Good.”
 
——
 
“She did what?”
There wasn’t any surprise left in Zevara’s voice. She stared at the report Olesm had given her on Celum and then the more formal report from Klbkch. Olesm couldn’t help but smile as he showed Zevara the written details.
“She’s apparently hired the Hobgoblins as guards for her inn. And—get this, she’s invited a group of [Actors] from Celum to perform in her inn. Apparently, they put on these wonderful, uh—”
“Plays. And she’s gotten the Antinium to watch them, and—oh yes, told everyone about it. Loudly.”
That was in Olesm’s report. Celum’s Runner’s Guild had spread the word to Liscor and other local cities as well as told Runners to pass on this latest news: the Players of Celum would now perform exclusively at The Wandering Inn, where they would be guarded by Hobgoblins and an Antinium no less. The inn was open to all species and prohibited violence against all guests. Admission was free, but there was already talk of obtaining tickets to prevent overcrowding the limited space…Zevara paged through the report and shook her head.
“She’s insane, Olesm. Completely insane.”
“Well, if she is, it’s a good kind of insane. If Erin gets support from Celum and Liscor, then even Pallass will have to acknowledge those Hobs aren’t a threat.”
He pointed that out. Zevara shook her head.
“If only I believed that. But that’s not the only thing she’s done.”
“Oh?”
Olesm looked surprised. He hadn’t heard about the second point of news, which had been imparted to Zevara just minutes ago. She stared glumly at a second report. It was short, barely half a page, but it had a lot of underlined words.
“You’ll never guess what she did in the Adventurer’s Guild.”
“What?”
 
——
 
There were some things Selys would do for friends, and then there were things she’d only do for Erin, and only because she’d been talked into it. She stood on the second floor of the Adventurer’s Guild, holding a piece of parchment between her trembling claws. She whispered a few words before she knocked on the door.
“Oh, Ancestors.”
“Selys? Come in.”
Selys walked into the office of the Guildmaster of the Adventurer’s Guild. Or rather, Guildmistress. Tekshia Shivertail, Selys’ grandmother, looked up from her desk. She and Selys were the only two people left in the guild at this hour.
“Hi Grandma, I just wanted to give this to you before I went home.”
The young Drake [Receptionist] nervously approached the desk. Tekshia sighed.
“Can’t it wait until tomorrow?”
“Well, I just got done writing it up so…here. I’ll see you tomorrow, grandma! Love you!”
She put the piece of parchment on the desk. Tekshia frowned up at her, sensing Selys’ odd behavior.
“What’s this about, you scamp?”
Selys grinned and ran for it. Tekshia Shivertail stared at the application on her desk. It was a simple one, a standard request to form an authorized Bronze-rank team. The only curious thing was the name of the group and the five members applying for it.
