“Neither.” Ignoring him, I speak to Laughing Dragon. “By your own account, you’ve tortured and tormented countless people. What you suffer now is only a fraction of the suffering you’ve administered to others, without mercy or compassion. Many would believe your torture to be a balancing of scales, a justice of sorts. But,” I add, “I disagree. I realized something. Your suffering or mine, it matters not to the Father, so long as someone is suffering.”

Laughing Dragon’s eyes widen as his frantically nods, his grunts and moans seeming to agree with me. He understands, he knows the Spectres want death and destruction, no matter the cost. Human nature makes their jobs easy, but I’ll fight it wherever I can. Peace sings as it cuts through the air and slices through flesh and bone, decapitating the Defiled Warrior in a single slash, blood spraying across my face as relief splashes across his. With a flick of the blade, I return Peace to its sheath and stand, lost in thought.

“Water and a towel, young hero.” Taking my actions in stride, Fu Zhu Li presents me with a wash basin, his head still bowed. Taking the proffered cloth, I absently wipe away Laughing Dragon’s blood, wondering how the torturer feels about my actions. Sensing my thoughts, Zhu Li quirks his lips in a half-smile. “Worry not young hero. So long as you are true to the young master, this servant holds no grudges. These skills were learned out of necessity, not pleasure.”

At a loss for words, I merely nod and thank him for the towel. Somehow, that sours his smile, disapproving of my actions. Storming in to interrupt his work earns me a smile, but thanking him is frown-worthy. I’ll never understand the people here. Marching out of the tent, I find myself walking upright, head held high despite my weariness, a weight lifted from my shoulders. Who cares about doing things the easy way. I’ve never been one to shirk from a challenge. Everything will work out, I’ll figure something out as I go. I mean, I’ve been doing that since the second I got here, and I’m still breathing, so I must be doing something right.

The moment my head touches the pillow, my worries melt away as I fall into blissful, guilt-free slumber.

Chapter Meme

- End of Volume 10 -
