“This might hurt!” Jamus said, holding his hand up above his head, like a waiter bearing a tray of drinks in a crowded room. A ball of blue light started to form over his hand, increasing in size and starting to crackle with white shocks of electricity. Jamus’s mana dropped precipitously as the ball grew in size, filling the tunnel with electric blue light as it overcame the suppression effect of the lair.

Jamus shouted and brought his arm down, sending the ball flying down the tunnel straight toward Carten. As the ball traveled, electricity arced to the walls and the ceiling with the sound of rushing static and a powerful scent of ozone. The lightning seemed to be drawn to Carten as the ball approached, the bolts veering toward his armor and frying the Dark Hounds clinging to him. Carten roared as the orb detonated in a massive burst of electricity with a resounding crash of thunder.

Carten’s health dropped by almost a third as the orb struck, but the effect on the Dark Hounds was much more devastating. Those nearest him were killed instantly, filling the tunnel with the scent of burned hair and meat as they literally exploded from the force of the lightning coursing through them. Even the hounds further away didn’t escape unscathed, either dying less dramatically or simply falling to the ground, stunned.

“Aah! What the fuck, Jamus?!” Carten shouted. Somehow, the huge man had managed to stay on his feet as he rode out the blast. He started falling back toward them, keeping his shields facing the recovering hounds. “That really fuckin’ hurt!”

“Sorry, only option,” Jamus said, pressing a hand to his forehead.

A sudden shout from Val jerked Rain’s attention away from the stunned hounds. The light mage was fending off a bat that had managed to make it inside the tunnel. The thing’s body was easily as large as a Dark Hound, with its dark, leathery wings filling the entirety of the opening. It lunged for Val’s face, but its fangs crashed into a panel of white light that Val raised with an outstretched hand.

He scrunched up his fingers and the panel of light condensed down to a shining point, slipping inside the creature’s mouth. Before his hand could follow it, he spread his fingers once more, causing the panel to expand back to full size inside the creature’s mouth. The entire front of the bat’s face was sheared off and its corpse fell backward into the chasm. The panel of light lasted another second, then shattered into shards and disappeared.

“Brace!” Rain shouted again, activating Velocity as he felt another wave of bats approaching. Once more, the bats slammed into the wall with the crunch of snapping bone, buying Val time to regain his position near the bridge.

“Good, that’s most of the bats. Val can handle it from here,” Ameliah said.

Switching back to Detection, Rain saw that it was true. A few remaining bats were clinging to the wall, but there were no more coming toward them through the air. Ameliah recalled her Lunar Orb and sent it down the tunnel toward the hounds, leaving Val to use his own orb to guide his shots.

“Hold the line!” Jamus shouted, moving forward to stand next to Carten. With a crack of lightning, he summoned his two electrical whips, his mana dropping dangerously low. He lashed out at the hounds, leaving arcing trails in the air and in their flesh.

Carten roared and slammed his shields together, smashing a hound’s head between them in an explosion of gore. “I can do this all day!” He shouted.

Rain edged away from Jamus as one of his whips almost clipped him on the backswing, sheltering behind Carten’s armored form. The two were making headway in thinning the pack, but suddenly Rain caught something else on his Detection aura. Unlike the hounds and the bats, this signal was solid, rushing toward them like a freight train from down the tunnel.

“Something else is coming! It’s huge!” he shouted.

“I see it,” Carten roared. “Big fuckin’ ram thing! Comin’ fast.”

Jamus faltered, mana exhausted. Carten pushed him out of the way, standing alone against the oncoming monster. He planted his shields against the floor of the tunnel.

“Rebound!” he roared, and though there was no accompanying flash of red light, the sound of the impact as the massive monster slammed into him was deafening in the enclosed space of the tunnel, louder even than the detonation of Jamus’s lightning ball.

Rebound was a skill that blocked a single impact, redirecting the force away from the user. The incredible momentum of the monster would be blasted back upon itself, the skill ignoring Newton’s third law and shielding Carten completely from the repercussions of the collision.

At least, that was what Rain had expected to happen when he heard Carten activate the skill. However, it appeared that even such things had limits. Ameliah’s words floated through his thoughts as Carten was sent flying by the impact, warning him that nothing was absolute.

Carten didn’t even have time to scream as he was blasted backward directly into Rain. The impact tore the air from Rain’s lungs, lifting him completely off his feet. He watched in slow motion as he and Carten passed over the chasm’s edge. The twisted shape of one of Carten’s shields spun in the air beside them where it had been torn free by the impact. As they started to fall, the pale light of Val’s orb shined in the dark like the Moon for which it was named. The light served only to illuminate Rain’s expression of horrified realization as he plummeted into the darkness.
