Alas, the Heavens were not so kind and Gongsun Qi revealed himself to the Imperial forces, leading Yan to believe she was just flat out reading the situation incorrectly. Traitor though he might be, the Lord of Martial Peace was neither incompetent fool nor wavering backslider. If the most infamous Living Legend had taken up arms against the Empire, then he meant to see it through to the end, and he would do so with the same ruthless drive and ingenious methods which saw him rise to the rank of Colonel General in spite of his lack of backing and the many powerful enemies he made along the way.

Almost no one was all too surprised to learn that a man quietly known as the Prince of Brutality had turned Defiled, nor was it unexpected for the Bandit King Huanhuzi to do the same, but a chorus of gasps sounded when they heard YuChun of Ten Thousand Spears had turned as well. At forty-eight years young, the charismatic Peak Expert was best described as the Western Ryo Dae Jung, a Dragon among men who surpassed his peers by so large a margin, his closest rival was Gao Changgong, a man almost two decades his senior. Though ‘merely’ a Major General, it was all but assumed YuChun would’ve eventually risen to the highest rank thanks to the support of his Ten Thousand Spears, an elite honour guard of loyal soldiers raised and trained by YuChun’s backer, the monolithic Mataram Clan. YuChun himself was supposedly directly related to a ruling royal family who reigned for centuries before the Empire’s founding, though why that mattered, Yan hardly knew.

And now, this Western Great General had taken the field against the Empire, leading an army to besiege Castle Wulin from all sides and keeping the Southern reinforcements from coming to Brigadier Hongji’s aid. Well, no wonder Gongsun Qi wasn’t in any rush to deal with them, he had all the time in the world to grind Hongji’s army beneath his heel. The question was, how did he intend to do so while playing to Imperial strengths? His deployment still made no sense whatsoever...

“You should smile more.” Jolted out of her thoughts by Fung’s unwarranted suggestion, Yan favoured the dandy noble with a withering glare. Wholly immune to its effects, Fung flashed a smile that was far too smarmy to fit atop his handsome features and added, “Or at least scowl less. It’s better for morale.” In response, Yan increased the intensity of her glare, but again, it had no effect save to elicit a chuckle from Rain’s laziest friend. “You People. I keep telling Mentor the same thing, but she never listens. Such a shame.”

Resisting the urge to loosen his teeth, Yan turned her attention back to the meeting on the plains and dismissed him with a sniff. “I am here to do battle with the Defiled, not bat my lashes and look pretty.”

“No need to be catty. All I’m trying to say is you should be more true to your nature, like Da’in.” This time, it wasn’t just Yan who glared at Fung, but Seoyoon as well, but he went on as if he didn’t even notice. “It’s always the same with you women warriors, putting on an ice-cold facade because you think it’s the only way to be taken seriously. You have your reasons, and I’m sure men are all to blame, but you’re normally so bold and brazen, a splash of colour in this otherwise bleak and austere field. Then it comes time for work, and your personality drains away, the spirited Yan replaced by the grim and frosty Warrant Officer Du.” Shaking his head with a sigh, he worked very hard at ignoring Yan’s anger and concluded, “The change is off-putting to say the least, and disheartening to all who experience it. Imagine knowing the most beautiful flower sat before you, but having no light to view it by. Such a shame...”

Upon receiving her field promotion, Yan had picked Seoyoon as her second, if only to keep the Ryo Scion’s many hidden guardians close by so Kyung and Grandpa could rest. Had she known the skirt-chasing young Magistrate of Shen Huo was here as her aide rather than as a Warrant Officer himself, she would’ve stationed them both as far away as possible. Fung didn’t even do her the courtesy of bringing his talented ‘manservant’ with him as he stood there and waxed poetic about colour and flowers. A shame Fu Zhu Li wasn’t around, since any Healer skilled enough to earn a Divinity’s trust must be phenomenally gifted like Taduk, which would come in handy over the next few hours.

Then again, Guan Suo still died in spite of the manservant’s best efforts, so there was that...

“Male Officers have the luxury of cracking jokes and making friends with their underlings,” Yan explained, wondering why Akanai ever accepted this waste of breath as her Disciple, “But friendly female Officers need walk a fine line lest they be seen as lacking authority, or worse, immodest.” Yan herself skirted the line more than once, though Kyung’s disapproval was enough to keep her in check most of the time, but as much as she would like to sit down, hoist a few drinks, and share bawdy jokes with her soldiers, it would be deemed most unseemly and reflect badly upon her powerful and influential husband.

Bah. Politics.

“That is how things are now, and how they will forever be if you and other women like you never try to change things.” Shrugging as if things were as simple as that, Fung gestured at Yan from head to toe and said, “This stoic front you’ve adopted here doesn’t suit you in the slightest, and it’s affecting your judgment. You’ve been trying to make heads or tails of the Enemy formation for some time now, when all you need to do is be your charming self and ask.” Something in Yan’s glare finally made Fung flinch, and she desperately wanted to know what it was, but before she could think it through, Fung added, “Not me, of course. Can’t go asking a man for help, no that wouldn’t do. Make you seem too much like a helpless maiden if you did, though only a fool would think that of you. There is someone else nearby you could ask though, a woman who received the finest military education money and influence can buy, and is a beauty unlike any other to boot.”

Loath as Yan was to admit it, Fung had a point. Turning to her second, she considered smiling at the youngest Ryo sibling and decided her efforts would not be appreciated. Where Yan was playing at being cold and aloof, Seoyoon had been born to it, as joyless and indifferent with her own family as she was with strangers. This, more than the fact that they were technically rivals, kept Yan from becoming fast friends with Seoyoon like she had with the admittedly fearsome and charismatic Da’in, whom she idolized greatly. Da’in was more in line with the sort of Warrior woman she wanted to be, so fearsome and imposing while wholly embracing her passionate femininity, but Yan lacked the courage to deal with all the rumours and hearsay it brought about. Grandpa Du had suffered enough by taking her in as his granddaughter, so she could hardly ruin his reputation as well, especially with all the lurid gossip which had sprung up regardless of her efforts. A rumour didn’t need to be true to adversely affect someone’s life, as Da’in could attest to. There was a good reason she was still unmarried at almost thirty years of age, and mostly it was because the fragile egos of most men were unable to bear having a wife stronger or more sexually voracious than they were. There were few men who could match the Sword Princess of Central, and even fewer who were still single, but such was the price to pay for freedom of expression.

Still... it brought Yan great amusement imagining the look on Da’in future husband’s face when he learned his wife was still a virgin...

Hoping she didn’t sound too desperate, ignorant, or demanding, Yan faced Seoyoon and asked, “What do you make of the Enemy formation?”

Having long since exchanged her flowing white robes for more appropriate battle attire, Seoyoon looked like an ice queen in truth, with her tight, blue tunic and fine steel breastplate polished to a silvery sheen. Embossed with engraved feathers aplenty, she also wore a single matching pauldron on her left shoulder, and twin bracers over each pale, slender wrist, all while her gloved hands held her two sheathed swords in front of her armoured skirt, which was somehow functional, feminine, and fashionable all at once. Every piece was finely crafted from the strongest, lightest steel available, but utterly mundane as far as Yan could tell, for though the Ryo family’s star was ascendant, they lacked the deep backing and extensive resources of more established families like the Ishins or the Yos necessary to secure Runic gear. For Seoyoon to have two Spiritual Weapons was already extravagant enough, and from what Yan had heard from Grandpa, this was only because her older brother Geom-Chi passed on a second Spiritual Weapon so she could have one instead.

But only after she threw a tantrum, or so the rumours went. Honestly, beautiful though she might be, Seoyoon was a haughty, hot-tempered woman who barely let Fung touch the edge of her skirts, and Yan wondered what the admittedly charming and handsome young magistrate saw in her. It couldn’t be because he wanted the Ryos as a political ally. The Tong family was well entrenched in Shen Huo ever since Akanai helped them win the office for a hundred years, and there was no way the Ryos would uproot from Central to move there. Hell, Fung even had a set of Runic armour, a beautiful fighting robe he so loved to flourish while standing well away from the battle, as well as a mysterious underling clad head to toe in Runic plate, one who disappeared after his very public arrival in Nan Ping, not to mention the multi-talented, enigmatic Fu Zhu Li waiting on him hand and foot.

...Now that Yan thought about it, there was a lot about Fung and his family that didn’t make sense. Tong Da Hai was a factionless lieutenant who single-handedly fought his way up to become Magistrate of Shen Huo after the previous Magistrate named him his successor, but considering how recently he’d come into Office, the Tong Family was far more powerful and influential than it had any right to be. How curious.

Shooting Fung a dark look, Seoyoon didn’t even bother meeting Yan’s eyes as she answered, “Gongsun Qi means to crush the left flank with overwhelming force.” Yan saw that as well, but what she didn’t know was why, but Seoyoon continued before she could ask. “The net-like formation being used by the right and centre looks vulnerable to targeted cavalry charges, but our presence here means we could rush over to engage any Enemy forces who break through. Defiled cavalry could retreat the way they came in, but pivoting so precisely is easier said than done, and in a static engagement, infantry will eventually overwhelm any cavalry. Thus, Gongsun Qi intends to bog down the right and centre with Defiled auxiliaries marginally supported by opportunistic light cavalry, while sending his armoured Chosen and heavy cavalry to engage the left flank where our ranged weapons have more difficulty targeting.”

Ah, of course. Rain’s mobile catapults wouldn’t risk firing into Yobi-no’s clumped ranks, nor would the irregulars. This just went to show that the longbow was king, and mounted archers the most dangerous of all units on the battlefield. “And how do you suppose he’ll break through Yobi-no’s formation? Engage with infantry and split them off from the centre using cavalry?”

Pausing before she answered, Yan could see Seoyoon working through the question in her mind. “That is how I would do it,” she began, which was good because that was the answer Yan arrived at too, but then Seoyoon added, “But I do not believe Gongsun Qi will do the same. He has been known to adopt his foe’s tactics to use against them, and I suspect that is what he means to do today. The Enemy’s southern flank is still hiding their formation, but from the way they are arranged, they can easily fan out to mirror Yobi-no’s positioning.”

Strange for a Colonel General to let pride dictate his tactics, but Yan supposed if anyone was good enough to do this, it would be Gongsun Qi. Before she could ask any other questions though, a thunderous clap rang out and she spotted Hongji Cloud-Stepping back to the Imperial lines dragging a visibly disgruntled Akanai behind him. Given the layer of dirt coating her leather leggings, it would seem the Chief Provost had come out on the losing end of their exchange, which was terrifying to say the least. All her life, Yan had idolized Akanai as the strongest woman alive, and until just now, there’d been no proof to refute her, but now there were whispers of how the slight and slender Gongsun Qi just sent Akanai flying with an errant swing of his massive glaive.

A clear sign of overcompensation by the way, carrying around a weapon so much taller than himself, one not even suitable for mounted combat. If Gongsun Qi could wield that giant thing with a single hand without killing his own horse, then Yan would happily eat her boots raw.

