There were two choices left to Brigadier Hongji now that Gongsun Qi had revealed his hand, and true to form, he went with the more daring and decisive of the two. Rather than play for more time and march further east, Hongji ordered the Imperial lines to dig in and ready for battle. There was no chance Gongsun Qi would allow them to retreat to a more defensible position, so running now would only waste energy better spent fighting. Eager for yet another clash, Yan reached for calm and Balance to top off the last bit of her Chi reserves, but it seemed the Enemy was in no rush to engage. For good reason too. Though both sides were tired from almost eight hours of constant marching and intermittent fighting, there were far more Enemy combatants than Imperial ones. Add in how the Defiled auxiliaries had just come off a long night spent assaulting the walls, this meant every minute of rest was more valuable to the Enemy by sheer virtue of quantity alone.

And soon enough, Imperial reports trickled in informing Hongji of the disastrous events unfolding elsewhere along the second line, revealing that Gongsun Qi was not bluffing after all and both Huanhuzi and Yuchun had defected to the Enemy’s side. The worst part was there were still so many Western heroes whose fate had yet to be revealed, like Siegebreaker Gao Changgong or the Thorny Desert Flower, Brigadier Leony of Lhatep. Prior to today, citizens all across the Empire harboured hope that these staunch Warriors were still resisting the Enemy, but now, the best they could hope for was that these heroes lay dead and buried somewhere, as opposed to leading Defiled to overthrow the Empire.

Time passed slowly as the two armies faced off, and Hongji was clever enough to use this time to prepare, gathering his Demon Slayers and Peak Experts, shifting empty transport wagons to serve as makeshift barricades and ensuring every soldier had food and water aplenty to fill their bellies. Though Yan would have much preferred if he ordered a line of trenches dug, she understood why Hongji kept their activity to a minimum, as any effort would be wholly wasted if Gongsun Qi attacked before their last-ditch preparations were completed. Yan similarly used this time to familiarize herself with the Officers under her command without Grandpa Du lurking over her shoulder and glaring at anyone who dared show the slightest sign of disrespect. To her surprise, she discovered they were a cordial bunch, and tried very hard not to think about how this was probably because of her relationship with Rain as opposed to her personal reputation.

As a reserve force, Yan’s primary responsibility was to respond when needed, which meant her tried and true tactic of using an entrenched line of swinging scimitars supported by stabbing spears was unlikely to come into play today. To this end, she gathered a few more talented Officers and their strongest warriors into a single cadre, while also ensuring there were enough leaders to keep the rest of her retinue in line. This was better than spreading her strongest Warriors across five-thousand soldiers, especially considering her position behind Mister Rustram’s checker-board formation, since she now had a unit that could thread through the gaps without throwing his battle-lines into disarray. This done, there were still a plethora of minor adjustments she could make, such as stationing officers who’d worked together before beside one another and keeping the more tired retinues in reserve for longer so they might rest.

Before a half hour had passed however, it seemed Brigadier Hongji’s patience had come to an end. Knowing time was no longer on their side, he ordered the entire centre to advance until the catapults were within range. From her position towards the back, she had a clear view of the stark difference between the devoted Death Corps and the hastily trained Irregulars, with tens of thousands of the former marching in complete lockstep while the latter surged forward in a shuffling, hesitant blob. Rain had the right idea getting crossbows onto the battlefield, but he erred gravely by putting them into the hands of commoners. Unlike the first batch, most of these irregulars had volunteered to join in the war effort, and it was easy to see most of them were regretting their earlier decision. Courage and despair alike were powerful weapons on the battlefield, and bringing these ten-thousand commoners into battle was akin to stabbing one’s self in the butt for no particular reason. As wounds went, it wasn’t particularly life threatening, but it was still uncomfortable to work around.

And to think, Rain wanted to arm his irregulars with pikes, armour, and shields too, a complete waste of funds and effort. It was all fine and good to humour him with these irregulars, as they were largely self-reliant. They carried most of their gear on their person and Rain generously supplied them with cattle and wagons aplenty to store rations, feed, and bolts, but if they had more gear, then they’d need more wagons, which would further slow the army’s overall travel speed. That was Yan’s husband though, a dreamer to the end, and too stubborn to accept things without learning them the hard way. It might well take the deaths of thousands of Irregulars to convince him of his folly, but at least then his efforts could be better spent persuading Martial Warriors to take up crossbows instead. Sadly, he’d made his own work harder by arming so many peasants with them and thereby emphasizing how crossbows were a commoner’s weapon. A silly distinction to make, since the same could be said of spears, maces, axes, or any number of tools turned weapons, but such was life.

If the Irregulars were Martial Warriors, they would be of far more use, as Yan envisioned a skirmishing line of ranged combatants ranging ahead of the army to bait Defiled to charge into trapped or defended areas. Alas, Brigadier Hongji’s hand was forced and the Death Corps were called upon to move out of position in order to keep the Irregulars safe behind them. Strange how the left and right flanks weren’t moving up as well, and Yan feared there’d been some miscommunication right up until the first catapult loosed its deadly payload.

There was no piercing whistle to follow up the weighty thump, but the sky lit up in a shower of sparkling lights. Sunlight glinting off metal, Yan realized, forged steel in fact, and as she traced the arc across the sky, her stomach lurching as the projectiles fell woefully short of the Enemy lines. Then the catapults sounded again, and again, their payloads scattered all about the open fields of Central, and only then did she understand the gambit. “Caltrops,” she said, her nose wrinkling into an ugly grimace. A double edged sword, since Imperial cavalry would no longer be able to chase down fleeing Defiled, but after thinking things through, she decided she was being overly optimistic.

If the Defiled were beaten and fleeing, the Imperial army would be in no shape to chase them, and would probably be better off retreating in the opposite direction...

After loosing three volleys of caltrops to deny several swathes of land on the southern flank, the catapults set to loosing stones once more, but Gongsun Qi immediately ordered the assault. The front rank of Defiled surged towards the Imperial lines, wholly unconcerned with the spike-laden field, as mere boots would be enough to stop them. Not so for the soft feet of cavalry though, forcing the picket line of garo riders to ride east out of the path of advancing soldiers. Leaving the cavalry to their own devices, Hongji still didn’t order the flanks to advance, and as the elongating line of tribal auxiliaries veered inwards towards the closest Death Corps target, Yan finally understood why.

The good Brigadier was counting on his hardy heavy infantry to weather a beating from both the Enemy’s centre line and the tribal auxiliaries both, counting on the latter’s lack of control to impede the advance of the more Disciplined Chosen. It was working too, as the Enemy’s centre stalled at perfect catapult range while the auxiliaries piled into the centre, their mundane weapons largely ineffective against sturdy Eastern armour now that their Chieftains and Champions had been pulled away. Remembering this minor detail and making use of it was the difference between an effective commander and Yan, so she quietly admonished herself for not even considering this possibility when gathering the most skilled Warriors of her retinue into one place.

Luckily, she would mostly be fighting unarmoured tribal Defiled, especially now that the Enemy’s right flank was a considerable mess. When Brigadier Hongji finally gave the order to advance, Mister Rustram wasted no time getting stuck in, directing his units to work in concert and grind entire sections of the auxiliary horde into meat paste. At the same time, the left flank engaged as well, with Yobi-no utilizing the tried and true wedge formation to drive deep into the Enemy lines. The first rank closed in and drove the Chosen back, allowing the second rank to split and spread out, with half moving to support the centre and the other half waiting in reserve. All the while Major XinYue’s heavy cavalry positioned themselves to threaten their enemy counterparts, but while an Imperial Warrior on foot was more than a match for most Defiled in the same position, the situation was reversed when it came to cavalry.

It all came down to a difference in mount, for powerful and majestic as a horse might be, it was still prey in the eyes of the carnivorous gajashia, with its sleek, muscular torso, sharp, snapping beak, and fearsome tusks. Regardless of the odds however, the valiant Major XinYue picked his moment and sounded the charge, while his counterpart responded in like. The thunder of hooves instilled a primal sense of alarm and terror in Yan even from so far away, and she watched with bated breath as both sides closed together with spears lowered and axes raised.

Only for XinYue to break off the charge about a quarter way through and immediately retreat with all haste, as a volley of arrows slammed home into the crowd of gajashias. Somehow in all the confusion, almost five-thousand Sentinels had slipped around the back of the Imperial Army and come out on the other side, taking the Enemy cavalry by complete surprise. To add insult to injury, the Defiled were now also in range of the Irregulars, and the Enemy charge faltered a second time as ten-thousand bolts rained down from above. Say what you will about their lacking courage or inconvenience, Yan had to admit, a bolt loosed by a commoner killed just as well as one loosed by a Martial Warrior, so maybe Rain wasn’t entirely wrong to do this.

Just mostly wrong.

Maddened by the death of so many allies, the gajashia cavalry chased after XinYue’s retinue, as it was the only available target since quins could run them around in circles all day. To their dismay, they soon came across yet another field studded with caltrops, this time left behind by XinYue’s soldiers as they pulled away. The fearsome gajashias shrieked in pain and rage as the spikes drove deep into the soft meat of their unprotected heels, and many crashed to the ground as they found their legs no longer able to support their weight. Bones snapped and armour groaned as Defiled and beast alike died in droves to their speedy stops, while a storm of bolts and arrows continued to pelt them without mercy.

Turning her attention back to the right flank, she noticed the rest of the Sentinels had not sat idle while all that had been going on, positioning themselves perfectly to loose volley after volley safely into the Defiled flank. Some of the more enterprising Defield broke off to charge them, but rather than retreat, Akanai dispatched a small vanguard force of less than a thousand Sentinels to see these aggressors off. Though too far to make out from where she stood, Yan spotted the telltale whirling chains of Tursinai and Mila, cutting down entire squads of their unarmoured foes with every pass of their weapons. Apparently, Yan’s sister wife had even killed three Demons in her last engagement, two kills claimed by hurtling her short spear at ridiculous speeds and one using her odd chain weapon which Rain claimed worked in defiance of the laws of physics.

And here Yan stood, twiddling her thumbs with nothing to do.

Not for long, however, as Fung relayed Brigadier Hongji’s orders to her. “We are to march around to the left flank with all haste.”

At least, Yan assumed they were Hongji’s orders, but Fung’s complete lack of proper procedure left things open to interpretation. “Acknowledged.” Thankfully, no direct Sending from the Brigadier arrived as Yan hurried her troops over the left, where Yobi-no was struggling to hold out against the concentrated attack of Chosen. They too had adopted the wedge formation, but their positioning was superior to the grizzled Major’s, leading to his troops being split into unfavourable engagements. A good third of his front line was stuck behind their comrades, while the rest were under heavy attack in an eerily similar fashion to what Mister Rustram was doing to the auxiliaries on the other side. Gongsun Qi was toying with them, using this battle as a learning opportunity to familiarize himself with new tactics, and though the Defiled had suffered far more casualties than the Imperial forces, they could easily afford the losses.

