The ships glided out of the morning fog like phantoms of mist and spray, their sleek, dark forms cutting through the waves with nary a sound.

Before the guards could raise the alarm, the ships dropped their Sound Barriers and came alive in a symphony of nautical commotion, sails flapping, hulls slapping, and oars groaning to the beat of a frantic drum. Each ship flew a single flag, a black square bearing the crossed axe-and-cutlass motif, revealing themselves as pirates grown bold enough to attack the Imperial Army itself. As the first wave of ships drew near, the sailors set their vessels aflame before abandoning them to crash headlong into the blockade of unmanned, oil-laden Imperial ships. The deafening explosion shook the ground as the first line of defences were breached, but despite all the smoke and confusion, the defending ships had ample time to ready for the impending nautical battle. After months of studied practice, the shipmasters were all intimately familiar with the local shoals and reefs, and they positioned their vessels accordingly, readied to take advantage of the slowed Enemy progress and block avenues of ingress with scuttled Enemy vessels. On board, a vast array of catapults and arbalests were armed and primed, aimed westward into the fog and smoke to await their targets, while staunch Warriors of the Empire stood ready to repel all boarders, these heroes ready to sell their lives dearly and throw back these pirate invaders.

But alas, even all this was not enough to stop the self-proclaimed King of Bandits, the vicious half-badger Huanhuzi.

Heedless of the dangers of the deep waters, the Bandit King’s fleet sailed in from the Northern approach. Smuggler’s vessels one and all, but built to hide in plain sight, their appearances deceptively similar to a standard merchant’s vessel save for their modified hulls hidden beneath the waves. It was this which allowed their ships to wholly negate the harbour’s innate defences, their flat-bottomed ships sliding over the dangerous shallows with laughable ease. Before the Imperial ships could turn to meet their foes, the northernmost vessels were already under attack from the pirate fleet, outnumbered three or four to one. Huanhuzi’s raiders picked off the Imperial defenders piece by piece, and before the hour was done, the second-lines had been breached and the pirate fleet continued sailing east towards SuiHua, the largest Imperial hub of the Western Wall. Should the pirates take or blockade the harbour, all Imperial supplies and reinforcements would be left with no option but to travel overland, while the Enemy raiders would have near unfettered access to anywhere along the Wall, thanks to the river thoroughfare which had been dug for that very purpose.

On that dark, autumn morning, the War against the Defiled took a turn for the worst, but thankfully, the Bloody-Fanged Wolf Baatar was already in the field with an army and well positioned to lend aid. However, his army was meant to reinforce Ethereal Fist Hongji’s forces already doing battle on the open fields of Central, and combined with the chaos developing outside Castle Wulin to the south, this meant that the valiant Chen Hongji was now left without aid. A trial of titanic proportions laid down by the Mother Above, but no matter how dark the day might grow, She always leaves a path back to the light.

For Chen Hongji did not stand alone, bolstered by the addition of recent reinforcements, an elite force which included too many Imperial Heroes to list, and led by the Legate Falling Rain himself.

- An excerpt from ‘Darkest Before Dawn, a saga of Falling Rain’, as written by Han BoShui

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In light of the day’s events, Yan’s field promotion to First Grade Warrant Officer left her feeling understandably conflicted.

On the one hand, she didn’t entirely believe she deserved the promotion, or at least not ahead of other, more deserving Warriors, like the cold and aloof Ryo Seoyoon who Da’in repeatedly praised as a brilliant tactical mind, or Big Huu who possessed an instinctive grasp of pack tactics and battle formations. Not to mention she now felt outclassed by her peers, thanks to Ishin Ken-Shibu’s superlative grasp of command, Zian and Tam Taewoong’s ever growing personal strength, and even ‘Mister’ Rustram now that he Healed Sai Chou without a Natal Palace or Domain of his own. Granted it was due to Panacea, but Healing was still a complex working of External Chi, though how he managed it was difficult to say. Yan had her Blessing of Wind, but even she didn’t wholly understand why her Chi would dissipate into Heavenly Energy with every working she tried aside from Wind Blades and Sending, and she was still unable to grasp the core concept of a Natal Palace. How does one keep a mental construct in permanence? Once her attention slipped, her mind would go blank and she’d find herself back in the darkness of the void, but everyone told her to keep trying.

Rain was the worst for this, absolutely no help whatsoever. “Just never stop thinking about it forehead,” he said, before laughing for no reason whatsoever. A maddening man, this husband of hers, but she loved him all the more for his strange little quirks.

On the other hand, it was gratifying to finally move on from the ranks of Junior Officers, and doubly so to surpass poor Mila, whom Akanai still refused to promote beyond Senior Captain. Amusing as it would be to needle the freckled red-head so, it was hardly fair considering Father-in-Law Baatar stayed on as a mere Captain for several decades even after becoming a Peak Expert. While this wouldn’t stop Yan from teasing her sister wife, she feared her her two-rank promotion would reek of nepotism to outsiders looking in, especially since the only real accomplishments she had to her name had little to nothing to do with tactical acumen.

All this meant Yan would have to work extra hard to prove she deserved her new rank, but as a woman and half-beast, she was no stranger to adversity. While leading the march ever eastward towards the Citadel, she kept close eye on the Enemy army as they moved into formation, envisioning how she would do battle against this formidable predator nipping at her heels. First, she familiarized herself with Hongji’s formation, which was an unfamiliar one considering all the new elements introduced. Luckily, she’d overheard enough of Rain and Rustram’s discussions to understand the basics behind their checker-board formation, and while it had been used to great effect in the battles thus far, she also knew its limitations. With the cavalry now in play, she wholly expected the centre and right flank to come under heavily targeted attacks from garo and gajashia riders alike, for they both presented a target rich opportunity. To combat this, she would shift Ken-Shibu’s retinue northward and move them in front of the ranged contingent, so he and his soldiers could stand ready to plug up any gaps. Then she’d position Major Chu XinYue’s retinue of heavy cavalry to support the right flank, and it should be enough to deter the Enemy from committing too hard on the attack, but Brigadier Hongji instead chose to send both retinues to reinforce the left flank, where Major Yobi-no had taken up a modified wedge formation which heavily favoured the exposed southern side.

A textbook response to doing battle with the Defiled on the open field, so why was Hongji so concerned with Yobi-no’s defence and leaving Mister Rustram more or less unsupported on the northern flank? The Brigadier was a brilliant commander and likely had his reasons, but Yan was unable to come up with an answer on her own. Unknowingly looking to Grandpa Du for guidance, she was taken aback by how tired he looked while sitting atop sweet Shana, his back straight and shoulders square to put up a front, but his weary eyes, slack arms, and dangling feet gave his exhaustion away, along with Kyung’s ever-vigilant presence stuck closer to his side. Grandpa’s enervation was not without reason though, for his epic battle against the Enemy Demons and Peak Experts had ended less than an hour past, wherein his exploits astonished any and all who witnessed them.

Oh what a treat it’d been to see the Sanguine Tempest in action, wielding his slender sabre with the consummate skills of a master. Grandpa didn’t have the same forceful, domineering presence of Baatar or Ghurda, nor did he fight with the grace and beauty of someone like Akanai or Yaruq, Warriors who drew the eye no matter where they went. Instead, Grandpa Du moved with precise purpose in battle, almost invisible until the moment after he struck. Unless left with no other choice, he never fought alone, joining hands with his allies around him and adding to their efforts in ways that made the sum total of their efforts greater than the whole. Wherever he appeared, Imperial Heroes rallied and Defiled villains fell, a focal point of order and destruction as his actions shaped the battlefield around him.

These were the actions of a man who grew up on the field of battle, one who learned to harmonize with his allies and rally Warriors to his cause all without Sending a single word. Grandpa Du had long since admitted tactics were not his true strength, but there in the chaos of battle, he became a commander in a different sense, one who dictated the tides of conflict. It was difficult to put into words what she witnessed, but it felt like throughout the entire battle, Grandpa was exactly where he needed to be in order to take advantage of his foes’ weaknesses or support his flagging allies. Once or twice might be a coincidence, but he consistently arrived in the nick of time to seize victory or subvert defeat, and to her eyes, he almost single-handedly kept the Imperial lines from crumbling apart. Whether it be killing a lurking Demon lying in wait for the speeding Exarch Bralton, threatening a cadre of Defiled from approaching the Lawgiver’s flank, or assaulting three Peak Experts and two Demons to rescue the Dark Giant and buy time for the Fiery Star to clear the field, Grandpa Du exerted more presence on the battlefield than any two Peak Experts combined.

Of course, much of this was due to his overwhelming personal strength, but even with minimal use of his Blessing of Wind, Grandpa was still a force to be reckoned with. What would he be like if he truly cut loose, using sabre and battle-fan without care for restraint? With his Wind Chakrams, he was a power unto himself, a Martial Warrior who could fight one against a hundred with ease. That was the Warrior Yan envisioned herself to be when she first entered his tutelage, fresh off her Awakening and eager to learn how to best wield it, but it was clear now that Grandpa had so much more wisdom to offer. Though she shared his Blessing, she saw that it was Kyung who inherited his true style, one which supported his allies on the battlefield while also utilizing their support to strike first, strike hard, and leave naught but destruction in his wake.

Even working together, Yan and Kyung would be hard pressed to do Grandpa’s legacy justice, and she would not have it any other way. He cast an enormous shadow, as any Living Legend should, but she was determined to ensure his name was remembered for as long as she drew breath. To do that, she must become a Living Legend herself, which coincidentally, had been her goal all along anyways.

All of which left her both nervous and excited, for this battle would be one for the history books, a massive battle between Imperial and Defiled on open ground. If only they had another hour more to reach a more favourable position, but the Enemy commander likely knew this as well and was preparing to strike soon. How would they attack? The ‘Chosen’ were an orderly, disciplined bunch when the occasion called for it, and they demonstrated this now by forming up into yet another unfamiliar formation, or at least that’s what it looked like to Yan. Difficult to make out their overall arrangement without access to Scrying and relate it back to the models and diagrams from her all-too-brief lessons, but she would have to make do.

Heavy cavalry waiting on the wings of the left flank, a loose line of light cavalry acting as a screen in the centre, and tribal auxiliaries massing on the right, while the Chosen were everywhere else. This explained why Brigadier Hongji was so concerned with the left, but the Enemy commander’s decisions made no sense whatsoever. Why throw the tribal auxiliaries at Mister Rustram’s checker-board formation? That was playing to his strengths, since his flexible deployment allowed him to pick and choose which sections to hit the hardest, not to mention the fact that clumped up groups of naked Defiled made perfect targets for the ranged contingent parked in the middle of the Imperial forces. Then there was the fact that Yobi-no’s tight wedge formation on the left flank left few targets of opportunity for the Enemy, garo riders were utterly wasted against the heavily-armoured polearm-wielding Death Corps, and the Imperial light cavalry was still all unaccounted for. Add to this how the Enemy was pressed for time as two Imperial armies were riding to cut off their path of retreat, and Yan suspected the Enemy commander was either incompetent or a traitor twice over, someone who took control of the Defiled army in order to blunder his way to ultimate defeat in twisted service to the Empire.

