There was no exact count of the Defiled forces who’d marched on Castle JiangHu, but only because it would’ve taken longer than an entire day to count them all and Gongsun Qi kept shuffling his units about. For all they knew, he commanded anywhere from five-hundred thousand to five million Defiled, though the number could easily have been inflated by simply marching the same groups of soldiers in and out of sight. Even now with the front lines engaged, the remaining Defiled numbers were still staggering to behold, their ranks stretching far back and moving out wide to encircle the beleaguered Imperial forces.

Which meant they had to kill as many Defiled as they could while the Enemy was still moving into position, for there would be no respite once they began their all-out-assault.

“The good Brigadier requests we hold nothing back,” Fung quipped, “So I suppose it’s high time I contributed.”

Yan idly considered ordering him to lead the charge, if only so she could pick a new aide. “Acknowledged.” Seeing the flagging lines before her, she deployed her units to bolster the line and spread her elites among them, rectifying her earlier mistake on the fly as best she could. Then, she led the rest of her command unit into the thick of things, having saved the most dangerous section for herself, the focal point between the left and centre. If the Defiled broke through there, then they could move to encircle and isolate Yobi-no’s troops, but so long as Yan drew breath, she would not allow it to happen. Shield and battle-fan in hand, she strode out to meet the Enemy and –

Stop short as Fung and Seoyoon sprinted ahead and showered her in a spray of dirt.

Sputtering as she pushed through the veritable wave of earth, Yan was ready to tear both their heads off their necks, but what she saw shocked her to silence. Still wearing his handsome, hateful smirk, Fung strode into battle a man alone, smashing aside all opposition with domineering swipes of his ridiculously heavy spear. Runic armour kept some of his foes alive, but even they were tossed aside as he drove deep into Enemy lines, an overbearing style Yan would’ve never attributed to the hedonistic young dandy. She heard the tales of how he matched Wu Gam blow for blow during Shen ZhenWu’s banquet, but she always assumed the half-fox was just giving face or had been won over by Fung’s promise of coin and women. Now, the truth was laid out before her and there was no denying it: Fung’s physical strength was somehow comparable to the Earth-Blessed Wu Gam despite lacking a Blessing of his own.

And his speed... his speed was something else. His weapon thrummed as it whirled to and fro, a blur of motion dancing about the battlefield to a song no one else could hear and lips moving in silent recital as if copying Zian or Ken-Shibu. No, not copying them, for this was a style all Fung’s own. Neither song nor dance was being recited, but poem. Fung’s motions were set to emphasize his tone and inflection, hands poised to drive home his rhythm and breaths timed to perfection, but unlike Song who sometimes shouted her poems mid-battle, Fung was reciting them for his own amusement.

And again, Yan was proven wrong as she noticed the death unfolding in his wake. Like sharks honing in on the scent of blood, Seoyoon and her bodyguards followed carefully behind Fung, taking full advantage of the chaos he wrought to kill with near impunity. Fung was the line breaker, a blunt instrument which scattered the Chosen about, while Seoyoon played the part of precise scalpel, her sword darting in between armoured plates to end lives with frightening ease.

Impressed by their coordination and annoyed at being outshone, Yan threw herself into battle as well and supported them as best she could. When Fung’s arms finally grew tired after an hour of battle, he silently signalled for aid and moved to fall back, while Seoyoon and her guards fell in around him to escort him away. By then, Yan had expended almost half her Chi on Honing and Wind Blades, but her effectiveness fell far short of their combined efforts, a loss she was oddly happy enough to take. The more important thing was that they’d stabilized the left flank, and now another reserve unit was coming by to hold the line.

As she led her troops back to rest, Seoyoon left Fung in the care of her guards and fell in beside Yan. “He wasn’t wrong,” she said, and for the life of her, Yan had no idea what she was going on about. It must have shown in her expression, for Seoyoon quickly added, “Fung. When he said the cold facade doesn’t suit you. You are very much like Da’in in many ways, which I think is why she gets along with you so well.” As Seoyoon’s gaze darted by to check on Fung, Yan spotted the ghost of a smile on her lips. “I ask that you take no offence from the callous way he presents himself, for that is merely his Dao. He does as he pleases, chasing after what holds his attention for the moment, like a lazy, well-fed cat who has no need to hunt, but does so anyways because it is in his nature.”

Huh. It turned out the frost maiden Seoyoon was not so icy after all, or Fung’s considerable charms were more potent than anyone ever thought. Catching Yan’s gaze and teasing smile, Seoyoon’s cheeks reddened as she looked away. “He wanted you to ask me for advice, because I expressed my admiration towards you and a desire to become close friends.”

This time, Yan was truly shocked. “Really?”

Seoyoon nodded curtly, but Yan saw her embarrassment. “He said I should just tell you, but if I’m being a bother –”

Yan cut her off then and there by throwing her arms around the adorable girl, hugging her tight without a care for all the blood, sweat, and grime. “Of course! I would love to be closer friends with you, but I thought you didn’t like me.” Holding the hug until Seoyoon relaxed, Yan pulled back and grinned before grabbing two waterskins from the porter. Handing one to Seoyoon, they quenched their thirst together before Yan decided to do away with the niceties and go right for the throat. “So tell me, you and Fung. How far has that scoundrel gotten? Don’t be shy, tell your big sister Yan everything, and if he’s crossed the line, I’ll beat him soundly for you.”

Thoroughly enjoying herself despite the dire circumstances, Yan found Balance with ease as she needled Seoyoon for details and gabbed about nothing of importance. Battle was necessary, but sometimes, a little silliness went a long way. Fung was right. Who cares if others thought Yan wasn’t ladylike or was behaving improperly? This was who she was, and she no longer cared to hide it.

Especially since they might not live out the day regardless. Perhaps later, she could go pay Rain a visit and kiss him one last time for good measure, though with Lin-Lin in the carriage, it would have to stop with a kiss. Such a shame he refused to do anything last night, worried he might exhaust her unnecessarily, but what Rain didn’t seem to understand was that love and happiness were a balm for the soul. Too much was as bad as not enough of course, but eventually he would learn to let go of his worries and understand what Balance truly meant, and then...

Well... Yan had no idea what would happen then, considering Rain had gotten this far without it. Only the Heavens knew, and they refused to share their secrets, so only time would tell.

Chapter Meme
