Smiling, I move to stand but she pulls me back with her grasping hands. “Um... The kiss. We made a deal, and I will stand by my word.” She shyly closes her eyes and lifts her mouth, waiting for me to act.

Seeing this charming, attractive, defenseless young woman, it is only by the barest of margins that I am able to resist taking the advice of other me, to push her down and have my way with her. The fact that she can beat me bloody with little effort helps, but not much. Giving her a light kiss on the forehead, I watch as her eyes open in surprise, flooded with equal amounts of disappointment and relief. “There, the bargain is struck, the deal is done. We are betrothed for the time being. If I kiss you, it will be because you want me to, not for your stubborn pride.” As I straighten up and walk away, I can't help but add a playful, “You're welcome.”

“What?” She leaps up and chases after me, latching onto my arm. “If anything, you should be thanking me! And let me tell you, whether we marry or not, if you sleep with another woman without first annulling this betrothal, I'll have you naked and pulling a cart while I stand in the back, whipping you along. I will not be made a laughingstock, you will adhere to proper behavior, even if this is a farce.”

Smiling to myself, I walk along the riverside, arm in arm with my betrothed, happily teasing her and enjoying her reactions. The thought of having Akanai and Husolt as my in-laws sends a shudder down my spine, but seeing Mila's carefree smile makes me consider risking it.

I mean, how bad could it be?

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Evening finds me kneeling in front of Akanai in the same clearing where I had blackmailed her daughter into a kiss, my skin almost breaking out in nervous hives as Akanai paces back and forth slowly, her stare burrowing into my skull as if she can see my every thought. Why did I agree to the betrothal? The news that I have not rejected it seems to have her in a fury, ordering me to kneel before her as she deliberates my fate. If she's so angry, why did she suggest the betrothal in the first place?

After sweating me for several minutes, she finally stops in her tracks and turns towards me, causing me to flinch as if I were about to be hit. Who knows, I might be. Crouching down, she puts both hands on my shoulders, looking me straight in the eyes. “So, you are now betrothed to little Mila. You may call me Mama.” Her tone is neutral, her eyes hard, as if daring me to do just that.

My mouth dry, it takes a few attempts to get my voice working. “Oh, I couldn't do that Chief Provost Lieutenant General Ma'am. That would just be too informal.”

“Good, good.” A hard clap on the shoulders sends a lancing pain through my stump, leaving me with little choice but to grit my teeth and bear it. I was wrong... I think she's actually happy. What have I gotten myself into? “Tell me of your problems.”

Hesitation grips me, but at her impatient glower, the words explode out of my chest. “Well, see, after the demon thing and the multiple illusionary lives, I'm having a bit of trou-” Her upturned palm and frowning grimace stops me mid sentence.

“Your cultivation problems, boy. Speak to your sister about your personal problems, she is better equipped to handle those than I.”

Ah. Right.

After detailing my issues and answering several of her questions, she gestures for me to begin meditation while wearing the ring. After my lengthy preparation process, I fall into the State of Balance and immediately the torrential downpour of Heavenly Energy surges through me, taking me by surprise. It's been too long since I've done this but even then, it feels as if it has gotten worse as I struggle for control, putting up barriers and attempting to divert all the energy away from me, drowning in the deluge without any aid.

A sharp jarring wedge of chi interrupts me, and as if I were thrown onto dry land, the cascade stops and I am left gasping as I collapse onto the grass, my chest heaving from my all too brief attempt. Akanai hovers above me, looking down both literally and figuratively, as if disappointed by my failure. Silent and grim, she watches as I catch my breath, and I sit up gingerly, ready to try again.

“That was only struggling, there was no surrender.”

“I noticed. It seems worse than ever, as if it were waiting for me, ready to bring me down.” These fucking rings are a deathtrap, I should gut that stupid OuYang patriarch for giving away faulty goods. We should have just tossed those fucking jars into the sewers and taken a hammer to these damn rings for all the good they've done us.

“I have a question for you. Why do you feel the need to control the Energy of the Heavens?”

Snorting loudly, I reply, “Because otherwise it will kill me.”

“And that is what I am here to prevent. So again, why do you try to control it?”

“...So I don't die?”

“Is that not why I am here? Do you not trust me?” Her words are spoken plainly, without accusation or anger, a questioning tone as she watches me. Seeing that I have no answer, she asks another question. “Do you fear the Energy of the Heavens?”

The simple question causes me to jolt upright in understanding, the lesson taught to me so long ago by Charok fresh in my mind once again. From the very first time I used the ring, I was afraid of what would happen. My lack of control over my fear caused me to react instinctively each time, pushing away the heavenly energy, breaking it apart so that I can control it, rejecting it even as it flows through me. My eyes turn towards Akanai, and she nods once, understanding my unspoken question. She will offer protection, should I need it. I have nothing to fear.

This time, Balance comes quickly and so too does the infusion of Heavenly Energy. Centering myself, I accept everything that comes, feeling my body heat up as the energy crashes violently against me, forcing itself into my core as if it were a sinkhole waiting to be filled. Fear rises up in me, but I let go of it, transforming myself into an anchor within the storm, a rock beneath the waves, battered but unmoved. The energy ebbs and flows, like the coming and goings of the tide, and I sink deeper inwards, with no thought of struggle or surrender, only acceptance.

Without me noticing a change, the Energy of the Heavens now circles around me and through me, tempering me in its embrace. A foreign energy tugs at my awareness and I detect it entrapping what I have already claimed while also funneling more towards me. Reassured by Akanai's presence, I sit in quiet meditation, my mind blank and without thought. No needs or wants, fears or joys, only emptiness within, and fulfillment without.

My eyes open slowly and I note the position of the moon, soon to set and a new day almost upon us. Akanai's presence can be felt behind me, her palms pressed against my back, leaning heavily upon me after a long night of arduous effort, my shirt and brow dripping in sweat, the chill of the nights air causing me to shiver. Her voice tired and strained, Akanai speaks in a slow, slurred drawl. “Well done boy, you've finally Awakened. Now show me what you have learned.”

...

“Um... sorry, but what?”

Chapter Meme
