Three groups waited by a large table bearing the usual maps, corresponding to the camps she’d seen outside. The first consisted of gruff Baranese soldiers headed by an enthusiastic young man with a stag emblem on his gambeson. The second was made of tall, wild men who reminded Viv of Koro under the command of a colossus so tall his head almost touched the ceiling. A large glaive rested on his impressive shoulders while his gnarly face exuded contempt and boredom in equal measure. The last group, and also the most homogeneous, followed an old man in full, green plate armor. Gray stubble covered his chin while his gaze went over Viv’s troops. He radiated quiet disapproval.

“Hello, Viviane. Be welcome. This is Duke Eikart,” Jaratalassi said, pointing at the sour noble. “Here is young Duke Falstag who leads the duchy to the north. His people have suffered much at the hands of the Hallurians.”

“We are proud to fulfill our oath to our allies!” the duke said with enough energy to light up a happy lightbulb.

“And here is Cloud Skull, a mercenary from the south. He agreed to join us for the fight.”

“Yes,” the titan said with a voice like a grumbling rockfall. “Now that we’ve sniffed each other’s arses, can we go out and fight?”

“Oh but we’re just starting with the sniffing,” Viv replied, holding the large man’s glare.

He was interesting. Something in his aura formed a sort of web across his body that kept the ambient mana around him at bay. While most arcane fencers imbued power to their strikes, this one used it to reinforce his body. She suspected he resisted magic to a degree, though how much was difficult to assess.

“I will align with my uncouth ‘friend’ here, woman. Did you have to bring that many people?” Eikart said in a low voice.

“Elites are people of the fourth step of higher with a command role, yes?”

Eikar glared. That was a rhetorical question.

“Then they’re all my elites.”

A mage lowered himself to whisper in Eikart’s ear. The man’s eyes widened.

“Lots of mages,” Cloud Skull said. “Lots of talking. Back home we would be wrestling for the title of warchief.”

Eikart looked like he wanted to hang himself. Jaratalassi had the patient look of a man who was waiting for a group to calm down while Falstag’s lips formed a disapproving line.

“We’re all on the same side here,” he said.

“Yes,” Viv said, “well.”

She extended an arm to the barbarian who only smirked. Viv saw mana flood his conduits, intensifying his resistance. She souped up a kinetic spell.

Instead of hitting the man directly, she compressed a pane of solid transparent mana, then released it to smack against his chest. A loud ‘woosh’ made the tent’s fabric flutter. A few of the southmen raised their arms to protect their eyes.

Cloud Skull grunted under the impact.

Even accounting for the resistance, the pane should have sent the man tumbling out but instead, he stood his ground. His feet dug a furrow in the earth while his back smashed against the earthen barrier. Like some sort of anime protagonist. A few of his unfortunate men collapsed at his passage, but none were hurt.

A terrified silence filled the tent.

“Consider yourself wrestled,” Viv said amicably.

The craggy giant slowly extracted himself from the small depression his mass had carved. Viv patiently watched him lumber back across the room with the speed and momentum of a continental drift. His presence filled the air, meeting Viv’s own cold dragon aura. His face split and he showed rows of ivory teeth.

And then he laughed.

His tribe chuckled with him. Hands left the handle of weapons. Viv allowed herself a smile.

“Well you got stones, Weird Eyes. Hope you fight as well as you bark.”

“Count on it. Now, for the arse sniffing. This is my second and paramour, Sidjin the Red Mist, hero of the Glastian wall.”

“Nice to meet you,” the fallen prince replied with casual charm.

His reputation preceded him if the whispers were any indication. With a smirk, Viv’s introductions went on and the mood turned as she continued. Solfis and Zero-Five were of particular interest to the tribesmen while Lorn and Rollo were known to the Baranese for their battle prowess. After she was done, the others introduced their side as well. Falstag brought some solid fighters while Cloud Skull’s men were all introduced with anecdotes that mostly consisted of killing beasts while drunk off their tits, butt-naked, or both. Except for Adon Goat-Fucker the very unfortunately named. Eikart brought the most balanced contingent including most of the local mages who were all third step. Eikart regained some colors after they were done.

“Tradition dictates that a monarch should lead us, however I am sorry to say that not everyone can claim they’re an empress and take precedence,” the duke said with a dangerous tone.

“That’s fine. I’m here because Jaratalassi asked me, and I will follow his lead.”

“How very… humble of you.”

Eikart leaned forward in his seat. His fist gripped the edge of a table in a death grip.

“Nevertheless, you have my gratitude for coming to the defense of my ancestral lands. Those are strange times when Halluria fails to defend itself and Param denies me the help I requested. Now we stand facing a new danger. I hope… it will be enough.”

“And with this, I would like to explain my plan,” Jaratalassi said.

Everyone gathered around the table, then Jaratalassi gently forced people back so everyone could see. The general pointed at a map that showed the camp they were in as well as the surroundings. It had been exquisitely made by someone who clearly knew their stuff.

“This is our camp and here is the supply line going west to the witch gate the Empress established.”

Viv hid a smile. Jaratalassi was helping her by giving her credibility, something he was doing of his own accord.

“The only viable path east goes through a large ravine that forms a gap in the mountain chain that forms the barrier. We will fortify that ravine as a fall-back position. Beyond it lie the desertic plains of Halluria. A patch of forest to the north can provide some cover but otherwise, the place is desolate. Our plan is to bait out the enemy outside of the ravine and face them there until we are pushed back.”

“Hold on,” Viv said, “Why not simply hunker down within the fortified spot? We should have the advantage in terms of casters. A chokehold would favor us.”

Jaratalassi patiently waited for her to finish. He didn’t seem offended by her questions.

“We might do this in the end. As to why we will delay, there are three reasons. First, our most powerful fighting force is our cavalry and they cannot perform through our walls. Second, there is a secondary passage about thirty leagues to the south and I very much want our mysterious foes to commit themselves against us rather than look for an alternative and so far lightly defended way into our backlines. We want them to want to attack us. Finally, those fortifications do not yet exist. Our engineers will need time.”

“I understand.”

“Good. Now comes the question of the Hallurian force we detected half a day away. I would like the Harrakan contingent to engage this force and either recruit or destroy it.”

“Hallurians cannot be recruited. You might as well put your hand in a snakehound’s maw,” Eikart spat with venom.

Rakan cleared his throat quite loudly, which led to an embarrassed silence in the room.

“Present company excluded,” the duke grumbled. “But if you want to try, be my guest, just don’t come running if they attack you like feral mutts.”

“Neriad might yet grant them mercy,” Farren said.

That statement was received with the same amount of consternation as claiming beastlings were cute. Nevertheless, no one dared to contradict a member of the temple to their face on the eve of an important battle. Viv wanted to pat the Voice of Neriad’s shoulder but that probably wouldn’t be well received.

“Yeah, well, it’s now or never,” Jaratalassi finished. “If not most of them, then at least a few prisoners if at all possible. They are disheartened, after all.”

“We will do our best,” Viv assured.

“Excellent. In the meanwhile, the Baranese force will hold the mouth of the ravine while our engineers go to work. Cloud Skull, can I count on you and your men to scout the nearby lands? I want to know when and where the army will strike.”

“Oh we’ll do better than that,” the massive warrior replied with a smirk “We’ll tickle them so they follow us where you want’em. Don’t you worry.”

“Then we are in agreement. I will ask that you move tomorrow at first light. Your Majesty, some of our scouts can lead you to the Hallurian camp. Thank you for coming. Viviane, a moment please?”

Most everyone filed out, except Eikart who stood at a distance. Tension rose near the exit as a natural consequence of arrogant magic-boosted superhumans who didn't trust each other being in an enclosed space but, by some miracle, everyone left without a surprise riot. Jaratalassi approached Viv with a light smile, the first expression of mirth she’d seen on him in a while.

“It went much better than expected. I have to admit, when you pushed Cloud Skull back, I thought it would end in a melee.”

“Unlikely. That man was never at risk since he resists magic.”

“Yes. Arguably completely.”

“No such thing.”

“His reputation is well known, and he has been taunting our mages since he arrived. We need him, however. Southerners are a wild bunch but many of the tribes cling to their reputations like barnacles to a hull. In any case, please be careful around him. Do not aggravate him further if possible.”

“Sure.”

“I wanted to ask a service of you. While you are out, I would like you to create a witch gate in the woods to the north, hidden from sight. In case we need an… alternate path in.”

Viv nodded. That was a good idea.

“I’ll create the twin in our camp upon my return and lock it so only we can use it. Hidden. Sidjin and Rakan will help me.”

“Perfect. That was all then, thank you.”

That left Duke Eikart to deal with. He was still waiting. Her first instinct was to bow as it was etiquette as taught by the Academy but… she was a monarch now, technically, and bowed to no one. The duke didn’t seem to take umbrage.

“Greetings, Viviane of Harrak. Although I will repeat that I appreciate you coming to the defense of our land as part of the alliance, I will ask that you keep your knights in your camp while we are at rest.”

“You… what?”

“I want your knights off my perimeter. They have been challenging my soldiers to poetry contests and declaiming texts of… of dubious moral virtue! I will not abide them tempting my men into reprehensible behavior. Please, I do not mean this as an insult, but if you cannot control your men, then they have no place within my camp!”

Viv glared. Unfortunately, the duke had a right to expel the Blue Roses because, simply put, his turf, his rules. That was a constant of Paramese politics, also the reason why slaves were tolerated in allied war camps although several cities had completely banned the practice on their territories.

Viv nodded slowly.

“Fair enough. That is your right. Was there anything else?”

“No, I… no. For what it’s worth, I will petition the king to give you recognition as a gesture of gratitude.”

Viv nodded and left. It was Baran’s interest to do so anyway to keep Enoria occupied and delay the return of the continent’s second most powerful kingdom in the arena of international politics. Outside, she strode back to her camp, asking Rollo to come with everyone.

“What is the matter, Your Majesty?”

“You have been expelled from the camp for attempting to corrupt the youth.”

Rollo glowered in resentful silence but Viv wasn’t done and she asked him to stay around. Farren joined her during the short trip back.

“I would like to come in the capacity of diplomat,” he told her.

“What? With the Hallurians?”

“Yes.”

Viv considered Farren’s offer. The young Voice of Neriad had this genuine, hopeful expression she didn’t trust.

“Look, I don’t think this is a good idea. I was planning on having Rakan set up a meeting with their leader on neutral ground, for example an open space within range of our wasp catapults.”

“This will not work.”

“It will work well enough for our purposes. I suspect we’ll have to kill most of them and capture the fleeing ones. Those talk. I can say from experience.”

Farren shook his head. His jaw set in a stubborn line.

“Viv. This is our only chance at reconciliation.”

“Fuck reconciliation. Have you ever fought them? What I saw in the places we liberated… The ritualistic suicides, the executed prisoners. Just…”

“Viv. This is not up to you.”

This time, Viv did stop and glared. Everyone else did so as well, staying at a respectable distance to give them some privacy.

“I do believe I lead this army, Farren.”

“You do, and the temple guard will follow you to the isthmus and back. But I’m not here in capacity as a soldier. I’m here as a diplomat.”

“You are here as my quartermaster.”

“I am sorry, Viviane. I am not. For centuries, we have fought the Hallurians to a standstill in a clash that left hundreds of thousands dead. Today, they are on the brink of destruction after an invading army brought them to their knees. If there is one chance a hand extended in friendship and forgiveness turns our relationship around, even for a single clan, even one city, we will have achieved more for civilization than any single person in recent history. Think about it, Viv. Peace with Halluria. Is that not a dream worth fighting for?”“It’s a dream that will get you killed.”

