“If there is a single chance it can succeed, I owe it to mankind to try.”

Viv glared at Farren.

This was Rakan at the arena all over again. Someone she cared about was going to take a risk she disapproved of. This time though, there was no one she could convince to stop him. Unless…

“Does Lorn know?”

“He disapproves as well. His task is not to take risks but to protect those under his charge. And no, Viviane, he cannot tell me what to do.”

“At least take an escort with you.”

“I will do so while you remain at a distance. If it looks like negotiations will fail, they will try to extract me. I am not a complete fool. And I will wear armor.”

“Fine.”

Not that she could do much anyway. She just disliked risking Farren’s life for people she didn’t care for.

Viv didn’t control people. They flocked to her banner because they believed in what she believed in and that was a great strength, but her rather loose hierarchy meant they pursued their own agenda and, sometimes, it meant decisions she didn’t approve of. She’d never been stronger but she would never be strong enough to protect people. At least not from themselves.

“I’ll come with you.”

“You’ll do no such thing. You breathe power and violence, Viviane the Traveler. Your aura is not that of a negotiator. I might as well approach them with a naked blade.”

“Fuck.”

Viv gave up. Maybe there was a way to protect him by enchanting his gear. Or maybe she should just let go and accept people would take risks for things they believed in.

“Thank you, Viviane.”

“Hmm?”

“I must admit, you delaying the attack on Kazar to take care of your feverish dragon, then assassinating a member of the temple made me fear for the future. So far, my worries remain unfounded. It seems power has not gotten to your head quite yet.”

“Well, I have a lot of people to keep me in line.”

“Yes. I hope those include more people like Abenezigel— and I still cannot believe we have a redeemed lich — and less people like Solfis.”

“No promises.”

Viv stopped at the entrance of the camp to cast eldritch walls on a piece of land under the curious gaze of sentries. Her soldiers were busying themselves using whatever mana they had to create barracks and get settled. She was rather impressed by how efficient they were.

“You wanted to talk to me, Your Majesty?” Rollo asked, apparently still a little sour.

“Yes. One moment. Let me finish.”

Once a platform was raised, Viv stepped onto it and created a basic circle with a directional sound enchantment.

“Alright Rollo. You have been banned from Eikart’s camp and I can’t do anything about it, but anyone who steps on the platform and speaks will get their voice amplified and sent in the direction of said camp. I’m setting it up in case we need to, ah, communicate with them? Yes. And it would be irresponsible of you to use it to declaim poetry or anything of the sort.”

“I see, Your Majesty. Not to worry. This contraption will be in good hands. BLUE ROSES, TO ME!”

“And with this I am off. Do not disturb me.”

Her dastardly plan to lure more knights to her banner by ‘infecting them with the gay’ settled, it was time for Viv to build her next gate.

***

The world felt different on the other side of the mountains.

It was not the mana. The planet didn’t care about the difference enough to change itself. It was the tension in the shoulders of soldiers, eyes searching the powdery edge of the horizon for movement. It hid in the strained voices yelling orders and the white knuckles clenched on sword handles, or the shafts of vicious quarrels. Viv looked behind at the Harrakan army. Three squares of heavies provided a defensive line around the marksmen and the yries war machines. The last square held the supply train including cisterns for there was no water to be found around here. Only dry, rolling valleys of dusty stone peppered with tufts of brown grass as far as the eye could see. The Hallurians were hidden there, somewhere, in one of the many folds of the wrinkly land. The running southerners by her side moved with enough purpose that she was confident they would be found quickly.

Morning turned to noon and the army stopped for a short rest, then they set off again. The temperatures were already warm enough to make Viv slightly aware of the heat, though her peculiar constitution protected her. Within two months, this entire area would turn into a sweltering hellscape hostile to life itself. They found the Hallurian army shortly after.

It was not very difficult.

The first hint was the low cloud of vultures encircling the low valley. The second was the stench. It smelled like rot and old excrements, a pungent cloud that made Viv wince with every breath of wind. They knew the Harrakans were coming, because when Viv crested the last ridge, she found them arrayed in battle lines across a low plain.

Calling that gathering an army was generous. The camp behind them was more of a messy array of debris plunged in squalor and littered with damaged goods and the occasional dry corpse around a more solid, fortified core of well-ordered tents. Warborns and archers took the center of a formation behind a man in full plate and a helmet bearing two horns that gave him the appearance of a beetle. All around them were militias, all in all perhaps four thousand people though the real fighting force was perhaps a quarter of that. They looked starved, filthy, and dehydrated but they certainly didn’t look like they were about to surrender.

“Well. I guess it’s your turn to shine,” she told Farran.

“Have some faith, Viv,” the man said. “The gods are watching.”

“Yeah. Somehow, that doesn’t comfort me.”
