Things were going as planned so far. “Mila and Song have very little difficulties with the ring, and are unable to relate to my problems. I thought that since you were having difficulties as well, we could put our heads together and speak of it. What is it like for you, when you are cultivating?” She waited as he stood in silence, doing everything in her power not to look at him, pretending to be casual and indifferent to the outcome when nothing could be further from the truth. She wanted to slap his idiot face for making her need to do this.

After a long pause, he finally spoke up, still focused on the surroundings. “Cultivating with the ring is nothing like normal cultivation. Without the ring, as soon as I slip into a State of Balance, it's like a warm summer breeze, while sitting in the cool shade. A gentle feeling that envelops me, makes me feel safe and cared for. Meditation is refreshing and invigorating, and I wake from it content and tranquil, feeling like I belong, wherever I may be.”

Hearing this, Adujan smiled wryly at herself. This asshole, refreshing and invigorating? For her, it was like grasping at oil in water, trying to capture it as it escaped through her fingers, bits and pieces at a time, a frustrating endeavor. The ring allowed her a sensation closer to what Rain was describing, but still not so simple, and he claimed that was what it was like for him unaided? It seemed that he was able to slip into something close to a perfect state of Balance, to have the Energy of the Heavens flow gently into your body, like water to a low point, or air into a vacuum. It was how they described the process to children, but that was so they could have an idea of what it should have been like.

It was no wonder he was so good at healing. Although his ability to store chi was low, he could simply spend some time and replenish his supply of chi in a matter of hours, practicing as much as he wanted to. It took a steady and calm mind to be able to reach such a perfect State of Balance like that, and the only person that Adujan knew capable of such a feat at their age was Sumila, who was considered a prodigy. Who would have thought that Rain was one as well?

“You say at the best of times. Are things different now?” Adujan was almost reluctant to ask, her ego bruised and motivation depleted. Talent was one thing, but how could she surpass Rain, who was both talented and hardworking? No, life was indeed unfair, and it was for reasons like this that talk of cultivation and progress was discouraged among peers. The emotional strain of competition was oftentimes enough to throw someone out of Balance, the inability to match a rival or reach a goal some of the most common deterrents of cultivation.

“Lately it has been. Ever since I've started using the ring, it's been getting more and more difficult to find Balance.” His open admission of it filled Adujan with joy. If he were truly Defiled, the state of Balance would be forever lost to him, unable to control his base emotions and desires. She waited quietly for him to continue, but silence was all she received in turn. Perhaps he would realize the problem on his own?

She wrestled with her thoughts for an agonizing half-minute. They had not planned this far, only how to lead him towards admitting his problem. Now that he had, what was she to do? “What exactly is the issue when you cultivate with the ring? Perhaps it is the same as mine.” Better to speak of something innocuous first, get him comfortable with talking to her.

“It's a struggle, a raging torrent drowning me within itself, and I can barely find a breath, until such a time that the struggle ends, and all that is left is peace and serenity.” Adujan blinked a few times at Rain's statement, trying to comprehend his issue. How was that even possible? “It's like I'm fighting the Energy, trying to keep it out of me, and then suddenly, I just want to lay within it, give myself over to it, and surrender.”

Adujan sat in silence, without words to aid him. She understood little of what he was saying, had never heard anything like he described. She began to open her mouth, to suggest that he ask someone wiser than her, but Rain's hand tapped her shoulder thrice, signaling that he felt something was amiss. Tensing up, she nervously waited in silence, not even daring to breathe, hoping that he would soon signal that it was a false alarm. All other thoughts had been shoved aside for the moment, survival of the utmost importance.

No such luck. Three bird calls, long-to-short whistles, and she was moving, hopping down from her perch to land atop Shana, waking the quin rudely from her rest. Riding off in silence as quickly as she could, the dark night covered her escape as she frantically moved towards the Lieutenant General, the sounds of battle erupting behind her as the Defiled arrived, ready for blood and death.
