Torix raised a hand, jumping to my defense, "Another aspect my disciple neglected to mention is his mastery of mana. He can wield huge volumes of mana already, even without the furnace. I'd imagine the furnace is usually impeded by one's ability to control mana on a mass scale. Otherwise, everyone would be using one of the devices."

Torix eyed the Emperor, "At the absolute least, you'd utilize more of them if that were the case. Given those factors, they must be dangerous as well."

Obolis nodded, "Indeed, they are. Using one requires the management of meager drops and unwieldy flows of mana all at once. By funneling a slither of mana into the device, you may generate an enormous amount of energy from even the air around you. It's volatile given it relies on nuclear fission, however. One misstep-"

Obolis snapped his fingers, "And a city's worth of land is ruined, along with the furnace and the user."

I smiled, "Eh, I should be fine with a bit of practice."

Helios leaned towards me, "Do you believe you still have the subtlety required? Many mages that expand their mana pools lose the ability to work with smaller volumes of mana. Given your enormous reserves, perhaps you're suffering from this and don't even know it?"

I shook my head, "I'm very precise with my mana. I'm more worried about the fallout from the furnace, but even that won't be the end of the world. I can just eat the radiation."

My guild gave me a few nods and pats on the back for that idea. The imperials present gawked at me as if I was losing my mind. Kessiah leaned back, holding her head up with her arms,

"Don't worry, guys. You'll get used to Daniel doing crazy stuff once you're around him long enough."

Obolis shook his head, "Perhaps your approach will serve you better than those before you. You understand yourself and your limits better than we do, as shown before. We must move on, however. There are other details left for us to discuss."

He turned to me, "Are you still willing to follow through with our deal with Wrath?"

I looked down, thinking about it. The first factor was the reward. I'd have to return my furnace if I didn't follow through with the plan. Abusing this little gemstone would result in some severe gains I could use against Lehesion next time we met. I also needed personal, applicable power, and this would help me do that.

On the other hand, priorities at home were reaching their boiling points. Earth didn't even have six months left before other guilds could rush in and grab up territories. My new golem projects would be resulting in a massive expansion with Ophelia and Diesel's help, letting me expand guild operations rapidly. I could focus less on helping other guilds and more on improving my own.

I wrestled with all these ideas, some of my guildsmen noticing. Althea placed a hand on mine, and she peered up at me. I met her eye as she said,

"Hey, stop worrying so much. You're the only one that's stopped Lehesion so far. If you can beat him down, then everything else kind of falls in place, right?"

I dwelled on what she said. If I could stop Lehesion, then the Adair family would struggle to invade Earth. That much was certain. I could tear their fleets to pieces with an elemental furnace fueling my singularities. Hell, I could even weave the elemental furnace formula into my golems, making them walking death machines.

The more I thought about it, the more Althea was right. Even if I took a large section of Earth over, it wasn't like I could defend it. Lehesion could show up and burn it to the ground in a few minutes. Until I could guarantee my guild's safety from him and Elysium, there was no point in expanding further outside of a few nearby territories.

For now, prioritizing my own personal strength was an absolute necessity, whether I liked it or not.

I met Obolis's eye, "I'm still in."

Obolis let out a nervous breath, "Here I believed you'd changed your mind, given the circumstances."

I tilted my head to Althea, "Thank her. She's the one that convinced me."

Obolis gave her a grin, "Thank you for your wisdom."

Althea sat straighter while Helios leaned onto one of his hands and bit his tongue. Poor guy would never live what he did down. It wasn't my problem as I rolled my shoulders,

"Alright then. Over the next week or two, my guild will continue helping on Blegara while getting ready to travel to the ahcorus's homeworld. Obolis, I'll need to meet with you regularly to have lessons on this elemental furnace. I must learn it soon."

Obolis raised a palm, "I simply don't have the time to help you. Helios, on the other hand, is under your wing and understands elemental furnaces well. He should be a fine tutor for the skills required."

Helios looked for any kind of redemption to his past mistakes as he bowed to Obolis, "Of course. I shall assist the Harbinger in whatever way I am able."

Obolis put a hand on his nephew's shoulder, "Thank you. Ophelia's assisting Daniel with his golem project as well from what I've heard. She can teach him much about primordial mana if he listens to her."

I gave him a thumbs-up, "I will."

The Emperor scoffed, "She's spoiled but talented. As long as you callous your mind before speaking with her, then she won't be a matter of contention."

I tapped the side of my head, "It won't be a problem."

Obolis opened a portal, leading to a treasure vault of some sort,

"I will leave you all with this discussion's implications. I'm needed at my war council soon, so I must leave you all to your devices. Goodbye."

I waved, "Cya."

Obolis left, leaving a few others remaining here. I stared at Kessiah, Torix, Hod, Althea, Florence, and Helios,

"Let's go back to Mt. Verner. We need as many perspectives as we can get, including Krog, Chrona, and Amara's. They might be able to tell us something new."

The others gave me a few nods of approval before Helios wobbled up. He gulped down vomit before generating another portal to Mt. Verner. I walked up to the guy, grabbing his shoulder to hold him upright. Using a bit of mana, I saturated an antigravity panel over him,

"This enchantment will last another hour or so. Get to your room and rest. You've earned it."

With his steps less wobbly, Helios worked his way to his bed without a word. Everyone else walked through his portal before Helios let it disintegrate. With Torix's help, I got everyone together later that day after Helios had his nap, and we had time to think. Everyone from our guild was there from earlier with the inclusion of Chrona, Krog, and Amara.

We rested in a cleared out courtyard, right below where Chrona called home. She carved her resting place into a cliffside, creating an overhang of stone that she slept under. To the left of that shaded space, a flat area was there for sunbathing. Below it, another flat area spread out, large enough for several gialgathens to mingle. We all sat in a circle there with the forest cleared nearby, letting us view the mountains and rolling hills around Mt. Verner.

Torix already broke down our discussion from earlier, along with a summary of what occurred during the glassing of Giess. Armed with that knowledge and a new perspective, Amara, Krog, and Chrona sat in front of me. I got everyone's attention,

"Everyone, this will be the last meeting we're doing about this. I'm tired of talking, and I want to get started doing. We all agree there, right?"

I got their acclaim before turning to Chrona and Krog,

"You guys know Lehesion better than any of us. What do you both think about his reincarnation? Any insights?"

They stared at me, both seeming whiplashed and angry at the same time. Chrona spoke up first,

"Having been reincarnated would explain much of his past. He was the most gifted of all of us, granted an absurd base of knowledge and experience we all lacked. Lehesion would often be considered precognizant during his earlier years, though that reputation faded."

Krog grit his fangs, "He merely recited what he'd already known to be true. As he aged, he shaped history in his image, and knowing less of the world's events thereafter, he could no longer speak of the future with precision. He conned us all."

Chrona gazed down, "He is unkillable as we imagined if the Old Ones are as strong as you say, however. I don't know what we can do to stop him, either. His master seems to rule time, and I of all people know how absurd that ability can be."

Chrona's temporal dilation was a nasty ability. I turned a hand to her, "That's why I wanted you here to talk with us. Lehesion mentioned collapsing timelines. Any ideas about what that means?"

Chrona stared up, letting her mind wander,

"Time is a fluid thing, much like a stream. It can be slowed and sped up if one knows how to manipulate it. Unlike a stream, it cannot be stopped, however. That is the part of Eonoth's attack that I cannot understand."

Torix leaned forward, "What about that is so confusing? We've mentioned that Old Ones break all the rules we know of. They exist without limits."

Krog shook his head, "This is simply not true. Otherwise, they would dictate our reality without limit. They seem to act within an enigmatic set of rules, though those rules are undefined as of yet."

That was a good point. Chrona turned towards us, making eye contact, "That is precisely what I've noticed as well. Lehesion exchanged his new body for some kind of goal. Learning that goal may help us untangle Eonoth's grip on him."

I tapped my chin with my thumb knuckle, "What about the time-freezing thing? You mentioned that it is impossible. Why?"

Chrona sighed,

"I've tried it and failed many times. The issue is that we all exist within time itself. We cannot manipulate time that is relevant to us without freezing ourselves in the process. Anyone that does succeed will simply burn through their mana reserves until they are at the brink of death. Time will then unfreeze, leaving them without any mana whatsoever. This means nothing is accomplished."

I waved a hand, "Couldn't you just freeze time somewhere that isn't where you are?"

Chrona shook her head, "To do so would be nearly impossible. Even with decades of experience, I cannot do more than rule over the space around me. This is because time is tied to our perception. Without that perception guiding the magic, you cannot shift time with any accuracy."

Krog grinned, "Chrona has tried many times. She would often lose any coherence, creating wobbling spaces where time sped up and slowed down. It simply burned through her mana, and she would be left defenseless."

Chrona frowned at Krog, "Yes. That is why I tie my time manipulation to the spaces I inhabit. That is also why freezing time never works for those locked within it."

Hod spoke up, "So Hod think solution simple."

Everybody looked at Hod, expecting something Hod-ish. He spread his winged arms,

"Mage want freeze time, then mage just not be in time."

Torix crossed his arms, "Ah, as always, very helpful. Existing outside of time is easier said than done."

My eyes widened, "That's why I heard Eonoth's roar. I'm not in this timeline. Lehesion was right about that."

Everyone turned to me as I grabbed the sides of my head, ruffling my hair,

"Holy shit. I'm a dimension. I have my own timeline. That's why Eonoth couldn't freeze me. Duh."

Chrona whipped her tail behind her, "That is why my temporal dilation has no effect on you as well. Why does this surprise you?"

I spread out my hands, "Well, the thing is, I turned into a puddle when Eonoth shouted."

Chrona tilted her head, "You were liquified?"

"Yeah, I ended up turning into a pile of mush. It might be that I was the only one who could hear Eonoth roar, but maybe not. Either way, I ended up a pile of jelly."

Chrona furrowed her brow, "Eonoth collapsed timelines according to Lehesion. That means he used some kind of mass temporal coalescence. He smashed timelines together. According to what Torix told us, this let out a ripple across space-time, right?"

Torix gave her a nod, "Precisely."

Chrona looked at everyone, "Perhaps we were unaffected by that wave because we exist on this timeline. You, Daniel, do not. If that were so, you are surrounded by a dimension far larger than your own. The surrounding dimension might have distorted to such an extent that it smashed you into pulp when the wave passed around you."

I cupped my chin, "Ah. That makes a lot of sense. Eonoth's wave messed with space, which I'm surrounded by. That ripple passed around me like a meatgrinder from all sides."

I stared at my hands, "Man, this whole being a dimension thing is more thorough than I first thought. If that's the case, that might be why I couldn't do the temporal dilation you tried teaching me before."

Chrona's tail moved back and forth behind her,

"How so?"

"Well, I was trying to bend the dimension around me instead of my own dimension. For you, you're a part of this dimension, so it's not as strange. For me, it's like trying to shift an immovable, massive thing around me."

Torix raised a finger, "Ah, perhaps temporal dilation wouldn't be as difficult as you first envisioned then."

I shook my head, "No, it won't be. In fact, there are all kinds of magic I'm probably not taking advantage of just because I'm tackling the techniques from the wrong angle. I mean, my pocket dimension can be used as a shield, for instance. I never thought to do that because I keep thinking of myself as Daniel, the guy."

I gripped my hands into fists, "The thing is, I'm not human anymore. I'm a literal dimension, and I need to start thinking of myself as one. I should be able to manipulate all kinds of universal rules and constants that apply to me. Hell, that's probably why shifting gravity is so easy."

Torix pointed at me, "You're shifting something that is part of you instead of shifting something external. That gives you a better measure of control."

I pointed at Torix, "Yeah, exactly."

