Erick turned back around, and went back into the Iron Bandits’ magic shop.

Chesti spoke up first, “Uh! Welcome back, sir.”

“It occurs to me that someone probably already invented a way to [True Sight] through the manasphere, and if not here, then back on Veird, due to the Quiet War and people wanting to spy on Hell.” He asked, “Know anyone I should talk to about any of that?”

Chesti blinked a little, unsure what to—

Dowry spoke up, “There are rumors that Clarice has [True Sight] spellwork that works down here, but she’s a recluse who refuses to work with anyone. Maybe she’ll work with you, though?”

Chesti looked to Dowry, and said, “I don’t think those rumors are true.”

“Well they might be?” Dowry said. “I don’t know.”

Erick asked, “How does one fight illusions in the deeper parts of the Endless Delve, anyway? It just now occurs to me that illusions are probably exceedingly powerful down here.”

Chesti raised an eyebrow, while Dowry hummed a little.

And then Chesti said, “Rumors have it that Clarice got as strong as she did by having some sort of way to combat illusions. I don’t think it’s [True Sight], though. Most people mostly bumble around and try not to die to things lurking in the dark, and then fight back when things appear.”

Dowry spoke up, “Invisible wights are an undead enemy that appears on almost every undead floor past 60, and they’re just about the most deadly thing until you get to floor 130 and the invisible enemies start to appear on almost every floor. It’s actually a status that some enemies just have. Like. That’s what they are. [Invisible], all the time.”

“The best way to combat that is to be invisible yourself,” Chesti said, “And then never get caught.”

“That breaks down past 150, though,” Dowry countered. “Past that point the enemies start to be able to see through all forms of obfuscation magic. Bosses, for sure. Smaller enemies usually not, though, so [Hidden Wind] is still a very fantastic magic.”

Erick had a minor revelation at that small interaction.

Erick laughed. “It occurs to me that I’ve been making Bracelets of [Self Rejuvenation], but I have no idea what you guys actually go through down in the deeper floors. I should rectify that!”

Dowry spoke up, “You should come to the company house! You haven’t been yet, have you?”

“Just for a delivery… I think I will do that next, though. Thank you, Dowry. Chesti.”

Both women bowed.

Erick left and headed toward the Iron Bandits’ company house.

- - - -

The Iron Bandits were the largest delver company in the Glittering Depths, with 1 out of every 4 delvers being an Iron Bandit. Most of the former-NPCs of Utopia who wanted to delve were even a part of the Bandits. They had the largest apartment building just outside of town, while their company house inside town also reflected their power as a group, for it was almost a guildhouse all on its own, with a five story main structure and a good fifteen side structures all located in a very large city block.

The Iron Bandits compound sat three streets away from delver square, smack dab in the middle of one of the largest communities of Utopia, so there were people everywhere. Only a third of them looked to be Veirdians, while the rest looked like Utopians; Erick could tell based on the level of gear they had on. People who had made it through the five first floors of the dungeon all had really nice gear on, with special functions, from full suits of platemail to large chainlink cloaks and otherwise. The Utopians only had one or two pieces of gear.

The people at the doors recognized Erick right away, even though he had only been here once, and only to drop off an order of [Self Rejuvenation] bracelets. It had been an order of 50 bracelets though, and Erick saw that both front door guards now wore one of those bracelets.

Erick smiled as he asked them, “Those bracelets working well for you?”

“Yes sir!” said one of the guards. “Are you here to see anyone in particular? Let us find them for you, sir.”

Erick kept smiling. He called these people ‘guards’ in his mind, for that’s what they were, but perhaps ‘bouncer’ was more appropriate; they were here to ensure that only fellow Bandits got into the clubhouse. “I’m actually looking for whoever wants to tell me about what sorts of threats are faced down in the dungeon, to give me a better idea of what sorts of magics I could be focusing my creation efforts on.”

One guard looked to the other—

The first guy said, “I think Miss Fellhorn would want to be involved.”

The other guard said, “Can you come with me, sir? I’ll tell Miss Fellhorn you’re here, and we can… I’m not sure. Want to see the building? Have you been here much before?” He stepped inside the company house.

And Erick followed. The first guard bowed a little as Erick passed.

The second guard led Erick through a marble guildhouse, where people milled around on business of sorts, and tellers took requests from delvers or people looking to delve. The first room was the largest, and was practically a guildhouse on its own, with great big leaderboards and portraits of important people on those leaderboards.

The top delver team was, of course, plastered on the wall in big letters, because the top delver team of the entire dungeon was in the Iron Bandits. Their leader was a mountain of a man named Tom Dugout, while their team name was the ‘Iron Swords’, and though Erick didn’t recognize the names of most of the people on that deepest delving board, their caster was named Bob Woodvale, and Erick had seen that name elsewhere. Erick only had to look to the left to see that name in the expected second location.

Bob was on the Most Decorated board, along with Erick. Erick’s portrait was at the top of the Decoration board at 4200 Decoration, though. Bob was further down, at 3250. Clarice’s name wasn’t even on that board; just the words ‘Not Affiliated’, and her number of 3450.

“Would you like a tour?” repeated the second guard.

“I don’t really need that,” Erick said, “I’ll take a meeting office, though, and some paper and such for some note taking and ideas. I didn’t come into town today prepared to do this sort of meeting with Rebecca or any of this planning, but when I went to pick up your commission requests from the magic shop, I decided I needed to actually speak to delvers.” Erick chuckled. “So now I’m here.”

“Oh! Well then you might want to talk to the top team, too. Want me to inform— Oh! Mister Tom Dugout of the Iron Swords is in the building, at the gym. Miss Fellhorn would want to speak to you too, if you don’t mind that?” The man gestured to the hallway that led to the meeting rooms. “Four is open! I’ll find out where people are and have someone your way as soon as possible.”

Erick nodded. “That’ll do.”

Erick went to room four.

Not two minutes later, a very worried young woman came in, carrying papers and pens, saying she was there to deliver all of that and to take any refreshment requests. Erick thanked her, and said he’d take some of whatever she felt appropriate; he was probably going to be in the room a while. And then Erick started reading about commission requests.

The secretary returned quickly with tarts, small sandwiches, and various drinks both hot and cold, and set them to the side, before excusing herself again.

Erick munched on finger foods as he thought. And then he started writing down some preliminary ‘solutions’ to the problems posed by the commission requests. Most of them were simple complications of easily made items, where someone wanted a specific thing, but they didn’t know how to get there with the resources they had. In every case, those complications made the item creation a whole lot harder.

There was one simple request for a breastplate with as much Health as Erick can possibly stuff into it. The requester had managed to make armor with 15,000 Health, but they could go no higher.

For that one, Erick imagined they’d be happier to have a [Regenerating Health] breastplate, or similar, but maybe they’d want Health that was stronger. Perhaps some absolute damage reduction would do good there, and also work well for Erick, actually. He needed to recreate the absolute damage reduction he had on Veird, as a dragon, but which he had lost inside the Glittering Depths…

Lots of interesting little problems here!

- - - -

Rebecca knocked on the half-open door to the room as she pushed it open, smiling brightly as she said, “Welcome to the company house, Ashes. I was wondering if I needed to go out and invite you again.” She stepped into the room, and a man stepped in behind her. Rebecca said, “This is Tom Dugout, the center of our highest ranking delve team to speak with you, since we heard you want to know about what it’s like to delve deep in the depths? And about commissions?”

Tom was a brickhouse of a man. Here was another guy who Erick suspected might have been using a whole lot of [Alter Size] to be a lot bigger than a normal guy. He was still not nearly as big as even the smallest orcol. He certainly seemed smaller than he actually was, though, as he quietly gave a half bow, saying, “Sir.”

Erick stood, saying, “Hello, Tom. Nice to meet you. And yes, Rebecca. I’ve already got some ideas for these commissions, but I was suddenly aware that I have no idea what it’s like to delve in the deeper parts of this dungeon. Like this one:” He sat back down, and grabbed one of his workups for the over-15,000 Health commission. Nothing he had written down there would give anything away about himself, but he needed to know more before he went further. “Here we have a request for a breastplate with more than 15,000 Health. Which would be a better solution to this commission? Do you think some absolute damage reduction like the dragons have would work well, effectively making every point of Health go much, much further? Or some regenerating Health like in the Breastplate of [Regenerating Health]? Or maybe some general body buffing magic would work better? Health is a lot more than a simple shield before your body takes actual damage, after all. Or should I just try for as much Health as possible, as the commissioner originally requested?”

Tom took a moment to collect Erick’s barrage of questions—

But Rebecca got there first, near instantly asking, “You can make an absolute damage reduction magic?”

“Oh yes. It’s all about ethereal Force and overlaying the body. I’m sure I can do that.”

Rebecca said, “Then that’s the one we want.”

Erick smiled. “Do you know the commissioner?”

Tom looked at Rebecca. He wanted to know who the commissioner was, too.

Rebecca said, “They’re our number 4 team; the Easy Daggers.” And then she realized Tom was in the room, and rapidly added, “And I’m sure Tom would have another opinion to add. I would stick around too, if you would have me, Ashes. You are a delight and surprise whenever we talk, and I would talk more… But I don’t actually delve all that much. So I know I will not be as useful as Tom. And I’m currently busy. Some other time?”

“We’ll talk some other time, Rebecca. Thanks for bringing Tom.”

Rebecca gave a smirk, and a small bow, and then stepped away, saying, “Talk to you later, Ashes.”

“Please, Tom. Have a seat.” Erick sat down. “Do you have an opinion about this Health commission?”

Tom glanced backward, and then stuck his head out of the door a little, before he came back into the room and shut the door, whispering, “Miss Fellhorn is a very competent boss, but she is terrifying.”

Erick raised an eyebrow. “She is?”

And then Tom realized he was bad mouthing Rebecca. “Sorry. Please… Uh. It’s not my place to say. Could I start over again?”

“… I need to know if I should look out for myself here, Tom, and what you said was concerning.”

“I was being… Not truthful. Fellhorn is great. She’s just a very intense woman. Have you ever been around a person who can guess your every inner thought, and yet you knew they weren’t a mind mage? Fellhorn is like that. She’s been fantastic for the company and we wouldn’t be where we are without her, but she’s… I suppose I shouldn’t be prejudiced against her. It’s just terrifying how she could probably kick me out of this company, even though I’m a founder.” Tom furrowed his brows. “Sorry. I shouldn’t be speaking of her like that. She’s a good person, trying her best. We all are.”

“... Fair enough. I appreciate the warnings, though,” Erick said, moving on.

Tom nodded, quietly thankful that Erick let the conversation move on, and then he moved on, too. “The absolute damage reduction would be best… I think. I heard about it a few times and some enemies have it, but… Never had the option to use it myself. I’m not sure how that stuff works exactly.” He glanced at the door to the side of the room.

Erick saw the moment where Tom felt it odd that Rebecca had known about absolute damage reduction well enough to instantly ask for that, because yes; Erick’s absolute damage reduction option was the best option.

Erick explained, “Absolute damage reduction works simple on Veird; it prevents around 100 to 250 damage from every single attack. This comes into effect before things like [Defend]… You’re from Veird, aren’t you? Or are you native?”

“I’m from Veird, though I’m glad I don’t live there anymore.”

Tom said that with such easy conviction that it caused Erick to smile.

“You’re, what, 45? You know how it was before the Wizard, right? It’s not that bad out there these days, is it?”

“I was poor as shit out there and couldn’t do shit for magic, even though I was great at swords and shields. Good enough to almost become a Paladin of Atunir, too, but…” Tom moved on, “Now that I got other people making magic for me I’m getting pretty far in life.” Tom fell silent. He had briefly been outgoing there, but he was nervous about this meeting, and he knew his mouth was running away from him.

“… Well it’s certainly nice for me to share my spellwork with others, directly. I’ve got a good knack for this stuff, though I’m not so great with the martial stuff. You’re probably great at that, though, being on the top delve team.”

Tom gained a true smile. “You’re selling yourself short, Ashes. Top of the Decoration board and you ain’t been here a month! I’m glad you came in. Miss Fellhorn said we weren’t allowed to approach you on our own…” Tom dispelled whatever thoughts he had about Rebecca, and said, “I got lots of information about fighting, and lots of desires and reasons for all those desires. Wanna hear?”

