Erick followed directly into the mudroom, which was another difference between Clarice’s house and his own. Erick kinda smiled at that space; he hadn’t been in a mudroom since his home back on Earth, all those years ago, where winter and snow required his house to have one, or else he and Jane would have tracked mud all over the place. There was no need for a mudroom on Veird, though, when [Cleanse] was right there in the Script.

“Shoes off.” Clarice hung up her gloves onto a hook by the door and then she kicked off her shoes. She gestured to some slippers by the door, saying, “You can use those,” as she stepped onto the clean floor of the house in her socks.

Erick did as requested, and then followed her into the house. “Are you from Songli?”

Songli had mudrooms. Not many other places did.

“I’m not answering that.” Clarice gestured to the dining table, saying, “Cookies if you want ‘em. They’re only a few days old. Sit down. I’ll be back with tea.”

Erick smirked as he sat down.

Clarice disappeared into the kitchen, and since the manasphere of her property was around 65% by Erick’s estimates, she did actually disappear; she was still right there, making tea. Or at least that’s what she looked to be doing, because the tea pot was moving, and some water and tea leaves were getting put in the proper places. Erick could mana sense the property now that he was inside, but Clarice had some obscuring magics on her person, just like Erick.

“So where do you want to start?” Clarice asked from the kitchen.

“How about with how you’re planning to murder me just because I came here to talk to you about your [Witness] experiences in the dungeon?”

Silence.

Erick could mana sense what Clarice wanted him to mana sense. He heard what Clarice wanted him to hear. But he recognized what was going on long before he got to this point.

As expected, but in an unexpected way, Clarice came out of her kitchen carrying what Erick would succinctly describe as a crystalline affront to geometry. Floating crystals made of displaced space hovered around a silver bar in her right hand, like she had stuck her hand into a kaleidoscopic part of reality and made it hers. All the rest of her was covered in silver armor, with a long cape. Erick hadn’t seen her put any of that on, nor had he seen it in the manasphere, or in the kitchen, but here she was primed for killing him.

Clarice calmly stated, “There are two ways this could go. You tell me of your experiences on the first and second floor. Or you die, and get sent back to the entrance floor, without any of your gear, which I will destroy in the process of killing you. It will be physically painless, but the loss of your gear will happen. It will be a punishment for whatever scheme you’re trying to do here and now.”

Erick almost wanted to grin, to try and disarm this situation with levity and quiet calm, but he felt that any of his usual response to being threatened with not-death would not be well received. So Erick calmly said, “In my first vision on the first floor, I stood upon a guard tower and saw the horrors of Riam slowly encroach on my city of Iben, for the Emptying had caused the farms furthest from Iben to fail, and now the nearby farms were failing, too. I made the decision to go join the resistance, to try and fight back against Riam’s aggression through whatever political and smaller interference I could manage.

“What found me, instead, was a grand adjudicator of Riam, known as Fyuri Riamiteer, who killed my best friend, Markie, his wife, Sofie, and then she turned Markie into a cannibal before releasing him upon me. And then she started her true reign of terror on the Ramblewood Arcanaeum and University. She started with a massacre of students, and rapidly moved on to executions of professors and otherwise.

“She moved on to killing Iben next.

“By that time I had long ingratiated myself into her circle. For a decade I had been able to use the information I gathered at her side to find the Resistance and then hide them from her. I pretended to love for ten years, while she acted like she loved me, too, but both of us were acting, and for very different reasons. Fyuri was incapable of love. Completely incapable.

“All the while I plotted against her, building power, until finally things progressed too far, and I acted. She was going to call down red lightning to try and destroy the very land of Iben itself, to turn it into mana for Riam to consume.

“In the dungeon, she was the shadowcat boss monster at RAU. In the memory, she was something similar. In both dungeon and vision I killed her with a white-lightning guard’s mace, and then made sure she stayed dead.” Erick’s voice was trembling with quiet rage there at the end, as something deep within threatened to overwhelm if he let it. But he wasn’t going to let it. Erick continued, “Floor two was a hundred years later.

“In the dungeon I made a very good bolter. In the memory, I made a super weapon and dedicated each kill to whatever good god might listen, in hopes they would come to Insten to help us throw off Riam, and restore Insten to its former glory. I don’t know if anything came of that prayer written in silver metal, but I do know that in both memory and dungeon I almost single-handedly cleared the entire battlefield of the plains. Scout helped.”

Clarice stood by the doorway to the kitchen, silently listening and watching Erick as he spoke. Displaced kaleidoscopic crystals slowly rotated around her hand. Her eyes were hard in the slits of her silver helmet. Her breath was shallow. Small facts added up here and there for her, but the primary thing Erick saw was that she lost the will to kill him. She believed that Erick was telling the truth. As soon as Erick mentioned the shadowcat, and Iben, and ‘Ramblewood Arcanaeum and University’, and finally the weapon of the gods…

That staff had done it for her. Erick didn’t have it with him, but everyone had seen it, and that included Clarice. Like a revelation in a dream, she believed.

Erick finished his story. He waited.

Clarice stated, “Rebecca is the shadowcat from the first floor.”

It was a punch to the gut.

“Oh.”

“And you’re the Summoner,” Clarice said, with reverence.

“… What?”
