“Yes, I do want to hear. Please speak upon an average set of monsters, the ‘bosses’ of the main floors, and whatever challenges you’re facing that must be overcome with spellwork— Ah! And I understand you’re on floor 200… Haven’t passed it while everyone else was looking elsewhere, have you?”

Tom smiled, and said, “We haven’t passed it yet; you’re one of the Bandits now, and you’re a part of our endless delve success, too!” And then he got a concerned look. “Uhh… You do feel like a part of the company, right? If you don’t then I need to fix that. Usually we go out drinking and partying and whoring with the new guys. It’s great fun if you want to come?”

Erick chuckled at Tom’s complete earnestness. “No thanks. I have a boyfriend out on Veird. I’m just here in Utopia to play around with metamonds and magic.”

“Oh okay! That’s great, too. If you change your mind I can bother you again some other day. We’re always going whoring and drinking; ain’t nothing better in life, if you ask me.”

Erick gently shook his head, unable to remove the small grin from his face.

Tom leaned forward, happily saying, “So! Monsters! There’s all sorts of shit down there in the deeper parts, and sometimes we have to reroll the floor if it proves to be too tough, or if we’ve tripped over some traps that cannot be smashed. Like there are floors that get flooded and we’re swimming under spiked ceilings, while decay eels try to bite our asses, and Bob desperately needs to switch out some of his utility gear to [Waterbreathing] blessing us. It’s tough to hold my breath for over 10 minutes while fighting and of course Walter’s lightning magic ain’t no good anymore. But we get it done, minimal injury, and then the water turns to acid. And that’s when we all realized it was acid the whole time, and all the Health in our gear is gone! So I’m there, my dick burning off just like everyone else’s —save for Irene, cause she ain’t got one— and everything’s getting hard to see, and...”

Erick recognized several things about Tom, as the muscular man spoke. He wasn’t book smart, and he didn’t know much about the creation of magic, but he was a good fighter, who cared deeply for his people, and who took care of his people as best he could. He had a Bracelet of [Hidden Wind] and a bunch of other high-end gear, all made for him by his teammate Bob, who was second highest on the Most Decorated list before Erick bumped him down to third. Erick kinda wondered why Bob wasn’t making more gear for everyone, and he even asked that.

Bob wasn’t an archmage, according to Tom, but he was from Songli, and he had almost become a Singer before he was kicked out for failing to pass the Singer tests for 5 years in a row. Singing magic didn’t work so well down here, but Bob was very good inside a mana chamber if he had some metamonds to start with. That was quite different from Erick, who was able to mana alter his mana into whatever he wanted.

Erick definitely had to speak to Bob after hearing he was a would-be Singer, though.

Tom smiled at that. “Bob’d love to see you! He’s always busy with his kids, though, so he ain’t never here.” He laughed. “We went whoring to this bordello like we always did, you see, and he met a girl, he fell in love with her, and they settled down and Atunir reversed her un-fecundity and now they got 3 kids! They’re all happy. Lot less time for delving, though.”

Erick grinned. “Good for them. So you were saying about the boss of floor 200?”

“RIGHT! So that bastard’s a right piece of work. I think it’s self-healing adamantium, but Bob and Irene thinks it’s holyite, but the time period is from the Old Cosmology, back when adamantium was white, right? RIGHT! So the monster is all white metal, but it can’t be holyite, and I know what it feels like to cleave holyite and this ain’t holyite, my guy…”

Erick listened for a while, all the while developing ideas for spellworks and writing down a few of those ideas, just so that any potential spies watching this meeting would see him taking those notes and think him less capable than he was. Erick’s mana senses were just as blocked on some people out there as their mana sense was blocked from viewing him, but they could still see his dent in the couch where he sat, and the papers in front of him. It wasn’t paranoia if people really were out to get you!

As Erick listened to Tom, he made some more plans for what he was going to do next. ‘Speak with Bob’ went high on the list, but he could do that some other day; it wasn’t necessary right now. He was certainly going to seek out Clarice Icewind, because, according to Tom, Clarice had solved the [True Sight] issue.

“Oh yeah. Don’t have the faintest idea of how she did it, but we partied with her years ago and she had the [True Sight] working even back then. Course she never told anyone about it, and now everyone believes you can’t do it. By Atunir’s tits, Bob hates Clarice for never sharing!” Tom laughed. “We tried to get her to come to the Bandits all the time, but you know how she is.”

“Huh.” Erick asked, “Ahh, no? I’m not sure how she is?”

“Well it’s the Riamite situation, ain’t it?— Oh! Sorry. You’re new! Right.” Tom shrugged. “We make a point to try and get everyone to join our Company, because we want to be the strongest and pull from the resources of everyone, to raise up everyone— You a Xoatist at all?”

“… Ah. No. Not really.”

“Eh! Rebecca is the biggest Xoatist around here, and most Riamites are. And we try to be inclusive, and so, we got Riamites in the Bandits… Means we have the most problems with the Riamites when they go bad, and the inquisitors have been up our asses ‘cause of that shit ever since then. Rebecca makes a point to take care of those guys, though, ever since they tried killing the dungeon masters and body snatched people from the inquisition in order to do some shit inside Greendale.” Tom frowned. “Damn red bastards. And we gave ‘em a chance, too! That’s what the Xoatists believe, right? But shit! We can’t all be Wizards, I guess; that dude’d probably have done better. Anyway; that’s why a lot of people are scared of Rebecca, but she’s good people… Anyway... were we talking about? Oh yeah! Clarice! She don’t want to be part of anything to do with the Riamites, so she won’t join with us, even though we tried to get her here every way we could think.”

That was a great deal of information.

Erick knew he needed to see Clarice now, and since it appeared that Tom would talk and talk and talk, Erick had to say, “Where is Clarice? I think I need to go have a talk with her about [True Sight].”

“Right! Sorry. I get off on tangents. Clarice has a house far, far down the main road. Bout ten times the distance to your house, I think? You’re pretty out there, but she’s all the way out there in the golden sea.” Tom rattled off, “There’s about five houses all on a small mountain belonging to a group home about halfway between Utopia and Clarice’s house. The road to Clarice’s house is hidden by some special magics so you won’t be able to see it, but you will be able to see the sign for it on the left; the dungeon won’t let her hide that for whatever reason.”

Erick nodded. “Thank you for your help today, Tom. I’ll see about getting you an absolute damage reduction metamond for you to try in your belt, but I’m gonna have to pass on remaking your armor for now; I don’t want to mess it up.”

“I got extras! I can send you a fullplate to enchant, if ya want?”

“... Ah. Well. Yes. I do want that, actually.”

Tom smiled friendly— And then he looked around at the empty food plates and drinks, which Erick had eaten about half of, while Tom had eaten the rest. He asked, “You got food at your place, right? We try to make sure people get food, but it doesn’t always happen like it should.”

Erick smiled. “I got food, Tom. Thank you.”

Tom was a good guy, as far as Erick could tell. Erick almost asked him why he had chosen to name his company ‘Iron Bandits’, which was still a terrible name, but that felt like an invasion, almost.

- - - -

As Erick exited the Iron Bandits company house, he considered his next move.

There were probably people on Veird who had solved the [True Sight]-through-a-vacuum conundrum, like Kirginatharp, and Erick would be asking him that later— Ah! But actually. Now that Erick was thinking about it, he wanted to bother Quilatalap with that question. Yes. That was a better idea.

Quilatalap probably needed a break from overwork!

He would go see Clarice Icewind first, though. She was here, and Quilatalap was far away.

- - - -

The run to Clarice’s property didn’t take too long.

Tom had been right; the place had been far, far away from Utopia, or anyone else living anywhere out here. All Erick could see in every direction was golden wheat under blue skies, the road leading back to Utopia, and one lonely street sign, sticking up from the side of that road.

There was no side path beyond that sign —just more golden grains— but the sign clearly read ‘Clarice Icewind’.

So Erick stepped into that wheat, and the wheat parted like an illusion disturbed, and soon, Erick was walking through not-wheat, like the golden sea was actually some sort of sea, rippling all around him—

Erick hit the edge of the path and hit actual golden wheat.

He angled back toward the hidden path. Finding his way through the illusions was not too difficult, and eventually he ran into an invisible wall, so he had definitely hit Clarice’s property. Erick’s land had the same sort of protections around it to keep out uninvited guests, and to prevent spying of all sorts. Erick’s mana sense did not end at the edge of the property, though. According to his senses, all the wheat he had walked through and all the wheat directly ahead was all real.

Erick had no idea how she had made such realistic illusions, but she had made them. Perhaps they were Elemental Mystical, or Fairy? Could be.

Erick knocked on the empty air.

And he waited.

And he knocked again, and again, and again. Slowly, methodically, patiently and hard. Knock, knock, knock—

The illusions shattered and a woman stood right in front of Erick, on the other side of the solid air. She wore a tunic and brown pants and had dirt on her gardening gloves, while rows of vegetables grew just inside the property line. Clarice’s house was almost exactly like Erick’s, but it had a whole bunch of nuances to it that showed someone had lived here for years and years, from the painted flowers curled around every door and window frame, to the stained glass in some windows, to the octahedral white stone mage tower that was also three stories tall. All the rest of the house was tan stone, just like Erick’s; the mage tower was clearly a secondary addition. Clarice seemed like she was doing okay for herself.

The woman herself looked to be about 35, with blonde hair done up in a bun, tan skin, and bright amber eyes.

She also looked rather furious.

“Fuck you! Go away, Ashes.”

Erick smiled, and said, “According to Atunir you’ve had a major [Witness] experience on the fifth floor. I’ve had a lot of my own experiences on the first and second floor, but Kinder asked me to skip to Utopia, so I missed out on what could have happened on the third, fourth, and fifth.”

For a moment, Clarice’s anger held out, and then she saw Erick’s sincerity, and her eyes went subtly wider. Anger mellowed. Doubt crept in. But she was interested in whatever Erick had to say.

Erick continued, “I couldn’t help but overhear that you stopped pushing deeper recently, though I admit I only heard all that through mana sense spying on everyone near me all the time, so maybe I got the story wrong.” Which was true, but it wasn’t like Erick was purposefully seeking out information on Clarice; she and her fall from first place was just the major topic around town. “Sorry if I killed your drive to delve, but since a bunch of other stuff came up recently, I decided to seek you out about that, to wish you further success, and to see if you’d be up for talking about other concerns of mine.”

Clarice had a scrambled expression, like she was unsure of everything right now, so she defaulted to her basic mode of operation, “I don’t like to talk to people in the Iron Bandits—” She figured herself out. She glared at Erick. “You’re not going to try and recruit me, are you?”

“Absolutely not. I only joined the Bandits because they were a quick way to get to experimenting with magic here in the Glittering Depths, and they were a quick way to help as many people as I could with [Rejuvenation]s. My real life is still out there on Veird, but I came here to play around with mana crystals, and then a bunch of stuff happened aside from that need. You can’t really make mana crystals at all on Veird, you know.”

Clarice took a metaphorical step back, and judged Erick again. “… You can’t really make mana crystals here in the Glittering Depths, either. The ones we make in the mana chambers are specifically internally infinite crystals, because that’s how the chambers make them. The ones you sometimes find down in the Endless Delve are actual mana crystals that expand outward just as much as they expand inward.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. “Do they actually automagically cast magic down there, too?!” He looked around her house. “Is that how you have these good illusions working even out there, in the path to your house?”

“… Please come in, Ashes. I’ll make some tea and we can talk for a while.”

Erick happily stepped onto Clarice’s property, saying, “I accept your invitation.”

Clarice frowned a little at Erick’s enthusiasm, and then she sighed, and walked toward her house, taking off her gardening gloves as she asked, “You've been to the arcanaeum in town yet?”

“There are a great many places I have not been to at all. I’ve only really been to the Bandits company house, and only twice. I actually felt I was at risk of becoming a hermit before I received an impetus today to pause my experiments and go meet other people, with you being one of those people.”

Clarice reached the door to her house, paused as she looked at Erick, and then she went inside.

