“Her report is at the back, but I’ll save you the trouble. It reads the same as Baatar’s, ponderous and uninspired. No mention of any folly of yours, only stating you did an adequate job. Not exactly glowing praise, but it’s the most praise anyone received, including their own people.” Shrugging, Shi-Woo leaned back in his chair and smiled. “Judging by the look on your face, I’d say you owe the Bekhai a favour, and a big one at that.”

“... It makes no sense. Why spare me? Their reports make it seem like the Defiled were thrown back by our stalwart defence, but...” Remembering himself, Uncle Yang held his tongue, but Zian remembered his Uncle’s words. The Defiled’s victory was all but assured and Uncle Yang ordered his soldiers to pull back to Shen Yun, in direct violation of Baatar’s orders, who held command at the Wall. Only the Defiled’s inexplicable retreat at the first sign of rainfall kept the Northern Province from sharing the fate of the West. If Baatar and Akanai had reported his infractions, depending on how the Justicar felt, Uncle Yang could have been stripped of rank and possibly even executed for dereliction of duty.

So why didn’t they? And Why didn’t they use this to blackmail Uncle Yang?

More confused than relieved, Uncle Yang peered suspiciously at Shi-Woo and asked, “If I haven’t been disgraced, then why did the Legate treat my Patriarch so coldly? Why did you insist we meet here at a private restaurant instead of inside your home?”

“Because the Legate favours the Bekhai and I cannot afford to back the Society against him. How much do you know about Akanai?”

“Akanai?”

“Yes, Akanai. The Herald of the Storms.” Leaning close, Shi-Woo whispered, “The Legate admires her. Respects her even, and with good reason.”

As Shi-Woo narrated the events of the past few days, Zian’s eyes grew wider with every word. Rain taming the Divine Turtle and earning the Legate’s favour was surprising, but even more unexpected was Akanai’s past exploits. They’d known about Akanai saving the future Magistrate of Shen Huo which earned her a promotion to Major General, but the details of her antics in the Central Province had been ruthlessly quashed. Little surprise there, who wanted to admit they’d lost so many experts to a previously unknown half-beast? No wonder the Bekhai had been so confident to let their dispute with the Society go to trial. Even without Nian Zu’s interference, they were likely to win, if Shi-Woo’s tale was to be believed.

"Akanai's enemies won't act against her, not while she enjoys the Legate's favour." Spreading his hands in helpless surrender, Shi-Woo shrugged. "And as I said before, I cannot afford to help you, not unless you make things right with the Behkai."

Hmph. Whatever. If the Bekhai saved Uncle Yang's career, then Zian would thank them for it, but it didn't make up for things between Rain and him. Saying his farewells to Uncle Yang and Shi-Woo, Zian hopped over the railing and landed lightly in the streets. Pushing his way through the crowd, he waited for the duel to conclude before hopping on stage, giving no time for the victor to even bow. Raising his voice, he yelled, “I am Warrant Officer Jia Zian, twenty-five years of age. Long have I heard of Central’s prowess and today, I hope to experience it for myself. Who among you would seek to enlighten me?”

“Hmph. You northerners are all so arrogant.” Dressed in blue silk robes, a young warrior leaped onto stage and drew his sword. “Radiant Sword Ryo Geom-Chi, twenty-five years of age, accepts your challenge. Spiritual Weapons, to injury or submission.”

Frowning, Zian asked, “Didn’t you already lose to Tong Da Fung?” No need to be overly polite, he would offend many with his actions today.

“I won!” Geom-Chi snarled, face turning purple with shame.

“Oh. My mistake. You’ll do then.” Leaving his sabers sheathed, Zian smiled and waited for the Justicar to go over the rules. Just because he and Rain were in different age groups didn't mean they couldn't compete. Since Rain defeated twenty-eight young talents in two days, then Zian would beat thirty young Experts in one and therby prove his superiority.

A minor handicap having to face older opponents, but only fitting for Jia Zian, son of Lu An Jing, disciple of Jukai, and a dragon among men.

Chapter Meme
