Taduk told me to say nothing and leave everything to him, so I’m not sure who knows about Pong Pong besides him, Lin, and Guard Leader. Hopefully, my scatter-brained Teacher thought to put more reliable guards on my yurt, since I’d only put 50/50 odds on Jochi and Argat sticking around for the entire time. Honestly, if it wasn’t for Yan, I wouldn’t have even bothered coming out, doubly so if I’d known how she felt about me beforehand. Feeling in need of a pick me up, I extend my loving Aura to Blackjack and laugh as the fearless hare scampers off of Ping Ping’s head and leaps into my waiting hands. Nose twitching as he devours a meaty treat, Blackjack seems none the worse for wear after this morning’s ordeal, my sweet little hare too tough for -

“Falling Rain?”

Yelping in surprise, I leap to my feet and find a sneaky stranger looming over me, well within striking distance should he attack. Clad head to toe in brigandine armour, the stranger’s handsome, angular face sports a grimace which seems entrenched there for all time. Though the spear in his hand garners most of my attention, I also notice the crowd’s uncharacteristic lack of response to my high pitched shriek, and I’m not sure if I should be relieved or worried no one noticed my unmanly reaction.

“Stay your hand.” The stranger’s grimace deepens as I reach for my weapon, and breaks into a snarl as I draw it, but then, his eyes widen in surprise. Much as I’d like to claim credit, it turns out my scream didn’t go entirely unnoticed as Guan Suo’s fingers wrap around the stranger’s neck, his bushy white eyebrow raised in question as if asking for permission to kill.

Studying the stranger for clues, I feel like an idiot once I notice a giant ‘Virtuous’ engraved on his chest-piece. “Err, don’t kill him. He’s with those people we met this morning, an Azure Ascendant.” What’s his name again? “Daxian, right? Sorry, I didn’t recognize you. What did you need”

Please don’t let this be about Pong Pong...

Rubbing his neck, Daxian’s cheeks burn red as he scowls at Guan Suo, though subdued enough not to say anything. “I’m here to bring you to see a mutual friend. Your Teacher is already there.”

My stomach drops at the thinly veiled threat. Gesturing for him to lead the way, I follow Daxian out with Ping Ping and Guan Suo in tow, wishing I could send them both away and spare them from Gang Shu’s fury, but Ping Ping refuses to remain behind and Guan Suo ignores all my silent warnings. How we slip out without anyone noticing, I’ll never know, but it is with a heavy heart I go to meet my fate.

What else could it be? Gang Shu must have found Pong Pong and was so furious with my deception, he took Taduk hostage to lure me out. I don’t know why he has to jump through all these hoops, but if I had to guess, it’s probably because of my status as an Imperial Scion. Either way, I doubt it’s enough to protect me from the wrath of an Ancestral Beast, though maybe I can beg him to spare Taduk, Guan Suo, and Ping Ping.

As for Blackjack... Even GangShu wouldn’t murder the cutest little hare, right?

Chapter Meme
