I pointed at her, "Bingo. He and I can wrestle for control while you guys pummel Lehesion to powder. If we can smash the mind magic that's controlling Lehesion, then we can stop him from becoming a threat altogether. Hell, he might actually be an asset at that point."

Althea bounced on her feet, "That's perfect. Good thinking."

I grinned at her, "Thank you. Those mind mages we fought when we found Thisbey made me think of it. Since my willpower is astronomical, I just need some fine tuning before I can wrestle control from them. I put up a good fight with zero experience, after all."

I scratched the side of my head, "I think so at least. Torix will let me know. All in all, that's the plan. We incapacitate, get to work weakening their control of his mind, then we figure out where these guys are and kill them too. What do you guys think?"

Chrona laid her head against her paws, her voice relaxing, "It seems well thought out. I'll follow it."

Krog rumbled, "I dislike letting that betrayer live, but if it must be done, it must be done."

Kessiah let out a breath as she composed herself after healing. She looked rather pale as she turned to me, "I'll be honest, this isn't my area of expertise. Just go with your gut."

I clapped my hands once, "Alright, we got a plan. After a techsmith handles this bullshit system hacking, I'll be sending Torix a few messages to see what's going on. I'll probably meet up with him wherever the hell he is and sees if we can't get him back over here."

After a few explanations about the system hacking, an albony walked into our room. It wore an orange mask over his face. The tribal, wooden cover was simple, engravings embedding the strangely shaded wood. With a few holes in it for viewing, the albony stepped up. He gave me a bow, brandishing a fitted coat. It showed the albony's thin, lanky frame.

"It is good to meet you, Daniel. I am Jim Mcsmitty. I am the techsmith sent by Caprika Novas."

I almost burst out laughing at the name, the simplicity of it caught me off guard. After suppressing my snickering, I raised my head, "Uh, good to meet you too, Mcsmitty."

"But of course. Now, if you wouldn't mind, I'll be perusing through several diagnostic procedures with you. Could you take out your obelisk for me?"

I opened my palm, my obelisk floating out of the gray-black metal. I tossed it to him, Mcsmitty catching it with refined grace. He threw it up before suspending the object with several blue strands.

From these strands, a defuse light ebbed, scanning the glass orb. Within seconds, Mcsmitty tossed the ball back to me. As I caught it, Mcsmitty locked his hands behind him and bowed to me,

"This is the source of the contamination. It's a simple message conscription software installation. It creates an immediate copy of all your sent messages before sending them out to whoever planted the bug. According to my data, Tohtella Adair planted it several months ago while you were in Yildraza."

I facepalmed, "Of course. It was when I let her use my obelisk."

Mcsmitty nodded his white fur ruffling, "That is precisely so. This is a very commonly utilized virus, and there's no shame in having been hoodwinked by it. That being said, I do recommend viewing this as a learning experience of sorts."

He raised a finger, "Simply put, never allow anyone access to your obelisk outside of trusted confidants. Even then, I wouldn't recommend taking that risk."

I glared at my obelisk, "Then what should I do with this?"

"You'll need to dispense of it, preferably using some sort of hydraulic press. I know of several excellent locations-"

I crushed the obelisk in my hand to a fine powder, the glass screeching as I did. Mcsmitty winced at the sound,

"Ahem, I wasn't aware you serve as a hydraulic press already. Do excuse my lack of tact."

I pointed at the guy, "You know what, I like you Mcsmitty. How about you work for me?"

Mcsmitty rose out of his semi-bow, glancing around, "What, me?"

I nodded, "Yeh."

"Why I'm flattered, but I'm several levels below you in status. Perhaps a higher rank techsmith will better suit someone of your needs-"

I waved my hands, "Is that why your mask is orange instead of red or black?"

Mcsmitty nodded, "That is precisely so."

I raised my eyebrows, "How do the classes even work?"

"There are five tiers for our masks. I am in the middle range, giving me access to an orange wood from the defalga tree. The uppermost ranking is only for those that rule large territories, and they wield black masks. Below that are royalty or nobles who may rise at some point in time. They wear red masks."

Mcsmitty let out a sigh, "Orange masks are commonly held by skilled technical workers, ambitious warriors, or merchants. Below that is the yellow masked, and they are what most refer to as commoners. I began in that status before proving my worth."

Mcsmitty shook his head, "The lowest status are those wearing a white mask. They are considered useless to society and carry not even the most basic of privileges. It's quite simple to move out of that status. Few of the lowlings opt to do so, however."

I nodded, "Huh, so where am I?"

"You're considered a lower tier red mask, sir."

I raised an eyebrow, "Can I be honest with you here?"

"But of course."

"I couldn't give two fucks about my ranking. You figured this problem out fast, and you did it professionally. I also don't have time to learn the ins and outs of this tech stuff, so hiring you makes sense for me. How much do you make?"

He coughed into his hand, "If I may be honest as well, I make a humble 100,000 per year-"

I snapped my fingers, "Alright, doubled. Welcome to the Harbinger's Legion."

Mcsmitty raised his palms to me, "While your generosity is more than amicable, I live with my family here on Belka-623. I couldn't leave them."

I cupped my chin, "Could you move to my home planet then?"

"We could, though this begs the question - why do you desire my assistance to such a degree?"

I shrugged, "You seem trustworthy, and you're good at what you do. This is also very convenient for me, so I have no problem paying a bit for this kind of security. You'll probably be looking over several thousand people besides for me, and you might need to host a few classes on the technical side of things."

Mcsmitty leaned back, his uncertainty showing, "This is quite the addition to my current responsibilities..."

I pointed at him, "You drive a hard bargain. Tripled income and free housing. Deal?"

I stuck out my right hand, and Mcsmitty looked at it. He stuck out his left hand, grabbing the back of my hand. He glanced down at it then back up to me, "Is this the custom for an agreement in your culture?"

I shook my head, "Not even close, but I get what you mean." I patted him on the back, "Welcome to the team."

We handled a few more details involving his acceptance into my guild. Mcsmitty was stunned when he had the option for a legacy from intelligence, endurance, willpower, strength, and constitution. The thin albony scratched the side of his head,

"This is quite the conundrum. Which legacy would you recommend?"

I smiled, "Endurance because not dying is pretty important. Still, you know what you need better than I do."

"Perhaps this will be better then. Willpower will allow for further study, and increase my intelligence by quite a bit as well. Thank you."

I drew up a quest acceptance for three hundred thousand credits per year of dedicated service from Mcsmitty. After lining up the responsibilities, I sent him the contract along with Earth's coordinates. He accepted before locking his hands behind him and bowing once more,

"You've tied my hands, sir. I'll need a week before I'll be ready to change locations to your base of operations. Thank you for your time and consideration."

I gave him a nod before he stepped away. I glanced at my hands, thinking about what just happened. Owning a guild wasn't so bad if I could gather people like that so quickly. I wondered if we needed a recruiter in general to shore up the weaknesses in our guild. Considering how much money I had, that didn't seem like a bad idea.

With that in mind, I sent a message to Torix about everything that happened along with my thoughts about a recruiter. The long message detailed everything that happened since his untimely consumption by Version 2.0. I waited a few more minutes before scratching the side of my head. It might take a while for him to resuscitate after his soul was sent to its phylactery.

I wasn't about to waste any more time waiting for a reply, though. It was time to work on my ability to take Lehesion on. That started with the cipher. As I looked over my armor augments, one of them included making the cipher more efficient. It was already a massive source for raw stats, but now it would be even more useful.

Using it correctly was key to my progress from here on out. While I could siphon my mana into my fancy, massive rune across my back for more ambient mana, it wasn't that efficient. Instead, I aimed to create a rune to enhance my constitution. With the way all my trees and perks worked, that would be my most viable and efficient way to improve my fighting ability. My mana regen and miscellaneous stats were plenty high at this point anyway.

Those thoughts guided me as I walked through the hospital for a quiet place to work at. I found a hallway between two rooms that ended with two plants, a comfy looking chair, and a window showing the city. It looked like space was leftover from the two surrounding rooms during the hospital's design. Someone spruced it up, so it didn't look out of place.

It suited my needs perfectly, sunlight streaming in from the glass window. After sitting down and enjoying the quiet, I smoothed the luck and perception runes over my forearms and palms. I pulled my grimoire out of storage, opening towards the few black pages left at the back of the booklet. All that remained was the charred corpse of my old grimoire, but this booklet served its purpose.

I would need to make another grimoire soon though.

I sharpened one of my fingertips until it was like a pen before tapping it on the black page. Brainstorming about constitution, I outlined my thoughts about it. For starters, the literal definition revolved around the way something was put together. My composition was one of the biggest reasons I was a good fighter, even if it wasn't something I thought about all the time.

When I did think about my constitution though, it didn't mean being a dense, heavy, and hard substance to me. Constitution was the stat that refused to be moved. It was making your last stand against incredible odds. It was staying defiant in the face of the impossible and improbable.

In other words, having a great constitution was having a great backbone.

I guess you could say that was more a mental attribute than a physical one, like willpower and intelligence, but I had to disagree. When I first faced monsters that made my skin crawl, my body was the first thing to shut down. My vision narrowed, my heart raced, and my muscles seized up. It was as much a physical reaction as a mental one.

Pretending there wasn't some kind of physical element to it seemed short-sighted to me. After all, if I faced someone who I dwarfed, I oozed confidence. There was no sense of impending doom anymore, and that let me focus on performing instead of trying to calm down.

So in a way, having a great constitution allowed me to have certainty when facing a foe of immense size and power. It was the first line of defense against fear, and that was all important to avoid. Fear was the mind killer, a real destroyer of rationality. If I lost those tools in the middle of a fight, then death was waiting right around the corner. Keeping myself composed was pivotal then.

Confident in that interpretation, I set to work on my runic work. I used tiny pinpoints of telekinesis along with some heat to burn into the pages. They mimiced metal more than pages anyway, so this worked well for me.

Several minutes evolved into several hours, the sun setting down and night passing. A janitor caught me, wondering what the hell I was doing in the hospital still, but I convinced him to leave me alone with some mental pressure. As the morning came, I finished my runic work and channeled some mana into it.

Ten minutes passed, and both runes were finished. After placing them on my palms and arms, I smacked my hands together. It was a job well done. I opened my status to make sure I didn't have any messages about the guild. Besides a few dozen miscellaneous messages from my followers, there was nothing of note.

Shit. Torix was still doing whatever he needed to for recovering. Not everyone had my kind of regeneration, so I had to be patient. I took a deep breath before moving down my list of priorities. The reason the cipher came first was that it would work in the background while I did anything else. It was layering the things I accomplished at once, kind of like cooking food in the microwave while putting dishes in the dishwasher.

Well, Mana channeling into the dimensional cipher was pretty damn different, but it was the same concept I supposed.

Anyways, I opened my status menu before checking out my tabs. I found a new one for the mythical compendium, which was next up on my list of things to do. Without further wait, I clicked it, opening a new menu.

The mythical compendium is about to be open. User will be unable to move or think for three days once the virtual simulator is opened. Are you in a safe and comfortable position?"

I sat up straighter, my posture kind of shitty. I clicked yes, and another message popped up,

Data Processing...Data Processing...Data Processing

I tapped my fingers, waiting on the damn thing to finish. I went ahead and sent everyone a message that I'd be unavailable for the next three days. Better to let them know instead of letting them panic.

