The whole effort sounded simple enough when Old Bulat told the tale, with plenty of drunken embellishment to play up the heroes of the day. Some of those heroes hoisted a drink alongside him, while others had to have their drinks poured out for them, as they had long since left the red dust behind for the safety and comfort of the Mother’s warm embrace. The ugly truth of the ordeal was that Old Bulat didn’t think he would make it out of Pan Si Xing alive, and he, alongside every other Warrior in the little Legate’s retinue, had been ready to sell their lives dearly just to draw the traitor Bai Qi out. His hundred-thousand elites, that’s what Lieutenant General Baatar called them when detailing the plans, yet he’d been ready to trade each and every one of their lives just to take Bai Qi’s head. Tactically, that would have been a win for the Empire, but the cold logical calculation didn’t sit right with Old Bulat.

That was the difference really. Old Bulat fought to live, so that he would have food and coin to spend.

Like him, the vast majority of soldiers didn’t sign on to be heroes or martyrs, but because soldiering was one of the only jobs an untrained Martial Warrior could do. There were mercenary troupes that sometimes took on fresh recruits, and every now and then the noble houses of the city might take in a self-taught prodigy, but for most, the Army was the only answer available.

And if Pan Si Xing had taught Old Bulat one thing, it was that he should’ve stayed retired and kept his wife company as the fat mayor of his district.

He was no hero, but the powers that be would happily force him to become one, indifferent to whether he survived or not. Not without good reason, as the Defiled needed killing and the borders defending, but Old Bulat preferred gambling with coin, not lives. This posting in Meng Sha was supposed to give them time to lick their wounds and recover from the ordeal in Pan Si Xing, but they’d been in the fortress for less than a week before the Enemy came calling, and from the looks of things, they weren’t playing around. The Mataram Patriarch’s banner was the largest and most eye-catching one in the crowd, long as a train of wagons and held up by no less than eight banner bearers, but as Old Bulat watched the armoured Defiled coordinate and encircle Meng Sha in thunderous lockstep, he scanned all the other unfurled banners and tried his best to puzzle out what those embroidered characters were supposed to mean.

Most started with the same three characters, Ma-Ta-Ram, which ironically was supposed to mean ‘I praise thee, Mother’ in some old, dead language. The second largest banner belonged to Mataram YuChun of the Ten-Thousand Spears, which was a silly title considering there was no way one man could hold so many weapons at once. There were three more banners that were only slightly smaller than his, Mataram clansmen whose names bore characters Bulat didn’t know how to read. Names were a finicky sort of thing since so many people liked to make up characters just to look unique. The titles were easier to recognize, since Bulat could usually identify enough of the characters to put together what they meant. An odd bunch, these Western Traitors, as they picked the strangest titles. There was the Spinning Hermit, Dark Death, and Red Shadow to name a few, after which Old Bulat decided there was no need to read any of the smaller banners. None of those were titles he recognized, which meant it was likely a scare tactic meant to inflate the reputation of otherwise nameless Defiled killers, rather than heralding the arrival of some big-name Peak Experts.

“Ain’t nothing to worry about,” Old Bulat declared, giving a big-bellied chuckle for the sake of the troops, many of whom were illiterate. “Bunch of nothings and nobodies waving banners their mother’s sewed up fer ‘em to make ‘em look all big and bad. ‘Oh no, the Spinning Hermit is here to claim our heads, whatever will we do?’. Ha.”

Standing so still and silent he almost forgot the man was there, Dagen clamped his hand down on Old Bulat’s shoulder and Sent, “When we return, you will need to take your reading lessons more seriously.” A rebuke which had Old Bulat bristling with indignation, because marrying Ma didn’t make Dagen his Pa. “That is not read ‘Spinning Hermit’,” Dagen continued, looking serious as the grave, “But the title of the feared and renowned Peak Expert Mataram Minzhe.” Seeing Bulat’s lack of understanding, the older Bekkie stifled a sigh that did not go unnoticed. “For decades, he served in complete obscurity as Mataram YuChun’s bodyguard and second-in-command, until the battle of Serenity Oasis, where he made himself known as the Whirling Dervish.”

Now there was a name Old Bulat recognized, and he paled as he looked back at the otherwise unremarkable man standing beneath the banner once again, a clean-shaven, salt-and-peppered senior with a face so stiff it looked like he’d never smiled before in his life. The Blackwind Bandits had been using the oasis as their camp and launching deadly attacks on merchant and military convoys passing nearby. They were famed for leaving no witnesses alive, but Mataram YuChun was able to track them through the sandstorms back to their base. When he marched in with an army at his back, he quickly discovered that the Blackwind Bandits weren’t the only group residing in the area, for more than five major gangs had made the oasis into their base of operations, and each one was led by an infamous Peak Expert. Having kicked an iron plate, YuChun’s men fought valiantly against the odds stacked against them, but ultimately failed to break out before the bandits slaughtered them to the last.

Well, almost the last, for Mataram Minzhe cut a swathe through the bandits with his twin khopeshes, a sickle-sword of Western design that handled a little like an axe. Though Mataram YuChun lost most of his retinue that day, all five bandit leaders also lost their heads to the Whirling Dervish, named so for his peculiar dance of death that was rumoured to never stop until there were no more enemies left. Some whispered that he’d been trained alongside the Patriarch himself, while others claimed Minzhe’s skills might well be strong enough to threaten Bai Qi himself, though nothing ever came of it. Realistically however, the Imperial higher-ups reckoned Mataram Minzhe’s skills were equal to that of a Lieutenant General, which meant he was only a hair’s breadth away from becoming a Living Legend himself.

With Dagen’s help, Old Bulat identified the other notable names stitched into the many banners on the field, such as the previously misinterpreted Ebony Reaper and Crimson Shade, both formidable Brigadiers in their own right. There were plenty of lower ranking traitors as well, with everything from Lieutenant Colonels to mere Senior Captains holding their own banners themselves, but Old Bulat couldn’t be bothered with learning all their names. The important takeaway from all this was the fact that the Mataram Clan had turned out in full force to assault Meng Sha, which the reports stated was a formidable, Imperial-trained military army over three-hundred thousand soldiers strong. That was only the official number, of course, as YuChun and the aforementioned Reaper and Shade were the highest-ranking Officers in the Mataram Clan, but a faction that large most certainly had their own private Imperial Defence Forces to protect their own interests as well, not to mention the fact that the Mataram Clan were rebels and traitors who likely didn’t care to follow the laws all that much.

All in all, as far as Old Bulat could tell, there were close to a million well-disciplined, well-trained, and well-equipped former Imperials out there on the dunes, with maybe five times that in naked, crazed Defiled to bolster their ranks. A formidable force to appear here on their doorstep without warning, but one the soldiers of Meng Sha would have to deal with by themselves. Problem was, even though the higher ups spent an entire month fortifying Meng Sha harbour with twenty metre high walls and towers that loomed overhead, there were maybe half a million soldiers present here today, including a sizable force of Irregulars. This was less than a quarter of the fortresses’ full capacity and not nearly enough to throw back the force arrayed against them, not unless reinforcements set out from SuiHua three days ago to make the four day journey by ship.

And how would they, if Meng Sha didn’t even know about this army until it appeared out of nowhere on their doorstep? What were the odds for Old Bulat to escape death in Pan Si Xing only to have his fate sealed here in Meng Sha today? Then again, if he had to die somewhere, he supposed dying in ‘Sandy Dreams Harbour’ was better than ‘Death Sentence City’.

Now more than ever, he felt entirely out-matched on the battlefield. Not just in numbers, seeing how he’d survived worse odds before, except now he was fighting trained Imperial traitors rather than reckless Defiled chaff. The issue was Old Bulat felt outmatched in terms of quality alone, for there were so many Senior Captain banners dotted all about the battlefield, and he wasn’t sure how he and his would hold out against them. It didn’t seem like much, since a Senior Captain was just one man out of a thousand, but you had to remember the little Legate once held rank equivalent to this for some time, and he was more than capable of tipping the scales of balance all on his own. So too could elites like Situ Jia Zian and Tam Taewoong, and two out of three of the little Legate’s wives, as well as famed talents like Tong Da Fung and Ryo Geom-Chi and other outstanding Warriors. Hell, Old Bulat wouldn’t put even money on himself in a match against a nameless Senior Captain, so he knew full well the fate that awaited him if he should be forced to fight one on the battlements here today.

Which wasn’t as far-fetched as it might once have been, since the retinue only had one man qualified to stand against a Senior Captain. Dastan Zhandos might well have become a comparable talent himself if not for having joined the wrong faction in Sanshu, but there was no denying his skill put him well above the average. Unfortunately, he was the only one capable of inspiring confidence, for there were precious few other options available. Jorani and Ral weren’t great duellists, while Chey and Sai Chou were largely untested, and Ravil had never fought a fair fight before in his life. Ulfsaar, Neera, Wang Bao, and a few others might make the Enemy Officers work for their victory, but ultimately, they could only rely on Dastan to block the incoming deluge of top tier talents.

And incoming they were, for as soon as their soldiers were all in place, the Mataram Army bellowed out a wordless battle-cry and charged the walls without fear or hesitation, unleashing a coordinated, all-out attack that shocked Old Bulat to his core, for he’d never been on the receiving end of an Imperial offensive. Jorani was already snapping out orders, so Old Bulat shook himself out of his funk and started browbeating his troops into following them. “Bows and crossbows fire at will! Front rank, weapons at the ready! Second rank, fall in to support.” Having yet to replenish their fallen numbers, two ranks was all they could form along the section of wall assigned to them, so they were pretty much throwing everything they had into the defence and hoping the commander was smart enough to relieve them early.

A hope which Old Bulat suspected would go unfulfilled, with all the top tier commanders gathered in Shi Bei to hold out against Bai Qi’s overwhelming, but slow-moving forces. Any fool could now see that those actions had been meant to draw strength away from Meng Sha, and the Imperial Commanders had bought right in like a fresh-faced mark at his first game of dice. The commander at Meng Sha was OuYang Min Jun, a Society adherent and ancient relic from Du Min Gyu’s era who languished in obscurity even then, but was assigned here because it was a prestigious posting that even an ailing old fool couldn’t mess up.

Unless of course the Enemy brought an entire army to their doorstep under a massive cloak of Concealment that could only be the work of a Divinity, if not multiple Divinities working in concert.

Matters of Divinities had nothing to do with Old Bulat however, as he was but a mere grunt on the walls, so he turned his focus to holding them. Runic Shield and Axe-Rifle in hand, he watched as the first wave ran headlong into the walls and slowly but surely climbed their way up. Strong and sturdy as concrete might appear on the surface, the insides weren’t entirely solid, as there was no keeping air from getting trapped inside the fast drying liquid, meaning it was far easier to pierce than one might think. The Enemy had figured out as much and brought the bare minimum they needed to scale the walls, a handful of long iron nails which the elite Clansmen drove into the wall as they climbed. Thus, only the foremost climbers had to make do with the natural finger and toe holes, while those who came later might well have a veritable staircase of embedded nails ready and waiting to help them ascend.

