As Old Bulat stared out at the army of Defiled falling neatly into formation around Meng Sha, he idly wished the Mother Above had seen fit to bless him with just a little more time and talent before sending this particular tribulation his way.

There were those who say war was a time for heroes to emerge and rise up to the challenge, but it was also a time for heroes to falter and fall. Some were remembered by all, like the formidable Sword King Ryo Dae Jung, who died in a duel against the traitorous Mataram Patriarch YuGan, whose massive banner flapped in the wind to herald his arrival. Other dead heroes were quickly forgotten except by the handful of people who held them dear, like good old Cham who died in Sanshu because he’d been too addled with drink to fight properly. That never sat right with the little Legate, which was why he went to such great lengths to ensure his people were well cared for. Coin was good, but now he was having the names of the fallen engraved on a stele so that everyone would know the names of the heroes who died defending them. Similar markers were going up all across the new Western Wall to honour those who died to defend it, but noble as the little Legate’s ideals might be, people were always slow to change.

Falling Rain meant well, but it only showed Bulat how little value a soldier’s life truly had. Even the bare minimum of a name and acknowledgement seemed like going above and beyond, and that was the Mother’s own truth.

Then again, not many were in the business of soldiering for fame and honour. The majority of those dead heroes didn’t fight for noble ideals or glory and duty, but for the daily meals and monthly pay. Food and coin, a poor pittance to die for, but basic infantry fought and died for it each and every day without getting the respect they rightly deserved. It wasn’t easy being a footslogging grunt in the Imperial Army. In war or in peace, the infantry were always the first in and last out, and it was a thankless job indeed. Fighting was the least of it, as there was always work to be done in an army camp, whether it be sentry duty or digging latrines, to say nothing of how unpleasant cleaning up the aftermath of battle could be. Hauling corpses wasn’t so bad since it needed to be done, but Bulat hated having to study the half-mangled remains of something that was once human while trying to figure out if it was Defiled or Imperial. Then when it came time to fight, the infantry was expected to pay the lion’s share of the butcher’s bill, which again, was to be expected since they were the biggest group by far. Still, with all this and more, he felt like they deserved at least some modicum of respect, but the Experts and Peak Experts of the Empire were liable to treat the infantry as little better than base commoners.

To be fair, most of them were born commoners, or so low-born that it hardly even mattered. Though other commoners saw these base Martial Warriors as carps who jumped through the dragon’s gate to ascend into the Heavens, Bulat knew first-hand how untrue that really was. Difficult for a young farmboy to keep up with his wealthier noble peers when he had to take precious time away from training to till the fields and harvest the crops. Then there was the matter of food, as most peasant families barely had enough to survive and couldn’t spare extra to feed a growing Martial Warrior with a healthy appetite, though Bulat had it better than most thanks to his skill in the grift. For most base-born Martial Warriors, joining the Army was freedom from farm-work and food issues, but while you spent your days marching and nights setting up camp, those same wealthy nobles could simply purchase a Junior Officer’s rank and meditate from horseback all the while, so how were lowly, untalented rank and file supposed to keep up?

The cold hard truth of the matter was that most couldn’t, because no matter how brilliant you might be, the Martial Path was not an easy path to take. Course, there were exceptions to the rule like those rare geniuses such as Siyar and Wang Bao who just naturally progressed along the Path without training day in and day out, able to pick up on key concepts their first time through. Then there were those masochistic maniacs who devoted every spare second to the Martial Dao, like Ravil whose first love had always been bloodshed and Lang Yi who had nothing else to live for. Neither one could be considered a genius and were a ways away from becoming Demon Slayers themselves, but they stood out from the rest of the pack even if by only a handful of extra steps. Lastly, there were those who were a combination of the two, both brilliant and hardworking to boot. The little Legate was the most obvious example, for his perseverance and determination were unmatched, but Bulat would put Ral, Chey, and Sai Chou all in that same category as well. Granted, their talents were no match for the little Legate’s, but they worked hard and progressed quicker than either of the first two groups, for they’d been blessed by the Mother Above with the twin traits of diligence and discernment. The latter was more important than most knew, for hard work only paid off if you knew what you were working for. There was no point chopping wood if you had enough coal to keep warm all winter but your pantry sat empty. Sure, you could trade the wood for food instead, so it wasn’t a complete loss, but your time would’ve been better spent hunting or farming instead.

As for Bulat? Well... if he was being honest, and he should because there was no point lying to himself, he was no genius, that much was clear, and he wasn’t all that hard working either. Technically, he was also a higher ranked grunt now, being second-in-command of the Legate’s retinue and whatnot, but unlike the silk-pant’s commanders who bought their way into the chain of command, he didn’t have no overqualified nanny to do all his work for him. As such, he had precious little time or drive to train after spending all day playing nursemaid to a bunch of soldiers, who by and large were fully grown, murderous children with nothing better to do than to make life miserable of Old Bulat. How was he supposed to progress along the Martial Path with so much already on his plate? These last few years, he’d gotten stronger by leaps and bounds, but at the end of it all, he was still just a footslogging grunt, just one face in a crowd of millions ready to lay down their lives for meals and a salary.

Granted, Old Bulat wasn’t no common grunt, as you’d be hard pressed to find one as well-equipped as he, seeing how he had both Spiritual Weapon and Runic Shield. He was also a little further along than most, having Condensed his Aura with help from Lady Zheng Luo’s sublime musical performance, but the sentiment still held true. His Aura, Spiritual Axe-Rifle, and Runic Shield were hardly enough to make him stand out from the crowd, and history had proved him of limited use in any role besides meat-shield. Something he’d always known since his first week of Army training, but the conflict in Pan Si Xing had opened his eyes and forced him to accept this truth.

Oh what a battle it’d been, with some of the bloodiest fighting Old Bulat had ever seen in all his years of fighting. In a field battle, there was a rhythm to the fighting that you could easily fall into as naturally as breathing. Two sides line up, do a bit of posturing about, then close in for bloody work with edge and point. Every hour or so, the shift changes and you step back to let some other poor, broke Warriors fill in the gap, while you head off for water, food and a nap. Then, depending on how many soldiers you had and how hot the fighting got, you either went right back at it a few hours later, or woke up to a battle done and dusted.

There was none of that in Pan Si Xing, no room to breathe whatsoever. That was the Mother’s own truth it was, for once Ral burst through the cellar wall and Jorani led his troops out into the streets, there was no place to fall back to any more. The Enemy surged in from all sides, hollering and hooting up a storm as they charged in piecemeal to die in droves, like waves in a storm crashing against the side of a boat. Cept the storm just kept getting worse and each passing wave hit harder and faster, threatening to overturn the whole retinue in one fell swoop, before any Demons or Peak Experts even showed their faces. From the moment they all saw sunlight, it was a mad dash for cover, with Defiled coming out of the woodwork from all angles as they fought and killed without rest.

Now there was a battle where heroes emerged, and not just the Peak Expert variety. Keen to make up for his blunder which got them all into this mess, Ravil put aside his bow and took up his sword to stand firm on the front lines, a rare show of courage and leadership from a scoundrel with a heart blacker than his ebony skin. It’d been a long time since Old Bulat saw his old friend give it his all, and it’d been an eye opening experience to be sure, for gone was the sneak-thief of memory and in his place was a Warrior in truth. With sword in hand, he seemed like a force unto himself as he jumped into the thick of things time and time again. He was still a devious, down-right dirty scoundrel, stomping feet, stabbing backs, and kicking dicks wherever he so pleased, but he did so in a domineering fashion that struck fear into the hearts of ally and enemy alike. One second, he’d be bashing away with his sword against some luckless bastard’s raised guard, and the next he’d melt away and drive that same blade clean through a Defiled heart. On several occasions, Old Bulat could only watch in amazement as Ravil refrained from dealing a deadly blow just so he could throw one wounded foe at another, healthier one. The Defiled weren’t none too keen on preserving their own hides much less the hides of their allies, unless it was to tan and wear them, so every time, the healthier Defiled would cut down the wounded, flailing one, giving Ravil the precious seconds he needed to turn and face his new foe.

It wasn’t strength of arm or spirit that made Ravil stand out, but the sheer devilish manner in which he fought, so full of anger and spite. While Old Bulat was always on the lookout for a new grift, Ravil’s gaze was firmly locked on the throats and hearts of his foes, forever scheming and planning how to best kill a man even when deep in his drink. There was a time when some thought Ravil near Defiled himself, though those were mere rumours whispered by men too afraid of him to fight, but Old Bulat had to admit that he would’ve thought so too if they’d been standing on different sides. If ever there were a man to match the Father in sheer magnitude of hatred contained within, that man would be Ravil, true as true, so it was good thing he reserved that hatred for the Enemy.

Ravil was one reason why they made it out alive in Pan Si Xing, for he fought harder than ten men that day. A surprise to be sure, considering he was usually the first to get going when the going got tough, but then again, that was the Ravil of old, the street-wise street rat who earned himself a reputation as someone to talk to when you needed someone killed quick and quiet. Now, he was the sergeant you didn’t want to piss off, except Ravil was always angry, and the soldiers hopped right quick whenever he flashed his pearly white grin that lacked any and all humour.

There were plenty of other lowly soldiers who stepped up in Pan Si Xing. Some were only performing as expected, like the talents Old Bulat mentioned earlier, while others displayed levels of courage, grit, and strength which surprised them all. The city’s name held true for many a good Warrior that day, a death sentence for so many heroes who were now ashes in the wind, but the entire retinue might have died that day if the new bossman Jorani hadn’t risen to the occasion. Not to say it was wholly unexpected from him, but the half-rat wasn’t a leader whose appearance inspired confidence. Just like Rain himself, Jorani was a scrawny one, all thin and wiry with a habit of slouching and avoiding eye-contact, mannerisms he adopted to avoid conflict in his years as a street-rat and bandit. Old Bulat had seen plenty just like him, faint-hearted fence-sitters who went whichever way the tide drew them. Not to say Jorani was cowardly, but he was a man who hedged his bets, and Old Bulat never liked that type much. Too gutless to risk losing what they could afford to gamble, but too greedy to keep away from the games. They were the type to blame others for their losses, and Old Bulat had long since grown tired of dealing with that sort.

So to say Jorani’s bold gambit to push out from the safety of the tunnels was unexpected would be a massive understatement, but the man made up his mind in an instant when time was at a premium. A good thing too, because the place he’d been eyeing turned into a near perfect kill-box once they got the soldiers situated inside the roomy plaza. It’d been a ritzy neighbourhood at one point, all full of high-walled courtyard manors that funnelled the Enemy through one of eight streets, and it was child’s play to block off five of them for some time. Even then, they’d have never made it there without Jorani clearing the way, his Spiritual Rope sweeping the streets clean of Defiled filth as easily as turning his hand. Once inside the plaza proper, it was just a matter of holding the line as the Defiled rushed headlong into the open ground while archers and crossbows rained down death from the rooftops until their ammunition ran out, and then it was bitter blade to blade fighting for them all.

