No matter though, because if there was one thing Old Bulat was confident in, it was his ability to beat the odds even when they were stacked against him, so he threw himself right into the fray as the first armoured traitor came leaping over the wall. His trusty Axe-Rifle caught the fool square in the jaw, his Honed blade carving through meat and bone with ease, and he relaxed and let his momentum die out as the corpse went sailing back into empty air. A tad too much Reinforcement, so he dialed it back a bit and booted the next face he saw with just enough strength to drop the hapless fool like a sack of rice, and he took great delight in listening to the screams of the climbers below as the senseless Mataram Clansman dragged a few of his comrades to death with him. Not all who fell would die, as most would merely take injury, but Old Bulat knew they’d need every advantage they could get before the real elites started pouring in.

That was one thing he quickly noticed about fighting an opponent that was also trained in Imperial tactics, namely how easily he could read their intent. With traditional Defiled, you never knew what they were doing or when the Champions and Chieftains would show up, but the Mataram Officers were not only kind enough to announce their current location for all to see with the banners flapping along beside them, but their intentions were clear as day. Every Senior Officer and higher was still holding back as they sent their soldiers to scale the walls of Meng Sha. This wasn’t Imperial doctrine, but a tried and true Defiled tactic of overwhelming the foe through sheer weight of numbers, except this time, it was carried out by Defiled who also happened to be trained, disciplined, and coordinated Imperial traitors.

The first two enemies Old Bulat killed were handouts, too eager, confident, or plain foolhardy to wait for their allies beside them. Anyone else like them died quick and easy, but they were but a single hair upon the bull’s back, while the remaining Clansmen were level-headed bastards who knew what they were doing. The next wave came all at once, with dozens of Mataram soldiers pulling themselves up over the parapets in concert, and Old Bulat watched as every second enemy soldier threw themselves at the Imperials like clockwork. Chilling to see such coordination in action, for even as half their comrades sold their lives dearly, the remaining Clansmen drew together to form a bulwark on the wall and create an area from which their allies could ascend in safety. Couldn’t have that, so Old Bulat bellowed a battle-cry and charged into the fray, slaughtering two suicidal Clansmen before barrelling towards the rest. Crashing into their lines shield first, he was gratified to see that his soldiers had kept up, because it would’ve been embarrassing as all hell if he’d gone running to his death on his own. “Give these bastards back to the sands!” he yelled, shrugging off the Clansmen desperately trying to hold him back. That was one thing about him that was different, for he’d long since shed all the fat he put on during his stint as mayor and converted it into muscle, which meant he was now physically stronger than ever before. A solid step forward followed by a sharp bump of his hip was all it took to shove an off-balance Clansman off the parapets and sailing back down to the sands below. At the same time, he bought the blade of his axe down onto the helm of a Clansman, and even though the Runes kept him from splitting the traitor’s head in twain, it did nothing to stop the impact from breaking his neck. Well used to battling Rune-Armoured Chosen by now, Old Bulat went with the rebound and easily regained control of his weapon, only to ride that momentum so that he could hook the arm of yet another Mataram Clansman with his axe-head. Again, the Runic armour kept his blade from biting deep, but that wasn’t his goal else he would’ve Honed the weapon. Instead, he twisted his axe until he locked the traitor’s arm in place, then hefted the soldier armour and all before unceremoniously dumping him over the side.

Oh the look of surprise on that one’s face when he realized there was no ground under his feet... now that would make a fine tale to tell.

Fun as it all was, this was hard work fighting against highly trained troops, and Old Bulat just knew this first wave was full of greenhorns. They’d trained and drilled for this, true, but they’d never been in the thick of things before today, or at the very least had only fought from a position of strength. Too bad for them, but Old Bulat was a bully through and through, to say nothing of how he spent the last few years moulding a bunch of novice recruits just like them into true Elites of the Empire. So many of his soldiers had outpaced him now, but there was still fight in him yet, and at this level of conflict, he was all but unmatched.

Thrice more, the Enemy surged up in a concentrated effort to take the battlements, and thrice more Old Bulat led the charge to throw them back. That was the trick of it, to give them just enough room to take a foothold so they’d have an instant of relief, and then smash them down and turn that momentary sense of accomplishment into complete and total despair. It was the same way you run a grift, give a little before taking them for all their worth, because then they’d be too shocked to think clearly which gave him a fair chance to get away. In battle, that translated into putting your enemy on the back foot as they tried to understand what just happened, which was brainpower they weren’t devoting to staying alive, or even better, killing.

Problem was, there was nowhere for Old Bulat to run this time, for behind him lay the comatose little Legate, to say nothing of the hundreds of thousands of soldiers, Irregulars, and workers as well. With his back against the wall, Old Bulat gave the fight everything he had, but he was fast running low on strength. Still, as a higher ranking grunt, he had to put on appearances, so he took two deep breaths in hopes of minimizing his huffing while waiting for the next group of Clansmen appeared on the walls and said, “How many times we gotta teach these fools the same damn lesson?”

A few chuckles rang out, but Old Bulat was out of strength and patience. Loading his Axe-Rifle with an iron bullet, he felt the spring compress and the power condense until it sat right behind the bullet just waiting to be unleashed. He didn’t take aim just yet, because then he’d have to hold his arm out and keep it still, and he was too damned tired for that. Felt like he was wearing a set of Mister Rustram’s weights all on one arm, probably because he kept lifting fools and throwing them off the wall. Fun as it was, it was a lot easier just to kill them clean, and Old Bulat made a note of that for the future. Throw one or two fools just to make a point, then reel it in and fight like a proper Officer than the thug you left behind.

It happened exactly like he practised with his beloved Dei An, where she’d throw a clay disk and he’d shatter it clean with a flick of his wrist, so natural it was almost second nature now. There was no need to aim down the sight, no need to squint and line up his target like before, because he was the Axe-Rifle, and the Axe-Rifle was him. Shooting was as simple as pointing, moving neither too fast nor too slow as he lowered his weapon and pressed the trigger to unleash a Reinforced, Amplified, Reverberating bullet which took a traitor’s face clean through the nose just as his head poked over the parapets. A young man with an eager, bloodthirsty grin, that’s all Old Bulat saw before it exploded in a cloud of blood, bone, and brain matter. The thunderous crack stopped the rest of the Enemy clean in their tracks as they all turned towards back to see what just transpired, but then the little Legate’s bullies crashed into their ranks and the fighting resumed once again. With less enthusiasm than fitting a man of his rank, Old Bulat joined them, shoving and bumping his way through the Enemy ranks and sending a good number of them crashing to their deaths.

This latest clash felt like it lasted ten times longer than every other scuffle combined, though that might just have been his sore arms and burning lungs dragging the experience out. As he backpedalled away from the cleared battlements, he heard a commotion going on around him and finally cottoned to what the soldiers were cheering. There must have been something wrong with his ears, because it sounded like they were cheering his name, but he hadn’t done anything particularly worthy of note. Only he wasn’t hearing wrong, because all eyes were turned towards him, many of which were positively burning with zeal and excitement.

Knowing better than to voice his lack of understanding out loud, Old Bulat played it off like no big deal and motioned for them to quiet down. “Save yer breath,” he growled, and Mother help him, they all jumped to obey, without losing their smiles or good cheer. “Ain’t nothing worth cheering about just yet.”

“You did not notice, did you?” Dagen’s Sending was rife with amused excitement, so similar to what Old Bulat saw in his soldiers. “The man you shot and killed was Mataram Yu Kong, YuChun’s second son, who supposedly is the most promising Warrior of his generation. A young talent to rival the Legate and his peers, or at least he was until he met Old Bulat.”

Ah. Luck of the draw, or a lack thereof from Mataram Yu Kong’s point of view, but Old Bulat always thought it was better to be lucky than smart. Even if he did everything right and tracked all the odds accordingly, one lucky roll was all it would take to render all that prep work for naught. “That there was Lady Sumila’s kill,” Old Bulat declared, reloading his beloved Axe-Rifle with a tender smile usually reserved for Dei An. “And maybe a little bit of credit goes to the Legate too, fer comin’ up with the idea in the first place. Work hard and maybe Lady Sumila’ll make one of these fer you too, but just you remember to give credit where it’s due.”

The soldiers around him nodded like chickens pecking grains and stared at his weapon with envy and longing, but Old Bulat wasn’t sure if Lady Sumila would ever make another since she seemed to have all but given up on the idea. A shame really, because if they had a hundred Spiritual Rifles like this, then they’d really make a difference, but as things stood, Old Bulat could really only use it to score one easy kill before closing in for a good brawl.

“Good work regardless.” Snapping to attention, Old Bulat turned to salute Jorani as he sauntered over to the front, looking so casual and relaxed as he twirled his weapon about. “You should’ve seen eager Dastan over there, just rarin’ to close in fer a good fight, and how disappointed he was when he saw it was already over.” The man in question wore a wry grin and offered Old Bulat a nod of respect as Jorani continued, “Anywho, after seeing what ye just did, I figured we got our plan all backwards. Me and Dastan will hold the line here fer a bit, give the rest of ye a chance to catch yer breath.” Clapping Old Bulat on the shoulder with a grin, Jorani added, “Don’t get too comfortable though, because we’ll be countin’ on you to deal with any elites that come poppin’ up, Old Bulat. Ain’t that right now?”

“Sure as sure,” Dastan replied, taking on Jorani’s accent in a joking manner, and Old Bulat could only shake his head at the indignity of it all. “Can’t let Old Bulat hog all the glory himself, now can we? Holding the line and killing elites all as easily as turning a hand, he’s making us all look bad, so we gotta earn our keep too.”

“Careful!”

The booming warning came an instant too late as Old Bulat was thrown back into the crowd, tossed aside as easily as he might toss a child. When he regained his bearings, he found Dagen lying on the stones in front of him, bleeding from a massive hole in his shoulder that you could see clean through. Moving more on instinct than anything else, Old Bulat grabbed his medical kit from his hip pouch and set to staunching the bleeding, though it would have little effect on an injury this large, all the while keeping an ear out for what was going on around him.

“How deplorable.” The same voice that warned them sounded again, and Old Bulat placed it as the Immovable Binesi, one of the famed fifty responsible for safeguarding the little Legate. “To think, you were once a respected Major General, and now you are nothing but a traitor launching sneak attacks against a mere sergeant.”

“He killed my son,” came the reply from what could only be Mataram YuChun’s lips, loud and clear without any Chi to broadcast it for all to hear, for this was truly a shameful act. “Not through strength of arm, but through tricks and schemes. I will slaughter that fat oaf and send his soul to serve Yu Kong in the next life.”

“Your son died because he was weak.” Binesi held nothing back, though it hurt a little to have Old Bulat’s accomplishment dismissed out of hand. “I hope you are not similarly disappointing, for I have long since yearned to see if your Ten Thousand Spears can pierce through this Binesi’s defence.”

