He could still use magic; it was just slow and difficult right now, but it would’ve been impossible without the powers of concentration he’d developed by learning how to deal with his grief. He’d need time to truly learn how the mark worked. Explore it. Develop it and himself, and use it to learn something helpful.

He wouldn’t get that time if he was off playing servant to a bunch of ‘Heroes’.

Which left one option: “Looks like you’ll need to write ‘disappeared’ under the entry for another ‘Fool’, Galloway.” He stood and clenched his fist. “Because I’m getting the hell outta here.”

There was something important that Galloway mentioned about seeking out Uldar’s priests. If he had to seek them out, then that meant they didn’t just know where he was.

But they’d likely start searching soon.

He needed to get out of Thameland as quickly as possible. He’d need to cover up his mark, wake Selina and get-

“A...lex?”

He froze.

His head turned slowly as though his neck were attached to a rusty lever. A young woman stood in the doorway, her long, black hair tied back. She gripped a key ring in calloused fingers.

Theresa Lu.

His oldest friend was gaping at him, with eyes darting between the red ball above his finger, and the jester’s face on his shoulder.

“I…” she said. “I was coming to talk to you, but I heard you saying all these weird words through the door, then I saw a red light. I asked if you were okay, but you wouldn’t answer me-”

Oh shit, he’d tuned out everything.

“-and I got the spare keys and let myself in...and…”

She trailed off.

He took a deep breath. Alright. Time for Plan A.

Lying.

“Okay, so.” He straightened himself up. “This is not what it looks like-”

“It looks like you got The Mark of the Fool.”

“-okay, so it’s exactly what it looks like.”

Well, Plan A was dead. Oh well, Plan A sucked. It was thought of by a guy named The Fool’; of course it sucked. Time for Plan B, then.

...too bad Plan B didn’t exist.

“So, uh,” his mouth went renegade while his mind raced. “Thing is, uh...you know-This...this is the worst birthday I’ve ever had.”

“If you’re leaving.” She stepped into the room. The door creaked as she shut it behind her. “Then I want to come with you.”

Alex blinked. “...what?”
