She wasn’t sure if she was surprised or not—she had merely been trying to underline just how badly the idiots were undermining the Coalition by trying to rob their own godsdamned allies—but two shimagu were found among the Legion. One was slain by a [Healer]’s touch—its resistance unable to counter the shrubbery’s direct intervention. The other attempted to attack a different [Healer] and was run through by eight different spears before he accomplished anything. Neither was among the Legion’s leadership; those men were—somehow—acting under their own (lack of) judgment.

Their careers promised to be short with two Sentinels ready to condemn them—once she gave Mirage the rundown, he looked ready to spit fire and throw punches. Or, at least, she hoped their condemnation would cause the men problems. Ranthia didn’t have the firmest grasp of the politics and power interplays, but it sure felt like something that should cut any Legion officer’s career short.

The tribune survived too. Ranthia honestly wasn’t sure if she was relieved or disappointed.

The man who was freed from the shimagu parasite was of little use. There had been some excitement about a look into what the man had experienced, but he seemed to be convinced that he was currently in a dream and that nothing was real. He was terrified that ‘his best friend’ would know when he woke up if he even thought of betraying his parasite. After several hours of effort, Ranthia was ready to write him off—she had held better conversations with cats than anyone had managed with the man.

At least the day’s meeting ended up effectively cancelled.

That night, Sentinel Aurora’s [Starship] descended from high in the sky at speeds that were reported to be extremely alarming. The shimagu army that surrounded the base tried to pepper it with arrows and Skills, but with its speed and the lack of warning, it arrived in Remera without incident.

It bore supplies—including precious ammunition and replacement armaments—along with Sentinel Aurora and Sentinel Night.

Not that Ranthia knew about it until she was hauled out of bed by the sound of chiming bells. She slipped past a groggy Glorine and Gailla and opened the tent to find Sentinel Night on the other side.

“Grace, prepare yourself quickly. We are having a meeting.” The man ordered.

How had he already learned about what she did?!
