The first order of business, unsurprisingly, was a discussion of the twins. There were no clear signs of another twin at that point—a few rumors and concerns had been raised, but with the shimagu using Skills, it was harder than it used to be to be certain about twins. With one dead, one wounded, and another disarmed, the initial twins were largely being treated as a nonissue. There was a certain risk that the dullahan might have spare giant swords somewhere amongst the army at their gates, but quality steelwork was still rare among the shimagu.

The dullahan had left a pretty obvious trail of glass and slag in his escape, but they had no way to send out scouts with the base completely surrounded. One of the wall defenders was “pretty sure” that she had seen him land once he was clear of the battlefield though—not that she could be sure if he kept going afterwards or if he stayed in the area. But he hadn’t reappeared so far, which was good enough for everyone else, it seemed.

The damage the wall had sustained thanks to the Lava—and the rogue sword-chunk and the shot from Sentinel Mirage that wounded the winged twin—wasn’t a problem, thankfully. The enigmatic personnel that reinforced Remera made the walls far more resilient than their materials were innately, and the Earth [Mages] had already confirmed that the wall was still effectively at full strength, despite the abuse.

Ranthia gave her own formal report on her ‘battle’ with the three twins that included her perspective of Sentinel Mirage’s dramatic turning of the tables. He then took over to give his side of that story, all sorts of smug and happy that he was receiving full credit for killing the Lightning twin—Ranthia reiterated her intent to claim none of the credit.

After they were done, the meeting continued apace. Logistical issues had to be ironed out, but they were resolved—to varying degrees of grumbling—with Remera operating on the assumption that their message never reached Coalition City. While other matters were discussed, there were a few whispers between the base commander’s advisors about sending Ranthia to headquarters, but they talked themselves out of it without raising the option to the base commander. Which was for the best—she would have refused either way, but she was happy to avoid the argument.

She needed to be there in case the walls were breached. Sentinel Mirage wasn’t well suited to a melee engagement and there was no way that Ranthia was going to leave Avyna behind while the base was actively under siege.

Granted, she was oddly superfluous so long as the defenses held. She was fine with a bow—okay, with her stats she was damned decent with a bow—but she had no actual Skills that empowered it. She might have been able to make great shots, but an actual archer would still outclass her more often than not, even with hundreds of levels less than she possessed. The tyranny of stats was incredibly powerful, but Skills were what raised ‘mere’ proficiency to true expertise.

Basically, in the end, her role was to listen for alarms, messengers, and/or screams and respond. Mirage was rather jealous—he had a wall shift.

Avyna wasn’t at home when Ranthia stopped by to change out of her armor (though she was absolutely carrying it with her, even while she wore her mistweave tunic). But once she was changed, Ranthia found her elf—just as expected—behind the counter in her shop. Her lover’s bow and quiver were hung on hooks on the fabric wall behind her, and Ranthia knew something was wrong the moment she arrived.

Avyna’s face was polite, warm, and welcoming—it even reached her eyes. But a thousand and twenty-four tiny signs convinced Ranthia immediately that Avyna was in a sour mood.

“Are you okay, babe?” Ranthia asked immediately—no one else was at the counter, even if there were a couple of legionaries in the shop.

“Someone tried to break into my shop last night, but they were unable to get past the security enchantment. Then almost as soon as I opened, I had a newcomer try to steal a box of candied figs! Sertius was in the shop and was able to resolve that.”

Avyna paused her rant to point at the legion soldier who stood near the exit, spear in hand.

“I hired him on the spot for the day; it seemed to be advisable to keep security on hand. Then, shortly before you got here, some centurion marched in here and attempted to declare that the 15th Legion was seizing all of my wares! I, of course, informed him that my shop was licensed directly by the base commander and that everything in this store was property of my trading house, which operates under the Tympestshard Council’s laws and authority. Which, of course, meant that he was attempting to seize goods from the Tympestshard Council and they would take a dim view of his so-called emergency circumstances.”

“Plus, I pointed my spear at him!” The soldier called over.

Avyna nodded.

“And Sertius pointed his spear at him. Due to these factors, the man took his leave unhappily.” Avyna concluded, before she favored Ranthia with a rather acerbic smile.

Ranthia gently hugged her lover.

“I can stick around. Want me to get back into full kit?” Ranthia offered, raising the sack for emphasis.

Few things intimidated the Legions’ lower officers more than a Sentinel. Or so she had been told.

“I do not believe that will be necessary, my love. I would rather you be comfortable. Plus, it is easier to embrace you without the armor.” Avyna replied with a smile.

The two shared a quick kiss.

“Aww! You’re both so sweet!” The legionary gushed.

“Good guards do not offer commentary on their employers.” Avyna playfully replied.

“Apologies, ma’am!” He was back in business mode with a soldier’s alacrity.

The giggle escaped Ranthia’s lips before she even knew it was coming.

The day ended without issue. Several legionary spearmen and shield bearers planned to run overnight security for the shop—word of Avyna’s problems had spread quickly, it seemed. Avyna tried to convince them that it wasn’t necessary, but Ranthia noticed the same men milling just out of sight when they left for the day. From what they overheard, the group was figuring out guard duty shifts. Avyna just sighed under her breath and kept walking.

Ranthia and Avyna prepared dinner for themselves and Glorine’s girlfriend—Gailla, apparently; Avyna made sure the young woman’s name came up often enough for Ranthia to finally grasp it—with a plate of food set aside for when Glorine returned during the night. The duo were staying with them until the threat to Remera ended, even if they had to basically camp on the floor.

“I guess I should be thankful Mirage is counting these daily meetings and not trying to meet with me one-on-one.” Ranthia grumbled to herself as she made her way to the current command tent.

Honestly, she doubted the situation had changed at all since yesterday, which meant the meeting promised to be a waste of time—or, worse, would become infested with political posturing. The legate was purportedly still angry that he wasn’t given command of Remera since he ‘outranked’ the base commander, but—

Ranthia stopped cold in her tracks. Remera was noisy (to say nothing of the conflict outside the walls), but Ranthia’s hearing was good—even with the distance, she knew exactly what she heard on the wind: Avyna, screaming for her.

Ranthia’s blood felt like ice in her veins as she desperately rushed across the base. She had no idea what the situation was, but every possibility was grim. She danced a chaotic trail, shoving past people when she had no better way to get through without slowing down, wishing with every passing heartbeat that she was faster.

A leap over a row of tents finally got her in visual range of the situation. A group of legionaries were fanned around the entrance to Avyna’s shop—with their swords drawn, albeit not raised. Four familiar legionaries had their backs to the sealed entrance to the tent, with Avyna in front of them. Opposite to her, a trio of officers from their guest Legion postured—no one in Remera wore their decorations. Yet the gold armbands and discs that the men wore were unmistakable in the early morning light.

Avyna had her bow in one hand and an arrow in the other, though it wasn’t nocked. She stood resolute and unflinching, even as a man with the most vibrantly plumaged helmet Ranthia had ever seen screamed obscenities and insults practically straight into her face.

All three were tribunes, but the shouter was clearly in charge—he was ornamented enough for a parade.

Ranthia threw images behind each of the three men—plus another two placed between the idiots and their troops—and shifted into the one that was behind the worthless bastard that dared to insult the woman she loved. Her knives were already formed and—as one—she and her images brought their knives around the officers’ necks and pressed the blades against their throats.

Her polished Sentinel Grace voice was unavailable to her—her emotions were flaring far too brightly for propriety.

“Stand down.” Ranthia ordered in a snarl, her voice dangerously low.

“You dare?! I am the specialist tribune of—” The puffed up moron started.

“Sentinel Grace. And if your next words aren’t orders for your men to stand down, there will be a power vacuum. And then I’ll see which of the other idiots have the barest lick of godsdamned sense.” Ranthia promised.

The man seethed, but in the end, he gave the order. The tension behind Ranthia reduced as legionaries sheathed their swords.

“Now, apologize for what you said to the nice woman that didn’t put an arrow through your eye.” Ranthia ordered.

“Why is a Sentinel wasting time defending some horned, subhuman filth—” The idiot chose poorly.

Ranthia never even let him finish. With just a bit of extra pressure, her knife swept across his throat. And his hateful, worthless words cut off with a wet gurgle.

Ranthia dismissed her images that checked the other two tribunes and pointed at the higher-level one—507, so close to his third class—with her blood-covered knife.

“Leave. Get him to a [Healer] before he dies, if you can.” Ranthia ordered.

The man nodded, hurriedly, and rushed into action. She gave it even odds on if he would succeed. It was more than the asshole deserved. But she shouldn’t be murdering allies in the middle of a godsdamned siege, even if they were the stupidest fuckers on Pallos.

“As for you, a message to take to him or his replacement, and your legate: your Legion has threatened and insulted the wife of the Sentinel assigned to this base—repeatedly—as part of what I can only assume was an attempt to undermine the Coalition itself. I will be calling for him to be charged with treason, whether or not he survives, and if anyone else continues what I have witnessed here, I will personally deal with them as traitors to the empire. This shit threatens Remus’ position in the war, and my patience with it is at an end. Do you understand?”

“Yes ma’am!” The man barked, complete with a crisp salute, before he gathered the soldiers and hurriedly left.

Ranthia deformed her knives back to bracers—shedding the blood that coated one of them—and was promptly pulled into a tight hug.

“Oh, my love, thank you. They were like bandits!” Avyna’s voice was plainly more angry than scared—which was for the best.

“I’ll always come when you call me, love.” Ranthia promised.

Avyna smiled, which promptly shifted subtly into a mischievous grin.

“So, you intend to claim me as your wife?” She asked in a perfectly innocent and curious tone, her voice pitched to make sure it carried to the friendly legionaries that were watching them.

Ranthia’s face colored.

“It was the easiest way to quickly say what we are in a way that he would…” Ranthia started to hurriedly mumble a flustered response, but she trailed off and shook her head. A deep breath later, she smiled lovingly at the woman in her arms.

“Creation lacks the word to describe what we are, so I apologize for the crude approximation. I love you with all of my heart, and we are bound in elvish traditions. In your language, we are…”

Ranthia made a valiant effort at pronouncing the elven word for formalized romantic partners. It was a beautiful word, but her tongue couldn’t quite do it justice. Not yet, at least—she had time to master it.

“We might not be married through Reman traditions, but I don’t think ‘wife’ is completely misleading, either—no matter what anyone else would say.” Ranthia concluded.

Avyna beamed up at her. They leaned in for a kiss…

“Oh, my gods, you guys, this is so beautiful! I’m tearing up over here!” The same soldier that had stood guard for the shop yesterday cried out before their lips connected.

Avyna and Ranthia both laughed, but as soon as they had their mirth slightly mastered, they kissed anyway.

Sentinel Grace swept into the command tent, extremely late. The legate stood as soon as she entered, his face red with anger. Oh good, he already knew.

“Has every member of the visiting Legion been checked for shimagu parasites yet?” Ranthia cut in before the man could say anything.

“Not as a whole, no.” The base commander answered immediately.

“Now listen here, just because you’re shacking up with some—hey, what are you doing?!” The medal-laden man roared.

Sentinel Mirage—Xaoc bless him—had already drawn his short sword and pointed it at the man.

