At a time like this, however, the battle felt tantamount to his own spirit. Markus felt as if he became the battle, as if all of his life he’d been walking around in a living dream and only now had he shed that dreary static for something that truly brought him to clarity, to focus, to purpose.

[Pride] didn’t control his mind. It only exemplified what was already there. Brought it to the surface. Made his quiet confidence his bellowing strength, overtook that weak pussy shit that resided in the back of his brain usually, his worries and his concerns and his insecurities and blah blah blah boo fucking hoo.

Why shouldn’t he be confident. Look how hard this world was trying to put him down. Look how much he’d managed to endure. What he’d managed to keep on fighting through.

He tore through raptors one by one, taking each injury as it came and returning it with compounding interest as his blows flurried together in ecstatic, furious motion. He ripped and he shredded upon his gruesome stage, taking glory in his executions and painting fresh blood upon the sand for any that dared watch, feeding the earth the scornful beasts it had raised to challenge his power, rather than offer anything up to the sick, sadistic gods that had tortured, tried, and tested him.

Three raptors left, and one got at his neck. It bit into him like he was a wet rag, ragging him in its mouth as it tore into his throat. Another raptor bit into his leg at the same time, mauling him, seeking to finally subdue him once and for all as his throat bubbled with each attempt for him to draw a shaky, drowning breath.

He cast Fortify on his neck even as his thoughts began to slip, jamming his fingers into the raptor’s eye and pushing with such force that the creature’s neck began to crack even as its eye turned to mulch between his fingers, dripping to the floor.

Markus hurriedly drained the essence of the dying monster atop him as he stuffed blood back into his neck, attempting to plug the wound, but his leg was only becoming increasingly mangled and savaged as he continued to focus on stemming the near-lethal injury.

The one remaining raptor was beginning to split again, repeating the damnable process that had put him in such an uneven fight in the first place.

Fuck…

Markus could feel rationality encroaching somewhere beneath the chaos. He’d fought without caution. He’d been as bestial as the monsters he’d faced, and he’d been mauled by them in just the same way that he’d torn through each of them.

Only, it wasn’t over. Things hadn’t come to a close. Yet more raptors were spawning, he’d spent a fair deal of his mana, and he was hurt. He wasn’t in Overcharge anymore, he was sure, and he didn’t have the strength to shake off the raptor’s lockjaw on his leg, nor to retract his glaive from beneath the heavy body it currently laid under.

He could feel something else besides simple rationality, however. A stone in his pocket glowing hotter, and a portion of resolve beyond that of his apparent limits beginning to shine through him as he kicked with his other leg again and again in an attempt to dislodge the horrific creature.

He cast the crystal from his pocket, debating what to do with it. Did he swallow this one too?

His answer came in a sudden flash, as all the while the arena began to fill with yet more raptors, perhaps twice as many as before, each of them foaming at the mouth and demanding his blood be theirs.
