“Well?” I asked, raising a brow toward the Arkenesis couple after we’d toured Arkenton for a while.

“We love it,” Cora said with a beaming smile. “It feels so much like home.”

I glanced toward Stephen, curious about his thoughts since he’d kept a pretty neutral expression the entire time we’d been there.

“It’s certainly different from what I’m used to, but I already told you: I’m fine residing anywhere you want. It’s all the same to me since I can teleport anywhere I want to go.”

“Must be nice,” Cora said playfully.

“So, you think the two of you will end up settling down here when your projects are done?” I asked.

The couple exchanged a look, and Mike replied, “We’ll need to discuss it to be sure, but I think it’s pretty likely.”

Cora nodded in agreement. “And we’ll need to research neighborhoods, schools, and the cost of living here before making any firm plans,” she added.

“You should probably do that while we’re here since the network in Sorenguard doesn’t really have much information about Arkenton.”

I’d already checked out of curiosity. Even knowing the town’s name, I couldn’t find anything outside of the fact that the town existed in the Sagewright state.

Though both locations were supposed to be connected to the same network, I’d found that it was a bit more like a patchwork network made up of a bunch of regional networks linked together.

Information on major cities was pretty easy to access, but beyond that, not a lot was available.

“That’s a good point,” Mike conceded. “We should probably spend some time at the Dungeon Complex, then.”

Based on his suggestion, we started heading back toward the town’s modest Dungeon Complex. We’d gotten quite a distance from the center of the town, and it had already been late in the afternoon when we’d arrived.

We’d teleported here as soon as we left the dungeon due to the timing, but the long day was already starting to wear on all of us. By now, the sun had already started to set, meaning it was getting close to morning back in Sorenguard.

“I am so tired,” I said as I collapsed onto the bed face-first.

We’d opted to sleep in the sanctuary to take advantage of the time dilation. I could have doubled it by popping into the dungeon, but I was honestly too tired to bother.

“Don’t forget to finish your guidebook,” Stephen said, noticing the notebook I’d been using to organize my thoughts sitting on the end table. “You promised to have the first draft ready this week, didn’t you?”

“Yeah. It’s basically done already. I’m just waiting for feedback from Cora to make sure everything was explained well enough.”

I figured as someone with a newly acquired time-based healing skill, Cora would be a good person to provide feedback. As far as I knew, her actual medical knowledge was pretty limited, which put her in a similar situation to many of the other healers working at the hospital.

Most relied primarily on their skills to heal instead of bothering to learn the theory behind the process. I was hoping that my general explanations would be enough to help them understand the actual process better, which was critical if they wanted to push their skills toward regeneration.

“I wouldn’t mind reading it if you don’t care. I was thinking it might help with my self-healing skill.”

Something I’d only learned a couple of months after we’d started partying together was that Stephen actually had a core healing skill. The issue was that it was self-healing only and worked best in conjunction with his Shapeshifting skill.

He could only actively heal himself by shifting from one form to another. The healing wasn’t perfect, but it was enough to allow him to keep fighting, even if grievously wounded.

Not that he ever really had to test that limitation.

The skill also increased his natural regeneration, though he didn’t think it would actually regenerate a lost limb or anything. It basically just sped up his normal healing between shifts.

With as little as he actually used the skill, the skill hadn’t really improved much over time. His evolution had strengthened the effectiveness of the skill a bit, but it was by and far his least used skill, especially with me and Cora actively healing the rare injury that might befall one of our party members.

Even his newest skill, Steel Skin, got more use than Regeneration, which made it one of the lowest rarity skills he had, regardless of the fact that it was a core skill.

“Sure! I don’t mind if you read it,” I said with a tired smile. “Let me know if you have any questions.”

To my surprise, Stephen picked up the notebook and sat down beside me on the bed to read.

“Not that one,” I said. “That’s just got my notes. The draft is on the desk.”

After swapping out the notebooks, Stephen settled in beside me. Aerie and Lana were already asleep in their little cubby nest, and they’d barely even stirred when we returned to the space.

Though I wanted to just snuggle up beside the shifter and go to sleep, I forced myself to get up and brush my teeth before dressing for bed. By the time I climbed under the covers, Stephen had already set the notebook aside and had started changing as well.

I hoped that didn’t mean that the first part of the guide was so boring that he’d already lost interest. That would be embarrassing.

“It might be helpful to provide a basic explanation of how to examine oneself,” Stephen said over lunch a few days later. “You mention using meditation as a method to examine the inside of your own body, but as someone who doesn’t really have any experience meditating, I have no real idea what to do.”

I tilted my head. “You… don’t know how to meditate? I would have thought that would be a skill you were familiar with as an Ascender. But I guess if my target audience is young native healers, they probably wouldn’t necessarily know how to meditate or look within,” I said with a frown.

“Maybe it was different in your old realm, but I’ve never had much use for meditation,” Stephen replied. “My Zoki abilities didn’t really take much mana because of how high my affinity was, and I didn’t use my Nature abilities enough to justify learning how to meditate. I imagine most young delvers wouldn’t bother learning or slotting such a skill since its use is so limited.”

He wasn’t wrong, especially with how limited natives’ skill slots were. Expecting them to be able to use meditation to the point that they could examine their own body in detail was a bit too optimistic.

“That’s a good point. I hadn’t even considered it.”

Neither had Cora, since her feedback hadn’t mentioned the issue with meditation at all.

That was problematic since my approach to healing required the Healer to be able to perceive the damage within their patient and control the healing process. They couldn’t just arbitrarily imagine what might be wrong. They needed to be able to actually see the injuries to be able to direct healing.

They also needed to know what right looked like, either from training or by perceiving themselves or another who was uninjured.

Of course, just flooding the injury with intent and forcing essence to act was another option – and that was how most healing skills worked. But it wasn’t the best option, and it certainly wouldn’t lead one to develop the ability to regenerate lost limbs or organs.

Ideally, the ability would be a part of one’s healing skill. It should be part of a basic healing skill.

“Does your skill not let you perceive the damage you’ve experienced beyond what you can see with your eyes?” I asked.

“You know, I’m not actually sure,” he replied. “I can perceive my injuries clearly, but I’m not sure whether it comes from my Regeneration skill or if it is part of my Shapeshifting skill. It may be worth asking others to be sure.”

Taking his advice, I headed to the hospital after the meal. I’d intended to do some crafting, but after realizing my advice in the guidebook might be largely useless without more explanation, I changed my plans.

I’d already explained the basics of creating dimensional storage devices to some of the better Enchanters who’d acquired space-based skills and were interested in crafting better spatial items, but I was still the only local crafter able to produce quality dimensional storage items.

I was also the only one who could personally combine the preservation effect with a dimensional storage space.

Interestingly, the preservation effect hadn’t been difficult for those Enchanters who’d acquired time-based skills to learn or apply. But creating and anchoring dimensional spaces was apparently something altogether different.

After talking to several of the local Healers – something I honestly should have done before drafting the guidebook – I realized that the ability to perceive internal wounds or imbalances was something that usually only occurred after one or more evolutions.

One workaround was to perform healing much like the surgeons of my old world had performed surgery back before magic was a thing. They could open up the wound to see it clearly, then guide healing based on what they could see.

To ensure nothing was overlooked, such methods often included general ‘blast’ healing to fix up anything missed. As far as I was concerned, aside from the experience gained by the Healer, such an approach was not any better than just doing a general healing.

The Healers from Bloom were a bit different since they seemed to have a deeper understanding of anatomy and physiology. They still struggled to heal what they couldn’t perceive, but they tended to develop the ability to perceive such things much earlier.

In fact, from what the two Bloom Healers I’d talked to had said, most of their trained Healers developed such an ability with their very first evolution.

That was exactly what our local Healers needed, and likely why the Healers from Bloom had been asked to come here in the first place.

With the new information in mind, I returned to the sanctuary and started redrafting my guidebook.

Since I only needed to have a rough draft submitted by the end of the week, I went ahead and provided a copy of what I had, along with my new understandings and plans to adapt the manuscript to better suit the target audience.