“Maybe she knows I’d never let her hurt Mrsha. But you shouldn’t do that either, Mrsha!”
The Gnoll ignored Lyonette as she chewed happily on her bread. Apista was smart. She knew she was stealing food, and she knew it was Mrsha’s. So Mrsha was right to smack her! Besides, she’d never be stung. Mrsha had a Skill that allowed her to understand and be understood by the Ashfire Bee in some ways. She had the skill [Wild Affinity], which made her Apista’s friend.
That was her third secret. She was a Level 1 [Beast Tamer] too, just like Lyonette! Mrsha knew that most children didn’t get classes until they were older, until they were closer to grownups. But she’d grown up a lot and so she’d gained the classes. They weren’t much, but they were hers. Her special secrets.
The adults talked about boring things while Mrsha finished breakfast. Things like where the Horns of Hammerad were, food supplies, money, paying the [Actors]—who were very exciting, Mrsha would admit, but only when they were here—and her Faerie Flowers.
“They’re blooming nicely, although we haven’t had much sunlight. I wonder why?”
Lyonette peered at the boxes of yellow flowers. Erin smiled as she stacked plates, shooing Apista away and getting a warning buzz for her trouble.
“I bet it’s because Mrsha has taken extra good care of the flowers every day, isn’t that right, Mrsha?”
Erin patted Mrsha on the head, and the Gnoll smiled, her secret kept hidden away in her chest. Lyonette smiled and then glanced out the window and sighed.
“Ugh, that rain really keeps coming down. I really don’t want to walk in it but—I’m taking Mrsha into the city now, Erin.”
“Into the city? Why?”
Perplexed, Erin frowned at Lyonette. The [Barmaid] paused as she reached for the dirty dishes.
“She’s going to stay at Krshia’s for a while, remember?”
“Oh. Right! Well, cover up! Take one of those stupid cloaks—it’s pouring outside!”
Lyonette nodded. In short order she and Mrsha were bundled up in cloaks and heading out into the rain. Apista stayed at the inn—upstairs in Mrsha’s room since Bird was coming down for breakfast. He was having ‘bird babies’ today, which meant a big bowl of scrambled eggs. That would be nice, although Mrsha privately thought that meat and eggs in a big bowl would be better.
But then she was out in the rain. Mrsha splashed about happily, and Lyonette sighed.
“Come on, let’s get to Krshia’s. Stay close, Mrsha.”
They walked out into the storm. Mrsha smiled. It was going to be a fun day! She walked with Lyonette as the young woman winced and muttered about the wetness, crossing over the high ground. Mrsha stared down at the valleys they passed. They were filled with water! If she went down into one of them, she could swim about! Lyonette kept a tight grip on Mrsha’s hand as if she could read the Gnoll’s thoughts. She seldom let Mrsha have fun. But that was okay. Mrsha would have forgiven Lyonette any number of sins. Because of one important fact.
She loved Lyonette. Wholeheartedly, without reservation. Mrsha couldn’t remember her mother. She didn’t know what a mother should be, but she had seen other mothers and their children. She thought Lyonette was as good as a mother. No, better. Mothers ran away from their children. Lyonette had taken care of Mrsha even though she hadn’t given birth to her. That was better.
It was a simple story Mrsha had grown up knowing. A fact of life. She had been a child of the Stone Spears tribe, and her parents had both been [Hunters]. When she was born, they had listened for her crying and heard only strange sounds. They had feared she was crippled or sick in some way. And they had been partly right. Mrsha had been born unable to speak. She could make guttural sounds, and she had learned to howl, but words and other coherent sounds were beyond her. It didn’t matter to Mrsha, but, then again, it did, because it had mattered to her parents.
A simple story. Her parents had tried to abandon her when it became clear that Mrsha was mute. For that, their tribe’s Chieftain, Urksh, had exiled them. Being unable to speak was not a crime worthy of death, or so he had said. The Stone Spears tribe had agreed. Mrsha had never known her parents. But she had known Urksh. He had raised Mrsha like a father until he was slain by Goblins. Her entire tribe had died so one might live. And so Mrsha had been carried to a new home, and, in time, found someone to love her like the mother she never had.
Such cruelty and love was part of life. Mrsha accepted it all, with the unthinking innocence of youth. This was the way the world was, and no one had ever told her it should be different.
She was happy now. Ryoka was gone, and Mrsha thought of her sometimes, but it was okay because Erin had said Ryoka would come back. And if she didn’t, well, Mrsha would find her when she grew up. In the meantime, she was gaining levels. [Gardener] and [Beast Tamer] weren’t good classes yet, but Mrsha could have lots! Just like Lyonette.
Happy, content, the white Gnoll cub splashed across the ground. She had to walk on two legs in the little boots that Lyonette had bought, but that was fine too since Lyonette was holding her hand tightly in case Mrsha slipped. And she was going to see Krshia! There were always snacks at her apartment, and she had secrets too. Mrsha knew all about Krshia’s secrets.
Lyonette grinned at Mrsha.
“Excited to see Krshia? I’m sure she’s ready for you. And it’s probably best that she’s not out in the rain. Still, it was nice of her to agree to give you lessons, wasn’t it?”
Mrsha nodded along until she heard the bit about lessons. Wait, not those! She looked at Lyonette in horror, and the [Barmaid] bit off a curse as she realized she’d given away the secret. She held on as Mrsha tried to turn back to the inn.
“No, Mrsha, you can’t go back! You have lessons! Darn it, Erin was right, I shouldn’t have let that slip! Mrsha, come on! You’ve done this before! It’s not bad, and I’ll be back in two hours! Mrsha!”
The Gnoll ignored Lyonette, pulling and slipping in the mud as she tried to run back to The Wandering Inn. She had been tricked! This wasn’t going to be fun at all! She had lessons? Mrsha tried to pull away but it was too late. She was caught.
It had been a trap!
 
—-
 
“What is change for one gold coin if I have bought eighteen silver pieces’ worth of goods? Mrsha?”
Mrsha was in hell. Not that she had any concept of what hell was. It was just a phrase she’d picked up from Erin. If Mrsha had been told what hell was supposed to be, she would have pictured the crevice on the mountainside where she’d fallen, or the battlefield at night and Ryoka’s scream. But since she only thought about the past occasionally now, she regarded the idea of ‘hell’ as Krshia’s apartment where she had to sit on a high chair and learn.
The Gnoll child hated learning. It wasn’t the new things that got her down, or the act of sitting, but the boredom of it all. She stared dully at the coins on the table.
“Mrsha?”
A kind but somewhat stern voice prodded her. Mrsha looked up at the brown Gnoll sitting across from her. Krshia was sipping some tea and eying Mrsha sternly. She’d get mad if the Gnoll didn’t answer. Mrsha sighed through her nose and pushed two silver coins across the table. Krshia smiled.
“Good! Hrr. It is surprising, yes? You know how to change coins well. Very quickly! You have been practicing since we last met, just as I said, yes?”
Mrsha nodded obediently although that was a lie. She hadn’t practiced math. Rather, she’d been taught by Erin.
Education was very important to all of her guardians. Erin had suggested it after she realized Mrsha hadn’t had any formal lessons in the inn, and Lyonette had talked to Krshia and agreed to teach her. All three women had begun teaching Mrsha everything from advanced reading—a subject which Erin herself struggled with—to math, geography, history, and so on.
Mrsha liked learning some lessons and hated others. Just the other week, Krshia had told her stories about Gnoll history, many of which Mrsha had known from growing up in her tribe and had read from a book about the Second Antinium Wars. Sadly, the stories had ended, and Krshia had decided that Mrsha needed to learn how to count.
They were changing money. It was a practical example of math, and Krshia kept giving Mrsha harder questions.
“What is change for two silver coins if I buy three copper coins’ worth of goods? You may only give me copper coins, Mrsha.”
Mrsha hesitated and counted. One, two, three…she patiently counted up to seventeen and pushed the head of coins across the table. Krshia smiled.
“Good! Arrange the coins so, Mrsha. In fives, stacked up. That way it is simpler to count.”
She demonstrated. Mrsha sighed again. She didn’t want to learn this! Krshia eyed her sternly, and the slouching Gnoll sat up reluctantly in her chair. Krshia stroked her chin.
“You know math well. Strange, it takes other children longer to learn this. Hmm. If you answer this next question correctly, I may reward you.”
That made Mrsha’s ears perk up. She listened to Krshia’s question. Then she pushed a gold coin and five copper ones across the table. Krshia blinked at her.
“Hm.”
She got up and found a sweet biscuit for Mrsha. The Gnoll ate it happily. Krshia shook her head.
“A gift for numbers. It is good! Surprising, but good. I am glad you understand it so well, Mrsha.”
The Gnoll rolled her eyes as she licked crumbs off her fur. It wasn’t surprising at all! Unbeknownst to Krshia, Erin and Lyonette had both taken their shots at teaching her math beforehand, to varying degrees of success. They each had their own strengths. Lyonette had taught Mrsha about royalty and politics and secrets of leveling passed down through her family. Erin taught Mrsha math and science and about silly things that couldn’t be seen, like germs and ‘oxygen’.
And her math lessons were a lot harder than Krshia’s. Erin had not only taught Mrsha how to add and subtract perfectly, but she’d started Mrsha on multiplication and division. The Gnoll hated those lessons even more than Krshia’s practical ones. Math got silly when Erin taught it.
At least Krshia understood how math really worked. The next question the Gnoll gave her was a stumper.
“I have given you twenty gold pieces by accident to buy goods worth eleven gold pieces, four silver, and three copper. How many coins will you give me back?”
The correct answer was eight gold pieces, fifteen silver, and seven copper pieces. Mrsha mulled it over and pushed eight gold pieces and fifteen silver across the table. Krshia stared at her expectantly and Mrsha folded her arms.
That made the older Gnoll laugh. She ruffled Mrsha’s head as she growled approvingly.
“Good answer! Yes, that is what I would do.”
Mrsha brightened up. Krshia reached for the coins, and Mrsha hoped it was to end the lessons. But she paused, and her ears perked up. Mrsha had already smelled Tkrn coming up the stairs, and she heard him knock once.
“Wait here.”
Krshia went to answer the door. Mrsha heard her and Tkrn talking as she peered at the Gnoll. He was a junior [Guardsman] in the City Watch, but like most Gnolls in the city, he was under Krshia’s unofficial command. She led the Silverfang Tribe in Liscor and was one of the leaders of the city-Gnolls here. If there was a crisis, Krshia would be one of the ones who decided what the Gnollish response should be.
It was hard to be a Gnoll in Drake cities. The Gnolls had to look out for each other. Mrsha understood that Liscor was as good as Drake cities went—the Watch didn’t allow Drakes to gang up on Gnolls, and there was only a little conflict between species. Still, Gnolls watched each other’s backs, which was why Tkrn had come to tip Krshia off about a buying opportunity.
“…had to put down many cows and calves that were injured. It is a shame, but the meat is fresh and good! However, many [Shopkeepers] and [Butchers] and so on want the meat, so an auction will take place in an hour! Aunt Krshia, if you bought the meat for the others—lately all your deals have been excellent, and you could save us much coin. Lism is there with his Drake friends, and they are planning to buy all the good meat. Do you think you can outbid him or find the best cuts?”
Krshia nodded.
“Hrm. Yes, I do think so. I have a new Skill that allows me to select goods of the highest quality. I should go in person to get the best cuts of meat. Lism, vindictive as he is, may try to outbid me. But I would win either way. However—”
She glanced at Mrsha, and the little Gnoll waved at Tkrn. Krshia looked conflicted.
“I must take care of Mrsha.”
“Please, Aunt? We’ll have nothing but gristle and too much fat otherwise! The Drakes, they are trying to crowd out our stores ever since you lost your place as one of the top stalls in the market!”
The younger Gnoll pleaded with Krshia. She scratched at her head, growling under her breath, and then nodded decisively. She turned to Mrsha.
“Mrsha, I must go to this auction. It may take a while, so you must wait. Stay indoors, understand? You may wander, but you are not to touch anything fragile or sharp. Understand?”
She gave Mrsha a look, and she nodded carefully. In Gnoll tribes, the young were expected to know what was off-limits after they were old enough to stand on two legs. If she broke anything, Krshia would spank her, Mrsha had no doubt. So she wouldn’t. Reassured, Krshia nodded.
“I will be back soon. Now, Tkrn, lead me to the [Butcher] before that scale-flint Lism gets away with all the choice cuts of meat!”
She and the other Gnoll hurried out of the door. Mrsha watched them go, not terribly disappointed by the development. She waited until the scents of the two Gnolls were no longer fresh and then decided to go peek at Krshia’s secret.
If it seemed wrong of Krshia to leave Mrsha unattended, well, it was because she wasn’t. Not really. Mrsha was smart enough not to stab herself in the eye with a knife, and there was no danger of a fire or a [Thief] breaking into the apartment. Because Krshia had secrets. Mrsha was aware of them. Krshia thought that Mrsha couldn’t smell the Gnolls who took turns watching her apartment, but she was wrong. Mrsha’s nose was so good she could smell their blades, or their oiled bowstrings and the glue on their fletched arrows.
There was always a guard on Krshia’s apartment, watching and waiting. They were supposedly housewives and mothers, but a Gnoll mother could still put an arrow through a would-be [Burglar]’s eyes at fifty paces. Krshia’s apartment was important. And Mrsha knew why.
