Fortress Beavers could think. The slime could think. The Shield Spiders…well, Mrsha got more simplistic thoughts out of them. But they were wise enough to avoid a second battle in the wake of the war. They left, carrying their dead, as the Fortress Beavers reclaimed their cave. They began to tear apart the Crelers with their claws, not to eat, but to make sure not a hint of life remained in any of them. And they made sure to destroy the eggs as well.
The eggs. They were bright orange and red and contained swimming shapes within the dusky orbs. They had been laid in the bodies of the dead Fortress Beavers and Shield Spiders. Ruthlessly, the beavers smashed each one. Mrsha stared as a lone Creler egg rolled towards her. She picked it up and stared around the cave.
This had been a battle. An actual battle. Mrsha stared at the magic slime, at Apista, looking fierce and triumphant, and at the Fortress Beavers grimly reclaiming their home and pushing their dead out. She felt triumphant and tired. She was done playing. She wanted to go back home.
And so it was that Mrsha the Great and Terrible, hero of the Battle of the Cave, left the Fortress Beavers and the healing slime behind. It seemed content to roll about the caves, and it apparently liked the dead Crelers enough to keep eating them. Mrsha hoped it would survive. But as for herself, she was going home. She walked back proudly to the inn, bearing the spoils of her travels with her.
“And where have you been?”
Erin propped her hands on her hips as Mrsha walked into the inn just in time for dinner. The Gnoll guiltily avoided Erin’s look. Erin peered at her suspiciously and then sniffed.
“Eurgh! You smell awful, Mrsha! Did you fall into the outhouse? Lyonette, we’re going to need to give Mrsha a bath!”
“Us too!”
Jelaqua raised her hand. The Selphid was covered in dirt, as were Moore and Seborn. They were tired, but happy. They’d found their diggers and done a lot of digging themselves, apparently. Mrsha padded over to them, noting the blackened spot of floorboards in front of the kitchen. She wondered how they’d put the fire out.
“Beans are a wonderful extinguisher for magical fires. I learned that today. Also, we’re out of beans. I’m definitely not serving the ones we burnt on the fire, and I really hope they don’t grow.”
Erin announced this to the room as she carried out a pot of macaroni and cheese for the hungry adventurers and Mrsha. The Gnoll sat happily at the table with the Halfseekers, thinking it was about time that she joined their ranks. Moore smiled at Mrsha.
“Did you have a good day, Mrsha?”
The Gnoll nodded. She began placing her treasures on the table. Jelaqua laughed as she leaned over to look.
“What’s that? Oh, you’ve been outside, have you? Let’s see, you’ve got a lovely flower, a shard glass—where’d you get that, then? Give it here, it’s too dangerous for a little one. And an egg. Huh. What’s that?”
She eyed the orange, translucent egg with a frown. Moore and Seborn leaned over too as Mrsha rolled the egg towards the Selphid. Jelaqua frowned as she stared at the egg, and then her eyes widened.
“Dead gods!”
She flipped the table as she leapt to her feet with a shout. Erin watched her pot of macaroni fly everywhere and then turned her head toward Mrsha. Mrsha stared around the inn as Seborn stomped on the Creler egg. She thought about the future and what it might hold. Every eye turned towards her. Erin folded her arms. Mrsha slid from her chair at the table and gave everyone her best, most innocent smile.
Then she ran for it.
 
—-
 
One last detail. As Mrsha, the Great and Very-Much-In-Trouble, fled from the inn with Lyonette, Erin, and the Halfseekers pursuing her, a predator of the skies took wing. A Razorbeak, a massive avian similar to a pterodactyl, with sharp claws and sharper teeth, flew overhead. It was known to Erin as a Dino-Bird, and as it spotted the small Gnoll, it began to dive.
It was a large creature, bigger than an eagle and fully capable of grabbing the Gnoll and lifting her up into the air where it would happily tear her apart. It dove as Mrsha hid from Lyonette behind the crest of a hill, beak pointed at the Gnoll’s back, talons outstretched—
An arrow pierced it through the chest. Surprised, the Razorbeak had only time for a strangled squawk before it fell. It landed, dead on the ground, and Bird lowered his bow and hummed his song.
“Birds, birds, I shoot birds. Because I am Bird. La, la, birds…”
It was the eighth bird he’d killed in the last hour, and all thanks to Mrsha. Bird nodded happily as he mentally marked the spot where the Razorbeak had fallen for picking up later. He watched as Mrsha disappeared behind the crest of a hill, pursued by the angry adults.
She’d been going out a lot today. He wondered if he should have stopped her, especially given that she was so young. But she had a wand and that meant she was a [Mage]. And mages could defend themselves, right? Bird happily went back to waiting for the next bird to try to carry Mrsha off.
Life was good.
 
—-
 
[Beast Tamer Level 6!]
[Gardener Level 3!]
[Mage Level 2!]
[Conditions Met: Mage → Druid Class!]
[Class Consolidation: Gardener removed.]
[Class Consolidation: Beast Tamer removed.]
 
[Druid Level 2!]
[Skill – Spell: Wild Growth obtained!]
[Skill Change – Wild Affinity → Peace of the Wild!]
[Skill – Peace of the Wild obtained!]
 
Mrsha woke up in the middle of the night. She rubbed at her sore bottom, and then rolled over and went back to sleep. And thus the tale of Mrsha the Great and Terrible ended.
For now.
