“Of course, sir. Thank you.” Wohrum said, and started to walk down the road. Ren pulled up the drawbridge, secured it, then shut the gate with a clang.

Is that a nice sound or what?

“Yeah, good and solid.” Teepo said. “With the reinforced walls and the new gate, this place is pretty secure.”

It's going to be a lot more secure before I'm done. Ren thought and entered the house. He sat at the table and enjoyed another meal, and told them about building another building on his land and completing his land owner obligations. They finished the meal and Ren heard something banging on the drawbridge.

“I'll get it.” He said and went out to the gate, then tossed Teepo into the air.

“Its a dwarf I've never seen before.” Teepo said.

“I'm dropping the drawbridge!” Ren said. “Step away, please.” Ren waited for a moment and tossed Teepo again.

“He's on the road.” Teepo said and Ren caught him.

Thanks. Ren let the drawbridge down and then opened the gate, before it could be banged on.

“I see I've got new overlords.” The dwarf said, angrily. “I went down to the Main Keep, stood in line for an hour, and when I finally got to the Taxes department, they told me I wasted my time.”

Ren thought about who in the world it could be, and then he remembered the names Nathalia had said. “Nonyar?” He asked. “Did I say that right?”

“So, you do know the names of your chattel!”

Ren scowled at him, concentrated on his Command Aura, and unconsciously made a Connection to his Screaming Terror ring. “My WHAT?!?”

The farmer backed away, and Ren clenched his fists.

“Did you just accuse me of KEEPING SLAVES?!?”

“What's all this yelling about?” Nathalia asked as she came out of the house and hit the edge of Ren's Aura. “By the gods, Ren! What are you doing?”

Ren took several deep breaths and calmed down. “This... man...” He said and shook his head. “I don't want to say it again.” He pointed at the dwarf. “You can tell her what you said.”

The farmer shook his head. “I won't speak like that to a woman.”

Ren barked a laugh. “You have some Honor left, then.”

The farmer frowned. “Are you questioning...”

“QUIET!” Nathalia shouted, and both men looked at her. “Nonyar, what did you say?”

Nonyar sighed. “I called him an overlord, and my family his...”

“His what?” Nathalia asked.

“...his chattel.”

Nathalia gasped and put a hand over her heart. “Nonyar! How could you!”

The farmer dropped his head.

“Ren's the best thing that's ever happened to us!” She said, shocked. “To accuse him of slavery...”

“I'm sorry.” Nonyar said.

“Don't apologize to me.” Nathalia frowned. “Apologize to my husband!”

Ren's Connection ended and the farmer relaxed.

“I'm sorry, your highness.” Nonyar said, and looked at Ren, who nodded slightly.

“What's this all about?” Nathalia asked. “Why are you here?”

“Taxes.” Ren said. “He found out that we own his land when he went to pay the taxes today.”

“Today?” Nathalia said. “They aren't due until next month.”

“This is last years.” The farmer said. “It needs to be paid before the next bill is due.”

He held a hand out with 6 gold coins in it.

“Your farm is only 3 square miles?” Ren asked, surprised. It looked bigger than that on the map. Ren thought as the farmer nodded slightly.

“There's only enough of us to work one, though.”

“Why keep it then?”

“What?”

“Why are you paying for 3 square miles if you're only working one?”

“It's prime farm land. I worked for a year and a half in the mines for it. I'm not giving it up!”

“Good.” Ren said. “You can keep your money. I already paid the taxes for 5 years, anyways.”

“You WHAT?!?”

“I paid the taxes.” Ren looked at Nathalia. “People really don't pay anything beforehand?”

“No.” She said. “We were behind a few years, too.”

“What?” Ren said, surprised. “Why didn't you tell me?”

“You settled all of our debts, remember?”

“Oh. Right.” Ren said and looked back at the farmer. “Did you have to take out a loan for that?” He said, and motioned to the gold the farmer still held in his hand.

Nonyar shook his head. “We've been scrimping and saving for months.”

“Who do you sell food to?”

“The mines and the Garrison, mostly.” The farmer said. “Nearly all the farms do. They both need a lot of food.”

Ren nodded slightly. “There must be lots of farms on the other side of the mines.”

“There are.” The farmer said. “One farm even has a big plow that's pulled by 6 ponies, and can do a whole square mile in a day.”

Ren frowned. “I'll have to think about this for a while.” He said. “I'm sure I'll come up with something.”

“For what?” Nonyar asked.

“Your farming problem.”

“But...”

“Don't worry about it.” Ren said. “If I think of anything, I'll let you know.”

“But...”

“Have a good night.” Ren said and shut the gate with a solid clang, then pat the metal. “That is definitely a great sound.”

“Ren.”

“What?”

“You just shut the gate in his face.”

“Yeah.”

“Why?”

“Once I took away his reason for being here, he didn't know how to end the conversation.”

Nathalia looked at him with wide eyes.

“You saw how he held the gold coins in his hand. He was going to throw them at me.”

She opened her mouth to say something, then she closed it. “You're right. I think he was.”

Ren gasped and put a hand on his chest. “I was right! You can't take it back!” He said and grinned. “You said I was right!”

“Don't get used to that feeling.” Nathalia said and laughed.

“I've still got some metal in the smelter I need to pour. I'll be inside in a little while.” Ren said and kissed her.

“See you soon.” Nathalia said and went into the house.

Ren tossed Teepo up into the air.

“All clear. The farmer's gone.”

Ren caught him, went out through the gate, and shut it behind him. He ran to the workshop and for about an hour, Ren poured floor molds for swords and shields. He didn't have the time to forge them again, so he just left them piled beside the forge and turned it off. Ren went back down to the house, pulled up the drawbridge, and closed the gate to lock it. He went into the house and stopped just inside the door. The place was silent.

I spent too much time working. Ren thought. If I go into the bedroom now, I'd have to wake Nathalia up just to tell her I have Adventurer's business to take care of. He stepped into the main room and stood in the corner. Here's as good a place as any.

“Logout.” Ren whispered.

********

Ren took off his VR headset and Bonnie put it aside.

“I bet you're hungry again.” She said.

Ren smiled. “I could eat.”

“I'll be right back.” Bonnie said and went to go get Ren's lunch.

*

Gloria sat in the classroom and waited for the bell to ring. Only a few more minutes! She despised this course so much that it hurt to think about it. The professor berated her constantly, gave her poor grades for no reason, and picked her to answer questions when he knew she hated it.

I only need this one course credit, and I can move on to the next stage. She thought and sighed. It's too bad this asshat isn't more like Ren. He'd be able to deal with me properly! Gloria's eyes widened at that last thought; because she now remembered how Ren had dealt with her earlier that morning, and she blushed slightly.

*

Ren enjoyed lunch and thanked Bonnie for her hard work. She smiled and helped him put on the VR headset.

“Have fun.” Bonnie said.

Ren chuckled. “I'm too tired to have fun.” He said and yawned. “See you at supper.”

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Ren crept down the hallway and into the old bedroom he normally slept in. There were two lumps under the blanket on the bed, however; and his eyes widened. Ren slipped the blanket down and saw that Nathalia, and her mother Narhilda, were sound asleep. He thought it was odd that they were in the same bed, but also on opposite sides and facing each other. Ren walked around the bed to Nathalia's side.

“Nathalia.” Ren whispered, and she opened one eye to look at him. “Move over.”

“Thismyside.” Nathalia whispered back half-asleep. “Climb over.”

Ren sighed and stored his clothing, then equipped his armor's bodysuit because it wouldn't catch on anything. He slid in under the blanket, over Nathalia's shoulder, and settled down in the middle of the bed. It wasn't really a comfortable position, laying on his back with his arms crossed in front. He tried his best to not touch anything; but, then Nathalia tugged on his arm. Ren looked at her, and she had both eyes open and a look of longing on her face. He smiled, lifted an arm to put around her shoulders, and she snuggled in to his chest.

That's a little bette- Ren's thought was interrupted when there was a tug on his other arm, and he turned to look at Narhilda. She had a similar look of longing on her face, and Ren's eyes widened for a moment; then he smiled at her, lifted his other arm to put around her shoulders, and she snuggled in to his chest, too.

I guess when I was taken away like that, it was a bit hard for them to deal with.

“I know I'd be devastated if you were taken away from me.” Teepo said as he skittered up the wall and onto the ceiling.

I feel the same way about you, Teepo. Ren thought. No matter how many new friends I make, you'll always be my best friend.

“Thanks, Ren.”

Goodnight, Teepo.

“Goodnight.”

Ren closed his eyes and drifted off to sleep. Tomorrow was going to be a long day.
