Rain shook his head, getting himself back on track. Without a party link, finding someone was even more of a challenge. The domains of unaligned souls fought each other for dominance, repelling each other like common magnetic poles. The only way to overcome the effect enough to actually see someone in the Void, let alone get to them, was to latch onto their soul and pull.

Fortunately for that, skill use provided the means. For whatever reason, when you targeted someone with a system ability, their soul was drawn toward yours, possibly by the system itself. The closer the entity was in the real world, the stronger the pull in the Void, with contact skills being an order of magnitude more effective. If your soul was bigger than your target’s, or if your target was pulling on you in return, the attraction could overpower the repulsion enough for your domains to touch.

At that point, it became a contest of will. If you were significantly stronger than your opponent, you could even pull their soul inside your domain completely.

Regardless of how it happened—whether through a shared domain or a hostile takeover—when someone’s soul was in your sphere of influence, spells and abilities targeting them would manifest as visible currents of energy. It was more than just a light show, too. When Ameliah pushed a Healing Word through Rain’s armor, what she was really doing was shunting the energy through the Void, bypassing physical reality, or so it seemed.

There was nuance, of course, coming down to practice, focus, and the perceptions of the two entities involved, but the fundamental truth was that if you could haul on an enemy’s soul hard enough to get it within your domain, you could really ruin their day.

Thus, that had been exactly what Rain had decided to try in the battle against the Incarn. No matter their apparent power, Incarns weren’t gold. Rain had been able to feel the man’s soul howling in anguish even from a distance, and while it had been hot and angry, it had lacked the sense of weight that he got when he was near someone like Velika. In other words, it had been all volume and no substance, and so he’d figured it was worth a shot.

Locating the Incarn turned out to have been no trouble at all.

Trusting Ameliah to care for his body under the effects of Aura Focus, he’d projected himself into the Void, and when he’d opened his holographic eyes, he’d found himself already within enemy territory. The doomed soldier’s domain hadn’t been so much a pocket of order as it had a churning maelstrom filled with echoing waves of maroon light. The man’s soul sat at the center like a tiny star of rage, compact, but blazing with flares of energy.

Rain’s domain had been swallowed in the tide completely, but it hadn’t been suppressed. Instead, it was holding it at bay, like the Earth’s magnetic field deflecting the solar wind. Ameliah’s soul had been there too, her sphere of influence warped into a teardrop shape by her proximity to the Incarn. Her domain hadn’t been overlapping Rain’s, though, despite their physical proximity. If not for the Incarn’s light shredding the intervening darkness, he wouldn’t have been able to see her at all.

Once he’d gotten over the shock of the scale of the Incarn’s influence, Rain had begun forcing himself forward, finding progress easy at first, growing more difficult as he’d closed in. Like Ameliah’s, his bubble had soon started warping, making it clear that he’d never make it on his own. Undeterred, he’d angled for her. When their domains had finally merged, a snarl of multicolored energy had flashed into existence, reaching from him to wrap around her protectively. The red of Heat Ward had been the most prominent at first, but then purple had blazed to the fore, his macros refreshing the next Ward in the one-second cycle.

Not paying the colors any mind, Rain had continued his advance, Ameliah’s soul drifting with him. Being that close, he’d been able to feel the strength of her will, subconsciously holding him to her as they bore down on their opponent in shared purpose.

Together, it had been enough. The moment their shared domain had enveloped the Incarn’s soul, all hell had broken loose. First, Suppression had manifested as sticky, thumb-thick chains of purple light, firing from Rain’s chest, wrapping around the Incarn’s soul, then lashing it to the ground. The visual effect, though, was secondary. Rain had been feeling feedback distantly since he’d activated the spell, but when it manifested, pain had stabbed into his thoughts like a hot knife.

Upon reflection, that had probably been the point at which he’d started screaming.

He hadn’t lost his focus, though, instead pouring more and more power into Suppression until, with one massive flash, the Incarn’s soul had detonated. Things had gone a bit hazy after that. He’d woken up back in his body with Ameliah screaming at him in panic.

If her bell got rung anywhere as hard as mine did...

If I hurt her...

Rain grimaced, then stepped from the Void back into his trashed inner world.

She’s fine and would have told me if she weren’t. Besides, it was life or death. A little risk was worth it, and a little cleanup is a small price to pay. If she has to do the same... No, she won’t blame me. We took down an Incarn together, for filth’s sake! Two silvers! And I wasn’t even wearing my armor! That’s fucking nuts!

Coming back to himself, Rain glanced at his HUD, then sighed, knowing that he’d already been in here too long. His time acceleration factor—almost trivial to determine thanks to his system access—had suffered from all the essence he’d chewed through in the past two hours, and he still didn’t know where most of it had gone.

Damn it, I don’t have time to worry about it right now. I need to be out there. Doing. There’s one more thing I need to take care of in here, though. The reason I came in here in the first place. [Watch out, Dozer. Essence Exchange.]

[K!]

The corner of Rain’s mouth twitched at Dozer’s single-letter response. Somehow, talking to the slime always made him feel better.

Rain triggered the exchange, and the world rippled. Down in his core, he could feel the essence squeezing powerfully inward. Up here, it was barely even noticeable. The air pressure rose slightly, but that was it. As he’d continued to spread order through his soul, essence exchanges had not only become routine, but also milder, to the point that he rarely bothered warning Dozer about them anymore.

Progress Report

marker_1: just_getting_started [3061 Seedlings 29 00:20]

marker_2: getaway [3061 Seedlings 29 01:45]

Span: 1.4 hours

Skills

Ethereal Aura: +36,000 exp, 5 -> 7 (+2)

Synchronization

Recovery: 10.5 -> 10.6 (+0.1)

Two levels for Ethereal, huh? And still no Prismatic Intent?

Rain shrugged, increasingly convinced that his armor had actually been helping him train the skill—like working out with weights or something. Dismissing the report, he called up the skill card for Ethereal Aura instead.

Ethereal Aura (7/15) Exp: 16,449/17,600

User may exempt the aura from environmental effects at will

Aura gains 35% resistance to environmental occlusion and absorption

Environment receives 30% aura output

Darn. Just missed level eight.

Rain waved the box away, wishing he could just dump mana into the spell to power-level it. Unfortunately, that wouldn’t be a smart move. He was already low on essence, but more importantly, they were already playing with fire by sailing at night. A Whale attack would be disastrous.

I only needed it at level five anyway.

Rain opened the Aura Metamagic tree, scrolling to see a plus symbol next to Anchor Aura, indicating that it was available for him to take. He smiled wryly. That little button was the only thing between him and the ability—besides himself.

Part of him wanted to wait, to see his other options, but...

No.

He turned his eyes downward, his senses expanding as he peered straight through the armor surrounding his core.

I’ve suffered for my indecision enough.

He purchased the skill.

As always, the unlock was fast, even in his accelerated reference frame. Energy flickered through his core like lightning through quartz, stronger than it was for lower-tier skills. However, just as when he’d watched this process before, whatever the system was doing was far too complex and subtle for him to follow. When the light faded, his gemstone heart felt ever so slightly different, but not in a way he had a hope of understanding.

I’ll get there. One day.

Rain smiled, remembering the clean patterns of his auras as he’d used them in the battle. Without his armor mucking things up, his vision through Mana Manipulation had been clearer. He knew what his auras were supposed to look like now. With time, he had no doubt he’d achieve the same level of proficiency with his armor on as he’d shown without it. He’d have to, because there was no Dunch-tickling way he was EVER taking it off.

Lurching back to reality, Rain extricated himself from the girders, metal scraping against his shoulders as the ship’s engines vibrated the deck beneath his feet. A quick staccato burst from Detection assured him that all was well, but he looked around anyway, squinting through the water streaking his visor. Only once he was satisfied that nobody had come looking for him and nothing was on fire did he call up the description for his new skill.

Anchor Aura (1/15) Exp: 0/1,600

Allows for the creation, binding, and use of aura anchors

Aura anchors are attuned to a single aura at the time of creation

Aura anchors act as additional emission points, irrespective of distance

User may project any aura through 0-1 anchors simultaneously

Aura range is distributed across the user and any selected anchors

Anchor Creation Cost: 100 + 100^x

Anchor Creation Time: 1 hour

Anchor Durability: 100 + 100^x

Anchor Hardness: 27 (fcs)

x must be a whole number greater than or equal to the tier of the attuned aura

Aura use through an anchor damages the anchor

Anchor damage is proportional to the mana flux, mitigated by Hardness

He pushed his thoughts toward the spell, and guided by a reflex he’d never learned, his hands rose. They came together, one over the other in front of his chest like he was sheltering a tea light from the pounding rain. His mana, meanwhile, was flowing down his arms, pooling in his hands...as if waiting for something.

Oh.

Anchor Aura, Detection, Tier 1

Instantly, though it moved in the barest trickle, the pooled mana in his hands began to flow outward, giving Rain the answer to his first question. It seemed the mana cost was distributed across the cast time, not paid upfront.

Perfect.

Raising his hands before his eyes, he shifted them so he could peek inside, feeling the spell’s matrix tremble with the motion. It had already been shaky, encased in the metal prison of his fingers, but he managed to keep it together. There was a tiny pinprick of light between his palms, he saw, too small for him to assign it a color other than white. A faint mist was flowing out from his hands, drawn to that one spot as the skill worked.

Interesting.

A quick attempt to use Detection told him that, while the creation of the Detection anchor was consuming an entire Prismatic Intent slot, he could still cast the spell in the other one normally. Satisfied with that and not wanting to make himself woozy, he opened his hands. The tiny pinprick flickered before vanishing into nothingness. He’d done his best to maintain the matrix, but it appeared he was a long way off from forging anchors hands-free.

I’ll get there. People can do it with Fireball with enough practice, and this is no different. Also, it looks like I’ve got the answer to my follow-up question. You can cancel it mid-cast. That’s good.

Raising his hands again, he accessed his rings, shifting the five hundred points he’d had in Clarity to Focus. With the accolade he was using and the points he’d already had assigned, his Focus was now seven-seventy. Anchor Aura’s Focus scaling would translate that to seventy-seven Hardness for the final product.

Anchor Aura, Detection, Tier 2

The light was brighter this time, the mist now joined by static discharges arcing silently between his palms. Again, a point of light started growing, pulling itself together amidst the haze of wasted energy.

Mana cost is 100 + 100^2, so 10,100, divided by 3,600 seconds in an hour. 2.8 mana per second. Hardly worth mentioning. Hmm. Tallheart says crafting skills only give you the promised numbers if you do it right. Is all this interference going to affect the result? I suppose we’ll see, but first...

Rain counted to thirty, then broke the spell again. As he did, he heard a gasp and looked up to see someone looking in his direction, though he couldn’t see who it was through the weather. Fortunately, there was Detection for that.

Cessa? Oops. She must have Mana Sight. There’s no way she saw that tiny flash of regular light through the storm. I need to be careful with this. That wasn’t much mana just now, but if I lost a big one... I suppose I can’t blame her for being jumpy.

...

That’s it. We’re going to Barstone. Crossing any amount of deep water is a horrible idea, and it only gets worse if I can’t even use mana. Plus, I really should warn the Citizens. I owe it to the people in Three Cliffs, even if I know the DKE won’t lift a finger to help them. Damn it.

He looked down at his hands, balling them up into fists.

I need to be stronger, and that starts with this.

He triggered an essence exchange. Other than the line telling him he’d unlocked the skill, it was blank.

Hmm. So I only get experience on completion, or the ratio is really shit...

...or it’s like Prismatic Intent. Shit, I suppose we’ll see.

Anchor Aura, Detection, Tier 1

Rain settled his hands in front of his stomach, this time intent on holding them there for the full hour. The trickle of mana was basically nothing, and if the final product came out weak or flawed, it hardly mattered. It was just Detection. All he wanted was to keep track of Temerity and those onboard when they got to Barstone, and he didn’t need a ton of power for that. At the rate they were moving, they’d be there before the sun even reached its zenith—a fact few had realized and fewer still believed.

The world just got a whole lot smaller.

Rain’s smile lasted only a moment. They’d drop anchor—figuratively, as they didn’t have one anymore—outside the harbor. He and Ameliah would go in alone to meet the Citizen. Maybe Halgrave would want to come, maybe he’d want to stay with his daughter, or maybe he’d try to carry her away. Rain needed to talk to him about that. And about the Velika situation. At least nobody had figured out who Shu was yet.

