I notch another arrow when I see a thin line of mana stretch into the air, invisible to most of the others, but not to my eyes. I reach to snap it, but it endures my attempt, and after a quick teleport, that man appears next to me, even through my group's attempts at disruption. He doesn't even attack me, only to teleport again and appear far in the middle of our group, where people start attacking him despite his elusive movement and mana disruption.

Barely any attacks hit him, but he already seems like he’s about to fall apart, bleeding and breaking all over the place. Another ten of my arrows disappear, pulled away by that spinning black ring over his head, and I watch the mana itself from people around get pulled into it.

"Trash," I mutter, and, annoyed, I reach deeper into my reserves and let the tattoos of my trait cover my body.

Then, that pathetic human starts channeling mana in preparation for a powerful attack.

It almost makes me laugh. This has been amusing so far, but... in half a second, he channels an amount of mana that makes me stare in shock.

What?

Many of the others take notice and scream in panic. Now, much more powerful attacks rain down on him, with no concern for the lives of the thylarin in the area. Multiple Hell difficulty melee attackers rush him, but it feels like it might be too late. My most powerful arrow shoots at him, but it blinks out and just pierces through his chest, void of any mana.

I magnify my view, watching his face, now fully reading from his lips.

"Fuck this fucking fuck body fucking upgrade, fuck this event, fuck that pompous fraud fuck, fuck the system...fuck me too…fuck."

The black ring over his head dissolves, and all the mana it’s trapped seeping into the area for him to grab and channel as well.

I feel an urge to vomit at the sheer amount of it. So much, so quickly.

Instead of trying to stop it, I run toward the bridge to put more distance between us as a cube appears over his palm, light blue, dark blue, purple, white, and golden colors bouncing around inside, and the air wavering around him.

The explosion initial shockwave me anyway and throws me to the ground. sending me rolling, and as I turn in the air, I see the core of the explosion heading my way. It pushes me even as I fight back, it disrupts some of the mana I’m trying to use, and throws me off the cliff, at which point one of the green lashes cuts through me.

You have been flagged as dead, healed, and removed from the event.

Good luck next time!

I appear in the common area, surrounded by hundreds of thylarin, and as I stand here, hundreds, thousands more start appearing all over the place.
