Tavza worked at a feverish pace to solve the mystery. It turned out the reef had become a deathtrap because of a microscopic algae it produced. It was able to amplify the Ninth Garden’s evolutionary compulsion. She released a sphere of Pure Death upon this realization, killing all life within a mile’s radius. Immediately, the laws returned to normal.

“These things are ancient,” Ogras muttered as he inspected the colorful corals. “Are they alive?”

“They are,” Zac confirmed. “And their lifeforce is extremely stable. They’ve become immune to the local laws.”

“So that’s what’s happened,” Ogras nodded. “This thing keeps gobbling up all the energy to slowly grow, and its algae is preventing the beasts from getting close, let alone killing it.”

“I don’t think it’s only a defensive measure,” Tavza said while inspecting a large hollow filled with a web of root-like strings. “This chute is actively filtering the water.”

“Filtering it of what? The energy density is as strong on the other side,” Zac said before noticing a slight difference. “No, wait. The energy has been cleaned somehow.”

“Cleaned of the blood essence that is constantly spilled across the realm. These are digestive tracts, and I’ve seen dozens just like them,” Tavza said.

“So this chunk of rock is hunting millions of beasts—including Beast Emperors—without moving an inch,” Ogras exclaimed. “It’s the perfect predator.”

Zac suddenly burst into action, swinging his axe at a nearby formation. He only managed to chip away a piece of coral the size of his palm. The action triggered another release of algae, forcing Tavza to perform a second round of cleansing.

“Destroying the whole thing in a reasonable timeframe is impossible. We’ll have to target the problem area,” Zac said, glancing at the hundreds of tendrils inside the nearest “mouth.”

“Let’s get to work. We can’t stay here for long,” Tavza said.

The stringy tendons were extremely durable, taking even Zac a few swings to cut loose. Thankfully, there were only 23 funnels across the whole coral forest, and the coral didn’t have any way to actively fight back against aggressors. The huge organism kept producing algae only to have them killed by Tavza’s Abyssal Death.

By destroying the filters, they took away the reef’s ability to replenish its energy. Without that, it would eventually run out of energy to produce new algae and would eventually face starvation. At least that was the idea. There was no way to stay and make sure the reef didn’t have backup plans or ways to build new filters.

Zac was already so hungry that unspeakable thoughts filled his mind when looking at his companions, and the sentiment was mirrored in their eyes. Meanwhile, Zac’s body was reaching dangerous levels of mutation. Since the mutations were technically part of him and Zac was completely out of Creation Energy, he would have to cut out the problem pieces manually. If the mutations were allowed to expand into the depths of his cells and into his bone marrow, the issues could potentially become permanent.

The trio scurried away the second the last tendon was ripped out. There were no earth-shattering explosions or beast tides to confirm their actions. There was only a small surge of accrued destiny in their seals as they fled toward the realmgate, leaving behind a silent death that would nourish new life.

Going by the frantic pace that life moved in the Emergent Pool, the next group of Sealbearers would have to face a far more bustling scene.
