The shovel blade rested on the anvil, glowing with a quickly fading inner light. Its edge was already formed, whole, pure, and needing no sharpening.

Delan took a final, deep breath, and looked up at his son. Delun stood tall and proud in spite of his tiredness. Liquin was leaning against the bellows, her body and Qi exhausted.

Then, Delan turned to his spectators. Master Jin and Lady Meiling stood, both completely unaffected by the heat; their son was outside the forge with their maid. Master Jin was smiling widely. Lady Meiling too looked like she had enjoyed watching them.

The great dragon Wa Shi coiled around them, looking with interest at the shovel. The ox watched on, completely engrossed—and the final spectator had only eyes for Delan’s son.

Tigu had pure admiration upon her face, her beautiful yellow eyes locked on Delun.

“Tie Delan. Thank you for allowing me to witness this.” Master Jin raised his hands in the gesture of respect.

Delan let out a sigh of contentment.

“Thank you for witnessing it,” he replied. An Expert as powerful as Master Jin thanking him for showing off the techniques of his family? How could he not be proud?

Delan slowly, reverently lifted the completed piece. Together, they exited the forge—where Delan’s mother was waiting with the haft of the shovel.

Liquin carefully took the haft. Delan lifted the blade. He could feel it. It was almost eager.

The two met with a pulse of Qi. A blade of Liberated Iron. A haft, carved of Qi-dense wood.

The patient, gentle caring of the man who used the tool to its fullest potential.

Delan and his wife turned to Master Jin and presented their finished work. This too was risky. Sometimes weapons made of Spirit Metal rejected their wielders. Sometimes they resisted them. The Expert’s hand closed around the haft. His Qi filled it with golden light—and the shovel felt, for a moment, like it was more regal than the treasure of a king.

The Spirit Metal accepted him instantly. Like a loyal hound whose Master had returned, the Spirit Metal and Qi within bounded to his side, overjoyed at having been chosen.

Then, the feeling was gone.

Master Jin smiled at his shovel.

“Oh, that is better, isn’t it?” he asked. The blade shone in the light.

All Delan could do was stare at the beauty of what his family had helped to create.
