Rain woke up.

…

He hadn’t expected to.

When Dozer had died, he’d felt as if it had been his own body that had been obliterated, not the slime’s. The pain was on the level of what he’d experienced with the Fel Sadanis barrier stone. The term ‘mind-destroying’ felt appropriate, though his mind had been pretty thoroughly destroyed at that point already.

In retrospect, pushing himself past his limits had probably been a bad idea.

His previous overindulgences with the ring had been with Clarity, and they had amplified his normal attention issues to clinical levels. This time, with Focus, his mind had locked itself onto one singular goal: Defeating Hegar.

Obviously, that hadn’t gone so well. The issue was that in his hyper-focused state, his higher reasoning had flown right out the window. He’d just kept struggling pointlessly, accomplishing nothing more than pissing off his opponent. He hadn’t thought to make an appeal to Hegar’s mercy—or to his ego, which would probably have worked better. No, he’d simply decided to repeatedly punch him in the leg.

It had not been his best plan ever.

Rain sighed, and pain blossomed as the blanket covering him scraped across his skin. His body had the characteristic hypersensitivity that meant he’d been subjected to excessive healing. He was likely suffering from lingering Focus soulstrain as well, though his mind seemed to be working normally enough. It was difficult to tell from within.

Ultimately, it didn’t matter. There were more important things right now. It was time to figure out why he still had his life and if there was anything left worth living it for.

He opened his gummy-feeling eyes and blinked, fighting the brightness. The first thing he realized was that he was in the camp—in his room, even. That was promising. Shortly thereafter, a figure swam into view, and he realized he wasn’t alone. Jamus was there, asleep in a chair with Cloud at his feet. That was even more promising.

“Jamus,” Rain croaked, licking his dry lips.

Jamus didn’t stir, but Cloud raised his fluffy head, then shot to his feet and chuffed, tail wagging furiously. Jamus’s eyes snapped open, then locked onto Rain’s.

“Rain!” He got to his feet, tripping in his haste. He scrambled to the side of Rain’s bedroll, pulling back Cloud, who’d beaten him there and was licking Rain’s face, almost knocking him back over with his enthusiasm.

“Ameliah?” Rain asked, ignoring the lingering pain from the affectionate mauling.

“Alive,” Jamus said. “Unconscious, but alive.”

“Where?” Rain asked, struggling to rise.

Jamus laid a hand on his shoulder, gently but firmly holding him in place. “She’s in the next room over. Tahir and Mereck healed you first, then used the rest of their mana on her, plus all the potions we had. That was over a day ago.”

Shit. They can’t actually heal her until they fill her health, and she’s got a lot of it.

“Calm down,” Jamus said, pushing more firmly. “Her wounds closed this morning. Tahir and Mereck are both suffering from potion shock, and if you give them any more mana right now, we’ll have three unconscious people, not just one. Ameliah will be fine. She just needs time.”

Rain stopped fighting, shuddering as his relief warred with his fears. Once he’d subsided, Jamus took his hand away. The older mage remained silent, giving Rain the time he needed.

If she’d died…

Rain forced himself to breathe deeply. He could be an emotional wreck later.

Examining his situation again, he discovered that he was only wearing his Forceweave underlayer. His armor and the Malleable Ring were missing. Before he could pull open his status to check for any other problems—honestly, the first thing he should have done upon waking—Carten ripped aside the curtain and clattered into the room, wearing his full armor.

“Rain! Yer awake!”

“I am,” Rain said, shaking his head. My status can wait too. “What happened to Hegar?”

“He’s dead,” Jamus said, his face hardening.

“Tallheart got ‘em,” Carten said as he plopped himself down on the floor with a clank. He grinned, scratching his ear. “I knew he was a strong bastard, but depths take me, that was somethin’ else.”

“The archer is dead, too,” Jamus said. “We have the mage captive. Don’t worry. We have him thoroughly secured.”

“Was anyone else hurt?” Rain asked, pushing Brovose out of his mind. I…can’t deal with that. Not yet.

Jamus shook his head. “No. No one else.”

Rain felt another great weight lift off of him. He flinched as Cloud licked his cheek again.

“Stay back!” Vanna shouted from outside. Moments later, she poked her head in. “Rain, thank the gods you’re all right. I’ll stop people from rushing in all at—”

“Captain!” Tarny shouted, ducking past her.

“…once,” Vanna finished with a sigh. She pulled the curtain closed, and Rain could hear her begin arguing with Kettel on the other side.

“Are you in any pain, Captain?” Tarny asked, kneeling down by Rain’s shoulder. “How is your hand?”

Rain raised his left hand, flexing his fingers. His wrist felt no more painful than the rest of him. There was nothing to indicate that it had been injured other than the slice through the Forceweave, not even blood. Purify must have activated at some point while he was unconscious, which meant he’d switched his macros out of combat mode. The concerning thing was that he couldn’t remember doing it. Am I missing anything else?

He searched his mind and found nothing but loss. He let his arm fall, then looked at his lap. There was still something remaining of his link to Dozer, but instead of ending in a bundle of curiosity and wonder, the connection led nowhere. Dozer was gone.

“Captain?” Tarny asked, sounding concerned. “Rain?”

“I’m fine,” Rain said with a sigh. Liar. “Thirsty.”

“Here,” Carten said, offering him a skin, beating Tarny to it.

Rain accepted it, then raised it to his lips. He stopped, raising an eyebrow as he caught the scent. “Beer?”

Carten grinned.

Shrugging, Rain took a small sip from the skin, then passed it back to Carten. He then motioned to Tarny, who handed him his own skin, which contained water as expected. He took a much deeper drink, then lowered it. He needed to wait, despite his body’s demands for more. It wouldn’t be a good idea to have too much at once, no matter how dehydrated he was. He turned to Jamus, gesturing with the skin. “Has someone been giving Ameliah water?”

“Yes,” Jamus said. “I told you to stop worrying. Blood loss is common in the adventuring profession. We know how to deal with it.”

Rain nodded, taking another sip from the skin. “Good.”

“We’re so glad you’re still with us, Rain,” Jamus said, wrapping him in a gentle hug. “When Hegar was standing over you like that, we feared the worst. It was horrible not being able to do anything.”

Rain forced a smile, hiding how much even such light contact was hurting him. “Thank you, Jamus. Everyone.” Jamus released him, and then it was Tarny’s turn, and he was significantly less gentle about it. Through the pain, Rain realized that the man had started crying.

Carten snorted, getting to his feet. “I ain’t huggin’ ya.”

Rain’s smile became less forced. “Good. You don’t look particularly soft, and I’m still soulstrained from the healing.”

Tarny gasped, recoiling as if burned. “Captain, I’m so sorry! I didn’t think—”

“It’s fine,” Rain said. It’s just pain. He looked over at the corner of the room. “Hi, Val.”

Val laughed, fading into sight. “Even when you’re injured, I can’t sneak up on you.”

“Aren’t you supposed to be on watch?” Jamus asked.

“And miss all this?” Val asked. “All these manly emotions?”

“Ha!” Carten laughed.

Cloud pushed his head against Rain’s lap, gently yet insistently demanding attention. Absently, Rain began combing the big dog’s thick fur with his fingers. Cloud was too fluffy for his own good. It had obviously been too long since his last grooming.

There was a brief awkward silence, broken by Jamus. “Rain… I’m so sorry about Dozer.”

Rain froze, closing his eyes. He took a deep breath, then tightened his grip on Cloud’s fur, though he was careful not to pull. “Thank you.”

Before anyone else could speak, the curtain opened, and Vanna poked her head in once more. “Everyone, out. Rain needs to rest.”

Rain shook his head, resuming his ineffective grooming. I need a brush. “It’s fine, Vanna. I’ve rested enough. Can you send someone to find Tallheart, please? I need to talk to him.”

“I am here,” Tallheart said, moving into view behind Vanna. “I agree. We must speak.”

Rain nodded, his expression serious. “Yes.”

“Privately,” Tallheart said as Vanna made way for him to enter the room.

“Sorry,” Rain said, glancing at the others. “Can you give us a minute?”

Before any of them could respond, Tallheart raised a hand. “Not here.”

“Tallheart, he shouldn’t be moving around right now,” Jamus protested.

Rain frowned, considering, then pushed Cloud’s head off his lap with some difficulty. The ridiculous dog was still growing, even though he was already pushing forty or fifty kilos. Once he’d freed himself, it was time to stand. It hurt, oh did it hurt, but pain wasn’t going to stop him.

Tarny moved to help him, as did Jamus, though reluctantly. Once Rain was upright, he waved them away, taking a few unsteady steps. Tallheart rumbled in approval.

“I’m going to see Ameliah first,” Rain said, looking at Tallheart. Tallheart nodded, and Rain shifted his gaze to Vanna. “After that, Tallheart and I are going for a walk. Do you have things under control?”

Vanna pursed her lips. “Yes. For now.” She shook her head. “What happened, Rain? Why did they attack?”

Rain grimaced. “I’ll tell you the full story later. They wanted to take Lana and the crack. Ameliah…objected.” He shook his head.

“Okay,” Vanna said. “Come talk to me when you feel up to it. And don’t hurt yourself.”

Rain nodded, then straightened his shoulders and began walking for the door. Vanna hurried ahead of him, yelling loudly to clear the way. Each step was more painful than the last, but he ignored the protests of his body. They were nothing compared to the agony he’d experienced in the past, and even that was nothing to the anguish that was gripping his heart.

He wasn’t strong enough. He’d failed. Dozer was dead, and that wasn’t all. It was all coming back to him. The names. The faces. All of them in crystal-clear high definition. People he’d met from the Guild. People he’d passed in the street in Fel Sadanis. A child he’d never met, dead and broken beneath the rubble of a building.

Melka.

Rain’s breathing was heavy, and he had to lean against the doorway to collect himself. As he saw it, he had two choices. Option one, he could shut down completely, crawl back into a pathetic haze of depression from which he’d likely never recover. Option two, he could do something about it.

Rain hauled himself back into motion. There really wasn’t a choice, after all.

He clenched his fists hard enough that it would have hurt even without the soulstrain.

Never again.

With Vanna running interference, Rain managed to make it out of the camp without getting caught up in any further conversation. His visit to Ameliah’s room had been brief and painful. She’d been unconscious and outwardly unharmed, but it had still been horrible to see her like that. In addition to everything else, it dredged up memories from his old life. Of sitting next to his mother’s hospital bed. Of the end.

Tallheart followed silently as Rain walked through the snow, Purify running at max range. He didn’t want to see the carnage of the nightly defense. The boots he’d borrowed from Carten chafed horribly on his sensitive skin, but it was better than walking barefoot through the cold.

Once they were out of sight of the camp, Tallheart rumbled, pointing. “There. Out of the wind.”

Rain nodded, moving to the sheltered nook between a hill and a large boulder. It was a spot he’d identified a few days ago as a potential issue for monster spawns, but that wasn’t a concern right now given the angle of the sun. It was around noon, with only the shortest of shadows darkening the pristine snow.

Rain turned to face Tallheart, taking a deep breath. “Thank you. If you hadn’t come, Ameliah and I would be dead.”

Tallheart inclined his head, rumbling in acknowledgment. “Clear the snow so we may sit.”

Rain nodded, then used Immolate. The bite of the chill air against his skin vanished, replaced by scalding heat, but he pushed through it until the ground was bare and dry. Once he was satisfied, he followed Tallheart to the boulder. Tallheart sat cross-legged, and Rain sat facing him, mirroring his posture.

“You are weak,” Tallheart said without preamble the moment Rain was situated.

Rain gripped his knees tightly with his hands but didn’t look away. “I am.”

Tallheart nodded. “You asked me before how to become strong. I told you that the path was through persistence, caution, and time. You did not listen.”

Rain shook his head. “I did. I’ve been working as hard as I can, and I’ve been careful. Everyone said too careful, but it wasn’t enough to protect—”

“No,” Tallheart interrupted, a rumble of dissatisfaction in his tone. “You did not listen. The piece of my advice that you chose to ignore was ‘time’.” He sighed, then crossed his arms. “I should not have let you found Ascension. It was too soon. You do not even have the strength to protect yourself.”

Rain closed his eyes. “I know. I couldn’t just leave them, though, the people with nowhere else to go.”

Tallheart rumbled somberly. “I understand. Sometimes, the only correct decision is the wrong one.”

Rain looked up, finding compassion in Tallheart’s eyes, but also…judgment? Consideration? The smith’s hard features were still almost impossible to read, even when he wasn’t guarding his expression.

“Ask,” Tallheart said, watching him.

Rain looked down. There could be any number of questions Tallheart was expecting. Rain could ask what had happened after he’d lost consciousness. He could ask for the details of how Tallheart had killed Hegar and Anton or what he intended to do with Brovose. He could even demand to know why he’d gone to the city—accuse him of not being there when they’d needed him.

Rain closed his eyes. There was no point to any of that.

