Tallheart was not his protector. It was not his responsibility to stay with the company at all times, nor was it Ameliah’s. That was Rain’s responsibility—the one he’d taken when he’d founded the company—and like Tallheart said, he wasn’t ready for it. Neither physically nor mentally.

He shook his head, still not looking up. “I’ve wanted to ask you this for a long time, you and Ameliah, but it’s selfish. Besides that, it’s inconsiderate given what the two of you have lost.” He opened his eyes, then met Tallheart’s gaze. “I will ask it now, regardless.”

“You use too many words. Ask.”

Rain nodded. “Please take me to the depths.”

Tallheart stared at him for a long moment, then slowly, he nodded, uncrossing his arms. “Good.” He extended a hand, turning it palm up. On it sat the Malleable Ring. “Here.”

Surprised, Rain reached out to take it. I thought it was gone…

Tallheart rumbled, lowering his hand. “It will be hard for me, but I will take you. Lilly would have called me a coward for giving up after her death, and she would not have been wrong.” He shook his head sadly. “She would also have called me a traitor for helping a human. I wish she had lived long enough to change.” He rumbled, deep in his chest. “That was not her fate.”

Rain closed his hand over the ring, squeezing tightly in a mixture of gratitude and pain that had nothing to do with the state of his body.

Tallheart inclined his head. “We must prepare. Your armor was destroyed. It would not have been enough anyway. I will make something better.” He frowned. “I cannot help you alone. We will need Ameliah, but she is not nearly as strong as my Lilly. It will be dangerous for all of us. I will not ask it of her. You must do it.”

Rain’s face twisted, knowing that he would indeed ask, that she’d likely say yes. He sighed, looking up at Tallheart with a fatalistic smile. “Another wrong decision, huh?”

Tallheart nodded. “Yes, but the only one that is correct.” He extended a hand, palm down, and Rain jumped as an accolade fell to the ground. Another followed it, tumbling after the first, then another and another. They kept coming, ringing like wind chimes as they began piling atop each other.

“The Crimson Swords were plate hunters,” Tallheart said, speaking over the continuing ring of metal on metal. “There are duplicates, even a few full sets of eight. They were hunting teams. Do not feel remorse. Take their strength and make it your own.”

Rain’s jaw dropped as accolades continued to fall, now coming in twos and threes. His eye twitched involuntarily as a lone yellow plate joined the growing pile of red, blue, green, and gray. He had to resist a sudden urge to reach out and begin sorting them.

“I know what you are thinking,” Tallheart said as the shower of accolades finally came to a stop. “You want to give these to the company. You will not. You will take them, and you will take them all. Only through your own strength can you keep anyone else safe.”

“Tallheart, what…? How…?” Rain said, too stunned to think properly. How the HELL did they have so many? It makes a bit more sense that they could beat Ameliah now. Rain’s mind churned, working through the implications. People don’t just sell accolades. One or two, I’d believe, but if they had a full set... Tallheart’s right. They really were plate hunters.

He looked up at Tallheart. “What do you mean, take them all? I can’t even use half that many.”

Tallheart grunted in amusement. “You will try. You are the one who managed to break his own soul. If anyone can find a way, it would be you. Even if you fail, you will keep them. You will need the, hmm, versatility.”

Rain had reached out as Tallheart spoke and started sifting through the pile. The first few boosts were small—accolades from low-ranked lairs, Heat, Cold, and Force. The sorting process came to a crashing halt as he read something that he knew was possible but that he nevertheless did not expect.

He stared at the plate in his hand, not believing his eyes.

“One THOUSAND Heat resistance?!”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled. “It is time to stop being a child.”

Because of Rain’s soul damage, he couldn’t bind accolades automatically. It was a slow process, one only possible from within his soul and with direct skin contact to the plate. He’d try it later with the three that he’d kept, though he wasn’t sure that he’d be able to reach the required mental state any time soon. Given how unsettled he was, it might be days before he’d calmed down enough. Tallheart had agreed to hold onto the rest until that time, as it really wouldn’t be wise to leave them lying around.

Binding the accolades was high on Rain’s list of priorities, but it was far from number one. That honor went to a different problem, one that was not going to wait.

Rain gripped his fists tightly as he and Tallheart approached the walls, making the Malleable Ring shift loosely on his finger.

“Rain,” a female voice said, moments after he and Tallheart entered the camp, and he turned to see Mahria sprinting at him.

“Does he have them?” she asked urgently, stopping in a rush. Rain frowned, and she winced. “Oh, sorry. I shouldn’t have started with that. Uh…glad you’re not dead?”

Rain sighed, shaking his head. The Mahria problem obviously wasn’t the one he’d been thinking of. “Does who have what?”

“Um…Tallheart?” Mahria said. “The accolades?” Mahria said, glancing at the smith.

Tallheart rumbled, sounding annoyed. “I am standing right here.”

She glared at him, “Yes, and when I asked you before, you just grumbled at me until I gave up.”

Rain rubbed at his temples. “Play nice, you two. Mahria, there’s no respec. Not this time.”

“Damn it!” Mahria swore, stomping her foot. “You’re sure?”

“I’m sure,” Rain said. “Sorry.”

Mahria sighed, then straightened herself back up out of her pout. “Sorry. I’ve just been looking for one for so long.”

“I understand,” Rain said. “Don’t worry. If I find one, I’ll tell you.”

Mahria nodded unhappily. “You’d better.”

Rain glanced at Tallheart, then shook his head. “Sorry, Mahria, I’m kind of in the middle of something. Can you do me a favor and go get Vanna?”

Mahria shrugged. “Sure. It’s not like I have anything else to do.”

Rain shook his head as she walked away, vanishing through the curtain into the company hall. He sighed, then looked around the disorderly tavern, seeing dozens of faces watching him. There were quite a few he didn’t recognize—new recruits, or applicants at least. They were giving him the look that said they could feel his soul and were trying to stop themselves from making a mess of their pants.

At the moment, Rain couldn’t bring himself to care. He’d walked through the tavern quickly when he’d left, not wanting to talk to anyone, so he somehow hadn’t noticed the smell. He was noticing it now. It smelled like…filth.

Purify washed over the room, cleaning faces and eliciting shouts of surprise. As the light faded, Rain was still frowning. Purify could do nothing for the pair of mugs lying on the floor, or the crumpled blanket on a bench, or the abandoned bowls and plates that had been left strewn across the tables.

“You,” he said, pointing at random. “Straighten this place out.”

The chosen man jumped, looking at the other people seated at his table. “Uh…yes, Lord. I mean, Captain. Um, what exactly did you want me to—?”

Rain jabbed a finger at the fallen mugs. “Put those back where they go. If there isn’t a designated spot for them, make one.” He gestured to the laden tables. “Clear all of this clutter and put it all away. I will have order. This is a tavern, not a festival ground. The rest of you, help him.”

“Rain,” Vanna said, approaching swiftly with Tarny in tow. “They aren’t members. We didn’t admit anyone yet, not with you and Ameliah hurt.”

“Doesn’t matter,” Rain said. “If they made the mess, they can clean it up. Tarny, take charge of this, will you?”

“Yes, Rain,” Tarny said, nodding. He turned away, marching toward the uneasy townsfolk.

“Are you okay, Rain?” Vanna asked. “You aren’t acting like… I mean, obviously, you’re not acting like yourself. I’m being stupid. Shall we go to my office so we can talk?”

Rain shook his head. “Later. I need to deal with Brovose. Where is he?”

“We stashed him in one of the sleeping rooms,” Vanna said, hurrying to follow as Rain began moving. Tallheart rumbled deeply, following.

Rain felt anger building in his chest as he stomped through the company hall. The tumbled-down wall and the supplies strewn everywhere weren’t helping, but it was mostly directed at the last remaining member of the Crimson Swords.

Pulling aside the curtain, Rain entered the sleeping-room-turned-cell to find the red-haired mage upside down. He’d been chained to the back wall by his ankles, his head hanging at chest height. His body was restrained by seamless bands of iron, and his hands were dangling below his head, completely encased in metal. His eyes were closed—unconscious, asleep, or pretending, Rain wasn’t sure. The blood had been cleaned from his face, but a ragged patchwork of fresh scabs still marked where Ameliah had injured him.

Rain turned to Tallheart. “Is that enough to stop him from casting?”

Tallheart shook his head. “Not completely. He knows that I will kill him if he tries to escape.”

Rain frowned. And you just strolled out of the camp with me? What if he’d tried something?

“We can’t hold him forever, and we can’t let him go,” Vanna said, glancing at Tallheart. “I convinced Tallheart to wait until you woke up, in case you wanted to interrogate him. I know you’re not going to like hearing this, but—”

Rain held up a hand. “You’re right, Vanna.”

“I am?” Vanna asked, blinking.

Rain nodded slowly. His anger had faded. Now, all he felt was emptiness, like his chest held nothing but a yawning void. This problem wasn’t going to go away. He had to deal with it. It was his responsibility. In that moment, he knew what he would do, and he hated himself for it.

The silence stretched as Rain considered the bound man hanging before him. The Guild would not frown on looting an accolade from a fallen companion, but the penalty for explicit plate-hunting was death, executed by a branch leader like Halgrave or by the Volcano himself. The Watch took an equally hard stance on the matter. As a Custodian, Rain was expected to uphold their philosophy. As far as the Watch was concerned, he was judge, jury, and executioner.

Rain’s mouth had flattened into a hard line. In the fight with Hegar, he’d found himself confronted with the question of killing to save his own life and those of the people he cared about. He’d chosen to kill, and only his inability to follow through on his intent had saved him from taking that last, final step. Now, he faced that choice again, only this time, it was going to be cold. Capital punishment was a complicated topic, but here, in this world, it was simple. There was no prison system. No structure for confinement and rehabilitation.

He would do what needed to be done.

It was just one more problem to be solved.

“Wake up,” Rain said, taking a step closer to the bound mage. He considered reaching out to jostle him but decided against it. There were many defensive spells that wouldn’t be overly affected by his metal bonds. Without armor, coming any closer than this would be stupid. Even being this close was already questionable.

Brovose’s eyes opened. He looked up at Rain, bending his neck to make eye contact. “You are a true enigma, Rain, if that is really your name.”

“You were awake?” Rain asked.

Brovose nodded. “I have slept my whole life, but when I go, I will go with my eyes open.”

“Did you practice that line?” Rain asked.

Brovose smiled but didn’t answer.

Rain shook his head. “You are a plate hunter,” he said. It wasn’t a question.

Brovose tilted his head. “If I denied it, would you believe me?”

“No,” Rain said.

“Then why should I bother talking to you?” Brovose asked. He relaxed his neck, leaving himself to dangle. “This is really quite uncomfortable, I must say,” he said as he swayed slightly. “Hmm. I doubt you’re keeping me alive for the enjoyment of watching me squirm. No, you don’t strike me as that type. I don’t know who you are or where you came from, but it is clear that you are a man who values mercy. I beg you to prove it. Please free me, and I will offer you my services. Allow me to join you. I have skills that would prove beneficial to your company. Failing that, let me go. If you do, I promise that you will never see me again.”

“No way,” Vanna said, laying a hand on Rain’s shoulder. “Rain, you’d better not be considering that.”

Rain shook his head sadly. “Don’t worry, Vanna. I’m not.” Mercy is a luxury of the strong. He looked back at Brovose. “Drop all of your accolades.”

Brovose laughed, the motion making him swing from the chain. “And give you evidence that I am what you have accused me to be? No, I think not. I’m not going to make it easy for you.”

Rain clenched his fists, lamenting his lack of access to the Watch’s lie-detecting ability. He knew the technique was related to the soul, and his linksight gave him an obvious inroad. He’d experimented with it extensively, but he’d never made a breakthrough. In this moment, he wished he’d tried a little harder. He’d gotten nothing from it through this whole conversation, though he’d been focusing on the sense with all of his will.

There would be no cheat. No easy way out. Rain searched his mind, regardless, seeking a solution, but he came up empty. His concerns about mind readers had led him to make Psionics one of the first trees he’d fully unlocked. If there was a skill that would allow lie detection, it was either hidden or above tier three. Ameliah didn’t know, and she’d partially gone through the tree to unlock Message. Besides, she was still unconscious. He couldn’t wait for her to wake, let alone level an entire tree’s worth of skills on the chance that there was something hidden to make this easier for him.

