Stop hesitating. Hesitation is death. Rain shook his head. I know I can’t fight him, so the only one who can watch him is Tallheart, and he’s already been awake for almost two days. He’ll have to sleep eventually. Anyone else that I leave on guard, he could overpower and kill. We don’t have a bullshit handwavey power-suppressing supervillain prison. All we have is metal, and Tallheart just said that isn’t enough. Taking him back to Fel Sadanis isn’t reasonable either. Tallheart and Ameliah would have to escort him together, sleeping in shifts…no. Just no. There’s no way out of this but one.

Brovose sighed, interrupting Rain’s thoughts. “I see little point in this, but…my life is on the line, so…” He clicked his tongue. “Hegar and Anton are dead, and you have their accolades. From this, you concluded that they are plate hunters, and therefore, by association, so am I. Reasonable, but what if I told you that we purchased those accolades at the Radiant Auction? What then? Can you prove that I am lying?”

Rain shook his head. “I can’t.”

“So then, you have a choice,” Brovose said. “Trust me, and set me free, or kill me, and live with the guilt.”

Rain paused, considering. Perhaps there was a way to prove it after all, or at least, to catch Brovose in a lie. He cleared his throat, then spoke in Zeelada, “Greetings of the light.”

“What?” Brovose asked. “Was that Zeelada? Oh, I see. Just because I’ve been to the Auction, it doesn’t mean that I speak their language. We hired a translator, so that proves nothing.”

Rain’s frown deepened. The book said that line is a customary greeting. If he’d been to the City of Lights, he should know it, as well as the response. I don’t care if he had a translator; that’s just the basics, like asking how to find an inn. He looked back at Vanna and Tallheart, who were watching him silently. Tallheart nodded to him, his face hard. Uncompromising. Rain closed his eyes, taking a deep breath. When he opened them, there was not a trace of compassion in his gaze, nor any emotion at all. He couldn’t allow himself to feel. This wasn’t about him.

“Where I come from, the burden of proof lies with the accuser,” he said softly, turning back to face Brovose. “Anyone suspected of committing a crime is innocent until proven guilty, and that is an ideal that I believe to my very core. However, I cannot ignore the threat that you pose to Ascension or to the world.” He shook his head slowly. “I cannot prove that you are a plate hunter, but I also cannot prove that you are not. There are no witnesses available to me for crimes you may have committed in the past. Any trial that I tried to force would be nothing but a sham. A mockery of justice.”

His voice was steady as he continued, dispassionate and cold. “If I release you, I risk the lives of those close to me as well as those of people I have never met. If I kill you, that threat is removed. The death of one man against the possible deaths of dozens, perhaps hundreds, past and future. My moral integrity has no bearing. My guilt has no bearing. This is simple mathematics.”

Inside, some part of Rain was screaming. He closed his eyes, squashing that voice into silence and shoving it back with the memories of his old life. That was where it belonged.

Never again.

Rain gestured. “Tallheart, take him down from the wall and hold him.”

Wordlessly, Tallheart did as asked, lifting Brovose by one of the steel bindings. He unhooked the chain, then flipped him over as if he weighed no more than a mannequin. Brovose didn’t resist the rough treatment, keeping his eyes locked on Rain as he found his footing.

Rain returned his stare, feeling tears threatening to escape from the mask of his face. His voice, though, didn’t waver. “Ascension is not an organization that stands in judgment. It is not as its leader, but by my authority as a Custodian of the Vigilant Order of Watch Keepers that I pass this sentence. Brovose, you have traveled with known plate hunters. I find you complicit in the murders that your group has committed. For this, I condemn you to die. My mercy to you shall be a swift end, and my only regret is that your bindings will prevent me from giving it to you myself.”

Rain closed his eyes, then forced them back open. He would not look away.

“Tallheart, I’m sorry to ask this of you. Do it.”

Tallheart nodded, face solemn as he placed a hand on Brovose’s neck. The mage didn’t resist, but neither did he close his eyes. There was a crunch of shattering bone, and then the body collapsed to the ground. It took a few agonizing seconds before dozens of metal plates appeared surrounding it.

“There they are,” Vanna said, sounding relieved. “For a moment, I thought…” She shook her head. “Anyway, that confirms it, Rain. You made the right choice.”

Rain exhaled slowly. “No.” He said, turning away at last. “I made the only one.”
