There seemed to be more movement on the wall-walks than she’d have expected, but that made some sense. After all, there was a small horde of enemies outside the gates; why not have a larger guard presence, just in case.

She looked up beyond the wall, and saw the expected city defenses, but she also saw something that she didn’t expect. There was an almost blur-like effect on everything beyond the walls. She suspected that if she were to rise straight up, she wouldn’t be able to see anything within the city with accuracy.

They really have stepped up the defenses recently.

Even going a roundabout way, it didn’t take long to come up to the heavily reinforced gatehouse, particular to waning cities.

As she stepped inside, she allowed her through-spike the freedom to function once again. Across from her, she saw that the interior portcullis was down, effectively letting her into a confined space, without access to the city.

They didn’t drop the one behind us, so that’s a good sign. Even so, she pulled the metal back away from her face, as she expected to have to communicate in order to be granted entry.

She was proven right almost immediately as she was greeted by a voice calling from above, the sound coming through the murder hole above, “State your name, advancement, and reason for being here, traveler.”

The tone of the inquiry wasn’t harsh, but it also wasn’t overly polite. It was simply professional, a man doing his job.

Tala almost wanted to mess with them a bit, but she quickly realized that that was a foolish notion.

Instead, she shrugged internally. There was no reason to withhold the information. “Tala, Refined, and to experience a waning city.”

Tala could hear well enough to discern that the obscurement of some sort of magic sound scrambler was enacted, reducing what should have been an easy-to-hear conversation down to a few muttered garbles.

That’s new.

-Or it just wasn’t used when you came through with a caravan.-

Ahh, yeah, that’s fair.

The voice came again. “Are you coming to meet with anyone, or will you be meeting with the local Archon Council regarding the dispensation of your time?”

She blinked in surprise at that, but as she considered, it made sense. An extra Refined would marginally increase the strain on the scripts and magics of the city, thereby speeding up the degradation of the city. That would be offset if she helped out, but they likely wouldn’t be pleased to have her within the walls if she planned on simply kicking her feet up and wasting time.

Even so, having the gate guard ask so blatantly was surprising. Though, she supposed that it was better to be upfront as opposed to circumspect on such important topics.

She smiled up at the source of the voice. “I will be meeting with Master Grediv Gredial, at his convenience. I suspect that I will also be interacting with the council at his behest.”

There were some more obscured conversations, then the inner iron portcullis began to rise. “Thank you for your time, Mistress Tala. Welcome to Alefast.”
