“Poi is in the bathroom, but everyone else went ahead to Nosier’s to get their soul checked out one more time. We can do that, too, now that you’re back, but what did you get?”

“I didn’t get that Ability you have that allows you to see a Particle Spell and copy it into your own Status. I don’t think anyone will ever get that one except for you.”

Erick winced. “Ah. Damn. There goes that easy idea. But hey! That means that no one else can copy what I put out there. Did you see that part in the notification about making new Class Abilities? I think a trip to the Orrery is in order!”

Kiri paused. “Uh. No. I did not get that notification.” Astounded, she asked, “Can you do that?” She rapidly answered, “I mean. Yeah! Of course you can. People invent Classes and Abilities all the time— Or at least they used to do that. Centuries ago! A thousand years ago, actually. That was part of my Magical History Class. I had forgotten about that.” She asked, “What were you thinking?”

“I don’t want to say it out loud before I invent the thing, but I’m pretty sure of at least one Ability that was missing from my list. Maybe more.” He said, “I checked out my own Status and Abilities while you were out and didn’t see much more than what I already had. Nothing of note, anyway. Particle Reinforcement and Particle Power seemed nice, but I’m not changing anything right now.” He eyed her. “So what did you actually get?”

Kiri pretended at difficulty and obstinance, but she could not keep the smile off her face, as she sent, ‘Double Mana. Double Mana Regen. 10% All Spell Cost Reduction. Particle Reinforcement. Particle Power. Light Dedication. Fire Savant. Sculpt Spell. Particle Spell Creation. And one more I can’t really talk about.’ She spoke aloud, “I’ve got to do all of the Quests for all of them, and that might take a while, but that doesn’t matter, because I finally got it!” She held up both of her hands, showing that she was only wearing one of her rings. “I had to take off your rings or else they’d have gotten absorbed, but I’m going to remake my own temporary ones for those Mana Quests as soon as I can.”

“I’m happy for you, Kiri.” He stood up, saying, “So if you can’t copy my Basic spells like I copied yours, then we’re going to have to do the ritual. [Call Lightning] is waiting for you! And then we can plan the trip to the Old Dragonkin ruins out in the Forest.”

Kiri was practically glowing, but then she dimmed. “Yeah. And I do want to go…” She breathed. She said, “But Silverite wants me back in Spur. They’re having monster problems at night and the archmages of Spur are getting angry that they have to take care of everything. Is that…” She asked, “Is that okay?”

Ah. Damn. That was disappointing.

“Well. If that’s what you want?” Erick decided, “Sure. Yeah. You can go back to Spur and help them— Wait a second. Does she need me back there?” Erick found himself with sudden questions, asking, “How did this happen? Is she ordering you to go back? I haven’t had Ophiel on many patrols in a while except to recast [Control Weather], but I was never asked to keep them around the city— Poi would have said something!” And then he looked to Kiri, and ignored his own questions to focus on his apprentice. As he had spoken, she had turned from joyful to miserable-but-hiding-it. She had likely been shoved into an awkward spot by Silverite’s request, too. But the Mayor’s request was also an opportunity, wasn’t it? Erick said, “Sorry. I don’t want to influence your decision. But...” He had expected Kiri to go all the way on his Worldly Path, because… “It’s easier to protect you when you’re near me, Kiri, and I like having you around. But. If you’re not near me, then you might not be in as much danger. Is this what you want? To go back to Spur? If Silverite is actually asking for you, directly, then this is an opportunity, yes?” He rapidly added, “I will go to bat for you if you don’t want to go back. I can field problems in Spur while we’re out in the field.”

“No. No. Thank you. But…” Kiri smiled softly, then she relaxed, as she said, “Silverite caught me in the hallway outside of Irogh’s office and asked me what I wanted in order to come back to Spur, to protect the city at night. They’re having monster troubles as the Dead City shifts into a new equilibrium. I asked for a promotion, some tax credits, and a path to power. She met my offer, so it’s the smart thing to accept her request. She specifically said that she doesn’t want you to come back yet.”

But why wouldn’t she want him back in Spur, if the city was in dange—

Ah… There was a simple answer to this question.

Not many knew what the Worldly Path meant, but Silverite would have known. Why hadn’t she told him what it meant, then? Maybe… She was probably keeping her interactions with him to an absolute minimum.

But she still had a city to protect, and because of that, she was poaching his apprentice.

Eh.

Kiri was probably safer in Spur, anyway.

“That’s fine, Kiri.” Erick said, “I’m glad for you. You’re still going to stay at the house, right?”

“Of course!” Kiri said, “And I don’t have to be back till dark, anyway.”

Erick smiled. “And now you have an excuse not to go with us to the Core.”

Kiri gave a nervous laugh, then asked, “You’re not actually going there? I thought that was a joke?”

“Not a joke.” Erick said, “We’re going to the Core, ya know, eventually.”

“Then I’m glad to have gotten out while I could!”

Erick laughed. And then he settled, with a sigh. “I’ll miss you on the rest of this Worldly Path. I don’t know how long it will take.”

Kiri said, “I’m absolutely sure that if you need me, I will be able to get away from Silverite, and Spur. I will be there whenever you call.”

“I’ll call you if I need you, but I’ll try not to call.” Erick decided, “You should work on a Domain while you’re at Spur. In fact, that’s your homework. Make a good Domain by the time I come back. Whenever that might be.”

Kiri paled, a bit. “Uh. I don’t even know where to start.”

“What were you going to work on, then?” Erick said, “Actually. Let’s you and I spend the next few hours going over whatever Particle Questions you might have, and then we can work on getting you [Call Lightning]. We don’t have to show up for the soul checkup at any set time, and your soul already looks normal enough.”

And it did. Kiri’s soul was a bright green roil of light and life just below her scales; her Shroud an ethereal existence of stabilized fire.

Kiri brightened. With a quiet joy in her voice, she said, “Absolutely. Let’s do that.”

“Jane and Teressa are out, but where is Poi… Oh.” Erick called out, “Hey, Poi! You didn’t fall in, did you?”

Beyond the closed door to the bathroom, Poi grumbled.

- - - -

The orange sands of the Crystal Forest lined the horizon like ocean waves at sunset. But this was the middle of the day, and the sky was perfectly blue. Cloudless, and getting hotter by the minute. Warm winds blew from the north. If one were much, much further north, they would feel those winds coming down from the Wyrmridge Mountains like cold rivers, but out here, those mountains were far out of sight, and the winds were like a warming ocean, sweeping across the land.

Heavy with moisture but devoid of clouds and rain for a variety of reasons, one of which were the invisible Cloud Giant cities that strolled the Crystal Forest, stray air flows kicked off of tall dunes, sending itself spinning as it curled sand into the sky, creating minor dust devils. A few of those dust devils might have been air or sand elementals. A few were moisture elementals, which were almost like water elementals, but lesser.

Here and there under the moving oceans of wind, sat crystalline monsters, pretending at being plants but failing miserably. The agave that those monsters pretended to be did not grow this far north, for the winds of the Water Season were upon the land, and the monsters here had to hold onto the ground and readjust their positions all the time. Their meters-long crystalline leaves chimed against each other, but the wind was not strong enough to break them. The wind was strong enough to break the land bit by bit, moving the ocean of sand, which, in turn, would have broken any true Crystal Agave, which was why there were no agave this far north; they’d get buried under such a breaking force.

Another breaking force appeared in a flash of white light; three people.

Less than a second later, more light flashed, green and white, and the people were suddenly surrounded by flapping not-birds and undulating not-couatls. There was a man dressed in robes of brown and tan, who was not as young as he appeared to be. Another was a young woman with green scales, dressed in greens to match those scales. The third was just there to watch; he held a magic rod in his hand. He was prepared for success, and also failure.

A few small words of encouragement carried away on the wind.

Both men stepped away.

The young woman stepped forward.

She stood under the heavy sky, alone, and yet not. She flickered with green light as her emerald eyes scanned the blue above. She had the words. She had the understanding. The sky held the promise of rain, just as it had in all Water Seasons of the past. Usually, this promise was broken because the land itself had been broken by millennia old monsters and magics. But today...

Today, the young woman just needed to find her voice. She needed to bridge a gap in the natural order.

She needed magic.

Magic came upon her like a friendly stranger.

Mana flowed across the land. She could feel it now, and it could feel her. She was but a pinprick of light in the brilliance of the day, while the friendly stranger was an entire world of possibility. A brush of foreign power that was at once both odd and familiar, touched upon the young girl, as if asking if this was correct. As if asking for permission.

As if asking for a promise.

The young woman had done much with magic, but never before had she felt the mana as she had that day. Maybe it had been like this, a bit, when she called her [Familiar] from the mana, or when she had seen that mage wrap that wyrm in fire, all those years ago, or when she had done this very same thing on much smaller scales in order to make her own smaller magics. She realized, now, that what she felt in this moment was the same thing she saw, as though from a distance, every time she saw her mentor create a new spell. He would not have flinched at the power she had prepared to call, for that power was ready to answer.

The force of that answer was frightening.

The young woman’s voice cracked on her very first word.

The mana roiled—

The woman laughed at her mistake; nervous and yet even more determined than ever. She tried again, her voice growing strong as she spoke to the sky in words that could never convey the entirety of her thoughts.

But she could convey her feelings.

In this case, those feelings were directed up and out, but also at a spire of stone in the distance.

“From ground to sky, and cloud to mount, from flash we mouth a subtle count!

“A strike of three from there to thee, marks the end of ancient trees.

“From ground to sky, and cloud to mount, from flash we mouth a subtle count.

“From high to low be now call’t, in this place, a [Lightning Bolt]!”

They were old words, spoken almost a year ago over a dinner between new friends. To those new and now old friends, they had been the words of a man who didn’t know how magic worked. To the man who had spoken them, those words were filled with ideas of electrons and charge differentials and the rubbing of moisture against moisture in systems so vast that no one person could ever hope to comprehend or control the whole; so he asked magic to fill the gaps.

The young woman had done the same, on this day, but she had the benefit of established magic helping her along.

As the original caster looked on with a dozen different viewpoints, preparing to intercede should something horrific happen, he watched as his apprentice recreated his first magic. He smiled, even before the magic took hold, for he saw the world respond to his apprentice, and it was good.

The sky shifted, but barely. Even if you were watching, you might have missed the wispy white brushstrokes of clouds that painted a part of the sky to something other than blue. The mentor noticed, but then he noticed something else: the shadow produced by that cloud.

That shallow darkness seemed a living thing. It was expected. It was there. It did not interfere.

Eyes turned fully to the sky.

The sky charged.

A brilliant bolt of green-white lightning flashed across the blue, to strike the distant spire.

The young woman collapsed, bleeding from her eyes, her ears, and her nose. She coughed up blood as she was tapped with a glowing rod. Her world was pain, but her mentor held her in his arms and told her everything was going to be okay. He listed her internal injuries to her; they were mostly burst blood vessels caused by something he didn’t quite understand, but the rod’s magic was already mending her body. He did not mention that her soul was slightly damaged, but that too, looked to be minor. She smiled, weakly. Then she held out a familiar blue box.

Erick smiled, overjoyed for his apprentice. “Good job, Kiri. I knew you could do it.”

Kiri groaned and laughed at the same time. Blood trickled from her mouth. A [Cleanse] cleaned up the blood, and her laugh turned pure for two moments. Then she groaned again. She tried to sit up, but only managed to collapse back into Erick’s arms.

Kiri closed her eyes, and said, “I feel like I got run over by a wyrm.”

“I was out of it for a while, too.” Erick said, “I only had access to [Treat Wounds] but you have [Greater Treat Wounds]. You should get better faster than it took me.”

Poi spoke up, “Congratulations, Specialist Kiri.”

Kiri opened her eyes, and said, “Thank you.” She leaned up, trying to stand. Erick helped her to her feet, then held her upright when she almost wobbled back to the ground. She breathed out, “Ohh... That’s an uncomfortable rush.”

