"There you are. There you truly are." The Culturist spoke these words proudly. He brought up a large, bone-coated thumb and rubbed it along Shiv’s exposed cheek. It was only then that Shiv realized he had been weeping all this time. The Culturist took hold of Shiv then and gently pulled him into an embrace. He placed Adam's head in the air beside Shiv and hummed. "Do you have any idea how jealous of you I am right now? How much of Valor I see in you?”

A delirious sensation took hold inside Shiv. Just a second ago, they were fighting, and Shiv was embroiled in the greatest rage he'd ever felt. And now the Legendary orc was confessing his envy.

"For a moment, I was almost disappointed. I thought Failure had chosen wrong, but it hadn't. It had seen something in you. I see that too—that thing, that full personhood coded around so much potential, the true Pathbearer you might be able to become." And then the Culturist sighed. "A flame that I will never grasp, for my shape is wrong. I am wrongly made.”

The Culturist pulled away slightly and stared at Shiv with an unreadable expression. The Deathless was trapped between revulsion and disbelief.

“I hurt you deeply when I butchered your friend, didn’t I?” the Culturist breathed. “I wish I could say I am sorry. But I am not. It would be a lie. I wish it wasn’t. I wish I understood how wounded you are. But that is missing from me. I am blind to certain colors. And I detest it. I detest how you can truly weep. How you truly love. I only felt a divine pleasure when you howled your anguish, and then a fullness, like tasting a great meal. Yet, I am already empty again. My stomach is a void. No longer do I dominate, for you have chosen to starve me of conflict. For you chose peace against someone who harmed you so brutally, so deeply—and chose it so quickly.”

“Not peace,” Shiv rasped, unable to keep the raw hate from turning his throat hoarse. “Just control. I know… I know I can’t kill you with my hands. So I want to find another way. So I will find another way. But not without being stronger than myself first.”

The Culturist let out a grandfatherly laugh. “And so my jealousy grows greater. For what orc can ever be stronger than himself? What few of us can even glimpse the barest edges of what it means to be a Legend? And there we reside. There, and no further. Only one stands far beyond the rest of us, and so we suffer for his bottomless avarice, his urge to make us half-shaped tools.”

The Challenger watches in satisfied amusement.

A heavy presence descended upon both of them. The Challenger’s breath rolled through the plane of darkness like a whirlwind, stripping the sky bare of clouds, leaving everything a bare canvas of hollow, cold whiteness.

“And so you meet my most troubled creation, my Bruiser. He is so frustrated with what he is. So hateful of what I am. So miserable and bitter about his own existence that he strives and wars and defies his own shape, his designed purpose. As if there is any grander freedom in vulnerability. As if individuality will offer some greater gnosis into godhood and my eventual usurpation.”

While the Challenger spoke, the Culturist turned away, and his expression went from one of philosophical lament to something of naked loathing. His face twitched, and the flame within the Legendary orc’s core churned and boiled, until it too was an inferno—something that matched the sheer intensity raging within Shiv’s breast. Then, they were two of a kind: the Deathless who despised the Culturist for his casual atrocity, and the Culturist, who refused to even acknowledge the existence of his own creator.

“And what a beautifully miserable moment of strife. He tells himself that it is his nature that damns him to do such things, to hurt you, Bruiser. But I do not think so. After all, it is only an urge I put into place, and a resilience against despair besides, I have given unto my orcs. He could have chosen to fast longer. He could have chosen to starve. There is nothing I would have done if he simply died and returned and died again, eschewing brutality to seek that supposed enlightenment he thinks is only reachable by the like of a ‘whole’ individual.”

“There is a point where it’s too much,” the Culturist whispered. He met Shiv's eyes once more. “What I have done to you revealed that your humanity is more than myth. That you can return from pain and be a person once more. But the tale of myself dies when the itch grows too strong. I wanted to rip into him since I arrived and began to watch. I held myself back for so long—and I faltered eventually. I lost hold of myself and didn’t return until I was slaked. There is no choice without self. And there is no self when I suffer the itch. But there was a flicker of you beyond the crystallizations of mana that form your skills, that define your Legend.”

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: We both want to be more. But he hates that he can’t. The Challenger, meanwhile, finds this layered pain delicious.

More than hate, however, there was a chain of fear leading away from the Culturist upward, toward a place unseen, to a realm beyond.

And maybe he fears the truth that he can resist his urge. That he is just weak at the very core. Maybe he is just blaming the Challenger. But Shiv knew it was just as likely the god was mocking his own creation—a perverse game of dominance all the way down.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: No one gets out. Perhaps not even the Challenger, by his own design. But what can be said about a creature that locks himself within a cage of his own making and calls that divinity?

Godhood, maybe, Shiv replied to himself. And that answer left a vile taste.

Philosophy 41 > 46

"I have intruded on this moment enough." The Challenger chuckled. "I return you to one another’s company. Enjoy your moment, and do remember to make things interesting."

As the Challenger's divine presence faded, as the world went from white to dark once more, the weight of his words lingered while Shiv and the Culturist faced each other in the aftermath.

"Is he still alive?" Shiv struggled to keep any hint of emotion out of his throat. The orc stared at him for a moment, and then released him, gliding away on wings of darkness—wings that crawled and spread out like the limbs of an insect piercing into the thin membrane of reality.
