Erick retreated back to human form to catch his breath as he hovered, unmoving, staring at the orcol archlich. He stared a bit harder. And then he dismissed the dark blot of void which was now fifty meters back the way they had come; Erick had moved rather far from where he had cast that spell. Quilatalap had, too.

“What the FUCK,” Erick said, unsure of what else to say.

“You’re in danger.” Quilatalap said, “So here I am. A neutral party.”

“… Great.”

- - - -

Erick strode through the sky, walking down airy paths, beside crystalline towers. A bright lake glowed far ahead, but much closer than five minutes ago. With a few more steps, he finished his thirty kilometer descent, to arrive in a place that was practically the Underworld, but was still exposed to the sky. Bright waters stretched off past the horizon, where another land of crystal towers reached all the way back up to the sky. But where Erick was right now, the Brightwater Expanse flowed back the way he had come, the glowing waters flowing around thick crystal towers, and adding a whole new depth to the waters that Erick hadn’t expected. He looked down into those waters for a moment, and saw merpeople and frog people shadelings down below the waves, living their afterlives, he supposed.

Raising his head, and looking east, Erick wouldn’t have been surprised if the glowing waters of Brightwater Expanse continued all the way to the pink curtain wall around this whole place.

Turning back to the lake, Erick regarded the dark sun above the center of it all. It was an eclipse; black in substance, yet radiant on the edges.

… This whole place was rather bright. Erick almost considered sunglasses, but he could see just fine if he used his lightform, or sunform, to see. His human eyes, though, were very taxed by the brightness.

His current companion seemed to have no visible troubles with the light.

Ha! ‘Visible troubles’.

… Erick was fine. He wasn’t losing it. He was just in the ‘gallows humor’ stage of panicking. This was fine. This was fine. This was fine. Quilatalap was fine. Quilatalap was of normal orcol stock, with thick black armor, and a large grin. He stared out into the lake alongside Erick. He didn’t look like a lich, but he was, apparently.

Erick had remembered a bit more about liches since his current introduction to the concept. Jane had spoken of ‘undead necromantic spell casters’ more than a few times when she was growing up. Hearing the term ‘lich’ had knocked loose some other, more recent memories. Liches were the undead mages who ruled the Fractured Citadels in Central Quintlan, weren’t they? Weren’t they supposed to look like corpses? The zombies and undead Erick had seen all looked like corpses in varying states of decay.

Erick asked, “Are you related to the Fractured Citadels in Quintlan?”

“The better question, is how are they related to me.” Quilatalap said, “And to answer that one, I would need to regale you of my family tree. Do you want to hear that?”

“Not at this moment.” Erick said, “But like… Sons and daughters?”

“Adopted children who then go out to make more of themselves. I’m just a teacher for the more promising ones. Or when one of them begs me to teach an outcast, or something.” He added, “It happens more often than you might think.”

Erick admitted, “I have never truly considered necromancy, before, so right now, all of my thoughts are on the subject. I’m thinking that ‘as often as I might think’ is every other month.”

Quilatalap smirked. “Oh?”

Erick brushed away those thoughts, and changed the subject, “How does Rozeta not smack you down? The Shades get sanctions, don’t they? What is the difference?”

Quilatalap breathed in deep, expanding his massive chest, lifting his humongous shoulders and huge arms and—

And stop that, Erick.

Quilatalap said, “All Shades are removed from the Script only because them having power gives Melemizargo power. They’re the only exception to the rule that ‘all magic is controlled by the Script’, because Shades are tied so directly to the Dark Dragon.” Quilatalap said, “I’m just a Soul Mage, by comparison. I’ve never had their particular qualms regarding a lot of their particular problems with the world.”

Erick studied the orcol for a moment, for purely non-sexual reasons. “You don’t care about the Shades’ problems with the Script?”

“I care, but… I was born in a small village on the original Veird, 1600 years before the Sundering, and a good 6000 kilometers below the current surface of this world. I was there when they laid the Script. I even helped.” He smiled at the waters ahead, saying, “Back then, Melemizargo was just the God of Magic. And now, he’s a constrained god. I’ve always held out hope that he could get better, and it seems that he might.” He shrugged. “But you are right about me not caring as much about the Script versus ‘free magic’ that the Shades have always worked toward. I’ve always held myself apart from their True Faith, for I have always worshiped three Gods, and the other two are just as big a part of my life as Melemizargo.”

The man seemed a bit sad. A bit approachable.

Erick wasn’t going to fall into that trap.

But at the same time… Who was Erick, if he stopped believing in people. Here was a man, who was not a Shade—

“Can you show me a Script box?” Erick asked.

The man laughed. “Sure.” He looked to the air, read, and tilted his head a little as if debating which apple on a tree was ripe for picking. After deliberation, he plucked a blue box from the air, and handed it to Erick. Erick read, and his eyes went wide.

Greater Phylactery, special cast time, super long range, 100,000 mana + special costs

Using the right materials, create a soul vessel of your choosing that will automatically capture your soul upon your death and recreate your body in whatever state you wish your body to be. You may have 5 Greater Phylacteries at any one time. When you die, you can choose which Greater Phylactery where you are reborn.

Erick had very little idea of what to make of the blue box sitting in his hands, but he put it away and pulled it out again; it was a real Script spell. He was holding in his hands a real spell, that allowed real resurrections. So what did that mean?

He asked, “What about Phagar?”

“People often confuse Phagar for the God of Death, and no one in his clergy or even he himself does much to dissuade this notion. But he has always been the God of the End. He doesn’t drag you to death; he’s not that kind of God, and long ago I chose to choose my own End.” Quilatalap said, “Phagar is one of the gods I worship.”

“… Who are the other two?”

“Melemizargo, of course. But also Koyabez.”

“… I almost believe that, but peace has a limit.” He added, “Besides, Koyabez works to kill errant angels, demons, and undead, doesn’t he?”

“I juggle three gods, Erick.” Quilatalap said, “And my faith is much, much older than the Quiet War. Besides that, I don’t like killing. The days I kill someone are days when there is no other choice.”

Erick just looked at the man; confused.

Quilatalap noticed. “What?”

“The Armory! Killing people who invade! Allowing people to leave with artifacts that kill and destroy the balance of the world! What the fuck!”

“Ah?” Quilatalap stood straighter. “I would have thought Fallopolis would have said, but those people who cleared the hard-mode trial today? They’re people from the Wasteland, who were looking for items to kill the Converter Angel. They got them. You’ll likely hear from those people later, and during the Feast, when they’re invited into the party.” He said, “I have a whole lot of images from all the other groups that won this year, who then went on to avenge the murders of their parents, or kill the people who killed their loved ones… There’s a whole lot of that, actually. The ones that failed the trials were those people who wanted to commit more murders, or who wanted to use their power to raze a city.”

Erick looked at the armored orcol. He narrowed his eyes. “Are you saying you orchestrate who wins whatever it is they win?”

“Absolutely not; I am not saying that.”

There was an inflection to his voice in the middle of his response; barely noticeable, but still there.

If this was Erick’s only problem of the day, he might have pursued that conversation to its end. But another one of the day’s problems was rapidly approaching from above, and behind.

“Yoo-hoo!” Fallopolis called out, as she stepped down toward Erick and Quilatalap, saying, “You waited for me! How nice!” She came up beside Erick, saying, “Did you two have a nice little talk? Well! Just in case you didn’t:” She moved from one of them to the other, saying, “Like any proper immortal, Erick here likes guys and gals, and I think he has a particular raised-bridge for fine, fit, orcols. While our resident archlich here likes anyone who can hold a conversation and is capable of giving informed consent.” She looked to Erick and did a great job of fake-whispering, saying, “He’s into you. Go for it!” And now speaking, “After our own time is at an end, and we arrive together at the Palace, of course.” She started walking ahead, and when Erick stood stunned, not following, she added, “Come on, Erick! I want more than just a cupcake! You gotta tell me what’s good.”

Erick had no idea how he accomplished such a feat in view of all the revelations all around him, but he loosened his legs and began walking south, following Fallopolis. The crystal towers of the Spire rose like sheer mountains on his left; shadowed and rainbow due to the Brightwater Expanse that glowed to his right, under a black sun.

Quilatalap followed, soon catching up, for Fallopolis did not walk fast; they were close to their destination.

- - - -

In a few steps, the space where crystal towers vanished down into the Brightwater Expanse became less like towers sticking out of the glowing water, and more like towers broken and laid on their sides. Those broken crystals quickly turned into beaches, where stone crusted over the crystal, the light wasn’t quite as bright, and green trees grew along the banks. In the distance, to the south east, the crystal towers formed a thirty-kilometer tall wall that reached up into the sky, while houses dotted hills and smaller mountains scattered here and there, and the glows of crystals were locked away under normal-looking rock, dirt, and sand. Trees grew in this place, while roads connected houses to houses, and to markets. People walked under those trees, as they shopped at food stalls and ate at restaurants and seemed to be living normal lives.

Erick walked atop the white sands of the beach, his footfalls stepping onto the light, his conjured boots never sinking into the soft sands. Quilatalap, a step to Erick’s left, and further up the beach, walked the same, though Erick saw no change in the sands to indicate a [Stone Body], like Ava, or the flashes of light that showed under Erick’s steps. Maybe he just weighed nothing in all that dark armor? Who knew.

Fallopolis was barefoot and skipping along in the shallow surf, kicking sand with each step, and sinking in when she felt like it. By all outward appearances she was thoroughly enjoying herself. She wasn’t the only one. The waters of the glowing lake lapped at the beach, while children played in the waters and parents watched. A young man whispered to a young woman, under a tall tree, both of them with eyes only for themselves. A woman on the boardwalk beyond the beach argued with a man over something quiet, while the woman changed the diaper of a baby. Only some of them were shadelings.

All of them noticed either Fallopolis, or Quilatalap, and though some paid attention to Erick and Ophiel, all eyes eventually turned to the Shade or the lich. There were a few silent stares, a few open prayers. Some bowed. Some kowtowed. Neither Fallopolis nor Quilatalap did anything to acknowledge the attention.

After a fifteen minute hike on the beach, and seeing a dozen different little communities on the shores and up the hills to the south, Erick saw the end of this beach up ahead, where sands gave way to crystal. No one had said anything about the community to the left, yet, and Erick couldn’t take it anymore.

He said, “I thought you all were incapable of society.”

“That’s a harsh thing to say,” Fallopolis merrily chided.

“It’s a true thing to say.” Quilatalap said, “Historically, to be a Shade is to be a beacon of civilization, and some of the old demands of their station are hardwired into their souls. What you saw there in the Spire, and what you see here in the Platinum Market, and what you will see all around in the Brightwater District? These are the true natures of the Shades. What you see out in Kendrithyst, and elsewhere? The horrors and the murders? Those are Shades mutated by Melemizargo’s insanity. For a very long time, there was more insanity than true purpose.” He spoke to Fallopolis, “So while it was a harsh thing to say, it was true.”

“Which is why I try to get every Shade as dead as I can get them,” Fallopolis said. “The sooner they die, the sooner that Melemizargo can appoint those who would be true to the purpose of the Shades.”

Quilatalap hummed a tiny disapproval, but said nothing else.

Erick returned to watching the world around him, to hearing the waves, to smelling the air. This place smelled good; like a freshwater lake and civilization. But metaphorically, something smelled rotten. Erick looked to the people at the beach, and in the city beyond; he had a good eye on the place, with his Ophiels floating in the air behind and above. Seeing the people here reminded him a lot of the people of Candlepoint, but surely a place like this would have been known to the outside world, right? Unless it happened in the last year?

But even then, Killzone or someone would have told Erick about a place in Ar’Kendrithyst that seemed like it held a true civilization. Silverite would have said. Someone would have spilled this secret, here, well before now.

What about the orcols that came to the Spire and got cleansed of their shadeling Status? Did they see the people in the crystal towers around the Spire? Did they see the workers in the Spire itself?

Maybe they did see all of this, and those memories were wiped from them?

“Was this place like this, last year?” Erick asked.

Quilatalap said, “Yup.”

Fallopolis said, “The population moves around. The Platinum Market is more of a vacation area than the other parts of Brightwater.”

Hmm.

Erick asked, “Why is this place called the Platinum Market? Killzone’s map named it as a ‘market’, too.”

