Pi Pa found herself at the southern fence again.

Their morning walk always took them to this location, where Bi De and the others had departed from. Her dear friends indulged her, and they stood together there in the morning, waiting for any news.

None had come for nearly the past two weeks. Pi Pa, with her mind full of the last battle she had been a part of, could not help but worry for everyone… but that worry was blunted by a simple fact.

Her dear was not. Chun Ke was a pillar of calm, as always, and was quite sure everyone was both fine and well; and really, that made all the difference.

So instead of standing there and fretting, Pi Pa found herself closing her eyes and listening to the sound of the birds and insects, the river and the wind. She smelled the sweet scent of growth, and felt at peace.

It was nice to have a moment of rest and quiet as well. With everyone gone, it should have been quiet and slow, but Young Sir Bowu was testing out a new steam furnace design and the drop hammer was thundering away at all hours. And when it wasn’t pounding something into shape, he was off with her Dear, travelling to Hong Yaowu or overseeing the workshop in Verdant Hill—with his ultimate goal to make a one-person cart so he wouldn’t have to continuously bother people into carrying him around, not that anybody really minded.

Additionally, they had had quite a few guests, both from Hong Yaowu and Smoky River. There was always somebody coming and going most days, dropping things off… or just coming to visit and have tea. Ty An was a regular fixture, as was Lady Nezuhua and one fox or another, who were delightful conversation partners. Lady Nezuhua was effortlessly elegant while they drank their tea together, and it was wonderful to see how much the foxes had changed already. Their tense shoulders had relaxed, the sharp eyes that regarded every shadow with suspicion ceased to be so narrow.

They did however, still look out of diligence. And part of that look was always a small confirmation at the beginning of their tea parties that everyone was still all right. They were not particularly worried for Yun Ren; to them, their Young Master was a peerless hero who had infiltrated the Shrouded Mountain Sect and struck it low from within. They were rather certain he would be relatively fine… but they were worried about what he was fighting. There were at least a couple of foxes on “hunting expeditions" south of Fa Ram helping to look for any signs of hornets… and so far they had found none.

Nobody had. Not even Chun Ke’s friends, the birds and beasts who came from the south.

So their morning ritual was just that. A time to relax, before attending to the few chores, then having tea or watching Miantiao work on his glass and copper pots while Pi Pa did some embroidery.

It truly was a wonderful life, even with the uncertainty, and she tried to enjoy herself as best she could.

Pi Pa took one last breath and turned, ready to begin divvying out chores for the day, when she heard it.

A low humming buzz, getting louder.

Everybody was instantly on guard when they heard the sound of droning wings. Bowu tensed, ready to run, while the others subtly readied themselves for combat, the tension ratcheting up as the sound continued… until they saw what was making the noise.

A bee.

A bee, who was flying fast, but was clearly uninjured. When it spied them, it did a triumphant loop in the air and continued toward them with bounding flourishes.

Pi Pa pressed her hand to her chest. It seemed everything was indeed well.

The bee landed before them on the fence and wiggled its tiny behind.

“It is good to see you too, Swift Wings,” her dear rumbled. “Welcome home.”

The bee preened… and then she paused before wiggling again happily. Her eyes seemed to brighten and she changed. Swift Wings slowly rose to stand on her two back legs, clasped both sets of forelimbs like a lady clasped her hands, and the bee suddenly seemed to be fretting.

Then she spoke. Actually spoke, her voice coming out distorted, like it was coming from far away.

“There’s no pain, is there darling? Oh, that's grand! When that thing used this technique it looked like it was quite painful! But of course, that worthless thing could not use this technique as well as I, ohohohohohohohoho~” The bee raised its front legs to just under her head while she tilted backwards.

Pi Pa stared in shock. Was that Vajra’s voice?

Then the bee suddenly paused. “-hoho—Oh? I’m already through?! Why didn’t you wait—yes, putting me through instantly is best for combat missions, but a lady needs some time to prepare, one needs presentation—” The voice cut herself off and recomposed herself. “Ahem! Servants of his Imperial Majesty, listen well! Rejoice and give thanks, for Vajra, Booze Master, Empress of the Forests, servant of His Majesty, brings the blessed news of victory! The enemy lies broken and slain in the field, their corpses beyond counting! Their bodies now serve as food for the beasts of the forests, and their blood waters the roots of the trees.

The Emperor himself took to the field to break this rebellion. His virtue matches Heaven and Earth, and his might shakes the four seas! Our heroes who traveled with him were unstoppable paragons, and their merits, many. Know this, feast, and rejoice!”

The bee leaned back, raised its arms, and shouted, “Praise the Emperor!”

“Praise the Emperor!” Bowu agreed, looking entirely too amused. Her dear and Maintiao did it too, the snake smirking at the title, and the bee preened even more. Pi Pa sighed, both at the silliness and with relief. The last feelings of tension bled out completely.

“That is wonderful news, Vajra. Thank you for telling us,” Pi Pa said, curtseying. The bee bowed back. “And you, are you well? And does Swift Wings need anything to drink?”

“Friend Vajra can speak now!” Chun Ke said, beaming.

The bee wiggled happily. “Ah, yes, thank you, Duke Chun Ke, Steward Pi Pa, some water would not go amiss for my swiftest scout! And yes, I can communicate, for this Vajra has achieved human form and surpassed all limits! When I focus on a single scout, my range has to be a hundredfold of what it was before,” she boasted.

Her dear and Bowu clapped politely at the news. ‘Congratulationsssss,’ Miantiao hissed, his lone eye staring at her with respect.

“Ha! It was only natural that it happened!” the bee continued, and her forelimbs moved like she had just flicked a long mane of hair behind her. Pi Pa took out her canteen and poured some water for the little one into the cap. “Ah, my thanks, Steward.”

“You’re both welcome. It brings our hearts much joy to know all is well. When might you be coming home—and what would you like to eat? It is only right that the conquering heroes return to a feast.”

At this, the bee froze, and suddenly seemed a bit shifty. “Ah… unfortunately there is a matter that needs my attention in this forest, and the duty was commanded to me by the Emperor. It will be at least several months before this one can return…”

“Oh heavens! Truly, the Master commanded such a thing? Are you well?” Pi Pa asked, shocked.

“Indeed, I have been charged with a grand task, and I am needed in the reconstruction efforts. Additionally, I must consolidate my new holdings in the name of our lord! I was newly styled Empress of the Forest—and have duties to this end!”

Pi Pa had the very distinct feeling that this was certainly not the whole picture. Her eyes narrowed.

“Well then, we shall naturally have to take the feast to you,” she said, smiling.

“Wonderful! Truly, you are worthy to hold the position of steward!” the bee declared, before abruptly changing the subject. “In the meantime, many of mine hive shall be returning to take up their blessed duty of guarding our home and tending to the flowers. They bring with them the honoured dead, and we would be most grateful if you would witness them being laid to rest.”

Pi Pa didn’t push at the evasiveness, and instead bowed her head at the mention of deaths. “Of course, Vajra. Do you need us to prepare any seeds?”

“Nay! They are already honoured a hundred times over with seeds chosen personally for them by His Majesty! Though we would request a plot near the southern Great Wall—so their spirits may forever guard the southern gates.”

“Everything will be prepared,” Pi Pa promised, already looking around for the perfect spot. A cooler, yet still sunny spot, and one they could see from the house… yes, a flower garden would be perfect right there.

“Excellent, Steward! I shall leave it in your capable hands! Now, unfortunately, I must away! Duty calls!” the bee, once standing tall, suddenly slumped back to its natural position.

“Huh, so she really does talk like that. I thought it was just a translation issue, Big Bro,” Bowu said with some amusement.

“Chun Ke translates well!” her dear said with mock offense.

“I do wonder what she was hiding, though…” Pi Pa mused. “Master doesn’t casually order people to stay away from home.”

Her dear turned to Swift Wings and beamed. The bee looked just a bit disoriented.

“Little friend, is your mother truly well? We are worried for her,” Chun Ke said, a finger stroking the bee’s fuzzy head. The little creature preened into the touch… and then her rear began to wiggle.

Chun Ke blinked. “Got tricked by an old bear, stuck in Ash Forest?” he asked. Everyone exchanged glances at that. It sounded… well, not to disparage Vajra, it sounded plausible, the silly girl, constantly passing out in the bath… the bee suddenly seemed to realise what she had said and wiggled harder. Chun Ke chuckled. “Don’t worry, we did not hear from you. Thank you for telling, so we can help Vajra.”

He gave the bee an exaggerated wink. The bee, somehow, beamed up at him. “Now let's have some maple syrup.”

And so they did; they went and had some maple syrup with Swift Wings, and then Pi Pa got to work.

News disseminated swiftly. First to Hong Yaowu, where Chief Xian let out a noise of relief that things were once more handled swiftly. Then to Smoky River, where Lady Nezuhua announced it to the whole village. The foxes' tails, or at least those who had real tails, puffed up with pride.

“That’s our Young Master!” they declared… and then promptly started to celebrate. A celebration that soon spilled back into Hong Yaowu, who were a bit confused by the impromptu party, but in the slow days of summer… there was always time for a bit of slacking.

Pi Pa watched it all with amusement—and that night, when she slipped into bed beside her dear… she drifted into the most peaceful sleep she had had in a while.

===========

In the morning, a flight of bees arrived, carrying little, leaf-wrapped bundles. They found the soil near the south fence already tilled… and things they recognised as friends waiting. So far from their mother, their thoughts were dim, barely aware impulses.

But when they passed the boundary of Fa Ram, when they finally arrived home, they once more thought. It was abrupt. It was sudden… and they were themselves again.

They later would speak of this phenomenon; but the most convincing explanation they could come up with was that the whispered hope was right.

The spirits of their dear departed sisters really did live here, immortal. Their little sparks gave strength to all that called this place home, the waving flowers beckoning them back.
