“A full case of mana-blocking potions?” Niala asked, ears erect.

Leandro nodded. “Indeed! Having spent the week training David under its effect, I believe we may have discovered a new way to train the mana reserves of imbued individuals!”

She tilted her head. “Because... it restricts the mana flow, but if they keep trying to pull on it, their mana pathways...” She trailed off.

The man smiled broadly. “Ha-ha! Yes! I verified it with Marshalla; a restricted mana pathway that receives the proper amount of stress daily will harden and become more efficient at pulling mana!”

Niala's tail switched. “But, won't that leave them perpetually exhausted?”

“Yes! It is a wonderful tool! I wish to start right away as soon as the boy manages to create more of his tears!”

She gave him a polite smile, even while she mentally apologized to all of the future guards and asked for their forgiveness.

The group decided to attempt the experiment out of town, but not as far as the chapel, and asked Marshalla to be present, just in case.

Niala was ready with half a dozen of every known healing potion. Jordo was scanning his master's vitals, while Marshalla did the same using her own instruments.

Leandro was there for moral support at this point.

David lay down on the bedroll they'd set up in the middle of a clearing, gave Niala a nod, and she handed him the mana-enervating potion.

He breathed in, then out, and swallowed the potion in one throw. Then, he got comfortable, closed his eyes, and let his consciousness fall backward into his inner world.

Leviathan was waiting for him, and together they kept alert for the first signs of David's pathways re-opening, ready to pour mana into them.

Time slowed down, and for a while, nothing happened.

And then the water shook, as if a clogged drain had violently exploded. David and his mana aspect grabbed hold of the mana sea and shoved it into his pathways.

The mana resisted. They didn't care. His pathways groaned. They ignored them.

David could feel his body aching all over, but it wasn't pain, not quite, just the ultimate discomfort.

Still they pushed, ever more mana compacted into his pathways, and then-

They filled up, and it was over. He looked at Leviathan, who stared back before lowering his head. “Apologies, my Lord. I have failed you.”

David sighed. “Not your fault, buddy. It was just an experiment.” He flung his head back, groaning. “I really want to find some way other than using the dream poison again.”

He felt Leviathan's large body undulate. He looked up and at his aspect. “What is it?”

“My Lord, it is just an idea, but when you saturate your inner realm with mana and condense it into a marble. You continue until the marble cracks, correct?”

David narrowed his eyes. “That's right. Why?”

Leviathan lifted his head. “I wonder... what if we did not crack the marble?”

“If we don't... huh. I don't think we ever tried not to crack the marble.”

His aspect's face lit up, which, being a sea serpent, was a little terrifying. “Then, my Lord, shall we try?”

David smiles. “Buddy, I think we will.”

Leviathan shook his body the same way a puppy waggles its tail.

Coming back to the physical world, Jordo and Marshalla confirmed what he already knew; there had been a massive surge of mana through his system, enough that some of the scholar's equipment blew manafuses, but not enough to materialize a David's tear.

Reminding them it was a mana tear, he told them of his new idea. Niala was a little concerned, though Marshalla practically drooled.

She ended up a bit annoyed when David said he wanted to try this one alone, with at least a few kilometres of empty space around him, just in case.

The best she got was that she could set up metering equipment near him, set to record by themselves.

The group found a remote location to the south-west of Riverwall that fit David's requirements. Marshalla set up her equipment, and they left. A quarter bell later, Niala let him know through their links when they figured they were far away enough. She also requested that he contact her the instant he was done, and that if he didn't, she'd slip tongue-hair potion in his soup.

He swore he would, assured her he would be fine, and dove back into his inner world.

There, along with Leviathan's help, he filled himself with mana, overfilling his world, until marbles began forming. Instead of forcing them into a single sphere this time, however, he simply kept pushing mana.

Without warning, one of the marbles cracked, his inner world exploded, and he and Leviathan were pushed out. He startled back to his senses with a pony-sized Leviathan by his side.

He quickly apprised Niala of the situation and told her to stay put, as he was going to try again.

It had failed, but... he felt it was the right way. He just needed to, somehow, control the amount of mana he was pushing into his inner world.

“Ready to try again, buddy?” he asked Leviathan.

“Of course, my Lord. I will always be ready for you.”

He stared at his aspect for a second before sighing and placing his hand on him, absorbing Leviathan back in. Then, he lay down and fell back into the mana sea.

SANCTUARY

“That's not going to work,” Koltos said, watching as David tried again and again to form marbles without cracking at least one.

Almeniris, lounging in a long chair next to him, yawned. “Sure it will. Just give him time.”

“Doesn't matter how long; it's just not going to work. You can't just take hyper-compressed mana and stabilize it in a crystalline structure.” He replied, pointing at the display as David blew up his inner world once more. “The moment the beads lose containment, they'll release all their mana, just like that.”

He shook his head and looked at the goddess. “He'd be better served learning how to properly materialize mana, instead of trying to cheat again.”

She glanced at the display, then smirked and looked at him. “I think you're just annoyed they keep finding ways you didn't know about.”

“Absolutely not. I'm annoyed because their ways shouldn't work, and- why are you smiling like that?”

“Oh, I don't know. Maybe because he's about to make you even more annoyed?” She said, pointing at the display with her chin.

He blinked at her, then turned his head toward the images of David picking up the condensed mana beads and feeding them to his mana aspect.

His mouth hung open for a second. “What in the name of us is he doing...?”

Almeniris threw her legs to the side and sat up on her long chair. “He's finding a way to prove you wrong! Or create an amazing firework. Either way, it's finally getting interesting!” She said, her attention riveted to the display.

Beside her, Koltos looked, appalled and powerless, at the madman.

DAVID'S INNER REALM

He threw the last bead into Leviathan's open mouth. “That's fifty of them. We can try with this for now. Are you ready?”

The mana aspect closed its jaws and nodded.

David smiled. “Attempt number thirty-five, let's go.” He then closed his eyes, pointed his focus at a single mana bead, and compressed it until it broke.

The familiar mushroom cloud of mana-explosion filled the space within, ejecting him and Leviathan out.

It took David a few seconds to come to his senses. Somehow, the explosion this time had been particularly brutal. He felt his own body, sent a feeler toward his pathways, and confirmed that his link with Niala was still there...

Everything seemed fine. He opened his eyes and sat up, his eyes scanning for Leviathan, finding his head hovering above him and looking down from behind.

“Hey buddy, did it work?” David asked.

His aspect nodded, bent down and opened his mouth. From within, scintillant pearls the colour of rainbows fell to the grassy ground, clinking softly on each other.

Wide-eyed, yet holding his excitement back, just in case, David got up and walked over to the pile of beads. He picked one up, inspecting it; a perfect transparent sphere, smooth and warm to the touch, with spiralling luminous constellations held within. When held close to the ear, the faint sound of a calm sea could be heard.

He gave it a little shake, which made the multicoloured lights shine brighter for a second before they returned to their lazy pulses.

David looked away from the gem and to Leviathan. “Do you think it worked?”

“I believe so, my Lord. I can sense them, which means they are made of your mana. I can tell they are potent, but I cannot say how much.”

David nodded and reached for his link with Niala, letting her know she and the rest could come back now.

While waiting, he collected the fifty beads inside a small pouch. Until they had a better understanding of what they were, he wasn't going to risk storing them in a cargo cloth. Especially powerful mana sources didn't play well with the cloths.

He was still observing the pearl held in his fingers when he spotted Niala waving at him from the edge of the clearing, jogging at a good pace, followed by the rest.

He got up just in time to receive a high-velocity snuggle-tackle from his wife. Snapping his arms around her, he twirled her around once and put her back down. Before he could lean away, she grabbed his shirt and pulled him in for a quick kiss.

She lowered her arms down around his waist and looked up into his eyes, her ears erect. “Did it work? It sounded like it worked when you contacted me!”

He smiled, removing his hand that held the bead from her back and bringing it next to her face. Her eyes widened as she caught sight of it. “Oh, my saints! It's so pretty! Can I touch it?”

He scrunched his mouth. “I think? Maybe let Marshalla and Jordo test it first?”

Reluctantly, she nodded and stepped back, letting the scholar and the golem approach. The woman stared at the bead for a few seconds before scrambling for some hand-held measuring tools she had with her, while Jordo's eyes flashed several times.

Marshalla walked around David, pointing in his direction a flat rod with several bulbs attached, while she emitted several hums and ohs and ahs, getting progressively more energetic as she did.

The man looked at Jordo. “What do you think? Is it safe to handle?”

The golem didn't answer right away, which gave David pause. Jordo was never speechless. Finally, he spoke. “Yes, Sir. This... magnificent artifact should be safe to handle.”

David shrugged and handed the bead to Niala, who picked it up like a kid receiving a gold nugget and held it up against the sun, letting its rays pass through it, creating a hued light show on the ground below.

Marshalla's tool beeped a few times. She stared at it, and then looked up at David, her mouth flat. She turned and approached Jordo, showing him the results on her hand tool and addressing him. “Did your scan give the same results?”

The golem nodded. “Indeed, Madam.”

Leandro, in the back so far, walked up to the two of them and glanced at Marshalla's tool, his eyes going wide after a few seconds, before looking up at the Scholar and speaking. “This is right? It's not an error?”

She shook her head.

David frowned and looked at the three of them while Niala kept playing with the shiny thing. “What is it?”

They shared gazes until Marshalla eventually spoke up. “David, that thing isn't a mana crystal, or mana gem, or anything like that.”

“Then, what is it? Does it have mana?”

She nodded. “Yes, it has mana. A gigantic pile of mana, more than my portable tool can measure, but that's not the important thing.”

He quirked a brow. “What is, then?”

She calmly walked up to Niala, tapped her on the shoulder and held out her hand. The catkin flinched, blinked, saw the hand, and gave her the marble.

Marshalla held it up in front of her eyes, turning toward David. “This is generating mana. It's connected to the aetheric realm. It's not a mana reserve; it's a mana source.”

He stared at her for a second. “Oh.”

Somewhere far away, in another place of existence, a woman laughed, holding her belly while a man swore and stomped on the ground.