[Fate Mastery 30 → Fate Mastery 31]

He felt the barest sensation of someone attempting to read his fate. Although it was quite odd, as though it was being parsed from the inside out and the very tapestry was working to aid the intruder in the process. The very canvas seemed to warp, and other threads of fate bent and shifted to accommodate the reader

Fate Mastery wasn’t a skill which made gains very often, but then again, not many people attempted to insidiously read his fate by cleverly bypassing the shield he had up.

A flash of inspiration struck, and he very briefly opened the shield, throwing out waves of force and making the tapestry around him momentarily shake. It had the desired effect of disturbing the canvas. Not so much that it would be detected as anything out of the norm, but enough that it threw the infiltrator’s reading attempt off.

[Fate Disconnect 71 → Fate Disconnect 72]

“I get a headache every time you do that…”

“I apologize, but I’ll have to trouble you with more headaches in the coming days then. This is a good regimen. Haven’t met a fate reader with a skill capable of giving my shield trouble,” Orodan praised. “The entire tapestry seems to help you whenever you’re set on reading someone’s fate.”

“It’s a Bloodline actually. The Treadways have always been favored by the tapestry of fate. Where others have to work hard and parse each possibility, for us, the threads simply speak to us and mold around our desires,” the woman explained. “Even so it’s a little disconcerting when someone can just wildly shake the tapestry at will… how profound must your fate be in order to do that?”

Little wonder no other fate reader had been able to give his shield so much trouble. A Grandmaster with a Bloodline aiding the practice of fate reading was doubtlessly effective at the job.

“I’m told I have a habit of causing a ruckus wherever I go,” Orodan said. “My fate follows the same principles.”

“Just as direct and brutish as you are… I suppose I should be grateful that you didn’t kick my door down yet again.”

“You fired a bullet at my head…”

“And you decided to break into my residence after knocking out the tower guard. What’s a lady to think when a brutish thug waltzes into her home? Highly irresponsible of you to drag that poor boy into your mess too,” Luetta Treadway chided, her folding fan flicking out to catch another pebble Orodan had thrown. “What if he’d gotten caught up in the crossfire?”

“He’s a tough lad. I was watching closely for his safety in any case,” Orodan replied. “And that coat of his is sturdier than you think.”

“A ragged trench coat with a bunch of patchwork quilts sewn in doesn’t make for good protection,” Luetta countered.

“The quilts are what makes the difference I suspect,” Orodan said.

“I won’t pretend to understand what you mean, keep your secrets, world-travelling time looper that you are. You realize the crown will spare no expense in hunting you down should the information leak, yes? It is an open secret among the upper echelons of the Collective that King Alstatyn has a time looper in his employ as well. It was why your story, while a surprise, was not entirely far-fetched,” Luetta remarked. “They won’t stop hounding you once they find out.”

“Then it’s a good thing I approached one of the few high-level individuals not connected to the crown,” Orodan said. “I get the feeling you’re not thrilled with the leadership of the Blackworth Collective either.”

Orodan had been called stupid often enough, but he wasn’t entirely brainless. Telling Fenton Penny and his mother about being a time looper was one thing, they had no spells cast upon them that he could see. But he had to watch who else he spoke to about it, especially among higher-level individuals. The value of a long loop upon Lonvoron was simply too high for him to risk detection just yet.

“Common sense and caution from Orodan Wainwright? I’m shocked!” Zaessythra quipped.

“Unbelievable as it must sound, I can in fact learn a lesson from time to time.”

On his very first visit to Lonvoron, he’d noticed how almost every Transcendent and many Grandmasters had these restrictions ensorcelled upon their minds and souls. A fail-safe so that they wouldn’t say anything they weren’t supposed to. Not every single person had them, certainly not the common folk, but high-level beings, certainly did. Especially every Transcendent he’d seen besides King Alstatyn.

It was good then, to find a high-level individual who seemed to be free of the previous looper’s paranoid track covering. It was why he’d approached this Luetta Treadway in the first place. Still, just because she had no traces of magic or detection spells upon her didn’t mean she bore no traces of mind tampering whatsoever.

“Your mind bears the tell-tale traces of a memory wipe,” Orodan said. “Your former employer must have been quite cautious. I suppose leaving the Crown’s employ might have exit procedures.”

He could sense patches of memory which were not only blank, but had timeline protections and spells which would alert the caster if anyone tried restoring her memories. There was also a minor compulsion to not dig into the matter too deeply. The spellcraft was incredibly well-woven; Orodan saw no method of tracing it back to caster. The previous looper, as always, covered their tracks well.

Luetta frowned, as though a particularly bitter memory had been brought up.

“I left due to my disagreement with some of the Crown’s methods. Wasn’t willing to undergo an entire litany of restrictive spells and magic all to ensure my secrecy. I don’t recall how or why they purged certain sections of my memory, but my departure was allowed gracefully enough in exchange; I have come to terms with it,” Luetta explained. “My life is here now, acting the mercenary, wandering from place to place. Dwelling on this matter will not bring my memories back.”

“And what if I could bring them back?” Orodan offered.

“Worry yourself not about this,” Luetta said.

Orodan could see the compulsion activating and nudging her towards avoiding any talk of recovering her memories. Perhaps it could be reversed and the spellcraft affecting her mind and memories erased if he had enough time and exposure to study it. He noted and filed it away in his mind for later, choosing to shelve the conversation for now lest he trigger some sort of reaction by pushing the matter too hard.

“Fair enough,” Orodan agreed, letting his Fate Disconnect down enough that it allowed her to read his fate. He then chucked another pebble at her. Easily deflected via folding fan. “Let’s return to me ineffectually chucking rocks at you. I’ll get you one of these times.”

“This exercise is one of futility. You don’t really believe you can counter my fate reading, do you?” she asked. “At least have your shield up. Allowing me to read your fate while you throw rocks at me is the definition of insanity.”

“No. It would defeat the purpose of what I’m aiming for,” Orodan corrected. “Even if you can read my fate perfectly, I intend on learning how to counter you fate readers.”

“…you are a madman.”

He took that as a compliment.

Orodan frowned and threw another one at her, and as before, her fan was in the right place at the right time before the pebble even left his hand. He’d tried feinting a time or two, to fake her out and make Luetta guard the wrong way, yet all the same she intercepted his projectiles.

“The tapestry of fate is but a canvas of possibilities; nothing is set in stone,” Orodan said. “How is it that you can deflect my attacks so unerringly?”

“You’re correct, Mister Wainwright. The tapestry is indeed but a canvas of possibilities, probabilities and potential outcomes,” Luetta conceded. “Yet not everyone is equally proficient at reading fate.”

“I fail to see how more skill in fate reading allows you to so unerringly make the right choice amidst a sea of possibilities every time.”

“Think about it Mister Wainwright. The average fate reader might look into the tapestry and see only a few possible threads; two or three of the most likely potential outcomes at most. For them, this is the extent of what they can parse,” Luetta Treadway elaborated, and then her eyes took on a subtle sheen of gold. “But to more advanced fate readers like myself, each possibility is layered with numerous branching paths, and sometimes these original roots resonate just a bit brighter on certain branching paths than others. Take for example your pebble throwing.”

Orodan flicked another one at her which was casually deflected.

“What about it?”

“You’re choosing to throw them at a certain angle while carefully moderating your strength.”

“Well yes, I wouldn’t want to destroy Port Bellgrave and create a gaping hole in the sea floor. The resulting ocean storm would drown all of the Ironhaven Isles in water,” Orodan answered. “With my strength, I have to be careful lest I shatter planets.”

“That much is easy enough to surmise, but beyond even that… you’re intentionally choosing angles which are easy for me to reach,” she said, and Orodan had to take a moment to consider that. He supposed he was in fact holding back. “And now the fate threads related to you not wanting to hurt me are getting dimmer as we speak. In fact, the next one could come either here or- gah!”

Instead of throwing it at her above the table, Orodan instead reached under the table and hurled it below, kneecapping her with a solid thwack of rock upon bone.

“Did the tapestry reflect that change?” Orodan asked with a smile at her irritated glare as she clutched her knee.

“You…!” she exclaimed but then calmed herself with a sigh. “I suppose I brought that one upon myself. And yes, it was reflected upon the threads, but only at the very last moment. How was I meant to react to that?”

“You weren’t,” Orodan replied.

Good to know fate reading still faced the limitations of reaction time. What benefit was there in knowing a sword would end your life if you weren’t fast enough to stop it?

Still, thanks to this experiment Orodan now understood better what the tapestry of fate itself was. It basically provided feedback onto the canvas in the form of shifting threads which either glowed or dimmed with his every thought and action. Even the mere act of thinking about doing something would cause the particular threads of fate associated with that outcome to change.

Previously, being the anointed time looper selected by the System and Boundless One had caused his fate to become quite mangled, like an ouroboros, a coiling dragon eating its own tail. This what the Favored of Ilyatana had noticed very early on in the time loops. Aside from her and Alastaia’s Goddess of Fate, nobody had really been able to read his fate at all. In fact, Orodan wondered if his presence in Ogdenborough, where no priests or diviners lurked was just as intended as his parents’ death. After all, the loops selected him upon birth, and who knew how troublesome they would’ve become if some diviner discovered his mangled fate early in childhood?

However, the old version of the time loops were still a part of the System and consequently, the old Orodan’s fate, even if mangled, had still been a part of the tapestry. When he had the old System, and wasn’t part of the time loops, any decent fate reader would be capable of reading his fate and noticing the coiled mess if he let Fate Disconnect up.

But that had all changed when the foreign Boundless One outside the System had wiped all traces of the Eldritch and the old framework from his soul. The destruction of the old System within him had changed things.

In possession of his own System and having a soul with nary a trace of Eldritch, he was an outsider to System space and the tapestry of fate. Furthermore, it was Orodan Wainwright who now empowered the time loops. As a result, he truly had no metaphysical connection to the cosmos he dwelled within. Consequently, he had to manually insert himself and immerse his soul into the tapestry at the start of each loop.

Forcibly adding himself into the tapestry of fate as an outsider involved dipping his very soul into the canvas. This in turn meant that his mind and its thoughts were reflected upon the threads of fate. Which essentially meant that any thoughts or stray plans he had were very apparent to a skilled fate reader.

On a world like Alastaia, Grandmaster Fate Readers were exceedingly rare and not possessed of much power. Here on Lonvoron though, civilization was far older than that of his home world and had existed for a long time. This meant that the Blackworth Collective had technology, Transcendents and techniques honed over the centuries for reading fate to a scarily proficient degree.

From what Luetta had explained, she wasn’t even the mightiest of the Treadways, akin to an exile. She was but a Grandmaster, with the strongest of her family being Transcendents. Orodan would have to take care to strengthen his fate shielding skills and the ability to counter fate reading if he meant to fight them and avoid having his identity revealed. After all, an otherworlder’s fate was quite noticeable from that of a Lonvoron native.

He had intentionally taken on a handicap that added an additional means through which he could be detected, but that was just a good challenge and all a part of his ethos of seeking effective training.

Already he had the idle thought of whether structuring his intent and feeling in certain ways might severely stifle any hostile fate readers.

