“Lady Treadway mentioned her assistant would be coming to help us with the production of alkahest, not make further demands of our already pressed schedules. We cannot produce the supplies for Sir Clyburn because we have a strict quota of alkahest to meet, and we’re already fallen behind on its production. Make me enough alkahest, and I can deign to think of aiding in your request.”

“Then let’s get to making it shall we? Show me the formula and process and I’ll start helping.”

“Mister Orodan Wainwright is it? What level of alchemist are you? I see you’re an Apprentice Weaver and… a Wainwrighting Apprentice? I’ve never heard of such a title before, and your Status is akin to a practical joke.”

Orodan adjusted his Status, adding the relevant title for Alchemy to it.

“Try again, I’m near-Elite at Alchemy.”

The head alchemist re-cast the Observe and gave an imperceptible nod.

“Barely meeting the qualifications to work in this lab, but I suppose you’re acceptable enough. My problem still remains; you’re but one man and I do not see how you’re meant to alleviate our rush to meet this quota when I have a team of thirty trained alchemists working already. I would have to waste time bringing you up to speed,” the man remarked with a frown. ‘Unless you have the ability to bring another thirty alchemists out of thin air, this is pointless. We’re also limited by the quantity of the apparatus we have.”

“Explain. Show me the crafting process from start to finish,” Orodan demanded. “I can’t see why making a potent acid would take long.”

“You don’t even know how to make alkahest? Which university did you-” the man cut himself off and sighed. “Ah, self taught are you? Low of me to look down on one from humble roots, I can respect that. Now then, as you can see the acid base is concocted through the burning of…”

Orodan intently listened to the man’s explanation. He knew how to make acids and poisons, virtually all educated alchemists on Alastaia did. The difference between the acids of his home world and this exceedingly volatile and deadly alkahest though, was that it didn’t simply break things down but instead caused their utter disintegration into nothingness.

Furthermore, there was a process of actually guiding the alkahest and defining its targeting. Which was what the array was for as the lead alchemist wasn’t just proficient in alchemy but also a Master-level poison mage. This array defined what the alkahest should or shouldn’t target upon creation. Supposedly this could be altered in the field too but was a more difficult process.

In any case, for the purpose of fighting the Eldritch, having an all-consuming substance which ate through organic material leaving nothing behind was the ideal. Though the process of creating an alchemical substance which could be guided via magical ritual was new to him. He’d heard of advanced products which did that, even on Alastaia, but that was the purview of Master-level alchemy and above.

The acid base, after concoction, went through a period of concentration and mana empowerment in specially sealed vats. This empowerment phase lasted about six hours on average. This was the real bottleneck and what was causing the alchemists’ quota to suffer. They simply didn’t have enough vats and the evolving situation on the front lines had caused a rush order for more alkahest to come in.

“I see… so it’s not just the concoction of the acid which is taking all this time, but the empowerment and concentration process,” Orodan muttered. “The acid, or alkahest as you call it… its malleability in what it can target is one its big features and part of why it takes so long to manufacture, isn’t it?”

“Right, now do you see why we’re so swamped? There’s simply no way to speed the process up without adding far more equipment; I only have ten amplification vats. I have more than enough acid base ready to pour into them, to the point that I’m running out of containers to fill. Yet without more enchanted vats which perform the actual transformation of acid to alkahest, my hands are tied.”

Orodan cracked his knuckles and walked up to the vats.

“I have two questions for you. First, do you have any need for the alkahest to be more potent?” he asked. “And second… if the process in the vats were to be sped up, how many containers do you think you could make?”

“An odd question Mister Wainwright… the alkahest is already potent enough, but I suppose the guild is always seeking further methods of making it even stronger. Some of the deadlier plague forms the army faces in the dead zone could certainly use a more potent dose. And this question is a little pointless as the crown will gladly pay extra for each pound of alkahest we can provide.”

“In that case, I think we can help one another.”

Orodan’s hand whipped forward, and the Time Compression aspect of his Smite of Abrupt Deliverance shot out. Furthermore, he laid a hand upon one of the vats, enveloping it with his soul and considering it and the acid within as his weapon.

As he’d done long ago in Bluefire… Orodan Wainwright began empowering the solution with copious amounts of mana while holding tight control over it with his soul energy, ensuring not a single unwanted change occurred. At the same time, he used this in tandem with Time Compression, to shorten the required six hours.

[Time Mastery 90 → Time Mastery 91]

It was certainly costlier than he’d expected too. The vats containing the acid and transforming it were some intricately enchanted devices which consumed mana greedily. Compressing time for a regular container with nothing else involved was one thing. Doing so for these magical devices which had costly ongoing processes of their own was another. The greater the energy of the target, the costlier chronomancy was. A large world core’s worth of power, energy reserves included, would have been drained in an instant if this was attempted by anyone else. Good thing he had Incipience of Infinity, though there was no hiding the sheen of white soul energy coming off his form.

He was capable of far grander feats, yet the strain was decent as the alkahest hungrily absorbed all the power he could feed it. The mental stress was far greater than the soul energy consumption, as Orodan had to focus to prevent it from spiralling out of control. Soul energy rolled off his body like wispy streaks of ethereal light.

Six hours compressed into a singular second, enough energy consumed that a planet and a half would be drained dry. The ten large vats containing acid, slowly undergoing the empowerment and concentration process of turning to alkahest… suddenly went haywire. A loud alarm suddenly went off and the indicator on the vat blurred in a most surreal manner due to the compression of time.

And the one vat Orodan was personally empowering beyond what the enchantments could provide, it was glowing with power, looking to be on the verge of explosion.

“L-let’s step back, shall we?”

“Did he break the machine…?”

“He’s some sort of mage!”

“Shut it!” the lead alchemist silenced. “Mister Wainwright, what are you doing? The indicators and readings we’re getting are off the charts!”

“I empowered it,” Orodan said, a droplet of sweat rolling down his forehead as he focused on retaining control over this one vat that it could safely cool down without exploding.

Even though the process had concluded, the substance within was simply too volatile and full of energy.

“Let me check-”

“No. In fact, you need to find the strongest container you have, ideally one with a perfect seal. And you need to do it now,” Orodan ordered as he immediately produced his broom in his free hand.

Truly, whoever had designed the original formula for this substance had done an excellent job. Most other things Orodan empowered had an upper limit to how much they could scale via energy empowerment. He hadn’t expected the alkahest to so greedily absorb whatever power Orodan offered.

And Orodan had also perhaps gone a little overboard too. Something which was now coming back to bite him in the rear.

The problem was that the vats weren’t perfectly airtight. And neither were the overly bulky protective suits the alchemists had on or the warded workshop itself. However they were airtight enough, with the margin for error being acceptable by the standards of what they were working with.

The rare alkahest particle, by the time it got through the air filters, lost most of its potency.

That was…

…for regular alkahest.

This monstrous concoction Orodan had empowered beyond the bounds of reason however, was an entirely different beast.

Three glowing particles of Orodan’s modified alkahest, rumbling with barely contained power, wafted out the vat, finding their way through the imperfect seal. Orodan drew all three of them towards himself via Domain of Perfect Cleaning.

And immediately, his body paid the price.

[Acid Resistance 41 → Acid Resistance 44]

A gaping hole in his torso appeared as the flesh dissolved instantly and immediately. Harmony of Vitality worked to repair the damage almost instantly, and yet… there were two more particles.

He constantly drew these towards himself, and his body was ravaged. His flesh evaporated, consigned to non-existence. Domain of Perfect Cleaning could manipulate the particles towards himself easily enough, but Orodan had to pay close attention and draw them towards himself in a manner where the damage didn’t cause his hand to lose contact with the vat.

If he lost control of this vat… Port Bellgrave and possibly all of the Ironhaven Isles would die. The surrounding thousand miles would be devoid of life before this modified monstrosity he’d created lost potency.

Thankfully, Domain of Perfect Cleaning managed to keep the remainder of the concoction within the vat while the lead alchemist rushed to get something.

All the while, over the thirty seconds that the man took to return, Orodan gained five more levels in Acid Resistance as his body was disintegrated by the stupidly strong substance.

“Out of the way! Sealant coming through!” the lead alchemist shouted.

A strange and gelatinous substance was thrown onto the vat. The goopy material adhered to the vat, sealing all the minute openings in, and only then did Orodan feel safe knowing that the container was entirely and perfectly airtight.

The remaining three particles ravaging Orodan slowed and gradually lost their power over the course a minute. Until finally, the damage he suffered slowed as a message came.

[Acid Resistance 49 → Acid Resistance 50]

With their power bled off, Orodan felt safe using his broom to see them as dirty. And instead of the acid purging him, he eradicated the three stray acid particles from existence outright.

“By the King’s grace… Mister Wainwright… what was that?” the lead alchemist asked, too terrified to step near the vat himself.

Even a majority of the other alchemists had since fled the room.

A mad grin was upon Orodan’s face.

“Alkahest. A very, very potent version of it. Best not let it get loose lest it destroy all of the Ironhaven Isles.”

The man’s eyes widened as he took in the gravity of what Orodan had made. Immediately his face turned serious as he whipped his hand out.

“You! You and you! You three are now on permanent guard duty for the array! Nobody touches it, anyone comes close, you shoot them on sight!”

“But we’re not soldiers sir…”

‘You are if you want to live! Do you understand what will happen if the array is modified so that the alkahest dissolves inorganic material as well? We’re all going to die,” the leader of the south tower explained coldly. “News of what’s happened here isn’t to leave the tower, are we clear? I’ll have anyone disobeying this order shot for treason.”

The assistant alchemists looked frightened but nodded.

The man then walked to the side and produced a communications pendant, sending out a message.

“Sergeant. An order of secrecy is hereby invoked for the south tower. Nobody is to enter or leave. Double the watch and shoot anyone attempting to exit until we’ve sorted the matter out, inform the fort commander as well,” the man said and then walked over to a hand-sized magic formation on the wall which he activated. Orodan felt an anti-communications ward emerge upon its activation. “There, no concern of word leaking to pesky uninvolved parties now.”

A lot of failsafes and layers of information security.

“It need not be that serious,” Orodan assuaged, and then put his hand out to calm the man when he seemed outraged at the insinuation that this wasn’t an important matter. “Not to say this concoction isn’t dangerous, it certainly is; keep its existence secret if you must. But I wouldn’t let any hairs turn gray over the activation of the array which directs what materials the alkahest should dissolve. The substance contains energy enough that the array you have shouldn’t be capable of directing it.”

In other words, the lead alchemist was also a Master-level poison mage who could use the array to instead the alkahest to dissolve metal or inorganic things. Orodan’s modified alkahest though was simply too strong for such a basic array to affect. Unless somebody else with titanic power reserves came along, the array wasn’t the risk here.

“Hmm… I suppose that takes some of the worry off my shoulders,” the man said and then gestured for Orodan to step to the side where the junior alchemists wouldn’t hear their conversation. He then frowned while jabbing an accusatory finger at him. “This entire mess is your fault.”

“I’m not disagreeing with that,” Orodan replied. “But this is what you wanted, right?”

