“Ah, Mister Wainwright here is an assistant of mine. He works for me,” she smoothly replied. “Helps to have a bodyguard and handyman who can get things done.”

“Given the size of him I could certainly see him being a bodyguard, but an enchanter and an engineer too? A rather multi-talented man I see…” Clyburn muttered. “Even if these two have your backing Luetta, you’re asking me to place a lot of faith in people I’ve known for less than two days. The boy has some talent in quick identification of enchantments, and this man seems to have some knowledge of engineering himself… but will they suffice for such a complex work?”

“Well, if it helps you trust in my capabilities a little easier…” Orodan said, taking his cloak off and revealing his sword and shield. “I’m not of this world. And I have some extensive experience in dealing with this plague you’re trying to cure.”

“An otherworlder…? Yes, yes, this could very well work in that case!” Clyburn muttered taking the revelation in stride. “The biggest weakness of our research has been our lack of research materials and information regarding the plague!”

“But I would certainly appreciate it if you could keep your mouth shut about Mister Wainwright’s otherworldly nature,” Luetta reminded.

“Of course! I’m not one to look a gift train in the engine! Now my only question is… when can you start?”

Orodan picked up a wrench and looked closely at the pillar.

What better time to start than now?

“And another thing,” Luetta said. “I’ll be buying the lad’s contract out.”

#

[Teaching 67 → Teaching 68]

Fenton collapsed upon the ground, almost entirely spent.

“Gods above I can’t even move… you’re a cruel taskmaster Mister Orodan.”

“A teacher who doesn’t push you hard enough is a teacher who doesn’t care,” Orodan replied, dragging the boy to his feet. “Another lap with the cart, go on now. I can see you’re not at the point of total muscular failure just yet.”

It was overtraining, to a dangerous extent too. Or it would’ve been if Orodan wasn’t using Vision of Purity to closely monitor every cell to ensure maximal exertion and muscular destruction. The meal he’d prepared afterwards would lead to rapid recovery and consequently make Fenton’s body far stronger.

It had only been two days, yet Orodan could already see the benefits showing themselves. The lad looked slightly less lanky, the muscles more defined and the posture just a bit straighter. Regular physical training couldn’t produce such results so quickly. Hells, even Orodan had needed a lifetime of hard labor, training and constant fights throughout his upbringing to achieve his natural physique. Certainly, he had the predisposition and ancestry for it thanks to his mother, but the tough muscle, bull-like definition and wide frame had only been achieved at the expense of a lot of blood and sweat.

In Fenton’s case though, having someone dive into the ocean every day to secure high-level ingredients loaded with vitality and nutrients was quite the boon. The meals Orodan cooked with said ingredients were akin to a high-level recovery potion. Eating good food in combination with training to a dangerous level of muscular failure and overexertion meant the gains were quite rapid.

Orodan returned to sitting upon a raised rock in the backyard of the guest house Clyburn had provided for the Penny family. In his hands were manuals of engineering, steam mechanics and the enchantments necessary to make the entire thing work. Lonvoron’s enchanting language was also three-dimensional, so studying it helped broaden his base of knowledge further.

And as he read, he periodically threw pebbles towards Fenton from behind.

The boy swiftly shifted to the side while still pushing the cart. Orodan hummed in approval.

The next pebble flew faster and scored a good hit on the back of the boy’s knee.

“Argh! How am I s’posed to push the cart if you hamstring me?!” Fenton protested.

“By gritting your teeth and soldiering on anyways. Or getting better at detecting things through that Mana Sense skill of yours,” Orodan casually replied while reading. “You identified quite a few problems with Clyburn’s device today, didn’t you? Explain them to me.”

Fenton looked aghast at the suggestion that he spend the precious breath in his lungs explaining something technical while already nearing utter collapse. Still, to the boy’s credit he frowned and did so anyways.

“The core of the enchantment ain’t done wrong, even if it’s a little inefficient,” Fenton said, inhaling great gulps of air while pushing the heavy cart laden with rocks. “But the outer layers are built wrong. It’ll disperse the plague inwards in an endless cycle towards the core rather than containing it in the compartment meant for storage. Device’ll wear out real quick.”

“Tell me, do you suspect sabotage then?” Orodan asked. “What’s your opinion on it Fenton?”

“Me? Wasn’t aware my thoughts on these treacherous affairs mattered Mister Orodan,” Fenton said, dodging another pebble hurled at his ear. “That sort o’ thing’s beyond my station, isn’t it?”

“A passive viewpoint to hold. You live here; it’s your world, isn’t it? Who else’s opinion matters more than yours? Certainly not mine, I’m not even from around here,” Orodan said. “I’ll break the passivity out of you yet. Now tell me your honest thoughts and recommend what I should do about it.”

“Well… I do think the outer layer of the enchantment’s real dodgy ser. It’s done decently enough that I’ve got no doubts about the enchanter’s skill… which makes the design flaws seem like naught but intentional subversion,” Fenton said. “As for what to do… maybe the freelance enchanter could answer that?”

That certainly made sense. Who else besides the enchanter working on the device would know the truth? Fenton’s opinion when it came to Enchanting was quite reliable, if the boy thought sabotage was the likely explanation, then sabotage it was.

Orodan hurled another pebble at Fenton, striking him squarely in the hand and making his grip on the cart he was pushing loosen. The young man had grown used to the pain and simply gave Orodan a look of defiance and continued pushing.

“Good idea. Maybe I should kidnap and interrogate this enchanter then?” Orodan suggested.

“Kidnap? Won’t that draw trouble your way? Won’t say I ain’t seen folk get shot dead, just how life is around these parts,” Fenton said. “But spiritin’ someone away might do you more harm than good Mister Orodan. Why not just follow them and skulk about a bit to see what they’re up to?”

Now that wasn’t the worst idea. Further opportunity for stealth training too.

Orodan spent three more minutes rewarding Fenton for his excellent idea with more pebbles, until at last the boy began violently trembling, barely able to move.

Fenton tried pushing the cart further, only for Orodan to scoop the lad up in the crook of his arm like a sack of flour.

“Good work, but any further and you might actually faint and die if not treated,” Orodan said. Even if he could then resurrect the boy, stressing poor Fanny Penny out wasn’t his aim. “Time for some food and rest. Growth requires stress and recovery in equal measure.”

“Aye, aye ser…” Fenton quietly muttered, unable to muster the energy to even argue. “I was wonderin’ though… how’s this to help with me enchantin’?”

“One’s mana pool and the quality of the mana circuits within the body are influenced by Physical Fitness. I understand that people on Lonvoron have long neglected the skill, but it’s quite important,” Orodan explained. “With a larger mana pool you can enchant something all the way through without taking breaks, which in turn will improve the enchantment’s quality. Helps with your ability to concentrate without getting a headache too.”

Fenton seemed to understand the benefits.

Orodan deposited him in his chair, the boy’s mother serving the roasted assortment of aquatic monster meat that Orodan had prepared prior.

Of course, soon as the boy managed to bite down on the first forkful, the vital energies immediately rejuvenated him.

Fanny was also tearing into her plate with gusto, as was Talricto.

“I even made the syrup from sap and added nectar into the sauce. Kept you in mind this time,” Orodan explained. From what he’d read, Talricto’s species weren’t entirely carnivorous, and they could consume trace amounts of sap and nectar in order to get by. Studying Talricto’s body closely and then seeking compatible aquatic plants was a chore. But the effort had earned him another level in Cooking at least. “Now you can savor the full course too.”

Talricto didn’t even reply. The spider was far too busy stuffing his mouth with copious amounts of meat seasoned and glazed with sap-derived syrup and nectar. Well, Orodan was glad to see he liked it.

He lifted a large and juicy piece of meat up and shoved the entire thing into his mouth.

[Gourmand 18 → Gourmand 19]

The flavor wasn’t bad, but his breakfast stew yesterday had been done better. Still, he welcomed the improvement to himself, even if it was very minute.

They ate in relative silence, with Orodan occasionally throwing a pebble at Fenton in order to keep his Mana Sense skill sharp. The boy had it for a while, something which aided him in understanding enchantments. Of course, he didn’t know the right way of developing it, something Orodan was all too happy to help with.

The total mana pool someone possessed wasn’t just influenced by how strong their body was, but also by the usage of skills which used mana. Woodworkers, Lumberjacks and those who engaged in physical labor had well-developed bodies used to toil. They made for good soldiers. Similarly, mana was like a muscle that could be grown through constant use. The more Fenton used mana, the better at using it in other skills he would become.

To that end he planned on teaching Fenton magic as well. Basic spells to start, but the focus would be on their mana cost; the costlier the better.

“Don’t slack, keep reading the manual as you eat,” Orodan encouraged. “You aren’t able to read books in minutes like I can, so you can’t be wasting time.”

If anything, Orodan faced the opposite problem of reading a book and then having to sit there and ruminate on it. Spell tomes, technical manuals and instructional books on various subjects related to engineering, steam technology and enchanting; Orodan had read dozens. Of course, reading something and then grasping the concept were two different things, so he was forced to meditate and think upon the contents even a day later.

The genius lad though, was quite capable of understanding a book and comprehending it on the first read through.

“I still don’t understand how a Candleflame works Mister Orodan…” Fenton muttered. “Guh!”

Orodan’s flicked pebble had found its mark upon the lad’s forehead.

“You haven’t even finished the tome and you’re complaining?” Orodan queried. “Geniuses… always jumping two steps ahead.”

Then again, who the hells was he to complain? He’d driven half his mentors insane by doing the same. He was certain Adeltaj or Arvayne would be laughing at him if they saw and had the memories of what Orodan had put them through once upon a time.

“Takes one to teach one. Hard to find a better teacher for a prodigy than one himself.”

He supposed his insistence on good training wouldn’t waste young Fenton’s potential at least.

Talricto soon left, Fenton tucked in for a good night’s sleep and finally it was just Orodan and Fanny Penny sitting at the table. Her hands were working on a pretty quilt, and Orodan’s eye was sharply drawn to it.

“That’s not the work of an amateur weaver,” Orodan remarked.

“I wasn’t always a bedridden widow raising a son by herself Mister Wainwright,” Fanny replied “Once upon a time I used to work in Storven, the capital itself. Part of a big guild servicing the crown I was.”

Guild?

“Is that where those magical stitches in Fenton’s coat come from?”

“Right you are. Had to sell our more valued possessions as the years went on and my illness worsened, but even with my failing hands I hoped to keep my boy safe,” she said. “His coat should stop a few bullets at least.”

“He’s incorporated your weaving techniques into his Enchanting. Your son is going to be at the center of quite some trouble when people start discovering it,” Orodan admitted. “You know of his proclivity for the trade?”

“I was not aware of the extent of it until recently, but I do. Realized he had a gift when some noblewoman’s defective ring was good-as-new after he reached out to grab her finger with his little hands. He was but a babe then too…” Fanny explained. “Last thing I wanted was to be accused of witchcraft or have my baby boy taken from me by the inquisitors so I left town and never let him near anything magical until he was a few years older and I could explain the risks of revealing his skill.”

“Exceptional talents revealed at a young age often draw covetous eyes,” Orodan agreed.

Fanny suddenly looked pensive, her hands wringing together and the nervousness apparent on her face.

“Listen, I really appreciate everything you’ve done for us, Mister Wainwright, but my son’s well-being is more important to me than even my own life,” she suddenly informed. “You’ll keep him safe, won’t you?”

The worry of a protective mother. How could Orodan dismiss it when he’d seen with his own eyes how his own had been concerned for him?

