“I can’t say Sir Clyburn… I feel I’ve been wronged is all,” the man said, sweating a bit, the lie evident.

“This is outrageous! I’ve never once run afoul of the law in my life! Your case will be thrown out the moment it reaches the judge!” Clyburn declared.

“Perhaps… but can you afford the lawyer fees such a thing will incur? Especially when you’re already in such dire straits? I hear your guild is in deep waters financially and a failure here could well jeopardize your position as chief engineer for the isles,” Lord Morvale reminded in a disingenuously friendly tone. “It could all go away if you simply agreed to my offer.”

“I’m not providing you the blueprints for my version of the pillar!” Clyburn shouted. “You fear the possibility of my success, which is why you stifle me at every turn. Even if I agreed to your proposal what’s to stop you from seeing me fired and my guild disbanded out of spite afterwards?”

“And who has kept you afloat all this time while you gambled with ventures above your talent?” the old man reminded. “If you didn’t want to be put into debt, you shouldn’t have exhausted your funds trying to compete for the Crown’s open order for a plague-killing device. In any case, you can hope to see my legal team soon.”

“No, Lord Morvale,” a woman called out, walking into the tower from behind him. “I believe it shall be you meeting my legal team.”

The old man’s face took on a dirty frown as he turned around.

“Countess Primrose… happened to be paying a visit, did you?”

“Indeed. And then I happened to overhear the leader of the Ironhaven enchanter’s guild threatening to drag my beneficiary through a costly legal battle. I cannot have that, can I?” the elegantly dressed woman, Countess Primrose said. “You’ll find that I have no worries about bearing the costs of a legal battle. I have on-retainer, people well-trained in legalese within my estate.”

“I believe we’ve overstayed our welcome and the purpose of our visit has been rendered moot,” Lord Morvale said, walking out and beckoning his two tagalongs to follow. “We shall meet again dear Clyburn. And Primrose… I hope we don’t meet again.”

The arrogant noble and his two paid cronies left, the room silent for a few moments afterward.

“What a prick…” Fenton muttered.

“Vulgar words, but I concur,” Countess Primrose said. “Clyburn. I see this place is looking a lot better than it was the last time I paid a visit. It seems the rumors I heard weren’t inaccurate. Solicited an industrious little prodigy have you?”

“Er, yes my lady. Young Fenton, and of course, Mister Orodan here as well.”

“Fenton and who? Come, don’t speak nonsense,” she said.

Clyburn and Luetta looked rather bewildered at the woman’s response, but it was Fenton who caught on and realized what was occurring.

“Right, thank you miss Primrose,” Fenton said, trying to shift the topic elsewhere. “Bit crowded in here ain’t it? How’s about we chat in Mister Clyburn’s office?”

“Oh how adorable! It’s been so long since anyone’s called me miss, come Clyburn, you must tell me of all that’s been going on and how you met this little sweetling…”

Fenton and Clyburn left, with the boy giving Orodan a look which conveyed that the lad would try to keep his secret under wraps. Orodan appreciated it, but it wouldn’t be necessary. Incipience of Infinity would cause any affected by it to get angry at the insistence that they question it. And Orodan didn’t plan on keeping it active upon Primrose Lawson for long anyways.

“You’ve learned. It seems having half the galaxy coming after you was a good lesson.”

That, Orodan would agree with. Not that he feared half the galaxy or even the entire universe coming after him but remaining clandestine was important during this long loop. The less people saying the name Orodan Wainwright, the better. Those he had a mutually beneficial arrangement with? Not an issue. They’d only be shooting themselves in the foot by ratting him out. Nobles and unaffiliated parties though? Orodan knew that they had large information networks and methods of getting word to spread quickly.

The last thing he needed was for the previous looper to catch wind of him before he could discover their identity. It was why he’d used Incipience of Infinity upon the three guests and Primrose Lawson.

Luetta however was suspicious.

“I must profess some surprise that neither Lord Morvale nor the Countess Primrose paid you any mind, Mister Wainwright. Your heft is a bit eye-catching,” Luetta remarked.

[Incipience of Infinity 135 → Incipience of Infinity 136]

“Hmm, perhaps he was too scared to look,” Orodan replied.

Luetta rolled her eyes at what she thought was boasting, but really, Orodan had Incipience of Infinity active upon two of the three men as soon as they’d neared the tower. And for Eliezer… Orodan had been suffering a persistent headache but had it active ever since the man left Clyburn’s service. It was good training, and thankfully the former assistant engineer had never left Port Bellgrave else Orodan would’ve lost him. The island and perhaps a few miles out, seemed to be the upper limit of Orodan’s range to applying the disguise and intimidation aspects of Incipience of Infinity. So far at least.

Why had he done it? Good training aside, Orodan wasn’t blind to the fact that he was a threatening man. Eliezer would certainly report his existence to his backers, and word would travel, and soon enough odds were an inquisitor or investigation would come by; especially if the crown suspected an undocumented otherworlder.

If this Lord Morvale sought to cause Clyburn trouble in regard to Fenton, then the man would almost certainly do the same by trying to look deeper into Orodan’s identity.

“Anyhow, I’ll return in a few hours but need to head out for now,” Orodan said.

“Well, I trust you shan’t get lost. Where are you off to?” she asked.

“Going for a little swim.”

A swim to a nearby island that was. Now that Lord Morvale and Eliezer had failed to cause trouble, they would be returning to their base of operations.

Castle Ironpeak.

Eliezer had tried sabotaging Clyburn’s Pillar of Purification on Lord Morvale’s behalf; a nefarious act. But… sabotage and subterfuge were games which went both ways. The old man had come to cause trouble but instead would now find out what it felt like to be on the receiving end of it.

Perhaps it was time to see how much sabotage Orodan could get up to.

#

[New Skill → Swimming 16]

It wasn’t too difficult. Orodan had swam before and fought things in the water, but Lonvoron was the longest period of time he’d spent swimming. Naturally, his existing understanding of his physical form and body mechanics was high. Thus, like Halberd Mastery, it came as no surprise that Orodan started off with a decent level in it.

He cut through the water like a fish, his casual arm strokes causing giant tidal waves on the ocean surface. Sea life fled at the sight of this weird creature alien to the sea causing such turbulence.

Until finally, he caught up with the boat he’d allowed to gain a bit of distance. Orodan swam beneath it, hanging onto the underside as it sailed onwards, belching steam as it rived through the water. He didn’t need to breathe, and this was an easier way of approaching Castle Ironpeak than directly swimming to it.

Even from beneath the water’s surface, his hearing allowed him to pick up on what the inhabitants were saying.

“Hmm? Cap’n, sensor’s showing something clinging to the keel.”

“Eh? Probably just a bottom feeder, a little big for it… or a shark riding the current, let the thing catch a break. The sea will get angry at us if we bother the life within it.”

The sailors aboard the vessel agreed that it was nothing out of the ordinary. Aquatic creatures often rode the undercarriages of seafaring vessels. And while something larger might’ve been seen as a threat, a human hanging on wouldn’t be considered a problem. Not when the ship’s sensors thought him a fish.

The sailors weren’t the only ones chattering however. The inhabitants of the luxury cabin, Orodan’s targets, were in the midst of a conversation of their own.

“Did you manage to get a look at the pillar? Any changes?”

“Yes Lord Morvale… I don’t know how he’s done it, but the entire outer layer of enchantments is gone,” the swindling freelance enchanter said. “I tried to make the design as flawed as I could right from when he hired me, but I saw no evidence of my work at all. Clyburn Anderthorn appears to have started from square one once more, maintaining only the core enchantments he came to Port Bellgrave with.”

“His team of engineers are incompetent; they simply will not get things done in an appreciable amount of time. With only three months left there is simply no way the man produces a functional product,” Eliezer Brackenshaw said. “At least all those months spent stifling his work weren’t for nothing. My lord? You look concerned…”

“Clyburn Anderthorn is a genius, but without the appropriate support and logistics, he cannot succeed. Yet… in my long life as a Grandmaster-level enchanter never have I seen enchantments of such astonishing quality. Who is his backer? It cannot be that wretched Primrose, she has no connection to any of the enchanting guilds,” Lord Morvale said. “Unless… unless…”

“The boy?” Eliezer finished. “He’s but a base-born rat from scrap town. How can-”

“Some of the greatest talents of the Collective have come from low origins. Underestimate them at your own peril if you must, but knowing how to harness them has always brought prosperity to the wise,” the old noble lectured. “Still, that boy seems firmly in Clyburn’s camp. Feh! If only that fool had taken me up on my offer, he could have had it all!”

“We still have our own bid at the Pillars of Purification project my lord. Our teams have been making some progress on building the arrays, and with just seven pillars we estimate the ability to drain over a third of the plague from any given area of fifty miles. A massive boon for the crown’s armies fighting in the dead zone! Surely the King will reward your house and guild for such an achievement!”

Pillars? Seven of them? By the hells, no wonder Lord Morvale was so concerned about Clyburn Anderthorn. What the man’s device could potentially achieve with a singular pillar, this rival bid could only match for a third with seven of their own devices. An ambitious device that was doomed to failure without the aid of Orodan and Fenton… but with them, who knew what could be achieved?

“Once we’re back to Castle Ironpeak, tell the enchanters and engineers that their funding is being doubled. Whatever the cost we must outperform Clyburn and his ragtag band. The future of the Ironhaven enchanter’s guild relies on it,” the noble said. “If we provide a good showing… the path to the capital may even open for us.”

Orodan hung onto the underside of the ship as it cut through the water.

Soon enough, Castle Ironpeak was in view.

“Hanger on’s been hitchin’ a ride with us the whole time eh?”

“Heh! Maybe it just wanted to pay the castle a visit, leave the fish be. My uncle always said hanger ons are a sign of good luck. Keeps the other predators away.”

Which was right, insofar as everything else for a mile had frantically swum for the deep sea trenches upon seeing him. It was possibly the safest sea journey in all Lonvoron.

Castle Ironpeak. It was the largest military installation upon the Ironhaven Isles and a center for trade, military activity and civilian traffic. It wasn’t inaccurate to say that the majority of sea and air traffic passing through the Isles made its way here.

Unlike Port Bellgrave, the island was far larger and had its own name, Bexon Island. Of course, nobody bothered using the name, instead colloquially referring to the destination as Castle Ironpeak.

Lord Morvale’s ship hissed, belching steam as it began the process of docking. Castle Ironpeak had a connected city, a hub of trade, tourism and civilian traffic. Yet it wasn’t the civilian docks in the city that this ship had docked at, but the castle-side docks themselves which were meant only for military ships and approved nobility.

The noble and his two cronies disembarked, and as they did, Orodan pushed off the undercarriage of the boat yet remained underwater.

He didn’t need visual line of sight to see, Vision of Purity worked just fine even while he was hidden beneath the water’s surface. Of course, immediately Orodan felt the pulse of a magical sensor washing over him, and he instinctively reacted by temporarily slipping into the pores of the dimensional boundary as the pulse washed over where he was in the material plane.

[Dimensional Step 22 → Dimensional Step 23]

[Dimensionalism 74 → Dimensionalism 75]

Good thing he’d been training with Talricto and had gotten into the mindset of such movements. Dimensional Step in particular was good for not just travel but avoiding attacks and scans.

Most importantly though, Orodan had seen and felt where that pulse had come from. Atop the tallest tower of Castle Ironpeak, was a woman wielding a somewhat comically oversized rifle. Her eyes were hawk-like, scanning the horizon like a predatory bird of prey. Nothing appeared to escape her gaze, and it was her sending out periodic pulses meant to detect things in the surroundings.

A Transcendent rifle-wielder. A lethal deterrent for any would-be attackers, and Orodan had heard whispers that this gray-haired sharpshooter was a famous figure responsible for many contributions towards ending the historic age of piracy.

