“You are insufferable, Orodan Wainwright. The only thing keeping me from throwing you out are all the things your magnificent friend has brought me,” Luetta said, twirling a powerful enchanted ring around her finger. It was one of the many things Talricto had acquired for her, and this particular ring allowed her to peer even deeper into the tapestry of fate.

“The things he stole you mean?” Orodan asked with a smirk. “I suppose having that thieving spider use his talents for good isn’t the worst idea. He helps you and you help me. Benefits for us all.”

Although he did hope Talricto wasn’t stealing from poor orphans and other folk down on their luck. Though, given the value of the enchanted items the spider pilfered, Orodan didn’t think so.

“You needn’t paint me out to be a selfish witch who’s aiding you for the chance to have shiny trinkets alone. The boy, Fenton, his potential is quite ridiculous… I still can’t believe someone like him just happened to be on this island all along,” Luetta remarked. “It’s most suspicious… for someone as monstrously talented as him to be a simple indentured servant.”

“Is it? I was just an orphaned street rat who clawed his way to the county militia of the poorest town of my world,” Orodan said. “Nothing out of the ordinary with that.”

Luetta gave him an incredulous look, as though she thought he was joking.

“Your sarcasm is ill-fitting for the topic at hand. If you’re being serious, then I must say you lack perspective. You ended up being selected for the time loops. Do you truly think you’re ordinary?” Luetta asked. “Young Fenton Penny is the same in that he has much potential, with the possibility of a Celestial-rarity skill of his own. I find it quite odd that he was simply living as an indentured servant until you found him. And for that matter, that it was you, a bearer of not one, but two Celestial skills who found him. Many things which are seen as fate are mere superstition… but you Mister Wainwright, are the first person I’ve met who would attribute actual fate to the mundane explanation of happenstance.”

Was Orodan truly so blind? He admitted that Fenton was a talented young man; humble and with an excellent drive to work hard. The lad also had a rather unfortunate upbringing and a miserable set of circumstances hounding him.

If anything, Fenton reminded Orodan a lot of himself.

What was wrong with that?

“By the time loops… you cannot be this dense.”

“What? Explain yourself Zaessythra.”

“Orodan… the boy’s mother suffers from a curse with power equivalent to that of an Administrator. His father’s gone, most likely dead. And he’s almost impossibly talented at Enchanting… which just happens to be a very relevant talent for potentially fixing the System.”

Was Fenton a time looper?

“No you idiot! He clearly isn’t but that doesn’t rule out looking into his situation further. You of all people should be questioning the factors surrounding a lad whose unfortunate circumstances seem orchestrated by forces beyond his understanding.”

Orodan now understood what she meant. His parents’ death had been orchestrated by the System, he was monstrously talented at cleaning, and he was thus anointed as the time looper. So too had Fenton’s father vanished, and his mother been corrupted by an illogically powerful curse.

Perhaps the situation did bear further investigation.

He would also need to track down Alagameth. One loop, the spatial spider he’d fought in the void between galaxies had hurled Orodan down to Port Bellgrave specifically. Luetta’s fate reading wasn’t strong enough to see any connections between Orodan and Fenton… but she was only a Grandmaster. The spatial spider he’d fought was a Transcendent of Fate and would be of more help.

Why exactly had it sent Orodan to Port Bellgrave? Had it seen something in the tapestry? A question worth pursuing.

Though finding Alagameth would involve going through the Conclave’s branch in this galaxy. Which meant that once Orodan was done with Port Bellgrave, he had more trails to follow elsewhere on Lonvoron.

“I see I’ve caused you to deeply ruminate on the matter,” Luetta remarked. “It’s simply too much of a coincidence is all. I find it deeply suspicious. Especially if you say the lad’s mother was afflicted with the Withering. An exceedingly rare curse with no known cure and a guaranteed death which can only be delayed.”

Orodan shook his head and sighed. Now that both Luetta and Zaessythra had drawn his attention to it, he had yet another matter of mystery in his hands.

“I’ve never been one for intrigues and conspiracies. I function best with an enemy in front of me, not a puzzle!” he declared. “I see what you’re saying, and the lad’s situation is definitely worth a deeper look. That being said, I can do nothing else right now lest I risk detection by the very people I’m trying to find.”

Brazenly going back through time was likely to see Orodan running into timeline protections aplenty. Whether they be placed by the previous looper, or if Fenton truly was related to the System and its time loops… the Boundless One and Administrators themselves. He planned on doing all of this, but not right this moment when he had the majority of a long loop ahead of him, skills to learn and the identity of the previous looper to uncover.

Zaessythra was also counting on him to uncover some leads about the matter of true soul genesis. She had been far too patient with him; if anything, it was Orodan who was impatient on her behalf.

All this was to say that some of these long-term leads he had were best pursued methodically. He’d been brash and impetuous once upon a time, even in long loops. And while that facet of his character had never truly left, Orodan now knew the value in caution. Particularly when others were counting on him to succeed.

“I suppose it’s nearing the time for young Fenton’s shift at the west tower. As his sponsor, I suppose I should go pay a visit, no?” Luetta asked with a sly smirk. “I do quite enjoy bullying pretentious fools. Good opportunity to officially introduce you as my assistant too.”

“Sounds like a plan. Better than sitting here dwelling on things I can’t immediately address,” Orodan agreed.

On the way out of the north tower, the unfortunate guard he’d knocked out cold stiffened at his approach but relaxed upon seeing Luetta. The man had been compensated somewhat generously for the trouble Orodan had caused earlier, and a quick explanation that he was Lady Treadway’s assistant on a clandestine mission put the matter to rest when the officers of the fort had come demanding answers.

Being nobility had its perks, one of the unfortunate similarities between Alastaia and Lonvoron.

They walked out the north tower and through the courtyard where many people got to see him for the first time.

“Isn’t that the man who knocked Emerson out cold? Heard he works for Lady Treadway…”

“Real rough lookin’ man that one is… remind me not to start trouble with him.”

“How’s he so bloody big? Ate the whole farmhouse did he?”

“What’s the gentle lady doing associating with such a base looking knave? Clothes are all dirty and scuffed like he’s been in a row at the alehouse!”

Which wasn’t incorrect as Orodan had in fact been fighting Talricto throughout the night. Unsuccessfully of course, but eventually Orodan would win their little game.

Per the recommendation of Luetta and the unanimous agreement of everyone else, Orodan had for once put his familiar tunic of the county militia away in his dimensional ring and was now donning a large black overcoat beneath which his weapons lay.

Much as he disliked being out of his familiar wear, he had to admit that openly wearing clothes from his own world would have people getting quite suspicious. Claiming to be Luetta’s assistant was one thing; claiming to be so while donning the clothes of an otherworlder was another. The fort’s soldiers and officers could only tolerate so much, and Luetta’s pull only went so far. Questions would arise as to why the Lady Treadway had an assistant who was donning an entirely foreign wardrobe when inter-worldly travel was barred.

Still, Orodan missed his uniform of the Volarbury County Militia… even if it was often destroyed and he fought bare skinned for most of his truly intense battles.

He ignored the comments and chatter, walking past the hustle and bustle of the fort’s courtyard where soldiers were engaged in firing and bayonet drills or training their combat-relevant skills. Even on another world the regular life of a soldier wasn’t all too different. Just like Orodan had pre-shift training and spars, these soldiers too honed themselves and then went on to serve at their assigned posts for the day.

At the door to the west tower where the engineers worked, a pair of soldiers, a man and a woman, barred the way.

“L-lady Treadway…? Madam, I’m afraid Sir Clyburn has ordered the prohibition of any non-engineering and non-enchanting staff,” the soldier said, sounding quite nervous. Luetta must have been important. “I’m terribly sorry, but I simply cannot allow you entry. Er… could you perhaps tell your acquaintance to take a step back my lady?”

The other half of the guard pair, a stocky woman, looked up at Orodan, appearing quite nervous at having such a large individual close to her. Orodan realized he was unintentionally being threatening then took a step back.

“Mister Wainwright, there’s no need to loom over soldiers doing their job,” Luetta said.

“I wasn’t even looming…” Orodan muttered. “How is it my fault I’m tall?”

People on Alastaia were bigger on average than Lonvoron. And if he stood out on Alastaia already… to the people here he was like a giant.

“My assistant’s lack of manners aside, are you truly sure we cannot gain entry? I’ve come to see Fenton Penny and perhaps read Sir Clyburn’s fate. It would be such a shame if he heard he missed the opportunity… well… I’m sure he would understand his loyal guards doing their jobs to the letter,” Luetta said in a sickly-sweet voice and then gave the two a salacious wink.

Even if his heart hadn’t belonged to another, she would’ve been far too frilly, frail and pretentious for his tastes. The guards were of a different opinion though and seemed to eat the gesture right up. The woman turned red, and the man stuttered, tripping over his own words to form a reply.

“M-madam! Please be reasonable!”

“But is it I who is being unreasonable… or you? Think about it? I could even read your fate for you…” she trailed off most suggestively.

The two guards looked at one another, resigned looks on their faces. A nod of understanding was exchanged between them.

“It appears we were forcibly pushed past, isn’t that right?” one guard asked, looking at the other.

“That’s right. And we can’t physically intervene against a ranking noble of Lady Luetta’s stature either… the sergeant will have to get involved, but who knows where he is?”

The message between the lines was clear enough and Luetta strode into the tower, Orodan following behind her.

The first floor of the tower was a mess, just like the last time he’d been here. Though the floors were spotlessly clean and unable to get dirty thanks to his Celestial skill. Wordlessly he began picking items up and putting them back in their proper spots.

Fenton’s employer, Clyburn Anderthorn was also on the first floor, working on a particular component which seemed to require careful assembly.

“Sir Clyburn… the alchemists are too busy rushing to meet the production quota for alkahest… they can’t provide us the lubricants and solutions we need.”

“Gods above Eliezer! Is there anything you’re good at besides bringing me bad news? Go make yourself useful somehow!” the lead engineer barked, practically inside of a large component he was working upon. “Incompetent buffoon… now where are my tools when I need them?”

“Need a hand?” Orodan asked, walking up.

“Why yes. Hand me the wrench, would you?” Clyburn Anderthorn asked, hand outstretched towards Orodan and unfocused on anything outside of his work.

“Of course,” Orodan said, grabbing a nearby wrench and putting it in his hands.

“The sprocket too.”

“Aye,” Orodan said, handing the lead engineer his component. “You’ve neglected to tighten the screw here though, might cause undue stress on this other joint right there…”

“Why, I hadn’t even noticed! Good eye! Now then… perhaps something to further distribute the load…?”

“The metal seems a bit unsuited to take the stress this component expects… something thicker is called for. How about a load-bearing ball-joint? It seems if you just shifted this three inches to the right and punched a hole here you could insert one.”

[Engineering 40 → Engineering 41]

The level gain was in Engineering, but it was Orodan’s Blacksmithing knowledge that allowed him to identify that the metal wouldn’t hold up. These people were doubtlessly good at Engineering and Artificing, but the skillset of plain old Blacksmithing would always remain relevant.

“Why that’s a novel thought! Who are you again?” the man asked, not sparing even a glance as his head was buried inside the component seeking to alter it already.

He heard the familiar set of footsteps as it came down the stairs.

“Mister Orodan!” Fenton exclaimed!

“Fenton, I see you’re hard at work.”

Only then did Clyburn Anderthorn turn around at the sound of the commotion. The man had no clue who Orodan was, but his eyes did widen at the sight of the other guest.

“L-luetta?!” the lead engineer exclaimed.

