“That… I did. I just wasn’t expecting a weapon of mass destruction to be created by someone with the power of a Transcendent. Lady Treadway, while a renowned fate reader and among the most powerful of her level… is but a Grandmaster,” the alchemist said. “You’re not really her assistant, are you?”

“If I wasn’t would you go raising a fuss about it?”

“The sword and shield beneath your cloak tell me Alchemy isn’t your main occupation. I have a sense of self-preservation and will choose to watch my mouth accordingly,” the man said. “Now then… how do we wrap up this mess?”

“Isn’t the answer simple? We continue working. I did say I’d help you meet your quota, did I not?”

“You… want to work at a time like this?”

“What better time to work? I’ll hold off on making a modified alkahest until we can solve the issue of storage, and you have nine vats of regular alkahest already do you not?” Orodan asked.

Plus, with this alkahest production out of the way, the south tower could then focus on getting Clyburn the supplies he needed.

And more importantly…

…what if Orodan took a bath in this modified alkahest? The possibilities for training were endless.

Hells, perhaps he could even take some with him for training purposes.

#

The first floor of the west tower was a little less populated than it was the last time Orodan had visited.

Compared to the fourteen engineers he’d seen working then, now, only thirteen remained. One particular saboteur had been put out of service. These thirteen though, were working with gusto; affiliated with Clyburn’s engineering guild and loyal to the man. And even Clyburn Anderthorn himself seemed far less stressed, which undoubtedly contributed to the improved morale of his underlings.

A large slab of metal went flying across the room, landing upon an empty table with a bang.

“Component ready,” he called out

“Thanks Mister Orodan!” Fenton cried back.

“Could you stop throwing things around like a cretin? You’re a large oaf with big muscles, we get it,” Luetta scolded, her eyes glowing a subtle sheen of gold as she focused on trying to scry Orodan’s fate. “It’s distracting.”

“Learning to work through distractions is part of any well-rounded training regimen.”

He then flexed the spinning shield of soul energy he had around his fate, causing the canvas around Orodan to briefly shake.

[Fate Disconnect 72 → Fate Disconnect 73]

And he heard a soft grunt in response. Insidious infiltration and unwanted fate reading thwarted yet again.

“Despite the headaches, I admit this is causing me to gain levels in my Bloodline skill relatively quickly,” Luetta said. “Quite the multitasker you are.”

“No sense in wasting time doing things one-by-one. Gathering everything here and working in tandem is the most efficient course of action,” Orodan said.

He then poured himself a cup of alkahest, throwing it back quickly as the horrid acid slightly dissolved the cells of his mouth but didn’t cause enough damage for it to leak out.

[Acid Resistance 50 → Acid Resistance 51]

Getting past the Adept-level in the skill had done wonders for his ability to withstand acid. Of course, this was the normal alkahest he was drinking and not his cataclysmic modified version. Orodan was reckless on a good day, but even he had some sense of responsibility to not risk bringing that lethal tonic out near others.

After the ruckus he had caused, the south tower naturally went under lockdown. The fort commander had arrived, eyed him suspiciously and looked at the lead alchemist rather obviously covering for him even more suspiciously. Still, alongside Luetta Treadway and Clyburn Anderthorn vouching for him, the woman wasn’t impractical enough to start casting too much suspicion on a good thing.

He had exceeded the alchemists’ quota six times over, limited only by their lack of ability to store more alkahest. This in turn had led to the happy man gladly oversupplying the west tower and Clyburn with whatever was needed. Happy alchemist, happy engineer, happy fate reader. Commander Westerlin was a pragmatic woman and had simply shaken her head and walked away after giving him one last appraising look of doubt.

Now, progress on Clyburn Anderthorn’s project was proceeding at a decent clip.

The clang of his fist hitting a metal part echoed through the tower, his other hand underneath it, heating the metal.

[Blacksmithing 61 → Blacksmithing 62]

Orodan then pressed the component into perfect shape. It was forged well, far stronger an alloy than any he’d seen here.

It wasn’t that Lonvoron had bad metallurgy; the steam knights and metallic vehicles were certainly sturdy enough. But their durability came from enchantment and not raw material strength. Metallurgy here was of a more industrial bent, produced through steam forges and heavy machinery, lacking the touch of a skilled artisan. He couldn’t recall meeting a singular blacksmith here across any of his loops.

Alastaian metalworking was far superior. This in turn meant that unlike many of the other crafts upon this world, in this case it was Orodan who had much to offer.

Fenton was a genius at Enchanting and had a devious mind for Engineering too, but the honest work of sweating over metal was something the lad had no particular knack for. Orodan, even with his sub-par talent in the skill, was already showing the people of the fort what a skilled blacksmith could do.

Many of the metallic components had been a little inadequate. Orodan had taken to reforging the outer parts of the pillar and doing them entirely anew. This had the benefit of making the device sturdier, but it also made Fenton’s job of Enchanting it smoother.

“I still think you should let me disassemble the core of the pillar and reforge it anew,” Orodan said.

“I respect you Mister Wainwright, but absolutely not. The core enchantments are simply too valuable to lose until I have some form of backup,” Clyburn said. “Fenton has certainly proved his worth, but I still will not risk something good enough for the unsecured possibility of a better product. Not when we have but three months.”

Orodan wouldn’t force the man. But in the back of his mind he thought that nothing stopped him and Fenton from simply building a brand-new pillar from the ground up.

The Pillar of Purification, it was called. Orodan initially hadn’t paid enough attention to the tall metallic structure running from the tower’s first floor all the way to the top. Being from Alastaia and having seen a similar concept, he’d assumed that the pillar was one part of a relay meant to drain the Eldritch.

Orodan had assumed incorrectly.

Instead, and quite impressively, the pillar was an entirely self-contained device which when activated was meant to drain Eldritch from a hundred mile area. Lonvoron’s battle against the plague would reverse course immediately if such a thing was successfully deployed. The real struggle during land battles against a plague world was the absolute horde of lesser corrupted creatures they sent out. The land, animals and very trees became corrupted over time.

Alkahest was a scorched earth weapon, rendering the ground lifeless. It couldn’t be used to deal with the Eldritch en masse and was even toxic for the wielder if used too gratuitously. Masses of guns and artillery, while effective, couldn’t stopper such a tide indefinitely.

The Pillar of Purification then would be Lonvoron and the Blackworth Collective’s savior. And most importantly, it provided Orodan an excellent method of dealing with the Eldritch without having to expose his Celestial skill and prematurely end the loop.

He drew a pebble from his dimensional ring and chucked it at Fenton’s head.

The boy moved his head to the side with nary a thought, turning back with a pleased grin.

Orodan’s follow-up pebble knee-capped him.

“Eyes open and stay light on your feet. No sense in having Mana Sense if your legs are rooted and you’re not ready to dodge with them,” Orodan reminded as the lad clutched his knee but recovered without any complaints. Good lad. “How’s the progress on that component going?”

“It’s goin’ good ser! One more pass and it’ll be ready for tackin’ on to the rest o’ the pillar,” Fenton answered, focusing on freeform enchanting the metal plate in front of him.

“Good. Continue focusing and pushing each pass as far as you can, even if you feel like you’re going to faint. It’s a good method of expanding your mana pool. I’ll wake you up if you do collapse, it’s a good learning experience and teaches you the exact limits of your body,” Orodan instructed.

“Aye ser!”

“That can’t be safe…” Luetta muttered.

“Draining the mana pool all the way to the bottom won’t kill him,” Orodan retorted.

“But it might cause harm if he does it too many times.”

“Ordinarily, yes. But he’s on a special diet and I’m monitoring his health closely,” Orodan said and then turned to Clyburn, passing him an exceptionally well-forged sprocket. “Try that one instead.”

“This…! The reinforcement of the joint would be…!”

“Yes, yes, just slot it in and be excited afterwards,” Orodan urged. Someone he’d been keeping tabs on at the expense of a constant headache was approaching. “Hmm… I thought you got rid of that worm.”

“What worm?” Clyburn asked.

“The one called Eliezer. I see he’s stalking back here, two people in tow,” Orodan said identifying them through the walls via Vision of Purity.

After Fenton and Orodan had proven their worth, the chief engineer of the Ironhaven Isles had gotten rid of Eliezer as part of his slimming down of the useless workforce he’d had prior. The man had gone all-in on siding with Luetta and the assistance her two associated helpers provided.

Clyburn was confused, yet the door to the west tower opened all the same, revealing three figures. Behind them, a pair of intimidated guards who looked rather helpless and unable to stop these guests from entering.

One, the former assistant engineer who Orodan decidedly didn’t like. The other, a well-dressed old man in extravagant finery wearing all manner of enchanted items. He was without a doubt rich. And the third, a middle-aged man who was rather non-descript.

“Lord Morvale…” Clyburn muttered, unwilling to meet the old man’s eyes. However, the resentment and hatred in his tone was evident.

“Clyburn! It does my old heart well to see you dear boy! I was just thinking about you and hoped it not too impudent to pay a visit,” the old man, Lord Morvale, said. There was something insincere and weasel-like about his tone of voice. “And if it isn’t little Luetta, your parents were just speaking to me the other day about you.”

The fate reader’s face turned red; hostility evident upon it.

“What are you here for?” she curtly asked. “Has Castle Ironpeak bored you, my lord.”

“Such a rude tone to take with your elders but speak as you wish girl. I’ve merely come to check in on dear Clyburn here once I heard he’d slashed half his research team. Was it frustration at a lack of results? Poor financial management catching up? I simply wished to ensure he was alright with my own eyes,” Lord Morvale said. “Of course… there was also the radical thought that Lady Luetta Treadway had secured aid for him. The strangest rumor reached my ear, that an indentured servant capable of enchanting has entered your employ. Would that be true?”

“If it is, I do not see how that’s any business of yours Lord Morvale,” Luetta spoke up.

“Oh but it very much is my business. Particularly when dear Clyburn owes me a debt of a three-thousand crown pieces and under the debt-repayment plan he’s agreed to, allows me to appropriate certain assets of his; indentured servants among them,” Lord Morvale said, looking at Fenton. “Come lad, you’ll be treated far better in my employ than a fort like this can provide. You must be talented, working with Clyburn at your age. Castle Ironpeak has resources the likes of which you’ve never seen.”

“I’m sorry ser… but I can’t. My place is here with Misters Orodan and Clyburn,” Fenton resolutely said.

“I’m a lord boy, not a sir. I see you haven’t learned your manners as of yet. No matter, that can be rectified through discipline once you’re at the castle,” Lord Morvale threatened. “In any case, the matter isn’t for you to decide. Your contract will soon belong to me and-”

“Except, it doesn’t. Because the contract no longer belongs to Clyburn… or anyone for that matter,” Luetta said, producing a parchment and practically throwing it at the old man. “Fenton’s contract was bought out and paid for in full by me.”

Lord Morvale’s eyes narrowed as he read the fine print.

“Hmm... dated for yesterday morning too. It seems the legal order I’d drafted will be refused at the registrar. Clever of you to get involved so early, well played Luetta,” Lord Morvale admitted. “So it seems the boy’s not an indentured servant any longer, but that’s irrelevant in the face of the legal trouble I can drag you through.”

“You have no legal axe to hang above my head, Lord Morvale,” Luetta reminded. “What are you on about?”

“Not you… but dear Clyburn here. And not me, but the employees he has so unjustly terminated without due cause.”

“…what?! My employment contracts have always had exit clauses upon my discretion!” Clyburn yelled and then glared at Eliezer and the other man accompanying Lord Morvale. “You! I hired you as a freelance enchanter and then ended the contract, what game are you playing at attempting to drag me into a legal battle?”

