Orodan crept behind them, however the ruckus in the enchanters’ area had been quite audible. Particularly for the keen ears of a certain Transcendent-level sharpshooter on overwatch.

Immediately, a dozen scanning pulses came forth.

[Dimensional Step 24 → Dimensional Step 25]

[Dimensionalism 75 → Dimensionalism 76]

It was a close thing, and Orodan was pushed to the limits of his ability to finely manipulate the dimensional forces, but he managed to skip himself in and out of the material plane in repeated succession in the narrow windows between each pulse.

His spars against Talricto were paying off. The dimensional phase spider had forced him to adopt a mindset of fine dexterity and finesse rather than simple brute force.

Of course, he could have taken the easy way out of stepping away altogether and returning when the coast was clear… but that would have been weak.

Still, the scans were but the first part of the paranoia he’d now aroused in Castle Ironpeak’s mightiest dweller.

“First the rock and now this? I’m going to go check on it, stay here and maintain watch.”

Orodan heard her speaking from the top of the castle. He didn’t have much time left.

“This must be the control array for the pillars, yes?” the inquisitor asked, his voice taking on a barely concealed and predatory tone.

“Er… yes? It’s not to be touched, Lord Morvale was quite adamant about that.”

“Truly? Such a shame then… for the spread of the truth cannot be halted.”

“T-truth? Wait you’re…!”

Just as the familiar purple-gray power of the Eldritch began to envelop the inquisitor’s fingers, a fist came down and knocked the frightened enchanter out cold.

The infected inquisitor, surprised at the sight of the overseer being knocked out, turned to get a look at the attacker. Twisting just in time to get a good view of a large palm enveloping his vision.

“Plague-ridden pest,” Orodan said, covering the infected mole’s face entirely so that he and by extension the Eldritch plague world core controlling him, couldn’t see Orodan’s face.

Thankfully, it seemed there was no active connection between this infected agent and any infected world core, else the disappearance would have been noticed right away and Orodan would’ve been forced to do things a different way.

Immediately, the corrupted agent fought back. Purplish-gray veins erupted on the man’s neck, his strength growing tremendously. Two plague-corrupted hands wrapped around Orodan’s neck…

…only for them to be casually slapped away by his free hand. A follow-up punch to the gut knocked the infected man out cleanly.

Yes, the Eldritch could grant great strength. But Orodan’s honest battles and toils around the cosmos had made him superior to such cheap methods of empowerment. Hard work would make one stronger than the Eldritch any day.

Now to see just how the infection had set in for this man…

“A foul power he’s drawing upon.”

Orodan looked up, ready to either attack or hide himself in-line with his mission…

…only to see a familiar eight-legged irritant hanging from the ceiling. One with a brand-new pocket watch and cane.

“…”

“What?”

“Talricto… dare I even ask the questions of how and why?” Orodan flatly queried.

“The how is obvious enough. Such a castle has trinkets aplenty, and I saw you trundling about like a brute and decided to join in. As for why? What better opportunity to secure even more treasures than when my simple-minded student is causing a distraction of his own? I wouldn’t bother searching the office safe if I were you, there were some nice pieces in there which now belong to me,” Talricto answered. “On another note, I pronounce your ostentatious avoidance of that detection pulse to be… adequate. Good work.”

“While I’m glad for the rare praise you’ve graciously bestowed, let’s focus on the matter at hand. This inquisitor… his plague wasn’t acquired naturally,” Orodan said. “It looks as though it came from within… from…”

“Another dimension. Yes, I can sense there’s a pathway to a greater place he draws strength from. Much like a fire elemental might draw from a plane of fire.”

That source was the Eldritch, obviously. But how had this man been infected? Orodan was struggling for an answer, when suddenly he recalled what had occurred during the battle for Alastaia when the Prophet had showed up.

A dimension of light, corrupted in an instant so that all who drew power from it became infected. The Conclave had all immediately fallen the moment the Prophet had played its hand back then.

The enchanted items on the man’s body, geared towards supporting light magic, added credence to Orodan’s assumptions.

“The inquisitor is a light mage…” Orodan muttered. “Of course. I knew it all along, but that must be how Eldritch agents have managed to infiltrate areas outside of the dead zone.”

Silestor Lumenarin and high-level Alastaian light mages, the knights and paladins of the Conclave, and now the inquisitors of Lonvoron… did all users of light magic eventually end up drawing from this elemental plane of light connected to the Prophet? The people of Lonvoron didn’t even know that the elemental plane of light that their mages drew from was corrupted. What a mess!

And a massive security breach too. Orodan wasn’t sure if even the previous looper was aware, or if the Prophet had successfully hidden this trump card. After all, it had only openly corrupted everything during the Battle for Alastaia when the crisis surrounding the time loop had reached its apex.

“You seem stressed, Orodan,” Talricto said, actually sounding somewhat concerned.

“Stressed isn’t quite the word. I know what I have to do… the only problem is that it’ll bring matters to a head and cause the descent of some powerful foes upon me. The question is whether I can achieve my goals and delay things from reaching that point until I can find what I came to Lonvoron for.”

Which was the identity of the previous looper and the secrets of true soul genesis. Access to the two Administrators’s Mantles would be nice, but not nearly as critical as the first two things.

Not only would Orodan have to avoid detection, but he would also have to find some way of helping the people of Lonvoron deal with this corrupted plane of light without tipping off the Prophet that he was aware about its existence. If that occurred there was a chance the Administrator would tip its hand early and just corrupt every high-level user of light magic across the galaxy.

In any case, for now he’d done what he needed to within Castle Ironpeak.

“Shall we depart?” Talricto asked.

“Yes… but did you really just come here to steal things?”

“Why not? This nice-looking pocket watch and cane make me look quite dapper, do they not?”

Orodan looked the spider up and down.

Most begrudgingly and quite unwillingly… he had to admit the watch and cane rounded the aesthetic out.

“I suppose. Now let’s go before we’re caught. The Transcendent monitoring the fort is headed this way, and it’ll be best if we’re gone before then lest our descriptions be popularized,” Orodan said. “Try not to steal anything else on the way out. Knowing you, it wouldn’t surprise me if you stole the clothes right off my back.”

A barely perceptible ripple of the dimensional boundary - more similar to Talricto’s than it had been a few days ago - and Orodan winked out of Castle Ironpeak. Right before the Transcendent sharpshooter barged into Lord Morvale’s office too.

Though, Orodan could’ve swore he saw a twinkle in Talricto’s beady little eyes as he said his last words before escaping.

#

Orodan could only sigh in resignation.

Truly, he had brought this upon himself and deserved it. Unfortunately, he’d not heeded Fenton’s warning in time, too preoccupied with the various skills and trades he was dabbling in over the course of the day.

“That’s at least four sizes too big for you.”

“Correct, but the satisfaction of wearing it cannot be described with words,” Talricto said. “Here, let me try the corresponding impression on too!”

“Ugh… don’t-”

“I am Orodan Wainwright, and I shall menacingly stare at you while I tell you about the fact that I’m a time looper,” Talricto put on. “What? You want me to do things the normal way? Impossible! I know only the path of brutish simplicity. Why yes, hit me some more! More I say! It’s simply good training and not a barely concealed liking of pain! Here, let me also drink this delicious cup of acid while you’re at it!”

“The impression isn’t exactly incorrect…” Zaessythra muttered, choking back a laugh.

“The both of you are idiots.”

Orodan buried his face in the palm of his hand, unable and unwilling to look upon Talricto wearing his tunic of the county militia any longer. He was rather large even by Alastaian standards, and the dimensional spider was on the smaller size; otherwise, it wouldn’t have worked. Talricto practically fit into it like a sack, two of his forelegs coming out the arm sockets while his beady little eyes stared out the neck opening of the tunic.

It could almost be considered cute if it wasn’t so dumb.

“If you’re quite done donning my clothes.”

“Hmm, I suppose it does have a rather thuggish demeanor to it, even if its spotlessly clean,” the spider said, sliding out of Orodan’s clothes and casually manipulating the dimensional boundary to throw them into the storage ring for him. “Let that be a lesson to keep your belongings better secured. Dimensional storage rings, while rare, aren’t completely unseen across the cosmos, yet none of their owners seem to take securing them against hostile dimensionalism seriously.”

Lesson certainly learned.

“I don’t think the owners of such treasures count on facing thieves possessed of your level of skill,” Orodan shot back. “Aren’t you outside the norm for your kind?”

“Quite! The legendary Talricto the Wanderer is famous across many galaxies!”

“More like infamous if you go around stealing things the way you did back there,” Orodan replied. “Knowing my luck, we’ll have a fleet showing up here to capture you.”

“W-what? Don’t be ridiculous!” the spider quickly stammered. “You lack faith in me Orodan. Did we not make a most daring escape from the treacherous Castle Ironpeak? Did you not serve as my most noble aide?”

Orodan wasn’t sure if he served as anything besides amusement for Talricto, but whatever kept the spider happy he supposed.

Ahead of him lay much training with Luetta Treadway, ensuring Fenton himself kept up his, and working together with them all on Clyburn’s Pillar of Purification. On the side he planned to practice his Weaving with Fanny Penny and his Dimensionalism with Talricto. And as much as Orodan was intent on teaching Fenton, with the pace the boy was learning at… he had no doubts that it would be him learning from the lad soon enough.

There would be some problems too. He doubted Lord Morvale would be happy about today’s events, and the fort commander of Port Bellgrave did seem to have a level of suspicion towards him too. Chiefly though, the Eldritch intrusion into the Collective’s society was going to be a problem.

Still, he would handle these things as they came, and all things considered Orodan was having a decently productive loop thus far.

Three months until the deadline for Clyburn Anderthorn’s project, something he planned on getting done well before then.

But really, it was going to be three months of training.

And from there, who knew where the winds took him?

Likely a test of the completed device upon the front lines of the dead zone.
